

DEWAR’S
SIXTY YEARS’
REPUTATION.
►
St. G. WATKINS SZ> CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Requisite
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS* a»d GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and “SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWA '
cs
cS
3E-X OBAHI*.'
fiadieys Orient fotel.
■
PIONEER
LEATHER
i
B'BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd.. 117 York St.. Svdnej
Kirchner
& Co.’s
SAWING and WOODWORKING MACHINERY
Log Framos, Band Mills, Planing 4 Moulding Machines, Deal & Flitch Frames, Ceneral Woodworkers.
FOR ILLUSTRATED LISTS AND FULL PARTICULARS APPLY TO M
GIBSON. BATTLE & GO.. "7 Bent St., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
i
back
have
must
Fine-Apple Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBB’S
STRONG ROOM
DOORS
*Tlaficnal,
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE GO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital - - - £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branch:
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society). w At GIBB, Manager.
Active Age ts and Canvassers Wanted, ~"»I
u
Rabbit Skins, Marsupials, Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins# Wool
SIEttSrO TO
- n*. . 11
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO. LTD.
P
Highest Values, Speedy Returns.
E. .T F, MACKENZIE. Manager.
SYDNEY.
I
Royal
Dutch
COG
s the Queen of &I 1 Cocoas
FOI^
AimStrengtKt'Puritjc
ASK
FOR
0^
STANDARD PALE ALE
mm
m
m.
44
FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers— SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
Also largest makers in Australia of Refrigerating and Ice-Making Machinery.
HELIDON SPA.
gollikt
<Sz CO.
LE WATER.
Agents.
The Bulletin
Vol. 27.—N o. 1387. j
[Thursday, September 13. 1906.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


SOME BOOKS YOU WANT.
Watt, Leather Manufacture, new ed., 15s, post Is.
Barrows, Practical Pattern Making, 7s 6d, post 6d
Smythe, Conquest of Arid America, Bs, post Bd.
Hall, The Soul of a People, 9s, Dost 6d.
Dewey, The True Science of Living : The New Gospel of
Health, 12s 6d, post lOd. 1
Snyder, Dairy Chemistry, ss, post 6d.
Duncan, Insect Pests of Farm and Gardens, 3s 6d.
Drage, Trade Unions, 3s, postage 4d.
Beldam and Fry, Great Bowlers and Fielders, their
methods at a glance, 255, post Is.
Venable, Garbage Crematories in America, 10s, post.
Harrison, Lessons on Sanitation, illus., 4s, post 4d.
Grossman, Elem. of Chemical Engineering, 4s, post 4d.
Haggard, Rider, Benita, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 6d.
Hyslop, Enigmas of Psychical Research, 6s, post 6d.
Beach, Tiie-Spoilers, 2s Cd and 3s 6d, post 6d.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP. LTD., 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes.
The Great Antiseptic Remedy
for influenza. Bronchitis,
Asthma, and all Affections of
the Throat and Lungs, and the
Prevention of Consumption.
JujufiFz
m
MVJOSO N
AN IDEAL REMEDY,
CONTAINING NO COCAINE OR OTHER POISONOUS DRUGS.
A£K FOR. HUDSON’S-Take no Substitute. SOLD IN TINS, 1/6.
May be taken daily by old and young-. Their Antiseptic properties prevent Abnormal Fermentation of the
Food, and are thus helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia. Sold by all Chemists, or post free from the Sole
Manufacturer, C. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland, on receipt of 1/6 in stamps of any State.
Agencies in all the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street W., London. [L
THE BED PAGE.
A CANADIAN POET
I.
Collected Poems of Wilfred Campbell
I (Lond., Fleming H. Revell Co.; 6s. net)
J- represents the life-work of one of the most
important Canadian verse-writers. It is a
bulky volume of 350 pages, containing some in-
teresting material, and a great deal that is com-
monplace. The first thing an Australian reader
notices, is Campbell’s occasional duplication of
O’Dowd’s mind and motive. “ Soul,” for ex-
ample, imitates the philosophy of “The Silent
Land.” Campbell commences :
Wind of the wide world’s mantled thought,
About the vague vast blowing ;
This truth my wayward heart hath caught,
That being hath more doors than thought,
And life is more than knowing.
And he may be supposed to continue (omitting
a line of his stanza to enforce the parallel, and
omitting here and there a stanza):
The creeds of darkness or of mind
Are but the scaly bark
That slips from off the oenturied rind,
Amid the crannied dark.
And deeper than the builded theme
Of priest or book or seer,
There lies that life, that subtle dream
That wakes the upward year.
And greater than all thoughts that fall
Prom page or poet’s song,
That dim impulse behind it all
That finds no written tongue.
This impulse in each being rife,
Deep hidden in each man,
This inward, mystic flame of life,
The blessing or the ban :
It is the master of all thought,
All impulse and all dream,
And builds or ruins, base or not,
The blackness or the gleam.
It gives through some weird inward need
The centuries’ impulse birth ;
And weaves in subtle dream or deed,
All tragedies of earth.
It kindled Homer’s golden song
Of elemental man,
And lurks behind the fateful throng,
From Christ to Caliban.
It is that greater self behind
All earth’s confused gleam,
That leads men up by stairways blind
To heaven of their dream.
At all earth’s altars it hath knelt,
.Sought God ’mid stars and dew,
Wherever craving ages felt
The agony of the few.
All sorrows, passions, all delights,
All hopings, all despairs,
All earth’s old splendours, ail her blights,
Her ruined starward stairs ;
Her songs, her battles, her grim blades
Forged in her caves of dream —
Yea, all that glories, all that fades,
Was cradled in its gleam.
Greater than mightiest thoughts of mind
That measures life by rule,
It soars in dreams of God, behind
The Plato or the fool..
In every common hour of life,
In every flame that glows,
In every breath of being rife
Man feels more than lie knows.
Earth’s child of science counts the stars
Upon'God’s garment’s hem :
He plumbs the seas, the heavens’ bars,
liebuilds the rarest gem ;
But blind as night to that within,
That demon, god, ,or elf,
That universe of dreams that spin,
That heaven or hell in “ self ” :
That something subtle that outweighs
The mightiest lore of man ;
That master of his dreams and days,
Behind his bliss or ban :
Which lifted Shakespeare from the clod,
Yet spake in Caliban ;
That god in man, or man in god.
That dreamed since life began.
That outsoared Shelley’s lark in flight,
Beyond all dreams we know ;
T.iat. knew with Milton music's might,
Or Paganini’s bow.
That same dim impulse Saxon, Celt,
Mohawk or Tartar knew ;
That in old Shylock’sagony felt
The tragedy of the Jew.
We have mutilated the verse to show the like-
ness—but the likeness is there. If O’Dowd did
not write this, who did? Campbell, apparently.
And he continues :
Wind of the wide world’s winnowed dream,"
About the vague vast blowing ;
Beyond our futile taper-gleam
Of priestly creed and poet’s theme,
God’s tides of night are flowing.
Man feels the present, feels the past,
As one born blind may know
The sUn, the earth, the rain or blast,
Or those dread phantom shadows cast,
His brother men who go.
But round about the dreams we are,
In caves of wind and fire,
Where mind is cabined ; soul afar,
Doth rise eternal, star to star,
To heights of God’s desire.
In other verses, such as “ Genius,” Campbell
approaches so closely to O’Dowd that one can
hardly distinguish thought from thought. In
“ The Wind Dancer” he exhibits in his own way
O’Dowd’s metre :
He is the master of the mirth
Of field and stream and tree ;
And of the dreamers of the wood,
The lord of revels, he.
Till Summer and her dream depart,
And leaf and gleam be done,
He holds the whole world’s laughing heart,
This dancer in the sun.
There are other poems in which the methods
of the two are almost identical. One has never seen
a nearer parallel between writers so far removed
in life. Possibly it is another argument for Our
Imperialistic Destiny.
A LIMB OF THE LAW
JC. WITT was a Lond. barrister in
m good standing, who—before dying
recently from the effects of a 'bus
accident—emitted a very shrewd and
cheerful book of legal anecdote and com-
mentary earned by thirty years of travail.
Life in the Law (Lond., T. W. Laurie)
appeals especially to lawyers, but an intel i-
gent laity may read it with interest anc
profit. The author’s clear, strong mind
reflected in his style, and he never proses
maunders. Once he touches Australia, bu;
the touch is not consoling :
In my early dayswe had fifteen incendiary fir
in one year in the village, and Cottenham w
twice destroyed by fire. No one was prosecutec
for these crimes, and the offence of arson diec
out when the discovery of gold in Austral a
tempted the most desperate of our neighbours no
leave us for their own and our good.
Well, probably “sturdy Etruria” wa
founded in much the same way.
J*
Witt has some reflective passages on th
attitude of counsel to witnesses. What h
would say of the tone adopted in some Syd -
ney police-courts is easily to be imagined.
In the good old days a learned counsel of fero
cious mien and loud voice, practising before Mi
Justice Maule, received a "magnificent rebuke from
that famous judge. No reply could be got from
an elderly lady in the box, and the counsel ap
pealed to the learned judge. “I really canoe .
answer,” said the trembling lady. “Why not,
ma’am ?” asked the judge. “Because, my lore,
he frightens me so.’”®\ “So he does me, ma’am,
said the judge.
Yet—
It is by no means difficult for a witness to tun
the tables on counsel. My friend, the late Mr
George Williams, did not like giving evidence ii
horse cases, and he was rather too candid a man
for the work. But, of course, there were occasion
on which, as the busiest man in his profession, h
could not help himself. He was called to prov
that a horse was a “ roarer.” Serjeant Ballantin
was on the other side, and in his best Mephi
stophelian manner he said to the witness, “If you
say that my client’s horse was a roarer, just rep
resent to. the jury the sort of noise he made.’
“No,'’ said Mr. Williams, “you see, that is no
my business. Now, if you will be the horse anc
make the noise, I, as veterinary surgeon, will de
termine whether you are a roarer or not.” This
concluded the cross-examination.
Of “ business men ” as witnesses Witt has
a poor opinion :
Business men, in spite of the frock coats and
sober neckties which they invariably assume out
of respect for the Court, and in assert,on o;
their own respectability, are very seldom goot
witnesses. Nearly all money-makers are stupid
If anyone denies this proposition, let him recal
ttie dinners at which he has been present with
successful seekers after wealth, and the utter
dreariness of those functions. Tne reason is that
money is made by concentration of the faculties
on that one pursuit. But although these people
are stupid, they are not at all conscious ot their
deficiency. They regard cross-examination as a
duel, in which they are to pit their brains against
those of counsel. They are therefore on the alert
to guess at the drift of the questions, and to make
their answers fit in with what they suppose to be
the theory, of their case, with the result that at
the end of half an hour they are in a hopeless
tangle. It never occurs to them that if their case
will not admit of the truth being told it must be a
bad one.
Sailors also admit of explanation, if not of
excuse:
bailors in collision cases have earned a very
different character. The late Mr. Britchard was
marshalling the evidence to be adduced on behalf
of his ship, and worried the witnesses in a vain
effort to reconcile their statements, until at last
the captain said, “it is of no use to bother any
more about it. Just jou writedown what I and
the mate and the crew are to swear to, and I w’ill
see that it is done.” This was. too much even for
the nerves of an Admiralty solicitor of forty
years’ experience.
Lord Hannen once held forth to me on the sad
lack of truth.among his nautical witnesses...
I offered him an explanation, which I venture to
think is the true one. The sailor is loyal to his
flag. He has signed articles for a voyage on a
ship. He gets board and lodging and wages from
the owner. His captain is his superior officer,
whom he lias to obey and to help in scorm and
stress. In a damage suit the purse of the owner
and the character of the oaptain are put in
jeopardy. His plain duty is to save both, and he
thinks that duty is just as binding on him in a
court of law as in a tempest.
A keen comment on the “relationship”
difficulty :
“If,” said a learned counsel, “I get a brief
from my brother’s firm everyone says, ‘He only
got it because the solicitor is his brother,’ and if I
don’t get the brief then everyone says, ‘What
sort of a counsel must he be when even his own
brother will not trust him with the case.’ ”
As to the expert who is always with us
or against us :
Public morality would be advanced if all expert
testimony were abolished in courts of law and at
arbitrations. Ihe Admiralty system of assessors
ought to be universally adopted. Suppose that a
man is injured and brings an action to recover
compensation, the court ought to name a surgeon
to examine the plaintiff one week before the trial,
and to write out a full report to be delivered to
the judge, with a copy for the counsel on either
side. The surgeon who has attended the man
could, of course, be called to state the facts, but
he should not be allowed to depose to the’con-
dition of the plaintiff at the time of the trial, or
to offer any opinion as to the probable date of
recovery. The same rule should be applied as
regards building, engineering and all other cases
where it is now the practice to adduce expert
evidence. Tp call three surveyors on oath t
appraise a property on behalf of the owners £
£lO,OOO, and then to call three surveyors on beha
of the company to swear that its value is on!
£3OOO, is a scandal of high degree. The conflic
of surgical opinion is not so bad because th
element of uncertainty is less great, but there i
quite enough to justify a reform in this direction
Mr. Justice €ave inspires a bright page o
two. It was he who, when dealing with th
law as to beer-drinking on Sunday, spoke o
a bona-fide thirst as the true test of a bona
fide traveller.
One of his finest efforts was when the counse
for the plaintiff had called four witnesses withou
advancing his case at all. The learned Judge
said, “These are very bad witnesses, very bac
indeed. Have you got a good one ? ” “ Oh, yes
my lord,” said the counsel. “ Then call him a
once,” said the Judge; “if you keep him any
longer he will go bad like the rest.”
Witt’s opinion on betting has some loca
relevancy :
Personally, I consider that backing horses is
waste of time and energy, but where is the harn
of it? The losses in betting incurred by mechanics
artisans, and labourers, in town and country, are
absurdly small compared with their useless anc
pernicious expenditure in drink. As for crime
every young rascal spoofs the magistrate wit!
lamentations that he has been tempted in to stealing
through backing horses, because lie knows per
fectly well that he will get a short lecture insteac
of a long sentence, and half the bankrupts who
prefer not to state the truth as to what has become
of missing money tell the registrar that it has
gone on the turf. In my early days thero was
plenty of big betting, and I was not brought up
near Newmarket without knowing what was
going on, but it was among very few people.
Now betting is universal, but in small amounts.
Education and the cheap Press, and nothing else,
have brought this about.
The humbler classes of readers whose lives are
dull find profit and pleasure in the study of these
journals, and horse-racing forms for them a subject
of interest and conversation, gives them some-
thing to puzzle over, and is fine exercise for the
memory. However, if Parliament thinks that
betting is very awful, and desires oo try its hand
at a little more empirical legislation, lawyers will
not grumble, and I think that I may venture to
say that there will not be one single bet less made
in consequence.
On the virtue of Parliament :
The Common Law of England, tempered with
Equity, constitutes the highest expression of
human reason and morality. The laws made
from time to time by Parliament are, for the most
part, opposed to good sense and morality.
There must be a Parliament. Its primary
office is to prevent arbitrary power in man or
multitude, to hear grievances, to determine after
what manner and by whom the country shall be
ruled. History teaches that these duties have
been discharged splendidly. Every man of right
mind does his best to secure that Parliament shall
go on with this work. Other nations follow its
example, apd strive to emulate it.
Lord Palmerston understood and upheld the
dignity and authority of Parliament. Hd also
appreciated its follies. He never, with the notable
exception of the Probata and Divorce Acts, in-
dulged in legislation if he could help it. He
knew that statutes, as a rule, do much more harm
than good.
Why does every session bring forth a crop of
Acts altering the general law of the land ? The
answer is that no Government can afford to pro-
duce asking's speech without a list of projected
statutory reforms. It would be like a public
dinner without a toast list, a race meeting with-
out a card, a play without a programme. Think
of the Opposition. “ Here is a Government with-
out a policy. Where are its measures for the
reform of abuses? where is its construeti velegisla-
tion ? what heed does it give to the crying needs
the people ? ” Away with it!—and away it would
go.
There have been many statutes of extraordinary
beneficence, but they have been-Acts to rSpeal
wicked old Acts. For example, Acts to relieve
Catholics, Nonconformists, .Jews, and Quakers
from pains, penalties and disabilities imposed in
bad old times by malevolent kings and yet more
malevolent priests; Acts to get men out of
prison, who would otherwise have been kept there
by cruel despots and yet more cruel creditors ;
Acts to prevent rich men from fixing poor men’s
wages, or regulating their dresses, or determining
the prices of goods in defiance of laws that will
not be defied. All these are Statutes to knock
down something already put up, and only prove
the folly and injustice of older law makers.
J*
Witt’s book is emphatically quotable, for
every page is packed with sense and wit ;
and the solidity of the performance gives it
a permanent value. With this, as an ex-
pert lawyer’s opinion upon the multiplication
of laws, quotation may end :
Modern legislation is based upon the theory
that an official, whose interest in work l>egins and
ends with his salary, can do our business better
than we can do it for ourselves. All this of course
means curtailment of that individual liberty,
which is the most precious of human rights. We
ca t n boast that we put down the Stuarts, that we
have survived the"oligarchy of the early Georgian
Whigs, and the absolutism of the later Georgian
Tories. These were political triumphs, and j we
are right to be proud of the men who achieved
them.' But our political liberty will be of small
value if we are condemned to the loss of personal
and civil liberty, and if Parliament goes on
unchecked in its present course of legislation, we
shall have to get up a new revolution, hang all local
officials to the nearest lamp-posts, and make huge
bonfires of rules, orders and bye-laws throughout
the country.
A SCHOOL-HOOK.
A New Primer of English Literature, by T.
Tucker and W. Murdoch, is published by Wb
combe & Tombs (Melb.). -To \y*ite such a boo
is a difficult task, and the authors have earnec
their groarf of satisfaction at completion. T
object of the ideal primer, they say, “would I
simply to provide an intelligent bird’s eye vie
of the whole stream of our literary history
Upon its level, and within its limits, their wor
attains this object. It is not “written down”
the childish mind, and rightly ; for good ed
national practice follows psychological theory :
exciting interest with the new and in stimulatin
faculty with the untried. Conceivably, in Au
tralian schools, a shorter and.simpler treatise ma
be interposed between the reading-books and th
book; but such a treatise must be barren of a
but cardinal facts and ideas, and A New Prime
supplies the subject's imperative need of expan
sion. It has a definite place in the scheme o
inquiring scholars aged from twelve to fourteei
and it takes its place admirably. The authors
conform to conventional standards; but the
critical spirit moves freely and brightly, and th
practical obligation to compile has not preventec
them from supplying original aspects. A jus!
appreciation of Chaucer, for example, can
drawn from a score of sources beside his writings
and, for text-book purposes, there is nothing t
add to a familiar verdict; yet the authors here,
often elsewhere, manage to deliver the verdic
with a new' voice, attractively. (There wer
thirty pilgrims to Canterbury gathered at th
Tabard, by the way—not twenty-nine; for th
story-teller was going too.)
d*
The weakness of the book is to stop shor
at the uncultivated court of Queen Caroline, o
thereabouts; and the note to the very inade
quate chapter on the “Victorian Period” is
confession of weakness. The authors have n
warrant to presume the student’s acquaintanc
with recent writers ; and in any case, that know
ledge is what their book exists to supply. “Th
world has not yet made up its mind as to what th
distinctive characteristics of the period reall
are ” ; and if that be so, there is all the moreneec
for the authors to make a beginning of the task
They should help in the work of decision, anc
should refuse to follow in the rut and accep
other people’s choses jugies. It is precisel
in regard to reoent and contemporar;
writers that a “ new primer ” is wantec
for there are many old primers to reiterate th
praise or blame of the old authors. At the breac
of honour and difficulty A New Primer fails a
lamentably as the rest.
The book is well and readably written ;thoug:
one objects to words like “ liberal-mindedness
and as far as it goes, has few shortcomings tha
cannot be justified. In the reviewer’s opinion
a section should have been devoted to the Percy
ballads and their kindred; and the influence o
Maepherson’s Ossian should have been stressed
The second James Thomson certainly should have
been mentioned among Victorian poets. There
is a curious blunder, at p. ICO.
Every one of the novels of Tobias Smollett is picaresque
n form—that is to say, the incidents have no connection
with each other or with the conclusion, but are simply
string of adventures happening to the same person.
The Spanish gusto picaresco, or picaresque
fashion in fiction, has nothing to do with the form
of the story. The picaresque novel, from Laza
rillo de Tormes downwards, is simply a narrative
of roguish life and adventure (Span, picaresco,
roguish, knavish), and the English transference o;
subject and description is correctly suggested by
the authors on a previous page (79).
J*
We suppose it is still too soon to hope for a
primer of English literature which shall deal only
with what is worth children’s knowledge, elimin-
ating the always-accumulating mass of scholastic
lumber, leaving historical detail to advanced
students, and employing the brief available year
or two in transfusing the beauty and the glory.
Andrew Carnegie tells stories of Boerntrager,
one of his partners in the steel-making industry:
Boerntrager had always one speech. It was short and
straight to the point. “Gentlemens,” said he, “what
we want is this—get prices up, and costs down ; and
every man must stand on his own legs.”
Boerntrager’s mind was so centred upon his work that
he could not talk upon any subject without using the
language of the steel-mill. For instance, soon after his
marriage to a most estimable lady of short stature,
Carnegie met him, and offered congratulations.
“ Did you get a perfect wife, William ? ” he asked.
“Veit, Mr. Carnegie,” replied Boerntrager, “maybe
she might have been improved if she had got von more
pass troo de rolls.”
Viticulture in New Zealand (with especial refer-
ence to Amer. vines) is a fully illustrated manual
to prove that Maoriland can make our Chianti, if
not our champagne. We hope it can. The
author—Romeo Bragato, Govt, viticulturist—has
written a sensible, practical, useful little work.
The Religion of Ancient Scandinavia and The
Mythology of Britain and Ireland are two more
volumes in the lucid series of “ Religions Ancient
and Modern” (Lend., Constable; ls. net). The
latter, especially, will warm the old instincts of
Welsh and Scottish and Irish-Australians. One
feels to grasp theTuatha de Danann, for example,
as one never grasped those cloudy personages
before.
“Agricola” thus:
I am descended from a long line of blacksmiths, tracing
from my grandfather, in an unbroken line for 400 years.
I, myself, was reared entirely away from the “forge,”
except for an occasional visit t.o the local smith when our
horse wanted shoeing. Yet, whenever lamin a smithy,
watching the blacksmith mend a plough or some other
implement, I instinctively hand him the next tool he will
require. This habit is so marked that on several occa-
sions the blacksmith has accused me of having worked at
the trade. -
Impressions of a Victorian Abroad, also Con-
fessions of a Naughty Boy in the Fifties, by J.
Bear (Melb.; J. T. Picken) includes reminiscences
of early Melbourne and elderly impressions of a
trip to Europe. Thalatter are commonplace and
tedious ; the former readable and pleasant, though
the gossip holds nothing of importance.
A.G.S.


OOL
Send Your 'WOOXj to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., LTD
The Leading Sydney Salesmen,
MICK SIMMONS.
sd
CRICKET.
MEN’S BATS
Postage on Bat, Is., N.S.W. ; Is. Bd., Inter-State.
BUSSEYS ss.
CLAPSHAW’S 6s, 7s 3d, 8s 3d, 10s 6d, 15s.
E. H. AYRES’ All Cane -13 s, 15s.
F. H. AYRES’ DOUBLE RUBBER HANDLE STAMPED
“CAN’T BE BEAT” SPECIAL SELECTED ... 18s Gd.
F. H. AYRES’ International
COBBETT’S
WISDEN’S
WARSOP’S
SYKE’S
SHAW & SHREWSBURY’S
SHAW & SHREWSBURY’S
BARTLETT’S ...
DARK’S
NICOLL’S
HEARN’S
STUART SURRIDGE
-GUNN & MOORE’S
SPECIAL VALUE BATS
20s 24s 295.
... 10s 6d, 15s 6d, 18s Gd, 20s, 22s (id!
10s Cd, 12s Cd, 15s Cd, 17s Cd, 21s, 255.
12s Cd, lCs, 18s Cd 20s, 255.
8s Cd, 14s Cd, 21s, 255.
8s 3d, 8s Cd, 11s Cd, 14s.
18s, 19s, 19s Cd.
12s Cd, 15s, 18s, 19s Cd.
... 10s Cd, 17s Cd, 245.
... 15s Gd, 18s Cd, 225.
14s Cd, 22s Cd, 27s Cd.
... 13s Cd, 17s Cd, 21s.
21s, 255, 275.
l2s 6d
MEN’S STUMPS
Postage on one set Stumps, 25., N.S.W. ; 3s. Bd., Inter-State.
PLAIN BLACKWOOD ... 2s set.
SUPERIOR ASH 3s, 3s 9d set.
ASH, Brass Tops, Steel Shod 5s 9d, 7s 9d, 8s Cd set.
ASH, Revolving Tops, Steel Shod ... ... 10s 6d set.
HICKORY, Brass Tops, Steel Shod 16s Cd set.
MEN’S LEG GUARDS
Strong White Twill ... ... ...4s 6d pair.
Tan Leather, Continuous Straps ...6s 6d pair.
Tan Leather, Vent., Continuous Straps.. 8s Cd pair.
Tan Leather, Skeleton, Continuous Straps
10s 6d pair.
Best Quality Gold Cape...l2s 6d, 13s Gd, 16s 6d pair.
Postage on 1 pair Pads, Is, N.S.W. ; 1/8, Inter-State.
BATTING GLOVES
Featherweight ... ... ... 4s 6d pair.
Chamois, Tubular Rubber...ss 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d pair.
Surry Shields ... ... ... ... 4s each.
Postage on one pair Gloves, 4d pair.
fsd
Leather Balls
(s|oz.)
“ M.S.” Special Gut Sewn,
4s 6d, 6s 3d, 7s 6d each.
Specially suited for Matting
Wickets.
DUKE’S ... 5s 6d, 6s Bd, 7s 6d each
WISDEN’S...4s 3d, 6s 3d, 7s 6d each
SPECIAL SIX SEAM PRACTICE
BALLS—
Is, Is 3d, Is 9d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d each.
Postage on one Ball, 3d. extra.
f
Cricket Bags /
Strong Canvas, Double Ended (leather), 14s Gdf each.
Postage Is. 9d., N.S.W. ; 3s. 2d., Inter-Stace.
Men’s Gauntlets
Tnn or Drab Ventilated ... ... ... 5s pair
Gold Cape, Ventilated ... ... 6s 6d, 8s Gd pair
White Kid, Ventilated ... ' 7s Od pair
Buff Chamois, Rubber Palm ... 7s 6d pair
Gold Cape, Rubber Palm ... 9s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d pair
All England Special ... ... Us P a } r
The “Lilley” . 14s pair
Postage on pair, 4d.
dsf
Cricket Nets
Complete S. Tarred, 18 x 6ft. ... 13s 6d each
42 x 6ft. ... 27s 6d each
42 x Bft. ... 35s each
Cricket Mats
Full Size Double Wickets, in two pieces, 6ft.
wide, green color—
£3 10s, £4, £5.
Boys’ Bats
Size —1
Solid Handle, Plain ... ... 9d.
Solid Handle, Polished ... ... Is.
Half Cane Handle
All Cane Handle
All Cane Handle, Selected ... ... TTT , 0 , T
Postage on one Bat, Is., N.S.W.; Is. Bd. Interstate.
Boys’ Cricket Balls
Leather, Six Seam, Is., Is. 6d. each.
Composition, 3d., 6d., 9d., Is., Is. 6d., Is. Bd.,
2s. 3d. each.
Postage on one Ball, 3d.
Boys’ Gauntlets
Chamois or Tan, Ventilated, 3s. 6d. pair.
Gold Cape, Ventilated, 6s. 6d, pair.
Postage on one pair Gauntlets, 4d.
Scoring Books
1 Pocket Size (Postage 3d.), 6d., Is. each.
2 Full Size (Postage 3d.), Is., Is. 6d., 2s. 6d.
each.
Bat Handle Covers
1 Plain Red Rubber (Postage Id.), Is., Is. 3d.,
Is. 6d. each.
2 Pure Black Para Rubber, Is. 3d., Is. 9d. each.
3 Red Rubber (Fancy Patterns), Is. 6d. each.
4 Red Rubber (to Bind on Handle), Cafferay’s
Patent, Is. 9d. each.
Boys’ Leg Guards
Strong Canvas, continuous Straps, 4s. Gd. pair.
Tan Leather ~ ~ 55., 6s. 6d. ~
Postage on one pair Guards, Is., N.S.W. ;
Is. Bd., Interstate.
Boys’ Stumps
Polished, with Bails, 6d., 9d., Is., Is. 6d., 25.,
2s. 6d. set.
Postage on first three sets, 9d., N.S.W.; Is. 2d.,
Interstate ; on last three sets, Is. 3d.,
N.S.W. ; 2s. 2d., Interstate,
Cricket Sundries
1 Ash Bails (Set of Four), (Post. 2d.), 9d. set.
2 Lignum Bails (Set of Four), Post 2d.) Is. Gd.
3 Rubber Bails (Post. 4d.), 2s. 6d. set.
4 Steel Shoes for Stumps (Post. 4d.), Is. 3d. set.
5 Bat Binding Twine (Post 2d.), Is. Od., 2s. Gd.
ball.
6 Boot Spikes, on Card (Post Id.), Is. card.
7 Boot Screw Nails, on Card (Post Id.), 6d.
card.
8 Wicket Regulator (Horn and Parr’s), 2s. 6d.
each.
9 Bat Oil, specially prepared (Post. Is. extra),
lOd. bottle.
10 Book on Cricket (Post. Id.), Gd. each.
Illustrated Fishing Tackle, Sports, Tobacco Lists, Anglers' Cuide and Hints on Fishing—Post Free.
The Leading Sports Depot.
GUNS and RIFLES.
sd
fsd
The “Bullseye” Rifle, 22 Calibre,
20in. Octagon Steel Barrel, rifled,'Remington action, walnut
stock, open sights, weight about 3fll>
Postage—ls l 9d N.S.W. ;3s 2d Inter-State).
11/6
The Celebrated
“MAINE
RIFLE
"THE MAINE"
f?ifle
cs 'hewing Qifle Apart.
fitted with Sporting Rear Sights to 300yds., Bolt
Action, ISin. Blued Steel Barrel, Walnut Stock.
Shoots 22 Short, Long, or Extra Long Cartridges.
Weight, 2glb.
PRICE 15/6
POSTAGE OR RIFLE—N.S.W., 1/3 ; INTER-
STATE, 2/2 EXTRA.
MICK SIMMONS.
22 cal., 20in. Blued Steel Barrel, bolt action, weight about 211 b
Postage : N.S.W., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d.. .
Winchester S.S. Rifle, 1902 Model, 22 Cal., R.F., peep or V
sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2Jlb.
Postage : N.S.W., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d..
Re T , J’ 1 w t ? r Vj' S ‘r :Rifle ’ New Mode l. 22 Calibre, R.F., 20in. barrel, weight 3ilb. Postage—
N.S.W., Is 6d ; Interstate, 2s 8d s
WINCHESTER THUMB TRIGGER RIFLE.
13s Od
18s Od
16s Od
Winchester
1904
Model,
f
“Winchester” Single Shot Rifle, 1904
Model, for 22' short'or long rim lire cartridges,
21in. heavy round steel barrel, plain trigger, bolt action,
adjustable rear sight, length of rifle over all 37£in., bead front
sight with patent alloyed tip, which will not
tarnish, weight about 41b. (Postage, Is 9d
N.S.W. ; 3s 2d Inter State).
24s
sdf
Stevens’
Little
Krag.
Stevens’ B.S. “ Little Kragy 22 Calibre, bolt action, blued steel round
barrel, 20in. long-, walnut stpck, steel scroll trigger guard peep
sight, with V sight if required (id extra, length over all 36in.
weight about 3£lb. (Postage, Is Cd N.S. W. ;2s Sd Inter-State), ’
21s
sd
Stevens’ 11 Favorite.”
Stevens’ S.'S. “Favorite,” 22, 22 W.R.F., 25, or 32 cal., rim
fire, half octagon 22in. barrel, case-hardened frame, solid breech block,
under lever action, open front and rear sights, weight 4jlb. (Postage, Is 9d N.S.W. •
3s-2d Inter-State) .. .. .. .. j .. .. .
Stevens’ S.S. “ Favorite,” 22 or 32 cal. R.F., fitted with beach combination, front sight open
rear and vernier, else same description as above (Post., N.S.W.jls 9d ; Inter-State, 3s 2d ..’
£1 lOs
£2
Lest on
DaEy
Coy.
D.8.8.L.
Gun
MICK SIMMONS
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.8.8.L. GUN, 12 gauge, top lever, steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding locks, left choke, pistol stock, weight about 71b. Postage—N.S.W., 2s 9d;
Inter-State, 5s 2d
35s
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.8.8.L. GUN, same as above, but with Greener Cross Bolt.
Postage—N.S.YV., 2s 9d : Inter-State, 5s 2d ..
45s
MICK
SIMMONS
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 or 16 Gauge, top lever, twist barrels, extension rib, rebounding looks,left choke, patent
D. &E. fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. Postage, N.S.W., 2/9 ; Inter-State, 5/2.
40s
ISAAC
HOLLIS
& SONS
B
-v-:
“The Reliable,”
£6 12s 6d
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Real Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt,
Left Choke, Rebounding Locks, Snap Fore-end,
chambered for 2fin. Cartridges. Guaranteed
for all Smokeless Powders.
Postage. 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
HOLLIS
GUN,
both
Deelej
2fin. <
finest-
& SONS’ “THE RELIABLE” D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
12-gauge, top lever, genuine Damascus or “ Siemen’s ” steel barrels,
choke, side lock action, automatic safety bolt, extended rib,
'-Edge patent fore-end, fitted with Greener cross-bolt, neatly engraved, chambered for
cartridges. GUARANTEED FOR ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, and absolutely the O-i A -j n-,
quality Gun in the States. Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ;5s 2d Inter-State XIX IXS
REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney


CURED by POST
The Freeman & Wallace System of Home Cure.
SCIENCE has made rapid strides in Medicine and Surgery, and it is now proven that the day when it was considered necessary for a man to
personally visit a doctor respecting his disease is past. A most inexpensive and as sure a method is now come in force. The Specialists of
THE FREEMAN AND WALLACE MEDICAL INSTITUTES’ effective Parcel Post System is hailed by men in remote country centres
with delight. By its means they are enabled to obtain the Finest Medical Aid Free of Charge, have their medicines sent into their homes, and in
every way be treated as well as if they had journeyed long and far to a city doctor. The FREEMAN AND WALLACE SYSTEM saves journeys,
money and time. These are essential things, when health is to be considered and disease beaten. All medicines are packed secure from observation.
All Advice Given Free of Charge, and the Opinions of the Medical Staff of FOUR LEGALLY-QUALIFIED PHYSICIANS received by any
suffering man. The Specialists have thousands of testimonials of cured men lying at the Institutes, amongst them being one from Mr. George Towns,
the Champion Oarsman of the World. Men, if you suffer, consult the Specialists. They are EXPERTS in the TREATMENT of MEN’S DISEASES.
Strengthless
Men „
Men who are deficient in
Vital Power from many
causes, at thirty are prema-
turely old, lacking the power,
the energy to be a success in
life, and to enjoy it domes-
tically and socially. Such
men are only half-men, the
contempt and pity of their
fellows. A man should be
strong, full of purpose, suc-
cessful in strength, no man’s
inferior.
THE SPECIALISTS
MAKE SUCH MEN.
A man will continue to
degenerate if lacking the
essential power of the man.
It is the law of Nature, the
survival of the fittest. Thou-
sands of Weak Men have
been cured at the Institute,
have been made strong and
healthy, and are living ad-
vertisements to the Special-
ists’ skill.
Blood
Diseases .
One of the most serious of
diseases is that of the blood
arising from specific causes.
The blood is the life, and if
polluted the whole machin-
ery of the body is assailed.
Victims to blood diseases
are in a serious condition.
If not attended to at once
they will surely die. No
one but skilled scientific
experts should attempt to
treat them. Insidious and
subtle, undermining the
health, affecting every vital
organ, they kill quickly.
THEY ARE DESPERATE
DISEASES
requiring desperate reme-
dies. This is the class of
disease with which the
medical staff of the Insti-
tute are familiar.
The Freeman & Wallace
Institute is the Most
Scientific throughout
Australia. Over £lOO,OOO
has been expended on it.
S&jgMSHS
' -
.
MR. HOWARD FREEMAN, Director of Institutes, Sydney and Melbourne .
Our . . .
References .
By reference to any of the
leading banks or commercial
houses in Sydney, patients
can convince themselves as
to tiie professional bona-fidcs
of the Freeman & Wallace In-
stitute, Sydney. Its cost has
been enormous. It is known
far and wide by reason of
the great cures effected by
its Specialists. Its Medical
Staff comprise many of the
greatest medical minds in
the Commonwealth. A
patient suffering from Vari-
cocele, Rupture, Loss of
Vital Power, Weak or
Shrunken Organs, General
Debility, Heart Disease,
Cancer, Sciatica, Rheuma-
tism, Insomnia, Kidney Dis-
order, Dropsy, or Diabetes,
Spinal Affections, Diseases
of the Stomach, Nerves, or
Blood, are all treated by
Specialists who have studied
the class of disease thorough-
ly. Patients may depend
upon it the treatment they
require is the treatment they
will receive, such as no other
medical institution in Aus-
tralia can afford them.
Men's Advice -
JUB I If afflicted with
l* ■ adiseasewhich,
if not cured, means death,
you require the aid of a
medical expert who can cure
you swiftly. Consult the
Specialists of The Free-
man and Wallace Medi-
cal Institute, whose
names are household words
of thirty years’ standing
throughout Australia. They
treat diseases others have
aggravated by tampering.
You can be cured if curable.
Write for our FREE home
treatment book, “ Clinical
Experiences,” 750 pages,
if you have not already re-
ceived it, and learn all about
contagious blood poison cure.
If you want medical advice,
give a history of your case,
and our physicians will fur-
nish all the information you
wish, without any charge
whatever.
The Specialists of
The Freeman & Wallace
Institute have practised
in Australia over
a Quarter of a Century.
MR. HOWARD FREEMAN, who controls two of the Largest Medical Institutes in Australasia, a Staff of
Four Legally Qualified Physicians and Surgeons, Analysts, Lecturers and Secretaries, and a small
army of Correspondence Clerks to deal with stupendous weekly mails. By his Parcel Post System or
Method of Curing Men in their own Homes he has saved numberless men in Australia from early graves.
Patients are treated in all parts of Australasia, and thousands of testimonies prove the Medical Staff
to be Men of Skill, Experience, and Reliability. Men are cured to remain cured for good. In all
Diseases of the Male Sex the Specialists are renowned for their Effective Cures.
PR. WALLACE
L.R.C.S., E., L.K.C.P., E., L.M., Physieian-in-Chief to
the Institute, is a Practitioner of world-wide experience,
having practised his profession in England, Europe, and in various States of Australasia.
Dr. Wallace, who is registered by Medical Boards of England, Scotland, Victoria, New
South Wales, Queensland, and Tasmania, has passed through a lengthy and varied educa-
tional curriculum, receiving tuition at the Royal High School, and the Edinburgh Institution,
Edinburgh; at the. Royal College of Surgeons, Dublin ; at Trinity College, Dublin ; at the
University of Dublin, where he attended the Combined Medical and Arts courses ; at the
Royal College of Surgeons and Physicians, and the Royal Hospital, Edinburgh ; at the
Medical School, Queen’s University, Ireland ;at the Royal Hospital, Belfast; and at St.
Thomas’ Hospital, London, under Sir William MacCormac, through whose distinguished
influence he was presented with a free perpetual ticket to that Institution.
N.B. —All correspondents are requested to direct their letters to the Freeman and
Wallace Institute, Sydney, or “The Secretary,” and not to any individual member of the
firm. All letters are personally supervised by Dr. Wallace and treated privately.
FREEMAN & WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL AND SURCICAL INSTITUTE,
Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts., Sydney,
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director of Institutes
DR. WALLACE, Physician-in-Chief
DR. ELIZABETH WHITE, M.D., Diseases of Women
DR. F. BELL, Lecturer to the Institutes,
And at
Melbourne.


y>
Z J.
\\
It’s an easy job for the barber tc
part the hair on a head like this.
It’s just as easy to prevent baldness
if you only do the right thing.
Baldness is almost always a sure
sign of neglect; it is the story of neg-
lected dandruff.
Dandruff is untidy, unnecessary, and
unhealthy.
filer's
Jiair Vigor,
cures dandruff and prevents baldness.
You save your hair and you are spared
the annoyance of untidy clothing. i
It also stops falling of the hair, and
makes the hair grow thick and long.
Do not bo deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Be sure you get A YER’S Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. Q. Ayer &Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Clean White
Teeth
mean sound teeth, fit for their
work, the condition they are kept
in by the use of
CALVERTS
Carbolic Tooth Powder,
It is made for cleaning the Teeth, and
does it, too, pleasantly, thoroughly and
gently, without scratching or injuring
the enamel. That is why it is in such
constant demand all over the world.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,
England.
Mothers 1
It is simple misery to you to see
your little baby torn to pieces,
day after day, night after night,
with whooping cough. To stop
it you haye only to give Scott’s
Emulsion of cod liver oil and
hypophosphites of lime and soda.
There is no risk. Hundreds of
mothers during 30 years past
have done the same and had
the unfeigned joy of seeing their
Rabies
grow well, strong and bonny.
East Cobar. N.S.W., July 7th, 1905.
“My little daughter, Ina Muriel, aged one
year and nine months, had a severe attack
of whooping cough. I gave Scott's Emul-
sion, and in a little while she lost all signs
of sickness, her cough entirely left her, and
she is now a fine healthy chili."
(Mrs.) J. Kemister.
The perfect purity and great
nourishing power of
6eott’s
'Emulsion
are the result of the original cele-
brated Scott process, by which
Scott’s Emulsion alone is made!
It is no trouble to give, no trouble
to digest. There are many emul-
sions in the market —Scott’s is the
Always get the Emul-
sion with this mark-the
Fiahman—the mark of
the “ Scott ” process!
only one that pro-
duces the Scott's
Emulsion effect,
which is a cure*
We will gladly send you
a free trial bottle. Send
us your address and 4d.
for postage, mentioning
this paper. SCOTT &
BOWNE, Limited, 483,
Kent Street, Sydney,
N.S.W. <£*J*<£*e£*<£*J*ij*
IRISH
\0
MOSS
WILL CURE THAT . . .
Hacking Cough, &
Troublesome Cold,
Annoying Influenza
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption.
v" r
r
DON’T BUY IMITATIONS.
s
<=i
*fTi>
rvaannnnf 'M I -Jnan/ll
WATCHES
The best watches
that can be con-
structed.
All guaranteed.
For sale all over
the world.
AMERICAN WALTHAM
WATCH COMPANY.
Waltham, Mass., U. S. A.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 101,S.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE.FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in' the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted -to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
fsd
His Majesty The
King and
Royal Family.
MOIR’S
“ New Season’s ”
HERRINGS.
SUPERIOR QUALITY GUARANTEED.
TRY THEIR . .
11 Herrings in Anchovy Sauce,”
“Fincfon Haddocks,”
“ Herrings a la Sardines.”
ASK FOR and SEE THAT YOU GET
MONTS
Pure Pickles.
THEY ARE A TREAT.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, Limited,
London, Aberdeen, Seville.
SYDNEY AGENCY: 47 MACQUARIE STREET,
CIRCULAR QUAY.
[2
THE HiGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyeiia’
(Regd.)
f
SHRINK.
The Idea!
Material
for
Children's
Frocks.
&c.
From the
Leading
Drapers.
SEE THc, LABEL ON THE SELVEDGE.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Karachiensis Re “Sheelah’s” remarks
on the keen smell capacity of the small red ant
(B. 24/5/’O6), I differ from him. The ant, red,
black, or otherwise,' is not possessed of anything
extraordinary in the way of smell power. Brother
ant happens, quite promiscuously, to come upon
a tit-bit—dead by preference. He takes a bite
just to see if it’s worth the. subsequent trouble. He
lingers a little while round the object to admire
it, and if it’s more than he can carry or
pull himself, he makes tracks for" home.
That ant, as he goes, keeps pressing
his caudal appendage to the ground, or
anything else he is travelling over, and leaves
on it a microscopic trail of a peculiar ant fluid
all the way to his nest. Any other ant coming
across this trail at once stops, picks up the
“ scent,” and runs along it till he finds the object.
Meanwhile, ant No. 1, the original prospector, has
arrived at his nest. In a second you will find <
hundreds of ants pouring out and going off in a
regular line along the trail. But let anyone break
the trail by running a damp cloth over a portion
of it, or strewing it with cigar-ash, and that
marching army will be thrown into confusion. '
The ants wiil scatter in all directions trying to
pick up the trail again, and, if they cannot do so
in a short time, they will scoot back to the nest.
And yet the object they are looking for may be
only a yard away, it may be large enough to.
attract the attention of even an idiot ant,
and it may be pouring forth a perfect cataract of
flavor.
“San”: Your precious “Quambat,” or
“ Dingbat ” (any name is good enough for him)
(B. 16/8/’O6), is an aboliar. This is how I found out.
I have a neighbor who has been having his house
made from a Gothic to a Queen Anne villa. His
men take their lunch out in the garden near my
fence. What more natural than that my half-
grown St. Bernard should root a hole under the
fence, and sit in front of the row of workmen, in
various ways urging his claim to a share
of the tucker. At first the men seemed
friendly to the pup, and gave him scraps. Later,
they got tired and threatened to poison him.
So I kept him on the chain. One day he escaped
and I saw one of the wretches throw him a large
piece of steak, which was swallowed at a gulp.
Madly I rushed down the garden path and called
the pup. He came. I followed “Wombat’s”
system for restoring the apparently poisoned.
Seizing the pup by the tail, I began to slowly
swing him round my head. My word, he was
heavy. The men, hearing the rumpus, lined the
fence with a row of grinning heads, “ ’E’s doin’
Sandow, Bill,” said one to his mate. “Wonder
’ow the pup likes it ? ” said the laborer’s assistant.
This made me so wild I gave an extra swing
and the pup’s head went bang against a post.
He gave one gasp, and all was over. He
never got sick, and the next day he was just as
dead as he was the day previous. And the steak
hadn’t been poisoned after all.
In 1901 the Queensland Parliament gave
Private Enterprise the chance it says it is always
craving for to build a railway, and open up the
country, and show how much better it can do
these things than the State can. The line (Nor-
manton to Cloncurry) was to be finished and
working, and supplying a great object lesson,
inside five years. The five years have expired,
and, as usual, Private Enterprise hasn’t put a
pick in the ground, so the little deposit it put up
will probably be forfeited and the bargain declared
off.
Woman’s Fate.
Our Master, Time, amid his wealth,
Counts to each man a golden store ;
Some spend in haste, some hoard in stealth,
. But unto no man grants he more.
Coins newly-minted, red and white,
He counted into my cupped hands ;
Ah, but they shone so big and bright,
To answer all demands.
Where’er I went I heard the cry,
“ Spare me one hour ! ” “ And me a day !”
“Give of thy riches!” How could I
Speak churlishly and tell them “ Nay ” ?
Here, from my grasp bright hours they caught,
And there, I flung a careless day ;
For worthless dues, in gifts of naught,
I cast my wealth away.
And then Love met me. Royal, he,
And generous. “Keep thy gold,” he said,
“ My moment spans eternity ! ”
But in chat moment he had fled.
My all I laid before him there;
“ One moment yet !” I cried. In vain.
I saw his bright plumes cleave the air,
I met him not again.
And then Life met me. Some were free
To take unpriced his wondrous wares ;
Some he denied. Alas, from me
He took fine gold for petty cares.
Before my time he left me old,
Bankrupt in gladness, hope and health !
My nerveless fingers scarce can hold
The remmtnt of my wealth.
Oh, slow decline ! Oh, small distress !
How to endure ye? Fain would I
Rather, for all I yet possess,
Breathe one full breath—and die.
QUEENSLAND.
A.W.
The Recluse.
We dream among the nodding daffodils
And big blush roses in a garden old,
While sunset on the great eternal hills
Burns red and gold*
The brook that murmurs on its winding way
Is music, floating light as a caress
Through green arcades’ where rosy sunbeams play
In loveliness.
The calm contentment of a summer sea
Sighs drowsily from far deep coral caves.
We hear at times in rolling melody
The wash of waves.
I think I see your sordid nightmare town
At times, from out the haven of our rest—
A hideous study in a bilious brown
Of man unblessed;
Of bartered lust, of swains too poor to wed ;
Of god in garret, sot in gilded sty;
Of fat men feasting off the great unfed ;
Hung all awry.
I have no stomach for the poor man’s crust.
A cup of tears is but a bitter draught.
Your life a threadbare theme of “ dust to dust,”
A joke outlaughed.
I crave no tear-stained gold, no purchased smile;
No rusty crown, or painted blandishment.
In lotus languor on my garden isle
I rest content.
VIC.
FRANK HUDSON.
The Traveller.
He started out to brave the world
With high-held head and gallant mien,
When morning clouds were looped and furled,
And all the new wet grass was green.
-A buoyant, bright and.joyous youth,
He whistled down the morning wind ;
He saw the glowing peaks of Truth
Ear-off, in cloudless skies defined.
To climb their heights was his whole thought—
To rest upon their summits sure.
To hold his heart unsold, unbought,
Unspoiled, unstained, and ever pure.
Right well equipped for night and day
Was he, that youth of bearing fine ;
He had some dreams wherewith to pay
For bread and meat and wayside wine.
But sadness tames the soul that sings,
And time transformed the glowing boy;
He saw so much, and heard such things,
. That anger took the place of joy.
The dust and heat of many a mile
Made dry his throat with drouth accurst;
He paused at tavern doors to smile,
And ask for wine to wet his thirst.
But, since he had no gold to pay,
They gave him greeting scant and cold ;
“ We are not witless folk,” said they,
“ To trade in dreams instead of gold.”
He found the heart of man a rock,
Untouched, though many tears he shed ;
His dreams were but a worthless stock
That would not buy him daily bread.
He saw the courts of gilded vice
Where thronged gay rogues and painted dames,
And all the world with cards and dice
Sat smiling at its cut-throat games.
He longed for power to stay or stem
The tide of lies that rolled far spread—
For Gabriel’s trump to summon them,
And Michael’s sword to strike them dead.
And so untired from youth to age,
Inspired by Truth and armed with Right,
The world beheld this dreamer wage
His vain, preposterous, foolish fight.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1840- For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape, Esq.
General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Cures While*
You Sleep
ESTABLISHED 1879.
A Vaporized Medicine having Extraordinary
Curative Powers over
Whooping Cough, Croup,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza,
AND DISTRESSING COUGHS IN YOUNG AND OLD.
IT PROTECTS YOUR HOME AGAINST CONTAGIOUS DISEASE.
Yapo-Cresolene complete 7-6; Cresolene, 16 oz., 7-6; 4 oz., 2-8; 2 oz. 9 1-3»
VAPO-CRESOLENE COMPANY. NEW YORK, U. S. A.
Trade Supplied by THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG COMPANY, LTD.
sdf
MAKE Z" AERATED WATERS
WITH AN
AUSTRAL AERATED
WATER MACHINE.
AERATED WATERS cost less than
FOURPENCE PER DOZEN pro-
duced by these machines.
Prices from £lB and upwards.
Catalogues and full particulars from—
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
214 Queen Street
Melbourne, Vic.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
HLa'fcCl.*
SYDNE Y,
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL
SKINS are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered
promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
yVINCHZSTM
iiKV'l
Model 1905 Self-Loading Rifle
This rifle is a six shot, hammerless take-down, made in .32 and .35 calibers,
the cartridges being of the modern smokeless powder type. The recoil of
the exploded cartridge ejects the empty shell, cocks the hammer and feeds
a fresh cartridge from the magazine into the chamber, leaving the rifle ready
to shoot upon the operator’s pulling the trigger. The self-loading system
adds much to the pleasure of rifle shooting, either at target or game. The
list price of this model is $28.00.
These Rifles For Sale By All Dealers.
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS CO., NEW HAVEN, CONN., U.S.A.
LIVER TOEFOL STOMACH 1! KIDNEY TROUBLES
From Dodtors
Dr. J. BOND SULLIVAN
WRITES :
“Knock, Ennis, Co., Clare, Ireland.
“ Having recently got from you a bottle of
Kutnow’s Powder, from which I personally de-
rived much benefit, will you now kindly send me
a larger supply ? I really feel unsatisfied without
it myself, and I have recommended it to several
lady patients, who approve of it greatly. An aged
clergyman to whom I recommended Kutnow’s
Powder tells me he finds it,both effective and
agreeable.
“ J. BOND SULLIVAN,
“M.D., M.R.C.S., Eng., etc.”
Dr. I. N. LOVE, M.D.,
WROTE:
“ The great surgeon, Prof. Lawson Tait, M.D.,
himself a sufferer from a gouty diathesis, for years
found Kutnow’s Powder of great value to himself
personally and in his practice. Kutnow’s Powder
stimulates the activites of the bowels and kidneys.
It cleanses the bowels, acts as a diluent, and
flushes the kidneys in a most satisfactory way.
Thorough elimination is salvation, and there is no
better eliminator than Kutnow’s Powder.
“I. N. LOVE, M.D.”
(Professor of Clinical Medical Diseases,
Marion-Sims College of Medicine, and
College of Physicians and Surgeons.)
Dr. J. ABELA
WRITES :
“Tripoli, Syria, July 20th, 1905.
“Dear Sirs, —It gives me pleasure to let you
know the result of my trial of Kutnow’s Powder.
It is an efficient remedy in regulating liver
secretions and curing skin diseases due to dis-
ordered functions of the said organ.—Yours truly,
“J. ABELA, M.D.”
The Advantages of Kutnow’s Powder.
SIR JAMES CRICHTON BROWNE said that a prolongation of
life is not desirable unless that life be vigorous and happy.
Many of the quick-killing diseases that involve but brief
disability and suffering, like typhus and typhoid fever, are decreasing,
while slowly degenerative diseases, involving protracted invalidism
and much misery, like Bright’s disease, diabetes, and cirrhosis of the
liver, are mounting up. Society has always had to pay for every
mistake it makes, except when the habit of hygienic correction is
cultivated. PROFESSOR LAWSON TAIT, M.D. recognised the
importance of removing the debris of undigested food the morning
after the banquet, and not only prescribed Kutnow’s Powder in his
hospital and private practice, but used it personally for years with
unqualified success. The secret of health is often found in the
elimination of uric acid, and this is easily achieved by the use of
Kutnow’s Powder. It cleanses the stomach, rouses the liver, flushes
the kidneys, and clears the bowels. By this simple means the errors
of excess in diet and drink are corrected, and the poisonous debris
removed from the system.
How to
Detect Fraud !
The genuine and original Kutnow’s
Powder can be had of all conscien-
tious Chemists throughout the
world. See that the fac-simile sig-
nature, “ S. Kutnow and Co., Ld.,”
and the registered trade-mark
“ Hirschensprung, or Deer Leap,”
are on the carton and bottle. You
will then avoid fraud, and
Get Kutnow’s
Powder.
Dr. Leon Blanc
WHITES :
“ Aix-les-Bains,
“June 7th, 1905.
“Many thanks for Kutnow’s
Powder you sent me for the Thermal
Hospital. It has proved equally
beneficial for my Rheumatic and
Gouty Patients, both in the hospital
as well as for those patients taking
the Aix-les-Bains cure.
“LEON BLANC, M.D.”
(Consulting Physician of Aix-les-
Bains, Physician of the Thermal
Hospital, Member of the Council for
Hygiene of Aix and Savoy, Laureate
of the Academie de Medicine de Paris,
dec., dec.)
From Clergy.
-♦
Rev. F. L,. BULLEN
WRITES :
“Wellesley, Church Lane, Highfield,
“ Southampton, Oct. 22, 1905.
“ Dear Sirs, —I have no objection to your pub-
lishing my testimony concerning the excellent
properties of Kutnow’s Powder. I can only wish
I had tried it years ago. In my case it has proved
to be an agreable and gentle aperient, cleansing
the liver and kidneys, relieving the brain of any
symptoms of pain or discomfort, and regulating
generally the whole organic system.
“(Rev.) F. L. BULLEN.”
Rev. F. G. RILEY, M.A.
WRITES :
“ Helperthorpe Vicarage, York,
“May 13, 1905.
“ Dear Sirs, —I have given Kutnow’s Powder a
fair trial, and I may say at once that its action is
gentle and its effect all that can be desired. I
shall in future keep a store at hand for use as
required from time to time. The Powder is agree-
able to the palate as an excellent household
medicine. —Yours faithfully,
‘XRev.) FRANCIS G. RILEY, M.A.
“(Sidney Suss. Coll., Camb.)”
Rev. C. E. WINCOTT
WRITES :
“ Gentlemen, —About three years ago I was
confined to my bed for a short time with a very
acute attack of liver complaint. After other
medicines had failed to take any effect, I was
recommended by my doctor to try Kutnow’s
Powder, and I am glad to say that after caking
two bottles I was completely cured, and my
health has been better ever since.
“(Rev.) CHARLES E. WTNCOTT,
“Incumbent of St. Philip’s Church,
“Adlington Lane.”
SOLE PROPRIETORS: S. KUTNOW ©. CO., LTD., 41, FARRINGDON ROAD, LONDON, E.C.
t3- 9-]


SPIRO
Powder SPIRO
A BOON FOR HOT WEATHER
KILLS ALL ODOR OF PERSPIRATION.
NO MORE SORE AND ACHING FEET.
DOES NOT STAIN ANYTHING. EASILY APPLIED.
1/3 per box to any part of the State.
Grand Views of Niagara Falls Given
Away to Purchasers.
Australasian Agents AMERICAN HYGIENIC
AGENCY Ltd.,. 177 Liverpool St., Hyde Park, Sydney.
Distributing Agents for Victoria —Grant, Bradley &
Co., Fulham Place, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Distributing Agent for Queensland —Alfred Moon,
37 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Distributing Agents for West Australia— P. Falk &
Co., Ltd., Henry Street, Fremantle.
FREE SAMPLES, ALL STATES, ON APPLICATION.
RHEUMATISM.
GOUT
PILLS
Are recommended by doctors with confi
dence as one of the valuable results of
medical science, and the only remedy
ever discovered for these disorders, in
that they not only rapidly cure but pre-
vent the recurrence of the malady.
Of Chemists and Stores, 1/1£ and 2/9 per box.
Proprietors— PßOUT & CO., 229, Strand,
London, England.
FAT FOLKS
REDUCE
your weight
5 lbs. a week
No inconvenience. No strict diet. Pursue
your ordinary avocation. Endorsed by Physicians.
Book and particulars free. Address—
J A S. CRAIG & CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne.
ldeal
for weather extremes. _
CADBURY’S
Absolutely Pure
An invaluable food-
drink £. old.
at all times £.seasons.
The Standard of Highest Purit^The Lancet
“A Perfect food*-//ealth.
DINNEFORD’S
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
m
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
Consult HERR RASSMHSSEH,
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
ALP ALINE VITALITY PILLS
'Will Cure the Nerves, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Seif-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
P?»3 nn|l 0110307 S3BH I <C Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
bLUUU OUtriSEi r I Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blood
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43,6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
Weak Women sSSrfafpow Weakness. Boxes, 6s._ Courses, 23/6.
Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA FILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches: 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE;
111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
HANS PETER RASMUSSEN,
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
restores eyf lushes-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
INI EVER FAILS.
Ask your Chemist for the Little Book:
‘HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES
CURED
WEAK
m
MADE
STRONG!
WHO does the world praise ? Why the strong man, of course,—the man who CAN DO,
and DOES ! Not the weakling whose very personality obscures him. The world
idealises a manly man, and has but pity for the weak one. Surely you want to appear,
and be, at your best. Nature did not intend you to be a weakling. . . drag your legs
about like a wooden man ? Why take a back seat, or be a wall-flower, when the Specialists of
this Institution stand ever ready to make you as Strong, Vigorous, and Virile as any man who
lives.
We know why you suffer, and we also know that by pumping your nerves and tissues full of
new life (Electricity) you can be invigorated, rejuvenated, and made as strong and healthy a§'
Nature intended you to be. Follow our advice and wear our Belt.
Dr. McEaug'hlin’s Electric Belt
after three months’ use, makes strong, vigorous men out of weaklings and “ half-men.” It will infuse new life into your
nerves and tissues ; will give you a new lease of life, and will make all sunshine where you now see a dull dark dismal
future. Guaranteed in every case undertaken, you can be sure it will not fail when recommended. Give’it a trial and
you will rejoice ever afterwards. Thousands have been cured by this appliance, and so can you be—lF YOU WILL
Consultation
CALL at our office cinci consult our
Specialist about your health. 'His
advice is free, and he will tell you
candidly whether Electricity will cure
you or not. He will also explain the
working of the Belt and give you a
FREE TEST. Hours :9a. m till 8 p.m.
PO3T THIS COUPON TO US TO-DAY.
Mr. ALBERT JEWELL, of lllabo, N.S.W., who suffered with a De-
ranged Stomach, writes “ It is now over three years since I first
secured your Electric Belt, at which time I suffered untold agonies from
stomach troubles and headaches. My stomach was often so bad that I found
it necessary when out riding on the farm to frequently dismount and roll on
the ground in order to secure any relief whatever. lam now glad however
to say I am absolutely cured, and have been so for the past two and a-lvilf
years. I work hard and enjoy it.”
Mr. JOSEPH RYAN, Receiving Officer, Babbiloora, Morven 0
writes as follows : ‘ About fifteen months ago I obtained your Belt’ as I
had suffered with weakness of my back for over a year. Now lam entirelv
well, and have no return of the old trouble. In fact, the general improve
ment of my health I have credited to the use of your Belt I never fail to
recommend it.”
15-9-6
THE DR. MCLAUGHLIN GO.,
109 W. Market St., Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —Please send me your Free Book.
NAME
ADDRESS
FREE BOOK!
Send us this
COUPON,
properly filled
in, and we will post you our Free* Book. It
is worth pounds' to any sufferer, as it contains
much interesting advice for men and women
and gives full information about our life-givim’
Belt. Call or write to-day. Our Belt is as
good for Women as for Men.
the dr. McLaughlin co.,
100 W. Market St., SYDNEY
WILLIAM CHARLES CRAWFORD
~ i 1 ! 11 1 ' Jlll
«; i l ' ~ i |
I! Lili !
Ttv VWw
ll&
%
iiiii
liiii i
Don't
waste time in
experimenting .
Thirty Years '
unbeaten and increas-
ing Success is the
best proof of the claim of
Onimdge;
” £ungTonfc
[to be the WORLD'S CURE ,
for Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
and other Throat and
Lung Troubles.
; can b 3 obtained from
any Chemist or Store,
and Sayes Many
Lives.
ASK FOR.
BOSISTO’S
“PARROT 4 .
BRAND
EUCALYPTUS OIL
and REFUSE
i SUBSTITUTES. d
sd
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
Is allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
Money in full refunded without qit stion
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
cj cles, warranted six years.
MODELS £2.10 c € 6
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or clincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Jyever Kim
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
Packed and Delivered Free
lo any port in the world. We guarantee safe
delivery.
nnn Second-Hand Cycles
2|fU aU ’“akes- £1 to £2.10
good as new,
Great factory clearance sale at ha'f factory prices.
EARN A CYCLE machfne. Active Agents
wan'ed in each district. Large profits easily rr ade. Write at once for
free catalogues and our special offer, using sufficient postage.
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, &0.. m ha t prices.
MEAD CYCLE GO. Dep\ B 3s *
LIVERPOOL, LONDON AND CHICAGO.
L
M
i.
The Electricon.”
A miniature Device
for the EAR—invis-
ible, easily adjusted,
aud entirely com-
fortable. Makes low
sounds and whispers
plainly heard. Over
fifty thousan 1 sold,
giving instant relief from deafness
and head no ses.
There are but few cases of deafness that
cannot be benefited. Write for booklet
and testimonials.
THE
L. R. VERNON GO.,
60-64 Hunter St., Sydney.
BLOOD POISON.
FOR MORE THAN TWENTY YEARS
we have made the cure of blood poison a
specialty, P. imary, Fegordary or Tertiary
Blood Poison Permanently Cured. You can
be treated at home under same guaranty.
Capital 500,000 dols. We solicit the most
obstinate cases. If you have exhausted the
old methods of treatment, and still have aches
and pains, Mucus Patches in Mouth, Sore
Throat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spots,
Ulcers on any part of the body, Hair or
Eyebrows falling out, write for proofs of
cures, ioo-page Book Free.
COOK REMEDY Co.,
1102 MASONIC TEMPLE, Chicago, U.S.A.
DIIKKEHNESS.
TOBACCO and DRUG HABIT.
Permanently cured at your own home, safe sure
and effective. Can he given secretly to stubborn
patients. Endorsed by leading Physicians. Clergy,
and the Press. Call or write for full particu’ars,
Everything Free and Strictly Confidential.
Addrrsb—
The “ANALEPTIC * CO., 90 Pitt St. Sydney, N.S.W.
A
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH.
Price 6d, from -The Bulletin Office.


THE “LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
An Ideal Fabric for Outdoor and “At Home” Wear.
As rich in appearance as Lyons Silk Velvet costing a Guinea a yard, and wears longer.
the NEW “LOUIS CHIFFON VEL DUVET
is one of the most fashionable PILE FABRICS for entire Costumes manufactured
for the present Season. Nothing else has such lustre of finish, such sheen and
softness of texture, and no other fabric yet produced shows such varying play of
light and shade.
Every yard of the “Louis” Velveteen, and the “Louis” Chiffon Vel Duvet, is
stamped with the name spelled L-O-U-l-S and guarantee of wear, and Ladies
should insist on seeing this and thus avoid the substitution of inferior imitations.
From Drapers & Silk Mercers throughout the Colonies.
Have You a PHONOGRAPH?
If so, what are you paying for Records ?
COLUMBIA Gold Moulded Records
m \
sc?
are superior to all others in Tone and
Durability.
PRICE 1/3 EACH.
Write for our New 72-page CATALOGUE, and
particulars of our exchange' offer on old and worn
Records.
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO. (Gent).
Australian
Headquarters i
25 Ash StSydney, N.S. W.
rr
i
IK'
*0.1
TTTmnnxr,
i/r>m
William Flemihg# 1 equitable m, ceorce sr.sYDfiEv.
tiXytemmy/ XW'
ft) iSancUnwJ ytrit
dafo/ftud v-mstafofot foruJ
Amsc come fatty ufa to uoioT'
totmaletor economy y rated -
factum., fate ccTifahnatmur
toe Stand %ou/ onwrftrmom&t'
fom) wfo/JdM Sftttmi
fds
GOOD HAIR FOR ALL !
HOLLAND’S Marvellous Hair Restorer
has gained a world-wide reputation for arresting the premature decay,
promoting the growth, and giving lustre to the hair. If your hair is
falling off, try it; if it is thin, try it. Price, 38, 48, 5a ; Postage 9d extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE
for Eczema, Ringworm, and all Parasitical Diseases of the Head, and for
making hair grow on Bald Patches. Price, 5s ; Postage 9d extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE
for Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Color. It acts Quietly,
Naturally, and Effectively. Price, 5/6; Postage 9d extra.
CONSULT E. HOLLAND for ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
HOLLAND,
HAIR
SPECIALIST,
195 Collins St,, Melbourne
SKINS &HIDES
V
V
> * .
%
J. Rennon&sons
are the . . .
Largest Tanners and Exporters
of Raw Skins in Victoria
and therefore require a large quantity of
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
Opossum, Sheep and
Rabbit SKins, also Hides,
Tallow, Wool, Horse
Hair, besides Fox, Hare,
and Other SKins, etc.
to keep their works going.
Don’t hesitate to send consignments —whether large
or small, both receive equal treatment—and every-
thing will be done to merit continuance of your favors.
Consignments from N.S.W. and Queensland should be sent care of Howard binith & Sons S.S. Co.
Price List and all information sent on application.
Account Sa/es sent same day Goods reach us.
No Commission or other Charges deducted.
Note Address—
J. Rennon & Sons
TANNERS (St, EXPORTERS.
Richmond, Victoria.
RABBIT SKINS WANTED.
Also KANGAROO, WALLABY,
OPOSSUM, &C.
Consign to :
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd., Commission Salesmen Only, SYDNEY.
1
'
m
m
m
■
r
-mm
•v-:U
&
'
W*'-
Some Homesteads
Roofed with
RUBEROID.
In the country districts of Australia even more so than
in the capitals, BUBEBOID is gaining great favor as a
roofing. No other roofing is so easily transported,
so easily laid, and, above all, so suitable to the
Australian climate. A BdJBEROID roof may be cheap
in price, but money cannot buy a better.
E. RICH & CO., LTD., Sydney & Brisbane.
Some Sydney firms selling Ruberoid —
Holdsworth, Macpherson
Anthony Hordern & Sons
F. Lassetter & Co., Ltd.
Goodlet & Smith, Ltd.
Saxton & Binns, Ltd,
Co.
John Mclntosh & Sons
Grace Bros.
C. G. Hatte, Ltd.
W. Cary & Sons
J. W. Eaton, Ltd.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 27.-No. 1387..
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1906.
Pbiob 6n.
“ First, the speech should evidence the
quality ot the speaker’s mind. Here, the
keeping of the body In a healthy state was
necessary.” —Bruce Smith, to the C.A.
debaters last week.
Bruce : “ Now, my lads, you have here an
example of the perfect mind In the
perfect body.”
HER HATED RIVAL.
In a recent Sydney Divorce Court, plaintiff deposed that, since the new
Liquor Act, her husband used to bring home a demijohn of beer and spend the
Sunday in bed with It.
SCRIPTURE IN THE BUSH.
Teacher: “ Now, who were the Choien People who got the
Promised Land?”
Willie Wayback (who has been listening to bis father): ••The
ones wot squared the land agent.”
A THING WE DREAMT.
Announced by Cable that America has passed an Act for the State Inspection
of meat.
• <’Ullo, George, off?"
“Yes; I’ve got an offer to organise antl-Sosh on behalf of the Chicago Beef
Trust. Private Enterprise is being ruined there by Socialistic legislation.”
“ GOOD, PURE BRANDY.”
“ It is understood that the War Office expert? expressed extreme
surprise at the excellence of Australian brandy, and, with a little
more age, there is no reason why New South Wales should not
become an important supplier of good, pure brandy.”— Dally paper.
GREID AND SOME OTHER HUMOROUS FEATURES


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
"Australia fur the A uslralians.’’
and Published by William Maclkod. of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
JLhe Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
-.■?#. lending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have. Tint Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to ye addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
lluiv to Address Betters.
Correspondents to Tiie Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin, ” is the proper
superscription for "copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Aof ice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 8000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or N ervspaper Clippings.
All will be regarded as strictly confi-
Tiik Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these condit ions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tiie Bulle tin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Itlaclc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
ivill be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
- i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, No. 1 Broad-street Place.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown ;
Messrs. R. A. Thompson Jc Co., 88 Rie'beck Street, Cape-
town ; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal :
and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco.—lT. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., 88 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Agents* Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6§iw. x llrin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY. SEPTEMBER 13, 1906.
DIVORCE.
The suggestion, which has been made, to step
backward in regard to the N.S. Wales divorce
law gains more importance from the fact that, in
the natural order of things, the Australian Parlia-
ment will shortly deal with the question of
divorce for the Commonwealth. At present the
N.S. Wales Act is the most liberal in Australia ;
that is to say, it gives the most generous facilities
for amending matrimonial mistakes. If it should
be decided to retrace the steps taken in that
direction in N.S. Wales, the decision will, with-
out a doubt, profoundly affect the delibera.
tions of the higher legislature when it comes
to shape the law for the continent. That would
be an unfortunate result, for the N.S. Wales
law represents the minimum freedom of divorce
compatible with justice and common-sense.
It is true that there are many arguments which
can be advanced against it on grounds of religious
sentiment. But these deserve no consideration
in matters of secular legislation. If, for instance,
the Roman Catholic and High Anglican view were
taken of divorce, there would be no legal means at
all of breaking the marriage bond ; and the im-
morality of loveless unions, and their consequent
irregular amours, would go unchecked.' Other re-
ligious views, whilst not so extreme, would suggest
much more strict limitations than exist at present.
All respect should be given to these opinions when
they are honestly held, and a secular divorce law,
however liberal, grants them that respect by leav-
ing its provisions to be taken advantage of or not,
just as the persons concerned choose. The
Roman Catholic whose marital relations are
unhappy is not forced to seek relief. If
his, or her, religion preaches the propriety of
putting up with the evils of an unhappy married
life, instead of seeking a remedy, there is no com-
pulsion. But it is not logical that those who
do not have such religious scruples .should yet have
to suffer for them in others. The M« '.thodist, s or the
Unitarian, or the Agnostic, who does not regard
it as a pious duty to continue in a marriage which
is stained by adultery, or made horrible by
drunkenness or violence, should not be kept to a
bond which he does not consider right or moral,
because some other religious person’s ideas on the
subject are different. A liberal divorce law is
fair to all religious opinions. Those who have
conscientious scruples against taking advantage
of its provisions are in no way forced to do so.
Even in the case of “ mixed marriages,” and a
divorce being sought by one party, who does
believe in divorce, against another party who
doesn’t, there is no real wrong done. The non-
believer in divorce had a right to consider that
eventuality before making the contract; and, after
making it, should have avoided giving such offence
as justified divorce proceedings.
* * * *
The particular section of the N.S. Wales
Divorce Act against which protest is now being
made in some quarters, is that which allows a
divorce to be obtained on disobedience to a decree
for “the restitution of conjugal rights.” It is
allowed in matrimonial jurisdiction for one party
to a marriage to sue for an order to restore what
is the essence of the marriage contract. If the
husband refuses “conjugal rights ” to the wife, she
may, on establishing the fact, get an order from the
court, directed to him, to restore those rights.
And the husband has the same remedy in the
case of the wife’s refusal. Should that order be
disobeyed the Court does not ventui'e to attempt
to enforce it, but accepts the disobedience as valid
ground for a decree in divorce. In effect, Mr. B.
refuses to be any longer a husband to Mrs. B. ; so
their marriage is annulled. It is an eminently
sensible law, since, when a marriage has ceased to
be a marriage in fact, it should cease to be a mar-
riage in law, and the parties to it should be
allowed, if they so choose, to try for conjugal hap-
piness in other quarters. But the objection is
made that the provision enables “collusive”
divorces. Mrs. B. is thoroughly tired of Mr. 8.,
but shrinks from the social sin of seeking consola-
tion with Mr. C. Mr. B. is just as convinced
that he cannot be happy with M'rs. 8., but
hesitates to form an irregular alliance with some-
one else. The law now allows them to get
the relief of divorce without committing adultery,
since one or the other can “ refuse conjugal
rights, ’ can disobey the decree for their resti-
tution, and a divorce follows. What grievance
is there in this ? If both parties to a marriage
are convinced that it is a failure, what is the use
of keeping them bound together, or of refusing
them freedom from the bond except at the price
of a social sin on one side or the other ? In the
majority of cases, if the unhappy married couple
are resolved on disunion and find the “conjugal
rights ” way barred, they will probably take some
other path. I here is a I’alais Hoy a] farce in
which husband and wife, over the morning chop,
agree that they must be divorced, and amiably
discuss which one of the two will commit adultery
and thus open the gate to freedom. That sort of
thing is hardly what the religious objectors to the
liberality of the N.S.W. Divorce Act aim at; but
it would be the natural consequence of the success
of their agitation.
• * • •
It is useless for the secular law to lean on a
religious sentiment which does not exist. If a law
seeks to enforce an idea of sex morality which is
alien to the general sentiment of the community
it will necessarily fail. And so long as the law
does not, in allowing freedom to all, force freedom
on those who do not want it, there is no valid
reason for any complaint. The religious can go
on observing their old rules and exposing their
votaries to all the dangers and evils of irregular
alliances; those who believe in the divorce law
can take advantage of its provisions. The State’s
business is not to interfere with anybody’s
religious convictions, but it is its function to
encourage happy and fruitful marriages; and part
of that encouragement consists in providing for the
rectification of the percentage of errors which
necessarily occur in the making of matches. In
this regard it is worth notiug that it is mostly
the childless marriage which comes to the Divorce
Court. Fruitful marriages are more rarely sun-
dered.
» • • »
Those who profess to see in reasonable divorce
facilities a reversion from monogamy argue
against the facts. The general tendency in
civilised countries is rather to strengthen the
monogamic system. Civilised man, following an
indoor occupation, is less ardent than his open-
air forefathers. Civilised woman tends—through
her different type of education and for other
reasons not easily discussed—in the other
direction. The original sex disparity in
mankind which made polygamy a natural
institution is rapidly being effaced by civilised
life, and the effect is to buttress monogamic insti-
tutions. Another influence working m the same
direction is the increased complexity of life,
which makes the “charm” naturally attracting
a man and a woman a very much less simple mat-
ter than of old. The primeval courtship, when
a man looked over the figure of a girl, saw that it
was good, and proposed to her with a club, has
vanished. Nowadays the average civilised man
demands in a woman whom he wishes to make
his mate a whole train of qualities which appeal
to him ; and the woman, on her part, is scarcely less
exigent in her demands. The result is a general
rule of careful courtship, and of stable marriages.
Two people wdio have mated after very careful
mutual examination usually come to the sensible
conclusion—even if they find their marital life
hardly up to the ideal they had formed—that,
anyhow, they have probably done as well as was
possible, and that a change would most likely be
for the worse. Which attitude represents, on the
whole, the truth. Marriage is rarely the perfect
union sung of by the poets, but in a civilised com-
munity it is generally a fairly happy partnership
of two people, who have, by living together,
acquired many mutual tastes; who are bound
together by their children; and who find pas-
sion fading away very comfortably into
quiet affection. There is little fear in civilised
communities of any divorce facilities leading to a
general weakening of home life. A proportion
of the idle rich will always desecrate and abuse
marriage, as they do all other social institutions. A
section of the desperate poor will, from the other
pole of society, adopt the same anarchist attitude.
But the great body of the people in all civilised
countries is becoming, through education, increas-
ingly ethical and increasingly common-sensible,
and, therefore, to an increasing extent, mono-
gamic. Divorce facilities will do nothing to dis-
courage that tendency. On the contrary, by
giving relief to the victims of mistakes, they will
‘assist in establishing the stability of marriage.' A
man or a woman denied relief, and tied by the
law to an unhappy home, is apt to be driven to
desperation, and may become the means of de-
stroying the happiness of other homes if not given
a second chance of an honest family life.
WORKS FUNDS, SURPLUSES AND
OTHER SWINDLES.
As the politicians put it, N.S. Wales had a
surplus for the year to June 30th, 1906, of
£896,124. But in matters of finance the poli-
ticians of N.S. Wales are not always to be
trusted; and Joseph Carruthers, Treasurer, is
not to be trusted above the average. To the bad
tricks he took over from his predecessors he has
added some ot his own. He knows the virtues
of a surplus for advertising purposes ; and there
are few things easier than to “ fake ” a surplus.
All that has to be done is to convert enough
assets into cash and use it as revenne, and on the
other side charge enough expenditure to capital
account. The rottenest business in Sydney
could produce a good profit and loss balance in
that way. The trouble in a private concern
would be that the fraud would have to end in a
few years when convertible assets ran out and
new capital refused to come in ; but with a new
country to play with, the fraud may last a cen-
tury. Yet there is an end to even the biggest
estate, and there is a limit to the tax-bearing
capacity of even the richest people.
* * • *
The figures quoted by Treasurer Carruthers
had already been certified to by the Auditor-
General. But the Auditor-General supplied some
particulars to read with the figures. It is true
that the alleged revenue was £12,291,367, and the
alleged expenditure on revenue account was
£11,395,243. But consider these items :
Auction sales of land £82,953
Sales on Newcastle reserve 1,041
Miscellaneous land sales 11,587
Conditional purchase deposits, instalments, &c. 767,323
Other net land-sale proceeds .. .. .. 113,867
Sales of timber (timber licenses) 40,710
Royalties on minerals 46,271
Sale of Government unclassified property .. 11,012
Sale of land, Martin Place and Market-street .. 14,625
Fire Insurance Fund 2,304
This list might be extended to much greater
length ; but even as far as it has gone it totals
£1,091,693. And not one of the items is revenue
proper; each one represents the proceeds of State
assets which have been got rid of. If it is
right to show these moneys as revenue, it would
be perfectly right for some other Government to
sell the railways and tramways and call the pro-
ceeds revenue. A Treasurer might easily get a
“surplus” of £40,000,000, or so, in that way. Of
course it would be a fake, because if the State had
the £40,000,000 it wouldn’t have the railways and
tramways. So a farmer could make a surplus
every year by the simple process of selling, not
his grain only and his wool, but a slice off his
land. In the end the farmer would find, not only
that he had no more land to sell, but that he had
to pay rent for land. His “ revenue ” would then
slump in two ways : the land-sale money would
be at an end, and the proceeds of the sale
of wheat and wool would have to stand a
charge for rent. One can hardly conceive of a
farmer committing this folly. Yet the State of
New South Wales does it. In 1887 it had an
annual revenue of £1,100,423 from rent of leases.
That was revenue proper ; and if the land had not
been sold the rent would probably have been 50
per cent, more to-day—the fair result of railway
extensions—and it would have gone on for ever.
But year by year an average of over £1,000,000
worth of land has been sold, and the proceeds
used as revenue; so that, by 1895, the rents from
leases had fallen to £799,146, and, last year, the
total land revenue proper was only £523,160.
• *
Even after examining only the alleged revenue,
it is certain, then, that there is no real surplus.
And there is still less of a surplus when the ex-
penditure is overhauled. The amount of borrowed
money spent last year was £1,282,995—every man,
woman, and child in the country had £1 os. Id.
added to his little load. J. Carruthers twitters
with something more than his usual energy that
it all went in “ permanent and reproductive
undertakings.” Yet police buildings, hospitals,
bridges, fire brigades’ buildings (£19,828), pulling
fallen trees out of rivers, removing the cat that
wasn’t wanted from harbors, erecting school
buildings, buying a tender for the Sobraon—these,
and a hundred other such things, were charged to
loans. A new machine for the Government Printer
—pay for it out of loans. A new stud bull, “for
the promotion of agricultural college and experi-
mental farms ’’—let Cohen pay the bill. Laying
out a new cemetery at La Perouse—charge it up
to capital. “Re-erection of tombstones”—such
an obviously permanent and reproductive under-
taking is charged to loans. How much of all this
would be charged against revenue by any honest,
sober business undertaking, with nothing to gain
by humbugging itself, it is impossible to say. But
it would certainly be something very considerable;
and every pound thus charged would take the
State still further away from that surplus which
it is claimed to have.
•'• * •
Ostensibly with the object of promoting honesty,
Treasurer Carruthers now introduces a Public
Works Fund. About one-third of the land-sales
money is to go into this fund—the Carruthers
Government proposes to be honest in strict
moderation, and to be satisfied with an 8-carat
halo. Last year’s “surplus” was £896,124; this
year’s is estimated at £598,536. Out of these
combined he proposes to pay £906,131 to the
Public Works Fund, £200,000 to the Closer
Settlement Fund, and £150,000 to the municipal
shires. But The Bulletin refuses to enthuse
even over the prospects of a second “surplus,”
because, on J. Carruthers’ estimates, it is going
to be just the same hollow fraud of a surplus
as its predecessor. Or perhaps hollower.
The whole show was given away when
the Telegraph printed these headings:—“The
Estimates: Increase of £259,301: Heavy Reduc-
tions in Public Works.” “In the Department of
Public Works,” it is explained, “the following
reductions are contemplated :—Roads, from
£390,875 to £310,000; bridges, from £48,875 to
£15,000,” &c. This is the art of manufacturing
surpluses. Last year the Works Department
made part of a road out of revenue. This year it
will make the rest of the road, but the cost will be
charged to the Works Fund. It won’t make a
bit of difference which way it is paid ; only if
it isn’t charged to revenue, there will be so much
more to make a surplus with, and so “ surplus ”
and not revenue will be used to build the road.
It will be, thus far, a purely comic-opera surplus ;
but, unfortunately, it will have this effect: it will
make borrowing easier; for, the vast crowd, both
at home and in Europe, who won’t take the trouble
to understand the fake, will stare open-mouthed
at an annua] surplus. And those at home will be
more willing to go in for another loan-drunk on
the strength of their “prosperity,” and those
abroad will be more ready to accommodate them.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The N.S.W. Lands.
The Bill to amend the Lands Department system
in N.S.W., introduced to Parliament last week,
is the Carruthers Cabinet in microcosm. It
pretends to be a very devil of a reform Bill, but
reforms nothing, dares nothing, effects nothing,
except to give timidity and incompetence another
shield. the purpose of the measure is
to put the control of the Lands Department in
the hands of an independent Commission. Really,
it creates a dependent Commission, and leaves the
control just where it was before, in the hands of
the Minister for Lands and his colleagues.
The only difference that the new Lands
Commission will make will be to give future
Lands Ministers a Jorkins. They cau find
apologies for their misdeeds and neglects, and
excuse their incompetence by a reference to “ the
Commission,” and, supposing a Minister to wish
to be corrupt, he will have a valuable institution in
“ the Commission ” to shelter his misdeeds ; for
that body will be supposed to have some power of
check, whilst having none at all actually. If it is
the wish of N.S. Wales Parliament that “the
Lands ” should be put in Commission, on theground
that it is hopeless to expect to find in Parliament
a competent and honest administrator, well and
good. Parliament should know best on that
point. But let the Commission be a real one,
constituted on the lines of the Railway
Commission, and going even further in
the delegation of authority from the politi-
cian to the permanent administrator. A
“fake” Commission, constituted so as to be the
creature of the Minister, is worse than useless.
At the best it makes useless billets ; at the worst
it throws up a rampart to shield dishonesty and
incompetence. But Tuk Bulletin pretends to
no sympathy with this tendency to delegate all the
powers vested in Parliament to non-political
Commissioners. It is absurd to argue that it is
impossible to find honest and capable men among
politicians. If there are none such, let us change
the politicians. The “policy” of every great
State department should be controlled by a
representative of the people, assisted, as re-
gards technical work, by permanent heads of
departments with the proper professional train-
ing. And just now N.S. Wales has no reason
to love the “ independent Commission ” system.
There is in existence a supposedly independent
Public Service Board, which perpetuates most of
the evils of pQlitical patronage, adds to them
some evils of social patronage, and is withal not
amenable to direct Parliamentary criticism. There
is in process of dissolution, by special Act of Par-
liament, a Railway Commission, doomed to
destruction because its head refused to be the
puppet of political pressure and sacrifice the
public interest. These two examples give but
little encouragement to the hope that an indepen-
dent Lands Commission would mend the evils of
the Lands Department, and no hope at all that a
dependent and bogus Commission will be of any
value. The true remedy for the evils which now
mark ministerial control of great State enterprises
is to be found in the abolition of party government.
The elected Minister—chosen not because there is
an Orangeman wanted to counterbalance some
other “color” in the Cabinet, but because Parlia-
ment deliberately picks him out, without reference
to his possible colleagues, as the best man for the
Lands or the Works or the Schools—would pro-
bably be always reasonably competent; and hold-
ing office, not by the uncertain tenure of party
exigencies, but so long as his administration
proved to be good, he would be encouraged to
cultivate his competence. Good work would
mean continuance in office; slackness would in-
volve dismissal. If Parliament goes much further
in the “independent Commission” line it will
face a dilemma, and argue either that (1) State
enterprise is a failure, or (2) Parliamentary govern-
ment is a failure. Then either State Socialism or
Democracy will have to go overboard.
»
The Abortive Butter Commission.
Amidst all the talk about the enormity of lawyer
Croker’s charges for conducting the Yic. Butter
Commission little or nothing is heard about the
futility of the whole performance. An expensive
Commission resulted in a report to the Govern-
ment advising sundry things, which have not been
done, and recommending the future prevention
of abuses that are now happening again as freely
as ever. At the outset of the scandal there was a
decided movement for reform on the part of the
producers. The sinful old middlemen were for
the moment thrown over—most of them. Co-
operative associations, dealing with the output of
the various factories, sought new means of placing
their butter on the London market, and they im-
mediately got higher prices for the exports than
had been returned under the old system. This
better state of butter seems to have continued for
two years, or thereabouts, but within the past
few weeks most of the good that was done has
been quietly undone, and the business of butter
dealing is back again, to a large extent,
in the unclean hands of the men who fattened
on it of yore. Observant moralists remark of
butter commerce that it has a peculiar greasy
tendency to soil the hands of its manipulators.
Apart from the questions of “dealing” and
broking, there is the generally unsuspected fact
that some co-operative associations issue to their
client factories different account-sales from those
they get from the London agent. In certain
known cases the association has deducted 1 per
cent., and then, at the close of the season, a por-
tion of the withheld percentage was given to the
factories, with a flourish of congratulations, as a
gift or bonus resulting from clever management.
A lot of unnecessary salary-receivers are seem-
ingly at the root of the trouble. They are as
barnacles on the industry, and their interests in-
cline them to the boss corrupters of the trade. If
the men who supply the stuff were to keep a
keener eye upon their associations they would get
better results. One of these co-operative concerns
has never ceased to do business through a firm
mentioned in the Commission evidence as being
in league with one of the malodorous Melbourne
agents. Two of the latest associations are content
to give the lion’s share of their business to com-
panies whose Melbourne representatives were
unfavorably criticised by the Commission.
Those local representatives are working the
old game under new names, of course,
but their identity is well known. The
associations’ officials cannot be ignorant as to
the people they are dealing with. Factories
are in the hands of the co-operative associations,
and these, seemingly, are not always to be trusted
to do the right thing in the cleanest possible way.
If it is true that they alter the account-sales they
receive from honest brokers, and substitute their
own with increased charges, they can be fairly
suspected of winking at the cronk tactics of the
artful dodgers who have regained control, more or
less, of the butter-selling business. At any rate,


the artful dodgers seem to be on top, and as
things are going now, the blessed Butter Com-
mission might as well have been an idle dream, in
which case Victoria would have escaped the awful
reality of Croker’s £4OOO bill.
+
South. Africa.
B. R. Wise, who is accepted in London as the
unofficial mouthpiece of Australia, has, in The
Times, July 28, a letter (which evokes a “leader”
from that paper) on the position in S’Africa. The
purpose of Mr. Wise’s argument is shown in his
introductory sentences: —
Like all who have visited South Africa, whatever their
political tinge, I believe the Progressives to be right in
iheir assertion that the issue involved is “British supre-
macy.” And, if this be so, Australia and Canada are
almost as deeply interested as South Africa. Some
Liberals may deny the correctness of this diagnosis ; and
they may be asked to give impartial hearing to the proof.
South Africans feel no fear that full discussion will not
prove the question now really to be—Shall South Africa
be Dutch or British ? But they and all other Imperialists
do fear that a considerable section of the Liberal party
will perceive nothing startling in such an alternative !
For some members of this section have made a fetish of
‘‘majority rule,” whether the majority be Dutch, or even
Kaffir, as some of the more logical have urged. Others,
again, think only of punishing the perpetrators of what
iir. Seddon rightly called “ the heart-breaking” blunder
of Chinese labor. Others, in frank partisanship, would
simply reverse the policy of the preceding Government.
I appeal to all sections* to put aside prejudice and con-
sider the Constitutions as they will affect the Empire.
Therefore, he argues, the Constitutions granted
to the Orange River Colony and the Transvaal
should be so arranged as to secure, whatever the
voting power of the two sections, that the British
—i.e., the Rand and Kimberley mine-owners’
party —should dominate. Since practical poli-
tics are not a matter of putting into working
the principles of abstract ethics, Wise’s arguments
need not be questioned on the ethical basis. It is
true that it is best for the interests of “the •
Empire”—and not merely the Brixton Empire,
but all the Anglo-Saxon communities under the
more or less nominal suzerainty of Britain, in-
cluding Australia—that South Africa should now,
the of destroying the Boer republics having
been consummated, remain British. Further, it
may be admitted that if, by any ingenious system
of ••rigging” the franchise, British suprefnacy in
S’Africa could be assured, and there were no more
honest way of effecting the same end, the fraud
might be, politically speaking, excusable. But
that is hardly the position. The crime of intro-
ducing Chinese labor to the mines has not only
consolidated the Boers in opposition to British
rule, but has driven a great proportion of the
British colonists in S’Africa to the side of the
Boers, for British rule has been identified with
mining capitalists’ rule. If it is arranged that
under the new Constitution the Boer shall have
one vote and the Britisher two votes, the difficulty
is still not solved; so many of those double
votes would be east for pro-Boer candidates.
The British position in S’Africa seems to be,
frankly, hopeless. If the Liberal Government,
on coming into office, had packed off all the
Chinese laborers, and given a chance to Britishers
to fill their places, possibly that revolutionary
step would have made a happy solution of the
problem practicable. But courage was lacking.
Now the position seems to he that if England
tries to hold the conquered territory by military
force, a war will shortly have to be faced in which
the Boers will be aided by a large section of the
British colonists : if representative government is
granted, the dissatisfied British will unite with
the Boers to establish an administration hostile to
the section which caused the war, which caused
the introduction of Chinese labor, and which has
been able to assume to itself a monopoly of the
pro-British sentiment. There is no comfort for
Australia in this position. The separation of
S’Africa promises no good for this country. But
the facts are stubborn. Only a miracle can save
S’Africa for “the Empire.” A little ingenious
Constitution-rigging is not sufficient.
■ ♦ *
Constitutional Amendment.
It is a fortunate thing that no “Constitution-
alist ” party has arisen in the Australian Parlia-
ment. American progress has been stifled and
the growth of a sordid plutocracy promoted by a
blind worship of “the Constitution.” To the
American “the Constitution ” has become a sort
of fetish, and his worship of it is a shade more
absurd than the British worship of royalty.
It’s the apotheosis of the created over
the creator. Australia, happily, has missed
that folly. We’ve had Foreign-trade par-
ties, anti-Sosh parties, and various other
mental aberrations in politics. But, so far, no
one has suggested that the people of Australia
should spend their time in beatific and satisfied
contemplation of their Constitution, like the
monks of Mount Athos of their stomachs.
Accordingly, the second Federal Parliament
draws to a close with proposals for the amendment
of the Federal Constitution to allow :
1. Greater elasticity in regard to the date for summon-
ing Parliament.
2. The right to the Federal Parliament to impose special
duties of Customs, which shall be exempt from the pro-
visions of the Braddon clause of the Constitution (ordain-
ing that three-quarters of all Customs duties must be
returned to the States) so as to make old-age pensions
possible.
3. The right to the Federal Parliament to assume all
debts owing by the States—not merely, as at present, the
debts contracted prior to Federation.
4. The right to assume trade monopolies, such as the
manufacture of tobacco, inter-State shipping, &c.
All these proposals make for betterment; all
should be endorsed by the electors. In three out
of four the right sought is purely permissive ; the
Federal Parliament would be merely given power
to move in certain directions if the people thought
it desirable. The other amendment removes the
inconvenience which fixes the date of the Federal
elections normally at Christmas time.
■ «
Repudiation.
In spite of a weighty protest by Mr. R. J. Black,
N.S. Wales Legislative Council has passed with-
out amendment the Carruthers Bill to dismiss
Railway Commissioner Oliver because he was
brusquely honest. The Bill isn’t exactly called
that, but such is its meaning. Oliver as a railway
administrator was not amenable to “influence.”
His face was set against “jobs”; he persisted in
trying to serve the public interest; he was not
even afraid of offending the Labor party. He
finds his reward in dismissal —an illegal dismissal
which can only safely be effected under special
cover of an Act of Parliament. That Act is a
sad testimony to the state of degradation to which
Parliament has drifted, for it is essentially an act
of repudiation. If Oliver could be legally dis-
missed, no Act of Parliament was necessary ; if
his dismissal is contrary to the law, as Car-
ruthers’ Act admits, not a dozen Acts can wipe
from the State thejstairi of the injustice. The
damage done to the public interest by this solemn
endorsement of an act of repudiation will be two-
fold. It will make the task of getting a new Rail-
way Commissioner difficult, for there will be a
natural hesitancy about undertaking service with
a repudiating Government, since the new official
may be sacked as was the old one. And it will
inspire Civil servants generally with an unwhole-
some fear of independence. They will note the
fate of a great public servant who dared to lift a
voice of protest when actions against the public
interest were proposed, and will learn the lesson
of complaisance. It will probably be a long time
before another N.S.W. public servant dares to
give the interests of the people precedence over
the interests of his immediate bosses.
♦
Australia for the Whites.
Dr. Arthur, M.L.A., hammers away at his sub-
ject
Cold, hard facts have opened our eyes reluctantly enough
to the need for more people. Now the foolish cry is being
raised that they must belong to the Anglo-Saxon race. I
am warned that I will injure the immigration cause unless
I confine my advocacy to the introduction of people from
the United Kingdom. When Australia deliberately aban-
doned its State-aided immigration policy 25 years ago, it
sounded the death-knell of any possibility of a purely
Anglo-Saxon Australia. Had there been 10 million Aus-
tralians now, half of them in the North, we might hardly
contemplate the idea. With things as they are, it is
folly and worse.
The coming Armageddon is going to be between the
whites and the yellows. And Australia will feel the first
brunt of it. If this continent is to be kept at all for the
white races, it will be only by casting our drag-net as
widely as possible, and bringing in all white people who
are not criminal or diseased, and who can make a living
for themselves on the soil. We simply can’t afford to be
too particular. The Hungarian, the Slav, or the Southern
European may not be up to our standard in many
respects; but his children can be converted into good
Australians. Can anyone possibly say the same for the
Mongolian or the Malay ?
Let us remember, too, that the majority of those who
wish to leave Great Britain at present are people for
whom we have little or no use. I got 50 applications
last week from men in England who wished to come
to Australia. They were, with one exception, either
clerks or commercial travellers, or men in warehouses
and shops. Imagine the effect of a few thousand of these
dumped into Melbourne or Sydney—or into the Northern
Territory ! Nor is there an unlimited supply of emi-
grants from the northern countries of Europe. The
exodus from Germany and Scandinavia has been reduced
to a minimum, and what there is of it is going to strength-
en the colonies of those nations already planted in the
various States of North and South America. It would be
almost impossible tp direct it to Australia. Anyhow,
such people would not settle in the North, and that is
where the largest proportion of our future immigrants
must go to. If they will not, we must abandon, once
and for all, our dream of a White Australia.
——■
A “ Stiff for the Crust.”
“ L.E.” expounds : •
There is a class of people who block all progressive
legislation by blind fetichism. They have no ideas —only
precedent, joss, and mummy. When any proposal comes
to mend matters, they pile up antique idols in the lane
to obstruct the traffic. These stale idols serve them for
arguments.
A man was recently hauled up for vagrancy. The police
proved that the man was the associate of tiiieves, and
had done no work for six months. The lawyer bellowed
that there was too much interference with the sacred
liberty of the subject, and that a respectable man
couldn’t be out of work a fortnight without getting a
“stiff for the crust” ( i.e ., a warrant under the
Vagrancy Act). The victim of officialdom smirked, and
referred to the beak as their “ wash-ups,” so the charge
was dismissed. A week later this unfortunate was con-
victed for stealing coppers from untenanted houses,
having collected more than 100 in one busy week. He
was a noted thief, known to be “ doing jobs ” ; but his
long record was not read out till the case was over. Then
the Dogberries wondered.
The public maintains the foolish notion that anybody
has a chance of being run in if he is out of work and
down on his luck. Not once in ten years is a decent man,
however unlucky, brought up under “ the crust.” It is
simply a public safeguard against thieves. A “ John ”
(and the “ Johns” are a much straighter and more com-
petent body than most people will believe) knows every
man and woman on his beat, their habits and associates,
and the whole sad story of their lives. Under our absurd
system of punishments, Melbourne is swarming with
thieves who have no inducement to try another business,
and, as soon as they are out of gaol, commence operations
and so pile up double-figure convictions with consistency.
A “ John ” knows that they are doing “jobs”—stealing
coppers, walking the balconies, doing assault and battery,
larceny from the person, &c. —and he “vags” them in
the interests of public safety. Till indeterminate sen-
tences come into force, every city will be infested with
“ guns ” and rooks, spielers and garrotters, and all manner
of social anarchists. It’s dangerous at night to go down
many lanes and streets even now ; only for “ the crust ”
it would be impossible.
But for fetich interference Melbourne or any other
large eity could be fumigated in a few months. Moral
philosophy is no use ; wasters should be encouraged, by
Draconian legislation, to find out that thieving and loaf-
ing is a fool’s game. Opium dens, thieves’ and coiners’
dens, sly grog shops, tote-shops, two-up schools, places
for receiving stolen property, &c.—only for the lunatic
notion that an Englishman’s house is a castle, they could
all be wiped out right away. Anything that rots the
fibre of a nation should be grubbed out. Aus-
tralia can’t afford this interesting decadence. It needs a
strong Spartan infusion to counteract the sluggishness of
the average sensual man. But this average citizen would
prefer to see the youth corrupted, patriotism stifled, and
a feeble population dragged up rather than allow an
inspector to look through his sacred edifice (which would
sometimes be a good thing, even in the interests of
common sanitation). Why should a good citizen shiver
if an inspector or policeman tramps through his house ?
He can’t have any State secrets to hide, or a skeleton in
the chimney, or a bone in the dust-bin. The officer
wouldn’t invade him without some cause, he wouldn’t
drop in casually to see the baby or the pictures on the
walls. Yet, so lazy and selfish is the “good citizen ” that he
would see the whole world go to pot before he would be
disturbed at his painful study of whist or the new soldier
song or the Windsor Magazine.
Last night, in company with men who know, I watched
a certain house. From 1 till 3 a.m. the door would
suddenly open and folk pass to and fro. They were
mostb' notorious thieves. That place was a two-up
school, a sly-grog shop, a place for receiving stolen
property, or the lot. Now, if that crib might have been
assaulted right away something interesting would have
been discovered. But it was a castle, and inviolate, for
the liberty of the criminal must be respected.
In the dark ages liberty was priceless, for it had to be
wrenched in small sections from the aristocracy. But, in
a democracy where all are supposed to have equal rights,
it has become a synonym for laziness, or selfishness, or
jobbery, or criminal laissez-faire. Liberty to commit
nuisances, commercial or social, should be violently
suppressed ; and we won’t have a clean, forceful, and
economically sound State until ancient idols are shattered,
till the liberty of the lazy citizen is fully disrespected,
till an Englishman’s house is not his castle—until the
long feelers of Government interference shake society
out of its long sloth and chronic superstition.
♦
Concerning Silver.
It is time that the Australian Government came
to some agreement with the British authorities
regarding the coining of silver in and for Australia.
Silver is coined at a small cost; the value of
the metal and the cost of coining together amount
to only about one-half the face value of the coins,
so that on every £1 of silver issued the coiner
receives from the public a loan of 10s. without
interest. The loan practically amounts to a
gift, and may be regarded as profit. Accord-
ing to Treasurer Forrest, there is intro-
duced into Australia annually about £77,000
(face value) of silver coin, on which the pro-
fit made by the English Mint (which issues
all Australia’s silver coin, barring that which is
said to be illicitly made in China) is about £38,000
a year. Circulating or held in reserve in Australia
is silver with a face value estimated variously at
from £1,200,000 to £2,000,000, half of which value
has already gone as profit to the English Mints.
Various proposals have been made from time to
time, among them being :
(1) That Britain should continue to coin Australia’s
silver, charging 3 per cent, or so for the work, and re-
turning the balance of profit to the Australian Govern-
ment. This rule obtains in Canada.
(2) That Australia should retain the present silver
coinage in circulation, but in future coin its own silver,
and draw therefrom the full profit of £38,000 a year.
(3) That Australia should coin all its own future silver
(with £38,000 a year profit), and, in addition, should re-
place the existing British coinage by Australian coinage,
the existing British coinage to be gradually withdrawn
at face value, or thereabouts.
The third scheme is the best. Britain, it is said,
is willing to withdraw at the rate of £lOO,OOO a
year, at face value, the only deduction being an
allowance for worn coin. Silver coin is always
withdrawn from circulation when it has lost 11
per cent, of its weight (equal to about 5 per
cent, of its real value), so that in the replacing
of £lOO,OOO, face value, of British coinage the
Commonwealth would reap a profit of about
45 per cent. —equal to £45,000 a year. And this
added profit—or loan without interest —would
go on for 12 years at the lowest estimate, and for
20 years at the highest. During this period of
12 or 20 years the profit of £38,000 a year on new
coinage would also be made, and it would continue
for ever. There is no apparent reason why this
substantial benefit to the Commonwealth finances
should not begin at once. Treasurer Forrest says
that the delay has arisen because of the desire
to introduce decimal coinage concurrently with
the coinage of Australian silver. It seems bad
business to keep losing the profit for the sake of
that idea. Even supposing that, after beginning
the coinage of half-crowns, florins, shillings, six-
pences and threepences, Australia decided to insti-
tute decimal coinage, the on--. calling in and re-
coining its silver would n./t be more than 3
per cent, or so of the face value; in fact,
the profits on one year’s coinage would suffice to
pay the expense of melting down and re-coining
the whole issue of 16 years. Treasurer Forrest
has decided to delay the whole question until
after the next Imperial conference in 1907—it is
wonderful what a capacity.for postponing things
the Australian Government has. Apparently
that much loss of time is now inevitable, but after
the Imperial conference no further sacrifice should
be made. Incidentally, it may be remembered
that the coinage of silver will provide some
further employment; in Australia; and that in
view of the fact that Australian Mints are worked
with greater efficiency and at less cost than those
in England, the margin of profit is likely to be
higher here than it ever has been in Bull’s
country.
«,
A Lesson in Fiscalism.
“ Austra ” (London) has learned a lesson :
I left Australia last year, a strict Laborite, fully con-
vinced that the one thing necessary for tlie welfare of the
country was the Labor programme, and quite satisfied to
sale with the discredited Reid and sink the fiscal issue.
A v ary few months in the Cold Country has changed all
t.vu.. I understand now the tale, learnt long ago, of the
house built on sand, and what happened it when the
weather changed and its foundations were called onto
do a share of supporting. I had not been in this country
one and a half days before the first instance of what
Freetrade had done was brought vividly to notice.
Landing at Plymouth, I went on next day to see
some friends near Falmouth, in the south of Cornwall.
Penryn, near Falmouth, was, a couple of years ago,
turning out thousands of tons of granite per year, which
was used for building docks, also for breakwaters and the
like, and employed directly from 1300 to .1600 men.
Now that granite quarries have been opened in
Norway, where wages are a deal lower, there are barely
400 employed at Penryn, and they are working for about
two-thirds of the rate they were previously paid. The
result all round is pitiful. Many of the best workmen
have gone to America, others have gone to Norway to
accept the lower wages, but apparently constant work,
while others who remain are half their time idle, and,
when working, if skilled dressers, have to take from 20s.
to 235. per week instead of the old 30s. Unskilled
workers have to take from 14s. per week instead of about
4s. per day. The introduction of the cheaper material
does good to no one except the contractors. Not even
does the Navy Department benefit a penny, or the owners
of other works. All prices given by contractors are
based on the price of Cornish granite. Then they
import Norwegian at a profit of 2d. or 3d. per ton.
Just to put that a little more plainly, a duty of 3d. per
ton would not raise the cost of any of the works a penny,
it would still leave the contractors a fair margin of profit,
and it would keep in the country and give work at decent
pay to hundreds of workers who are being absolutely
hunted out. The reason that the English quarries are work-
ing at all is that the stone from there “ works up ” and
polishes a deal better than any imported, and is used for
pillars in big buildings, bridges, gateways, for grave-
stones, &c. The elections were approaching at the time
of my sojourn in those parts, and both candidates were
bombarded with questions re the granite industry. The
Conservative (Chambetdainite) was a tall, haw-haw youth
who was just starting out on a “ career.” He had no idea
of what was what, but fluked the true solution. He said :
“ Put a duty on foreign granite, and they will have to use
yours.” He was howled down, and told that he wanted
to give them a little loaf instead of a big one. The
Liberal, a London importer, talked about the big pasty
(pasties, instead of loaves, were used in Cornwall to
adorn the Liberal placards), the Chinese in S’Afriea, and
promised to see the Admiralty', or whomsoever it con-
cerned, and get them to stipulate for English granite.
He was cheered. Also he was elected.
♦
The Threat of Asia.
There are two classes of critics standing in the
way of an effort to organise a national system of
defence for Australia. One, judging Australian
manhood by its own want of manhood, condemns
any national defence project as hopeless; the
Commonwealth’s reliance must be placed in the
British navy. If that fails, then Australia must
lie prostrate, and be enslaved without a struggle
to China or Japan or some European power. The
other class considers that there is plenty of time,
and that money can be saved now by waiting a
while. It is difficult to state which lie
is the more noxious. Probably the first, for its
implications are fatal to any sense of national
respect. And there is absolutely no valid reason
for any pessimistic despair as to the capacity of
Australia for self-defence. Given ample local
factories for the manufacture of arms and ammu-
nition and the training of all the manhood to the
use of arms ; given, also, some sort of a local navy
to at least hinder an enemy at sea, and Australia
could face any imaginable foe. It would need to
fear the enmity of no European power; it could
face unmoved even the prospect of Asiatic
malignity resolving itself into a war of
invasion. For it is absurd to act on
the presumption that an unlimited force
could be launched against Australia. No existing
Power could hope to put more than 50,000 fighting
men on the Eastern Coast, at present the heart of
Australia : perhaps 100,000 fighters could be put
into the line of fire by an enemy if the Northern
Territory were the first objective, but an army
of invasion in the N.T. wouldn’t so much matter ;
it could be dealt with at leisure. Now, if a
population of 4,500,000 can’t of its manhood pro-
vide a force capable of mobilising at a given
point 50,000 or 100,000 fighters, what sort
of a poor breed is the Australian ? The
pessimist about the. possibilities of Australian
military organisation, judging by his views must
be pale-live'-**?! and currish. The wait-a-bit man,
on the other hand, may be brave enough, but he
is lazy and ignorant, and is a disaster well worthy
of the company of the calamity before mentioned.
The organisation of a citizen army cannot be
effected in a day, or a month, or a year. It’s a
matter of slow growth. The first essential step,
of course, is the establishment of factories for war
material. That could and should be done at once,
and would in itself give some measure of security,
for even an untrained man can fight some if he
has a gun. The next step Would cover a long
series of years. Allowing for the necessary teach-
ing of officers, keeping in view the impossibility
of training a vast mass of men until sufficient
instructors have been secured, it would take 10
years, beginning now, to organise a reasonably-
sized citizen army; 25 years to organise an army
at its full possible strength. There really is not a
day to wait.
♦—
The Monkey’s Paw Reaches Out.
A man who lias spent years wandering up and
down from the Philippines to Japan, writes from
Hongkong of the recent attempt of the Jap to buy
the IJ.S. out of the Philippines:— >
The commercial and general indebtedness of Japan is
now too awful to contemplate. The national debt touches
41250,000,000, and carries 5 per cent. Yet, if Japan had
succeeded in acquiring the Philippines, its stock (at the
present rate of interest) should have been worth 25 per
cent, premium. But it was a repetition of the story of
the Jlnssian peace conditions —the cunning of the yellow
race went down before the white man’s intellect. If
Japan had worked diplomatically, and had been free from
that odor of suspicion which now surrounds its almost
every transaction, and if its diplomats could have con-
vinced Roosevelt that treaty obligations would be
observed, and the rights of the Filipino respected, then the
soul-longing desire to get the Philippines might have
eventuated. But the Yankee smelt slavery ; he had to
listen to the cry that went up even from the inland tribes
when the true object of the Japanese was known ; and
the scheme failed.
This is what it meant to Japan. Within ten years ten
millions of her people would have been permanently
settled in the Philippine Islands. The mere question of
the forty-odd million sterling purchase money was
nothing. Capitalists would have rushed any heavy loan
for such a purpose. There is not any agricultural wealth
in Japan. The Philippines would not only have raised
sufficient rice and native food for local requirements, but
also would have fed Japan. The vast unexploited
fisheries would have been developed and brought in
immense wealth. The great forests would have been
utilised, and every port turned into a ship-building yard.
The annual return of £5,000,000 for hemp would have
been doubled ; and in lieu of being exported in the raw,
factories would have been erected. Instead of the pre-
sent £500,000 export of raw sugar per annum, within the
ten years there would have been a five-million total of
the refined product. The possibilities of the tobacco
and cigar trade would have been illimitable. Total-
ised, a cultivatable area equivalent to four times
the size of Japan proper would have been acquired,
with a soil and a climate eminently suitable for
Japanese immigration and development. The im-
mensity of the proposition, with the full knowledge
that the Japanese statesmen possess as to what tile
acquisition of the Philippines means to them, emphasises
the dread that a strike out will he made at the first
opportune moment. It is worth almost any struggle.
A valuable country, undeveloped mineral resources,
raw cotton and other material for its manufacturers,
food for its people adjacent to the homeland, certain—
yes, absolutely certain-wealth. The trade of the East
would have been Japan’s own, even the great Manchester
market of India must have yielded, and think of it!
thousands of official billets for the crowd now worrying
the Government ; the sous-officer raised from fid. to 2s. a
day, and without the cold fear of going back to office or
mill ! Political, naval and military domination east of
Suez, and with the cash, its own cash, to bacK its forces !,
Ten enormous industries as Government monopolies to
fill the Treasury !
The danger is over for the moment. But Australia
may know now for certain which way Japan’s eyes turn.
It may know for certain that Japan is not content with
its own country, even with Korea thrqwn in. It turns
its face south—which way power lies. Having got that
knowledge, Australia should know what to do. If it
doesn’t, God help it!
The N.S. Wales alderman has just as little idea
of getting his town hall out of pawn as J. Cah-
ruthers has of getting his State out; and almost
the greatest sinners of all are the suburban mayors
and aldermen, who shouldn’t exist at'all, and who
shouldn’t be possessed of any town halls to pawn.
These suburbs owe £704,819 besides overdrafts,
and, ruling out Marrickville and Ryde, all that
the whole 38 wasters put up last year in the way
of sinking fund was £397. Ryde and Marrickville
put up £l4OO between them. This precious crowd,
nevertheless, paid £34,041 in interest. Here and
there a suburban council paid off an odd hundred
or two, mostly because it was squeezed into it, or
because a bailiff arrived and threatened to stay, as
he is staying at Camperdown ; but, as a rule, when
the councils repaid £l, they borrowed £2 I Os.-, so
the situation got worse instead of better. The
Sydney suburban mayor and alderman’s idea of
honest and decent finance can best be reckoned
by the fact that, though -39 of the suburban
municipalities are in pawn (the 40th is in pawn,
but only on an overdraft), no more than four of
the whole shiftless, drifting crowd have sinking
funds for the systematic repayment of their debts.
The group of Melbourne butter agents which
lined up before the Minister for Lands, lately, to
complain of dairy-expert Crowe, formed an
object-lesson in extra-special, cool-chilled cheek.
Crowe, as part of his duty, issued recently a
forcibly-worded warning to the dairymen regard-
ing the dangers attached to the growing practice
of sending their cream to Melbourne. As the
result of about 17 years’ experience, Crowe has
come to the common-sense conclusion that the
proper place to make butter is in the country dis-
tricts, where the cream can he obtained fresh,
and treated properly, since cream is one of the
most easily contaminated of all food substances.
In order to break down the weaker factories, the
Melbourne agents pay a high competitive price for
cream. Then, when the factory closes its dooijs, the
price of cream falls, and the Melbourne agent reaps
his harvest. As a matter of fact, during the past
five years, several factories in Gippsland and the
north-east of Victoria have gone to the wall in this
manner. But the hard-faced agents complained
to the Minister that Crowe’s advice was out-
rageous ; that it was an unwarrantable inter-
ference with their business; and that, any-
how, it had nothing to do with Crowe. Minister
Swinburne snubbed the brass-fronted deputation,
and Dr. Cherry, head of the Department of
Agriculture, smiled sweetly on the butter-folk,
and said that he also had every confidence in
Crowe. So, after a further snort, the deputation
waddled down the Treasury steps, and went off
gloomily to its Flinders-street “ butter-factories,”
where, in a month or two, when the hot weather
sets in, the making of first-grade butter will be a
matter of extra-special difficulty.
♦
Arthur Griffith’s Bill, before N.S.W. •As-
sembly, which allows the Probate Court to amend
the will of a man who neglects to provide by
testament for his wife and family, is no novel or
Socialistic device. So far back as the reign of
Henry 11., by the common law of England, a dead
man’s goods were divided into three equalparts,
of which • one went to his heirs or lineal descend-
ants, another to his wife, and the third was at his
own disposal. If he died without a wife, he might


3iS
GOLD
PLATE
and
TWO
LAKES
Tobdcco
' And
CIGAR-
ETTES
SHE KNEW A GOOD THING.
“ Surely , May, you, don’t smoke}”
“ Only GaUaher’s Cigarettes, ma’am.”
/ARE. TV-1 E
BEST
A SCIENTIFIC “PICK-ME-UP.” —No
better tonic and restorative for the victims of
social festivities exists than a morning draught of
Hunvadi Janos. Sure, swift, searching, yet safe,
and in every respect salutary. The best and
safest natural aperient,*
dispose of one-half, and the other half went to his
children ; if he had no children, he might dispose
of one-half, and the other went to his wife. This
continued to be the oommon law until the reign
of Charles I. After that period the law was
gradually altered until the present day, when, in
England, a man has the absolute disposal of the
whole of his property. The law of Scotland at
the present day is somewhat similar to the old
English common law. The widow of a Scotch-
man is entitled to one-third or one-half of his per-
sonality, according as there are, or are not, children
of the husband living, also to a life interest of one-
third in the deceased’s real estate.
*
Fiji is smiling a sickly smile at the fish yarn that
the more discolored labor a country gets in to do
its work, the more work there will be left for
whites to do. It listened to that yarn many
years ago, got in coolies by the thousand, and it
has been waiting for the white population to
arrive ever since. But instead of coming in, the
whites have steadily moved out; and except the
sugar business, out of which coolies get the work
and the foreign co. gets the profits, every industry
on the islands is sicker than it was 25 years
ago. Fibre, cotton, coffee, maize, tobacco,
limejuiee, peanuts, candlenuts, arrowroot—the
export of all these chief products of the
eighties has fallen away. Leaving sugar
out, the exports have shrivelled up from
£205,608 in 1880 to £162,768 in 1905. And in a.
recent issue the Fiji Times wailed mournfully*
that, not only was it getting no white population,
in spite of all its attractions, but “ the stamina of
the Europeans as a whole has been on the wane
since the islands came under British rule 30 or
more years ago.” In short, the degeneration that
always happens when the white hangs round and
has a horde of discolored slaves to do the work is
in violent progress.
• ♦
From Melbourne:—
One of the most popular forms of amusement in Vic-
toria these days is the launching of charges of perjury.
The thing is done in the airiest and most irresponsible
manner, and honest citizens are hauled into court,
branded with an ineffaceable stigma, and left to pay big
defence costs, at the instigation of any worthless fellow
who happens to feel himself aggrieved. Victoria’s perjury
law can be set in motion by anyone at all who is willing
to lay an information. It has got to such a point that, a
while ago, an angry female prosecuted a girl for calling
out to her in the street, and, having lost the case—appa-
rently it was another girl who called out—had a second
shot at the child by having her arrested on a charge
of perjury for swearing that she didn’t call out.
Perjury charges are trumped up to such an extent that
every week at least one case, whose only foundation is in
the malice of the prosecution, comes before the courts.
The result of allowing a foolish weapon of this sort to lie
around for every one to use is that reputable witnesses
avoid Victorian courts by every known excuse. In im-
portant cases, where crooked men are to be dealt with,
the respectable persons, who know all about the matter,
are generally smitten with extraordinary loss of memory.
They know that a trial for perjury will follow if they give
evidence against an unscrupulous defendant, that being
the regular means now for terrifying witnesses. Some-
times, indeed, witnesses are threatened in advance with
arrest for perjury if they give evidence, and justice
miscarries badly through this intimidation. A remedy
lies close at hand. In a murder case, or any other case
of major crime, the police undertake the prosecution.
They get up the brief, and it is submitted to the Crown-
Prosecutor and the Attorney-General before action is
taken. These officers decide whether the evidence war-
rants a prosecution, and the liability of innocent men to
be accused of heinous crimes is reduced to a minimum.
Such a restriction of perjury charges is urgently
needed.
■
Recently eleven Tweed River (N.S.W.) Indian
sugar growers protested by petition to the House
of Representatives against being refused the
bonus granted on cane produced by white
growers
It is not in accordance with the traditions and spirit
of the British Government, which recognises that all
subjects are entitled to equal opportunities ; and that
its laws and protection are not made for the advance-
ment of certain classes to the injury or disadvantage of
others.
Well, the Indian, in his alleged own country, is
denied political rights by the Government,
“ which recognises,” &c. ; all the high posts, civil
and military, in India are filled, not by Indians,
but by men of the race whose Government “recog-
nises,” &c. —in short, the Indian, in his alleged
own country, is treated as an inferior and con-
quered person by the Government, “ which
recognises,” &c. When Britain treats the
Indian British subject in India as the equal of
the white British subject in that country, it will
be time enough for the Indian British subject in
Australia to lead out the dreary old platitude
about the “ tradition and spirit,” &c., as a reason
why he should be treated as the equal of the
white British subject in this country.
.
“J. W. Li Langerman, representing the Robinson
group of mines on the Rand, advocates the repa-
triation of the Chinese coolies,” a cable says. So
soon ! It has been a great disillusionment. J.
Bull knew nothing about the Chinaman, very
rarely having met him, and the Berlin stock-
brokers knew, if possible, less. But they had a
vague idea that he was a cheap and reliable slave ;
and so they imported him to prop up the over-
boomed market and the dividends. And he has
done neither. Instead of the market brightening
under the influence of the “cheap and reliable”
labor which they plunged a nation into a war to
secure, it has sagged, sagged, sagged. A few
months ago Albu, one of the Randlords, put the
total slump in 110 Rand stocks at £111,500,000
—that was from the beginning of last year. Since
then, and taking in all the cos., the total is com-
puted at no less than £400,000,000. Which is a
figure large enough to make Britain think. Before
this disastrous experiment, it of course knew all
about the Chow, just as it knows all about every-
thing. Now, with its quite natural ignorance of
the subject proved up to the hilt, it may be dis-
posed to let Australia do its own thinking on the
question of Asiatic immigration. That is a
point that Australia must push in—the peril
of British interference in regard to the im-
migration of a people about whom Britain clearly
knows nothing, and about whom Australia, from
its very situation and every-day experience, must
know a great deal.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal , .. “ Woman’s Hate.”
Her Majesty’s Repertoire Opera Co.
Town Hall Blanche Arral.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Hippodrome Bohemian Dramatic Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “The Fatal Wedding.”
Her Majesty’s “La Mascotte.”
Theatre Royal “Thunderbolt.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
AniENiBUM Hall Best and Baker’s Pictures.
Sydney has long wished in vain for a
season of grand opera. Since Melba's visit there
has been no chance of hearing a dramatic soprano.
Consequently, the keenest interest is being taken
in the forthcoming operatic season of Madame
Arral, who has dropped most unexpectedly on
this continent with a haughty European reputa-
tion and a repertoire including all the most
famous operas. Friday (to-morrow) is to be the
date of the first recital in the Town Hall. A
stage has been specially erected so as to
allow of scenic and costume adornment. A
grand opera orchestra of 40 instrumentalists,
headed by Rivers Allpress, has been en-
gaged, and scenes from several Operas will
be sung by Madame Arral. It won’t be grand
opera exactly, but the “liver wing” from half a
dozen grand operas.
* *-
In a Bland Holt melodrama there is always
a woman who is a good hater. She hates —usually
the virtuous flaccid heroine—with all her soul and
brisket. The heroine’s love for the hero can’t
compare in strength with the hate of the hater at
her hatefullest. As a matter of accuracy, there
isn’t one woman in ten millions who can hate with
sufficient strength or continuity to pay out the
other cat when Opportunity offers. Often Oppor-
tunity creeps into the palm of her hand, so to speak,
but shedoesn’t fold herclaws around it. She just
thinks, while she’s doing her hair some morning :
“O, is that you ? Get out! I don’t
want you now. While I’ve waited
for you She lent tne the pattern
of a blouse—besides, He wasn’t
all I thought him to be. And,
anyhow, strong feeling of
any kind is very bad for
the complexion and ex-
pression.” With these
few notes on the harp
of life this inky way-
farer comes out of the
Theatre Royal, after seeing
“A Woman’s Hate,” convinced that
Bland Holt has got in his revival the one woman
in the ten millions—the Hater-Woman. But even
she, in the fourth act, relents and repents, and,
as imagination is more or less elastic, one may
imagine the lady abasing her great length (Harrie
Ireland is the hater) and her red hair in the dust
the while she asks Providence to put back the
hand of Time and give her yesterday.
* * * *
Best scene in “ A Woman’s Hate ” is the
last act —the trial at the Old Bailey. Heroine
(Frances Ross) is on trial for her life, for she is
accused of shooting and killing one of two ras-
cally solicitors. Both men would be better under
ground, manuring the turnips; no one denies
that; but, just to uphold the Decalogue, the
heroine, looking like a broken lily, and with the
limelight right on her white face and black hair,
is stood up in the unpicturesque old dock opposite
a dear old Judge and four associates, and
in profile to twelve jurymen who look good
judges on the points of a bull pup. At the elbow
of the Judge and of his four partners lies a fine
posy of flowers, a phase that bothered the
gallery of the Royal to the verge of brain fag.
“ They never have them at the Water,” com-
mented one lover of detail. The dramatic
situation of this act lies in the uprising of the
barrister hero (Walter Baker) as counsel, to
prove the innocence of his own wife. Judge
and Bar declare the procedure “ most
unusual,” but as there’s no law against
it Walter Baker goes ahead and with the aid of a
railway guard and Bland Holt he establishes his
case. Very like a lawyer, the real murderer
(the partner of the murdered solicitor) left full
proofs of his guilt in his chambers while he came
down to the Old Bailey to bear false witness
against the heroine. All the innocent parties
go off with their arms around one another,
all the wicked ones go off with the “darbies”
around their wrists or are left with drooping
heads and bad consciences to work out
their salvation. A word of loud-spoken praise is
due to Miss Florrie Kelly, who spoke well in the
witness-box and wept realistically over her Mam-
ma, who was so very nearly being brought in
guilty by the naughty court.
SYDNEY ART SOCIETY SHOW.—SOME
IMPRESSIONS.
“ It’s rude to scratch, I know, but still”
By J. S. Swotkins.
The Kelly Gang; or. Our Baby is a Naughty Boy.
By Normal Barter.
A Study in Propriety; or, Art Without Legs.
By Ned Leased.
Organist Lemare’s gentle wrestling matches
with the mammoth organ at Sydney Town Hall
will close this week, leaving the organist still
boss. Sometimes after the ride of Valkyries he
shows signs of wanting a sponging, but generally
he doesn’t turn a hair. His audiences have been
so satisfactory that he will, for half the number
of recitals, take away as much money as he made
by the eighteen recitals of his last visit, which
proves that Sydney is growing more cultured, or
has more money.
* * *- *
“ The Shaughraun,” ever-green Irish
drama, just now finds capable interpretation from
the Charles Holloway Co., at a Sydney Criterion
revival. Humor and pathos are alike well pour-
trayed, and the mounting is generally good. In
the name part, John P. O’Neill suffers under some
physical disabilities : his figure approaches that
of G. H. Reid (approaches, not reaches); and
when the noble Oirish gintleman has to pic-
ture this faithful but fat crathur “bounding
over the crags like a goat,” the audi-
ence smiles, and smiles again when the
extra-plump Shaughraun does arrive with some-
thing of a goatish bound. Apart from carrying
too much weight, O’Neill makes a good Shaugh-
raun, and stands comparison with the many
famous comedians who have interpreted the part
in Sydney. As Clare Ffolliott, Miss Beatrice
Holloway plays with much sweetness and some
power of passion. But vagabond boy imper-
sonations tend to give her voice a squeaky
note. The young lady has many charming
qualifications for “heroine” work; probably
it would promise her a better career to
drop the mournful child with the hacking cough
business, round out her voice, and challenge
criticism as a “lead” in drama. Miss Mabel
Russell and Miss Ethel Appleton play their girl
parts brightly, and John Hesford and Robert
Inman are a satisfactory pair of heroes —one Irish
and the other English. “The Shaughraun” will
only be played during this week.
-*■ *- #- *
Miss Annie Mayor undertakes a vast task
in her “ Drama in Camera ” entertainment, pre-
sented to the Sydney public, on Saturday night, at
the Palace. The lady selects scenes from various
plays, connects them with a thin thread of a
lecture, and, single-handed, amuses her audiences.
She has some good qualifications for the
enterprise—a singularly sweet and flexible
voice, an appearance which is attractive,
though it doesn’t get the best of chances
in the way of “make-up,” and a fine
dramatic talent. But she adds to her difficulties
by a poor, suburban-drawing-room sort of stage
setting. The garish furniture hinders where an
absolute simplicity would‘help effects which must
depend for success upon quiet and sympathetic
attention. Her best results were got in scenes
from Shakspeare. Miss Mayor’s Sydney season
cannot stretch beyond this week.
** * *
J. C. Williamson’s plans for the Reper-
toire Co. have been altered. The idea was, in
the first place, to keep it to Gilbert and Sullivan ;
but, as this co. frivols in places where Lauri and
the rest of the Comic Opera Co. are never seen,
J.C.W. has found no reason why it should not
add “Veronique,” and other good things of that
class, to its little list. So “ Veronique ”isto be
produced for the first time by this co. at
Her Majesty’s, Sydney, on Saturday night.
Meantime, “ Utopia, Ltd.,” continues to deserve
the things that were said about it last week;
and the voice of James Hughes, who plays the little
part of Corcoran, deserves a word or two of praise
that haven’t been said here before. This day
week (Thursday, 20th) Howard Vernon is to take
a benefit; and as the chances are that Australia
wouldn’t have had this revival of Gill>ert and
Sullivan if Vernon had not been on hand to
suggest it, the benefit should bulge with goodwill
and coin.
** * *
There have been comings and goings at
the Tivoli, with the net result that there isn’t as
much variety in the programme as there has been
lately. Nellie Kilburn, back after two years, is
the good “ serio-comic ’’ that she used to be ; and
two new-comers, Bedford and Chester, both
character comedians, make very similar remarks
regarding an English liard-up. Australia’s
familiar Tom Dawson being also in the bill, there
are three of them ; and Thomas can hold up his
end of the triangle as well as the rest.
** * *
There was a record house at Her Majesty’s
(Melb.), last Saturday, for the matinee perform-
ance of “La Poupee,” by children only, of which
it may be said that if the same show had been
presented to an ordinary any-night audience,
caring nothing for the charitable object nor at all
concerned about the success of Miss Brenan’s
pupils, the applause would have been not less
hearty. The youngsters and the stage manage-
ment earned much praise. Their work amounted
to a triumph of teachable cleverness and pains-
taking tuition. To the writer such a show seems
a powerful incentive to an improved birth-rate,
inasmuch as it reveals Australian kiddies in the
forefront of the world’s rising generation. Given
a fair start they develop themselves wonderfully.
At a time when the popular cry is for national sup-
port of local industries this performance, in aid of
a foundling hospital, emphasises the fact that
every native baby, being duly arrived, deserves
all possible encouragement, no matter how it may
have come about. Many people urge against
these juvenile opera companies the objection that
they plant a stage-fever germ in the infant mind.
Contemplating the kiddies in their artistic pre-
cocity, all coached-up and dolled-up, one feels
doubtful as to whether the kingdom of Heaven is
like unto a little mummer. Nevertheless, “‘La
Poupee ’ in miniature ” had a lot more of sweet
innocence than, say, an A.N.A. competition in
singing, or elocution.
The performance of a seven -year-old mite
(Nellie McCarthy) in the name-part was even
more pretty than amazing. She gave full-grown
expression to her words, her dumb pantomime
was humorous, and her unmelodious attempts to
sing couldn’t have been more tasteful. The lad
in the tenor part acted with modest assurance,
and sang like a skilled chorister, and among
a dozen other boy and girl principals there was
not one “duffer.” Two striking instances of
natural qualification for the stage were a saucy
seven-year-old girl who played (with spirit) the
doll-maker’s apprentice, and a Miss Lilian
Pritchard, said to be only 14, who spoke a few
lines in a noble voice—a voice of the rare kind
that gives dignity to a commonplace remark and
makes “How d’ye do” sound like a bishop’s
benediction. Miss Brenan being the leading
spirit behind the scenes, a number of extra
dancing items were introduced, all of them grace-
ful, or amusing. The “star” damsel was the
blonde and beauteous Miss Addie Hine, who had
some years of early training from Mrs. Greenland
is no longer quite a child. Miss Hine’s little
sister Ivy also tripped around charmingly, and
one smali boy among the array of girl dancers was
the promising heir-apparent of Hugh Ward.
-X- * *
“La Mascotfce” is to be revived at Her
Majesty’s on Saturday. The latest previous pro-
duction (at the Princess’s) dates back to 12 years
ago, so the attractions of Audran’s opera will come
new to one half of the city, and nearly as good as
new to the other. All the same, the run of this re-
vival is limited to 12 nights, and whilst the musi-
cal street urchin is learning to whistle “ Glou-
Glou,” like father before him, the story of Farmer
Rocco and his invaluable Bettina will be with-
drawn from circulation. In the meantime, a
numerous body of citizens, mostly football bar-
rackers, have become anxious to know why they
usually apply the term “Mascotte” to a three-
penny bit with a hole in it.
** * *
At the Royal, a healthy demand for bush-
drama accounts for what the Andersonian advt.
calls a “ Thunderbolt Furore.” Considered aparc
from its bush and bushiness, its Cobb’s coach and
quaint, ruminative native bear, “Thunderbolt”
is an exceptionally silly subject for a furore, hut
its scenery and live stock, and distant family
connection with “Robbery Under Arms,”
give the 4-act shocker a claim to patron-
age. The hero is a reprehensible idiot, but
he partly excuses himself by getting killed like
a dawg, leaving his widow out in the wet.
During his lifetime he took a lot of credit for not
having the Blood Guilt on his Soul, and although
he finally tried his best to stain his immortal spirit
with the gore of a policeman, he died innocent of
the crime. “ Thunderbolt ” will diffuse a strong
smell of gunpowder for one more week, and then
John F. Sheridan and Co. are to introduce “The
Earl and the Girl ” to Melbourne notice.
** # *
“ The Fatal Wedding ” will march to the
music of the Tin Can Band for yet another week
at the Princess’s. Then the Charles Holloway
Co. will look in, under the direction of Geach, for
the purpose of restoring “ Two Little Vagabonds”
to the stage where they found a pretty warm wel-
come in the century that is no more.
* * * -*■
The Opera House bill was somewhat
strengthened on Saturday by the arrival of Harry
Tate’s company of eccentric comedy sketchers.
The full force of their alleged eccentricity was
not irresistibly droll at the first attempt, but per-
haps the co. will improve on acquaintance. Little
Cliff has changed his old songs for new ones of
inferior quality, whereas Brinn’s “turn” is
strengthened by the introduction of another gun,
which appears to rest upon a platform on his
weary head, whilst another fellow’ sits beside and
discharges loud noises from it. The rest of the
programme consists largely of Bluett and Cassie
Walmer, the light-brown lady who sings three
songs in a taking manner and calls them imper-
sonations.


Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
BACKACHE.
FOR BREAKFAST.
TISK^Rs
.C^ING;
IOIN^V
45
■s'
X
4 FAITHFUL WIFE’S ADVICE.
You have tried so many things for your poor old kidneys with-
out avail, why not try these pills, so universally successful i ”
AS A LAST RESOURCE
When all Foreign and Imported Nostrums
have failed, take a course of
FISHER’S
Aching Kidney Pills.
FRESHLY PREPARED and POTENT.
SUCCESSFUL and FAMOUS.
All Chemists and Storekeepers,
1/9
Per
Box.
Manufacturers—
FISHER and COMPANY,
Chemists and Druggists,
337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Nearly Opp. G.P.O.
Patbinson & Co. (all shops);
Washington H. Soul & Co. ;
• and Everywhere.
1/9
PER
BOX.
INSIST UPON BEING SERVED WITH FIBHER’B-
- most PERFECT BACKACHE & KIDNEY
PILLS produced in Australia.
THEIR ORICIN— One of the busiest, highest-
qualified, and wealthiest doctors in modern
medical science supplied the formulas of
these famous pills at the special request of
Fisher & Co. The name of the physician
will be supplied on application.
A fifth and final Dolores recital was pro-
mised for yesterday (Wednesday) afternoon at
the Town Hall, and if nothing happened to break
the promise, Melbourne has said au revoir to the
Dolores voice and smile, in the blessed hope of a
return visit. Three nights last week the versatile
songstress beamed upon a vast congregation, her
programme in each case being more effective than
the first one. An impending musical event
is a “grand opera matinee” at Princess’s.
Marshall Hall’s Conservatorium, with himself as
conductor, will supply the performance; it will
be a send-off to Mr. Hal Cohen, who is to take
sundry parts therein. Cohen is a tall young man
with a possible future. Thus far he has turned
his sweet, foggy warble in a tenor direction, but
he might do better as a baritone. And if he were
to go into steady training for an axemen’s tourna-
ment, or a brief interview with Bill Squires, his
chest notes would command more attention from
his fellow man.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Sweet Nell ” Stewart, at latest report, had engaged
to “star” a New York season in “The Lion and the
Mouse ”at £2OO a week. After a genuine “big success”
at ’Frisco, her co. didn’t frizzle the Missouri during the
rest of the U.S. tour.
At Cincinnati (U.S.A.), recently, the ever-verdant
Kyrle Bellew celebrated his 700th consecutive appearance
in “Raffles,”and was presented by an admiring co. with
a silver loving-cup.
Beauteous Gladys Ure, the Melbourne girl in ’Murka, is
now going one better than her recent concert, where all
the songs were from her own pen. As the result of her
success, she has signed a 12 months’ engagement with
Schuberts Bros, to play the leading part in “ Veronique.”
Moreover, Miss Gladys is to get a mighty big salary for a
novice, and Schuberts stipulated for the first refusal of
her songs. The “ Veronique ” tour starts at Philadelphia,
the co. going on to Boston and Chicago ere returning to
Nerv York. Gladys Ure, by the way, promises to be one
of the fashionable idols of the States. Some time ago a
New York paper invited a conflict of male opinions as to
who was the loveliest creature on the stage, and the
opinion of one Harrison Fisher was published in impres-
sive style. He said : “ After going through a long list of
stage beauties, I haVe come to the conclusion that Miss
Gladys Ure, now in Mr. H. W. Savage’s ‘ Woodland,’ at
the New York Theatre, is the one. Miss Ure has my ideal
face. It’s beautifully moulded and full of character, and
topped with a mass of rich auburn-colored hair. In
height she is about sft. 10in., and she has a superb
figure.”
There'is a plump singer in Melbourne, with a voice like
mashed potatoes, that the patient public has never quite
known what to do with. It fancies that his absence from
the Block would improve the scenery and confer a favor
on th e pate de foie gras caf6 he strongly favors, besides
making Europe happy. For this worthy object a benefit
concert would be arranged, and fat Teutons with re-
bellious hair, round specs., and wavy legs would hie them
round with ’cello or trombone for a collection, and tell
gushing females what a splendid thing it would be for
“demusikart” in Melbourne if they sent the prodigy
elsewhere. But the prodigy always lingered on, and these
benefit concerts came to be a kind of annual function.
When Melbourne grew weary and stiff, the noble duty of
sending the musical genius far away was explained to the
heathen of Ballarat and Bendigo. Still the beauteous
youth didn’t shift. The case became desperate. Now
they are going to give him an absolutely last benefit and
book his passage with the proceeds. So, presumably, the
great singer will not be seen any more leaning languidly'
over the cream cake counter, or falling gracefully all
round the Block, like a cow swaying in the autumn gale.
“Ageratum”: Re Irene Ainsley (B. 30,8/’O6). Don’t
think the English press gave all the credit of the
damsel’s tuition to Marchesi. Have been reading an
account of Irene in an English periodical (Girls’
Realm), which remarks that she studied for
eight months under Marchesi, but gives all the
credit of her teaching to Madame Minna Fischer,
of London, who is also Australian born. Mar-
chesi is only' a kind of necessary hall-mark, anyhow.
What does it matter if she is 80 or 100 and can’t teach as
she did in her younger days ? The fact that a young
singer has warbled under her will bring crowds in con-
servative London, and that is the main thing. Am told
that an interesting feature of Irene Ainsley’s concert was
that it was entirely manned (or girled) by four youngsters
in whom Melba takes a violent and helpful interest, the
Parkiua, little Sassoli, who harped it in the diva’s train in
these parts, Irene, and Maud M’Carthy'.
In a recent issue of Westminster Gazette an actor,
moved by the common belief concerning the vastness of
the salaries of those who seek behind the footlights the
means to live, throws some light upon the real position
of affairs, and offers another much-needed warning to
stage-struck youth. The actor declares that not long ago
he was wanted co play “ heavy lead ” in a very successful
melodrama, still on tour, and that he was offered the
magnificent sum of £2 10s. per week. With that salary'
in view he had to find a frock-coat suit, a lounge suit, an
evening dress suit, and a hunting suit ; a silk hat, dress
shirts, collars, ties, &c. ; grease-paints and a wig. He
had, in addition, to pay his fare to Glasgow for rehearsal,
and the tour was to last for thirteen weeks. He declined
the offer, and the part was given to another, who took
£2 a week for the work. The average provincial salary
is not more than 505., says the actor, and he puts the
price paid for the services of a leading lady, who, in nine
cases out of ten, has to provide her own dresses, at any-
thing between 30s. and £2 ss. Further, it is asserted
that “ responsible people ” —actors and actresses cast for
small parts —are to be found everywhere at 255. per week.
London critic Max Beerbohm is kind enough to offer
public sympathy to the ballet-girl, on the ground that
she is condemned to an undue development of leg and
consequent Joss of symmetry'. But when the ballerina
looks round she sees vocalists with enormous bust
measurement, “ strong ” men and women with over-
muscular backs, and certain dramatic critics with undue
swelling of head. So “ her troubles ” about her legs !
Australia is to be visited by a big brass band from
Europe—not tbe Sousa organisation, which was to have
arrived three years ago, but the “ Besses o’ th’ Barn ”
band, under the direction of Tait Brothers. The
“Besses” sailed for America in July, and will get to
Maoriland early in January. After playing a fortnight’s
engagement at the Exhibition for a fee of £2500, they
proceed to Australia, and make the welkin ring in the
largest buildings of the principal cities. The band has
beaten all other English bands in competition, and won
many thousands of pounds in prize money.
The latest about George Musgrove is that he left the
“Sweet Nell” Co. “resting” in America whilst he
journeyed to London and Berlin in quest of artists for a
Grand" Opera Co. (a Melbourne scheme), “for which
further subscriptions are needed to complete the guaran-
tee promised to Mr. Musgrove.” The season of this
proposed co. is not to open until Easter next year, and,
meanwhile, G.M. appears to be securing artists and musi-
cians in order to hasten the completion of that guarantee.
Melba will be singing in London again next month, for
she is engagedfor the autumn season.of semi-grand opera,
starting at Covent Garden on October 4. The difference
between full-grand and semi-grand opera is mainly a
difference of time and tariff, it seems. The company, as
a whole, is less expensive in the autumn, but the same
operas are performed with the same mounting as before,
whilst the highest price for a stall is I2s. 6d. In due
course, no doubt, Covent Garden will be an all-the-year-
round opera house, with one short season of stiff prices.
Britain’s musical public is said to have doubled its number
within the past decade, which may, or may not, be a good
national sign of the times. No country contains a larger
proportion of people who are too consistently' hungry to
have any music in their souls, or of people who treat the
opera as a mere excuse for a society gathering.
Some parsons seem to see, or to think they see, a great
deal. The clerical critic of the Argus, in criticising a
recent singer : “ Add to all this an indefinable personal
charm of virtue, of which she at once established a kind of
intimacy with everyone of her audience —a sort of feeling
that she is singing just for him.” He goes on to say that
this accounts in part for her unique popularity. He also
says that her accompanist proves himself equal to the re-
quirements of his position, and concludes with the an-
nouncement that, owing to heavy booking, an extension
of the season has been decided on.
“ O’F.”: The recently-published photograph of Blanche
Arral’s fancy-dress-ball presentment of “Carmen ” stirred
a travelled Australian, who has sampled many stage ver-
sions of the tobacco-factory heroine, to a eulogy of Emma
Calv C’s performance in the part. Opera-goers had been
used to seeing a trim-geared “ Carmen,” finished off with
high heels and mantilla (like Mme. Arral’s), w'hen CalvC
burst upon it as the real careless, jolly factory-wench who
has just knocked off work, minus the elaborate mantilla,
and wearing any old blouse and a “ working skirt,” just
short enough to show her every-day down-at-heels shoes.
And throughout CalvC (after close study of the type in
its native factory) dared to act to the life the pleasure-
loving “ tom,” who is determined to get just what
she wants. This, of course, was voted inartistic by the
conventional kind of prima donna, who looks with the
cold eye of suspicion on all acting in opera, and walks on
in pretty well the same wav whether she is supposed to
be a queen or beggar-maid. For many years Patti
refused to appear as Carmen on the ground that the part
was immoral, and when she at last made up her mind to
pourtray stage “ immorality,” the public seemed to think
that she didn’t know how.
“ March King ” Sousa recently poured forth a legiti-
mate grievance into the ears of the Yankee Parlia-
mentary committee charged with drafting the new Copy-
right Bill. While reproducers like Melba and Caruso re-
ceived dazzling sums for singing into the phonograph,
and even cornet players got five dollars for a solo, gifted
composers (like Sousa) had their compositions tinned
wholesale, and got no fee, and had no redress. A sym-
pathetic committee promised to make the gifted com-
poser’s permission necessary in future.
An early music-hall sketch of W. S. Gilbert’s shows
the remarkable persistence of certain vaudeville types.
For instance :—“ A terrible woman, with big bones, a
raw, brazen voice, and her hair parted at the side, came
on to the stage, and screamed and roared, and slapped
her hands, and danced, and then sang again, and then
danced, and sang, and banged herself once more, which
was her energetic way of advising you, under all circum-
stances of life, to ‘speak up like a ma-a-nl’” Similar
ladies have been giving similar advice in the same curious
manner right through the half-century since that was
written, and the precedent seems likely to be followed as
long as there is a variety show in existence.
France has finally decided to do without dramatic
censorship. The institution has been moribund for many
years, and the Senate, by unanimous vote, recently
swept it into the dust-bin. Britain, however, still
retains its antiquated system of censorship, and puts
it into force whenever a play fails to win the approval of
some tottering official with musty notions of dramatic
propriety.
“ Camille ” is following in the downward path of “ East
Lynne,” which was also in the remote past a classic that
took a good company to tackle. Nearly every touring
company now takes “Camille” with it as a weepful
attraction, and as it has not been so overdone as “Lynne,”
it is temporarily in the ascendant asa draw. But since it
lacks the bathetic child who dies and goes to heaven
before the tearful eyes of the audience, it will never have
quite the pull that the old story had. The average audi-
ence loves to see a child going to heaven to mournful
music; there always is mournful music when anyone
goes to heaven, which says very little for the popular con-
fidence in that place.
“Querist”: Why do the wheels of a vehicle in a
biograph go backward, while the vehicle goes forward?
“ Lil.” : Damsels of the Dorothy Vernon type were old
acquaintances of mine before I saw Dorothy on the
boards. The rampageous maiden who is determined to
provide herself with a husband forms an indispensable
portion of the “ comic relief ” in the works of many
Elizabethan dramatists, and sometimes it is decidedly
bold relief. Besides being responsible for Miss Vernon,
the man-hunting girl of Tudor times seems to be the
stage ancestress of the red-nosed man-woman of modern
pantomime.
“ Bis ” : “ Boisseau ” (B. 23/8/’O6) wants to know if any-
body remembers hypnotist Professor L. Bushell. I saw
him give his conventional mesmerising entertainment (a
lot of chumps stared at leaden discs in their hands till
some of them were dotty and others pretended to be so),
at Castlemaine, in ’59. He was an affable looking man of
about 32, resembling Alfred Deakin a little. Bushell
began with a weak 25 minutes’ lecture on chemistry,
with a few cheap experiments. The second part he
called “ electro-biology,” Kennedy, in the 80’s, was much
cleverer at the game.
“The Prince Chap,” a rather cheap emotional Ameri-
canism, that has just reached London, seems to achieve
something of a record, by having the heroine played by
three different actresses each night. In the first act she is
aged five years ; an infant phenomenon about eight deals
with that. Next act, where she is really eight, a clever
child, pf probably 12, takes the part. Finally, she is 18,
and makes love to her own astonished but delighted
guardian ; and a full-grown actress does the love-
making.
Little Cliff, it seems, has little of the ordinary self-
complacency of youth. In Melbourne, the other day, he
was up at Dr. Bussell’s place having his teeth attended
to, and, after the work was completed, he stood moodily
contemplating himself in a mirror. “Do you ever get
tired of your face ? ” said Cliff to the dentist. “I do.
When I’m made-up for the stage, I think I’m so pretty ;
but when I look at myself like this, I think it’s a trying
face to have to live with, and I wish I could change it.”
What a pity that some of the so-called beauty actors
don’t acquire Little Cliff’s sense of the difference between
a face colored and a face plain. Perhaps they would if
the girls would let them. But the girls mostly persist in
adoring the battered old actor they meet off the stage for
the sake of his deceitful appearance between 8 p.m. and
II p.m. And when their speaking eyes and eloquent
smiles call him Lovely—well, how could an actor possibly
doubt the truth of the assertion ?
“Buna”: Will some courageous Irish or Scotch person
of some importance rise up and form the nucleus of
a society for the suppression of the old song? After the
shock at-the awfulness and heresy of the suggestion has
been got over, everybody would be glad to join, although
it is still the fashion to say, sentimentally, “ Ah, there
are no songs like the old ones ! ” We have all said it,
but only because there is nothing else possible to say
about “Annie Laurie” and “Kate O’Shane” at this
stage. They are good songs, but so are less hackneyed
and antiquated compositions. Why not give some of the
new ones a chance of becoming moss-grown also? One
feels sorry for the Scotch prima-donna breaking her heart
over the “ Blue Bells of Scotland,” and the Queen of Irish
song pumping up enthusiasm over that wearisome
person, “ Kathleen Mavourneen,” and acting sentiments
that in both cases they must be deadly bored with.
“ Bobert Hap” : Let us have an unconventional melo-
drama. It should be possible. Of the last 39 imported
bellows I have partly seen, the villain in 31 has been
an army captain. And the doings of those 31 have
lowered my respect, for the “ otticah and gentleman”
tradition. lam tired of the peer’s honest old trainer.
He’s as unreal as the wronged wife of the hero, who
prefers to starve in the garret rather than accept a pig’s
trotter from the kindly “ comic relief.” In real life, the
honest old trainer wouldn’t think of saying, “ I’m d d
if I do ” to the ’aughtv captain’s blandishments re the
nobbling of the “Darby” favorite. He would respect-
fully decline, but only because he looked upon the pro-
posal as an attempt on the part of his betters to dis-
arrange the dull monotony of his existence. And I want
the fallen Buth to marry the curate. She has become a
nurse, and gone to the war too often. And the black-
mailer with “ the document ” might be displaced in favor
of a land agent’s dummy and a faked lease. Finally, I
don’t want master Jack to run away to sea and return
after two years in an admiral’s uniform. Let him just
murder the captain as soon as possible and then start a
tote.
Greater Sydney.*
Sydney barrister J. D. Fitzgerald has for his
hobby the organisation of a Greater Sydney.
Having had the advantage of a study of the work
of old-world municipalities, he saw that in one
respect usually progressive Australia lagged
behind the rest of the world, and that was in up-to-
date city government, and returned to his native
country to preach municipal reform. And, so
far, the results have been, if not very great, at
least encouraging. To Fitzgerald’s platform and
press agitation the reform of Sydney’s municipal
government is largely due ; and the effects of a
persistent campaign show a little also in other
directions. But the inspiring work for a “ civic
statesman” —Fitzgerald has earned that title—is
the organisation of a Greater Sydney, putting
the government of a city, unrivalled in the world
for natural beauty, on rational lines,‘ so that the
blessings given it by Nature will be aided by man.
“Greater Sydney,” published this week, embodies
in a handy book the case for that great reform.
The style is terse and bright; the facts hammered
in convincingly. Telling how Sydney is at pre-
sent governed Fitzgerald thus sums up the situa-
tion :
It has 41 councils, nearly 500 aldermen, and 41 staffs to
do the work which 77 aldermen and one staff does in the
model city of Glasgow. It has built 41 costly town halls;
it has 41 separate debts, amounting to £2,428,000 ; it has
41 different health problems, met and solved in different
ways—in some boroughs effectively, in others negligently.
Then follows a sketch of how State, private,
municipal, Trust and Board control of vari-
ous utilities are all jumbled up together in
Sydney; and the history of the two Greater
Sydney movements, which came to nothing.
There are chapters on “ How to Launch Greater
Sydnev,” “ The Financial Position,” “The Cost
of Greater Sydney and the Services thereof,”
on “ City Improvement and Better Housing,” the
provision of parks and recreation grounds, and the
value of municipal ownership. It is, so far as The
Bulletin knows, the first Australian work of any
pretensions dealing with municipal politics. And
it is a good beginning.
* “ Greater Sydney,” by J. D. Fitzgerald. Published by
N.S.w! Bookstall Co. ; price Is.
“ The Law Book Co. of Australasia ” oub-
lishes “The Mirror of Justice,” being a reprint
of a series of humorous articles contributed by
Sydney barrister Curlewis (whose wife, by the
way, is the well-known authoress Ethel Turner)
to Sydney Telegraph. Mr. Curlewis mixes up
with his explanations of law points a good deal of
comedy, which is often spontaneous and seldom
obviously labored. The book can be recommended
as giving a good deal of information on the law in
an amusing way.
The municipality of Collingwood (Mel-
bourne) has had a big funeral experience lately.
First councillor Dyer, who had just been elected
mayor, died. His funeral was on the 2nd inst.
The half-mast flag had barely been furled
when ex-councillor Shaw (manager of the
Denton Hat Mill and a big figure in the munici-
pality) died. Then, within two days, councillor
Wm. Cody followed.
The craze of N.S.W. Assembly to grub
among the facts as to Bill’s dirt money seems to
be incurable. For Tuesday of this week the
business paper shows questions about subjects
ranging from a three months leave of absence to a
dredge employee to the circulation of a dairy
report; notices for returns of papers concerning a
small polling place somewhere, concerning ap-
pointments to the police force; and select
committee and other notices about the claim of
a retired bookbinder, the retiring allowance of
dredge employees, a retired tram driver, a
property compensation claim, a homestead lease
application, the claim of an ex-sergeant of police
to compensation (and so on ad nauseam.
As to the Foreign-trade argument that
Deakin’s preferential trade proposals offer no
genuipe preference to England, these figures, from
a British Board of Trade return, are instructive.
They show the estimated ad valorem equivalent of
the import duties levied on British manufactures :
Russia, 131 per cent. ; U.S.A., 73 ; Austria, 35 ; France,
34 ; Germany, 25 ; Canada, 16 ; Belgium, 13 ; Maoriland,
9 ; Australian Commonwealth, 6.
Were the Australian tariff equivalent to that of
France, or even of Canada, we could, perhaps,
afford to lower it in Britain’s favor, but it is not
so ; therefore it is necessary to raise it all round
and then lower it against Britain, which is just
what Deakin is doing, in a few lines. The Free-
trader in this is, as usual, not so much pro-
English as anti-Australian.
No doubt the farcical decision of the
London magistrate that only pot-still spirit can
legally be called whisky will be upset on appeal.
But, anyway, whiskies are known by their brand.
Wise men, the still and silent sort, will still con-
tinue to ask for D.C.L. without wondering what
still it was distilled in. Drinkers prove by personal
experience that D.C.L. possesses all the qualities
which make a whisky wholesome, palatable, and
invigorative.*
The Maitland (N.S.W.) coal-miners having
declined to work the odious “dog watch’’—the
shift that starts at midnight—the owners
have shut up the mines, and will not allow them
to work any other shifts; and so close up to
3000 men are idle. The public can’t understand
why the trouble couldn’t have been settled. Pos-
sibly some of the owners didn’t want it settled ; a
labor trouble is the simplest way out of unprofit-
able coal contracts. On one thing, anyway, the
public can fix its eye : the “dog watch ” is worked
on no other coalfield in Australia.
The Bulletin receives through the Albury
Daily News £1 from “Two Sympathisers ” for
the Victor Daley Fund. The money will be for-
warded on to the widow.
A notice painted on a gate in a lane at
Surry Hills, Sydney. The letters appear in a
somewhat drunken attitude :
BAWARE OFTHEDOG
MANGLIN DONE HERE
It was a shock to Democrats to find the
names of Kidston and Airey (Labor members)
voting against the inclusion of a minimum wage
clause in the Etheridge Railway Bill.
Died, last week, Mr. M. H. J. McDowell,
for over 45 years an official of the Postal Depart-
ment. For many years past he had had charge of
the ship mail department at Sydney G.P.O.
“ I do not under-rate the good work done
in the direction of veterinary education by indi-
viduals. It has been of great value to the State.
But, in common with all Anglo-Saxon communi-
ties, we have been prone to leave to individual
effort what should be properly the object of State
effort.” —Socialist Gov. Talbot at the Vic.
Agricultural Show luncheon. And his name is
Reggie, too.
Newcastle (N.S.W.) agitates for a local
Harbor Trust similar to the Sydney institution.
Newcastle is almost as busy a port as Sydney, but
its methods are antiquated, and the local people
say that as long as it is governed from its compe-
titor, Sydney, improvement is impossible. So
Newcastle proposes to have its own local body
with power to levy charges on the local shipping,
and from the revenue raised to make the coal city
an up-to-date port.
Jack Murray, ex-Minister for Lands in
Bent’s Ministry, spoke in Vic. Assembly last
week something like the old Jack Murray :
The old pioneers did their work nobly, and they did it
easily for the most part. They came here and dis-
possessed the blackfellow, and if there was any moral
ground for doing so, it was because the blackfellow was
not putting the land to its proper use. Those pioneers
objected very strongly to have now the rule applied to
them which they or their fathers had applied to the
blackfellow. But I ask my squatter friends if they can
honestly say that they are doing the best with the land?
“ S.” : I have discovered a specialty in
jim-jams in the vicinity of the Waranga Basin (Vic-
toria). The specialist was a young pick and shovel
hand, and his particular devils took an original
form. When he had taken a great deal too much
for a week or so, he began to see things—not
painted griffins, nor plaid dogs, nor purple fiends,
but quaint and curious flowers. One afternoon he
was discovered crawling about in a paddock on
his knees, plucking nothing with one hand and
carefully placing it in the other. When ques-
tioned, the sufferer explained that he was gather-
ing a bunch for Sarah. The idea of a bunch of
rare-colored fantods as a present for one’s best
girl strikes me as unique, and a love poem should
be written round it.
Premier Carruthers was quite put out, the
other day, when a deputation of Sydney wire-
workers asked him to have some rabbit-proof
netting made locally. Snapped Joseph :
The farmers themselves—not the general taxpayer—
are paying for the imported netting. You are asking
that the farmers should he charged so much extra in
order to give you employment.
Well, even if that were so, the wire-workers, as
general taxpayers, have been bled pretty freely
hitherto to help along the farmers with cheap
railway rates, free seed wheat, &c., &c., and turn
about is fair play. But the chances are it isn’t so.
If the history of the deferred payments of land
instalments, &c., is any criterion, the general tax-
payers, including the Sydney wire-workers, will
have to pay for some of the imported rabbit-proof
netting yet.
H. G. Wells, for the benefit of S.M.
Herald and the rest of the syndicate that is
publishing his “Future in America,” gives an
extremely ugly specimen of that peculiarly Ameri-
can product, the millionaire
He clutched a long cigar with a great, clumsy hand.
He turned on you a queer, coarse, disconcerting bottle
nose with a little, hard-blue, wary, hostile eye, that
watched out from the roots, of it. He said nothing. He
attempted no civility, he looked pride and insults : you
ceased to respect yourself.. . .
“It was Roman,” my friend said. “ There has been
nothing like it since the days of that republic. No living
king would dare to do it. And those other Americans !
These people walked up to him and talked to him ; they
tried to flatter him and get him to listen to projects.
Abjectly. And, you know, he grunted. He didn’t talk
back. It was beneath him. He just grunted at them ! ”
Mysterious whispers are once more going
round the press to the effect that “measures may
shortly be taken to end the abnormal situation
created by the incurable insanity of the unhappy,
but robust. King Otho of Bavaria.” He is said
to imagine that he is a fowl, and to spend a good
deal of his time in a nest made of straw and fire-
wood ; but between the rare king who pretends to
be a hen and the very frequent one who pretends
to be a general and an admiral, the difference
isn’t very wide.
Westralian Labor leaders are beginning to
realise that it is about time to say stern things
about that queer anomaly—the Freetrade
Laborite. Perth Chamber of Manufacturers re-
cently received this letter from acting-secretary
Griffiths, of the Murrin Murrin branch of the
Westralian Goldfields Federated Miners’ Union :
The great drawback in this State is that members of
unions are “Labor”.—blind Labor. It is beyond my
comprehension to understand why workers support
Freetraders, or “ fiscal-sinkers,” who are a curse to Aus-
tralia, and are boycotting Australian workmen by being
content with the present tariff.


Furred vSßins
Rabbit >Skins
FORWARD YOUR CONSIGNfIENTS TO-^
HILL CLARK (Q. CO.,
Wool and Produce Salesmen, SYDNEY
Throughout Australia voices sing—
A Cure 1 A Cure !! A Cure !11
The only really certain thing
Which, Summer, Autumn, Winter, Spring,
Will Cure. Will Cure. Will Cure
Your coughs and colds, and make them bring
Glad tribute to their healing king,
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
Take a little Wolfe’s Schnapps morning
and night to keep the stomach, bowels and kidneys
in good order. And it does the business*
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
Families of the ennobbled dead in Aus-
tralia may now retain the emblems bestowed by
royal favor. That accounts for the recent draw-
ing-room exhibition of the Star of St. Michael
and St. George to a company, some of whom
thought it was for sale. Under the old law an
Australian taking a title had to find a guarantor
that the emblem would be returned on his death,
but the difficulty of dragging the relic away from
ns widow induced royalty to relax the rule. It
had to relax it, in fact, unless it was going to take
the bauble by force, after the manner of Albert
Aorman, when he drags the heroine all over the
stage in a B. Holt play to make her give up the
Document.
SHE'D FIX
HIM.
HIM: “ Ah, if you
married, me I know
I'd be a much better citizen.”
HEE : “I know that, but most likely they'd
charge me with manslaughter.”
1 logging is going off the bill at Darling-
burst and other N.S. W. prisons. Ten years ago
1 1 was as common as sweeping out the cells, but
now it takes rank with unusual events, and the
authorities show a quite perturbed state of mind
when the triangles are asked for. Part of the
failing-off is attributed to the exclusion of the
press from floggings. The lurid par whetted
appetite, and magistrates and judges kept up the
supply. When K. E. O’Connor, now High Court
■ udg j\i then j N 'k‘ W * Minister for Justice, first
issued the order excluding the press from floggings
he prophesied this result.
According to statements made by members
of N.S.W. Assembly, the Railway Commissioners
managed to get up another quarrel over the new
tram sections required when the Central Railway
fetation was opened. Public convenience could
only be properly studied by granting overlapping
sections, and Chairman Oliver proposed this, but,
apparently fur the sake of picking a fresh quarrel
with their chief, the two junior Commissioners
combined in opposition, and insisted on an arbi-
trary arrangement which necessitated crowds of
passengers paying a penny for a few yards’ jour-
ney to Regent-street, or walking the distance.
W hen this was announced loud protests were
made by the public, the press, and Parliament;
yet it was three weeks before the junior Commis-
sioners gave ip to Oliver’s scheme of sections. Of
course, these inharmonious relations were Oliver's
fault.
• * * •
There was an already-forgotten tragedy,
on September 3, between Sydney Heads. On
that day two Balmain people—man and wife—
went out sailing. In the afternoon the Watson’s
Bay signal-master happened to he watchihg
their little sailing boat dancing about South Reef,
and saw it turn over before a s>' l ien puff, and
sink. Sydney Harbor is a dang tuns place for
yachtsmen, the more so because it looks so safe.
Itsmany gullies are the homes of the treacherous
‘ Black Puff” which so often, takes thv :”eOnhorn
unawares. ]S T o person should he allou- !to sail a
boat, on Port Jackson, liable to sink like a stone,
as in this instance. One can’t hire such a boat; or
at least the hirer would be liable to a heavy penalty
if he let you have it. But the fool of a law does
not interfere with the privato i vner. Ho can ask
his friends out for a sail, an<; i ike them out in a
concrete bath—if they’re such fools as to ero. The
law won’t interfere.
* * * *
“P. : Let any man who, objects to giving
gaoled criminals useful industrial work make a
visit to Pentridge, or some other big prison. One
set of men at Pentridge is employed, inside wire
barricades, at breaking stones. They sit in front
of their work, and tap monotonously with a 51b.
spawling hammer. Their work is useless, and
they know it. Pentridge in a month can quarry
and break more stone than it can use in a year,
and it has no outlet for the surplus. The men
know that their labor is futile, and they tap away
mechanically and sullenly. Elsewhere in the
prison other men are brush-making, printing,
book-binding, or working at the machines in a
sadly primitive woollen-mill. These fellows are
alert, active, intelligent, industrious. Man by a
long process of civilisation has become a working
animal. Put him to useful and productive labor,
and you reform him by means of his own energy.
Condemn him to idleness, or a forced occupa-
tion which he knows to be purposeless, and you
deepen his criminality. One look at those two
groups of men should end for ever the foolish cry
against woeful prison labor.
* * * •
“K.K.” : Your remarks about the new
Order of Knights Our Lady of the Southern
Cross, sworn to the honor and
defence of women, reminds
me. I met the Lady with a
Story, to Tell on a Neutral
Bay ferry-boat one day, a
week or so ago. I had the
current Bulletin, and re-
marked to her upon some
verses by a local poet.
“Ugh,” she snorted, “I
couldn’t admire anything
that emanated from that
Speckled Beast!’' (She named
him after his moral com-
plexion, of course, and I
think she cribbed the phrase
from Browning.) Then she
dropped into a picturesque
little yarn, which I would
hardly have believed, even if
she hadn't made herself the
persecuted, shrinking Lily
of the piece. I was chari-
tably supposing that, owing
to her peculiar habit of mind,
she had distorted some mere
act of courtesy upon the part
of that ingenuous young poet,
when, suddenly, he himself
strolled into observation
from the other side of the
boat. When he came across
to me, and made some com-
monplace remark .about the
weather, I felt it was a
psychological moment, and
made a well-meaning attempt
to bring the lady gracefully
into the conversation, as appar-
ently he hadn’t noticed her pre-
sence. To my surprise, he gazed
blankly at her, while she went an
angry crimson, glared at me as if I had
acted with malice aforethought, and de-
camped to the other end of the boat. They
h:id never met before, and the young' man
didn’t know her from the proverbial bar of soap !
* * ♦ *
There is a hubbub at Adelaide over the
use of incense at an Anglican (of course fashion-
able) church. The Bishop disapproves of incense
in church processions and during actual worship ;
he thinks it can only be legitimately employed to
“ sweeten the church before the service.” As to
the desirableness of incense, much depends on
what happens to be the dominant odor of Society
assembled at worship. In old Sydney, for
instance, it used to be rum-and-onions.
* * * «
Despite a N.S.W. Board of Health regu-
lation forbidding it, a few cheap, insanitary
butchers are accustomed to wrap meat in old
newspapers which have made the round of two or
three, possibly germ-infested, households. T’other
day, however, two suburban offenders bumped a
10s. fine and costs, and as 10s. will buy a lot of
clean, white paper,' the filthy practice will
probably stop.
O, LORD, ON WHAT A SLENDER THREAD. —OLD HYMN.
No. I. —MUSICIAN : “ Believe me, sir, had I but the means to
replace a broken string upon my violin I could get an
engagement in a theatrical orchestra this very night. Ye
gods! To think that a paltry shred of catgut should stand
between a man and comparative affluence! ”
No. 2.—The catgut yarn “ goes,” and benevolent party “parts
up." with above result.
“ Homo ” : A lot of manslaughter has
been perpetrated in Bulletin barber-shop yarns
from time to time ; but, judging by tbe number of
hair-shifters who become insane whilst actively
following their calling, it’s a wonder to me that
there’s such an absence of real tragedy in the
business. I know, as a positive fact, that there
are at present no less than eight of the calling
confined in one Victorian metropolitan asylum,
while a couple of “temporarily relieved” cases
from the same institution (I feel a cold shudder
travelling along my spine) have resumed opera-
tions with the razor.
* * * #
Adelaide City Council has taken in hand
the regulation of hair-dressing and shaving
saloons. By-laws provide that all tools of trade,
such as brushes, combs, clippers, etc., must be
efficiently cleansed and disinfected at least once a
day. Each customer is to be supplied with a
clean towel, and the barber must cleanse his
hands by washing after each shave. The use of
powder puff, sponge, styptic, magnesium or other
emollient in block form is also prohibited, under
a penalty of £lO for each offence.
A * * *
“Gip”: “ G.M.” (30/8/’O6) isn’t quite
fair to Bung, in his par. on the bar-girl. Hotel-
keepers running the more decent of the hotels
never allow their girls to drink with customers.
In fact, in a first-class bar a nice man would not
invite a girl to drink with him. Anyone so doing
would probably offend the girl, and mark himself
as an outsider at the same time. Some Sydney
hotel-keepers would turn rainbow tints' with
horror at the sight of one of their girls drinking
openly in the bar. But the great big temptation
remains. The girl is sometimes alone, and she is
often very tired.
* * * »
“B.”: Be barmaids in Australia. Spiers
and Pond, once of Australia, now of London, do
not allow barmaids to drink in the bars either
with customers or alone. That should be an easy
reform to bring about. , If a man buys a pound of
tea or tin of jam he doesn’t ask the counter-lady
to have one, and, if he did, she would probably
refuse. Anyway, Spiers and Pond successfully
enforce their rule, to the admitted advantage of
the barmaids and without appreciably repelling a
paying class of visitors.
* * • *
“F.C.”: I have just acquired several
bushels of gratuitous information, a few more-or-
less veiled insults, and an insight into the way
“news” originates. The other day, a brief
paragraph in the Age informed the public that
a Richmond lady had given birth, at one sitting
so to speak, to four children. During the next
few days I learnt from sundry sources (1) that the
four babies were all girls; (2) that the father was
but 21 years of age and the mother 22; (3) that
the mayor, being desirous of assisting these
eminently dutiful citizens, had made inquiries,
but could find no trace of them ; (4) that the quad
was a solemn fact, and that the parents were
charging an inquiring public half-a crown ahead
to view the batch; (5) that a bounty had been
applied for, and Bent was going to “do some-
thing.” Then I investigated for myself, and
ultimately found that a local resident was the
cause of all the excitement. A friend of his, a few
doors away, had lately acquired triplets—two of
whom had since died—and he seemed to have had
a magnifying eye. There was no quad at all.
“ Vulcan ” : Yankee Macfadden’s cult of
the “ altogether ” (B. IG/8/’O6) isn’t the first of its
kind. Laing’s “Notes of a Traveller” tells
of another crowd, popularly known as
the “ Muckers,” which had a brief, but
lurid, career in Germany during the
*V early part of last century. Unlike
Macfaddenism, “Aluckerism ” had
religion, not physical hygiene, as
its basis ; its main tenet was that
man (including woman) should
worship his (including her) Crea-
torin the state in which he’d
(including she’d) been pro-
duced. The sect was secret;
disciples arrived at chapel in
orthodox rig, and then un-
dressed and mixed promiscu-
ously for worship in the “alto-
gether.” Some of the forms
of worship the chronicler hints
f at, with a blush. The sect, which
included some of the Father-
land’s “naicest,” was only in
its infancy 7, but was making much
secret headway, when the boss
“Mucker” began to have visions.
The first inspiration communicated
to the sect was that a Mes-
siah was to bo born amongst
them. The next inspired
information was that lie (the
boss) was to be the new-
comer’s earthly father. He
later confidentially divulged
to a lady disciple (the beau-
tiful wife of a coun' the
heavenly-sent news tin., she
had been chosen as the
mother. The lady, also in
an inspired way, told her
husband. A mighty row be-
gan, and an astonished out-
side public started to learn
things. A few days later,
two nice, plump lady dis-
ciples died of “ sexual ex-
citement” after some hair-
raising initiation ceremonies.
Then the police called, and
the interesting sect became
non-existent.
Woollooinooloo has a
name for squalor that is, in
these days, undeserved ; for
the Sydney City Council has
cleaned it outwardly; and
Paddington, near by, can
now show the visitor more
untidiness. But . Woolloo-
rnooloo would require almost
complete re-building to be
other than squalid inwardly 7.
The number of three-roomed
places, fitted with every in-
convenience, in Sydney’s an-
cient suburbis appalling; and
their landlords get appalling
rents for them. It is a locality
in which a woman can often
lean out of her top window
and quarrel with her neighbor
at her top window, and drag her hair violently,
and bump her head against the window frame.
There are three-roomed houses in Woolloomooloo
(“front-room ” and kitchen below, and one attic
above, to which the stairs rise from the kitchen)
that run a small store in the front apartment j
and there are three-roomed houses that announce
’‘rooms to let’’—mainly on account of the high
rents charged for houses that shouldn’t be let at all.
* * * •
Victor Lansell, old George Lansell’s 23-
year-old son, who is wallowing in the pelf left
behind by his late pa, has solved the military
question as far as it applies to Bendigo. Victor
has been seized with a bad attack of military
enthusiasm, and has attained to thedignity of sub-
altern in the local infantry regiment. That regi-
ment, in the past, has had difficulty in keeping
up to its strength ; but Lansell has removed that
difficulty, and made it look as if Bendigo, in the
near future, will want to start two or three more
regiments. This is his system : He owns about
20 mines, which employ about 1500 men ; he has
a controlling interest in about 20 more, which
employ another 1500 men; that makes 3000.
Victor has issued orders that no man is to be
employed on any of these mines unless he is a
member of an infantry regiment. There are a
few exceptions; but they are all members of
Victor’s pet football clubs. Presumably he is
going to allow the necessary time off to attend
camps and drills ; and pay for it.
* •» • *
Why is there not one word against
gambling in the Bible ? Because it assumes that
people are better for losing their money. On the
other hand the Church assumption is that Gain is
Godliness.
* * * *
Recent disclosures in England as to the
making of jam-cakes, biscuits and sweets by some
of the biggest firms rival the Chicago meat
horrors. They should be published in Australia
for the pleasant afternoon-tea reading of those
folk who can’t endure “colonial” biscuits or
sweets.
JSbS.W. public service has been circu-
larised with the offer of a billet in Japan at £4OO
a year as secretary to Suttor, commercial agent in
Asia. The applicant must be able to conduct the
affairs of the agency in Suttor’s temporary
absences; must be an expert typist and shorthand
writer, with a debonair appearance and an awe-
inspiring manner; alsb have a perfect knowledge of
the natural resources of this great country, and a
thorough acquaintance with the nocent tactics of
the wily N.S.W. exporter. (Integrity, honesty,
steadiness and ability are also demanded, but that
demand counts for nothing, for are we not all
sober, honest and industrious?) N.S W. public
service expects to get high ability cheap. The
expectation is rarely fulfilled.
* * * *
The old trouble, as between the decent
employer and the sweater, confronted Vic. Chief
Secretary Gillott lately, when one or two reputable
firms and the employees in the card-box-malnng
industry asked for a Wages Board. One con-
scienceless firm was said to employ girls at so low
a rate of piece-work pay that one victim had
managed to earn only Is. 9d. for a week’s work,
while another had toiled four days for 6d.—less
than a farthing an hour ! Question for the
parsons—is there a hotel in Melbourne, or any-
where else, as conducive to immorality a« an
employer who pays a girl sixpence for four days’
work ?
PALS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We meet with sprightly step, and eye
Abeam, the mind elated ;
We chat, the lightning hours go by,
Yet much remains unstated,
No matter how he yearns, or I,
We’re never satiated.
We part, each satisfied, and yet
Convinced we have been cheated ;
It seems we hod this minute met,
Ourselves at tea secreted,
And now to part—alas, to let
Talk thus go uncompleted !
Cut, ah ! the rosy hours do race
In such delicious chatter,
The spirit flashes from each face,
And nothing seems to matter.
The laughter has no lack of grace ;
Ours is a harmless clatter.
And always with a gracious glow
Our friendly minds commingle,
’Tis even sweet to murmur low
Some scrap of song or jingle ;
To make no love—for, ah ! we know
’Tis love that keeps us single.
VIC.
EUGESIA STONE.


JL
1
MONEY-GETTING
SUBJECTS— r^-]
Shorthand, Bookkeeping, Elec-
trical Engineering, Penmanship,
Architecture, Mechanical Draw-
ing, Surveying, Sketching, &c.
Ten thousand people have improved
their mental, financial and social stand-
ing hv our svstems of Education. Write
now for “HOME STUDY,” post free.
STOTT and HOARE’S
BUSINESS COLLEGE
Moore St., Sydney.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London,
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, 89C. FBG St. Martin, Paris, France
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
Is made of the purest and best of materials. It
acts upon the mucous membrane of the throat and
bronchial tubes, and very soon after the first dose
you feel its good effects. There is a soothing of
the inflamed and irritated mucous membranes,
and this soothing effect is felt at all places where
there is any irritation. You know the mucous
membrane extends from the throat down into the
stomach. Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy extends
its goodness all the way to the stomach, which
accounts for its being so good in deep-seated
coughs. The healthy mucous membrane is very
susceptible to outside influence. That is why you
catch cold so easily. That is why a dose of
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy has such good
effect if taken at the first indication of a cough or
cold. After your cold has developed, the mem-
brane of the throat is congested, and it is harder
to get it under control, but Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy does it. Keep a bottle in the house for
safety’s sake.*
Gentlemen wlio wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
SEND FOR. THIS
Men’s Wear Catalogue.
We have written a book
a comprehensive catalogue on Men’s Wear,
and want YOU to have a copy of it.
We did not issue this catalogue earlier
in the season because we could not have
included our New Lines.
It is, therefore, an up-to-date guide as to
what inen will wear the coming season, and
thoroughly representative of all the latest
ideas in men’s apparel.
WRITE YOUR NAME HERE.
Write your Name and Address in this form,
cut it out and post to us, and we will
send you our Fashion Guide for Men.
NAME.
ADDRESS.
Men’s and Boys l
OUTFITTERS,
Peapes & Co. Ltd..
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A novel way of making a living has been
adopted by the son of a very well-known Mel-
bourne painter. Just now he is travelling Up
and down Sydney Harbor by the Manly boats
making pencil portrait-sketches for the public at
a shilling a head. He says it pays, and he means
to voyage right round the world on the same
game. In London, by the way, there is quite a
number of clever artists who do quick portraits—
one and two-hour sittings—for moderate fees.
The success of a portrait, anyhow, is not always
in proportion to the time spent over it. Probably
the best portrait that John Longstaff ever painted
in his life—that of Henry Lawson, now hanging
in N.S.W. National Gallery —was done in under
three hours, and Millais could not have painted a
more graphic picture.
* * * *
The Salvarmy becomes more polished and
decorative as it gets older. It no longer plays
“Tommy, Make Room for YoUr Uncle,” as a
hymn-tune. Its bands, whether on march or in
barracks, play mostly good music ; and the uni-
forms of its officers grow artistic. In time the
Army will go in for altars and reredoses, and
copes and stoles. All religious movements seem
to develop from austerity or vulgarity to highly-
decorated ritual.' It is only in their first stages
that they invite persecution. The modern re-
spectable Christian would not be sent to the
lions of Diocletian. He would be a favored
figure at State functions, and the Rome Tribune
would record the dress his wife wore when pre-
sented to Mrs. Diocletian.
Now that there is a Marconi fixture
between Victoria and Tasmania, they might as
well include poor old King Island. Crusoe’s
speck was not much mere out of touch with civi-
lisation than this place. One small boat, the
Yambacoona, runs from Launceston to the Island
once a fortnight (with luck). It is the only direct
means of communication. It carries all pas-
sengers, news, mails that come or go, and the
weather is often too bad for it to run.
* * * *
In the Hr. Stockwell v. Queensland Go-
vernment action—Which resulted in the doctor
getting £2219 damages for wrongful dismissal—it
was admitted that some of the doctor’s reports on
the condition of Dunwich Asylum were altered
by the Government before submission to Parlia-
ment. Crown counsel alleged that this was
necessary, so as “not to rouse public indigna-
tion ; ” but Chief Justice Cooper sat heavily on
the Crown by describing such proceeding as “a
disgrace to Queensland.” The public is now ask-
ing if the same practice prevails in all depart-
ments, and, if so, what is the precise value of an
official document touched up to suit the views of
a Minister ? No official with a healthy backbone
would tolerate such tampering with his reports,
and Dr. Stockwell erred in not exposing the fraud
at the time.
* « * *
A recent District Court slander action
turned on the accusation against a little bit of
sweet stuff that she had prigged her employer’s
chocolates. (She served out lollies, soft drinks
and iced stomach-ache in his shop.) And two
bipeds substantiated the allegation by swearing
that the girl had given them sweets on several
occasions, Man is a chivalrous animal.
* * »
A new word—“ Alcoholiday.”
* * * *
Anstey, M.L.A., of Victoria :—“ I am the
only one of our family that ever drank—and I am
the only one of that family who ever attained a
position in life.”
* * * *
Latest drink notion—which hasn’t pene-
trated to Australia yet—is a drop of liquid air in
your whisky and soda. It make the drink dance
with a million diamonds, and, of course, freezes it
perfectly.
* • * *
The plaint of an ancient: —
At the Parramatta (N.S.W.) old men’s asylum, the
maintenance cost per head is now reduced to ss. per
week, yet the sum demanded from paying inmates
has been raised from 7s. to 10s. a Week. In the case of
the old age pensioner, this is not only hard and
dishonest, but it is a plain breach of the Act.
Clause 31 of the Pension Act states that where a
pensioner is maintained in a charitable institution, the
reasonable cost of such maintenance shall be payable
out of the pension, but any surplus shall be paid
to the pensioner. The dodge is worked by illegally
making the pensioner surrender his certificate on
entering an asylum, whereupon he loses his pension
rights. The instalments of the pension can only legally
be forfeited if the asylums are classed as gaols, which
they have been brought to closely resemble under the
Carruthers-Hogue administration.
A story about an Asiatic philosopher. He
was asked to divide a bag of nuts among his
friends. He gave 50 to one, 20 to another, one to
another, and so on. Astonishment arose, and he
explained : “I am doing it as God would.”
* * * *
“ Burchie ” : Disgraceful is the condition
of many of the Victorian country burying-
grounds. The worst case I’ve struck is at Caris-
brook, and Newbridge makes a good second.
The cemetery at ’Brook looks like an aban-
doned gold diggings. No fence, and the rabbits
in full possession. At one Vic. burying-place I
found a shin-bone, and at another a bottom jaw,
both exhumed by rabbits. In this way I hope to
build up a complete skeleton. Makes me feel
queer to think the bunnies will be scratching a
burrow through me when I’m “at rest.” Ad-
vance cremation !
N.S.W. Jewish hierarchy has promulgated
rules dealing with proselytes. The Jewish
religion has always rather looked askance at con-
verts ; and naturally. A man may “ change his
heart,” but Nature doesn’t allow him to change
his nose, and the prospect of a race of snub-nosed
Hebrews is disquieting. Few’versions to Jewry,
are, on the face of them, bona-fide. They are
usually to be accounted for by the desire of some
Christian lassie to marry a Wealthy Solomon, or
the infatuation of a Gentile for a Rebecca who
is firm not to marry “ out of the faith.” The Jew
who marries a Christian finds himself (or herself)
boycotted socially by the sterner members of the
race.
* » * *
Out of six witnesses who clearly identified
a calf outside Melbourne law courts, the other
day, only one could accurately describe the
ahitnal when he got into the box. One—a woman,
of course—said she knew the beast by its face.
“It had blue eyes and an affectionate look,” but
she could not give its color or say whether it had
horns or not. On such evidence a man was con-
victed —wrongfully, as was afterwards proved.
The Salv’army had an exhibit in Adelaide
Eight Hours procesh this year—a waggon show-
ing a convict with prison suit complete, two kneel-
ing females, a brother-bang-the-drum, and a dozen
or so dirty kids. Over the waggon floated a
banner, “The Fruits of Drink and Gambling.”
Wonderful that the Labor party should tolerate
in its procession an advt. for the boss sweater
of the globe.
■* * * *
“Yarrab”: The curse of uneasy Wor-
rality is with us. Was in a shop in Suburbia
one afternoon, when in ..bounced a miserable
specimen of the Bible-banging brigade, who de-
claimed frantically, to a frail woman within, against
the photo of a daintily-shaped and betighted
vaudeville Venus being placed in the shop window
for public observance. Said picture was perfectly
harmless, and was used as an advt. for a peripa-
tetic variety co. Only the leprous mind of the
bigoted cleric could attach the slightest nastiness
to it; but lie stated that if it were not removed he
would speak against the shopkeeper from his
pulpit on the following Sunday. This amounted
to blackmail, and if I had had the faintest hope of
being able to finance the fine, I would have
applied the boot discourteous.
There is a good deal of ‘ ‘ shooting with the
mouth” about Australian military matters.
Latest instance is a speech by Colonel Tom Price
in which he makes the interesting allegation,
backed up to some extent by correspondence
(some of the correspondence he doesn't disclose),
that General Hutton got his post as Australian
Commander by wire-pulling and “smoodging,”
and endeavored to hold it by the same means.
Certainly the deference which was paid to such
absurd politico-military personages as Neild under
the Hutton regime bears out Price’s case to some
extent. A useful military reform would be to
put on the retired list all officers who win
Parliamentary honors. The interference of
amateur military experts in Parliament is one of
the chief vexations of Defence administration.
* * * *
Howard Ashton writes : Your art critic
(B. 6/9/’O6) bewails the lack of legs in Fred Leist’s
picture. He will find, if he looks carefully around
the Art Society’s show, that this leglessness is
common to most of the pictures. Since the Art
Society got its Royal Charter, it has passed a by-
law abolishing legs as indelicate.
The question of lodge-doctoring cropped
up again last week at a meeting of the Williams-
town (Vic.) branch of the A.N. A. The Austra-
lian Women’s Association invited the assistance
of the A.N. A. 111 bringing pressure to bear upon
a Medical Defence League which refuses to treat
the single women of the A.W.A. on ordinary
A.N. A. lodge terms. This seems to suggest that
serious-minded spinsters of the associated order
need a terrible lot of medical attendance, or else
would be awfully fond of sending for the dear
doctor to come along and souud them if he were
obtainable under the unremunerative lodge con-
tract. The artless spinsters are very indignant at
the idea of the various dear doctors “ conspiring
to repel this attempt to make them very cheap
doctors. And isn’t the spinsters’ organisation
“conspiring” to get the maximum of male medi-
cal attention at a minimum cost?
From a letter from an Australian engaged
rirr . qnpr Hnff in Bolivia
prospecting in Olivia ■
urMer the°toe-nail^ , 'and ? ’tberi3 de-
« I '“specially so. There is a sort of moth
which afeo lays eggs on the skin, the grubs from which
wOl 4 their way inf and have to be cut out. As for ants,
well, there is a big violet sort over here which simply
puts into the shade the most pugnacious soldier or bull-
dog ant.
Moral: Australia is a better place than most, and
could be made the best place.
*** * •
Mi*:r nial ad,t - trom Mo,bour " e AoE
WW Oh).
T ADY, young, unconventional, would like to
exchange ideas of life in correspondence with a
or otherwise, view above. Alpha,
Thfl ideas of life of a gentleman, “young or
otherwise » aa disclosed to an “unconventional
youn a l ad y,” are likely to be large and wide, not
j. Q ° f ree
y
The.. Victorian Legisla-
ture has provided for the
stricter enforcement of school
attendance and the registra-
tion of private teachers and
their establishments. It is
about time some supervision
was exercised oyer the cur-
ricula of the iatter, especially
as regards the “ dame schools.”
A typical one of these is
conducted by an elderly
maiden lady of irreproach-
able character. There is
nothing to cavil at in the
moral precepts which she in-
culcates, but she confesses that
she “does not care about
those ‘School Papers’”; and
the result is that, while the
State school children a few
hundred yards down the street
are enriching their minds with
information relating to their
native land, her pupils aie
wading drearily through de-
tails connected with the causes
affecting the climate of Eng-
land, as set out in that ante-
diluvian series of publications,
the “Royal Readers.” Nor
is this all. For arithmetic she
uses one of the “ Irish Na-
tional School Books,” and
burdens the minds of her
poor little scholars with ar-
chaic tables of weights and
measures, which they will
probably never come across
again iti the course of their
existence. It is bad enough
for Austt alian children to be
denied the advantages of the
decimal system, but why on
earth they should have to
learn the number of yards in
an Irish perch passes compre-
hension.
Parson Tregear, at a re-,
cent Orange church service at
Collingwood (Vic.), announced
that after cycling through Ire-
land, he came to the con-
clusion that the cause of Ire-
land’s discontent was the
“breaking down of the Sab-
bath.” What strange theories
have been propounded to
account for Ireland’s discon-
tent with landlord robbery
and English misgovernrnent !
Julian Hawthorne declared
that the mildness of the Irish
climate was “the ruination
of the country.” . Others have-
blamed intermarriage, the ab-
sence of race suicide, celibacy,
potatoes, and horse-racing.
An ingenious M.P. named
Delahunty informed the House
of Commons that “the arrow
which pierced the heart of
Ireland was feathered with a
one-pound note, ’’ his panacea
being the abolition of one-
pound notes, though they
seem to do no harm in Scot-
land. Another theory, once
popular, was that the ruina-
tion was caused by the intro-
duction into Ireland of artificial manures and
superphosphates. But Parson Tregear’s theory
takes the fool prize.
Writes Miss Alfreda Arnold, in “ Church
Work in Japan,” just published Leprosy is
lamentably common in Japan—an estimate puts
the sufferers at 200,000 ; and no class is free from
the taint.” How will the Australian girls who
hob-nobbed with the Japs like that creepy item ?
THIEFS
SONG
C,m the, ,UKf SPistK,
TTWix*T The SUN CDSPto riooM
a* v/tb of SnfY'VBLE fibre,
Tull of lanc droppun’ Doors.
SIC, 7'n fwvbre o\
THAT,! KCJ"* LOOP VJPsO be ,
6 eyEH GIPSY "Phkp.ofsH n ) ,
PLEDGED ESPECIALLY TO DE..
p hey, fiY s> or,, sie.
j Buxon J(rr*rst ,
RAGSe-D t>°FTi_ip^q,
GOOD 1
f\ «W
thsres pcriNr-
i’ll DAHC.LE
i* rue
U-K.E: TO orsv HOOKED BKROE.U
FTOK6 BY fROE-LOVES
TiLL n y BODY- COLD AS f v M\HBU6.-(SIDe ,
ITS SOUL,TO THC£ nx BRIDE-
3HEOS ITS SOUL? Hpp VTOrvr
IT*WERE. WORM TO POUfSCE. TODAY...
Cluck, lassie, j KjSs. f~)Y Bowsy,
SONSY BOTNET LASSIS, , MET '
MtiGH-PWO.


CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY
64 Pitt St., SYDNEY APPLIANCES, Ltd. 424 Little Collins St., MELBOURNE
ROBEY
STEEL. RAILS. 8TEEL TRUCKS. TRAMWAY MATERIAL.
Portable Engines, Tractions, Thrasher*, High Speeds, Vertical and
Horizontal Oil Engines, &c., &c.
BRUNTON’S SCOTCH WIRE ROPE. Hayward’s Sheep Dips, Pearn’s Pumps, Mining Requisites, &0., &0.
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER, Managing Director.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
N.S. Wales’ financial history last year (to
June 30, 1906) was something; like this: —
Alleged revenue .. .. £12,291,367
Deduct land sales .. .. 976,772
More-or-less true revenue £11,314,595
Alleged expenditure.. .. £11,395,243
Add loan money spent .. 1,282,995
Total expenditure .. £12,678,238
Expenditure £12,678,238
Revenue 11,314,595
Deficit £1,363,643
Less Sinking Funds, etc. .. £350,000
Actual deficit .. .. £1,013,643
The Treasurer claims a surplus of £896,124. He arrives
at that by including the land sales proceeds as revenue,
and charging the' loan expenditure to another account.
The foregoing, however, shows the amount by which
N.S. W. did not pay its way, in this most prosperous year.
On the strength of this spurious surplus, and
on the strength of another spurious surplus for the
current year, Treasurer Carruthers provides for these
shrinkages and remissions of taxation and revenue :
Reduction of railway rates (mostly further
bonus to the “great natural resources”).. £150,000
Abolition of school fees 80,000
Penny postage .. 60,000
Remission of land-tax 40,000
Total £320,000
If there were a genuine surplus nothing could be said
against the proposed further reduction of railway rates.
It is true also that, after paying interest, the department
in the past year showed a surplus of £384,980. But con-
sider this
Deficit. Surplus.
1901 .. (accumulated) £1,234,153 ..
1902 .. 136,862 ..
1903 .. 521,961 ..
1904 .. 408,437 ..
1905 .. 35,079 ..
1906 .. £384,980
Net deficiency .. £1,951,512 ..
With a railway deficiency of that size—apart from what has
been charged up to capital—on the strength of a single
year’s abnormal figures, rates are to be reduced in the
interests of the class which already enjoys by far the
•lowest rates ! It maybe “Reform ’’finance ; but if a wild
rabbit or banana hawker financed that way, the Bank-
ruptcy Court would call him a fool, and suspend his certi-
ficate for two years.
* • * *
N.S.W. Treasury figures are still on the boom.
In two months the revenue has reached £1,950.023, or
.£297,246 more than it“ was in July and August, 1905.
JBiii, for all that, J. Carruthers has spent £231,217 of bor-
rowed money—at the rate of very nearly 1| millions a
.year. How much more the revenue would have to boom
before a “Reform” Treasurer would reckon the State
should pay its own way hasn’t yet transpired. In July
.and August, 1901, the revenue was £1,451,831 ; that is
.£498,192 less than Carruthers has to spend. And yet he
.must borrow £231,217 to make ends meet. Victoria’s
August revenue was £746,371, or £175,705 more than for
ithe same month of last year, and probably a record for the
State. Total for two months, £1,388,575 ; or £212,922
more than for July-August, 1905. Victoria, which has
had abundant rains all through, is safe for another extra-
good season. Queensland’s revenue for two months has
been £611,288 compared with £548,122 last year—£63,l66
better. Expenditure (excluding interest) for two months
was £363,328, or £13,350 more than in 1905. Tasmania
shows for the two months £135,941 of revenue, a slight
improvement on last year’s £134,358. Westralian figures
.are not available ; there is a great silence about Westra-
lian Treasury results in these days. And S. Australia
contents itself with quarterly figures.
* » * *
Issue of a circular this week by the Commercial
Bank of Australia partly explains the recent remarkable
rise in the bank’s ordinary shares. The Assets Trust has
£2,919,788 of deposits, carrying 3 percent, interest, and
payable in 1916. Present circular invites these deposit-
holders to offer their deposits, and announces “ The
lowest tenders to the extent of £300,000 will be accepted.”
It will be an easy enough matter to pay off the first
£300,000 ; at June 30 the bank had 54 per cent, of the
new debt to the public in liquid assets. It had £1,867,000
in cash and at short call. The use of some of this
unproductive money to get rid of money which is
costing 3 per cent, seems good business and if the
deposits can be got at a discount (present price is 155.),
it will be so much profit with which to write down
the old boom assets. But the vast deficit won’t be got
rid of by paying back these depositors ; the repayment
will simply alter the form of the debt. Also, the more
the bank improves, and the nearer it gets to 1916, the
less the profit it will be able to make out of repurchases.
•Granted that this scheme is good, in that it will save
some interest, and that the bank’s business, including
realisation of old securities, has lately been satisfactory,
the boom in ordinary shares looks nearly as absurd as it
•did last week (B. 6/9/’O6).
* * * *
The Sydney market for gilt-edged scrip
stiffened up considerably last week in consequence of
the fact that the lucky recipients of the big cheque
(£775,000), paid over the other day as the balance of the
purchase-money of Great Cobar mine, are not the sort of
people to play two-up with their money. They are
putting a lot of it where it can be found when wanted ;
one of the crowd bought £30,000 of Colonial Sugar shares.
» ■» * *
Sydney Hydraulic Power Co. has to share
profits over 10 per cent, with Sydney City Council. Five
years ago, the co. reckoned that it might as well make its
own engineeringprofits, and soformed the Engineering Co.
Last year, this paid 15 per cent, and put by more than
enough to pay another 5 per cent. Meantime, the parent
co. doesn’t make more than enough to pay the 10 per
Cent. —it doesn’t show enough to share anything with
anybody. Sydney City Council evidently thinks it smells
a rat, and has decided to take action to determine whether
it isn’t as much entitled to share in the excess profits of
the pup as in those of the parent co.
* » * *
The Commonwealth Insurance Co. (Mel-
bourne), which began with £5OO deficit, a goodwill paper
item
Bonus to
Policy- To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends, holders, serves, serves.
1904.. £3683 8 p.C. =£ll2o £416 £2147 £1647
1905.. 2182 6 „ „ 1177 360 645 2292
1906.. 2048 6 „ ~ 1186 415 447 2739
This is much too small a proportion of profits for a young
co. to lay by; and the amount is getting less and less.
Naturally, also, in thoge circumstances, the profit is
getting less and the expense rate is getting higher :
„ 1904. 1905. 1906.
Net premiums £BBl3 £7590 £8359
Losses 3758 4207 4712
Expenses 1905 1944 2376
Losses per cent, premiums .. 42*6 55*4 56*3
Expenses per cent, premiums 21’C 25’6 28‘4
The co. which has the largest lay-by, and thus shows that
it wants to amply protect its clients, naturally has the
least difficulty in getting clients. And this young co.,
besides paying away too much to its shareholders, and
putting aside too little to protect its customers, has no
great reserve of uncalled capital to draw Upon either—
only £4941 (its paid capital is £19,764). Allowing its
premiums to be at the rate of £ per cent., it has over a
million and a half of risks ; and, having these risks to face,
a co. with an allotted capital of only £24,706 when all is
paid up, and £2739 of reserves, ought to be a good
deal more eager to build reserves than this co, appears to
be. The co., in many respects, deserves well: it has
steadily written down its goodwill item to nothing ; and
practically all its assets are immediately available. In
fact, its one outstanding sin, from which it must itself
be the worst sufferer, is Wiat it compels the infant to pay
dividends before it has reached the walking stage.
The Modern Permanent Building And
Investment Society (Melbourne) :
Interest
on
Deposits Nominal
Trading Loss on Writen andDe- Re-
July, Loss. Sales. off. bentures; serves.
1897 .. £1193 £6318 2* p.c. £25,179
1898 .. 1671 8677 2J „ 14,831
Profit. Deficit.
1899 .. 281 15,750 2J- „ 638
1900 .. 9 5,593 24 „ 6,222
1901 .. 1591 6,548 2* „ 11,179
1902 .. 2383 834 2£ „ 9,630
1903 .. 1822 6,377 £2OOO 3 „ 16,185
1904 .. 421 711 1500 3 „ 16,975
Loss.
1905 .. 1423 1,256 3J „ 19,654
Profit.
1906 .. 958 6,216 3J „ 23,911
The year’s trading (apart from property sales) shows up
as well as it does owing to £ll5O being realised in excess
of the amount to which certain Government debentures
had been written down. The house property sold had a
book value of £20,304 ; this realised £21,224. ' But vacant
land of the book value of £10,934 realised only £4BOO, There
remains in hand £69,921 (book value) of house property
and £49,632 of vacant land. But, in addition, there are
mortgages totalling £186,772, and some Of these may be
expected to fall into possession. Hbw much of that
represents house property ahd how much vacant land it
is impossible to tell; apparently, however, judging by
the steady reduction in the item “vacant land,” it
includes little of the latter. None at all, anyway, was
foreclosed upon last year; and that is a good sign.
As a result of the satisfactory sale of Government
debentures, 6 per cent, is to be paid to depositors
and debenture-holders for this current year. This
rate, however, is not likely to be maintained; for
the advances, properties, etc., constituting practically
all the assets, returned in the past year, on the average
amount held, only £3 11s. 9d. per cent, gross ; the pro-
perties in possession alone returned only £3 6s. per cent,
gross. The deposits and debentures outstanding amount
to £231,323 ; last year’s earnings would on this sum pay
£5 Is. per cent, gross; and repairs and rates, not to
mention costs of management, have to come out of that.
The paid capital of the Modern Building Society
is £198,897. To say how much of that will be left can be no
more than a wild guess at present—it depends upon how
the slow realisation of assets pans out; and that depends
upon the unknown conditions of the future. Here, how-
ever, are the results of 10 years’ realisations
Re-
-1896. 1906. duction.
Australian deposits, &c. ..£169,416 £83,536 £85,880
British ditto .. .. 307,689 149,067 158,622
Mortgages 30,000 Nil 30,000
£507,105 £232,603 £274,502
Advances, &c., 1896 .. £660,083
„ „ 1906 .. 306,899
Reduction of Assets .. £353,184
From the £232,603 of liabilities deduct, say, £24,000,
representing other assets (apart from premises) =
£208,603. Deduct that from £507,105, the amount of the
debt in 1896, and we get £298,502 as the amount of
liability which has been or can now be wiped out. This
has been done, as shown, at a cost of £353,184 of assets,
which means that in 10 years the assets have averaged
about 16s. lOd. in the £. If the remaining assets (includ-
ing premises) realise that much, they will bring in about
£325,000. This would wipe out the debt to the public,
and leave £92,397 for the shareholders.
* * * *
Broken Hill Water Supply, Ltd., which is
mostly owned in Melbourne, and supplies water, &c., to
Broken Hill :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves,
June, 1900.. £19,557 12J p.c. =£11,666 £7901 £20,026
Dec., 1900.. 17,923 15 „ „ 13,987 3936 23,962
Premiums on 13,500 new shares 3379 27,341
June, 1901.. 14,116 16 p.c. = 16,000 26,457
Dec., 1901.. 10,250 10 „ „ 10,000 250 26,707
June, 1902.. 11,386 10 „ „ 10,000 1386 28,003
Dec., 1902.. 13,200 10 „ „ 10,000 3200 31,203
June, 1903.. 12,893 10 „,, 10,000 2803 34,186
Dec., 1903.. 1,421 6 „ „ 6,000 30,607
June, 1904.. 9,456 5 „ ~ 6,000 4456 35 063
Dec., 1904.. 12,080 10 „ „ 10,000 2080 37,143
June, 1905.. 16,622 10 ~ ~ 10,000 5622 42,765
Dec., 1905.. 16,197 10 „ „ 10,000 6197 48,962
June, 1906.. 21,579 10 „ ~ 10,000 11,579 60,541
This co.’s lease has now 12 years to run ; at the end of
that time it has to hand over the undertaking to the
State, without receiving any payment. Steadily, there-
fore, it has been building up a “ contingency reserve
fund,” which now amounts to £53,500 ; also, there is
undivided profit of £28,856 and the share premiums
£3379 ; total of the three, £85,735. But on the other side
there is a paper asset, “water rights, leases, etc.,
£25,194,” and, in order to arrive at true reserves, this
latter amount must be deducted. And what is left are
not true reserves either ; because obviously a 12 years
leasehold of an undertaking isn’t worth as much as
the 28 years lease which the co. had originally.
The co. has now decided to pay back ss. of its
capital; and it has over £65,000 in deposits and
public stock to do it with. This will leave 15s.
to be paid off in 12 years. Approximately, after
paying back ss. per share, and wiping out debts owing to
public, the co. will have £44,000 of liquid assets that will
not have to be handed over. (About £lO,OOO of this is
doubtful.) The reduced capital will be £150,000 ; deduct
£44,000 = £106,000, which, at 4 per cent, for 12 years, will
call for a sinking fund of £7OOO a year. As the works will
not be affected, the profits will be very little reduced by
the reduction of capital; irrespective of interest, the pro-
fits have been £36,103 for the past year. Deducting
£7OOO sinking fund, and another £3500 for renewals, this
would show a return of 17 per cent, on this reduced capi-
tal. But there are risks : another drought may happen ;
the works may collapse (having only a 28 years lease, the
co. didn’t design them to last for ever); a metal slump
may knock most of the bottom out of Broken Hill. Yet,
even with these counted in, the Water Supply looks a
glittering thing compared with almost any other Barrier
“ investment ” at present prices.
The co. has offered to sell the concern to the
Broken Hill municipality for an annuity of £23,600 for 12
years, payment to be guaranteed by the State. This
would be equivalent to a present payment of about
£220,000, assuming the earnings of money at 4 per cent.
The co. presumably wouldn’t hand over its liquid assets,
say £35,000 after returning the ss. per share, which would
make a total of £255,000 for the property—exclusive, that
is, of the ss. to be paid back next month. This means
255. 6d. per 15s. share. In view of the things that may
happen between now and 1919, the shareholders are hot
likely to quarrel with the directors for asking too little.
What the municipality may say about it is another matter.
Farmers’ and Settlers’ Co-operatiye SocietT,
Ltd. (Sydney)
To Be- Re-
Profit. Dividends. Bonuses, serves, serves.
June.’o2 £2,157 6p.c.=£ljoB2 £l,OOO £75 £257
Dec., ’O2 513 Nil 643 127
Loss. Deficit.
June, ’O3 2,810 Nil 2,683
June, ‘O4 15,787 Nil 18,470
Profit.
June, ’O5 1,305 Nil 17,165
June, ’O6 2,259 Nil 14,906
In the past 12 months £577 has been provided out of
profits to cover depreciation. The sad state into which
this society fell was owing to unfortunate dealings in
wheat; and it looks as though it will take some years to
recover. The capital provided (£48,368) is barely enough
for the business, and £20,078 of that is cumulative prefer-
ence ; so the deficit on capital account is represented by
overdraft, which during the year has grown from £11,120
to £17,662. Interest (including rent) has absorbed £lO7O
in the year. The extra inohey borrowed is represented
chiefly by stock. The turnover has been £496,998 ; in
view of that, the amount of sundry debtors (advances to
consignors, &e.), £32,795, is perhaps not excessive. Yet,
though credit appears to be fairly restricted, the society
has had to write off £1304 for bad debts duiirig the year.
Possibly the society, being a co-operative concern, is not
out after profits ; shareholders may get full return for
their money by having their business put through at
rock-bottom prices. The co-operator is certainly no
better off for getting £5 in dividend and bonus if he has
had to supply the £5 in commission. Whether that is
the situation here cannot, of course, be said from the
accounts. One thing can, however, be said : preference
capital is out of place in a co-operative society. It means
a perpetual mortgage on profits ; and the essence of co-
operation is that profits shall go to the co-operators.
Pitt, Son, and Badger?, Ltd. (Sydney),
station-produce salemen, etc.: —
Written Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
1897 £1,841 Nil £1,841 £7,500
1898 2,73 l Nil 2,731 7,50 t)
1899 4,043 Ml 4,043 7,50 t)
1900 6,555 Nil 6,555 7,500
1901 5,669 Nil 5,569 7;50b
1902 12,299 Nil 12,299 7,500
1902 6,319 Nil 6; 31$ 7,50 b
1904 6,438 5 per cent. = £2500 11,438
1905 3,523 6 „ „ 2500 12,461
1906 12,561 5 „ „ 2500 7,500 15,022
The reserves are nominal to some extent, there being a
goodwill item of unknown size. This item has for many
years stood lumped with others—“ Goodwill, office furni-
ture, plant, etc., £30,000, less £5OOO written off.” Now
the general cleaning-up having been completed, and a
good year having come along, £7500 is written off good-
will. The look of the balance-sheet has changed a lot
recently. Go back over seven years :
1899. 1905. 1906.
Overdrafts £65,437 £18,611 £22,544
Sundry creditors .. .. 6,680 2,586 2,809
Sundry debtors (advances,
foreclosed properties,
&c.) 97,942 45,267 36,482
Freehold (stores, &c.) .. 10,718 15,791 38,894
Goodwill, plant, &c. .. 25,000 25,000 25,000
This (for 1905 and 1906) is before paying dividend, &c.
The very fine improvement in the look of the figures has,
of course, resulted mainly from the fact that in these
seven years, while the profits reached £53,264, only £5OOO
had been paid in dividends up to June 30, 1906,
with another £2500 then falling due. Overdrafts
have thus been reduced, and values correspond-
ingly written down ; and now, with a change
in the look of things out West, realisations have become
possible ; and to that perhaps some of the unusual profit
for the year may be due. Meantime, taught by ex-
perience, the co. launches out, not in advances on squat-
tages, but in stores to do the profitable middleman
business in the city. And though the middleman is a
person who can’t provoke enthusiasm, it is better, any-
way, to have him here, where we can argue with him,
than to keep him in London or Antwerp, where he is
almost beyond arguing with.
* » * «
The Castlemaine Brewery and Quinlan,
Gray, and Co., Ltd. (Brisbane)
Writ* Added Nomi-
Profits. Dividends. ten to Re- nal Re-
July, Off. serves, serves.
1898 .. £6,966 Nil £8,591
1899 .. 8,614 Nil £6,864 £2760 11,361
1900 .. 10,981 Nil 7,767 3224 14,576
1901 .. 9,538 Nil 22,363 1,250
About £90,000 capital written off
1902 .. 9,026 Nil 9026 10,276
1903 .. 7,499 6 p.c. =£3750 3749 14,025
1904 .. 4,311 6 „ „ 3750 661 14,586
1905 .. 3,983 6 „ „ 3855 128 14,714
1906 .. 4,177 5 „ „ 3855 322 16,036
The changes that have occurred in the figures since 1905
are not important. A great deal no doubt depends upon
how much, if anything, is being taken out of revenue to
provide for depreciation • on that most important point the
accounts say nothing. Though the year shows a slight
improvement in profit, the revenue has been £l7Ol less;
the improvement in profits is wholly due to reduced
Working expenses. Included with an unwieldy miscel-
laneous item, into which more than half the assets are
dumped, is goodwill; how much this stands for is also left
unmentioned. As, however, there is admittedly some
paper among the assets, the reserves are nominal—to the
extent, anyway, of the paper. A further comparison :
t 1898. 1904. 1905. 1906.
Capital .. .. £150,000 £77,091 £77,095 £77,101
Revenue .. .. 28,273 25,208 25,755 24,054
Expenses .. .. 22,308 20,897 21,772 19,877
Debt to public .. 133,314 64,862 63,727 63,646
Premises, plant, &c. 140,709 88,184 90,278 89,770
Hotels .. .. 67,846 16,500 16,500 16,500
Stocks and debtors.. 83,351 53,729 50,781 51,538
Apparently something is being written off for wear and
tear and to provide for renewals ; it will be noted, any-
way, that the “ premises, plant, &c.,” item is slightly less
this year than last. Almost everything hangs on that.
For the co., in consequence of its heavy debts, £44,697 of
w'hich is overdraft, has to provide for depreciation of
assets representing very nearly twice the amount of its
own capital ; and if provision for that depreciation is
being deferred, then the co. is saving up more trouble for
itself.
* * * *
Sydney Exchange, which has lately promoted
numerous exhibitions of N.S. Wales’ “great natural
resources,” is now advertising the mineral wealth of
the State, partly by exhibits of ores, concentrates, &c.,
partly by placards and graphic illustrations. It isn’t the
Exchange’s fault, but, as it happens, probably no time
could be less opportune for the exhibition. The trouble
just now is, not to get the public to “ invest ” in mining,
but to W'arn them off it at present prices. Generally
speaking, mining shares reflect the metal-market quota-
tions ; and the metal markets are at w'hat looks like the
top of a boom. There is bound to be a reaction, with a
slump in share-values, and legitimate mining will suffer
from it for many years. And the higher the share-
values are forced, the more the real industry will suffer.
Mining would be most benefited now by a reminder
of past disasters that have happened through inciting the
public to rush in upon a boom basis ; instead of placards
recounting the successes, they need a warning of the
failures. In silver-lead alone, where, for instance, are
now the Webb’s, Webb’s Extended, White Rock, Bonanza,
Lady Brassey, Pinnacles, North Central, Rockwell, Day
Dream, Kanimbla, Lady Bevys, Lubra, Lewis Ponds,
Tom’s Lewis Ponds, Mt. Stewart, Bolivia, Overflow,
Treasure, Black Prince, Terrible Dick, Pioneer ? The
list might run to half-a-colunm. Every one of these was
boomed as practically a sure thing, and most of them
looked satisfactory enough on the basis of high metal
prices, With lead at £l2, copper at £45, and tin at £BO,
it is a fine thing to recall the successes ; with lead at
£lB 2s. 6d., copper at £B6, and tin at anything over £lBO,
the more people look at the failures the less sorry they
are likely to be. They may miss a few things : but they
will probably be all the better off for not swallowing even
good bait.
* * * *
Budgery has been driving Sydney off its head
this last week ; and £l5 shares—there are 100 in the
syndicate—jumped on Monday to £475 sales. The iron-
stone gossan capping on this property has often been
pointed to in this column as worth further probing ; but
it was hardly expected that the early results would be so
sensational. The property, which is 60 miles east at
Cobar, and three miles frcmi Hermidale railway station, on
the Cobar line, was worked some 20 years ago by Soren-
son and party for gold ; but as there wasn’t enough of the
metal, and no indications of copper, the usual abandon-
ment took place at 100 ft. Last year Sorenson, still
hankering after the old show, again stepped in and raised
£l5OO to work the property. Since then a new shaft has
been sunk to 216 ft., seams of carbonate of copper passing
out to the east at 186 ft. in the shaft. At 216 ft. deep a
south drive revealed nothing for the first 40ft., but at
that point an eastern crosscut (now extended to 34ft.)
passed into an intermittent ore-body, assaying from 8
per cent, to 49 per cent, from picked stuff ; and the face
now shows black oxides and glance ore of high values.
Lode is dipping east, and has a strike of 14 degrees west
of north ; and, on appearances, it will probably take 20ft,
more to reach the hanging wall. Up to date and down to
present level, Budgery is more than promising; and
there is no apparent reason why it shouldn’t live into rich
sulphides. But of its size and character much too little
is yet known to base a definite opinion upon.
4*4*
Budgery South, of 60 acres, immediately joinihg
Budgery, and Within 300 ft. of latter’s main shaft, passed
into the hands of a co. of 600 shares, of £lO ; 200 went to
vendors, and 400 to public ; terms, £1 on application and
£1 on allotment; balance, 10s. per share pef month.
Soutar and Hoare had barely floated the thing in Sydney
before £2 shares were rushed to £6. The men who owned
it (mainly, it is understood, Brookman and Matchett, twd
western men) know the country thoroughly, and have
followed every movement in Budgery ; moreover, they
are men who know a good deal about shares as well aS
sheep. And the Pitt-street speculator, whb was, probably
nevfer within 300 miles of the show, and knew nothing abofft
it, immediately valued it at three times the amount asked
by the promoters. Once in a thousand times that Sort
of folly may turn out all right; and this may be the once.
At present, anyhow, shares are at about £5 premium.
No doubt Budgery South is the best thing the public will
strike outside Budgery itself; for, though so far it is only
a position claim, it can hardly miss the lode to the south—
that is, if the lode exists to the south ; and, looking at
the body in the parent show, it is hardly likely that it
will peter out before it gets to the boundary.
» » * *
Tin, £lB6. Which accounts for the 450 tin
ventures of one sort or another that are said to have
Sprung up in the New England district (N.S.W.). Also
tin ShoWs arfe being floated at EUfiowle and Waukeroo,
on the othet Side of the sattte State, Some fingers will
be burned ; for thete is no trickier metal—tricky in its
obciirrfenCe ; tricky in its market value. Ten years ago
the average price was £59 9S. lid. per ton. Eight years
befote that the avefdge Was £ll7 10s. Just 20 years ago
the market was rising just as steadily and persistently as
it has been dding lately; and there was the same
tin-mining boom. Between 1879 afid 1882 the N.S. W;
output jumped from £372,349 to £833,461. Two years
later it was less than half of that, and bj'
1898 it had got down to £60,600, most of which Was WOfi
by Chinese and fossickers making the most beggarly
living. Practically not a single new discovery of tin has
been made lately ; turn up the records of the 20-year-old
boom, and you find just the same names that you find to-
day. Certainly there are better appliances now ; but
they can’t be used universally ; and, generally speaking,
tin-saving has moved on very little. Everything hangs
on the market, just, as it has always hung hitherto ; and
the past history of the industry in N.S. V\ ales gives proof
enough of what reliance can be placed in the market.
* * * *
Junction North, Broken Hill, will be a greatly-
improved mine, on surface, at any rate, by the time the
shaft is repaired and hauling is resumed. Much money
has been spent on the mill, and if temporary manager
Weir’s ideas are worth anything (and the improved work
done by his own North mill show that they are), the pro-
duction of concentrates should be high both in quantity
and value. The inside of the mill has been practically
ripped out, repaired, altered, and replaced. The im-
provement is obvious. There is, of course, the risk of a
discrepancy between theory and practice, and the chance
of the new manager wanting things his own way. The
ticklish work of repairing the collapsed portion of the
shaft at the 570 ft. is being entered upon, and as many of
the terrors of the task have already disappeared, the
management is approaching the job with more confi-
dence.
* * * *
With great ore-bodies developed at 900 ft., the
new mill at the Broken Hill South may be placed in the
contractor's hands at any time now ; the railway to the
site has already been started.
* * » *
Block 10, Broken Hill, is getting out a little
more ore, as men can now get back into some of the
upper-level stopes.
n # * *
“Bromide”: The close mullocking of the old
ead stopes has assisted, no doubt, to keep Block 13,
Broken Hill Prop, open, but the real thing, in my opinion,
is the square-set timbering of all the stopes above the
250 ft., coupled with the big support of a pillar on the
400 ft. The trouble in Block 13 is not so much back
weight, as side weight, and mullock alone has proved
incapable of resisting heavy side pressure. Luckily all
the shallow level stopes were in running ground and
square sets had to be used, and now they check any
movement. Since they have got out of the running
ground, and are working the big refractory sulphide lode
on the open stope and bulk system, any chance they
might have had to check a movement is gone, and all they
can do is to call the men out and wait until the ground
has settled. A stope is 14ft. high (average), and when it
is sufficiently advanced to permit of mullock being tipped
without interfering with the miners, they rear the chute
and ladder-road sets Bft., and mullock to the top of them,
but no higher. This leaves 6ft. from the mullock
to the back, or roof, which must be held
somehow ; so they stick “ bulks ” of timber on the newly-
tipped mullock. If a creep is on, these bulks are squeezed
down into this loose mullock, very often clean out of
sight, and the consequence is the ground can’t be stopped
until it hits something solid below. As proof, take two
recent creeps. In both cases the mine was moving bodily
from the bottom of the old lead stopes (or 250 ft.) down to
the 500 ft. level, but not above, where the square sets
were. From the 300 ft. down they couldn’t get near many
of the old mullock passes, and those they could get to
were too broken to be of much use, while above the 250 ft.
they were all in comparatively good order, and could
have been used straight away—pretty conclusive proof
that the movement had been from the 250 ft. down.
*.* * *
The Sulphide Corporation’s Central mine
emergency mill started off very well a few weeks ago,
but the bins soon ran short of ore, and of late only half
the plant has been at work. The sinking of the shaft to
the 1000 ft. is making good progress, and when that work
is completed plenty of ore should be available. The
heavy wood framework for the granulation plant which
is to treat Block 10 slimes is now throwing its shadow
across the old Extended shaft.
* » * *
The New White Leads, south of Broken Hill,
started diamond-drilling with a four-drill compressor and
a great flourish of trumpets. In 10 days they hadn’t
bored 30ft., but the drill men bad discovered many
things. One was that the air-compressor would only
drive the drill when the mine’s rock drills were idle. The
diamond drill is now, therefore, worked only night shift,
when it can have to itself all the air that is going.
* * * *
Some very fine carbonates have'been broken in
a rise over an old drive in the main shaft of the North
British Blocks. This appears to be a lode which was just
missed by the old Bonanza Blocks Company in driving
south. It has also every appearance of being the con-
tinuation of the carbonate shoot which in the old days
was so rich that even the most hardened liars could
scarcely exaggerate it.
* * * *
North Broken Hill Co. has sold its 10,000
reserved shares (to Lionel Robinson and crowd) for £3
apiece ; there will be now 140,000 shares of £1 each. Co.
has over £30,000 in hand besides this £30,000, which will
he used to put down the shaft and build the new 4000-
ton mill, for which manager Weir has had the plans ready
for some time. Estimate of ore in the mine above 800 ft.
level,'is 500,000 tons. With lead at £l4 155., and silver
2s. 5d., the profit in the Juiy-December half of last year
was 10s. 4d. per ton of ore = £258,300 for the mine.
Add about £30,000 for liquid assets, and £lOO,OOO
for zinc concentrates; total, £388,000. This brings
out the 130,000 shares (before the new issue)
at just under £3. Question is, can £l4 15s.
for lead and 2s. sd. for silver be relied upon?
Also, will zinc stay up high enough to make the zinc
tailings worth all round 4s. per ton? The average
market value for lead for 10 years is £l3 Is. 3d. For the
10 years before that it averaged just under £ll. And £2


8
IBS
-V'
So thaiit
Will he
Carried
0ut......
r%
%
%
*V#A
rut;
%
%
TR
* fytf* •
GOipahy
(UNITED)
W
mm
OS'
less for lead than the price quoted above (£l4 155.) would
knock about £125,000, or say £1 per share, off the value
of the mine. On the other hand, certainly, there is the
ore below 800 ft. to consider, and the possibilities of
better things being done with zinc. As to which, who
knows anything?
* * * *
Who said that the people who have been
buying big blocks of Broken Hill shares are going to hold
them for 10 years for dividends? Or one year? The
amateur jobber has a habit of saying, “ These people
have inside information.” Whereupon he opens his
mouth and swallows the shares that the big “block”
purchasers have bought for the purpose of feeding to
him.
* » * *
In spite of what the diamond drills said, C.S.A.,
Cobar (N.S.W.), continues to develop high-grade ore
bodies, as it did in the upper zone. Since the general
market upheaval, when the public frantically rushed to
get in at £B, and afterwards tore its clothes in scrambling
to get out at 405., interest has subsided. But that hasn’t
affected the mine, from which 887 tons of ore have been
broken and treated at Cockle Creek for a net return of
£4166, after deducting all charges off the mine. Ex-
ploratory work still proceeds vigorously. In the old
shaft, from a point 33ft. in the east crosscut (where most
of the marketed ore has been mined), a north drive is
now in 200 ft., and the face is in good ore. Then, 90ft.
further east in the crosscut, the face of the ore body
shows an average of 52 per cent, lead and 2dwt. gold.
The new main shaft has been sunk to 216 ft. ; it has
passed through gossan, carrying gold ; but until connec-
tions have been made with the old shaft, and more ex-
ploratory work done, no estimate can be given of
values in the western lode ; and there is yet about 206 ft.
of sinking and 110 ft. of crosscutting to be done before
connections can be made at present working level.
Mine’s policy (in view of being continually jambed in
getting the dirt away from the old shaft) will probably
include connections to facilitate hauling. Still, there
is quite enough high-grade ore easily available to keep
the pot boiling ; and, in the circumstances, there should
not be any room for mistakes to creep into the policy as
to the mine’s general equipment. Ac present, water
jackets look inevitable ; but the main thing is to hustle
and put into the shareholders’ pockets the profits that
are now going to the railway and to Cockle Creek.
* * * *
“The directors of the Commonwealth Oil Cor-
poration have decided to abandon the tunnel which was
being driven through the Capertee Mountains to Wolgan
Valley (N.5.W.).” Pop goes about £25,000 ; and a great
ouantity of plant, &c., will also have to be shifted. Tiie
Bulletin begins to see why this co. needed £400,000 of
capital; but this first experience doesn’t make it any
plainer how interest is going to be earned on the money.
Possibly the co. will grow mushrooms in its abandoned
tunnels.
* * * *
If the Tasmanian tin boom was not a matter of
every day regret, it would be necessary to give a word
of caution over the market which is being made for
Tingha tin shows in Melbourne. Sydney folk know
Tingha, both lode and stream ; so they should not require
advice. The present Melbourne movement is the pro-
duct of a Melbourne-Castlemaine combination of hydraulic
sluicers. One advantage the Tasmanian shows had was
a heavy rainfall for a good part of the year ; but they suffer
from the want of water during the summer. What will
be the state of the sluicers up Tingha way in an average
dry season? There is no Coliban water supply to draw on
like there is at Castlemaine. Hence a market made
while the water supply is good must be looked at very
critically. Pearson’s group of mines have gone to London
to the Coleman crowd that shook up Lyell Blocks, and,
if bought, the “ shop ” influence may help those who buy
shares for a market. What is not forthcoming so far
from the majority of promoters is data showing the
extent of the tin-bearing wash, its length, breadth and
depth, or any statement about the water supply.
* * # #
Wamboyne alluvial gold-find, near Wyalong
(N.S.W.), has not turned out the success anticipated.
Prospector Harry Nelson, from the first, was not satisfied
that the prospects obtained (from Jgr. to a grain to the
dish) warranted the hoisting of the red flag. The biggest
clatter was made by applicants for permits, and the
Warden was kept going for some time in marking out
areas, most of which are now practically idle. Which
once more goes to show that a provision should be
inserted in the new Mining Bill compelling applicants to
either apply for a lease or pay a substantial deposit before
the Crown is put to the expense of marking out areas on
private property.
* * # *
At Mt. David (N.S.W.), “excellent stone” is
being stoped below the 300 ft. level, north-west drive, and
south-east the stone is “ 3ft. thick, and of high-grade
quality'.” Why be so definite about the size of the reef?
Wouldn’t “ enormous” do—just to keep the “ excellent”
and the “high-grade” company? It was announced a
week previously that samples had been sent to Sydney.
Did the assayer just report them “excellent” and
“high-grade”? Same mine reports, later, 400 tons for
1670 z., with sdwt. in the tailings.
The W.A. gold yield for August is 156,9100 z.,
which compares with 174,681 oz. for August, 1905, and
168,4320 z. for August, 1904. The total for the first eight
months of the year is 1,211,6330 z., against 1,306,0560 z. for
the same period of 1905, and 1,313,7660 z. for 1904. The
shortage, as compared with 1905, is therefore 94,4230 z.,
and, with 1904, is 102,1330 z., a very' serious falling off. So
far as one can see the decline is likely to continue, and
the final deficit is likely to be very nearly 150,0000 z.
W. J. Loring, head of Bewick, Moreing and
Co. in Australia, has, after six months spent in Mel-
bourne, done a tour of the W.A. mines, and says he is
quite satisfied with their position and prospects. The
grade of ore treated, and to be treated, is lower, but so
many economies have been introduced that profits can
be maintained for a long time to come, though, in most
cases, at a lower level. According to Loring', who is
admittedly' the pioneer of cheap mining in W.A., the
Oroya-Brown Hill is looking better than ever in its
history, in spite of the tons of gold it has produced. In
July last year the value of the ore was 117 s. 4d. per ton,
and the year’s profit £39,200; in July of this year the
year’s profit was £39,180, or practically the same,
although the grade of ore had fallen from 117 s. 4d. to
98s. 9d., or by 18s. 7d. per ton. The average grade of ore in
the chief mines dealt in on the market has fallen, during
the past twelve months, from 12dwt. to lOdwt. per ton,
and, so far as one can see, the grade will be still lower:
but the quantity of reserves is being largely increased by
the inclusion of ore which was discarded as worthless in
the days of Johnnie managers and antediluvian treat-
ment plants.
* * • *
Ivanhoe, Kalgoorlie, is opening out satisfac-
torily at 1373 ft. For a long time this level looked like a
duffer, and a lot of drivmgwas done in barren country.
Diamond drilling then showed that the real ore channel
was 60ft. east, and since then 350 ft. of driving has been
done in pay ore. The face of the south drive is worth
455., but the drive shows only 16s. ore, the country being
disturbed. Comparing July, 1905, with July, 1906, the
grade of ore has only dropped from 525. sd. to 50s. 4d.,
and the monthly profit from £23,500 to £21,000. Mining
costs (including everything, even div.-tax) come out at
about 265. per ton, which shows what can be done with
economical management.
* * * *
Kalgoorlie Amalgamated is to be reconstructed
in 600,000 shares of 2s. The co. includes in its belongings
a litter of wildcats. Holders of scrip in old co. are asked
to put up 2s. per share, and get share for share now held,
as well as a bonus of one share for every two shares
applied for. This means 4s. for three shares, or Is. 4d.
per share. This is anything but a tempting proposition ;
people with tenners to put into a gamble could get things
more quick and lively, such as Whitford’s Reward, which
has some possibilities. Money sunk in Amalgamated
will not be realisable—judging by the fact that for years
past the old scrip has not been negotiable.
■X i r * *
Boulder Main Reef, Kalgoorlie, is likely to
resume crushing in October. Since Manager Wauchope
took charge the mine has been re-sampled, and work
systematised. The treatment plant is being overhauled
and brought up to date, and is expected to treat 2000
tons monthly at a much reduced cost. Formerly the
plant treated 1500 tons monthly and the expenses were
more than the mine could stand. Ore reserves, on July 1,
were estimated at 20,000 tons, worth 345., or enough to
keep the mill going for ten months. Wauchope showed
his capacity for discovering gold when working the
alleged played-out Lady Shenton on tribute, as he rooted
out a lot of pay ore, which had been missed. Under his
management the Main Reef should give a fair account of
itself.
• * * *
Idaho, Kalgoorlie, situated east of Boulder
Deep Levels, has treated 37 tons for 380 oz. Total from
the mine, 22720 z. from 470 tons. Property is held by four
working miners, who pick out the stone from cross
leaders, which intersect the main lode, and are very
rich. At 130 ft. the main lode is 15ft. wide, and worth
6dwt. to Bdwt. ; and though it is of no value to pros-
pectors, some day it may be taken in hand by a co., and
worked on the big scale it deserves.
* * * *
Oroya-Black Range (W.A.) is doing very little
development work at present, owing, it is said, to the
reef pinching to 4in. only at the deepest point cut. At
110 ft. about 1000 ft. has been driven on ore ranging from
2£ft. to 7ft. in width, and worth about 80s. A good deal
of prospecting has also been done at 175 ft. Down to this
depth the underlay of the reef is about two co one, but
it seems to have become still flatter with depth. At
175 ft. the reef is 100 ft. west of the shaft, but came into
the shaft at 205 ft., so it had flattened to about three to one.
When the co. was floated, shareholders were told that
the co. would have the reef to a vertical depth of
2000 ft. ; but this flattening of the dip will materially alter
this. The deep levels are being floated in Sydney as the
Sandstone Development Go., in 250,000 ss. shares. It is
an open question whether the deeper development of the
Oroya-Black Range has been suspended because of the
pinching, or because of the flattening, of the reef. If the
pinch is permanent, the deep levels are worthless. If
merely temporary, and the flattening is permanent, then
the Oroya will lose the reef in any case, and the Sydney
co. will get it.
* * * *
Great Fingall, Day Dawn (W.A.), has been
looking rather better of late. The winze sunk at 580 ft.
north in the north drive at No. 12 level, showed the lode
to be improving in depth. At 200 ft. the ore was 72in.
wide and worth 565. per ton. This depth corresponds
with the thirteenth level. In driving south to connect
with the main drive from the shaft, the lode is 60in. wide,
worth 325. 6d. per ton. The north drive from the bottom
of the winze is in ore 64in. wide, worth 38s. per ton.
These values are not gaudy; but, then, the first 200 ft.
driven north from the shaft did not exceed Bs. per ton,
which caused the recent deep depression in the scrip.
Mine’s costs are now only about 225. per ton, so pretty
low grade ore pays.
* ■* * *
Underwood, who succeeded Isdell as member
for Pilbarra goldfields in Westralian Assembly, was, until
his election, a working miner, and had the good luck to
get an interest in the Castlemaine—a remarkably rich,
but patchy, show near Nullagine. Three tons gave 9000 z.,
but the ore is limited. The biggest nuggets found ■ in
Westralia have come from this Pilbarra district. One
piece, found by Archie Clyde, weighed 4750 z., and, on the
strength of his rise, he went away for a spell. In his
absence another old battler unearthed 4000 z., and when
Clyde returned he started work in the same locality.
Four or five days afterwards he dropped on 1300 z., and
subsequently got several smaller pieces. The name of
Pantomime Gully was given to an alluvial patch in which
a 500 oz. nugget was rooted up —the prospectors who
found it had such a high time that the camp was turned
upside down for a month. Good finds of gold and copper
have now been reported at Roebourne, on the coastal
fringe of the Pilbarra fields. The copper deposits were
worked years ago, but only exceptionally rich ore was
taken. Systematic prospecting has been going on re-
cently, and several well-defined lodes have been located.
A big conglomerate body, 20ft. wide, carrying in places
over 2oz. gold, has also been found in the Roebourne dis-
trict by R. B. Pettigrew, who was sent up from Kalgoorlie
to see what the place was like.
* * » *
Cumberland, Norseman (W. A.), appears to be
in a precarious condition, judging by the latest progress
report; the reef in the bottom level is of no value what-
ever. In no other part is anything better than 7dwt. ore
exposed, and values range down to Idwt. As no pay ore
is being developed, the future does not appear hopeful.
On January 1 ore reserves were given as 11,300 tons,
worth 85s/per ton, or say about 18 months’ supply.
During July 694 tons, worth 745, per ton, were treated at
a cost of 645., leaving a profit of 10s. per ton only. It is
interesting to note that the 232 ft. of development in
worthless ore cost 725. 2d. per foot, while upkeep of plant
cost £356, or 10s. 2d. per ton treated, as against 10s. lOd.
for milling and cyaniding. This does not appear to be a
very satisfactory state of affairs, and requires looking
into.
* * * *
Another Westralian wild cat got loose the other
dayatWagin, on the Perth-Albany line. Specimens of
phenomenal richness were shown, but the Government
Geologist unhesitatingly declared that there was no
stone like them within a hundred miles of Wagin. There
was a big reef, but traces of gold were few. Notwith-
standing this report somebody had the gall to publish in
a Kalgoorlie paper that four parcels of stone from Wagin
were assayed by the School of Mines, and that the
results were Surface, full width of reef, 9dwt. per
ton ; a few feet under, 15dwt. ; 10ft., the deepest, loz.
15dwt. 7gr. ; lode matter, 3dwt. The director of the
school promptly contradicted the statement and added
“ The only Wagin samples assayed and reported upon by
the Kalgoorlie School of Mines were on August 16, as
follows :—No. 1, lOgr. per ton ; No. 2,15 gr. per ton ; No.
3,12 gr. per ton ; No. 4, lOgr. per ton.” And so the cat
died.
• • * i
The A.M. A. of Victoria has been investigating
the conditions of the contractor underground in the
mines of Bendigo and Ballarat. And it was time. Ben-
digo is one of the most flourishing mining fields in the
Commonwealth, but some of its directors remind one of
Quilp. Else why should they begrudge the tributor (or
contractor) half pay for dead work ? Why should there be
any objection to giving a copy of the contract and making
it binding for 12 months ? Why should there be objection
to an appeal to an impartial tribunal in case of dispute ?
Grabbing gold in the concentrates, also copper-plate gold,
is not unusual, though such gold comes directly
from stone broken under tribute agreement. In
Ballarat the system is still worse, the poorness of the
field helping the sweater. Here is a case : Men were paid
only ss. a foot for driving a main level, which was worth
£2 ss. per foot; 4s. lid. per ton was deducted for cartage,
and then out of the residuum half was taken as royalty.
In some cases tributors have to take an inferior explosive,
and that at a price above the retail price. Why? Ask
the directors. There is a howl when a miner pockets
a specimen ; and nobody is saying there shouldn’t be.
But"what about this? “Men are working at starvation
rates, and through force of circumstances, are little short
of slaves,” miners’ committee says. In the Transvaal
the Randlords have at least to give niggers and yellow
Johns good food, clean quarters, and regular pay. In
Victoria the contracting system is so worked that
cases have occurred where miners have had only 4s.
to divide among eight men for a week’s work.
The most liberal owner buttons up if 30s. per week per
man is earned. Is that enough to pay rent and keep a
family on ? Better that the mines should be shut up than
that destitution of the sort should continue. Minister
McLeod’s hatchet only lopped off a branch when he
tackled the lease owner who lets his claim on tribute to a
co. He wants to smash up the tributing cos. which now
play the part of the sweater. And there is a long list of
them in Victoria.
• * * •
Forest Creek Gold Reefs, of Castlemaine (Vic.),
has partially closed, after a long struggle against adverse
fortune. Year 1905 saw such a change in its returns that
it looked as if co. might give the lie to recent quartz
mining results at Castlemaine. Claim since then has
joined the great majority of duffers that represent the deep
mining industry of that district. In 1904 the co.’s gold
was worth £14,138, and last year it about reached £20,000.
This little run of good fortune was applied to reducing
the debenture debt. Mine is on the Quartz Hill line,
which has cost local folk a few odd shillings at different
times. The formations are big, but the gold is low.
Much of the quartz is as white as snow, and would be sent
by most to the mullock tip. It, however, carries odd
splashes of gold, and so everything has to be crushed.
Co. has treated between 40,000 and 50,000 tons, averaging
about 4Adwt. This shows how close to the margin the
manager has had to go. Claim is now to be handed over
to the tributor ; and good luck to him ! Francis Ormond,
another of the district’s mines, has put through about
40,000 tons for under 90000 z., but it has paid a div. or
two, while the Forest Reefs has never reached that
dignity.
* * * *
Lyell Blocks (Tas.) directors recently got their
fees doubled. It was a sort of final peck. Out of the
300,000 shares in the co., probably only one-twentieth are
now owned in Australia. The Board, therefore, is only
making the most of its opportunity by getting as much
as it can before some Bull agitator moves for the transfer
of the whole concern to London. Two causes helped to
lift Lyell Blocks shares out of the mire. One was the
advance in the price of metals, the other the advent of a
smart miner named Ferguson, who was able to realise the
mistakes of his predecessors, and take full advantage of the
dead work done by them. Even these factors would never
have given the stock a value like it has reached had not
a London “ bucket-shop ” floated out the shares on a Bull
market. How little the mine can do with its low-grade
clays is proved by the dividend list, only 3d. having come
after the years of waiting since W. R. Wilson took the
claim in hand; and what Australians think of the
market is illustrated by their wholesale quittance
of scrip. Floods almost brought disaster to the
mine during the past winter, and now there js
something worse—a shortage in ore. On December 31
lastco. had 90,000 tons in sight; to-day that total has
dwindled down to 40,000 tons. With production going
on at the rate of 6000 tons a month, there is nothing like
the value of the co.’s shares in sight. The co. has got
into this plight through the failure of exploratory work
to open up a fair-sized body of copper bearing clays off
the Consols Tunnel.
* * * *
At G.vmpie (Q.) during August 18,284 tons were
crushed for 96530 z. Dividends amounted to £4BOO, and
calls £3498. Compared with same month of last year,
returns show a falling off all round. Chief producers
were: Scottish Gympie, 8250 tons for 39190 z. ; No. 2S.
Great Eastern, 5230 tons for 1806 oz. (or 6dwt. 21 gr. per
ton); 1 N. Oriental and Glanmire, 604 tons for 6740 z. ;
South Glanmire andMonkland, 1352 tons f0r5460z. (about
Bdwt. per ton) ; 1 North Smithfield, 241 tons for 3590 z. ;
1 S. Oriental and Glanmire, 740 tons for 3030 z. The only
dividends paid were by No. 2 S. Great Eastern (6d.) and
1 N. Oriental and Glanmire (3d.).
* * * *
Gympie’s Two-mile venture has been floated,
mostly in Sydney; so that unprospected end of the field
will get a trial at last. The new co.’s funds are small;
but if the same energy that has been put into the raising
of the money is put into the work of sinking, a little will
go a long way. And, in view of the possibility of opening
up practically a new field, the Government seems dis-
posed to help. Gympie certainly is in almost desperate
need of a lift. S. Great Eastern No. 2, which ran up to
£4 10s. in its specimen days, year before last, stands
unsteadily at about Its., while the co., like a good many
others at Gympie, waits for its neighbors to do the neces-
sary prospecting. *
Smith’s Creek (N.Q.) tin shareholders have
faith in Captain Warren, who is sticking to the tough
job of pulling the concern out of the mud, and so put up
more money to buy machinery. The ore from the lower
levels, down to 300 ft., is sulphide, and not oxide of tin,
as the report sometimes said it was ; and that is the
reason for the Merton furnace to roasfthe ore, and addi-
tional machinery to concentrate it. Another lode was
discovered about 600 ft. from the original mine, and a
trial crushing has been put through the mill. Smith’s
Creek lodes are poor, and it is a struggle to make them
pay ; but it is not every tin lode that carries such a big
body of ore down to 300 ft. This co. should be able to
secure an option over some of the big low-grade proposi-
tions in the neighborhood. Things are slack in the dis-
trict from a labor point of view ; the dry season partly
accounts for that.
» * * *
The battery at Reid’s Creek (N.Q.) is being put
up by the Irvinebank Co., whose chief is John Moffatt.
The crowd that can float tin mines and then put up a
plant to crush the ore, is doing good business. There is
no danger of the mill being short of ore; J. Moffatt and
the Irvinebank crowd own the Adelaide mine, south of
Dalziell’s, which could keep it going. The Adelaide
has a wide and continuous run of low-grade ore over "
300 ft. long. Another mine to the north of Dalziell’s (the
Village Blacksmith) has a shaft down 100 ft. on a strong
and payable tin lode. The field has a permanent look ;
the market is the unknown quantity.
* * * *
Charters Towers market, which has been life-
less for 18 months, shows signs of moving. Brilliant
Central and East Mexican have benefited most so far.
There have been no mine developments of any conse-
quence ; in fact. East Mexicans moved along solely on
the decision of the directors to put in a crosscut at 600 ft.
to meet Mills’ United reef. The mine-gambling fever has,
however, bitten Australia again ; and the Towers is
making' its claim to a share of the plunder. •
* * * * ■
The New Era, near Watsonville (N.Q.), is the
lowest-grade payable tin mine in Australia. In five
months, crushing stuff averaging only '64 per cent, black
tin, or about '45 per cent, white metal, a profit of £llOO
has been made out of 4SOO tons. The venture began on a
capital of £1250, but the profit has all been put back into
plant. The mine is mostly owned by the men who are at
work on it. The little syndicate is now tackling the old
Baker mine, worked with very good results 20 years ago.
* * * *
“Quidam”: The world is suffering from a
scarcity of aluminium, in spite of the fact that the metal,
in its raw state, is in every clay bed. The Pittsburg
Reduction Co., which controls the manufacture in
America, has placed all it can turn out for the season,
and is behind in deliveries. As aluminium is taking the
place of other metals for many industrial purposes, people
behind the proposed Barron Falls (Q.) electric smelters
might do worse than think over the local possibilities of
aluminium smelting.
* * * *
Stevens’ “Copper Handbook” gives a list of
big mines ; six of the largest—the Boston and Montana,
Anaconda, Rio Tinto, Calumet and Hecla, Green’s
(Mexico), and the Copper Queen —unitedly produce
200,000 tons of copper per annum. Anaconda concen-
trates enormous quantities of low-grade ore to produce
40,000 tons of copper per annum. Average yearly
increase of the world’s copper is 42,000 tons, which is
about as much as the Boston-Montan a can produce.
Copper production, at present rate of increase, would
about double itself in 15 years ; but some of the big mines
which are forcing production will be played out long
before then. The most interesting thing is the decline in
the value of ore handled by nearly all big copper mines ;
it shows there is a strain on ore reserves to produce so
much copper. Save under exceptional circumstances,
the decrease in the value of the ore means a higher cost
of producing copper.. .
* * # •
This sort of thing awaits Australia when it
builds the through railway and tackles the Northern
Territory ih earhest' (the'quotation is from the official
report of the recent State geological expedition) “ Daly
mine : Mr. S. Brown represents the owners. About 4500
tons of ore have been sent away; the first 2000 tons
averaged 28} per cent. The open cut is 230 ft. long, with
a general depth of 40ft. and width of 15ft. Practically
nothing has been done for the last 11 years except rooting
over the ore dumps,”
* •* * •
That regrettable result of imported industry,
the convict ship Success, is still pervading the fringe of
the Cold Country and justifying its name in its old age.
At the annual meeting of shareholders in Melbourne,
lately, the directors reported that the blessed vessel was
camping around Bristol, Cardiff and the villages adjacent,
and that the inhabitants were still parting up freely to
gape open-mouthed at the horrors of the “System.”
Last year the sum of £439 had been spent in docking and
outside repairs—nothing was said about inside repairs, or
whether any new thumbscrews or triangles had been
added. A dividend of Is. per share, absorbing £5OO, was
declared.
* * * *
Representatives of the Marconi Wireless Tele-
graph Co., of Canada, are just now pervading the Com-
monwealth, placing a number of shares—capital,
£1,000,000, shares to be fully paid upon application.
The co. has got a practical monopoly of Britain’s future
wireless business without any consideration ; it has also
exclusive traffic arrangements with the Canadian Govern-
ment, the Western Union, and C.-P. systems. It owns all
patents issued or hereafter to be issued in Canada to
Marconi. Its methods are much those of the Eastern
Extension Co., so the spectacle may presently be wit-
nessed of a large, voracious young shark swallowing an
equally voracious, but debilitated, old shark. The Mar-
coni Co. says it can put up and fit a station complete for
£3OO, and after that the only expense is the maintenance
of the building and machines and the operators’ wages.
It promises to send messages across the Atlantic next
November for the general public at 6d. a word—about a
quarter of the present cost. But it is only three years
since its system was worked up to practicability ; the
next ten years may see it superseded by something even
more simple and sudden.
The Aerial Tramways now being erected at the
British and Central Mines at Broken Hill on the Bleichert
system, will enable mine managers of Australia to learn
the saving- in transport charges of ore from mine to mill,
or mill to railway with concentrates. Many mines pay
from Is. 6d. upwards for horse and dray, whereas they
could do the same work at about one penny per ton by
means of a proper Automatic Ropeway. W. and J.
Lempriere, of 506 Little Collins-street, Melbourne, are the
Agents for A. Bleichert & Co., of 76 Cheapside, London.*
* * * *
The introduction into the Broken Hill and
Western Australian Mines of a small hand rock-drill for
boring “ pops ” to break up large blocks of ore, cutting
“ hitches ” for timber, and squaring up shafts and levels,
has quite revolutionised the old method of working with
hammers and gad. The best machine for this work is the
“ Shaw ” Hand Rock Drill and is manufactured by the
Austral Otis Engineering Company, Ltd., Melbourne,
who are the sole agents. The machine weighs only 161bs.
and has only one working part—the hammer—-which
serves the purpose also of a valve. One man with this
machine can easily do as much work as four men with
hammer and drill. In some of the hardest lodes in the
Boulder these machines bore over lin. a minute, and in
softer country as much as 2£in. per minute. Unlike other
types, the operator does not experience any excessive
vibration due to the recoil of the hammer. The working
pressure is 801bs. per square inch and the machine uses
about 25 cubic feet of free air per minute. Ten of the
biggest mines in West Australia are now using the Shaw
Hand Rock drills. Fullest particulars may be obtained
from the Company’s offices in South Melbourne, where
the machine may be seen working.* [c]
The immense interest felt in wireless telegraphy
by a community thirsting for information—and good
investments —was shown by the fact that eager crowds
failed to gain admission to hear Mr. H. G. Robinson’s
eloquent and lucid description of the great discovery at
Glen’s Hall, Melbourne, last week. Mr. H. G. Robinson,
who gave three free lectures in Melbourne, and is now in
Sydney, is specially representing Munroe and Munroe, of
New York, agents for the Marconi underwriters of
America. A block of shares in the Marconi Co. offered in
Melbourne, was speedily over-subscribed.*
The Daily Mail (Brisbane) of 1st June, 1905,
wrote :—“ The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
Limited, held its annual meeting in Melbourne yesterday,
and on that occasion a most satisfactory report was pre-
sented. The society may be regarded as in a highly
prosperous condition.”*
* * * *
Co BAR. —For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Auriferous Sands and Cement.—Advertiser
is prepared to successfully treat same by a new process.
Send samples to Findlay, 19 Macquarie Place, Sydney.*
+ * * •
B. H. Pascoe, stock and share broker, member
of the Stock Exchange of 311 Collins-street,
Melbourne.*
* * * •
Connolly, Keam and Co., 123 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
or flotation. Must stand close expert investigation.*
* * * *
“Geo. E. Dickenson, 60 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, Manager and Trustee is prepared to consider
offers, sale or purchase of approved Mining properties
under working option or cash purchase.”
* * » *
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont dePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting streng th, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, wdiere the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigez-ators, bolts, nuts,
and everv discrintion of cast or wrought iron work.*
* * * •
Golden Bendigo.— The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
-***<*
The enterprising engineering firm It. Hornsby
and Sons, Ltd., Grantham, England, world renowned
manufacturers of the “Hornsby” Patent Safety Oil
Engine, the latest adaption of which is their Traction
Engine, have entered the Gas Engine arena and are now
making the Hornsby-Stockport Gas Engine and Suction
Gas Plant. The latter we learn will develop upwards of
10 brake horse power at the cost of Id. per hour. The
minimum cost and attention required should prove a great
inducement to users of motive power to instal this type
of plant. The Australasian addresses of the above firm
are: Sussex-street, Sydney and Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne.*
• * • •
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Commission business only. Agents every-
where.*
* . * * *
The Zinc Corporation has taken careful advice
in connection with the large plant required at Broken
Hill, and has ordered Babcock and Wilcox water-tube
boilers with superheaters and mechanical stokers. This
order' has been followed by the great firm of mining
engineers, Messrs. Bewick, Moreing and Co., placing
orders with the same boiler company, in connection with
the South Blocks, also at the Hill. These instances
further prove the assertion that, wherever economy in
fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed: This company stock boilers at “ Haymarket.”
Sydney.*
• * •
Charters Towers.—Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
ion on the field.*
* • * *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
Collison and Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*


There is nothing better for killing all
infectious disease germs than Little’s Soluble
Phenyle. Try it in your bath ; use it generally
throughout the household if you want comfort. No
vermin can live where it is used. It has 100
different uses. Ask your grocer for a bottle.*
ANGLERS
Send
for our
FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE.
It will please you.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
409 and 411 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
XLesch’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
David kStorer (SL sons’
Tattoo Oil
[Registered Trade Mark]
IS THE ONLY ABSOLUTELY ....
In Three Colors:
BLACK, RED,
(EL BLUE.
Kept by ...
ALL MERCHANTS
<Sb STOREKEEPERS.
SAFE WOOL-MARKING OR
SHEEP BRANDING OIL
f
THE- PERFECT
SHEEP-MARKER.
Aboriginalities.
‘ Hie Prooshan ” : The generality of bush
dwellings are built on blocks. These piles run
from three feet in front, back to nothing, or flush
with the ground. The space between the floor
and earth remains a gaping void till father gets
those “slabs down from the mill,” and that’s a
deuce of a time. The rowdiest camp a man can
reasonably expect to find is in such a house on a
wet wintry night when lien, the black farrow pig,
Sandy, another of the same persuasion, and old
Gip, the black sow, crowd in under the house for
a dry camp. As soon as Sandy and the sow are
cosy, old lien walks over the sow and “scrooges”
down in the middle, for centralization means
warmth. There is an awful grunting and roaring
and angry protest for about 50 seconds. Then
conies silence, till one of the outsiders, feeling it
chilly, does the climb and scrooge into the middle,
and there arises on the stilly night a wild “O-
ware-aare-aare,” and much sub-floor chaos. Then
Ben says “ lie can’t sleep,” and starts rubbing
against one of the piles; and, later, the fleas
charge up through the cracks in the floor with
fixed bayonets, and give you a lively time. It is
on such nights that a man swears off eating pig,
pork, ham, or any of the progeny of the hog.
* * « *
“ Nero ” : A great deal has been written
of late in the metropolitan papers eulogising the
magnanimity and large-heartedness of “West
o’Darling” people, but, for down-right, low-down,
contemptible meanness, commend me to some of
the station-holders out there. Boundary-riders, or
at least “pannikin overseers” (who are a size
larger and a shilling cheaper than the genuine
article), are now supplied with strychnine, to
destroy dingoes in their spare time and as a
recreation on Sundays. The dogs so destroyed
must be skinned by the boundary-rider, and the
skin delivered to the head-station without delay.
The boss of the station hands the skin in to the
Stock Board for the district, and receives 10s. for
it. The boundary-rider gets nothing for his work,
but he sometimes gets the sack when he is sus-
pected of being too tired to skin a dingo, whereby
the boss has dark suspicions that he lias lost 10s.
RECKLESS
OLD LADY (seeing crowd chasing awelsher): “I
suppose that must be that Judkins what the
gamblers is chasing, Ain’t he mad to come
right out ’ere among ’em, and 'with that
flaring red coat on, too?"
“Veritas ” : For three or four years I was
an eye-and-ear witness of much of the prison life
on Norfolk Island during the regime of John
Price. It is quite an erroneous idea that only
the worst types of criminals were sent there. My
father (one of the two doctors in charge at the
time) had in his employ a man called John. John
had no legs, both having been amputated just
above the knees (had broken them. I have heard
him say, by jumping from an omnibus, or some-
thing of the sort, in an attempt to escape justice).
Justice overtook him, promptly cut off both legs,
and sent what was left of him to the Island. He
was an amazingly chirpy specimen of misfortune,
with a queer stock-in-trade of talents, was a first-
class “laundress,” could make dresses, stitch
shirt-fronts, had a fondness for verse, and last, but
not least, could ride at full gallop. It was ludi-
crously pathetic to see him hobbling about the
house on the two poor stumps that served him
as carriers. He was a highly-esteemed little
“citizen,” being even somewhat of a favorite
with the other John. I never heard of him
having been in irons, nor of making any
further attempt to escape justice by bolting. He
died, I think, in Hobart.
AN ULTIMATUM.
IMPASSIONED MOTORIST :
“ Muriel, if you refuse
to love me I swear to do
something rash and desperate.”
Some time ago there was a “ Socialist
Ball ”at Catherine Hill Bay (N.S. W .)• A couple
of nights after some one asked Bullocky Bill, who
was M.C., “ Why Socialist ? ” “ Well,” said Bill,
“ it’s this way. These fellows down at the
Bay, as have graft, find the brass for the
hall, tucker, and music ; and us fellows, as are
out of work, go down on their invite, and have
the——fun free, gratis, and for nothin’. That’s
a Socialist ball.”
* * * «
The Squeaker met Johnny Dunnomutch,
th’uther day. He said : “Jus’ come back from
Sydney, fiorsekick me, but I had a good time.
The girls uster all say ‘ Good night ’ ter me when
I was goin’ back to me pub up King-street ev a
night. Went to the mooseem a good bit. Wot
took me fancy there was the weighing machines.
Yer had to pass thro’ them goin’ in an’ cornin’ out.
There was notices up ‘Way in’ and ‘Way out.’
I arst the bloke once wot I weighed, but be only
larfed. They can tell that way whether you’ve
pinched any ev the coorios. Cos you’d weigh a
bit extry when yer cornin’ out. Them blokes is
clever.”
* * * *
Num A few months ago I was travel-
ling through Wyoming (U.S.A.) on the back
track to Australia. At Cheyenne a cow-boy
entered. He was the real thing—wearing spurs
six inches long, and carrying more armament
than the whole Commonwealth forces. While I
was wondering whether I ought to call him
“ pard,” he caught sight of The Bulletin I had
dropped on the seat. “ Say,” he remarked, in a
dialect that seemed strangely familiar, “If yer
done with that Bulletin, I’d be glad if ye’d let’s
have a look at it.” Astonished, at his request, I
asked “ Have you ever seen the paper before ? ”
Deadwood Dick laughed. “Took it fur years
when I was home,” he said. “I’m from Benalla,
on the north-eastern line, in Victoria. Ha’ yer
ever bin there ? ” Then we talked. I firmly
1 dieve that when they discover the North Pole
some Australian will glance round the corner of
an iceberg, and ask who won the Squires-O’Brien
light.
* * * *
“ Quidam ” : In view of the way in which
the fur supply of the world is being cut out, and
the ever advancing price of furs, also considering
the plentiful supply of eucalyptus leaf diet lying
around everywhere, and the fact that the ’p Citium
is an animal that gets along very well in captivity,
there might be worse things in the future than
running a ’possum-farm. Some of the elevated
portions of south-eastern Australia, where nothing
grows so luxuriously as gum-leaves, would be
elegant places to develop fine furs at a minimum
cost.
* * * *
“ J.L.C.” : We went with the newchum
to the pub ; the question of shouting was dis-
cussed, and someone suggested drawing from the
hat to settle the shout. The barman numbered
seven tickets, which were folded, placed in the
hat, and gravely shaken. We all drew in turn,
grinned complacently, and tore up our tickets.
The newchum drew—blissfully unconscious that
the tickets had all been numbered 7 by the un-
scrupulous barman—and shouted. The newchum
grew suspicious as the township became benignly
hilarious at his expense, and finally insisted on
numbering the tickets himself. He numbered
them from 1 to 7, and the Fates were facetious —
he drew 7 again.
“ Kar,” from India :—-
Have just seen a full-length photo, of the late Lady
Curzon iri her famous peacock-feather gown. This
recalls the native (and, to some extent, European) super-
stition that peacock-feathers are very unlucky. Lady
Curzon, at all events, had one affliction after another
after, she wore it. Father’s death, aunt’s death, hus-
band’s illness, her own, husband’s resignation of the Vice-
royalty, the vicious attacks upon him by the scurrilous
native press, and, finally, her own untimely end. All
this will greatly strengthen the silly superstition.
* ■* * *■
“ F.H.R.” : The bushman who follows up
dancing needs to be versatile. In no two corners
of this continent do they “darnce” the “shot-
teese,” “ varsoove,” or even the “fust set” the
same way. A veteran generally stands
off for a dance or two, to note the
predominating styles before “buck-
ing in. ” In some places you grasp
the maiden round the waist with
the right arm, while the left
hand, clutching firmly her
“lump er meat” (hand) is
drawn back to your hip. In
other places you are allowed
to throw both arms round her
neck, but you mustn’t do that
to an engaged girl or you’ll
find her an enraged girl. Also,
her “man” may be on hand,
looking for gore. Was at a
country dance once where the
chief attraction was the raffling
of a fat pig. The pig was in a
sty, amongst some thick scrub,
50 yards from the house, and
the number of couples that
didn’t visit that pig was small.
He must have come in for a
good deal of criticism, too, for
some of them lost a lot of
dancing while on the inspec-
tion. I was up in a “ fust set,”
and, noticing that the other
gentlemen didn’t bother to take
their arms from round their part-
ners’ waists between figures, I
tried it myself successfully. Was
getting on fine, and was just about
to suggest a visit of inspection to that
pig, when a burly, unshaven, scowling
face peered through the door of a bed-
room and drew my attention. “Who’s
that?” I asked. “That’s the boss,” she
whispered, “my husband.” You’ve seen the
arm of a railway signal drop sharp and sudden—
well, that’s how mine dropped. Something in his
face reminded me of private sec. Wallington.
Better not, it said, and I didn’t get a look at that
Pig-
• • • #
“Jimmie P.” : Between Binda (in-back
from Crook well, which is behind Goulburn) and
Bigga there are, just now, millions of wattles in
full bloom. I never saw such a magnificent dis-
play of wattle-gold. It would pay lovers of
Australian bush beauty to drive from Crookwell
to Bigga. Many Australians do not even faintly
realise what an exquisitely beautiful flowering
tree the black wattle is. If it were an imported
article, they’d rave about it and pay a big price for
saplings.
“ Benicia ” : Re a close season for wild-
bees (“D.H.R.,” 9/8/’O6), such certainly isn’t
needed in Maoriland. Wild honey over here is-
very much a gamble. The insect has a habit of
extracting, from poisonous native flowers, a honey
which, though harmless to the bee, is a pretty
strong proposition for anything on two legs to-
tackle. It gives you a creepy, crawly, want-to-
get-off-the-earth sort of feeling, accompanied by
violent retching, and if the honey happens to be-
over-proof there’s a funeral in about three days.
Any nests in the neighborhood of poisonous
flowers are as secure from Maori depredation as if
they were tapu.
* * * •*
“The Snag”: The climatic conditions of
the N.S.W. interior seem to be undergoing a
change. At White Cliffs (N.S.W.) on Wednesday
(29/8/’O6) snow fell over an area of 100 miles square.
That usually arid district is now a paradise of
green, variegated in places by carpets of wild
flowers acres in extent.
*•»•»*
“L.E.”: I wish to nominate a certain
Vic. squatter for the mean-man championship. A
new rouser was feeding the pigs. The squatter
was looking on. One hog made off with the tin,
and in its hurry got its head stuck. As it dashed)
wildly round the scenery, with the rouser in pur-
suit, the squatter laughed till ho was all creases.
Noting the boss in this glad mood, the rouser
started to laugh, too, to make himself good. The
creases were straightened out suddenly. Fat
sacked that rouser on the spot. “ What right
have you to laugh,” he screamed, “in my time?”
* * * •
“ Quan ” : Love of bright colors is a re-
cognised characteristic of our black brothers.
Brunettes also exhibit this trait, but in none is it
so pronounced as in the Hindu, who is a truly
gorgeous creature. Recently, at Murwillumbah
(N.S.W.), I saw one who must have got the
notion into his head that he was a rainbow. His
t.urban was dark green, and was tipped with a
light green tassel. His neck was encircled by two
handkerchiefs of. blue and pink respectively. He
wore a football guernsey of alternate red and
black two-inch stripes, and beneath it a navy-blue
sweater, the tail of which showed below the tail
of the guernsey. Round his wrist he wore a
bracelet of small tassels of the kind used in fring-
ing bamboo suites. His coat was of a fawn color,
and his boots were tan. The only gloomy spot
upon this bird of Paradise was his pants, which
matched his complexion.
* * * *
“ Vigilans ” : The Northern Territory is a
great field for ornithologists. Amongst the many
beautiful birds is a miniature kookaburra. His
hilarious nibs is a fac-simile of the jackass of the
South, except that he has a finer plumage. His
habits are similar; he is the last to go to loost,
and the first to rise. He laughs in a minor key,
and is about half the size of the southern bird.
His home is on the rivers and lagoons, and he
apparently lives on fish. I camped with a noted
bird-catcher, a Frenchman who had been 20 years
in the North, except for sundry trips to Europe.
A man of 65 years ; £2OOO in the bank, with pro-
perty besides; nearly blind, and filthily dirty.
Ho makes trips solus with an old cart, two wrecks
of horses, and a mongrel of a dog. between
Palmerston and Wyndham, and from Wyndham
to Derby and Broome (W.A.).
DEPARTED.
TOM : “ Whatsh raizsh y' 'at for, Bill? ”
BILL : “ Show me respeetsh for departed.”
“Groper”: Let me defend “Wurrym”
against “Pylock.” “Wurrym” may not have
seen the well be wrote about, but I have. It is
35 miles east of Wagin, and it is on a granite rock
on the side of a hill. It flows regularly all night.
The water, which has been conserved somewhere
behind the rock, oozes through a crack. In the
daytime the heat expands the granite, and the
crack closes, gradually opening again as the
atmosphere cools off at night. That is why the
flow is greatest just before daybreak.
UNDER THE PINES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Under the pines, whose crests are tossing'
In coy disdain of the wooing breeze ;
Watching the western sunbeams glossing
With sunset glory the sombre trees.
High above are soft white clouds sailing
Over the infinite heaven’s blue,
While in the woods the winds are wailing
Old-world tunes as they wander through.
Strange soul-songs are those breezes singing—
Low, rippling laughter and long-drawn sigh—
Youthful yearnings, and fancies bringing
Out of their tombs in the time gone by.
See ! from yon bough the sere leaf falling—
Emblem this of the springtime fled—
Scenes and songs of life’s spring recalling,
Dreams half forgotten, and loves long dead.
Hope may paint in a rosy color
Pair visions for hearts with care o’ereast,
Hut fainter her pictures, aye, and duller
Than mem’ry’s hues of a cherished past.
n.s.w., 1901.
THE BEEAKER.


Wolfe’s Schnapps.
A PURE & WHOLESOME SPIRIT.
Buy Whole Bottles. 'Vt
Small boy,—little pool,
Oh joy,—no school,
Feet wet, —bad cold,
Home get,—mother scold.
Boy sick, —nearly dead,
Cure quick, doctor said,
Tton’t wait, but secure
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
Eleven
Reasons
Why we sell
so many Rings.
dsf
Perfect Diamonds, £3O.
Sapphire and Diamonds, £l6 16s.
1. We are the actual makers.
2. We make them in our own work-
shops.
3. We buy the gems in the rough.
4. We cut the gems.
5. We save all the intermediate
profits.
6. We are ring-setters.
ring's.
8. We are gem experts.
9. We carry a large stock of un-
set stones.
10. We receive them direct from
the mines.
11. w e sell at London Prices.
ds
Diamonds, one Pink Tourmaline
and one Pearl, £l5. ’
fsd
Diamond and one Fine
Emerald, £7O,
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash.
j* FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter St*
Janor ; The subject was records—
athletic and otherwise—and their chances of being
clipped. Warrigal Jack opined that a drover
he d met up Carpentaria way clutched a record
™ would take a lot of reaching out for.
Inis bull-shifter could turn out, light a fire,
boil his quart, bake a johnny cake (John called
the confection a charcoal tart), eat his breakfast,
roll up his swag, saddle his moke, fill his pipe and
mount —time for the lot 10 minutes. We reckoned
it was about a bed-rock lie.
* » » *
“ Itan ” : “Caber” (13. 30/8/’O6) solves
the prickly pear problem in Bananaland by sug-
gesting that Eidston should plough it out. Well,
there are 4,000.000 acres infested, tens of thou-
sands of which are a dense mass, 20ft. high, and
intertwined with brush and scrub. The Rids ton
Government dug into a patch in the Chinchilla
district, with the aid of the unemployed, and
although many of the men engaged only made
oare tucker, the cost ran into about £l2 per acre,
lhere are few of the cursed areas which men will
take from the Government as a gift. Anyone
who wants to try an idea would probably receive
very liberal treatment from Minister for Lands
Bell, and all the official help possible.
* * • *
A Groperlander, in a thirsty mood probably,
has been gathering' facts about big Australian
grape vines. Apparently Westralia takes the
bunch, with Hester’s vine at Blackwood Park, near
Bridgewater—a huge intemperate thing with a
trunk 4ft. 4Jin. in circumference, and covering 2520
square feet of rough trellis, thus eclipsing the great
Hampton Court (Eng.) vegetable. At M‘Laren
Vale (S. A.) an old neglected vine, 40in. in girth,
covers 972 square feet; but Thomas Hardy’s great
currant vine at Bankside (S.A.) beats this. It
covers an area of 1500 square feet, and has yielded
in one season as much as 3001 b. of dried fruit. In
another good S.A. wine district, Charles Doade-
ridge, of Angaston, has a similar vine a little
larger, from which a crop of 3401 b. has been sold
for £8 10s. The Westralian Club, St. George’s-
terrace, Perth, has a vine 30in. in the trunk on
its premises, kept very much back of late by hard
pruning. What about the old gnarled climber
which wanders round the Bank of New South
Wales at Parramatta?
COMFORT FROM THE POET.
WIDDY O'BRIEN; “Yes, Missus O'Grady, we
all has our throubles, but as Shakspoure
says, ‘Ivery cloud has a silver tail.’”
“ Hornblende ”; One of the queerest uses
for Bulletin pictures is as church decorations.
About 14 years ago I was at Deptford, on the
Nicholson River, Gippsland, and used to go with
great irregularity to the Church of England in
that place. The church was a slab hut about
15ft. x 10ft., with the usual bark roof. It had
been built by a digger, and he presented it to the
township as a church when he left the district.
The inside was papered with pages of illustrated
papers and Bulletin cartoons. Usually there
was an interval in the service for a dog fight—for
the dogs attended church just as regularly as the
humans.
A BAD NEIGHBOR.
JACOBS: “ Vy, pless me, Aarons, vats der madder? You're lookin’ kvite mad.”
AARONS : “ Vat, aindt you heard I Der fire Prigade's comin' & tive next door!"
“Ralph Rodney”: School-teaching out-
back once, I boarded with a boundary-rider whose
wife served us with great variety of meals. No
matter what young Jimmy’s rifle took a fancy to,
his mother would work it into a stew, and, during
the mice plague, I often had horrible suspicions,
especially when mince-pies came along. My land-
lady was liberal with native “game,’’from kangaroo-
rat to the hedgehog, or grey magpie, but, when it
came to beef or mutton, she didn’t merely econo-
mise—she “ econominimised. ’ One day I saw a
601 b. tin of honey arrive. Next morning she
caught me eating butter and honey on my bread.
“Lawks, Mr. Rodney, do you mean to say you
eats honey and butter together?” “Yes,” 1 re-
plied, “ I’m trying to save the extra slice of bread,
Mrs. Screw.” The following day the storekeeper
got his honey back with this note: “Dear Sir,
the noo teacher don’t like honey I find, so I retern
the tin.” Next day I was on bandicoot.
“Prooshan” : For the snake-catching
championship, I am prepared to nominate one
August Eichhorn, of Main Adelong. From
his youth he has lived in a district infested
with all our venomous snakes—bar the death-
adder—and has made a close study of them.
In the snake season it’s a rare thing to meet
“Org” without a sarpint in his shirt or
pocket. He has absolutely no fear of the
brutes. Eichhorn scorns the forked stick,
always capturing with the hand, and
grooming the snake like one caressing a cat.
If the wriggler looks ugly out of the corner
of his eye, he drops him from thumb and
forefinger; then he dabs on to him again,
and drops him perhaps a second time, and
gives him a run, ever going backward from
him and turning him repeatedly with his
boot. I saw a big, red-bellied black snake one
day coiled in among some razor-grass, and
called “ Org.” He came, and dabbed his
hand in, and had him tethered with a bit of
bootlace presently to a stout bracken fern ;
but the snake got a purchase on another fern
after a while with his tail, and, on returning,
we found him nearly choked. Eichhorn re-
leased him, and, engaging him with his right
hand, he pulled off his boot and sock with his
left, and in a twinkling had the snake’s head
in the sock, and tied round securely ; then he
threw him up on to his coat on the bank, and
resumed his work till evening, when he took
the snake home. He has an effective antidote.
I saw him bitten on the tongue once by a tiger
snake, during a snake swallowing exhibition,
but he didn’t suffer any serious consequences.
“ Janor ” : The moon has a big say in the
superstitions of bushmen. For instance, they will
not leave saws or other steel tools exposed to its
rays because their temper will be destroyed.
There also prevails among them the idea that
timber felled at full moon will quickly decay.
Then there is the belief in moon blindness as the
result of sleeping in the glare of the lunar light.
The bush weather-prophet’s outfit is mainly moon.
When it comes in new he makes his forecast. If
the crescent is disposed horizontally in the sky,
with the horns pointing upwards, he reckons it
won’t rain; the rain might spill out of the
perpendicular moon, but not out of the horizontal
one. The yarn that food, especially fish, is
rendered poisonous by exposure to moonlight is
not confined to bushies, but is universal. I regard
most moon legends with an eye of unbelief.
“Bricky” (who. as far as we know, is a
sober man): There is a snake here (the High
Plains of Gippsland, Vic.) which £ have never
seen mentioned. It is about two feet long and
dark in color, and when the snow is two and
three feet deep is often to be met gliding along
the surface. It’s a lively little beggar, too. I
can’t say if it is venomous or not, but the miners
look upon it with awe. I was always under the
impression that all snakes lay dormant during
the winter months, but I’ve altered my opinion.
* * * *■
In the “ Never-never country,”
outside civilisation, in Queensland, everyone
keeps goats. When the small boys want a
holiday from school they first ride a William.
During lessons various complaints, “Teacher, I
can’t sit next to Tommy Jones; he has been
riding goats, and it isn’t nice. I feel sick.”
Result, Tommy Jones and others sent home for
the day—just what the young wretches wanted.
* * * «
“ Nulla ” : There used to be (and may be
still) red deer around O’Connell Plains and out
towards Oberon, in the Bathurst district. Tom
M'Kibbin, the erstwhile break-bowler, was a
mighty deer hunter, and years ago some of the
Glebe cricketers had shoes made out of a deer
skin got by him.
* * * *
‘ ‘ Veldt ”: I note your remarks re Ha wkes-
bury College mules (26/7/’O6), and differ from you
in regarding the hybrid as wholly sulky and cross-
grained. The term may apply,to individuals, but
is not true genetically. They use mules in
the U.S. A. simply because the mule won’t allow
himself to be overdriven by the nigger. The mule
means dollars because (1) he is active and saves
time ; (2) he will do more work than a horse ; (3)
he will live on the smell of a gun-rag. In Colorado,
where beet sugar isabig thing, the mule is a feature.
There the beets are planted in rows only 18 inches
apart, and the mule, with his small 'hoofs and
nimble feet, will walk in this space all day and
not smother a single plant. In France and Ger-
many, where horses are used, the rows are at
least three feet apart. Of course, one mustn’t get
too near a mule’s hind legs; but, then, one
shouldn’t play the frivolous ox with a threshing
machine.
* * • •
“Paul Pearson”; Saw a rare sight yes-
terday, and regretted I had not a camera. It was
a baby camel carefully strapped on its mother’s
back, accompanying the team out of the town.
The driver (white) informed me that the youngster
was suffering from a sore leg. Anyhow, it seemed
perfectly happy, and gazed down at me with the
supercilious expression which is characteristic of
the animal. The “old woman ” wore a contented
and human-like expression also, and seemed
pleased to hump Baby Bunting in this fashion.
BALLAD OF THE GAME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Fed up ? Fed up, and full of it ?
You’ll only make a bull of it
If you go smooging round for help and looking for a
hand ;
The only hand that’s any good
S a level left as hard as wood
To deal out stoush to Destiny as stiff as you can land.
Suppose you feel the wrong of it?
What odds ! Don’t make a song of it,
?*or put your trust in Providence; be Pagan, and pay
cash
In blow for blow around, the ring.
Don t pray, for that’s the kind of thing
To leave your soul unguarded for Misfortune’s half-arm
smash.
What though there’s not much show for it;
Give Fate a solid go for it.
be sure your chance will come again to be top dog, and
bite ;
There’s neither luck nor trick to it,
If .you run mute and stick to it.
The question isn’t “ Did you fail ? ” but only “Did you
fight ? ”
VIC.
KETTLEDRUM.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Australian (Ceylon): The real facts as to the
Six Hatters case ? The Australian Immigration Law pro-
vides that laborers must not be introduced under con-
tract to lower the Australian wage-rate. If it is intended
to introduce laborers under contract, a certificate of
exemption must be secured by the employer, who must
show that the men are not imported with the object of
casting Australians out of work. A Sydney hat manu-
facturer imported six hatters from England. He neg-
lected, either from ignorance of the law or for some
other motive, to take out an exemption certificate! • The
men were, therefore, stopped at the Customs, and
allowed to land on parole. Otherwise their liberty was
in no way interfered with. A general election was immi-
nent, and the Reid party and the Reid'press saw in the
incident a stick with which to beat the Protectionist
Government and its ally, the Labor party. A flight of
1000 lies coruscated in the firmament. It was generally
said that these British subjects were imprisoned (one
yarn stated that they were sent back in irons). Meanwhile
the employer, after taking full advantage of the gorgeous
advertisement which chance had given him, took out an
exemption certificate, and the Six Hatters got to work in
his factory. This didn't stop the lies. But at the election
w'hich followed all Six Hatters were on the committee of
the Labor candidate who opposed Eeid ; which is a
pretty fair indication that they had no grievance. Yet the
anti-Australian Stinking Fish party still circulates abroad
stories of how six British subjects were put in
irons at Sydney and deported ; it’s one of these
yarns you have encountered in your Ceylon fast-
ness. .. .T.F.M. : The Age campaign “to restore the
Riverina to Victoria” is just sheer silliness
Phid : Your questions show some slight misunderstand-
ing'- of the position. (1) The obsolete cruisers which
Britain sells are auctioned on strict scrap-heap condi-
tions : the vessels must be broken up completely ; if they
were sold as going concerns, the price would be vastly
different.. (2) A just-obsolete cruiser would be a more
valuable war weapon to Australia than a converted mer-
chantman, but it would fie of no use at all in peace time.
The “ convertible cruiser ” is of some use in war time,
and a whole lot of use in peace time.... 1.: Please
make sure of your facts. The postage from Eng-
land to Australia is one penny. Heaps of British
letters arrive here safely under a penny stamp
Coramba : First Australian gold discovery was made near
Bathurst (N.S. W.) in 1814 ; the convicts were flogged in
order to teach them not to do it again. In January, 1849,
Thomas Chapman found gold at Daisy Hill (Vic.), and
sold alfioz. nuggetin Melbourne ; Superintendent Latrobe
sent Captain Dana and 16 mounted native police to pre-
vent anybody digging any more of it. E. H. Hargreaves
found his gold at Summer Hill Creek (N.S.W.), Feb. 12,
1851 ; that led to the first rush. On May, 22, 1851, the
business was sanctioned, and provision made for licenses.
....Hexham: What’s your definition of “drunk”? We
wouldn’t call a man drunk who has taken as much as
he knows he can “ carry,” and who steadily refuses
another drink which would put a stagger in his steps.
He’s a sober, sane, steady citizen, and as long as his
liver holds out will do no one any harm G.I. :
Well, the,, groom’s sibilant hum may not be to
soothe the horse, but that’s what the average groom
says he does it for: and he ought to know; and it
wouldn’t be worth shucks as a means of keeping dust out
of the groom’s lungs, for, mark you, he would have to
hum in as much air as he hummed 0ut....5.R. :
Takes us all our time to note the lies that the Stinking
Fishers tell about Australia; can’t worry, as a rule,
about their fabrications regarding America Remo:
A merchant vessel built to be convertible to a cruiser has
stronger decks than usual, and an arrangement of
bunkers about her vitals that are, in time of war, packed
with coal, and thus serve as armor... .Romulus : (1) Yes,
its good stuff ; (2) he hasn’t written any 1ate1y......
G.F.JST. : The bulk of it is good, but the occasional feeble
lines are fatal....D. Threber : Very promising, in the
circumstances; but too formal and didactic....T.E.D. :
The verse isn’t good enough, and “ Disappointment ” is a
disappointment Sprag : Nothing in it but a dog-fight.
. ...W.G.F. : The situation is old, and your treatment
isn’t strong enough to rejuvenate it Arthur Elmslie :
Can’t stand ’em at any price... .J. Madrid : You have
some descriptive power, but your workmanship is too
rough Bush-Girl : Rather lamely told. Please use
a different pen-name ; another contributor has a prior
claim on “ 8.G.” Bon Nuit : Funny, but rather
clumsy Adsum : The short, jerky measure doesn’t
suit the subject ; and, in any case, a Seddon-threnody is
now badly belated E.M.L. : Not far removed from
silliness.... Walfre : Point not obvious enough Blue
Gum : Pretty well written, but much too long-winded and
prosy. ..The Bud : Will try not to keep you waiting 10ng...
R. W. R. (M.L.): Shows no intimate knowledge of the sub-
ject, and that w’ould be the only justification for going
off the Australian beat... .S.H.: Let your deceased friend
“Joe” rest. Though he probably didn’t know much
about poetry on earth, the choir may have taught him
something by this time, and in that case your obituary
verses would hurt him Abar: Good yarn’, but a shade
too horrible.... Ugly Duckling : Fair verse ; but that sub-
ject can only be tackled now in better than fair verse.
Man in the Street: No new idea in it M.J. :
Political verse just misses B.E.L. : Stockwell par
strays all over the place, and so failed in competition with
one telling the essential facts in a quarter the space
P.T.F. : Has all appeared in the dailies. Also, the
terrible West African driver ant (annoma arcens) is not
identical with the South African carnivorous ant which it
was proposed to introduce into Australia Namod :
You haven’t the right paragraphic snap Unknown:
Doesn’t get up to the mark yet.. ..H. R. M‘D. : Rather
dull in the telling F.I.S.H. : Not fresh enough
Typo : Embodies no distinct idea Exile : Doesn’t call
for any “ nasty remarks,” but is too carelessly thrown
together.. . .K.J. : No life or spirit about it Yarrum :
Oysters have locomotive power only when no bigger than
a pin’s-head. Adult oysters can change place only' by
being current-swept. As for oysters rising to the sur-
face, and sailing on the surface of the water, what sort of
stout do you drink with your oysters ? There is a shell-
fish which does that, but it isn’t the oyster J.L.C. :
Crude melodrama, but little relieved by the pittosporum
atmosphere Nyanazaen : Jingle not sharp enough
A.G.B. : Doesn’t seem to have any particular reason why.
Tambo : Well, the trouble has been rather the boy-
cotting of Australian goods, and the consequent masquer-
ading of local products as “English” or “French” or
“ Austrian.”.... Unsuitable : Tweezer, W.W.R., Allan l.
Desperandum.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
T.H.A. : Traces of humor about them, but that’s a 11....
O.A.D. : Send some more sketches—when you have im-
proved 1000 per cent Schullop : Yes, jokes suitable
for illustration are paid for. Yours isn’t suitable
D.G.McD. : As you didn’t enclose a stamp with your
sketch it was simply destroyed when rejected. Will give
your stamp to a charity, if you don’t mind Snag •No
thank y0u.... Unsuitable: Kate, M.J.G., T.G., HLBH’


BOUNDING THEM UP.
The game of the big landowners and Tory Press in Australia, just now, is to trap the small farmers into supporting their
anti-land-sett!ement policy.


O&oYve
r«* »*. M lately
J o* he Ud v e -r y
ob^‘ he
~JoW n
/.^ lcro S c
™ w tt fork-****
hrja^hij-ie^
" Wots %tff )lsceftney?
/00 < iQ ttjey
it | *
\ " Then tfah/l |>e wtiere
I \ tf)ey send<> tfe j
Seed-wheett /^foiTj.
■a,
T &
"The lms tech "hysterica,l
s*nce If)€ tca.k'irr Prefere*vtidJ
pro(>o s^is •
Mijfer
Holtjer :- " DohT worry rrje, little hM«i you'd tetter looK
ayffer your sc if ybuVa pot" Quite enoupli 4o do !
\uoo<lsiTorts Corne to tlje Premier
| r .„ aiv«>- <* W^t-Should bo
v. do control &
Sjjort. . I
(oOoci^S
?7^r
/|Se Mbmey
/refuyeJ
sy j?cv»»7is<jon to
f fVie*>d soc .
& 0 hoia a,
qoo S e r^le
® KiW.-'
TbeDirJ--'y«ii
y
fin Ten mi»»lts. /
' Nf
/timbers
, lo\ V»c
//Lee CoJtnCil *jV*
/ro*vje -to 'tfjmK’ -H>Gy
/ Co d
/'tfjWi5«°' y> l*»rc|»€cT
Commit/."
Wit” iij
$ cW,» Swee(> of-ttje bov* Xo»tJm
SIN AND SORROW DOWN SOUTH.


ummim
BHf
Dentifrice
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Premier Price (S.A.) is working too hard
and worrying too much, and a man built as he is
can t stand it.
Henry Parkes’s old friend, Oscar Meyer,
the man of many Exhibitions, lias found his way
to N.S. W. Bankruptcy Court.
Henry Sheffield, formerly Melbourne
public librarian, is living at Warrnambool (Vic.)
in a good state of preservation, aged 98.
Said at N.S.W. Bar that Pilcher, Wade,
and Street, will soon have the opportunity of
refusing appointments to the judicial Bench.
Tourists in M.L. now regularly pilgrim to
Dick Seddon’s old home at Big Dam, Kumara.
this is fame—or the result of good advertising.
Samuel Davenport, just dead in Adelaide,
was the last surviving member of the first South
Australian Ministry under Responsible Govern-
ment.
Judkins, the Methodist apostle of anti-
everything, lias, it seems, political aspirations,
and would climb on the dead body of the tote into
Parliament.
Maoriland Government has £6OOO on the
estimates as a grant to the widow of the late
Richard Seddon. But, from present appearances,
no such charity is needed.
Died April 6, at the Monastery, Ivings-
wood, Bristol (Eng.), Rev. Philip Bernard
Lassetter, second son of Fredk. Lassetter, of Red
Leaf, Double Bay, Sydney.
The frequent illnesses of Premier Kidston
seem to indicate a possible breakdown, and fears
are entertained that he may not be able to attend
regularly at the House during the present session.
Dead recently, in England, Charles Bagot,
who is credited with having discovered, on his
father’s sheep run, in 1842, the first copper ore in
S..Aus. The find was the origin of the Kapunda
mine.
The oldest chorister in Australasia is
Joseph Tuokwell, of St. Paul’s Church, Canter-
bury, aged 85. In his ninth year he was a
member of the choir of St. George’s Royal
Chapel, Windsor.
That talented painter, Charles Conder,
who, when in Sj'dney, was a bookseller’s assis-
tant, has struck a little gold-mine in Paris. He
has a continental reputation as a painter of fans,
and his work brings huge prices.
B. R. Wise, K.C., has disposed of his
fishing property at Port Hacking (Sydney), which
breaks another link of his chain to Australia.
Latest heard of the brilliant counsel, he was on
his way to Brazil to earn a huge law fee.
The offer made by the Stewart family to
the Carrutliers Government of a large area of
Bathurst country for purposes of closer settlement
reminds how the first of the Stewarts squatted on
the Mount. Colonel Stewart, happening to be
Acting-Governor for a few weeks between the
reigns of Brisbane and Darling, claimed the grant,
which was a Governor’s by right, and chose his
area on the Bathurst Plains. Darling refused to
confirm the grant, and a bitter quarrel resulted,
the outcome being, however, that Stewart was
allowed to retain 15,000 acres of the country. The
estate is worked now under tenant farmer
conditions.
INKY WAY CHARACTERS.—NO. 1.
SCHULER , Editor of the AGE.
“J.W. , m The Bulletin (7/6/’O6),
wrote:—“ln Melbourne and Sydney there are
many advt. writers, and only two that know their
business.” Now there is only one, since 11. J.
Bartlett died, September 8, "in his G3rd year.
Money can buy most things, but Sam Hordern
will find it difficult to duplicate Bartlett.
Many condemned Bartlett’s “ads.” as con-
trary to American principles, but he coined
“Famous Low Prices,” and liis quaint stories in
the dailies every morning will be missed by thou-
sands of women, who always looked for them
even before births, marriages and deaths. Strange
that on the day of the announcement of Bartlett’s
death from pneumonia, Bartlett inserted in the
dailies an advt. giving the range of the cough
and cold medicines sold by Anthony Hordern.
The official figures puWhe cost of the new
Sydneyrailway station—called “central” because
it isn’t—at £940,4G3. This represents the cost of
the premises when opened for traffic. So far,
only the first storey of the original design is com-
pleted, with a temporary roof thrown on promis-
cuous-like. If Owe’Sullivan’s ideas are ever
finished, goodness only knows what the total will
be— Owe’Sullivan, for one, never inquired.
The most pic-
turesque figure in
the new Maori-
land Government
is .Tohn Andrew
Millar, Minister
for Marine and
Labor and Com-
missioner of Cus-
toms. He was born
in the Punjab (In-
dia) in 1855, where
his father was a
military captain,
and he smelt pow-
der and blood
through the great
Mutiny. When
that misunder-
standing was set-
tled the family re-
turned to Scot-
land, where An-
drew was edu-
cated with a view
to going back to
India to shed
blood in the next
Mutiny. But he
declared his dis-
like for that busi-
ness early in life,
and was sent out
to an uncle in
Otago to learn the
art and science of
watching the wool
grow on the sheep’s
back. That voy-
age gave him a
taste for the sea,
and to the sea he
went, and even-
tually rose to be a
chief officer in the
service of the N.Z.
Shipping Com-
pany. Then he
joined the Black
Diamond line as
captain. In 1887
he left the service
to become secre-
tary to the Sea-
men’s Union, and
was soon up to the
ears in fight. In
1888 there was a
strike in the Nor-
thern Steamship
Company’s ser-
vice, and practi-
cally every man
came out. Millar chartered three steamers and
used them to keep the strikers employed, and ran
his line in opposition to the Northern Co. for 1(1
months. Then the Northern Co. caved in and
came to terms, and the chartered steamers were
returned to their owners. After that Millar set
to work to organise Labor right through the Isles.
The Wharf Laborers’ Union, the Carters’ Union,
and the Tailoresses’ Union were all his creations,
and by 1890 he was President of the Trades and
Labor Council and Secretary of the Maritime
Labor Council. In that capacity the weight of
the heavy fight in connection with the great strike
fell on his shoulders. Millar contested Port
Chalmers against Union Company Mills, and was
defeated, but three years later lie won the seat
from E. G. Allen. In ’96 he was elected for
Dunedin City ; in ’99 he was made chairman of
the Labor Bills Committee : in 1900 he was on the
Federation Commission; and in 1902 became
Chairman of Committees in the House of Reps.
So the “agitator” of 16 years ago is to-day a
Minister, and as loyal a Labor man a 9 ever.
The Bulletin’s old friend, Frank Maliony,
the brilliant animal painter, writes cheerfully
from London, where things now go very well with
him. He works steadily in blaek-and white, has
some good painting commissions on hand, and is
very proud of his son and heir, now a promising
youth of 18 months. Mahony, who is much
addicted to playing a lone hand, is not much
heard of in Australian circles in London.
N.S. W. Lands Minister Ashton was, till re-
cently, a land agent. He passed his examinations
for the Bar, but did not get himself called; because,
if he were called, he could not do business
direct with his clients and would have to wait
for work until the coy and reluctant attorney
approached him with a brief. Ashton’s knowledge
of that labyrinthine tangle, the land-law, was
extensive, and he therefore had many briefs in a
region where most are blind, and the one-eyed are
kings. It is said that Ashton now- contemplates
having himself called to the Bar, realising, no
doubt, that the palmy days of land agency are
up ; “land agent ” and “ road agent ” have almost
become convertible terms.
Obit, afc the age of 76, Andrew Lysaght,
father of Wollongong, and Illawarra’s oldest
inhabitant. For many years he was mayor of
the town, and represented Illawarra in Par-
liament. He was chock-full of humor and
quaint sayings. On one occasion he had
engaged two of Wollongong's chief beer and
rum experts to erect some verandah-posts, and
the inspector of police doubted their ability to
perform the task, and advised him to engage
more. “Nonsense!” said Lysaght—“you don’t
know my men. Why, they could lift these posts
with their breath !” Even in articulo mortis he
had his joke. He made signs that he had some-
thing important to communicate, and whispered,
“Don’t forget to get me a ticket in Tatt.’s
sweep.” He used to take considerable interest
in turf matters, and was for a long time judge for
the Wollongong Turf Club. In early life remarkable
for strength and skill with his fists, as M.L.A.
he cowed many bullies in the Sydney Parliament.
A constable once thought it necessary to remove
“Andy” from the Illawarra racecourse, and pro-
ceeded with due care, but he turned the tables,
handcuffed the constable and carried him to the
lockup.
EXPERIENCE TEACHES.
THE KID : “ Wot’s up wir yer face , Squidge? ”
SQUIDGE : “ Tootache! ”
THE KID: “ Woy don't yer ’are it dr awed out? "
SQUIDGE : “Ugh! It ’urts too much!”
THE KID : “ No, it don’t. I've ’ad millions
drawed! ”
Judkins’ magazine, the Review op Re-
views, should be called The Jugful of Judkins.
In the few editorial articles in July number are
53 “I’s,” to say nothing of the “my’s” and
“ me’s.” And Judkins is such a dry subject.
The Bulletin hears from an Australian
visitor to London that Captain Collins, who is in
charge of the Commonwealth offices, has been
“ having a great time socially.” Which is very
nice for Mr. Collins. But what about Australia?
Dr. Yon Neumayer, who was in charge of
the old Melbourne Observatory at Flagstaff Hill
from the early 50’s to ! 63, and has since been a
resident of Neustadt, Germany, was recently
fkcd in his native country on attaining his 80th
year.
Canon Goodman has just retired, after 52
years pastorate of Christ Church, Geelong. The
foundation stone of that edifice was laid in 1843,
by Bishop Broughton, Sydney Metropolitan.
Before that, Charles Sladen conducted the ser-
vices in his own house.
It is proposed by the salmon packers of
British Columbia to import Hindu coolies to eke
out the number of Chinese hands engaged in
putting up tinned salmon. Just as well for
Australians to know that tinned salmon is packed
by Chinese and niggers.
A young artist who scores the honor of
getting a picture into N.S.W. National Gallery
almost at first try is Mary Heydon, a daughter of
L. E. Heydon, M.L.C. The canvas is a fine
landscape in a subdued color key, and it is a long
time since any Australian has painted still water
more charmingly.
There has just died at the Perth (W.A.)
poor-house, an old fellow called “Sam,” who, as
a private in the 33rd Regiment, was sentenced by
Baron Martin to 20 years transportation for
stealing a woman’s pocket-handkerchief in Man-
chester in 1861. Sam maintained to the last that
he did not steal it ; that the lady dropped it and
he picked it up, and was in the act of returning it
when she accused him of theft. He never prayed
after receiving his sentence, as he said he could
not'conscientiously repeat “forgive us our tres-
passes as we forgive those who trespass against
us.” He never could forgive Baron Martin.
Tom Seddon, entering Maoriland Parlia-
ment at 22, receives his show as a Premier’s son.
N.S.W. Premiers’ sons did not make much of
similar shows. Three of them—Charlie Cowper,
Frank Earn ell, and Varney Parkes—won seats on
the strength of their fathers’ names, but achieved
comparatively little in Parliament, and are now
outside. Old Slippery Cowper made a desperate
effort to boost young Cowper, by making the
Clerk of the Executive Council (which was young
Cowper) a member of the Cabinet, but even that
didn’t give young Charles a foothold.
That eminent humorist, Lord Rosebery
(an adept, by the way, at horse-nomenclature),
missed one distinctly beautiful chance of a joke.
His family name is Primrose, and he married a
daughter of the great Jewish house of Rothschild.
But he didn’t have his eldest son and heir chris-
tened Moses Primrose.
The Maori does not usually shine as an
advocate of Cold Tea, but A. S. Ngata, the new
M.H.R, for the eastern Maori electorate, is a
strenuous speaker in the prohibition cause.
Ngata, who is a B. A. of the Maoriland University,
and also a lawyer, is called the leader of the
Young Maori Party—whatever that may be.
Ormond College (Vic.) Theological Hall,
in appointing a professor of theology and church
history, chose a person from Aberdeen in pre-
ference to Australian nominees, on the ground
that to reject the Aberdonian would be “flouting”
the Scotch Commissioners who had recommended
him. They didn’t mind flouting the Australians.
Alfred Deakin suffers so much from
modesty that probably it would never occur to
him that he would make an excellent High Court
Judge. The affable Alfred has spent most of his
political career playing second fiddle to men
whom he really inspired, but who had more liking
for the middle of the stage and the limelight than
he.
Apropos D. H. Denieliy and Kent-street
(23/8/06). When “Little Dan” was born, Kent-
street was a somewhat aristocratic part of Sydney.
A few of the fine houses of the time still stand.
At one time, D’Arcy Wentworth lived in Kent-
street, so did Justice Dowling, Colonel Snodgrass,
Dr. Fattorini, Frederick Garling. and Capt.
Hunter, A.D.C. to Governor Bourke.
Dan O’Connor had a triumphal journey,
the other day, from ’Frisco to New York. Sara
Bernhardt was aboard the same train, and the
Sydney acquaintance of many years ago was
revived. Sara remembered how Postmaster-
General O’Connor had lavished the hospitality of
a rich and generous Government on her, excitedly
embraced Daniel, and insisted on him accompany-
ing her for the rest of the journey. Daniel, in his
grandest and most courtly manner, eloquently
responded. Everybody along the line knew Sara
was aboard, so the stations were crowded, and
each time the train slowed down Sara and Dan
put their heads through the windows. And Dan
divided with Sara the roar of cheers. It was a
great time for Dan.
“J.T.”, on an “identify” of many gold-
fields : —
Reported that Tom Meehan, otherwise “Tom the
Rager,” has bottomed his last shaft. Few harder battlers
ever breathed. He was one of the first men on Bendigo;
then drifted gradually up to Charters Towers, overlanded
from there to Port Darwin, and finally struck Kimberley
diggings. Hall’s Creek proving a duffer, “The Rager”
shouldered Matilda, and, accompanied only by his dog,
“Paddy,” made his way down south to Lake Austin.
From there he went through Cue, Nannine, and Abbott’s
to Peak Hill, the richest patch in Australia. He acquired
a third interest in a small but wonderfully rich lease,
and, when Darlington Simpson bought all the others out,
“The Rager ” declined to sign a transfer unless the pur-
chase money was planked down. In vain did Simpson
represent that his cheque was the same as money ; and
he had to set off for London without “The Rager’s”
block. At last “ Toppy ” Longden, formerly of the Mel-
bourne Football Club, succeeded in getting “ The Rager’s”
signature, the consideration being an open cheque for
£15,000. Writer saw the cheque. Longden resold to
Simpson’s crowd for £33,000.
Tom Seddon, who represents his late
father’s constituency in M.L. Parliament, lately
visited the wilds of his electorate. At Karangarua
he refereed at a football match, and seized the
opportunity, whilst speaking of the finer points of
the game, to thank spectators and pi a vers for
electing him. The M.L.
politician who can mix
with football points a
political speech need
never fear the result of
an election.
TAKING RISKS.
SMALL BOY (who has just been rebuked for using
bad language): “An’ who the asterisk potash
are you?"
CLERIC (meekly): “My poor unfortunate boy, I
am a humble follower of the Lord.”
S.B.: “ Garni If He seen yer a-falterin' ’Im
’E’d turn round and kick yer!”
The British Commissioner to the Christ-
church (M.L.) Exhibition is John Eldon Gorst,
who first saw Maoriland in 1860. He emigrated
with the intention of becoming a lay-helper to
Bishop Selwyn. Having acquired a knowledge of
the Maori language, he was sent to the Upper
Waikato as Civil Commissioner. He set up an
industrial school and established a newspaper,
Pihoihoi Mokk Moke. Incensed by an article,
the Maoris seized the plant and expelled Gorst.
He returned to England in 1865, and entered the
Commons as member for Cambridge. In 1885
he became Solicitor-General in the Salisbury
Government, and subsequently was Under-Secre-
tary for India.


MAGNIFICENT MILLINERY
THE NEWEST and NICEST.
All Splendid Examples of j& £?
Anthony Hordern’s Famous Low Prices.
No. 301
No. 302
V'
No. 303
No. 306
No. 307
It a-
No. 312
\
No. 308
No. 313
No. 311
SaSSS
1
■
\
No. 316’
No. 317
No. 318
m.
No. 309
n
No. 314
M
No. 319
No. 305
No. 310
A*
No. 315
r
S
No. 320
301. 'Wlvite Fancy Straw Hat, Black Lace on Brin), trimmed Black and White
Tulle, Cerise Ribbon and Wings, 32/6.
302. Floral Toque, Cornflower Brim, Dome Crown of Green Tubing, 27/6.
303. French Model by “Lambert Bernheim.” Green Pedal Straw Hat,
trimmed Green Tulle, Ribbon Velvet and Marguerites, 90/-
304* Reseda Crinoline and Chiffon Hat, trimmed Forget-me-nots, Pale
Pink Ribbon Bows at Back, 32/6.
305* French Model by “ Marescot Soeurs.” Champagne Tagal Straw Hat,
trimmed Clover and Grass, Mauve Ribbon and Ornament at Back, 90/-.
306. Smart Burnt Leghorn Toque, trimmed Tulle and Green Velvet
Ribbon on Crown, Roses, Pansies and Foliage at Side and Back, 42/-
■307. Pale Blue Chip Plateau, trimmed Bows of Green Velvet Ribbon and
Hydrangea on Crown, Quilling of Tulle and Hydrangea under Brim, 30/-
308. Pale PinSE Chip Straw Hat, trimmed Tulle and American Beauty
Roses, Foliage and Tulle on Bandeau, 32/6.
309. White Fancy Chip Straw Hat, Green Tulle and Floral Crown, Pale
Blue Ribbon on Bandeau, 37/6.
310. Pale PinK Straw Hat, Crown Rose Petals and Foliage, Ruche of Tulle,
Tulle and Pink Roses on Bandeau, 21/-
3 11. Cream Crinoline Straw Hat, trimmed Roses, Foliage, Tulle, Rose
Mount on Bandeau, 21/-
312. Tuscan Straw Toque, trimmed Roses, Foliage, Tulle, 21/-
313. Burnt Straw Hat, trimmed Flowers, Tulle, Ribbon, Ribbon and Flowers on
Bandeau, 30/-
314,. Cream Crinoline Straw Hat, trimmed Roses, Maiden Hair Fern, Stock
and Ribbon Velvet, 36/6.
315. Cornflower Taney Straw Hat, trimmed Clover and Tulle to match,
Shaded Blue and Green Feather, 52/6.
316. Floral Toque, Roses, Foliage, V. Rose Ribbon, Green Peacock Feathers, 42/-
317. Helio Straw and Tulle Toque, trimmed Ribbon and Acacia, 27/6.
318. Model by “Marescot Soeurs.” New Blue Tag'al Straw, trimmed Wreath
of Mixed Flowers, Fruit, Ribbon and Tulle, £5 3s. 6d.
319. Petunia Toque, Brim of Looped Straw, Floral Crown, Bows Floral
Ribbon, 38/-
320. Pale Blue Crinoline Straw Hat, edged Valenciennes Lace, trimmed
Tulle and Roses, Bows of Pink and Tuscan Ribbons on Bandeau, 42/-
ANTHONY HORDERN SONS
PALACE EMPORIUM, SYDNEY.
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS jz?
Thus a man in Manila, in Uncle Sam’s
Philippine Islands, writing to an Australian
paper :
lam sending- this by a friend. Anything addressed to
the editor of an outside newspaper gets burned up in the
post-office here.
The Teeth of Tommy Atkins. —The last report
of the director of recruiting in the British army, shows an
increasing number of rejections and especially in those
refused on account of defective teeth. Now our recruits
are principally drawn from the artisan classes whose food
is largely composed of white bread. Everyone knows
that the bones and teeth are composed of phosphates, and
that nearly all these phosphates are removed from wheat
with the bran in milling white flour. llow, therefore, can
we expect strong physique when the actual substances
out of which the body is built are absent from the food?
If “ Cerebos ” Salt instead of common salt were employed
in the kitchen, it would, to a great extent, remedy the
defect, because this salt contains an exact proportion of
these vital phosphates, and, therefore, increases the food
value of everything to which it is added. One of our
most pressing national needs is a clear knowledge of the
absolute relation between sound food and a sound body.*
In shorthand speed examinations it is unusual'
for ladies to top the list. Up to the standard required by
the shorthand clerk, 120 words per minute, the lady
students of our shorthand schools will usually excel the
male, but the majority of speed certificates at rates of 150
words per minute and upwards are gained by male short-
hand writers. At the shorthand speed examination of
the Incorporated Phonographic Society held in Sydney on
26th May last, the highest and second-highest speeds
were gained by lady candidates, Misses Alice Hagarty
and Gertrude Mole. Both of these ladies, also more than
two-thirds of the successful candidates, were trained at
Messrs. Stott and Hoare’s Business College.*
“ Bill J oli n,son’s got a moustache ! ” “We were
all together that night—the club hadn’t met for about
five weeks. Members kept coming in and finally the
secretary walked in and as soon as we saw him, about
half-a-dozen of us ejaculated ‘ Why, Bill’s got a moustache!’
Yes—that’s a fact —he had a moustache —a full grown
one, two. When the story was told it was discovered
that he had been using Capillarine, the quick moustache
producer for w hich Craig and Aitken, 654 George-street,
are agents. Well it was the quickest change from a
bare lip to a moustache I ever saw in my life. Sure ! I’m
going to get some Capillarine.”*
Brimful of Nourishment
Trade
Tiakißo
Mara.
PLASMON
The Pood for Old and Young.
(Also PlasmoA Cocoa, Oats, Biscuits, &c )
the Jer-Dan Billy Can
JUST THE THING
For PICNICS
For BUSHMEN
For EVERYBODY
It is half-a-dozen things
all rolled into one.
It is as different from the
ordinary Billy as Black is
from white. If you use it
once you will never be
satisfied with any other.
It is a Teapot—a Kettle
—a Tin Opener—a Cork-
screw and a Billy combined.
Has a tea-box and strainer
which holds the tea and is
raised when the tea is being
poured out. The leaves therefore
do not re-enter the water —so yon
get no black tea —tannin —poison !
The tea is quickly extracted from the
leaves which makes it impossible for
you to get black tea.
The JER-DAN BILLY CAN holds
.
5 *
PRICE
2/-
Each
AT ALL STORES
THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALASIA.
pints and is the best, cleanest and most durable Billy under the canopy of heaven.
If you cannot obtain the Jer-Dan Billy Can locally send 2/6 to any
of the following addresses and it will sent post free.
THE
Jar-Dan Billy Can Co.,
"» -»---* ■ e==--»-=»
SYDNEY: 393 George St., Box 415 G.P.O.
MELBOURNE : 31$ Little Collins Street.
BRISBANE: 142 Queen Street.
"A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH”
Post Free 6d. from “The
Bulletin ” Office*


Mdlle. Helena Rubinstein, the Russian skin
and complexion specialist, can be consulted daily without
charge at the Valaze Massage Institute, 158 Pitt-street,
Sydney (above Washington H. Soul and Co.). All ladies
by whom beauty and freshness of complexion are desired
will find her advice in the highest degree valuable. The
Valaze Institute is fitted with the latest and most
scientific appliances for the removal of birth marks,
moles, disfiguring growths, red noses, double chins,
superfluous hairs, and other facial blemishes, which dis-
appear like magic. Valaze, Dr. Lykuski’s Famous Skin
Pood, will beautify and clear the muddiest skin by drawing
out the impurities that clog the action of the delicate
pores. This shows at once that the impurities are being
brought out, not driven in, to appear later and cause end-
less trouble. The impurities dissappear after three days.
Valaze Russian Herbal Skin-food, 3s. 6d. ; a large jar,
containing three times the amount, 6s. Posted to any
part of Australasia, 6d. extra. Valaze Herbal Soap
surpasses any other for beautifying the complexion, 2s. a
cake ; 2d. postage. Valaze Herbal Face Powder contains
no lead, is hygienic and pure, 2s. box ; 2d. postage. Dr.
Lykuski’s Special Blackhead and Open Pore Cure,
guaranteed to cure the most obstinate cases, 2s. 6d. a
box; 3d. postage. Rusmo Hair Killer is guaranteed to
instantly remove superfluous hairs from face, neck, and
arms, without injury to the most delicate skin. Price,
5s. 6d. Valaze Massage Rollers, for home massage, will
remedy both overstoutness and thinness. Single roller,
8s. 6d. ; small size, set in case, complete, 10s. 6d. : com-
plete set, in case, 25s. These rollers will last a lifetime.
Valaze Blackhead and Open Pore Cure. A certain remedy
prepared by Dr. Lykuski for these disfiguring complaints,
no matter how obstinate. Recommended by eminent
medical authorities in Europe; 2s. 6d. a box, postage 3i.
“ Guide to Beauty ” posted free on receipt of 3d. to cover
postage. All the above toilet preparations obtainable
from leading chemists, or direct from Mdlle. Rubinstein,
158 Pitt-street, Sydney, above Washington H. Soul and
Co., and 274 Collins-street, Melbourne.*
Dymock’s Circulating Library.
Considering the immense number of books now pub-
lished, it is impossible for a regular reader to purchase
half the books he w'ould like to peruse. A subscription
to the above up-to-date Circulating Library will place at
his command, immediately upon their arrival in Sydney,
the best and latest works in fiction, biography, history,
belle lettres, reminiscence, philosophy, popular science,
etc., etc. Intelligent assistance is given in the
selection of suitable reading, and special attention
is afforded to country exchanges. For the small
figure of £2 12s. 6d. per annum, or £1 11s. 6d. for
six months, we exchange eight volumes at a time to
any country address as often as we receive intimation of
return of previous parcel. Write or call at 428 George-
street (next Royal Hotel), Sydney, for full particulars,
catalogues and lists gratis.*
Are You Being Poisoned ?
When the liver is overworked, as it frequently is, the
system becomes clogged. It is then that sallow com-
plexion, bad taste in the mouth, headaches, dizzy spells,
continuous langour, &c., indicate that the poisonous
matter which should be carried off is slowly tainting the
blood. If not remedied at once this condition will cause
serious trouble. Senior’s Pills, the great liver remedy,
provide just what is needed to quicken the liver into
action. If you take these pills when needed all danger
of this slow poisoning is avoided. They are a positive
cure for constipation. They will lend the necessary aid
and make you feel like new. Pleasant to take and mild
in action, they make the most perfect laxative and liver
regulator that can be found. They are not an experi-
ment, they passed that stage 50 years ago. Composed of
simple vegetable remedies —remedies that have been long
used by physicians and known to be safe and reliable.
Price, is. and 2s. per box, or Is. Id. or 2s. Id. post free,
from Senior’s Pharmacy, 246 George-street, Sydney.*
£t\SEME/^
60
V
O'
A
*
U/
O'
*
*
A
O'
**
m
&
&
*W
«/
'Jwxx^ionjM.
atL'tfiaA/
“ Gantez et Comparez.”
BUCHANAN’S
“BLACK
AND
WHITE”
WHISKY
sty
if “e^A^EMETTES
|; P L Are the Ideal Fabrics
lion for
RAINCOATS.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
~ Sydney, September 11, 1906.
My Dear Arini,—
Madame Arral, the operatic soprano, who opens
at our Town Hall next Friday, is the youngest of
a family of seventeen children. Caruso came
somewhere about the middle of a group of 24
youngsters—all the offspring of one mother. “As
arrows in the hands of the mighty,’’etc. You
know the rest of the Biblical verse. In 3uch large
families it is only a fair thing of Providence to
?. ro P > n a genius. Paris Conservatoire, and then
the Opera Comique, gave Mme. Arral training
and experience. It was while filling a two-years
engagement in Russia that the then Mademoi-
selle married a Russian prince. That was just
before the present Czar came into his kingdom—
and his bombs. She became a widow some years
ago, and is now possessed of an American husband,
a very blonde bird, whose voice hangs caressingly
on the name of Claire when he is addressing
*l ls w '^ e - Claire suits Madame better than
Blanche, for she has eyes of velvet-black and hair
as black and bright as a crow’s wing. The
American must be a good sort, for Madame’s cats
rush to meet him with loud miows of a purely
disinterested nature, leaving their milk to make
him welcome. The Siamese cat, a blue-eyed
feline, with blue-grey fur and black points, looks
too proud to touch a bird of paradise with his
whiskers.
In Russia, the status of the actress and the
singer is higher than in any other European
capital. Dolores acknowledged this in a recent
interview, and said that, no matter how humble a
woman’s birth, she may, by the exploitation of a
certain talent in the fine art 3 or by the lever of
beauty and manners, rise to rustle among the
coroneted and starred and eagled crowd who
snare with the Imperial house the attentions of
the dynamitard. Mostly, when the lowly-born
damsel “rises,” she has to do so by way of the
marriage ring bestowed by some male who was
swell born or had “ arrived.” And often she does
not crave for this kind of feast. Madame Arral
wears a Russian decoration and an Egyptian
decoration, but her six hundred pound frock will
be of more interest to Sydney women.
One of the most refreshingly fresh Bridge
parties given in Sydney occurred last week at the
house of a French merchant. Guests played in
fancy dress. They, on arrival, were mazed and
dazed at being received by a “lady” they had
never prevjously seen. Her face and hair were
artfully artistic, but her shoulders were beautiful,
the dimples in the proper spots, and she showed
a lot of them. That is, a large quantity of
shoulder and many dimples. All these charms,
including the faked face and hair, were those of the
host. The hostess was got up as a waiting maid.
Monsieur Pinard, the French Consul-General,
frisked in a powdered wig, and was wreathed
with white camellias, emblematic of his inno-
cence. (Innocence of English, of course.) Mrs.
Monty Severn, in a blue gown, black hat and red
roses, and a crook, represented Lady Mary
Carlyle. The smart widow White, of “Green-
oaks, ’ took the trump card, or the cake, or what-
ever you take at Bridge, by representing Cleopatra.
She dressed the star-eyed Egyptian all in long,
clinging, glittering black, and the veil that hung
from below her eyes was secured to the bridge of
the nose by some marvellous mother-o’-pearl clip.
Chubby Mrs. Jack Sheridan was a Dutch doll.
One damsel was in male evening dress ; and a
man who owns a motor drove his gasoline cart to
the house and played in his motor clothes and
fascinating goggles. It was all so accurately
Bridged, that one pair who came as Punch and
Judy also brought along their dog Toby with a
ham frill on his neck.
A London friend sends an account of Annette
Kellermann’s last attempt to swim the English
Channel
A rap at the door, “Time soon to start, ladies 1” This
was the news that greeted Annette Kellermann’s and my
ears when we had, so it seemed, jusu started off in a
sound sleep. It was then 12.45 p.m. Up we jumped.
Soon I was sewing the swimmer into her blue and white
striped bathing suit, after smearing her body with
lanoline. That lanoline is excellent stuff ; it just “ caked ”
on, and when the Australian mermaid had been some little
time in the water she appeared “ a la Milo,” for her flesh
below and above the bathing-suit shone like marble.
The action of the water “ thickened ” the lanoline, which
resisted the water. Then came the adjustment of her
motor goggles, which I secured to her face by means of
collodion (the painful sensation her eyes were undergoing
from the fumes of the collodion, was part of her Channel
swimming troubles). Next her ears were plugged with
cotton wool. Then, after eating the whites of two eggs
beaten to a froth and slightly sweetened, Annette
Kellermann was ready for the fray, or rather the spray.
The Something Bay bachelors gave a dance iast
week at Mosman Town Hall. Everything went
as it should—until supper time, when it was dis-
covered that no supper was available. The
caterer had forgotten the date. The bachelors did
the best they could by buying up all the available
cake in Mosman, and getting a local shop to make
coffee, but it had to be eaten in the roughest way
possible, as there were only a couple of bare tables
available for the setting-out.
A group of the loveliest, quaintest-looking little
children may be seen running about the neigh-
borhood of Wolseley-road, near Cranbrook. They
wear, apparently, a single woollen garment—a
jersey-and-knicker combination—no hats or shoes,
and, out of a picturesque disarray of carefully-
Cared-for hair, their frank young faces look with
more than the average fearlessness of vouth. They
are the children of the Lucys (he is “an imported
railway official). Small Lucy girl is dressed as her
brothers, and plays football with the infant football
club on Rushcutters Bay oval. This combination
numbers about twenty frilly lambs. None over
the doddering age of eight is eligible, but, so far,
the little Lucy girl is the only kickeress. The
club is coached and umpired by a veteran pro-
fessional. If it attacks him, as footballers do
sometimes go for the umpire, he cannot be hurt
severely.
A certain gifted musician, from whose hair and
beard you’d expect to see larks and field-mice
issue, generally has an adoring bevy of debutantes
tagging on to him. One of them : “0, Professor,
there’s suck a white hair loose in your beard ; do
let me pull it out! ” She pulled a piece of white
cotton threaded into the eye of an able-bodied
needle. “Ach!” remarked the ivory-pounder,
“dot is vere it vos ’idin, eh ?” And he put it into
his coat-lapel.
The Ewan Frazers have got a new cypress-green
motor, and the Mac Neils have another that
doesn’t look new. But it’s roomy enough to carry
many of the officers of the Pah’f’l. Those who
pad the hoof between the Mac Neil’s Point and
town think this is the motor omnibus, and are
always rushing it with a tuppence fare in their
unmanicured hands. And, when it won’t stop,
they go home and write to the Traffic Inspector
demanding the dismissal of the chap who drives it.
Two more Pah’f’l officers are getting ready to
ask “Will you?” to two Sydney girls who, no
doubt, are practising the whispered “ Yes.”
Twelve dances are fixed for race week, so this
over-girled State will thrill to the froufrou of frills
and frocks. The Dibbs, the Abbey Dangars, and
the Ewan Frazers, will be amongst the benefactors.
That remarkably bouncing ballroom floor that
was made for Mr. Willie Watt (and which is a
moveable feast prepared by a local builder), will
do duty for several of the dances.
Last night Mayor and Mayoress Allen Taylor
had some 90 persons to dinner at the Town Hall.
To the Aldermen and several Harbor and Bar
lights (that is naval and law men), and their
wives, who made up the party, were given the
fatted bird on the lordly dish, and great was the
reign of the pink rose over the rose-pink tables.
When Mrs Allen Taylor goes out of office, the
name of her favorite charity, the Thirlmere Home
for Consumptives, will be found written—in lines
of worry—on her forehead. Of course, if she gets
the £lOOO required, the lines won’t be written.
The committee has £2OOO, but it wants a third.
If this intimation should cause an irresistible on-
rush of donors armed with cheques, the com-
mittee won’t mind being a little injured in the
crush.
So Mrs. Maesmore Morris has married a simple
lieutenant in the Royal Naval Reserve, .and not a
South African millionaire with a German-Jewish
name. She is now Mrs. MacDonald Sutor.
The Cornelius Deloherys are returning to Syd-
ney by the Orontes. Chancellor Normand
MacLaurin, with Mrs. and a son, are on their
way back by the Militiades.
“The man who marries his cook,” said the
cynic to me, “ generally has to think of brandy-
sauce afterwards. Either she is a genial sort and
takes to brandy, or she is haughty and puts on
so much sauce as to alienate all his friends.”
A bit of scenic criticism overheard on a U.S.S.
boat from Auckland to Sydney (uttered by a
young Englishman) in a check suit and a 6-inch
collar. “ They—aw—say the Wangan ui River is the
Rhine of New Zealand. I don’t think it is—aw—
much like the Rhine. The meals served on board
the boats are nothing like. You get the most
rippin, feeds on the Rhine boats.”
Freeman-Thomas has his portrait in London
illustrated papers because he, as a Liberal,
defeated some other man at an election, or some
such foolishness. Picture of the large-eyed, wide-
browed man with the rather narrow jaw reminds
that the original is the husband of the youngest
daughter of ex-Governor of Victoria, “Sunbeam ”
Brassey. She rustled considerably at the election,
and must have helped her young man and hin-
dered his opponent immensely. For she was one of
the most vital sparks, and one of the best-looking
that ever lighted a vice-regal landscape. She
couldn’t have been more than two or three and
twenty when she came to Australia, fresh as a
wild rose, and wearing her hair Sweet Simplicity
style, parted in the centre, and knobbed on the
nape of her neck. Her frankness and absence of
frill were child-like. At a Masonic'ball she told a
group of Australiennes, “You mustn’t think
Freeman is a Mason—l wouldn’t let him, because
I didn’t want the bother of worming the secrets
out of him.” And Freeman, standing by, uttered
a remonstrative “Oh.” Also, her three-year-old
son and the step-mother’s girl, kids of about the
same age, used to fight like mad—which was all
very human and refreshing.
Death of Mrs. Hughes, wife of Federal member
W. M. Hughes, who was Minister for External
Affairs in the Watson Government, is a sad loss
to those bereaved, especially as there are young
children in the family. Deceased lady didn’t set
out to make any figure in Society or politics, and
was a believer in the creed that the “hand that
rocks the cradle rules the world.”
Miss Annie Mayor, who is running various
gems of literature in character, at the Palace, was
noted, when playing here in former days, for her
brown eyes, russet hair, and dimples. The
S’African climate has left her, so her friends say,
with all three charms unfaded.
Violinist Cyril Monk is due in Sydney for two
concerts, and then goes to M.L. Exhibition as
solo fiddler. Another music-maker to appear
soon in concert-work is Missf Lilian Irvine, a
M.L. girl with a sweet soprano warble.
Mrs. Sharman, who was the comic-operatic
Juliet Wray, is in Sydney with a jolly little
daughter. Her husband is port health officer at
Auckland.
Dr. Arthur a while ago sent a circular letter to
the Anglo-Indian papers, drawing attention to
the value of Australia as a garden of rest for
retired officers and other officials, a good sporting
ground for young officers on leave, and a fine land
for fresh enterprise for planters. All the papers
printed the letter, and by last mail a sackful of
replies reached the doctor. Writers are all
desirous of a change, either of climate, or
sport, or work. Majority make detailed in-
quiries as to facilities for educating children
here and ask after “our socialistic and revolu-
tionary trend.” Curiously enough, whilst most
of the inquirers confess a blank ignorance of Aus-
tralia, they have some knowledge of Tasmania.
That little island has long been a harbor of refuge
for retired Indian Civil Service functionaries.
An Australian artist writes from London
I went to the E.A. t’other day and had a look round.
P. Fox, of Melbourne, has a very good thing in,
badly hunt'', of course, as is the case with the other
Australians. Longstaff’s portrait deserved better placing.
Fullwood has two oils—“A Chalk Pit and Nelsons
Column.” They are very good apparently, but hard to
see. Streeton has two water-colors—St. Paul s from the
river and New South Kensington Museum (al maze of
scaffolding), both rather slight. Lambert exhibits two
oils—study of a head and a picture called Lottie and
the Lady,” which I can’t exactly make out, but both
show good work. I may be wrong, but I don t think Ive
seen as good work here by our men as I did in Australia.
Dr. Jessie Aspinall was one of the bridesmaids
at the Pitt-Dr. Smith wedding last week. The
reception was held at the Scots’ College, Belle Vue
Hill, by the Aspinalls, who are old friends of the
Pitts.
From my Brisbane correspondent:—
Captain and Mrs. Bertram Brooke, who are living in
the pretty river-side residence of D. B. Eden, gave a
smart party on Friday night. Masks and dominoes were
worn by the 70 or 80 guests, who were received by an
orderly, ushered into the ballroom, and turned loose.
No sign of host or hostess, who quietly slipped into the
room along with the rest. It was nearly 11 before the
hostess was recognised.
Everyone .is golfing madly this week, and the annual
ladies’ match resulted in favor of Miss D. Henderson, a
young and very promising player, who beat a number of
old hands right out.
Good amateur performance here last week--one-act
play, “The Ninth Waltz,” capitally interpreted by Miss
Ida Boyd and H. Corbett (pupils of Miss Noad). “ Trial
by Jury,” which followed, was chiefly notable for the
6inging and acting of Mrs. R. Taylor, one of the Munro
clan, and sister to Mrs. Colonel Spencer Browne.
Yours Affectionately, ARENEHI.
A small sum might be devoted annually
by some State Government —they all grant votes
for much worse purposes—for scientific botanical
work in the direction of attempting to improve
Australian fruits. A trial is being made at the
Howlong (N.S.W.) State farm to use a root of the
wild grape in the hope of producing a phylloxera-
resistant variety. The native strawberry, which
is gradually giving way to many imported noxious
pests, is considered to be well worth attention in
this connection. Also, the wild cherry, native
lime, the North Coast blue plum, tamarinds, and
others. Have we a Fatman in the State who is
anxious to perpetuate his memory by a bequest
for the purpose? It would be a change from the
stained church window and the town pump.
“ C.M.” : A resident of the Cressy district
(Vic.), a lady who excels in cookery, has mastered
the art of making braized sparrow on toast as
savory as quail. Her husband, who is a keen
“sport,” declares that sparrow is not distinguish-
able from quail the way she cooks it. This lady
has possibly solved the problem of the sparrow
nuisance. Just let “ sparrow on toast ” catch on,
and there will be an early slump in one bird
nuisance. Is there any hope for crow on toast?
The Romance of Railway Signalling.
“ C. A. J.” on railway signalling : —
An obscure cablegram recently mentioned that the
London and North Western Railway Company of England
had adopted a system of “audible signals.” The story
of progress in railway signalling is a fascinating one. But
something substantial in money and fame still awaits the
man who can devise the system of signalling that will
be absolutely independent of human fallibility.
The first railway signaller was the man who rode on
horseback, carrying a flag, in front of George Stephen-
son’s engine on the Stockton -and Darlington railway.
He was not there to protect the travelling public on the
train, but the other portion of it which might be crossing
the line. The usual speed was about nine miles an hour;
but there were places where the signalman got from in
front and held his breath while a daredevil drove the
show at the dizzy rate of 15 miles an hour. By 1839
speed had increased to 37 miles an hour, and a host
of narrow escapes from serious accidents, mostly
through trains rushing full speed into stations
before their time, and nearly colliding with shunt-
ing operations, proved the necessity of some sort
of signalling system. At first the men who were moving
trucks about protected themselves by placing red or blue
flags beside the line. But in wet and foggy weather the
sodden flags hung limply round the sticks, and on gloomy
days failed to attract the notice of the drivers. They
were replaced by colored discs, and then a great contro-
versy broke out as to the merits of the “ negative ” or
“ positive ” systems of signalling. Under the negative,
the driver rushed into the station, unless he saw a signal
to stop him. Under the positive, he stayed outside till
he got a signal to come in. Both systems had their
drawbacks. Under the negative, people were killed at
the station, under the positive they were killed outside.
The positive system won.
* * • *
In 1841 Charles Hutton Gregory erected the first sema-
phore of modern type on the top of New Cross Station,
on the Croydon line. Then an unknown genius devised
the use of the home and distant signal, which was a com-
bination of both positive and negative systems. The
driver who found the distant signal against him whistled
loudly, slowed down to four miles an hour, and crept
inside the distant signal and up to the home signal,
where he waited till the lowering of the arm gave him
the sign to enter the station, the distant signal mean-
while protecting his rear from attack. This was reckoned
the solution of the whole problem of station signalling.
In the meantime, the other side of signalling, that con-
trolling the movements of trains on given sections of rail-
way, was proceeding apace. In 1838 the Great Western
Company erected the first railway telegraph, between
Paddington and West Drayton, the famous five-needle
instrument, on which the departure of a train was tele-
graphed to the next station, and its safe arrival reported.
Not long after this wire was erected a murder was com-
mitted on the train going west. A Quaker was seen to
get out of the carriage in which the body was found and
enter the train for London, and the man who wired the
arrival and departure of the trains sent a message to
Paddington to “ arrest Quaker on No. 24 ; man murdered
No. 21,” and the Quaker was so astonished at his arrest
that he confessed.
n * * *■
In 1844 the first “ Absolute Block ” system of signalling
was introduced on the Norwich-Yarmouth line. It was
invented by Cooke and Wheatstone, and consisted of a
box which showed a red disc, marked “ line from A to B
Blocked ” when a train had been correctly signalled. But
at best it was only a reminder, and drunken and forget-
ful officers forgot to signal'and sent trains into one
another cheerfully. For several years a frightful
massacre of the public went on, for by this time trains
were running at high rates of speed, and following one
another over the same set of rails with only ten minutes
between them.
* * * *
After that there is no clear history of invention. Differ-
ent companies used different appliances, and -were
constantly modifying and superseding systems. Improve-
ments in signalling and safe work meant a saving of
millions to the railway companies, for the closer they
could run their trains the more they could run per day,
and the fewer lines of rails they could work with. And
lines cost an awful lot of money. The stations became a
network of rails, out of which the untrained
mind could make nothing but confusion. Railway
management had become a great science. Slowly, and
with many failures, the famous “interlocking” system
was evolved. This was a system of points by which
when siding No. 4 was opened for a train on No. 1 main
line to enter, all entrances to that siding from main lines
Nos. 2, 3, 4, etc., were automatically locked. Then
Winter and Preece devised an electric block by which the
man at the station which was to receive the train had to
open his points for the siding into which the train was to
go before it left the previous signalling station, and it re-
mained locked open till the train had passed into it, when
it closed automatically, and remained locked till a fresh
set of signals opened it again. The same appliance worked
the starting signal. The officer at the station of departure
could not lower his starting semaphore till the officer at
the receiving station had locked the line and siding for
that particular train, and unless the semaphore came
down the driver would not start. This was a great
advance, and under it the carrying capacity of the lines
was increased by 100 per cent.
* * m *
But all these devices were mere aids to human memory,
and a drunken driver could wreck the whole mechanism.
What the railway mind sought was the system by which,
if every man on the train fell down dead, and every
officer in the signalling cabins also fell down, drunk or
otherwise, the train would be brought to a sudden stand-
still. This was a high ideal, but progress in its direction
is being made. In 1893 tbe Western Liverpool Overhead
Railway introduced the track circuit system, by which
an electric current runs through every engine on the
line. Should the train become derailed, a galvanometer
in the cabs of the trains in front and behind rings a
warning-bell. So far no controlling brake system
has been adopted, but from Maoriland comes
news that the thing has been perfected at last.
The Buckeridge Brothers have, it is said, invented
the ideal system. The whole line is divided into “safety
sections.” Thin copper rails running on insulators rest
between the rails that carry the engine. A trolly-wheel
like that on the Sydney electric trams connects them
with the mechanism of the engine. The copper
rails are not continuous, and have breaks at
regular intervals. On one side there is a long
rail, on the other, alternately, two short ones. The
long rail makes a danger zone, and immediately two
trains come within dangerous distance of one another
they form a complete electric circuit, and from storage
batteries, charged by the turning of the engine wheels, a
current leaps out and blows the engine whistle, extin-
guishes the signal lamp in the engine, and shuts off
steam. Every man on both trains may be dead, but the
current will bring both trains to a standstill, for the
same movement that shuts off the steam lets loose the
brake power. And every train following lets loose a
fresh current to stop itself. That is the last word in
railway signalling up to date.
Henry Wrixon, knight, of Victoria, has
been delivered of another book. This time he has
dealt with Socialism —“its broad aspects.” He
calls his book ‘ ‘ The Pattern Nation,” and it is to
be printed by Macmillan’s this month (September).


SUPERFLUOUS HAIRS.
AN ABSOLUTE CURE FOUND AT LAST.
I ADY, self-cured of this distressing 1 affliction, will
forward remedy on receipt of 4/6, postage 6d.
extra. Other States, 5/8. Send Id. Stamp for booklet
on treatment and testimonials from grateful clients
cured. Only genuine postal address—“ Tonic,”
Central Chambers, 77 Swanston St., Melbourne.
Tired
Feet
Prevented by
using: DUNLOP
Para Rubber
Heels.
V
Dunlop
Rubber
Heels
Have now become so popular in the
Commonwealth and New Zealand that
our present output is over
n TONS PER WEEK.
The benefits derived from the use of Rubber Heels
are so apparent and numerous that the wonder is
that they have not come into general use years back.
If Rubber Heels were very expensive, and gave less
wear than the ordinary hard unyielding leather ones,
then one could understand the little advance made
in past years, towards the general use of the Rubber
Heel, which should be used by everyone
who has any consideration for his or
her health and comfort.
Walking on hard pavements or roads with leather
heels has a continual jarring effect on the nervous
system, which leaves harmful effects that are
erroneously put down to different causes. Our high-
grade Rubber Heel absorbs all jar from walking, and
enables one to w'alk further and with less fatigue than
with the old-fashioned hard leather heels.
Obtainable all Boot Stores.
Specify ** DUNLOP” Brand
and accept no INFERIOR
. . . MAKES. . . .
THE DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
OF AUST. LTD.,
All States and
New Zealand.
fds
DUNLOP
HEELS
Have NO EQUAL for
80FTNESS or DURABILITY.
srtiß
AND
i *tlosir'
Supporters .=
-~***-r or sale **»-
. IN ALL LEADING STORE* mm
“ Garments fitted with Kleinert’s Dress
Shields and Kleinert’s Hose Supporters
bear the indefinable Stamp of Style.”
This is the Verdict of Three Continents.
f
Mr Distinction of SHAPL
"ML
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, September 11, 1906.
My Dear Yarrie,—
The Northcote reception lasted a brief hour,
with a genuflection and a sandwich. The guests,
turned loose in the ball room, the only available
space for a tail-spread, moped about till the band
struck up the anthem and the G.-G. contingent
entered into sight. Then they adopted their
show-case smile and fashion-plate dignity. The
appearance of the two Vice-regal dames was
matter for comparison. The hostess (and greater
Ex.) gleamed royally upon the multitude. As she
passed up the room, nodding with blended
ceremony and cheeriness from side to side, her
emeralds and diamonds sent out a myriad twinkles.
Behind, the tall black figure of Dame Talbot reared,
with a cold electric gleam showing from her gray
height. And she jerked her head loftily now and
then—an amused and rather cynical smile on her
face. It seemed to hurt the lady of Stonington to
walk in the rear.
Official marms and their chicks, wearing dull
garb and a pained expression, were most numer-
ous at the reception. Just now and then a flut-
terer like Miss Whiting, a dazzler like Miss
Atherton, a flower-girl beauty like Miss Lynette
Molesworth, shot on the grateful view. Other
times, one looked in vain for resplendence. Mrs.
Albert Miller was a Polar study—all white from
crown to toe. Mrs. Dyce Murphy showed off her
magnificent carriage with a suggestion of mischief
in her eye to correct its unrelenting rigor. Miss
Drummond, the ewe-lamb browsing at the Federal
V.-R. eyrie at present, was a gentle St. Agnes
study in vestal white and a centre hair-parting
that suggested pious, uplifting thoughts. Mrs.
N. Lockyer, just over from Sydney with her
Collector spouse, who prepares to play chief of
the Commonwealth Customs, was an unpreten-
tious figure in salmon pink. As Miss Wollaston,
in the spinster past, she struck a cheerier dress-
note.
After contemplating Oom Bill Lyne and Big-
john Forrest in Court dress, and getting the
quartet of bulging pink calves in serious focus, I
decided that any sensible man of bulk would
refuse a portfolio if the future were to bring such
a rig upon him. At the Northcote party, the two
hulking figures footed it in a track of laughter.
The Tooraketty element look in chagrin and
despair upon a supply of good-looking aides, who
remain, when off the duty-chain, still out of reach.
Ibe present V.-R. caddies are not taking any
rakish joy of the hour ; and therefore the claws
of the angered Chinchillas grow long.
The mildest miss housed at Government House
for many seasons is Miss Rawson, whose black
garb of woe has a rustle of grief as she walks.
Some mourning habiliments have a jarring /row-
frou, like a requiem service chanted by a vaude-
ville chorus in tights. Miss Rawson’s black rig
h is the sadness of the hateful cypress.
N.S.W. Governor Rawson and his daughter
have learned something about felt-hat making in
Melbourne. The manager of the Austral Hat
Mills lured them to the scene of manufacture,
and talked to them about Australian goods and
anti-Australian prejudices whilst showing them
round. Having been quite convinced that hats
as good as ever came into the country are daily
coming out of it, Gov. Rawson and the aide,
likewise the young lady, left their measures at
the mills for a number of hats.
All Bohemian Melbourne, and Melbourne that
thinks itself Bohemian, turned up to show its legs
at the Artists’ Ball last week, and the unofficial
first prize fell to a dainty little person whose
funereal costume revealed a pair of nether some-
things that excited raving admiration from artistic
and unartistic alike. The costumes were, on the
whole, wonderful examples of economy, financial
and material, and showed how far the taste of a
more or less artistic crowd is ahead of that of the
crowd that is only less artistic. The dresses of
the society function, at the Glaciarium a few
nights before, probably averaged £2 apiece more
than those at the Artists’ Ball, yet, in com pari-
son, looked like the wardrobe of a stranded barn-
storming company in the noonday sun. If the
Artists had any business capacity, they would
hold their annual carnival in the Melb. Town
Hall, and reap many shekels by charging the
general public 2s. 6d. for looking on. But, if they
had any business capacity, they wouldn’t be
artists.
Does millinery pay ? asks a man. Does it pay ?
He’s a bachelor, and evidently has never lost a
toque bet, or he’d know. An instance of the for-
tunes in the business : Melbourne’s crack bonnet-
builder, queening it over an extensive and lavish
clientele, was recently offered a partnership in a
smart chiffon business, and accepted it. The firm,
whose millinery branch had increased in import-
ance and multiplied in custom under her cute
charge, held out various inducements and offered
almost a Cabinet Minister’s pay if she would re-
main. But the level-headed little expert guesses
she has a fortune in the new enterprise, and has
started under a significant golden sign to build
top-masts for beauty on her own.
From a recent smart novel:—
At a dinner party, after the ladies returned to the
drawing-room, the hostess, her broad expanse tinkling
with diamonds, leaned back in a great tufted chair and
shivered slightly. A footman went in search of the lady’s
maid. “ Franeoise,” said the magnet’s lady, with languid
magnificence, “ I feel chilly ; bring me another diamond
necklace.”
The Landales are coming back to the parent
roost in the Tooraketty quarter. In the Big
Smoke the skittish sisters were lost in the fog or
somewhere adjacent. They were sighted for a
fraction of a Piccadilly moment or a Strand spasm
by one or two inky scouts, and then no more. In
this capital they will be as glittersome phosphor-
escence in a slate-grey sea.
Every tongue is wagging over the right or
wrong of Mrs. Staughton’s action in letting her
Saturday party stumble along without her—the
absentee hostess putting in a more resplendent
hour at the greater Gov’ment House. Guests
were not informed of the dame’s plan. They
arrived, asked for the hostess, and were informed
in a glib speech by Mary Ann that the Missus
was dining with the Northcotes, but would they
please walk inside, and have some musical sand-
wiches scraps of Chopin between coffee-wafers ?
In some indignant instances, they didn’t walk
inside, but left the hostless spree to its own
random course. Others went in, looked round,
told each other what they thought, and revenged
themselves at supper.
Mrs. Staughton defends herself first with the
statement that an invitation from the top Exes,
counts as a command, and secondly with the
excuse that it wasn’t an ordinary party she
abandoned, but a mere fraternizing shivoo for the
National Leaguers.
Ihe Austral Salon raises its still small voice
now and then as a protest against the rumor that
it is an extinct body. The other day Lady Talbot
was lassoed and secured for a demonstration.
There were painted and wordy addresses for the
outgoing secretary and treasurer, and these went
to the industrious deservers by way of the Vice-
regal hand.
An experienced bridegroom (he prepares for a
third mate) tells me he has discovered a jeweller
who is an artist at the selling of the engage-
ment circle. It appears that this young
man speaks very softly, and has a way of
treating the demand for a ring with such
reverential respect that the customer, half-
ashamed of his commercial views of life, is
led into an expensive deal. The salesman
drops his alert “What next, please?” manner,
and repeats, ever so softly, “An engagement
ring?’ and, after a pause, “ Yes,” or any other
old monosyllable that expresses a gentle reply to
much active argumentative thought. “An
engagement ring! ” he murmurs a second time,
and in such a seductive, insinuating manner that
the plighter glows from his hat-brim to his boots,
and tells himself, “By gad! yes; it is a big
thing in one’s life.” And so, with all this soft
speech, and gentle fuss, and reverential manner,
the purchaser buys a 22-guinea affair instead of a
five-guinea one, and goes out of the shop feeling
he has done an heroic thing. This experienced
’groom has just done the heroic thing for the third
time.
There’s no doubt that an ingratiating salesman
accomplishes big things while the surly counter-
hand loses trade. The she-customer who fusses
and gets a surly shop-hand into a Sphinxy state of
stony silence and glare, just bangs out of the shop
in a temper, and tells her hubbie who wants, say,
socks, that she wouldn’t buy them to please the
sulky cat in the shop. “ But they were the kind
I want,” pleads poor Mr. Brown. “Of course—
the very identical,” puts in Mrs. B.; “ but do you
think I’d buy them from that insolent baggage.
I’d see you wearing none at all, rather.” And
she would. Nothing could persuade her to take
any other view of the matter. On the other hand,
should a nice, smiling, sympathetic salesman have
listened in a charmed way to all her irrelevant
chatter of the children, and the cook and the
weather, Mrs. Brown would have bought up a
dozen and a-half pairs of brown socks, and cried
incontinently if Brown had refused to wear them.
Miss Elmhirst Goode, touring Europewards,
sends word in sweet humorless fashion that “it’s
so nice on board. We have no musical people
but our own lot, and you’d never know we were
musical —we all sounded so horrible when sick in
the Bight.”
Mrs. Ernest Raleigh, as a prelude to Mrs. Jack
Fisher’s fancy-rig hop, on Thursday night, ban-
quetted a dozen, at the Grand, with any amount
of floral fuss. It was mostly a pink-and-blue
scheme, and, as Keats puts it, “ wild rose-
trees pavilioned them in bloom.” It’s a great
notion to crowd a scene with flowers. The gaiety
of a dinner is almost assured by a profligate dis-
play of festive blossoms.
In the midst of a week full of song and endless
callers, Dolores snatched a day for a frolic. It
took the form of a jaunt to the show of live stock,
harvesters, and curly-tailed pig at Elemington.
With the beaming eye, the rosy cheek, the glad hope
of a child, the “star” took her treat. She had
never been to an Agricultural Show in her melo-
dious life, nor come into contact with pink pigs
or white Shorthorns, though raised herself—she
says laughingly—in a rural quarter of la Idle
France. So Dolores turned over the fleece of the
Shropshire rams, and stroked the smooth, black
noses of the Ayrshire champions, and fell into
raptures over a litter of 10 pink pigs, saying to
Mr. Tait —“Look, Mr. Manager, there is a full
house ” —and was stricken speechless with admira-
tion at the 26cwt. of colossal cream Shorthorn
bull, with mandarin ears and golden-red eyebrows
and a creamy silk floss giving delicacy to the
ruminating head. It was delightful to enjoy the
fresh fun of this experienced artiste with a
youthful capacity for a frolic, and to study
draught stock and white breeds of pig in such
joyous company.
The cruellest experience at the Elemington
Agricultural Show was found in the tent of
plenty (?), where the tea was pitched at one hap-
hazard, and sometimes landed on the lap, and,
more often overflowed from the cup, and rocked
threateningly in the saucer. It was a severe test
for feminine serenity ; yet Dolores suffered the
rough condition of things with an unruffled coun-
tenance. That’s one of the singer’s charms, her
perfect patience. Dolores must be a philosopher
—a thing rare for a public pet. When some wag
suggested that she should go and try some voices-
in the pig-pen, where several baby pigs squeaked
in different keys, the star shook with good-
natured laughter.
A mining magnate, suspected of matrimonial
intentions toward a lady of a long term of widow-
hood, did the Flemington Show with the widow,
and took such an interest in pickled preserves,
and such domestic exhibits, that he can no
longer hope to stem the tide of inflowing con-
gratulations.
A curious thing about the stranded Australiennes
in the Bull capital, says Dolores, is the fact that
they prefer to starve, as hopelessly as a rat in a
jeweller’s show-case, rather than return to the
land they came from. To several failed singers
who have appealed for assistance to Dolores, it
has been pointed out that there would be room
for some sort of work, even outside of music, in
this fat continent for the failed performer. She
has asked the applicant to think of returning and
to come to her, when decided, for assistance.
“But they never come back to me,” says Dolores.
“They will not return to a living in this great
country of theirs—they’d rather starve on in a
city that doesn’t want them.”
On Saturday the Cream found a sudden novel
charm in kiddies. It had turned en masse from
poodle interests and the usual afternoon card-
flutter to the contemplation of infant strutters on
Her Majesty s boards. During the progress of
“La Poupee,” the flabbergasted Cream broke into
ecstasies. “ What a duck ! What an absolutely
cute dear ! What a little love ! ” It made me
think of the recent Kennel Show, and the excla-
mation affectionate of all Society when it beheld
the prize pug or the Pomeranian champion. The
vice-regal of Stonington—herself a better judge of
a dogthanababy—lookedonatthe skilled juveniles
with amazement and a lorgnette, and at the in-
terval issued a command for the novice organiser
and stage manageress. When Miss Jeannie Brenan
fluttered into her pen, the grey Ex. was still more
astonished. She had expected to see an advanced
and strenuous battler. Instead, her cold eye was
greeted by quite a girlish flutterer, rather fragile,
somewhat pretty, and altogether youthful. The
Talbot Dame paid much stately praise to the
charmer, and unbent towards the close of her
compliments to a friendly hand-grip. So Miss
Brenan personally must have pleased greatly.
The rigid Ex. has to be most favourably pleased
before she takes a new-comer into her friendly
smiles.
Mrs. Norman Menzies (Miss Dorothy Yane)
looked at the tot of seven summers —Nellie
M‘Carthy—pirouetting and pattering through her
old La Poupee role with a wide wondering smile.
Nothing more naive than this kiddie’s assump-
tion of the star part could be imagined. She
sang of her over-wrought soul with an
elderly air of sorrow and of love, with one small
hand on her beating heart and t’other extended
in earnest appeal, till the males of the audience
vowed a vow to trust no more the sex. whose acting
art is in perfection at seven. The infant M‘Carthy
is a cuddlesome, unspoilt pet off the boards, and
much more concerned about her own black coon
dollie with a sawdust leg missing than the ap-
plause of a multitude like Saturday’s. The boy-
lover—Harold Keig—could give points in senti-
mental struttings to many a professional. He
actually got a thrill into one of Kenningham’s
solo gems.
Mrs. Tom Eairbairn has hied again to Europe
with her giant-hubbie and a sister—Miss Simson.
Mrs. Tom made her last appearance at a
Christian Science talk before setting out. The
skittish little dame has taken very solemnly to
white poodles and C. Science. And she skits not
at all j ust now.
Miss Edie 0 Sullivan, one of the handsomest
girls of Bohemian Melbourne, who was gazetted
missing after the ’Frisco earthquake, has turned
up, well, but temporarily stone-broke, in a refugee
camp. On leaving Melbourne, 18 months ago,
she started a beauty-parlor in ’Frisco, and, doing
well, put all her earnings into the development of
the business. Consequently, when the ’quake
came along she was left stranded. Feminine
Frisco, attired mostly in its nighty, forgot all
about appearances ; so the fair maker of Yenuses
bad for a while to eat at the soup-kitchens, not
being able to raise the price of a cable to her
relatives.
From my Adelaide correspondent:
In spite of Mrs. Sj moil’s efforts, there doesn’t seem to
be much wild enthusiasm in Adelaide over the service of
plate to the battleship Commonwealth. Somebody called
a meeting about it in the Mayor’s parlor t’other dav and
there was a crowded attendance of one. All motions
were carried with acclamation.
A n , ie , Ce .? f Federal Speaker Holder gave a piano recital
at Adelaide Lyric Club the other night, and out of 250
members who have free entrance and ten guests’ tickets
each during the year, an audience of perhaps 30
turned up. As the player was a non-member, who
had given the recital purely out of good nature
it wasn t a pretty incident. Fact is, the Lyric Club has
become more social than musical during the last few
years, and the average member nowadays is too bored to
sit through a classical programme unless the perpetrator
be a ‘fashionable.” The Holders are too intellectual to
be wildly sassiety.” The damsel in question, who is still
in her teens, is a promising pupil of long-haired Conserva-
tonum Professor Bryceson Trehearne, and got off a
Beethoven - Lizst - Schumann - Chopin-Weber programme
■entirely from memory.
Tis rumored, by the way, that the learned professor
removes to London at the end of the year. He is quieter
now than when he first burst on Adelaide and wrote
weird effusions on “ Brahms my demi-god,” etc., for the
local press. He’ll be missed by musical Adelaide.
Yours Affectionately, TRYPHENA.
Of all the preparations for improving the com-
plexion that have been introduced to Australia, nothina-
has approached that ideal Skin Food, Patti’s Beautv
Cream, to,- purity, daintiness, and efficacy in harmlesslv
and rapidly clearing the skin of Wrinkles, Pimples
Freckles, Blackheads, Sunburn, Roughness, and all Skin
Blemishes, leaving the complexion smooth, clear, fresh
healthy, youthful and transparent after a few applica-
tions; in fact, chemists speak of it as the standard of
excellence in toilet preparations. We do not advertise
hysterically about half-a-dozen preparations. We simply
state a few indisputable facts about one, and its users
prove these facts and spread glowing reports of its virtues
so that to-day it has a greater sale than any other toilet
preparation. Moreover, it is not necessary to keep on
using Patti s Beauty Cream for months. We positively
guarantee to give you a clear, healthy, velvety com-
plexion if you use one pot of Patti’s Beauty Cream faith-
fully according to directions. Its curative and anti-
septic properties have brought it into great favor, also
with gentlemen after shaving ; and Burns, Cuts, Scalds,
Bruises, etc., are healed almost instantaneously bv applv-
mg a small quantity of Patti’s Beauty Cream.' Price
3s. 6d. and 6s. per pot, of all Chemist and Stores through-
out Australia and New Zealand.
Anglican Archbishop Clarke has a new sign
hanging on his party dress. It’s a huge, shining,
silver cross, which he wears on his breast with
quite a Mercia air of You-cannot-harm-me-now.
All golfers are at scratch this week for the
Royal Melbourne Club trophies. Hundreds are
brandishing cleeks on the Sandringham links, and
every strenuous She plays over the soaking course
in storm-proof leggings.


Quinine that does not affect the head,
Laxative Bromo Quinine Tablets represent
Quinine, combined with other ingredients, in the
most acceptable and efficacious form for colds,
influenza, grip, or any catarrhal disorders. Head-
ache and feverish, or malarious conditions. At
all chemists, Is. l|d.*
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Brave men have tried times over again
To reach the ice-bound poles in vain ;
There needs yet more acute device
To storm those battlements of ice ;
Perchance, by flying ships to be,
They’ll gain triumphant victory,
Provided they, for colds, secure
A store of Woods’ Great Peppermint Cur
Pi'S
GrO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nag€fy, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS.
ft
*
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENYER BROTHERS
S‘S‘ls
Also at Melbourne.
3YDNEY. |
POLITICAL
POINTS
Reid’s only consistency has been in writ-
ing bad poetry and advocating pauper labor. His
plea for a sweated population to make manufac-
tures possible under Freetrade conditions was
first made in 1875, was repeated in 1880, and
again in 1905.
The talk was of Adam Smith, and Attor-
ney-General Isaacs chipped in with a smart
thing: “He wrote ‘The Wealth of Nations,’ and
was a Freetrader. We have to consider in these
selfish days the wealth of a nation, our nation,
and must be therefore Protectionists.”
Lyne this time is being attacked in the
Hume by a tandem team, Mr. and Mrs. Gibb, and
the lady, from all accounts, is the better man of
the two. But the electors don’t like the idea of
a candidate being led round like the prize animal
at the show with a ring through his nose.
It doesn’t seem likely that Maoriland will
endorse the preferential trade treaty with Aus-
tralia. The late Seddon entered into the treaty
with the blare of the welcoming band in his ear
and the bubble of the amicable champagne in his
eye, and, according to Maoriland opinion, he
didn’t make a good bargain.
William Lyne is being opposed in the
Greid interest for a N.S. Wales constituency by a
Victorian who isn’t reckoned to have a dog’s
chance for any seat in the State which knows him
best. What a shriek from the Reidites if the
Deakin party or the Labor party imported a
candidate in that fashion to N.S. Wales !
Jack Murray, Vic. M.L.A., upon the
Ministry from which he marched away :
The shadow of the dissolution is on the wall. I got out
of the wet in good time. I was in that cold, sleety atmo-
sphere long enough. It froze me and my political prin-
ciples into a state of torpor, from which I am entirely
recovered.
Which is a poor sort of testimonial to party
government.
“M.C.” (from M.L.)
I object to you accusing our Joseph Ward of subjecting
our country’s interest to the English tourist. Joe Ward
has provided the brains for this country and commanded
its finance for the last 13 years. He has faults, but one
redeeming virtue is that he is Australasian right down to
his boot-laces.
[There is one mistake here. Joseph Ward,
financially, hasn’t the redeeming virtue. He has
only the pawning vice.— Ed. B.J
BUILDING THE ARK OF REFORM.
As has been since the days of Noah, they will do
nothing- to help themselves until the flood is uncon-
trollable—then they will be tile first to suffer.— Argus,
deploring the deadness of the Citizens’ League.
Freely rumored in the lobby,- last week,
that if, at the police-court hearing against the
persons charged with complicity in the Lands
Department scandals, Peter Close’s memory had
failed again, the Carruthers Government would
have gone out of office. Fortunately for the
Government, Peter’s memory (which seems to be
of the intermittent kind) was in working order,
and he remembered all sorts of things which, he
alleges, happened.
Replying to a question as to whether it
intended to enforce the law against the sale of
newspapers on Sunday, the N.S.W. Carruthers
Government—with one eye on the fact that its
one press supporter in N.S.W now is Sunday
Truth —pointed ou t that to enforce the Sabbatarian
laws as they stood, would be absurd ; would, for
instance, stop all ferry boats and trams. True
and sensible enough. But why isn’t the same
common-sense exercised in regard to the Sabbath
banana and squash ?
N S.W. Assembly doesn’t seem to see it
(that politically blear-eyed body isn’t really
capable of seeing much but a shindy or a dog-
fight these days), yet it should be obvious to any-
one that members of Parliament emphatically
should not act as land agents. They may be as
pure as snow, and the Lands Minister of lily-
white reputation, but the position of a man
putting a land matter before a Minister depend-
ent on his vote for office must be embarrassing.
Charlie Jeffries, Melbourne’s flash boot-
maker, and a member of its city council, has
just returned from a tour round Japan. He went
to Japan not believing in White Australia. He
comes back converted. “ After his experiences,
he would champion the cause of a pure Australia,
even if he had to go without sugar the remainder
of his life,” he told a welcome-back gathering.
Bruce Smith these days has to go to the
debating clubs for an audience. He told the
Y.M.C.A. gabbers the other night:—
First, the speech should evidence the qualify of the
speaker’s mind. Here the keeping of the body in a
healthy state was necessary.
Well, Bruce, physically, is as fat as a prig. Pre-
sumably that shows a fat mind.
The Deakin Government’s contingent voting
scheme has been abandoned ; and it’s no great loss
in itself. But what does matter is that the next
elections will now be carried out without any
provision for a second ballot or other safeguard
against minority representation. A Contingent
Voting Bill to have had the effect of a second ballot
would have, doubtless, gone through; the Deakin
Bill foundered through being overloaded with
“scientific voting” fads.
“Loco-Fitter,” in defence :
Re your par (23/8/'OC), why call the Queensland railway
system a “shoddy” one? Queensland has been making
its own locomotives for years, being ahead of N.S.W. in
that respect. The loco, shops at Ipswich are the most
up-to-date below the Equator, being run by electricity.
Certainly, the narrow gauge is a drawback, but if it were
4ft. or sft. 3in., would that prevent any stores
scandals occurring? And a point worth noting is that
Queensland has the best record on earth as far as acci-
dents are concerned.
Airy persiflage from the Reps. Dr.
Maloney referred to Kelly as “the youth with
the Oxford drawl and the Whitechapel crawl.”
Joe Cook' interfered on behalf of his protege.
Then Maloney : “I would ask my bald-headed
friend to be quiet.” (Baldness is Cook’s sore
point.) “You are an insulting little man to-
night,” he responded, stingingly. “ You are an
insulting pup,” Maloney replied. Almost like a
State Parliament.
Can anything bad enough be said of Sydney
Telegraph, G. Iteid, and Joe Cook, who are still
croaking dismay and disaster over the new mail
contract, simply because it was the Deakin Gov-
ernment that entered into it ? Whatever they can
say the thing is done, and, had the Telegraph
and its supporters any patriotism, they would
pray that for Australia’s sake it would turn out
all right. Should it fail, the Deakin Government
won’t suffer, as the Government’s fate will be
settled before the contract starts. Yet nothing is
plainer than that, if the Preetrade crowd had the
power, it would joyfully wreck the first
mail steamer that arrives in Australia under
the Commonwealth flag. As it happens, success
and not failure seems assured. The contractors
have already started to build two steamships
larger than the largest merchant vessel that has
hitherto entered Port Jackson, and the London
shipping press contains laudatory notices of the
good fortune of the Commonwealth. But the
Telegraph push still snorts and fumes and cusses.
The Seddon-Deakin preferential trade
agreement has been greeted
with a weird variety of curses
by the Freetrade party ; but,
up-to-date, the curse of Puls-
ford is the most vigorous and
comprehensive. Pulsford dis-
covers a “reason for shame”
in it, to begin with; and his
“reason” is the old, old
foreign-trade one—that the
manufacturer in Potsdam or
Burmah may be injured. True
to the old anti-Australian,
importing instinct, the whole
of Pulsford’s limited mental
gaze has been turned on the
manufacturers outside Austra-
lia. Not once, in the course of a
column contribution to the
Argus, does the insensate Puls-
ford mention that there is any
chance of an Australian manu-
facturer benefiting—as Seddon
and Deakin intended—by the
new arrangement; in fact, so
far as Pulsford is concerned,
there is no such thing as an
Australian factory ; or, if there
is, it is not worth considering.
The squatters, some of the farmers, and
anti-Soshers generally of the New England
(N.S.W.) Federal electorate howl dismally about
Watson’s proposed land tax, but they look at
Lonsdale’s single tax proposals with the blind
eye. Do they know that Watson is sincere, and
that his land tax is within the region of practical
politics, and that Lonsdale is insincere, and his
single tax merely flam ?
Premier Carruthers proposes to absorb
the N.S.W. Statistician’s Department in his new-
fangled “ Intelligence Department.” This will
save him the necessity of deciding whether
W. H. Hall should be appointed Govt. Statis-
tician. Ever since the sectarian rumpus
which centred round this officer, Carruthers has
been in a dilemma as to what to do, and this con-
temptible dodging of the difficulty is character-
istically Carrutherish. There is an obvious
objection to absorbing the Statistical Depart-
ment —which is supposed to have impartial and
judicial functions —with the Intelligence Depart-
ment, which is formed to “boom” the State with
as little sacrifice of truth as possible.
The ignorance of Joe Cook set his Parra-
matta (N.S.W.) constituency in a cackle of derisive
laughter the other day. Having told a meeting
of orchardists how, in pursuance of his staunch
Freetrade and anti-Soeialistic convictions, he had
pleaded hard during the Bounties Bill debate for
a bonus on fruit-growing, he got down to Deakin’s
preferential trade proposals with Maoriland. He
explained in a deep, “ alone-I-did-it ” voice that
immediately he heard that oranges had been left
out of the agreement he had bearded the savage
Lyne in his lair, and asked that oranges be in-
cluded. He had pleaded for oranges ; argued for
oranges; done his very best for oranges. And
then, just when Cook was proceeding to hang a
perfervid denunciation of the Ministry on the
limb of an orange tree, the hoarse voice of one,
weary with shooing the woolly aphis in the dewy
morn, came from the back: “But oranges enter
Maoriland free already.” Then a very foolish-
looking Cook sat down, and the meeting laughed
and laughed till every codlin moth in the district
thought an earthquake was coming.
The Home Secretary has warned every
Federal member that to give or promise a prize
to anv club or society in his electorate within
three "months of an election is illegal, lhats
the electoral law, and a very inadequate, half-
hearted sort of law, too. It should be illegal
for a member to give, or promise, a prize
or subscription to any society, club.
hen convention, sports organisa-
tion, or individual cadger m
his electorate at any time.
That would protect mem-
bers against the blackmail-
ing demands which now
absorb so much of their
allowances.
Either Fat hasn’t got
half as much faith in the
“vast natural resources”
and the “great primary
industries” as he pretends
to have, or he is a plunder-
ing humbug. For, while
he will lend money to the
miserable little Sydney
suburban council at from
3 to 4£ per cent., he very
often condemns the
country municipality,
which has all the great
natural resources behind
it, to pay over 6 per cent.
Newtown, Petersham, and
North Sydney have bor-
rowed at 4 per cent, or
under; Armidale, Bathurst
and Goulburn are all pay-
ing from C to 7 per cent.,
and a few places are pay-
ing even more. The vast
natural resources and the
great primary industries
are all very good pap for
Fat to feed fools on ; but
they evidently aren’t reckoned anything as se-
curity for Fat to lend money on.
The effect of the legal and political cam-
paign to smother the N.S.W. Arbitration Act is
shown in the withdrawal of unions from regis-
tration. So little of the Act is left that the
unions see no advantage in its shelter. Toryism
will one day be wakened trom its snug com-
placency at this “ desirable consummation ” by a
gigantic strike.
Bent’s latest kite, flown at the luncheon
of the Agricultural Show, is an “ agricultural
parliament,” whatever that may be, to be composed
of a lower house of practical farmers and an upper
house of “scientific men, who know all about
patent manures and those things.” What the
parliament was to do, and what the fat persons
were to obstruct, Thomas did not explain. Still,
the crowd of Collins-street farmers, who run the
show, cheered wildly. The fact that there was to
be an “ upper house ” was good enough for them.
For hours the debate on the harvester
duties proceeded in the House of Reps, last week
with decorum, until Joe Cook walked into the
Chamber. In 40 seconds what had been a quiet
assembly was an angry bear-garden. Cook is the
centre of discord in the House. He is never
good-tempered, never pleasant, never anything
but acrid, spiteful, and snarling. He imports
into every debate in which he takes part a degree
of bitterness and temper that is never present
without him. No insinuation is too mean for
him ; no motive too unworthy to impute to an
opponent.
“ S.R.” : So Tom Glassey, father and one
time leader of the Queensland Parliament, is now
a life-assurance representative (B. 28/8/’06)? Well,
he has himself to blame. Even as late as the last
Senatorial elections the Queensland Labor party
held out the olive branch to Glassey, and he
refused to accept it. Glassey’s defection has
caused many a pang to honest Democrats. There
is something pathetic in the spectacle of the old
leader peevishly estranging himself from the
friends and the idc-als of his youth. Adversity is
the backbone with some natures; prosperity
unnerves them.
The Nepean—the newly-added electorate
in N.S.W.— is likely to provide a battle among
political derelicts. Hawthorne, who “whipped”
for Reid in days long gone by, is out under cover
of the Australian Democratic Union ; “Tommy”
Taylor is an alleged Liberal and Anti-Soshite, but
refuses to give his name to the care of the “ Cen-
tral Executive,” and won’t retire for anybody;
and John Waugh—a third Anti-Soshite—has
suffered defeat down the South Coast way in the
Parliamentary fight. T. R. Smith, ex-M.L.A.,
and brother of Sydney Smith, is the Protectionist
hope in the scramble.
The Deakin Government, having passed
the Commerce Act, which can prevent the com-
petition of foreign shoddy with Australian manu-
factures ; the Anti-Trust Act, which can smother
the unfair competition of foreign Trusts, and can
stop dumping; the Bounties Act, which will
encourage new industries ; and having raised the
tariff wall as regards two sorely threatened indus-
tries, spirit distillation and the manufacture of
agricultural machinery—lets the work of Protec-
tion rest there for this Parliament. There is still
an enormous amount to be done, but, in view of
the captious opposition of the Reidites, no more is
possible. And those'same Reidites now howl
bitterly. They opposed each step of tariff reform
as it was proposed. Now they ask why the whole
tariff should not be settled this session, and thus
leave no tariff issue for the elections !
Last week about 13 aged greybeards met
in the Melbourne Town Hall and solemnly made
speeches to one another about Victoria’s “claim”
to the Riverina. In the chair was Joe Panton,
P.M., who becomes more feeble every day.
These old derelicts passed a resolution up-
holding Victoria’s “rights,” and constituting
themselves into the Victorian Boundary League,
to pile up bills of costs in the effort to snatch the
Riverina from the jaws of N.S. Wales. They
even went so far as to contribute ss. each towards
this noble end. And all of the greybeards had
“ evidence ”to bring forward. A sample of this
evidence was the hazy recollection of one ancient
that, “before he came out here, he had read in
Scotland, or somewhere, a book about Victoria.
He thought there was a map in that book, and if
that book could be found the map would settle
the matter. He didn’t know what the book was,
but remembered that it cost a shilling, and had a
chocolate-colored cover.” The league after that
should feel quite sure of success.
THE TOLL GATE.
Mr. William Lyne having declared himself in favor of
a toll on bachelors, the fund to be held in trust for the
benefit of unmarried women, spinsters throughout the
States, recognising a good idea, display some anxiety to
“ push it along.”
It would be such an inexpensive tax, too. All
that would be necessary would be to allow a
spinster to put up a toll gate wherever she pleased
and collect her own dues.
Premier Bent’s promise to have £50,000
worth of wire-netting made in Pentridge gaol now
appears to have been mostly bluff, but a flax-
treating plant has been installed in the big prison
and a nine-acre crop of the fibre grown on the
Government farm ; besides this, the Prisons De-
partment notifies farmers that it is prepared to
treat their crops or buy them outright. The
industry is said to be a profitable one, and easily
carried out inside gaol walls, and, so far, nobody
has said anything about interference with Private
Enterprise.
A recent Melb. Argus article, dealing with
“The Stirring Past,” tries to perform the
miracle of depicting the great Victorian land
struggle of the sixties, without making the
slightest reference to the Constitutional Associa-
tion, brought into existence to provide mint
sauce for legislators. It observes a solemn
silence as to the nefarious doings of the big land
thieves and banking magnates, who conspired to
pollute the law at its fountain-head, by bribing
the law-makers; and hasn’t a syllable to say
about the ill-famed Quieting of Titles Bill. It is
a wonderful article for the things it doesn’t say.
As soon as Greater Sydney is talked of,
the tin-pot suburban alderman at once rises
to warn the people of his pocket-handker-
chief borough (there are 41 boroughs in
the Greater Sydney area) that the suburban
voters will be overpowered and swamped by
the city electors. Newtown is the particular
borough in which the latest warning note was
sounded. The figures of enrolment in 1904 were :
Sydney, 37,500 electors ; suburban, 70,664. The
suburban aldermanic yarn is evidently that the
70,000 are about to be overpowered and swamped
by the 37,500. It’s the story of “poor N.S.W.”
and Federation over again.
Gallery pressmen in the Australian
Senate have been growling for a long time about
the stuffy atmosphere pervading their den, and
the other night, at 10.20, Professor Osborne, of
Melbourne University, looked in and pocketed a
few specimens of the smellful substance. Analysis
revealed 27‘7 per 10,000 of carbon dioxide—a per-
centage of gas 17'7 per 10,000 above what the
Professor reckons it healthful for any man to work
in. On this pronouncement the President rose in
haste and ordered the glass ventilators of the
building to be opened, and now the asphyxiated
ink-slingers are asking between gasps why that
simple thing wasn’t done long ago.
S.M. Herald still barracks hard for an
imported Railway Commissioner. The conditions
in Canada and the United States, so it says,
“have bred their own type of railway man.”
Just so ! A type of man who can be relied on to
implicitly obey a millionaire boss to keep down
traffic and permanent way expenses at cost to the
health, lives, and limbs of employees. We know
that type of man quite well. The Yankee mil-
lionaire has bred him to perfection. He is one of
the products of that perfected system of private
enterprise which has generated the millionaire
himself. But Australian railways don’t exist
solely to earn dividends; they are designed also
to serve the public interest and convenience.


I
JUST ISSUED! The Hew and Extended Edition of the
CALLAGHAN BOOT
STYLE-BOOK
of Good Boots, only—practically Cheap Boots.
IT IS NOTHING LESS
than THE CALLAGHAN STOOL- shown on paper. It brings you the
PRACTICAL EQUIVALENT of
A big show window;
A complete new stock of boots and shoes
to select from and
An experienced salesman to find your fit.
It answers every question you could possibly ask in our shop about the CALLAGHAN
SYSTEM or about EACH PARTICULAR BOOT OR SHOE
WHAT IT IS LIKE!
WHAT IS IT’S PRICE!
Wherever you buy your Boots, or whatever price you pay ; whatever your Boot-
troubles have been, or if you never had any ; whether you now have any intention of
buying Boots or Shoes by Mail or not—you will find the New Callaghan Style-Book
well worth a postal card and your trouble in mailing
it to us.
Our New Boot-Style Book
containing about 90 Pictures of BOOTS,
SHOES, SLIPPERS, &c., is sent to
you POST FREE.
I
R
Callaghan Son
895 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
Try Our Boots.
Send To-day for our New Boot
Style-Boolc.
YOU Need One
Read this list. You can get reliable up-to-the-moment hand books on almost
any subject you are interested in. Then realise your need and send at once
tor those that will help you, and be happy. WHICH ?
WIFE, by Dr. Chavasse, 3s. post free.
MOTHER on the Management other
Children and on the Treatment of some of their
most pressing illnesses, 3s. post free.
MODERN MEDICINE FOR THE HOME,.by Ernest
.... Walker, M.R.C.S., 2s. 10d. post free.
EVERY WOMAN HER OWN DOCTOR—A Compe-
tent Book in Plain English, concerning’ the Ail-
ments and Accidents to which Women and
Children are liable, and their Cures : 2s. lOd.
post free.
THE MOTHER’S GUIDE—Care of Children in Sick-
ness and Health, by Lydia Leney, M.D. ; 2s. lOd.
post free.
WHAT TO DO IN EMERGENCIES, by Dr. A.
Wilson—About poisoning, treatment of appar-
ently drowned, unconsciousness and fits, broken
bones, things in the ear, eye and throat, burns,
scalds, bleeding and how to stop it; Is. 3d.
post free.
INDIGESTION AND HOW TO CURE IT, by L.
LENEY, M.D., Is. 3d. post free.
FAMILY DOCTOR—A new and original work with
15 full-page plates—Special edition, 10s. 6d. post
free. A valuable and reliable work.
DR. HOOD’S PLAIN TALKS AND COMMONSENSE
MEDICAL ADVISER, with numerous illustra-
tions, 10s. 6d. post free. The human system—
The habits of men and women—The causes and
prevention of disease —Our sexual relations and
social natures.
LADIES’ GUIDE TO HEALTH AND BEAUTY, or
Maidenhood, Marriage and Maternity—together
with the Diseases peculiar to the Female Sex;
7s. 6d. post free.
HOUSEHOLD DOCTOR —Explaining Diseases of
every kind—their symptoms and treatment;
Is. 3d. post free.
NAPOLEON’S BOOK OF FATE, Cloth edition,
2s. 3d. post free.
IMPERIAL ROYAL DREAM BOOK AND FOR-
TUNE TELLER, 2s. 3d. post free.
WIDE WORLD DREAM BOOK, 2s. 3d. post free.
FORTUNE TELLING BY CARDS, Is. 3d. post free.
PEARSON’S DREAM BOOK, Is. 3d. post free.
PEARSON’S FORTUNE TELLER, Is. 3d. post free.
ROYAL DREAM BOOK, 9d.. post free.
PRACTICAL PALMISTRY-A Treatise on Cheiro-
sophy—Based on Actual Experience, by H.
Firth, Is. 3d. post free.
CONSULT THE ORACLE, or How to Read the
Future, by G. Nostradamus, Is. 3d. post free.
UNIQUE READY RECKONER—Bound in Leather
Is. 3d. post free.
VEST POCKET READY RECKONER-Bound in
Leather, Is. 3d. post free.
HANDY READY RECKONER—CIoth edition, 9d.
post free.
IMPERIAL READY RECKONER—Most complete
Reckoner published. Every business man should
have one. 3s. lOd. post free.
BEETON’S READY RECKONER, Is. 3d. post free
ELEMENTARY CARPENTRY AND JOINERY,
for Amateur, Artisan and Mechanic, with 257
Illustrations and Diagrams, Is. 3d. post free
ORNAMENTAL AND CONSTRUCTIONAL CAR-
PENTRY AND JOINERY, Illustrated. An
Exposition on the Arts of Turning, Fret-sawing
and Wood Carving, Making and Mending House-
hold Furniture, Is. 3d. post free.
GENERAL BUILDING ART AND PRACTICE,
Illustrated, Excavating, Draining, Building in
Brick, Stone, Concrete, Smith’s Work, Wire
Working, Brazing and Soldering, Painting Glaz-
ing and Paperhanging, Is. 3d. post free.
THE WOODWORKER’S HANDYBOOK, a Manual
of Instruction, by Paul Hasluck, Is. 3d. post
free.
THE WOODTURNER’S HANDBOOK, a Practical
Manual for Workers at the Lathe, Is. 3d. post
free.
CARPENTRY AND CABINET MAKING, with 99
Diagrams and Plans, by Paul Hasluck, Is. 3d.
post free.
FRETWORK AND MARQUETRY, a Practical Man-
ual of Instructions in the Art of Fretcutting and
Marquetry Work, 3s. 10d. post free.
THE PRACTICAL CARPENTER AND BUILDER,
with 750 Illustrations and Diagrams ; a complete
Guide in every description of Constructive and
Decorative Work, 45., post free.
WOOD CARVING, by J. Garnett, an Illustrated and
Practical Guide for the Home Student, Is. 3d.
post free.
THE GOLDEN RECITER, Prose and Verse, selec-
tions from Austin Dobson, Conan Doyle, Thomas
Hardy, Bret Harte, Anthony Hope, Richard
Jefferies, Rudvard Kipling, A. W. Pinero, C.
Rossetti, R. L. Stevenson, Tennyson, Mark
Twain, &c., &c., ss. 6d. post free.
PEARSON’S SCOTTISH RECITER AND READER,
Choice Selections from the writings of Sir W.
Scott, Robert Burns, J. M. Barrie, Aj’toun, R.
Buchanan, S. R. Crockett, lan Maclaren, J.
Hogg, J. S. Blackie, and many others, 2s. lOd.
post free.
PEARSON’S NEW RECITER AND READER,
Choice Selections from the writings of Rudyard
Kipling, Tennyson, Bret Harte, Clement Scott,
Lord Macauley, and many other eminent writers,
2s. lOd. post free.
PEARSON’S IRISH RECITER AND READER,
Choice Selections from all the best writers of
Ireland, including William Alexander, D.D.
(Primate of all Ireland), Katherine Tynan Hink-
son, Dora Sigerson, Shorter, Alfred Perceval
Graves, W. B. Years, Douglas Hyde, Lady Wilde,
“Mr. Dooley,” Lady Dufferin, Laurence Sterne,
Samuel Lover, and many other eminent Irish
writers, 2s. lOd. post free.
PEARSON’S BOYS’ AND GIRLS’ RECITER. Choice
selections from the writings of S. C. Claverley,
Jean Ingelow, R. H. Barham (Ingoldsby), A. A.
Proctor, Charles Dickens, and many other
eminent writers ; Is. 3d. post free.
AMERICAN RECITER. Selections from Longfel-
low, Emerson, Whittier, Lowell, Mark Twain,
O. W. Holmes, E. A. Poe, Bret Harte, W. Carle-
ton, &c. ; 2s. lOd. post free.
TENNYSON RECITER—A. H. Miles, 2s 4d post free.
THE APPLAUSE RECITER, a New Collection, Is.
3d. post free.
RECITATIONS, Comic and otherwise, by J. H.
Wood, Is. 3d. post free.
THE DICKENS RECITER, Is. 3d. post free.
THE SUNDAY SCHOOL RECITER, Is 3d post free.
1000 BEST POEMS —Ist Series, Is. 9d. post free.
1000 BEST POEMS —2nd Series, Is. 9d. post free.
BLACKIE’S MONSTER DICTIONARY—A Marvel of
Cheapness, Is. 3d. post free
N. W. BOOKSTALL CO.,
476 George St .*
(Opposite Q.V.
Markets),
Sydney.
\0?h^knu^
Refiners and
Sole Manufacturers of
ESTABLISHED 1884.
SAN FRANCISCO, and i!7 Pitt St., Sydney
MALTHOID ROOFING
NOT THE SAME AS OTHER ROOFINGS.
FOR HOME
building, you can’t have any Roofing
as good for all-round purposes as
Malthoid. It is used successfully on
buildings for residential
AND STORE
purposes ; in fact, any sort of building,
from a fowlhouse to a Cathedral. It is
water and acid proof, easy to lay. Made
from a pure Mineral
“ 11 il is not seemly, do it not; il it is not true, speak it not.”—Marcos Aurelius-
WILLIAM BALDWIN
W. 8, FRIEND & CO.,
JAMES W. JACK,
NORMAN & CO.,
E. T. HARRIS,
HEDLEY BUTTON,
BRISCOE & CO., LTD.,
Aust. Rep.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Wellington, N.Z.
Adelaide, S.A.
Townsville, Q.
Launceston, Tas.
Melbourne, Vic.
JAMES McEWAN & CO., LTD., Melb., Vic.
JAMES SANDY & 00., Sydney, N.S.W,
JOHN BURNS & CO., LTD., Auckland, N.Z.
G. L. DENNISTON, Dunedin, N.Z.
WILLIAM SANDOVER & CO.. Perth, W.A.
EDWARD REECE & SONS, Cheh., N.Z.
E. L. YENOKEN & CO. Pty., Lta., Melb., Vie.
mrT „ THOMSON, BRIDGER & CO., LTD., Invercargill, N.Z.
THE N.Z. LOAN AND MERCANTILE AGENCY CO., LTD., Brisbane, Q.
&
PRIZES value £l5OO
IN THE
EIGHT-HOUR ART UNION
(Under sanction of the Hon. the Attorney-General.)
Drawn 27tH OCTOBER, 1906.
First Prize, value £5OO.
Second Prize, value £lOO. Third Prize, value £63.
And 197 OTHER VALUABLE PRIZES.
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. Grace Cowderv, Waterloo,
Sydney, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
Results of Drawing- will be advertised in this paper on 2nd
November, 1906. Tickets may be had from Ag-ents in all Country-
Towns, or direct from
ALLAN McDOUGALL, Secretary,
Trades Hall, Sydney. Eight-Hour Committee.
PRICE 10/6 POST FREE.
HOW’S YOUR FACE ? E S ?“„!!
don t seem to be able to get it in good condition no matter
how you strop or grind it. Just try the PLUM RAZOR—
it will surprise you ! It glides over your face with marvellous
smoothness and ease, and you’ve got a good Razor at last !
K®’ - THE FINEST RAZOR EVER SOLD AT THE PRICE.
PLUM RAZOR
10 6 POST FREE
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6.
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d.
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d.
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-.
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-.
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-.
POST FREE TO ANY PART OF AUSTRALASIA.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George St.
SYDNEY.
mmmm
m l
kTH
t.
mtk
ML. " ■ \ \
'
Wmm
W'
V
SIS
,
: Y ■.■• . •
M3&S
rnr-.
If you use a garden hose now. you’ll get more
out of your garden later on-more pleasure,
more flowers more vegetables-better ones, too..
There’s no better Hose than ours.
. r
Send for
Price Lists.
There’s a lot that’s not nearly so good.
Our liose has a reputation behind it, arid every
Hose we sell will do that reputation good.
Perdriau Rubber Co.. Ltd '
RUBBER 270 GEORGE AT.. SYDNEY.
■ a*.


A guaranteed cure for piles, itching, blind,
bleeding or protruding. Chemists refund money
if Pazo Ointment fails to cure any ease, no
matter of how long standing, in 6 to 14 days.
First application gives ease and rest. 2s. 3d.*
“M OTA ” brand
Motor Car Spirits
Are the finest power spirits the world produce*.
Sold by all Motor Manufacturers,
Importers, Repairers, etc., or of
The BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD.,
Agents, Adelaide, Melbourne & Sydney.
Pratt’s Motor Car Spirit.
Highest Grade
American ...
PETROL
ALWAYS UNIFORM IN QUALITY.
In stock at the Kerosene Stores of the COLONIAL OIL
COMPANY.
At all the Leading 1 Centres of Australia and New Zealand^
Wl
w.
mim
ft S'!
i
:
Cable Address —
PASTIME, SYDNEY.
M. J. MOLONEY,
Tattersal/’s Club,
SYDNEY.
COMMISSIONS Executed.
w
LONGEST nARKET RATES
GUARANTEED.ri^-*
TEL. 1542 or 251.
Write or wire for Quotations .
Price Lists forwarded on Application.
Telegraphic Address —
MOLONEY, Tattersall’s,
SYDNEY.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RES GET, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messr*. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The Sydney Metropolitan Rugby campaign
came to a virtual end on Saturday last, when Glebe
overthrew Newtown, on University Oval, by 16 points to
eight. Newtown having won the toss, it' was expected
that, with the wind behind, it would pile up a big score
of points during the first half, and then play a sound
defensive game in the second, and let Glebe do all the
bullocking. Theoretically the idea was superb, but
Glebe put up such a strenuous struggle that New-
town, in the first half, only managed to score a
couple of tries, one of which it converted. Glebe
crossed the line once. With the change of ends,
Glebe attacked Newton with fury, and play became
very rough. Newtown was simply overwhelmed,
and failed to score, while Glebe ran up to 13. Had New-
town triumphed, Eastern Suburbs would have been a
dangerous rival in the final—if it won its match against
Sydney. But things all worked together for the good of
Glebe, and while it stamped Newtown underfoot, Sydney
was pounding Eastern Suburbs to pieces at the Sports
Ground. Eastern Suburbs seemed stale, and, with the
exception of the brilliant Messenger, decidedly off-color.
On the other hand, Sydney was unusually smart, and full
back O. F. O. Wharton played the game of his life.
* * * *
■Although in all probability Glebe and Sydney
District will play an alleged final, which will no doubt
draw a crowd and make for huge excitement, it will not
affect the destination of the premiership, which belongs
to Glebe, with 28 competition points. Glebe gained the
honor outright in 1900, and in 1901 divided with Uni-
versity.
» « * •
In the Second Grade competition Glebe has
been very successful, having won the junior premiership
four times outright, and shared it with University once.
This year it fell to Marrickville.
* « « «
Newtown and Refern put up a great struggle at
Sydney Agricultural Ground under Australian Rules, on
Saturday, for the possession of the Rawson Oup. Over
4000 people looked on and roared themselves hoarse (the
people who deplore the tendency of 5000 people to sit and
watch 36 others play football forget the valuable lung-
exercise that the bulk of the 5000 get—it does them
almost as much good as playing in the ruck, and is less
dangerous). Winning the toss, Newtown took advantage
of the wind, which helped the shooting somewhat and
handicapped that of Redfern. It is when there is a wind
that the Australian rule of playing the game in four
quarters makes things much more even. But when
Redfern got the use of the wind in the second quarter, it
failed to make any use of it, and Newtown continued to
score rapidly, arriving at half-time with 30 points to 6.
Redfern played a hard, resolute game, but Newtown had
too much skill, and against its combination the brilliant
individual play of the Redferners came to nothing. The
Rawson Oup was won by 62 points to 20.
None of the Vic. League matches counted on
Saturday, as after the day’s proceedings the four clubs
which had occupied the rearmost positions all along—
Souths, Saints, Geelong, and Melbourne —retired from
business till May, 1907. Seeing that the last-named has
won but one match out of 17 played, its retirement
seems to have been unduly delayed. The usual Saturday
crowds either went to the Show, or patronised the Foots-
cray v. Williamstown Association souffle, the winner of
which got into the semi-finals. Up to half-time it was
an exciting skirmish, full of strenuous, if ill-regu-
lated ardor—a game of the give-and-take order ;
but shortly after the spell ’Town lost a couple of players,
one with a broken ankle, and thence on Footseray
had the better of the tussle, finally winning by 64 points
to 34. This leaves West, Richmond, North, and
Footseray to battle for the pennant —and the gate.
The most joyful afternoon’s sport, however, occurred
at Victoria Park, where the Junior Association “chal-
lengers,” Yarraville. met Northcote for Wren’s shield and
badges. The recent Squires and Murphy argument was
perhaps more scientific, but it was certainly no more
willing. The 4000 spectators, mostly of the “ bloke ” and
Lizzie persuasion, spoke familiarly and firmly to the
members of the teams and to each other. There were
two hefty “ scraps” on the ground, and fully half-a-dozen
among the “ blokes,” and colors, flags, and badges were
torn off and strewn around recklessly. The most pains-
taking and competent man on the ground was the
umpire ; but for him the argument would have de-
veloped into a riot long before half-time. As it was,
Northcote’s breaches of the rules were somewhat less
frequent than Yarraville’s, wherefore the frequent free
kicks awarded them enabled them to score 49 points to
Yarraville’s 29. These “Juniors”—many of them as old
and as weighty as League players—are as eager and lusty
as any exponents of the game, but someone ought to im-
press it on them that a first essential of football playing
is a knowledge of the rules ; that charging, slinging and
tripping are not contemplated therein ; and that the be-
ginning, middle and end of the success of an all-conquer-
ing team is unselfishness. The essence of the game
is to acquire the ball, clearly and cleverly', then to pass
it on immediately and directly' to the man in front in the
most feasible position. That makes for victory, and vic-
tory means kudos and gate. A few may at times
applaud the “ gallery ” player for a brilliant run, but it is
the unselfish, combined play that makes for science, skill,
and victory. As yet these “Juniors” don’t know the
rudiments of the game.
Competition for the Gardiner Cup, the Holy
Grail of the Sydney “Soccer” game, progresses slowly.
On Saturday last Pyrmont and Balmain wriggled and
tussled, and sweated and bullocked, but all in vain. On
either side the defence was too sound, and the game
ended in a scoreless draw, leaving things as they were.
* * * *
Dunedin is stirred to its heart core. A game of
British Association football has actually drawn a very
fair crowd, and, worse still, the play moved the spectators
to wild applause and general enthusiasm. Not since “a
kist of whustles ” was first placed in the stronghold of
true-blue Presbyterianism, has anything stirred Dunedin
like this.
« * * *
N.S.W. Premier Carruthers made a sorry
exhibition of himself over the latest cricket develop-
ments. His wire to the Marylebone Club was quite
irresponsible, the Board of Control knowing nothing of
it. Although the Marylebone Club called a special
meeting to deal with the cablegram, it was merely an act
of courtesy to what they think is Joey’s exalted position.
It could do nothing else than adhere to its former decision,
which had been communicated to the Board of Control.
The Club had received no invitation from the Board of
Control to reconsider its decision, and had it arranged to
send a second-rate team out in response to the Premier’s
request (its representative team is pledged to S’Africa),
the Board of Control would have.been perfectly justified in
declining to recognise it. And what a fool the Club
would have been to place itself in that position, just to
give Joseph a little cheap advertisement among the
supporters of a section of the players. It was a silly
intrusion on the part of Joseph.
• • • «
Now whispered that the Carruthers cable to
Marylebone Club was instigated by a prominent player,
who was desperately anxious to impress the Board of
Control with the occult string-pulling powers possessed
by himself and his colleagues. Now that the last forlorn
hope has failed, there is, it is said, bitter recrimination
among the lately suspended players,, and sundry threats
of “letting the cat out of the bag ’ are being bandied
about. In the name of Heaven, how many cats were in
that bag?
The feature of Sydney Tatt’s. meeting, at
Randwick, Saturday, was Maoriland mare Solution’s
brilliant win of the Rawson Stakes. She gave nothing a
chance at the right end of the argument, and simply
romped away from such forefronters as Maniapoto, Scot
Free, Collarit, Antonious, and Famous. Solution’s
manner of qualifying for the coin was reminiscent of the
way in which Mr. Stead’s nags, from the same section,
did the trick on the same track last year. How any one
of those behind her on Saturday is going to heat Solution
in the Metrop. is a puzzle, for she will then meet most of
them on better terms. Another notable thing was
imported Pompous’ triumph in Tramway Handicap
(6fur.). He came out near the finish and squelched
Epsom favorite, Magazine—and this after a comparatively
very poor showing over a mile at Warwick Farm the
Saturday before. Remarkable in another way was
Kveadgerie’s gathering of Novice Handicap and atten-
dant huge haul from Ikey Moses. His trainer (Frank
McGrath) rarely makes a mistake, and the money went
on in hatfuls. ' Kyeadgerie is beautifully bred by Sir
Foote (imp.) from Witchery, and he scored in a way that
suggests him as more than a possibility for coming
Epsom. Winning the Spring Handicap, Noreen did well
enough to justify her position in the Metropolitan bet-
ting ; but it looks all over, bar shouting, if Solution can
repeat Saturday’s display.
* * * *
Seems certain now that Lord Ullin’s Daughter
has got over the trouble that gave her Melbourne Cup
backers such a bad scare a week or two ago. Last week
she galloped twice or thrice in good style, and pulled up
without the least sign of lameness. Trainer J. Allsopp
says the trouble wasn’t anything like as serious as at
first sight appeared.
* * • *
At last meeting of the Q.T.C. committee a
motion to abolish bookmakers was declared lost on the
voices. The requisite number of votes being in support
of the proposal a ballot was demanded at the next club
meeting. But it is not likely that the club (which
numbers several members connected with bookie syndi-
cates) will pass so useful a measure. Mr. Hewitt gave
the committee meeting the opinions (cabled) of several of
the leading clubs of M.L., all strongly favorable to the
tote.
• « * *
Maoriland, too, is beginning to feel bad in its
wickedness, and meetings of men with the monkey-shave,
and old ladies of both sexes, are discussing the advis-
ability of wiping out the totalisator. These dear, old,
ignorant souls are shocked to find that investments on
the totalisator have swelled from £506,078 in 1892 to
£1,437,431 in 1905. The explanation is, of course, that
Maoriland is, in the first place, about five times better
off than it was in 1892, when its population was pour-
ing out of the country because the anti-Socialistic,
private enterprise-worshipping Atkinson Government
had brought the country to the verge of ruin
Now it is very prosperous. Another reason for the
increase is that under its improved rules the totalisator
gamble is much fairer and better than anything that the
surreptitious bookmaker can offer, so that private
betting is on the decrease. If the totalisator is abolished
it means the bookmaker will return, and the State will
lose £21,571 revenue yielded for charitable purposes by
the totalisator-tax. A curious thing is that while the
investments have increased so enormously, ohe number
of licenses issued has dropped from 234 in 1893 to 156 in
1905. Another curious fact is that nobody has so far
thought of trying to abolish gambling on horse-racing by
prohibiting the sport on which the gambling takes place.
Why this laxity on the part of the sacred Josephs?
* * * *
Maoriland Premier Ward has been threatening
to do something desperate in order to cope with the
“gambling evil.” He says he is going to amend the law
in a manner which will make it impossible to send money
to any place where a race meeting is in progress,
to prohibit the publication of betting news within
a month, to prevent the circulation of leaflets and bills
from Tattersall and other sweep promoters, to isolate
racecourses from telegraphic and telephonic communi-
cation, and, in fact, to do everything to suppress
betting on horse-racing, barring suppressing the
racing itself. Now, why doesn’t Joseph Ward
go the whole hog and make horse-racing a penal
offence? Just imagine the state of affairs when Ward has
done all these things, and when a big city like Christ-
church cannot receive any money orders for half a week
because the Canterbury Jockey Club is holding a three-
days meeting ! Only a man whose Christian name is
Joseph could propose such lunacy. This unreasoning
desire to inconvenience everybody in order to prevent a
few wasters betting on horse-racing has only broken out
since Australasia became afflicted with two Premiers
whose front names are Joseph.
, * * * *
Attorney-General Wade will need to remodel
his Anti-Gambling pill and provide machinery for the
limitation of rabbit-skinning contests. This new and
charming pastime is now booming in the trapping dis-
tricts, and so fierce is the gambling on the events that
many of the trappers and their families have been reduced
to beggary by backing Bill in the Kitten Handicap. Will
Wade please do something?
* * * *
The Q. Cricket Association has held its
opening meeting. Amongst other things, it has put
its foot upon peregrinating Trumpers and other indivi-
duals who exploit the game for gate. Even clubs must
submit their proposal for visits from clubs outside the
State. Country cricket is to receive more attention.
* * * *
Said that Charlie White, perhaps the most
brilliant, and certainly the unluckiest, three-quarter
N.S.W. has produced, could be in a much better condi-
tion physically and financially. It seems to be “upto ”
the Rugby Union to start an insurance or benefit fund for
injured players. Players like White have earned thou-
sands in gate-money, but their share so far has been
more kicks than ha’pence.
* * * *
The Vic. Amateur Billiard Championship
games, which have more interest for the great army of
amateurs than any professional match, are to be played
at Alcock and Co.’s Hall (Melb.) during this week. Some
preliminary test heats resulted in four men being left to
meet one another on American tournament terms, and
the one who wins the most heats will have to try conclu-
sions with Tricks, who captured the championship last
year. Jacoby, a previous winner, is likely to be the
survivor of the quartette, and on form he should just
about beat Tricks in the final.
* * * *
The Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals is, for once in a way, deserving its title in
Maoriland by an energetic canvass against pigeon-
butchering matches. A petition of great tonnage is to be
presently rolled before the Government.
• * * *
The New South Wales-Victoria baseball match
appears to have been a howling farce. It ended in a deci-
sive defeat of the Cornstalks by 19 to nine. Of the 16
matches played, N.S.W. has got away with nine, and the
Victorians with seven.
#■*■**■
The Bulletin gets two portraits of O’Hagen-
O’Brien, who is coming to Australia to fight Squires.
One represents gentleman O’Hagen in his immaculate
evening dress, and the other is Jack O’Brien in his
bruising war-paint. The Bulletin never saw a prize-
fighter who looks more like a dude than O’Brien, nor a
gentleman who looks more like a prize-fighter than
O’Hagen.
Word has been received in Sydney from Cana-
dian sculler Durnan, Hanlan’s nephew, that he will leave
home on October Ist for Australia, in order to row Towns
on the Parramatta. He suggested £lOO as a reasonable
amount for expenses, and requested that the race should
take place not later than April, but would prefer an
earlier date if possible. He is bringing his own boat with
him but will have a training shell built in this country.
Towns immediately wired an acceptance, agreeing to the
allowance of £lOO as expenses, and offering to row in
March. So presumably the race will now come off.
Concerning the men who will officially represent
the various States in the Dunlop Warrnambool-Melbourne
road race. Westralia’s man is A. F. Wright, who streaked
over the 116 miles between Beverley and Perth in 6hr.
lOmin. 3Ssec., 2Ssec. better than the previous best for the
same road. Tasmania’s man, J. Edwards, rode from
Launceston to Hobart in 7hr. 51min., which was 58min.
9 ‘2-ssec. worse than the time in which E. Hardman rode
from Hobart to Launceston in 1904. The change of
direction might affect the riding to an enormous extent.
O. H. Brook was to have represented N.S.W., but there
is trouble in the camp, and at time of writing it is under-
stood that neither Brook, Uagney nor Larcombe will go
across to take part in the great race. Which is a pity.
Maoriland used a 112-mile course, from Timaru to
Christchurch, and out of 220 entrants 176 faced the
starter. Of these 42 arrived within half an hour of one
another. In the struggle for fastest time four riders
finished within 34 seconds of each other, big Jack Arnst
being the third. IL Mehrtens, who was on the 25-minute
start, secured fastest time, covering the distance in
6 hours 17min. 16sec., beating J. Arnst by 25 seconds.
But Maoriland is sending across four official representa-
tives, H. Mehrtens, H. Henderson, G. Smith, and J.
Arnst, with the threat that the formidable combination
may be strengthened. The Warrnambool-Melbourne
course is 165 miles long. The great race will be run on
Saturday, 22nd. The entry, 290, is a world’s record for a
long-distance road event.
# * * *
The confidence of Larcombe ! Transpired while
the committee sat to consider a frivolous protest, that
latest Bathurst to Sydney road race winner had, before-
hand, sold the two bikes to be presented to the first man
home and the one accomplishing fastest time, so sure was
he of success. Generally such pride goes before a fall;
in this case it went before a financial rise.
The Bulletin notices with cold disgust that
Queensland Minister for Works O’Sullivan is encouraging
the hare-torturing game in his electorate (Warwick). At
a recent hare-murdering contest there, he gave a silver
cup, valued at eight guineas, as first prize. It suggests
a new item for the Democratic programme—no Demo-
cratic vote to be given to any pigeon-slayer, hare-chaser,
dog-fight person, or any follower, aider, or supporter of
any coarse and beastly sport whatever.
Since the demise of “Donald ” M‘Leod, at the
hands of sundry “welshed,” at Flemington racecourse
(Melb.), much limelight has been shed on welter “ Ted ”
Nelson, the “’ero” who was said to have tried to avert
the tragedy. His presence in the ring at the Cyclorama
building, as a challenger, has been a regular weekly
occurrence and the signal for a certain quantity of ap-
plause. Ted’s hungering for a chance to display his
ability came along, t’other Monday night, when Tom
Dunn, a Westralian, of advertised punching fame, stripped
to administer an awful knock-out that had previously
settled gentleman Jack M'Gowan and other notable
experts. The crowd waited patiently, but the long-
expected “ outer” never came, except in the shape of a
wild, misdirected, ill-timed swing that would have shifted
several Nelsons, provided it had reached the desired
spot. The ’ero gave an artistic display and a superfluity
of style, the work being voted a “boshter” exhibition by
the knowing ones, and blooming flashness by the humble
patrons on the shelves. Ted pranced about like a
ballet girl, dabbing a right hook here and a left
swing there, so that Mister Dunn became a perplexed
pug., and for considerable space occupied the floor in
ungraceful attitudes. Nelson went down early in the
second round from what appeared to writer a recoil,
and remained on the boards for an unrequired nine
seconds. At times the Westralian received urgent re-
quests to take some of the flashness out of his ’ero op-
ponent, but poor Thomas required all his energy to keep
himself on the defensive. The contest devolved into a
sportive spar for Nelson, who merely made things un-
comfortable for his raw opponent instead of closing the
performance. The audience called on referee Basto to
call them off in the tenth round, but as the go never
went within coo-ee of stoush, Basto allowed further pro-
ceedings. In the v following round Ted fairly went for
his man, raining in a shower of bewildering blows that
caused his victim to turn and sprint. Basto, in biled-shirt
attire, declared without hesitation the ’ero winner,
amidst groans, cheers and unpolite remarks. Dunn, in
excuse for his defeat, stated that his valet administered
smelling salts as a thirst quencher (early in the fray),
which bestirred his little Mary.
* * * *
Jim Griffin, the Maoriland middleweight, who
reached Melbourne via Sydney, where he has accounted
for a few of the best, added another win to his list at the
Olympic Club’s Hall, Eastern Hill, last Thursday, meet-
ing Bob Fraser, the well-known local footballer and
pugilist. Fraser is a man hard to punish, but Griffin
punished him by reason of dogged persistence and
unusual power. Fraser is much the cleverer boxer, and
if he had been content to use the footwork that was a
distinguishing feature of his earlier fights, he might have
lasted to get in a finishing punch ; as it was, he had the
Maorilander down for 9sec. on three occasions—in the
first, second, and third rounds —and once Griffin was
saved by the gong. Griffin had the advantage of size,
weight, youth, and strength. He is a smaller edition of
Willie Squires, and fights in very much the same way.
It takes him a very little time to recover from a dizzying
punch, and then he wades in again as gaily as ever. He
was giving Fraser soggy body punches, and in the fifth
the Melbournian began to go to bits. By cleverness in
evasion he kept on end till the eighth, after which his
people handed in the linen, which was wise, for although
Griffin had lost much ginger, he still had a rib-bender in
his right hand.
* * » *
The moral and refined Bent has announced that
his little Bill for the suppression of boxing is now ready
for submission to the Assembly. As this is the day of
the Holy Joe, the Assembly will probably swallow the
thing whole in the long run, but some of the fervent
admirers of citizen John Wren will put up a stiff fight.
There is little doubt that, but for Wren having imported
Mike Williams and O’Hagen-O’Brien from Africa and
U.S.A. respectively, the Holy Joes would not have been
so disturbed in their religious feelings.
* * * *
“ Squidge ” (in protest): For frank, unalloyed
brutality the finals of the Vie. amateur boxing champion-
ships would be hard to beat. Yet Rev. Ernie Hughes was
on the platform, surrounded by dozens of people who
wouldn’t be seen at a go between professionals, because
professional pugilism is so demoralising. All the same,
professional pugs turned up their eyes in astonishment
at the feast of gore and smash and fight served up
by the amateur brigade. One man got his ankle
fractured, struggled to his feet, and then, broken ankle
and all, was bashed back to the floor again. Another
man was woodened out so sickeningly that even ex-
perienced seconds thought for a few minutes that he had
been killed. Those were only the two main incidents of
an orgy of stoush. Because the men were amateurs they
were asked to box only' three rounds, so that the referee
might decide which was the more skilful. That sounded
nice and lady’like, but it worked out the other way. Be-
cause the men had only to last out three rounds they
went at it with all the devil they had in them. The con-
tests were not boxing matches, they were wild whirling
fights in which the men clawed and punched and banged
each other all they knew. Every competitor was ob-
viously trying to knock-out his man. Yet this was the
show that the Amateur Athletic Association implored the
parsons and anti-boxing crowd to come and see. It
turned the stomachs of old seasoned followers of the
game.
* * * *
Crawford Vaughan, M.L.A., whose Bill,
prohibiting pigeon-murder matches, was talked but in
S.A. Assembly last session, is again on the warpath. He
proposes to move for the insertion in the Cruelty to
Animals Protection Bill, now before Parliament, of a
clause making it an offence to shoot pigeons or other
birds at matches, to promote birdicide competitions, or
to supply fowl for such events. Premier Price is whole-
heartedly sympathetic, so the clause has a good chance
of going through. If it does, there will be one decent
State in the Commonwealth, anyhow.
» * * *
The Sydney Ferries, which recently purchased
Chowder Bay old pleasure resort, lately 7 known as Clifton
Gardens, proposes to spend a lot of money 7 in order to
make the place a profitable resort for steamer traffic. A
large swimming bath of novel design is to be built, far
superior to anything else in Australia. Mixed bathing is
not the idea —the Sydney Ferries directorate is too respec-
table to bathe mixed, and never in its life has it plunged
into the water with only 7 a frill on ; but it is intended to
make Chowder the scene of all the local championship
events and other big swimming fixtures. Any way the
voice of the push is to be heard thereabouts no more.
*■ * * *
The demand for the best class of blood sires
seems to be pretty active on the other side of the world.
On July 20th tile mailboat Nile left England with over
£lOO,OOO worth of blood horses on board, hound for
Buenos Ayres. First of the sensational cargo was Diamond
Jubilee, winner of the 2000 gns. Derby 7 and St. Leger,
sold by the King to an Argentine breeder for 30,000 gns.
There were also Val d’Or, Jardy and Pietermaritzburg.
Liver and Kidney Troubles.
DR. MORSE'S INDIAN BOOT PILLS ACT LIKE
MAGIC.
Coming troubles often cast their shadows be-
fore them, and invariably liver and kidney
complaints are preceded by marked symptoms.
The aching back, the insipid, tired feeling, are
the first indications which may lead to Bright’s
disease, diabetes,
gravel, gall
stones, inflam-
mation and
stones in the
bladder, and
other urinary
troubles. “Hav-
ing used Dr.
Morse’s Indian
Root Pills for
the relief of liver
and kidney com-
plaints I can
speak with some
degree of experi-
ence as to their
magic effect u pon
these ailments,”
writes Mr.
George Harper,
of 132 Liverpool-
street, Sydney. “For over twelve months I
suffered daily with intense pain from aching
kidneys, and I was frequently almost doubled up
and unable to walk. I was also troubled with
chronic constipation, which occasioned me much
distress. Nothing I tried seemed to give me any
permanent relief until seeing Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills in a chemist’s shop. I gave them a
trial, with the result that they drove away the
pains and restored my system to perfect working
order. I still take a pill or two occasionally, and
recommend your wonderful remedy to anyone who
is suffering.” Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills area
perfect blood purifier, and a positive and perman-
ent cure for biliousness, indigestion, constipation,
headaches, sallow complexion, liver and kidney
troubles, piles, pimples, boils and blotches, and
for female ailments.*


ds
/ Pl/RE
HERBAL
1 SKIH
jtqap
y
Si-#
$
m
¥5!
XV
« \E
kl *B
NoiKir
So
: Oood o»n
®E*rtkB
fz
Skir\
("omplexioi-x
u Scalp
n&ir, c
Disease
Ck&ppi
Redness/]
II
c M^yQE-5>
Quite
Uhedu^lled
d
avVI»N<
j be Ol^.^ed
fT T'^ e^ ,^^**^r^P e ’ r * / * vTfor-ekeepery tt\rou<Dkout‘
A k?}"AT^ 0 * / S
-'ge.l TT\d> nrvy" "Kre
£ WKer> .r will "bcFo sted per Ms/,!.
ooieiropneToiv HE'KUOELriMi 6 COMPANY
„ EBUGGI/TJ <4-nAMI/FACTI/RER/.
m 6 -f199 CLARENCE 5 T SYDNEY.
I Arxd ADEL.AIDE <5 .
fREE SAMPLE sent on receipt
of Twopenny Stamp.
E. T. WALSH,
.Expei% Tailor..
Solicits a TRIAL ORDER from
Any Part of the Commonwealth.
WELL CUT,
WELL MADE, and
PERFECT FITTING.
SPECIALIST IN SUITS
sfo
Vi*
I buy the Newest and Most Expensive Patterns
direct from the manufacturers. The result is
that I am able to make Fashionable Suits from
Four Guineas. We call very special attention
to our make of garments, showing- that our
Tailors’ Skill is endless, and nothing seems im-
possible in the way of production.
PATTERNS, SELF-MEASURE FORMS, and ILLUSTRATIONS ON APPLICATION.
359 GEORGE ST OPPOSITB THB general post office, synNEY.
“ S.R.”: In view of the weakness of the Q.
Opposition, no wonder Kidston is getting some-
what careless, and bit by bit widening the gap
between his Government and the Labor party.
I cannot shake off the impression that Kidston is
no longer the staunch Democrat, the fighting
leader of the Labor party. Is it prosperity which
is ruining the man’s nature? 1 have watched
Kidston for the past 12 months, and he is drift-
ing, drifting, drifting ; and as he drifts the breach
widens.
Minister Bill Lyne threatened twice last
week to “spank” Willie Kelly. It isn’t politics,
that sort of thing, but the mosquito tactics of
Kelly invite it; and, one day, the tragedy will
happen, and some big politician will administer
correction to Willie in a strictly fatherly way.
Dr. John Quick seems in danger of
making “a King Charles head” of the Tariff
Commission reports. He wishes not only to
establish them as a sort of sacrosanct table of
the law, not to be touched without blasphemy,
but to argue that every political question, and
not alone the tariff, should be decided in the light
of their wisdom. The Tariff Commission has
done good work, and its chairman should have
much credit therefor ; but the fact is likely to be
lost sight of if Dr. Quick persists in an attitude of
querulous devotion to every comma of his reports.
The shooting of Constable Guilfoyle some
six years ago by a criminal named Shaw, in com-
pany with another of the tvpe, named Skidmore,
was recalled last week by the death of Constable
Maher, who, at the time of Guilfoyle’s murder,
was shot in the shoulder by Skidmore. Shaw
subsequently shot a policeman at St. Kilda (Vic.),
and then shot himself. Skidmore, it is shrewdly
surmised, was murdered by Shaw, fearing that he
would be “given away.” Anyhow, Skidmore
has not been captured.
TWIN SCREW MARINE MOTORS
For
SPEED LAUNCHES
AUXILIARY YACHTS
LIGHT DRAFT VESSELS.
Sole Agents : F. H. RELPH.
MOTOR. LAUNCH AGENCY,
CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY. T. 1760.
* OUR Hats
have won their way to Aus-
tralian heads.
BITTER opposition from Foreign Traders —lies,
slander and misrepresentation—these have
hounded the placing of our Hats on the
Australian market. Rut in spite of all we are
forging ahead, will continue to do so, and with
your help are bound to succeed. Our Hats—
made of AUSTRALIAN FUR,
by Australian worKmen, under
Union conditions, as to wage and time, in
sweet, sanitary surroundings—are now worn the
length and breadth of Australia. They have won
this prominent position from pure force of merit.
They’re better than any other Hats sold for the
money—absolutely better, and guaranteed to be
so. Sold in all shapes and styles, suited for the
Squatter, the City Man, the Miner, the Station
Hand, the Farmer. Our Hats are hand-made,
from’pure fur—light, and long-lasting—absolutely
fast in color, and will give thorougli satisfaction
in every way. They are sold by all
tbe Leading Stores through-
out Australia, but—be sure of this
—that our full name is stamped on the inside
leather of each Hat—without which none is
genuine. Ask for them. Insist upon having
“ the genuine best.” Don’t let the spurious
“ just as good ” be foisted on you.
Austral Hat Mills Propy., Ltd.
X Abbotsford, Melbourne. X
THE
erits
of the
PIPE
are many, and its principle is the
most successful ever invented
for the benefit of smokers.
Nicotine is absolutely pre-
vented from entering
either mouth or pipe
bowl. Every pipe is
guaran teed.
f
A
“MASTA”
smokes cool
and dry and to
the end of the
tobacco. The
bowls are made
from flawless briar-
wood , well - seasoned.
To be had in three
qualitigs from all tobac-
conists throughout the Aus-
tralian Commonwealth. Whole-
sale only from FEJjDHEIM,
GOTTHELF & CO.. Sydney.
9
m
-fa'
QS& it &)
44 tfa t/mftatf'. .—-


(1) The best possible mail service.
(2) Every article we sell.
WHAT WE GUARANTEE!
(3) We assume every possible risk.
(4) Best Goods at Lowest Prices.
a. Saunders.
FLOWER VASE, pure
silver-mounted, moss
green: glass, Is 6d.
Other Styles, Is (id, 2s,
2s 3d, 2s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver-mounted PAPER KNIFE, highly burnished
steel blade, Tin long, 2s 6d.
Other styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Doeskin TOBACCO POUCH,
best rubben lining, pure
silver shield, 4s 6d.
Other Styles, 4s, 5s 6d,
6s 6d, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Wishbone
LINKS, 20s.
15ct. Gold, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
CARRIAGE CLOCK, finest
French 8-day movement,
solid brass case, enamel
dial, richly ornamented,
£3. Other Stvles, 255,
30s, 40s, to £7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD or CAKE SERVER, pure silver-plated, pearl
handle, 7Jin long, 12s 6d.
Other Styles, 3s 6d, 4s 6d, os 6d, 7s 6d, 10s 6d, 15s OcL
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Shield and
Dumbbell LiNKS, 2X&.
15ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Swan PIN
CUSHION, velvet top,
5s 6d. Other Stvles,
Is (id, 2s 6d, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
SEWING COMPANION,
comprising three pairs
Sheffield Steel Scis-
sors, 6s CJ.
Extra Quality, 11s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, pure silver-plated,
crystal glass, 8s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s Gd, 12s 6d, 10s.
GOODS OF
QUALITY.
We sell
only the
good
Qualit’ of Goods
that we
know
will please
and give you
every satisfaction.
All Goods
sent
POST FREE
to any
address in
Australasia.
A. SAUNDERS.
ENGLISH ROLLED-GOLD FRAMES, fitted ordinary Lenses, 12s 6cL
Astigmatic Lenses, 21r. Solid Gold, 255, 30s, 355, 40s.
Our Crystalite SPECS., 3s 6d. Pure Pebbles, 4s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s.
WE ARE CONSULTING OPTICIANS.
FREE for the
ASKING.
If you cannot
visit us,
send for
our
Illustrated
Catalogue.
Its exact
reproductions
take away
all uncertainty
from
MAIL BUYING.
It’s Free.
Just ask for it.
A. SAUNDERS.
COLLAR STUD BOX, pure
silver-plated, satin finish,
hand engraved, 4s 6d.
Other Styles, 5s 6d, 7s 6d.
18ct. Gold Diamonds
and liubies
or Sapphires,
£2.
18et. Gold, 5 fine
Pure Opals, £2.
Larger Opals,
£2 10s, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Zealand Greenstone
PENDANT, gold-mounted,
6s 6d. Larger, 7s 6d, 8s 6d,
10s, 12s 6d.
A. SATTNDERS.
18st Go’d RING,
pure double-cut
diamond. £2,
Larger Diamond,
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Gold MUFF CHAINS, £2, £2 10s, £3,
£4, £4 10s, £5, £6, £7, £B, £lO. Necklets
to match, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
15ct. Gold, 30s, £2, £2 10s.
£3.
A. SAUNDERS.
oct. Gold Signet
RING, 20s.
loot. Gold, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Fancy Curb iadlock BRACELET, in
sizes, £2, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s. All with
safety chain attached.
four
Ladies’ Black Open-face Key-
less WATCHES, 10s Gd.
12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s 255.
Solid Silver, Hunting Cases,
255, 30s, £2, £2 10s, £3.
2
m
9ct. Gold PIN,
set pure White
Pearls, 12s fid.
15ct. Gold,
17s 6d.. .
m
10
Handsome 8-day Marbellette CLOCK, strikes hours and halves, rich, loud gong, richly
ornamented case, brass mountings, fancy dial, first-class timekeeper, £2 ss.
Kept in free repair for 2 years. Other Styles, 255, 80s, 355, 40s, 42s 6d, 50s.
fa
Set. Gold PEN-
DANT, set Pearls
and Ruby or Sap-
phire, 17s 6d.
QfiS N
Gent.’s Shaving ROLL, comprising finest Silver
Steel Razor and 4 useful articles, 12s 6d. Extra
Quality, 15s. With two Razors, 21s, 22s 6d.
Set. Gold “Dinna
Forget” Friend-
ship CHARM,
7s 6d.
■m
Solid' Silver Sovereign
PL'ItSE, 7s 6d, 10s.
Silver Filled, Gs 6d.
Solid Gold, £2 10s.
Gold Filled, 22s 6d.
18ct. Gold, pure
Diamonds and
Rubies or Sap-
phires, £3.
5 Pure Double-Cut
Diamonds, £5.
or Sapphires,
£7 10s.
Oct Sold BRACELET,
with safety chain, £5.
3 pure double-cut diamonds,
Diamond and 2 rubies, £4 10s.
Lady’s Solid Gold Hunting
Kevless Watches, .Tewelled,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s. £4, £5,
£6, £7, £lO.
Guaranteed 2,3, 4, and 5
years.
Crocodila Leather
Chatelaine Sped
CASE, 10s &L
20s.
15s.
I
/
N
A
Strong, Reliable, Knockabout WATCHES
8s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
Our “Guard,” 15s. Our “Railway,” 20s.
Specially recommended. All Guaranteed.
Set. Gold Scroll BROOCH, set pure
White Pearls, 20s.
Solid Silver Cloth or Hat BRUSH,
long white bristles, 5s 6d. Other
Styles, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Military HAIR
BRUSHES, long white bristles
10s 6d. Others, 8s 6d, 12s 6d,
15s, 20s.
Field or Marine GLASSES, large
field of vision, 255. Other Styles,
12s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, SOs.
Solid Gold ALBERTS, Single or Double, £3,
£3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5, £6. 15ct. Gold,
£5 10s, £6 10s, £7 10s, £8 10s, £lO. Solid
Silver, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s. Gold Filled,
15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 80s.
Set. G'' Scroll set
Pearls and Ruby, 15a
Solid Silver-mounted HAIR COMB,
Imitation Tortoiseshell, 7s 6d. Other
Styles, Ss 6d. 4s 6cL 5s 6d. 6s 6d.
Juvenile CUP, pure silver-
plated, richly engraved,
gilt lined, 8s 6d. Other
Styles, 7s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
SOLID
SILVER.
iX
GOLD-
CHASED,
£4 4s.
'3
Solid Silver Hunting Keyless LEVERS, £2,
£3, £3 10s, £l, £5. Patent Gold-
£4 4s, £5 ss, £6 10s. Solid Gold,
s, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
Guaranted 5,6, and 7
years.
£2 10s,
Cased,
£6 10
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER, )
SILVERSMITH, and OPTICIAN, i
A. SAUNDERS
j 809, 81 I, 813, 815, 817)
t GEORGE-STREET, i
opp.
Railway
Station,
Sydney.


R3ffinSBBBBRFBBESBS»raF!
ns
o
&
\A
%
7\
\
V.
Y/a
K
/7
Nh<r
C )
o
r;
h
m
i
ra*
1
A
r
H
i^
H®
#ll
1
*
H
•Ti
v/p
y
a
M
A Happy Day Ashore with Yankee Doodle.
NO. 2. TKe j° b - mastet j «°t recKoning that JacK Tar had his navigation certificate for horsemanship, fits him
and his mate up with the quietest of nags. Behold them with YanKee Doodle in full blast
enjoying the glorious Australian air.
(To be continued in our next.)


“Yes, that’s the stuff! It’s MarricKville; I grew it
MARRICKVILLE TWEEDS
ARE PURE WOOL. *


1837 it
ESTABLISHED
ARE YOU A MASON”?
If so, these prices and illustrations from the Oldest Masonic Firm in Australia should interest you. We are out to do business
on fair and equable lines, and a trial order will convince you of the moderateness of our price and the reliability of our goods.
Masonic
Insig'nia
and ...
Regalia
Manufacturers
Write for our Illustrated
Catalogues which we
Send POST FREE.
Goods ordered under Lodge
Seal are subject to 10 per
cent, discount (carriage not
paid when discount is allowed).
Goods ordered individually,
except Furniture and Floor
Covering, are sent Carriage Paid
throughout the Commonwealth.
m
■MMMMNriV
o o
»SHK
mm
9
9 m
u
m
' .'■' V ■■ 1
wm 'i6/)S ■ S
Grand 1
Steward
k,, .. /&/
4T*
;• ■■
I Grand $
IWTV
as
r
SJlCC&fx&r
ft “T"’' tott-
kiMUl’
t>€tm
W : :
r
nw
{M:.m
R-\A
Smh
m- * ' ao
. R-A Sas/t ® Aprvn
30/
ss
sf///
4W.
• ’ Mdru Apron
TlatkCo/Jar/rofn &/<>
R AM Cottar ]s/•
■'.ir ■■ ■:
■
David Jones Co.
Opposite G.P.0.,
George St.
Sydney
WIRELESS TELEGRAPH
—^lnna&affiKssmEaEsaEßSßnußDKßSEESsnnHßHHHMMi
Free Exhibition.
...THE...
Wonderful Invention fully Explained and Demonstrated
(WITH FULL SET MARCONI INSTRUMENTS).
Sending Messages through the Walls. Ringing Fire Bells,
Blowing Fog Horn, WorKing Railroad Danger Signal, and
Lighting Electric Lights, ALL WITHOUT ANY WIRES.
...COMMENCING...
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19th,
AND EVERY EVENING TICE
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 29th,
AT 8 P.M.,
Centenary Hall, YorK St
For further information See
H. G. ROBINSON.
This will be the only opportunity to see these instruments.
Special Representative, MUNROE ®> MUNROE,
No. 1 Ground Floor, 88 Pitt Street, Sydney.


. Shipping.
LUND'S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
*Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Week thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON ‘ & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.’'
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
The gank of Australasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital £1,600,000
Reserve Fund 1,250,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors.. 1,600,000
£4,450,000
London Office: 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
AMES IIELLICAR,
Superintendent.
national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, IS6S.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,245 5 0
Reserve(inGovt. Stock, £43,435) .. 51,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the Hast.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager. —W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial Mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,990,533.
Policies Issued 102,148—Assuring £30,193,326.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,784,725
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
PDAUTG FID A ETC on Australia, New Zea-
UllftN I O Unfir I O land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
The Bank nf Borth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
CAPITAL —Authorised .. .. .. £700,000
Paid-up .. £lOO,OOO
Uncalled .. .. 250,000
Reserved Fund .. ( 20,000
(Invested in Government Stock) J £370,000
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood, Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jbssop, Esq. Melbourne: Hon. F. S. Grimwade,
, M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
DALGETY & COMPANY
LIMITED.
Capital Fully Subscribed ... .£4,000,000
Capital Paid up £1,000,000.
Reserve Fund £165,000.
Head Office—96 Bishopsgate St.
Within, London, E.C .
BRANCHES:
VlCTORlA— Melbourne and Geelong.
NEW SOUTH WALES— Sydney and Newcastle.
QUEENSLAND— Brisbane, Rockhampton & Townsville.
WEST AUSTRALIA— Perth, Fremantle, Kalgoorlie,
Geraldton, Albany, Carnarvon and Roeburne.
NEW ZEALAND— Dunedin, Christchurch, Wellington
and Napier.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— AdeIaide and throughout the
South East.
This Company makes Advances on, and conducts the
Sale of, Land, Stock and Station Property, and receives
for Sale in London or any of the markets of Australia or
New Zealand consignments of Wool, Skins, Hides, Tallow,
Frozen and Preserved Meats, Grain and Dairy Produce of
all descriptions, and carries on a Financial, Shipping,
Insurance, Indent, Merchandise, and General Agency
business.
OCEAN
SUpplng.
nxr. id. tlm.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
•Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via NEW BRITAIN,
NEW GUINEA and MANILA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
•WILLEHAD, 4761 tons .. ... 29th SEPTEMBER.
•PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons.. 27th OCTOBER.
•PRINZ SIGISMUaD, 3300 tons.. 24th NOVEMBER.
•Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, ,01VILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOUMANN fc CO.. 7 and 1) Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Royal Rank of Queensland
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £457,613 10 0
Reserve Liauility of Shareholders .. 175,737 10 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 67,000 0 0
£700,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Kiiwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, QUEEN VICTORIA ST., LONDON, E C.
1!) Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the W orld.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIH€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
DAMASCUS
•MILTIADES
MORAVIAN
H. A. Schleman ..
T. F. Spalding ..
A. Simpson
Noon, Sept. 22
Noon, Nov. 9
Noon, Nov. 23
♦Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, <fec., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
fds
PLYMOUTH and LON DOM via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
PERSIC, to Sail on or about
Ist OCTOBER,
RUNIC, MEDIC, AFRIC and
SUEVIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown .. .. £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation-
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd,,
Agents in Australia.
OCEA.MIC S.S. Co. A.. & A.. LIISTE (via SAN FRANCISCO).
THREE-WEEKLY FAST MAIL SERVICE run in conjunction with the Most Luxuriously Equipped Trains
and Steamships in the World.
SHORTEST LINE FASTEST TIME TO
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. CANADA. GREAT BRITAIN AND EUROPE.
R.M.S. VENTURA, 6200 Tons, Sails from Sydney MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, at I p.m.
Some people think that “HOMEWARD THROUGH AMERICA” is an expensive way.
Enquire for fares etc., etc., and learn facts before booking elsewhere.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., Hanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS,
SYDNEY.
? WINTER
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
f
HOUPAYS^
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security -
FAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
$
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to
Suppress Usury.
nxr.s.'w.
|l)ontdepieteO.s|.Co.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE,
and 229 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collina-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £22,500 0 0
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Siiiith, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
lion. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
SP
CREAM
Gives
Permanent
Polish.
Preserves and
Cleans the
Leather.
SOLD BY ALL STORE-
KEEPERS AND BOOT AND
SHOE SHOPS.
CANADIAN-AUSTRAUAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
The Favorite Steamer
MOANA
Sails Ist October.
NEXT SAILINGS—
Oct. 29, Nov. 26, Dec. 24.
The Cheapest and Best
Route to Canada, United
States, and Europe.
42T Send for Illustrated Pamphlets. TSJ;
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG, y
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter),
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Sheet of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Uaymarket.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
RABBIT SKINS.
TO FILL OUR ORDERS WE REQUIRE
6,000,000 RABBIT SKINS
this Season, and are prepared to pay EXTREME PRICES.
IMMEDIATE RETURNS, NO COMMISSION.
Consign to— JAMES FAY, MCDONALD & CO.,
C7O SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Austraiian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports,
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIIIIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAT
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Wollowra, Sept. 14.
S.S. Yongala, September 19
BRISBANE,
MACIvAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.S. Marloo, September 15.
rS.S. Wollowra, Sept. 22.
S.S. Innamincka, Sept. 29.
Heat, unit Cheapest Itoute to (iolil iel.il*.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
hist Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritime*
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
uwacu no ijumua-.y, ilium, unina,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landingand passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street. Sydney.
R. BRASIER liETUUY. Principal Agent
ESTABLISHED 1372.
south British
THE
LEADING COLONIAL INSURANCE
INSTITUTION
As to the Security we offer to the Insuring Public,
namely,
£1,900,000 OF CAPITAL
SUBSCRIBED BY SHAREHOLDERS.
ALSO
UNLIMITED LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS, over
and above, the Subscribed Capital.
Invested Funds excoed HALF A MILLION STERLINC.
In Revenue and Funds the second wealthiest
Colonial Office.
FIRE CSb MARINE. Every class of
Business done at LOWEST CURRENT
RATES.
ACCIDENT CSb SICKNESS. Our
UP-TO-DATE POLICY is the Best and
Cheapest money can buy. Inquire for
terms.
Employers Liability, Public Risk, Guarantee,
Burglary, Plate Class AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
SOUTH BRITISH INSURANCE CO.
Office: 12 BRIDGE STREET,
Telephone 4245. GEO. H. MOORE, Manager.
Hotels.
PETTYS HOTEL,
SYDNEY
decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will be
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed,
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET
C. W. CUPIT, Manager.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Wi find every omror and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
Sl'. KILDA.
T™. Largest and Lest-Appointed Boarding-house
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower thanlicensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
the (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con*
venient and Healthy Locality,
ilodern Appointments. noderate Tariff.
Visitors to Melbourne
WILL FIND
THAT. . .
Neale’s Temperance Hotel
(Tankards)
LONSDALE STREET~~(Next Law Courts;
is the handiest place to stay at. Being close to Railway
Stations, Theatres and Wharves ; and three minutes’ walk
from G.P.O. Bedrooms on Ground Floor if desired.
Board and Residence, 4s. 6d. per day; or from £1 per
week. Tklki'Honu 1040-


M
♦
82*
J
&
\
£S
; ■:
>' ■
a»
He
£
r
«
• ■ :-
mm
mm
R
1 IS
M
.
%
m
'£•
■
in
• •• *; • ’ ;
* fc
o
m
d-3
O
m
n
*
n
ii«
C 3
• . ■- ••
■
wm
••
II
its
m
-
,v .
es 5 &%
®s
m
v ;l
iJisg
■
v-
? • --
Si
m
■- s
Ml
ss&
fmmm


938
Former Price, 14s
$s
868
Former Price, 18s.
dsf
Lk
/p\
861
Former Price, 14s.
w,
//>
864
Former Price , 18s
m
60
Former Price, 18s -
m,
853i^\v
Former Price, 18s .
888
IT
Former Price, 16s.
875
Former Price, 16s.
fa
y/l
W'l iiW
929
Former Price, 24s
SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENT.
To give those in the COUNTRY the opportunity to secure
BARRIOS
At our Great Clearance Sale Price,
We will Mail to ANY ADDRESS
ANY ARTICLE Illustrated upon Receipt of
4/
ANY . . .
ARTICLE.
If you do not see the Style desired, send for
OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE (mailed FREE).
We have the largest Mail Order Department in the country, devoted exclusively to the sale of Jewellery.
All orders filled the day they are received. Send us Postal-note or money-order for anything you want, and
you will be surprised and delighted with the article you receive. The illustrations or descriptions hardly do the
goods justice. Remember, you send us your order with the distinct understanding, that if goods are not
exactly as represented, your money will be refunded.
BARRIOS DIAMOND CO..
WO KING STREET, SYDNEY
52 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE
Open till 10 p.tn. SATURDAYS..
///
907
Former Price, 14s
354-
Former Price, 14s.
130
Former Price, 245.
No. 128.
Former Price, 16s
<$ & &
No. 126.
Former Price, 18s
No. 122.
Former Price, 18s
935
Former Price, 245.
&
r-
No. 127.
Former Price, 16s
936
Former Price, 14s.
504
Former Price, 12s.
//
No. 120.
Former Price, 18s
Mm
□
j
■ O
J
y***+» - , 3ETS!
. .J%Z
>
i
B3BQHHHS
>
£
-~-
For Motor Cars, Motor Cycles and Bicycles
DOFS NOT AFFECT RESILIENCY OF TYRES.
& &
WILL NOT LIFT PATCHES PROPERLY APPLIED.
PRESERVES RUBBER.
Fox* Descriptive Booklet (St> Testimonials
from Leading Reliable Sowrces» write to
Miraculum Corporation Ltd.
395 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE.


S'.NOSVaS AV3N-.
INSPECTION INVITED
SAMPLES POSTED FREE
GOODS^
We Have Just Opened
15 Cases of WOOLLENS.
They comprise the very latest Fashions in Suitings and Trouserings.
We have an exceptional line in Pure Indigo Dye Serges at
the SAC SUIT TO ORDER
63s
HAGON BROS.
107-9 Oxford St.,
TELEPHONE 3088.
From INCLEY & CO.
IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT.
sj k>
Mr. Incley begs to notify that He Has taken into
partnership Mrs. TRENTHAM, Miss HOGG, and
Mr. STRINGER. From September Ist, 1906,
the Firm will trade as
INCLEY & CO., 258 Collins Street, Melbourne,
On the Trail of the Trust
Price 1/3
POST FREE.
Amusements.
FOWN HALL, SYDNE
Direction .. .. HEROLD BASSETT.
COMMENCING, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 14th.
ADVENT of
BLANCHE ARRAL
H
PRIMA DONNA OF FOUR CONTINENTS.
I*- Box Plan at Paling’s for Entire Season.
Prices—ss., 35., 25., Is. Manager, W. J. LINCOLN.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction of EDWIN GEACH.
LAST THREE NIGHTS OF THE SEASON.
LAST THREE NIGHTS of
CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S DRAMATIC COMPANY
in
THE SHAUGHRAUN.
Dion Boucicault’s TRUE IRISH DRAMA.
MISS BEATRICE HOLLOWAY as CLAIRE FFOLLIOTT.
Prices, Box Plans, and Day Sales as Usual.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
PROGRAMME for the FAREWELL PERFORMANCES in
Sydney of the REPERTOIRE OPERA COMPANY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of UTOPIA LIMITED.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPT. 15, MONDAY, SEPT. 17,
and TUESDAY, SEPT. 18, VERONIQUE.
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, THE GONDOLIERS.
THURSDAY, SEPT. 20, Complimentary Benefit to
Mr. HOWARD VERNON. '
Box Plan at Paling’s. IS'"' PRICES AS USUAL.
|_J AYIYI ARKET HIPPODROME, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING, at 8 o’clock.
BOHEMIAN DRAMATIC COMPANY.
SPECTACULAR DRAMA.
Under the Direction of E. ,1. COLE,
Headed by Miss VENE LINDEN and Mr. W. H. AYR.
CHANGE OF PROGRAMME WEEKLY.
t3T" PRICES—6d. ar.d Is.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
* Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Richards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
Enormous Success of MR. HARRY BEDFORD.
Also, MISS NELLIE KILBURN.
Continued Success of LA MOTO GIRL.
SEYMOUR and DUPRE, Comedy and Specialty Artists.
LES CABIACS, the Famous French Acrobats.
ALF. CHESTER, one of London’s Leading Comedians.
MISS FLORRIE HENDERSON ana her Performing Dogs.
ALEXANDRA and BERTIE. KELLY and AGNES.
MAUD FANING, TOM DAWSON, OLIVE LENTON, &c.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
HARRY TATE’S Company in Comedy Sketch,
“ MOTORING.”
LITTLE CLIFF, Comedian, Expert Dancer.
BLAKE and GRANBY, Eccentric Comedy Artists.
BRINN, Juggler, Cannon Manipulator, iri “Fun on a
Battleship.”
CASSIE WALMER, Contralto Eccentrique.
AUSTIN and HARTLEY, Barrel Jumpers, in “Athletes
at Play.”
Plan at Allan’s. STS’ PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is
L|ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
* * Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
THURSDAY, SEPT. 13, and FRIDAY, SEPT. 14, LAST
TWO Performances of THE LITTLE MICHUS.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 15,
Mr. J. C. Williamson’s Royal Comic Opera Co. in the
Old Favorite Opera,
LA MASGOTTE.
For 12 Nights Only.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
EW THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
1 Lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
N
EVERY EVENING,
Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON'S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION in the Great Australian Drama,
THUNDERBOLT.
EUGENIE DUGGAN as SUNDAY, Thunderbolt’s wife.
Prices —35., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee .. .. Allan Hamilton.
Commencing at 8 Precisely,
MEYNELL & GUNN’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC CO. in
s the Anglo-American-Australian Record-Breaking
Musical Drama,
THE FATAL WEDDING.
PRICES —3s, 2s, Is. Plan at Allan’s Menzies’ & The Grand.
D
:ixr
c
3NT C 5-.
Anent the Ballroom,
Mr. and Mrs. Roberts
(Highly Recommended Teachers),
Quickly impart to their Pupils the necessary ability and
confidence to acquit themselves creditably. The strictest
privacy observed. Hours, 9 a.m. till 10 p.m.
Superior Classes Day and Evening.
160 PHILLIP ST. (near King St.), SYDNEY.
Amusements.
THE CRONULLA EXHIBITION
B —OF—
Miss Wilshire’s Pictures & The New Art Fancy Work.
The design and work of Mrs. Otho Windsor, Mrs. and
Miss Board, the Misses Bosie and Hero Wilshire.
FOR HOME DECORATION.
No. 19 (Ist Floor) Vickery’s Chambers, 76 Pitt St., City.
Open Daily on and after 3rd SEPTEMBER, 1906, from
10.30 a.m. to 6.30 p.m. Admission, Is. ; Children, 6d. ;
Season Tickets, 2s. Terms for Schools.
THEATRE ROY AL, SYD~N E Y.
1 Lessee .. .. .. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING,
BLAND HOLT’S Fascinating and Absorbing Domestic
Melodroma,
WOMAN’S HATE.
Written by the Late Henry Pettitt.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s and Is.
Missing' Friend.
ILL W. E. DALRYMPLE, or anyone
knowing his whereabouts, write friend,
“ADELAIDE,”
care Gordon and Gotch, Melbourne.
THE LOUDEST ACCORDEON EYER MADE.
THE RESONATOR
TROMBONE ACCORDEON
With Amplifying. Trumpets to all the Reeds-
ELEVEN-FOLD TRIPLE BELLOWS. . . .
... METALLIC CORNER PROTECTORS.
The Bass Notes a Full Octave Deeper than
any other Accordeon.
Special Introduction Price, 25/■
Carriage Paid.
'T'HE Resonator Trombone Accordeon is by far the very
x loudest instrument of its kind ever made. By a clever
arrangement of the valves the whole of the resonance of
the reeds is delivered directly through the amplifying
trumpets, and the effect is the same as with the phonograph,
an immensely increased volume of sound. In addition to
this, the Bass Notes are the deepest it is possible to use, and
the Tenor Chords are very full and powerful. It is no
exaggeration to state that the Resonator Trombone Accordeon
mor*- nearly resembles an organ in rhe power and depth of
its tone than an Accordeon. This effect is produced ny the
extra large and heavy reeds, all of which are screwed (not
glued i into position, and the very powerful Eleven-fold Triple
Bellows supply sufficient wind to operate these superior reeds
to the utmost limit of their capacity. The Bellows are strongly
protected by patent metallic corners, ami this, as accordeon
players well know, overcomes the weakness that ruins most
accordeons. The body of the instrument is beautifully ebon-
ised and the metal fittings are well plated and highly bur-
nished. We have the sole agency for this novel and greatly
improved accordeon, and, to make it widely known, we are
selling the first shipment at the specially Low Price of 255.
each, carriage paid to any address in Australia, Tasmania or
New Zealand, and with each instrument we will present a
special book of fingered music, by which anyone without
the slightest knowledge of musical notation can play the large
number of Popular Tunes, the airs and the full accompani-
ments, Alto, Tenor and Bass, with wonderful precision and
effect. If the Resonator Trombone Accordeon does not fulfil.
th s description in every respect the Purchaser will be at
liberty to return it at once and have the purchase money back
in full. Obtainable only from
The Union Hlfg. & Agency Go.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
REDUCED PRICE
Sunshine”
Harvesters.
MS the Federal House of Represen-
tatives has decided to impose a
fixed duty of £l2 on each imported
Stripper-Harvester, I am, in accord-
ance with my publicly declared
promise, now prepared, provided that
decision is ratified by the Senate, to
make a material reduction.
Henceforth (subject to the above
condition) the price of the Standard
(sft.) “Sunshine” Harvester will be
(Seventy-five pounds), on rails at
Ballarat or Melbourne.
Those who have already ordered
“Sunshine” Harvesters for next
harvest at previous list prices shall be
entitled to a corresponding reduction.
H. V. M KAY
668 BOURRE ST., MELBOURNE.
Overcoats for Field & Race Wear,
w/
Smart Fitting Coats.
In Mixed Tweed Effects,
Ujj-to-Date Cut and Finish,
Ready to Wear,
38s. Od. to £5 ss.
To Order,
635. to £6 6s.
Special SPORTING OVERCOATS,
For Fishing, Golfing',
Shooting' (Sb Riding',
Ready to Wear, 635., 70s.
These Coats, being specially cut for Field
Sport wear, are easy to put on, and give
perfect freedom in wear.
The accompanying illustration is one of
many similar reproductions of Original
Drawings, as shown in our Catalogue,
15 Something for Men.**
Write us for a copy. It will interest you.
Post Free on application.
BUCKLEY & NUNN, LIMITED,
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
AT LAST!
NO MORE CRAMPED FINGERS.
NO MORE TIRED HANDS.
The “BERTILLION” Reform Penholder.
Endorse:! by School
Teachers ail over
Australia-
... ..
■I
THE “ BERTILLION ” REFORM PEN-
HOLDER is the greatest blessing
gver devised. We all know, alas ! to our
sorrow, the cramped and tired feeling
w<* experience, which makes writing a
disagreeable task instead of a pleasure,
5>nd we know, too, how impossible it is
to get a Penholder to suit the hand.
Now, the “ BERTILLION ” REFORM
PENHOLDER does away with all this—
makes writing a comfort. Everybody can have a pen “ MADE TO ORDER” and to fit their hand like a glove. The end of this penholder is made of a material which,
when dippedlnto hot water, softens." All you have to do, then, is to catch hold of the Pen in the same manner as you are accustomed to write with the most convenience,
and the Pen moulds itself, under the gentle pressure exercised in holding it, into the shape of your fingers, just exactly as you see in the illustration. Now, dip it in cold
water, and it will immediately harden again, leaving the impression or mould of your fingers still on the Pen. Not only will the “ BERTILLION ” PENHOLDER be a
<>-reat convenience, but it will ensure it against being stolen, or readily used by anyone else.
° \\'e have supplied a very large number, especially to Public and Private Schools, and to School Teachers all over Australia and New Zealand, and all speak most
highly of them. Mr. A. J. Neale, head school teacher, Boys’ Central School, Maryborough, Queensland, writes: “ I am very pleased indeed with the Pens, and find them a
great convenience.” /''b Bus postage 1d. extra. A Rubber Stamp with your name
ri/Cv ft Sjf I vU > CWUf» given free to each purchaser of half-dozen or more.
A. J. SMITH & CO., Martin Chambers, 6 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY


Government Advertisement-
Postmaster-General’s Department,
27th August, 1906.
TENDERS will be received by the Acting-
Deputy-Postmaster-General, Sydney, until
noon on MONDAY, the 24th proximo, for tl-
performance of a large number of Mail Services.
For full particulars see “Commonwealth
Gazette, ’ of 25th August.
AUSTIN CHAPMAN, Postmaster-General.
Consumption
Can Be Cured.
At Last a Remedy has been found
that Cures Consumption.
Df. Derk P. Yonkerman, Discoverer of the
New Cure for Consumption.
Marvellous as it may seem after centuries of failure,
a remedy has been discovered that has cured the
Deadly Consumption even in the advanced stages of
the disease. No one will longer doubt that con-
sumption can be cured after reading the proof of
hundreds of cases cured by this wonderful discovery-
some after change of climate and all other remedies
tried, had failed, and the cases had been pronounced
hopeless of cure. This new remedy has also proved
itself effective and speedy in curing ( atarrh, Bron-
chitis, Asthma, and many serious throat and lung
troubles.
in order that all in need of this wonderful product
of science may test its efficacy for themselves,
a company has been formed to give it to the
world and a Free Trial Treatment can be obtained
the Derk P. Yonkerman Co. Ltd.,
uu Dixson Buildings, Sydney. Send no money.
Simply mention this paper and ask for the Free
trial Treatment. It will be sent vou by return of
post, carriage paid,
ABSOLUTELY FREE.
Don t wait if you have any of the symptoms of con-
sumption, if you have chronic catarrh, bronchitis,
asthma, pains in your chest, a cold on your Kings, or
any throat or lung trouble, write to-dav for the free
'rial treatment and book of instructions, and cure
yourself before it is too late.
Wanted.
\\T ANTED, COMPETENT MINE SUR-
* * VEYOR, about 25 years of age. Apply
to “ALPHA,” Lithgow Post Office, New South
Wales, stating experience, giving copies of
references and salary required. Applications
must be in by 20th September.
WANTED, COMPETENT MECHANI-
CAL DRAFTSMAN, acquainted with
Mine work and blast furnace construction. Apply
to “ALPHA,” Lithgow Post Office, New South
Wales, stating experience, giving copies of
references and salary required. Applications
must be in by 20th September.
WANTED, FIR ST-C L AS S CHI E F
MECHANICAL ENGINEER, familiar
with blast furnace construction and general Mine
work. Apply to “ALPHA,” Lithgow Post
Office, New South Wales, giving copies of
references, stating experience and salary required.
Applications must be in by 20th September.
WANTED, an EXPERIENCED UNDER-
GROUND MANAGER for metalliferous
mine, must hold certificate under Mines Inspec-
tion Act of New South Wales. Apply to
“ ALPHA,” Lithgow Post Office, New South
Wales, stating experience and salary required.
Copies of-references necessary. Applications
must be in by 20th September, 1906.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages ; price, 4s. 6d.
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van B barrel),
Ladies' Hairdressers, Hair - j 161 KING ST SYDNEY
Workers & Dermatologists, Next Herald Branch Office. Telephone 2138.
Personal Attendance by the Proprietors. DRESSING & RECEPTION ROOMS ON GROUND FLOOR
A Large Assortment of Transformations, Natural Hair Pads, Princes, Tails and all Accessories
Kept in stock. Combings made up. TOILET REQUISITES OP EVERY DESCRIPTION.
m
<6
r-
I'll Try It
The Only Moustache (Srouier in Australia!
CAP ILL ARINE is the only Moustache
grower in Australia that has been on the
market for over 20 years, and that will
positively grow a Moustache on any face.
Remembek that, Please!
CAPILLARINE is Posted FREE to any Address
mmm - in the World under Sealed Cover
10\6
m.
Wk\
The Result.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY.
f
BOOKS. PLAYS.
CONJURING
APPARATUS.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
ADRIAN & CO.,
(late WILL A VDRADE),
508 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assurance Society Limited
(Mutual) ch “g- N s . w ._ £53 George Street, Sydney.
LIFE, ACCIDENT AND INVALIDITY ASSURANCE IN ONE POLICY .
o DC '^t A A N r N y J L.v^M £ r I I !' ,IUM for £loco > Person aged 30, payable at 60 or Death, £39 19s. 4d.
dPLGIAL iiLiNWMT.S : (I) £2OOO if death takes place as result of accident; (2) £lOOO for Permanent Total
Disablement; (.») £.joo for Permanent Partial Disablement; (4) £6 per week for Temporary Total Disablement;
W .j; s *.P er woek for Temporary Partial Disablement; and (0) £6 per week for incapacitation through
specified diseases. Forjuli particulars and conditions call or write for Prospectus. _V. 11. BAXTER. Res. Sec^
MOULDER
Passengers Booked to
All Parts of the World.
BROTHERS & CO., Ltd.
STEAMSHIP OWNERS, FREIGHT CONTRACTORS,
SHIP, INSURANCE & CHARTERING BROKERS.
THE HOULDEB, LINE STEAMEES. for Conveyance of
Passengers, General Cargo, Frozen Produce, &c.
To and from AUSTRALASIA, AFRICA, LONDON, LIVERPOOL, GLASGOW, &c.
Steamer.
HORNBY GRANGE
OVINGDEAN GRANGE
URMSTON GRANGE
LANGTON GRANGE..
DRAYTON GRANGE (Twin Screw)
ELSTREE GRANGE
ROYSTON GRANGE
Tons.
3,750
3,700
5,600
9,200
10,000
6,000
6 330
Steamer. Tons
BEACON GRANGE 6,300
RIPPINGHAM GRANGE 9,200
OSWESTRY GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10,000
THORPE GRANGE 6,350
HAVERSHAM GRANGE 11,200
EVERTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 11,000
SOUTHERN CROSS - 7,300
First, Second and Third Saloon Cabins situated Amidships. Excellent Cuisine. Electric Light.
For full particulars, apply at the OFFICES OF THE COMPANY, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
12 Pall Mall, S.W., London. 14 Water-street, Liverpool. 30 Gordon-street, Glasgow. 337 Calle Cuyo, Buenos
Aires. 446 Calle San Martin, Rosario, Gran Dock, Ensenada, La Plata. Capetown and Durban, South Africa.
Head Office: 146 Leadenhall-street, Loudon, E.C.
THE “ BRUNSWICK”
Household
ICE MACHINE
IN the hotter parts of this Continent, in the tropical
islands of the South Seas, and anywhere, where
the thermometer soars up and stops pretty con-
sistently during summer at about 100 in the shade, or
over, the luxury of a small, compact Cold Storage
becomes an absolute necessity. Such is the Brunswick.
It is the result of years of research and experiment,
and it successfully brings within the reasonable reach
of your pocket a wealth of ice and cold dry air, at
all times, at a price that is moderate and possible.
Ml
Hi
mm
We have several sizes of plant, and will give you FULL PARTICULARS UPON APPLICATION
BUZACOTT & CO., Ltd., So,e 7 & 9 Market St., Sydney.
Also Sole Agents for Sharpies’ Tubular Separators, ‘ Hercules ’ Oil Engines, Cyolone
Fencing and Cates, &c., &c.
ySoARD
Tables
so
Has it ever struck you what fun and enjoyment
it would be to have a Billiard Table of your own,
even if only a small one? You can get one from
the first makers in the trade, for Messrs. Alcock
& Co. have devised a perfect minia-
ture, at a cost well within the
compass of everyone. Write for
.complete catalogue, which will be
mailed free to any address-
MELBOURNE DEPOTx
155 Elizabeth Street.
SYDNEY DEPOT:
422 George Street.
FINNEY, ISLES & GO., LIMITED.
OUR FAMOUS
BIG BLOCK SUITS,
Made to Measure.
40/-
All-Wool Tweeds
and Pure Indigo
Serges. ■£?
TROUSERS ONLY, 12s. 6d.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN IT HE COMMONWEALTH.
Ejagr-SEND FOR PATTERNS.
BLCCk'’ 5 Edward & Adelaide Sts., BRISBANE.
BOVRIL
Supplies Energy.
Bovril gives Strength to Resist
Disease and greatly aids
recovery from exhausting
illness.
SPECIAL VALUE,
BLACK, CREAM, or
BLACK Tipped with
WHITE.
From the Farms of Africa.
Length, 9 inches.
3 for 6/-
(Six Shillings).
sen
S'
■
©sis
&
Ka
The Feathers we offer you cannot be bought for
twice the money in any other house.
Send Postal Note or Money Order payable to
John Miller.
7/6
Post
Free.
OSTRICH
PLUMES -
BLACK, WHITE,
CREAM,
NATURAL, or
BLACK Tipped with
WHITE.
Length, 15 inches.
The Best Feathers for the price ii
Send a trial order to-dav.
Price List Post Free.
i Australia.
Illustrated
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP
Corner of Strand Arcade,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
[Mention The Bulletin.]
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Streets, MELBOURNE.
Pure Grape H.V.D. BRANDY
J. B. COOK, Ltd., 82. Pitt >St., Sydney, argents*
From a man who has been wandering
through the Northern Territory:—
All the talk about Asiatic labor to develop the Terri-
tory is moonshine. Intense cultivation will never be
carried on there. What is required is mixed farming'.
A man with 10,000 or 20,000 acres on the Daly, Katherine
or Adelaide Rivers could rear cattle, Angora goats, pigs,
and fowls, and grow fruit, maize, rice, tobacco,
hemp, cotton, and grain for hay. Aborigines are plenti-
ful, and he does not need to look for Chows or Japs for
labor. The Territory is essentially a country for small
holdings, and to talk like Cole, of the bookshop, about
swamping it with colored people, is rubbish. The Chows
in this land are drones; they only work while you are
watching them, and they get 7s. a day, too. The N.T.
is very different from North Queensland, where there are
hundreds of miles of rich jungle country with splendid
soil fertilized by decayed vegetable matter for centuries.
What they call jungle in the Territory is only scrub.
Develop the mineral resources, and build the railways ;
other things will come after.
The best country in the Territory, from a pastoral
point of view, is the Victoria River. Some few years ago
Captain Bradshaw formed a syndicate with an eye to meat
extract works at the Depot, believing cattle could be sup-
plied to the works at 30s. per head. A chemist with his
wife and family, and an engineer with plant went to the
Depot to make a start, but found cattle could not be had
for less than £4 ; so the affair collapsed.
The runs are immense. Victoria Downs is 12,000
square miles. Talk about breaking up large estates in
the South with a graduated land-tax—what about these
estates, which pay Is. per square mile? Yet the
lot of them don’t employ a score of white men ;
and by penny-wise and pound-foolish policy they lose
hundreds of beasts yearly. If this country were thrown
open for small selectors—say, 50,000 acres—it ought to be
a prosperous district. Every station has a garden, where
fruit and vegetables grow luxuriantly; Mitchell and
Flinders grasses abound, and herbage and scrub are
plentiful. . But even this country can make no headway
when one individual or syndicate holds an area the size of
Ireland.
A true bill from Codville (Vic.). Jock
and Scotty met after many years. Half a century
agone they were cronies in the land o’ oats, and
they had cruised together round the shearing
sheds of sunny Loan-land—hence their effusive-
ness on meeting. Jock was the wealthiest landed
proprietor in the district. Scottie was on the
wallaby, chasing a crust at a slow gait. “Weel,
hoo’re ye gettin’ on, Jock?” queried Scottie.
*‘ Preetty weel, considerin’ the land-tax, and the
income-tax, and the ither Socialistic taxes. Hoo’s
yersel’ ?” “ Ba-ad, mon, ba-ad ! ” quoth Scottie ;
“can ye help me, mon?” Jock could, but not
with money, that might be spent on the barley
bree ; so he took Scottie to the butcher’s and
bought him the understanding of a prime wether !
An hour later Jock sat down to carve that self-
same understanding, for'the astute Scottie had
sold the limb to Jock’s wife for the price of four
tanglefeet! The.date of the crime was August 18.
“ Chiffonier ” wants to know :
I’ve used up the few brains a rather niggardly Nature
has thrown at me in an endeavor to solve subjoined :
(1) Why Greid, M.H.R., still clings to the dinginess and
hopelessness of a political life ? (Said man could, I’m
convinced, have the refusal of some real clinking jobs
such as High Commissioner, Judge of the Appellate
Court, Police Magistrate, King of Papua, &c.) He’ll never
get down again on the right of Frederick Holder at the
table in the Reps.
(2) Why W. M. Hughes, Tom Brown, Page of Maranoa
(or is it Artesia?), Fowler, &c., are Foreign-traders?
(3) Why an allegedly sane and democratic community
votes to seat in “the Legislative halls of the nation ”
people like Cook, “ Johnsing,” Wilks, &e. ?
(4) What, in the name of High Heaven, has this coun-
try done to be burdened with obsolete, useless, expensive
tomfoolery like Legislative Councils, imported State
Governors (whose “ trousis " turn up automatieallv when
tis raining in “ Rotting ” Row), Ushers of the Black Rod, '
Clerks of the Greasy Pole, and such bosh ?
(5) Who invented Kelly, M.H.R., and why?
Two items from the Rand Daily Mail,
same date:—
The output for May, totalling 461,2020 z., is worth
within £40,938 of two millions sterling, and it looks as if
in another two months that colossal sum will have been
exceeded. . . .
It is pitiable to see so many able-bodied and intelligent
workmen quitting the country. An endless procession
wanders up and down the Reef looking for free meals and
stray shillings.
Cohen gets the gold. The British population, to
help whom the war against the Boers was said to
have been waged, gets the .depression, and the
fresh air, and the wandering, and the eternal
search for the meal that isn’t there and the bob
that is absent.


NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
MfIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
*" Kilda Rai way Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
The World s Favorite
Briar Pipe.
The Leading Pipe in Australasia
and all the World "
For over 50 Years
Obtainable
from all Tobacconists.
THE BALLET GIRL
sdf
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send. Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
_ CURED”
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsv when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices* i/6 no i LI-.
I hoasands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, St > etc
Wholesale Agents :
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
26 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
Superior to
COPAIBA
i CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in 48
hours without
incon-
_ venienee.
•tacn Capsule bears the name
I
fIIDY
ASTHMA CURE
GBIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES I
SliHfSp<*ss£sssas
ETTF« “ y » }^A^ LT * Co ' a INDIAN CIGAIt.
Sold bv all Chemists.
Dor\t wait for
THat Bald Spot
Jp
s
ss
f
IF YOU
Are BALD
Ihave a proposition to make that will
appeal to .you as a business man.
Now, before you read any further,
examine" your scalp carefully before a
mirror, and see if there is a minute
“ down ”on it. If so, I will
Give You £lOOO
if “Capilla” Hair Tonic, used in accord-
ance with the simple directions wrapped
around each bottle, will not make your
hair grow.
Now, as “ Capilla ” costs you only 1/6
and 2/6 a bottle at any Chemist’s or
Storekeeper’s, for the sake of a few
shillings invested you either get a fine
head of hair or £lOOO to allay your dis-
appointment. What more can I say to
show my faith in “Capilla’s” hair-
growing- properties? I KNOW that
“ Capilla ” will make your hair grow if
there is a slight “down ” on “ That Bald
Spot,” otherwise I would not make this
offer. You are sensitive about your
baldness, and are, perhaps, sceptical
about that £lOOO, but I AM liable if I
fail. BUT I have never yet failed, and I
will not in your case. Write or call on
me for furtherparticularsand advice free.
W. Oliver Richards,
Inventor,
12 Imperial Arcade,
. . . SYDNEY.
I WILL POST YOU THE FULL COURSE
(6 BOTTLES), UNDER COVER, for 17/6.
** CAPILLA **
“Fox- That Bald Spot.’
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENO’S
HEADACHE,
FRUIT
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION. SALT.’
.The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous*
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.—Sm Capsule marked ENO’S 4 FRUIT SALT** Without It you hare a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Pnparod only by J. O. UNO, Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS. LONDON, SNQ.,
by J. O. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
a
yk
£5S
For Kangaroo and Big Game
.44 C.F.W. Cartridges are known by all experienced
sportsmen to be reliable. They are specially
adapted for, and tested in, Marlin, Winchester,
Remington and other standard rifles. When pur-
chasing cartridges, specify those made by the
UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE COMPANY
BRIDGEPORT, CONN.. U. S. A.
A
1
I
There's SECURITY In
Larter’s
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
\ FURRED TONGUE.
>
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price*
They TOUGH the
Be
LIVER
Sure they are* Carter's
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring- this business
' *■ to a close, they have decided upon the CQinpulsory.
winding of same, ana beg to submit the following lines
at greatly reduced prices to clear :
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip. Usual price, £6.
Sale Price £3 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. X
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price., £5 0 0
3 Hammerless Double-Barrel Breech-loading
Guns, SPECIAL high-grade trap gun, fitted
with treble wedgefastcross-bolt, left full choke,
right modified, and latest improvements, safety
indicator. Usual Price, £lB. Sale Price, £lO 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, top action, choke bore, walnut stock.
Usual Price, £3. Sale Price .. .. .. £1 12 6
The Norfolk Rifle, fires 8.8. Cartridges to kill at
100yds. Usual Price, 17s. 6d. Sale Price .. £0 8 0
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price .. .. .. £5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders, top action, wal-
nut stock, with cartridge machineand cleaners
complete. Usual price, £5. Sale price .. £2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price £0 13 9
6 Single-Barrel Muzzle-loading Guns, walnut
stock, twist barrel. Usual Price, 255. Sale
Price £0 15 0
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge. ss. per 100
Smokeless Cartridges, 6s. 9d. per 100
8.8. Caps, 9d. per box.
Shot, 2d. per lb. Caps, 2d. box.
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
HOW TO GROW TALL
A Startling Discovery that ■will Revolt*-
lutlonise the Physical Condition
of Mankind.
Why remain Short and Stunted
when you may Learn Free the
Secret of How to Grow Tall ?
No flatter How Short You Are or What
Your Age, You Can Increase
Your Height.
n
7/1
No new discovery has attracted more attention
in the scientific world than that made by K. Leo
Minges, of Brighton, N.Y. Mr. Minges _is to
short men and women what the great wizard,
Edison, is to electricity. He has gathered more
information relative to bone, muscle and sinew
than any one else in existence. Making people
grow tall has been a hobby with Mr. Minges for
years, and the results he has accomplished are
startling to a high degree. By his method every
man or woman not over 50 y ears of age can be
made to grow from two to five inches in height,
and any one older than that may increase bis
height perceptibly. His method has the endorse-
ment of leading physicians, and several prominent
educational institutions have adopted it for the
better physical development of their pupils.
If you would like to increase your height you
should read the book which tells how this re-
markable discovery'was made and reveals to you
the secrets how to grow tall. It is free. You are not
asked to spend a single cent, and if you desire it
we will send you the statements of hundreds who
have grown from two to five inches in height by
following this method. The results are quickly
accomplished. Many have grown as much as
three inches in two months. There is no ineon-.
venience, no drugs or medicines, no operation.
Merely the application of a scientific principle in
a perfectly hygienic and harmless way. Your
most intimate friends need not know what you
are doing. All communications will be sent in
plain envelopes. The book, “How to Grow
Tall, ’ contains illustrations that will interest and
instruct anyone. One .thousand of these books
will be given away absolutely free, postage pre-
paid,.while the present edition lasts. If you want
to gVOW tall, write to-day, in strictest confidence,
for a free copy. Address Hie Cartilage Co.,
Dept. 52J., Brighton, N. Y., If.S.A.
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OP EELP-CURE, will
forward tha same, free o» charge, to any-
one int rested.
Address: A.MINER, u.P.0., SYDNEY.
“T.E.D.”: In the arid districts of South
Australia through which runs the railway line
from Petersburg to Broken Hill, where the
abundance of mineral outcrop and lack of rain
preclude the possibility of agriculture, the woolly
caterpillar just now may be found in millions.
A month ago the crawlers, in strings of varying
length, might have been seen wending their way
towards Broken Hill, but. at present they are all
travelling to West. Whether they are gifted
trith a knowledge of Euclid I know not, but they
are evidently aware that the shortest distance
between two points is a straight (or railway)
line, and as they like a smooth track on which to
travel, they mount the rails, and thereby become
a nuisance to the engine-drivers, as their squashed,
in-easy bodies prevent the wheels getting a
grip of the rails, and in consequence trains
daily lose a considerable amount of time.
I travelled from Paratoo to Oulnina last week by
goods train, and we lost half-an-hour, the wheels
revolving at a great pace as they skidded round.
The trainmen’s language was a revelation. The
drivers fix straw envelopes (the bottle, of course,
having been carefully extracted) to the sand-pipes
of their engines, and try to brush the caterpillars
off that way, but, as a rule, the straw wears out
before the end of the caterpillar line (sometimes
over a mile in length) is reached. Thank good-
ness, the pest is confined to practically barren
country. It would be anything but a cheerful
prospect for the unfortunate cocky if, in addition
to four horses, three cows, a pig, and half-a-dozen
children, he had to find grub for a few million
hungry caterpillars. However, we live in an
enlightened age, and I expect in a few small years
we shall see a company started to shear the insects,
and caterpillar-wool clothes will be the fashion.
Certain it is that an acre of this land can keep more
caterpillars than it can sheep.


COULD NOT REST
NIGHIJR DAY
With Irritating Skin Humour
Whole Body Affected Scalp
Itched All the Time and Hair Began
to Fall Out—Wonderful Help
Received From
APPLICATION OF
CUTICURA REMEDIES
“i am never without Cuticura Soap
and Cuticura Ointment since I tried
them last summer. About the latter
part of July my whole body began to
itch. I did not take much notice of it
at first, but it began to get worse all the
time, and then I began to get uneasy
and tried all kinds of baths and other
remedies that were recommended for
skin humours; but I became worse all
the time. My hair began to fall out and
my scalp itched all the time. Espe-
cially at night, just as soon as I would
get in bed and get warm, my whole body
would begin to itch and my finger nails
would keep it irritated, and it was not
long before I could not rest night or day.
A friend asked me to try the Cuticura
Remedies, and I did, and the first appli-
cation helped me wonderfully. For
about four weeks I would take a hot
bath eveiy night and then apply the
Cuticura Ointment to my whole body;
and I kept getting better, and by the
time I used four boxes of Cuticura I was
entirely cured, and my hair stopped
falling out, but I continue to use the
Cuticura on my scalp. It keeps all dan-
druff out and my scalp is always clean.
I always use Ointment on my face after
shaving, and have found nothing to
equal it. D. E. Blankenship, Indianap-
olis, Ind. Oct. 27, 1905.”
RECOMMENDED TO. ALL MOTHERS
“I have used Cuticura Ointment for
chafing of infants, and as they grew
older all skin diseases were given treat-
ment with that and the Cuticura Soap.
I never found it necessary to call a doc-
tor, as these Remedies are a sure cure,
if used as directed. lam glad to recom-
mend them to all mothers. Mrs. F. A.
Kennard, St. Paul Park, Minn. June 21,
1905.”
The originals of the above testimonials are on file in the
office of the Potter Drug & Chemical Corporation.
Reference: R. Towns & Co., Merchants, Sydney, N. S.W.
Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Resolvent Pills are sold
throughout the world. Potter Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole
Props., Boston, U. S. A. ug?“Mailcd Free, “How to Cure
Eczema." Address, R. Towns & Co. Sydney, N. S. W.
*SH
LX4
iss»
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Storekeepers.
Australian Users now num-
ber over one thousand.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH
Colonial Mutual Building',
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Sub-Agencies :
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
VABLEY BROS.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Bookman’s Buildings,
Adelaide.
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth
Of course you have System
in your office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon. :’i.
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
UNDERWOOD “VISIBLE”
BILLING TYPEWRITER.
fOHN SANDS, 374 George St„ Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent Wabash Systems.
Britisb’flustralasian
r
1 BROAD STREET PLACE, LONDON, E.O.
Price 6rl POST FpEE > £i P er y ear *
vfLl* in advance, all over the world.
Managing Dlreotor- - Mr. J. E. SOANTLEBURY.
The British-Australasian is the journalistic
principle of connection between Great Britain
and Australasia.
It is the NEW SCHOOL in the develop-
ment of Australian thought. It gives Austra-
lian writers not only the benefit of Australian
circulation, but introduces them first-hand,
through its British circulation, to the teeming
millions of Great Britain.
The British-Australasian is the Organ
of Appreciation; THE AUSTRALIAN
LITERARY CITADEL in London.
Original Australian articles dealing with the
growth, development and resources of Aus-
tralia are particularly suitable; also Australian
stories, sketches, verse, &c., &c.
95,000
THE WAYBACK SERIES.”
NO 3, RED HARRY, 1/-
Indigestion
AND
LIVER & KIDNEY
DISORDERS
All yield to Mother Seigel’s Syrup. It
is a vegetable compound of selected
roots, barks and leaves. *** When your
stomach fails to digest food properly
your systm is thrown out of order.
The blood becomes impure and the
poisons and acids generated affect your
stomach, heart, kidneys and liver. But
all of these troubles
ARB CURED BY
MOTHER
SEIGEL’S
SYRUP
IT CURED
Mr. Thomas E. Watson, to Chapel St..
Woolloomooloo, Sydney, who writes:
“ For over three years X was a victim
of Indigestion, with intense pain.***
On a friend’s--advice T used Mother
Seigel’s Syrup and it cured me quickly
and completely."
It will Cure You
WILL forward to any address our GOLD WIRE
BROOCHES on receipt of money order or
postal note. 9ct. Cold-Filled Round Wire Brooches,
3/6 ; with Pendant, Heart, or Cross, 6/-. In 15ct. C.F.
Twisted Wire, 6/6; with Pendant, 8/-. Illustrated Cata-
logue sent Free. R. SIMS, GOLD KING, Cole s
Book Arcade, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
THIS MENS
'Bush Boy' Watch
GUARANTEED for 12 MONTHS,
Post Free to any Address in Australia
7)6
7[6
%
/
npHIS is a splendid Watch for country use. You
1 couldn’t get a better timekeeper it you paid a
Hundred Guineas. We call it “The Bush Boy.
It is a Polished Steel Cylinder Keyless Watch with
Jewelled Movement. You can have the Oases m
either Nickel or Gunmetal, as you like (say which).
Both are practically Dustproof—has a Strong Crystal
Glass Face. Can be wound up, and hands set witn-
out opening the Case. Every Watch i s guaranteed
in writing tor Twelve Months. Sent Post Free any-
where for 7/6. Sit down and write for it to-day. It
will stand plenty of knocking about, and be none the
worse for it. Ask us to send you FREE our Beauti-
fully Illustrated Catalogue of Watches, Jewellery and
Plated Goods.
“DUNKUNC, THE JEWELLER,”
317 Bourke St., Melbourne.
WHY
REMAIN
DEAF?
■ When you can cure yourself at your own home
without any detention from your daily routine
work. No Medicines, no Electricity, but nature’s
own treatment by aural kinetics, endorsed by all
leading; physicians as the only safe and positive
cure. Full particulars FREE. Call or write at once.
The “EAROSCOPE” CO.,
90 Pitt St., Sydney, N.SW.
WARNER’S SAFE CURE.
Why'it cures disorders so seemingly different in character as
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Backache
Sciatica
Indigestion
Anaemia
Blood Disorders
Biliousness
Jaundice
Gravel
Stone
Bladder Troubles
General Debility
Sick Headache
This is a fairly long list of disorders, but every one of them is caused by defective action of the
KIDNEYS AND LIVER.
When the kidneys and liver are working perfectly, it is impossible for anyone to staffer from any
of the disorders named. In order that His important fact may be realised, the following description
of the work performed by those vital _,ans is given :
The Kidneys filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine every day. In this
quantity of urine are dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains in weight of unc ac d,
together with other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to « earl y “°J the
Whpn the kidnevs are in health, all this solid matter is in solution and is invisible. JJiree
kidneys through either weakness or disease, become unfit to do their duty properly a proporUon
of the solid matter remains in the blood, becomes actively poisonous, and causes us to « suffer «
disorders such as Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica G vel,
Stnnp Bladder Troubles and Bright s Disease. A simple test to make as to the conctitio
the kidneys fs to place some urine, passfd the first thing in the morning,, ml a
stand until next morning. If it is then cloudy, or there is a brick-dust like or if particles
float about in it, or it is of an unnatural color, the kidneys are not healthy and no time m iust be 10
in adopting remedial measures, or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some less serious but more painful
illness will result.
The Liver. —In the liver various substances are actually made from the blood. Two ° r
pounds of bile are thus made from the blood every day. The liver takes sugar from
it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to again supp y - ur | a w hich is corn-
latter requires enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which , , • i-’r d are use .
pletely soluble, and the liver also deals with blood corpuscles which havelifoggd ajeojj
ful no longer. When the liver is inactive or diseased we suffer from Indigestion, xmiousn
Anaemia, Sick Headache, and Blood Disorders.
The health of the liver and of the kidneys is so closely connected that it is almost impossible for
the kidneys to be affected and the liver remain healthy, or vice versa.
It is nearly thirty years since scientific research directed specially to di ff, s f
liver was rewarded by the discovery of the medicine now known rougou nec essary to find a
Safe Cure. It was realised, at the outset of the investigation,
curative agent which fvould act equallv upon the kidneys and upon an( j a ff er man y dis-
immediately associated in the work of dealing with the body fullest degree was at length
appointments, the medicine which possessed the required action m liv«, and, by
discovered. Warner’s Safe Cure cures the body through the natural channels,
restoring their activity, these vital organs are enabled to r system are the cause of Kheu-
of the urinary and biliary poisons, the presence of win , Disorders Anaemia, Indigestion,
matism, Gout, Neuralgia,. Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Troubles’ and General Debility-
Biliousness, Jaundice, Si ek Headache, Gravel, Stone, oause of the~d-isorder. This is the
Warner’s Safe Cure-cures all these disorders simply by removing the cause
reason why cures effected by Warner’s Safe Cure are permanent cures.
A treatise containing full particulars, and accounts * e ?r ar Warner Limited,
hope of recovery was despaired of, will be sent post free, by H. H. Warner ana oo„ w [g]
Australasian Branch, Melbourne.
The Inky Way.
The Brisbane Telegraph and Observer recently set a
trap for the Daily Mail, which they seem to suspect of
stealing their heavy matter. They printed under bold
headlines the story that one Van Dooyen, or Van Dogged,
or something had arrived from the Sandwich Islands to
pursue his industry of Angora goat farming ; being driven
from his old haunts by the presence in the Islands of a
poisonous grass “ botanically known as raravis dala-
malii, called by the natives red-hot food.” Ex-
tensive details were given of the proposed removal
of large quantities of goat to Queensland. The Mail
however, did not fall into the trap and rush into print
with more details about the goats and the grass. There
was a wooden humorousness and a labored mirth about
the Angora that warned it off. But it came out next
morning with a scathing notice as to contemporary
reliability, and concluded : “ The paragraph, to place the
most charitable construction upon it, furnishes an
instance of how bogus information may be disseminated
through ignorance, though, it must be confessed, it says
very little for the value at which those responsible rate
the intelligence of their readers.” Goats are a painful
subject just now.
* * * *
A curiosity of journalism is the Mahly Daily. It is a
single sheet, printed on both sides, and its contents run
to six columns, ten inches long. It is issued gratis, and is
crowded up with small advts. The remainder is mostly
paragraphic tribute to the glory of “ The Village.”
* * * *
The just-published autobiography of Bussey, a London
journalist, states that when Bright said in Parliament
that Lowe and others had formed a party of the Cave of
Adullatn, the editor of a leading paper said to the chief
of staff : “ Our reporter does not seem to have understood
the allusion.” “Oh, yes,” says the chief, “everyone
knows the ‘ Arabian Nights’.’-’ A country editor sent to
another in the same town for a Virgil to verify the
reference.
* * * *
A while back that humorous publication, Melbourne
Herald, used to have stock headlines which had to be
used under pain of dismissal. For instance, the Divorce
Court was headed, “ Breaking the Bonds,” and the Agri-
cultural Show had to be called “Agricola” to avert the
heavens falling. Now a new order has been instituted,
and apparently the cross-head department has been en-
trusted to a poet, for the headlines tell a story in a few
brief words placed wrong end on. A murder is an-
nounced “ Killed,” and below it “ A Man Was,” while the
story of a crime has above it, “ Three Storey House,”
with underneath, “ Burglars Break Into,” and the poli-
tical situation is set forth, “ Not Resign ” “ Mr. Bent
Will.” It is understood that this innovation is regarded
as stimulating to the readers’ imagination, like beginning
a novel at the last chapter, and working backwards.
* * * *
“M.M.”: “Ropata” must have been counting up
Filchitt’s adjectives same time as I was adding up how
many original cartoons and caricatures a certain copy of
Life contained. Found forty-nine illustrated jokes and
other things, every one of which was “ lifted ” from some
other publication. Six of them had the honor of being
ticketed “ The Bulletin.” “ Bleeds ” clips articles from
all and sundry, and the flattering acknowledgments
are at times amusing. For instance: “The San
Francisco Argonaut collects the best of the world’s
stories and redresses them in interesting form.
Here are three samples.” Another: “ A month
or two back we noted ” (how kind of Filchitt to
note) “ some short stories running in M'Clcre’s under
the title of ‘ Arizona Nights,’ S. E. White. The writer
has collected a number of ranchmen’s yarns, cleverly
garnished in his own inimitable style.” Then follows the
story holus-bolus, and not a penny to pay. The climax
is reached in the Answers to Corres. page, where the
paper tries to fire off second-hand “ hostile notices.”
* * * *
“O’F.”: Burrowing among newspaper files of the far-
back year 1806,1 find that ‘ 1 rash act ” was the regular
journalistic term even then for the deed of the person
who hanged himself with deliberation or gunned the top
of his head off. It is surely time to give “rash act” a
decent pension as an overworked centenarian, and to fine
anyone who in future arouses it from its sleep in the
Home for Worn-out Phrases.
• * * •
“G.,” writing from Tas.: Ido not regard the labors
of your correspondents, “Kappa” (B. 28/6/’O6) and
“Gravedigger” (B. 2/8/’O6), as particularly herculean.
Some years ago I threw up a clerical billet to enter
journalism, taking on the editorship and management of
a 24-page weekly at £4 a week. My duties consisted of
writing four columns of leader matter, four columns of
random drivel under a pen-name, eight columns of pars,
scissoring suitable fill-up stuff, proof-reading, etc. The
boss being an ambitious M.P., I had to initiate and sus-
tain periodical controversies in the daily papers, calling
attention to his great and unobtrusive public services.
When nobody took any notice of the first letter—which
was usually the case —I had to fake replies in a disguised
hand. In addition I had to keep the books, canvass for
ads.—no ads. no pay ; address wrappers (fortunately, few
were .required, and I did not try to push the circulation),
and publish.' At election time I hadto act as secretary,
committee, organiser of meetings, and sometimes as an
enthusiastic and unanimous audience. The paper is now
dead, although the politician lives and thrives.
Dear Bulletin.— You were mistaken in
asserting that the Chilian earthquake was not due
to a protest of Providence against the rise of
Socialistic legislation. The Chilian Government
has for some years past held a monopoly of the
coastal shipping trade along Chili’s protracted
shore. That’s up against your duckhouse.— Anti-
Sosii.
THE PEOPLE WHO MAKE THE NEWS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I will sing you a short, paradoxical song—
A ballad of devious ways,
A ballad of people who all go wrong
And never get word of praise ;
A ballad of people who can’t go right
Whatever the path they choose,
Of people who murder, and steal, and fight,
The people who make the news.
When Tummy, the King, has forgotten to sneeze,
And the Queen has no ailment at all ;
When the Kaiser is cussedly taking his ease,
And the birth-rate’s forgotten to fall;
When there isn’t a really new lie to relate,
Nor a truth to distort to a lie ;
When all the principal men of the State
Most firmly refuse to die ;
When Parliament’s over and members at rest
From the wearisome waggle of chin ;
When the Cups have been run, and there isn’t a “test,”
And the war declines to begin ;
When there’s never a myth or a “ hatter” a-near,
And the Freetraders’ bogies have fled ;
When the tariff, like most of the industries here,
Is sleeping the sleep of the dead ;
When elections are over, and war-fevers gone,
And the markets are stable at last;
When shipwrecks are “ off,” and no accidents “ on,”
And the drought is a thing of the past;
It is then that the scribe who has nothing to write—
Nor much in this world to lose—
Will hail, with a hail of great delight,
The people who make the news.
Sing ho 1 for a gruesome murderer, then,
And ho ! for his gory deed,
When never a one of the world’s great men
Is good for the price of a feed ;
For it’s cake and wine in the corpse they see,
And the hanging means good brown booze.
For sovereigns grow on the gallows-tree
For the people who write the news.
N.S.W.
ERN. R. EMERSON.


YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
For Sunburn
rir Q/lfV l Pi/pc quick relief can be
UI OU/C L-,yCa obtained by the applies-
tion of the well known remedy,
CALVERTS
Carbolic Ointment.
It has a good record of success for cure of
many skin ailments, itch, ringworm, piles,
etc. Minor mishaps such as cuts, bruises
or scalds will keep healthy and heal rapidly
with its use.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester
England.
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
I
This DIET is recommended
in place of ordinary milk foods,
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
particularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Invalids.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who are
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particularly serviceable in conva-
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Aged.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
boiling water.
The “AHenburys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “AHenburys” Foods for Infants.
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd. and Bridge & Loftus Streets, SYDNEY.
HOLLOWAY S PILLS
sd
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy tor Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as “run-down” <r “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway s Pilis au invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords mo»‘ welcome relief
in a very short time.
ft
S'
&
&
❖
$
$
ft:
and OINTMENT
JUST A FEW BOOKS S £ D SIR ROBERT!
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 60 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s Gd posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dit. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is,-post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book oy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, 'ls 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s
Big Horse Book and How to Train the
Horse, Is 6d. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys ok Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket-Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handyhqok, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, Fsposted. JVIy Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. All Tub Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s (id. Al'st. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s (id. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer's Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Bahlheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is Gd. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman
and the Confessional, Is Gd. The Art of Jui-Jitsu,
9d and Is Gd. God and My Neighbor, lOd. Britain
for the British, 4rl. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How
to Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taugiit, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s Gd. Myster.k i Court of Queen Elizabeth, lsGd.
R
II
i
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young- and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting- subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior gukle~to the action of menand
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, ts 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, ss. 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Eas.v, Is, posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d, Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Cd.
Self Instructor : Every Man llis Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
..faddiin’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. On Our New Selection, Cs (id.
Hung Complaints, Is. Cd. French Self Taught,
Is 3d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d
posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, lleptamkron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of /the First
Fight, is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. pT" Established SO Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROfl THIS ADVT
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Atiy where for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR ■
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT. ;
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,!
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d post. Hit. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6a;
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s fid post. Voltaire’s .Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Bead Heads
(Jas...Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each -posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugaii-
Boilßrs’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1000 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound,;los fid posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post; 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is fid posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted. Is 2d. WRIT E FOR CATALOGUE TO-DA V.
COCKLE’
BILIOUS
PILLS.
I do not hesitate to say it is the best made pill in the kingdom.”—Dr. G. F. Collier, in the Pharmacopoeia of the Royal College of Physicians of London.
| FAMED AS A FAMILY MEDICINE FOR A CENTURY. Invaluable to every Mother of a family, m
The Illustrated Medical News
says“ Infants do remark-
ably well on it.”
The British Medical Journal
says“ Benger’s Food has
by its excellence estab-
lished a reputation of its
own."
m
FOOD
For INFANTS, INVALIDS, and the AGED.
BENGER’S FOOD IS SOLD BY CHEMISTS, &C., EVERYWHERE!.
Benger’s Food has attained
its great reputation not by
extravagant or sensational
advertisement, but by the con-
stant recommendation of those
who have used it, and of Medi-
cal men who know its value.”
The German law against unfair competi-
tion is rigorously enforced, and recent Teutonic
legal decisions should help to stiffen Bill Lyne’s
backbone. Take these instances
For offering certain goods for sale under cost price in
order to attract customers, the court condemned the
defendant as being guilty of an offence against the law.
To sell at cost price means charging customers the
price which tlie seller paid at the factory.
Bill should look Australian shoddy men squarely
in the eye and say, “ That’s the way I’m going.”
\nd here is how the German law deals with the
petty swindle of the smart little party, whose
business letters display the photograph of a mag-
nificent, many-storeyed establishment, whereas
in reality he carries on work in a sort of enlarged
hencoop, with the aid of a few undersized assis-
tants ?
Views on business papers of factories and showrooms
must represent those places as they actually are, seeing
that they serve as advertisements.
Bill Lyne has merely started on the road to fraud
suppression, and instead of growing timid when
Shoddy howls, he should set himself for another
onward stride.
Thus the Eastern World (Yokohama) :
We believe that Japan is preparing for another war
with China. Japan must have money, much money,
many hundred millions of money, and a war with China,
that'would not only pay for itself, but which would also
pay off the present crushing war debt and make all
China the treasury of Japan, would be popular from one
end of the country to the other.


VICTORIA <5
Collins&SwansfonS* Melbourne J?
WEST. AUSTRALIA M
395&397 Hay ST Perth HI
QUEENSLAND fv
Queen& Edward St?
NEW ZEALAND
M 65148 Queen St. Auckland
IS-3 LambtonQuay.Wellington
2568- 333 Christchurch.<
Princes 8 DowlihgSt? Dunedinjf
I
ier.ceorcfsi,sydh^
1
If it's from
Stewart Dawson
ifs good.
Write the
store nee rest
you.
SgEEI
556 c STEWART DAWSON advertising is distinguished from
most others by the omission of “glaring' misrepresentations
and foolish exaggerations." Compare the Prices and
Goods; then you will be fully satisfied.
Case containing two Pearl Handle, Silver-Plated
Butter Porks, 14s 6d.
Solid Silver Pencil, Pocket Knife and Cigar Cutter in Case,.
12s 6d ; others at 16s 6d and 255.
No. 6108.—Solid Silver Manicure Set.
£2 15s.
A 1 Quality Silver-Plated Table Set. A very
useful Wedding- Gift v £2 7s 6d. '
1111111
Child’s Solid Silver Cup and Spoon in
Morocco Case. Price, £2 15s.
MU
m
■ M
Solid Silver Afternoon Tea. Set in Case, £7 108 ;
others at £lO 10s, £ll 10s, £l2 10s.
% ■■
: v
niiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiHiuiiuuimiiiiumuuim
Solid Silver and Out Glass Toilet Set, comprising Puff Box, Hair Pin Box, £
Salts Bottle, and Pomade Jar, £2 ss.
Very Handsome Design Afternoon Tea Spoons
and Tongs, in Morocco Case, Best Plate, 27s Cd ;
Solid Silver, £3.
frn
No. 299 A.—Solid Sterling Silver Afternoon Tea Service, in Case,
£l2 10s.
No. G66ll.—Presentation Set of 12 Pairs Dessert Knives and
Porks. Absolutely the Finest Quality of Silver-Plate,
with Pearl Handles, £8 Bs.
Solid Silver, Hand Engraved Salt Bottle, in Morocco
Case, 14s Cd ; larger sizes, 16s Cd, 21s, 30s.
Cut Glass and Solid Silver Communion
Set in Case, for the Pocket, £2 10s.
STEWAHT
DAWSON
LONDON
Fine Quality Silver-Plated Pie Servers in Case, 30s ;
others at 35s and 50s.
Best Silver-Plated Butter Knife and Jam Spoon in Case,
15s 6d ; others 10s 6d ; in Solid Siver, 21s and 27s 6d.
m
Solid Silver Manicure Set in Case, £2 5s
Others from the 2 piece set at 11s 6d,
up to 12 piece set, £6 6s.
No. G4B73.—Fjne Sheffield Shear Steel Carvers,, with Tusk Handles, 37s 6d.
Child’s Silver-Plated Spoon and Fork in
Case, 7s 6d, others 5s (id, 8s (id, 12s 6d.
Solid Silver, 22s Cd.
fllllllllll'll'lll'lllllllllllllllllliw
Two Best Quality Silver-Plated Jam Spoons, in Case,
15s 6d ; others 10s 6d ; Solid Silver, 27s Od.
Two Butter Knives, in Case, same Prices.
Two Solid Silver Salt Cellars with Two Salt Spoons
in Case, £2 12s 6d ; other styles, 18s 6d, 30s, 40s.
No. 328—Child’s Spoon. Fork and Serviette
Ring, best Silver-Plate, in Morocco Case, 21s
Six Solid Silver Afternoon Tea Spoons
in Case, 27s Od ; others with the
Tongs, 40s, 455, 50s, 555.
ii 111 fuiin ui ■mi _ 1 88
1
No. G 8998.— Case of Six Afternoon Cake
Forks, Silver-Plated, 9s 6d.


PEPS, the THROAT-HEALER.
The Natural Remedy for Goughs, Golds and Influenza.
5* »
W '- Itllllh
m
0
Anyone who has studied the history of medicine knows there is a vast
difference between the diseases of to-day and of centuries ago. How
is it, then, that in this scientific age, Consumption (the white man’s
scourge) and other dread lung and throat diseases daily kill thousands
of the world’s best citizens ?
The cause lies in ineffective treatment. People regard too lightly
“a slight cold” or “persistent cough”; they do not view them as
heralds of deadly lung-destroying diseases, insidiously undermining
the bodily health.
Observation proves that no person is so immune from lung and throat
affections than the Swiss Shepherd tending his sheep on the slopes of the
Alps, breathing hourly into his lungs the rich resinous vitalising
atmosphere of the Pine Forests in which he dwells.
It is a study of this fact that has led to the invention of the
Peps tablet as an entirely novel treatment for pulmonary troubles-
As it slowly dissolves on the tongue it impregnates the whole of
the delicate membranes lining mouth, throat and lungs with its
healing and antiseptic fumes.
It is a bactericide of uncommon power, and annihilates the
worst disease by first annihilating the germs that have been the
cause of the trouble.
Peps help to repair the damage wrought upon the delicate
tissues by the wheezing and barking in bronchitis or by the
hacking cough of consumption. They cure the worst cold or cough.
Miss Marie Narelle, the popular Australian Soprano, says of Peps : —“ I know of
nothing better to relieve huskiness and prevent sore throat.”
Peps for Children*
Peps, because of their purity, potency, and pleasant
taste, are excellent for children. They thoroughly disinfect
the mouth and nasal organs; and clear the throat when
breathing is heavy or impeded. It does the lungs good to
bathe them in the fumes from a dissolving Pep.
When there is whooping cough in the house, Peps will
be found simply indispensable. A liberal supply of Peps
will ease the nasty cough, and prevent other members of the
family from catching the same complaint. Peps are an
insurance for health and strength.
eps
An Unique Family Medicine,
PEPS are the latest and best family medicine for coughs, colds,
chill, influenza, lung-weakness, bronchitis, difficult breathing,
wheezing, tonsilitis, asthma, consumption’s hacking cough, cold, croup,
children’s colds, whooping cough, sore throat, huskiness, and loss of
voice. They are invaluable to clergymen, teachers, lawyers, singers,
and public speakers.
Carry a box in the vest pocket. PRICE Is. 6d. of all Chemists,
or post free for same price direct from the PEPS PASTILLE CO;, 39
Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Mail us this Coupon.
Make your own free test of PEPS by
sending this Coupon and Id. stamp to
PEPS PASTILLE CO., 39 Pitt=street,
Sydney, N.S.W., when a liberal sample
will be sent by return mail.
Tiib Bulletin, Sept. 13, 1906.
fsd
Business, Robbery, etc.
A prominent American citizen, to the British
juvenile Smoking Committee : —“ Worse than Chicago
; ;aned meat is the American cigarette—the worst thing
jur country sends to you. You ought to prohibit the
sale of cigarettes imported from America on account of
the exceedingly cheap quality of the tobacco ordinarily
employed, the filthy surroundings from which it was
gathered, and the drugs used. The American cigarette-
maker devises most ingenious concoctions to please the
jialate, such as cocaine and laudanum.”
* * * *
Australian clothing people and button users
can now help along a new Australian industry, while
lowering the cost to themselves, by co-operating in the
proposed establishment of a factory of pearl buttons and
M.O.P. goods. The Torres Straits pearlers are the people
who propose it. The only chance of the pearl industry
continuing payable for white men is the wiping out of
the buyers at this end, and the buyers in London, and
the manufacturers in Belgium, and all the army of middle-
men, who take away Australian shell and bring Australia
buttons. Pearlers and clothiers and fancy goodsmen
should be able to make a co-operative factory among
them, and once it is a success, the boundaries of the
Commonwealth wouldn’t hold them long. There would
be an export trade pretty soon, as Torres shell is the
finest in all the world.
* * * *
Much, if not most, of the silky-oak furniture
that the Chow cabinet-makers in Melbourne and Sydney
turn out is made of fruit-cases. The finest silky oaks in
Australia grow back of Mourilyan and Geraldton, where
the Queensland bananas come from ; and when he packs
his fruit at all, the local 'Ah Hang, who has the business
in his own paw, packs it in silky-oak cases. It involves a
cruel waste of a very fine wood ; but it saves freight on
furniture timber, and Ah Hang makes his cases pay for
themselves.
* * * *
Some of the tricks of the opal trade came out
during the hearing of a case of assault between a White
Cliffs opal gouger and a buyer. The chief trick consists
in manipulating the poorer opal—in the local vernacular,
“painting”it. “Runners” are then employed to sell it
to rival buyers for more than its value. It was alleged by
the battered gouger that the buyer accused him of run-
ning “ painted ” opal for another buyer, and that this led
to someone being “dealt a hand.” Evidence was con-
flicting enough for the P.M. to dismiss the case ; but, for
all that, opal must now be added to the list of possible
fakes. At least it is susceptible to “ doctoring ” in the
rough state.
* * * »
Queer advt. from the Opal Miner (White
Cliffs, N.S.W.): —
NOTICE.
TT having come to my knowledge that miners are
afraid of being brutally assaulted when offering
their opal for sale, I beg to assure them that when
they enter my office with opal for sale that I.will ex-
tend unto them ever,v business courtesy, and if I
cannot agree with them on a price for the parcel, I
will guarantee that no miner will receive from me a
punch in the eye or a split ear for offering his goods
to me for sale.
HY. ABOTOMEY.
It appears as though there has been some unpleasantness
at White Cliffs.
• » * *
“Carvossa” : Over here in S. Australia we are
a porridge-eating people, and used to favor the imported
article. But the product of the oatmeal mills at Mt.
Gambier is gradually driving the foreign-made stuff out.
Besides being quite as good, it is cheaper and fresher. As
a result of its sales falling off, the representatives of one
of the much-boomed and extensively-advertised freak
foods found themselves with an enormous stock in bond.
To get rid of it, they' opened the cases, took out the car-
toons, and made a heap of the contents (about 30 tons).
Then they added 15 per cent, of crushed maize, to make
it unusable as a breakfast food and to save the bulk of
the duty ; and the compound was sold as pigs’ dinners.
“Mullalyup”: Next to the jabbering Asiatic, the
Illicit pearl-buyer is the curse of Broome (W.A.). He is as
plenteous as leaves in Vallombrosa (wherever that may
be). Probably a fourth of the pearl output goes
into his side pocket. There is no danger as far
as the law is concerned, and no one ever hears of a
“ snide ” pearl-buyer being captured. The only thing to
be feared is Asia’s kris or jiu-jitsu strangle-hold. It was
while trying to buy a stolen pearl that bagman Liebglid
met his fate, for which three men swung; He was be-
guiled on board a pearling-boat ostensibly to look at and
chaffer for a dishonestly-acquired gem, the simple inten-
tion of Asia being to make him a dead remains, and then
go through him for the pearls it suspected him of having
dishonestly acquired from other murky sons of Sheitan.
And so far as the remains were concerned Asia was very
successful.
In the course of its bustling life, Sydney Fire
Brigade has groped together a lot of facts about the way
the trouble starts. In the last two years, in city and
suburbs, the men have been called out 1030 times —not
counting the times when they couldn’t find anything
after they had got there ; and they only own to not
knowing the cause of the blaze in 81 cases. By far the
most common is the match that was thrown down and
allowed to take its chances ; 327 times this casual habit is
entered up. Candle-flames stand next in the brigade’s
black books; after that rubbish-fires and the accident
that happens to the baby with the box of matches to
play with. The brigade hasn’t got any confidence worth
mentioning in the discredited rat that got at the
matches, though he is allowed to have done five lots of
mischief in 1905 ; and there is only one recorded case of a
Sydney or suburban fire caused by lightning in the past
four years.
# * * »
The most costly section of railway owned by
N.S. Wales is the mile and a half that carries the squeal-
ing pig and the other great natural resources down to
Darling Harbor. It ran to £527,690 a mile. For a long
section, that one from Milson’s Point to Hornsby has
made the largest hole in Uncle Cohen’s pocket—
£4B,699 per mile. The very cheapest has been the
Tarrawingee line, which runs from Broken Hill
to nowhere, and hasn’t quite enough energy to
get there. A syndicate owned it once, but tired of the
profitless job, and sold the whole outfit to the State for a
price which, with renewals, &c., only stands in at £BOB
per mile. Roundly, comparing railways and tramways,
it costs half as much again to lay the average tramway
line as the other. The Ocean-street line cost just under
£60,000 a mile ; and, outside the city, the Bondi and
Coogee lines averaged over £25,000.
* * * *
“C.R.” : The competition between butter fac-
tories in this district (S. Gippsland) is very keen, and
some of the means used to secure the custom of the
honest cow-man are remarkable. For instance, Jones,
who is a shareholder and supplier of the Yamyam butter
factory, missed the carrier one day last summer, and his
can of cream, containing the collection of a fortnight,
stood out on the road for several warm days,
simmering and stewing, with increasing froth. When
discovered, the contents had arrived at the loud
stage of fermentation. The lid of the can was blown
off, and angry smells rushed out, and many strange
objects, like little whales, rolled and plunged in the
bubbling slop which once was cream. Something had to
be done. So Jones—who is an emergency man every
time—rushed off home, and brought back a bucketful of
new milk, which he emptied into the can. And, as he
stirred the mixture about with his whip-handle, he
remarked that it would sweeten it up a bit, and make
up for what had “biled over.” Just then the Claypool
cream waggon came along, and the can was loaded
on, for Jones didn’t care to send it to his own
factory. And the Claypool butter factory, wishing to
secure a new customer, paid Jones for a full can of first-
class cream on a record butter percentage. But, in spite
of this generous treatment, Jones was ungrateful ; for
he went around amongst his neighbors and told them of
his experience with many joyful and sardonic bellowings,
and his remarks created the impression that Claypool
butter couldn’t amount to much when it was made of
slop such as Jones had sold to it. At the annual meeting
of the Claypool factory the directors spoke bitterly about
the disloyalty of both suppliers and shareholders !
A Born Actress.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Gwendoline jones walked slowly
down the street. Her dress was of the
deepest black ; her pale, pretty face wove
a look of sad resignation, mingled with import-
ance. Both expressions deepened as a girl of her
acquaintance crossed the road and greeted her
with a brusquely sympathetic “Hello, Gwen!
What’s up? Nothing wrong at home, I hope ! ”
Gwendoline lifted pathetic eyes that seemed
heavy with unshed tears. “ Haven’t you heard?”
she sighed. “It’s my young man. He died of
typhoid last week. We only got the news
yesterday.”
“Didn’t know you had a young man,” said the
other girl, staring.
The mourner stiffened slightly. “ The engage-
ment has been kep’ secret,” she explained with
dignity, “but we have been attached to one
another for more’n a year. He was a doctor in
South Australia, and we was to have been married
next June. It’s hard. I try to bear up at ’ome
for pore mother’s sake, but if you only knew the
aching void—the blight that has fallen and—and
crushed the sunshine out of my life —the ”
“Yes, yes,” interrupted her companion, writh-
ing uneasily under this deluge of sentiment. “I’m
real sorry for you, Gwen, and I didn’t mean to
suspicion that you hadn’t got a young man—
though ’ow you come to mike the acquaintance of
a doctor beats me.”
“It was when I was bad with fever,” said
Gwen, hastily. “Reggie (that’s his name) was
over here for a ’oliday, and' Dr. Wise was
consulting with him, an’ he told me that the
first time he set eyes on me he felt I was the
only girl in the world for him.” ,
She dabbed at her eyes with a dainty black-
edged handkerchief. “I don’t suppose I’ll ever
get over it,” she whimpered. “I’m not as
strong as most, and I’ve got more heart than
some—and I feel as I can’t bear it. I’ve always
liked you, Fan. When I’m gone, you’ll see
that there’s flowers on my grave every Sunday.
I couldn’t bear to feel as I was forgotten ! ”
Kind-hearted Fanny fidgeted unhappily, and
attempted clumsy consolation. “ Look here,”
she said, “don’t you be so down. There’s as
good fish in the sea as ever was caught—l mean
you’ll forget him after a bit—leastways, time
will soften the blow like. Oh, well, I must be
going—goodbye.” She beat a retreat, troubled
by after-thoughts of consolations she might have
offered.
The story caused much gossip in the work-room,
where Gwendoline was not a favorite. Her
manner copied from those members of the
British aristocracy who “sweep disdainfully”
through the pages of cheap fiction had shut
her off from her fellow-workers. Still it was felt
to be “ hard luck on Gwen,” and, though two or
three girls said it served her right for putting on
airs, the general feeling was sympathetic.
One of the girls had met her, looking pale and
pathetic in her black frock, and learned from her
that she would not be back for a month, as she was
just leaving for South Australia, having been sent
for “ to settle up poor Reggie’s affairs.”
“ Queer start that,” said the girls.
Some weeks later, as Gwendoline’s brother
Tom was piling a miscellaneous lot of furniture
into a delivery cart, he was accosted by Fanny.
“ Is your sister back ? ” she inquired.
“ Never been away as I’ve heard of,” said Tom,
grumpily, straightening the kink in his back.
“ Been mooning round the house in a black dress
this month past, and if you know what’s been up
with the gel, you’d better out with it.”
“Don’t tell me you didn’t know about her
young man she was in mourning for! ” said
Fanny, reproachfully; “the dootor as died in
South Australia ; and there was papers and things
that she had to go and settle up.”
Tom whistled. “My word!—she has been
pullin’ yer leg,” said he, succinctly. "She didn’t
know no doctor in South Australia, and,” he
added, thoughtfully, “there’s times when I’m
blowed if she knows whether she’s herself or a
character out of one of them fool books that she’s
always porin’ over. Anyway, she’s right out o’
mourning now, there’s no doubt about that. I see
her this afternoon with a sorter red dress and
yaller roses in her hat, going to meet young
Tompkins from the oookshop. He don’t care
about these die-away notions, young Tompkins
don’t.”
NOR M.
It is evident that, in helping Japan to
secure “the open door” for the trade of all
nations in Manchuria, Britain has again fallen in
heavily. This is what an English journal, the
Field, prints, from a man who saw what he writes
about:—
What has occurred is partly due to the complacent
belief that the departure of the Russian and the entry of
the Japanese . . . marked the inauguration of free and
unrestricted trade for the future. But. . . the astute
Japanese are straining every nerve to obtain as tight a
grip upon the trade of Manchuria as upon that of Korea.
Such enterprise was never a feature of the Russian occu-
pation of Manchuria ; and, if the question is regarded
from that point of view, it must be acknowledged that
the state of things existing at that time was better than
it is at present for the British merchant. . . . The control
of Russian military and civil law, disagreeable as it may
have been . . . did not at any rate, introduce the cheap
competition into their businesses which the re-advent of
the Japanese has done, and which will increase in severity
year by year. . . . With all these new forces at work, it
would be miraculous if British interests on the spot did
not suffer in the long run.. . . Reliance upon Govern-
mental assistance will not avail them in the days to come,
for British political influence in that part of the Far East
is now a very minor quantity.
There is not the slightest doubt now, that
Japan, in negotiating the famous treaty with
Britain, was really working a gigantic confi-
dence trick upon the Ma Country. The Tory
Government, when it signed that treaty, bought
the biggest political gold-brick of the century.
“ H.” digs up an interesting point: —
A fearsome press roar in the Amurkan papers concern-
ing the destruction of the municipal titles office of’Frisco
by the recent fire discloses the fact that whenever the
Federal Government of the U.S.A. erects a building it
secures a clear space round it. When the fire swept over
’Frisco the whole of the Federal buildings escaped. The
State and municipal buildings had also been originally
put up in open spaces, but corrupt Boards of Supervisors
had alienated the clear ground, and all the State and
municipal buildings, with their contents, were destroyed.
As the result, it seems that the man who swears hardest
will get the best allotments, and the most of them, in the
re-arrangement of things, and the man who isn’t a good
perjurer will get none.


TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
GEORGE ADAMS,
HOBART, TASMANIA.
The TRUSTEES will carry on the business under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT, and
Special Supervision of a representative of the Government, WITHOUT ANY INTERMISSION, and under the same
management as during past years.
The Trustees in the Estate of the Late GEORGE ADAMS still continue his BREWERY and other Businesses
in HOBART, and money may be paid through any BANK in Australasia to the credit of the TRUS TEES in the Estate
of the Late GEORGE ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart, and any EIRM regularly communicating with
Hobart. Depositors, when doing so, will please request the BANK to advise the TRUSTEES of amount, with their
name and full address.
281 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
97 Queen St., MELBOURNE.
98 King William St., ADELAIDE.
(Booking Fee,
3d.
I per Parcel.
BRONCHITIS
CURE
fir (IRTI IN ONE ORDER
ELLIOTT BROTHERS LIM?
WHOLESALE DRUGGISTS
AND DRYSALTERS.
Ju1y....24 th
Mr. W. G. Hearne,
1 Chemist, GEELONG.
Dear Sir,
We have muc ?> pleasure in enclosing to you herewith our order
for £9,600 worth of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Our sales for this remedy have always been large, but at no time
has the demand been so phenomenal as at present. We believe this forms
the largest straight-out order for any Chest Medicine in Australia.
We heartily congratulate you on the splendid reputation and
enormous sale which Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure enjoys.
We are, dear Sir,
Yours faithfully,
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing
power is marvellous. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing,
Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to
those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It
is most comforting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and
it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Con-
sumption has never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with
this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning a dose is generally
sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6 ; Large Size, 4/6, is sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors,
and by the Proprietor, W. Q. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.


fds
Latest
and Best.
f
D ? SHELDONS|ouGhs
NEW “SCOLDS and
1
.Discovery
ONSUMPTION
1
A
dsf
CURES WHERE ALL
ELSE
FAILS
dsf
Purely
Always
Vegetable.
Effective.
)They purify the blood, invigorate the digestion, and
k cleanse the stomach and bowels. They stimulate '
I the Liver and carry off vitiated bile and other
f depraved secretions. They are a tonic medicine,
that regulate, purify, and fortify the whole system.
\
Established
1752.
ill
J
Constipation, Dizziness, Coated Tongue, Bad
l Breath, Headache, Indigestion, Dyspepsia, Liver
'Complaint, Bilious Headache, or any disorder
arising from an impure state of the blood
Each Pill contains one grain of the solid extract of Sarsaparilla.
40 pills in every box.
The Nomad.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The curse of Ishmael was on him. He was destined
to be a wanderer on God’s earth, and all things apper-
taining-to the wild life of the forests were music in his
ears.” — Setox Merriman.
HE journeyed north by the burning plains
and south by the ranges dim.
Seeking ever the unknown land that his
soul had described to him ;
Seeking the land of his youthful dreams that ever
was faint and far,
And setting his course by the noonday sun, or at
night by the northern star.
It seemed that his heart was light and leal to the
dreams of his callow days ;
It seemed that his path was bright with blooms in
the sweet of the sunlit ways ;
It seemed that the tale of his boy’s romance
would ever be coming true
When he rode in the sun, and slept in the stars,
as out to the north he drew.
But the sun went by in a splendid train and the
drifting days went by ;
The long plain-grasses sprouted and grew, and the
autumns burned them dry.
The great plains whispered across the night, and
the great hills glowed by day,
And the moons came out of the mystic east and
hurried the hours away.
The wild dog called to him out of the night with
a human fear and pain,
When fire and drought swept over the hills and
wasted the fruitful plain ;
And many a homestead flamed and fell, leaving
its chimneys bare,
Like tombstones marking the graves of hopes of
those that had labored there.
He passed by cities enwrapt in gloom and the
griefs of a thousand souls ;
He heard from afar the moaning seas as they bit
on the ragged shoals ;
He found it writ in the fairest place that pain is
the one thing real,
And saw in the eyes of the toiling man the grave
of the lost ideal.
And so by freshets that roared in spate, and the
downs where the breeze was bland,
He came at length to that great lone place, the
heart of his native land ;
Then did the brave soul fail at last, the thread of
his life was cut.
The ghosts of his hopes saluted him, and the book
of his days was shut.
The hot sun stared on his upturned face with a
fierce, unwinking eye ;
The cold moon softened the features grim as she
rode in her tranquil sky ;
Till the years have made him one with the dust,
and hid him with drifts of sand,
And taken him into that great lone heart, the
heart of his native land.
VIC.
C. G. A. COLLES.
Mr. Barnes, Matchmaker.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I NEVER yet see the genuine bushman
as could get past a good ’orse, a bad pub,
or any woman, an’ I don’t wanter,” said
Mr. Barnes, defiantly.
“Mind yer, though, you chaps ain’t like wot
-we uster be in my young days. A wild lot we wuz—
no mistake. There wuz me mate, Jerry Lane, wot
you’ve ’eard me tell ov time an’ agen. ’E wuz
•alius in trouble some’ow. ’E’d get trackin’ round
wi’ a gal makin’ fierce love to ’er, an’ they’d fix
ther weddin’ day—an’ then Jerry’d ferget an’ go
away, or ’e’d see sum thin’ ’e’d like better, or ’e’d
be shorter cash, or summit. It wuz real ’umerous
the way ’e finally did get spliced.”
The old man chuckled softly to himself, took a
huge drink of beer, and began his yarn, reflec-
tively scratching his head with his pipe-stem.
“Jerry an’ me wuz in that Gaskar Creek gold
rush—when fivfc ’undred bloomin’ fools swarmed,
like flies, over sand ’ills where there weren’t
-enough metal for to make a respectible-sized ter-
baccer tag. One night I wuz cornin’ ’ome late
from ther claim, thinkin’ on ’ow all ther fun an’
beer an’ wimmin’ ’ad gorn from life, when I ’ears
16ud, angry voices cornin’ from our ’ut. I ’urried
•up to ther door an’ near broke me neck over a
whole ’eap ov portmanties, an’ boxes an’ things.
I struck a light, an’ on one of the boxes wuz ther
name ‘Mrs. Martha Whistle.’ ‘Ho! ho!’
thought I, ‘’ere’s trouble.’
“I opens ther door, an’ there wuz a strange
sight! In the farthest corner, ’uddled on ’is box,
wuz Jerry, lookin’ mortal scared an’ ’shamed.
Between ’ini an’ ther door wuz a stout ole lady,
•dressed out in a terrible big ’at wif a terrible big
feather. Very red in ther face she wuz, an’ she
•stood there in front o’ Jerry with ’er ’ands on ’er
’ips, lookin’ like ther Queen ov Ingland on
washin’ day. _ Seated on my box, wot stud
beneath the winder, wuz a gal. She wuz weepin’
bitter inter a ’ankerchif ’bout the size ov ther ace
•o’ diamonds. I couldn’t see much ov ’er face, but,
judgin’ by t’other parts ov ’er wot wuz showin’,'
she wuz orlright. The ole lady, ’oo from ther
name on the portmanter I reckoned wuz Mrs.
Martha Whistle, wuz so tuk up wi’ wot she ’ad to
to Jerry that she tuk no ’eed o’ my entrance.
The gal did, though. She guv a sly look at me,
•an then she wiped ’er eyes and straightened ’er
air with ’er ’ands. I could see she wuz struck on
™ e - J wuz a ’andsurn young feller in those days,
■though, o’ course, I’ve lost some ov me good looks
mow.
“ ‘ So, now, wot are y’u goin’ to do about it? ’
■the ole lady sed to Jerry, very stern, foldin’ ’er
arms acrost er ample bosom, as they say in ther
story books. Ther sigh ov relief that Jerry give
when ’e seed me would ’ave ruptured the spine ov
a snake. ‘ This is a welcum surprise,’ sed I, with
a cough.
~ ; ‘ Me mate,’sed Jerry, sulkily, wi’a wave ov
* by way ov interduction.
1 Ow are yer, mum ? ’ sed I, grabbin’ ’er paw
ln ‘ Y’u’ll surely be Mrs. Martha Whistle,
wot Mr. Lane ’ere ’as so often spoke ov to me very
affectsnunate.’
“ She seemed a bit took aback at my knowin’
’er name, an’ I could see she wuz flattered. She
scraped the clay orf ’er ’and wot she ’ad got orfer
mine. Then she started in ter explain the facts
ov ther case to me, an’ wot ’ad led to this visit.
‘ I’m a respectible married woman,’ she sed,
tappin’ ’er foot on ther floor, ‘ an’ I defy anyone
ter prove it, an’ wot I wants ter know is, wot is
’e goin’ ter do about it ? ’E comes along an’ sneaks
the young affeetshuns ov me ”
Say no more, mum,’ interrupted I, soothin’ly.
‘ Sav no more, mum. Mr. Lane ’as tole me all.’
“Jerry sat up an’ gasped, an’ the gal took the
rag frutn ’er eyes. ‘Yus, mum, me poor ole mate
’ere’—Jerry sniffed sorrowful—“’as tole me all
about the deep love ’e feels fer yer beautcheous
dorter, Mrs. Whistle ’
“ I knew then there wuz surmnat wrong. Jerry
groaned, an’ the gal give a snarly sorter larf, like
ther bark ov a disappointed dog, while, as fer the
ole wuman, she drew a circle in the air wi’ ’er nose
an’ remarked, freezin’ like : ‘ Then ’e lied ; she’s
me niece! ’
“ ‘O’ course, o’ course, yer niece—l remember
distinctly it wuz yer niece as ’e sed ’e wanted ter
marry, only ’
“ ‘Wot ther ’ell ’ sed Jerry, jumpin’ up.
““’Old yer jore,’ sed I, givin’ ’im a punch in
ther chest an’ knockin’ ’im back over ’is bunk
where ’e lay an’ cursed softly to ’isself— ‘ wanted
to marry only she wouldn’t ’ave ’im, so ’e tole me,’
I resoomed.
“‘Oh, Jerry!’ sed the gal, sittin’ up very
straight an’ lookin’ at ’im reproachful wi’ ’er big,
brown, bedroom eyes.
“ ‘Don’t believe a word ’e sez,’ shouted Lane.
I took no ’eed ov ’im.
“ “’E’s bin dyin’ to see’er. It’s bin Mabel this
an’Mabel that, day an’night, drunk or sober.’
That surprised even Jerry—my knowin’ ’er front
name so pat—but ’adn’t I spelt it out careful orfer
the big brassy broach wot she wore, stuck over
’er bows? ‘Now that y’u’re ’ere, where are y’u
thinkin’ ov sleepin’ ? It’s mortal cold in ther pad-
docks these nights.’
“ l ’ow dare you talk to me like that, young
man,’ the ole gal snarled ; ‘ I’ll ’ave y’u know I’m
a respectible married wuman, an’ defy enyone to
prove it ! We’ll stay at the best ’otel ’ere, o’
course ! ’
“ ‘ The best ’otel! Oh lor ! ’ Even Jerry larfed
—a thin ghost ov a larf. As fer me, I fairly
squelched onter ther floor. ‘ Ther best ’otel !
Sly Mick’s—oh, lor ! Y’u couldn’t stay at Sly
Mick’s, an’ it’s ther only place o’ ther kind ’ere;
why, they’d eat yer.’
“ ‘Yus,’ sed Jerry, spitefully, ‘they’d eat yer—
to ther last stay lace.’
“The poor young gal grew pale an’ began to
whimper. * Don’t cry, pretty one,’ said I, in me
best style. ‘ Take no notice of ’im. I’ll perfect
yer. I’ll turn all ’arm from yer.’
“‘Yer face ’d turn anything,’ sed Jerry. ’E
wuz gettin’ spiteful, so 1 decided to ’elp ’im no
more.
“I took ’er ’and an’ rubbed it gently. ‘Y’u
kin sleep in my bunk, mum,’ sed I to Mrs. Martha
Whistle.
“ ‘Sir, I’ll ’ave y’u know I’m a respect’
“‘An’ Mr. Lane an’ me’ll go over to Sly
Mick’s.’
“‘Oh, thank y’u so very much, Mr. Barnes,’
exclaimed Mabel. ‘lt is so ref reshin’ter meet a
gen’leman—there’s so few about! ’ An’ she cast
a cold eye over Jerry.
“ ‘ Oh, dam ! ’ sed ’e, an’ kicked the dorg.
“ Then ’e went out an’ slammed the door be’ind
’im, an’ the languige ’e used as ’e fell over the
portmantoos made the lamp flicker. Arter that,
it took me three-quarters ov a ’our to reassure ’em
as they wuz quite safe. Then, arter showin’ ’em
where they could find the damper an’ drippin’,
an’ sich ’ome comforts, an’ a drop ov gin (what
the ole lady swore she never touched, but wouldn’t
let me move fear the roomatics cum on suddint in
ther night), I left ’em, havin’ squeezed the gal’s
’and, an’ told ’er she wuz to call me Jim.
“ Jerry wuz waiting fer me outside. ’E come up
an’ shoved ’is face in mine very fierce. ‘ See
’erei!’ ’e snarled thro’ ’is clenched teeth, like the
villin in ther the-ater play I seed once ; ‘ see ’ere,
I’m agoin’ to punch y’u fair in the eyeball ! ’
“Now there’s no man livin’ ’as kin say Jim
Barnes ever refused a fight or a drink, but jist
then it wouldn’t ’ave suited me ter fall out wi’
Jerry, so I soothed ’im over.
“ Well, we wuz ’avin’ a drink inter Sly Mick’s,
when I sez to Jerry: ‘Are yer goin’ter marry
’er ?’
“‘No, certintly not! Wot about that girl
over Sand’urst way ? ’
“ ‘ That’s all right, then,’ sed I.
“ ‘ Wad’yer mean ? ’ ’e arst, suspicious.
“ ‘ Oh, nothin’,’ I tole ’im.
“’E kept quiet fer a long time. Then ’e
breathed ’ard an’ sed slowly, ‘ I s’pose you’ll be
goin’ ter marry ’er yerself, eh ? ’
“ ‘ Of course,’ I sed, ‘if you don’t want ’er I’ll
take ’er on.’
“ ‘ I’ll be damned if you do ! ’ shrieked he, real
savage.
“ ‘ Jist please yerself,’ I answered back. ‘ She’s
real shook on me.’
“ ‘ Grrrrh !!! ’ said Jerry, way down in ’is
throat. Then, arter finishin’ my beer, e’ wenter
bed.
“That night I explained ther sitwashun to Sly
Mick, an’ we called a select meetin’ ov ther boys.
You must know thet a coach called only once
a fortnight at Gaskar Creek, so that the wimmin
’ad no charnst ov gettin’ away, even if they
wanted to. But the fuss that ther boys made ov
Mabel, and the attenshun she got, muster made
’er satisfied to stay fer ever. Why, arter the
second day every man on ther field, married an’
single, ’ad proposed to ’er, bar meself an’
Jerry. Ole Stringy Steve even went so far as to
propose to Mrs. Whistle, ’im bein’ drunk at ther
time. Why didn’t I propose to the gal meself ?
Well, d’yer see, although she wuz so shook on
me, Lane ’ad played a low-down game an’ put me
pot on by tellin’ ’er a lie about me bein’ married
to a widdy an’ family, so thet when one night I
tole ’er ’ow I wuz a orphin, alone in ther wurld,
she up an’ tole me I wuz a liar wi’ six child’en,
an’ all ther satisfackshun left me wuz to go ’ome
an’ swipe Jerry in ther jore, which I did. Me
bein’ outer ther ’unt, so ter speak, I could see
thet Mabel’s affeckshuns centred onter Jerry
agen, though she treated ’im cold an’ crool an’
didn’t seem to wanter ’ave naught ter do wid ’im
no ’ow. Jerry ’imself wuz not eggsackly a plea-
sant companion, as you might say, those times.
’E’d sit by ’isself an’ sulk an’, wot’s worse, ’e’d
drink by ’isself an’ shout for no one. ’E threat-
ened to kill eny man wot wuz seen talkin’ to ’er,
but as every lad at ther Creek left orf work to
fetch an’ carry for ’er, ’e would ’ave ’ad a big eon-
track. ’E did start in ter keep ’is word, but ’ad
grew discouraged by the time Bobby M'Lean, a
heavyweight from the Hunter, ’ad finished wif
’im.
“ I’d give a pint ter know what Jerry’s feelin’s
wuz when, ther next Sunday mornin’, ’earin’ a
great trampin’ ov feet under ’is winder, ’e got up,
and, lookin’ out, saw ther ’ole population o’
Gaskar Creek lined up. ’E wuz a picter as ’e stud
there wi’ ’is face ajar, an’ takin’ us fer jim-jams.
We ’ad fifty chaps lined up like sodjers in a row^
big lumps ov clematis stuck in their ’ats an’ coats,
while their boots an’ clothes wuz brushed as clean
as a magsman’s. Some ’ad even gone ther length
ov ’avin’ a shave 1 The rest ov ther boys wuz
grouped round lookin’ on, while all ther dorgs in
ther wurld seemed to be strewed about the lands-
cape, fightin’ an’ arguin’ as to wot wuz ’appenin’.
“’Ullo there,’ sed Jerry, tryin’ to appear sif
’e wuz amoosed, ‘’oo’sded? Where’s ther gard-
ing-party ? ’
“No one tuk no notice ov’im. Not a word
wuz spoke. Then me an’ Mick posted ourselves
at th’ ’ead ov ther colum’, an’ give th’ order to
march. Slow an’ steady, wi’ never a word, we
filed down frum ther pub onter our ’ut in ther
hollow, where ther two wimmin still lived. Ther
dorgs wuz on a’ead, an’ ther rest ov ther popu-
lashun, except Jerry Lane, ’oo wuz frantically
dressin’, brought up ther rear. The ladies cum
outer ther ’ut when they ’eard us, an’, while
Mabel dashed back inside to tidy ’erself, Mrs.
Whistle stood wif ’er ’ands on ’er ’ips an’ ’er jore
set tight, eyein’ us wi’ disfavor. I lined ther
fifty up in fronter ther ’ut, while ther others all
formed a semi-circle round. Jist as Mabel come
out all a-blushin’, but lookin’ so neat that it
woulder made a Chinese idol glad, down the ’ill,
wif ’is braces flyin’ in ther wind, rushes Jerry. ’E
’ad ’is trousers on back to front, on’y one boot, no
’at nor coat, an’ ’is ’air thet wild ’e looked like a
yard-broom. ’E dashed up cussin’ an’ swearin’
an’ vowin’ thet someone ’ud pay for all this, an’
tried to break ’is way through the crowd to where
we wuz lined up. But, as nobody’d budge an’
let ’im through, all ’e could do wuz to dance up
an’ down on the outside tearin’ ’is ’air.
“ By this time Mick ’ad mounted on a couple o’
kerosene tins an’ begun to address ther meetin’.
4 Ladies, an’ yous blokes,’ ’e sed ; 4 we is gathered
’ere on a very solem’ occashun. A bright ray ov
sunshine ’as come an’ fastened onto our ’ard, cold,
beer-stained lives, an’ ’as brought more joy an’
pleasure to our midst than ther holdin’ ov four
dooces agen a king full. The name ov ther ray
o’ sunshine is Mabel! ’ Arter the cheerin’ ’ad
stopped 'e resoomed : 4 There is not a man among
us’ (’e pointed to Jerry, an’ added, ‘I don’t
inclood thet !’)
44 ‘Let me at ther ,’ screamed me mate, an’
it took six ov ’em to ’old ’im down.
—“‘As wouldn’t like to ’elp ’er change ’er
name.’
4 4 4 Hoobloomin’ ray ! ’ yelled everyone.
“ ‘But ther lady don’t seem to be able to make
up ’er little mind. Theffefore, we are ’ere to
decide for ’er. There are 50 young coves ’ere—
good-lookin’, too, is some ov ’em, if y’u don’t
examine ’em too close—wot is sober, domesticated
an’ sanitary, wot would make eny wuman ’appy,
so long as she weren’t too perticler. I’ll back ’em to
drink, eat or swap lies agen anything their own
weight. They can ready ther cyards agen any-
one. Hell can show ’em nothin’. Yet, kind
frens, there’s one thing they can’t do. They can’t
all marry Mabel ! There is only one way then.
They must draw lots fer ’er ! ’
“The angry protests ov ther wimmin and
Jerry’s violent language wuz drowned in ther
cheers wot followed. Then, arter everyone ’ad
’elped to kick ther dorgs into silence, Mick pro-
duced a long list ov names, an’ began foldin’ ’em
up an’ puttin’ ’em into a hat.
‘ 4 4 Does enyone else wan ter enter ? ’ he inquired,
lookin’ round.
44 ‘Better put Jerry Lane down,’ sed someone.
4 ’E might like to take a charnst.’
4 4 4 Seems hardly fair to ther gal,’ sed I, an’
although there wuz ’arf a ton ov miner sittin’ all
over’im, Jerry managed to mention wot ’e’d do
for me when ’e got me to ’isself. As fer ther
wimmin, they wuz so speechless wi’ surprise an’
fury, they couldn’t talk. The ole lady wuz red in
ther face, an’ ther way she kept openin’ an’
shettin’ ’er mouth like a Murray cod, I thought
she wus agoin’ to throw a fit for sure. Well, ther
names wuz all counted inter ther ’at, an’ Mick,
wif a perlite bow, arst Mabel would she pick one
out fer luck. She jist give him ther cold eye, an
turned ’er back on ’im.
44 4 Oh, well,’sed ’e, ‘someone else pick.’ A’
young feller named Leeds stepped out, an’ spittin’
on ’is ’ands, picks out a paper an’ opins it up very
slow. They'ad let Jerry up an’ ’e ’ad made’is
way through the crowd, an’ stood in front ov
Leeds. ’ls hands wuz openin’ an’ closin’, an’
seemed to be keepin’ time to ther ole gal’s jores.
Leeds ’ad jist got the slip ov paper unfolded, an’
wuz holdin’ it under ’is eye, when Jerry grabs it
from ’is and. ”E jist takes one glance at it, an’
then ’e throws ’isself in ther air, like ’e wuz shot,
an’ shrieked, 4 I’ve won ! I’ve won !’
44 ’E shoves ther paper into my ’and, an’ there
wuz ’is name on it orlright. When I announced
’im ther winner, a yell went up thet wuz only
equalled in my memory wot time 4 Tot ’ Hiskins
slogged out Peter Dempsey in the 15th round at
ther ole Eureka ’AH, at Ballarat, in ’B5. Next
minute Lane ’ad ’is arms round ’is gal, while she
wuz weepin’ all she knew onto ’is chest. ’E took
’er into ther ’ut an’ closed ther door. Arter a bit,
they come out, lookin’ very flustered an’ ’appy, an’
Jerry much tidier. ’E wuz all smiles by this, an’
when called upon for a speech, ’e spoke sif ’e’d
won the gal by ’is own manly efforts, an’ knew all
along that ’e would.
44 ‘Let’s see ’oo woulder come second,’ sed Mick,
casual-like, when Lane ’ad finished gassin’.’
“‘Alri,’ sez Jerry, with a patronizin’ smile.
’E picked a name outer the ’at, and looked at it
careless. Then ’is jore dropped, an’ ’e went red in
ther face. ’E tore it ter pieces, an’ grabbed a
’andful ov slips from the ’at. 4 Streuth ! ’ wuz all
’e sed, an’ sat down suddint. For, d’y’u see, the
name writ on every slip of paper was 4 JERRY
LANE.’ ’E wuz a shure winner, wotever ’ap-
pened! ,
• * * »
“We borrered a devil-dodger from Glede, 6(1
mile away, an’ Jerry an’ ther gal wuz married —
an’ a great weddin’ it wuz, too ! Arter ther cere-
mony wuz over, Jerry give ther parsin aIO U
an’ a pint fer ’is fee—much to the parsin’s
disgust.”
ALFRED BRASCH.


You Can Always Tell the Man
with Kidney Trouble.
The man with kidney trouble is cheerless in expression, sallow, and heavy-eyed. He is
easily irritated, excited, and worried over trifles, and nervous. His back troubles him
day and night—spoils his sleep, and makes him dizzy and faint after the slightest
exertion. He is rheumatic, dyspeptic, and hopeless. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
make the Kidneys well; they are the one medicine that is especially for kidney and
bladder troubles—the one medicine that cures men and women to STAY cured, and pro-
tects them against such advanced kidney complaints as Bright’s disease, diabetes, dropsy,
rheumatism, &c. Read the following cases of Sydney people who have been cured :
SYDNEY TESTIMONY.
FROM WATSON’S BAY. [
Mr. James Fotheringham, Watson’s Bay, late
6th Imperial Bushmen, writes : “Whilst in South
Africa with the 6th Imperial Bushmen, through
constant exposure to all sorts of weather, sleeping
in wet clothes, etc., I got a very severe attack of
lumbago. I was so bad that I could not get up off
the ground—let alone mount my horse. Two
military doctors had a go at me. One blistered
my back until all the skin was off ; and the other
gave me medicine, but neither of them did me
any good. Fortunately, a comrade came along
with a box of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and
before I had finished the box I was as right as ever
I was in my life. Since then I always keep a box
of the pills handy in case of the lumbago return-
ing, but, so far, I am glad to say, I have had no
necessity to take them. You may make whatever
use you like of this, as I consider Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills a boon to humanity, and I shall
always recommend them.”
trßOm RED FERN. j
Mr. W. B. Lewis, Viscount-terrace, Young-
street, Red fern, says :—“ There is no more satis-
factory and really beneficial medicine that I know
of than Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. Much
sickness and broken time would be avoided,
especially by those who, like myself, are occupied
at outdoor work, if these pills were better known.
One of the many advantages in taking Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills is that they may be taken
with safety at any time. Having suffered for
some time, I was recommended to try them, and
found great relief. All of my friends to whom I
have spo'ken of their excellent effects speak in
similar terms of them. I have no hesitation in
saying that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are the
most comforting and the most certain to give relief
that I have ever used.”
Two years later, Mr. Lewis says “I still use
the pills—just a dose or two occasionally—and
they keep me quite right. I have recommended
this remedy to many, and they are praised by all
who use them. For my part, I would take no
other medicine.”
When the Kidneys are ill, the Whole Body is Hi.
Kidneys Purify the Blood because they Filter it.
\\i
ir-
ds
fsd
Every Picture
Tells a Story.
Y/
jh
'N
x- 1
&
KJ>
A
<0
<c
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
are sold by all Chemists and
Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box
(six boxes 15s. 3d.), or will be
posted on receipt of price by
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-
street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Crusoe of Hull.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ The Island of Juan Fernandez has been partially des-
troyed by the Chilian earthquake.”— News item.
I HAVE voyaged up and down,
Since I grew to be a man ;
Trough of sea and billow’s crown,
Since my roving first began ;
But my best of ships was when
I was a gay youth of ten.
Then —on lands in splendid seas—
Where now missionaries go,
Scents of tuberose in the trees,
Crystal streams of tinkling flow j
Never ice nor snow was nigh ;
Softly blew the winds on high.
In Romance’s caravel
Sailed before the zephyr soft;
And the ventecello swell
Brought the scents of field and toft;
And the captain of the show
Was the Admiral Defoe.
Sailed we forth from ancient Hull,
Freighted but with silks and gold
Silver that would never dull
All our men were strong and bold ;
Crusoe came with us to sea
And we dealt in piracy.
Crusoe this would not admit—
Frightened of the gallows tree ;
Now the danger’s past, I wit,
All our trade was piracy ;
Else, how is it that our freight
Was moidores and coins of eight ?
Else how was it that we left
All the higher, ship-hot seas ?
Else how could we be bereft
All those years of homes and ease ?
Hot were Eastern seas awhile,
We sailed wrest to Juan’s isle.
God, or Fate, or Providence
Knows dramatic unities ;
Our piratical offence
Called for vengeance of the seas ;
Wrecked were we on reef and sand ;
I, with Crusoe, swam a-land.
Helped him fell the mighty tree—
Burn it to the galley shape ;
Helped him struggle with the sea
Boiling round the craggy cape ;
And, with mattock and with spade,
Helped him build the strong stockade.
When his mem’ries bade him weep
I was near, and dried his tears ;
Bre xthed hope to him in his sleep,
Helped him through the lonely years ;
And, at last, my sympathy
Brought Man Friday from the sea.
Crusoe, and his Poll, and I
Walked about upon our isle;
And a many deaths did die,
Fearing myths and savage guile;
And, dumbfounded more and more,
Saw the footprints on the shore.
For the island was like youth
Dreaming in its solitude ;
Sky blue, sea blue, great as truth,
And our isle was but a rood—•
Glad, afraid, to see the sand—
As when Love first comes a-land.
Crusoe, Friday, Dreams and I
Frightened of the pirate ship—
In our hiding near the sky
Steeled the heart and firmed the lip ;
And one day we justice did
Bravely, though at first we hid.
Hanged the leaders of the plot;
Flogged Will Atkins to the bone ;
Quelled some mutineers with shot,
Made the rest to ache and groan ;
Taught these pirates manners—then
Treated them as gentlemen.
Force seismic swift may break—
Sink our island in the brine ;
But from Crusoe cannot take.
Nor from me, or his, or mine !
Crusoe’s island still is there,
Belted with divinest air.
For the billions yet to be—
For the boys who’ll read and know—
Crusoe’s Island decks the sea,
Palm above and wreck below;
Crusoe’s Island gems her bays
In the soft sub-tropic haze.
And, full often, ere my fate
Sends me downward to the sand ;
With moidore or'piece of eight
Shall our wreck strike on the land ;
And its cargoes then enhance
With the glamor of Romance.
I shall see the beach again !
See the coral-trash and weed !
See the red hibiscus stain !
They do bloom as if they bleed—
Spears ! and cocoanuts ! and then !
Be a dreaming boy of ten.
By the cape and jutting reef,
I’ll with Crusoe walk unseen ;
I will keep him through his grief,
In the stars’ soft velvet sheen—
And, when tired, be found, and go
Home with Admiral Defoe !
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
WHITSUNDAY PASSAGE.
A Tragedy of Respectability.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
lA.M thirty-five and respectable—hor-
ribly indecently respectable. I arrived in
the world cursed with a conventional dis-
position and a long, straight nose (it is impos-
sible to be naughty with a long, drooping nose).
“Jane has never been silly,” mother says,
proudly, but oh, if she only knew how passion-
ately Jane has wanted to be silly.
Yes, I am thirty-five, and no one has ever even
put an arm about'my limp waist or tried to kiss
me. No one has ever written me a love-letter or
sent me flowers. Certainly, they are hard to get
in the bush, but that would not stop a lover in
Bookland.
The other night I stood and watched my cousin,
Nerida, and the jaclceroo, down at the slip-rails,
They had just got to the rub-head stage, when
mother came and stood beside me. “Good
gracious !” she said. “ You were never silly, like
Nerida is, Jane,” and I choked down my bitter-
ness, and said meekly, “ I hope not, mother.”
Ah, if only someone wanted me to be silly, and
would call me his “star,” or his “flower,” as the
jackeroo calls Nerida !
I tried to copy Nerida once to see if that would
make a difference. I sat on the verandah railings,
and swung my legs as Nerida does, and even tried
to smoke a cigarette one day when mother was
out and Mr. Brown was in. But he only looked
disgusted-though he laughs when Nerida does it.
, . , ~ . „ ,
Mother says the girls the men want are useful,
, ■, , ■ ? rm . ~ , ,
strong, sensible girls. I hey may want them, but
they don’t make love to them, unless they are
finished off with an attractive face. Nerida isn’t
sensible, and she can’t make anything but sponge-
cakes and chocolate-creams; but she has curly
hair, and even I admire her ankles.
It is really dreadful to be cursed with respecta-
bility. People say it is hard to be virtuous when
one is beautiful, but it is far harder to be wicked
when one is plain. I went down to Svdney to
stay with my aunt, and I made up my mind I
was going to be really wicked for once, just to see
what it felt like. I told aunt I was going to stay
with a friend for one night, and, instead, I took
all my money, and engaged a room in a hotel on
my own. It was the first big lie I ever told, and I
did feel dreadfully bad. When I took the room the
clerk smiled at me, and I felt beautifully worldly,
for it was the first time I had ever been smiled at
in an unpitying kind of way. I curled my hair,
put on my best white dress and my evening shoes,
and put a red bow in my hat, and then I went
out with delicious thrills of deliberate wanton
naughtiness running down my spine.
I went down the street, hoping someone would
come and speak to me, and invite me to go to the
theatre and supper as they do in books, so that I
mi S ht repudiate the offer—but no one did. I
showed my feet and my best white petticoat, but
no one took any notice. My feet grew tired, and
a lump rose in my throat as I wondered why it
was that I was cursed with respectability. At
last a boy walked by, and I nearly died of fright,
but he only said, “Does yer mother know yer
out?” and went on.
Then a little, red-haired rat of about 15 called out
“Good night, Cis,” and so I went to bed. It is-
impossible to be naughty when one is called “Cis.”
Mother and auntie think the theatre is im-
moral, and only just decent when one has a box
with curtains, so I made up my mind to go aIL
alone, and to the top gallery. At first I felt
as if everyone in the theatre was staring at me-
with accusing eyes, as I sat there, growing hotter
every minute. Then I found I was just a nothing
™ the crowd, and felt injured, for at home, in the
bush even the goannas know me I sat next to
old man with a cold in his head, and a woman
m a plush coat, who smelt of peppermint, and 1
was so miserable. I don’t know what went on
stage-wards. The orchestra squeaked doleful
music, and a lot of silly people ran about singing;
and dancing until my eyes ached and my head
whirled.
It was the audience that interested me. I
envied the smiling girls, with their beautifuliy-
dressed heads and pretty, low evening dresses,
the gleam of their white arms, the sparkle of
jewels on their rounded necks and heaving bosoms,,
the play of eyes and lashes as they talked to their
companions-for it all belonged to another world,
far, far awav from the sordid, drought-stricken.
T , , * . .
one I had lived in.
1 grudged them their pleasure, tlieir chocolates
and fine, V< and ’ most of all ’. the whispers that
brought the smiles to their lips, for t len ives
had held so much fun, and mine has alwavs been
full of worr y and drought.
sat bere with a hard ball of feeble cynicism
growing somewhere about the place one’s heart is
supposed to occur. Even the boy selling souvenir
fans and chocolates did not speak to me, and I
went out Wlth tbe crowd > y et feelm S utterl y
l° ne ly- Some were going to supper, some rushing
to cabs and carriages, others collecting in groups,
bld ab ba PPy and joyous. J was just a speck of
nothingness left behind them in the gaily-lighted
vestibule.
The crowd melted away like fat in the sun, and
a man who was shutting up came to me and said,,
<l re y° u waiting for anyone, Miss ? ” Then I
hurried away, for the pain of it all is that I have nq
one to wait for in the vestibule we call Life. My
P art is the invisible and useful one of keeping the
floors clean. It is so hard to be born colorless,,
domesticated and good, with the passion and
capacity for love and beauty that is the heritage
ever y woman, clever or rich, plain or beautiful,
L’ABEILLE.


If you are run down, losing strength, are greatly
debilitated, and suffer from the long, hot summer,
there is one medicine that will quickly cure you. It Is
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Read this interesting testimonial of a lady residing at East Brisbane:
s
Ulii
“The past season I had a severe at-
tack of dengue fever, which left me
feeling very weak and languid, with
little appetite and no energy; but I
am pleased to say Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
cured me.
“As a blood purifier and tonic for
those who are affected by the debili-
tating heat of the Queensland summer,
it is unequaled, and I am pleased to
recommend it to those who need a reli-
able remedy.”
If you are sick, you cer-
tainly should give Ayer’s Sar-
saparilla a thorough trial. It
cannot fail to help you, for it purifies the blood first of all.
Then your nerves become steady and strong, and the hot
weather of summer does not affect you. Remember, it is
a wonderful medicine for the children, too, when they are
thin and feeble, pale and languid. Put your confidence in
it, for there is no family medicine in the world its equal.
Make sure that you get “ AYER’S ” Sarsaparilla
not some other kind, put up to imitate it, and
which will do you no good.
Prepared by DE. J. C. AYEE & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Aver’s P'lls cure dyspepsia; strengthen the stomach.
u
u
Wmm
m
w
ASM
fx
w
W\
free: trial u
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
BErrs’ n FKiiK d hish grade
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varied
cele, Indigestion, Eumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney, kive , and St .mach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Freeds
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in anyway
delay no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free.,, „ Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC
Please mentian this paper.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
S3T ID ZESTED.
DRUG HABIT
liquor
- HAVE YOU FAILEI THBOUGH
MlllNlf ENNESS
UI ft UII Vk DON’T DESPAIR
DR.* LANGSTON’S VEGETABLE CURE-
A Home Cure which never fails.
It is safe, sure, absolutely certain, and
inexpensive. A few doses produce avail-
derful change. The craving for all
intoxicants will be destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for food will
return, refreshing sleep ensues. This cure
will surprise and delight you. May be
GIVEN SECRETLY.
Thousands of Cures; here is one :
Ravensthorpe, W.A., 23-9-04.
Have finished the half course, which has
effected a cure. I have no desire for drink,
in fact, have a repugnance to the very idea
of it. - Tours faithfully , 1
Write for Treatise No. 5. Posted Free
The Dr. Langston Institute,
129* COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
JLIS VH OOOVHOX
DEAF
The New Patent
iSOUND DISCS
■Completely overcome Dbafnbss
■and Head Noises, no matter of
■how long standing. Are the same
1 1° the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invistble. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St.. Melbourne
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
iQ6 RI CORO's
\_\ F E •
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the" world.
Dr. Rlcord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood tfr the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Paulding & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
OR. J. DOLUS BROWNE’S
f HLOROPyNE
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
AST-ELM. A, DntiHUlims,
DIARRHCEA, &c. bears on the
Government Stamp the name of
the Inventor,—
Pr. J. COLLIS BROWNC
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving’ instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treac-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost ail hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth!
street, Sydney.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will, send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address :
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address t HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney .
Handy to have in the House.
A box of BEECHAM'S PILLS is a bandy thing to have in
the house, and if a dose is taken at the moment of need much
illness will be saved.
Any trouble arising from derangement of the digestive
organs is quickly set right by
sseecham2
This unrivalled medicine will do more to build up robust
health and maintain it than any other remedy.
They are unequalled tor
SLUGGISH LIVER,
SICK-HEADACHE,
INDIGESTION,
LOSS OF APPETITE,
CONSTIPATION.
a *t
Pjj
So
m:
SPECIALLY SUITA3LE FOR FEMALES OF ALL AGES.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price ///£ (36 pills) & 219 1168 pills).
FREE
Colored and Artistic
Post Cards.
*7
F
R
E
E
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets
each containing 6 of our colored and high art Post Cards tc
sell for us at (id. per packet. When you have sold the cards re-
turn us our 65., and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from the list of jewellery which we send you. By
continuing the sale of our cards you can earn aLa ies’ or
Gent.’s Silver Watch and Chain ; a Photo Camera
loaded for use; Silver Hair Brushes, and other exquisite and choice prizes Re-
member, we want to do business with you again, and to do this we must give you full
satisfaction. We take all the Risk. You can return the cards if not sold We have
£ < \ C °s* r ! eCtl< ?” With an ¥ ot *? c, ‘ firm. We are the largest dealers'in post cards
m Australia, and import our Jewellery, or we could not make you this liberal offer. Be
the first in your district. Our post cards sell at once, wherever seen. Every month we
are changing and improving our post cards, which are all copyright and cannot be ob-
tained elsewhere. Our illustrated gems of Australian poets, Lindsat Gordon, Patterson
T. U « qUe u Actress Series is a collection of popular artists, comprising Grace
Ealotta, Sarah Bernhardt, Nellie Stewart, and many other artists renowned for their
talent and beauty. Our London Series contains word famous historic London build in tr*
Our prizes give full satisfaction and are as represented in illustrations. We refer to -mV
trade agency, or to our many well-pleased agents. We have thousands of testimonials,
having built up our large business by givie r full satisfaction to all.
REGAL POST CARD CO. BK O'Connell St., Svdnev, N.S.W.
A SHAVING SET, - J2/6
is a thing needed by nearly every man who takes pride in his
appearance.
The set illustrated has a fine quality, reversible bevel-edged mirror,
shaving brush and china-lined mug, in a strong, solid nickel stand—
post free to any address —12s. 6d. We will supply a superior hollow
ground Razor for 4s. 6d,, arid an excellent Razor Strop, with nickel
hook and handle, 6s. 6d,
This totals 235. 6d., but if you remit 225. 6d. with this advertisement,
we will send the three articles—post free to your address.
If on rocrint o--.~ • .... <iox exactly
as represented, you can return them, and we will cheerfully refund
the amount paid.
Other articles for men’s use are fully described in our big Catalogue—ask for
a copy.
ANGUS & COOTE,
“The Store where Quality counts,”
George St., corner Royal Arcade, Sydney,
Opposite the Barometer, Q. V. Markets,
fsd
FREE!
MAKE BIG MONEY
We give away TALKING MACHINES,
COLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &C.,
to those who help us introduce our remedies. This Talking Machine
reproduces Songs, Speeches, Band Music, &c., and can be used at all
entertainments, in any size hall or room. It has a 14-inch Metal
Amplifying Horn, with Concert Base. Many of our agents are making
big money by giving concerts with this machine, which we give away
Free. Send us your name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
of our New Life Vegetable Pills (Formulae printed on each box). Sell
them at 1/- a box, then remit us the 8/- received and we will promptly
forward you, without extra expense or work, the valuable premiums as
listed. you will be delighted.
We are an oid, reliable firm, and we will present £lO in cash to anyone
who can prove we do not do as we say. Our Pills are good sellers, and
we are anxious to introduce them no matter what it costs us. Send at
once. Don’t delay, it costs you nothing to try. We take all risk.
Electine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
WeeK
Given
Away
Free
DR. MA.RTIKT, M.D., Consulting Physician, &c.
MEN and WOMEN SUF-
FERERS, if you have failed
to find relief elsewhere, if
you are despondent, and des-
pair of ever being cured,
CONSULT DR. MARTIN.
He is the Best Authority
on all Diseases of Hen and
Women. His successes in
Chronic and so-called In-
curable cases have gained
for him the LARGEST CON-
W 5
men
NO
WOMEN
SULTINQ PRACTICE in the
Commonwealth.
DR. MARTIN’S long ex-
perience as a CLINICAL
SPECIALIST in the Hospitals
of Europe has made his
judgment infallible on Pri-
vate, Nervous, Blood, Skin,
and Qenito Urinary Diseases.
He has NEVER FAILED to
Permanently Cure any case
he has undertaken.
Free to All
A'so-page specimen copy of DR. MARTIN’S great work on the DISEASES OF MEN AND
WOMEN ; Contains 34 Illustrations and Colored Plates. Write to-day for it. Posted Free.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“THE DISEASES OF MEN AND
WOMEN AND THEIR HOME CURE,”
May be had from all Booksellers, PRICE 7/6; or, if vou
apply to him how, a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s.
This magnificent medical work contains 692 pages Crown
Bvo., over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illus-
trations, with beautifully Four-Colored Plate.
“ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH-STEEET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
(Please Mention this paper when writing.)


YoOr LaciQdry—Sir —
The unpunctual characteristics of
your laundry need never trouble
you if you keep one of our
CellOloid Collars
handy in your drawer. They
retain their nice white glossy All
appearance, and look as well as Sizes,
linen collars, besides saving 60 All
per cent, on your washing bill. Styles.
Perdriau Rubber Co.^
270 George St. f Sydney.
WORTHINGTON PUMP CO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
A Policy for the Commonwealth ■ Posted Bd.
HARDY’S
f
TINTARA
WINES. .
700 Prizes.
Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide.
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER BIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill for
Mines or Ouarries Weisrht about 18lbs. Operated by compressed air, consuming about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART-Strlctly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
SOLE_ACENTS^ W & j. LEMPRIERE, 506 *And L ;ft 64 SYDNE^' OURNE
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
as wen as Mining Machinery, Steam Engines and Boilers,
sdf
DEIA.-V3ES IHOT «T»onTT
All Kinds of Engineers’Fittings and Supplies
Wood Pulleys
Shafting
Hangers
Plummer Blocks
Collars
Couplings
Drills
Reamers
Wrenches
Valves
Valves
Valves
Valves
Oster Stocks and Dies and Taps, Crane Hinged Pipe Vyces, Emery
Wheels and Grinders, all kinds of Lubricators, Starrett Fine
Rflechanical Tools, etc., etc., etc.
Write for Prices to 60 Ciarence-st.. Sydney, N.S.W.
PATERNOSTER’S
warn pills ■■
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and ail pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
m hum union
TRIAL OUTFIT.
AERTEX CELLULAR DAY SHIRT,
Soft Neckband and Cuffs.
Half-sleeves.
AERTEX CELLULAR TRUNK
DRAWERS.
AERTEX CELLULAR HALF-HOSE,
Hand-make.
FOR
12/6
Try one of these Outfits for Spring and Summer
wear. Recommended by doctors, and an abso-
lute safeguard against colds and chills.
Sole Agents—
DAVID BRAHAI & CO.
94 King St., Sydney.
Price Lists and Patterns Post Free. All Orders over
£2 Parcels Post Free.
On the Trail
Of the Trust
By “Bulletin ” Writers*
The Book is adorned . . .
By “ Bulletin ” Artists*
IT CONTAINS A DOZEN COOP YARNS-Att
POINTING to the NECESSITY of PROTECTION.
It’s Worth 1/3
Which is the Price Post Free from this Office.
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
‘PAMPA’
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BEST.
ds
Sold
all first-
cla'js stores
m Australasia.
No. 8176 J 2-BLADE
_ P A MPi.,” -
Cocoa Handle 116
Buffalo Handle - 21-
Stag Handle - - - 2 6
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
S'srnojxrESY.
,f y £ZJZ ant the BEST QUALITY, get your DELIVERY, SUCTION, STEAM, and AIR HOSE, INDIA
RUBBER and CANVAS BELTING, ENGINE PACKINGS, JOINTING SHEET, etc., etc., from
RUBBER, GUTTA PERCHA & TELEGRAPH WORKS CO., LTD.,
Estimates and Quotations on application .
279 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
IMPROVED CARD
New Patents embodying 7
New and Valuable Features
not possessed by any other
CONCENTRATOR.
Sole Licensees *
N. GUTHRIDGE Ltd.,
Sydney & Melbourne
fsd
The Two-PMe
Adjustable
Deck is the
Greatest Dis-
covery of the
last 20 years
made in the
Concentrating
Art
