

D. H. BURKE’S “GALLEON” SCHNAPPS “BEAVER’* STOUT (Guinness’)
10*7 Kent street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS AMD GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW AMD SECOND-HAND PLANTS AL
JEFFREY
Roller, Steel and Special CHAINS
| U A AnnliiinCfiS Manufactured by -JEFFREY MFG. CO-, columbus, ohio, u.&*.
Labor-Savi &PP . t R OC k Lime & Cement Crushers , Ore Handling Machinery ,
o £ ce me „, co* e . **
For Particular* apply to SOLE AGENTS . |RH « .
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 7 BENT ST., SYDNEY
HOBART.
[jadleys Orient jjotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
j.C.Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
wertfyguytjuy
it
Take
have
must
t
s
Pint-Apple Brand
wertfyguytjuy
sAr
7laficna(s
FIRE and MARIME
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital - - - £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branch:
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society). jp. a. GIBB, Manager.
Active Agents and Canvassers Wanted. “*1
‘tb&f
vo
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR M C INTYRE BROS
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS!
&
W‘
*5
TEA!
5
AL
rcij
1
is the Queen of all Cocoas
FQJ^
iArom,strei\gtlu'Puritjc
STANDARD PALE ALE
wertfyguytjuy
wertfyguytjuy
TINTARA
WINES. .
700 Prizes.
Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide,
New Zealand Loan « Mercantile Agency Go.
\ Xitd.
SYDKTKY,
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
' -
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL
SKINS are carefully attended to by our stafE of highly effioient EXPERTS, who pay •peoial
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very best advantage. Aeoount Sale* rendered
promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Foil particulars will be furnished on application.
*3®
Gollin & Co., Agents.
The Bulletin
Vol. 27.—N0. 1357.]
[Thursday, February 15, 1906.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Stop ! and Look t
A GOOD DICTIONARY
of the English Lan;
should be In every
fellow? 8 Possession.
They are printedlncW^v^ l UBef ,, ul fco Teacher . Scholar and Bookfellow
tionf NoTmerican Correot P™nuE
Chambers's ETYMOLOpTpa. mafcter ’ Every page you will reter to.
Edition, in cloth, 600 pages, ll sd.^/o’stag^Sd. 7 A ' Findlater> The People’.
over?2oo l^es^in T ” d ch) T th ß 3s D 6d TION t BY ’ l edited by Thoma * Davidson,
leather ss. .postage Is. ’ PoStage ls ‘ extra l also quarter bound
About twice th<! sL of l 'the A TwLtilth l Cent l wV ed L ed by , Thornas Davi daon.
*** This is the
• always at the elbow of the Red Page writer.
George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
71 CABTLEREACH STREET,
SYDNEY. ’
m
HP
m
—-
ml
the Great
•^mMssssßmm
to?
v<.^cnSso>v
WSSSB.
for Influenza, Bronchitis, Asthma,sail affections of
The inroM & Icings, & for prevention of Cons u roof! on.
*———■—■———■ 1 ■ *
«2P
old in Tins, 1/8, or Post Free on receipt of stamps from the Sole Manufacturer f* uiincftm
ueensland. SYDNEY DEPOT-s;md 7 Queers Place.
LONDON AGENT—W. F. Pasmore, Chemist, 320 Regent Street W.
THE RED PAGE.
If" I HERE is no ” translation : “what seems
I so is transition ” from language to lan-
-B- guage of parts that never can renew the
original whole. Would it not serve
better, then, to quit the ideal of an inaccurate
accuracy, and frankly to rest on the paraphrase
that loses to gam ? It would : were not that one
loses thus the translator’s pleasure in the feat, the
‘something attempted', something done,” and
the translator’s delight when almost he has
touched the hem of the garment of the elusive
word. Every word has its impalpable garment,
its aura, through which, are withdrawn or pro-
tracted filaments of association changing continu-
e-lly. And even the commonest word in any
language, yielding the same impression to no two
Sensitive ears, eyes, minds, is untranslatable
from the environment of its language. Femme is
not frav, but something detinably different;
and nei ther femme nor /raw is woman, wife. Shall
we sav, then, that the translator holds up a dis-
torting mirror, and that (as Canon Lyttleton
declares of lecturers) the profit is all to the trans-
lator ?
These ideas recur with the second edition of J,
y mon ds Sonnets of Michael Anr/clo, not long
published by Smith, Elder (Lond.) 'in an attrac-
tive form with the Italian opposed to
Symonds English. “Now for the first time
translated into rhymed English;” adds the
title-page—in entirety, presumably ; since Words-
I worth J. E. lay lor, and others have tried
not undexterous hands here and there. Well,
one wants Michael Angelo’s sonnets, and one
likes to see what Symonds has made of
them (some of them stiff enough); but even a
tyro can see that these ate not all those. Here for
example (li); ’
Tornami al tempo allor che lento, e sciolta
Al deco ardor in' era la briglia e 'Ifreno ;
Rendiini ' l volto angelico sereno ,
Ondefu seco ogni virtu sepolta . . .
Bring back the time when wild desire ran free,
With bit and rein too loose to curb his flight ;
Give back the buried face, once angel-bright,
That hides in earth all comely things from me . .
The passionate rise and fall of lines 3, 4, are in the
marrow of the Italian, and cannot get into or out
emotion is more nearly
paralleled in Daley’s
Symonds has aimed at a strong, simple style, pre-
serving the masculine force of his original; and
sometimes, as in the sonnet “On Rome in the
ontihcate of Julius II,” his English impression
grows liker the Italian.
Qua si fa elmi di calici e spade,
E l sangue di Cristo si ven a giumelle,
E croce e spine son lance e rotelle ;
E pur da Cristo paziemia cade !...
Here helms and swords are made of chalices:
The blood of Christ is sold so much the quart:
Hu cross and thorns are spears and shields; and short
Must be the time ere even his patience cease
is tobe bought and brooded over : and
with that one may end notice by quotation of
anTthe Artist 1011 ° f famou3 sonnet of Beauty
A heart of flaming sulphur, flesh of tote,
Eones of dry wood, a soul without a guide
To curb the fiery will, the ruffling pride
Of fierce desires that from the passions fiow ;
A sightless mind that weak and lame doth go
’Mid snares and pitfalls scattered far and wide—
What wonder if the first chance brand applied
To fuel massed like this should make it glow i
Add beauteous art, which, brought with us from heaven
Will conquer nature ;—so divine a power
Belongs to him who strives with every nerve.
If I was made for art, from childhood given
A prey for burning beauty to devour,
I blame the mistress I was born to serve.
JUDGED by the first number, The Modern
Language Review (Cambridge Univ. Press :
2s. bd ) will be useful and may become
Tno C e p?,ui la f ‘ [t 13 a quarterly, edited by
Jno. G. Robertson, and “devoted to the study of
medieval and modern literature and philology
occupying thus a vacant maga. field. '
Paget Toynbee surveys Eng. translations of
f^nmH ln the 1 m h centui 'y. and quotes passages
from the agreeable version of “Henry Constan-
tine Jennings, better known as ‘ Dog Jennings ’
from a famous antique marble dog which he dis-
covered and bought in Rome for a trifle ai d
«*1 « ObmW. f,* , thlS
guineas. [ A fme dog it was,” says he, “ and a
lucky dog was I to purchase it , »j Jennings was
an enlightened devotee and wrote : °
Dante’s Poem of Inferno, Purgatorio,' and Paradise is
certainly Pori/ //and though written at so earlv and ’un-
cultivated a Period as that of the thirteenth Oentnrv !
Zwsn “ y * - T1 »ng that could reasonably be exSed
from so grating a Subject, even at the best Times of
modern Literature. It is, however, on the whole a gain-
ful Lndei taking to read it regularly throm"h • f,’, D
pendent of the manifold Repetition, knd uninterest no-'aml
extravagant .Variation of the same nauseous Def.H
tions ; the principal Object of its Merit at the Time It ,
written, consisted in the Satire aimed’awn imt th” 6 fc - s
ing Reputation of sueh of his deuaitol
during the busiest Period of the Author’s I
considering- too the gothic Language it is written in
by a Lapse of Five Hundred Years, abmm Zcluded anv
just Claim to its present Power of amusing if its Reader
be not a mere Antiquarian. ifs iteader
“ When Jennings comes to the episode of Fran-
hmvlim ri' T p n 'i he thus renders her account of
how she and Paolo were tempted and fell ” :
One fatal Day, A musement all our Aim
Alone, ami unsuspecting, the sweet Tale ’
9/Jf, ve Launcelot was our Theme :
Oft by his Sufferings, were our Tears enforc’t
Our Countenance impassion’d, and inflam'd ’
let, one sole Period, truely was the Cause ’
Of our Defeat: the Smile , the heavenly Smile !
10/ the long lov’d Genevra, when we read ;
Kiss’t by her glorious Lover: he, from, whom
Not Death itself cou’d part me, tremblingly
My trembling Lips imyress’t, ■with a like Kiss.
Pander ! the Look, Pander its Writer was :
That Day we read no more.
lhe translator’s note on this passage is as
follows :
This melancholy Event seems to be recorded by Dante
with the sole View of illustrating by actual, and then
recent Example, the dangerous Practice of young People’s
reading Romances together in private ; and still more so
where there already exists an Inclination between the
1 arties, as in the present Instance.
C 7°i vui) ,e? handles his article lightly, as befits,
scholarship should not he a dull and ponderous
thing : !t should exist to egayer le monde, like
Rabelais : perish the learning that is a prior
death . One would watch the old controversalists
nulling pleasant epithets like “Stereus diaboli 1 ”
iron rid their lurid arena, rather than attend'a
unernl march of mummies resuscitated to die
mew m the odour of sanctity. Letters must
i re ?i i e : . 18 their end and virtue :or we
ihall cleave to buekjumping exhibitions.
A. C Lradiey foUows with “Notes on Passages
n felielley, curiously considered with intent to
1-mend that lovely text for scholiasts. He also
un be commended. Really to be erudite is to be
>orn again like a little child, with a child’s zest
or riddles, and a child’s innocent delight when
lie answer is round and perfect; for it is the child
vho lives the keenest life. Coventry Patmore
/backing , Ins youngsters conscientiously in the in-
erest of dogmatic theology, did n’t know, did n’t
omprehend ; or his sorry Deity in his own image
Sw,„ h e “i 8 "“ ,d “* ' ,ili to ® Ud ** **
Phere are “ Shakespeariana ” and other things
aat touch us less; and a comprehensive list of
eipfui°° ks that looks llkely to be P articularl y
\ ]%T d> ; . KER, in Essays on Medieval
W W Literature (Lond., Macmillan ; ss.
119 net.) sets a standard of critical
~ that one wishes reached more
equently. His knowledge is wide and full yet
aes not embarrass him : he is fresh and original
ithon^fV 11 a sty , le that yields his meaning
ithout labour. Often he is illuminating, and the
>ok can be commended heartily. Subjects
n ni p° ry of E % dlsh Prose; the
mles of Dante ; ISoccaccio ; Chaucer ; Gower;
"oissart; and a note for Gaston Paris is added,
le may cite some incidental remarks on Malory •
Many things about the Morte D’Arthur are perplexing
d even irritating. It is a free version of some of the
est stones ever made, and is based on versions of the
iltiform Arthurian romance, which in some respects are
/ond comparison the best. Yet Malory mteted
■ -“the
nd as m forgive, and as hard to forgive as the Last
irnament. But when all is said that the Devil’s
oeate can say, it all goes for nothing compared with
‘ UUtoHohed and un blemished by
.aiory accomphshed oneof the hardest things in lite*a-
ngest harmonies between the spirit of’ romance and
done in XhoTdTl f#* 8 ’ , al,d What could
wrn U 1 ' b ? ada P ters a,ld ahridgers one
uir did. To know wh.tSSto,; Sly"
urn to Caxton s Lyf oj Charles the Crete or Itecuml
oj me Histories of Troy. Malory kept in English allr hi
beauty of theQueste del St. Grail, that “tinge confus o.
of Celtic myth with Christian dreams, the most rep~
Thettorvtnl * thg b ° oks of the thirteenth century
Ibe stpr.v suffers no wrong in the English version • thole
w he dsTJSS&iSS
voices or Clie adventurers who follow the radian™ nf
Heaven across the land of Morgan le Fay.
puTe e imaLdnati^ iC hf Ma i° ry Wr ° te WaS not favourable to
pure imaginative literature—.poetry was all but p*Hn.
lu U l"',rr i 7b^,: lla, .°;' y UaS aule t 0 by some wonder-
vonrh ’ f th( ;, as !PJ ,atlolls the visionary ardour of the
youth of Christendom—little in agreement one mi«-ht
the C paston letters 08 H Ve d a i" d Seflfl l h world ’described 0 in
, , l as ton letteis. He did more than this, also as mav
f co, upans° n of the French book, or book**
&85t&SBnS5&
,ww ° f p» m i> "0
ser’?5 er ’? Uiothod aild result may be
Mnr mT W fi' d D .?S den £ treatment of Montaigne in
iMppincotta “French Men of Letters Series’
(Lond., Os. net). One values Ker because his
subject? I Dn h lf a - nd glVes life : ifc recreates its
hA 8 cntl . ci . sm 13 dud and dead
He has brought no revivifying energy to thp
work ; and Montaigne, of alf the list
of whom one should talk feebly. Dowden is
able 00 1??/ ’ and h , 1 , 8 Ilterar y labour has been valu-
able not especiai] y acute or highly inspired yet
sound ami thorough. Always, maybe, he' has
seeni^ttfhave? ® letic1 etici f? cy of P ulse = his studies
seem to have burdened his spirit. For Montaigne
that jfd ds?! n F t ? Say - that is worth while—nothing
I that adds to one s enjoyment. He gives a careful
character!’ a C "' p S ll deduction of motives and
in coSfnir IT 1 . en r? Perusal with belief that,
m coming closer to Dowden, one has been re
moved farther from Montaigne. The book wants
ca th be l v S ‘>V arK “S good book about Montaigne
can be written without enthusiasm. Dead facts
dead moralities—these help so little. It would
seem impossible to be of Montaigne’s company
without gaming something of his gaiety of spirit
yet Dowden is never gay. He proses oroses
upon an author with whom his years ’and his
temperament are out of tune; so that, for all his
knowledge and sympathy, the book is a failure
J*
Stings of Montaigne
12? (if/ ntef m Montaigne (Lond., Macmillan;
.■ net ) are m yet another category Thev
comprise a series of critical papfrs-written
freshly, earnestly, originally—that should be held
m every library that reverences “the wisest
Frenchman who ever lived.’ Their interest is
biographic or bibliographic : the author has set
herself the task of elucidating for English folk the
obscurer features of her subject, and has accom-
plished her task like a good student, thoroughly.
In the first volume she discusses Montaigne’s
first-published work—the translation from Latin
to French of .Raymond Sebon’s “Natural Theo-
l°gy ’ -—and its influence upon the essayist. Other
papers are concerned with Montaigne’s family,
his travels, his friendship for La Boetie ; and the
labour in these is really illuminating.
~ volume of Studies deals with the essay for
“llaimond Sebond” ; reprints the essay onVanijjy
in order to urge that it should really be printed as
two separate essays—the second on Travelling ;
and searches closely into Montaigne’s reading and
his debts to ancient authors, reprinting the half-
hundred mottoes that he inscribed on the beams
of his library ceiling. Everywhere one is con-
scious that Miss Norton writes with love and full
knowledge, and not as a book-maker for the pub-
lishers. She is convinced (255) that “ the English
translators of Montaigne have given a very
incorrect image of Montaigne’s style, and fre-
quently a very incorrect rendering of his
thought.” Of the favourite Florio she writes
that he “has a freedom and fluency that is often
called ‘ Elizabethan ’; but it is a fatal freedom
and fluency for a translator, and it has little of
Elizabethan weight and fullness of meaning ; his
abundance is constantly redundance; he has a
tiresome use of clumsy compounds and is fond of
useless synonyms, while with Montaigne one word
is seldom the ‘synonym’ of another; each added
word is an added thought,”
John Lane’s new edition of Ernest Dowson’s
Poems (Loud., ss. net) makes acquaintance easier
for Symons’s “few people who care passionately
for poetry,” and who hitherto have had to pay
the piratical Mosher three dollars—not without
qualms. Mosher’s edition is still the richer for
some interesting fragments of prose. without im-
portance ; Lane s has the advantage of portraits
(one from a delicate drawing by Will Rothenstein
with a crooked eye, mouth askew, nose that
isnt the nose of the later photograph) and
Beardsley’s illustrations for “The Pierrot
of the Minute” (two of them ranking with
his very good work). Lane’s form suits also •
Mosher s conventional pomp seems in Dowson’s
case a too-elaborate pomposity. The author was
here written of recently : this edition may make
his echoes of plaintive sweetness part of every-
body’s treasure. His spell is small, yet it holds
one lingering; he has points of flight for medita-
tive moods ; and his little hon*owed graces are
worn with an air of his own. In his totality he
utters a temperament that makes more boisterous
bards seem vulgar as loud voices in a hospital.
I here are better poets that one likes worse.
J*
Following upon his seven-vol. edition of Byron’s
poetical works John Murray reprints those works
complete in a single volume (65. net) —
necessarily the best one-vol. edition obtainable
and containing E. H. Coleridge’s memoir and
notes. (One regrets always that Henley’s volume
of Byron remains solitary. His was the original
mind and the incisive pen, and as far as he
he is to be treasured.) Byron is one of the authors
—like Hhelley Browning, Shakespear, Spenser,
Chaucer, and their high kindred—who by most of
us must be read before twenty if they are to be
read right through ; and to read in fragments
and selections is always to risk error. The
world of literature is more than too much
with us : there are so many books of
deiight, so many journals of interest, that
the mere time to study a lengthy classic comes
but rarely between youth and age. And it
is in middle life that one wants one’s knowledge
of the classics to be sure and stimulating. There-
fore, ye golden youth ! vow to read and meditate
your Byron while there is time : this new edition
may confirm the vow. Poems and letters—he is
well worth reading and absorbing : then, with
duty performed (for it is a duty of literary youth)
and cnticism noted, one may be content to leave
wT-, the r ,est „ in T order to nmke a companion of
Don Juan —Byron at his best, Byron unique.
Yet lor the pleasure of the Don’s colloquy one
needs him in considerable type: that iii the
edition under notice is inevitably small—a type
tor youth and is scarcely inked sufficiently
Printers everywhere are enjoined to print a black
that is black, with never a tame uf grey.
&
The Geo. Robertson Proprietary issues a
cheaper edition of Ironbark Chips and Stockivhip
Crocks by G. H. Gibson^—a “ people’s edition ”at
Is. that is the most attractive shillingworth on to-
day s market. Gibson was an earlier Aus-
tralian humourist, with a talent for racy verse and
prose that has not often been matched locally Hi«
Bulletin rhymes of “ Retrenchment,” “My Mate
1. -i. a j lc b ' Ballad of Queensland” are
cherished afar to this day ; and the publishers
were wrong to exclude the two former from the
present edition. The book is especially valuable
because it contains a fine set of illustrations by
11 * ' ?P ence » a P d several by Alf. Vincent— 7G in
all—with a quality which these designers have not
always surpassed in later work. The paper and
printing are generous; and all bush readers at
least, will want the book—one of the most original
and characteristic of Australian literarv per-
formances.
In the new and cheaper edition, revised to last
year’s date (Lond., Constable ; 2s. 6 cl. net), J. A. Hobson’s
study of Imperialism should be read by earnest Austra-
lians. He expounds the truism that Imperialism is rob-
bery, and develops the theory (astounding Imperialists)
that there are times and places when robbery does not
pay the robber. The facts, figures, and arguments are
well sought and well displayed, and the book will hold
its place in every democratic library.
A.G.S.
Ike valley with its shining streams,
Its silver streams, smiles now in vain:
0 Love ! 0 Life ! 0 Youth and Dreams !
Come back, come back, come back again!
GIRLS
111.
nex * victim was our cook. Biddv
I was fat, she wasn’t fair, and she was
a long way over forty ; but My! she
could cook. Love-making she held in
contempt; and I won her affections by g s i.
Being fond of natural history, [ had taken un
fishing; any new variety I wasn’t sure about I
would give Biddy for herself. She had implicit
raith in me, and never died ; went mighty close
to ft once, though. I had given her a new species
(toad-fash) to sample; she carelessly left them on
the kitchen table, and the cat (with three
kittens) stole them. Coming home in the evening
l was aware of four corpses lying on the tennis
awn. liven then I did n't smell danger, till Biddv
iharged me from the kitohen with the stiff
irooin,
“Och, ye desateful little divil! ” she bellowed
dter me, as I effected a masterly retreat over the
lodies and up to the fowlyard. “Fait’ an’ Oi’ll
irake elivin av yer ribs, an yer nick t’ maake th’
,ven duzzm ! Oi’m fit t’ doi, ye pizenin’ little
ownd ! ’
I felt it was beneath me to argue with the
voman, and stopped away till tea-time. It was
nonths before I could get my old run of the
>antry; for experimental purposes she was lost to
ne for ever.
I lost the next one under very painful circum-
tances. I dream of it now sometimes after a
eavy tea. Had a cattle run down in Burrago
tng at the time, on halves with a friend of mine,
n the long evenings we used to yarn and play
uchre : had lost and won each other’s property so
>ng that it had become monotonous. In an evil
foment I showed him the girl’s photo He
igerly proposed I should play him for her
gainst his new stockwhip. I wanted the, whip
adly (one of Spratt’s, 24 plait), so agreed, best
iree out of five. We ran neck and neck till the
st game. It was my deal. I had slipped the
oker and four bowers, as I thought, under my
nees, so wasn’t flurried. When I came to play
tern out, I found my mate had dishonestly
arked five little cards for them, and kept the
ue ones under his knee —so I lost her.
To console me (of course I was heart-broken) he
,ve me the whip and slipped off up the mountain
see the girl. Came home in a couple of days
ith his face in sticking-plaster, and wanted his
kip back. It seems that when he told her about
she called me ‘ a beast, - ' and on his trying to
kiss her, bit and scratched him severely. Ho I
had to return the whip. I wish she had n’t been
so fond of me. I have never struck a whip with
so sweet a fall since.
After this I was shipped off to a station on the
Cu f for two years. Nothing but gins there.
Ugh !
j*
(Bound a new crop had come on when I got
back : wonderful how soon a man gets forgotten.
1 he new ones, I found, were more cunning than
the old style, or else I had got rusty. Jimmy
was still going strong, but Blinky Jones was in
gaol. Jimmy confided to me that it was the
exception now to strike a good patch, even
though, as lie did, you worked the suburbs in
rotation. The only ones he had in hand were
a grass widow and her daughter, and he was so
o i ■ U * 3 - spare me either. It took him
all his time to keep them , he added pathetically.
I‘lhe wye it is.” he explained, “th’ dom’d
wratches all want tae git rnarrit, an’ if ye gang
twice tae th same hoose, th’ auld mon is sure to
spur ye—‘ What arre yer intentions?’ A fair
hate that parrit eree. As eef oor intentions
wesiit ta hae a gude taime,” he added indig-
nantly.
Working Newtown with Jimmy the next week,
I struck a fair take-down. She was pretty and
slight, wore glasses, and looked the picture of
innocence. We passed and met a couple of times
before I hooked her, Jimmy cautioning me. “It
hikes too gude,” he averred. “Mon, a’ tlienk
y.° 11 i a i u ! ’ He was a true prophet. For a
little thing, the amount of ice-cream, lollies, and
fruit she could put away was amazing. When I
asked her to come for a walk she assented readily,
i headed her for the nearest park, which I knew
was well provided with shady seats.
I was just kissing her when I got a clip
on the head from behind which knocked me
senseless. W hen I came to I was cleaned out:
watch, ring, money, everything gone. The police
told me they could do nothing. Jimmy and I
Spent a fortnight looking for the girl, without
success. It is a scandal that such creatures are
allowed to breathe. “ A thocht she wes no guid,”
purred Jimmy to me. “Noo, ye will be mair
lareful! Get twa, three, in deeferent sooburbs :
Bt mgiged ta them an’hae a gude taime. A m
;ae weel kenned ma’ sel\ but nae doot ye can 1 ”
J*
I improved on Jimmy’s idea, and took five. (1
ike to have one night a week at home.) Thanks
o science, anyone can get beautiful diamond
mgs now : two and three for a pound, to stand
he tests engaged girls always give them. I was
are!ui to get the largest in the shop, even if it
id cost me an extra half-crown. A big diamond,
ke charity and fat, covers a multitude of sins in
lover. Have had a gorgeous time with them :
raded them in colours like a picture. One is
ark, one fair, one intermediate, one ginger
nd one tawny. All are pretty and chubby,
t is a bit of a job remembering my five
ames: still I manage it. They are typical of
ich sort. Ihe fair one is selfish and sleepy, the
ark one generous and lively ; the intermediate is
itermediate; the red-headed one is hot and
isty and the tawny one worse. They abide in
iburbs radiating out from mine like a fan, so they
e all handy with no danger of overlapping.
FALDER.


RABBIT SKINS
Have a Very Strong Market.
mr Write to us for Particulars.
Winchcomhe, Carson & Co., Limited
WOOL and PRODUCE
SA LESMEN
SYDNEY.
wertfyguytjuy
And all Kinds of BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE. 'WI
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Absolutely the Best Salesmen. v^SYDNEY.
MICK SIMMONS.
The Leading Sporting Depot.
L F
GOLF.
(Postage on one Golf Iron, 9d. N.S.W., Is. 2d. Inter-State.)
Drivers and Brassies cannot be Posted (too long).
AuchterEonie’s International Clubs
s. d.
Bulger Drivers
Cleeks, Mid Irons .
Driving Irons, Mashies
Bulger Brassies
Straight or Bent Neck Patent Putters ..
“8.G.1.” Celebrated Clubs.
6 9
6 9
6 9
7 6
8 0
“8.G.1.” “FAIRFIELD” Drivers and Brassies ... ..
“8.G.1.” “ FAIRFIELD ” Cleeks, Jiggers, Mashies, Mid
Irons, Putters..
“ 8.G.1.” Drivers and Brassies ..
“8.G.1.” Irons (all styles)
Spalding’s Golf Clubs.
‘MORRISTOWN,” Cleeks, Mid Irons, Mashies, Putters,
Niblicks
< MORRISTOWN,” Drivers and Brassies ..
< ORESCENT,” Cleeks, Putting Cleeks, Mid Irons, Loiters,
Drivers
4 6
4 6
8 0
5 0
4 6
4 6
6 9
Mick
Simmons
GOLF BALLS.
“ BRAMBLE ” Floaters
HENLEY’S “ Ocobo ”
HENLEY’S “ Melford ”
“Silvertown”
“ Haskell ” (American)
Wizard ”
“ Springvale ” “ Eagle ”
s. d.
.. 15 6 doz.
..30 0 „
..30 0 „
..30 0 „
(Postage on 1 dozen, 9d. N.S.W., Is. 2d. Interstate).
CADDY BAGS.
Postage on Bag, N.S.W. 9d., Interstate Is. 2d.
Oaddv Bags, Canvas, outside Pocket, leather bottom and sling ..
Brown Waterproof Canvas, outside pocket, leather bottom and sling
Same as above, better quality
Same as No. 2, superior quality
Same as No. 2, ex fra special quality .. • •
Solid Hide Cadd. Jags, best quality, outside pocket
Same as above, extra quality
s. d.
. 4 0 each.
.50,,
.60,,
.70,,
.10 6 „
.15 0 „
.25 0 „
Young America Revolvers, 22 R.F.,
7 chambered, double action, nickel,
2in. barrel, SJoz., 10s 6d (Postage 6d)
Young America Revolvers, 32 C.F.,
safety hammer, 5 chambered, 2m.
barrel, Bioz., nickel, 10s 6d. (Post-
age 6d)
S. & W. Pattern Revolvers, 320 C.r.,
nickel or blued, automatic ejector,
34in. barrel, vulcanite stock, 13Joz.
(Post. 9d. N.S.VV. ; Is. 2d. Inter-State.), 13s 6d _
S &W. Pattern Revolvers, 380 C.F., same as above, 3lf in.
barrel, lBoz. (Post. 9d. N.S.W. ; Is. 2d. Inter-State),
Hopkins’ “ Forehand ’’ S.& W. Pattern Automatic Revol-
vers, 32 cal. 0.F., 3in. barrel, weight'lib., a limited
quantity only. (Post. 9d, or Is 2d Inter-State), 17s 6d
Youngr
America.
LAWN TENNIS.
m m
cb
bERfe'Y HANbICAt STANbARb A SPOT
3/6 SI- 7/3 2/6 ■
Postage on 1 Racquet, 9d N.S.W. ; Is 2d incer-State.
The above four lines of Racquets are absolutely the best value
in Australia, and are a new departure in the Racquet Trade.
F. H. AYRES’ RACQUETS.
Child’s .. 3s 9d, 4s 9d
Full Si2e .. 6s 6d, 7s 6d
Sandown .. .. 8s 9d
Handicap .. .. l'2s 6d
A 1 14s 6d
Cork Handle .. 16s
Champion .. .. 19s 6d
Central Strung .. 24s
SLAZENCER’S RACQUETS.
Renshaw .. .. 13s 6d
Demon .. .. 18s
Whitehouse .. 25s
“E.G.M.” .. .. 30s
“Doherty” .. 35s
“P.8.C.” Champion, 10s 6d
TENNIS BALLS. doz
Grey or Terra Cotta 4s 6d
Slazenger’s cov. .. 16s
Ayres’ grey reg. .. 8s 6d
Ayres’ cov. reg. .. 11s 6d
Ayres’ Handicap .. 15s
Ayres’ Champion .. 16s 6d
MICK SIMMONS’ SPORTING GOODS
BOXING GLOVES .
Postage on 1 Set, Is N.S.W. ; Is 8d inter-State.
Boys’ Cloth, 4s 6d set
Boys’ Chamois, 5s 6d, 6s 6d set
Boys’ Tan, 6s, 6s 6d set
Men’s Practice, Boz., 6s set
Men’s Chamois, Boz., 6s 9d, 7s 6d set
Men’s Tan, Boz., 8s set
Men’s Special Value “ C. 8.8.” Boz. Fighting
Gloves, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 14s 6d set; 60z.,
12s 6d set
Men’s Superior Gold Cape or Chamois, Champion
shape, Boz., 12s 6d, 14s 6d, 16s 6d, 21s, 25s set
Bryan’s Best Champion, 4, 6 or Boz., 19s and 21s
Bryan’s 2nd quality, 6 or Soz., 15s 6d set
SNOIAM/UI3 MOIIAI
The Great
Monte Carlo
Came.
Perfection of
Mechanical
Ingenuity.
Finest Quality Gun
Metal Case,
Superior Move-
ments (tested by
expert). Price—
-10/6 p F°fls
Only a limited
quantity on hand.
Next shipment due
in about 6 weeks.
'^M7W/IT\
PUNCHING
BALLS.
Swinging Ball, com-
plete, with best
quality Red Rub-
ber Bladder—7s 6d,
11s 6d, 15s, 18s, 20s,
21s, 255, 27s 6d.
As diagram, with
double rubber fit-
tings, complete—
15s 6d, 16s 6d, 18s
6d, 21s, 255.
Rubber Cord for fix-
ing ball, 2s yd.
Solid Tubular Rub-
ber (best), 2/6 ft.
Punching Ball
Swivels—ls 6d, 2s,
2s 6d, 3s 6d each
Illustrated Fishing Tackle, Sports, Tobacco Listc, Anglers’ Guide and Hints on Fishing—Post Free.
The Celebrated
“MAINE”
RIFLE
fitted with Sporting- Rear Sights
Action, 18in. Blued Steel Barrel,
Shoots 22 Short, Long, or Extra
Weight, 2jlb.
to 300yds., Bolt
, Walnut Stock.
Long Cartridges.
THE MAINE
Pitle
tSheu/ing PiFle A par'
PRICE 15/6
POSTAGE ON RIFLE—N.S.W., 1/3; INTER-
STATE, 2/2 EXTRA.
T 1 iii iiiiiiiii iiiiM
The “Bullseye” Rifle, 22 Calibre,
20in. Octagon Steel Barrel, Remington action, walnut stock,
weight 3|lb. (Postage Is 9d N.S.W.; 3s 2d Inter-State). ..
7s
MICK SIMMONS
• '
mm
v»*
WINCHESTER THUMB TRIGGER RIFLE.
22 cal., 20in. Blued Steel Barrel, bolt action, weight about 31b.
Postage : N.S.W., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d..
Winchester S.S. Rifle, 1902 Model, 22 Cal., R.F., peep or V
sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2flb.
„ . Postage : N.S.W., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d
Remington S.S. Rifle, New Model, 22 Calibre, R.F., 20in. barrel, weight 3^lb. Postage—
N.S.W., Is 6d ; Interstate, 2s 8d
13s 6d
18s 6d
16s 6d
MICK
SIMMONS
D. 8.8. L. Gun, 12 or 16 Gauge, top lever, twist barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks,left choke, patent
D. &E. fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. Postage, N.S.W., 2/9 ; Inter-btate, 5/2.
40s
£3
Postage on X Gun, 2b 9d
N.S.W.; 5s 2d Inter-State.
National Arms Co/s
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, top lever, rebounding bar locks, Greener cross bolt, Siemen’s
steel barrels, left choke, pistol walnut stock ; weight, about 71b.
ISAAC
HOLLIS
& SONS’
D 8.8. L. Gun, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Real Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt,
Left Choke, Rebounding Locks, Snap Pore-end,
chambered for 2|in. Cartridges. Guaranteed
for all Smokeless Powders.
Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
“The Reliable,”
£6 12s 6d
PRICE
wertfyguytjuy
wertfyguytjuy
Mick Simmons
HOLLIS & SONS’ “THE RELIABLE” D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
GUN 12- gauge, top lever, genuine Damascus or “ Siemen’s ” steel barrels,
both ’choke, side lock action, automatic safety bolt, extended rib,
Deelev-Edsre patent fore-end, fitted with Greener cross-bolt, neatly engraved, chambered for
2Jin cartridges. GUARANTEED FOR ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, and absolutely the
finest-quality Gun in the States. Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State
£l2
JKE O X JC.X JMIIHTC 3?\E "V
Gun Cartridges.
Cartridges can now be sent by Boat to any
Dueensiand Port at ordinary Goods Freight.
Pea Rifle Cartridges.
BULLETED No. 1,6 d, 9d ; No. 2, Is 3d ; No. 3, Is 9d 100
SHOT No. 1, Is 3d ; No. 2, Is 9d ; No. 3,2 s 6d, 43 „
Rifle Cartridges.
$lOO $lOOO
WINCHESTER, 22 Conical .. .. Is Od 9s 6d
22 Short
22 Long
22 Long Rifle .
22 Extra Long.
. Is Id 10s Od
. Is 3d 12s Od
. Is 6d 13s Od
. 2s Od 18s Od
REMITTANCE
AND FREIGHT
MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER.-^Q
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.


Australian Mutual Provident Society.
S: s .’{ , . ABLI ? HEI) _ 1 j; 49 - For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States qr Kew Zealand USST* AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new jlaTtgage Deed contains a condition allowing- Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors—Hon. A W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Beniamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Wincheombe, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape, Esq.
TJT? , _ T , Genera l Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBKRT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY CO3VCFEXITIOKT.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
SPIRITS.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
WINCHESTER.
Model 1904 .22 Caliber Rifle
A . BIG GUN
FOR A LITTLE MONEY
This new Winchester Single Shot Rifle, designed to handle
.22 Long and .22 Short rimfire cartridges, is the biggest value
in a gun ever offered. It is a take-down fitted with a heavy
21-inch round barrel and Schuetzen stock, and has the cele-
brated Winchester bolt action, which has been so widely imi-
tated. Its low price, simple and serviceable features recom-
mend it to all lovers of shooting. Ask your dealer about it.
wertfyguytjuy
The Universal .Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and Most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS!
MAGNESIA,
wertfyguytjuy
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
OS
HEADACHE,
RUIT
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION. ®
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTIDN,-5w Capsule marked ENO’S 'FRUIT SALT;' Without It you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. O. ENO, Ltd., * FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, BNQ.,
by J. C. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Consult HERR RASSISSEN,speci,®
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
Ilf I# flu TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Weak Men ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
"Will Cure 11~»e Nerves, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
DI nnn C*ll SIP? PIS B Q Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
DLUUU IaUBaE. a EELBaoS. Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blood
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23 6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43 6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
(J>l a nLr {Mnninn Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23 6.
KsJstin ihJUEBEBSII Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23,6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches : 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE ; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE ;
481 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.; 111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE ?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N. 2.
HANS PETER RASMUSSEN,
StmC*
il cS®
S'tecliorSL In*!
from allWk tH
GranpWbras r\
j. T 7 etc-etc- Dmw
S^nor&KLOMNI
FIT
DISC
NICOLE—
UNIVERSAL RECORDS
Of the World’s Greatest Artists, Bands and
Orchestras. lOin. and 7in. Records, will fit
any and every Disc Talking Machine.
ABSOLUTELY UNBREAKABLE.
NKOLEPHONES
TWO SPECIAL
INSTRUMENTS
¥
The Colonial,
The New Standard.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE FREE on application.
W. G. KING,
SOLE
AGENT.
SYDNEY,
316 George St.,
m
ear
& DIGESTIVE TAB 1 *
VEGESALIS
TABLE SALT
WHICH IS SALT
With Vegetable Virtues.
DOES NOT BLACKEN SILVER.
Does not Cake.
USE IT WHEN COOKING
VEGETABLES instead of
OBJECTIONABLE SODA.
Wholesale Agents—
WEST AUSTRALIA—
WATSON BROS., Fremantle.
VICTORIA—
ROBERT NELSON & CO., Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES-
W. H. ARIELL &. CO., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND-
J. J. VERNEY & Co., Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND—ELLIS &. MANTON, Wellington.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—JAMES ROBIN & CO.. Adelaide.
TAKE
CLEMENTS
TONIC
IN ALL CASES OF . . .
Weakness, Nervousness, Debility,
Low Spirits, Neuralgia,
Loss of Appetite, Premature Decay,
Loss of Nerve Power,
Poorness of Blood,
Nervous Exhaustion, Sleeplessness,
&Cij &Cij
AND YOU WILL BECOfIE A NEW BEING.
The Great Blood, Brain, Nerve,
Stomach, Liver & Kidney Tonic.
CLEMENTS TONIC LIMITED,
SYDNE "XT.


It’s an easy job for the barber to
part tbe bair on a head like this.
It’s just as easy to prevent baldness
if you only do the right thing.
Baldness is almost always a sure
sign of neglect; it is the story of neg-
lected dandruff.
Dandruff is untidy, unnecessary, and
unhealthy.
filler's
ftair Vigor,
cures dandruff and prevents baldness.
You save your hair and you are spared
the annoyance of untidy clothing. I
It also stops falling of the hair, and
makes the hair grow thick and long.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Be sure you get AYER’S Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J.C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass.,U. S. A.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
wertfyguytjuy
His Majesty
The King and
Royal Family.
If you require a delicacy combined
with great nourishment, use
MOIR’S
“Mayfair”
Jelly Crystals.
MEW SEASON’S SHIPMENTS Just Landed.
EXCELLENT FLAVORS.
TRY . . .
MOIR’S
WORCESTER SAUCE.
It is replacing all others on
account of its excellent quality
and GUARANTEED PURITY.
JOHN MOIH AND SON, Limited
London, Aberdeen, & Seville.
SYDNEY AGENCY : 47 MACQUARIE STREET,
CIRCULAR QUAY.
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
9
(Kegd.)
does not shrink.
SHHK
®s
DAY
For Blouses,
Nightdresses,
Pyjamas,
Children’s
Frocks, & c .
ECONOMICAL
BECAUSE
DURABLE.
See the label on the Selvedge.
The Queen says: " ‘Viyella’ has
borne the test of years; you can
wear it for night-dresses all the
year round."
From the leading Drapers.
For Sunburn
C 7„ Quick relief can be
Or 00/C LiyCS obtained by the applica-
tion of the well known remedy,
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Ointment.
etc. Minor mishaps such as e " ts ’ b ™
or scalds will keep healthy and heal rapidly
with its use.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester
England.
Y. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collection of his best verses; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price, 4s. 6cl. from all booksellers, rost
free from Bulletin office, ss,
1
ill
sm
'iri
THE CAREFUL HOUSEWIFE
, , • vih( . household goods to include » bottle of " BONNINGtON S
does not forget when ordering the J“ J le have this me dicine in the house, as it is a
swr- ar —' ”i
Bohnington’S Irish Moss
f OBTAIN ABLE EVERYWHERE.) .
wertfyguytjuy
wertfyguytjuy
The best watches
that can be con-
structed.
All guaranteed.
For sale all over
the world.
AMERICAN WALTHAM
WATCH COMPANY,
Waltham, Mass., U. S. A«
L. I. FLEQELTAUB
royal jeweller - - - -
HOROLOOIST,
WALTHAM WATCH EXPERT.
Exceptional Value
Gun Metal Watch
Post Free Everywhere.
With our Guarantee of Accuracy for years.
96 King SU Sydney, n.s.w.
105
9
and /aM) d
a
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Girl Who Came Between.
I hate her with a blood-red, endless hate
My curse pursues her o’er the stretching years,
Were I the lord of Heaven’s Jasper Gate,
I’d hurl her down among the shattered spheres .
I’d thrust her back into the Pit of Space,
For all her breast of snow and hair’s gold sheen ,
Harsh-eyed, I’d spurn her lovely, shining face,
And mock her prayers and all her witching grace.
Her grey despair would touch no tender chord
Within my grim and hard, vindictive heart;
Came she to Hell, and I were Topliet s lord,
No gate would ope for her— no doors wou t p
“Go back and rot amid the ash of stars,
I’d cry to her, with unrelenting nnen ;
I’d drive her back from Hell’s own savage bars
To grope through space with pains an woun
and scars.
What is the secret of my bitter hate ?
A hate that lives for all Eternity ;
Why may I not forgive? I had a Mate
Long years ago this siren stole from me !
There were no other Mates on earth like im
No other man like him had ever been.
’Gainst her my wrath I treasure, fierce and gnr»,
Because she made my life all lone and dim.
We wandered forth through all the world, we two ;
We toiled on many seas and in far lands ;
The mountain crest and gleaming axe we knew-
We ventured side by side through desert sands
He nursed me when the mangrove’s sickly breath
Left me all helpless, weak and grey and lean;
We swore to stand together unto death,
Until she came, with Love’s damned shibboleth.
0 Viking-faced companion, brave and stern—
O thief with shining eyes and passion’s mouth ;
She took my Mate, and now no planets burn
The world's a dreary waste from north to south .
Hate her? When through the lonely years I
Aye! her"! who caught him in Love’s cursM skein ;
Hate her ? who tore the stars from overhead—
Aye, hate and curse her when she’s stark and dead.
I hate all women— star-eyed thieves, they come
To steal our mates and leave us desolate ;
To leave men lonely, silent, sad and num ,
Until their hearts fill up with savage hate.
I hate Her most, because with lips and eyes
She made Him hail her his eternal queen ;
Because she came in passion’s fair disguise
To capture him with looks and tender lies.
I hate her with a blood-red, endless hate—
My curse pursues her o’er the stretching years ,
Were I the Lord of Heaven’s Jasper Gate,
I’d hurl her down among the shattered spheres .
I’d thrust her back into the Pit of Space,
For all her breast of snow and hair’s gold sheen ;
Harsh-eyed, I’d spurn her lovely shining face
Aye, fling her backward into ghastly Space.
A.
GRANT HERVEY.
The Token.
I have lost the tiny token
That you gave me long ago,
Softly, softly be it spoken,
Softly, sadly, very low,
The last magic link is broken
Of the chain which bound us two.
Long ago you loved me truly
(Ah ! that Time should Love defile),
Like a rose that’s opened newly
Bloomed my heart a little while,
Till your love became unruly,
And the sun forgot to smile.
When I knew our dream was shattered,
Silently I hid my grief ;
Love was dead, and nothing mattered,
Only pride, that withered leaf !
Far and wide your gifts were scattered
To the moth and rust and thief.
Still I hugged the tiny token
(Which I lost to-night), because,
Of the tender words once spoken,
How the mem’ry burns and gnaws !
Now the last love-link is broken—
Take my tears without a pause.
VIC.
DOROTHY FRANCES McCRAE.
The Violinist.
Something deeper than words could say
She drew from her violin ;
Dark o’ the night and light o’ the day,
Sorrow and joy and sin.
All the tears that the race has wept
Rained in a softened strain ;
Weaving magic she bowed and swept
The strings ’till they cried with pain.
Love came laughing to pass in tears,
Love that is little or much ;
All the passion of all the years
Flamed at her spirit-touch.
Notes grew grave and the music spoke
Of death on the wild waste seas,
Of death that followed a dagger stroke,
And death on a couch of ease.
Thrilled and pierced, as when the skies
Grow shot with light at dawn,
None saw the player’s large, lit eyes
That burned like stars withdrawn.
K.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


TORALISTS
SUPPORT THOSE
WHO HELP YOU.
The Pastoral Finance Assn. Ltd. (P.F.A.)
HELPS YOU.
This Company is freezing for Export over 40,000 carcases
per month—keeping up prices at Homebush Yards*
SUPPORT THE P.F.A.
by sending them your WOOL and PRODUCE for Sale *
Consignments should be advised to the Company at . < «
Head_Office: Rhillip St., SYDNEY.
Manager : T. C. BOYD.
BEFORE YOU CONSULT A DOCTOR,
THINK OYER WHAT WE SAY OF
LAXATINE.
The LAXATINE LOZENGE TABLETS act like a charm in stimulating
the intestinal organs. They give absolutely new life and working power to the
Liver and Bowels—>and neither strain nor gripe. Remember that half the dull-
ness, want of energy, fits of depression, and the “blues” that you experience are
a result of “waste” and other poisonous matters accumulating in the system.
Throw them off. Feel Bright, Happy and Gay. TAKE LAXATINE.
Is per Box of 25 Tablets. All Chemists & Storekeepers.
A CERTAIN CURE for PILES or CONSTIPATION.
ARE
YOU
A
BARRACKER
For
Australia
HERE ARE A FEW FROM 1001 REASONS
WHY YOU SHOULD PURCHASE A PRIZE
A.N.A. Sewing: Machine.
THE A.N.A., although much the
1 best Machine, is half the cost
of Any Other— because we save
selling- expenses by not keeping a
staff of expensive travellers.
Your money is kept in Australia
instead of being sent out of the
country.
A.N.A. MACHINES are the most
simply constructed of all machines,
are most durable, reliable, and the
perfection of strength and accu-
racy, with ease of operation and
superior finish,
wertfyguytjuy
THE A. N. A. is The Marvel of the
20th Century. Whilst pos-
sessing- the.best merits of the best
Machines it has the following
special features and valuable im-
provements possessed by no other
machine :
Sews Backwards or Forwards
With great speed, the backward
sewing being invaluable for finish-
ing and Strengthening the end of
a seam.
Patent Knee Lever to turn or
withdraw the work, so that both
hands are always free.
and u sen y t Packet !
Price from £3 10s . to £9 15s.
To any part of the
Commonwealth.
GUARANTEED FOR 25 YEARS. TERMS TO SUIT ALL.
For Full Description of this Great Aust. Prize A.N.A. Machine send for Catalogue A. to following address—
WARD BROS
Established 1888. Sole Proprietors.
224 Chapel St., PRAHRAN, Melb., Vic,
BOVRIL
Supplies Energy.
Bovril gives Strength to Resist
Disease and greatly aids
recovery from exhausting
illness.
NESTLE S MILK FOOD
Has been recommended by some of
the w/orld’s most eminent authorities
during the iast Quarter of a century
INFANTS & INVALIDS
fL
«S
‘
S-2AND on END
■
PAPER
odorless
Mka.n and Gas PiW
®D
EN?
im
18 Years of faith-
ful service has
hall-marKed their
excellence.
Their Superiority is proved.
Their Reputation is made. >?
They have No Competitor.
When it comes to a matter of general
efficiency, there is not a BUILDING
PAPER manufactured to equal either
GIANT or
HERCULES
Eor rendering private dwellings dust,
damp, moisture and insect proof, for the
walls and floors of cold storage rooms,
for silos, etc., they fill every requirement.
WHOLESALE
AGENTS:
E, RICH & CO,. Ltd,,
SYDNEY AND
BRISBANE.
Holdsworth, Macpherson & Co.
Anthony Hordern & Sons
F. Lassetter & Co., Ltd.
John Mclntosh & Sons
W. Cary & Sons
Fred Ash, Ltd., Newcastle
T. J. Treloar & Co., Tamworth
Goodlet & Smith, Ltd.
Saxton & Binns, Ltd.
Grace Bros.
Marcus Clarke, Ltd.
J. W. Eaton, Ltd.
F. Braund & Co., Armidale
Sanderson & Taylor, Tumut


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 27.—N0. 1357.
TJTUKSDAY, FEBRUARY 15, U>o6.
Pkick 6d.
THE TORY LEADERSHIP.
Joseph : “ Well, Arthur, honestly, is It
worth our while quarrelling over tV?at little
remnant of a cake ? ”
BACK TO THE RING.
“ Here we are again ! ”
POLITICS ON TWO SIDES OF THE WORLD.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ A iisti-uliu /or the A ust ml in ns.”
Printed and Published by Willtam Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
tobe addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
11 oii> to Address Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (ivitli regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
S/>eriitl IVotive.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor icill carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To A inatenrs hi llhic.lt. mill While.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
ivill be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, No. 1 Broad-street Place.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Messrs. R. A. Thompson & Co., 28 lliebeck Street, Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco.—lF. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and Neivs Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 22 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Agents’ S/ieciitl Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6sin. x lldn.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
s3xxlZeZzai,
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1906.
THE FORWARD MOVEMENT IN
POLITICS.
The N.S.W. Labor party conference, which has
just concluded its sessions, has hardly aroused
any fresh enthusiasm for the party. There was
much to prompt to inspiring action in the occa-
sion ; for Australia in general, and N.S. Wales in
particular, suffers seriously to-day from ineptitude
and timorousness in political life, and yet it is a time
when national interests call in a special degree
for wisdom and courage. The Labor Conference
failed to give a new rallying cry to its followers or
to infuse any fresh life into its old cries. It talked
and argued, and sometimes quarrelled, over small
points of discipline with fierce energy, but showed
no particular perception of the urgency of the
great issues pressing now for settlement.
* * * •
On some questions the attitude of the Con-
ference was even more disappointing than that of
mere neglect and forgetfulness. The problem of
the Public Debt is now the most pressing in State
politics. The Conference discussed a resolution
bringing the Labor party into liue with honesty
and independence in finance, and finally decided
against a non-borrowing plank. It went again
through the weary old farce of declaring against
new borrowing “except for works already
authorised ” and those which will return interest
and a contribution to a sinking fund. The
works which will, from the outset, return
interest and a sinking fund “load” are prac-
tically not within the region of possibility—and
the Labor party well knows it. The works
“already authorised” include, of course, the
works authorised since the last Conference, when
borrowing was to be limited to funds for the works
then authorised. It is political flam of tiie most
contemptible kind to keep on a platform such a
“restriction of borrowing” plank. If borrowing
is to be continued for works already authorised,
and there is no check on the authorising of fresh
works to be constructed from loan funds, un-
limited borrowing is, to all intents and purposes,
approved. The Conference made the fact plain
that this is its intention, by neglecting even a
whisper of censure on those members of the party
who went beyond even the liberal borrowing pio-
gramme of the platform to vote for further mort-
gages to Cohkn. The plain fact of the matter
seems to be that the N.S.W. Labor party has not
the remotest notion of helping on the cause of
financial honesty ; and it would be more seemly if
it declared openly that its policy is really Owe’-
SuLLIVANISM.
* * * *
How little seriously the Conference took any of
the vital problems of Australian politics is further
shown by the result of the debate on a land policy.
The present platform makes some proposals
for land reform. It was proposed to strengthen
the plank to an absolute declaration of war against
land monopoly. The majority seemed to favor the
idea, but at the last moment it was found that, so
desultory had been the useless debates on points
of etiquette and small matters of discipline, that
an efficient quorum did not remain to affirm a new
land policy for the platform. So Land Reform
went the way of Financial Reform. But at least
the Conference made a pretty clear line of
demarcation between the Labor Party and the
other parties in the N.S.W. Parliament, which
either actively participated in or are busy smother-
ing up the Lands scandals. Atone time there was
a bold declaration from the Labor Party that any
member found to be concerned in any way with the
scandals would be expelled. That perhaps was a
programme erring on the side of severity. It is
now freely acknowledged that in regard to land
agency an extremely bad system had grown up,
which led to members of Parliament carrying out
duties and accepting fees for them under condi-
tions of grave impropriety, but still not in any
way criminal. It is by fair-minded people just as
freely acknowledged that the business of the
community now is not to seek vengeance on th«
many men who were misled into following a bad
custom, but to be content with punishing only
actual evil-doers and guarding against a
continuance of a bad system. The savage
honesty of its early attitude the Labor party
has now watered down. There is no longer talk
of expulsions ; and such talk was wisely dropped.
But a motion was carried debarring members of
Parliament from acting as land agents except in
open court. Mr. Holman, Labor M.P., gave
vehement opposition to this, and was backed up
by one or two others, but the motion went
through, and at least the Labor party will not
shelter any land agents for the future. That
remains as the one practically useful decision
of the conference.
* * * «
It was when it came to the question of party
discipline that the conference was most dis-
appointing in tone. Evidently very many
of the leading men in the political Labor move-
ment fail altogether to understand its present
position as regards the public. The Labor party
in Australia was, at the outset, frankly a “ class”
party. To the “ boom ” times of freely-won gold,
free land and free borrowing, there came to Aus-
tralia a period when the supply of money began
to be i - estricted. The first signs of this showed in
a general tendency to cut into the workers’ wages.
That led to serious strikes. The strikes failed
because economic causes were with the employers
—a time of depression was setting in, especially in
N.S. Wales, which had no protected industries to
rely upon when the boom in loans and land
began to fail. With the failure of the
strikes, the embittered trades unionists resolved on
attempting political action to redress their wrongs.
The movement was avowedly a “ class” one ; but
it gathered breadth as it went. The “laborlegis-
lation,” which sought to benefit the worker by
stopping sweating in shops and factories, by sub-
stituting peaceful arbitration for strikes, by
making the rich bear a special share of taxation,
was, as well as good for the workers, beneficial
legislation from the point of view of every worthy
class in the community. This was soon recog-
nised, and what started as a trades-unionist
sectional movement attracted a great body of
Radicals quite outside the ranks of trades-
unions, not belonging to the artisan or laboring
class, and in some cases even prominent as em-
ployers. The Labor party, without recognising
at first the change, became the Democratic
party, and the Democratic party it is now,
and probably will remain, in spite of the
efforts of foolish sectaries to narrow its aims.
The progressives of Australia have gravitated to
the Labor party ranks; have usurped a share in its
councils, and, though content to push on .with any
legislation still necessary to help the laboring
classes to a greater happiness, and eager to advance,
with a speed only modified by caution, into the
realm of State and municipal socialism (which
seems the best present hope of social betterment) ;
are yet determined not to confine themselves to
any narrow test of shibboleths, or to mark the
pursuit of democracy with the methods of a
tyrannical bureaucracy. If a section of labor
leaguers or trades-unionists (as a general rule, be it
said in fairness, the trades-unionists take a very
liberal and sound viewinLabor-politicaldiscussions)
insists on attempting to narrow the Labor aim, or
to submit the Labor party to the tyranny of the
whims of ambitious doctrinaires who intrude into
official positions with the leagues, the best of the
movement will fall away.
The Labor party has a platform, which many of
the people have studied and accepted, and which
many others are getting ready to accept. That
platform must be kept steady. Frequent changes,
constant additions of planks are mistakes. When
a great public question, such as that of Financial
Reform, or Land Reform, comes into special
prominence, the Labor platform—if it has not
done so already—should declare boldly a line of
policy. But doctrinaire declarations, and the
expression of aspirations for the century after this
should be avoided. They are so much dead
weight for the Labor candidate to carry at the
polls. And the Labor leaguers must learn to
trust their leaders more. On this earth every-
thing from a flock of goats to a political move-
ment must have a leader. It is impossible for
anything to be done without someone taking the
lead. And, generally speaking, the more trusted
the leader the better the result achieved. Some
of the Labor leaguers show an unfortunate
disposition to hamstring their leaders. With
a bent which is not democratic but anarchic
they seek to bring the Labor party into
the state of a mere mob, given a lead
now and again by some chance-chosen and
fugitive figure who must be content, in a brief
while, to make way for another. That is not
good politics. Nor is it good democracy. The
democratic idea is to make the selection of leaders
a matter of the freest possible choice, to have
them capable of easy deposition if they go wrong,
but to trust them absolutely while they are in
authority. There should be no distrust of a
leader, for deposition should follow distrust as a
shadow. The tendency which some of the Labor
leaguers show to cramp and confine theTeaders of
the party does twofold' harm : it discourages
good men from coming forward as leaders and it
drives public support away from the party ; for the
public to a very large extent votes for the man
rather than the cause, un ible to appreciate the
appeal to abstract principles, but voting Watson
or M‘Gowen or Price or Kidston because of
knowing those men as champions of a policy they
approve. The Labor party—equally with all
other parties—cannot get on without its person-
alities. If .its rankers show a disinclination to
distrust its personalities, a tendency to be jealous
of its leaders merely because they are leaders, the
party will lose all the commanding talent it has
and become a mere mob party : and as such its
existence would be short.
\ m * *
If they would but grasp the skirts of happy
chance, the organisers and rulers of the Labor
party could now do a wonderful work for Aus-
tralia. There is a public tendency to stampede
from the old parties to the new Labor party, to
entrust to it the work which Ballance and
Seddon have been doing for Maoriland, that of
reorganising Australia on a social-democratic
basis. Give the Labor party a simple radical
policy, dropping a few non-essentials of the
present platform and extending the scope of
others; give the men in the Parliamentary
parties (whose general average of fidelity, honesty
and ability is extraordinary) unfettered_ scope
to secure the enactment of that policy in the
way which their experience teaches them is best,
and within two elections the Commonwealth and
all the State Parliaments would be completely
dominated by the Labor party and its friends.
But if the method is pursued of seeking to make
the platform repellent instead of attractive ; of
hampering the party’s representatives in Parlia-
ment, and insisting that they shall follow a cut-
throat, Ishamel policy, the Labor party will sink
to the position of a small, curious sect in politics,
and the progressive movement will find expression
in some other organisation.
SYDNEY UNIVERSITY TORYISM.
In June, last year, the managing board of the
Sydney Prince Alfred Hospital decided that, as
women were allowed to take degrees at the
Medical School of Sydney University, they
should be allowed to qualify also as residential
doctors at the hospital. The women-students
were advised of the decision, in which it was
stated that, all other things being equal, future
appointments would be made regardless of sex.
This year, among the young doctors who qualified
for the privilege was Dr. Jessie Aspinall, and
the selection committee of the managing board
accordingly appointed her to one of the vacancies
on the hospital staff. Dr. Aspinall went into
residence and commenced her duties. Ten days
later she was informed that the “conjoint board,”
which is composed of the hospital board of man-
agement and the University Senate, had vetoed
her appointment on the grounds of sex. In effect,
the University Senate had decided that it would
have no vvomen-doctors in the .hospital. The an-
nouncement of this fact to the public prompts the
query: What has the Senate of Sydney University
to do with the appointment of doctors to the Prince
Alfred Hospital, an institution supported by the
public and the State ostensibly for the benefit of
the sick poor? Is the institution a “hospital”
primarily, or is it a clinic attached to Sydney
University medical school as an experimental
farm, so to speak? If it exists piimarily for the
purpose of giving the students at the medical
school of Sydney University practice and experi-
ence, if the student is the first consideration and
the patient the second, why is it subsidised by the
State and the public as a hospital instead of being
supported out of the funds of the University?
Those questions call for answer. If the Prince
Alfred Hospital is really a hospital, what right
has the Senate of the University of Sydney to
interfere in its discipline ? The government of it
should surely be the privilege of the State and the
public, who find the funds for its maintenance.
The Bulletin wants to hear, and hear promptly,
that Prince Alfred Hospital is not a mere appan-
age of Sydney University Senate. For if it is
its prospects are dismal. There is no public body
in Australia to which a more scathing sermon on
the parable of the buried talent might be preached
than to that little group of Shylocks who devote
their time to strangling liberal education at its
fountain head in N.S. Wales.
* » * •
So many have been the misdeeds of the Sydney
University Senate that the. public will not be
surprised at any new outbreak of rank illiberalism
from that body of ancient Scots. Sydney has long
ceased to expect, anything of a liberal,
modern nature from its University Senate. It
would not know it had a University were it not
for the periodical parading of some Dark Ages
bigotry on the part of the Senate, or the intermit-
tent appearance of its Chancellor in the ragged
company of secessionists or auti-Federalists. No
one ever hearsof the Senate in relation to any move-
ment likely to help the enlightenment of the com-
munity. No one ever recognises in the University
which it governs any power affecting the
public life of the community, though it is doubtful
if in the world there are many other Universities
so well equipped to help the general good.
One seldom hears of the University, except in
connection with some cute land deal, or an
attempt to dismiss a professor for having a view
of his own on a great national question; or a
bigoted attempt to draw the sex line in recog-
nising its own degrees. Yet the University has
some excellent professors, and—in spite of the
argument to the contrary that the existence of the
Oarruthers Government represents—N.S. Wales
young men are presumably of average intelligence.
It fails in its duty and its privilege to deeply affect
the current of national life, not because of its
staff, which is able, or its undergraduates, who
only lack a lead, but because of the system of its
governing body, which should be managing not a
University but a Mont dc Piete.
Sydney University Senate seemed to have
touched the bedrock of Tory bigotry in its attempt
to dismiss Professor Wood for being opposed to
the policy of the Boer War, and saying so, like
an honest man. The fact that Professor
Wood’s opinion coincided with that openly avowed
by almost every notable English thinker,
mattered nothing. The Senate wanted agree-
ment with British maffickers, not British
thinkers. The argument that, right or wrong,
the Professor was entitled to his own opinion, not
having sold his soul with his services as a teacher,
mattered nothing. Members of Senate regarded it
as a crime on the part of one of their professors to
have opinions that were opposed to their own.
They knew nothing about the matter: as usual their
eyes were bent steadily down on the muck-rakes
with which they delved among their investments.
But that didn’t enter into the merits of the case.
Their professors, the professors they paid, must
follow their views. In the disgraceful treatment
of this woman doctor, whom it has deprived of the
opportunity of properly completinglier educational
course, the Senate only follows its well-known
stupid, bigoted Toryism,
The first obvious conclusion from the Aspinall
incident is that Sydney Prince Alfred Hospital
Constitution must be re-modelled. If the place
is under the thumb of University Senate— and it
seems to be so —that thumb must be lifted. Better
a hospital managed by a Babbage calculating
machine than by Sydney University Senate. It
is not well that the public’s money should flow, by
private subscription and by State subsidy, to a
hospital, which is not a hospital in the real sense
of the word but an appendix to a medical school
and that school administered by a body of bowel-
less ancients Further, the scandal suggests again
to N.S. Wales to look to its University, which
should send a warm vital current into the intellec-
tual life of the community, but merely grinds out
graduates at a profit, and amasses freeholds.
Sydney University Senate has never shown any
of thespirit of the inquirer, the sweet reasonable-
ness of the philosopher. It has stood for nothing
butthe perpetuation of narrow bigotry, and the
accumulation of valuable city property. The
people to whom the University really belongs,
must one day claim back their property.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Pathetic John See.
“ One of the best things that ever happened to Great
Britain and her dependencies is this alliance with Japan.
These little, unostentatious, brown-faced people are full
of love for the Britishers, for wherever a Britisher goes in
their country there is a hearty welcome for him ; and
Great Britain and Japan are going to dominate the
position in the East.” — N.S. W. ex-Premier John See at a
suburban bun-worry recently.
One of the pathetic figures of semi-public life to-
day is Mr. John See, ex-Premier of N.S. Wales.
By one of those accidents which are rather apt to
happen in politics, and which help to make so
many men smile with contempt when politics are
mentioned, John See once became Premier of
N.S. Wales. He was (and is) an amiable, good-
natured man, with too much practical ability
to go through life as a wharf-lumper (where-
fore he took advantage of his chances to
become a fairly wealthy produce merchant
and shipowner), and with too much vanity
to keep him out of the temptation of going into
politics, which temptation comes to every man in
Australia who hasenough brasstostandafewdrinks
and to shout a few words to his fellow-electors
from a stump. As a politician, Mr. John See was
always rather a ridiculous circumstance. Yet he
rose by force of gravity, so to speak—the bigger
men fell away —to be Colonial Treasurer in a
Dibbs Administration, and was mostly ignored by
his masterful leader, who used to take the finan-
cial responsibility himself. When to Dibbs, Line
succeeded as a Protectionist Premier, See again
appeared as Treasurer, and meekly spent and bor-
rowed for that Administration. But it was not until
he actually became Premier himself, in the days
when the Contingent fever was at its height, did
Mr. See really feel that he had achieved glory.
His patriotic speeches during that epoch are still
treasured by collectors of curiosities of the lan-
guage, and are almost the only asset that N.S. W.
has for a spell of the wildest extravagance and the
most serious administrative incompetence. Now,
Mr. John See, as ex-Premier, pathetically fails to
understand why the lime-light is not still upon
him, as in the days when he was sending
Contingents away with a fervent patriotism
that darned all expense, and his colleagues
were giving improvement leases away with,
perhaps, an equally happy disregard of sordid
financial considerations. He haunts the subur-
ban tea-fight and the church-charity gathering,
and the subscription-to-our-esteemed-fellow-citizen
function, bursting with amiable intentions and elo-
quence, and speaks excitedly of the Empire and
such subjects, and u'onders why the reporters do
not take it all down verbatim. The other day Mr.
See did manage to get reported to some extent,
when he made the remarks quoted at the head of
this article about Japan’s love for the Britisher.
The ex-Premier has just been to Japan, where he
fussed around among Mikados and Shoguns and
generals and admirals, and rubbed shoulders with
as many titled folk as he could, and he comes
back full of admiration for the Jap (who seems to
have treated Mr. See’s fussiness with ironical polite-
ness and to have endured him with brave patience);
full of love for the brown man, certain that the
brown man loves us, and convinced that our semi-
tropical Northern lands should be handed over to
the suave Asiatic. Now' the newspapers know
that what Mr-. John See says or thinks matters
nothing ; that he is just a fair sample of the aider-
man sort of person who goes abroad, sees what he
is capable of seeing, and comes back laden with
shallow convictions founded on ignorance. They
know, also, that the Jap is not full of love for the
Britisher; and that the fact that Mr. John See
has been tolerated by the Asiatic “ upper circles ”
is no argument for the colonising of North Aus-
tralia by the Japs. And if Mr. John See talked
such pathetic rubbish about almost any other
subject, they would not report him, but would
allow his eloquence to sink with the suburban bun
into oblivion. Anything however against a
White Australia—any poor futile little thing that
looks like an argument if seen in a poor light by a
very short-sighted voter —is eagerly seized upon
and pushed before the public. Thus even the
pathetic Mr. John See’s eloquence has its uses —
it helps to show to Australia the dangers arising
from their daily press, that press which dare not
openly attack the White Australia ideal butisever
ready to undermine it insidiously.
Unlocking the Lands.
This week has heard two utterances on the land
question. Mr. J. C. Watson, Federal Labor
leader, speaking at Sydney, declared unhesi-
tatingly for a Federal progressive land-tax suf-
ficient to unlock the big monopolised estates to
the people. Mr. Austin Chapman, speaking at
Bombala —which is surrounded by big estates
designed by Nature for small farms—threw out
a strong hint that the Deakin Government was
thinking somewhat the same thoughts as to the
necessity of Federal intervention to put an end to
the land monopoly which strangles rural Australia
even more effectively than the importing disease
does urban Australia. There is some hope therefore
that Mr. Deakin and Mr. Watson will be found side
by side in calling for a sufficient measure of land-
taxation to make the holding of good agricultural
land for anything but use unprofitable. The
Bulletin sincerely hopes that it will prove so.
With every week the pressure from outside on
our domestic politics becomes greater. That the
time available to Australia for putting its house in
order, building its factories, populating its fields,
and arming its population is short, is impressed by
each new development in Asia. Quite apart from
all differences of local politics, all issues of Free-
trade and Protection and land taxation, the
national danger is becoming such that all parties
might well unite to press forward with a
policy which will give us for the present foundries
and population —the two prime needs of defence
—even if it is argued by some that that


policy must inevitably lead to a serious delay in
the arrival of a millennium when, under the
kindly influence of freetrade and individualism,
the lion and the lamb wilj eat asparagus together.
The need is now. There is no doubt that with
cheap accessible land Australia can get a huge
farming population, and that the bursting up of
big estates will give cheap accessible land. There
is also no doubt that thorough Protection will give
work now to a vastly greater artisan population.
It may be, as the Tory says, that the price paid
for the farming population the loss of a
fine crusted landed aristocracy—is too dear. It
may be, as the Freetrader says, that it is bad
economics to make things locally which you can
have made more cheaply in Japan or Europe.
Allow that those people are right and that ulti-
mately a sensible Australia will gladly return to a
policy of land monopoly and Freetrade. But
there is a crisis ahead. Within the next few
years there must be an Australia made populous
and self-arming, by cheap land and plentiful fac-
tories, or there will be no Australia at all. Let
us legislate to survive this decade, even if after-
wards we have to go back on our tracks and
plead to the squire to come back to us and the
manufacturer to depart.
♦
A Little Jap Demonstration.
In view of the proposed visit of a Japanese
squadron to Australia about the commencement
of next Federal session, it is instructive to refer
to an interview with Viscount Hayashi that re-
cently appeared in London Standard, 25/10/’OS: —
Towards the end of 1901, four Japanese armored
cruisers under the command of Admiral Kamamura
visited Australia. The full significance of this incident
was scarcely understood—certainly not appreciated—by
the people of Australia at the time. It was a little
demonstration on the part of Japan in reply to certain
disparaging criticisms which Australian politicians
thought fit to offer during their Parliamentary debates
concerning the Japanese as possible immigrants. Viscount
Hayashi was discreet. I gathered, however, that there
was every reason to believe that the Japanese authorities
had noted that there had been an apparent lack of appre-
ciation by the Australian Government and people as to
the full significance of the incident of the Japanese war-
ships in Australian wateis.
So it now transpires that what Australia fondly
imagined was the friendly visit of a globe-trotting
fleet was intended by the little yellow man to be
the pigmy imitation of a great naval demonstra-
tion, such as European powers indulge in when
they want to coerce the Turk ; only they hadn’t
the courage to say so at the time. We, hos-
pitably intent, gave the little Japs tea and cake,
and the little Japs gave our girls gilt buttons,
but the idea that we were to be coerced never
entered into our stupid heads, and Japan’s little
naval demonstration fell flat, which must have
been shockingly disconcerting. This year Prime
Minister DeaklN might make a few inquiries
before we hand the tea cups round, and ascertain
whether or not our visitors are posing to them-
selves as an Asiatic reproduction, on a small
scale, of the Kaiser’s “mailed fist.’’
Touching Shopkeepers.
A complaint from Yarra’s banks :
Melbourne is busy discussing what is fair and unfair in
co-operative-trading tactics, insofar as they can be used
to sweat the profits of certain shopkeepers. The situation
is mixed. The Melbourne Civil Service Co-op. Society,
like all other co-operative societies, is based on the
principle that consumers are entitled to save money
by combining to he their own shopkeeper. The ideal
co-operative store would embrace the whole community,
reducing the thousands of individual master shopkeepers
who grow rich by catering for public convenience.
More than half the shopkeepers could be dis-
pensed with, and the community would gain by it. In
reducing the number of middlemen, co-operation must
inevitably tend to swell the ranks of workers, and thus
further “the development of our great natural resources.”
This is a specially' forcible fact in a young, thiuly-
populated country. Melbourne Co-operative Store is not
yet a very large concern, nor is it confined to
shareholders. It invites non-members to pay half-
a-crown a month for the privilege of dealing with the
store and receiving a refund of -1 per cent, on the amount
of their purchases, the same as shareholders. This is a
modification of the co-operative principle ; but if the full
principle is good, the modification, of it cannot be logic-
ally' condemned. At any rate, it is not an infringement
of the Act for suppressing coupon trading, seeing that
the outsiders who pay' 2s. 6d. a month are subsidiary
partners in the business ; and the system doesn t call into
being still another unnecessary shopkeeper, handing out
jam-dishes in return for trading-discount stamps ; and
that is the essence of the curse of the coupon system.
But the Store doesn’t as yet attempt to supply all sorts
of domestic wants on the premises. Therefore it has
started an agency for supplying meat, bread, milk, coal,
and firewood indirectly, by arrangement with other
retail traders ; and this is where the charge of sweating
gets a leg to stand on. The full members and the half-
crown subscribers to the C.S.C.S. get “ receipt tickets
from the “authorised” butcher, baker, milkman, &c.
These tickets command a refund of 2* per cent, discount
from the store, whilst the shopkeepers, for their part,
have to pay larger percentages to the store for
the privilege of supplying its members, some of
whom, by the way, were in the habit of getting
their bread, &c., from the same shops, without reaping
any discount, prior to the inception of the new system.
Thus a new form of coupon trading has been introduced
into co-operative trading, and the middlemen who want
the new trade but object to the reduction of profit are
goin" to take their grievance to Bent. Practically they’
are screaming for the Government to prohibit persons
from “ making profits without working for them.” If
the Coupon Act doesn’t give them relief, they will
apply for some further legislation to meet the case.
And one can’t help having some sympathy for the shop-
keepers. Though they may be to a g’reat extent parasites,
feeding on the community, the Co-op. becomes a para-
site, feeding upon them. Formed for the purpose of
putting down parasitism, the society becomes a parasite
itself. The very probable result of this will be to preju-
dice the co-operative principle. Already, for instance,
the shopkeepers and their friends are talking
about the “injustice” of public servants being
permitted to run a personal supply business, to
the detriment of the middleman ; though if they
had been clerks or bricklayers the indignation of
the middlemen would have boiled all the same. What
the shopkeeper won’t understand, or only under-
stands with difficulty, is that the public, in regard to this
coupon business, isn’t concerned about him, but about
itself—it doesn’t want to carry any unnecessary number
of middlemen on its back. It is also more concerned about
legislation for the benefit of those who work for shop-
keepers. The employees of the profit-grabbing middle-
men must be fairly treated—and this is where the writer
pauses to smile. Civil servants are the only employees
in the country who are safeguarded in their billets. If a
drunken letter-sorter gets the “ sack,” the business of the
country (in Parliament) is promptly diverted to the
question of restoring him to his salary. But it appears
that the civil servant is strangely unmindful of his
favored state when he starts to employ labor. An
employee of the C.S. Co-operative Society can’t begin to
assist the operations until he signs an agreement,
assenting to dismissal at a moment’s notice.
*
British Politics.
The British Conservative party has come back
from the general elections not only routed and
reduced to a mere vulgar fraction of its former
strength, but also rent by internal dissensions.
Internal disunion helped its fall. Internal dis-
union seems likely to prevent its recovery. In
politics no defeat is so great as to preclude hope of
a quick recovery for a party united and well-led.
The changes in public opinion are as quick and
complete as in the clouds at the dawn
or the death of the day. But for a divided party
the prospect is hopeless. The Conservatives in
Britain seem to be divided into :
(1) A small section of Young Englande rs—Proteo
tionists and land reformers. . ._ ,
(2) Mr. Chamberlain’s following of tariff reformers,
who once went the whole Protection hog, but seem now
inclined to hedge a little. „ t „„„ „
(3) Mr. Balfour’s following, who are tariff reformers,
but don't believe in Protection. Their degree of reform
seems to amount merely to a willingness to admit that
Freetrade is not a sacred principle.
(4) Conservative Freetraders.
Perhaps the truth of the position is to be found in
the fact that new wine cannot be put into old
bottles ; and, ultimately, the Balfour section and
the Chamberlain section will be pushed aside by
the first group—at present infinitesimal—of the
young men who dare to believe in Britain ana are
willing to secure markets for British
artisans and to recover Britain s acres for Britis
yeomen. That, whilst aiming at such revolutionary
ideals, they may still call themselves “Conserva-
tives ” will not be of much importance ; indeed,
the title may win a fresh and good meaning as
signifying the conservators of Great Britain.
What seems certain is that neither Mr. Balfour—
a poor foozling figure groping aimlessly around the
political links—nor Mr. Chamberlain— who at the
critical moment of the last campaign lost his nerve
and went back on Protection—can lead the new
movement, if there is to be a new movement. And
if there is not to be a new movement, British
elections of any sort will soon be a thing of the
past. There won’t be any need of them when
Britain is ruled by a satrap from lokio or
Pekin.
Asiatic “ Spies.”
Sydney has been quite excited during the past
week over the alleged discovery that two Japanese
merchants leaving Australia were found to have
plans of “ the Beautiful Harbor ” in their posses-
sion. The daily papers spread into excited
columns over the discovery. With a fuss of that
sort The Bulletin would not dream of interfer-
ing. Anything which calls public attention to
the imminence of the Asiatic peril is of some
advantage. But, now that the excitement is
over, it may be asked: “What on earth would
Japan want with plans of the fortifications of
Sydney Harbor?” As well might the intelligent
Japanese go to trouble to procure plans for the
extirpation of snakes in Iceland. I here is no
need at all for worry about spies at present, for
not a single sane cause exists for espionage on the
part of any foreign power in regard to our harbor
defences. We have no harbor defences in any
modern sense of the word. Australian coast
defences are so seriously out of date
that there is no need to spy upon them.
Moreover, they are manned on the assump-
tion that, in the event of a bombardment, no
member of the local defending force would ever be
put out of action. So unless a possible invader
can be induced at the very outset of hostilities to
consent to some sporting scheme, such as an
eight-hour fighting day, whereby our gunners may
get their needful repose during the fray, an
enemy hardly needs to waste time spying. He
could wait until General Sleep fought with him.
The Bulletin does not believe that the astute J ap
is wasting much time spying on Australian
harbor defences. But it is a firm believer in the
initiation of a policy whereby he might be
prompted to forthwith begin. A policy of an
immediate strengthening of the artillery, the
mounting of thoroughly up-to-date guns for
the harbor defences, and a regime of constant
target. practise, would probably make the Asiatic
secret service busy. When there are serious
harbor defences the best of care should be
taken to keep them from foreign eyes—espe-
cially slant ones.
+
Exhibitions of Two Sorts.
A recent meeting in Melbourne decided that it
was the duty of the A.N.A. to oppose tooth and
nail the recent proposal for an International Exhi-
bition in Melbourne. And that is the best thing
the A.N.A. has done, perhaps, since hitting pro-
vincialism on the head at the Federal referendum.
The miserable dying out of the last great
and ghastly show ought to have sufficed
for this generation. The deserted courts, the
melancholy foreign drummers, the doddering,
stony-broke land-boom millionaires, COWEN S
broken-up orchestra looking for passages home or
billets in a German band —the whole lot of
it makes one of the ludicrous or pathe-
tic memories of life. And what good did
it do to any living human being, outside the
paid officials and the indentors who smuggled
through a good many parcels as exhibits ? The
bits of local shows recently held in Sydney and
Melbourne have cost nothing, and given our own
people a lot of good, practical, valuable advertise-
ment. Also, they have hit a lot of prejudice
and affected Johnnydom shrewdly and hard.
“Can’t get anything fit to wear, in Australia,
don’tcherno,” lies dead in his harness, and will
never clank about the land any more. He only ,
mattered because of the multitude of fools he
influenced. They will come now to the North-
COTE bell obedient as wethers and steers. The
A.N.A. local exhibitions have kept that bell
ringing, and close on to it have sounded a trumpet
against the foreign drummer and his local allies.
The exhibitions have helped to awaken Austra-
lians to the wisdom of patronising their own
goods.
The Tangled Issues.
George Reid announces that he is going to fight
the next Federal elections on the question of anti-
Socialism. But Reid, through continuous absence
from Parliament, has so dropped out of public
view that he is almost a back number, and
certainly his announcement that the fiscal issue
isn’t to be raised won’t keep the most live subject
in Australian politics in its grave. But Reid may
do a little to tangle up a political situation that is
already wildly incomprehensible. Apparently at
next election there will be—
(1) The Protectionist party.
(2) The Freetrade party.
(3) The anti-Soeialists.
(4; The Labor party divided into
(a) Freetrade Laborists.
(b) Protectionist Laborists.
(5) The Walls of Derry and Flames of Smithfleld party.
The trouble is that all these parties start
running at once, and no one party gets a definite
majority. If Australia would fight one election
on the tariff question alone and get a
definite Whole Hog majority one way or the
other, then it might get either absolute Freetrade
fixed for (say) seven years, and go cheerfully to
ruin, or secure 100 per cent. Protection fixed for
(say) seven years, and get to work. That Parlia-
ment could then be dissolved, and an election held
on the anti-Socialist ticket, or the Flames of
Smithfield and the Encroachments of Rome ticket,
and if there is anything definite that can be done
in the way of putting down Socialism or pouring
water on the Flames of Smithfield, the matter
could be attended to. The referendum will have
to come, if only that Australia may have the
chance to express itself clearly and definitely
about the Flames of Smithfield. That important
subject is always getting tanghM up among
such trivial questions as Australian defence an
the finding of work for the people, and it doesn t
get a fair chance. Just when the country has
settled down to think real hard about the Encroach-
ments of Rome some foolish question about pre-
venting the people starving to death intervenes,
and the public tries to keep one eye on the staa J n 'S
people and one eye on the Encroachments of
Rome, and the result is just confusion.
—♦
This country needs to sit hard and suddenly on
the British immigrant who, though he never
smelt State aid in his own country, begins to howl
furiously for special spoon-feeding the moment
he gets both feet in Australia. Welsh farmer
Jones, because he couldn’t get rich fast enoug ,
or couldn’t get rich at all in the Cold Country,
apparently, arrived here, t other day, with a
family and £3OOO. And the first we heard of
Farmer Jones was that he was indignant because
N.S.W. Government charges “interest on the
deferred payment on land taken up by settlers.
By the time you’ve paid up the principal m 60
years, you’ve paid almost as much again in m
terest.” Well, this country originally sold the
land and got drunk on the proceeds. It recently
bought seme of it back, for Farmer Jones con-
venience, with loan money, and the interest mus
be paid somehow. If Farmer J ones doesn t pay
it directly (and he’s the only one directly bene-
fitting), it will have to be paid by the State *.e.,
the city worker will have to fork out to allow
Farmer Jones to comfortably settle himself free
ef all sordid interest worries. If Farmer Jones
objects to paying 35 years’ interest he (unlike
most Australian farmers) has £3OOO wherewith to
buy his holding outright. What Farmer Jones
obviously wants is to eat some other person s
cake and save his own.
-
S.M. Herald printed this a fortnight back
Much is made of protecting our industries from outside
competition, but the following little episode will clearly
demonstrate how Government action falls short of sus-
taining the local manufacturer. A certain city firm
received an order to supply a Government department
with several cwt. of paint of good quality. No brand
was stipulated, and no price ; only quality was essential.
The merchants in question sent the best quality available
of the color required. On reaching its destination, how-
ever, it was refused, simply and solely because it was
manufactured here, and not imported. The quality, it
was stated, was equal, if not superior, to any imported
paint of the color stipulated, and the refusal to accept it
might have an injurious effect upon the local industry.
Only that—no more. If a wrong, or anything
that could be twisted into the appearance of a
wrong, half that size, had been done to some
foreign coffee-colored person, the Herald would
have followed up the paragraph on the back page
with a three-quarter column yell on the P a £ e
where it prints the cables; and next day there
would have been a leader; and by that time the
Daily Telegraph would also have printed two
bubbling columns and a picture (possibly upside
down) of the victim. But the rights of a dis-
colored person weren’t affected in this case. It
was simply an instance in which some servant of
the Australian people cast the injurious brick of
scorn at them. A wrong done to Australia m
Australia is apparently about the last thing to
worry the so-called Australian papers. I he
Herald doesn’t even ask the Government to find
out the identity of the viper to whom Australia
pays a public-service salary and who bites its
bosom in return.
—
From a legal correspondent:—
A matter which might profitably employ the time of
the Federal Parliament is that of enacting uniform legis-
lation for the Commonwealth dealing with the desertion
of wives and children. All the States have more or less
effective laws dealing with this matter, but theie aie
some anomalies. In N.S. Wales it is possible for a wife
to sue her husband for maintenance for herself or chil-
dren under the “ Deserted Wives and Children Act, 1901.
Where the desertion takes place in N.S. Wales, and the
husband departs to another State, but remains within
the Commonwealth, a summons may be issued on the
complaint of the wife and served upon the defendant
under the provisions of the “Service and Execution of
Process Act, 1901” (Commonwealth). But a summons
really places no obligation to obey it upon the person
served, as the only punishment for disobedience is the
possibility of arrest under warrant, or the disability of an
ex parte hearing. But a difficulty arises in connection
with an arrest under a warrant in another State, as the
Commonwealth Act above-mentioned only provides foi
the execution of process against persons in another State
who have (allegedly) “ committed an offence either punish-
able by indictment or on summary conviction,” and the
Supreme Court of N.S.W. has held that “leaving
a wife without means of support” was not an
offence punishable on indictment, or punishable on sum-
mary conviction. Also Mr. Justice Holroyd, of Victoria,
has held that an order for maintenance cannot be trans-
ferred to a defendant’s State. A man can, of course, be
arrested in any part of the Commonwealth under a war-
rant issued under Section 45 of the Crimes Act 1900, but
procedure under that Act is abortive so far as the main-
tenance of the wife or children is concerned, as the
offence is punishable on indictment by imprisonment not
exceeding three years, and there is no power to make an
order for maintenance. As the law stands, a man may
elope from his wife into another State with impunity (or
any other impudent hussy): so there is great need for a
uniform law for the Commonwealth.
+
All up and down the coasts of China and a good
way inland the notice-boards are hung out. The
Foreign Devil is not wanted any more, the
Japanese Devil being fully prepared to take his
place. It is by no means certain that the
laborious, patient, inscrutable giant will find the
Jap Devil better than the Foreign Devil;
but that he has agreed with him, and
will serve, trade and fight with lnm it
necessary, is plain as daylight. There is any
amount of money in that Chinese trade, hour
hundred millions of people to be diddled out ot
some share of their earnings and swindled more
or less in all their purchases. The Jap reckons he
can do that just as well as any European man,
and before a decade has passed he will either
be doing the lot or have taught the
Chinaman to manage what’s left for himself.
And that is a serious outlook for all the shoddy-
mongers of Manchester and Brummagem and
their brethren of the various Christian States of
Europe. How they will take it is not yet to be
distinctly foreseen. The Yank, quickest to grasp
the inevitable, is already preparing to scuttle.
But Jonathan is in a stronger position than any
of the other fellows. He has half the world m the
hollow of his hand. The European Bowers are
robbing, fighting, filibustering about in idle hope
and vain effort to get a decent handful. W hen
they find themselves shut out of Asia, they may
want to fight about it.
From “Progress of Canada in the Century, by
J. Castell Hopkins, p. 41G
Nova Scotia was the only one of the four original
members of the Confederation which caused serious
trouble at the outset of its new career. In the main this
was owing to the fiery and eloquent personality of Joseph
Howe. He had opposed Confederation in the old As-
sembly against Dr. Topper and his friends, but unsuccess-
fully. At the polls in the elections which followed the
Union in all the Provinces he had his revenge, and abso-
lutely overwhelmed the Confederates. Tupper- alone
all his party in Nova Scotia came to the new House of
Commons at Ottawa, while two Confederates only
entered the doors of the Assembly at Halifax.
The air rang with denunciations of the Dominion
and with cries for repeal of the Union. Howe had made
the Province believe itself to have been tricked into a
policy and position which would destroy its independence,
menace its connection with Great Britain, and namper its
progress. He declared that if the Legislature which
passed the Federal proposals had gone to the people, as
did the New Brunswick Assembly, the Province would not
then be in the Confederation. The new Assembly passed
almost unanimous resolutions in favor of secession ; a
delegation composed of Howe and others was sent to lay
petitions before the Throne for permission to leave the
Confederation, and from every town and village flowed in
a stream of supporting appeals. „
The scene was then transferred to London, where Howe
appeared with a Province almost absolutely behind him
in a plan to break up the new Dominion ; and with the
knowledge in his own mind and in the public of
Nova Scotia that thousands were willing to take up arms
against the assertion of Federal supremacy. To London
also went Tuppf.r on behalf of the Dominion Government,
armed with full powers of negotiation and abundance of
forceful ability—perhaps the only man in Nova Scotia
whom Howe had found a rival really worthy of his steel.
The representative of the Province did everything in hise
power to obtain Imperial permission for the repeal of the
Union, but failed. Dr. Tuppf.r as representative of th
Government did everything possible in opposition, and
won.
There’s a hint or two here for the N.S.W. seceders.
But the Josephs are a good deal different.
To what end all this palavering of Thomas Bent,
this buying of half-a-dozen estates to closer settle
100 families ? The agricultural statistics just issued
by the Victorian State Statistician show clearly
where the mischief of land monopoly lies—and the
remedy. Here are a few figures :
Total Area
Size of Holdings. No. Area. £ u ’*' i 0 vate f'
5 000 to 10,000 acres 309 2,162,458 acres 42,808 acres
10,000 to 20,000 „ 180 2,583,802 „ 20,905 „
20.000 to, 50,000 ~ 121 3,549,351 ~ „
50,000 to 100,000 „ 15 983,948 „ 5,835 „
100,000 and upwards 8 2,448,433 ~ 8,209 „
Altogether one acre in 127 is under crop. And
the fatter the landlord the less he uses his land I
The 309 owners of 2,162,458 acres cultivate 42,808
acres ; the eight owners of 2,448,433 acres cultivate
only a wretched 8209. The sole remedy for such
shameful land monopoly—while thousands are
asking for a poor 100 acres or so to work— is a
progressive land tax, so graduated that it ■will
make the holding of 5000 acres of really good
agricultural land unprofitable, and the holding of
more than 10,000 acres sheer lunacy. But Bent,
through his Commissioners, goes round buying a
few thousand acres here and there, and compen-
sates the owners for keeping the tillers ori the
soil ! Also, Deakin says he can’t do anything,
and Watson is very affable.
• ♦
From a man who ought to know :
At the unveiling of the Bridges Memorial at Fort-street
(Sydney) Premier Carruthers told the teachers that
theirs was a noble profession, and that they ought to
take pride and comfort in the fact that they were appre-
ciated accordingly. Perhaps Carruthers and Co. do
love us; but why do they kick us downstairs in this
No. I.—Teachers in charge of many of the smaller
schools, not provided with residences, are obliged, if
married, to live in houses, often mere huts, from two to
ten miles from school. Such teachers must provide
themselves with conveyances, generally a horse and
sulky. Towards the cost of feeding the horse the Depart-
ment used to contribute from £5 to £lO per annum, and
that was little enough. In many cases this has been
reduced one-half sin* Carruthers took office.
Flight No. 2.—More than 50 per cent, of N.S.W. schools
are one-man schools. The cleaning of these is insisted
upon, even though the roof should be of bark, the walls
of slabs, and the floor of earth. For this work the
teacher is expected to pay, or to do it himself, or per-
suade his wife to do it. The Department contributes a
weekly amount sufficient to pay for brooms, scrubbing-
brushes and dusters. Provisional school teachers, being
in receipt of less salary than teachers of Public schools,
are expected to do without even that allowance, lhey
can mop up the grime with their hair ; also repair broken
windows, do a bit of fencing and painting, and swing
gates in their leisure moments. . ~
Flight No. 3.—When the new syllabus came in it was
expected that the Department would supply the needed
material. Vain hope ! Many teachers paid the piper ,
many more are simply doing without.
Flight No. 4.—ln November, No. 1 of the Public. In-
struction Gazette was issued to all schools. It contained
nothing beyond information regarding the summer
schools and other educational matters. But the Decem-
ber issue began to give a glimpse of. Publics Instruction
paltriness. A new feature appeared headed School
Inspections.” It consisted of extracts from a report on
the boys’ department of the Windsor, school. The
teacher was commended for “ making, at his own expense,
picture-frames, bookcase, cedar cabinet for museum
specimens, ten articles of science apparatus, &c. ihe
wedge was driven home in the January issue, when por-
tions of reports on five schools appeared. Here are
extracts from two of them : “ There is a very large supply
of special apparatus for teaching purposes ... provided
by the teacher.” “ In June this year (1905), with the assist-
ance of pupils and hired labor, a suitable plot of land was
fenced and wire-netted. . . . The teacher procured i-ewt.
'of Shirley’s artificial fertiliser.” As a teacher s chances
of promotion and consequent increase of salary depend on
the inspector’s report, it is evident that the heads of the
Education Department will give no show to a man who is
either too poor or has too much principle to submit to
the wily scheme of helping Carruthers to build up a
surplus. _
No witness before the Tariff Commission put his
case more clearly than William Campbell, the
Amalgamated Engineers’ representative. ihe
Federal Tariff lowered the Victorian duties m
some cases by as much as 22-g per cent., and the
imports told the tale thus : In 1890 Victorian
imports were £1,831,393. Then the cabbage
garden imposed a somewhat-scientific and pro-
tective tariff and imports promptly dropped,
reaching bottom in ’95, at £574,316. Then they
went up again and by ’O3 had got up to £1,787,512.
Comparing ’O2 with ’95, the details showed that
imports of general machinery had increased by 252
per cent. ; and axles and arms by 775 per cent. ;
of agricultural implements by 1150 per cent. ; of
wire nails, bolts and nuts by 337 per cent. Ihe
amazing folly of admitting duplicate parts free
was fervently condemned —almost as well admit
the finished machine. During eight years
Victoria imported machinery and iron work
worth £12,109,136 ft the Customs valuation,
which means that the whole Commonwealth im-
ported some £40,000,000 worth—every item of
which could have been made here. Mr. Campbell
further told the Commission that if a European
war broke out our supplies would quite possibly
be entirely cut off. Mr. Campbell then went on
to show that any farmer—the Foreign-trader often
makes the poor farmer his stalking horse—who
objected to protecting the mechanic was a fraud
and a hypocrite inasmuch as his representatives had
already taken care that the Australian market—
which further Protection would serve to enlarge
—should he reserved to him absolutely, the exist-
ing “primary industry” duties panning out
thus -.-Oatmeal, 25 per cent.; flour 30 per
cent ; potatoes, 35 percent. ; butter, 35 percent.;
cheese, 40 per cent. ; barley, 70 per cent. ; raw ns,
100 per cent.; eggs, 130 per. cent. Finally, wit-
ness told a Freetrade commissioner that he need
not worry himself into a decline lest the worker
shouldn’t get his share of the benefits of -creased
protection. “ Ironworkers never had any diffi-
culty in getting fair wages from their employers.”


IS YOUR FARM SECURE?
|| n you die, who will have the Farm ?
Your Family or the Mortgagee ?
An Equitable Endowment will keep the Farm in Your Family.
For further information, fill m and post
this coupon to
The Secretary,
Equitable Life Assurance Society,
Equitable Building, Sydney
(or Nearest Branch, 'pr/mu Society).
Please send me particulars of an Equitable
Endowment.
I ivas born
Name
Address
t
i
oBACCd
Agree
0 TWO 1
' Flakes %
Tobacco leads 3
others follow
C
ru
n
All
GA
PNG
LLAHER UP BELFAST, Bpo
NO TRUST OR COMBINE Hr 7
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Palace R. G. Knowles.
Her Majesty’s “Vemnique.”
Theatre Royal “La Fille du Tambour Major.”
Criterion “Little Mary.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co. ,
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “LaTosea.”
Theatre Royal “The Prodigal Son.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Princes Court Variety Programme.
+
On Saturday, at Sydney Royal, Mr.
Anderson’s newly-formed grand comic opera co.
will open a season of comic opera with Offenbach’s
military opera bouffe, “La Fille du Tambour
Major.” Some of the principals: Stella, Miss
Addie Campbell (first appearance in Sydney);
La Duchess Della Volta, Miss Madge Hope;
Claudine, Miss Evelyn Scott; The Abbess, Miss
Bessie White ; Captain Robert, Signor Achille
Rebottaro; Le Due Della Volta, Mr. Edwin
Lester ; Le Marquis Bambini, Mr. Harry Quealy ;
The Tambour Major, Mr. Farley. As for the
chorus, it is promised that it will be good and
strong. Sydney will await with much curiosity
this venture of a new manager into comic opera.
*■ * * *
The last chances of seeing the dainty
Dresden-ehina prettiness of “Quality Street,” at
Sydney Criterion, will lie this (Thursday) and
Friday evenings. On Saturday “Little Mary”
will be presented for the first time
in Australia. “ Little Mary ” is the play
that gave a new euphemism to the language,
and allowed spinsters to talk quite freely
of their digestive department. It is likely to be
rushed by the food faddists. But it will be also
patronised by the theatre-goer who will dawdle
off to supper afterwards, for its humor is said to
be rich and well-seasoned.
** * *
R. G. Knowles is a very good spoonful of
marmalade, but a spoonful of marmalade isn’t
enough to make a meal of ; and so one turns out
of Sydney Palace these times unsatisfied and dis-
appointed. R. G. Knowles can do a few things
so well that when they are squeezed into a variety
turn he deserves to be advertised as one of the
Best ; but when he tries to cover a two-hours’
entertainment the marmalade has to be spread
out so thin that a good deal of the time it only
amounts to a stain. For a monologist he is
handicapped by owning a voice that isn’t
better than the next man’s, and when
he isn’t dancing, his movements are not
graceful; add to that, he has no orchestra, and
all the music you get is Mrs. Knowles’ banjo-ing
and a lone piano crying in the wilderness of the
wings. He can tell a yarn, certainly. Some of
his yarns are fresh ; others were picked up from
under that spreading tree where the village
smithy stood. But even these last he gener-
ally tells so well that the audience forgives
the familiar look of the meat for the merit of the
cookery. Yet the yarns need sub-editing.
Think of inflicting upon an audience at this hour
of the night a rigmarole about going down a Hill
and seeing a Darling at the bottom of it, with a
Noble in the foreground and no Duff-er in the
background, and so on through tlielist of cricketers !
Mr. Knowles’ entertainment is e*ed out with one
or two moving pictures and a dozen or so that
don’t move ; and, of the whole lot, about the best
and the most popular is a flickergraph representa-
tion of “Little Tich ” on his quaint long clogs.
Come to think of it, could even “Little Tich”
satisfactorily fill a whole evening’s bill ?
CONSTABLE JOHN WALLACE (slain by a
mild and gentle kanaka, at Sydney, last
Sunday ).
Photo, by Alexander, Enmore, Sydney.
J. C. Williamson’s Comic Opera Co. played
“Veronique” so well up to the limit of its
capacity on the opening night that little change
is to be noticed after nearly three weeks’ practice.
Lauri makes Coquenard one of his best parts.
He doesn’t have to trouble about pro-
babilities ; the irresponsible flower merchant
is a frank impossibility, wandering in and out of
the well-defined plot, and useful mainly to hang
the necessary, and sometimes harmless, joke upon.
In one respect the singing improves—Miss Mar-
garet Thomas’s Swing Song, which everybody had
been told not to miss, wasn’t what it might have
been when it was first heard here, but since then it
has been just about what it ought to be. And what
a heavy load Florence Young carries on her broad
bustling shoulders, without giving the smallest
idea that she has exerted herself to do it ! Yet it
is obvious enough that it isn’t the music that ap-
peals most to the houses that continue good—it’s
Lauri’s antics, and the shocking distress of the
high-toned Duchess driven to masquerade as a
flower-girl, and lured on to ride upon the way-
ward ass that lands her in the ditch. The
Bulletin doesn’t remember saying that Miss
Clifton’s acting in this part is extra good ; so it
says so now with emphasis.
** * *
The Tivoli programme holds Lotto, Lilo,
and Otto, the trick cyclists, and the Jackson
quartette ; and a programme with those two turns
in it is very' well worth handling. The Scottish
Meisters make a good third, though they would
be a better third if they sang more and
fooled less. Finally the “ Bull and the Bush ”
continues to be called for nightly ; though the
last time The Bulletin heard it a desperate man
in the circle called on the Tivoli to “give it a
rest.” And The Bulletin sympathised with that
man. Even a good music-hall whine doesn’t need
quite so much bull and bush.-
** * *
“ L.E.” : Most amateur players’ clubs “ go
bung,” and they deserve to. Instead of trying to
do what the regular theatres never do—that is,
play really good plays as plays, and not as crude
and gaudy spectacles—they repeat all the vices of
the commercial stage, only more so, and do all
they can to develop the native box-office talent.
The amateur’s object in life is to get a job on the
real stage ; so he forms his style according to the
methods adopted in “The Tripe in the Tram
Car,” or “ Only a Sailor Lad.” But the sole jus-
tification of an amateur club is that it is amateur,
that it works for the love or the fun of the thing,
and presents plays outside the province of the
entrepreneur. Nobody wants to see a society play,
a bellow-drama, or a musical comedy done even
worse than usual; but if the amateurs would take
the opposite road, and produce what no manager
with his eye on the taste of Toorak could afford to
produce—for instance, some of the old, robust
Elizabethan plays; the comedies of Moliere or
Congreve; contemporary plays by writers like
Ibsen and Tolstoi, Hauptmann and Herview,
Maeterlinck and D’Annunzio, Yeats and Bernard
Shaw ; with a little Australian play sometimes
thrown in; and if they wasted little expense on
scenery and costumes, and had definite aims—they
would supply a long felt want, and maybe attract
small, but enthusiastic audiences. They have
the good example of the Theatre Antoine, the
London Stage Society, and the Irish National
Theatre to go by. But they prefer to rehash
Pinero, or Jones, or the man who wrote “The
Gaiety Girl.”
** * *
Melba’s stories of her life grow more and
more imaginative. Her latest appears in the
Penny Pictorial Magazine for Dec. lfith, 1905,
and here are some extracts from the narrative
of the confiding interviewer :
Melba is one of the youngest of our great singers . . .
She was 23 when she made her first real d6but in opera.
Three years ago she went hack to Australia on a
prolonged tour. She points with delight to the
fact that on the day of her reception the
local paper of her native place, the Lilydale
Express, was printed in gold on blue paper ! But Melba’s
return was mainly for a charitable purpose, and great was
the astonishment when she announced, shortly after her
arrival, that the proceeds of her tour would be devoted to
local charities. One of her greatest concerts realised
£lO,OOO, and the diva herself took three boxes at £5OO,
one of which she presented to her father, Colonel Mitchell,
who had just been stricken down with an illness.
Seemingly, the diva has now adopted (for bio-
graphical purposes) the “spoof” yarn invented
by George Musgrove (for advt. purposes) prior to
her first appearance at Melbourne Town Hall,
where there are no boxes to be sold at “fancy ”
prices, and where the seating accommodation at
one guinea per seat wouldn’t produce a fourth of
£lO,OOO. Melba, on being interviewed at the time
concerning Musgrove’s yarn, burst out laughing,
and was rather mad about the allegation that she
had contributed a large sum to the “charities”
by buying seats for Dad David Mitchell, the
“Colonel” of this recent fiction. “Well, that is
rich,” said Melba, “my father is better off than
I am.” But the fable evidently caught her fancy,
for she now is given credit for having bought
three boxes at £5OO each.
The last week of the Gilbert and Sullivan
Repertoire Co. at Melbourne Princess’s is being
THE FIRST DUTY OF WOMAN.
SUNDAY-SCHOOL TEACHER: “ And now, Elsie dear, what is the last thing you should do
before going to bed? ”
ELSIE DEAL: “ Look under the bed, Miss.”
rounded off with two performances of the
“Mikado.” To-morrow (Friday) night Melbourne
will wave a somewhat fond adieu to the co., and
on Saturday the theatre in Spring-street will have
nothing on the boards.
* *- * *
Bland Holt’s elaborate production of
“The Prodigal Son” comes due at Melbourne
Royal on Saturday. It is Hall Caine’s own
dramatisation of his novel, and the scene, as every
devoted Hall Gainer knows, is laid in Iceland.
Therefore if Bland cares to introduce some huge
blocks of real ice into the landscape they will be
doubly effective.
* * *- *
At Her Majesty’s (Melb.) the revival of
“ Sunday ”is passing out. Towzer, Davy, Lively,
likewise Jacky and the lady from the convent,
will cut the kyards for the last time, also per-
fidious Arthur (who is certainly the most lurid
libertine outside of Andersonian drama) will
finally shuffle off this mortal coil on Friday of this
week. And, when the last trump sounds, Arthur
will deserve to be euchred for the awful amateur-
ishness of his efforts to gain his wicked end. All
the same, he doesn’t deserve to be murdered for it
here below. He’s a bad egg, but in deliberately
breaking the shell and making his badness so un-
mistakeable he proves himself quite harmless to
the ladies. There is no chance for Miss Tittell
Brune to capture sympathy from the thinking
section of the public in her melodramatic scene
with peremptory Arthur. It is in the 2nd
act that the actress shines. Her performance
has convincing touches of spontaneity, and her
reading of a letter from the “ boys ” is conspicu-
ously clever work. Another first-class item is
Maurice Dudley’s delivery of a long speech ex-
plaining why he —Lively—bought some new
dinner plates, to surprise the camp. The “pathos”
in his piping speech is as palpably false as a cheap
set of teeth, but he utters it in a feeling manner,
so that the second-childishness of the old man
excites compassion. Edmund Gwenn, who created
the part in Melbourne, would be easily defeated
by Dudley in an A.N.A. competition if they had
to recite “ Old Mother Hubbard ” and the award
were given to the artist who drew most tears from
the audience. On Saturday (17th) Miss Brune
and Co., will appear in “La Tosca” for the first
time.
Matin (Paris) has awarded a prize of £6OO
to the inventor of a new method of getting rid of
the domestic, and commonly dirty, house fly.
The eggs, it appears, are generally found in drain
pipes, and the scheme is to pour crude petrol,
mixed with water, down the sinks. The oil lines
the pipes, and kills the eggs. Moreover, the oil
can be mixed with fine soil, and sprinkled in
corners and other places where the egg may be
expected to be found. The device is certainly
simple and cheap, and it seems to be worth
trying. At the worst, petrol is a good disin-
fectant, and the ordinary family sink will stand a
lot of disinfecting.
Here’s a health to those Legs, clad in stockings of
green,
Free from any suspicion of wrinkle !
Their number, all told, is the sweetest sixteen,
And there’s joy in the air when they twinkle.
May the shortest among them be long in the land
Ere they finally turn up their toeses.
0 those dear “ understandings” that don't under-
stand !
0 those Legs of Eight English Primroses !
Not too fat or too slim
Is the disciplined limb
Which alternately frolics or poses,
Whilst its owner below
Fills her place in the row
Of those bloomin’ Eight English Primroses.
This week’s programme at the Opera House is
about the same as last week’s plus a pair of alleged
“ Sister ” dancers in the first part. Just now they
are rather a drug on the market, for Melbourne
wants nothing more spry and graceful in the way
of dancing duettists than the Two Bells, who are
observed to be also rung in among the Primroses.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Comedian Hugh Ward is now organising a strong
comedy company for Australia. In the States he picked
up Grace Palotta, and he cabled over to George Giddens,
who is almost his next do >r neighbor in London, and
secured that excellent comedian. With those two and
himself for a nucleus, the others were easy to find.
Miss Carrie Moore,This time in Glasgow, is once again
the success of the British provincial panto, season. She is
bulging out a bit, and nowadays fills her costumes better.
Panto, is by far the best paying work-in the English
theatrical round, a principal artist usually making enough
in two months to provide a good steady living for the rest
of the year. There are one or two sensible ones of assured
panto, reputation who never trouble the public dui'ing the
nine or ten months that King Panto, is on the shelf.
The Little Dartos, of Sydney, now three in number—
Eddie, Decima, and Ray—are with their father (“ Teddie ”
M‘Lean) in London, where they opened in December last
at the Palace—about the leading “ hall ” in the U.K.
The appearance of horseman Kemp, accompanied by
his slim daughter, who also bestrides poley bullocks and
vicious equestrian outlaws, has added zest to the buck-
jumping show of Skuthorp at Brisbane, where big audi-
ences for many nights have patronised the “Boys from
the Bush.” Kemp and Skuthorp have been deciding
some sort of a match in horsemanship, in which they
have both succeeded in riding anything brought forward
without bridle or stirrups.
The other night at Brisbane, magician Thurston per-
formed the feat of “creating” a lady in a glass tank
fiiled with water, but when the nymph materialised her
form was not visible to the audience. The water—the
Brisbane water—was too opaque.
“T.D.”: Australians are epidemic this British panto,
season, no fewer than twenty artists of ’Rooland filling
principal places in the big pantos, throughout the
Kingdom. And as for the variety boards, the week
before Xmas there was not one of the leading London
shows that didn’t include one or more Australians in its
list of artists. At the Coliseum Andre Kaya (Louis Lus-
combe, of Melbourne, and lately with the Carl Rosa Co.)
was appearing in a successful operetta. Annette Keller-
mann was the bright particular star at the Hippodrome.
Wilson Hallett, the stockwhip cracker, and the Fitzstubbs
twins vvere at the Palace, where also the big feature of
the bioscope was the Maoriland ball-kickers’ play. Alice
Hollander and Kate Traill were both doing vocal turns at
the Tivoli, and at the Alhambra the Llewelyn girls, from
Sydney, were responsible for operatic selections. ’ Also,
at the old Metropolitan, in Edgware-road, Harry
“ Orpheus ” Atkinson was holding his end up.
“ E.” : How is it that the theatre is the most conserva-
tive institution in the world ? Bernard Shaw considers
that ideas that would be counted but modern in the
Church are looked upon as “ advanced ”in the amusement
factory. The theatrical public thinks no genius is genuine
unless it puts its stamp on the pillar-box, its trousers in
the coal-scuttle, and in emotional moments breaks out
with its fingers in its hair and calls out for the “Stars
the bee-utiful stars.” The theatre has one standard joke’
and that is older than Egypt, but it is never known to
fail. In “ Merely Mary Ann ” the tea is carefully spilt,
and a syphon is squirted at the parson. At this the
public shrieks and giggles and rocks with delight. George
Lauri has only to come in with a sample bag and offer to
sell the Emperor of Siam a pair of socks, and hit him in
the ribs and spill treacle over him, and somebody falls
over the gallery with a dull thud, and a shrill voice
shrieks in the stalls—“ Ain’t he a box of tricks?” A
popular comedian tells me that if you’re going flat and
can’t “ get a laugh,” fall over the scraper and throw your
legs about, and the audience will go barmy at your darino-
humor. °


The late Augustus Harris flaunted his name as part-
author on the bills of some melodramas in which his only
share was the staging. The custom inspired a theory
that Shakspeare was “ merely the Gus Harris of his
period.”
Nina Osborne (sister of Ida) is playing leads with an
Edvvardes touring co. in the Cold Country. Miss Osborne
appeared for a few years with the Royal Comic Opera Co.,
taking such parts as Peep-Bo in “ The Mikado ” and Inez
in “ The Gondoliers.”
“S.S.”: Pinero has been complaining aloud in London
that he can no longer secure actors capable of giving
fairly effective, representations of his characters, the
coming- actor and the young actor who has landed being
almost invariably chosen for spectacular effect, and suc-
cessful because he is an awful Johnnie-boy whose shop-
walker type of beauty is calculated to tear up the
emotions of that most consistent playgoer, the senti-
mental female. Evidently the Australian stage is closely
reflecting the Cockney in this particular. Practically
every company that has opened within the last
two years—excepting Bland Holt’s, which does not
chop and change—has presented a batch of more or less
vacuous youths whose pathetic, consumptive beauty is
the sole excuse for their incompetence. Some time back I
pointed out strong indications leading to the belief that
the theatre was passing over to the romantic shop-girl
and the young parson. The eruption of the corsetted
dude in miraculous tailoring may be cause or may be
effect, but it is a further proof of the passing. I think
the time is not far distant when a grown man with an
honest man’s appetite will have the same horror of being
seen at a theatre as he has now of being convicted of
frequenting Dorcas societies and associating with pale
curates at bun worries.
A few years back there was a boom in M.L. for actors.
Forty companies opened the doors of various halls and
theatres on one Boxing Night, and then the tragedy
commenced. M.L. got “ full up ” of the mummer when
he began to linger in the locality and borrow money, and
leave his bills unpaid, and pawn his clothes. So it was
enacted that every co. arriving in the land of the Maori
must deposit a sum to defray deportation expenses in
case of disaster. Hollow'ay was the first to pay it.
Nowadays the regulation is generally ignored. Members
of companies get separate passage tickets to M.L., and
the co. is practically formed after arrival. Hence the
country is once more being filled with people who cannot
get out of it because they can’t swim.
“ Snell ” : Mr. Douglas Gerrard, the “ fiery young
Hibernian ” of a score of recent feminine interviews, is a
modest lad, as may be judged from a few choice selec-
tions from a “little chat” with a pen-lady from a Mel-
bourne weekly. To begin with: “He very aptty de-
scribes himself as a mixture of 15 and 35,” in consequence
of “a maturity of thought and intellect ’’and “a big
dash of irresistible boyish spirits.” Furthermore: “I
may never be a great artist; I honestly do not think I
have genius, and it needs genius to be that ; but if I live
I will be a great actor-manager, and I will be rich.”
A few steps lower down he attributes “ the spirit of
romance and vivid imagination which he has been accused
of putting into his acting and writing ” to the Wicklow
mountains and other surroundings of his “ ardent, fiery,
Hibernian youth.” Still later : “ You would not believe
how comparatively few young men there are among the
thousands of actors in London who have all the qualifica-
tions to represent a gentleman on the stage.” And this is
followed with a list of the qualifications of a perfect stage
gentleman : “ fine shoulders, good head,” and superlative
excellence in the matter of figure, face, voice, education,
etc., and over all the naive admission that as a
representative of stage gentlemen it has been
Mr. Douglas Gerrard’s proud privilege to take
the whole bakery. But, great as he is as an actor, Doug-
las admits :“ I think lam before anything an athlete. A
few years ago I came third for the championship of Eng-
land for all-round development. I thought I was going
to come first, though, and it was a keen disappointment
to me when I did not win the medal.” Then, after some
timid confessions of the amazement people have ex-
pressed at his muscular development: “ I have gone in
for fencing and boxing also ; the latter I acquired under
the Prince of Wales’ own master.” Coming back to his
moral qualifications: “Fortunately, I have a very quick
ear ; in fact, quick senses altogether.” There is much
about “biggest efforts” and “great successes” and
“ thrilled audiences,” and we get Mr. Douglas Gerard’s
emphatic denial that acting is demoralising. Demoralis-
ing, indeed! Obviously it is the most elevating pro-
fession in the world. By the way, the interviewing
of transcendent actors is all in the hands of women
now. Is this because the male journalist has still
some lingering fragment of a sense of humor left?
The death of Dan Fitzgerald is felt in the quiet places,
in the distances, amongst the bushmen, whose weariness
for many years was solaced by the show run by the two
brothers. In many districts Fitzgeralds’ circus was prac-
tically the only break in the sadness of the bush. The
secretary of the V.R.C. tells a story of a (Queensland
bushman at Flemington, looking over the great crowd on
Cup Day, and saying, “ By gum, it’s lucky for you Dan
Fitzgerald wasn’t having a matinee to-day!” Dan him-
self used to tell of a way back publican, who said: “By
the way, Dan, what of this George Raid someone’s goin’
t' trot round. Is he as good as Commodore ? ” The bushie
thought George Houston Reid was a horse, and an inferior
animal to Fitzgerald’s mascotte at that.
“ S.” : The Rev. E. S. Hughes, of St. Peter’s, Melbourne,
whose ritualistic goings-on have provoked a storm in the
Anglican tea-cup, is a formidable young- Six-footer of the
actor-parson type. Handicapped with a conventional
training and a conventional mind, he struggles quite
heroically to be unconventional, barracks at football
matches, is an enthusiastic supporter of Essendon, and
talks with the “blokes” of nights, leaning up against
buildings in the city, and smoking a conspicuous
pipe, wears soft shirts and coats comfor* .bly old, and
makes no bones about going in and taking a longish beer
at a 3d. bar with a fellow sinner. And yet this all seems
more like a breathless effort to be original in an odd way
than a true manifestation of. character. Writer has
known many parsons try to get down to the democracy
in this way, but never knew one who was not a dismal
failure in the capacity of a devil-of-a-fellow, and a woful
restraint on the company he kept.
The apex of Fame ! “ The Modern Milo ” soup was the
top line on the evening dinner menu at a Kalgoorlie hash-
foundry for the week the artiste named was showing in
that town.
Melbourne Age deemed it necessary to apologise for the
quality of “The Sorcerer,” on the ground that that opera
and “ Trial by Jury ” were the earliest works of the Gil-
bert-Sullivan collaboration. But the partners had com-
menced operations some years before with “ Thespis, or
the Gods Grown Old,” in which Nelly Farren and J. L.
Toole took the leading parts. Shortly before his death
Sullivan delivered himself of these reminiscences concern-
ing “Thespis” : “ Until Gilbert took the matter in hand
choruses were dummy concerns, and were practically
nothing more than a part of the stage setting. It was in
‘ Thespis ’ that Gilbert began to carry out his expressed
determination to get the chorus to play its proper part in
the performance. At this moment it seems difficult to
realise that the idea of the chorus being anything more
than a sort of stage audience was, at that time, a
tremendous novelty. I remember that on one occasion
one of the principals became quite indignant, and said,
“ Really, Mr. Gilbert, why should I stand here? I am not
a chorus-girl ! ” To which Gilbert replied curtly, “No,
madam ; your voice is not strong enough, or no doubt
you would be.” . .
In the new play “Nero,” produced by Beerbohm Tree,
the name character is to be whitewashed. Instead of the
bloodthirsty epileptic who played cruel larks with the
early Christians in “ The Sign of the Cross,” the dramatist
has set up a nice young Emperor, a dreamy musician, a
poet misled by his wife at the instigation of his mother.
The amended Nero is almost entitled to spell bis name
with an H.
F. R. Benson has succeeded Irving as a life trustee of
the Shakspeare’s Birthplace Trust. Benson has produced
33 of Shakspeare’s 37 plays—more than any previous
actor or manager. Phelps produced 31. Benson’s is re-
garded as a good school for young actors. Several Aus-
tralians—notably Roxy Barton and Cyril Keightly—have
appeared with it.
Holman Hunt’s great picture, “The Light
of the World,” lately exhibited at Adelaide Art
Gallery, has attracted 8000 or 9000 admirers. The
picture belongs to Charles Booth, who is send-
ing it round the world, at his own expense, for
the benefit of humanity. In Adelaide the view
of it was spoiled by the glass covering. The light
from the dome of Adelaide 'Gallery strikes down
awkwardly on all glass-covered pictures, so that it
is difficult to see them to advantage.
The Chinaman as He Is.
THE Chinese of Australia are engaged
to-day in marshalling arguments why the
laws restricting their immigration should
be relaxed. They ask that we. should admit
Chinese students and the families of Chinese resi-
dent here—that, in short, we should make the
Chinese element in our population a permanent
one. Let us, then, take a stroll down to the
Chinese quarter of (say) Sydney, and see the
Chinaman at home, and judge as to whether it is
desirable that we should have more Chinaman —or
as much.
* * * *
This is an attempt to give those who have never
seen for themselves some idea .of the social and
home life of the local Asiatic. The picture is
frankly biased. It is the view of one who looks
on the Chinese quarter of the white man’s city,
whether in Africa, America, or Australia, as a
plague spot. But the writer wishes to be honest,
and to show no more of bias than, say, a
decent criminal prosecutor might, in dealing with
what he considered a strong case for the Crown.
So that, as a preliminary, theCliow will take credit
for some of his virtues. (It should be remembered,
by the way, that for the purposes of this sort of
investigation one street in Chinatown, whether in
Sydney or Melbourne, or San Francisco, or any
Treaty Port, is much the same as another. The
An opium joint.
Chow takes his country’s customs with him ; they
are world wide and immutable.) Though the
Chinaman's den is mostly hideously squalid, it is
not wholly unclean. For instance, during Sydney
plague time there were few cases taken from the
Chinese quarter and practically none from
the opium dens, which is a score for the
Asiatic, and perhaps also for the antiseptic
qualities of his drug. Again, if unprovoked,
he is quiet and law abiding enough. He is the
most careful, the most meticulous, and the cheapest
worker in the world ; it is only when work is over
that he turns to those three passions, gambling,
opium and sex vice, which with his race seem to be
absolute obsessions. His women are mostly
expensively dressed and well treated, nor as far as
can be judged are they incited to smoke the opium-
force of example, riot persuasion, being mostly
the cause of the white woman’s starting this habit.
The Chow is not quarrelsome and aggressive as
is the Jap, nor prone to become murderous under
the influence of his drug like the bhang-maddened
Malay, nor subject to the violent sex impulses of
the American colored man —he is too old and
effete for any of these things. His moral aberra-
tions are not those of the lusty ruffian but of
the octogenarian. For he is old—old as the hills,
with a religion that even in his own country has
dribbled away into a mere code of manners ; and
a patriotism that has blue-mouldered into spasmo-
dic gusts of hatred against the “foreigner”; and
nearly all the human side of him has perished by a
slow process of decay. It is strange to see
this world’s outcast in his den with harlot, pipe,
and pak-a-pu card, and then think of him as the
representative of the oldest nation in the world ;
of the race which expounded (and exploded) many
of Mill’s theories 20 centuries ago, and boasted
temperance advocates and temperance legislation
40 centuries ago—a race that was cultured and
aesthetic when Rome was unbuilt.
* * * *
In Sydney, Chinatown lies hidden behind gaudy
advertisement hoardings, high fences, and three-
storied dwelling-houses occupied by the more
affluent members of the yellow community.
These hoardings and high fences are pierced by
little gate doors through which you enter to a
wilderness of crooked lanes, threading rows of
awful hovels. In one step you fall right out of
Sydney and land in another country—another
continent even. There is one conglomeration of
hovels off Goulburn-street (half-a-dozen hovels
seem to have been knocked into one and divided
by more or less insufficient and decayed
hangings of bagging), in which on this night
the Chinese are packed like sardines. The bulk
of them are smoking opium and fanning them-
selves alternately. In one corner half-a-dozen
crowd round a grim-faced Celestial who is reading
the contents of a letter, or a pamphlet, or some-
thing, from the Flowery Land. Overhead, the
roof, black with the accumulated smoke deposit of
years and years, shuts in a fearful reek of
opium and the immemorial stench of old Asia.
The Chinese lie two and two on the square flat
couches they affect for opium-smoking. Between
them glows the lamp over which they cook
their drug, its faint glow enhanced by
the light of candles stuck in bottles. They smoke
spasmodically, and then, leaning back, fan
themselves and appear to dream. Conversation
there is practically none, and the air is that of
senile decay. Between 11 and midnight the white
women who live in the den return from patrolling
the street, for the Chinese use the women whom
they enslave to get money from white men. Many
An aged Chinese with a rather pretty-featured
Australian girl.
of them are dressed in Chinese silk ; all com-
fortably. Most sport feathers, and some arc
loaded with low-grade jewellery and jade orna-
ments. With their arrival a breath of a.tion
blows into the atmosphere of stagnation, and it
is necessary to leave. The Chinaman has none of
the white man’s sense of pudency. His habits
are flagrant and horrible ; a knowledge of them
would make the hair of the white woman who
chaffers with him in a vegetable transaction at
the back gate stand upright.
Yet it is a curious fact that as far as the city is
concerned, the mainstay of the Chinese are the
white women —the women who want cheap vege-
tables, cheap furniture, and inexpensive laundry
work. In the country the unpatriotic squatter
and mean-souled selector patronise the Chinaman,
and he mines, or rather scratches for gold on his
own behalf; but in the city he is maintained abso-
lutely by women in one of the capacities before-
mentioned, or as a servant in the mansions of the
‘’fashionable” suburbs. And the woman pays
the penalty. She is the chief victim of the Chinese
quarter. The full brunt of the Asiatic curse falls
on her head, and never more terribly than when
she sees the European features of her children
blurred with the stamp of Asia.
* * * *
The den in which the Chinaman smokes “at
home ” is a wholesome establishment compared to
the “ joint,” in which opium is sold and pipes sup-
plied for the “convenience of clients.” There the
races mingle. Take a typical “joint ’up a dark
lane off Castlereagh-street. A three-storied house,
its open doors show a gloomy cavern. In one of
the rooms are two white men, three Cingalese and
a negro waiting for smokes. On the couch a white
man and a negro, whose face has a peculiar resem-
blance to that of a lion. The only light is that
of an opium lamp. Through the open door of the
next room can be seen two white men, uncon-
scious or asleep, huddled up on the flat couch. A
loathsome little Cantonese runs the show, and goes
skurrying from room to room grabbing the pipes
that have fallen from nerveless fingers. With im-
pressive regard for cleanliness, he wipes the mouth
ends on his trousers, and hands them to the next
smokers without further disinfecting them—he
presumably thinks that enough to kill the
microbes of any self-respecting disease.
* * *
In a quiet corner of Campbell-street is the
“Paris House” of Chinatown. There sits an aged
Confucian having supper with a pretty featured
Australian girl of about 22 years. Her hat is of
the latest mode, the cut and material of her dress
are excellent; jade bracelets are on her wrists,
moonstones and cat’s-eyes on her neck ; a great
heart of green jade, depending from a thick gold _
chain, lies on her breast. Pace to face with white
Australians she tilts her hat over her eyes, evi-
dently ashamed of her yellow owner. And no
wonder ! His wrinkled skin hangs in yellow folds
over the bony framework of his face and head
(most of which is shaven) and the skeletons of his
hands. He is evidently a smoker, for the drug
seems to devour the flesh tissues, and of flesh he
has none. It has all gone, and the skin is too
large for the framework that remains, creating a
Neighbors.
horrible effect. He is not man, nor monkey even;
he is a jirn-jam, with a face reminiscent of a
spider’s. His pride in his white property is great,
and his failing, rheumy eyes glow feebly as he
gloats over her.
* * * *
Plunge from the street down a long, low,
narrow passage, the tiny rooms on either side
faintly exuding the sickly smell of Asia. Away
in the middle distance gleams a faint light, which
suddenly materialises into the stove of a kitchen-
restaurant. The passage has given way to a ram-
shackle, time-stained chamber. It is lofty, for
the original ceiling has been partly cut
away, and from the edges of its grimy
boards, high overhead, a heterogeneous mass
of fruit, vegetables, bags of flour and rice,
and countless other articles of provender, stretch
with bizarre effect into the darkness. Grouped at
little tables round a species of buffet near the fire
are a dozen white women and about twice the
number of Chinamen. They watch us with
curiosity, butwithoutembarrassment. Sorneof them
are amused. Not one expresses the slightest shame
at her presence in the place, for one and all have
touched the nadir of social infamy, and are as de-
void of bashfulness as a caged monkey at the
Zoo. As they sit there with their paramours,
swallowing the Chinese food in the Chinaman’s
fashion, propinquity, long association, something,
seems to have stamped the Mongol into their very
faces. The resemblance between some of the
older women and their Asiatic masters is astound-
ing—the white woman bears it as the mark
of the Beast. It is a Chinaman who
draws attention to the fact, with an
air of gratification. The chief difference
between these women and their yellow
companions is that the whites voice is more
raqcous, and her facial expression more villainous.
Why vice should appear to write its mark so
clearly on the Caucasian countenance, and pass by
that of the Mongolian, is only to be explained by
the assumption that in the order of Nature the
Caucasian is the higher type, and the impress of
the other destroys its lines and blurs its purity.
One sees few absolutely wicked-looking younr/
Chinese, yet some of these women are like weird
Durer masks, unspeakable grotesques. One can
only conclude, despite Ellis and Lombroso, that
it is the inner feeling of self-contempt gnawing
under the mask of bravado and defiance, that
is mostly responsible for the aspect we term
“ criminal ” —a sentiment and effect necessaiily
foreign to the local Chow, for his nauseous vices
are simply his normal and national habits.
Amongst the “highbinders,” who are the criminal
Chinese of Frisco, markedly criminal physiognomy
is apparent; and the same appears to apply to
many of the Chinese coolies of S’Afiica. I hey
are ruffians, who know it and display the fact and
knowledge of it, on their countenances. Australian
Chinese are not criminals according to their ethics;
they are peaceful and honest, and mostly look it.
The fact that they are stolidly non-moral instead of
being deliberately and consciously immoral makes
them not one whit more desirable from our point
of view, nor their hideously evil influence on our
community one atom the less.
# ■* * *
Occasional’!' the yellow man puts on a Chinese
Opera in Sidney, at which you can judge of the
quality of'his musical aspirations. His stage is
draped with tawdry hangings of turkey-red. The
whole of the parts are taken by men, who strut
and squeal their songs. The orchestra is half bang
The Juvenile
lead at the
Chow opera.
and half squeak, and to Euro-
pean ears hideous. Yet in it
you can trace the old roots of
music, the beginnings of har-
mony before Gregorian music,
before even the simple chaunts
of the Homeric age. Music in
China seems to have frozen in
a mould 5000 years old. The
Chinese “ plots ” are mere reci-
tals of fact. One starts at the
birth of the various characters,
and step by step follows them
through life till the curtain of
death drops softly over all. It
is merely a recital of imaginary
fact; its virtue, and its weari-
ness, is in its minute details.
Much has been written of the
Chinaman's industry. His in-
dustrious re-cradling of old tail-
ings has been held up as a beau-
tiful example to the white gold
seeker. He has been credited
with turning the desert places
around our suburbs into vege-
table gardens, and with giving
a value to old iron, tin and metal
scraps generally. Also, since
he came to our land even the old
rag scraps have gained a com-
mercial value, as “blackkapoc.”
A miner of a sort the China-
man has ever been. When
Rome was a baby the Chinese were export-
ing iron and steel from the Altai Mountains
to Europe and Western Asia. It was the
Chinese gold-ware that decorated the rich
people of the Assyrian Empire. But in
the Northern Territory of Australia to-day,
and in the Altai centuries before Babylon, the
Chinaman’s methods of mining are the same.
His gardens are mere manure-heaps, and the vege-
tables he produces are mostly unwholesome.
His copper, iron and tin-scrap industries are the
main support of an army of small sneak thieves
who plunder empty houses ; and as for his “ black
kapoc,” the stuff is the most active known dissemi-
nator of dirt-disease germs. In any case, his
industry does but little good to Australia, its pro-
fits go to China, and what does remain in the
country is mostly used to degrade our women and
undermine the welfare of our men.
Throughout the Chinese quarter of every city there
is the same squalor and vice. Everywhere there is
the same suggestion of a sinister and methodical
vice horrible in its nerveless yet resolute industry.
The Chinese seem to cultivate vice not as a matter
of passion but as an evil habit, with the plodding,
patient energy they give to growing unwhole-
some vegetables on the manure heaps they
call gardens. But probably, on the whole,
a Chinese half-caste baby is the strongest
of appeals against the Chinaman’s pre-
sence in a white community. The sight of the
white countenance blurred by the stamp of Asia
is repulsive. Why it is hard to say. Perhaps
merely the race instinct prompts the horror.
But certainly the infant half-caste looks like an
incarnated crime. It is Nature’s command to keep
the Chinese out.
Melbourne boasts anew baronet, brought to
the surface by a statement in the London letter of
the Argus, that Sir William Kellett, who had
formerly been in Australia, had recently died in
poverty in the Cold Country, at the age of 57.
Henry de Castres Kellett, of Kew (Vic.), seeing
this in print, immediately announced that he was
the baronet, and that the deceased person referred
to never had any claim to the title. H. deC.K.
never assumed the title, but states that he wi 1
now do so in justice to his sons. His father, the
last holder, died 20 years ago.
“ Wilf ” : Can’t quite see the force of The
Bulletin’s gibe (16/11/’O5) re the pearl fisheries.
I cry no Stinking Fish ; but the fact remains that
the fleets have left Thursday Island, and another
portion of Australia's revenue has disappeared.
The Island is a dead port now, with not even the
saving scent of trade to counteract the reek of the
black, the brindle, and the yellow. The cause is,
perhaps, not so much legislation as the falling price
of shell and the ruthless working of the beds. At
any rate, the white man will never oust the black
from shelling without subsidies.
“Timbarra”: Insurance companies are
not such idiots as “Belah” (B. 8/2/’O6) would
make out. When a farmer insures a standing
crop he estimates the expected yield in a proposal,
which is sent to the local agent, who has to inspect
the risk, make his computation of what the crop
is likely to return, and report to head office. If
the two estimates are fairly close, and the agent
gives the proponent a good character, the co.
issues a policy protecting the insured for two-
thirds of the amount set out in the proposal,
but he has to pay a premium on the full value.
If the farmer indulges in any wild figures, he has
to come down to the agent’s estimate or have his
risk refused, and in the hitter case, he will have
no end of trouble in getting another co. to accept.
When an insured burns a failing crop or connives
at its destruction, the crafty adjuster, an
individual who treats every man as a rogue until
he proves himself an honest man, immediately
appears on the scene, carefully examines the
soil and remains of the risk, inspects other
crops in the locality, makes some searching
inquiries about the past weather, etc., and the health
of the destroyed crop, then forms an appallingly
accurate estimate of its real value at the time of
the fire. That value is the basis of settlement,
and when one-third is deducted from it, together
with the estimated cost of harvesting, the insured
receives a painfully small cheque. Even should
he get a fairly full cover on an indifferent crop,
and successfully escape the adjuster s claws, the
two-thirds value item and the deduction of har-
vesting costs knock all the profit endways.
Some justification for the little brown Japs
prodding J.B. in his weak military rib. But
Japan needs considerable of the educative
influence of D.C.L. whisky before it can go far in
intellectual creativeness. All the nations that
progress m the higher planes of thought are not
necessarily assiinilators of D.C.L. But it is fair
to assume that the best whisky has been responsible
for great results in the English-speaking world.
And D.C.L. is the best whisky.*
Extract from The Advertiser, Feb. 10th,
1906- “Fire at Infants’ Home, Ashfield.— On Friday
morning, about 5 a.ni., a fire broke out in the Infants
Home caused by a child with matches setting fire to a
lied. The bedding- and curtains were consumed, but
further serious consequences were averted by the prompt
action of the staff, one of the members promptly ex-
tir 'uishing the flames with an Underwriters I'ire Ex-
tinguisher, several of these instruments having recently
been installed, and on this occasion proved highly effec-
tive.”*


To Those afflicted with Sore Eves
Dimness of Sight, Weak Eyes, Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids.
HAVE YOU TRIED—^
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE ' OTION.
Ihe great Australian Remedy. This marvellous preparation is an absolute specific
for Sandy Blight, and is now in general use throughout Australasia as
THE NATIONAL EYE REMEDY.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers throughout the Contiii'nK
If not able to obtain locally send a postal note for 1/9 to the
s<il * Proprietors , H. A. ROSE & CO., 531 George St., Sydney.
SUP"" BEWARE OF THE MAN WHO HAS SOMETHING JUST AS GOOD.
1
I
»RA frj
E t£» RAT fO
f
rfl*.
. ,
s&mj
~s--
M
EXQUISITE MODELS. Jt PERFECT FIT.
* & GUARANTEED WEAR. * *
THE NRW
P. D.
...CORSETS
AVOID INFERIOR IMITATION 6.
Each Pair bears the Manufacturers’ Trade Mark on band inside,
as illustrated.
Obtainable from Leading Drapers Everywhere.
SOCIETY
THE MISSING DAUGHTER.
M'GEE: “ What d'ye mane by ut, y' bla'g'ard? Didn't I buy the return
ticket fer me darter, Kate, that went t' Melbourne [?] 'N' divil a bit
have ye returned her at all."
“A Jewess,” writing to editor Syrne re
the right of the Yiddish maiden to mix the race
by marrying the Christian youth, declares:
“ There are no rich Jews in Melbourne. There
are too many Scotchmen here for that.”
♦ * * *
At Melbourne the other day a very con-
siderate man made his last appearance. He went
to the gates of the local morgue, made himself as
comfortable as possible, and died there. It wasn’t
a case of suicide, but it looks as if the man died
by conscious effort. If the rules had permitted it,
he would probably have gone inside and died on a
slab.
Ecclesiastical Melbourne is gnashing its
teeth fiercely over ritualism. The central figures
in the row are parson E. S. Hughes, whp is accused
of ritualling, which, to some people’s minds, is like
playing off-side at football, and J. 0. Langley, the
sec. of the Church Evangelical Society. Hughes
is a big cleric, who plays cricket, and boxes, and
rows, and smokes cigarettes, and does more good
than the average parson. Mrs. Hughes was ex-
ceptionally well dowered for a parson’s wife, and
the big man is therefore able to be as liberal and
charitable as he pleases. He has albs, and censer-
pots, and chasubles, and thurifers, and candles,
and Mass vestments (whatever they are) in his
services, and these things get the Church Evan-
gelical Societies and Digby Berry (who is
Victoria’s Dill Macky) very much on the raw.
The profane outsider finds it difficult to get to the
truth as to the merits of a ritualling controversy;
but what is plain is that the average roan with the
candles and alb seems a good sort, and takes his
religion seriously, with a flavor of socialism, whilst
the objecting type of person is mostly thin, livery,
bad-tempered, and an apostle of Gloom and
Toryism. The Bulletin objects to gorgeous mil-
linery, as a rule, but occasionally you find a good
man beneath.
* * • *
Liffc-boyQuinlan’s countenance is not quite
the sort to stan dhim in good stead. Young Phillips,
who serves in Pentridge (Vic.) a life sentence for
a particularly cold-blooded murder, committed
seven years ago, owes his life—such as it is worth
under present circumstances —to the fact that the
Australasian, the week after the arrest, pub-
lished his portrait taken in the robes of Pastor
Bevan’s church choir of which he was a member.
Phillips, who was then three years older than
Quinlan is now, looked such an angel child that
the sympathy of the public was with him, and
everybody said that he had been led into a life of
vice by the horrid, wicked scoundrel whose throat
he so neatly slit. Melb Herald assisted in the
good work of saving the youth’s neck by persis-
tently referring to him in daily headlines as
“Willie” Phillips. If the Australasian had
pictured him in his working clothes, and the
Herald had called him Bill, there would have
been a “dull, sickening thud ” at Melb. Gaol one
Monday morning.
* * -K *
A teller of one of the Anglo-Australian
banks was sent to gaol last week for embezzling.
He had been 20 years in the bank, and after that
term of service had risen to the salary of
£2OO a year. In all, he stole £7OO, and if he had
stolen £l7OO it would have about served the bank
right. The paltry salaries paid to bank officials
are naturally “evened up” by occasional embezzle-
ments; and The Bulletin’s sympathy is ofen
with the sweated embezzler.
* * * *
An Adelaide citizen, cremated recently,
ordered his incineration a month in advance, fie
specially wished to be cremated, because he had
cancer, and he thought cancer patients should not
be buried for fear of spreading the disease.
Vic. Governor
Talbot, talking of
local industries,
remarked that he
is never offered
any Australian
wine or lager beer
when he travels
around. Some-
times he asks for
Australian lager,
and is told that
he can only get
the Germ a n.
Other people of
smaller preten-
sions than Sir
Reggie have had
the same experi-
ence at “func-
tions” and pri-
vate gatherings of
snobs. German
lager is considered
the more genteel
drink because it
costs a little more
than the Austra-
lian, which is
usually a lighter,
brighter, and
mo r e palatable
liquor. Lord Tom
Brassey, the cele-
brated tumbling
Governor, was
most enthu-
siastic in appre-
ciation of the
Australian long
sleever, and ad-
mitted to an Aus-
tralian in London
that he looked
back with quite
a pathetic regret
to the beer of the
Antipodes. Not
the bottled ale, but
plain brown ple-
beian beer, fresh
from the cask.
* * * *
Australia still sends missionaries to China.
And here is something Donald Fraser, N.S.W.
Inspector of Schools, saw out-back :
I journeyed with a much-respected Presbyterian clero-v-
-man from Broken Hill to Gibberburra (Tibooburra). His
task was to perform a marriage ceremony at Gibberburra
the granite-guarded township of the W.N.W. The 200-
mile coach trip, with its attendant circumstances, was an
education in out-back life and character. Between Tiboo-
burra and Milparinka the clergyman was asked to baptise
a girl of seven. Has there not been a clergyman here
for seven years?” he asked quietly. “Seven years!”
shrieked the mother; “why, we haven’t seen a parson
here for 25 years.”
The widespread effect of the magnificent
rains in Bananaland—unprecedented within
white men's memory for general character
and absence of damage by flood —cannot be ;
easily estimated. The Western districts,
right from the N.S.W. border to the Gulf,
were, a few days ago, a parched waste of
moving sandhill", where no stock remained
excepting a few here and there maintained
by hand feeding and bore
water. To-day the rivers
emptying into the Gulf,
or stretching down
through South Aus-
tralia, or ending in
the wilderness
which fringes the
edge, are swift-run-
ning streams of red
and yellow water.
The desert now
blooms with verdure,
and herbage and
grass are sprouting
up as if in cultivated
fields. It took Bris-
bane telegraph staff
nearly 24 hours to
transact the business
arising out of the
change at the end of
the wet week, mostly
consisting of orders
countermanding
stock removals, or
ordering herds to be
returned to the West.
* *
You can’t give the city
spieler many points in the art of
improving the shining hour. One
of him, somewhat run down in
health, lately took a trip to the
Blue Mountains to recoup for further
villainy. There is a fine of ten pounds
threatening those who are caught bath-
ing in the mountain streamlets. Scenting
an easy harvest of blackmail, the bird of
prey commenced to lie in wait about a favor-
ite sequestered pool. When the tourist
sneaked in and was enjoying a splash, he
would swoop down and represent himself
as a trustee or ranger or something, and hush
money was frequently produced. It was not
till after several of the mulcted came to com-
pare notes and ask questions that the swindle
was discovered. But the bird had flown by then.
“ The Duke did that for us,” say the loyal
Melbourne people, pointing to the few acres of
rockeries and miles of well-planted avenues about
Princes Bridge and the river. Little had the
Duke to do with it, as everybody knows; but that
doesn’t matter. The Duke came ashore
first at St. Kilda Pier, and how does it
happen that he didn’t manage to patch
up the holes and clean up the rubbish littered
so freely there ? Disreputable is the only word for
the whole of that skirt of beach from South
Melbourne pier to the Red Bluff. It is divided
amongst cow paddocks, rubbish depots, sand
wastes wept over by gnarled and stunted
tamerisks and oaks, and stretches of beach on
which drainage reeks. Yet it is the only bit of
easily accessible water frontage Melbourne
possesses.
* * * *
During the recent bush fires in Gippsland
(Vic.), along some of the tracks of the blaze
the fences were embellished with the words
“Death, Judgment, Hell,” in large letters—the
work of religious fanatics. How soul-satisfying
for the unfortunate sufferers in their dire ex-
tremity to be informed that they were to pass
from one inferno to another !
* * * *
The “ Tyson curse ” works its way. Young
Scanlon (his mother, Mrs. Scanlon, of Bendigo,
was one of the biggest of the Tyson heiresses),
who, without rhyme or reason, shot his own sister
dead, has been found guilty of manslaughter, and
sentenced to two years’ hard labor.
A POSSIBLE ERROR.
D INER: “ I'm afraid I can't give you your tip
to-day. I've just enough money for the bill.”
WAITER (in unseemly haste): “Let me add up
the hill again, sir.”
From the daily-paper report of an affray
at Newtown, Sydney :
The wounded kanaka was lifted up and taken outside
where the crowd had swelled to enormous proportions.
As soon as the constables appeared carding their burden,
there were cries of ‘‘Lynch him.”
The kanaka, fancying that the Fenwick family
owed him money, attempted to murder them
then killed a policeman, and shot at several
others, and was only “brought to order”
after he had been shot twice in the legs;
he killed himself. Bo the “lynch” cry
is heard again in Australia. It was fairly
frequent when the colored population was
bigger; is often heard even now in the Black North,
where the mild and gentle kanaka breaks out
and with rape or murder proves the penalty of
tainting White Australia ; and would be heard
every week were the Bruce Smith advice to be
taken and free admission of Japanese and other
such aliens allowed. Judge Lynch always appears
when a colored colony comes to live side by side
with a white race.
The Asiatic or African or Polynesian—-the non-
Caucasian of any type—cannot think on the same
lines as the European. The kanaka responsible
for this Newtown tragedy thought the Fen-
wicks were indebted to him. If he had
been a Caucasian he would have taken out a
District Court summons. But his kanaka mind
ran in another groove, and he bought a small
armory, and a dull, drab Sunday morning in a
dull, drab suburb was colored red by his frenzy of
blood lust. When he had murdered one police
officer, and had proved his willingness to murder
many more, the white crowd around the house
which he held by force of arms, began to forget its
white civilisation. It would willingly have burnt
him out, and, when he was at last captured/would
cheerfully have lynched him, had he not by suicide
ended his own life. Allow in Australia the
nigger, the kanaka, or the Asiatic, as the Tories
urge, and there will be no Sunday morning with-
out some such incident. Is that why the daily
press slyly helps along the colored immigration
conspiracy at every chance ?
• * * *
The parson has no enterprise. He squan-
ders his gifts of prayer on droughts, but never
puts up a petition for a rise in copper, or wails a
litany on a slump in wheat. Note by contrast
the fine results the press can claim from a little
plain speaking. The Australian Hen (5/l/’06):
The Food Problem.
Last month vve published an article under the above
heading, deploring the dry state of the weather, the high
prices of feed, and the low prices of eggs and poultry
products generally. It is significant that while the
article was being printed rain came, feed dropped, and
eggs began to reach out for better figures.
THE LITTLE WIDOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
vie.
A cheerful little widow came
To lodge with us the other year,
Lucinda was her Christian name,
Extremely golden was her hair.
She had the finest goo-goo eyes,
A luring smile, and skin so white ;
But, oh 1 the boarders, they were wise,
And not a man of them would bite.
The dimples in her cheeks were deep,
The glow about them warm and red —
She must have got the raddle cheap,
The very cunning boarders said.
Her laugh was like a silver bell,
Her soul was like a singing bird,
And every boarder had to tell
The little scandal he had heard.
She went to dances with a friend,
To theatres in hansoms smart,
In frocks so low they seemed to end
Just where a garment ought to start.
She was the brightest spark of life,
We all agreed, and full of go,
But making her a fellow’s wife
Was quite another thing, you know.
Then Bonner came. He seemed to us
The biggest chump in all the State.
She goo-gooed him. The simple cuss
Went gaily to his wretched fate.
They married straight. Now void of care
Is Bonner’s life. His wife, we’re told,
Has nigh a thousand pounds a year,
A heart that’s gay and good as gold.
The moral that I here recite
To edify the cautious He
Is this —that woman’s sometimes quite
As good as she appears to be 1
EDYSON.
THE IDEAL RESULT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
VIC.
There is a time—a month or so—
When thoughts are told by tokens light:
By furtive glances, cheeks aglow,
Soft pressures of the hand at night.
The time when hearts are beating fast—
Alas ! it is too quickly past.
There is a time, a golden time
When burning kisses count as words,
When thoughts that flow in mystic rhyme
Are set to music by the birds,
And love’s false horoscope is cast.
A time too good, too good to last.
There comes a time of afterglow.
The crimsoned sun has gone to rest:
The lovers saw it sinking low,
But still the truth is unconfess’d.
O bitter truth to take to heart—
That now’s the time for them to part l
To part, and yet for evermore,
Whilst memory renews the scene
Of raptures in the days of yore,
To link what is with what has been—
The course of true love sweetly ends
Where lovers change to loyal friends.
E.F.


STUDY
Money-Making
Subjects.
Send now for “ Home
Study,” post free.
STOTT & HOARE’S
Business College,
Moore St., Sydney. [5
wertfyguytjuy
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
QUALITY COUNTS.
THE QUALITY that counts will be found in
the MATERIAL, the FIT, and the WEAR
of my . ♦ ♦
£3 3S. SUITS.
Patterns, Plates, and Measurement Forms—FßEE.
jZ? Jc? JZ7
R. C. HAGON,
JTERCHANT
TAILOR - -
King st>, Sydney.
wertfyguytjuy
The inquiries of the Melbourne Police
Commission thusfar have avoided the important
question as to whether an admittedly under-
manned force ought not to be relieved of a num-
ber of duties quite outside the proper purpose of
the police system. A considerable number of
Melbourne constables are employed in light work
which could be better done by commissionaires.
For instance, there are myrmidons of the law told
off for what is practically door-keeping at
the Federal and State Parliament Houses.
It has often happened that, whilst these able-
bodied experts were loafing around the Houses
where nobody wants them, their presence was
urgently required in the streets thereabouts. The
Police Department, whilst in want of policemen
for active service, lets a number of them out on
hire for several hours of the day or night to man-
agers of theatres, racecourses, bike meetings,
&e. The showmen who pay for the attendance
of ordinary constables would be equally well served
by special constables sworn in for this class of duty
only. The chairman of the Police Commission
should promptly put two questions to Chief Com-
missioner O’Cailaghan. Firstly, how many mem-
bers of the regular force are employed in Mel-
bourne and suburbs upon duties which are satis-
factorily performed by an auxiliary force in other
States of the Commonwealth ? Secondly, how
many policemen at the present time are hired on
certain days of the week by Jack Wren ; the
god of pony-racing is a recognised employer of
policemen, in addition to his being a recognised
tote man.
» * » *
Detective Sergeant O’Donnell, leading
spirit in the crusade against tlie Melbourne bet-
ting shops, gave some further evidence before the
Police Commission last week. “The Russell-
street barracks,” said O’Donnell, “ are under
constant surveillance by the betting men. My
house and even my own movements are watched
for days and nights until life becomes a perfect
misery to me. Recently I engaged a man in con-
nection with betting suppression, and I had occa-
sion to send a messenger to his house. The
fact was known in every betting club- in
Melbourne the same night, and the man
was dumped out of the clubs at once.
I wish somebody else had the betting business
to look after. I don’t know where they get their
information from, but it’s most extraordinary. . . .
I commenced a prosecution against the Metro-
politan Club two years ago, and it is still before
the court awaiting the result of an appeal to the
General Sessions. ... I think it is possible for
Wren to have agents in the Post Office, and I
know he has a lot of sympathisers in the Police
department. ... I think that if I could squelch
Wren it would tend to knock the whole business
on the head. He seems to be the centre round
which the other systems revolve.”
TALK AND ACTION.
THE AUTHER (explaining drama): “As the vil-
lain in ‘ The Galvanized Bottlestopper ’ you’re
to for ye the hero’s signature for £25,000,
and”
HEAVY VILLAIN ( interrupting): “ Suppose we
make it £50,000? More sensation, you know.
And white we’re on money matters, d’ you
think they’ll strap up a couple of drinks to
you next door ?”
The Gippslancl bush fires moved one
woman to deliver herself of a characteristic femi-
nine proposition. She wrote to Lands Minister
Murray demanding that a special Cabinet meet-
ing should be called immediately to pass a law (!)
that the police be empowered to arrest on sus-
picion, and the court to convict on circumstantial
evidence, any person charged with indirectly
causing a bush fire. And the dame went into
details. She gave a hint of what her idea of
“circumstantial evidence” was. A man crossed
a paddock near her place and shortly afterwards
a tire broke out in that paddock. She could not
identify the man, but as there was a new settler
thereabouts he must have been responsible, she
argued, for all the other farmers were old settlers
who would not start bush fires !
Champion’s Hotel and several adjoining
business places in Swanston-street, Melbourne,
are being demolished to make room for modern
improvements, and with the Ifbtel will go the last
fragment of the first church built in Mel-
bourne. It was a brick chapel, built to
accommodate a score or so of ardent Wesleyans.
It stood just back from Swanston-street, and long
since passed into the service of the Evil One,
having been the pub. kitchen for many years. Ihe
chapel, grease-soaked and stained with the lees ot
millions of beers, now at last comes to an end.
, * _* *
Some people have queer notions about
“the dispensations of Providence.” The Age,
dealing with the recent bush fires in Gippsland,
remarked :
The whole township was threatened with destruotioi »
when, by a Providential dispensation, the direction of tl-.e
wind changed, and Foster was saved from annihilation.
But Foster’s good luck was the undoing of a
district which, until the wind changed, was safe ;
so the report proceeds :
The fire then swept towards Squaretop . . . The alarmed
settlers were immediately aroused to action to save their
homes and families. .. Homesteads and fences were
blotted out with appalling rapidity . . . Cattle, horses
and sheep fell victims to the flames . . . Worst of all were
the screams of the affrighted women and children, who
saw no possible escape from the merciless flames.
What these unfortunate people thought of the
“Providential” change in the wind that brought
the flames their way isn’t mentioned.
* * * *
The Norwegians are a democratic people.
“Mr. King” is how the Storthing addressed
Haakon VII. on his arrival at Christiana, and one
of his venerable subjects patted the new monarch
on the head in a paternal way and hoped that he
was going to be a good boy, whilst he gently
corrected one of his mistakes in pronunciation !
* * * *
N.S.W. income-tax office boasts :
During the ten years that the income tax has been in
force in N.S.W. no record has had to be made of any
divulgence of information by the department a circum-
stance of which the office is not a little proud.
Yet a N.S.W. Premier stated in Parliament, a
year or so ago, that he had got certain information
as to barristers’ earnings from the Income Tax
Office.
“ Eros ” gives another Mary-Anntic:
We have a new Mary-Ann ; she came on Monday. She
said on Tuesday—“ I’ve found an easy place at last; I’m
o-lad. Last people decent ’nuff, but parson used ter live
?n the shanty. It was no class place at all. So I
cleared out Sunday night, when they was at church. I
put four egg’s in the custard, and soaped-in the washing.
Can Igo out to see a nun this afternoon ? She’s dead. I
heard the death tick last night, while I was dishing up.
The butcher brought no soup meat, and the fish man
couldn’t come when I called him. Can I go to the nuns
funeral? Yer can stop d day’s screw out of me wages,
and I’ll bring some flat-head home with me at five. She 11
be buried by four.”
*■* * *
Recent revelations in Australia show that
there are still used in asylums for the insane : the
bed manacle, a combination of straps and buckles,
which grips the patient round the chest, wrists,
and ankles, and spread-eagles him to
miserable hours of the night; ;md the “ muff —a
strong canvas or leather cylinder, which allows
the hands to pass in from either end, but keeps
them always in front of the body. Beside this
instrument of modern mental treatment, tne
handcuff of the policeman is a pleasure.
A half-caste has made a startling report
to the Westralian Protector of Aborigines regard-
ing the condition of the blacks in the Malcolm,
Leonora, Laver ton, and Darlot districts. An ex-
tract :—•
I would not mind so much if they killed only little half-
caste babies, but they are killing and eating the older
children. The condition of the natives is much worse
than before the goldfield days. The natives were never
in a worse condition than now. They can get very little
food, except by begging in town. There are a few rabbits,
but the country is so hard that blasting' powder is le-
quired to get them out of the holes, the ground being a
cement formation. If the soil were soft they would
manage to dig out the rabbits.
The allegations are contradicted by the authori-
ties, and that part of the yarn which tells of
“ blasting out” rabbits with powder doesn t look
true. The Bulletin never heard of rabbits bur-
rowing in very hard ground.
The desire of the average keeper of a
private hospital to advertise ingoing patients in
the “Personal” columns is equalled only by the
anxiety displayed to suppress the fact of a death
taking place at the hospital. Some dailies.now
forbid any connection of Miss Blank s or Lr.
Lash’s private hospital with death, either in the
news or advertisement columns. The timid possi-
ble patient must not be scared by reading of
frequent departures from his prospective infirmary
to a better land.
* * * *
The proprietor of baths at a JVtelbomne
seaside suburb provides one tooth-brush, pre-
sumably for the use of all bathers with a passion
for thorough cleanliness.
There is a steady agitation among a section
of the military people to get the Commonwealth
uniform back to the old standard of gorgeousness,
gold lace and feathers. During the Hutton
regime at least this much was done, the forces were
arrayed in a common-sensible and moderately
cheap uniform. Now it is pleaded that recruiting
is more difficult, that the - young citizen will not
join the volunteer or militia forces without the
bribe of a scarlet coat or a gaudy feather.
The Bulletin doesn’t believe that it is so,
and traces the agitation for gorgeous dress to the
officer class of person, the man who has a fair
amount of money and wishes to spend some of it
on bright plumage so that he may be an
impressive person among his lady friends. But if
it is a fact that so much barbarism survives in the
average Australian citizen that he can’t be
induced to do his duty without the bribe of a ,
feather or a bit of red stuff, the remedy isn’t to
give way to his folly. A child that cries for green
fruit doesn’t get the fruit —not from a wise parent,
anyway. The citizen should be compelled, not
bribed, to do his duty.
• # * *
Whether or not it is due to the stoppage
of the arrival of any new Chinese or not, it is a
fact that hardly a single yellow alien, wearing his
national dress, is now to be seen in Melbourne.
Ten years ago one could not pass up Lilly Buck
stleet without meeting a score of Sin Fats wearing
long-sleeved jumpers, pale-blue cotton pants and
felt slippers. Now you won’t see one. Even in
the market gardens they use Australian dress,
and in taking to leather hoots they seem to
have dropped the shuffle that was so typical of
the race. But they still live low and sweat high.
• * * *
Judging by the naming of their beauty
spots, the N.S.W. Blue Mountains should be an
ideal place to spend a honeymoon. Some of
them: “The Bride and Bridegroom’s Cave,
“Mount Solitary,” “Honeymoon Point,” “The
Bridal Veil,” “Hilda’s Grotto,” “Inspiration
Point,” “Juliet’s Balcony,” “Fairy , Bower,’
“ Titania’s Glen,” “Kissing Point,” “The
Lover’s Nook.” Govett’s Leap might be con-
sidered some time afterwards.
* * * *
WAS WORTH IT.
“ Aren't you afraid that a big cigar like that
will make you sick?”
“ Bein’ sick ain’t nothin’ ter wot I would do for
a smoke like this.”
A few suicide facts. Commoner in sum-
mer than in any other season. Liability increases
with age ; maximum period, 15 to 65. Commonest
amongst soldiers—2lo per million in British army,
as against 70 for the nation as a whole. Germany,
145 ; army, 550. Austria, 210; army,. 1200.
A HAIR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
'Twas on my coat; it shimmered there,
A sun-kissed, gleaming strand ;
Upon my soul I don’t know where
I got it, that long golden hair ;
I couldn’t tell you that I’ll swear—
I couldn’t understand.
“ The breeze perhaps,” 1 mumbled low,
“ The wind has placed it there.”
“ It might,” she said ; “ perhaps ’tis so ;
Those damsels that you seem to know,
When virtue to the winds they throw
Might likewise throw their hair.”
N.S.W.
J. F. DWYER.
Of Smoke
For
(The Bulletin)
When the Summer sea. k
With some sweet girl I’m set,
Complaisant if shebe,
Then for a cigarette;
But when old friends aremetj
And hours pass merrilu,
And nights outside are 'wet-
A pipe's the smoke forme!
Wlien from ttie long datjs frefj
After muj work I'm free
To blow the cool blue jet,
A. pipe’s the smoke’'for me
fOnc fill ,or two, or three 1 )
Yet if me) Mignonette
Will perck upon rrn-j knee
Then for a cigarette (
ElSVoy
eMck , we are young men yei
'Theun for- a. cigarette 1
-Bui - STvi-j when youths ojears flee-,
<( A pipers* the smoke forme! "
ML*
A. EC
LADY OF THE CAUSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She is winsome, wise, and witty,
Extra fine at repartee ;
She is pert, and proud, and pretty-
just the very girl for me !
She is (a nod emphatic
Righting brown rebellious curls)
The dearest democratic
Of a dozen dainty girls.
“ And eleven dears are fairer,”
So the village gossips say,
But her intellect is rarer
Than the average array.
And her democratic notions,
They are fine and brave indeed
When she seconds all the motions
That I ever hurl at Greed.
Once she claimed my full attention
With her mental fires ag'low,
And a kiss I’d never mention—
Ah, but that was long ago !
So I write till Sol has wended
All his daily course above ;
For when days and cares are ended
Is the sweetest time for love.
And in the summer weather
I shall take her as my bride,
When we’ll face the world together,
Ever working side by side.
For in oaken hall or att.e,
Thro’ derision or applause,
She’ll be my democratic
Little Lady of The Cause.
N.S.W
GILROONEY.
PUT THE PAST AWAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Put the past away,
Like a faded rose
That has had its day,
And now sees its close.
Put the Past away
(Roses dead are dead !) ;
Live and laugh to-day,
And the days ahead.
Put the Past away,
Like a rose asleep ;
Face the Future gay,
Drink its rapture deep.
Put the Past away
(Petals shed are shed);
Live and love to-day,
And the days ahead.
VIC.
DORATHY McCRAE.


TIN and GOLD SLUICING PLANTS
As supplied in the Tin Districts of N.S.W. with great success.
Robey Portable Engines, Centrifugal Pumps, Etc. Apply—
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER, 64 Pitt St., Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Two loan transactions have been reported dur-
-1 irjg the week. In Victoria, Bent has brought off his local
£1,600,000 conversion loan ; and a N.S.W. £2,000,000 loan
is announced from London. The Victorian local loan
experiment was a complete success; £2,087,390 was offered,
apart from the underwriters. Looking at the price offered
and the abundance of riioney, it was certain that the
underwriters,wouldn’t be left nursing any' of the baby' ;
but there was a doubt whether the broking ring would
interest themselves in the loan unless they were allowed
to squeeze out double commission—underwriting
com. as well as ordinary brokerage—and so the
Government had to cave in. The loan means pay-
ing off a little over £1,500,000 of 4 per cent, bonds
failing due in London on July Ist this year. To get rid
of even this much foreign debt is good—it means that
about £62,000 which Victoria has been paying yearly to
Cohen will for the future be kept in the country, where, if
the tariff lets it, it can be used to establish and promote
industries and attract population. But there is no sinking
fund attached to the loan ; and that is the weakest point
in the situation. A country' that can lend itself money to
pay its debts with, can also pay the debts and be done
with the matter ; and a sinking fund is the handiest way
of providing for that payment.
The N.S.W. Government doesn’t know much
about its own loan. The fact is that this State has been
borrowing lately' so much on short terms—sneaking round
corners, so to speak, and asking for the loan of a trifle
till the morning—that the Agent-General seems to have
instructions to fire out a loan prospectus every time he
sees a man coming down the street with anything that
looks like money in his pocket. During this and the next
few years three States alone have the following curses
coming home to roost: —
N.S.W. Vic. S.Aus.
1906 .. £1,224,900 £2,233,800 £370,825
1907 .. 5,276,218 5,050,000 1,333,075
1908 .. 3,090,800 2,025,000 . 2,208,150
1909 .. 384,000 25,000 3,384,025
1910 .. 3,418,879 25,000 60,300
Total (5 years) £13,394,797 £9,358,800 £7,356,375
And, in the face of that, Premier Carruthers, of N.S.W.,
is still sweeping the market for new borrowings at the
rate of about £1,500,000 a year.
The meeting of A.M.P. policy-holders to further
consider the question of hustling for business in S’Africa
and Great Britain, where policies cost more to get and
the mortality experience is less favorable than in Aus-
tralia, will be held on March 9. If no sufficient
protest is made at that meeting the proposal to rob
the society of its distinctively Australian character will
go through. In order, however, to give policy-holders a
last chance to express their opinion upon a matter which
is likely to seriously affect future bonuses, a committee
has been formed in Sydney, and proxies may' be sent to
Gerald R. Campbell (Denman-chambers, Phi Hip-street), or
to Senator Millen, Peter Proctor (for many years financial
editor of S. M. Herald), or F. W. Stoddart, all at the
same address.
* * -r. *
In Australia the Equitable has 16,000 policies,
assuring about £6,000,000, with a premium income of
£230,000. Even when the society shuts up shop ag-ainst
new business, this old business will take some working
out. In view of the fact that the business has been
exceedingly costly and that the cost hasn’t been diminish-
ing, the stoppage of business isn’t anything for the Aus-
tralian with-profit policy-holders to worry over—it is to
their advantage that the leakage should stop. That is, of
course, so long as the society pays claims promptly and
without putting the claimants to trouble ; and the
present policy seems to be extra-careful in that respect.
In 20 years, too, anything may happen. For instance
about 11 or 12 y'ears ago the Equitable decided to go out
of the hustle for business in Maoriland. It stayed out for
six years; then the continued prosperity of the country
that has arbitration, a g-raduated land-tax and other
dreadful things attracted it, and it opened its books
again.
* * * *
As a consequence of its decision to withdraw
from the canvass for further business in Australia the
Yankee Equitable Life stops all newspaper advertise-
ments. In announcing- this to The Bulletin the general
manager for Australasia (Mr. C. Carlisle Taylor) adds : “We
desire to express our thanks for your many courtesies and
our satisfaction at the result of our advertising in The
Bulletin. The answers received to our coupon advertise-
ment were more numerous than those received from all
other Australasian advertisements.”
* * » *
Recently mentioned that two or three fire-
insurance co.’s were looking longingly on the profits of
accident insurance offices. The South British (M.L.) was
the first to alter its articles so as to take the new risks ;
but when the North Queensland looked into the matter
it found itself blocked by the N.S.W. Companies Act:
the co., having been registered for certain purposes,
couldn’t take on other purposes. So a new co. has been
registered, every four shares in the old co. carrying one
in the new accident and guarantee co., which will be
worked with the same staff.
» * * *
The Land Mortgage Bank of Victoria :
Losses on Pro-
Loss on perty, &c., less Total
Business. profit on Loss. Deficit.
Debentures.
Dec., 1900.. £2263 £459 £2,722 £2,722
June, 1901.. 1049 565 1,614 4,336
Dec., 1901.. 1792 169 1,961 6,297
June, 1902.. 1023 808 1,8311 171
£7957 profit on repurchase of V
debentures. J
Dec., 1902.. 1217 3,426 4,643 4,814
Profit.
June, 1903.. 60 700 640 5,454
Dec., 1903.. 277 6,190 5,913 11,367
June, 1904.. 960 3,890 2,930 14,297
Dec., 1904.. 275 10,278 10,003 24,300
June, 1905.. 1271 7,313 6,040 30,342
Dec., 1905.. 1423 2,061 638 30,980
The progress made by this distressful concern in getting
rid of its woes is traced to some extent in the following :
1901. 1904. 1905.
Capital .. .. £220,063 £274,545 £275,034
Debentures .. 693,197 561,762 497,323
Other debts .. 1,652 2,196 907
Advances, etc. .. 444,539 408,884 389,945
Property .. .. 388,596 331,036 300,667
Cash, debentures 75,896 74,283 51,672
This is the position, then : it has in four years reduced its
debenture and other debts by £196,619 ; and to do that it
has —
Got in capital .. .. £54,971
Sold property, etc. .. 142,5:3
Reduced its cash .. 24,224
Total .. ..£221,718
Add the first and the last items (cash) —£79,195—deduct
that from the debt wiped out, and we have £117,424 as
the amount of debt which has been paid off with
advances, property, &c., having a book value at £142,523.
Still the advances are probably not worth 16s. 6d. in the
£, as this would indicate, seeing that some anyhow of
the debentures have been bought back at a discount,
which, of course, helps along the assets. On this same
basis, however, if £142,523 (book value) of advances, pro-
perty, &c., has cleared off £117,424 of debt, the balance of
£690,612 of property should be able to wipe out about
£570,000 of debt ; and the total debt now is £498,230, so
tiie assets, apart from cash anddebentures(£sl,672), could
on this basis pay off £71,770 more debt than actually re-
mains to be paid off. During the past year the debt has been
reduced by £65,728 ; £23,100 of casli has been available,
so that £49,308 of property and advances has paid off
£42,628 of debt —which accounts for the £6680 by which
the deficit was added to last year. This is a much more
cheerful showing than has been possible on some recent
figures. If it doesn’t hold out any early hope to the
shareholders, it is comforting for the debenture-holders.
* » * *
The Silverton Tramway Co., which owns the
link between Broken Hill and the S. Aus. railways:—
Dividend on Real
Actual Capital Written Re-
Dec., Profits. (£122,105). off. serves.
1895 .. £113,835 69 p.c. = £84,067 £6,881 £121,429
1896 .. 111,896 81 „ „ 98,903 134,422
1897.. 88,246 77 ~ ~ 93,958 128,710
1898.. 86,574 64} „ ~ 79,122 136,162
1899.. 95,592 64},, ~ 79,122 152,632
1900.. 89,472 64},, „ 79,122 8,809 154,173
1901.. 78,946 60} „ „ 74,177 7,600 151,342
1902 .. 55,462 30| „ „ 44,507 23,370 138,927
1903.. 60,579 ,, 39,561 159,945
1904.. 61,153 32i ~ ~ 39,561 30,235 151,302
1905 .. 78,523 48| „ „ 59,342 20,000 150,483
Of the amount shown as written-off during the year
£lO,OOO was in respect to permanent way, buildings, &c,
and £lO,OOO in respect to rolling stock : and this was in
addition to repairs and ordinary renewals. As the rolling
stock was only valued previously at £46,028 (including
recent additions), the writing down is very emphatic. If
the States treated their accounts in the same way' it
would make the returns from their most profitable “ per-
manent and reproductive ” undertakings look very sick.
No doubt nothing quite so emphatic as a 22 per cent,
writing-off is called for; the co.’s profits are very large
just now, and its dividends already quite as big as a
private enterprise concern which ministers to a public
necessity can pay without attracting attention. So it
stuffs part of the profits away out of sight by writing down
the value of its property, and thus establishes a hidden
reserve. All the same, the fact that a private railway'
concern considers it necessary to write down its con-
struction account, is a severe reflection upon the
borrowing maniacs who tell us that the State
needn’t do anything of the kind, that a patched
bridge into which we have put £lO,OOO of Cohen’s
money is always worth £lO,OOO, and that, there-
fore, it isn’t necessary to pay off anything of the amount
out of either profits or taxation. This co. having written
off £20,000 during the year, its holding of deposit receipts
and public stocks has been increased from £55,078 to
£73,027—a nice little nest-egg for the return of capital
even if Broken Hill should snuff out. But there is
another way of looking at the matter. Though share-
holders only put £122,105 into the concern, the market
values it now at £890,127 ; so the Barrier, instead of pay-
ing interest on £122,105, is expected to pay (and does pay)
interest on this £890,127 —which is another of the bless-
ings of Private Enterprise in ministering to public neces-
sities. And the N.S.VY. Parliament of 20 years or so ago
fastened the co. so tightly around the Barrier’s neck that,
even if the State took over the line, it would have to pay
for it on the basis of past profits—in other words, it would
now have to pay for the undertaking about 10 times mqre
than it cost the original shareholders. On market value
the co. paid in divs. last year just over 6Jper cent., which
is probably not a bit too much considering the risks of a
co. which depends wholly on a mining field, which field
hangs, ag-ain, upon the dreadfully uncertain markets for
base-metals.
* * * *
The Wellington Trust, Loan and Invest-
ment Co. (Wellington, M.L.)
Added to Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1900 £19,980
1901- .. £10,040 8 p.c. =£Bloo £1940 21,920
1902 .. 12,372 8 „ „ 8100 4272 26,192
Property written up .. 1000 27,192
1903 .. 10,073 Bp.c. = £BlOO 1973 29,165
1904 .. 10,426 8 „ „ 8100 2326 31,491
1905 .. 10,913 8 „ „ 8100 2813 34,304
This co. is apparently more loan than trust. Besides its
capital (£101,250) and reserves, it has now £307,975 of
deposits, an increase of £52,306 since 1902. Of its total
assets of £444,133, after paying the dividend, £429,105 is
lumped as “ mortgages and other securities ” ; and bank
balances and special deposits total only £5961. Possibly
there are some liquid assets included in “ mortgages and
other securities,” though the presumption is that there
are not ; and if the presumption is correct, then this co.’s
liquid assets represent less than 2 per cent, of its debts to
the public, including deposits. Even if it hasuo current-
account money, to be called for at any moment, 2 per
cent, of liquid reserves are a frail cobweb to hang upon.
For a do. which owes the public so much money the par-
ticulars given of the assets are most inadequate. Further,
it is impossible to tell what interest the assets are earn-
ing, because all income—whether from commission, rent,
interest, or fees—is bundled together. For the purpose
of ascertaining the true position of the co. the published
accounts are therefore almost useless ; and that Che pub'
lie will under the circumstances advance the co. so much
is a tribute to the confidence the public has in the
directors. But as Australians found out, a few years ago,
the high reputation of directors can’t fill the place of a
good ample, lucid statement of accounts. The co. maybe
sound and solid ; but the ability with which it hides its
light amounts almost to genius.
The question ought to be seriously considered
whether any co. which accepts deposits and does a money-
lending- business on its own,account ought to be permitted
to act as a trustee. The objection to lawyers acting as
trustees is taking firm root; and there seems at least as
large an objection to the transaction of trust business by
co.’s which try to keep one eye on the interests of the
widow and the orphan and the other on a mortgagor to
whom it has advanced some deposit moneys. Apart
from the risks of the money-lending business, when a
money lender has his own deposits as well as some trust
money' to invest, and there is only one available invest-
ment, the trust money is liable to go without an invest-
ment. Or when there are two investments, one good and
the other risky—well, he may choose the risky invest-
ment for his own money. And again he may not.
•*•* *■*
Broken Hill Water Supply, Ltd., a mostly -
Victorian concern :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1899 £16,845 12J p.c. = £11,656 £5189 £12,125
June, 1900 19,557 12§ ~ ~ 11,656 7901 20,026
Dec., 1900 17,923 15 „ „ 13,987 3936) „„ „..
Premiums on 13,500 new shares 3379/
June, 1901 14,116 15 „ „ 15,000 26,457
Dec., 1901 10,250 10 ~ „ 10,000 250 26,707
June, 1902 11,386 10 ~ ~ 10,000 1356 28,093
Dec., 1902 13,200 10 „ ~ 10,000 3200 31,293
June, 1903 12,893 10 ~ „ 10,000 2893 34,186
Dec., 1903 1,421 5 ~ „ 5,000 30,607
June, 1904 9,456 5 ~ ~ 5,000 4456 35,063
Dec., 1904 12,080 10 „ „ 10,000 2080 37,143
June, 1905 15,622 10 „ ~ 10,000 5622 42,765
Dec., 1905 16,197 10 ~ ~ 10,000 6197 ' 48,962
The co. sets its reserves at £74,156 ; but deduct from that
£25,194 for a paper asset —“ water rights, leases, Parlia-
mentary bills, &c.” The balance, £48,962, is not a true
reserve either. The co. has 12J years more to run ; then
it must hand over the works without compensation. The
capital (with premiums) amounts to £203,379; and,
though the co.’s life must end in 12J years more, no sink-
ing fund has been established to repay this capital. True,
it has accumulated about £82,000 of assets, which it will
not have to hand over, including about £50,000 of public
stocks and deposits. But this is not being treated as a
sinking fund ; the interest earnings, instead of being
added to the fund, go through profit and loss account.
If the £50,000 of stocks and deposits were set aside and
accumulated at 3£ per cent, they would amount
to about £77,000 in 12£ years; and this with the
other assets which won’t have to be handed over
would leave £04,000 more to be provided ; and a
sinking- fund of about £6OOO a year would provide
that. By the present system, under which the interest
earnings are reckoned as profit, the position is compli-
cated and obscured. Apart from interest earnings the
half-year’s profit was £5385 in excess of the dividend ; so
that for the present at any rate the co. is making ample
provision for the return of capital, even after paying 10
per cent. ; and a co. whose shares are at par has much to
recommend it on that basis. But still there is a good
deal of the gamble about it: (f) It hang-s on the metal
markets. If they slumped enough to knock out Broken
Hill, the water co. would go too. (2) The mines, the big-
consumers, are always liable to start complete water
supplies of their own. (3) A wet season is bad for the co.
because the consumers have mostly their own small dams
and tanks ; an extra-dry season means that the co.’s own
supply runs out. (4) There is no telling how much of its
reserves and sinking fund the co. may have to spend to
keep the undertaking workable to the end of the 12J
.years. These are things that have to be considered ; but
they' don’t spoil the look of this concern as a pleasant
gamble. You can’t get 10 per cent, without taking some
risks ; and the public swallows many bigger risks without
noticing them.
* * * »
Brisbane Gas Co. (Q.)
Added Real
Dividends and to Re- Re-
Profits. Tax on £140,000. serves, serves.
June, 1902 .. 10 p.c. =£7345 •- £20,673
Dec., 1902 .. £9,688 UJ „ ~ 8446 £1242 21,915
June, 1903 .. 9,054 11 „ ~ 8085 969 22,884
Dec., 1903 .. 11,762 11£ „ „ 8452 3310 26,194
June, 1904 .. 11,042 llfj „ „ 8452 2590 28,784
Dec., 1904 .. 11,634 111 ~ ~ 8452 3182 31,966
June, 1205 .. 10,309 111 „ „ 8452 1857 33,823
Dec., 1905 .. 10,898 ll£ „ „ 8400 2498 36,321
During the half-year £20,000 of the reserves have been
capitalised, making total capital £160,000 ; and the divi-
dend is now called 10 p.c. In the table Che £20,000 is still
shown as reserves, and the div. is computed on the
amount actually paid up. In addition, there is an item,
“ Land—suspense account for Dividend Reserve Fund,
£5100.” For some time past this item had stood at
£lO,OOO. There is no trace of the other £4900, but as
the co. has bought land to build new offices, it may
have been used to write down other buildings, &c.
Originally the amount was supposed to have been profit
made on the sale of land to the Brisbane City Council.
Financially the position is very comfortable ; after paying
all debts and the present div., the co. will have £28,648 of
liquid assets, including the £12,000 still owing by the
Brisbane Council. Nevertheless, part of the reserves
shown in the table is doubtful; it consists of reserves for
renewal of things, and that looks like a reserve to cover
wear and tear. For the same reason the true profits,
since they ought to be charged with wear and tear, are
probably less than shown above. The business is, how-
ever, highly profitable ; the whole assets give a return
at the rate of £ll 4s. per cent, per annum, taking
the profit as shown above ; and the half-year’s profit, if it
ought probably to be charged with something for wear
and tear, has had to stand a heavy income-tax charge
(£1245) on the “ distribution of capital and of land
suspense account, under protest.” Why the co. should
protest against paying tax on the undivided profits which
were capitalised heaven only knows. The shareholders
got a fat dividend in the shape of scrip instead of in the
shape of a cheque—that is all the difference ; and both
are about equally negotiable.
* * * *
Bendigo Gas Co. (Victoria)
Written To Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserve, serves.
June, 1903 £18,686
Dec., 1903 £2925 12 p.c. = £2520 £450 18,641
June, 1904 2461 12 „ „ 2520 164 18,418
Dec., 1904 3142 12 „ „ 2520 £622 19,040
June, 1905 2537 12 „ ~ 2520 17 19,057
Dec., 1905 2710 12 „ „ 2520 200 19,047
The reserves are only real to an unknown extent, £14,085
of them consisting of “ accumulated profits invested in
the assets of the co., renewals of works, contingent
fund, and wear and tear account ” Things were
first paid for out of capital and appeared as assets ;
they' wore out and were renewed; the cost of the
renewal was added to the capital value ; and on
the other side of the balance sheet this added value
was represented by 7 this so-called reserve account. Of
course under these circumstances it isn’t a reserve ; y'ou
can only get the exact position by scoring out the cost of
renewals from both sides of the sheet—off assets and off
reserves. As far as can be traced nothing is now being
provided out of profits to cover current wear and tear ;
the only item anything like it is “ Repairs, £lB5 ” ; and
that is a fleabite. As it is absolutely certain that depreci-
ation is taking place, the stated profit is therefore to
some extent fictitious, and the dividend was not earned.
The £2OO shown as written off came off the value of
meters only. The co. has no public debts outside petty
accounts.
* * * *
The North Shore Gas Co. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Profits’. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1901 ..£3733 7 p.c. =£3719 £l4 £5,465
Dec., 1901 .. 3776 7 „ „ 3719 57 5,522
June, 1902 .. 3742 7„ „ 3790 , 5,474
Dec., 1902 .. 6453 7 „ „ 3937 2516 7,990
June, 1903 .. 4724 7 ~ „ 4153 571 8,561
Dec., 1903 .. 6495 8„ „ 4997 1498 10,059
June, 1904 .. 5366 7 „ „ 4408 958 11,017
Dec., 1904 .. 6782 7 ~ „ 4768 2014 13,031
June, 1905 .’. 5484 7 „ „ 4812 672 13,703
Dec., 1905 .. 7229 7J,, „ 5270 1959 15,662
The profit and loss account says that the half-year’s net
profit was £5229 “after allowing for reserve and depre-
ciation.” To the reserve fund £2OOO has been added ; but
how much else has been allowed for depreciation there is
no way of finding out. Possibly the reserve fund itself is a
reserve for depreciation; in that case the true profit isn’t as
much as stated above, and the reserves are to a very large
extent paper. But there is no proof at all that it is that
sort of reserve. So little information is given that it is
impossible to tell what the real position is. The whole
resources of the co.—capital (£143,506), reserves, and a
little besides—are sunk in the undertaking. The assets
earned profit at the rate of £8 2s. Id. p.c. p.a. (taking
profit as shown in the table), against £5 18s. lOd. p.c. in the
corresponding half of 1901. Under ordinary' circum-
stances the increase would suggest that the assets have
been kept well written down, and that the profits shown
above are the real, solid thing, after allowing for depreci-
ation ; but as the form of the published accounts has been
altered in the interval, some doubt is cast on even this.
Altogether the number of things you don’t know after
dissecting this co.’s accounts is considerable.
* * - *
The Brighton Gas Co. (Vic.)
Written To Re- Re
Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves
June, 1901 £1729 5 p.c. =£lll7 £378 £234 £2528
Dec., 1901 1686 5 „ „ 1117 391 178 2706
June, 1902 1462 5 „ „ 1117 465 -- 2586
Dec., 1902 1524 5 ~ „ 1117 324 83 2669
June, 1903 1525 5 „ „ 1117 407 1 26/0
Dec., 1903 1769 5 ~ „ 1117 242 410 3080
June, 1904 1831 6 ~ „ 1340 343 148 3228
Dec., 1904 2097 6 ~ ~ 1340 352 405 3633
June, 1905 2172 6 „ „ 1340 275 557 4190
Dec., 1905 2390 6 ~ „ 1340 231 819 5009
The reserves consist of undivided profit £1958, and
renewal and repairs fund £3051 ; and most of the
amounts shown as written off have been wiped out of this
fund. On plant and buildings £46,062 has been spent,
and £3109 of this has been written off ; while £7899 spent
on repairs and renewals has been provided out of profits
and also written off. Possibly' in spite of repairs and
renewals the works have undergone a general deprecia-
tion, in which case the stated reserves are not wholly
sound. The Brighton seems nevertheless to be in a much
better position in this respect than most gas co.’s ; and
the accounts also appear to be very satisfactorily pre-
sented. The co. has no debts apart from trifling current
accounts ; on the other hand, it has practically no assets
apart from the undertaking.
* * » *
Goulborn Gas Co. (Goulburn, N.S.W.): —
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1901 .. £BO2 15 per cent. =£7so £52 .£5979
June, 1902 .. 762 15 „ „ ~ 750 12 5991
Dec., 1902 .. 942 15 „ „ „ 750 192 6183
June, 1903 .. 938 15 „ „ „ 750 188 6371
Dec., 1903 .. 953 15 „ „ „ 750 203 6574
June, 1904 .. 1160 15 „ „ ~ 750 410 6984
Dec., 1904 .. 1180 15 ~ ~ ~750 430 7414
June, 1905 .. 1111 15 „ „ „ 750 361 7775
Dec., 1905 .. 1205 15 ~ ~ ~750 455 8230
Of the total added to the reserves in the half-year £250
has gone into plant renewal account, and £lO4 into meter
renewal account; probably these items might just as
correctly be written off, and the total reserves
be reduced to £5309. Few country gas companies
show better provision for depreciation. The total
invested in land, mains, works, etc., is £12,633 ; so that
the reserves could wipe out two-thirds of the capital
cost, and still leave the co. with its capital intact
Besides its fixed investments, stocks, etc., the co. has
£6334 on deposit or in State securities, and altogether
presents, from the investor’s point of view, a* very
creditable sheet. J
* * * «
Albury Gas Co. (Albury, N.S.W.)
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves
June, 1902.. £371 lOp.c. =£375
Dec., 1902.. 374 10 ~ „ 375 £IOO 785
June, 1903.. 372 10 ~ ~ 375 40 742
Dec., 1903.. 459 10 „ ~ 375 £B4 B*>6
June, 1904.. 471 10 ~ ~ 375 96 92?
Dec., 1904.. 524 10 ~ „ 375 149 1071
June, 1905.. 418 10 ~ ~ 375 43 1114
Dec., 1905.. 554 10 „ „ 375 179 1293
The reserves are purely nominal, being a set-off against
depreciation of plant, &o. ; and a part of the profits
shown above is not true profit for the same reason.
During the year £222 has been earned over and above the
div. In plant the co. has £12,970. Therefore just under
£1 15s. p.c. p.a. has been provided for decay. If this is
sufficient, then the dividend has been just earned. If it
isn’t sufficient, then part of the div. has been paid out of
capital.
* * * *
Tam worth Gas and Coke Co. (N.S.W.)
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves
June, 1902.. £692 lOp.c. =£soo £l92 £1766
Dec., 1902.. 699 10 ~ ~ 500 199 1965
June, 1903.. 623 10 ~ ~ 500 £IOO 23 1988
Dec., 1903.. 571 10 ~ ~ 546 25 2013
June, 1904.. 642 10 ~ ~ 546 100 2009
Dec., 1904.. 631 10 ~ ~ 546 B5 2094
June, 1905.. 635 10 ~ ~ 546 B9 2183
Dec., 1905.. 597 10 ~ „ 546 5l 2234
Possibly repairs and renewals are being effected out of
revenue ; but it is not certain. The lands, plant, mains,
etc., are steadily rising in book value ; every fraction of
undivided profit is going into them. This may mean
that, when something wants patching, the cost of the
patch is added to the alleged value of the undertaking,
on the principle that a man with a wooden leg is worth
about £2 more than a man with two legs that hair can
grow on. It isn’t certain that this co. adopts this prac-
tice ; but it is clear that it is writing off nothing for
decay, or putting nothing by for extraordinary repairs
and renewals. And when those repairs and renewals fall
upon the co. in a heap, and the current profits won’t pay
for them, the shareholders will probably be angry. They
won’t remember then that for years they drew dividends
in excess of the true earnings. Meantime they are too
busy trying to fight off the opposition of the local munici-
pal electric-lighting depaitment, to think of anything
besides that.
* * * *
Rockhampton Gas and Coke Co. (Q.)
Dividends and Written De-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. ficit.
June, 1903..
Dec., 1903.. £1614 { 2’ pic. ord.'} =£7l3 £747 795
June, 1904., 1501 9" p. c.’pref." ~ 116 706 116
Dec., 1904.. 16(56 {2s pc ord’} „ 719 831
June, 1905.. 1237 9* p.c.’ pref! „ 116 1237 116
Dec., 1905,. 1337 „ 717 504 -
This is the lighting co. that went on gaily paying di\i-
dends out of bogus profits—bogus because it charged
either nothing, or not enoug'h, for wear and tear —
until finally it found itself with a worn-out plant,
and with no money to buy another, the money
which should have been laid aside for renewals
and replacements having been scattered in dividends.
There is no telling how much longer the farce would have
been played if the auditors hadn’t struck ; unfortunately
they didn’t strike soon enough. They still report: “ We are
of opinion that the assets are over-valued.” As divs. have
been paid out of capital, either every ceyit of profit
should now be applied towards restoring that capital, or
the capital wrongly distributed should be written off.
Instead, the co. doesn’t write off this capital and it pays
a dividend even on ordinary shares. The depreciation
which wasn’t provided for was mostly in connection with
the electric-light branch ; wisely, it seems, that plant is
not being renewed, but that part of the profit which
is not being distributed is being used to pay oft
debentures (now £20,000), the assets being written down
to correspond. The assets are still valued at £69,671 ;
and before paying debenture debt the working profit was
about £5 Bs. per cent, per annum. But, as the electric-
light plant, mains, and fittings, independent of buildings
and freehold, are in at over £II,OOO, and as this branch
made a small dead loss even before paying debenture
interest, it is obvious that the co.’s gas business, taken
alone, is very profitable. But so much dead horse will
make even a highly profitable business very tired. The
co. adopts the unusual course of paying a full year’s
preference dividend out of a half-year’s profits. In the
table this dividend is spread over the two half-years
rather than show it as nil for one half and 18 per cent,
for the other half.
The Assets Realisation and General Finance
Co. (Sydney)
Loss Written Loss Recovered Total
on Off on from debt Net Visible
Busi- pro- property' Written Visible De-
Dec., ness, perties. sales. Off. Loss. ficit.
1896.. £1667 £579 £12,946 £15,192 £65,308
1897.. 1318 844
1898.. 1293 521
1899.. 1089 294 6,949 8,332 77,616
1900.. 808 490
1901.. 242 442 3,670 4,354 83,268
1902.. 631 539
1903.. 532 904 £7B4 652 85,090
1904.. 1230 334 1,58 S 3,152 88,242
1905.. 744 620 106 1,470 89,712
At the end of 1895-—ten years ago—the visible deficit was
£50,116. Since then £39,596 has been added to it, made
up as follows
Loss on business .. .. .. £9,554
Loss on prop rty sales .. ... 24,475
Written off property.. ... ... 5,567
Total loss, 10 years .. .. £39,596
In the 10 years, capital to the amount of £46,710 has been
got in, yet liabilities have been reduced by' only £42,087 ;
and £34,973 of assets have disappeared into-the bargain,
of which £5567 has gone through the writing-down of
book values. Even assuming that the amount thus
written off (£5567) has been written off property which is
still in hand, it has taken the whole of the new capital
(£46,710), and nearly £30,000 (book value) of assets to pay
off about £42,000 of’ the co.’s debt. If it takes £46,000 of
cash and £30,000 of assets to pay off £42,000 of debt, how
much assets will it take to pay off the remaining £21,112
of debt ? All that the co. has to pay' it with is £60,562 of
assets —when they are done the whole of the capital is
gone. And as last year the assets returned gross only
£1298 (which, on a 5 p.c. basis, means a capital value of
£25,960), it looks as though the capital can reckon itself
as lost. It has mostly had that idea for some years past,
and there seems no reason why the mournful idea should
be disturbed now.
* * W ♦
Deniliquin and Moama Railway Co. (N.S.W.):
Unexplained
Additions
to Re- Written Re-
Profits. serves. Dividends. off. serves.
June, 1900.. £682 £390 4 p.c. =£2ooo £35,078
Dec., 1960.. 4603 1583 4 ~ „ 2000 39,264
June, 1901.. 973 4 „ „ 2000 £1584 36,653
Dec., 1901.. 4106 4 ~ ~ 2000 218 38,541
June, 1902.. 2228 13 4 ~ ~ 2000 38,782
Dec., 1902.. 4412 1 4 ~ ~ 2000 41,195
June, 1903.. 636 4 ~ ~ 2000 59 39,772
Dec., 1903.. 1392 1 3 „ „ 1500 39,665
June, 1904.. 691 2J „ ~ 1250 60 39,046
Dec., 1904.. 2412 2J „ ~ 1250 1 40,207
June, 1905.. 435 1 21 „ „ 1250 39,393
Dec., 1905.. 3615 2J ~ » 1250 41,758
This looks better. But it is still poor. The capital is
£IOO,OOO (besides £30,000 debenture bonds); on share
capital and reserves the year’s return was thus £2 17s. Bd.
p.c. The railway serves a half-pastoral, half-agricultural
country ; and what a gamble that sort of country is can be


v,* -9w*i'-‘*-aa emv*
to
>ur . 4
£kat '.w ■*>’
it ‘will be : ■
carried ■ v '>—
©“* V
W
WRITE
TO
m
mfo.
m
the
%
?€
f fsU
%
%/
KENNEDY BROTHERS,
General Financial Agents,
and Company Managers,
Liverpool and London Buildings, 62 PITT ST„ SYDNEY,
See Advertisement on Page 25.
partly reckoned up from the fact that buyersof these shares
were offering 465. the other day, and the nearest seller was
60s. —and you could get a closer quotation than that for
a Tatts’ sweep-ticket. The railway (line, rolling stock,
&c.) has been taken in for many years past at £162,672.
Something like £3500 a year is appropriated for main-
tenance and renewals. If this amount absolutely main-
tains the value of these assets, well and good. But if
something in the way of general decay is happening—
something that will involve extra-large renewals by-and-
bye—then the reserves are not as solid as they look, and
the current profit isn’t what it seems, simply because it
will have to be drawn upon later on for something
that will give no extra return. But what the exact
position is in that matter you can’t tell from looking at
the balance-sheet. You could tell better by looking at the
permanent way and rolling stock. It is certain, however,
that the value of these things isn’t improving ; so that
if any allowance is made at all it must be in the direction
of knocking something off the stated profits.
* * # *
Premier Carruthers, Mines-Minister Moore, and
the latter’s Department would be doing Australia a good
turn if they took an early opportunity to look well into
the prospects of the huge shale co. put off in London at
£BOO,OOO to work N.S.W. deposits. So far as Tiie Bulletin
can find out, the London co. hasn’t said anything of any
report from a geologist or other person likely to be able
to tell whether shale was thereabouts in quantity or not;
certainly there was a report from a man who knows some-
thing about the treatment of shale, but that is another
matter. What the Department might find out
is how much the promoters got, and what
they got it for ; and incidentally it might
ascertain what the same crowd’s previous connection
with N.S.W. mining has been —including any negotiations
in regard to the North Cobar. As The Bulletin said
months ago when the Shale Co. was first mentioned,
Australia cannot afford any more disastrous fiascos ; and
all present appearances point to a fiasco here. So far no
widespread harm has been done ; newspaper-man Newnes
has put up a big amount, and ex-Gov. Brassey is alleged
to have been introduced to the thing ; but, though Lon-
don papers have tootled about the prodigious success of
the flotation, it is very doubtful if the public has come in
to any extent yet. A day or two after the much-boomed
flotation, the shares were reported to be at a stiff premium
of about 15s. on the £ shares—and that’s when J. Bull would
be most likely to drop into the business ; but, it is be-
lieved, he still didn’t buy to any extent. So far the N.S.W.
Government has merely helped on the boom—mainly
through the ill-advised fluting of Premier Carruthers —
and, on that account if for no other reason, it’s up to the
Mines Department now to say what it thinks of the pro-
spects ahead of this £BOO,OOO co.
* * « *
First consignment of 100 tons of lead ore from
C.S.A., Cobar, gave at Cockle Creek 51 per cent, lead,
21dwt. gold, and nearly 2oz. silver. Allowing for carriage
and treatment, this returned nearly £5 per ton net. Alto-
gether 300 tons are to be treated, and as the whole con-
signment is being taken from the dump, other lots will pro-
bably run on the above average. Latest assays from drill:
—1 per cent, copper, 6‘3 per cent, lead, 9dwt. silver, and
20gr. gold. This is not sensational, but the drill hole is
vertical, while the lode is underlying one in eight. It is
possible different figures would show up if a bore travelled
down with the underlie.
* * * *
Premier, Cobar, filled its list of 24,000 contrib.
shares within 48 hours, and went to a premium of Is.
There is much promising country in the Premier neigh-
borhood, and it is becoming fashionable. Nothing has
been done in Occidental, Gt. Western, Young Australia,
or other mines on this line, to prove the values of the
copper zone ; but as the Peak is now on copper, chances
are the syndicate will find out what’s underneath. Pre-
mier may miss the brown and blue lode quite easily, not-
withstanding Bonderson’s assurance ; but it won’t miss
the settled country of the Peak’s copper zone.
Mt. Boppy, Canbelego (N.S.W.), which optioned
most of its allegedly auriferous leases to the Anglo-
Australian Exploration Syndicate some time back, hasn’t
so far, after an expenditure of probably £3OOO, located
anything encouraging in those parts. Latest movement
is to practically abandon work on these leases. Expert
Clemes, who preceded Frecheville for the Bull people, had
the first chance to do what Frecheville did, but declined.
Clemes didn’t look west, for the obvious reason that he
thought the Boppy South a continuation of the lode ; and
in support of this theory he reported to his co. unre-
servedly that the reef was traceable throughout the whole
concession. Clemes wore considerably patched pants, but
his mining knowledge was sound.
* * * *
Mt. Boppy North, under option to J. Bull, has
had the satisfaction of an inrush of water at the 360 ft.
level. In 48 hours the flow made 70ft. in the shaft, and
most time since has been spent in pumping. The most
satisfactory feature lies in the fact that the 300 ft. level of
the parent mine, which prior to North’s strike had a good
flow of water, is now being drained by North Boppy snaft
—an almost certain sign that the North Boppy lode is a
continuation of the main mine.
* * * *
Budgery, Hermidale (far west N.S.W,), was
lately floated in 100 shares of £ls each, and will shortly
begin work. Intention is said to be to sink a new shaft;
but as there are three shafts, on parallel lodes, and rang-
ing from 50 to 100 ft., the necessity for a new shaft isn’t
obvious. As funds are limited, shareholders should insist
on the deepest shaft being extended, and go nap on
crosscuts.
* • * *
Budgery South, 60 ac., held by W. Matchett, of
Budgery Station, has passed into Sydney hands.
Boundary on line of lode is within three chains of Bud-
gery’s shaft, from which IBdwt. and 23dwt. were assayed.
The old hand at the game—the man who knows
what a see-saw the base metal markets are—has had a
busy month, passing on the Broken Hill baby, and trying
to look as if it were the last infant in the world he’d be
likely to leave on a doorstep. They will be troublesome
babies, several of them ; but Block 14’s, at the prices they
were hustled to after the Baillieu crowd smiled on them,
look likely to prove the worst of the family. By the way,
what has become of that contract for the supply of con-
centrates to the Sulphide, with which they helped to
boost 14’s ? In fact, what has become of all the promises
made in connection with this mine ?
* * * *
Broken Hill isn’t seriously worrying about
water yet, though the extent of its supply is mostly
guesswork, owing to the siltage of the reservoir ; but
some of the outlying camps are stone-broke already.
Pinnacles, where the Queensland Smelting 00. has the
best Barrier mine off the Broken Hill lode, is hanging on
to the soakage in a dry creek ; and the mine has to
condense water for its own use.
* * * *
Junction North, Broken Hill, has benefited
more by the most recent find in the British than the
British has itself. The first-rate ore reported struck in
the latter mine is right on the boundary, and the British
can have little of it. But the Junction North, though it
worked much of the body out long ago, should still have
a good slice. The difficulty is to get at it, that part
of the mine being very insecure.
W.A. gold yield for January shows a very
marked falling-off compared with the previous two
Januaries, the figures being—l9o4, 176,6530 z. ; 1905,
165,4520 z. ; 1906, 154,3650 z. There is no doubt the
Westralian output is on the down grade, as several mines
have collapsed, and many others are sick. The old rich
tailings have also been worked off, and extraction in most
cases has improved so much that current tailings are very
poor, but may pay for re-treatment after becoming
oxidised.
» • * *
Bewick, Moreing and Co. are having a run of
bad luck with their mines in W.A. Following the closing
down of the Lancefield, Burbank’s Birthday, White
Feather Main Beefs and Boulder Deep Levels have all
closed down. Vivien during December lost £1100; during
the last three months it has gone £2600 to the bad.
Bellevue has been looking sick for a long time, and has
been working at a loss till Dec., when £3OO was made ; and
management hopes to pull through. Cosmopolitan has been
struggling, and profits have nearly vanished, being only
£4OO for December, or lid. per ton. Lake View Consols’
December profit was only £23oo—the lowest for a long
time, if not actually the worst record ; while Sons of
Gwalia’s margin dropped to £6700, against a previous
monthly average of £ll,OOO, owing to increased unex-
plained expenditure on capital account. As to Great
Fingall Consols, the grade of ore in December fell to 51s.
sd. per ton, and the profit to £30,000, both easily the
worst on record; and the outlook below 1200 ft. is poor.
Oroya is still maintaining a profit of about £40,000
monthly by reducing costs and treating increased ton-
nage, but the life of the mine is limited. During the past
six months grade of ore has dropped 145., costs ss. per ton,
while the tonnage treated monthly has increased fully
1000 tons. The only bright spot in 8.,M. and Co.’s
firmament is South Kalgurli, which started crush-
ing six months ago on ore worth 365., and earned
£550 by treating 5100 tons in July. During December
co. treated 7400 tons of ore worth 38s. sd. per ton,
and showed a profit of £6200. All this is not cheerful
reading; but it is useless blinking the fact that W.A.
mining has passed its zenith, and there will be a serious
collapse unless more prospecting is done, and new finds
made.
• • • •
Golden Pole, Davyhurst (W.A.), is still the
cause of much uncertainty. In December Percy Morgans
inspected the mine, but has sailed for the Cape without
his report being published. Surveyor Macartney was
commissioned to make a re-survey of the reserves, and it
is affirmed that he estimated them at 6000 tons only, but
no official report is forthcoming. Herbert Daly, represent-
ing 70,000 shares, and Trewartha James, representing
50,000, have also examined the mine, but their
reports are kept secret. Apparently the early
holders got rid of their scrip fairly well, as
they now hold 80,000, or only 40 per cent. As
thousands of shares were sold under cover, and not trans-
ferred, probably “insiders” actually sold their entire
holdings, and possibly more. The long-promised div. has
not yet eventuated, but it is possible an effort will be
made to pay it soon to help the market. Since
the last div. of £7500 was paid in September, the
aggregate profit has been £13,000. Deducting £6OOO for
outstanding debts there remains £7OOO, but if this is paid
away it leaves the co. bare of resources. The January
profit can’t be large, as only half the mill is running, and,
until development is pushed ahead, output cannot be in-
creased.
• • * *
Victory United, Cuddingwara (W.A.), a dis-
appointment since 1899, when it paid three 6d. divs.,
looks more like giving holders a run for their money. In
the deeper levels the reef was poor and pinched, and cut
off to the south by a crosscourse. Managers succeeded
each other ; but not till Merry came, in April last, was the
reef found beyond the crosscourse at 640 ft. It was 2ft.
wide, worth 26dwt. It at first proved disappointing, how-
ever, and the ground became so hard that rock drills had
to be used ; but it has improved again. A winding and
cyanide plant were erected last year, but the battery is
an antiquated rattletrap. As worked at present, mine is
only a hand to mouth affair ; still, if current profits are
used in development, co. may yet be put on a stronger
basis. Anyway, shares (80,000) should provide a fair
gamble.
& • * • *
Westralia Waihi, Davyhurst (W.A.), though
looking fairly well, is still troubled by the erratic and
eccentric nature of the reefs and leaders. Costs for
half-year ended' Nov. 30 pan out at 31s. 9d. a ton ; but for
depreciation no allowance is made. Adelaide exes, come
to about Is. a ton, and nearly half of this is for accident
insurance. The worst feature is that the value of the
bullion shows a marked shrinkage, and was only ,475. per
oz. in December, against 575. in July. The earnings have
been very erratic ; losses were made in June and
September, while August came out square, and substantial
profits were made in July, Oct. and Nov. The net profit
for the six months was £530. A possible success on a
small scale.
-* • * *
Vivien, Lawler’s (W.A.), seems to be drifting on
the rocks. Co. has been in existence three years, and has
been one-horse from the start. During its first year it
won bullion worth £14,300, but showed a profit of £54 only.
Latterly co. has been working at a dead loss, and appears
to be in an utterly hopeless position. Grade of ore during
past six months has dropped 13s. a ton, and instead of a
paltry profit of £l6O there was the substantial loss of
£llOO. Although ore reserves six months ago were valued
at 435., December result only panned out 295. a ton. Co.
is in 90,000 shares of £1 each, of which 76,007 are issued.
A year ago these shares were quoted as high as 355. ; now
you could hardly sell them for anything. As in the case
of Boulder Deep Levels, whose shares reached 405., the
directors did not seize the opportunity to place the
reserve shares on the market. Mine is equipped with a
10-head mill—far too small for a highly capitalised mine,
but quite enough to prove that the 73,000 tons of 435. ore,
said to be in reserve on July 1, were a myth as regards
value if not as regards quantity.
* * * *
Hampton Plains Co. (W.A.) holds 1,432,000 ac.
of goldfields country, yet no producing gold mine has
ever been found on it. This is hardly to be wondered at,
as property was originally acquired for pastoral purposes,
and all hilly country was cut out when taking up the
blocks. A rich surface find has just been made outside
the boundary by woodcutters cutting timber from the
Lakeside tramline near Red Hill, about 40 miles south of
Kalgoorlie. The value of this find can’t be gauged til!
some work has been done on it, but it is virgin country,
and may prove something good. Access to the locality is
easy, owing to the tramline being available for transport.
* * * *
“Puck”: Aprojws Frank Reed’s letter (B.
, 25/l/’O6). The responsibility for the disastrous Peak Hill
(W. AJbusiness may be divided pretty equally between that
individual and the W.A. Government. The business, even
on flotation, seemed particularly curious. Edward Witte-
nooin, Minister for Mines, authorised Reed, at that time
a departmental engineer, to report on Peak Plill for G. D.
Simpson, giving him 12 days’ leave of absence, “because
it was represented that English capitalists would not
accept the report of any gold-mining authority unless he
were a Government official.” Reed reported, “ the suc-
cess of the mines referred to is quite assured,” &c., &c.
And for this the Government received £75! Reed now
states that he recommended the promoter to buy the
property for £70,000 ; what the co. paid for it, however,
was £93,000 cash and £92,000 in fully-paid shares,
£185,000 in all. The company was capitalised at
£250,000, and, in spite of this inflation, Reed be-
came general manager 1 The co. also gave Simpson an
option over 20,000 shares at par, which was probably
worth to him £140,000, as the shares rose above £9, to
which maybe added the premium he netted from the
public on his original 92,000 shares. The prospectus was
headed: “ A new goldfield of phenomenal richness, proved
by Government reports, statistics, and returns, to be one
of the richest goldfields yet discovered ; ” and in it the
directors stated that “ they take it as collateral evidence
of the soundness of the business that two gentlemen—one
the Speaker of the Legislative Assembly, the other the
brother of the Premier of Western Australia—have, after
investigating the business with the Chief Engineer of the
Government, identified themselves with the company.”
Attached to every prospectus by a colored ribbon was a
beautiful fac simile of Reed’s letter of 27th May, 1897,
written on Department of Mines paper and stamped with
the Royal Arms, enclosing a copy of his official report.
The prospectus was, in fact, a masterpiece of the
promoters’ art, and no pains were spared to foster the
impression that the undertaking was supported, and its
success almost guaranteed, by the Government of VVestra-
lia. For £75, the Government gave Simpson the means
of extracting something'like £750,000 (counting premiums)
from the British public. Other less fortunate promoters
would gladly have given thousands of pounds for similar
facilities.
* * » *
Charters Towers mills during January treated
14,943 tons for 84400 z. Cyanide recovered bullion valued
at £15,196 from 17,286 tons of residues. Smelters’ returns
bring the total for the month to £58,594. Dividends paid
by three co.’s (Brilliant Central, Brilliant St. George, and
Golden Alexandra) totalled £8673 ; while calls by 21 co.’s
and cats amount to £7485. In Jan., 1905, returns totalled
£60,342; divs.. £17,957; calls, £2975. Almost double
last month’s dividends, and with only half the calls.
December returns were £86,512 ; divs., £35,100 ; calls,
£6500.
-* * * *
Principal crushings and returns from Charters
Towers for Jan. were from Hills United, 2750 tons for
9900 z. ; Brilliant Extended, 2536 tons for 1189 oz. ; St.
George, 2112 tons for 12130 z. ; Block and Wyndham, 1896
tons for 6700 z. ; Brilliant Central, 1130 tons for 680 oz. ;
Brilliant Block, 810 tons for 291 oz. ; New Queen, 500 tons
for 3]ooz. ; Phoebe, 434 tons for 2460 z. ; Victory, 33 tons
for 560 z. ; Carrington’s P.C., 195 tons for 2630 z. ; Clark’s
B. W. and V. (two parcels) 122 tons for 121 oz. ; Tuckett’s
Victory tribute, 162 tons for 5890 z.
* * * *
Brilliant Block, Charters Towers, is going for a
nasty fall. Total development for six months was 612 ft.,
made up of levels 250 ft., one crosscut 149 ft., underlie
90ft., and rises and winzes 123 ft. Mine is in a very low
state, although output shows an increase of 800 tons ;
but improvement in returns (and that is what the co.
needs) is unnoticeable. They raised and treated 4214
tons for 20520 z. gold, worth (including residues)£Bß93, equal
to £2 2s. 3d. per ton. Costs run to £2 os. 2d ; profit only
£430 for the six months. A rather narrow margin to
depend upon for dividends; yet the co. keeps pot-
tering about on the north-east side of its lease,
towards the St. George and Extended boundaries,
instead of launching out into the untried south or western
ground. The mill shows a slight improvement in re-
turns ; 11,191 tons of the co.’s own and the public’s stone
were crushed. The profit from this was £1377. What
keeps the co.’s head above water is the steady profit from
the cyanide works ; the mill is not to be depended upon,
for in the previous term it just about cleared expenses.
Cyanide process dealt with 13,090 tons. Of this 10,485
tons came from tributors and the mine ; the balance
(2605 tons) came from an old accumulation of sands close
by the works. The whole- gave 64160 z. bullion, worth
£8207. Profit was £1344. Directors still pursue the
foolish policy of putting nothing away for development,
which is a necessity in view of the reduced ore supplies.
Total profits from mill, mine, and cyanide works were
£3152 ; yet two dividends amounting to £5250 were paid.
* * * *
New Ravenswood (Q.), practically Bull-owned,
made a profit of £17,643 for year ending June 30 last.
Chairman Poston stated that this result was obtained
after writing off £2914 depreciation and £11,658 “which
has been expended during the year in opening up the
mines.” Directors now see they have been too liberal in
dividends. This year only 25 p.c. has been paid ; previous
year, it was 50 p.c. After paying aforesaid 25 p.c.,
£13,338 is carried forward, which is by no means too
much for “the extensive works suggested by the manager
for the further improvement and opening up of the
mines.” This policy of development has not been
decided on too soon. Apart from being refractory,
the gold stone of Ravenswood is generally capricious.
During past year 24,689 tons yielded £89,490, or
£3 12s. 6d. per ton. Previous year 17,810 tons gave
£77,398, or £4 6s. lid. per ton. Value has consequently
fallen 14s. 5d., or very nearly 3klwt. per ton; and this
downward tendency, which is not reported for the first
time, will sit heavily on the chest of the co. until it
establishes ore reserves and attacks them in the manner
that values demand. Current year may witness improved
profits, result of re-treating old tailings ; but this has its
limits. A local advisory committee has been created ;
members are J. Millican and S. H. Thorp.
* ■* * #
The agreement between Chillagoe Co. and
Queensland Government for the construction of the
Etheridge railway has been signed ; it is based upon the
resolutions passed through both Houses last session.
This being so, there will be no difficulty later on in having
it ratified by Act; but even so, £450,000, in spite of the
2jj per cent. Government guarantee, will take some get-
ting. Yet they have just had grand rains in Queensland,
and that has put life into everything.
* * * •
From Woodlark Island, British Papua : “Syd-
ney-owned Woodlark Island Prop, mine shut down on the
11th Jan. ; not a man working there now —only the en-
gine-driver, keeping water down. Kulamadau mine is
looking well, and keeping the mill going with only seven
miners, under ‘Nymagee ’ Hislop’s management."
« * *■ *
Success of Castlemaine (Vic.) dredging has
made some managements greedy, and generally the more
incompetent, the greedier they are. In one small co.
now nearing the end of its tether, after eighteen months’
work, the board has received more in fees than the co.
has paid in divs. After declaring the first dividend (and
probably the last), one little co. raised the secretary’s
salary to an inordinate sum ; but mine improvements
were neglected, and at next clean up over £IOO worth of
gold was reported lost or stolen, because the crowd hadn’t
thought of a lock and key. The loss of £IOO meant the
loss of a Is. div. The foundries dominate the opinions
of many directors, who hardly know the difference be-
tween a pump and a motor, and trouble comes in that
way. In no other branch of mining in Vic. are there so
many unqualified men posing as experts, and making
their profits at the expense of the small shareholders. ■
* * * *
A correspondent re Cock’s Pioneer (B. l/2/’06) :
Give the credit for putting the co. on its feet to chairman
J. S. Dane and mine-manager Falconer, who did the
battling in days when troubles came in battalions. As to
a modern plant of the Castlemaine type being probably
more effective than the electric plant, the co. is work-
ing ground up to 70ft. deep, and is lifting the wash 115 ft.
It has raised the dirt as high as 130 ft. (about four times
the height raised by the Castlemaine barges), and this
with only two lifts. This can mainly be placed to the
credit of Falconer, who suggested and designed solid
liners for the Jennings pumps. The shareholders, the
other day, voted him a bonus of £IOO for his work.
Directors have in view considerable reductions in expen-
diture by filling in the paddock at the back of the barge ;
but until it is proved whether the ground at present
being driven for is as profitable as some of the old identi-
ties say it is, this cannot be done.
* * ♦ *
Recently dead, aged 49, William TUapron, one of
Victoria’s best-known alluvial mining men. Some of the
mines he has managed are Chalk’s Junction, Chalk’s
No. 3, and Main Lead. Some weeks back he resigned the
managership of Charlotte Plains Consolidated Mines,
Ltd., owing to ill-health.
• • * *
Anto : On your own showing, the only safe and
sure policy is the no-borrowing policy C.M.L. : (1)
No. (2) Better that than none, though it stands a good
way from the t0p.... Hermit: Forfeit.. ..C.E.T.: Flaw
in that familiar argument is that Savings Bank money
isn’t “ locked up.” It is lent out, usually to promote
industry J. K. Henderson: The table (B. l/2/’O6) ex-
pressly stated that the expense-figures as to Metropolitan
Life office were for “mixed” business Cilyn : Keep
your policy, especially if you paid up on it any length of
time ; soundness of office is not seriously impeached.
• • * *
Things at Collie, the Westralian coalfield, go
from bad to worse. The Proprietary (originally the
Wallsend) has been taken on tribute by R. C. Young,
electrician (son-in-law of ex-manager Evans). The union
does not recognise tributing ; therefore labor complica-
tions are worse than ever. For some time, pillar-stripping
has been the principal source of supply. Operations will,
it is said, revert to the old Wallsend seam : but this
means money, and Cohen has learned to look on Collie as
he looks on pork.
The Tasmania Co., Beaconsfield, has had
another profitable return for last year producing' 36,5790 z.
valued at £153,626. This Co.’s reduction plant is most
complete. The Luting system of concentration
(hydraulic classifiers, Jigs and Vanners) was introduced
nearly 10 years ago, while about 4 years ago the plant
was further increased on the same system. Full par-
ticulars of Luhrig Machinery may be obtained from the
general agents, W. and J. Lempriere, Melbourne. Luhrig
Vanners are specially adapted for the successful treat-
ment of slimes and are doing'great work on the leading
gold, tin, copper, and galena mines of Australia and
Tasmania.'
» * * *
From advices to hand we learn that the Mount
Morgan Gold Mining Co. who lately installed five Hornsby
“ Upright ” Water Tube Boilers representing 2500 h.p.
have their new plant under steam and a phenomenal
saving is confidently expected in their coal bill and cost of
maintenance. It is gratifying to note that the
“Hornsby” boilers are fulfilling all that the maker’s
claimed, and with the excellent results obtained, com-
petent engineers have no hesitation in recommending
their general adoption. The firm have already created
one engineering record with their well-known patent
safety oil engine, carrying, as it has, everything before it
in all parts of the world, and we have no doubt they are
on the eve of creating a Second record with their
“Upright” boiler. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd., Hay-
market, Svdney; Spencer-street, Melbourne.**
'* * * *
The Cathcart Proprietary Gold Mine, Ararat,
was the first mine in Victoria to adopt electricity as motive
power for pumping, hoisting and puddling. This plant
commenced work in September, 1904, and has been in
constant and successful operation ever since. It consists
of two return tube boilers, 160 horse-power engine, 110
kilowatt dynamo, switchboard, an electric hoist capable
of lifting 800 tons in 24 hours, an electric three-throw
pump raising 25,000 gallons of water per hour and a 35
horsepower motor driving the puddlers. The dynamo
also provides electricity for 40 lights by means of which
the surface and underground workings are lighted.
Experience obtained on this mine during one year’s
service proves that: (1) electricity makes an actual saving
in fuel amounting to about £350 per annum ; (2) the
dynamo and motors cost practically nothing to maintain ;
(3) the cost of lubrication is reduced to a minimum ; (4)
electric motors require much less attention than
steam engines; and finally (5) electricity is much
more flexible than steam power, permitting ready exten-
sion or change as mining conditions frequently require.
The contractors for this installation were the Austral Otis
Engineering Company Limited, corner of Hanna and
Kavanagh-streets, South Melbourne, Sole Agents for Ganz
and Company, Budapest, Hungary.* [1
* # « *
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silberbk.ro and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
The British Broken Hill Silver Mining Go.,
after careful consideration of all types of boilers, have
placed an order with Babcock and Wilcox for three large
boilers, each of 500 h.p. Superheaters, chain grate
mechanical stokers and economiser have .also been
ordered from the same firm. This now makes 40 boilers
of the Babcock and Wilcox type supplied to the various
mines and industries at Broken Hill. Wherever economy
in fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed. Hence the recent unanimous decision of the
Expert Admiralty Committee to install Babcock boilers as
the standard for the British Naw\*
» * * •
The strength, lightness, durability and low cose
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discriotion of cast or wrought iron work.*
■*-*-* *
Card Ore Concentrating Tables.—lmportant
notice to mine managers and users of Concentrators. The
Supreme Court of Victoria did not decide that the Card
w 7 as an infringement of the Wilfley Patent. The decision
merely referred to a top which was altered without
authority and was never sold. Despite the strongest
opposition Letters Patent were granted for the Card as a
new and improved Concentrator. On the Wilfley the
dressing is done on the smooth surface at the ends of the
Cleats but the Card, on the contrary, dresses the mineral
in the Patent Channels which extend to the end. What
Card users say “ Greater Capacity (up to 50 per cent.)
than any other, higher Concentrates poorer tailings, in
wear and tear far ahead of its rivals, gives the greatest
satisfaction.” New booklet on application. N. Guthridge,
Limited.*
* * * •
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. _ Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).* . t
Send us your address and we will post you a
pamphlet gratis how to purify acetylene gas. Brandt
Bros., Pitt-street, Sydney, and Elizabeth-street, Mel-
bourne.*
Charters Towers.—Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Howry 7 , member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.* •
* * * *
The Queensland Smelting Company, Limited,
begs to notify its clients that it has ceased purchasing ore
from the public for the time being. A resumption of
purchasing operations will be advised in due course.*
Cobar. —For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894.
• * * *
A set of Three-Throw Pumps, capable of
delivering 3,000,000 gallons of water per day against a
head of 450 ft. is being built for the Victoria Deep Leads
G.M. Co., Moolert, Victoria, under the management of
Messrs. Bewick, Moreing and Co. The pumps are plunger
type, externally packed, and fitted with machine-cut
speer and pinion wheels and a grooved pulley 7 14ft.
diameter for a rope drive. There are 3 foot valves of the
double flap type, strainers, and air vessels attached to
the suction pipes ; 6 suction and 6 delivery valves of the
double beat type ; 3 sluice valves, and 6 charging pipes.
An air vessel, Bft. long and 27£in. in diameter fitted with
water gauge glass and cocks is placed over the main
delivery junction piece which is situated over centre, of
working barrels. The pumps are electrically driven.
The manufacturers are the Austral Otis Engineering Co.,
of South Melbourne, who have attained signal success
with the construction of these pumps.* [d.
* * * *
The Advertiser (Adelaide), in its issue of Ist
June, 1905, stated :—“ The annual report of The Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited shows that sub*
stantial progress continues to be made. The premium
income is larger by £lO,OOO than last year, and the
increase in the total is £16,000.”
* * » •
The Curtin Davis Proprietary Company, No
Liability 7, is prepared to consider offers of approved
mining properties under working option of purchase for
cash. Full particulars to R. E. Tweddell, Manager, 31
Queen-street, Melbourne.*


is nothing better for killing all
infectious disease germs than Little’s Soluble
Phenyle. Try it in your bath ; use it generally
throughout the household if you want comfort. No
vermin can live where it is used ; has 100 different
uses. Ask your grocer for a bottle.*
®s
0M
' ■•-;■
rjm
VS&sk
tPrSiu
M
m
tifor*
*
wm
m
fm
?MS
Wk
s&s
0 Kill Rabbits
& whe*
All lta\e*rKour\d.
' W-ife Us.
CUMINGSMmMs
!■-, MANUFACTURERS
. OF MANURES a.*
MELBOURNE.
WIRE CLOTH WEAVERS.
makers of all
KINDS OF WOVE
IRE i n Steel, Iron, Gal-
vanisedl, Copper, & Brass.
wertfyguytjuy
WE MAKE A SPECIALITY OF HEAVY WIRE CLOTH.
WE HAVE THE BEST ME
and LATEST MACHINERY
We would be pleased to get in communication with those interested in WIRE CLOTH.
We will be found Quick, Civil, Obliging and Cheap.
EASTWAY BROTHERS, 409
Factories: 533 A George St., and Albion Lane.
& 411 George St., Sydney
P.O. Box 858. Telephone 2076.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resch’s Waverley Bx'ewery, Agents.
Aboriginalities.
“ Bluey ” : John See, after his trip to
Japan and the North, said—“No white
man could liye in the Northern Territory.”
3Ui ? Here in Bourke a Chinese gardener
has a white man digging onions. The maxi-
mum temperature for 42 days has averaged
108‘05, and this white man ■ was digging
onions at Is. per bag and making as much as ICs.
per day. The. Chow, when asked why he didn’t
do it himself, said, “ Too hot.”
» * * ,
The Prooshan ” : lie the gambling in-
stinct. I sought shelter one rainy night at a road
camp. Four men sat round an up-ended case that
served for a table. The cook greeted me. All
the others were intent on watching the four
gamblers. I saw the stakes pass at intervals of
half a minute, and there seemed great haste in
making the fresh ante. “What the deuce are
they gambling on ? ” I whispered to the cook, no
cards being visible. The cook cocked his head in
a listening attitude and said, “ Listen ! ” “ Peep,
peep, peep, peep, peep,” came from a night-bird
in a tree some 50 paces from the camp. “They
are backing odds and evens on the bird’s peeps,'”
said the cook. “He peeps up there for about an
hour every night. Sometimes he goes up to 20
went 23 once ; but about 11 mostly pulls him up.
Some nights he peeps odder’n others. To-night
lie’s runnin’ pretty well even.” I waited till I
saw “evens” win TO, then I quitted, as the
weather looked looked like holding up. That was
the only time I struck “ bird ” 100.
PRACTICAL POULTRY KEEPING.
“Fowls paying yet ?”
Not exactly; but I think they'll soon be
self-supporting."
"plow's that ?”
They've begun to eat their own eggs. ”
“Alix”. d! 1/9/W, l , , „
, Allx T • lie I ) l , r ‘ (f • V 2/ 06) about depth
of Blue Lake, at Mt. Kosciusko. Mt. Gambier
(S. A.) possesses a Blue Lake, which is also sup-
posed to be bottomless. It must run in the name
surely. The Mt. Gambier Blue Lake has an
uncanny reputation on account of its supposed
depth.
SEASONABLE.
M‘G HURRY: “ What the divil are ye up to, Peter Toohey? ”
PETER: "Sure, I'm after gettin’ Mickey here to redooce me temp'ratoor void a lick o’ the
refrigeratin' paint left over from Casey's roof. It's moighty refreshin'."
‘‘LenaH.” gives some impressions of the
Christian Kanaka :
T 'Y a , nt „ t ’ 'em littl’ Desus?” said a South Sea
island belle, holding- up a small plaster-of-Paris image of
‘ wantef l 2s. fid. I purchased it for 4d
when pay-day arrives—twice a year—the “ Christian
Kanaka gives a substantial portion of his wages to the
missionary in exchange for hymn-books, Bibles, and
images, he charging 200 per cent, profit on them. But
the boy s most easily spared possession, and the first
"° " e converted into cash—for anything it will bring—is
little Desus.” Then follow hymn-books and Bibles, but
clothes" W ° Uld lnduce him to P art wi th his Sunday
Na ' ,er s iB' n .,on a Christian Kanaka. He knows too
much, and will shirk work whenever your eyes are off
him. Get a straight-out heathen, and you will be satis-
“e“, g' efctin g y°nr money’s worth. My last
Christian saved up a piece of meat till it was no longer
neuter gender, took it to the Inspector of Pacific
Islanders, and complained : “He no more work. Baas
belonga him giv’ him that for dinner.” Another shining-
light, who flopped on his knees in the middle of the cane-
field and prayed for me just because Id d him for
something, says now “ he no more Christian ; he bin have
em too much sing sing all time ; throat belonga him too
much sore.’ The missionary, it appears, made Alec
Malayta conduct all the services singing hymns, &c. till
the worm turned, and he is now simply revelling in his
heathenism again. “My word, now me play ’em fan-
tan—di-ink whisky—wages spend ’em—too much good
feller ; and he smiled a huge snlile.
* * " * *
“F.L.J.”: They were swapping stock-
horse lies, and Jerry took the pastry with an
account of a former moke of his that would chase
a bullock, grab the tail in his mouth, and, by
biting, force the beast up into the mob. Same
horse, when he thought Jerry was hungry, would
catch a roo rat in his mouth and dash its head
against a tree as he passed in full chase of
another.
* * * w
“F.R.H.”: We were “pulling” a bit of
road when the ganger put the new-chum on.
After a few pulls one of the men suggested that
irercy should “call,” as he was getting hoarse.
1 ercy was very obliging, but hadn’t quite got
the hang of the thing. When he gently
murmured “ Aw, propel her ! ” she didn’t
propel worth a cent ; and when he roared in
a voice like the roar of a wounded mouse,
Aw, extend her ! ” we really couldn’t pull
for laughing-. Then the ganger came down,
took a bar, and inserted it under the rail next to
Percy. Oh, bust her !” he yelled, like an ele-
pnant calling to its mate seven miles off, and
the line shifted so quickly that Percy Augustus
' itzjohnson fell with a clatter and skinned his—
aw—proboscis.
* * * *
F. : Is the Chinaman proof against sea-
sickness ? I was one of several hundred on board
a Oeelong-Melbourne steamer a few days ago. It
was sweltering, with a choppy sea ; and before we
were half-an-hour from the pier all on board were
calling for the steward. All, that is, except a
Omnaman and his wife, who were apparently
quite unaffected. Many had made the trip scores
of times before without any discomfort; but this
afternoon there seemed to be something in the
air that made trouble. But the Chow escaped,
and on all sides there was loud indignation at this
invidious distinction.
‘1 Alick only had one whole pair,
and when he said he’d take me down to the house
and “ interduce ” me to the girls, I didn't care
much about it until he said he’d wash ’em. “ I’ll
wash me pants at dinner time,” ’e says, “and
they’ll be dry by tea.” It came out cloudy that
afternoon, and it was winter, and tho’ they were
hung in front of the fire in the galley, those pants
seemed to have sopped up all the moisture round
Barrigun. Still Alick undertook to put on wet
pants. “They’ll be dry by ther time we walks
up there,” he said. We went. We had a good
time—-songs, recitations and games as we sat round
the big box fire, and all went well until Alick stood
up with his back to the fire reciting “Curfew shall
not bang ter-night.” As he warmed up to his work
so did the fire. The old woman came in, and, see-
ing him enveloped in a cloud of steam, gave the
alarm, bhe thought that his pants were alight so
she grabbed him by the leg to put out the con-
flagration, Now those pants were hanging
loosely, and when the hot scorched moleskin
touched his bare legs the cakewalk was first
introduced to that part. Alick didn’t stay long
. , r ~ yer couldn’t get any sense out’er them
girls he told me going home. You couldn’t get
anything them for laughing when I ex-
plained it to them.
* * * #
W liafc a nice school for crawlers, the
Queensland Pastoralists’ Association is establish-
ing m its Machine Shearing College ! Each vear
■pO nice youths are to be taught shearing, and" the
right principles of crawlsomeness. Thev will be
taught to say “ Yes-sir ” with the proper intona-
tion, and vote thfe “right” way at election
tunes, for a century some of the bigger land-
holders in Australia have been vainly trying to
establish an Australian “peasantry.” The last
scheme of the Q.P.A. seems about the most pro-
mising yet advanced for that end.
* * * .
Elmore : I have a collie that is very
fond of children, especially babies, but will kill
almost anything else that walks or crawls. Her
specialty is snakes, of which she has killed scores
this season, during which she has received three
bites one on December 24th, the second early in
January, and the third on January 30th. The
first two were from brown snakes, one on leg
other on neck, and the last from a red-bellied
black snake at the back of the jaw. This brute,
hekl on after I had battered him in two. After
the first bite the collie disappeared for three days
and then came back very shaky and poor, but the
other bites appear to have had absolutely no effect
on her. Possibly she has been inoculated to
immunity point. Every other snake-killing dog
1 have known has died after a bite.
AS. : Has any Abo-liar ever reared .
young kookaburra ? One fell out of a nest at
Moss Vale near where I was standing, during
last November. He was verv short n S
but well fed. I took him ho 2 SiC*
comfortable as possible. Fed him ™ ?
and mutton to his evident distaste. He W
weight rapidly, and scolded me when I fed
Tried him with grubs and beetles but he \blT'
them from him with such expressions of evident
disgust that I desisted. Happened to lav a round
whip near him. He was delighted, and did
best to swallow it. I took it away and he
cursed me roundly. I got him alO inch l J
to square matters, .and I shall never forget the
look of recognition that came into his gladdened
eyes. He spread his wings so that he could open
his mouth the wider, and half the lizard went
down Ins interior before I suspected that he eve.
had the intention of trying to swallow it. T PY
pected to see him choke, for the hind legs and
tail were still kicking and swinging round outside
but he gave a short augh and settled himself coni’
fortably to enjoy the process of digestion The
lizard went slowly down and in a little while had
disappeared into the ’hurra’s bone-mill. An hour
after he wanted more lizard. 1 got him four
frogs, and he lost no time in refreshing himself
Then he sank to rest with a “ this is a beautiful
world expression m his face. He was mad next
day when I offered him beef. He threw it off
and demanded lizards, frogs, or snakes Such
things evidently agreed with him. The mix
ture of bone and flesh in the lizard and
frogs promoted and aided digestion. I C aD
tured nearly two feet of black snake.
1 took It to the bird, promising to cut off all he
failed to get away with, feeling sure that a snake
bigger than himself would be more than he could
rastle with. The ’burra yelled with delight as he
grabbed the sinner by the neck. He banged the
snake's head hard on the ground two or three times
to ensure its deadness, and then, when satisfied
that it couldn’t bite when inside, proceeded to
stow it away in his bunkers. He got ten inches
down, and had a spell, and, though his throat was
full he seemed to have no difficulty in breathing
i stood by him with a tomahawk to cut the snake
if necessary, but he needed no assistance, for he
simply passed the snake in as it digested. Even a
goanna could not have done it better.
* * * *
Those Tocumwal (N.S.W.) farmers whose
lands were flooded last July wailed piteously at
the time and pleaded for compensation ; also they
demanded that the Government should build a
levee forthwith They are telling another tale
j ust now. If they had only known it, their pad-
docks were being irrigated after the Egyptian
fashion, and the land so treated has yielded from
a U | ) J ;o bushels of wheat per acre, while un-
bushels land alongside has barely averaged eight
HAD ’EM.
JIM: “ Say, Bill, what yer netted infer?”
BILL: “ The rabbits, blast ’em! I killed 500
brown ’wns a minute ago. When the green
coves started ter git ter me, my personal
safety had to be considered.”
Choice chunk of Australian Natural His-
tory from C. B. Fry’s Magazine (England):—
The Australian opossum is about as ugly as any living
thing can be. Its ugliness has no redeeming features.
The snout shows a reddish hue, and emits loud noises
when anything attracts it. It is also one of the most
bloodthirsty animals in existence. The animal is parti-
cularly hated as a fowl thief, for once it gets into a fowl
or pigeon house it murders everything it can find. It
gluts itself with the blood of its victims, and ultimately
falls asleep in it, in an exhausted condition. Few animals
are so tenacious of life, and it accordingly meets with
smalt {mercy when farmers come upon it asleep. But
even in this condition it takes a lot of killing. Frequently
it will wake up from apparent death, after a succession
of blows, and crawl away to start once more on its life of
slaying.
THE BOOK OF REVELATIONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The preacher punched his passion out,
And every word he said
Unveiled new horrors, that his shout
Flung at each hearer’s head.
He tore the Revelations out—
With fervid voice he spoke,
And o’er the face of Mulga Bill
A look of sorrow broke.
With swinging arms and rolling eyes
And hair deranged and wild,
He conjured all the horrid things
That in that hook are piled—■
Of ratns that flew around the earth.
Of heaps of writhing slain.
Upon the face of Mulga Bill
There came a look of pain.
Of snakes he spoke—monstrosities
That leapt on steely wings ;
He loosed at once the dreadful wild
Menagerie of things
That in that volume may be found
Cavorting through the leaves.
O’er Mulga Bill’s rough face there came
The look of one who grieves.
He rose at last with hurried air
And up the aisle he sped,
And bending down excitedly
In whispers hoarse he said—
“ Eh, doctor, ’ere’s a case for you—
The worst you ever ’ad ;
Can’t you do something for the cove ?—-
’E’s got the ’orrors bad ! ”
tf.S.W.
HAMER.


WOLFE’S Schnapps
MEANS BUSINESS WHEN IT TACKLES
YOUR KIDNEY TROUBLES!
tj*u^*Fx.&R/WATCH
At £6 6s.
Is a J-p'ate Laver.—Has 15 Jewels.
Has a Ruby Roller Jewel.
Has Solid, Heavy 14-carat Gold Case.
Has Brequet Hair Spring.
Has Compensated and Adjusted Balance.
Is Guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in order for 2 y ars
(breakages excepted) without charge.
Will stand HARD RIDING and KNOCKING ABOUT.
Is made in every style of Case.
It goes with profound accuracy.
This is the same Movement as is used by the Rail, ay
Guards, only, of course, in a smaller size.
wertfyguytjuy
£6 6s
14 carat
18 carat
£7 7s
Ladies,’ Full Size J-plate Lever, Solid Gold
Case, 14ct., £6 6s. ; ISct.. £7 7s.
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery TO
House in Sydney,
Hunter Street.
“Ed.” is reassuring on the subject of
Waranga Basin (Victoria) :
“ Squidge ” on Waranga Basin (I!. 23/11/’0o) raves
wildly. If his prophecies are as unreliable as his state-
ments they won’t count. Instead of Waranga Basin
supplying irrigation water for all ’pootras within 50 miles
of Kyabram, it is constructed as a storage reservoir from
which to supply the dry north-west mallee of Victoria,
and will supply as far as Tyrrel Creek, 150 miles away.
“ Squidge ” says the long 41-mile bank of the reservoir is
10ft. too narrow for absolute safety. The width of the
base of the bank is 187 ft. at the widest part, and varies
with the level of the basin, and yet “ Squidge ” says it is
10ft. too narrow’. In such a number of varying base
widths, where is “Squirige’s” extra 10ft. for safety to
come in? He says in 187 ft. another 10ft. is to provide
absolute immunity from the danger of a breakage.
“ Squidge ” knows. Again, “the rabbits will soon ruin
the bank and cause a burst.” From end to end the bank
is protected by a very strong, close, rabbit-proof fence.
No breakaway (as “ Squidge ” avers) of the main bank has
occurred ; when “Squidge” wrote his par the water had
not touched the bank of the reservoir, let alone burst it.
The Basin will not be 30ft. deep, as “ Squidge” says, but
the average depth when full will be 17ft. These figures
are exact: —
Area of the Waranga Basin .. .. 19 \ square miles.
Average depth .. 17ft.
Length of the retaining bank .. miles.
Cost of the bank .. .. .. £104,000.
Average height of the bank .. .. 24ft.
Width of the bank at base widest .. 137 ft., and varying
with level.'
Width of the bank at top (invariable) Bft.
Width of clay puddled core wall
(at top) 4ft.
Depth of clay puddled core w r all
below the natural surface of the
ground .. .. .. .. 14ft.
Capacity of the basin .. .. .. 8,600,000,000 c. ft.
Capacity of the supply channel .. 103,000 c. ft. a
minute.
The basin can be filled in 58 days with the supply channel
running full. This Waranga basin is the- largest storage
reservoir in the world. The Croton Park reservoir in
U.S.A., supplying New York with water, is the second
largest, yet is only half the size of the Waranga basin.
* * * *
“Auto” : Be longest distance ever
travelled by a horse in one day. The then
manager of Bunenda Station, north of Augathella
(Q.), drove in one day, with relays, from Mitchell
to Bunenda, by road 120 miles. The horse-boy,
Fred M‘Queen, rode one horse all the way.
» * *
“Moody”: The Australian vernacular
becomes briefer. Walked behind two youths who
were riding huge briar pipes with their teeth a
few nights ago. “ What sort o’ bacca y’ smoking
now; O.P. ?” “ Naw (disdainfully), M. 0.” I
am not a smoker, but I know all the well-used
brands—still I didn’t recognise those. My in-
quisitiveness led me to the barber, who laughed
contemptuously at what he called my “ ig.” The
brands were “ Other People’s ” and “ My Own.”
ON OUR SELECTION.
“ Whalchupto, Bill?”
“Jest goin’ ter nail up this piece o’ timber ter keep them fowls out o' the drawin'-room."
“Swift”: Be the offer in a recent Bul-
letin to supply hybrid offspring of a cat and
. t J i. 1 i * 4.1
rabbit for £4. I can offer to supply the father of
such a specimen—a fine Tom of the Cheshire
variety—and will be glad to forward him to anyone
for (say) £2. 1 would also like to send the mother
along for another £2; but our Socialistic laws
prevent me from keeping her in captivity, thus
smothering scientific research and driving capital
away from my part of the country.
“Wamba”:
Be the fascina-
tion of the
track (“ Itan,”
B. 25/l/’OG).
Met an Old
Man of the
Trac k hob-
bling along in
the Darling
dust, t’other
side of Louth.
He had a
hump on his
back like unto
a dromedary,
on which Ma-
tilda rested
awkwardly.
He had one
arm and a half
—the half ter-
minated in an
iron hook, on
which was
slung a bat-
tered billy.
Coming close
he seemed in
years to verge
on the 80’s.
His can con-
tained two live
dingo puppies.
My company
evidently
wasn’t wanted,
so I left him
alone in his
dust and glory.
“ D.H.R.”:
W a t e r-h e n s
swarm this year
along the Oas-
tlereagh, Na-
moi, Barwon
rivers; but
they are so
shy that you
can’t get with-
in 100 yards
of them unless
you lie down
for a while,
when curiosity
will bring them
quite close. The
plenitude of these
birds is a “ throw-
in ” for the blacks, who,
since the introduction of phosphorus poisoning,
have been barred from bunny diet.
* * * *
“F.C.” : A lot of people are just now
writing to the papers explaining that phosphorus
baits, broken glass, wax matches or sparks from
engines are responsible for bush fires, and suggest-
ing various remedies. But, as a matter of fact,
the chief cause of these disasters is the habit of
the way-back man on the land of burning-off his
scrub paddock just when he should not do so.
Such burning-off is illegal, in Victoria at least,
during Jan., Feb. and March, yet one may see
from the hills to the east of Melbourne a dozen
such small fires any day during the hot weather.
The stuff is left to smoulder all night, perhaps a
not wind springs up next morning—and the
mischief is done. Everybody does it, and no one
cares, or dares, to inform on his neighbor. The
other day a swaggie sat down by the roadside
near Ararat (Vic.) to light his pipe. He presently
observed Matilda and the grass on fire. He used
his hat and then his shirt to beat out the flames,
but unsuccessfully. The bench gave him a
month’s “ hard.” But when did anyone hear of a
farmer, burning off scrub during prohibited
months, getting a month’s hard labor ?
“ Wilbea ” (Papua) : It’s just as well tne
federal House gave way on the prohibition clause
in the Papua Bill. The native gets no liquor in
p^p ua .jf j lO ever has acquired the taste for it, it
jg Thursday Island, where it is openly supplied
by virtuous Australia. Prohibition would be a
howling farce in a country where sugar cane,
bananas and pineapples are like weeds in the
field. From the top of the cocoanut palm, you can
make a liquor that can give “pinky” 90 yards
in 100.
THE FIRST BIKE AT
WIREFENCE, WAYBACK.
D RUNK: “ Great Scotsh! Warrer
strange turn-out. Therish er
wheclish, an’ therish the ’orse (hie),
but wher'sh the blanky cart?”
“San ” : Re the so-called pea-rifle (“ Wy-
ung,” B. 8/2/’O6). I agree with the opinion ex-
pressed some time ago by a Bulletin contributor
to the effect that the shooting practice our Aus-
tralian boys get with the '22 cal. rifle would stand
us in good stead later on if they had to deal with
an enemy. I have known small boys go out with
12 precious cartridges and a little Winchester
(they couldn’t afford much ammunition), and bring
home the tail-tips of 11 One boy 1 knew,
learning that a dingo, or a tame dog on his own,
had been ravaging the sheep of the district, went
out with his '22 and managed to bag the marauder,
a big St. Bernard bitch. I think the grand prac-
tice Australian boys get in this way outweighs the
accidents from the careless use of the weapons.
* * * *
“ Montalex ” : “ Wyung” (B. 8/l/’O2)
says that the pea-rifle proper was “a diminutive
smooth-bore gun.” It couldn’t have been both a
smooth-bore and a rifle, unless it were, like the
11 Paradox ” patent, ratchet-rifled for a few inches
of the muzzle end of the barrel. And, in any
case, the term “ pea-rifle ” was first applied to the
old American (or “Kentucky”) rifle, which, on
account of the backwoodsman’s' need for lead
economy, was generally below 40-gauge, and often
as low as 90, giving a spherical bullet of only
about jtoz. The '22-cal. rifle, also, is properly
enough called a “pea,” because it would be a
small pea that would have a diameter of less than
'25 (£in.).
* * * *
“ Roma ” : That recent mad horse wasn’t
in it for commotion with a mouse that went off
its mental balance in our house. At first it flew
savagely at mother, and, she said, would have
killed her if she hadn’t sprung on the bed and said
a prayer. The move-on clause isn't in che same
street with a mentally deranged mouse. That
mouse went round, and mv sister made for the
kitchen dresser, and I was on the table armed
with a brass candle-stick. We could hear mother
dancing a jig on the spring mattress, the while she
lamented the day that she left Tipperary and came
out here 16,000 miles to be killed. Still that
mouse kept on racing round, climbing up a
broom and down again as if it had a wager on.
Once, as it paused for wind, I threw the candle-
stick and knocked over a can of milk. Mother
thought the noise was caused by the mouse taking
the roof off, and instantly started to say more
prayers. After the mouse had finished climbing
up everything climbable it gave a loud squeal
and stiffened itself out. Mother remembered
afterwards that she had put a bit of poisoned
bread in her bedroom.
♦ * *• *
“ Rambler ” : Simplest and most effective
way of driving off bull-ants is to strew a couple
of armfuls of grass on the nest. I have kept a fire
blazing on a nest for a whole week but only found
it waste of wood and time.
Store-keepers and hotel-keepers who like to
give their customers real good value in a cigar would do
well to stock King of all, K. and B. High Life. They are
retailed at 3d. each, and bear a good margin of profit.
Special price for case lots or by the 1000. They are an
imported cij. ar. *
THE FOSSICKER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We’ve sunk and we’ve driven and paddocked and gouged
for scarcely a color a week ;
And we’ve ground-sluiced the surface, and puddled the
clay ; dished, cradled, and banjoed the creek ;
And we’re ragged and bootless, and when we talk tick the
storeman’s too bus} r to hear,
And the publican reckons he has to pay cash, and cash is
his terms, too, for beer ;
For a fossicker now is a man with a Past, whom most
people don’t want to know.
The dredger’s the man, with his wages each week. The
fossicker’s got to go.
Now the leads and the gullies are planted with pegs, tale
pegs of sawn timber, and white ;
By day there’s the crash of the face as it falls, and the
nozzles roar into the night;
And the creeks are sludged up and eternally dammed as
the souls Of those dredgers will be,
For their nozzles can’t reach to the Bottomless Pit, nor
their barges the bright Jasper Sea.
The roar and the scream and the plash of the falls
bewilder the fossicker slow,
But plain in his ears do the fierce nozzles roar —“ Th
fossicker’s got to go ! ”
VIC.
JEEAICH.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on ,1/N. .\ o liability is under •
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted , whether
sent by post or handed in ,* and no MS. will be
returned unless stampsfof any State) accompany.
Falk : We printed that statement for what it
was worth. Telegony is naturally a hard matter to
prove as regards the human race. There are obvious diffi-
culties about getting human subjects to undertake ex-
periments in propagation. Tub Bulletin’s purpose in
printing Clarkson’s statement was to invite the citation
of instances, or 1 fancied instances, from readers, and we
have already had one interesting contribution giving a
South American experience Drifter: Consumption
cure all right, except for the beer. The phthisi-
cal should keep solidly off beer G.A.P.: Too
suggestive of the pantomime “book” which is
sternly resolved to rhyme at all hazards
M.P.B. : You wander along till you strike a word
that rhymes with the last word in the last
line. Then you turn the corner and start a new
line. That, isn’t poetry—it’s merely exploring the
language.... Cyril : “Arise” poem not strong enough.
It needs to be a very powerful quadruple-expansion
“Arise” poem to succeed nowadays P.K.S. :If you’re
telling us the truth, why do you send us the yarn in an
obviously disguised “ fist ”?.... E.N. : Gordon’s verses
“ Podas Okus” picture the death of Achilles in the
Greek legend 'of the Trojan war. Achilles w'as
a Greek champion referred to as podas okus,
swift of foot; Patroclus was his friend, pre-
viously killed ; Briseis was his favorite slave G. Hard :
“Is The Bulletin game to tackle' the unemployed
problem?” Good Heavens! isn’t it tackling the u.p.
once a week ? It advocates a land tax to force open the
lands, and Protection to secure factories; and if that
isn’t tackling the unemployed problem, then The B.
doesn’t know the problem when it sees it
O’Kaye: Same idea often used before Steve: Your
hand isn’t strong enough... .Cameo : Twaddle verse....
Kono : “Wheat-carters” weak and rather clumsy
G.H. : “ Builders ” very unequal, and much too 10ng....
Frideworm : Not ill-done, but not worth doing at all.. ..
Nitsua: Rather dull and heavy J.G.D. : Too stiff in
the metrical joints.... Rollo : Nothing in it but “push’
language.. ..A.O.R. : Could do nothing with it
Myfonga : Interest too purely 10ca1... .Marma : A humor-
less lie of no interest... .F.C.J. : The answer in question
was not to you. Send title of contribution referred t 0...
Bert H. : Ratherflabby Gilrooney : “Follies” is weak,
and the other, though it has good lines, is generally un-
satisfactory Claringbold : Crude and inartistic
Wager: Your friend wins on all three points. (1) In ISOI
Britain had arrayed against her France, Spain, Russia
Holland, Sweden, and Denmark. (2) Copenhagen was
twice attacked by the British—the second time in 1807.
(3) Britain bombarded certain Japanese ports in ’64
Lono- Chick : To have a hope, you’ll have to condense.
We like our chicks short... .Geo. B. (Vic.) : “ Comrades”
poem too wild and whirly, like one of Tom Mann’s exhor-
tations H.H.: “ Stiffs ” hasn’t enough in it Sophy ;
Not “Powerful.” Frank H. : Unlike the girl—too thin,
A. McD. : A good idea; but evidently you know
nothing of metrical composition Budding: Well,
frankly, you don't promise much of a blossom as yet
P. (W.A.): “Memories” good in patches, but unreal;
man who “has humped Matilda 40 years ” hasn’t much
soft sentiment about England, as a rule The Prodigal:
“ Ballade ” too sugary ; and persistent “ say—day—lay ’
rhyming gives the monotonous effect of a steamer’s eng ne
beat..." Alec Zander: Not worth while re-submitting
unless specially asked Caber: Rather Dull J.
Fletcher Braide: Others have felt the same way before you.
Such sentiments in verse must be put extraordinarily well
to succeed Claude B.: Disappointing ; poems all show
certain faculty and die away at end Rough Diamond:
Too small an ‘incident Oeecare: Story re signalman’s
ruined daughter too improbable, e.g., women don’t
take their briefs to banisters, the solicitors do that
S.C. : Local interest 0n1y... .K.H.A. :No thrill, no pang.
....Rei P. : Both rather tedious Frank A.: Barely
missed Paul: On far too conventional lines—you
didn’t even spare ns the accident which makes Brown a
rich man Edward Gray : Doesn’t convince : has an air
of make-up F.H. : Partly a sermon and partly a story ;
and the two don’t blend... .W.M.F.: Bunyip nearly
struck it, but not quite Parvo : When pars appear,
cut out and send to Bulletin accountant. Don’t remem-
ber “Changes.” H.M’K. : “Wherein lies the story-
teller’s art? ” Briefly; in being interesting to some class
of readers; and, the wider the interest, the greater the
art Helen : Chow story very ancient. Other item im-
portant.. ..Jas. M. : Possibly true, but too like a lie for
print....Virtus: More sound than sense.... Gus Soon;
Hadn’t the ghost of a show S.P.B. :Of no literary
value... .Jerry : Jerry-built verse... .The Demon : Duly
exorcised... .R.T.A. : You “can write much better than
that.” Well, you couldn’t write much worse, anyhow,,
. lI.R. : Subject good, verse poor. Ought to make a
readable sketch if you told it in prose S. Remo: B,
thinks too much of Kidston to resurrect his metrical
offence... .Ass. : Well, no that doesn’t at all accurately
describe you ; but, somehow, none of .vour stuff “ hits.”
. . Squidge: Can’t take Victorian Police Commission
seriously. Unless it is to train officers in the gentle art
of false swearing, it doesn’t seem to have any useful
reason for being Toe-plate: We know nothing of the
man, and certainly can’t guarantee his reliability.....
H.W. : The “ eastward position,” as a matter of religious
rite, is probably much older than Christianity, and has
nothing to do with the location of Palestine.
The sound of many voices, filled with joy
and beer, rises up from the Hughenden, Winton
and Longreach districts of Queensland, where the
best rains have just been experienced for 15 years.
Wide stretches of those endless plains ha\e had
from five to eight inches, which will put great
life into the pastoral industry. The great drought
had practically remained there till now.
“Jimmie Pannikin”: Have been lately
sampling Australian culinary courses in the Still-
Further-Out, and so I desire to praise quandong
jam and ditto jelly. The fleshy epicarp (which
envelops the seed called “bullies” by Broken
Hill bairnies) makes excellent sub-acid preserve
and jelly, if cooked properly. The epicarp (how
I love that word!) is thin and not very juicy.
West-o’-Darling housewives extract the stones;
dry the fruit in the sun ; and used la dried apples.
The western climate is the best in the world for
drying fruit. The following directions for cook-
ing the dried quandong fruit were given to me by
Mrs. Billy Belar, away out in the anabranch of
the Darling : —“ Soak the dried fruit for five or
six hours; stew slowly, adding sugar to taste ;
the fruit develops a pretty color, and may be
served with cream (goats’ cream for preference) or
put into tarts or rolypolies.” By the way, the
kernel is edible, palatable, and nutritious. It is
not generally known by even Outback exiles that
the kernels, if impaled on a stick, will burn
entirely away, with a clear light, because they are
full of oil.


sa/c e/j>er)£z \
oj- r<?f?nci '
porfddelb N
(/>onol fT
A flow j 170 m ’ljje
o|)Ch, fo brojicyly
’ ‘
SINK'S
dtjmjs K omi- Mea,
of A Suitable. f*r
f,' A y® uw^
°h* ,v>
~J *l fore. A r^
\ I if wi || b*
> difficult' fo ev'ev,
// fje
/|>e t'j-ccflppis^^o'Y^’'^^^^
t' A f J
|>nce
(joUc AS J
Jjla'i boy^
%
6ov k two
footmen <j> o m -
lA$O
“Hi! Sto|?, I)eKes % S*cl<!
*' ', Ur I for rfT
" SAm.tef V\nl|iAms >fl>o is SAid
do bA v e Absconded wfltfj soe
I?As Veen 'fbrnj&lly di<>miss e d
ftpe. Ped Service .*’ [Daily {fyed
veturr/ed fl'ooy
IndiA, f?AS Announced lji<,
{%>Vieryotie. 1$ to remAio qmet^sfiH y %<r
tieutr2\\ l7e ff?c«<d] for O^ice.
"How lono would Hje
if symbols
disposed -ASKS
k fa Age £KRt AfiF
Kin^Ned
be be+fer'fyv* uolijiup !"
(jn
|il<e ofyr 2v
S' liberal to jifudtry)
, of A Some .wljere
, in tfje Suburbs for
)SBORrtE -j^ e (^ 6V > eriror
IANSH |j ve i n fa
Vic
_cl.ya,
BvTcljer: —' Sc« n a side dbeef r « n round dfcf corner?’
V'S, YN/eVe J^sf altered
tT 'to Bint", -— 'es COO5l Jet.
e»> if !"
AUSTRALIA—AS SEEN FROM MELBOURNE.


Troubadour (sings)-
" Tell me, Mary, how to woo thee;
Teach my boo-hoo-sum to reveal ———
Voice of Aunt Jane above : “ Teach yer gran’-
mother to suck eggs 1 Yer at the wrong
winder, an’, besides,
Mary’s gone to Tas-
mania, an’ won’t be
\L back for a month.”
“ Failin’ in love is like tailin’ down stairs.
.It is so unexpected that we hardly ever
know how the thing wos did.”
—Josh Billings .
,A-PENNY-IN-THE-SLOT.
—the Latest phase.
When a groomsman elopes with the bride (as sometimes
happens), It 1# the “best man” who wins.
an elopement
The Bulletin’s horse poet was commissioned to write some
verses for the above, but, up to the moment of going to press,
the verses have not arrived. So our artist throws himself upon
the imagination of the romantic reader*
k MATRinONIAL PET NArtES*
An experiment in Cupids. How would
G.H.R. strip tor the part?
A “CLEVER CAPTURE/’
No. I (during honeymoon) :
» “Puss!”
Not Leap Year,
„, after all!
No. 2 (ever after) : "Catl”
THE ABORIOINAL WAY OF WOOING.
The happy lady : " This is so sudden 1 ”
A HONEYMOON IDYLL.
Timid Bride ; “Ob, Henry ! what If a shark should take us?”
Romantic Bridegroom : “ Well, what care we 1 Is ft not a sweetly pretty
thought that even then we should be digested together?”
SOME ROMANTIC THOUGHTS-Occurring to “Hop” on St. Valentine’s Day.


By the authorities
on Modern Science
%
\V
W has-been
the b<
for Mouth an
Odol Chemical Wo
26.SWTHWARK Bridge fte
London. §rE.
mamm
Odol is the most up -to-datemouth-wash. Tooth-powders
and soaps are antiquated andtiresome. Odotis easy and
pleasant to use and makes no mess. Perfectfortravelling and
an ornament to the dressing table. All smart people use Odol.
Price 2/6 a bottle of Odol, lasting for several months (the half-size bottle 1/6),
Sole Representatives for Australasia i
ROBERT H. BARBER & CO., LTD.,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Of All Chemists .
PERSONAL ITEMS.
G. H. Reid will be 61 on the 25th of this
month.
The estate of Mars Buckley, of Toorak,
ex-draper, was proved at £400,051, and paid duty
to the amount of £40,605.
Rumored that Dr. Saumarez Smith, Arch-
bishop of Sydney, will not return to Australia.
There are now nine retired Australian bishops in
England, including Alfred Barry, erstwhile of
Sydney.
It is said to be probable that Mr. Coghlan
will shortly return to Australia as Federal
Statistician. He will be on a better wicket than
in London. It must be rather a thankless task
representing Joseph in London, and trying to be’
a good Australian the while.
Victoria’s pink Waxellency’s last pub-
lic appearance before ' his departure from
Victoria was at the A.N.A. exhibition of Aus-
tralian manufactures, and the last gift that he
received—from an exhibitor there —was a box of
complexion soap. The pink, smooth Chief
Justice looked a little pinker as he took it.
John Meagher, M.L.C., of Bathurst, starts
on a world trip under the wing of Bishop
Dunne, of Bathurst. Two Bishops on a former
tour chaperoned the lay bulwark of their church.
It is. understood that whenever John, goes touring,
at least one Bishop has to accompany him to keep
him safe from the widows.
Mr. James Dalton, of Orange, who has
just started on a tour round the world, is one of
three magistrates of Orange who were removed
from the roll of Justices at the instance of Francis
Abigail for taking part in a Home Rule meeting
and signing an address wherein England was
spoken of as a foreign country. Parkes was
Premier at the time.
A BIRD LOVER.
‘ What’s the matter, sonny? ”
"Bill Smith's gone and sneaked
the sprig's nest I've watched
for a week up this tree.”
“I see, you 're sorrowing at the grief of the poor
parent birds.”
“No! We get a penny for ’ends and threepence a
dozen for eggs, and I was waitin’ for ’em to
finish laying.”
How limited is a poet’s fame ! British
Australasian, which really ought to know better,
chronicles the death of Victor Daley, “ whose
volume ‘Fair Girls and Grey Horses’ was very
successful” !
Generally announced in N.S.W. legal circles
that Chief Justice Darley intends •hortly to
resign, and the name most frequently mentioned
as that of his successor is Attorney-General
Wade’s. Mr. Pilcher is also mentioned. Said
that the Attorney-General has been sounding the
leading members of the profession as to how the
appointment would be received.
The man whose treatment at one of Mel-
bourne’s private asylums for the insane was lately
investigated in a perfunefbry way by police court
action was once a Victorian detective, and was
reckoned a tine type of the “demon ” in his day.
A big man mental! j and physically, it’s a great
pity that he is in his present plight at the age
of 80.
Dr. W. L. Mullen, superintendent of the
Yarra Bend (Vic.) Insane Asylum, is something
extra in the way of acquisitive energy. Having
got his M.D., he successfully tackled'law, arid was
for a long time the only person in Australasia
.having the double degree. Since then he has
reached out and got a sackful of things, from a
diploma in dental surgery to a sanitary plumber’s
certificate.
Mr. T. H. Kelly, brother of the Federal
member, is an aspirant for a vacancy in the
Sydney Municipal Council. He unsuccessfully
contested a seat for the State Parliament at last
elections, and seems bent on devoting some of his
leisure to public affairs ; not that he has so much
of that as his brother, for he manages the tin
business of his late father. T. 11. is said to
resemble in character that fine old pioneer.
Will of late Mr. H. J. Browne (one of
whose daughters Prime Minister Deakin married)
concludes:—
The reason why I have not mentioned the name of my
daughter, Mrs. Alfred Deakin, or her husband, in this,
my will, is that they have already received all that I
intend to give them.
Which revives the yarn current in Melbourne
that Deakin’s democratic views, especially of late,
bitterly displeased Tory father-in-law Browne.
Just dead, at Killiney, near Dublin, at
the age of 80 odd, Samuel Swinburne Waterhouse,
jeweller, &c., to the Lord Lieutenant and
the Irish Court, &c. In 1848 he was
foreman of the jury which convicted
John Martin of treason-felony, for
which he was transported to Van Die-
men’s Land for 10 years. The
convict’s brother, James Martin,
could scarcely believe that such a
verdict and sentence had been
passed. With a friend he
rushed into the street and
drove to Waterhouse’s shop.
and indignantly charged
him with having bull ed
the jury into a verdict
of guilty—an accusa-
ti on which current
report made against
him and chal-
lenged the aston-
ished juror to
mortal combat.
Waterhouse Called
the police and had
his visitor arrest-
ed. James Martin
got one month’s
imprisonment.
The Jubilee
of Melbourne
University falls
on April 24th.
Redmond Barry
was first Chancel-
lor. The founda-
tion stone of the
permanent build-
ings at Carlton
was laid by Go-
vernor Hotham,
July 3, 1854; the
University was
first opened in
the old Exhibition
Building, on the
S.E. corner of
Latrobe and Wil-
liam streets. The
first section of the
permanent build-
ing was opened
for use, October 3,
1855. The degree
of B. A. was con-
ferred in 1858 on
J. C. Cole, J.
MacFarland (son of
a saddler who became
a minor Judge), and George
Henry Greene, M.L.C. of N.S.W.
The first LL.Bs. (1865) were Robert Craig, John
Madden, J. T. T Smith, and A. Gilchrist. Jotn
Madden, now Vic. Chief Justice, was the first
LL.D. (1869), and W. C. Rees the first M.D.
(1872).
Miss Graham, matron of the State Chil-
dren’s Home at Mittagong (N.S. VV.) burnt down
last week, heroically saved 30 crippled and
deformed children who were asleep in the building
at the time of the outbreak. Many of the chil-
dren were so crippled that they had to be carried
out one at a time. The matron’s pluck saved all
of them without so much as a scratch.
THE TWO MADDENS.
Mr. Cecil Bedford' Stephen has at last
taken “silk,” and now adds K.C. to his name,
following Mr. C. G. Wade, who is 1G years Mr.
Stephen’s junior at the Bar. Mr. Stephen was
called in 1870, when he was associate to his lather.
Chief Justice Alfred Stephen, and is climbing up
to the 70’s. Other gentlemen who have just taken
, “silk”—Mr. A. G. Ralston, admitted 1884 ; Mr.
Adrian Knox, 1886; Mr. A. B. Shand, 1887 ;
Mr. L. M. L. Owen, 1881. Messrs. Stephen,
Ralston and Shand have Australian degrees, Mr.
Knox passed from the Inner Temple, and Mr.
Owen from Lincoln’s Inn.
Checkmate in the game of life was called
to Samuel Macdonnell last week. He had been a
familiar figure for years past in N.S.W. chess
circles. lie was a well-known figure also on
Sydney Harbor, as an enthusiastic fisherman, and
the Amateur Fishermen’s Association was wont
to say that what the black bream and Sam.
Macdonnell did 4 not know of one another was too
trifling to mention. Some years ago Macdonnell
was in affluent circumstances, and his sailing boat
was one of the institutions of Sydney Harbor.
He was a connection by marriage of the late W.
E. Sparke, and was 61 years old at his death.
A. T. Kerr, M.L.C., who presided at
James Dalton’s farewell at Orange last week, is
one of the makers ,of Orange, He was born in the
district and sat for it in the Legislative Assembly.
It was on his father’s property at Orange a black-
fellow found a nugget of 4000 oz. The Govern-
ment claimed the nugget, but Kerr fought stub-
bornly and won. He gave the blackfellow a flock
of sheep, and endeavored to instil into him the
virtue of thrift. The blackfellow, foolish man,
ran the sheep into rum, but the Kerrs still hold
the gold.
“Nosey Bob,” just-deceased N.S.W. hang-
man, never felt quite happy since the death of
Chief-Justice Alfred Stephen, who, a cold and
reserved man by nature, had always a kindly
greeting for •‘Nosey,” and used to inquire in a
friendly way into his official affairs. It was a
custom one time for most papers to lampoon.
“Nosey,” and more than once the latter carried
the sheets to the Chief Justice and solicited
advice, with a view to prosecuting for libel. Time
and again the Judge soothed the irritated execu-
tioner by pointing out that Judge and hangman
were merely instruments of the law, and that if
the hangman deserved reviling, the Judge who
sentenced deserved it also. Sheriff Cowper was
another who helped “Nosey” to bear up against
public execration. But his latter years in office
were clouded, especially after Justice Windeyer
died. The newly-appointed Judges passed him
with averted eyes, and even junior limbs of the
law snubbed him.
Place of E. W. Knox on the commission
to inquire into Commissioners’ management
of N.S.W. railways is taken by James Burns
—a plain brown, quiet man who wears no frills,
and has a knack of getting at the root of things. ,
Knox retired, for one reason, because he couldn’t
spare the time; and the marvel is how Burns is
going to pack another duty on to his load. Already
he is managing director of Burns, Philp and Co.
(who have scores of irons in widely scattered fires);
chairman of two insurance co.’s, director of the
A.M.P., of a bank, and of a few other concerns ;
manages about four shipping lines ; on top of that
gives some stray ends of enthusiasm to defence
(he is a colonel), and spends, nearly three hours
a day travelling in to the city and out of it. There
shouldn’t be much dawdling about a Commission
with that sort of man on it.
From a Melbourne citizen :
All things considered, the departure of Victorian C.J.
Madden, on a holiday trip to Europe, might very well
have been made a matter for more particular official
recognition than it received in Melbourne. When one
thinks of the fusses that are made over imported
Governors and fat commercial citizens when they provide
occasion for valedictory compliments, the poor demon-
stration in Mr. Madden’s case appears inexplicable. The
wordy, sturdy little man is widely recognised as the most
am.able of Melbourne’s leading citizens, notwithstanding
his waxed moustache. A fairly capable Chief Justice and
a clever enthusiastic showman in other public positions,
the Waxellency has earned everybody’s goodwill. And of
all the persons who are personages in Victoria, he is
remarkable for having stuck closely to Australia for 50
years. He was 12 years in Ireland, England and France
before liis family sailed for Melbourne in 1856. But,
having come fo manhood in Australia, Mr. Madden in his
middle age didn’t yield to the itch that imported flesh is
heir to, and knock off work in order to revisit “the scenes
of his boyhood.” Perhaps that is the reason why he
didn’t get a burst of fireworks in his honor when at last
it was announced that his much-travelled family intended
to take him in tow. He had been too permanent a Vic-
torian. He bplittled his importance by not going ’Ome
earlier to kiss the Monarch’s hand. In short, he had come
to be thought of as a mere Victorian industry.
A Melbourne man has been smitten by a
strange fad. He is a collector of foreign freaks;
a virtuoso of bizarre
aliens ; and he hangs on
to them like a bookie to
his bag. One day he
appears on the Block next
to a beauty actor with the
fog still about him ; at
night you see him at the
waxworks with a slab of
maccaro'ni from an Italian
man-of-war. Next day he
will show the Grand Vizier
of Sulu the Biley-street
drain and other beauty
spots; or he will take a
missionary boy, with hair
smeared with fat, for a
blow on the Saltwater
itiver. He is never seen
without something that
has been pulled through
the sea in ships. He will
introduce himself to the
celebrity at the wharf or
hotel or stage-door; and
present a bunch of flowers
to a strong man, or a can-
nibal king. In one con-
secutive week he has been
seen with a cockney
comic, a quack mesmerist,
a Hindu pill importer, a
-Tory paid agitator, a South
Sea Island prince, a Yan k
cyclist, a Teutonic piano
smasher, a Sydney se-
cessionist and other
strange assorted freaks.
The papers that nour-
ish a simple faith in royal
romance are once again
telling the old, old story—
“ When King Alfonso of
Spain weds Princess Ena
of Battenberg it will un-
THE COHENTIN-
GENTER'S BACK
PAY.
It is thought that
many claims will not be
pressed. —Daily Paper.
doubtedly be a love-match.” The Beersheba
Chronicle and Dan Despatch used to spin ex-
actly the same yarn every time King Solomon
was forced by reasons of state to accept a fresh
Hittite orShulamite bride, right up to the 700th.


Anthony Hordern's Sale
DELIGHTING THE TOWN.
SALE CATALOGUE sent POST FREE TO ANY COUNTRY ADDRESS.
V
m
Sfiv
ttg§D
B*N
ok
' . s
H
•'MWWSIfWffI
n
m
grTVVi
m
Si?
sn
1
ON the: historic slope of brickfield hill
Anthony Hordern ®. Sons,
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS &
PALACE EMPORIUM, SYDNEY.
.
w
s -
■
r
IiHHHteIH
re; ih ?„
(i>
aw?
roR
mmvm
Denton Hats
Made in Australia for Australians.
Smartest Shapes Best Values.
DENTON HAT MILLS,
Makers of All Kinds of Men’s
Women’s and Children’s
FELT HATS.
MELBOURNE
QUALITY and COLOR GUARANTEED.
PREMOS
Hold
Their Own
IN ALL GRADES of HIGH-CLASS
PHOTOGRAPHIC WORK.
wertfyguytjuy
Tb« pony ...
PREMO NO. 2
Has a Double R.R. Lens and
all Modern Adjustments.
COMPLETE, in Case.
peice = £3 125 6d
PONY ...
PREMO NO. 3
Fitted with latest B. & L. Automatic
Shutter with Iris Diaphragm.
SOLID LEATHER CASE.
2S 6d
wertfyguytjuy
These Cameras can be instantly changed into “ Daylight-
Loading" by using the PREMO FILM PACK ADAPTER*
Sole Australian Agents for Kodak Limited.
Premos, &c., and all Dealers’ Supplies,
BAKER & ROUSE
Proprietary
375 & 377 <SEOR<SE ST., SYDNEY.
" 77ie Block,” 284 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
78 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
37 BUNDLE STREET, ADELAIDE


Charles Heidsiech
Reims
£XIM DM
9m
It.
fIfIEST EXTRA QJ
DELICATE. & PERSISTENT
WHOLESALE OMLY
IViIDDOWS BROTHERS. SYDNEY
J*IELBOUPNE_BRIS B ANE PERTH «. WELLINGTON*;
HIGH-CLASS COMFORTS.
BUCHANAN * OTARD-DUPUY
WHISKY BRANDY
QUALITY and AGE .
y
(,isn ARET )?o“ EA ‘- rABR ' cs
RAINCOATS.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, February 13, 1906.
My Dear Arini,—
There is a “go on the land ” movement among
the wealthy just now. Capt. Oswald Watt, who
is, still a sort of emergency A.D.C. to Sir Harry
Rawson, has just bought a country residence and
rainy acres near Camden, where he proceeds as
soon as the further l6 rooms necessary for the
proper housing of his wife, himself and infant son
nave been added to the present structure. Mean-
while a subdued but utter content broods over loyal
Camden like a summer haze. The Park, and now
forsooth an A.D.C. ! It is almost too much.
Another pair of prospective agriculturists are Mr.
and Mrs. Walter Allen, who, according to rumor,
have their joint eye on a big place up Yass way.
If both these departures “ arrive,” as they say in
France, Sydney will temporarily lose in one dis-
mal swoop, two of its prettiest women. Mrs.
Watt was a Melbourne girl—daughter of Vie.
Justice Williams —and it is some considerable
time since that Machiavellian State has produced
anything much better-looking than this lady.
Next month will, as Mdlle. Veronique nightly
remarks in her swing, “set the wedding bells
ringing,” on behalf of Miss Maisie Chis-
holm and squatter Baird, of the Monaro dis-
trict. The ’groom is perhaps better known in
Melbourne than on this side, but Miss Chisholm
is one of a bevy of pretty and popular Sydney
girls. One sister married an Onslow ; another,
Mrs. Norman Alston, is well known in musical
circles.
After being ten days at what she had begun to
consider a stiddy job, Dr. Jessie Aspinall has
been pushed off the resident staff of the Prince
Alfred Hospital. The University Senate has
done this senile act, and it is the first time the
Senate has exercised its authority and gone
against the wishes of the directorate of theP.A.H.
And the doctor had got all her white washing
frocks, too ! And she was just settling down to
feel quite at home, having dinner in state with
the medical staff. The Senate’s action has made
the many women’s political, progressive and educa-
tional associations boil like mill-races. As the
Government is the biggest subscriber to the P. A. H.
it will most likely be hustled into taking action.
I see some white-violet person has been writing to
a daily, bringing up the old breach-of-modesty
cry about a woman doctor working on male cases,
often of a disagreeable nature. Queer how the
writers forget that women nurses are in attend-
ance on such ugly cases, and a man patient will
let a nurse do anything for him. So how may he
object to a woman doctor ?
The foreign fashion paragraphist must, I think,
be a great fibber. When she runs dry on
“arresting ” dress, hat or hair pars, she composes
“ authentic anecdotes ”of royal children. Anec-
dotes of little Prince Eddie or small Princess
Mary of Wales are always saleable to the Harms-
worth or Pearson press, even though the originals
of the stories are Sydney youngsters. But the rag
and the bone and the hank of hair are, after all, the
chief stand-by :
A French hairdresser explains why women decline
to remove their hats in a public hall or theatre. “The
hat of to-day requires an attachment of hair. Each hat
has. its hair. We supply it to the milliner, who furnishes
it with the hat. No head could produce a sufficient
natural growth for building up modern millinery. Pro-
fessional secrecy? Why, there is no secret about it. As
I said, the hat of to-day is trimmed with ribbons, flowers,
feathers, fruit, as the case may be, and also with a pedi-
ment of hair. The latter adheres to the hat, and is
removed with it as a matter of course. One must be very
behind the age indeed to be astonished at that.”
The “French hairdresser” is, no doubt, the
paragraphist herself (or himself). Try to extract
from (say) a local barber man or woman such a
readable stamp of information as the foregoing
quote, and, even though you are something of a
forest-devil (I believe that’s what stump-extractors
are called), you’ll be met with a real, or assumed,
stupidity, against which paragraph is ts, as well as
gods, fight in vain. Wouldn’t mind wagering
that we out here will never, never see the hat
with the “hair pediment.” And if you ask any
of the women who go through “millinery”
London and Paris with a microscope, so to speak,
she will have seen none of the hairy hat either.
Since the days when Mrs. Cavedweller went
out to an orchestral concert (performers blew
conch shells and reeds) wearing a giant water-
lily-leaf skewered on to her hair and upended from
the back with the same blooms and buds, woman
has objected to the removal of her matinee hat.
She has three reasons why she won’t. First,
because it is a smart hat and will stand the most
hostile scrutiny ; second, her hair isn’t “done”
for display; third, her innate cussedness. Mrs.
Cavedweller s rear neighbor, whose view was
obstructed, probably threw a flint at the head
under the iotusleaf, and so lowered it in concus-
sion to the dust.
Sydney Hospital has decided to do its own
washing, and a steam plant has been set up for
the big wash. A saving of £5OO a year is
expected ; and there ought to be the further bene-
fit of securing an undoubtedly aseptic scour.
There was quite an exodus of R.C. dignitaries
from N.S. Wales on Saturday. Burly John
Meagher, M.L.C., of Bathurst, a merchant in
many directions, carries a letter of introduction
from the Cardinal to the King of Spain. I’d give
my smelling salts for particulars of the interview
between gay young Alphonso and his visitor.
Mr. James Dalton, of 'Orange, and his two un-
married daughters were also among the departers.
He is respectively father-in-law and brother-in-law
to the Redmond brothers. A brace of R.C.
bishops and some priests were given handsome
coin adieux. One of the bishops got £llOO as his
present. Things have been so prosperous in the
Country that the faithful can afford to be generous
to the shepherd off for a vacation.
Talking of subscriptions : I wish some of those
generous pastoralists and others would send along
Something for the Daley-widow-and-orphan-and-
memorial fund. Daley’s “ Dawn and Dusk ” and
Other verse was read in thousands of country
homes. A few shillings (or pounds) as aclcnow-
ledgment for so much mental delight, to
help the dead poet’s widow and children, is a fair
thing to ask. Subscriptions may be sent to the
hon. treasurer, The Bulletin Office.
By cable to trustees here, arrives word of
the marriage, recently, of the evergreen
widow of late Mr. Willie Mitchell, to Col. Good-
wyn, an army man (gymnasium or jiu-jitsu in-
spector, or something) in India. Rumor credits
the lady with as ultra-chic an appearance as of
yore.
Without a doubt, brains in a woman—with
which mostly goes a knowledge of how to put on
clothes —constitutes a great charm. This applies
more especially from the femme de trente ans
period (which is nowadays anywhere the other
side of 40) onwards —till decrepitude and the.bath-
chair epoch. ..Give an intelligent woman £IOOQ a
year to dress on, and half-a-dozen other women to
dress at, and she simply can’t be plain. Mrs.
Goodwyn and her spouse are arriving here on
their honeymoon very shortly.
That M.L. crystal palace known as “Larnach’s
Cattle,” on the Otago Peninsula, has been bought
by the M.L. Govt, for a mental hospital. The
late W. J. Larnach was a handsome old man,
a great crony of recently-deceased “Pat”
M'Caughan, and he had sizeable grandchildren
when he took for his second a quite young wife.
His tragic end came soon after. The mental
hospital patients will have a fair outlook of wave
and scudding sea-mews.
A GENTLEMAN leaving for England wishes to find
POSITION for his highly capable TYPIST and
SHORTHAND WRITER.
Now is that typist a him or a her? You must
knowthat, afterseeingrecent “Stolen Typewriter”
series of flickergraphs at Mr. Ebenezer Vickery’s
theatre (the Lyceum), the wife of the man who
employs a girl typist is very ill at ease. Hundreds
of Sydney women think that Mr. Ebenezer Vickery
intended the “stolen typwriter” pictures as a
warning, a writing on the wall to guilty husbands.
Others insist that he has nothing to do with the
sermon, which is purely a bit of enterprise on the
lessee’s part. For the edification of those who
have not seen :
Flicker I. : A stockbroker at breakfast with
his wife and curly-headed child. He is affectionate,
effusive, kisses them often, then puts on his tall
polished hat, and exit. Wife stands for ahundredth
part of a second thinking what a treasure she’s got,
then stoops, picks up a letter He has dropped, and
reads it. It is from his typist. In a whirl of rage
she rushes off to a detective office.
Flicker 11. : The stockbroker’s city office, with
the typist in a neat blouse and skirt clicking
at her machine. Enter her employer with a rush,
hangs up his top hat, pulls his chair as close to
hers as it will go, dictates a very short letter, then
kisses her. The hussy turns in her chair and
kisses him. Finally they both jump up, put on
heir hats, and exit arm-in-arm.
Flicker III.: The stockbroker and the clicker
are shown into a cubicle at some smart restaurant
by a bowing, sniggering waiter, who presently
brings them champagne. He departs and they
drink out of each other’s glasses, and after every
sip they kiss furiously. Presently the stockbroker
summons the waiter, points upwards, andthe man
after drawing heavy curtains between the audi-
ence and the guilty pair, goes off leering.
Flicker IV.: Enter the enraged wife and a
detective. They are shown the curtained cubicle
by the waiter. The wife peeps through the
hangings, falls back and for a second behaves like
a windmill, whirled by all the winds and furies.
Then clutching her umbrella firmly she tears open
the curtain, grasps the slight typist by the neck of
the blouse and drags her into the foreground.
The stockbroker springs to her rescue, but detec-
tive and waiter fall upon him, and whilst they
tear him to pieces in their endeavors to get him
away, the outraged wife is giving the typist the
father and mother of a beating.
Perhaps Mr. Ebenezer Vickery will explain,
one of these days, whether that flicker is a great
moral lesson pointing to the dangers of lady
type-writers, or merely a showman’s game for
drawing an audience.
A woman “ strap-hanger ” on a tram refused the
seat a clergyman offered her :
“No, I will not take your seat. It is men like you,
with your silly courtesies and un-wanted civilities, who
try to keep women as your toys and playthings. No ; I
will not take your seat. I can stand as well as any
man.”
And the gentleman in holy orders felt for the mo-
ment an unholy anger, and wrote and told The
Times (or some paper). If this had happened in
advanced Maoriland I could understand it—but it
was in England, where the women have no
vote. Hope no woman here will do likewise, and
so put that practice of chivalry out of vogue. It is
much more comfortable to take the seat offered
you by any old male thing, than go home hanging
on to a strap between a domain dosser and a
Chinaman.
“Roslyn,” Mr. J. C. Williamson’s house at
Elizabeth Bay, has been taken by the Winch-
combes,, the wool people, on a long lease. The
J.C.W.’s presently move into their new quarters,
till recently those of the late millionaire "Sparke.
Once, when out on the sandy wastes beyond
Waverley cemetery, I met a horse, -with a tin
billy tied to his neck, plodding quickly and
steadily along a well-worn track. He was the
steed of the late hangman Howard, and was
going to a hotel for his master’s daily beer.
Many attempts used to be made by loafers or
jokers to take the filled can, but they were never
successful.
All the “Jumping Geraldines” and “Shooting
Stars, all the women ex-tight-rope walkers and
retired “Dainty Ariels” who ever graced a circus
here and sent cold thrills through our very youth-
ful spinal marrow, appeared at the funeral of the
late Mr. Dan. Fitzgerald. He seems to have been
an unusually well-liked and popular menagerie
proprietor. The highly-trained female (or for
that matter, male) athlete gets terribly overblown
on retiring from active acrobatics. A great
number of circus ladies are prosperously married
and settled about Sydney, but you’d never think
from the look of those who grieved at the Fitz-
gerald funeral that they had ever been able to tie
themselves into nice, smart bows, and then soar
up a hundred feet to trim a trapeze.
Met a woman friend the other day who boasted
cn m i. fc ' ie amount of money she was “saving.”
She had been—she simply gushed over with the
news to David Jones’ sale and given full
rein to her spending tastes. “You see, they give
2s. fid. discount in the £ and the more you spend
the more you save.” I’ve my doubts as to whether
it would be well to spend, say, £1,000,000 in
that way, but, confined to the purchase of what is
really wanted, no doubt these sales are a genuine
blessing to the thrifty.
Concerning the taking of a feminine pen-name
by men (B. 25/l/’O6) “ Elmore ” writes:—
“Kate Pheesin” was the early pen name of John
Ruskin. Horace Mayhew called himself “Mrs. Susan
Crick.” Theodore Hook’s first pen name was “Mrs.
Ramsbottom.” Swinburne wrote in the Tatler as “ Mrs
Horace Manners.” W. S. Gilbert once used “Bab”
Alphonse Daudet wrote under “Marie Gaston.” “Mrs.
Partington” was a humorist named B. P. Shillaber’•
while the Rev. George Rose was “ Mrs. Brown ”as well
as “ Arthur Sketchley." -
Last week I was swimming at The Spit baths
when a lady who had quite reached the doddering
age of nine finned up to me and entered into
gaspy conversation. She was specially infuriated
against “ pleesmen.” These persons, she asserted,
always wanted to “daddy it” over herself and
other nine-year-olds. “I was bathing outside
these baths,” she explained, “and a pleesman
said if I didn’t come out he’d take me up.”
“You would have been taken by a shark”
I said; “ that’s why he got you out.” “’Twasn’t
that—he never said a word about sharks, and it
couldn’t have been indecency, for I had a whole
suit of me uncle s clothes on. It was just daddying.”
And she dived furiously with a give-me-liberty-o'r-
give-me-death expression.
. One of the first things Miss Nance O’Neil got
m San Fran, was a writ, served at the instance of
a man who was once a member of her Co. He
claims many dollars of allegedly-owing salary.
Sarama is the rhythmical name of a new skin
face-food. Every pot carries a report by the
Government analyst accrediting the purity of the
ingredients, and persons who have used it tell
me that their experience justifies that certificate.
“A boy is the most vicious of all wild beasts ”
—Plato. Quotation prompted by the hideous
Royal Hotel tragedy.
Mr. G. S. Brock, a well-known local sportsman
capitalist, has built a beautiful residen-
tial hostel or club-house (it is not a hotel,
and if you call it a sanatorium people
will at once think of sickness) at Newport
and it will be officially opened, possibly by State
Ex. Rawson, in a few weeks time. It contains
something under a hundred bedrooms, and its
attractions for sportsmen, poloists, fishermen,
golfers, and bowlers are luxuriously complete.
I here is a racecourse (fancy having your own
races on the premises !). There are 40 polo ponies
—among them the famous sire Souvenir—neighing
m the beautiful neighborhood of odorous forest
and scented scrubland. Pittwater is close by and
you may keep your launch at Barrenjoey,’ and
from there start to sample the Hawkesbury. As
motor ’buses will run from Manly to Newport
(less than 12 miles), the Brock club-house will be
an accessible one.
Dr. Binney, the medical woman who has gone
up as surgeon to certain Friendly Societies at
Longreach, is a Brisbane girl, and an orphan. At
Longreach she will be 500 miles from Brisbane,
and there will be fearfully long drives between
patients.
Lieutenant “ Jim ” Onslow of Australian Lkffit
Horse has torn himself away from the seductive
ness of reviews and blank cartridge for twelve
months. His understudy commanding will he
Major Onslow Thompson, who lives at Camden
Park. All the Onslow brothers—there are five 0 r
six of them—are officers and have seen actual war
tare of more or less sanguinariness.
Miss Florence Taylor, who went hence to studv
the piano under Leschitzky, writes that the great
maestro is having her voice trained. He thinks
almost she will be a success as a singer as well as
a pianiste.
Talking of voices; That opulent-figured Miss
r iVk r Fo^ c , roft ’ who was out here eontraltoin ir
with Mr. Edward Lloyd, seems to have “arrived’’
m London. She sang with the Royal Choral
Society, and the Times singled her “mezzo-
soprano ” out for unreserved petting. She was at
one time going to marry that once sweet singer
lorn Jackson, of Maoriland.
A medical friend writes :
Have been staying at a Mountain hostelry. A studv to
watch the people at meals. Ye gods ! how they guzzled!
Must confess I did a bit that way myself, till retribution
followed swift. Three big feeds a day, and people seemed
to spend the time during intervals waiting for the next
gorge. Hardly any took any exercise. If you go in for
the boa-constrictor habit of diet, you can’t afford to
indulge in superfluities such as walking. All your vital
energy is needed round and about your stomach to get it
half empty before the next load comes tumbling down.
These persons suggest a gastric apparatus with a bodv
and, possibly, a brain attached.
Apropos of this, one Sydney journalist has come
into the lists with “No Breakfast—the Secret of
Life,” a book in which the author makes out a
good case for two meals a day. The subject is
well and amusingly handled.
A medical man’s wife of my acquaintance
ascribes the sudden drop of some women into
middle-aged appearance to their seven-meals-
a-day habit. They have their three princi-
pal meals, and mealettes at eleven, at four, and at
night, and the “morning tea,” of course. Also,
they sleep too much, she says—especially during
summer—the very season when they ought to go
swimming or walking to guard against that fatal
shortening and thickening of the neck that comes
upon women so suddenly and insidiously. At a
certain Sydney Baths an old lady of 75 conies
regularly for her “ ten strokes and five bars rest”
of an evening.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENHI.
The beauty of Valaze is that its use is
such a very simple matter. Just before retiring
it should be rubbed well into the skin and allowed
to remain on during the night. “It works its
wonders while you sleep.” It is a pure natural
herbal food, goes straight into the skin, feeding
and nurturing the delicate tissues. It eradicates
freckles, wrinkles, pimples, tan, sunburn, and
leaves the face fair and soft and beautiful. Its
purity is assured. It is the best skin-food known
to medical science to-day, and the only genuine
imported complexion preparation in Australia.
Try a jar; prove its worth. 3s. 6d. and 65.,
posted fid. extra. New preparations—Blackheads
and Open Pores Cure, guaranteed to cure the most
obstinate cases, 2s. 6d. box; posted 35.; Valaze
Herbal Complexion Soap, one cake lasts six
months, 2s. cake, postage 2d. Valaze Face
Powder, absolutely pure and hygenic, 2s. box,
three tints, postage 2d. Washington H. Soul,
160 Pitt-street, and Civil Service, Pitt-street,
Sydney. All leading chemists, or direct from
Mile. H. Rubinstein and Co., 274 Collins-street,
Melbourne. “ Guide to Beauty ” free.*
It is generally thought that there is no
cure for stoutness, because the usual treatments
only confine themselves to combating single
symptoms instead of attacking the root of the
disease. Pyrolene Pellets remove not only the
superfluous fat, but also the internal deposits of
fat which hinder the action of the heart and lungs.
We advise a trial. Pyrolene Pellets improve the
breathing, give the heart freedom, and enable the
lungs to expand naturally. Sent free by post to
any part of the States on receipt of Postal Note
for 3s. 9d. or 135., according to size required.
Arnold’s Balsam Co., 364 a Little Collins-street,
Melbourne.*
Luck favors the N.S.W. Carruthers
Government. It is now established that Mr. W.
N. Willis cannot be extradited from S’Africa.
The most forceful personality of late
N.S.W. Labor Conference was Hector Lamond.
With a stubborn Scotch Radicalism, Lamond has
much fire ; he speaks well but not too well; and
usually sees clearly ahead. (If Lamond had had
his way the Labor party would have been a non-
borrowing party.) Give Lamond three years in
Parliament to make him a little more practical
and he will be a big man in the movement.
Under a stratum of blue metal, 60ft;
through, a Darling Downs farmer, while well-sink)
ing, struck a log 18 inches in diameter, with onq
end either chopped or sawn. When exposed to the
air, the timber soon crumbled away. A few feet
below the site of the log a splendid supply of
water was found.
The accident on the narrow-gauge line to
Gembrook has produced a lively altercation in
writing between Vic. Railway Commissioner Tait
and solicitor Joe Woolf, who finally contrived to
get a note of approval from Bent advising him to
appear before the forthcoming Board of Inquiry
and shake things up. Woolf, as the legal repre-
sentative of 14 persons who claim com-
pensation, contends that he ought to be
given fair opportunity to throw light on
the original causes, or combination of causes,
of the train leaving the rails. Tait, on the
other hand, denies that the injured parties,
as claimants, can possibly make themselves out to
be more injured from one cause than another.
Woolf’s position would be stronger if he were
acting on behalf of the unfortunate engine-driver,
who practically stands accused by the Department
of having endangered the lives of hundreds of
passengers by driving at the mild rate of 15 miles
an hour.
TO A BARMAID.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rOU scorn me, and you think that I
Will straightway wither up and die
Disconsolate....
Hav, I dare swear it in your teeth
That you have even bought the wreath
Commemorate.
You deem, be-
cause a taller
man
Commanding
thrice the cash
I can
Has jumped my
place,
That, henceforth,
I must disap-
pear
THAT row HAVE
EVEN ROUGHT
THE [?]
Like one of your own pots of beer
And leave no trace.
You prophesy without a sob
How some cheap undertaking job
Is hov’ring round;
And how old Nick
awaits my ghost
Upon a slice of
phosphorus toast
Superbly brown’d.
All idle dreams !...
I’m going strong ,
And still intend
to live so long
As honor bids ;
Know then you are not all my life —
For I have got a twelve-stone vjife
And thirteen kids.
HUGH M'CRAE.


POST
FREE
5£
AUT
SARAMA
THE IDEAL FACE CREAM & SKIN FOOD
Every pot contains Public Analyst’s certificate.
Procurable at Sadler’s Pharmacy, 148 Pitt St., and their
suburban branches, for 3s. ; or trial jar by post from
Gordon & Niciiolls, 3 Queen’s Place, Sydney, for 3s. 3d.
StocW
(Dress
Shields
Ladies! Don’t Spoil Your Dainty Gown
BY WEARING IT WITHOUT DRESS SHIELDS.
KLEIN ERT’S FEATHERWEIGHT
Once used will give you such comfort that .you will wonder
how you ever got along without them.
Lock for the Name “ KLEINERT.” WT IT IS YOUR GUARANTEE.
Dunlop
Snorting
Goods
a
Are unsurpassed
for
Golf,
CRICKET,
or
Footbali;
Quality d- Finish
Highest- Grade.
Fine Assortment
of Handle Grips.
Accept only
DUNLOP
BRAND.
Obtainable all
Leading Stores
6- Sports Depots.
jtDunlop Rubber Co./
i All States. L
■a
4$
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, February 13, 1906.
My Dear Y aerie,—
The Talbots kill more time at the vice-regal
summer cottage at Macedon than did most of
their predecessors. The tall twain would be even
more bored than they are were it not for their
bustling neighbor, Mrs. Robert Harper, whose
country residence is Macedon’s show-place. She
often charters a vehicle (in hilly Macedon people
spare their own horses) and conveys forth the
gubernatorial group to afternoon tea in fern
gullies. Mrs. Isaacs, wife of the Federal poli-
tician, also rejoices in a Macedon retreat, where
she gathers her own particular set for croquet and
bridge—especially bridge. Brainy, dyspeptic
I. Isaacs, who cares neither for croquet nor
bridge, has no son whereon to pin his parental
ambition ; just two girls in their teens. Consul
Pinschof, also the father of brotherless daughters,
owns a showy chalet on the Mount. Other moun-
taineers of long standing are Justice Hood,
barrister Mitchell, and solicitor Whiteing. Mrs.
Whiteing is like the Isaacs dame in cleverness,
though on different lines. The Whiteing talent
lies in cute, all-round housewifery.
Among recent Macedon sojourners, as distin-
guished from regular summer residents, were
various members of the Buckley clan, wearing
weeds for Mars Buckley, whose estate has just
paid £40,000 in probate duties. One of the
Buckley daughters-in-law, in close-fitting mourn-
ing suit, millinery of sky-scraper build and inky
hue,' and tight-coiled raven tresses, provided a
color contrast at Macedon, when seen in company
with her crony of the hour—pale, limp Mrs. Ernest
Raleigh, who habitually trails draperies of faint-
green, and ventures on no decisive toilette tint
except, perhaps, the glow of pink pearls in
her ears.
Governor Talbot confesses to having keenly
enjoyed his camping trip to the N.S. W. Alps;
and the Monaro men with whom he came in con-
tact declare that he was “a good sort and plucky.”
(I wonder how it is, by the way, that the average
up-country Australian, when he hears of someone
coming from London, or Melbourne or some such
effete place, expects him, or her, to be a timorous
ninny-doodle. lean still recollect the profound
astonishment with which a Victorian bush
town greeted the discovery that I didn’t
faint at the prospect of a five miles walk.)
I suppose that Gov. Talbot showed that he could
ride and fish and shoot, and the astonished natives,
who believe that these accomplishments are rare
outside of Australia, hailed him as a wonder.
Our Governor, by the way, on his Monaro trip
ran into J. 0. Watson, the ex-Prirne Minister,
who was camping out with Mr. Batchelor,
M.H.R., and Mr. Arthur Griffith, M.P., on the
Snowy River. Labor leaders and governor were
mutually pleased with one another.
The Percy Ohirnsides, who welcomed a third
son during the Xmas holidays, packed off their
elder boys to Macedon with a detachment of
nurses. Son and heir begins to look rather large
for milk-and-water management, but, then, he’s
being brought up on strictly English lines, and
always has been, since the “Manor” at Werribee
was illuminated, and the “tenantry” feasted in
honor of his birth.
The veteran Mrs. Henty, who had the unique
experience of 70 vigorous years in this State,
besides the decade or so she brought to this coun-
try, preserved her mental powers up to the last.
She was a contemporary of the late Murphy dame
and bore the same characteristics of vigorous
thought, keen opinions, charitable practice, and
love of family. Both realised to the full the cares
and joys of a large flock, and died under pleasant,
prosperous conditions within a month of each
other. Two lesser but notable veteran grandames
of the same strenuous physique are Mrs. Sumner
and Mrs. Osborne.
Mr. Jack O’Keefe, a sporty squatter whose late
Dad made a huge fortune (as fortunes go here) at
railway contracting as well as at wool-clipping,
faced the altar without music or fuss, the
other week, with one of Melbourne’s beauties,
Miss Maud Jermaine, a tall, agate-eyed Grace,
who used to serve tea in a local cafe with the air
of a royal princess. Her height and her tortoise-
shell tresses, banked richly on the tall crown,
impressed all tea-sippers, and her rich-hued oval
countenance dazzled them. She is a recent ’vert
to the R.C. church, to which her husband belongs.
The pair go to Europe for the honeymoon.
The girly-girl element is still in raptures over
the “ brilliant young American actress.” They
even are on baptistnal-label terms, and call her
“Minnie.” They are, likewise, all turning tem-
perance advocates since Miss Brune has expressed
not only her dislike of all bottled intoxicants, but
her actual intolerance of them on the table. So
the local girleens, who used to quote Khayyam
and pledge the Bacchic bard long memory in the
cup of wine underneath the bough, are now
taking iced chocolate for supper, and chaste bread
and butter* Even jam seems dissipated, and
currant buns -a riotous, ungodly proceeding.
Meanwhile the Roman Catholics and the Chris-
tian Scientists fight and war over her soul. Miss
Brune absent-mindedly told both sets she was
“one of them.”
The latest ceilings are worked out in designs of
hand-painted linen. I lifted up mine eyes in
ecstasy of a Chopin interpretation in a St. Kilda
drawing-room, the other day, to lose my fancy in
a gauzy tangle of Marechal roses so real as to
seem about to shed their wind-blown petals on our
laps. The linen produces an illusory effect of
distance—the sunlight as seen in a slight dimness
by the far-off eye.
A charming Melbourne dame has been preparing
herself for an extensive gad by learning large
quantities of German, French and Italian
language. The hubby, anxious for his cheerful
half to shine in every way, had advised the course
of day-to-day study with instructors. Lessons
went on apace for about five weeks, till the other
day the spouse returned to find the foreign
volumes pitched all over the house and his wife in
a state of hysterical rebellion. “ Come and take
me to a screaming side-splitting show,” she com-
manded. “ I’m tired of .being educated.” He was
a good sort and took her off to a funny show and
determined that they’d manage to pass the butter
and the time of day in English, no matter what the
country or the ignominy of having only one
language in use on the voyage.
Yarns are coming along from the sandy summer .
parts. A good-looking matron of frisky tendencies,
being denied rooms for herself at one prominent
beach hotel, took up quarters at the ri val house,
and had her revenge by enticing all the nice men
at the other select establishment to come and
change their quarters.
The seasiders are all returning with top-edges
of raw sunburn. At the theatres the roasted
parts get undue exposure, and the proximity of
milky white lace is but an aggravation to the hot
area. One fleshy dame at the “Patience”
show the other night displayed a top-tier so
red and coarsened as to suggest a semi-
cooked roast in sore need of basting. Others,
conscious of the parboiled shoulders, give the
affected portion a slap of cream and a shake of
the powder magazine. The mix-up of human brick
and powder then makes for queer effects. The
seasider with the burnt patches should go forth
covered up to the ear, and not tempt the malicious
to go digging for cookery similes, and worse.
The feelings and notions of divorced couples
after many seasons of variegated life, are yet to
be written. A collection of opinions from sundered
souls ought to furnish interesting copy. The
thought occurred on hearing of a well-known local
man bemoaning the fact that his first wife, who
divorced him and subsequently married a vulgarly
wealthy merchant who died and left her in the
position to wear the most expensive crepe in the
land, does not now take pity on his less fortunate
career and send a graceful little cheque along as
a salve for the early 'matrimonial memories.
He says with almost a tear in his eye that
she has been made acquainted with his long
run of ill-luck. Probably she has, a-nd takes
cynically into account the fact that his second
marriage ended in a suit in which the wife easily
secured her decree. That would considerably
alter the complexion of the case. How interesting
to know the luxurious widow’s views on the sub-
ject !
A beauty actor, not long in this Bent capital,
congratulates himself on the manner in which he
has revolutionised the dressing of his fellow-
mummers in one big co. “They all wear clean
collars now and have their boots polished.” It is
a great comfort to the Apollo, who had his soul
turned sick by the sight of soiled cuffs and un-
polished kid. But how terrible for the manage-
ment if the remiss mummers emulate the Apoilo
further, and want (the whole lot of them) to
boss the stage and run the show !
A lively young thing, in her teens, just breaking
from her school-shell, sent the heart of every
Adam pit-a-pat, at Lome, this silly season. Inci-
dentally, be it mentioned, she has a fortune. A
girl with golden qualities, you know. The old
seasiders looked on her fresh, buoyant, nursed-in-
the-lap-of-luxury face with a thrill of grief at their
weight of years. The younger element looked and
longed and battled for her girly favors. The whole
of Lome circled round the lambkin, and predicted
such a time, as the French cynic did, for a fresh
young person of distinction—“ Ah ! she is very
beautiful. May she give us many griefs ! ”
The two daughters of a city magnate have been
adding to the temperature of one summer haunt
by warm revels. Their pet diversion was to
make a midnight attack on the male camps in the
vicinity of the one swagger hotel the place
boasted, and rouse the enqmy with a loud, boyish
yell. This, being in the beginning regarded as
the prank of the young knickerbocker torments
of the neighborhood, the campers would up and
give chase, only to discover a flock of rollicking
girls. One night there was a fancy-dress dance,
and the costume of one of the sisters made a bit of
a sensation. The two sisters are evidently
anxious to cut a dash in devil-may-care fashion.
The Rev. E. S. Hughes is not dependent on the
pulpit for a living. He married a widow of wealth
—a widow with an interesting history. She was
earning a livelihood as a nurse when she met a
patient rich enough to buy a few hospitals had he
wished. They were . married, and had a few
years’ globe-trotting when he fell sick again.
This time he succumbed. The widow had been
some time out of weeds when she met the Rev. E.
Hughes, who had been supposed by his congrega-
tion to be proclaimed to celibacy.
Railway Commissioner Tait has the cigar habit
so strong that when he’s at Flemington or Caul--
field, pacing the lawn, he’s still gripping a
weed, and should he, as a rare accident, not be in
the act of smoking, his hand works up auto-
matically to withdraw an imaginary Havannah
from his lips, or he absent-mindedly keeps striking
matches to light the cigar that isn’t there. An
accident on the lines means extra steam on Mr.
Tait’s part. The more desperate the occasion,
the more voluminous the smoke. Consul Bray
(about whom there’s absolutely nothing of the
donkey, demonstrating the nothingness of names)
comes second in this respect to the railway man.
But if the girl is nice enough, the Consul casts
the cigar away. This is his most subtle form of
flattery.
They all wondered what was the matter with
her. She looked nice and intelligent. She
dressed sweetly. She didn’t stutter. No one
could state what her peculiarity was. All the sex
talked it over. There was something strange
about her, all agreed. Then one day a fat, jolly,
knowing old spinster said, with a laugh, “I’ve
got it! She doesn’t gossip.” And that was the
solution of the riddle. And so she stood apart.
A globe-trotter in the grain line sends out word
of mermaid Annette. He has seen her in a superb
Yank garb—a triumph of millinery crowning her
coiffure. And he remembers her in the Aquarium
days when she trundled along anyhow in a sac
coat, a short zig-zag skirt, and a panama banged
down on a brown head with the wet wisps of hair
straggling about her careless ears. “ See her now ! ”
ejaculates the gadder. “ She is a magnificent
fashion-plate with a Erench maid in attendance
and a magnetic look of conquer-or-die in
her fine brown eyes. She’s a credit to the Com-
monwealth. There’s not a girl from our part in
the same street with her, here.” So Annette is
awakening to the clothes passion. There must be
a land Neptune in view. All her recent photos
to Madame Kellermann bear a scrawl —-“To the
dearest Mum from the brownest Water Baby ”
and Mum clasps the pictures to her musical
chest.
One of the champion mermaids of the season
was presented to a nice fellow at a recent Brighton
demonstration. They had a mixed chat (wet and
dry). But he never recognised her after. She
twitted him. “ Oh,” he said, “ I’d only remember
you with your dress off.”
A triangle trouble has ended badly. The
charmer who broke up the happy home went to
the indignant wife and made a brief confession
of her foolishness, but begged the dame not to
punish the poor hubbie any further. She made a
strenuous appeal to let him off and make friends.
Then the injured wife exploded. It was outrageous
enough, she volleyed, to make love to a married
man, but to ask of the insulted wife for his pardon
was a grosser piece of impertinence. The lawfully
wedded pair are still estranged.
At the luncheon rooms at Ball and Welch’s
(Melb.) there are some half-dozen tables reserved
for the employees. Three of the “superior
English ” type of woman sat at one of them the
other day, and were horrified to find that
they would be submitted to the indignity of
lunching with “ordinary workpeople, you know.”
“Extraordinary country” audibly drawled one.
“One will next be dining with the waitresses
probably.” The others had not time to answer
before a trim little waitress came up and said
innocently, “Would you mind moving, please?
These tables are reserved for the employees.” You
could almost see the air freeze as the three swept
out of the room.
A cable announces the marriage engagement
of Lady Mary Hamilton, who lately came into a
fortune of £lOO,OOO cash, and an income of £34,000
a year from the family estates. One of the estates
is the Island of Arran, where Lady Mary’s
father, the Duke of Hamilton, asserted his land-
lordly authority, some 20 years ago, by forbidding
the erection of a particular brand of church, or
chapel. Whereupon the islanders belonging to
this vetoed denomination moored an ancient
vessel off the coast and held their little prayer
meetings on the deck. The late duke—a bull-
necked, unintellectual person—nearly succeeded
in bursting up the estates for the good of man-
kind, but unhappily his chief creditor—a money-
lender named Padwiclc —took him off the turf and
sent him to travel abroad on the cheap, whilst his
shattered income was regaining its strength. The
result of Padwick’s management is seen in the
enormous importance of the heiress. The Hamil-
tons are of somewhat Royal descent and the
family history is full of gaiety.
According to Labouchere’s Truth, the word
“ rotten” is going out of use among smart people
in London, and the women and girls of England’s
bluest-blood now say “putrid.” “What a
putrid sermon !” “Rotten” formerly superseded
“beastly.” It is a lovely trilogy—“beastly,”
“rotten,” “putrid.” Meanwhile the masculine
part of smart society calls its aversions “poison-
ous.” “Look at the poisonous way he brushes
his hair ! ” is the smartest of smart talk.
Melbourne is amused at the changed sentiments
of a local Jingo parson (once an ardent “Mother-
Countryman ”) when he got back from a British
jaunt last year. His reverence had travelled from
Melbourne to Europe in a German vessel and had
a lovely time, petted by suave Teutons who,
knowing little (and caring less) of church distinc-
tions, accepted affably the pastor as some high
dignitary of the Australasian religion. The shep-
herd and his party, in consequence, occupied the
Seats of the Mighty on board. The trip back in
a British liner came as a horrid awakening. The
holder of some petty English title, who travelled
by the same boat, grabbed all the available pres-
tige and privileges. The parson was referred to
the purser, who consulted a guide to precedence in
British passenger-ships, and then doled out to
complainant and clan the scant share of cere-
monial consideration permitted to “dissenting
ministers” by John Bull. The clerical martyr
scarcelv waited to land before he rushed into print
to - ; compare the British system most unfavorably
with the German one.
Mr. and Mrs. L. L. Lewis are off again to
Europe. They intend to spend the winter in the
neighborhood of the Italian Lakes. Miss Rita
Kiddle cuts away in a different direction to all
her gadding chums. She makes for Uncle Sam’s
land in a month or two.
Mr. Guy Madden has been admitted to the
Bar. His dad executed the act of admittance
with a highly ornate smile. Mr. Guy is the
fattest grad, to cross to this particular Bar for
many a season. His bulk proved too much for
one or two narrow passes in the beginning, but
by dint of perseverance he squeezed through
ultimately. Now Captain Guy will flaunt his
braw legs under the kilts of his regiment with
more swagger than ever.
Latest effort in matrimonial limitation comes
from the Jewish Church. The Rabbis are very
wild rabbis indeed at the thought of Rachel and
Rebecca wedding Jim and Bill, and bringing into
the world little boys who won’t necessarily be
named Isaac or Moses. But it is hopeless for any
creed or church in Australia to make a successful
stand against “mixed marriages.” The senti-
ment of the community seems to favor the
breaking down of rigid religious distinctions, and
even the Jewish faith—the most aloof of all-
must bow to the growing sentiment.
A strictly official party gathered on the Seidlitz
decks to say au-revoir to the Waxcellency’s out-
going flock. Miss Ruby Madden returned from a
great gad towards the end of 1905 ; now she is set-
ting off again on a third globe-trot. The youngest
cherub of the family rehearses her “ach” and
“hein” aboard the‘boat. If she makes proper
progress, she may be permitted to pack her tresses
aloft and add a trail onto her outer garments,
ivriss Lesly lingers on here. Her turn comes next.
The senior Raleighs have been celebrating their
golden wedding. The handsome old couple
clinked glasses merrily on Monday night, and a
host of relatives and grey cronies sang “For
they are jolly good fellows.”
One local johnnie explains the breakage of his
engagement as the result of the girl’s fancy for
hysterics : “ She’d get an attack, and I d have to
sit and smoke till she recovered. It got monoto-
nous. She complained of my brutal treatment
(which consisted in my doing nothing till the
attack wound up), and then we knocked the
engagement on the head.” Of course, there s not
much sympathy in smoke. For an engaged girl
to issue from a bad fit to find her darling boy puff-
ing stolidly and peacefully at his pipe was rather
L trying. Still, it was the best of medical treat-
ment. The best way to cure hysterics is to ignore
them.
Matrimonially, as in other matters, the land of
the wooden ham licks creation. As some slight
mark of esteem, it was nationally proposed, the
other day, to present Miss Roosevelt and her
prospective spouse with about half-a-million
dollars. The ’groom, on hearing the suggestion,
is said to have remarked laconically, “That’s
fine ! ” and to have forthwith prepared to cease
work for life. However, that strenuous parent,
Roosevelt, sat heavily on the scheme and absolutely
vetoed it. Now note on the long list of wedding
gifts the significant word, “vegetables.” Is that
popular resentment showing?
Yours Affectionately,
TRYPHLNA.
“San Remo”: Kitchener proposes to
teach the natives of India how to handle artillery.
Once let them into the secret, and the Almighty
help England when next Brahma Putra breaks out.
The one thing that saved England during the great
mutiny was the wretched artillery work of the
rebels.
Died in Yic., t’other day, an old-age pen-
sioner who, in the 50’s, had a remarkable experi-
ence. He was then a storekeeper near Ballarat,
and once when an urgent matter called him away,
hid 500 sovereigns in a sack of flour. When lie
returned, a couple of days later, he found that
every sack of flour had been sold during his
absence. Searching inquiries seemed to trace the
golden sack, but the buyer pooh-pooh’d the idea
that it had contained any ooin.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and REST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the eit3 - .
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the; Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
arid 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work,
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. QJENNERT; SpC. FBQ §t. Martin, Paris,
5/- Fine
London.
France.
pe^
GrO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hageo, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
ARTIFICIAL
LIIBS.^
wertfyguytjuywertfyguytjuy
We make them on the premises.
We make more than any other firm in Australia.
We also import them from the famous American
firm, A. A. Marks.
Every kind of Artificial Limb supplied at reason-
able prices.
Eend for Free Book on Artificial Limbs.
DENYER BROTHERS, Surgi tak n err menfc
281 George Sydney (opp. Hunter St.).
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
il Whdthdr dpponents are fighting in front
0r snarling behind, WG shall go forward.”— Queefk-
Ittnd Premie? Kllxs'lOn.
Pldasanf to read that since Japan has
failed up nihe Beat Vessels from the ocean, and
has tlidfb VMssels under construction; in two years
it will be the third sfeib Power df the world;
Kidstbn Goverfiifient in Queensland has
/voni te fiiis , fc victory at the polls, Minister
O feu livan scoring an almost unexpected win
at Warwick by-election. Sri, me day Premier
Kidston. at Brisbane, made it again clear that
Ins adhiiniStfation waS to be a iion-borrowing one.
AUSTRALIA—FROM A REID POINT
OF VIEW.
Mr. Reid, questioned as to the future of the Common-
wealth, said that the feeling with regard to Federation
was one of formidable and intense disappointment, rising
in many parts of Australia to resentment. Talk of sece£
sion, however, was absurd.—U. H. Reid at Colombo.
Patriot : “ This , ladies and gentlemen, is Aus-
tralian Federation, a wretched animal,
shunned aml loathed by all who know it
afflicted with Socialism, and ravaged by ticks ;
but, as a humane man, I would not think of
recommending the axe. Let the poor animal
die slowly of its awful afflictions .”
The Bulletin was just thinking over the
wrongs of poor old N.S. Wails when in one issue
of the Sydney D.T. it noticed two consecutive
pars ;one stated that all the States had agreed to
share in the appointment of a N.S. AV? engineer* in
London to inspect stores, the other noted a
Meloourne sculptor’s energetic boom of N.S.W
marble as “ the best in the world.”
In 1901 N.S.W. imported 5,000,0001b5. of
cmdles. In 1905, thanks to the operation of the
modest Federal duty of Id., the importations
dropped to 1,800,0001b5. But the sale of American
and English candles seems unchecked, the reason
being that, as a result of continually crying
Stinking Fish, Australia is supposed to be incap”
able of making decent candles, and the local can-
dle burns under a foreign alias.
Evidence given before the Tariff Commis-
sion on horse-shoe nail making, recalls the
fact that nail-making is not a new industry in
Australia. Sixty years ago there were in Sydney
alone 18 nailers. The founder of one of Sydney’s
wealthiest families was a nail-maker on the Rocks
before he took to other commercial pursuits.
Yankee machinery drove the hand-made nailer
out of the trade.
Australia is always finding out leaks. Two
Hindus from the vessel Acara were taken sick
to the Melbourne Hospital on November 14. On
January 27 they were discharged, and were pre-
sently found at large in Melbourne streets. Now
what guarantee did the Customs authorities get
from the master of the Acara regarding the ulti-
mate removal of the two undesirables ? —for a man
doesn’t become any the less an undesirable immi-
grant because he happens to be a sick one.
“T.D.” : Expected, when I first came to
England, to meet quite a number of wealthy
Australians who had become so disgusted with the
socialistic trend of legislation that they had put
their “stake” in a carpet bag and brought it
away with them. Up to date, I haven’t met one
of these individuals. Various Australian people
of much financial bulk, certainly seem to have
settled down in these parts, but, as far as I know,
they have left their stakes in the same old place.
Perhaps the stakes were too heavy to bring away
all at once.
()n the q uestion of the adulteration of
woollens, Clias. Atkins, President Victorian
Chamber of Manufactures, hit the bull’s eye
when he said it was due to the middleman in “ the
Lane.” He believed the manufacturers went with
an absolutely pure flannel, say, at 8id. a yard.
1 lie importer would say: “If you can do some-
thing about 6|d. I can take 100 rolls.” Then, to
compete with the shoddy imported goods, the
milker must adulterate. Till the tarift’ goes up
and the importer goes down, Australia will wear
an adulterated shift.
The Stinking Fish press fried to work up
another horror because the Governor of South
Australia had imported two footmen “ under con-
tract, and “ the Federal Government Would be
forced to order their return to England,” They
ievived, iii connection with the matter, the
lozer maid ” incident as a parallel case. But as
a matter of simple truth, Tozer’s maid need not
have applied for an exemption certificate, as the
Immigration Act doesn’t apply to domestic ser-
vants ; and for the same reason Le Plunte's foot-
riien can have free entry:
J. D: Campbell, M.LnA;, recently fetuined
tb Banartaland from a trip to the Cold Country,
with this : “The general conduct of the Queefis-
kind Agent-General’s office requires Organising.
It wants renewing, lock, stock, and barrel. I did
not meet a single person in England Or Scotland
who hail eyCr heard of any Work Which Queens-
land’s Agfent-General had dope iri. promoting tlife
interests of the State. I heard, off the other
hand, of N.S.W. Coghlan’s work everywhere ;
and of Agent Lance, whose resignation astonished
me. lie was broken-hearted over the way his
Government consistently pigeon-holed his sug-
gestions.”
Some man with a bull voice should
visit Sydney Lands Department and inauire
what the mischief is
the meaning of local
men having to wait
months and months
for a block of land,
while outsiders are met
by officers at the boat,
handed railway guides,
with land maps at-
tached, and are asked
how soon it will lie
convenient to go up
and take such or such
a division? The local
man who buys or pro-
poses to buy from the
Lands Department has
to unwind a wearisome
lot of red tape.
If only on the
ground that the Com-
monwealth has to pay
for the defence of Aus-
tralia, a Federal land-
tax is more than justi-
fied. The Common- ■
wealth has to pay to
keep Asiatic hordes
oft Australian lands, and the lands should stand
part, at least, of the cost of this defence.
Vice-Admiral Fawkes, of the Powerful :
“By all means let there be one people one
destiny, and one king one people, but let there
also be one people one navy.” That way of
putting things grows tiresome ; it suggests such a
vista of units—one Parliament, one Law Court,
one Policeman, one Admiral.
Prahrau Council is now asking the
Monopoly Tramway Company to cut the southern
line into four penny sections in place of the exist-
ing 3d. fare for the whole or any part of the
distance, ignoring the fact that the fare on the
longer Brunswick line has been reduced by rail-
way competition to twopence—and pays at that.
Yet with all this knowledge these precious city
fathers still advocate handing over to “private
enterprise ” the construction and running of much-
needed branch lines and feeders in Kewq Haw-
thorn, Malvern and Caulfield.
Australian Fat Stock are considerably
agitated in mind because of the successes of the
•British Labor party, and are regarding Rule
Britannia reproachfully on that account, expect-
ing that the shocking example set by the Ma
Land will have a most pernicious effect at the
forthcoming Federal general elections. All
through their anxious lives they have devotedly
instructed the young Australian idea to look to
dear old England as its one reliable guide,
philosopher and friend. The fact that England
has created a substantial Labor party of its own
will now stand in the way of that teaching.
The. results of the clause of the N.S.W.
Liquor. Act which places Tommy Tanna on the
same footing as Billy Combo, are very visible on
the Tweed River, where Tommy is a large but,
thanks to Federal legislation, decreasing quantity!
A great number of Kanakas are employed, and
cheap bottled-lightning used to be kept by the
pubs for Tommy’s special benefit.
Something of a topical curiosity now that immigration is
being discussed again—the card used by Henry Parkes when he
and W. B. Dailey were immigration agents for N.S.W. in England.
“ S.R.” :Be Glassey (B. l/2/’08). Those
yvho should know say he is biding his time,
impatiently awaiting the Q. elections to oppose
Barber for Bundaberg. Barber is secretary of the
Queensland Labor party, and is not too strong in
his constituency. Still, Glassey would attack him
handicapped with a sorry record of beatings.
The Q. Chamber of Fossils, to defeat the
Monopoly Tax Bill, decided that there was plenty
of good land available for present settlement
needs. Now the Lands Department is unable to
find room in one block of Crown lands for 22
holdings under the measure passed last session to
aid men without means to go on the land. Prices
for suitable private estates are being asked.
Could there be greater evidence for the need of a
land-tax in Bananaland ?
Excited witnesses have been telling the
Shipping Commission at Brisbane that if the
Commonwealth were to run a line of steamships,
the whole shipping world would combine against
them and cut rates to nothing to kill the enter-
prise (iS.M.H., 7/2/’OG). The dear men ! If they
only would, wouldn’t it be “The Lord has de-
livered them into our hands.’' Suppose the Com-
monwealth line wanted 10 per cent, of the total
export trade in order to pay, and had to cut rates
by £1 a ton to get the freight. Then an export
duty of 2s. a ton all round would cover the
loss on the steamship line, and the exporters
Would have a net gain of 18s. a ton to play with.
Premier CuiTuthefS has thrown out a
broad hint to the country Pasture Protection
Boards to recommend the Government to supply,
under the new scheme of fencing, a lower grade
Wird-uetting than is generally used in rabbit-proof
fences in N.S. W. That State’s farmers have up to
now insisted on having 42 x ±l7 gauge netting,
and, thinking that the Govt, would of necessity
get the same, speculators have been cornering the
market, and the wholesale quote for that line is
£4O a mile. But the S.A. Govt, has always been
content with a fence made of 36 x 1\ x 18 wire,
which line the sharp business crowd had not
bothered to corner, and it can be got at £22 a
mile in Sydney.
“B.”: The Sydney papers are again
agitating to undo the work of Sam Smith and
the Labor party, in insisting on a half-yearly
instead of a yearly survey of all steamships. The
advocates of this change give as one argument
that it has now weeded out all the coffin-ships and
doubtful old death-traps, and has put the local
fleet into such a state of efficiency that a yearly
survey can be safely reverted to. A second argu-
ment is that the other States have not followed
suit, and the half-yearly survey is telling against
the port of Sydney. The answer to the first is
that the inference is that the coffin-ship will
surely come back with the repeal of the half-
yearly survey, and to the second that the proper-
policy is to level up the other, States to the
half-yearly survey, and not to level N.S.W. down
to the annual one. This matter should engage
the attention of the Federal Labor party.
Up North, Premier Kidston is looking
into a very mean business. In order to get the
white-grown sugar-excise rebate, some planters
have been cancelling their contracts with Tommy
Tanna, and throwing the islanders on the-hands
of the State Government. The Government
wouldn’t stand that, and called on the planters to
at least pay the cost of shipping Tommy back to
his home—to do anything, in short, except break
an engagement and throw out the unfortunate
nigger, penniless in many cases, and helpless
nearly always. Against that demand the planters
are kicking vigorously. This is how the black-
labor gang treats its savage when a few shillings can
be made out of the transaction j and one can judge
now how much sincerity there was about the same
crowd’s howl at the “injustice ” of the Australian
Government when it decided to carry out the
State policy of repatriating the niggers.
The National Political League of W.A. is
probably the quaintest organisation in Australia
calling itself political. It has no known pro-
gramme nor definite policy in the usual sense of
the word, and any attempt to frame either the
one or the other would probably break the
party ” into smithereens, as it claims to embrace
every shade of political opinion, from the ultra-
conservative cocky, or ancient Sandgroper, to the
most rabid democrat. Its sole admitted aim is di-
rect opposition at every election to any candidate
supported by organised Labor, or the Trades
Hall ; the party has no fiscal views, and is neither
for Freetrade nor Protection ; it neither advocates
a land-tax, nor the preservation of Legislative
Councils; it shies at Deakin, and shoots round the
corner at the name of Beid ; only Watson is its
Ute nuir. John Forrest officiated at its birth, and
a year ago was its bright particular star, the ob-
ject of the league being fairly represen-
tative of his then mental attitude; to-day
the star,- with “Union Label” pasted on
its face, sheds darkness rather than light.
The league, consequently, to be consistent, may
have to oppose its former patron at the next elec-
tion, unless he again recants, and, to make his seat
secure, comes out in direct and uncompromising
opposition to his present colleagues and all their
works—a difficult problem, for the solution of
which the Bunbury prophet will need some op-
portune and special revelation.
As to the alleged superi-
ority of Canada as a country
for immigration. Oneßraith-
waite is back in M.L. who
went across last year to
sample the “free land.” He
found on arrival that the
only sections available were
in the frozen no. tli-west,
miles d#ay from the railway,
and whfe're cultivation 18
possible only for about seven
PionthS in the year. Further,
the Calnatdiatn Government’s
interest ip the immigrant
6eas6d o’nfcp he was safe , oil
CarialdiaP Soil, and no infor-
mation vtais Obtainable frdPi
the officials unless they vveip
substantially “tipped.”
Braithwaite asserts that the
whole of the country is prac-
tically owned or controlled
by the C.P.R. Co., which is
carrying its lines into every
district. There is plenty of
work for tradesmen at lower
wages than in M.L.. exeent.
in mining districts, where there is unionist
labor. On the farms in the Alberto country
wages run from 20s. to 255. per week, 10 hours a
day— except at harvest, when the pay is about £8
a calendar month, from daylight to 9 p.m.
What political fakirs Bent and co. are !
Bent recently went roaring through the corridors
of the public offices that he was going personally
to investigate every case due for a rise of salary.
Then the press announced a special Cabinet meet-
ing to exhaustively deal with this matter ; and
the Cabinet impressively adjourned from week to
week. After that, Bent announced that he had
given “Mr. Gaunson’s public-service constituents
£lO,OOO. ’ And the truth is that not one recom-
mendation of the permanent heads had been dis-
turbed ! The whole tomfool business about
special Cabinet meetings and keen inquiry into
every case was mere fudge, first to impress the
agricultural person who looks on the public ser-
vant as a sort of Barabbas, and, secondly, to give
iny ole pal Davey ■’ a lift. There are now over
800 temporary persons employed in the various
Victorian departments, not counting railways ;
about one to every live permanent persons. This
is the largest number (or thereabouts) ever em-
ployed—significant of a condition of political
jobbery, comparable only to the system of
appointments before 1883, which year brought in
the Publ.c Service Board.
The lately deceased J. F. Deegan was
probably the only Roman Catholic who ever had
the solid authoritative Orange vote cast for him at
an election. When Findley (now Senator) was
expelled from Vic. Parliament for “disloyalty,”
he. stood for the East Melbourne seat against
Deegan, and other candidates. Loyal Melbourne
was profoundly shocked at Findley’s action and
very much afraid that a plethora of “loyal”
candidates Would let the Labor man slip in.
After much consultation among the differing
factions, it was decided that their vote should be
cast for Deegan, but the other “loyal” candidates,
one of whom was a strong Protestant, refused to
be shoved aside. In desperation, the Argus sent
a reporter out to secure for Deegan the support of
bimian Phraser. The reporter was an R.C. with
a Hibernian name, but happily his name was
mistaken by the maid at Phraser’s house, and he
was taken for a good Protestant, For a solid
hour Phraser poured out stories about the Pope to
him, but eventually signed a manifesto asking
all good Orangemen to vote for Deegan. Why
1 hraser was not formally declared bogus by the
head lodge at Londonderry is one of the mysteries
of practical politics. Perhaps the yellow pup was
busy biting its fleas at that moment.
BUT—THE OTHER SIDE.
THE THIN MAN: “It’s all rot about Friday being
unlucky; look at me, I married on a Friday
THE FAT MAN: Yes; but what about your wife!”
Papua has no loan burden. Its only loan
(a survey one) was repaid within a few years.
From an interview with Premier Roblin,
of the State of Manitoba (Canada)
Look at what the International Harvester Company
d ,( L When they found themselves confronted with a
tariff of 20 per cent, on their machines entering Canada,
what they did was to put up several million dollars’ worth
of plant in Hamilton, Ontario, where they now employ
from 1200 to 1500 Canadian workers, and support a large
village full of folk.
If your muscles ache it may be your blood
Wolfe’s Schnapps cures rheumatism. If you
need a bracing tonic for general exhaustion.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the best in the world.*
THE AGRICULTURAL HIGH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Vic. Premier Bent has promised £3OOO this year for
Agricultural High Schools. There will be a two years
course, giving the time equally to theory, laboratory
work, and work on the school farm.
“ The days are gone,” the farmer said, “ when all you
had to do
Was chuck the seed on every side and watch it while it
grew ;
Now scientific farming is the flag we’ve got to fly—
So I vote we send our Willie to the Agricultural High.
“And after Willie there’ll be Ned, and p’raps a couple
more ”
But the farmer’s wife she shook her head, and gassed upon
the floor:
“ Will he get a block of Ohirns'.de’s land?” she asked in
sad reply,
“Or did Clarke bequeath his acres to the Agricultural
High?”
And then the farmer ceased to smile, and sank upon his
chair j
He Smoked and spat, and thong'nt awhile, and swore a
rural swear.
And he said: “They'd better teach h'm how to fertilize
the sky ;
ft’s all he’ll get when finished at the Agricultural High.”
L.


Til.
•SYlftr
‘<sf
€
*4!
m, %
cr:
✓
*
PATENT LEATHER GOLOSHED
BUTTON BOOTS, fine glace kid legs, straight toe caps, light
dress soles, needle toes, Wurtemburg heds, 275. 9d.; and all
PATENT KID LACE SHOES, light soles, stylish heels, smart
toes, 235. 6d. Postage Is. extra.
Wirt
FINE GLACE KID LACE SHOES*
patent caps, poi.ted, m.dium and
broad toes, our “ SPECIAL ” Collar-
ette Shoe, 12s. lid. Postage 9d. extra.
g'han
CD.
Son,
395 George St., Sydney
Sent to any address in the Com-
monwealth at these prices.
Goods may be exchanged or
money refunded if desired.
Send for our Style-Book.
m
■
am
w
n
ml : ■
■ r -
■B
* /ry*
FINE GLACE KID BUTTON BOOTS,
stylish patent caps, pointed and
medium toes, our “ SPECIAL
Boot, 15s. I Id.
Postage 9J. extra.
Postag'e 9d. extra.
/a
4
Refiners and
Sole Manufacturers of
ESTABLISHED 1884.
SAN FRANCISCO, and 117 Pitt St., Sydney
P. & B. PRESERVATIVE PAINT.
NOT THE SAME AS OTHER PAINTS.
A PERFECT
method of preserving building materials
and machinery from the destructive
effects of moisture is of conside able
benefit to the community. The best
PRESERVATIVE
known to modern science isP- & R. Pre-
servative Paint Its base is a pure
mineral, and it will not crack, scale, or
blister underthe most severe conditions
“Itit is not seemly, do it not; ii it is not true, speak it not.’
’—Marcus AUREi.tr*>
WILLIAM BALDWIN
W. S. FRIEND & 00.,
JAMES W. JACK,
NORMAN & CO.,
E. T. HARRIS,
HEDLEY BUTTON,
BRISCOE & CO., LTD.
Aust. Rep.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Wellington, N.Z.
Adelaide, S.A.
Townsville, Q.
Launceston, Tas.
Melbourne, Vie.
JAMES McEWAN & CO., LTD., Melb., Vie.
JAMES SANDY & 00., Sydney, N.S.W,
JOHN BURNS & CO., LTD., Auckland, N.Z.
G. L. DENNISTON, Dunedin, N.Z.
WILLIAM SANDOVER & CO., Perth, W.A.
EDWARD REECE & SONS, Chch., N.Z.
E. L. YENOKEN & CO. Pty., Ltd., Melb., Vio.
THOMSON, BRIDGER & CO., LTD., Invercargill. N.Z.
THE N.Z. LOAN AND MERCANTILE AGENCY CO„ LTD., Brisbane, Q.
INDIGESTION
IS the result of imperfect digestion. There’s very little
need to describe indigestion and dyspepsia to the
people of Australia. That lieaV.y, cutting, horrible paid
after eating \ that distehded, full feeling Of the bowels
Und stomach are alas! familiar to too many of Us; add
is either due to the state of the stomach itself, Or to its
being irritated or distehded by the materials formed bd
account of imperfebt digestiod-. FhOm the decOmposi-
tiod and fermentation of food result flatulent distension;
acidity, heartburn, and eructations. LIVERETS afe
a specific and permanent cure for indigestion, dyspepsia,
and similar stomach aildibdts; and a dose after eating
increases the flo\v of the digestive juices and stimulates
digestion. LIVERETS are a certain cure for consti-
pation, biliousness, bad blood, rheumatism, sleeplessness,
piles, headaches, &c. LIVERETS tone up the
stomach, and enable it to digest, without causing any
distress, whatever food you eat.
35
•o*
\
/
m
km
!
“ Go and get that
Bottle of
LIVERETS
when I tell
you!”
Armand Eanniger, a well-known Queensland identity, writes—
“l have been a great sufferer from indigestion, and it gives me great pleasure in stating
that the use of “ LIVERETS ” has been very beneficial to me and that I shall
recommend them highly to all those who suffer from disorders of the btomach. They
appear to me, anyhow, the most effective remedy I have ever used.
Brisbane, Ist February, 1905.


“M OTA ” brand
Motor Car Spirits
Are the finest power spirits the world produces.
Sold by all Motor Manufacturers,
Importers, Repairers, etc., or of
The BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD.,
Agents, Adelaide, Melbourne & Sydney.
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Just at present Lance Skuthorp is in Sydney,
negotiating- for a buckjumping match with Martini. On
January 25th Martini deposited £lOO at this office in
acceptance of Skuthorp’s challenge that one of his (Sku-
thorp’s) buckjumpers would throw any man in Australia.
On February 6th, on behalf of Skuthorp, the £lOO deposit
was covered. Skuthorp said he would produce his horse
within a week, and Martini said he had the man ready to
ride at 24 hours’ notice.
The Bulletin drew up the following rules to
govern the contest: Martini’s man to ride Skuthorp’s
horse in the presence of two judges and a referee. Mar-
tini and Skuthorp each to appoint a judge, and the
refefee to be mutually agreed upon. Martini’s men to
hold, saddle and bridle the horse in the presence of the
judges and referee. Skuthorp to fix the bucking-rope
round the loins of the horse either before or after Mar-
tini’s man was mounted, as mutually agreed upon. Mar-
tini’s man to ride in a “ poley ” or English hunting saddle
(i.e. no pads), and remain therein till the judges and
referee decided that the horse had stopped bucking. All
riding to be fair and square, no holding- by pommel, crup-
per, straps or anything but the reins. In the event
of the horse falling, or the bridle, girths, or any of the
fittings bursting or breaking, Martini’s man to be entitled
to remount and start again. The bucking rope to be a
bucking rope, and not a flank rope held or pulled or
touched by Skuthorp’s men, but merely fastened round
the horse’s loins to give Skuthorp a fair buck for his
money. Martini’s man not to touch the bucking rope
under pain of losing the match. In the event of the
match taking place in the presence of the public, two-
thirds of the money to go to the winner, and the remain-
der to the loser. The match to be ridden in an open
space, such as the Sports or Agricultural Ground, to give
the horse proper room. Expenses of ground and all other
incidentals to be- divided in the same ratio as the gate
money, winner to pay two-thirds, loser one-third.
Martini professed great anxiety for a match, but
he objected to Skuthorp putting a bucking rope on the
horse his man was to ride. He refused to share the
takings, and he refused to allow his man to ride the horse
anywhere but in his own show ground. He offered £lO
towards Skuthorp’s expenses. Skuthorp and his backer
had come all the way from Brisbane. They would be
detained in Sydney at least a fortnight. They had to
bring a, buckjumper from near the Queensland border,
keep him a week in Sydney, and take him back again.
The expenses offer didn’t meet those circumstances.
Clark {Skuthorp s backer) and Skuthorp offered
half-way. They offered to put up another
£lOO that Skuthorp would ride “Bobs’’under the same
conditions, and to bring along two other buckjumpers
(three altogether), and combine forces with him to give
an afternoon’s entertainment at the Agricultural or
Sports ground, and compete for all the stakes and two-
thirds of the gate money : but Martini adhered to his
offer of £lO expenses and all the gate money for himself—
win or lose. Under those conditions Martini could not
lose more than £llo—a sum which the increased takings
at the gate would recoup him ; while if he won, barring
the “ tenner” expenses, it would be all profit.
Later, Martini proposed a compromise. He
would take “Bobs” out to any ground Skuthorp liked,
Skuthorp to ride him in private in a hunting saddle with
3in knee-pads affixed, “Bobs” to have a flank rope to
be used by Martini’s man. Martini’s man to ride
Skuthorp s horse, in an English hunting saddle, without
knee-pads, and Skuthorp not to be allowed to put any
rope at all on his horse. J
When Clark and Skuthorp received this last
offer, after a humorously acrimonious interview, the fol-
lowing arrangement was eventually accepted : Martini’s
man to ride three of Skuthorp’s horses ; Skuthorp to ride
three of Martini’s horses; winner to take £l5O Sku-
thorp and Martini’s men to ride their own horses in
a buckjumping display for £lOO aside. Skuthorp to ride
”® once in English saddle and once in stockman’s
saddle for £5O aside in each case. Match to be contested
under rules mentioned above, and take place at a ground
to be agreed upon on February 28th. Winner of majority
of events to take three-fourths the gate and pay the same
proportion of expenses. Total side wager, £350.
The point about the rope is this. Martini claims
Skuthorp, in his challenge, said he would not use a
flank rope —that is, a rope round the horse’s loins
one end of which is held by the owner of the horse and
manipulated so as to make him buck furiously.
Skuthorp took it for granted that Martini would allow
him to use a bucking rope, which is said to be a recog-
nised adjunct in all genuine buckjumping contests, and to
be necessary to ensure that the owner of the horse and his
backers shall have a fair buck for their money. Without
it the worst outlaw will sometimes submit, in the face of
a big crowd, to be ridden by a very indifferent rider let
alone one whose very seat tells the neddie he is under
something that knows how to stick. But Martini claims
that by promising not to use a “ flank rope ” Skuthorp
has deprived himself of the right to use a “bucking-
rope.’ Skuthorp says he has not.
* * * #
On Saturday night “Jigger” Laval, who had
come all the way from Gippsland, “ 200 miles the other
Melbourne,” he said, was promptly thrown by
Martini s horse Bobs. The “ wore a tremendous
hat, and he looked like a horseman, but he certainly
didn t ride like one. After surviving the worst of the
bucks, which were anything but formidable, the “ Jigsrer ’’
came off inartistically.
*
When The Bulletin announced, a week ago,
that the Yankees had made considerable improvements
m the steam car, it had no idea that they seriously
threatened the supremacy of the petrol flyers, but at
ilonda beach speedway last week the unexpected hap-
pened. Hitherto the fastest time by a steam car was to
cover the mile in 38sec., equal to 94} miles an hour The
world’s record stood to the credit of H. L. Bowden in a
petrol-driven Mercedes, who, on the same speedway, got
over the mile in 32 2-ssec., or at the rate of 111 miies an
hour, when he eclipsed W. K. A'anderbilt’s mile in 39sec..
or 92 miles an hour. Bast week an unknown driver named
Marriott drove a Stanley steam car through all records
flashing over the mile in 28sec., or at the rate of 128*
miles an hour. Of course as the meeting lasted a week)
it is just possible that by the time this is in print some
of the mighty petrol flyers have recovered the record.
Here are some of the machines specially built with a view
to covering two miles in the minute : A. G. Vanderbilt’s
20° h.p. specially-designed car, to do 156 miles an hour ;
W. K. Vanderbilt’s 200 h.p. Darracq ; G. W Young’s
110 h.p. Fiat; F. Keens’ 120 h.p. Mercedes; H W
Fletcher’s 110 h.p. Fiat; Walter Christie’s 100 h.p.’
Christie ; and England’s fastest flyer, the 120 h p Napier
driven by daredevil Clifford Earp.
* * * *
Judging by the paucity of the attendance, S.
Australian League of Wheelmen will commit the happy
despatch when the present carnival finishes. Saturday
was responsible for a new Australian motor track record
Baulderstone and Deards smashing by one second the
latter’s record of lmin. 6sec. for the mile
* * * *
Thank heaven, Ivor Lawson has at last really
gone back to the States ; his constant threat to do so
rather than accept the appearance money offered had be-
come monotonous. As a matter of fact, he did not intend
to go back till after the Sydney Thousand, and it was a
great blow to him when the Summer Nights Syndicate
refused to allow him to nominate for that event, after the
local entries had closed. Lawson claimed the right to
enter as an international rider, but the secretary very
properly pointed out that Mr. Lawson had been in this
country for a few months, and was not entitled to the
same exemption as a foreign rider just stepping off a mail
boat. Lawson is understood to have pleaded hard, but
the secretary stood firm—more power to his feet—and the
disappointed Yankee went home in disgust. He bluffed
too long.
* * * *
Although the second day of the N.S.W.
Cyclists’ Union meeting drew a larger crowd than the
previous Saturday’s sport, it was still painfully evident
that the public is not very milch interested in amateur
track work. Two championships, the one and five miles,
were decided. The final of the mile saw five starters,’
who all seemed equally disinclined to follow the pacer.
T. R. Hopkins, of the Western Suburbs, Won in the
dreary time of 2min. 26 4-ssec. The Same club also pro-
duced the winner of the five miles. Twenty started, and
a couple of falls 1 shook the field somewhat, and it thinned
out remarkably, till less than a dozen struggled for places
at the finish.
* * * *
“0.K.”: Seemingly there is no falling off in
the annual contributions of Tattersall’s sweep-money by
lucky ticket-holders to undeserving horse-owners. The
large percentage of prize-money that changes hands
nearly every time is not in all cases, or in most cases, a
blackmail levy. It is freely offered before the race by the
foolish ticket-holder, who hastily assumes that a horse
with a' winning chance is likely to be scratched or
pulled ” for a valuable race unless the owner be laid
£lOOO (or more) to nothing as an inducement for him to
win another large sum by letting his gee-gee “ have a go.”
Public ignorance and stupidity are responsible for
this practice, whereby Tatt.’s Sweep has become a
means of greasing the fat horse-owner. And the daily
press encourages the practice. Take an extract from
Melbourne Age re last week’s Hobart Cup : “ Bullock the
rider of Postulate, who won the Cup, was laid £l5O about
the win, but did not know anything of it till after the
race. It is believed the. drawer of the horse in Tatter-
sall s Sweep is in South Australia, and that he laid the
owner £lOOO about the win. Level (the second horse) got
no sweep money.” The paragraph would give Tatt. sub-
scribers to understand that it was quite a fair thing for
the winning owner to acquire £lOOO by gift from
the person who happened to pull off a 49,999 to 1 chance
in the lottery on Hobart Cup, and that the owner of the
second horse was an ill-treated sport because he did not
likewise get a percentage of somebody’s prize-money.
®uch Paragraphs have the effect of diminishing the value
e prizes in Tatts\ If the public heard nothing
of those cases in which nervous ticket-holders chose to
tax their legitimate winnings so unnecessarily, or sub-
mitted to be “ squeezed ” by grasping horse-owners,
future drawers of valuable tickets would be less and less
likely to part with any portion of their rights. Tatts’.
sweeps were never meant to be exploited by any section
of the racing class. They are harmless gambles which
have only a nominal connection with turf gambling.
Circuinstances have accounted for the growth of a custom
by which every subscriber to Tatt. stands to be victim-
ised. And the public press thusfar is the chief circum-
stance.
* * * *
The so-called slander action against John Wren,
wherein trainer Miller sued Tor damages for assumed
imputation of dishonesty, through him and his pony, Ben
Bolt, being disqualified for two years for “ running stiff ”
was speedily disposed of by Judge Johnston, who declared
the defences of “privilege” and “justification” both
good, and found for defendant Wren, jvith costs. Inci-
dentally, it transpired that when Wren took over the
business, all existing disqualifications were removed and
everybody given a fresh chance to go straight. But a
good many people don t seem to know what to do with a
chance of that sort.
* * * *
Istria, one the threatened good things for
the Newmarket,. ran away with a six furlong race at
Sandown Park (Melb.), last Saturday, in the respectable
time of 1.17*. Considering that the filly (daughter of
the flying Trieste) didn t take a decided lead at the start
the way m which she smothered the field from the borne
turn was very impressive, although the time was beaten
by Sir Roland in a subsequent scamper over the same
course. Medallist made an unsatisfactory show in Sir
Roland s race.
* * * *
The result of Saturday’s round of first grade
Sydney cricket wa,s to leave Waverley at the head of the
list with eight points, and Glebe and Burwood running
neck and neck in second place with seven each. Next
competitor is North Sydney, the once invincible, far down
the list with only three. The only century getter was
Lane of the University, who scooped 126 against Gordon
before Macartney bowled him. This was the first century
his club has made this season. The best bowling figures
rnnl% P fn fc , by /o l ‘! ivar J , and Whitil HL of Balmain, who
took 6 for 67 and 3 for 17 respectively. Sullivan’s ba«-
included Trimmer and Noble.
* * * »
Outstanding feature of Saturday’s play in the
local cricket competitions was the unexpected defeat of
Paddington by Balmain, after the latter had, the previous
week, been got rid of for the miserable total of 144 It
seemed a foregone conclusion that Truinper and Noble
would make short work of this on the little Hampden
Oval, but, though the wicket was good, the whole side
ivas out for 126, Trumper’s share being 16, and Noble’s
L). Both of them fell to Sullivan, a left handed bowler
During the innings Sullivan secured half a dozen wickets
at a cost of about eleven runs apiece.
* * * *
Mackay s manufactured record of two centuries
in a match did not stand alone very long. Plaving ae-iinst
Westralia, D. R .Gehrs carried out h/bat for UB ?n che
first innings, and put up the level century in the second
And apparently he wasn’t spoonfed.
Eighth round of Victorian club cricket closed
Saturday week, leaving Hawkesburn with 13 points, Mel-
bourne 11, Pitzroy 8, Bast Melbourne and Carlton 7, Rich-
mond 2, St. Hilda 1. The other nine clubs were all minus
Ports footing the list with minus 13. So ifftle interest is
taken in the games at present arranged that the Argus
casually printed the list the Wednesdayfollowing the con-
clusion of the round, while none of the other datlies men-
tioned the matter at all. The sole hope of a revival of
Melbourne cricket lies in electoral games.
D. R. A. Gehrs wound up a consistent season
by scoring a double century for S.A. against Westralia
, h t L : t] ? lrd Australian player to do so in Australia
though the feat was accomplished by Victor Trumper in
England. Gehrs performances since landing from the
English tour of the lamented Australian Eleven make all
the more marvellous his failure in the Cold Country.
* * *
“S.R.” : Queensland cricketers have received
M n i o nv e drnbhm erC a U 'Y allo P in B' fr «» the Victorians.
Many drubbings do not seem to make the Queensland
Cricket Association mend its ways. That good old
institution still plugs along in the good old rut. Our
elevens consist mainly of Brisbane elevens (not too
f pre o S , e d nUt,Ve u at that) ,' Dynamite wouldn’t shift some of
the old members and an up-to-date burglar’s outfit is
rpn UU H d ih o A nab ® a youn » P la .ver to break in. Quite
the Count™ ISSl SS ( ° ( | 10n carried th '-°ugh a Metropolis v.
the Countiy match as a means of getting a representative
Queensland eleven. In a fair and square match Country
beat Brisbane by a few runs. Prior to the result several
members complained that the Country team was not the
strongest which could be picked. The direct result of all
eleven l Po 1 cks three country members for the State
eleven. Cooney, the country leg break bowler, who
upset, Brisbane s apple cart, was left out. Coonev is a
bowler who copies Armstrong’s leg break bowling and
places all the field on the leg side. The best (in mv
opinion) country batsman in Q., J. Ilalpin of Bundabero-
was also left out. His average this season is 129 ’
* * •
Tasmanian Cricket Association has asked for
representation on the Australian cricket Board of Control,
and it is probably only a matter of time before the Maori*
land and Westralian Associations come in.
* * » *
It is merely a coincidence, of course, that parson
cricketer Waddy was called to preach the Word at Single-
ton, one of the few country towns in N.S.W. to boast
of a turf wicket.
* * * *
The Healey brothers, Craig, of Balmain, and
Smith, of the Enterprise Club, turned up for the 500yds.
championship of N.S.W. at Bronte on Saturday. For a
desperate contest and a viniful struggle all the way the
race would be hard to beat. At 300yds. R. Healey was
leading and increasing his pace, and finally won by nearly
four yards. Although R. Healey is champion of the
State for the distance, he has not succeeded in beating
Kieran’s time. Kieran left his record at 6min. 10 3-ssec.,
and Healey took 21 3-ssee. longer to cover the distance.
* * * *
Young Beaurepaire, Albert Park S.C., is evi-
dently going to make a swimmer. At Melbourne S.C.
Carnival, he won the under-16 championship for 50 and
100 yards. The 440 and 220 yards State supremacy have
also been annexed by this lad, and, though not up to
N.SiW* standard, the quality must be there to defeat
Seasoned men like Stranger, Olaringbold and co. Dis-
creetly “nursed*’ for the next two or three years the
growing boy may develop into a record-breaker.
* * * *
Another suburban Ladies’ Swimming Club (the
fourth) has been formed, at Pyrmont, Sydney. This is a
most desirable movement, and the pity of it is that
under existing conditions these nice girls are going to
take healthy exercise in most unwholesome water. A
very little expenditure at Long Bay would make an ideal
bath, safe from sharks, and large and deep enough for all
the swimmers in Sydney to get into at the same time
without overcrowding.
“ Montalex ” : In professing to correct others,
Wyung ” (B. 8/2/’O6) makes a ludicrous display ,of ignor-
ance. The term “ knot,” as applied to the speed of ships,
does not “ signify miles per hour,” for the verv sufficient
reason that the knot, or nautical mile, contains 6080'27ft.,
as against the 5280 of the statute mile ; the difference,
800'27ft., is roughly allowed for by taking 11-7 miles for
every knot counted. And “Wyung” must himself be a
bit of a “ softgoods yachtsman ” not to know that the
nautical mile was called a knot because, with the old-
fashioned log, the rate, in nautical miles per hour, at
which the vessel was moving was indicated by the num-
ber of knot-distances (navy 47ft. 3in.) on the line drawn
out during the running of the log-glass (navy, 28sec.).
* * * *
With a light nor’-easter that increased as the
afternoon wore on, seven yachts started for the Marshall
Cup under the P.A. Yacht Club’s colors in Port Jackson.
The Marshall Cup has to be won four times to secure
absolute possession, and so far three men have each won
it once. On Saturday the race resolved itself into a
struggle between the two long-mark boats. The wind
was light and the current strong, and the whole fleet
came near being piled up, while the short boards that
were necessary to get clear interfered with the running
greatly. Eventually the scramble ended in a win for Mr.
Beach’s Cooya, with Scotia and Magic in second and third
places.
* * * *
Saturday afternoon saw the 18ft. open boat
championship of N.S.W. decided on Port Jackson. This
like two other events, was won by Chris. Webb in the
Australian (late Arline). A fine feature of the race was
the tremendous rush of Zena from seventh to second
place.
* * * *
Possible that Victorian amateur distance runner
Geo. Blake will accompany G. A. Wheatley to Athens in
search of the laurel leaf—although at last week’s meeting
of the Australasian Amateur Athletic Assn, only permits
for Barker and Wheatley were granted. Barker, Blake
and Wheatley would constitute the best trio of athletes
that Australia can boast of at the present time.
Festivities are being arranged to get funds to
send “Dan” Wheatley, of Melbourne, to Athens. It
would be a pity if Dan ” didn’t get a chance to secure
the crown of parsley, for on present form he’s probably
running the half and mile better than anybody in the
world. Fit, and on a fast track, he should soon lower the
world’s record. With Nigel Barker with him, Australia
would show the oyster openers that the youngest country
is last}*
* * * «
The athletes’ demonstration given at Melbourne
Cyclorama Building last Saturday in aid of the Bush Fires
Fund should have drawn a larger crowd. There was a
good attendance of ss. sports in boiled shirts, but the
serviceable 2s. public stayed away. Some of the best pro-
fessional and amateur performers showed their muscles
Jack M‘Go wan, Squires, and co. sparred, Clarence Weber
gave a few moments catch-where-it-suited style, and two
Japs got into holds unconvincinglv. Pole-ban«-ine-
(quarterstaff) by members of local field artillery lent
variety. Chairman O’Hara Wood said the right things
and the net profit was understood to be £4O.
* ♦ * *
Champion professional ped. A. B. Postle (31yds )
scooped in the Perth Cup, at the Perth (W. A.) Athletic
Association’s meeting last week—a £75 handicap
over a distance of 120yds.—in the splendid grass
track time of II 2-ssec. He also won the 75yds sprint
oi £l5 from scratch in 7 2-ssec. There were 510 acceptors '
for the Cup. Professional pedestrianism is booming- now
m Westralia. 6
* * * *
N.S.W. Athletic League (which controls pro-
fessional pedestrianism in Sydney) ought to wipe out the
rule which gives a disqualified runner a chance of lifting
his disqualification by paying a, fine of £l. The presence
of bookmakers at the Sydney meetings makes it easily
possible for a ped. to “ go down,” and be considerably on
the credit side after paying the £1 fine.
* * * *
TT “Homo ” : Murphy, the licensee of the “Bird-in-
Hand, had induced O’Regan to go in for a half -crown
sweep he was getting up on the Cup, with first, second
and third prizes. When O’Regan inquired a few davs later
l 1 , th . e sweep got on, Murphy jovially informed him :
Bedad, ye wint dam near winnin’, O’Regan. How*
somever, the Lord was good, the divil was in hell, V
there was luck in the family. Meself dhrew the first' the
ouM woman happened to get the second, V I’m blessed
if that young divil of a Patsy o’ mine didn’t sthrike the
third. Ye wor fourth, O’Regan.”
Edward VII., pheasant slaying, must present
an august spectacle, According to English papers he goes
i'° massacre in a 28-h.p. Darracq motor—originally
built for five, but which has now had all the seats taken
out, and a single rotary chair substituted in the centre of
the tonneau Behind the driver is the gunrack, while
the back of the car binges completely open to enable the
loader to seize and recharge the emptied firearms. In
this conveyance at Welbeck recently (where some thou-
sands of birds were accounted for) King Ned “ was driven
each dav to the various beats, and took part in the sport'
without leaving the revolving chair, which enabled him to
turn and mark the birds without exertion.” The sight
of a stout elderly man whirling himself wildly round "on
a T«- le L°. f n T, ic st ? ol > and being suddenly' checked in
mid-flight oy a blow from a mass of assassinated poultry
on his skull, should shake the loyal gravity even of the
very “smartest.”
* • * *
Oarsman Stanbury is anxious for a sculling
match, and has cabled asking for terms with Canadian
Durnan on either the Thames or in Canada. All chance
of a match with Towns is “ off,” the ex-champion declin-
ing to iswallow Stanbury’s terms.
i'* * # *
H. Burke, the, Tasmanian champion sculler,
left for England last Saturday to compete for the Diamond
Sculls.
* * • *
It is not generally known in sporting circles
that the Dunlop Rubber Co. is now making a speciality
of the manufacture 6f all classes of sporting rubber goods
fro ill dainty rubber grips for golf, tennis, and cricket bat
handles, down to footbladders, and Australians will find
fiS.KSt.leS,"®''" 1 ob ‘ ,i "* b,e “*“
* * * •
If the foreign invader has as warm a time as the
* nof f en r Ve - duck , iu Victoria, he will conclude that
Australia js no place for him. On the day after close
season ended the lakes near St. Arnaud siniply smoked
Sportsmen poured in ; hundreds camped near the lakes
the previous night, and before daylight the fusillade
began. Upwards of 3000 of the enemy were slain several
sportsmen were struck with stray shot, one man’s gun
burst, and everyone, bar the astonished ducks, had a
high time. One local storekeeper sold over 6000 car-
tridges during the day, although most of the warriors
only patronised him after the ammunition they had
brought was expended. Considering the casual way in
which the Australian gunner jams ballistite and kindred
high explosive cartridges into ancient weapons intended
powder, the list of disasters was singularly
* * * •
Approaching inter-State lawn tennis match in
Sydney between N.S.W. and Victoria is arousing more
interest than ordinary by reason of the probable appear-
ance in the Victorian team of Norman Brookes, who last
English summer, after beating all-comers at Wimbledon
provided a, sensation by pressing Dohertyin the challenge
round of the English championship. He is, no doubt the
second best player in the world, and he is declared to be
quite the finest server, owing to his command of what is
known as the “ American twist.” Like Bosanquet with a
cricket ball, he can break either way without giving his
opponent any indication as to which way it is going to be
and his pace makes it necessary for the striker to stand
some yards behind the back line. Dunlop, the captain of
the Australasian team in England, is also likely to be
among the Victorians. Another member of the team the
spectacled Parker, of M.L., has taken up his residence in
Sydney, but he has not yet been here long enough to
qualify him to play for N.S.W. He will be seen however
in the open events which follow the inter-State tussle’
and should go far. ’
* * * *
The Kieran memorial fund climbs slowly up-
ward, and has now reached £l2l.
* * * *
Matters pugilistic were fairly interesting in
Sydney last week. On Tuesday night Cripps and Nelson
Put up a curious display at Sydney National Sporting
Club, and Nelson’s antics and extraordinary gimaces were
worth the price of admission. When he is passed out of
the roped ring, Nelson should always be able to command
£lO for pulling faces on the variety stage. His “flash”
style of fighting appeals to the gallerv, but though it
wins him whoops of praises there, it causes Nosestein in
the front, seats to lay 5 to 4 against him. His one
hope lay in an extraordinary, vicious, giant-swing
uppercut, which looked deadly enough to wreck
an elephant, but as he always telegraphed its
advent several seconds before its arrival, Cripps
carefully avoided its orbit. Cripps had decided that, as
far as he was concerned, there should be no clinching
and every time hfelson tried to avoid punishment by
grabbing Cripps’ shoulders, the latter kept both hands
going on Nelson’s body till that admiral was glad to let
go and fight. When he found he was done on points
Nelson sailed in for a knock-out, and, Cripps showing a
tendency to mix the batter, the agonised faces of the
bookies who had laid 5 to 4 on him appeared over the
ropes, whining—•“ Don’t lose your block, Arthur; don’t
lose your block ! ” Cripps heard and heeded, and con-
tented himself with repelling Nelson’s attacks till time
ran out, and the referee awarded him the decision.
* * * *
Judging by the way the crowd at Sydney
National Sporting Club hooted Arthur Cripps for
vigorous in-fighting, there is an astounding amount of
ignorance of the game among its regular supporters.
Once more, let it be understood that as long as a bruiser
has both hands free he is at liberty to punch all he knows
although his opponent may have both arms round his neck.
* * * *
At Sydney Gaiety Club on Saturday night
featherweight champion of Australasia, Edwin Murphy,
appeared in excellent fettle to defend the title. Tom
Jones, of Waterloo, who was seeking it, was also very fit.
Murphy crouched tiger-like, and made a barricade of his
hands in front of the only part of his anatomy within
reach, which was his top-piece. Unfortunately, although
it looked impressive, his attitude seemed to interfere
with his bashing ability. Jones stood bolt upright
and showed great activity on his feet, and made the
attack all the time. Halfway through, Murphy
suddenly rushed Jones, but was knocked on to the
ropes where he was helpless, but Jones paused to wipe
the sweat out of his eyes. In a moment Murphy had re-
covered himself, and was attacking with great vigor.
When they met again Jones simply hurled himself bodily
at his skilful opponent, and Murphy was knocked
down twice in quick succession. He came up badly
dazed, only to be floored a third time after a slight inter-
val, and at the end of the 18th round he was so exhausted
and battered that his seconds dropped the towel, and
Tom Jones was awarded the championship and the big
end of the gate.
* * * *
The big Dunlop Tyre Company is chuckling
gleefully, for news has come that Ceylon and the Straits
Settlements are making great strides in rubber cultiva-
tion, and it is almost certain that within the next 26
years the eastern plantations will rival the natural South
American and African forests. At present the Dunlop
Co. uses between 90 and 100 tons of rubber every year
manufacturing rubber goods and tyres for the Australian
market alone.*
The Blues.
No man or woman is more sick of life than when
they have that trouble commonly called the blues.
It amounts to a disease in many cases. That
terrible feeling which makes all the world appear
gloomy, without one ray of brightness. Even
one’s best friends seem
to have deserted them.
Every little trouble adds
fuel to thedown-hearted,
despondent being. Some
fly to drink for solace,;
but strong drink can
never cure fits of melan-
choly. It nine cases out
of ten this state of mind
arises from a deranged
system, in all pro-
bability from a dis-
ordered state of the
liver, which is draining
the energy from your
system, making you
languid and irritable, at
cross purposes with
everyone you come in
contact with. You
require a medicine
which will put a move into your system, enlighten
your liver, stimulate your circulation, and soothe
your nerves. -Take a short course of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root 1 ills, which will impart health and
vigor through the medium of a well-regulated
system. I)r Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a
perfect blood purifier, and a positive and per-
manent cure for biliousness, indigestion, constipa-
tic>n, headaches, sallow complexion, liver and
kidney troubles, piles, pimples, boils and blotches,
and for female ailments.*
OPEN SESAME.—Hunyadi Janos Water
is the open sesame ”of the human organism.
Speedy,.sure, and gentle, it fulfils every indica-
tion in health and disease. It is a therapeutical
arsenal in itself. Indispensable to millions of
human beings all over the world.*


Missing 1 Friends.
JOHN MATTHEWS, formerly
' ' of Berwick and Birchip, in Victoria, and
Dubbo in New South Wales —apply to A. D.
GILFILLAN, Solicitoi, St. Arnaud, Victoria.
Important information for you.
INFORMATION desired of ANDREW KEATING
formerly of Brisbane, Journalist, aged about 50. Last
heard of in Western Australia. Any person knowing of
his whereabouts, please communicate with
E. E. DILLON, Solicitor,
Prell’s Buildings, Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
Business Announcements
Weadon, Thomas & Go.
GUNMAKERS,
Corner of LITTLE COLLINS and ELIZABETH STS.
MELBOURNE.
rpHE TRUSTEES offer to the public, to clear the whole
•*- of their stock :*=-
10 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, top
action, walnut stock, with cartridge machine,
cleaners, complete; usual price £5 10s., re-
duced to .. .. £2 17 6
6 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib bar and rebounding locks, left
barrel full choke, right modified, pistol grip,
cartridge machines and cleaners, complete ; •
usual price £lO, reduced to £5 0 0
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Hammerless
Guns, walnut stock, bar and rebounding locks,
treble wedge fast cross bolt, special No. 1 pistol
grip, choke bore, unequalled for quality, with
cartridge machines, cleaners, complete ; usual
price £l5, reduced to £7 10 0
6 Single-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, Hammer-
less, steel barrels, complete with cartridge
machines and cleaners ; usual price £3 55.,
reduced to £l. 12 6
6 Single-Barrel Muzzle-loading Guns, twist bar-
rels, walnut stock ; usual price 255., reduced to £0 12 6
12 Folding Collector’s Guns, 410 gauge—a splen-
did gun for orchards; best steel locks and
barrels ; reduced to £1 10 0
Winchester Pattern Single Shot Bolt Action
Rifle, 1904 model, 22 short or long, reduced to £0 13 6
Remington Pattern S.S. Rifles, reduced to .. £0 10 6
40 Baden-Powell Saloon Rifles, fires No. 1
Bulleted Cap £0 6 9
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge, Green, ss. 100
~ Smokeless, 7s. 6d. 100
„ 22 Short, lOd. 100
~ 22 Long, Is. Id. 100
SHOT, 2d. lb.; CAPS, 2d. box ; WADS, 3d. box.
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
Send for Catalogue, Post Free. All orders delivered
carriage paid to any State and New Zealand.
INSOLVENT ESTATE of
\
wertfyguytjuy
INCREASED
By the New “ Clease-Extensor ”
Method a Rational and Scientific
System of increasing height from 1 in< h to
•2J inches with added Strength,Health
and Bodily Beauty. The invention of
Mr. F. Meredith Clease, Ph. L.D., late
Director of Exercises to Haileybnry Coll
ege, and the outcome of 17 years of con-
tinuous study of the Physical side of Life.
It vastly improves awkward and ungainly
men and gives to Ladies a Beauty of
Figure and Natural Grace of Move-
ment unattainable by other methods. Mr.
Clease’s System has no connection or
similarity whatever with any other form of
bodily exercises whether it be for health or
increasing the height that is being adver-
tised. If you are Too Short, or have
Round Shoulders, Flat Chest,
Narrow Chest, Weak Back,Weak
Chest, Stomach Trouble, Lung
Trouble, Curvature of Spine, Un-
gainly Walk, Prominent Hips,
Superfluous Flesh or are Too Thin,
write and indicate your physical require-
ments, and Mr. Ciease will send PEEK
Explanatory Booklet and Personal Advice. All correspon.
deuce strictly confidential. (Mention Paper).
F. Meredith Ciease, Ph. L.D.,
74, New Bond Street, London, Eng.
MOTHER’S FRIEND.
PEDIC POMADE for the Head,
Strikes infesting: vermin dead ;
On all hands it is confessed,
Surest, finest, foremost, best.
Destroys vermin; kills nits; heals sores,
By post—Small 1/2, large 2/3, extra large 3/6.
Manufacturer—P, KLEESATTEL,
t Traralgon, Victoria.
Amusements.
Theatre royal, Sydney
Lessee J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S COMIC OPERA SEASON.
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT, FEBRUARY 17,
and Following- Nights,
Offenbach’s Celebrated Grand Military Spectacular
Cotnic Opera,
LA FILLE DU TAMBOUR MAJOR.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s and Is.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction of Messrs. Brough and Flemming.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
The Brough-Flemming Comedy Company
in an Entirely New and Original Comedy in 4 Acts,
QUALITY-STREET.
SATURDAY NEXT, FEB. 17, LITTLE MARY.
Prices as Usual. Box Office at Elvy’s. Matinees every
Wednesday.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manasrer .. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVENINGS, at 8. WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON, at 2.
Mr. Williamson’s
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY in the
Dainty, Tuneful Comic Opera,
VERONIQUE.
Box Plan at Paling’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction of J. C. Williamson.
(FOR TWO WEEKS ONLY.)
FROM THE LAND OF FUN,
R. G. KNOWLES,
PRINCE OF HUMORISTS.
Plan at Paling’s. POPULAR PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Me. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
LOTTO, LILO, and OTTO, Comedy and Trick Cvclists.
MDLE. ADA CERITO. THE SISTERS WARNER.
THE SCOTTISH MEISTERS, Highland Comedy Quartette
and Comedv Glee Singers.
HARRY RlCKARDS—better than ever.
JACKSON FAMILY, Premier Musical Team.
POST MASON. BABY WATSON, HILDA LANE,
ROOHFORT and HART, ETHEL PRESTON, _
ALF LAWTON, OLIVE LENTON, LEEDS and LEMAR.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
SISTERS GILBERT, Serio Comics and Dancers.
EIGHT ENGLISH PRIMROSES.
TWO BELLS, Vocalists, Dancers.
CRIMMONS and GORE, Eccentric Comedy Artists.
BARNARD’S PICCANINNY MARIONETTES.
PERCY DENTON, Character Comedian.
ALICE RAYMOND, Cornetist and Bugler.
JOHN KURKAMP, Conductor.
BERT DAWSON, Descriptive Vocalist.
Plan at Allan’s. &ST PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
New theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee BLAND HOLT.
THURSDAY, FEB. 15, and FRIDAY, FEB. 16,
THE LIGHTS 0’ LONDON.
SAT. NEXT, FEB. 17, BLAND HOLT and his Popular
Combination of Commonwealth Dramatic Favorites in
Hall Caine’s Dramatisation of his own Great Work,
THE PRODIGAL SON.
For the First Time in Australasia.
it3T PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Business Manager, Mr. C. SIMONSENS.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. O. Williamson.
THURS., FEB. 15, and FRIDAY, FEB. 16, SUNDAY.
SAT. NEXT, FEB. 17, Australia’s Favorite Dramatic Star,
MISS TITTELL BRUNE
in Victorien Sardou’s Great Play,
LA TOSCA.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
RINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT, THURS., FEB. 15, & TO-MORROW NIGHT,
FRIDAY, FEB. 16, LAST 2 NIGHTS in Melbourne of
GILBERT AND SULLIVAN OPERA COMPANY
—in—
THE MIKADO.
Absolutely LAST TWO Performances.
An Exceptionally Strong Cast. Additional Attractions.
“DRINCES COURT,” M ELBOURN E.
• General Manager .. .. A. L. BAIRD.
pT ADMISSION 6d. ; CHILDREN 3d.—2.30 to 11 p.m.
THE HEADQUARTERS OF OUTDOOR PLEASURE ! !
Helter Skelter —Toboggan—Chute—Katzenjammer Castle
—Fun Factory—and a Host of Other Novel Attractions.
Cafe Cbantant Entertainments —3.45 ; 8 ; 10.15.
At 3.30, 8.30 and 10, HIGH DIVING EXTRAORDINARY.
Professor CORMACK —Trick and Fancy Diver.
Professor CORMACK—London Champion.
“ Oh ! Woodman, Spare that Tree.”
Great Axemen’s Carnival and Sporting
Demonstration, Daylesford (Vic.)
EASTER MONDAY, APRIL 16, 1906.
Some of the Plums:—Handicap Underhand Chop, 50
sovs. ; Handicap Standing Chop, lOsovs.; Maiden Chop,
5 sovs. ; Sawing Match, 5 sovs. ; and “The Invitation
Championship Underhand Chop,” 20 sovs. ; and Cham-
pionship Medal, 5 sovs., net value. Tug-of-War, 20
sovs. ; Sheffield, 20 sovs. ; 220yds., 10 sovs., etc., etc.
Write or send at once for all information. Entries close,
March 28, to P. F. MEERE, Secretary.
Music, 31 36
Phonographs,
Violins, Etc,
o
3J
Weekly
EDISON Pay-
Packing Free to any address.
Edison Gold-Moulded Records
(Cash only), price 1/9 each. Catalogues Free.
ALBERT & SON,
137 King Street, Sydney.
Manufacturers of the famous
BOOMERANG MOUTH ORGANS.
THE LAST OF SIX
(Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co.)
Price 6d. Post Free.
SPECIAL OFFER.
High= Class JF f
Suits - - f s)
EXPERT CUTTING. BEST WORKMANSHIP.
Samples and Measure Forms Sent to Any Address.
wertfyguytjuy
To make room for
NEW SHIPMENTS.
THE LARGEST HIGH-CLASS ESTABLISHMENT IN AUSTRALIA.
Merchant Tailor,
E. T. WALSH,
359 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
VM Visitors To The Old Country: S 3
Gloucester Roui , sou.tK Kensington, London, S.W
THE MOST COMFORTABLE HOTEL IN LONDON
INCLUSIVE TERMS
FROM
lz/6 PER DAY.
SELF-CONTAINED
SUITES. PLEASANT
PRIVATE GARDEN.
Tbe MANLy-PITTWATER MOTOR
OMNIBUS COMPANY, LTD.
(Incorporated under the Companies Acts of 1899 and 1900.
CAPITAL - - £B5OO SHAR
1500 SHARES ARE OFFERED FOR SUBSCRIPTION AT PAR, AND THE VENDORS WILL TAKE 200 SHARES
IN PART PAYMENT OF PURCHASE CONSIDERATION, MAKING AN ISSUE OF 1700 SHARES.
PAYABLE: £2 per Share on application ;£2 per Share on allotment / and the
Balance in Calls as may be required.
Directors:
JOHN WILLIAMS, Esq., J.P., 22 Macquarie Place, City.
J. H. SLATER, Esq., Messrs. Wm. Adams and Co., 163 Clarence-street, City.
CHAS. H. KERRY, Esq., J.P., 210 George-street, City.
Bankers :
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, 60 Pitt-street, City.
Solicitors:
Messrs. LAURENCE and LAURENCE, Mutual Life Buildings, George and Wynyard Streets, Sydney.
Brokers :
KENNEDY BROS., 62 Pitt-street, City.
Secretary and Registered Offices :
E. E. KENNEDY, Liverpool and London Buildings, 62 Pitt-street, City.
A Limited Number of Shares in the Capital of the above
Company are now available.
APPLICATION FORMS CAN BE HAD AT THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, 60 PITT STREET,
AND AT THE OFFICE OF THE COMPANY’S SECRETARY,
Mr. E. E. KENNEDY, 62 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
A WONDERFUL
CURIOSITY .
OPT : CAL . THE SEABACKOSCOPE.
wertfyguytjuy
ENABLES YOU TO SEE ALL THAT IS GOING ON AT THE
BACK OF YOU WITHOUT TURNING YOUR HEAD OR
LOOKING BEHIND. Only 1s 6(1.
YOU should certainly have one of these most useful
articles. We all know how embarrassed we have felt
when something has been going on behind us which, whilst
we are most anxious to see, we dare not look around ; and
we recollect, too, the innumerable instances when we would
have given a bit just to turn our head and take a glimpse at
our back, maybe in the street, perhaps in the theatre, or
hall, or church, or in your own room perchance. With the
SEABACKOSOOPE these objections are entirely overcome,
It is made of the best vulcanite, takes up little room, and
can be fixed over the eye in the same manner as a watch-
maker’s Repair Glass. The SEABACKOSOOPE is a really
useful article, not a toy, and so handy to have in your
pocket just at the moment you need it. The price is
exceedingly cheap—only 1s 6d, with 2d extra for postage.
Write for one now, as we have only a limited stock.
FREE —To anyone ordering’ not less than three of the above we will present, absolutely free, a
wonderful Scientific Little Curio, “THE DEVIL IN THE TUBE,” as illustrated. By simply pressing
the Rubber Stopper in the Glass Tube, the floating “ Devil ” sinks through the liquid, or can be made to
dance about in the liquid in the most ludicrous fashion. It is based on scientific principles, and is one of
the most interesting novelties on the market. A natty ornament for your room. Ordered separately
the price is 6d only, post free.
A. J. SMITH & CO., 6 Moore St., Sydney.
wertfyguytjuy
A Revolution in Farming—Direct Haulage.
“IlfC I ” agricultural
Tl,e IWLL motors-
Made in England. The Highest Grade.
IN USE IN ALL PARTS OF THE WORLD.
Nineteen Gold and Silver Medals were awarded the
“ IVEL ” in 1904-5, including- The “ Royal ” Agri-
cultural Society of England and the Highland
Society of Scotland.
The foremost and only effective motor extant for all
classes of work on Farm, Station, Plantation,
Irrigation, Traction, &c., &c.
Full information from the Sole Agents—
HAM&OWEN, 17 Bridge St, Sydney
THE
1“
are many, and its principle is the
most successful ever invented
for the benefit of smokers.
Nicotine is absolutely pre-
vented from entering
either mouth or pipe
bowl. Every pipe is '
guaranteed.
ents
of the
PIPE
wertfyguytjuy
A
“MASFA”
smokes cool
arid dry and to
the end of the
tobacco. The
bowls are made
from flawless briar-
wood, well - seasoned.
To be had in three
qualities from' all tobac-
conists throughout the Aus-
tralian Commonwealth. Whole-
sale only • from FELDHEIM,
OOTTHBLL & CO., Sydney.
CAMERAS.
BARGAINS.
New
Stock.
Lowest
Prices.
Size of Picture. Price.
SNAPSHOT Hin x ljin 2s 6d
CRESCENT. 3 in x 3 in 7s 6d
IDEAL 4 in x 5 in 7.1. 15s Od
CYCLONE “JUNIOR”.. 3£in x 3£in 14s Od
CYCLONE “SENIOR”.. 4in x sin 17s 6d
POCKET POCO “A” 3Jin x 4Jin 25s Od
IDEAL CYCLE 4 in x 5 in 32s 6d
IDEAL CYCLE, No. 2... 4 in x 5 in 35s Od
LARGER CAMERAS 65s to £l2 12s
PRINTING FRAMES 3Jin x 4Jin 6d
~ 4 in x 5 in 8d
BURNISHERS 5s to 25s
ZINC WASHING BOXES 3Jin x 4Jin 5s
~ ~ „ 4 in x 5 in 7s 6d
NEGATIVE RACKS (Folding) Is
TRIPODS (Light and Strong) 4s 6d
PRINT ROLLERS 4in, 9d ; sin, lOd ; 6in, Is
DEVELOPING OUTFITS. 3Jin x 4jin 4s 6d
)f „ 4 in x 5 in 6s Od
DEVELOPING TRAYS... 3Jin x 4jin 6d
s> ~ .. 4inx 5 in 6d
Scales, 2s 3d; View Finders, Is 3d to 255; Trimming
Boards, 5s to 10s ; Backgrounds 5s to 17s 6d ; Mounts, 3d
to 2s 6d doz. Chemicals, Plates, Papers, Sundries, etc.,
etc. All Prices 25 to 50 per cent. lo>*r than other
Send for Revised Price List.
dealers.
A. J.
LAWRENCE,
35 Leichhardt St., Glebe, Sydney,
Closer Settlement.
DO YOU WANT LAND? The Corowa
Closer Settlement League will help you
to get it. Send your name to us, and tell us
what you want. You can rely on our support.
Write to—
THE SECRETARY,
Corowa Closer Settlement League.
At Corowa (N.S.W.) a Closer Settlement
League has been formed, and it is calling a con-
ference on the 15th March, and inviting delegates
from public bodies throughout Riverina. A
number of public men will be invited, including
M.L. Premier Seddon, Minister W. J. Lyne, and
others.
Lately-dead Murdoch Macdonald, D.D.,
professor in the Scotchbyterian Divinity Hall,
Melbourne, was a farm laborer at Ross, Scotland,
but starved enough out of his wages to take him
through St. Andrew’s University on one meal a
day. In the later years of his professorship
(abandoned shortly before his death) his church
scratched its head and wished he would think
himself old enough to resign. Age treated him
more cruelly than it has the still-fiery Rentoul,
his colleague.
It is with a useful man’s reputation that
James Bonwick should go down among literary
Australians. He had not alone skill, but taste for
rooting among the musty, and he had capacity to
recognise a good find when he came on it. Who-
ever studies Australian history for the next
century should pay the debt of a kindly reference
to the just-dead patriarch. He worked year in
year out, often 18 hours out of 24, for a small
wage, which N.S.W. Government several times
tried to make smaller. He ransacked the British
Museum and most of the public libraries in
England, and made pilgrimages to any private
houses likely to hold documents dealing with
Australia’s early history. When he found a
document the rest of the work was merely deci-
phering and copying, and it was on this latter ac-
count that efforts were made to cut down his salary.
But the petty people who pushed the N.S.W.
Government forgot the labor of finding the docu-
ments and the knowledge required to recognise
what was worth copying. Altogether Bonwick
made an average of about £4OO a year during the
last 30 years. He was a Londoner by birth and
was 24 years of age when he arrived in Australia,
and passes from work on the edge of 90. Some
had a habit of saying his little books showed no
style. But Bonwick was Useful, which some
literary exquisites are not.


A. SAUNDERS
ff- ■ - ■
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver MANICURE SET,
comprising 5 pieces.
Other Styles.
Jtfflri/if' "Vv
ssarags
iSKfe
iisall&HHll
1
A. SAUNDERS.
JEWEL CASKET, Pure Silver Plated,
Handsomely Embossed, Silk-lined, 15s (id.
Dtlier Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 22s Od, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver HAIR BRUSH,
Richly Embossed, Fine White Bristles, 10s 6d.
Other Styles, 7s Od, 8s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver EAU-1
DE-COLOGNE BOTTLE,
Cover and Stopper, 30s.
Larger. £2
A. SAliXDElia.
Morocco Leaiiicr
CHATELAINE BAG,
Sterling Silver Mounts
and Lock, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d. 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver SHOE LIFT HQ,OH,
in Silk-lined Case, 7§ 6d.
Other Styles, Ss Gd, 10s Gd, 12s 6,d, 15s.
Save by Mail.
Personal service in
our Mail Order
Department
enables
us to
serve you by Mail
anywhere,
as perfectly as if
you viiited our
Showrooms.
All Goods sent
Post Free to any
address.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Mounted
PIN CUSHIONS,
Heart Shaped, 2s 6d.
Larger, 3s 6d.
m
axe
Mi
'f*
fcVS
asc
««
v;
V;J
; *s>
§~kV'JM
G-Sl
.r--- r '*"!
A. SAUNDERS.
Fine Hobnail Cut Class
_,. ~ „ TOILET BOTTLES.
Richly Embossed. Solid Silver Tops, in 3 sizes
7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s Od.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Morocco Leather
LETTER CASE,
Pure Silver Mounts, 12s 6(5.
Without Shield, 10s 6d.
Other Styles, 6s '6d, 7s 6d, 15s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
SHAVING BRUSH,
Pure l ver-1 .a,ted, Real
Badger Hair, 5s 6d.
Solid Silver, 7s 6d, 10s 6d, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver CLOTH or HAT BRUSH,
Fine Long White Bristles, 5s 6d.
Other Styles, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
QJrSssSS
m
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver CARD CASE,
Handsomely Engraved, 15s 6d.
Without Lid, 12s 6d.
Other Styles, 255, 30s.
SAUNDERS.
CARRIAGE CLOCK,
Sterling Silver' mounted.
: class Timekeeper, 15s.
ipxtra Quality, 20s.
an
I ■
tSE5p*»
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver SAFETY VESTAS BOX
HOLDER,
Richly Embossed, 7s 6d.
Cherub Design, 8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Self Rolling RAZOR STROP,
Pure Silver-Plated, Hand-
somely Embossed, 20s.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 13s 6d,
17s 6d, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver TOILET SET,
(Comprising 2 Richly Embossed HAIR BRUSHES and
.COMB, in Silk-lined Morocco Case, £3.
Other Styles, £4 10s, £5, £6.
as
Gent.’s Gold-Mounted Author CIGARETTE HOLDER,
in Solid Silver or Plain Cases, 12s ,(sd. Chased, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 15s 6d, 17s f6d, 20s, 255.
CIGAR Size, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s.
gill
WSSS
ZgGsS,
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver TOILET SET,
in Silk-lined Morocco Case.
Fine Hobnail Cut Glass TOILET BOTTLES,
Richly Embossed, Solid Silver Tops, £2 ss.
Larger, £3 10s, £4 4s.
THAT’S THE NAME.
ZSrXril.
slits
Sts
m
tape
u 41
gl
? iS
3u7
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid English Oak INK STAND, Nickel Mounts,
Cut Glass Bottles, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, to £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
SEWING COMPANION,
Solid Silver, eomprisir";
articles, 15s 6d.
Larger Size, 18s M.
Tree to All.
No matter
where you live,
if you have a copy
of our Illustrated
Catalogue,
you can obtain the
latest goods delivered
to your own home,
at City Prices.
Write for our
Catalogue
to-day. We send
it Post Free
to any address.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’a MILITARY HAIR BRUSH
Solid Silver,
Long White Bristles, 15s.
Other Styles, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 20s.
j£KI
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH and COMB, Solid Silver,
In Velvet-Lined Case. 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR PIN BOX, Solid Silver Top,
Fine Hobnail Cut Glass, Size 6in. x lain.,
IQs 6u.
Other Styles, 12s 6d, 15s. 17s 6d.
-■ >
;:~'i ■ i? -V
. •
S=i?
A. SAUNDERS.
Crocodile LEATHER PURSE and CARD CASE
Combined, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver SERVIETTE CLIP,
2s 6d, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s S lid Leather Wallet
POt ivET BOOK,
Silk-lined, fitted with
every convenience, Cs 6d.
Other Styles, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Mounted Head
SALTS BOTTLE, 3s 6d.
Other Styles,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s 6d.
MI
e
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Hobnail Gut Glass Head
SALTS BOTTLE,
Pure Silver Top, 10s 6d.
m
m
*
i H
Mi
A. SAUNDERS.
Morocco Leather PURSE,
Extra Heavy Solid Silver Mounts and Lock, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d. 17s 6d, 20s.
!!!!!!!!ll!!l!l]!!ir^jll!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!n!!!!!!fii»Hnnmiinniiniiniiii
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.'s Solid Silver SHAVING SET,
Comprising Shaving Brush, Soap Holder, and
Powder Jar, in Silk-lined Leather Case, £3.
A. SAUNDERS
( SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER,)
( SILVERSMITH, and OPTICIAN, I
809, 81 I, 813, 815, 817
GEORGE-STREET,
Opp.
Railway
Station,
Sydney.


The Little Boy from Parramatta
says :
st
IT’
99
wertfyguytjuy
SKI
*
■
*
••
Sgil
■
If your local Storeßeeper does not stocß
please send direct to . . .
LIMELLA
DYASON (& SON, Cordial Manufacturers,
44 Oxford Street, Colling;wood, MELBOURNE-.


THE ZOBO.
... ANYONE CAN PLAY IT.
The Zobo is a new invention, made on the sam«
principle as the Kazoo. It has a rawhide disc on th«
inside, and by singing in and against this disc won-
derful music is produced. Anyone can play any tune
upon it ; imitates fowls, bagpipes, animals, etc. Very
popular with singing clubs and societies.
ZOBO BRASS CORNETTO
A Baby with the Voice of a Giant.
Is. 6d. Each (is. Bd. post free); 2 for 3s.
I ? e t ry '™ ak '"B' and fascinating little novaltv
would be exceedingly hard to find. It possesses real merit It
it!?«oSr a . m tn S J n 8; artiCle f ° r adu,tS as weTas for chiidre"
it l* not a mere toy, as many mierht suppose, beinp- suhsranti-
ea ? y ° perated - The sweet and varied
No t, n be P roduced with this little device are incred-
Jwid ? ve / composed that cannot be accurately pro-
duced. It is just the thing- for duets, quartettes, chorus
carnivals, masquerades, serenades, parades, etc. It may be
C °r” Da "!f, d W “ h V ? r !, ous other instruments with very phasing
? r , fails to ,nake a hit. Remember, that if yoS
do not obtain satisfactory results the first minute, it is no fault
of the instrument Read over the directions, and persist a
to b 4 tad for the'mou«y C . ellghted with the results ’ Best article
directions.
t! ' e lips, or hold between the teeth as in
s?em M NO?BLot y H tV M the air ° f Anv Tulle ‘he
An i U W '. The notes are produced by vibra-
!“"• . voice alone causing the vibratory diaphragm to act
F*P™ dBcin e and modifying any sound emitted against it. The
‘°"? s ‘h ,ls P‘ od “ ced resemble those of various instruments such
Verv lMt-'nrarHro° !ICt ' Sa *?«j 10 " e - Bagpipes, and many others,
very little practice is required by even a child to master
instrument; there is a little “knadc” to it. that’s aIU
STAR
NOVELTY CO.,
229-231 Collins St., Melbourne.
(Mention this paper.)
Ladies, Don’t Shave
BUT USE THE
FORAL DEPBLATORY
m
•ny time within three months
from the date of this publication
present to each purchaser a Hand-
some Dress Ring as illustrated.
To secure the benefit of this re-
markable offer, you must men-
tion this paper when ordering.
Send remittance 3s. 6d. by postal
note of any State to
TT completely remove*
"■ Superfluous hair from
face, neck aud arms in
a few minutes without
injury to the most deli-
cate skin. Very simply
and easily applied. It
cannot fall. Leaves the
I skin soft and smooth like
an infant’s. Price, in-
cluding carriage to any
I address, 3s. 6d. for a
large Canister, also two
metallic measures, a mix-
ing bowl, a fine sponge
and a spatula, and with
full printed directions
for use.
In order to speedily
introduce this excellent
Depilatory we will at
FREE GIF!
The Union Mfg. & Agency Go.
359 and 361 Collins Street, Melbourne.
A FOOD EXPERT
produced GRAPE-NUTS food to supply the
elements needed by Brain and Nerve centres.
It is ready cooked, deliciously crisp, has a
fascinating flavor, and the “London Lancet”
pronounces it a “ complete food ” of the “ highest
nutritive value.”
If Brain or Nerves are -broken down, 10
days’ trial of
GRAPE-NUTS
will show you a surprise in restoring the entire
body to health and strength.
“ There’s a Reason.”
Get the little book, “ The Road to Wellville,” in each pkg.
REVOLUTION IN TALKING MACHINES.
THE MARVELLOUS SOUND-MAGNIFYING
COLUMBIA GRAPHOPHONE
Reproduces the Ordinary Gold-Moulded Record
SIXTEEN TIMES LOUDER than any Phono-
graph. MARVELLOUS IN ITS VOLUME
and DISTINCTNESS.
The Very Latest Invention, embodying absolutely New Principles never before
made public. Write for full particulars to—
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO..
Australian
Headquarters
25 Ash St., Sydney, N.S.W.
ANOTHER OF.
MURDOCH’S
Panama Offers
That means something- good and
cheap—just what YOU want 1
We want to quit these Panamas, and are
making an offer that WILL quit them
at a quick march time.
wertfyguytjuy
wertfyguytjuy
We’ll be mighty surprised if you can
get anything like this value elsewhere.—
We’re quoting- right on to bedrock.—
You’ll be sorry if you miss it.
MURDOCH’S PANAMAS.
Usually 25/6 Now 21/-
Usually 15/6 Now 10/6
' Post Free Anywhere.
Murdoch’s
In PARK
STREET.
SYDNEY.
“WHERE THE GOOD HATS ARE.”
If ypu haven’t had a Catalogue and our
Special Map, send for one to-day—they’re
FREE.
A.M.P. SOCIETY.
LONDON &c„ EXTENSION OPPOSITION.
The absolute withdrawal of the American “Equitable," and the practical withdrawal accordion
to the Press, of the other two American Companies, from active competition for new business here
now leave the unsurpassed Australian Held freer to the A.M.P. SOCIETY than it has been for the la*t
thereabouts°ofo' S ' " T th ° further Zi that oMy Ine-HfthX
the following Prey Paper for uZby members who ZlT"**"
Twhlr7the b L ah t Z VOt ° thß dangerous s Preadeag,e policy of expansTn’cutTeTustraiast
it sz ** **■ ~
PROXY PAPER Against London. &c. Extension of AM.?. Society.
; a member of the AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
> hereby appoint GERALD R. CAMPBELL, or failing him Senator MILLEN, or failing him F. W STODDART
also a member of the said Society, my Proxy, to vote on my behalf at the Special Meeting of the Society to be held on
mlopted n § of ‘he alterations in and additions to the By-llws,
adopted at the Special Meeting of the Society held on January 19th, 1906, which enable (amongst other things) the
Society s operations to be extended to the United Kingdom and the British South African Colonies and at anv
adjournment or adjournments of such first-mentioned meeting. And I hereby revoke the appointment of alt other
peisons (if any) as proxies for such first-mentioned meeting heretofore made by me.
Dated at this..
.......day of.
(Sign here).
.1906.
Please cut this form out (OR COPY IT), sign and date it, and then forward it at once to
GERALD R. CAMPBELL (Chairman of Committee),
If the above Proxyf«™s midMtenSi.XfstotmSltrfJSSs afafastesleSin^fm'ed't^the’E'litH 8 ™ 1 # 1 PEOCTOR . Hon. Treasurer,


rrickville:
WEEDS
\
It
<r
%
36r
*»
w
Ckc.
\
x>,
L?
ft
\
«7*
8
<
»
a®
wx
5$
•o?;
£
W
ss
■«S
iSEfc
as
33tf®53
£■>-
ww.
a/
3%a
r;
m
m
«s
»vIH
i
s
ox,
MS
s
v\
a
&fer
\\
m
\-.
\>
OS*
3£&
&
3ra
Kf(-
m
-}<r
x
a
fcs
rcii
“fA
s
Up.
w$
tffSsg
X
i
r>
£r
eft
&
w
«
&
ft)
I
t?>
SfSfiS
re
SB
&
$
I
ALE* SASS:
ctts
■t*
KV.
AUSTHALIA/PURE W
ARE ALWAYS
ATTRACTIVE
AND .
FULL,/
Ov r TRADER
„ markl
THE WARATAH)
telir fta.
f&le:
MADE
IN


y
r 3
#>
P
A
X
55
«5?
J"
r*
•feiate
s^:r>
AUSTRALIANS!
9
THAT NOTE OF INTERROGATION IS WORRYING YOU*
WHY 9 Because you need a Vacation, and don't Know
where to spend it.
it s NEW ZEALAND
YOU’RE LOOKING FOR!
THERE’S NO BETTER PLACE in which TO MAKE HOLIDAY.
Splendid Climate:
Not Too Hot. Not Too Cold.
JUST RIGHT.
Mag'nificent Scenery
Mountains, LaEes,
Waterfalls,
Intensely Interesting Thermal Acflion.
Boiling Pools, Geysers, Mod Volcanos.
Mineral Water Baths
Hot Swimming Pools.
Massage, Douches.
Maori Life :
HaKa and Poi Dances.
Canoeing'.
Trout Fishing':
®»« BEST IN THE WORLD.
A Land of Plenty s
F ruit, Flowers, Ferns.
Green Forests Everywhere.
Easy Access:
3| Days by Steamer. Comfortable
Hotels; Dow Tariffs; Cheap Travel.
Deer iStalKing
EXCELLENT.
Full Information supplied Free ;
Drop a Post Card to
T. E. DONNE,
Government Department of Tourist and Health Resorts, Wellington, New Zealand.
NEW ZEALAND Is the Country you want to think about,


m,
m
.
&
5
'TV
: e
m
\5.
A
Hp
vV
sa
m
-
W
iy
m
‘mm
m
m
ess
mm
■
*
m
m
;\
'*\f
s
m-
S3K
mi
mm
/
?Z
V\
_v i)
■
T
kk
' .
k
. 11l
■
■
4
«
'■*:■? - V-.. „; 7 .
uK ,|r- l
* .' • ■ :
-> -
. • £
m
'*':> kf\ \)f
L V
I \
B
, I
■ 5^41
J
Y^S^o—.
BSE
v '.v
Ladder Easy.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL. CAPETOWN and LONDON.
‘Twin Screw. tCalling at Hobart.
And Regularly every Four Week thereafter.
I.ONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
< APKTOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
HOUND THIS WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &e., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
~ Agents, 7 Bent street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents: JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents: GEO WILLS & CO
Albany Agents : lIFNRY WILLS & CO
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
.SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
'—'l'll 15-^
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - . 106 Pitt Street. Sydney.
Directors:
The lion. J. P. Kuhns, Chairman.
The lion. C. J. Rokerts, C.M.G., M. L.O
The lion. Bruch ,Smith, K.C., M.l*.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Millkr.
Accumulated Funds, £2,920,2)0.
Policies issued 98,461 assuring £29,270,925
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,503,272.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable. Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses -equitably distributed.
Head Office:
«19 & 421 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
ysiMland ffational jsank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,240 15 0
Reserve (m Government Stock) .. 45,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock .. 3,110,021 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.’
Directors.— Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Chilian, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.'
Milne, Esq. ; P. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
the i
LIMIT ICO.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
CAPITAL—Authorised
Paid-up
Uncalled .
Reserved Fund ..
(Invested in Gorrnvinent Slack)
£100,000
250,000
j. 20,000
£700,000
£370,000
The truoTlls, execu i ohs
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £20,000 0 0
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Ksn. •
lion. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M P
JAMES BOJtltOW.MAN, Manager.
FREPK. A. LANG Assistant- Manager.
—THE—
CITY MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
(Established 1879.)
Head Oi?mce— HUNTER & BLICH STREETS, SYDNEY
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life Office
in Australia.
Agents Wanted. GEO. CROWLEY, Manager.
o O F A f\l Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : lion. A. \V. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John She, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
ManagersMelbourne, J). Clynk ; Adelaide. VV. N.
M'Farlank ; Brisbane, A. Hamilton Hart ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus 131 Pitt St.. SYliNrrcy
X
*/
v
V
*
3
A? ft #
/ %A 3 4>
/
S/
Rr
Sr
SS
%& <§
N>
s;
•Th.(
7a
/ /
wertfyguytjuy
• ?*
Superior to
COPAiBA
CUBEBS nnd
INJECTIONS,
Cures the ; ame
diseases in 4.3
hours without
venience.
Each Capsule bears the name gag-
(MIDY
Shipping.
KT. ID. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Three-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE, NEW
BRITAIN and NEW GUINEA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
*PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons.. 17th FEBRUARY.
*PRINZ SICISMUND, 3300 tons.. 17th MARCH.
♦WILLEHAD, 4761 tons .. .. 14th APRIL.
♦Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safely and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents, J
. LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
I’U Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
I’oeted (under cover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Result
CRAIG & AITKEIM, N.S • W Barlier’s Supply
House, 654 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
WHITE STAR LINE.
wertfyguytjuy
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
MEDIC, to Sail on or about
23rd FEBRUARY,
AFRIC, SUE VIC, PERSIC,
and RUNIC to follow.
FARES— Capetown .. .. £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. ..' 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets , Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
•Twin Screw. Calling at Hobart]
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 18s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Daly eft/ and Company, Ltd.,
' Agents in Australia.
CD 0 E 1 c S.S. Co.- A.. and A. L X ZNT E
NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS—EVERY THREE WEEKS.
R.M.S. SIERRA. 6200 TONS. SAILS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 26.
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, SAN FRANCISCO, &c., &c.
FAST PASSENGER SERVICE to AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN
EUROPE and ROUND THE WORLD.
SWfc ' CHEAP THROUGH FARES TO ENGLAND.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., Hanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS*, SYDNEY.
SOUTH SEA
Do you know what charming
trips can be made among the
Islands of the Western Pacific ?
ISLAND
.-e,— CRUISES
our steamers will carry you comfortably round the most
interesting of the Island Groups, with your home always on board, at an average
cost or about Ten Shillings a Day—that is less than your hotel expenses alone
would be on your usual holiday. May we have the pleasure of mailing you our
new illustrated descriptive matter ?
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street,
SYDNEY.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
□pon - all - Classes - of
Security. —-
FAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
&
BILL'S
DISCOUNTED
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
IXT-S. W.
font de pete 0. €<!. Qo.,£td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH S ' ~ 74, SYDNEY
and 17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE.
EU.SIACE BENNETT, General Manager.
file ftogal gank of Queensland
itM m o. ”
Capital Baum r £457,538 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 175,81*2 10 0
Rkskkvk Fosn([nvested in Government Stock) 60*000 0 0
£699,351 0 0
Keatl Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. O. I)av. Asst. Mugr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
7/ Blanches in Queensland. Agents anil Correspondents
Throughout the W orld.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equi au.u craojig’e .street.
four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 1,000,000
Preference Shares issued to the Crown in
terms of Bank of New Zealand Act
(N.Z.), 19(13 .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital _ ..£2,000,000
CANADIAN-AUSTRAUAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
NEXT SAILINGS—
February 19, March 19,
April 16.
The New Triple Screw Turbine Steamer,
MAHENO,
SAILS, APRIL 16, 1906.
Ibis Vessel has Superb Passenger Accommo-
dation surpassing easily that of any other
vessel engaged in the Pacific Trade. Her
Deck Cabins are the most elaborately fitted
yet seen in Australian waters.
Shower, Spray, Plunge, Needle, & Douche Baths.
Sea or Fresh Water.
SS’ Send for Illustrated Pamphlets Furnished Free.
UMON STEAM SHIP COMPA 1Y OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
W.vi. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMEMT for OLD and YOUNC.
Wd.jJtrtFUL VAI.Uc,
A PACKKT of li.if’hr. Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter),
book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail
Tnek (something new), The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character verv superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Shee. of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Rim- 0 r
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Hay market.
New York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
FIRE HAS NO TERRORS!
CAPITAL, £1,900,000.
A.UUMI LATED FUNDS exceed £500,000.
A.\N J; L REVENUE, £300,000.
Fire has NO terrors that Fire
Insurance cannot quell.
Put the South British on guard!
GEO. 11. MOORE, Manager.
CHAS. T. METCALFE, ‘Assistant Manager.
T £® South British
PIRE and MARINE INSURANCE CO.,
12 Bridge St, Sydney .
Snipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Vlotorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE, ,
ADELAIDE,
POUT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Yon " ala, February 17.
.S.S. Wollowra, Feb. 23.
S.S. Gran tala, March 7.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Marloo, February 17.
■S.S. Bunniyong, Feb. 24.
S.S. Wollowra, March 3.
Heat and Cheapest ftoute to Goldfields.
fl,.??u° r l P « SSa S e Tiukets a, ' e interchangeable after the
flist 1 ort of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Mari times
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS
Frln^h me pn° f 6500 ';°" S ’ "" der Posfcal Contract with the
r Government, calling at MELBOURNE \ m.'
PORT E S4II) E w : n N t TlJ r °m K0 ’ BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
FORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
Steamer
AUSTRALIEN
V. de la CIOTAT
YARRA
OUMBEA
Com-
mander.
Sydney,
1 Noon.
Mel- | Ade-
bourne. | laide.
1 p.rn. | 1 p.m.
Verron
Etienne
Sellier
Boyer
. Feb. 26
, March 26
. April 23
May 21
Mar. l Mar. 3
March 29 Mar. 31
April 2d|April 28
May 24 i May 26
PASSENGERS booked to lndia China
fncSS/S./K. *•
RETURN MOKIOTAT REOTOEDMTES. ENGLISH
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through XCustoms
6t FA» « d acc "! n l>ao.v them to Paris and Calais.
t or further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney. ' traces,
R - BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent
Hotels.
PETTY'S HOTEL,
SYDNEY
decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will be
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed.
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts
and receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET
_ W. CUPIT, Manager. I
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
the (England),
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
Hodern Appointments. noderate Tariff.
VISITORS TO n/lELBOURiME
Will find every oimor and convenience at—
MRS>. TOBINS.
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
Sl'. KILDA.
r JUIF Largest and i>e.sr-Appoiuted Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower thaniicensed hotels. City, 1-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
' 1K
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St
* . K ' Wa Ra » wav Station and Cable Trains. Largest
INCI CSlVf't n V J L ' to, ' ia - Passenger Lift.
INtLUW\ E TAB.It I< for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per W eek. Jl um
Henry Skinner,
OJarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10/,3.
f k i"nr er . x}™ a v<: ' r ' v extensive and carefully
selected PLANT ON TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction m all business entrusted to him.
Public and SK' 0 ' Banquets and
Private BalL Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
OTAR EYE OINTMENT, the Golden Remedy for In-
nammation, Sandy Blight and Weak Ryes. Price
only 2/- Post Free to any address in Australia, Tas. or
Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne


W. Watson & Sons
ARE AGENTS FOR . . .
PAUL’S
AM IMATO GRAPH.
PRICE LIST GRATIS.
The
Best
Living:
Picture
Machine
Extant.
Large
Stock of
Newest
Films
I Iways
on
Hand.
IV. WATSON & SONS,
78 Swanston Street,
MELBOURNE.
MELBA ACCORDEONS
wertfyguytjuy
Produce the
most . .
delightful
music.
They are
easily learnt
No know-
ledge of
music being
required to
become a
skilled
performer.
NEW 1906
MODELS
With 1.2, 3, or 4 sets of reeds, six, eight or ten
fold double and triple Bellows with metal bound
corners, and all latest improvements.
Prices from 7/6 to 26/9.
Packed and delivered free to any Post Office or
Railway Station in Australasia.
Ask for our 1906 Illustrated Catalogue. We
will send it Post Free.
ALLAN & CO. Propy. Ltd.
276-278 Collins Street, Melbourne.
POLICY foe the COMMONWEALTH,
Price, 6d.; Posted, 8d
Money Back jz?
If You Don’t Like It!
mm
fm&i
Bfwi
TSAO3
rtcrtu
osM
RECORDS, M-t 1/3 and 1/9 each.
CATALOGUES FREE.
That’s it—if you buy a Phono-
graph here by Mail, and don’t like
it when you get it, you can return
it at our expense.
BUY AN
EDISON PHONOGRAPH
BY MAIL.
OUR PRICES are right on to
bedrock, and the qualities are tie
same all over the world.
V?
The Edison Gem Phonograph, SC/-
The Edison Standard Phonograph, £5
The Edison Home Phonograph, £7 lOs
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd.,
“MY OPTICIANS,”
Importers of Phonographs and Records,
393 GEORGE ST. (facing Royal Hotel), SYDNEY.
&IVEN AWAY
FOR ONE fIONTN ONLY.
2050 OSTRICH TIPS, nine inches
1 >ng, will be given away absolutely
free during the month of February,
to advertise our Feathers.
Write for Coupons and Particulars.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP
Cl*. Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY.
[Mention The Bulletin.
<STest? nez V>
NIX
Assurance Company of London
117 PUT ST«, SYDNEY (Falmouth Chambers)
LTD.
WILLS AM M. FARMER,
Beautiful Home Decorations
m
easily and economically obtained by the. most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
“OUR FAVORITE” COM) E.\AMHI. (Washable) —Rich and
durable as realgold. Withstands wear and tear, handling and washing
without tarnishing. For Furniture, Frames, Lamp and Gas Fixtures,
etc. Highest class gilding enamel. Inexpensive; easily applied.
“BAPOMN ESAMEIiS.” For decorating the brilliant white and
colors. A beautiful china gloss surface for Furniture, Metal Beds and
an “°SAPOUIW” BATH TUB ENAMEL. In White, Rose, Ivory
and Nile Green. Withstands hot water. Porcelain finish, which will
not come off. For sale at all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
1 GERSTENBORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of JAPANESE GOLD PAIVT, “SAPOLIN" FLOOR
STAINS, “ SAPOLIN ” ALUMI .I'M ENAMEL, Etc.
WILL ANDRADE ... DOOKS -
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition, Is ; post Is
3d. BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Marri-
age Guide by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition, hard covers, im-
nroved. Magic Up-to-Date, Is. Horse and Cattle
I'octor, 6d. Donelly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, Is. Maria Monk, Is
Cd. How to Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Little Folks’ Reciter , Popular Reciter, Humorous
Dialogue Book, 6d each. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat Gould’s Novels, 6d each,
posted Bd. Devil in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads,
etc., Is. House Painting and Papering, 1/3. How
to Play Billiards, Is. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d.
The Cuckold, Is ; post, Is 3d. Britain for the
British, 6d. Freemasonry Exposed and Ex-
plained, 1905 edition, with key to all degrees, Is.
Cycle Building and Repairing, new edition, 190
illustrations, Is 3d. Macfadoen’s Physical Train-
ing. Is. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron. and marly
others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the First
Night, 1/3. How to Write Signs, Tickets and
Posters, Is 3d. Staining, Varnishing and Polish-
ing Wood, Is 3d. Electric Bells, 1/3. Boot-
making and Repairing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise :
Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal
Gustave, Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
Piano Tuning and Repairing. Is 3d. How to Make
Love, Is. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card
Games, Is. Picture Frame Making, Is 3d.
Poultry Keeping, Is. Dream Book, Is. Every
Man His Own Builder, Is and Is 3d.
NOVELTIES.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, Real Photos, 200
Kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s.
ZINCARA GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS, LOVE, BUS!-
NESS, FUTUSITY, &c., with full directions, Is ; posted 1/3.
«aw
Nf
Ur*
Free Cata'.ogues:
No. I—Plays, Reciters,
Make-up, etc.
No. 2— Conjuring Apparatus
and Books.
No. 3—French Novels in
English.
Ko. 4—Bocks for Presents.
To. s—Useful & Mechanical
Books.
No. 6—Books for the
Married.
No. 7—Advanced
Literature.
Confessions of a Melbourne Barmaid, Ulus., Is 3d.
Gay Life in Melbourne, lllus., Is 3d. Hoffmans
New Conjuring Entertainment, Is 3d. How to bm
and Gamble, Is 2d. Kropotkin’s. Fields, Factories
and Workshops, Is 3d. A Midnight Mystery, Is. A
Left-Handed Murder, Is. God .and My Neighbor, 9d,
p. Is. Engineer’s Practical Test: engines, boilers, gas
engines, dynamos,4/6. How to Make Lp, Illustrated
Guide to the Stage, Is. New Tricks with Cards Is.
Sandow, 3s. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Mii) wives’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is. Building Model
Boats, Is 3d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phrenologv,
is. Blacksmith’s Work, 1/3. Lover’s Letter Writer,
Is. Photography, Is. Monster Song Books, 3d,
fid and Is. Tocology for Mothers, is bd.
Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post Age of
Reason, Is 3d. Ingersolls Works, 9d. Irish
Song Book, Is. Lightning Calculator, Is. M>n
strel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Mone\
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter
Writer Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, is ; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post Is 2d.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamus or Postal Notes of any State will do.
GLEASON’S GREAT HORSE BOOK
EVERYTHING WORTH KNOWING ABOUT THE HORSE.
Fullv Illustrated. Deals with breeding,
Diseases—their causes, how to know
training:, sheltering-, buy ng, selling, telling age, racing, etc. for 71S
how to cure them. Worth £lO for its information, but ofterea Tor //o
breaking,
them and
508 GEORGE ST.,
oyrmev
VI Unbl
(opposite
VICTORIA MARKE-
201 BO
MEL
AND
“best”
RAZOR GUARD
MEN WHO SHAVE with a “ BEST ” RAZOR GUARD
attached to their own blade experience the
delightful sensation of being quickly, safely and com-
fortably shaved. Guard requires no fixing, and is
easily slipped on to the ordinary razor blade, no
matter what size or shape. Instantly converts your
blade into a SAFETY RAZOR that is perfectly safe
to use under any conditions —travelling on a train, or
even in the dark—without fear of cutting-yourself.
Makes your razor shave as smooth as velvet, just as
close as desired, in half the time you ordinarily take.
Absolutely prevents scrapes, even to the most
tender skin. Just as useful to the “ good shaver as to
the novice. To try it is to appreciate it. Thousands
now in use. Everv one sold makes a friend for life.
Send 2/-, Postal Notes or Stamps, and a Guard will
be mailed you to any address in Australasia. Agents
Wanted. _ _ __
E. P. BREWER & CO.,
opp. G.P.0., MELBOURNE.
Visitors to Melbourne
WILL FIND
THAT . . .
Neale’s Temperance Hotel
(Tankards)
LONSDALE STREET (Next Law Courts;
is the handiest place to stay at. Being close to Railway
Stations, Theatres and Wharves ; and three minutes walk
from G.P.O. Bedrooms on Ground Floor if desired.
Board and Residence, 4s. 6d. per day; or from £1 per
week. Telephone 1640.
wertfyguytjuy
B. MOUNTCASTLE
& SOHS
305 GEORGE
SYDNEY
</)
Clean White
'T'f-t mean sound teeth, fit for their
•* work, the condition they are kept
in by the use of
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Tooth Powder,
It is made for cleaning the Teeth, and
does it, too, pleasantly, thoroughly and
gently, without scratching or injuring
the enamel. That is why it is in sue*
constant demand all over the world.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,
England.
BLOOD POISOK.
FOR MORE THAN TWENTY YEARS
we have made the cure of blood poison a
specialty, Primary, Secondary or Tertiary
Blood Poison Permanently Cured. You can
be treated at home under same guaranty.
Capital 500,000 dols. We solicit the most
obstinate cases. If you have exhausted the
old methods of treatment, and still have aches
and pains, Mucus Patches in Mouth, bore
Throat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spots,
Ulcers on any part of the body, Hair or
Eyebrows falling out, write for proofs ot
cures. 100-page Book Free.
COOK REMEDY Co.,
1102 MASONIC TEMPLE, Chicago, U.S.A.
NERVOUSNESS
liOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and last discovered
“AdSVA. MINER. C.P.0., SYDNEY.
SPI
SPIRO
Powder SPIRO
A BOON FOR HOT WEATHER.
KILLS ALL ODOR OF PERSPIRATION
NO MORE SORE AND ACHING LEEI.
DOES NOT STAIN ANYTHING.
EASILY APPLIED.
1/3 per box to any part of the State.
Grand Views of Niagara Falls Given
Grand v ‘|£ ay to purchasers.
AUS AMERICAN "pYGIENIC AGENCY. Ltd.. 177
Liverpool Street, Hyde Park, Sydney.
Distributing Agent for Queensland Alfred Moon,
37 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
free SAMPLES, ALL STATES, ON APPLICATION.
THE PITY OF GOD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Death came humbly before God, bearing' in his arms
the body of Life.
And Death said —“ Omnipotent, all things are accom-
plished, even as Thou badest me. I have pursued Life,
even unto the end of Time, and lo ! I lay her at Thy feet.
And remains unto me my reward.”
Whereupon the All-Father looked forth from Heaven
and saw the Earth amid ten thousand thousand worlds.
And the Omnipotent saw that the Earth was as one vast
grave, Man and all his Race sleeping at the foot of their
ruined palaces. And Life was not.
And Gcd stretched forth His hand and touched Death
with His forefinger ; and Death sank down into eternal
rest.
Then said that great Angel, Gabriel, which stood before
God—“ Omnipotent, at Thy word I summon the world to
judgment.”
And the Archangel put to his lips the Trum et of the
Wrath of God, and would have awakened the d ad.
But God suddenly stretched foith Hi. hand and stayed
him, before the Last Trump could soun ! .
And God said unto Gabriel —“ Awake them n ;t, but let
them sleep for ever. Out of Our pity they saall enter
into eternal rest.”
And God turned to the making' of His new worlds, and
from His thoughts was Mankind utterly put away.
ANON.
In the matter of the excessive number of
liquor-sellers. Macquarie, the brainy and decisive
Gov. of N.S.W., in February, 1810, wiped out
every license and re-issued but twenty —to “ hotel
keepers of respectability.”


SKIN RASHES
Instantly Relieved by
Baths with
rSUAP ♦
And gentle applications of Cuti'
cura Ointment, the great Skin
Cure and purest and sweetest of
emollients. This is the most speedy,
permanent, and economical treat'
ment for torturing, disfiguring, itch'
ing, burning, bleeding, scaly, crusted,
and pimply skin and scalp humours,
eczemas, rashes, and irritations,
and is sure to succeed when all
other methods fail.
Ciiticurn Soap, Ointment, and Pill, are sold throuehoul
‘hewor d Depot.; London,27 Charterhouse So -Piris J
Rue de la Paiz; Australia, K. TownsTco , Sydney
£ otter Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props
tiGT* Mailed I? roe, “ How to Cure Every *
LAUNDRY
SOAP
Good
healthy
odour.
Good soap
emits a good
healthy odour
from the wash
tub. Sunlight
Soap has a
good healthy
odour, for
Sunlight Soap
is good Soap.
305
When you have proved the value of Sunlight Soap
you will be equally satisfied if you will try
Monkey Brand tor scouring metal and woodwo k
[list
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
ence.
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Everything.
Australian Users now num-
bered by the hundreds. |
QUEENSLAND BRANCH
Colonial Mutual Building',
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
NORMAN BROS.
68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth.
Of course you have System
in your office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER 1
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Write for Catalogue.
FOHN SANDS, 374 George St„ Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke Bt., Melbourne.
KIDNEY DISEASE CAN BE CURED
capricious, and I began to lose flesh rapidly When in that onnfrt- leart ’ appetite become very
would be I heard of Warner’s Safe Cure from one who had ndltl + °»- not knowing what the outcome
3 y .h?“" d “ *» and mT? fi&'SK «£»
’T-ifc Vic, 22nd March, 1905.
region of the kidneys. Whilst the attacks lasted I used to suffer tp 6^^ l3 ’ to excruciating pain in the
scarcely straighten my back, being bent almost W r f y ’a n ,’ f ? r Some tlme > could
first brought on by a severe strain whK ale ww th “ k T that , the trouble was
by taking advertised remedies but derived no ZZZ y ’ a^ cted the kidneys. I tried to obtain relief
had only taken the contents of two bottles of WariZZnfe fZ fc “■f* 1 took Warner ’ s Saf ® Cure. I
and I have since been able to do my work wLSt - W “ 6ntirely removed >
From Mr. P. Burns, Bootmaker, lG2.Bourke-street, Sydney, N.S.W., 7tli March 1905
kidney s.fS eSoSLI ‘’T' 01 ’ 8 '?
region of my heart I also had periodica] B ,ftjkaof pta, th S
the advice of a doctor, who prescribed for me but the medieine riin U great trouble. 1 obtained
friend, who had derived great benefit ShSrt to ft,™ ‘S'lJ* »< »
medicine a fair trial. I bought a bottle and as I found tLt if ,„h 1 decided on giving that
take it, and soon became strong and free from pain and was able to pet^f 16 f°° d ’ 1 C , ontinued to
orernelfeelthatitismydnty to recommend Warner’s Safe Core to aSyoSe' ZSgtn “,i£
From Mr. F. H. Davies, 11 Ada-street, South Fremantle, W.A., 27tli October 1904.
‘ Two years ago I suffered terribly from pain in the small of the Knelr * ~
could not stand upright. A friend of mine, who had suffered in a was so severe that I
Warner’s Safe Cure, advised me to take that medicine. I did so and beean toZl w* Wa L CUred > y
the first bottle. In a very short time all the disagreeable and painful svLotoms dZ afte l tak ”’?
ffrettStrers from Kney «“
From Mrs. Mary Gordon, Second-street, Bowden, S.A., 3rd December, 1904.
“For a long time I suffered unceasing pain, almost torture, from chronic pain in mv wu l a
and sides. 1 was under the treatment, for several months of one of the leading ~i f ?u’ I ? ac
who said I was suffering from kidney disease, and treated me accordig] v Month^ft 8 Clty ’
past and I gradually got worse and weaker each week. Sebing that the course
medicine was doing me no good, he, at last, decided that it necessarv for and
operation in order to effect a cure, and, if I did not consent to that he pSi ™, to ,lnd< :rgo an
that time I was in such a weak and helpless operation^vould'oidvhVst 6 ’ At
death, so I decided to consult a herbalist, who I had been told was very clever After a short consnY
tat,on, he said that I was suffering from an abcess in the stomach, and that he could cure nm«Y‘
which it was beyond my means to pav. Mv husband who f n d Jr , l T e “ e tor a suni
sent me some monfey and advised me to buy 7 some Warner’s Safe Cure Ynd bdY Z £ “ th p ?. ountr y*
had heard it well spoken of. I got some oftheZdicine t tke ft TZe°* f* he
days I began to feel better. I continued to take Warner’s Safe Cure crettimr strnnfL u,7 a f ®'T
I was quite cured. The pain and weakness all left me, and I wasZee aga: liable todo mv hZ' 'YV
work. lam quite convinced that Warner’s Safe Cure saved my life.” g 11 d y household
From Mr. Joseph Mudkins, Burn-street, Invermay, Launceston, Tas., 10th October 1904
fourteen years ago I was cured of dropsy by taking Warner’s Safe Cure and To \
the complaint until July last, when my feet, logs and eyes were lo much swflZ IK ° refc " n 0
was laid up in bed. I took Warner’s Safe Cure Lain and YLlfn* swollen with dropsy that I
feet again I might also state that 1 have taken several vials o^wLnef’a^SPilT TheTffY
recommend Warner’s Safe Cure and the Pills to any one suffering as I did from dropsy!” Wy
From W. H. M'Glew, Esq., J.P., Springside, Smith’s Hill, W.A., 11th November 1903
Seventeen years ago I was suffering with Bright’s Disease of the ’ T
treated by two doctors,, and by them" was given up as if curable Thev W h™
attending me for some time, and finally decided that it was iSSble for nm d to b
cover, and told me that I must prepare for the worst r rt»e | fo le-
great shock to me, and more to my wife and family, who were gfZlLdiYtreLY 111 A t, aS th a
time my head and body were in an alarming state, being svvollen right up to the , v U At 6
feeling of unrest and tenderness in the kidneys • I suffered from W 1 ha ? a v ¥ ue
allure of strength also, as I was not able to liep anjfhing in mTstomLT The Y T S
to-day is, however, proof that doctors are not always toil ™ faot that lam ah . ve
I dM not give up hope myself, and was determined to live as long as possible U ProvkffntYlT to i die ;
this time, one of Warner’s Safe Cure pamphlets was placed my hands and hi Vt 7’
letter from someone who suffered from the same complaint, and had beef cured hv Yl a
Warners Safe Cure. I at once decided that, as the doctors said Lev en,dd Ho 7 taklug
for me 1 would give Warner’s Safe Cure a trial, and seeif that wfS rZ n ° m ° re
f f b l r d °f went'down^raduall^^and'^my
which had been very distressing, were completely banished. I continued toimproLZ hZTh tr fr oabl - es ’
strength each day. The doctors were delighted at mv rapid and almSt S i
when I informed them what medicine had produced the resuff, they scTSTbdLZZ 7 ’ T b
few more weeks I had quite recovered mv normal strenp-th nnH ? ? ely beJltv e me. In a
plaint, and am in as good health to-dfy Ts ever IwLhi my Ufe To prove twThG'^ 11 ° f th ® C T‘
insurance co. s have offered to insure my life for any amLYtf that thiS is S °’ a^ents for
A treatise containing full particulars and valuable diet directions will w, *. , .
H. Warner and Co., Ltd., Australasian Branch, Melbourne vfctorT ’ P ° St
World’s Greatest Dwelling Architects.
Pans and specifications for dwellings, bulls »»? brines? to make
planning- houses enables us to make plans accurately for building ?n anv riartnf h° 23 ,'T ar ™? f ex Perienoe in
below has been built over 800 times for £240. We will mail von ir world. The house shown
P/ans and Specifications , complete for £2. ’ P pa ' d ’ Fu " B,ue Printl War king
Kltckc
©iwwg e> r
18. i A I
*4>
lE. 15
pABL°Q | . jj
13. 16 I ®rA22fl !
I 'io.ii II
All rooms open into hall
with grille arches between
dining room, parlor and
hall.
'M
m
li
SLi-J.
BJJ
*-U
(§>eD
Ji>ED&2°Ar'
121 isK
as.vis
<&CSp/{D fL?oR
Three comfortable cham-
bers, 2nd floor.
This Plan can be Reversed to Suit Any Location.
- -:ildln/a home" ‘Vrito’tooSSlwiSk inf ™ tio ” about
-r‘ ~r“ i “ ‘ “ e ™ ii:KiSS >*«
Established ■ ■■ ... _ _ c J
buildi
Established
1882.
« ~ ffC ocuu urns, publ puiu, ior OMJy 4s.
J. H. DAVERMAN & SON, Architects,
Poi*l6i* Block
Sa " AIIT 1N ‘gg‘?aaa?ggg - —-
'nir
FINNEY, ISLES & CO. u.
POST FREE THROUGHOUT THE
COMMONWEALTH OUR
"BIG BLOCK * Sac Coat and Trousers
Made to Measure.
In WHITE, BROWN, or KHARKI DRILL, and in
WHITE, BROWN, or DARK-GREY CRASH—
In ASSAM SILK, 37s 6d.
17/6
Send for PATTERNS and SELF-MEASUREMENT FORMS.
THE BIG BLOCK,
BRISBANE.
And at MAR Jf ß ° rt £H? H ’ <?■'" murwillumbah, n.s.w. .
and 27 Milton Street, LONDON, E.C. mVY -1
Business, Robbery, etc.
The British beer which Australia accepts as a
liquor free from guile—pure in all respects, save for an
infusion of “ preservative ’’—seems to be deeply mis-
trusted nowadays in its own country. An ex-publican
writes to a London paper, in reply to another person who
had suggested that a fortune awaits any British brewer
who will produce an honest beverage from malt and hops
onb’, such as was always obtainable 25 years ago. The
retired Bung says : “He need not go back 25 years. A
few years back a well-known M.P. bought a small brewery
in Suffolk, with the object of giving the public beer
rewed from malt and hops only. My experience as a
landlord selling the pure beer is that the public prefers a
ch emicallyprepared concoction. The public taste must
K_^ at< ; d pure beer before a fortune awaits the
„;, Acd hcfe are we in Australia complaining that
Ses of pTrity! eriSnot brewed °" n ° ble British P rin *
* • * #
Allerdalo Grainger, S.A.’s late Agent-General,
has secured a case of acorns from the best cork-oaks in
Sf? 1 ' a,ld . fc he Price Government has undertaken to
£ Wlth a view to corking the State’s own wine
wittnn half-a-century (the tree is a slow grower). The
acorns are exactly like those of the ordinarv oak, to look
red cla are 83ld t 0 BTOW in allnost any soil, but prefer
* • #
. Picket : Don’t tell me artists have no show
if, Have just paid £l2 fi» d out they have.
A polisheu person presents card, is desirous of appointing
for Duyu ” patent remedies. Produces a book of
IfT,,!. 1 cuttings showing that well-known men in
other towns are agents. One town one agent. “We ”
™„ 0 l u he,J Person with the should-be-suspicious
'.„7i V ° n B ? u, iderberg, “give a series of lectures in
f acd to Z a and advertise the Duyu virtues in your
c? U tak ® a gr 9 ss * and we contract to take back
nnlis» f v at A he end of three months, any that remain
"T!* 1 ;. You then give him £l2 (or £24 as some did) and
watch him recede in the distance and in the direction of
traiJ] - }am still waiting for the lecturer, and the
neu spa per man (who is waiting for the advertisements) is
fn'the'st^°^'m At r th , eendof th ree months every town
m the State holds stocks of Duyu, while the gent with the
- Cft f °v freBh P addocks > to graze on the bright
no SSms. You can t say or do any thing, as your
name appears in big letters in the Gotatu Times, and the
r t dU ! afc , your backyard yet. Since my
experiment in trying to place salt on the steering gear of
the cocksparrow I never knew a better scheme than this.
rf' was let into the manners and
customs of the middlemen infesting Sydney, during a
Th“L d i epUtatjon *° N - s - w - Bail way Commissioners.
The agents were asking for a regulation to be repealed,
n? £ f or carrying produce was ordered, a
Pe n truek had t 0 be made. . The request
was refused, the Commissioners stating that, before the
was made, certain agents would order all the
b^ lon P to the railways, and when rival middle-
men had given up in despair their efforts to obtain
rolling-stock, would coolly cancel the orders.
* * • #
° f lett , < r r gently received by an Adelaide
““V an alle K? d mme-owner in Japan:—“l have
? ear , tb afc you will supply certain sum of capital for
hopeful biseness Here I have Gold Mine 3 Million Square
about it 3ll t’ bUt "‘ y Ca F‘, tal I s . ,10t enough to biseness
about it. I beg you capital to biseness if to be adapt as
my tell, I beg you my Capitalist or Company agenst my
“‘fP™ unde J- the condition which you iike I want
L. 5 Million, I beg you excuse for my wilfulness to letter
as soon as you can mange. I beg you reply.”
* * * *
“ Ossian ” : lie northern N.S.W. sugar-growing-
re'isn/’ww at jav mer °y °f the 0.5.1 t. monopoly
L ‘ n lBi ?h o6 rrl n addltlon P° tlie evils complained of there
is another: The farmer is prevailed on to execute an
agreement with the monopoly-, covenanting to grow onlv
soft and sweeter varieties of cane, instead of the harder
and less sweet. If frost conies it damages the soft cane •
whereupon the monopoly informs the grower that it is
?™£ ar w \ penny ° r 80 P er ton for the damaged
crop. Were the farmer free to grow the hardier China
cane, which is not so sweet but is almost frost-proof, the
greater part of the crop would be undamaged. Mono-
poly s method of weighing the cane is also mysterious.
Ihe cane is cut, and conveyed by means of punts to the
mills. It is then gauged or weighed by an employee Far-
mer is not considered in thematter. Some farmers do weigh
their own as a check, but I never knew the two weights
to agree. Clarence River farmers are indignant and dis-
satisfied, and a prominent grower, J. B. M‘Kay, has pur-
chased a mill and plant with the idea of running a
co-operative nnil for the treatment of China cane If the
venture is successful, some thousands of acres of waste
lands will be put under-China cane. The estate of the
late George Harrison, of Goodwood Island, the boss cane-
grower on the Clarence, was valued at £23,000 for Probate
purposes. He had his own mill and crushed only his own
cane. This gives a hint of the enormous profits harvested
by the co.
• * • «
The fresh-egg question is just now raising a
scented controversy in Melbourne papers. Facts revealed
by it are that some farmers are too lazy to gather the
eggs day by day, and let the hen sit on them for a week
or so before collecting. Others store eggs for three or
four months. Worst of all are the harvest eggs. While
the crops are growing the hens “ lay away ”; when the
harvester has passed the weary gleaner gathers up
tobe* sold month ' old egga ’ aild sends them to Melbourne
* '* * *
“ Roma ” : Some people seem to have a mania
for bargains. A murried couple up this way (S. Gipps-
land, Vic.) about take the cake. The husband lost an
eye some time ago. He turned up after last cheap
excuision with a blue glass-eye—his own is brown. He
had got the blue one second-hand, and “orful cheat) ”
I knew a chap as lorst ’is wife. But ’e dideu bury’er
glass-eye with er. So 1 did er deal with ’ini ;it don’t fit
too well, but it s good eno’ fer me.” His wife has a set of-
fa se grinders, which she bought “ dirt cheap ” at a police
saie of unclaimed goods. The old man’s Sunday suit
bought 15 years ago for £l, was made for a man who was
killed the third time the suit was worn.
* •* * *
Alleged that James Inglis, the “ Tiger ” of old
political days, but latterly an industrious tea merchant
came out of his'recent big law fight with the Coupon
p ?° ple v V l . th it f soo cos^ s to pay. Sympathisers pressed
£250 on him , the rest has to come out of Billy Tea.
* * * *
“Marque Reel”: Why doesn’t some enter-
prising Australian go in for sponge-fishing on a com-
mercial scale . Australian seas abound in sponges—from
the finest surgical sponge downwards. The Eurouean
spong-e harvest is worth about three-quarters of a million
depleted 3 ye 3 fishinB: B ' rounds are becoming
“Drifter”: The advertising nerve-specialist is
a boss bogey-man. In one interview he Will discover
sufficient insidious diseases lurking in a single system to
color the owner s dreams with horror for a fortnig ht. I
once became fascinated by a picture nailed up on the
premises of a specks-before-the-eyes expert, and read a
long list of grateful testimonials pasted beneath.
So, one day, I pulled a sick, sad expression down over
iny countenance, and went with an imaginary grievous
ailment. I was curious to scan the magician who for a
modest guinea, could restore the glories of departed youth
and metamorphose the dull-eyed old rake into a lusty
lion roaring with vigor and vitality. An attendant
ushered me impressively into a waiting-room, pressed a
pamphlet on diseases into my hand, and whispered that
the nerve scientist was busy experimenting in the labora-
tory; When he escorted me to the inner sanctum the
specialist was engaged peering through a microscope at
something floating about in a small tin dish. He was a pros-
perous looking individual with a cold eye and a profusion
of heavy jewellery across his waistcoat. I told him of my
misdeeds. Then he made a critical examination, and
shook his head sadly at the gravity of my condition. He
explained that it was beyond the ordinary one-guinea-
treatment stage ; tissues were wasted, varicose veins had
started, vital secretions were escaping, cerebral disorders
had set in, and various other horrors, which, if not imme-
diately coped with, would produce mental and physical
decay, terminating m madness and a lingering death,
lie offered to effect a permanent cure for £l5 I didn’t
take it on, but explained meekly that I really had nothing
the matter with me. He didn’t seem abashed only a
little angry. Nerve specialists have plenty of nerve !


C 7
0
o
L
/
m
'v
s
4
7/
\\
%
A
\
U
I
1
m
w
THE best thing that can be.said about a Watch Is, •• It’s an
1 Honest Watch.” It tells you the correct time always—you
never find It mislead you. If you want just such a Watch we can
recommend for your perusal our 48-page Booklet of Honest
Watches, prices for which range from 14/6 to £7O. We w;i be
pleased to post a copy to any who will make the request. We
mention on this page half-a-dozen dependable Watches, any of
which we will send free and safe by post, together with our
written guarantee, on receipt of remittance. ORDER TO-DAY.
4/2 GEORGE S 7 SYDNEY.
wertfyguytjuy
For the Average Man
we find our special make of Waltham Lever Watch is par-
ticularly suited. The price is comfortably within his reach
while the Watch is,neat and handsome in appearance.
The movement is jewelled, plate, with exposed winding
wheels, Brequet spring,
and compensation balance.
The winding is keyless,
and the cases are of the
Hunting style, made of
Hall-Marked Solid Silver.
We guarantee and sell this
Watch for
£
ty
o
A Three-Quarter Plate
English Lever Watch
is a favorite with many, the movement being so constructed
that the Watch is thinner than would be the case with a
full plate Watch. The balance wheel being situated below
the level of the plate, is specially protected from damage.
We offer a Gentleman’s Keyless Silver Hunting, Jewelled,
Brequet Spring, Com-
pensation Balance, En-
glish Lever Watch, with
guarantee, for
§
A Special Dust
Protected Watch
and one that has met with general approval, is the “ Excel-
sior.” This is an old favorite of ours, but lately we have
completed important improvements, including the addition
of a full dust cap, which completely covers the works and
excludes all dust and damp. It is a man’s Watch, fully
jewelled, f-plate movement, Brequet Spring, Compensation
Balance and has full Hunting Solid Silver Cases. A
splendid country
watch is the Excel-
sior English Lever,
and we post it to-
gether with our war-
ranty, for
V MAKERS PRICE R
i
For the Woman who
takes note of time
and the one whose daily occupation demands that she have
the correct time always by her, we confidently advise the
purchase of one of our Keyless Silver Hunting, Solid Gold
Case jointed, Waltham Levers. They are splendid for
time-keeping, and were made especially to our order by the
Waltham Watch Coy. for sale in our eight Australasian
Stores. The movement
and winding work, etc., is
on the same system as the
men’s size. We will post
one free with guarantee
on receipt of
1
An Ideal Lady's Watch
is our 15 Jewel American Waltham Keyless Lever in its
18ct. Gold, Engraved, Hunting Cases. Manufactured to
suit the Australian climate, it has all the known improve-
ments. The movement is of polished nickel, and is fitted
with best Compensation Balance and Safety Hair Spring,
ft is a High-Grade Watch in
every way, and will give
unequalled pleasure. Posted,
with full guarantee, for
(O
Get a Gold Watch now
Don’t put it off until possession gives you no pleasure, buy
it now wh< n you would really find satisfaction and delight
in it. We can supply a 14ct. Gold Filled (only you can te.l
it is not Solid Gold through and through) Watch with a
guarantee by the Waltham Watch Co. that the case will
wear and look well for five and twenty years. The move-
ment is a fine f-pl ite Keyless, Jewelled, and Brequet
Spring Waltham.
No man need be
without a Gold
Watch when we
offer this exception-
al one, with full
case and movement
guarantee, for
©
o'
D
STONE, &c.
Pertinent Points.
POINT I.— You are more concerned in the
prevention of Kidney disease than in its dis-
covery ; where you discover it, the outlook is
very gloomy, the mere knowledge is enough
to appall the strongest.
POINT 2. —We are particularly concerned in
the prevention and palliation, of Kidney
disease, and you can enjoy the benefit of
Kutnow’s Powder or reject it. You are a
perfectly free agent.
POINT 3. —The existence of Kidney disease in
the early stages is very difficult to determine,
and can only be successfully diagnosed by
means of microscopical and chemical examina-
tion of the urine.
'POINT 4.— Simple derangement of the urinary
secretion is not evidence of Kidney disease,
but is clear evidence that the Kidneys and
bladder require to be flushed and antisepti-
cally cleansed.
POINT s. —Further evidence is indicated in
deposits or sediment, white or milky fluid,
pain in the region of the bladder, extending
into the back, thighs, &c., with execretory
scalding sensation.
POINT 6. —The systematic use of Kutnow’s
Powder will increase the efficiency of the
kidneys, keep the bladder clean, and prevent
gravel and stone.
POINT 7. —The main advantage of Kutnow’s
Powder is its entire freedom from sugar, an
essential point where Kidneys are concerned,
especially in Diabetes mellitus which is
characterised by the presence of sugar in the
urine.
POINT B.— The last point is the best point. It
is a recognised fact in medical circles that
Kutnow’s Powder is the most efficient of all
uric acid Solvents and Eliminators, and in
this respect is a boon to suffering humanity;
it never fails to do good. Try it.
Important Questions
Do you value the health you possess, and do you wish to preserve it
in full manly strength and vigor ?
If you are unfortunately stricken with Kidney disease, are you
willing to try a comforting palliative ?
Would you, if suffering from derangement of the Liver, care to test a
certain remedy for it ?
Are you willing to try something which will improve your general
health and by no possibility do you harm ?
Is it your wish to eat well, digest well, feel well, work well, and
sleep well ?
Then get the grandest remedy in the world for Kidney trouble and
all Uric Acid diseases—which is undoubtedly Kutnow’s Powder.
The leading physicians of London, Paris, Berlin and New York have
tested the power of Kutnow’a Powder as a natural solvent and
eliminant of Uric Acid.
The result has been a veritable triumph for Kutnow’s Powder. They
not only prescribe it in their private and hospital practice, bub
use it personally as a guard against serious disease.
»
IMPORTANT WARNING!
Kutnow’s Powder can be obtained at all respectable Chemists,
Medicine Vendors and Stores throughout the world. It is necessary,
however, that you discriminate between fraudulent imitations, which
are absolutely worthless, and the genuine Kutnow’s Powder. Do
not be deceived, therefore, by the general appearance of a bottle, but
bear in mind that to be genuine every bottle must have the fac-simile
signature, “ S. Kutnow and Co., Ld.,” and the registered trade-mark,
“ Hirschensprung, or Deer Leap,” on the carton and label on the
bottle. This signature and trade-mark should be seen in order to
obtain the
Genuine KUTNOW’S POWDER
Positive Proofs-
“ll3, Gower-street, London, W.O.
“Dear Sirs, —I consider it only fair to apprise
you of the remarkable beneficial results obtained
by the use of Kutnow’s Powder. I purchased a
bottle, and continued with a dose for several
mornings before breakfast. For a long time past
I suffered with severe mental depression, due to
an inactive liver and kidney trouble, with exces-
sive uric acid. Thanks to your efficient remedy,
I no longer fear these distressing attacks, as I find
a single dose corrects any mistakes in diet, and
removes the injurious poisons. In the hope that
my letter may lead others to try what has proved
an invaluable boon to me.—Yours truly,
“11. A. G. ROEDER.”
Nurse Cross writes —
“2, Percy-road, Wrexham, July 6, 1904.
“Sirs, —Thank you for Kutnow’s Powder, re-
ceived to-day. Some five years ago I had an acute
attack of nephritis (inflammation of the kidney),
and my doctor advised Harrogate waters. After
trying them for some time, with very little result,
the doctor suggested giving your Powder a trial,
with such excellent result that in a short time I
felt very much better. I continued taking it
regularly every other day for two years, and con-
sider it worked an entire cure. I still take it at
intervals whenever I feel a touch of the complaint,
and never go to a patient without a bottle in my
possession. Many of my patients have tried it,
with excellent results. I think the wonderful
good done in such cases should be widely known
for the benefit of other sufferers.
“ Yours sincerely,
“MARGARET CROSS (Nurse).”
FLUSH THE KIDNEYS with KUTNOW’S POWDEF
Proprietors : S. KUTNOW & CO,, Ltd., 4-1 Farringdon Road, London, E.C. proprietors in u.s.a. : kutnow bros., Ltd., 853 Broadway, now York. [6 —12]


OARD
AND
RESIDENCE
“ WARATAH,” Bayswatcr Read.
This delightful mansion, close to the tram, situated in
an extensive garden, v.ith a Tennis Court attached, has
been converted into charming Residential Quarters, com-
bining the privacy of a Home with all the comforts of a
Country House. Terms on application to the Manageress
MRS. CHARLES COOPER, “ Waratah,”
Ba.vswater Road, Darling-hurst, Sydney.
Telephone—37s William-street.
SIR ROBERT 1
*
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engraving’s, new 1004 edition,
2s 6d posted. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is Od. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted. Marie
Corelli’s God’s Good Man, 2s 9d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tiie
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s How
to Train tiie Horse, Is 6d. Passion’s Paradise, Is 6d.
Stolen Sweets, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, Isposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All Tiie Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Ciiiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
NOJV|E CYCLOPEDIA
EM II RACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 30 Cliromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting- subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It wid be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Eas.v, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Inquirer’s Oracle ; Wiiat to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training,
Is. Elements of Social Science, 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection, 6s 6d. A Life of Pleasure, Is 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is Od. French Self Taught, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 20 Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
I E GOT FROH THIS A DVT
♦
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Advice to Women, Is post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s (id.
Aristotle, 3s (id. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Hook of Dreams, Is posted.
All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s Freemasonry,
Is 2d post. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d posted.
Toxology, 7s (id post. Voltaire’s Romances, 2s.
Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, &c., with
full directions, Is posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s (id posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s (id. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. The
Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1000 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. Tiie Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s (id posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood,
ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, lleptameron, and many
others, ali at 2s Od each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. French
Art Studies, 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen. New Tricks
with Coins, Is posted. A Modern Siren, Is 6d.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
wertfyguytjuy
.#
THE PILLS
nave gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as "run-down ” or “out of sorts.'* Females
of every age find Holloway’s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pams and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and.
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords mo-«* welcome relief
in a very short time.
*• #v
V
wertfyguytjuy
Business Announcements.
wertfyguytjuy
Rothwell's La
Only Address,
Edward St., Brisbane.
Manufacturers of Masonic
Regalia. Best Quality Blue
Apron and Case, £1 Is. [B.
BEST PRESENT FOR
THE BOYS!
r |'H K New Wizard Gy-rotary Top.
x Spins in any position, upside-down,
sideways, on the pedestal, or runs along
a wire. Complete with pedestal, string,
and full directions; only 1/- carriage
paid. Send stamps pf any State.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
METHiao
SIZE
A DESIRABLE
FOOD FOR
INFANTS,
INVALIDS
THE AGED.
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
PAMPA’
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BEST.
X
SolcT
■by
all first-
class stores
in Australasia.
No. 8176 J 2-BLADE
“ PA MPA,”
Cocoa Handle IIG
Buffalo Handle - 21-
Stag Handle • - « 2/6
This
Trade
Mark
London
on
every
Garment.
AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR
Shirts, Pyjamas, &c., &c.
Shirts made to measure from 5/6.
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
UNDERWEAR and other garments in stock and
made tt> measure, in Cottons, Lisles, Wools, Merinos
and Unions.
FABRICS BY THE YARD.
PAMPHLETS AND PRICE LISTS POST FREE.
Sole Agents in N.S.W.:
DAVID BRAHAM <fc CO -
-75 King Street, Sydney.
n
L
. "Is superior even to meat and of
Ik I Inestimable value as a food.”
— Virchow.
PLASMON
Dr. Robert Hutchison says:—
“ A diet rich in proteid MAKES PHYSICAL*
j~-g! MENTAL ENERGY. To growing children a
yt deficiency of proteid is especially dangerous,'’
FRANZ JOSEF Lager
Superior
to
All Others .
The Illustrated. Medical News
says“ Infants do remark-
ably well on it.”
The British Medical Journal
says Danger's Food has
by its excellence estab-
lished a reputation of its
own.’ 1
wertfyguytjuy
For INFANTS, INVALIDS, and tha AGED. ~
EEHOBR’S FOOD IS SOLD BY CHEMISTS, *O., BTBRYWHESa
Benger’s Food has attained
its great reputation not by
extravagant or sensational
advertisement, but by the con-
stant recommendation of those
who have used it, and of Medi-
cal men who know its value.”
About Editors.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE British microbe —its birthplace is
London—is in the blood of most Australian
editors. Asked one of them, in Melbourne
some time ago, if he would read a couple of
mining and bush sketches. He told me that
Australian literature was advancing—tail first.
It had met with generous support, he said, from
his fellow news distorters, and the results up to
date were singularly distressing. He asked me
to contribute an article on Bow street Runners
for his Saturday issue. He returned mining arid
bush sketches next day. “Bow-street Runners”
jumped into print. A week later he invited me
to contribute all I knew about the Toynbee
Guild, or the Plymouth Rock Brethren.
Ihe same day another of his kind informed me
that Australian literature was a blank, dism.-.l
failure, full of beer and drunken poets. I replied
meekly that poets and writers were not in
the tub when it came to steady nipping. I men-
tioned bank-clerks as their rivals, stockbrokers,
State Governors, lorrymen, aides-de-camp. In-
vited him to go for a walk down Bourke and
Collins streets any time between (5 and 11 p.m.
I asked him to stand near the different clubs at
11.30 p.m. and see the limp things in evening
dress that crawled into the cabs. Then I asked
him how often he met a drunken poet. He hinted
that I was wasting clock-space. By way of put
ting Australian literature on its feet, he said he
would pay liberally tor a column of picked anec-
dotes concerning King Edward. He also desired
half-a-column on the Great Salop Cheese Cen-
tenary. I submitted a Queensland sketch instead.
Returned.
Then I began to look up the serial stories
running through the big Australian papers.
Counted 17 dukes, 14 princes, 26 anarchists, many
footmen, spies and couriers, a couple.of Popes,
and a dynamite factory, scattered broadcast across
th s land of ours—or of the land-agents. A close
study of the British magazines sold here during
the last two years gives 500 pliotos of King
Edward, taken in motorcars and at race meetings
There are photos of his Majesty at dinner, photos
of him drinking all manner and sizes of liquors
and brandies. I have nine photos of the King’s
feet, seven of the Duke’s legs, 18 front-page
pictures of dining tables covered with meat and
people’s hands —King at the head of table. Tons
of this gaudy literature are dumped here annually
to rot the public’s intelligence. A stiff tax, or a
Commonwealth garbage destructor, would cer-
tainly efface a lot of London’s toad magazines.
ALBERT DORRINGTON.


typhoid so gxvalent ?
wertfyguytjuy
From drinking water
containing bacteria. It
can be avoided by
using an
Abbott
Filter
which arrests all disease
germs and supplies ab-
solutely pure water—
the most wholesome and
agreeable beverage.
If your storekeeper
cannot supply, send to
N. GUTHRIDGE,
263 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY. '
&
for^
yr the name
WOOD-MILNE
moulded on the face of your
rubber heels.
These splendid rubber heels re-
duce fatigue and jar in walk-
ing, prevent worn-down heels,
and make a pair of boots last
twice as long. Smart and
economical.
WOOD-MILNE SHOESHINES KEEP
BOOTS POLISHED FOR DAYS.
On sale at all Shoe and
Rubber Stores.
Sole Wholesale Agents for Australia—
D. and W. MURRAY, Ltd., Adelaide,
South Australia; Perth, Western Aus-
tralia; Kalgcorlie, Western Australia;
Melbourne, Victoria; Launceston, Tas-
mania; Brisbane, Queensland; Towns-
ville, Queensland; Broken-hill, New
South Wales.
WOOD-
MIUNE/
RUBBER
HEEL 3
DUNKUNC’S
WATCHES
Are Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee Is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronograph .
M
w
HCLBDUBNE
Gunmetal Open Face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Minute Re-
corder, and all the newest improvements.
Guaranteed for 3 Years. Post Free to any
part of Australia.
j£3.
Warranted equal to any dSIO lOs.
Chronograph made.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Australian Depot for ZEISS and
GOERZ FIELD GLASSES.
W. DUNKLING,
315-317 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
(30jr)
Change of
Agency
Makes
Golden
Opportunity
for
Buyers
We have given Up
the Agency for the
well-known...
Superior 9 Grain
Drills 9 of which we
have sold over 3,000.
New Agents have
been appointed, and
will carry large stocks
of extra parts*
We have a considerable quantity of these
Drills on hand.
We must sell them quickly and are
prepared with prices and terms that Will do it
Those who buy any Grain Drill without
first finding out our prices and terms on
“Superiors” are simply throwing away their
money.
DON’T MISS THIS CHANCE
But WRITE TO-DAY for Prices and Terms
International Harvester Company of America
agents throughout
AUSTRALASIA
Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide, Launceston,
and Christchurch
/
i'
MAN’S
Weakness!
Electricity Alone Will Cure It.
THERE are thousands of cheerless homes
in this country, filled with discontent
and unhappiness, lacking in love and
companionship, through the Weakness and
Physical Impairment of a man whose years do
not justify such a condition. Dissipation,
overwork, and overworry cause a cessation of
vitality and a loss of energy. A man becomes
gloomy and despondent, his brain fags, his
sleep is fitful, and he arises each morning the
same tired, discontented being.
The treatment by Electricity has a wonder-
ful effect on all Itroubles of this natnre, and
from every side we obtain reports of cures in
stubborn cases of Weakness, Varicocele, Lost
Strength, Impaired Organs, Lack of Vigour,
Bashfulness, Timidity, etc., by the use of this
Wonder of the Age ....
DR. McLAUCHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT.
It niakes a man ot sixty-five as good as a man of thirty-five, and the
Young Man again fit for his social and other duties.
READ THIS LETTER.
Debility, Functional Weakness. CLARENCE TOWN, NS W.
~ a Yours of recent date is to hand inquiring about my health. I can truly say
Electric Belt has given me great relief in my troubles. I did not carry out your
Sstructlons as near as you advised, or I should have been cured much quicker. With best
wishes for your greater success in business, I am, JOHN J. TRAPPEL.
Free Book*
Send to-day for our Beautiful Illustrated Health Book.
It describes our wonderful Belt and method
absolutely and accurately. It gives
photos and names of hundreds
ol cured patients, and is
Our Belt is as
Our Electro-Plastic Truss
Cures Rupture.
PLEASE Mention
This Paper, f
The ..
McLaughlin
Co.,
100 W. Market St.,
Sydney.
N.Z. Office—s 4 Willis ,
Street, Wellington. V
W.A. Office—9o William i
Street, Perth.
Chas Crawford.
t°
V)^
to
JkJ* 0
OT>
o’O'f
HW
To Thb
Dr. McLaughlin Co.
Please post me your Illustrated
Book as advertised. I understand that
you will send it Free and Post Paid.
NAME
address
SK FOR-
wertfyguytjuy
AND
REFUSE I
Himself Cured.
T'vEAB SIR,—I have been cured of Weakness and
U Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and
will be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers.
I do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURST,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
FREE
by post, a perfect
HOME CURE by that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showine sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
WHAT IS CATARRH?
medicator.
Catarrh is inflammation of
the lining' membrane.'of the
nose and adjoining passages;
If this inflammation is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages" which lead from the
nose to the head, ears,, throat
and lungs. It injures the
sight and hearing, destroys
the sense of taste and smell,
renders the breath offensive,
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge,passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? If so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache,Neuralgia,Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
Brice,complete with 4 months’
treatment by mail, 10s.
Write for Booklet, free, or send order direct to
Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
THOUSANDS OF
RUPTURED
PEOPLE have been and are being
iNIIDCn by Dr Langston s Perfect
uUntll Combined Treatment.
No Pain, Operation, or Detention from
Work. Immediate Relief, and Certain
Cure. Convincing Testimony and Refer-
ences from nearly every town in Australia
sent with my Valuable Book t ,
"RUPTURE, ITS HISTORY 4 CURE
FREE.
Posted. 2 Stamps.
the LANGSTON INSTITUTE
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
RHEUMATISM.
PILLS
Are recommended by doctors with confi-
dence as one of the valuable results of
medical science, and the only remedy
ever discovered for these disorders, in
that they not only rapidly cure but pre-
vent the recurrence of the malady.
Of Chemists and Stores, 1/1£ and 2/9 per box.
Proprietors — PROUT & CO., 229, Strand,
London, England.
GOUT
PHOTOS
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List, with 100 Minia-
tures atid 3 Cabinet Size Photos.,
65., P. 0.0. or Stamps.
S. RECKNACEL NACHF, Munich, Brieffaoh, Germany.


TATTERSALL’S CONSULTATIONS.
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
NOW OPEN
NEWMARKET HANDICAP, Flemington, Vic., March 3
AUSTRALIAN CUP, Flemington, Vic., March 6
NEWCASTLE CUP, Newcastle, N.S.W., March 31
DONCASTER HANDICAP, Randwick, N.S.W., April 14
100,000 at 10/4 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
50,000 at 5/2 each.
50,000 at 5 2 each.
IMPORTANT NOTICE,
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d m on each
ss. Ticket, and 4d. on each 10s. Ticket. Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. Parcels may be forwarded through any PARCELS
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
WHAT A LOT THERE IS IN LUCK l
IN ALL AGES SEVEN HAS BEEN
THE LUCKY NUMBER. NAPOLEON
WOVE HIS MOST SKILFUL COM-
BINATIONS ABOUT THE MYSTIC
SEVEN. 777 IS THE NUMBER OF
TATTERSALL’S GOLDEN PEN.
TRY YOUR LUCK WITH ONE FOR
YOUR SWEEP TICKET. BOX OF
EIGHTEEN FOR SIXPENCE Any-
where, or send Eightpence in stamps
777, BOX 98, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
TIMKEN
wertfyguytjuy
AXLE
REDUCE THE DRAFT OF VEHICLES BY HALF.
With Timken Axles TWO HORSES CAN DO
THE WORK FORMERLY DONE BY FOUR.
Every Axle guaranteed 2 years (will last 10).
Obtainable from all Coachbuilders.
Wholesale Agents—W. S. FRIEND & CO., York Street, Sydney.
I AIDS DIGESTION.
BRACES THE NERVES-
PLASMON
„ , „ COCOA
Js non-neating. On© cup contain©
“ more nourishment than 10 cups ol
any ordinary cocoa.
ft
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11/-.
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
Wholesale Agents:
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
25 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
C. Stratmann’s *
FINE....
Made on the CHOCOLATES and
SWEETMEATS
124 PITT STREET, Fresh Every Day.
SYDNEY, Next to Lawson’s Auction Room.
THAT
Vy
HEAR
SCIENTIFIC INVENTIONS
FOR THE DEAF.
DEAFNESS, total or partial, is no longer a hope-
less affliction. The MASSACON treatment
for the cure of Deafness has won the approval of
scientists and physicians in all parts of the world ;
and the ACOUSTIOON, as an artificial aid to
hearing, will give “EARS THAT WILL HEAR"
to even the most stubborn case of deafness. We
want an opportunity of PROVING and DEMON-
STRATING to you the great value of these instru-
ments. As a preliminary step we invite you to
write for FREE BOOKLET A. TO-DAY.
ACOUSTIC PATENTS, LIMITED,
Equitable Building, Melbourne.
earnes
THCE FA.MOXJS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Wn P « l Sl e n, Wh p 0 | h t Ve taken thi , I me l d J i £ ci " e T G ama f. ed afc ,i fcs wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing Hoarseness Pain or
1 ll fc ? ® x P erieTlce delightful_and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure It is most coin-
never Wn I 7 '” B ? T\ n throat and givmg strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop Consumption has
inXtroSeTceTS. g 1 7 treat6d With tMS medioine - N ° h ° USe BhoUld be withoufc * taken at the beginning, a dwe E'g^eSS”
OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
TERRIBLE: COUGH CAUSED BY MEASLES.
IMPROVED IMMEDIATELY AND QUICKLY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send me by return post
one large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, for which please
find payment enclosed. I had a terrible cough caused by
measles. It was tearing me to pieces. I chanced to have
a small quantity of your Bronchitis Cure, took one dose,
and improved immediately. I like to always have some
on hand. It is well worth a testimonial on account of
what it has done for me, and you are at liberty to make
Use of what I have written. This is not the first time it
has done me good.—Yours truly,
G. R. lIOOK,
“ Hilslea,” Clyde, Victoria.
ASTHMA.
TWO CHILDREN IN ONE FAMILY CURED TWO
YEARS AGO BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
IN THE BEST OF HEALTH NOW.
HAVE NEVER HAD A SIGN OF THE ASTHMA SINCE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir,—lt is with pleasure I can say
that my two children, whom you treated two years ago
with your medicine for Asthma, are keeping in the best of
health. They have never had a sign of the Asthma since.
I always keep a bottle of your invaluable Bronchitis Cure
in the house now.
(Mrs.) L. EDGELL,
Smeaton, Victoria.
BRONCHITIS.
A SUFFERER 73 YEARS OF AGE
THOROUGHLY CURED BY TWO BOTTLES OF
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CUBE.
IMMEDIATE RELIEF—EFFECT WONDERFUL.
Mr. Hearne. Sir,—l have been very ill with Influenza
and Bronchitis. A friend of mine persuaded me to try
your Bronchitis Cure. The first dose gave me immediate
relief and after taking the second bottle I am thoroughly
cured. Its effect on me has been most wonderful. lam
‘ 3 years of age. I trust you will make use of this state-
ment by publishing it for the benefit of humanity
generally. Yours most respectfully,
THOMAS R. TREZISE,
Reedy Creek, Victoria.
DRY, HACKING COUGH FOR TWELVE MONTHS.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED BY
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
OTHER TREATMENT TOOK NO EFFECT.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —For twelve months or more I had a dry, hack-
ing'cough on my chest that used to trouble me terribly
at night-time. I was told it was a touch of Bronchitis. I
tried different sorts of medicine, which took no effect, so
I tried your Bronchitis Cure, which, I have much pleasure
in informing you, relieved me at once. It has completely
cured my cough. lam sure anyone can depend on your
medicine for a thorough and immediate cure.—l remain,
yours truly, DAVID MATTHEWS,
Modewarre, Victoria.
INFLUENZA AND BRONCHITIS.
TEN YEARS SUFFERING WITH A TERRIBLE COUGH,
AND WASTING AWAY.
COMPLETELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —Twelve years ago I had a severe attack of
Influenza and Bronchitis, and for ten years was suffering
with a terrible cough and was wasting- away. I had
medical attendance, and tried various medicines recom-
mended, but without success, until, on my daughter’s
recommendation, I used Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, with
the result that it completely cured me, and I am per-
fectly free from any cough now.
E. ASTALL,
116 Shields-street, Flemington,
Melbourne
BRONCHITIS.
A SUFFERER FOR YEARS CURED BY ONE BOTTLE
OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
NO OTHER TREATMENT DID ANY GOOD.
Mr. Hearne. Sir,—My daughter, 12 years of age, had a
very bad cough that had been a trouble to her for years.
I tried every cough remedy I could get, but not one of
them seemed to do her any good. Then I tried one bottle
of your Bronchitis Cure, and she has never coughed since
she finished it. lam glad to say the effect has been won-
derful.—Yours, etc.,
J. BATSEN,
Homebush, Sydney, N.S.W.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CUBE.
Mr. W, G, Ilearne.
Dear Sir,—l am writing- to tell you about the wonderful
eure your medicine has effected in my case. About three
years ago I began to cough, At first the cough was not
severe, but it gradually g-ot worse, and I became very
weak and troubled with night sweats, pain in m.y chest,
and great quantities of phlegm. On several occasions
there was blood in the expectorated matter, I had been
treated by a doctor, who pronounced my case to be
consumption, and various other treatments had been
tried, but without benefit, It was at this stage that I
heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for a
course of the medicine. When it arrived, I was‘ too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at ohce, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
for which accept my very best thanks.—-Yours gratefully,
„ J. BLAIR,
Westminster-bridge Road, S.E., London,
distressing, suffocating, dry cough for
TWELVE YEARS.
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
Sir,—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from a most
distressing, suffocating, dry cough, that could not be
removed or even eased by any remedy, doctor’s prescrip-
tions, and patent medicines having been tried ; but I am
happy to state that the cough, pain in the chest, and
difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by the
fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure. I remain, sir, yours
most respectfully,
WILLIAM CROCKETT,
Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, N.S.W.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE CURED BY ONE SMALL
BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, I am more than
pleased with the results of your Wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without
it. —I remain yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
SEVERE BRONCHITIS.
COMPLETELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE.
IT ACTED LIKE MAGIC.
Ml\ W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —It affords me very much
pleasure to give you an unsolicited testimonial as to the
great merits of your wonderful Bronchitis Cure. I can
say without hesitation that as a chest medicine it has no
equal, Having had Bronchitis in a severe form it com-
pletely cured me, and now in the Winter months if I at
all contract a cold on the chest it gives me instant relief.
I have also proved its efficacy with members of my
family, whom it has always cured of coughs, colds on the
chest, also sore throats, It has acted like magic. Sir,
you are deserving of the best thanks of the community
for introducing to suffering humanity such a valuable
medicine*
I remain, gratefully yours,
YV. DUNCAN,
23 Normanby Street, Windsor, Victoria.
ASTHMA.
RELIEVED BY TYVO DOSES OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Having been a sufferer
from Asthma, I have much pleasure in stating that your
Bronchitis Cure afforded me great relief after taking
two doses only. I have since proved its efficiency in
quickly curing a bad cold, and altogether my chest feels
stronger. I can strongly recommend it as the best medi-
cine f ° r chest complaints and coughs, as I have tried them
all. Thanking you for the benefit that I have received. —
I am, Dear Sir, your faithfully, D. BEATTY,
Hume’s Buildings, 65 Willis Street,
Wellington, New Zealand.
COUGH.
DISTRESSING AND HACKING COUGH COMPLETELY
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE,
Mr.W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—--Last winter my youngest
son, Herbert, who is rather weak on the chest, had a dry,
distressing, hacking cough which troubled the poor little
fellow very badly at night time. I tried many so-called
panaceas, without any appreciable effect. But after
using less than a bottle of your Bronchitis Cure I am
pleased to say that the child was cured and is now quite
well, all symptoms of the cough having entirely dis-
appeared. I have had much pleasure in recommending
your magical medicine to my friends.-—Believe me to be,
yours very gratefully, R. SHERIDAN KNOWLES,
“ Lillieslea,” Union Street,
Windsor, Victoria.
HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE—SuihJI Size, 2s. 6d.; Large
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR,
Size, 4s. 6d.
__ _____ * * *xevyxx»,x^J.VlV,
. G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA.
branch depot-
EOR WARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
Office: No, 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street. Sydney. Tel HKR9,


Dyspepsia
and all Affections of the
Stomach, the Liver
and Kidneys,
** * *
HEADACHES
and Nervous Weakness,
which usually comes
from Stomach ills,
** * *
INSOMNIA
and Palpitation of the
Heart,
** * *
CONSTIPATION
ARE ALL QUICKLY
CURED BY
MOTHER
Nothing keeps a man or a woman
down like Indigestion or Liver
trouble, and nothing lifts them up
so quickly and surely as a course
of Mother Seigel’s Syrup,
THE GREAT
STOMACH REMEDY
wertfyguytjuy
THAT WOULD
NOT HEAL
PROMPTLY CURED
BY ZAM-BUK.
“ fiJOME four years ago,” says Mr. W.
Bell, of Hodgkinson-street, Charters
Towers, Q., “I was quarrying granite
for channelling purposes, when a splinter of
steel flew off the hammer, and struck the
knuckle of my middle finger. I bandaged
the wound and thought it would be all right,
but it began to swell and gave me much
pain. It then showed signs of festeung,
and I was told by several friends that it
was poisoned, and that I would lose my
finger. I tried various ointments in the
hope of healing the wound, but with no
success. I was advised to try Zam-Buk,
and I purchased a pot and applied it. After
a few days of this treatment I noticed con-
siderable improvement in the wound, and
ultimately it was perfectly healed, and does
not at the present time give me the least
trouble.”
ftSr 1
ZAM-BUK is a PROVED CURE for PILES, ECZEMA BOim RUNNING
SORES, SORE LEGS, RINGWORM, BARCOO, etc. As « HOUSEHOLD BAL
for CUTS BURNS, BRUISES, PIMPLES, BLACKHEADS, PRICKLY HL ,
FRECKLES, SUNBURN, RASH, and BITES of INSECTS, ZAM-BUK
INVALUABLE. Erom all Medicine Vendors at 1/C, or 3/0 FAMILY SIZE (con-
aining nearly four times the quantity).
wertfyguytjuy
Hulks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
DIM lights shine down the Harbor, bright
lights along the Quay ;
The waltcli-light slowly turneth across the
Tasman Sea —
The watch-light on its headland, that, like some
proud and great
Armed sentinel high standeth to ward the
Eastern Gate.
Glad lights burn down the fairway, and song and
shout of life
Erom high-hulled fleets of commerce with city
sounds make strife ;
But, moored among the shadows, while all the
world goes by,
Like cripples in some poorhouse, the old hulks
dreaming lie.
Poor pensioned paupers waiting, with tired and
aching bones,
The falling of the curtain, to rest with Davy
Jones.
Green slime upon their sheathing, dry caulking in
their seams—
Some common daily purpose, and nightly naught
but dreams.
But if the proud, strong steamers who lightly
come and go—
Oh, if the proud, smart steamers could only hear
and know !
Or if those flounced, fast ladies, with patent rig
and gear,
If they had ears to listen, what stories might they
hear !
Yes, they might hear the wonders these brave old
hulks could tell,
If ships had tongues for speaking, if ships had
souls as well ;
For ships and men have battled around the seven
seas,
And in their hearts oft carry, who knows what
memories ?
They’d tell of long-dead captains, and long-gone
sailors bold,
Who fared the Treasure-Seekers to Lands of Grief
and Gold,
Who brought our English fathers across the fear-
some seas,
Who bore our Irish mothers to States and
Colonies.
They’d sing the Black-ball clippers, old Money
Wigram’s fleet,
Stout barks and sterling skippers who put un-
shrinking feet
In doorways deep of danger, and at the gates of
Hell,
Defied the devil’s legions and fought their devil
well.
They’d sing no young sea dandies, with soft,
shore-going ways,
But hard-faced, hard-reared sailors of old, dead
sailing days.
They knew no patent rigging. ’Twas “Up aloft
ye fly,
And take yer flaming chances to live it out —or
die ! ”
Aye, crowd her swaying ratlines, and on t’ gallant
yard,
Hang on by teeth and toe nails, and curse your
chances hard.
Her scuppers green sea spewing, a good three-
quarter gale
A-whooping from the sky-line—“ Aloft and take
in sail! ”
And crouching on her poop there, some fifty feet
below,
The man who bossed the oceans—till fifty years
ago,
With salt crust on his whiskers and coarse hair on
his chest—
The man who sneered at Progress, and bore it
South and West.
Caps off ye longshore sailors ! and let your hands
salute
The man who sowed sour sorrow that ye might
eat sweet fruit !
Caps off, ye feckless deckhands ! The grateful
engineer,
Beside his gauge glass standing, to his paternal
peer
A greasy waste-wad raises ; for if by chance she
strip
The blades from her propeller, he learns of sea-
manship.
And, ladies in your cabins, with conquered seas to
hymn
Your thoughts to pleasant fancies ; through cur-
tained portholes dim,
Look out on yonder surges that curling fall and
break
And die in soft subsidence behind your steamer’s
wake;
And in your minds behold him lashed on the
bridge below,
Before ye sink in slumber —Oh ! he’d be glad to
know.
Moored deep among the shadows an old hulk
faintly hears,
Beyond the Present calling, the Voices of the
Years ;
And as a squat North Coaster comes thumping
down the Bay,
One moment at her moorings she tugs in mourn-
ful way,
She sees, to port and starboard, the red light and
the green—
The jewels ocean housemaid still wears with ocean
queen.
The chart-room door falls open ; and, red cigar to
lip,
Reflective, leans against it, the skipper of the
ship.
But for’ard, in the darkness, the peering look-out
stands —
A fair-haired Swede with knowledge of foreign
seas and lands ;
His father drowned before him, two brothers lost
at sea—
Ten centuries out yonder he might a Viking be ;
Mayhap ancestral echoes, borne down along the
tide,
Now make him hold a second his rolling sailor-
stride ;
And, as the old hulk visions within the gliding
light,
He waves his hand towards her and whispers low
“ Goot-night ! ”
She hides among the Shadows, dismasted, old,
unclean,
Her decks with coal dust blackened, her copper
slimed and green ;
A pensioner of Progress, but in her roaring days,
A white-dressed dainty lady who tripped the
water ways.
And as the new ships pass her—too proud to care
or know,
Bound in with wear of travel, bound out where
live ships go —
A strange ship-moan escapes her ; and weird and
lone she sighs,
To see once more unbounded the great, arched
water skies.
To feel once more beneath her the breathless
heave and roll
Of brave blue seas that girdle the earth from pole
to pole,
To see the star host mirrored—so crowded and so
deep,
And watch the sea fires flicker and hear the dol-
phins leap.
But, worn-out ships like men are, to whom the
drift of years
Leaves nought but recollection, the longings, and
the tears.
Like dim, fast-fading visions of days that dawn
no more—
The Old Hulks in the shadows are hulks, and
nothing more.
N.S.W.
E. J. BRADY.
Night Camp.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I CARRIED my bundle of “ nap ” round
to the rear of the mob, and proceeded to
make myself both useful and comfortable —
a guard, yet a sleeper. The day had been an
exaggeration of Hades, and the sheep well, poor
devils, it wasn’t their fault if they did make a
man cross-grained. When sheep have been
two months travelling along a bare route, and
have got so low in condition that a fellow can put
a fist into each of the hollows in their sides, and rub
the skins together without feeling anything
between, they can’t be expected to skip along
like a Wesleyan preacher after subscriptions.
Staggering with weariness, I crawled round till
I found a fairly level spot near a wire fence, and,
rolling my coat for a pillow, I lay down to sleep.
Then, I don’t know why, I began to think. I
didn’t want to think, because I was too dog-tired
to want to do anything difficult; but I simply
couldn’t help it. I thought of everything; of the
day when Hartwell got drunk and rolled down
into the billabong at Urana, and got bogged and
couldn’t get out, and was nearly drowned; of the
time when Harry Mi‘Lade, while shaving before
o-oing on to Berri Jerri to report the mob, so that
he would look decent if he came across any gills
there, dropped the razor on the axe and broke its
edge,’so that we had to cut the remaining half of
his beard short with the scissors, and singe it close
with a candle. It was a fortunate thing there
wasn’t a looking-glass in the camp, or Harry
wouldn’t I1&V6 gone. As it was, deceived by
Carter’s plausible tongue, he went off in the
belief that the experiment had been perfectly
successful, and that Adonis was a fool compaied
to him. They must have undeceived him at the
station, because he got back in a towering rage,
and punched Carter’s head, whereupon the finest
scrag match I have ever witnessed took place.
At last I began to drop off. Thought left me,
and I was gradually becoming unconscious, when,
seemingly a hundred yards away, a mosquito
began to sing its war chant.
The mere knowledge that a mosquito is any-
where within a mile is enough to keep me awake
eternally. I tried to forget, but it wasn t
anv use. I had to lie and listen to the infernal
humming, gradually getting nearer and neaier,
till at last the torment hovered over my face.
I quietly raised my hand, ready for the death-
blow as soon as the gentleman should sit down on
my face. I waited, for half-a-minute, and then !
felt a most awful sting on the back of my wrist.
That mosquito was something of a general.
It had about five bites at me before I eventu-
ually squashed it on my eye, perhaps twenty
minutes after my first repulse. Ihen, with
soprano warblings, its mate happened along and
kept me entertained for another quarter of an
hour, getting in some admirable work from a
mosquito point of view; but at last it got care-
less, and fell in. Then, with a sigh, I had another
go at slumber.
I had no sooner got comfortably settled than
one of the horses, a couple of hundred yards up
the fence, stuck its head through the wires and
began to pull at the grass inside the paddock. As
it moved, the wires kept up a tremendous jangling
in my ear j no telephone could have, been 11101 e
effective. I stood it for some time in the hope
that the beast would die or leave off, but at last I
arose. Lane, who went for the horses next morn-
ing, marvelled at the distance they had travelled
in the night. . ~ , ,
Once more I rolled up mmy blankets. 1 here
wasn’t much time to spare now before I went on
watch, and anticipating my call kept me awake
for some time. But at last my weariness told. I
began to dream strange things. Trees flew
through the air like birds ; a Chinaman manufac-
tured a brick wall on a sewing-machine. 1 was
going—going—go
“ C-u-r-l-e-w!”
Well I’ll be hanged. Right against my ear,
too. Again I was awake. A second later, a
scandalised curlew was getting over the plain at
top speed, while a wild-eyed, maddened man
danced bare-footed on the grass-seeds and spo ce
murderously and at length on the subject of stone
No use trying to sleep now. I pulled my boots
on, lit up, and went and told the watch to turn
in, much to that gentleman’s surprise and plea-
sure. I built up the watch-fires, had a look at the
dogs, strolled round the mob, and then sat down
on a log. ,
At once the most fearful desire to sleep came
over me. My pipe dropped from my mouth, and
my heavy head fell forward. Everything was silent.
No curlews, no mosquitos, no anything. 1 stood
up and staggered round the camp, nearly falling
at every step. I could scarcely raise my eyelids
to see where I was going. I did not dare to stand
still or sit down—l would have been off m a
second. The mob could have stampeded with
ease, and I would never have noticed the whole-
sale departure. By sheer hard battling I managed
to get through the hour without falling asleep.
At last the time was up, however, and, calling
McLade, I made a bee line for my blankets.
With a feeling of absolute thankfulness I rolled
myself in them and closed iny eyes.
And then arose a yell: ,
“Rouse up. The paddock weaners— they re
amongst us.”
The paddock sheep must have come up during
my watch, and, half-dead as I was, I had not
noticed them. Of the rest of the night I haven t
much recollection—only a mazy memory of bleat-
ing sheep breaking from all corners, while yelling
men and barking dogs tried to be all over the
place at once, and generally managed to get
together in a crazed bunch, while the ewes broke
from the unprotected corners. I remember being
struck by the maimer in which our skeleton sheep,
that could scarcely be kicked along during the
preceding day, became endowed witli the leaping
and galloping power of racehorses. Hunks of
wood, hurled at the leaders, flew through the air
like bees, sometimes accomplishing what they
were intended to do, more often landing on some-
one’s shins, or knocking a dog a, dozen yards or
so. Up came the night horses with a rush ; then
followed some fancy riding and whip work ; and
so the night passed away.
Half-an-hour after sunrise, a dusty, tired man
dragged himself on to a leg-weary brumby. A
half-dead dog trotted at the rear of the still
defiant mob, and refused work. I was either the
man or the dog ; I was too tired to distinguish.
I felt like the dog, anyhow. The sun came up
over the edge of the plain, looking like business.
With the sun came the flies ; another day of
weary travel had begun.
STANLEY POLLARD.
Broughton Island, a little speck of land
off Port Stephens (N.S.W.), has been withdrawn
from the list of lands available for annual lease—
a first step towards the experiments with Dr.
Danysz’s rabbit disease.
Recent renewal of efforts to popularise the
Zionist movement for re-settling the Jews in
Palestine reminds of a cool proposal, made m
Cromwell’s time, for giving up Ireland to the
Jews. James Harrington gave birth to the idea
in his “Oceana.”
“Hiphen”: I was sitting quietly doling
in my office late one afternoon last week. It was
dusk and all was still. I was alone. Suddenly. I
felt a presence behind me. I faced round swiftly.
My heart left off work, each hair on my head
stood on its hind legs and screamed. -There,
motionless, round the door peered a coal-black
face with lips drawn baok over gleaming white
teeth. I gazed at the spectacle in speechless
terror. I knew then what it must be like to be
the Czar of Russia, or a Melbourne detective.
Slowly a dusky figure appeared and pointed to
the gleaming ivories. “Want any more of my
toot-paste, boss?” calmly inquired a voice. lor
pushful and original enterprise the Hindoo
hawker can give the Yankee drummer five yards
in every four and lose him.


THERE’S NO PEACE
FOR THE KIDNEY SUFFERER.
With the back always aching ; work impossible ; no rest at night;
afraid to bend; standing erect causes a sharp, stab-like pain, that almost
takes away your breath, and leaves you weak, nervous, and despairing;
or suffering the tortures of rheumatism, or gravel, or urinary trouble —
there's no peace for the Kidney sufferer. But there is a safe, lasting cure
—Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. They bring the health and peace of
mind that only the man who is free from kidney trouble can appreciate.
Bead the case given below of this Sydney man, aged 74, who has
been cured of serious kidney disease by Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
They brought peace and health to him—they will do the same for you.
An Erskineville Man —Cured to Stay Cured.
Mr. John Loaney, 20 Swanson-street, Erskineville, this city, states :—“I wish to give you particulars of my
experience with Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. I owe these pills a debt of gratitude, for they have cured me of
very serious kidney disease. My trouble started three years ago, when I first had to lay up. I had terrible pain in
the back and right side, and my secretions scalded, and were thick, and contained sedimentary matter. I also had
fits of giddiness, and every day I would have a violent headache. For three years I spent an average of two weeks
out of every three in bed. I had medical advice and treatment. Ten leading Sydney physicians treated me in the
three years of my illness. Their bills totalled £lBO. The general idea was that I suffered with stone in the kidneys.
I was constantly advised to undergo an operation. At last a Specialist put me under the X Rays. He found no
foreign substance in the kidneys; but a dark veil enveloped the right kidney, showing pronounced disease. He
told me an operation would not benefit me.
“I then gave up all hope of recovery, and fully expected to die soon. My friends were of the same
opinion. My lawyer was brought home, and made out my will. I was held up to sign it. Not long after
this, I was advised to use Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. The man who urged me to give this remedy a trial
had been cured by it, and had the utmost faith in its healing properties. He told me that he had been unable
to get about at all, and one box had cured him, and for good. One could not but be convinced that he was
in thorough earnest, so I sent for a supply. I used nine boxes, and was cured. This was seven months ago.
I felt no good effects till I was using the third box, and after that my recovery was gradual. I have not
needed to take the pills since, and am still in the best of health.
“My case is the more marvellous in that lam an aged man. lam seventy-four. The medicine I took
before I used Doan’s Pills would stock a chemist’s shop. I might mention that the operation which had been
suggested was to cost £6O. My cure by Doan’s Pills cost me less than 30s. If I had used these pills when I
first got ill I would be considerably over £2OO richer to-day. My recovery is well known, and may be authenti-
cated by many, but, if anybody would like to see me personally, I will be pleased to see them.”
Por sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box
(six boxes 15s. 3d.), or will be posted on receipt of price by
Poster-McClellan Co., Pitt-street, Sydney.
'Every Picture
Tells a Story
\J
1
S&&4-
/
S/
> L<
/
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PI
Thirteen!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was the third time Jack Andrews had
put me off, and I was not going to hang
about in this abominable hole any longer.
I rom all I could gather from those who had been
up to the goldfield, there wasn’t much difficulty
in getting there.
bo I started. I had written him a note telling
him I had gone, and left another for him with
old Ames, the hotel-keeper, whom I could trust —
together with a few pounds, in case Jack turnod
up (as the betting was, he would) without a sou.
It was from 250 to 300 miles to the field, and,
supposing there was no rain, there were one or
two rather ugly stages. But I had the road pretty
clear in my mind. There was only one point of
uncertainty. I’d got my idea of the road princi-
pally from two diggers, the first in the incipient
and the last in the conclusive stages of a “bust.”
Their accounts coincided so far as a certain big
dry creek, a little over half-way, running from
east to west; but after that it was all hopeless
divergence and difference of opinion.
. The discussion at last became so animated that
it could only be settled in the yard with coats off,
when five rounds decided emphatically in favor of
the superior science of the incipient-stage “buster,”
if not of his' topographical accuracy. My own
conclusion was that both were probably right, and
it was merely a question of two sjdes of an oblong
being shorter than the tw<s other sides, but I con-
fess that I was more impressed, personally speak-
lug, by the testimony of the vanquished warrior,
and the last piece of advice ho tendered struck
me as something more than the wanderings of a
brain still painfully under the influence of the
up-country liquor.
“Look here, mate,” he whispered to me, lifting
himself a little from the bed, when, just before
starting, I came into his room to condole with
him, “that has bested me, but I tell you
this, mate, that, if you go that way, you’ll stand a
—; chance of not getting there. I tell you
this, mate. More’n ten chaps I know ’ave gone
that way, and never turned up at all, at the field
or anywhere else. And what’s the meaning of
that?. Why, I tell you this, mate: The meaning
of it is, there s something up—there’s something
the matter ! ”
And it was remarkable how long and how
vividly the whole incident remained impressed
upon my mind, as I rode on my solitary way.
* * * *
I struck the dry creek, at the crossing, in the
evening of the fourth day, and cheerfully followed
the course given (to the west) in search of the
waterhole under a bluff on the right-hand bank,
according to the united testimony of my digger
friends. I found the bluff-then the hole; but
there was nothing in it but cracked mud. A
bullock-driver and his team had been before me.
They had drained it dry—not even a lick for my
nag or me.
I cannot quite explain why, but I felt a sudden
fear ; it seemed the prelude to disaster. My
thirst was acute. I had not filled my water-bottle.
Now, I had a “drought night” before me, a
night of feverish sleep and derisive dreams, with
an awakening of depression and misery.
Grimly my nag and I settled ourselves down
to it. I hobbled him, and he limped off along the
banks in search of grass, while I sat for a little
chewing sheoak leaves, and thinking over the
problem of the next day’s ride.
I rose troubled with the influence of evil dreams,
which I could not recall. The heat was already
almost intolerable. I had decided on taking the
track to the right of a low hill, or series of hills,
directly in front—the track favored by the van-
quished warrior.
At noon I was going, as usual, to camp for a
couple of hours.
I was so dazed that it cost me a severe mental
effort before I could stop, get down, and unsaddle
the horse. Then, for the first time, I realised
that I had lost the track. It did not trouble me
much.
I lay down in the shade of a parched-up briga-
low, and thought dreamily about things. I had a
most singular sense of security, and When the cul-
mination of the heat came (about three o’clock),
and then fell rapidly to the lower level of the later
afternoon, I saddled up again and rode on, re-
freshed and almost unconcerned.
Then all at once, but without much surprise, I
struck the track again. Five minutes later, lifting
up my face, I saw, a few hundred yards off,
among some myall trees, a clearing and a slab
hut.
My good luck had brought me through all right.
As I came closer to the shanty I saw a man at
the door leaning up against the post with his legs
crossed. The man’s face was most unprepossess-
ing. A heavy flap of flesh hung over his eyes,
giving his brows the appearance of a habitual
frown. From underneath this threatening
thundercloud came a fixed, straight, winkless gaze,
which suggested danger. But the hard, brutalis-
ing struggle for existence on the outskirts of
civilisation develops such faces too frequently to
give the experienced any distinct uneasiness.
I swung down off my horse, objurgated the
dogs, and hailed my new acquaintance. Yes. he
could give me what I wanted, if I could pay for
it. As he was speaking, a woman came along
through the house and stood behind him, looking
at me. They were a worthy couple. I asked for
water for myself and the horse. “I’ll give you
half a bucket for five shillings,” he said, and I
assented.
I unsaddled the horse, and the man put some
oats and chaff before the poor brute ; then, from
the tank against the back of the shanty drew a
bare half-bucket of muddy fluid, which, however,
was delicious enough drinking to me and the horse,
though it left us quite unsatisfied.
As I was returning from the stable I looked up
suddenly and met the gaze of another woman—the
daughter. The family resemblance was conclu-
sive. She gave me a defiant stare and turned
without a word. I came round to the front, and,
finding my friend in his old pose on the threshold,
inquired if he’d any liquor.
“ Rum,” he said.
“ Nothing else ?” I asked, having a vague ill-
defined suspicion in me.
“ Hop beer.”
“ How much a bottle ? ”
“ Ten shillings.”
I can’t tell why, but it would have sounded
better if he’d said “ ten bob” He called over his
shoulder to one of the women for a bottle of hop
beer and a glass. Conversation was difficult. I
made some general inquiries as to the state of the
diggings, and the fellow answered with sulky
monosyllables.
II was (or seemed) qui te 10 minutes before the wife
appeared with the hop-beer, frothing and fizzling in
a dirty glass, and handed it to me. I drank it off
eagerly, and held out the glass to be re-filled, but
the dregs burnt the back of my throat, and I spat
them into the road.
The old woman disappeared with the bottle,
pulling the door of the room close after her, and
1 began more deliberately to drink the second in-
stalment. The man now seemed to expand some-
what. He talked about the field. Presently I
felt sleepy and a little sick, and decided to take
a short nap before I went on.
I would just go round and have a look at the
horse first, though. As I walked I noticed that
I was quite dreamy, and had a sort of constricted
feeling across the lower part of the back of my
head. When I got to the stable, I found the
horse turning his head about from side to side and
sniffing. at the forage. He’d eaten nothing. I
begau to grin and giggle quite foolishly. Then I
had a sudden glimmering of sense. I took up a
handful of the food and smelt it.
It was kerosened ! That startled and steadied
me at once. My head swam, and sweat broke out
on me. Had I got sun-struck ? Or was I dosed —
drugged—hocussed?
Slowly my brain got clear again, though the
effort I made seemed to stretch and strain it near
to the cracking-point. That meant, I knew, lost
consciousness. I went out of the stable as firmly
as I could, and round behind it, and when I got
more or less out of sight (for the huge chinks
between the planks made it more like a fence than
a building) 1 set about trying to make myself
vomit, and at last succeeded.
I knew now. Laudanum !-probably in the
shape of a big dose of chlorodyne. Now I felt
relieved and better, but the pain at the base of
the brain still continued, and gave occasional
short, sharp whizzes that were very disconcerting.
. r ~ ,7 . ,“V , .
I couldn t vomit any more, and I was far from
having got rid of the bulk of the drug and the
drowsiness began to return. I-had a difficulty in
making up my mind as to what I should do. Was
it theft-alive or theft-with-murder they were
a ,5 - ~ „ , . , , ~ , , T
Then the flesh of my head suddenly crept as I
remembered the words of the vanquished warrior.
lell you this, mate. More u ten chaps I know
’ave gone that way and never turned up at all at
the field or anywhere else. And whats the
meaning of that ? Why, I tell you this, mate.
Ihe meaning of it is, there s something up-
there s something the matter .
I had an access of wrath or hate that almost
knocked me over. Was th!S to be the end of me ?
To be drugged, robbed, knocked on the head, and
thrust into a hole in the Queensland scrub. With
clenched teeth, fixed eyes and concentrated brain,
I went slowly and deliberately past the stable
and round the shanty to the front again.
My friend was not at the door, but my knock
and call brought him from within in a few
moments. The three had evidently been watch-
ing me from the back window. The flap of my
revolver-pouch was turned back and the weapon
moved round handy.
“Say, boss,” I said in a sleepy way, “ could you
let us have a camp in anywhere for half an hour
or so before I go on ?”
He looked at me steadily, with those fixed,
straight, winkless eyes of his under those dull,
threatening brows, and seemed to decide that the
game was his.
“You can come in here,” he said, pointing
through the open doorway into the little room on
the right. ”
“Alright,” I said with a silly snigger, “show’s
the way in. I’m a bit off color.”
He stepped in, and as he drew the dirty blind
across the window, I noticed that the door opened
inwards. As I closed it and got my back against
it, he turned quickly, and found himself looking
»P the barrel of my revolver.
“ Look here,” I said quietly, “ you’ve drugged
me, but I spat up some of the stuff, and I daresay
I’ll be all right presently. We’ll see. But I want
you to understand that if you make a move, or
either of those two ladies makes a move from
where they’re looking at us through the cracks, or
if I feel my wits leaving me, I’ll blow you to
Kingdom Come right off, and then see what I can
do for them.”
We looked at one another, and I fancy that he
saw that I meant business.
“Now,” I said, “steady.” And then com-
menced for me the worst quarter-hour I have ever
experienced. But I was absolutely resolved on at
least a life for a life, and my wrath and hate gave
me a strength and intensity of feeling which pre-
eluded the idea of fear.
My brain, however, ached horribly; my ears
throbbed and whirled and shrieked to themselves.
My eyesight quivered as with the mirage heat. I
could scarcely see him, and could hear nothing. I
had only niy concentrated sense of perception to
tell me if he moved. He stood flattened up
against the window like a cat in a corner, ready
to spring the moment he saw Ins chance. The
foot of the stretcher, however, would oblige him
to break his leap, or chance coming right on to
the pistol muzzle.
J- cannot long this lasted It seemed an
eternity and something over. My brain was
bufc steadily foundering and I was just
making up my mmd to ami carefully, count three
m >' se f > T and whe . n the do S s °, utslde 8£ ve
tongue! Instantaneously my senses cleared. For
se ° ond or two everything stood still, and I saw
and hoard as we see by a flasb 0 f lightning, and
hear ] n the aching silence a shock in the sleepless
• bt
There was a sound of hoofs, a movement of the
women towards the inner door, and a contractive
impulse Q f the man. It was their only chance and
mi £ and we all knew it . One-two-three-and
j rec j
There was a terrible pause, then a fall, a rush
of feet ; the door was half-thrust, half-torn open;
and re ; olver muzz ] e thrust into the face of the
female fury . Then flash again ; a heavy blow on
the shoulder; and staggering out of the pit of
death X fell on my face With a smothered cry.
Then all was ' lifc with a i on g, thin stream of
lig ht across the broad and universal darkness, and
J f oreo t
° * • * *
The rest is public history—at any rate up in
Queensland. Jack Andrews’ arrival certainly
saved my life ; for I should have been finished off
by the women as I lay on the ground, and the
trap would soon have been ready for another
victim.
Thirteen was the number of the ghastly corpses
disinterred from the pit behind the house of the
infamously remembered “Shannons.”
Father, mother, son and daughter all “swung.”
My bullet struck the father full in the mouth,
and it was extraordinary that with the rude
medical (and other) treatment he got en route to
gaol he survived for a gallows fate.
The son—who turned out to be the too able
opponent of the Vanquished Warrior—“passed
out” with the final observation that “It was the
- thirteen that did it!”
FRANCIS ADAMS.


If you are run down, losing strength, are greatly
debilitated, and suffer from the long, hot summer,
there is one medicine that will quickly cure you. It is
AYER’S 8 arsaparilla
Read this interesting testimonial of a lady residing at East Brisbane:
s
vtiw
“The past season I had a severe at-
tack of dengue fever, which left me
feeling very weak and languid, with
little appetite and no energy;* but I
am pleased to say Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
cured me.
“As a blood purifier and tonic for
those who are affected by the debili-
tating heat of the Queensland summer,
it is unequaled, and I am pleased to
recommend it to those who need a reli-
able remedy.”
s If yon are sick, you cer-
tainly should give Ayer’s Sar-
saparilla a thorough trial. It
cannot fail to help you, for it purifies the blood first of all.
Then your nerves become steady and strong, and the hot
weather of summer does not affect you. Remember, it is
a wonderful medicine for the children, too, when they are
thin and feeble, pale and languid. Put your confidence in
it, for there is no family medicine in the world its equal.
Make sure that you get “AYER'S” Sarsaparilla
not some other kind, put up to Imitate it, and
which will do you no good.
Prepared by DB, J. C. AYEK & CO., Xiowell, Mass., TJ. S. A.
Ayer’s PUIs cure dyspepsia; strengthen the stomach.
V
£
7.
x
FREE TRIAU
NOT A PENNY DOWN
Simply drop us a post card with ymr name
and wo will arrange to forward one of our
latest impDved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
Is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure al' cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
oele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back, Kid-
ney, Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all Weakness of Men and Women.
Ult thill glue fret srJjs
to us one copy f our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
men and women. If you are weak in any way
delay no longer, but write to-day for our
splendid Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE. VIC.
Please mention this paner.
MQUOR HABIT
DRXJQ HABIT
HAVE YOU FAILED THROUGH
nmwEHNEss
llllUlll%DONT DESPAIR.
DR. LANGSTON’S VEGETABLE GURE.
A Home Cure which never fails.
It is safe, sure, absolutely certain, and
inexpensive. A few doses produce a won-
derful change. The craving for all
intoxicants will be destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for food will
return, refreshing sleep ensues. This oure
will surprise and delight you. May be
GIVEN SECRETLY.
Thousands of Cures; here is one
Ravensthorpe, W.A., 23-9-04.
Have finished the half course , which has
effected a cure. I have no desire for drink,
in fact , have a repugnance to the very idea
of it. Yours faithfully ,
Write for Treatise No. 5. Posted Free.
The Dr. Langston institute,
129* COLLINS STREET.
MELBOURNE.
*
0
to
►
G
0
0
X
>
•K
M
Strength and Vigor Restored In
r our Weeks by the use of
R K CORD’S
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used tor over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Rloord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents—Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St., Melbourne ; F. H. Fauldingr & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop's ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
fHLOROPYHE
Caution- —(Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUCHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c. bears on the
Government Stamp the name of
the Inventor
Pr. J. COLLIS BROWN€
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
THE BALLET GIRL
wertfyguytjuy
wertfyguytjuy
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
wertfyguytjuy
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOB YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy oure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
Mr
The New Patent
.SOUND DISCS
IComplelely overcome Deafness
Band Head Noises, no matter of
■how long standings Are the same
Jto the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn month* ■without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 146 Collins St.. Molbourn*
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
W’s
FOB Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headaches
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Lreath, Costiveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &C. IHE lIKSi DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no Action. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and cl ey will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.” ......
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, w cuickly restore females to complete health, lhey
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of tae system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Roskbod of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame, these
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beech am’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Meuieine in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, EMLANB■
Solti Everywhere, in Boxes, Is ljd, anti 12s 9(1 each.
I
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
There’s SECURITY in
ARTER
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
Small Pill. Small Dos*. Small Price.
They TOUGH the LIVER
Be Sure they are Carter’s
ASTHMA CURE
I EMITS INDIAN CIGARETTES I
Difficulty In expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Cough i.
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co's INDIAN CIGAR.
ETTES. Hold by all Chmitis.
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
wertfyguytjuy
INSTRUCTION FREE!!
You can become a Hypnotist in a few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
sway the minds of others, control friendship
and a (lection, cure disease and bad habits,
gratify your ambitions and produce amuse-
ment by the hour. My mammoth Illustrated
Lesson or Key to Hypnotism which I send
free ( f charge and postage paid, will tell you
all about this marvelous science. It contains
be utiful and artistic engraving*, and shows
you just what Hypnotism is and
what it will accomplish. Send for
ypnotize. Remember, this wonder-
ib and learn to „
ful book costs you nothing. If you m<
tion this paper, I will also include a la:
package of other valuable, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, witb-
A chance of a lifet.t*--
?rof. R. H. BARRADEN, ae Pitt St., Sydney-
wertfyguytjuy
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d; Posted, Bd.
YOU OUGHT TO
WRITE at once for my new book (illus-
trated), “ Mens Sana in Corporo
Sa.no.” Valuable information FREE for
EVERY MAN. The following subjects are
dealt with and thoroughly explained—Marriage,
False Modesty, Culpability of Parents, Blood
Poison, Loss of Vitality, Varioccele, General
Debility, Rupture, etc., etc,
The book is written for sufferers to under-
stand, and points out the way to a permanent
cure. It tells you what you want to know,
and what you ought to know. Neurasthenia
and various other Nervous Disturbances arising
from neglected Varicocele are fully explained.
Posted FREE.
My Electro-Regenerator
(Patent Secured)
is the result of the Latest Scientific Achieve-
ments in Electro-Medical Therapeutics. It
builds up the Nervous Bystem and sends a
Curative Wave of Electricity throughout the
entire organisation
WRITE TO-DAY.
SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.0.8.
Eng.
129
COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent bv mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Dr. MARTIN
M.D.,
Gold Medallist, Formerly Medical Superintendent
and Visiting Surgeon to Four of Australasia’s
Leading Hospitals ; Government Medical Officer ;
Medical Officer in Charge of Troops, South
African War.
M. 8., 0.M., L.R.0.P., E., L.R.0.5., E.,
L.F.P.S.G.
A Serious Question.
Where can I obtain relief ? After so many failures,
whom can I trust? Who is the most thoroughly
experienced and reliable physician and surgeon in
Australasia ?
The above qualifications, gained from the World's
Most Famous Universities, should be an all-sufficient
answer to the question. Therefore, if you are ill, or
suspect the existence of some latent disease, why-
not sit down quietly at home, and drop a few lines in
plain, simple language to Dr. Martin, describing as
thoroughly as possible the symptoms you experience.
He will, on receiving such an account, write you
plainty, telling you exactly what is the matter, and
the remedy to obtain to effect a thorough cure.
Always bear in mind : Dr. Martin has cured thousands
who have been duped and drugged by so-called
specialists by advice alone
AND WITHOUT CHARGING
A FEE.
Dr. Martin’s New Book, “Diseases of Men and
Women,’’7oo pages, 600 Prescriptions, 193 Illustra-
tions and Colored Plates. All Booksellers. ' FREE:
A 60-Page Specimen Copy, showing what the great
Book is like
SENT FREE TO ALL.
Remember, should you decide to correspond with
Dr. Martin, you will be writing to one who will prove
your friend. Be you rich or poor, do not hesitate to
write to the Doctor, who will give your case personal,
careful attention.
Address all Communications—
Dr. Martin,
ELMLEY HOUSE,
151 Elizabeth St, Sydney.
%
(Please mention this paper when writing.)


Your Garden
Wants a Hose.
That is, if it Hasn’t got one
already. It ought to have
a Garden Hose if you want
good crops. You can’t better
the best. You’ll get it at . .
Perdriau Rubber Co.l£
270 George St., Sydney.
WORTHINGTON PUMP GO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET.
SYDNEY.
A Policy for the Commonwealth " Posted Bd.
TO YOU FREE! A Solid Silver Watch.
/
v $
'T'O introduce our Catalogue into as many homes as
* possible, we have decided to give away 1000 Solid
Silver Watches to persons of either sex who send in the
correct solution of the following- puzzle :
OXR WXXCXXS AXE TXE BXXT.
The only condition is that, if your answer is correct,
you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains to
wear with the watch. We make this condition because
we want our Catalogue to get.into the hands of reputable
persons only. These watches are not toys, but Solid
Silver, and Fully Guaranteed. Early application is neces-
sary. Forward your letter, and enclose a self-addressed
envelope and 2 penny stamps for reply, so that we may
inform you if you have won the watch.
Address: Puzzle Competition,
ARTHUR PRYME S CO »» Jewellers, Etc.,
A.F. PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S. W.
THE
‘PLUM
wertfyguytjuy
;
THE
fIENTLEMEN,-This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground ri„™
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can tesfifv to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS. yto
THE “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s Gd.
“ RAZOLEO ” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d. cake.
Price / ®! n "} e azor > ! n strong Leather Case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case 21s.
\ Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and Sent Post Free to Ant Part op the World.
I*' - Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
sole agents: CRAIG <fe AITKEN, 654 George St., SYDNEY
((
is no
than
the
111
Every Pump Guaranteed
KNOWLES’ PUMPS for every kind
of service kept in stock. Single and Duplex,
Vertical and Horizontal.
Bos/er Feed or Pressure Pumps, Double Acting
PJunger Pumps, Tank or Light Service Pumps,
Vertical Sinking Pumps, Air Pumps, Circulating
Pumps, etc.
PARKE & LACY CO. Ltd.
60 CLARENCE ST.. SYDNEY.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head. Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER'S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstkk <& Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century Tor quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
m the Australian Colonies.
TRUMAN'S NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
aou> in two sizes, 9d. A Is. 6dL
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and 150 disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poinodestrb A Truman,
71 Old Kent Read, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDOTBY.
s
Fred Metters & Co.
RANGES
STOVES
Manufacturers in N.S. Wales,
South Australia and West
Australia.
All influential storekeepers act as
our agents and stock our Stoves.
HEAD OFFICES:
558 George St., Sydney.
142 Rundle St., Adelaide.
William St., Perth.
Q DET SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
w 1 ■ *— FOR sore and weak eyes, blight, and
RESTORES EYELASHES. JJ" \jF ■*" f% ALL EYE TROUBLES. ..
A CERTAIN REMEDY t T HO NEVER FAILS.
C Ask your Chemist for the Little Book *
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
A NOVEL PRESENT.
AN receipt of P. 0.0,
v forward to any
of our HANDSOME
ROUND WIRE
or M.O. for 5/- we will
address in Australia one
9ct. gold-filled
BROOCHES, with any
Name or Three Initials, Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross
Pendant, .guaranteed the same quality as brooch; and
without pendant, 3/6 . In 15ct. G.‘P. Twisted Wire,
8/6 ; without Pendant, 6/6. Illustrated Catalogues
sent Free. All letters.carefully addressed to R. SIMS, Cold
Wire King, Cole’s Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
wertfyguytjuy
TEN DAYS' FREE TRIAL
allowed on every cycle bought pi ns.
Money in full refunded without
if not perfectly satisfactory,
cycles, warranted six years.
MODELS £2.10 to £6
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Huhs,punlop
Clincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Bim
. 6e:
Prakes, iPwo Speed <?earsj etc.
Packed and Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee safe
delivery.
Second-Hand Cycles
coda's" 68 to £2.10
Great factory clearance sale at half factory prices.
AnUfil C tahing orders from .sample
IiTULU machine. Active Agfcnts
wmited in eaoh district. Large profits easily made. Write at once for
nree catalogues and our special offer, using sufficient postage,
lyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, &c., half prices.
MEMO GYGLE GO. Dept. **3B
LIVERPOOL, LONDON AND CHICAGO.
COCKLE’S
*
PILLS.
" * flO not hesitate to say it Is the best made pill in the kingdom.’’—Du. G. F. Collier
FAMED AS A FAMILY MEDICINE FOR A CENTURY,
in the Pharmacopoeia of the Royal College of Physicians of London.
Invaluable to every Mother of a family, js
“A truly delightful Thirst Quencher." *
The Lancet writes :• —“ Lime Juice is, particularly during’ the
wholesome drink than any form of alcohol.”
? 1
L|MEJUICE CORDIAL
"Montserrat" is obtained solely from the celebrated
J-ime Juice Plantations in the Island of Montserrat.
To obtain the genuine, specify MONTSERRAT.”
OF ALL STORES ARID CHEMBSTB.
INVIGORATING & SUSTAINING*:
’MV
TOT
.is
*
*4
’ Absolutely
am
The remarkable Strength-giving, Stimulating
properties and perfect Digestibility of
CADBURY’S COCOA
make it an invaluable Food-Drink.
“ Absolutely Pure.”— The Analyst.
“The Standard of Highest Purity.’’— The Lancet.
DRY’S COCOA is therefore the BEST Food-Beverage obtainable.
