

“GRAND SUPREME” BRANDY “PIG” STOUT (Guinness’)
R. G. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining; and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS AMD GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
UOBA.HX.
Ijadleys Orient fiote!
PIONEER
LEATHER
ELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
For Drying Wool, Sugar, Salt, Meat-Refuse, Laundried Goods &c.
Direct Steam, Belt and
Electrically Driven
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS
ARE UNRIVALLED FOR EFFICIENCY AND ECONOMY.
Apply for Illustrated Lists
and Full Particulars to
tfco SOLE AGENTS—
GIBSON, BATTLE & GO., 7 BENT ST., SYDNEY
"Take it back,
I must have-
HUTTON’S
Pine-Applc Brand
LOW’S
THE ROYAL
EDISWAN LAMP.
ROWU
RISWAH
i'j'j-T!
§ ; '
05 S
Economy in Current.
Equality or Light.
THE
EDM & SWAN
United Electric
Light Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch :
16 Carrington Street
Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY.
Queensland Dep6t:
Commonwealth
Buildings,
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE.
tyfa cM,
vo
Bathurst to Sydney, Great Wallace Continental, Road Race.
Ist, J. D. M‘Mahon
2nd, F, A//sop
Rode Continental Tyres -
-127 IVliles without Puncture .
Ask for these Famous Tyres
for Motor Car or Cycle .
All Cycle Agents and Continental Tyre Depot. 7 Wynyard St., Sydney.
Oi
ask your grocer for M C INTYRE BROS
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS!
m
&
+*2t
m
TEA!
ASH
FOR
STANDARD PALE ALE
UNRIVALLLED IN QUALITY - DBgr- I]sr BOTTLE.
Si
A.
-
OIL
No Other in
the World .
%
.
EQUALS
‘SIMPLEX’
irrigating plants supplied.
ABSOLUTE
in
Reliability
Simplicity
Efficiency
Durability
Economy. .*
|No Worry or Trouble
NO LIGHT wanted.
IGNITION is
AUTOMATIC.
No Carbonization
whatever.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
All Sizes.
Stationary & Portable.
Send for Illustrated
Catalogue.
E. Goulson
116 a’Beckett St.,
MELBOURNE.
JUST PUBLISHED.
Price 21s.
THE FINEST
BOOK of ILLUSTRATIONS
ever Issued in Australia.
Three Hundred of “ Hop’s ” Pictures, superbly produced.
A UNIQUE AND LUXURIOUS XMAS GIFT.
HELIDON SPA. Gollin & Co., Agents.
The Bulletin
V01.27.— N0. 1354.]
[Thursday, January 25, 1906.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THIS WEEK’S NEW BOOKS.
Oapon, Father, Story of Mv Life, 7s 6d, postage 6d.
Uide, Oscar Wilde, 4s, postage (jd.
Le Roy Philippine Life in Town and Country, 6s, post 6d.
Mott, Jules of the Ureat Heart, 3s 6d, post 6YI.
Kipling, It., They, 6s, postage 6d.
Rilgy, Manual of Carpentry and Joinerv, 7s 6d. poit 6d.
ltobeits, Morle.v .The Idlers, a Novel, 3s (id, post s<.
Edward Gi-eig-, Masters of Music, 3s, post 3d
Byron. Poetical Works, new ed., complete, 7s 6d, post 8d
Richardson, Jap Hospitals in War Time, 6s, post 6d
Should Clergymen Criticise the Bible ? 3s 6d. post 4d.
Easton, Money Exchange and Banking, 6s, post 6d.
Suyematsu, Fantasy of Far Japan, 32s 6d, post Sd.
Hart, A Levantine Log-Book, Bs, post Bd.
Bourn, Mediaeval and ModernJEurope, 7s 6d, post Bd.
Hay, Alternating Currents, 7s 6d, post 6d.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP. LTD., 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDKEY.
Colonial
OF POPULAR AUTHORS.
Some New and Forthcoming Vols.
WHO WAS LADYTHURNE Florence Warden
THE CHOICE OF EMELIA Adeline Sergeant
THE HARVEST OF LOVE .0. Ranger Gull
IRRESPONSIBLE KITTY Curtis Yorke
THE CARDiN OF MYSTERY .Richard Marsh
HORSES I HAVE KNOWN “ G. G.”(H. G. Harper)
TRAITOR AND TRUE John Eloundelle-Bitrton
THE GREAT REFUSAL Maxwell Gray
Author of “The Silence of Dean Maitland.”
THE CATTLE BARON’S DAUGHTER. .Harold Bindloss
FOR THE WHITE COCKADE J. E. Muddock
THE BELLE OF BOWLING GREEN Amelia E. Barr
SOUL TWILIGHT , Lucas Cleeve
THE BLACK PATCH.. Fergus Hume
BARNABY’S BRIDAL S. R. Kkigiitley
LADY MARION AND THE PLUTOCRAT
Lady Helen EJorbes
PHCEBE OF THE WHITE FARM MayCrommelin
A MADCAP MARRIAGE M. McDonnell Bodkin
THE REAL MRS. DAYBROOK Florence Warden
ANNA LOMBARD (89th Edition') Victoria Cross
** Complete Catalogue of John Long’s Colonial
Library Post Free.
NAT SOULP’S NEW
SPORTIN6 STORIES.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
Mr. John Long has much pleasure in announcing
that in future all Mr. Nat Gould’s Mew Stories will be
e s c ? u ?! ve 's published by him, in a more attractive
style than hitherto. The following are the first three :
ONE OF A MOB Recently Published.
THE SELLING PLATER In November.
THE LADY TRAINER January, 1906.
Price 2s. each, illustrated boards ; or in cloth, gilt,
2s. 6d. each. Crown Bvo, 288 pages.
SHILLING EDITIONS
A Lost Cause .. guy thobub
Author of “ When it was Dark.”
Standard (London): —“ Has all the elements of a
great and popular success.”
Daily Telegraph (London) ‘ A Lost Cause’ is
decidedly clever, and a better book than that much-
talked-of ‘ When it was Dark.’ ”
Morning Leader ( London) :—“ Will create as great
a sensation as ‘ When it was Dark,’ and be as great a
success.”
WHEN ST WAS LIGHT
A reply to “ When It was Dark ”
BY A WELL-KNOWN AUTHOR.
This hook which, it is no secret to state, is written
by a very well known author, is a reply to “ When it
was Dark,” by Mr. Guy Thorne, and an antidote to
the views expressed in that enormously popular novel.
It should arouse very great interest, and no doubt
this battle of the wits will resound in the ears of
English novel readers throughout the world.
All London has been roaring over
THE STORIVI OF LONDON
lUth Edition completing a circulation
of over 100,000.
Bookman :—“ Everybody is stark naked and has to
grow accustomed to it. You cannot tell an Earl from
a busman, the butler from his master, nor the cleric
from the iayman. Entirely readable and amusing.”
London: JOHN LONG, 13 & 14 Norris Street,
Haymarket.
And at every Library and Bookseller's
in the British Colonies.
The Silent Land and Other Verses*
1!m B y BERNARD O’DOWD -« /
■ Author of “Dawnward?” V™
At all Booksellers.
T. C. LOTHIAN, 49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
FOR THE LUNGS, THE THROAT, THE VOICE.
The Great . •
ANTISEPTIC
REMEDY
For the Cork of
Bronchitis I
and Influenza I
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
A. The Larynx, or organ of voice.
B. The Trachea, or windpipe.
G. The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
THE “AUSTRALAS
MEDICAL GAZEI
says
" Of great service in
affections of the
voice and throat.”
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES *V6
(Reoistered). CONTAINS NO COCAINE OR OTHER PQIBONOJUS DRUC. Sold by all Chemists, in tins, 1/6, or
from the Manufacturer, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland, post free on receipt of stamps. Sydney
Depot : S& 7 Queen’s Place. Agencies in all Australian States and N.Z., and at 320 Regent Street W., London.
THE RED PAGE .
BOEK STORIES
GOOD short stories are rare, and it is a
pleasure to believe that The Bulletin
Story Book offers, on behalf of Australia,
four or five of the best of them. The
most efficient English bookful that one remembers
since Quiller'-Oouch’s Noughts and Crosses is The
Vrouvj Crobelaar's Leading Cases, by Perceval
Gibbon (Loud., Blackwood; 2s. 6d, ) Of Gibbon
little is here known. He acknowledges Souls in
Bondage , which one has not read ; and in recent
Eng. papers he has been writing European corres-
pondence which convinces one that he is rather man
of letters than journalist. The Vrouw (a bad title)
is written so that one imagines the author scarcely
has realised how good his work is (such modest
men exist !) or he would have taken the little
pains that would rank it with the best. As the
book stands, there are two stories, “ Counting the
Colours ” and ‘‘Vasco’s Sweetheart, ’ that° one
would reckon in a world-concourse• and the
Others approach them nearly.
The Vrouw Grobelaat* is an old Boer dame:
the stories are of Boers : she gossips them to an
audience of two as she sits on her stoep. Audience
and narrator being maintained, the book evades
the detached air that collected short stories have
usually—the air to daunt purchasers disliking an
interest that is broken and mended every few
pages. For inferior tales, the device could be
approved : for these, no: each is good enough to
stand alone. The prattled chorus is a distraction,
diminishing effect. Quite sufficient unity is
gained from common scene and character.
Written sometimes at greater length, with fuller
detail—called simply “Boer Stories,” and here
and there shaped and phrased a little differently—
they would be English peers of Maupassant’s.
. Gibbon has something of Maupassant’s style-
simple, vivid, real; and Maupassant would have
envied his matter. Frequently, too, he has a
novelty and dignity of phrase that are rare; and
this is usually unlucky, for it irritates one to hear
the vrouw and others talking with Gibbon’s voice,
.and his art rings false. (See “ Tagalash,” for ex-
ample.) The motive of the first tale one has seen
before. It is a story of a fierce father and fierce
son who lived alone and quarrelled—quarrelled
till one day they fought like beasts, and the son
drove his father from the house.
So he wound his hand, with the knuckles all over blood
in the old man’s white hair, and threw open the door with
his other hand.
“ Out wdth you ! ” he shouted, and dragged him down
the step andflnto the yard. Yes, he dragged him across
the yard to the gate ; and when he unfastened the gate
the old man opened his eyes and spoke.
‘ Leave me here,” he said, speaking slowly and pain-
fully. “ Leave me here, my son. Thus.far I dragged my
father.” ...
J*
“Counting the Colours” is possibly the best
story, but “ Vasco’s Sweetheart ” has the finer
motive. One must try and present a summary
of it.
There was a family in those parts of the name of Preez—
a short name and at’bad one. They were big holders of
land, with every reason to be rich, but bad farmers, lazy
hunters, and deep drinkers. Old Preez, the father, in
particular, was a terrible man, by all tellings; full three
score and ten years of age, but strong, fiery, and
full of oaths. There was something in the look of him
that daunted one ; for his hair and his beard were white,
his face was savagely red, and his eyes were like hot coals.
And with it all he had a way of looking on you that made
you.runnroin him. When he was down with drink and
fever he would cry out in a terrible voice that his mother
was a queen’s daughter and he was a prince.
He married in his youth a woman of the half-blood, and
begot of her a troop of devils. Five sons he had, all great
men, knowing not God and fearing none of God's works.
And after them came a daughter, a puling slip of a thing,
never meant to live, whom they did to death among them
with their drinking-and blaspheming and fighting.
My husband told me tales of that 'family that set my
blopd freezing. He had his own way of telling stories,
and made you see pictures, as it were. Onee, he used tc
say, for a trifle spoken concerning them and their wavs,
they visited a missionary by night, dragged him from iiis
bed, and crucified him against his door, while his wife
clung to the old man’s knees and besought the mercy they
never gavie and never got.
* * *
In the end the eldest of the five sons took a mind to
marry, and to leave some of his accursed stock to plague
the world when it should be delivered from him and his
brothers. They cast about for a wife for him, and were
not content with the first that offered. They had their
pride, the Preez, and in their place a fair measure of
respect, for among the wicked, you know, the devil is
king. From one farmhouse to another they rode, dragging
forth women and girls to be looked at like cattle. Many
a tall, black-browed hussy would have been content to
go away with Vasco Preez (such was his unchristian
name), but he was not willing to do right by aify of them.
They were returning home from one of’these expedi-
tions when they passed a lowly house beside the road
with no fence around it. But before the house a girl
stood on the grass, w ith her kapje in her hand, to see the
six big men ride by. She was little and slim, and, unlike
the maidens of the country, v whitish, with a bunch of
yellow hair on the top of her head and hanging over her
ears. The others would have passed her bv, judging her
unworthy even an insult, but Vasco reined in his horse
and shouted a great oath.
“ The woman for me !” he cried. “ The woman I was
looking for 1 I never knew what I wanted before."
The others halted to look, and the girl, frightened, ran
into the house. Vasco got down from his horse.
“ Fetch the filly out! ” shouted the old man. “ Fetch
her out and let us see her paces.”
Vasco walked straight into the little house, while the
others waited, laughing. They heard no screams and no
fighting, and presently out comes Vasco alone.
* * *
He went over to his horse and mounted. “There is
nothing to wait for,” he said. “ Let us be getting on.”
“But the girl?” cried one of his brothers. “Is she
dead, or what?”
“ No,” said Vasco ; “ but she would not come.”
“ Would not come ! ” bellowed the old father, while the
others laughed. “ Did you say she would not come?”
“That is what I said,”answered Vasco, sitting his horse
very straight, and scowling at the lot of them.
“ He has a fever,” cried the old man, looking from one
to another. “He is light in the head. My faith ! I
believe the girl has been beating him with a stick. Here,
one of you,” he roared, turning on them, “get down and
kick the girl out of the door. We’ll have a look at the
witch ! ”
Koos, the youngest, sprang from his saddle and made
towards the house ; but he was not gone five paces before
Vasco spurred his horse on to him and knocked him
down.
Keep off,” he said then, turning to face them all, as
Koos rose slowly. “If I cannot bring the girl out none
0 -n't. ll can ’ and y° u ' lad better not try. Whoever does
will be hurt, for I shall stand in front of the door.”
And he went straight to the house, and, dismounting,
stood in the doorway, with his hands resting on the beam
above his head. He was a big’ man, and he filled the
door.
“ Hear him,” foamed the old father. “God, if I were
as young as any of you, I would drag the girl across his
body, cions, he lias defied us, and the girl has bewitched
him. Kun at him, lads, and bring them both out! ”
* * *
They all came towards the house in a body, but
stopped when Vasco raised his hand.
1 warn you,’ he told them —“l warn you to let the
matter be. This will not be an affair of fighting, with
only oroken bones to mend when it is over. If I take
hold of anyone after this warning, that man will be cold
before the sun sets. And to show you how useless this
quarrel is, I will ask the girl once more if she will come
out. You all saw her?”
“ Yes ” they answered ; “but what is this foolery about
asking her?” J
n Y ,°. u ® av T * ler — vel Y well.” He raised his voice and
called into the house, “ Meisje, will you come out ? I ask
you to.
There was silence for a moment, and then they heard
the answer. “ No,” it said ; “ I will stay where I am.
And you are to go away.”
~ J^s f, 0 ® 11 a ® * na y be, iny girl,” called Vasco in answer.
.Enow, he said to the men, “ you see she will not come.”
But man, m. the name of God, cast her over your
shoulder and carry her out,” cried the father.
\ asco looked at him. “Not this one,” he said. “She
shall do as she pleases.”
Then they rushed on him, but he stepped out from the
door, and caught young Koos round the middle. With
one giant s heave he raised him aloft and dashed him at
the gang, scattering them right and left, and knocking
one to the ground, where he remained motionless. But
Koos lay like a broken tool or a smashed vessel, as dead
men lie. And all the while Vasco talked to them.
- Come on,” he was saying. “ Gome all of you. We
shall never do anything but fight now. I see plainly we
ought to have fought long ago. Bring her out, indeed.”
* * *
They paused after that, aghast at the furv of the man
they were contending against. But the old man gave
them no rest. b
“9, etBticks ’” he cried t 0 them—“get sticks and kill
They dragged beams from a hut roof, and one of them
took a, heavy stone. Vasco stood back and watched them
till they came forward again.
The one with the stone came first, but it was too big to
throw from a distance, and he dared not g-o near The
others approached with caution, and Vasco stood still,
with his hands resting- as before at the top of the door.
They were bewildered at his manner, and very cautious,
they drew near and rushed at him.
Then a most astonishing thing happened. With one
wrench Vasco tore the thick architrave from the wall a
beam as thick as a man’s thigh, and smote into the middle
of them. Where he hit the bone gave an'd the flesh fell
away, and as they ran from before him the wall fell in.
Down canoe the wall, and with it the heavy beams on
the roof. The old father, cursing over a broken arm,
beard the girl scream, and saw the wreck come crash-
mg about Vasco’s shoulders till lie disappeared below it.
And then, where the house had been stood a ruin, with
two souls buried in the midst of it.
It steadied them like a dash of cold water. However
they might fight among themselves, they were loyal to
one another. Besides the old father, with his broken
arm there was only one other that could put a hand
to the work, and together they started to drag away
the beams and bricks and stones th’at covered Vasco
and the girl.
* * *
I know they were wicked men who are in held long
since, but I cannot contain a sort of admiration for the
spirit that fastened them to their toil all that long
night, the old man with his broken arm, the young
one with a dozen horrid wounds. As the sky paled
towards morning, they discovered the girl dead and
kavmg her where she lay they wrought on to uncover
Vasco.
When they found him he was crushed and broken, and
pierced in many places with splinters and jagged broken
ends of wood. But he had his senses still, and smiled as
they cleared the thatch from above his face.
The old man looked at him carefully. “ You are dying
my son,” he said.
“°f oourse,” answered Vasco. “Is that Benault?”
He smiled again at his brother. “So there are two of you
alive, anyhow. How about the others’”
“Two dead,” answered his father. “And the other
will not walk again all His days. You are a terrible
fighter, my' son.”
“Yes,” answered Vasco in a faint voice. “It was the
girl, you see.”
“ She was a witch, then ? ” asked the old man.
“ No,” said Vasco, smiling. “Or perhaps, yes. Ido
not ku6w. But 1 will fight for her again if you like.”
“Oho! so that is it,” and the old man knelt down
beside him. “Now I see,” he said. “I never guessed
before—did not know it was in you. My son, I ask you
to forgive us.”
“ I forgive, but where is she? ”
“ Dead. No, it was none of our doing. You did it
the roof fell on her. We will lay you together.” ’
“Do so,” replied Vasco. “ I think lam dying now.”
“ Yes,” answered the father. “Your face is becoming
grey. Your throat will rattle in a minute. Look here,
this is what my mother used to do.”
And he made the sign of the cross.
+
The purchase by Sydney University of a block
of land in Martin Place, opposite the G.P.0., at
500 Z. per foot, has some curious features. It is
printed that the University intends to erect a
substantial building, part of which N.S.W. Govt.
Avill occupy as tenant. Now, if it pays the Uni-
versity to make this investment, would it not
equally well pay the State? Why should not
Govt, erect its own building ?—since the rent it
purposes paying will represent probably a con-
siderable part of the interest sunk. A good in-
vestment for the University is surely a good
investment for the Govt.
Sydney University appears to be practically
governed by its chancellor, Dr. Maclaurin, who
(in the writer’s opinion) may be described in his
public capacity in two words—as a conscientious
pig. If the object of a University is to amass
wealth, then Dr. Maclaurin is the most useful
servant a University could possibly have. Under
his rule, Sydney University has added bequest to
bequest and subsidy to subsidy until the funds at
its disposal or invested on its behalf are ap-
proaching 1,000,0002. Yet, recently, when there
was question of erecting a new University Library
(for which a private donor had already bequeathed
the money), N.S.W. Govt, (per that foolish poll
tician O’Sullivan) undertook to provide 67,5002.
now increased in the usual way to 75,0002. Th
University charges fees for its public examina
tions, and has an income ef some 80002. a yea
from this source ; although it receives from Parlia
ment an annual subsidy of 50002. a year, and th
total State expenditure upon it, paid or voted, i
over 500,0002.
With all this heaping of money, Sydney Uni
versity is in a bad way. It lacks enthusiasm for
learning, it lacks liberal spirit. It is truly
described as existing hide-bound under the heavy
hand of Dr. Maclaurin. Appointed for life, the
professors tend to petrify in their chairs, their
lectures to become a barren restatement of text
books. The University gives no national inspira
tion, shows little capacity for original research
With a monopoly of the young talent of N.S
Wales, it fails to stimulate that talent to creative
work. Brilliant students it cannot help having
and they go elsewhere for laurels and labour.
Yet while it hoards money, and can purchase
land at 5002. per foot, Dr. Maclaurin is appar-
ently content. Officially he sits upon the Univer-
sity like a Scotch curse, conscientiously doing his
worst, and obstinately ignorant that he is killing
the spirit in saving the shekels. All these magni-
ficent buildings, all these magnificent investments,
are dust and ashes, lacking the hot flame of an
inspiring educational life.
In The Singing of the Future (Bond., Lane;
7s. 6d. net) D. Ffrangcon-Davies provides what
seems to a layman one of the most interesting
books that could be written about vocal music.
The author himself has singing voice and high
musical name, and Edward Elgar approves of
him in a preface, and he writes from a full mind,
with full erudition, volubly—too volubly. But
musicians must find him on every page
suggestive and stimulating, even if they quarrel
with him on every page. Not only musicians may
be attracted by his notion of musical aesthetics,
upon which he bases his notions of vocal practice.
The essence of the book is really a glorification of
the moral idea in art, which is extolled with true
Celtic fervour.
There are dozens of passages to quote in
opposition to ■'this view, and the author pro-
bably would debate it furiously; yet that is
the book’s meaning. Be a noble man, and you
will have a noble singing voice. Bray
without ceasing, and your musical soul will
breathe through your lips. Else to the
height of oratorio, and your low O will fall
instinctively to its depth of beauty. That,
one hastens to add, is an unjust summary unless
you consider the author’s reservations : his book
is full of reservations : yet one ends perusal
with the same impression that one has gained
from hearing a Welsh “ revivalist ” preaching
Methodism at Aberystwith. Does the author
then undervalue natural vocal power? or
experience? or technical art? Not at all. But
he insists that every set of words, every bar of
music be sung with the fullest moral meaning; he
wants thought, and moral thought—an emanation
from the “soui ” —to inform the voice.
His belief is that the effect of vocal music should
not be merely a sensuous emotion, but should carry
an intellectual (moral) message. It is the “should”
—the categorical imperative—the teleological
affirmative—that spoil his aesthetic |argument.
have used a similar argument ourselves in dis-
tinguishing “ pattern ” from “picture,” but with
an express limitation to things as they are, emo-
tions as they come. D. Ffrangcon-Davies seems
as much Calvinist as„Celt, and he demands an art
conforming to moral means and standards, not an
ark that blows whither it listeth, and whose
sole test of efficacy is its power to arouse natural
emotion by appropriate methods. Anyway, his
fine, confused, whirling book is emphatically one
to be read and brooded over by anybody who
sings—and he insists that everybody can sing
(reservation : in moderation).
The Empire and the Century, a series of essays
by various writers on British governmental ques-
tions, is published by John Murray (Bond., 21s. ;
with seven maps). It is a bulky volume which
many will refer to and few will read wholly. Its
object is “ to give an authoritative account of the
British empire as it appeared to contemporaries
at this particular moment of its history.” Intro-
ductory verse by Eudyard Kipling, “ The
Heritage’’—five stanzas of dead doggerel—exhi-
bits anew the curious degeneration of power and
faculty which has befallen that precocious Anglo-
Indian. The remainder of the book would take a
month to digest. As a treasury for reference,
filled by experts, it has value—especially if
(what one cannot very well judge) the essays upon
other British territories are better than those
dealing with Australasia.
The first of these is “Australia and Its
Critics,” -by B. E. Wise; and is rather
ingenious than efficient. It is an advocate’s
plea rather than a statesman’s utterance;
and the plea has an air of being adapted not only
to the facts, but also to the special needs and cir-
cumstances of B. E. Wise. An essay on “ Impe-
rialism and Australian Conditions ” is written by
J. A. Cockburn. This also wears an apologetic
air, but if it be carefully read by the foreigner, he
will find passages of serviceable explanation. W.
P. Beeves writes a summary of “New Zealand
To-day ” that is suggestive if one has the know-
ledge to extend his suggestions ; but he has'found
the problem of pouring a hogshead into a pint too
difficult.
Speaking of these three essays, one thinks
that the task set by the publisher has been
held lightly, or the writers have attempted to
cover too much ground in the space at disposal.
With certain exceptions, these faults'appear in
greater or lesser extent to vitiate the book. It is
a collection of magazine articles to which common
purpose has not given a sufficient coherence of aim
or content. Yet one gets recent facts and figures
dealt with by men who understand them, and so
far the work is useful.
A useful and interesting bibliography of Tenny-
son’s writings is published by J. Thomson (Lond.*
2s. 6d. ) The items are annotated aptly and skil-
fully, and the form of the little book is such that
one refers to it with pleasure for its own sake.
Already Tennyson’s fame i 3 receding into the
Early-Victorian perspective, and his “prices”
with it. The time to issue a cheap edition of the
“Life” is passing.
A recent English decision upsets the current
.theory of copyright in letters. By purchase and agree-
me.it, Smith, Elder & Co; had acquired property in
some cf Charles Lamb’s letters. Another publisher, J. M
Bent, representing Lamb’s legal assigns, sued to prevent
publication ; but Smith, Elder’s rights were upheld. The
law remains obscure; but the decision, till reversed
destroys the idea that a writer’s sleeping copyright in his
letters persists until publication, no matter how distant
the date of publication may be.
Steele Jtudd’s Magazine again varies its proprie-
tary, and A. H. Davis returns to edit it. His new volume
of “ Selection ” sketches is now appearing serially in a
dozen or more newspapers Mary Gilmore’s sketches
.of “real Australian Life,” in The New Idea—" The
Teacher in the Bush ’’—open very well indeed.... With the
best intentions, and conformably to its principle of help-
ing the Aust. industries it lives by, the Bulletin Co. re-
cently invested in 1 doz. bottles ink made by Simpson and
Co., Sydney. (One hopes S. really does make'it, and does
not merely bottle or label it.) It is a good ink, in a
clumsy, too-heavy bottle. For want of a lip on that thick
bottle the ink spills every time the office ink-well is filled.
Simpson is adjured by all his gods and devils to improve
his bottle. If anything could alter the noble calm one
acquires by reading French symbolists’ poetry, Simpson’s
bottle w0u1d.... On Dec. 7, 001. 4, line 25, directory
should have been dictionary.
A.G.B.
SONNET.
0 love, to fed your lips again on mine,
To dravj your breath like honey from the tree,
To marvel , while your heart's red-flashing wine
Was/it sorrow from your cheeks' white memory ;
To knovj you print forgiveness of my shame
In every love-lit kiss that you bestow —
The hidden praise within the playful blame
As diamond on diamond doth glow.
O stay, and stay for ever, sunny time!
Put chains upon the dial’s .flying shade
So never storm or pelting flood or rime
Disglorify this summer we have made...
But no, dear love, the trespass I’ll repeat
Since you have made my punishment so sweet.
N.S.W.
H.McC.


WOOL.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd
Wool Brokers and Fat Stock Salesmen,
SYDNEY.
FUR SKINS
And all Kinds of BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE. -•*
WiNCHCOMBE, CARSON & GO., Ltd.
Absolutely the Best Salesmen.
THE ANGLERS’ BUREAU. MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.
Wo stock
Millions of
FISH HOOKS,
manufactured
specially for us
by the loading
Hook Makers.
Suitable lor Murray
Coil, Schnapper, Jewfish,
Groper, Kingfish, Tailer,
Bream, Pike, Black
Bream, Blackfish, Perch
Trout, Mullet, Trevally,
Salmon, Whiting, Trum-
peter, Sprats, Yellowtail,
Herrings, etc.
Mick Simmons.
4/0
gig
W. BARTLEET & SONS
BEDDXTCH.
BUFEBFINE KEN DAI
CAST STEEL
KIRBY BEHY HOOKS,
Hatted. oa<
Boat Ringed Shark
Hooks.
9d, Is, Is 6d, 2s each.
mmear
PS
rS
|lu
Mounted Fishing Lines.
Suitable for all fish. Fitted ready for use
Brass Box Swivels.
Nos. 10 to 1/0, Id each ; 2/0, 2d each ; 3/0, 3d each ; 4/0, 4d each. Rust-
proof Steel Watch Spring' Swivels, Nos. 10 to 1,2 d each. Brass Cross Line
Swivels, Treble Aotion, suitable for Oodor Sea Fish, No. 1,2 d each.
IS?
Waterproof Trout Bag.
Fitted with two divisions, outside
Pocket for Tackle, 12in., 10s 6d each ;
14in., 12s Gd each.
Waterproof Canvas Bags.
Brown, Canvas open at ends, 12in., 4s Gil
each ; 14in., 6s (id each. L’lain, with two
Divisions and Buttons, 16in., 2s each.
Mick Simmons.
Mick Simmons.
Webb Basket Straps, with Strap and Buckle.
2in., Is 3d each ; 3in., Is 6d each.
Best Hickory Rod, 12ft, 4 joints, 2 tops, Snake Rings in Bag, 15s each
Nyssa Floats can be used as Fixed or Sliding Floats. This shape
ljin., 2in., 4d each ; 2£in., 2Jin., 5d each ; 2Jin., 6d each ; 3in., 7d each.
The Unbreakable Fish Scaler, 6d each.
Mick Simmons.
n?t?RS
Fly Tweezers from 6d each.
Fly Makers’ Hand Vices, 8s 6d each.
EEL SPEAR.
Best Steel Eel Spears, Japanned
—3 prongs, 4s each ; 4 prongs,
5s each ; 5 prongs, 6s each.
Crab or Prog Spears, with Tang
to fit Handle, Id and 3d each.
Best Net Rings.
Fdding, 12in, 4 joints, Is 61
14in, Is 6d each
Zinc Live Bait Cans, with
inside Floating Gan, Cs each.
Mick Simmons.
MBE
mt
>1
H
Best Winch Fitting's for
Rods, 6d per set of three. Better
Quality, Is per set of three.
SHF* Illustrated Fishing Tackle, Sports and Tobacco Lists Post Free
Polished Wood Reels.
2in., Is each ; 2Jin., Is 3d each ; 2jin., Is 6d
each ; 3in., Is 9d each.
tt°6
Metal Trout Reels, 3in., ssCd each.
rt?/
Metal Ree’a with Moveable Check
to hold 40yds., 9d and Is each; 60yds.,
Is 6d each; 80yds., 2s each; 100yds.,
2s 6d each ; 200yds., 3s Cd each.
Best Bait Boxes to fit around waist
for Rock Fishing:, Is Gd.
Best Landing; Nets.
ICin., Cd each; 18in., Cd each
25in., Is each ; £Oin., Is 9d ea' h
Extra Quality, 22iu., 3s Cd each
<5/0
Sizes of Wire Gimp.
Rustproof VUroQimp
for Fish with Sharp Teeth,,
Is 8d per oz., 2d per yard.
Best Rod Ferrules and Counters.
3/lGin., 3j/lGin., 2d each ; 4/16in., 4|/lGin., 5/IUIn., si/16in., G/lflln.,
Gi/lGin., 7/lGin., 7J/lGin., 8/lGin., 8£ loin., 3d each ; 9/16in.,
QJ/lGiii., 4d each ; 10/16in., 10£/16in., 11/lGin., Hj/lGin., 6d each
42/lGin., X2J/i6in., 13/16in., 14/lGin., Gd each ; 15/10in., 7d each :
16/lGin., Sd each.
Cti.
INCH
MESH
'N
Best Quality Nets— Fishing Nets, Bird Nets, Fruit Tree
Nets, Babbit Nets, and Netting of all Description.
Best Kirby Hooks on Sit gle Cut. Nos. 10 to 1, 8 d doz.;
I/O, 8d doz.; 2/0, 0d dcz. ; 3/0, lOd doz.; 4/0, Is doz.
ARTIFICIAL FROaS for
Perch, Trout & Cod, la eaol
Mick
Simir.cn*.
Best Books for Holding Flies
and Tackle— 4iin., Is Gd each ;4in., Is,
3s Gd each ; sin., 4s Gd, Gs Cd each.
Artificial Shrimps, 9d each.
3 3
HoJ
Best Waders
and Wading
Stockings,
For Trout Fishing,
made to order from
Best Silkworm Gut,
Direct from our Factory in Spain.
Quality guaranteed. In Hanks of
50 Strands —6d, Bd, 9d, lOd, la Od,
2s, 2s 9d, 7s per hank.
Mick Simmons.
Best Bean Shape Running 1 Leads.
ioz., 4rt dozen ; ljoz., 6d dozen.
Sportsmen’s Pocket Balance*.
251bs. x Boz., 9d each ; 61bs x 40z., 2s 6d each ;
81bs. x 2ez., 4s 6d each.
Mick Simmona
No 10
Brass Upright Rod Rings.
Sizes—Nos. 00, 0,1, ?, 3,4, 5,3 d per dozen.
1 doz. Mounted on Cards, with Top Ring, 6d each
Landing Net Ferrule, f inch, Cd each.
remittance and freight must accompany order*
Hints on General Fishing and Trout Anglers’ Guide-Post Free.


Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident Society
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Sesurlty of Freshold o*
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— Tiiomasßittlejoiin, Esq.,Chairman; The Hon. A. 'w Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Ben iamin Short,
Esq. ; Senator the Hon. J. T. VVakukr ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.O. ;F. E Wikciicombk, Esq.,
General Manager and Actuary—Richard Tebce. F.1.A.. F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary,
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMFETIXIOKT.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
R,FLE
.22 CALIBER MODEL 1903
LIKE HISTORY IT REPEATS ITSELF
As a means of pleasure and sport, the Winchester Automatic
Rifle is as far ahead of any other .22 Caliber as an automobile
is ahead of the historic one-horse shay. After loading this
rifle, all that it is necessary to do to shoot it ten times is to
pull the trigger for each shot. Although automatic in action,
it is simple in construction and not apt to get out of order.
For city, country or camp it is the gun of the day.
Sold by all dealers. Manufactured by
WINCHESTER REPEATING ASMS CO., - NEW HAVEN, CONN., U. S. A,
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and Most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS!
MAGNESIA,
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE,
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, In fact, Nature's Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one. .
CAUTION.—Sm Capsule marked ENO’S 'FRUIT SALT/ Without It you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Pr»par«d only by J. O. ENO, Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, ENG.,
by J. O. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEN, specif
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
. TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Weak Men ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Will Cure the Nerves, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves<
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blood
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23 6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43/6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23,6.
Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Hcs& Office s 547 GEORGE ST., SYDMEY.
Branches * 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE;
481 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.; 111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z. HANS PETER RASMUSSEN.
BLOOD CUBE PILLS.
Weak Women
VIVID_AOOOUNT
FOR YOUR BENEFIT.
The Case of Mr. S. SHAW,
(By a Sydney Reporter.)
A vivid account appears below of
the extraordinary experiences, of Mr.
Samuel Shaw, of Mo. 208 Liverpool-
street, Sydney, where he has been liv-
ing' for the past fifteen years.
“It is over half a century ago since
I came from Manchester to this coun-
try,” Mr. Shaw observed to a report
or, “and up to a certain period 1 had
nothing to complain of about my
health. Then my luck changed, and for
fully ten years 1 had an annual visit
from a complaint that seemed to have
got hold of me for good.”
“What was the nature of it ’’’ en-
quired the pressman.
“it was neuralgia that paid me
those yearly attentions, but in addi-
tion to that I was greatly troubled
with indigestion, indeed, 1 blame the
latter for causing the former, as it
was when I became unable to digest
my food that I first noticed how sad-
ly my general health was falling oil.
My system seemed to go to nieces, bit
by bit, and then my nerves had just
about broken down altogether, when
my physical tortures/ were at their
worsit. The pains in my head were so
terribly severe that the sjftest pillow
felt as if it were filled with sharp
edged stones that cut right into me.
All about my jaws and gums 1 was
so sore and tender that 1 could not
bear anything to touch me, and 1
would flinch from the application oi
a piece of wadding as though it was
a hard, rough substanco of a pene-
trating character.”
“I suppose your sleep would be
groatly interfered wjth ?”
“Oh ! don’t mention anything about
sleep, for i positively dread to recall
the numberless nights that T put in
without getting any at all -simply
turning from side to side in such
agony that often I wished myself dead
instead of existing in such misery.
Sometimes the pains would tako one
side of my head and face, and on other
occasions the opposite side would be
affected. My eves, round the back of
my nock—goodness ! 1 don’t know
where the pain did not exist. It was
awful, and you can easily imagine how
much suffering can make one’s lifo a
burden to him. 1 know mine was, for
I was dreadfully melancholy. There
was always some fearful thing going
to happen, according to my mind.
Trouble in every direction, and the
strange part of it was that, although
the calamities did not occur when .1
imagined they would, still I could not
help worrying over the same notions
on subsequent days. That will show
you what an unhappy frame of mind I
found myself in owing to my excessive
weakness, and it was surprising how
irritable the least thing used to make
me. The slightest noise coming sud-
denly threw me into a state of excite-
ment and caused my nerves to shake
quite visibly, apd if 1 exerted myself
a little bit the trembling was just as
bad. The trouble was that the longer
my sufferings continued the worse
they became. My organs of digestion
were getting more incapable of doing
their work every day, and although,
owing to the poorness of my appetite,
1 took but very little food, still it
was always enough to greatly increase
the torments 1 was already enduring.”
“You had made efforts to overcome
those afflictions, I expect ?”
“Repeatedly I had tried, but it- all
seemed useless. Years ago 1 had
consulted a doctor in Victoria, and
again in Svdnev I had placed
myself under the care of seve-
ral medical experts, who could not
cure me, and naturally 1 thought
mv load of suffering would eventually
drag me down to the grave. My at-
tempts to get better did not cease
when the doctors’ medicines failed.
Mo ; I tried many others, only to be
again doomed to disappointment, for
the heavy feelings in the chest were
still there after taking a litll o food,
the annoying pains between my shoul-
ders had not moved an inch, and the
aching sensations across my loins
were just as troublesome as ever. 1
still got up with a coated tongue and
a nasty taste of a morning, the sud-
den giddy turns had not yet been
checked, and the appalling sense of
utter feebleness 1 and dejection waa
bearing down upon me more forcibly
and more alarmingly than ever. One
thing was certain —that a change one
way or the other would soon take
place, and it was a decided change for
the better that came, and the cause
of it all was nothing but Clements
Tonic, and that is the reason why I
have since recommended that remedy
to hundreds of other people, who have
always thanked me for my advice af-
terwards. Do you know that 1 had
quite given up hope of ever being
cured, and had lost all faith in medi-
cines because of having tried every
one of them without any good result-
ing, and would never have taken
Clements Tonic only that 1 happened
to pick up an old paper and saw in
it tho names of some inlluential peo-
ple, friends of mine, who were testify-
ing to its efficacy. That day 1 got
some Clements Tonic, and the very
Inst night i obtained a little ease."
“Dow long ago is that '{”
“eight years or more, and I am in-
deed grateful to be able to say that
ever since my health has been all that
I could wish, for by con .inning Clem-
ents Tonic for a while 1 succeeded in
throwing oil all the ailments that had
made me thoroughly sick and tired
of my life. Tittle, by little the neural-
gic pains that for years had nearly
driven rfie mad abated. It ready
seemed too good to be true, but there
was no doubt about the complete
manner in which Clements 1 Tonic cured
me. Mot only did my head pains ul-
timately die'away and never occur
again, 'but I gained in health all round,
it was something new for me to fall
asleep soon after settling down in
bed and not wake again till breakfast
timo, and didn’t I feel the better for
it ! Truly, it is only fair to say that
Clements Tonic made an entirely
new man of me, for in every way I
felt different. In a few weeks I was
taking food as heartily as ever, but
what I appreciate more was being able
to digest all I ate. Yes ; Clements
Tonic put my digestion right and no
mistake, and 1 often think whait a
wonderful medicine it must be in view
of my many previous failures with
other so-called remedies. My doctors
told mo my liver and nerves were out
of order, so I am sure of not making
a mistake when 1 advise my irionds to
take Clements Tonic for those com-
plaints, as it cured me thoroughly.
After all I had endured it was delight-
ful to again feel fresh and vigorous,
to forge ahead and laid enjoyment in
everything that 1 came in contact
with. So different from being weak
and shaky, melancholy and irritable,
like 1 had been ; but L soon had every
cause to bo cheerful, for Clements
Tonic had driven away each pain and
discomfort that had clouded my life
so long. My system was splendidly
toned and 'strengthened throughout,
and ever since I have enjoyed good,
sound, robust health i; so you may pub-
lish these facts in any way it pleases
you."
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
1, SAMUEL SHAW, ol 208 Liverpool-
street, Sydney, in the State oi New
South Wales, Commonwealth of Australia, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
■'arefully road the annexed document, consist-
lug of five folios and consecutively numbered
from oue to five, aDd that it contains and
is a true and laithfui account oi my ill-
ness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also
contains my full permission to publish in any
way my statements—which I give voluntarily,'
without, receiving any payment : and I make
liis solemn declaration conscientiously believ-
ing the same to be true,, and by virtue of the
provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
‘
Subscribed and declared at Sydney this
fourth day of November, one thousand nine
hundred aDd four, before me,
WALTER J. GROGAN, J.P.
BEST 5HlFPE^ f 2h
ground
ENGLISH
MANUFACTURE.
FV£R
m
%
IN BLACK & IVORY HANDLES. (EACH RAZOR IN A CASE).
r t ..-;jU..«.. aggB fm!5 1ABEL IS PROTECTED By gHg I HAI IOH mta THE TP.Dc" M..K ...Ttrr... ... .1 =SS
Tfil
Imitations label on the Razor Case is exactly as above.
; Wholesale: OSBORNE. GARRETT & Co., London, England. |


A cough is a danger signal. You
should heed its warning promptly.
Begin at once, and tako regular
doses of
yh[er f 2
'Gherrii tfeetoral
*
All serious lung troubles
begin with a common
cold. A cold in tbe
throat easily passes to
- the bronchial tubeSi
and you have bron-
chitis, leading pos-
" sibly to pneu-
monia or con-
sumption. Stop
your cold before it goes down into
the chest. When you bring a bottle
of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral into the
house you bring 'with it relief, good
cheer, hope, and sunshine. It is a
standard and unrivaled remedy for
colds and coughs.
There are many substitutes and imi-
tations. Beware of them and of so-
called “ Genuine Cherry Pectoral.”
Be sure you get APBIfS Cherry
Pectoral.
Put up iD large and small bottles.
Preoared by Dr. J. C. Ayer& Co., Lowell, Mass.,U. S. A$
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
His Majesty The
King and
Royal Family.
MOIR’S
“ New Season’s ”
HERRINGS.
SUPERIOR QUALITY GUARANTEED.
TRY THEIR . .
11 Herrings in Anchoi/y Sauce,”
“ Findon Haddocks,”
“Herrings a la Sardines.”
ASK FOR and SEE THAT YOU GET
MOIR’S
Pure Pickles.
THEY ARE A TREAT.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, Limited,
London, Aberdeen, Seville.
SYDNEY AGENCY: 47 MACQUARIE STREET,
CIRCULAR QUAY. [2
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘ViyelSa’
DOES NOT SHRINK.
ms?
DAY
For Blouses,
Nightdresses,
Pyjamas,
Children’s
l l 'rocks, & c .
ECONOMICAL
BECAUSE
CURABLE.
See the label on the Selvedge.
The Queen says: “ ‘Viyella’ has
borne the test of years; yon can
wear it for night-dresses all the
year round. 1 ’
From the leading Drapers.
CAUTION. - " AiSfTo
ASK FOR THE “No. 4” EAU DE COLOGNE,
which is known in all parts of the world under
the lawfully registered label here shown
L Jo
cr
The Public are warned against many spu-
rious imitations under the name of Johann
Maria Farina of my genuine Eau de Cologne
labels. Every bottle of my original Eau de
Cologne is labelled Johann Maria Farina,
Julich’3 Platz No. 4. The addition of the
address JULICHS PLATZ No. 4 alone war-
rants genuineness of my Eau de Cologne.
JOHANN MARIA FARINA,
JULICHS PLATZ No. 4 1 , COLOGNE ORU
PURVEYOR TO 11. M. tiie KING EDWARD VII.
1
■rpp ftAREFUL HOUSEWIFE
818 bobs ■»wMTTiiTmirr* ,CT^lf * , * lILiJAI "* , "” u ’ "■'^"■ l < , - |^^-^'^' tg,lVl ' r.nsrss
. . ti, n v,nimpliold ffoods to ineludo a bottle of “ BONNINGTON'S
lS«HMO»S h "" She'knowiTil isadv WJe to hove this medicine in the house, as it is a
sr —• 11 -
Bonnimston’s Irish Moss
(OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.)
fiL
.A
»(MrM I'lff
sw' v ” <
sasi^as
MEDLOW BATH HYDRO, Blue Mountains, r.s.w.
THE ONLY WINTER RESORT IN AUSTRAL r A.
TT is well known that the climate of Sydney is I tunosphere? sometimes frosty,
| that the Blue Mountain air is best ? f SSIOW BATH HYDRO
sometimes snowy, but sun,.frost or -resident doctor; baths and
is a Health Home, electrically ; an entertainer for general
books, .m<t .11 the worlJ-wi.le jouro.ls.u.d p»I»'S.
GO. IF YOUR DOCTOR SENDS YOU;
G°, , F
MEDLOW BATH is at your door, so why go aid tie on your'health as
business-men are making money at the expense of your health, bpcna
a good investment.
TERMS-From £2 2s. upwards.
.Hotelkeepers, Fruiterers & Caterers
CAN PRODUCE
100 doz. AERATE’) WATERS fttr 30, ■
WITH AN
AUSTRAL AERATED
WATER MACHINE
AND VERY LITTLE LABOR.
The mechiee used by the Officers; Wgj. R = “““
NO STEAM POWER required to work it. Easily erected, and oecup.es very l.ttle space
The “ GLACIER SODA FOUNTAIN.”
For further portioule.ro write for our liiustrat.tl Cotelosueo.
ECKERSLEY & SONS, s °'° M “' , " ,aotarßr *’
214-216 Queen Street. Melbourne-
W.A. Agents:
E. H. Fothergi.l & Co., Fremantle.
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
*iv
m
&
&
*
v
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
T-n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A 2/6.
MOSQUITOES.
Agents—Elliott Bros.
Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England,
Sydney; Felton, Crii-r?wr.de & 9°-»
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’B, Ltd.
Circular Pointed.
' P©n# B
Seven
Prize Medals.
Birmingham, England
Works a
These series of
Tens neither scratch
no spurt. They glide
over ihe roughest
paper with the ease
of a Suft lead pencil.
Al'ention 's also
drawn to their p«i?nt
Anti-Blotting Ser es.
sk /our Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Man You Might Have Been.”
There’s a fearsome lot of pages filled by pessimistic
sages—
Men who sing glad songs no longer, but deplore
the festive scene;
And these scribes are all explaining, like a grey
sky when it’s raining,
What very wondrous characters they really might
have been.
It was Drink, they say, that did it; but I’m
game to bet a quid it
Was a sort of spinal sinkage that wrought all the
grievous work ;
And opine that every writer should remain a
cheerful fighter—
He should be a gladsome mixture of the Devil
and the Turk !
What’s the use ot dismal whinings?—fit your soul
with cast-steel linings—
Turn your face toward your troubles and untwist
their tangled skein;
Fix a cheerful eye upon it, write no tearful,
sodden sonnet,
And, for Satan’s sake, don’t maunder re the
“ Man You Might Have Been ! ”
It’s the Man You’ll Be that matters, though you
trump around in tatters,
But the road to fame and fortune isn’t paved with
grief and beer;
It is paved with grim endeavor —you must make
it now or never,
Disregarding puny insects who arise at times and
sneer!
Let your pale obituary in the pathless future
tarry—
Don’t announce that you’re a failure till you’re
quite completely dead;
Let some other person curse you —when you’re
riding in the hearse, you
Can depend they’ll speak your epitaph above your
grassy bed.
While there’s life there’s hope, remember—
sedulously fan that ember—
You may make a bigger blaze yet than the world
has ever seen ;
Dig your claws in, scratch grim gravel—make the
chips and splinters travel—
But prevent your mind from dwelling on the
“ Man You Might Have Been ! ”
Glue your thoughts upon the future —like the
bull-ant, you must root vour
Path toward the distant object where your heart’s
ambition lies ;
Cut the cords of sloth that bind you ; throw t' e
useless doubts behind you—
Graft like all Gehenna’s forces published in one
human guise !
Are you hopeless, are you sodden, are you coinloss
and downtrodden ?
On the affluent tide of triumph you may roll
exalted yet;
But you won’t get there by wailing; if you’re
beer-logged, get to bailing—
For success is only captured by the brain’s em-
phatic sweat!
That’s the secret, that the gist o’’t—if you want
to make a fist o’’t,
You must march with steadfast purpose towards
the final victory;
What you “Might Have Been ” is nothing—heave
despair away with loathin.,—
Keep your eye fixed on the features of the Man
You're Going to Be l
YIC.
GRANT HERVEY .
The Pantheist.
Through painted windows here and there, the
summer sun steals in,
And, as I kneel in prayer, I hear that I was born
in sin,
Here lies a regal purple patch, there spills a splat h
of red;
There wavering prisms softly catch the preacher’s
ill-thatched head.
And over all the droning voice, which bids us look
for pain,
The chirping sparrows call “Rejoice, for Spring
is here again ! ”
Outside the parks are putting on an over-dress of
green ;
The sloping hills their grandeur don, gem-set,
with flowers between.
The sap is rising in the trees, the seedling in the
sod, .
And, though upon my knees, I cry, “ This God .s
not my God !” .
For mine is not a God of wrath ; He lives in bush
and tree;
He bids the snow-white May break forth to cheer
and comfort me.
He reaches down a helping hand: He says,
“ Look round and live ! ”
Enough a man to understand, enough God to
forgive!
A great and lofty church is this, the vault is
■ arched o’erhead ; '
The reading desk an eagle is, with shining wings
■ outspread,
And from the Holy Book there falls a ribbon
worked with gold,
White tablets gleam along the walls, black-
lettered, chaste ... and cold !
When I shall die no marble square shall mark the
wall for me; .
My body shall make blossoms fair, and help t e
growing' tree. .
Where somewhere in the earth I lie, shall spring
up jasmine bowers, .
And the free soul, which once was I, shall r.ot in
the flowers.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


v:
.
*
m
.
C&l&logue J ree
FOR COTTfIGE & MHHS
CMEnPIIESS & DURflßllilTY
Agencie/ in every 7lexp Zeal
: to:
UMiMM
S>Y»nEY
Sc
BEFORE YOU CONSULT A DOCTOR,
THINK OVER WHAT WE SAY 01?
LAXATINE.
The LAXA TINE LOZENGE T ABLETS act like a chirm in stimulating
the intestinal organs. They give absolutely new life and working power to the
Liver and Bowels—and neither strain nor gripe. .Remember that half the dull-
ness, want of energy, fits of depression, and the “blues” that you experience are
a result of “ waste ” and other poisonous matters accumulating in the system.
Throw them o'T. Feel Bright, Happy and Gay. TAKE LAXATINE.
Is per Box of 25 Tablets. All Chemists & Storekeepers
A CERTAIN CURE for PILES or CONSTIPATION.
©• OT.
ft
a
m
Douse Cleaning
Carpets, Furniture,
Curtains, &c., cleaned
without removal.
CONVENIENCE CLEANLINESS,
DISINFECTION, ECONOMY.
BY THE
Simpson & Burton
SUCTION DUST
EXTRACTOR,
Offices: 14 O'CONNELL ST.
SYDNEY;
34 Queen St., MELBOURNE.
Telephone 2377.
fST" Write or Telephone us and our
representative will eall.
EXPERIENCE TEACHES roc/*
■ THAT
NESTLES MILK FOOD
IS A COMPLETE AND EASILY DIGESTED DIET FOR
INFANTS and INVALIDS.
lIP
HOTEL
DIETROPOLE
«*_. SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay .
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
cnet
n
Sold bv
All Jewellers
WHO’CANSHOW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES.
FIRST THROUGHOUT THE EMPIRE.
MEDALS WHEN-EVER EXHIBITED.
7\ Certificate. Given With Each Watch.
\e> 69 \\ 'B Sa
,* Do <v
ON©
'863
, 8 5\
1852
f /
N,
ROTMEBHAMS
v LON JO ON
B
Estab*
1750.
'
“ How can
anyone teil
the time by
this ? ”
PONT STAND IN YOUR
OWN LIGHT.
Why put up with a poor imitation when by insisting
you will get the genuine
RUBEROID ROOFING
a roofing that has stood the test of 14 years’ service.
RUBEROID is the original, and its very merit has
led to its being imitated.
S)SE COUNTRY FIRMS SELLING RUBEROID:—
NEWCASTLE
TAMWORUH
MUSVVELL BROOK
TUMUT
BOURSE
Fivclk. Ash, Ltd.
T. J. Treloar & Co.
.. M. C imphell & Co., Ltd.
Sanderson & Taylor
.. E. Rich & Co., Ltd.
AKMIDALE
GLEN INNES
SINGLETON
COOLAMON
SCONE
.. F. Braund & Co.
.. .. J. F. Utz & Co.
.. Grainger and Fuu kner
.. .. Frederick Ilall
.. M. Campbell & Co., Ltd.
E. RICH & GO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as. a Newspaper.
Vol. 27.—N0. 1354.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 35, 1906.
Prior 6d.
THE WANDERING JEW.
At the British elections a Labor Party (41 strong by Tuesday's returns) has been returned to the Commons. Capital promptly decides to
leave the country, Capital will find it hard to decide on a new destination free from the terrors of a Labor Party.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the A astraliaas.’’
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets,' Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at tlie
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 013 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin . posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
How to Address Betters.
Correspondents to Tiie Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
■ The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor ivill carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, SOOO words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it ivill be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in lllaclc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-draion—ivill be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and.
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown ;
Messrs. R. At Thompson Jk Co., 25 Riebeck Street, Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 22 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai.— Brewer and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6%in. x lUin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
7%^%ulZetm..
THURSDAY, JANUARY 25, 1906.
THE DEBT BURDEN.
Government Statistician Hall, of N.S.W., has
lately issued an interesting statement of the debt
of Australasia—that wonderful debt which, in
theory, is invested in permanent and reproductive
works, while in practice it has been splashed
about anyhow, or very nearly so. As absolutely
no works that ever were, or ever will be, built on
this earth are permanent—the earth itself is pro-
bably only temporary—one of the favorite adjec-
tives applied to Australia’s loan-money invest-
ments may be discarded altogether. The word
“ permanent ”is quite out of place. Therefore it
isn’t a question of permanent and reproductive
works, but only of reproductive works, and the
simplest way to decide as to the alleged reproduc-
tive character of the works is to see exactly how
much they produce towards paying interest on
their cost. Mr. Hall throws some light on this
aspect of the case by supplying figures for the
year which ended on 30th June, 1905:
Gross Annual Burden.
Incom* Interest
Total from Payable
Debt Reproductive out of
Charge. Works. Taxation.
Victoria .. £2,022,312 £1,783,211 £239,101
N.S.W. .. 3,198,690 2,128,520 1,070,170
Maoriland .. 1,993,729 1,112,473 881,256
S. Australia .. 1,185,386 664,275 521,J1l
Westralia .. 764,933 412,268 352,665
Queensland .. 1,547,091 725,067 822;G24
Tasmania .. 375,414 85,875 289,539
In this table the States are ranged in the order of
their solvency, the most honest one— i.e., the one
which has misapplied the least loan money per
inhabitant —coming first, while the most bankrupt
one occupies the tail-end of the procession. The
last column represents the aggregate shiftlessness
and dishonesty of each State. It represents the
size of the lie which is told every time the old
legend about loan money being sunk in “perma-
nent and reproductive works” is repeated. It
shows the dimensions of the fraud, swindle and
steal that -has been worked off on posterity—or
rather it shows part of the fraud, swindle and steal,
for, in addition to piling up this load of interest,
which posterity must meet out of taxation, the
present generation has sold the public lands
wholesale and dissipated the proceeds, so pos-
terity has to hump a dead weight of taxa-
tion to pay for this generation’s spendings,
and the spendings of previous generations,
while the income from public lands, which should
have helped to counterbalance the dead weight,
is, to a great extent, gone. The present genera-
tion and the last generation have burned the
candle at both ends by spending the public assets
and simultaneously piling up a huge unproductive
public liability, both these things being done be-
cause they were too cowardly and too dishonest to
pay their way, as many other countries, commonly
regarded as rather inferior, do. The candle having
been burned at both ends, the third column in the
above table represents the blob of grease and the
blackened wick and the bad smell which are left to
our children as their share of the inheritance.
« - . •* ♦ *
By way of putting the Fools’ Paradise in which
we live still more clearly in the form of figures,
the next table shows the annual burden on each
separate inhabitant :
Annual Burden per Inhabitant.
Income from Interest
Debt Reproductive payable out
Charge. Works. of Taxation.
Victoria ..£ll3 5 £l9 6 £0 3 11
N.S.W. .. 239 191 014 8
Maoriland ..266 15 11 107
S. Australia 3 3 7 1 15 8 1 7 11
VVestralia .. 3 3 2 1 14 0 1 9 2
Queensland.. 218 9 176 1 11 3
Tasmania ..218 97 1 12 1
These figures represent an unusually good year—
a year of large crops and high prices for wool,
metals and other products—in fact, a year when
the alleged “permanent and reproductive works”
showed up much better than usual. And the
results demonstrate that there are two States out
of seven which have reproductive works to show
for much less than half their debt, and three more
which have reproductive works to show for very
little more than half their debt, while taking the
seven States in the aggregate there are reproduc-
tive works to show for about £6O in every £lOO of
debt, while about £4O in each £lOO is fraud,
swindle and steal, pure and simple.
* * # *
Australia contrives to extract a vast amount of
sham consolation from the belief that its debts are
represented by “ permanent and reproductive
works ” (which to a great extent they are not), and
repudiates all comparison between them and the
public debts of Europe on the ground that the
latter are mostly “war debts” (which is also a
vast delusion, for, apart from Britain, most
European countries have a larger proportion of
reproductive works to show for their debts than
Australasia has). This matter can also, to some
extent, be reduced to the cold logic of figures, and
the figures look very bad for Australasia. It is
difficult to find out for certain how much some of
the European States derive in the form of net
revenue from public works, but the following
table shows the position as far as the latest avail-
able figures go :
Interest per
Total Inhabitant
Interest which has to
per be paid out of
Inhabitant. Taxation.
Tasmania .. .. £1 12 1
Queensland .. .. 1 n 3
Westralia .. .. 19 2
S. Australia .. .. 1 7 11
France £l5 0
Maoriland .. .. 10 7
Portugal .. .. 18 5
Spain 17 0
Belgium 16 5
New South Wales .. 14 8
Italy 13 10
Great Britain .. .. 12 7
Hungary .. .. 12 6
Holland .. .. 10 9
Greece 7 3
Russia 4 9
Victoria .... 3 11
This table would be a fair statement of the case if
the European debts were all “ war debts,” which
they are not. It altogether ignores the fact that
most of the European countries quoted—which
are financially the worst samples in Europe—have
vast and profitable public works to show for their
debts, and gives this country the full benefit of
the popular delusion that it is the only one on
earth with payable undertakings to set against its
loans. A fair comparison would show that the
least burdened State in Australasia (Victoria),
with an annual interest bill of £1 13s. sd. per
inhabitant, is more heavily loaded with debt than
.the most burdened country in Europe (France),
which only totters under a liability of £1 ss. per
inhabitant annually. The aboveiquoted figures
further show that the burden of wholly unpro-
ductive debt in four out of the six Common-
wealth States is greater per head than the
whole debt burden (productive and unpro-
ductive) of every other country on this earth.
If the table had been extended to include
such States as Denmark, Sweden, Norway,
Switzerland, the United States, &c., which are
almost free from debt, the comparison, so far as
Australasia is concerned, would look even worse
than it does. But it already looks so bad that to
make it look worse would be painting the devil
black and putting burnt cork on the tail of
Beelzebub.
* * * *
The Australasian States have achieved this
monument of financial disgrace in the short space
of 60 years. Except as regards Maoriland. which
had sundry small “scraps” with its native popu-
lation, there have been no wars to account for the
huge loan expenditure. No adequate army has
been kept up, and, barring a few gunboats,
there hasn’t been even the semblance of a navy.
The States, especially N.S.W., have also raised
and spent a land revenue such as no other
country on earth with a similar population
ever saw the like of for magnificence—a land
revenue which should have paid for all
public works without any necessity for either
loans or taxation. Australasia is in the unique
position of having, in a mere handful of years,
acquired the largest unproductive debt per head
on this earth and dissipated the greatest land
revenue per head on this earth; and it did
all this for no reason save that its grand old
pioneers, to whom it occasionally raises statues in
a burst of misdirected gratitude, were too lazy,
too mean and too cowardly to pay their own
current expenses. It is something extra in the
way of a record, yet even now only a compara-
tively small section of the community seems to
realise that it is time to wholly swear off the loan
curse, to pay for our own public works, and to
begin a systematic effort to shift the dead incubus.
The fact that our finances are something unusual
hasn’t reached the majority of the population
jet.
THE BRITISH ELECTIONS.
Freetrade has won a great victory in Britain.
That fact may be glossed. And there are
adequate reasons for claiming that Protection has
won “a great moral victory,” that cold sort of
victory with which the beaten dog in a fight con-
soles himself. But—since the simple truth may
be stated, even in politics—the Protectionist cause
in Britain has suffered a staggering defeat. With
all the circumstances that mitigate its effect, it is
impossible to deny that result. As to the reason,
there is no better to suggest than that which Dr.
J ohnson gave to the woman who asked for the
cause of a very absurd blunder in his Dictionary.
“Ignorance, madam ; pure ignorance,” he said
brusquely, and thus adequately explained
the case. The British working voter, with a
profound ignorance of practical economics, believed
the story that Protection meant a smaller loaf,
and voted Freetrade with pathetic enthusiasm.
Nor is this surprising. Even in Australia, where
the general standard of education —especially
political education—is probably higher than any-
where else in the world, we are familar with the
phenomenon of large classes continuing blind to
their own interests, and continuing to be gulled
by specious fallacies. The continent which, in spite
of universal education, has among its indigenous
mammals the Freetrade Laborite, need ex-
press no wonderment at the economic blindness
of a country where there is still a proportion
of people who cannot read or write; where
the great majority of the voters do not see a
daily paper, but are content to hear of the world
once a week through the columns of a penny com-
pendium of all the murders and Royal marriage
scandals ; and where the children are brought up
to reverence the Lord (the Lord Who is in
Heaven and the lord who is in the Upper
House), and to believe that Freetrade is
one of the bulwarks of the British Constitu-
tion and the mainstays of that British free-
dom which allows the workman to earn 21s. a
week and to adorn his meals with bacon every
second day. Chamberlain carried out his Pro-
tection campaign with great courage and with
much acuteness. He broke the news gently to the
British people that they were on the wrong track,
by advocating tariff reform in the first instance
as a concession which powerful England might
with generosity make to the 4 4 struggling colonies.”
But all his courage and tact were unequal to the
task of disturbing the British workman’s faith in
his fetish. Many more will have to starve in
London’s streets, many more industries will have
to drift abroad, before that will be accomplished.
* • # *
Having allowed for the magnitude of the Free-
trade victory, it is allowable, perhaps, for a Pro-
tectionist paper to recall some of the other causes
which have sent Balfour out of Parliament and
have reduced his party down to a section. Promi-
nent among these causes was, without a doubt, Mr.
Balfour himself. His record of late has been one
of pitiable vacillations and timid uncertainties.
Had he the shamelessness of a Reid he might
have Yes-Noed with some aplomb and success.
But he hadn’t the courage of his want of convic-
tions. Letting “I dare not wait upon I would,
like the cat in the adage”; trimming, knowing
that he was trimming and showing that he knew
it and was ashamed of the fact, Balfour cut an
altogether contemptible figure. The electors,
who have an unerring instinct for that sort of
personal issue, however dense their ignorance on
questions of economics, marked down for de-
struction the man who had neither courage nor
the impudence which may sometimes pass for
courage.
• * * *
' Administrative weakness also assisted the Bal-
four Government to its downfall. Some ten
years ago the Tory party came in on a wave of
popular indignation against the Rosebery Cabinet
because it had carried its neglect of defence
matters to the point at which it even forgot to
maintain a reasonable amount of cordite in the
country. The “cordite division” on which the
Tories came into office is historic. It was an ex-
pression, as strong as could be, of British opinion
that the administration must at least see that the
defences were reasonably efficient. The mandate
most peremptory to the Conservatives as they
took office was Defence Reform. After some
years came the Boer war which exposed the
British army as a costly and absolutely inefficient
weapon of offence. During the progress of that war
the Tories went to the country and came back with
a renewed majority and a renewed mandate for
Defence Reform. Now, according to Lord
Roberts, whose opinion can safely be taken as
correct, the army is inferior in organisation and
efficiency to the army as it was before the Boer
war, and what changes the Tories have effected
have been for the worse. Undoubtedly a know-
ledge of this verdict, and a recognition of its
justice, drew scores of thousands of voters away
from the Tory side. When a party takes office
on the platform of army reform, holds office for
10 years, has the advantage during that period of
a most informative war, and winds up with things
worse than they were before, its administrative
ability is evidently to be despaired of. Very
many Tory followers were influenced by this to
desert' for.a while their own party and vote with
the Liberals.
* * * *
As if this were not enough, the unhappy Bal-
four went to the polls with the ghastly wraiths of
the Rand Chinese slaves following at his heels. All
through the electorates the Chinese coolie was
called upon to assist the Liberals to destroy the
Tory Government. The call was not exactly
logical, for the same Liberals had protested vio-
lently against the Conservative proposal to
restrict the immigration to England of undesir-
able aliens such as Chinese, and were keen on
maintaining the right of the Chinese worker in
Hong Kong or Canton to have free ingress for
his goods to the British market, and so
displace British workmen. But logic is the
last thing necessary in an election cry, and the
Chinese slave rattled his chains with deadly
effect wherever a Balfour candidate had to face
an artisan constituency. It was on the Chinese
labor question that Mr. Balfour himself was
defeated, and it was on the Chinese labor issue
that Mr. Chamberlain was pluckily, though
vainly, attacked in his stronghold by an opponent
who hailed from Australia. Yet another subtrac-
tion of votes from Balfour had its reason in the
Education Act, which established a sectarian
system of education, and gaoled and fined those
Nonconformists who objected to paying for the
training of their children in the tenets of Angli-
canism or Roman Catholicism.
* * * *
Of more real importance than the fall of Mr.
Balfour and the success of that somewhat com-
monplace Scot, Campbell Bannerman, is the
irruption into the House of Commons of a solid
Labor party, pledged neither to Liberal nor Con-
servative, but intent on seizing the balance of
power by the methods of its Australian
Erototypes. .If it comes to pass that this
labor party does win the balance, and can
send Tory or Whig marching as it wishes,
there will face the party managers in Britain, a
position more serious even than the problem of
getting safely into holiday for St. Grouse’s Day.
But it must be confessed that Australian experi-
ence of British Labor leaders is not very encourag-
ing. Neither Mr. Tom Mann nor Mr. Ben
Tillett seemed to people here (accustomed to the
very high standard of such Labor leaders as
Watson, Hughes, Trenwith, Kidston and
Batchelor) to have any great faculty of leader-
ship. Yet their English reputation was high.
Certainly, if they were representative
and if Keir Habdie, Crooks and other 5&
Labor men in Britain are not very mnol,
Labor in politics there will win nothing exSsnt
by sheer weight of numbers. But of ,l pt
the position in English Labor circles S6 ’
be very different to what one
judge at this distance, calculating on lv /!
the fact that there Mr. Tom Mann— whom ™
can accurately appraise here-was accounted
a Triton among minnows. It is, indeed, on the
whole more likely than not that, among the
British Labor leaders are some men of soneS
sense and tact, who will be able to put the new
party in the way of taking the best advantage of
its power m politics. Then will commence the
era of Labor legislation in Britain, a country
which offers almost the best scope in the world
for radical political reform : where the land is
locked up against the people and the ports are
open for the foreigner’s goods; where a State
church bleeds the taxpayer whether he belongs to
its fold or not; and where the son of a lord how
ever idiotic, has an hereditary right to a seat in
one House of the Legislature.' A Labor party in
Britain might have a most entrancing platform
might even aspire to rescue Britain for the British
and give the land- which is rather proud of being
•“the old country” a new lease of life. In that
case, the 1906 elections would for future recorders
have an interest for a revolutionary change
beside which Chinese labor, Army Reform, and the
Education question would dwindle into mere
trifles.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Creed of the Business Man.
[For. the Bulletin.]
“ Our politics are conducted on business principles.”—
English ‘paper.
A creed is taught in the world to-day
That is false as Circe’s smile ;
A ritual new in which men pray
To the gods of fraud and guile.
The meanest cloak that the human soul
Has worn since the Earth began ;
It starts from self, and has pelf for goal—
The creed of the Business Man.
It knows not ruth, and it knows not truth,
And it has not pride of race.
No gleam of the light we saw in youth,
Illumines the market place.
We trample the weak to fight the strong,
With cash and a lying pen.
To win is right, and to lose is wrong,
Is the faith of the Business Men.
A sullied sword and a nation’s shame,
And its blood poured out like wine ;
The alien slaves that from Asia came
To toil in the Randlord’s mine ;
A sordid slum, and a pall of smoke,
Where once the wild flowers grew;
A once proud flag that serves to cloak
The schemes of a German Jew ;
A coffin ship that will roll and lurch
To her grave in sight of land ;
A full filled gaol, and an empty church,
With a bar on either hand ;
The withered heart, and the shrunken brain,
That thrive in the gambler’s den,
Are the gifts it brings—are the tale of gain,
From the creed of the Business Men.
It is nigh two-thousand years ago
Since they raised the bitter tree,
And filled to the brim the cup of woe
For Jesus of Galilee.
Not by the poor was the Lord betrayed,
The fisher or publican.
I like to think that the renegade
Was Judas —the Business Man.
MAORILAND. TAIWA.
— ♦
A Jap Blister.
The Bulletin gets this letter from Moore-street,
Perth. It is signed Jiro Kammasittu
The writer is a Jap—native of Bentendorii Itcbome,
Yokohama, Japan—aged 55. Mother, Yezo woman-
father, from Nagasaki.
That’s an even start. I accept you as the editor of
The Bulletin —and presume a white face, with no black-
and-tan mixture. Your edition of 7/9/’05 lies before
me in more senses than one. Under “ Peace in the
North,” you describe many of the conceptions you have
arrived at by the course of recent events in Japan—most
of which are perfectly true. Your satirising- of the news-
paper editors of Australia I am quite prepared to
“ banzai ” —a mediocre set, uneducated volcanoes, whose
larvae scorches the verdure off the globe upon which they
graze, and makes the whole surface sombre like their
minds.
“The yellow nation.” You are wrong. We are not
Chinese ; we are brown ; what you often call black-tan—a
dog’s description not applicable to men of our proved
stalwartness. We show a brave and united front to a
foreigner—without an 3' desperation. Even in our most
peaceful moments the phrase is our clean intent. And
we mean to fulfil it. We did not bluff at the peace
proposals, with no cards left. There was no need to bluff
with the wealth of John Bull fighting for our debentures.
We had not overdrawn our credit like Australia, and we
had not exhausted our physical strength, either by land
or sea, and millions of our men were clamoring to fight
at their own cost and risk.
“ No trace of, uneasiness.” Why should we tremble
with Russia’s rotten bottoms to face and the Mikasa
afloat? Even John Bull’s bottoms would not have cost
us an uneasy moment; and I know them from keel to
fighting-top, and admire the handy man, whom we had
the pleasure of leading over the Taku forts, in the China
war. The little brown man won, and it ivas a fair start.
But the press of Europe failed to banzai —even such a
ding-dong go.
“Such unity and courage compel respect’’—many
thanks. From “it” to “homes” ought to be pasted in
every man’s hat and on every mirror in Australia, and
perhaps in time might be understood. It is a warning.
We don’t ask for “ blind worship.” All we want is
clear optical power focussed upon us. We standi up to
be looked at and admired, if you are generous. 111 Grit,
capacity and solidarity ” —very fine features to develop
and a living object lesson to the world, especially Aus-
tralia, which possesses a mind like a mirror—reflects but
does not retain. 1
We have not only copied Europe’s methods, hilt we
have infused our own brains into them, and in many
cases improved them, showing how cleverly we learnt our
lessons.
“Jap superiority to the European.” If England is
European gauge, then I say most emphaticallj r we are
superior. Think of what a handful of Boers did on
the Tugela—stood up the British army. We were never
“ stood up,” even outside Port Arthur ; ours was a sure
and gradual progress from the word “ Forward.” And
yet we are heathens !
“We don’t want your days limited.” Does a leech hope
the blood supply will fail ? We intend to supply you with
everything you want, with two exceptions, wheat and
wool; and even those will be returned to you in the


Thus Mr. James Miller, senr., of J. Miller and
Co. Proprietary, Ltd. (Melb.), who recently
returned from abroad, to an interviewer :
What struck me most in England was undoubtedly the
growth of the Labor and Socialistic movements. The
progress of these movements is astonishing. I attended
a great Sunday meeting at Whitfield’s Tabernacle, pre-
sided overby the Rev. Sylvester Horne, and listened to
a wonderful address by Will Crooks, the Labor M.P., at
Woolwich. This man is a most emotional speaker
on the. lot of the poor, and l can well believe
that he drew tears from the eyes of the mem-
bers of the House of Commons when '*} appealed
for the unemployed. Everything' in England points tp
great changes in the distribution of wealth. I did not
see it, but I am told that the procession of women to the
then Prime Minister (Mr. Balfour) in connection with
the unemployed was a most affecting sight. The position
is terrible ; the contrast between wealth and poverty too
glaring. The Labor movement will make great strides.
Men like the Rev. Dr. Clifford, Canon Scott
Holland, Rev. Campbell (of the City Temple), and the
Rev. Sylvester Horne, who draw crowded congrega-
tions wherever they go, all preach a sort of Socialism.
With regard-Jo fiscal politics in England I cannot say
more than that everyone with whom I talked seemed in
favor of preferential trade. I was at Mr. Chamberlain s
great Albert Hall meeting in London, and was impressed
by the enthusiasm of the Tariff Reformers. It may be
that the masses of the workers seem against preferential
trade, but it can only be because, like the Labor Free-
traders in Australia, they. don’t fully understand the
position.
finished state. And if you don’t supply them at a reason-
able Asiatic price we will produce them for you in your
own country.
You speak of your “ national enthusiasm ” —a myth ! not
a particle of it is visible through my specs, and I fail to see
it when I use a powerful binocular and allow all sorts of
liberty with the picture. Football, racing, gambling, and
luxury beyond your fair reward is your tone—not
national enthusiasm. You are even minus national
respect or you would suppress, squelch, the vile daily
reports in your papers of the disgusting rottenness of your
head men ; bury them shoulder deep in sand and scythe
their heads off —honest national treatment for such
scum. The top blossom of my country would do that
without any further trouble. By so doing you would
exhibit to the world a concentration of energy to the
square inch, which now you are accredited with to the
square mile or many miles.
We don’t ask for “absurd Japiolatry” —we simply
expect a common sense analysis, and if you will accede
that you shall receive ample reward for your labors.
Dissect us as you will and we shall be charmed with your
deductions—more in particular if you publish them and
show the formula used, minus facetiae.
From “ Nippon Generals ” to “ Warning ” is very beau-
tiful, an argument forged in the smithy of Reason, and I
sincerely hope its beauteous dictum is not lost. Preach
it from the house top—not pulpit. Write it in letters of
living life on the heavens. Ram it into the brains of
your children. Teach it in schools. Blazon it forth to
the world as the key of all your future teachings. Print
it on all menus (viz., bill of fare food) till it becomes a
lighthouse on your brain—a digested food acceptable to a
healthy body.
“ Poverty now should keep Japan quiet.” We are not
poor, we are not spiteful, buc we demand fair play ; and
if you don’t accede it you will soon discover our richness,
for we may view your wealth at close quarters, and then
—and then alone —will your poverty become gloriously
apparent and our wealth visible. —Sayonara 1
The Bulletin prints that as received, minus one
or two solecisms. It is a remarkable let er, re-
markable because of the rarity of any revelation
at all of the workings of the Asiatic mind, and
also because of its argument, which is mostly
j ustified. Jiro Kammasittu adds to one’s respect
for Japan—and to the determination to strive to
exclude Japanese from Australia.
A Drought in N.S.W.
Grass grows green on hill and plain in .N.S.W. ;
wool clip and wheat harvest roll bountifully in ;
but there is a serious drought in Sydney. The
new Liquor Act, as interpreted by Crown Law
authorities and the police, leaves many
With throats unslaked,
With black lips baked.
It is in regard to eating houses that most grievances
are heard. Supper is, perhaps, an unwholesome
meal, but, eke, a popular one, and a little wine,
whisky or beer to take off the sharp edge of the
unwholesomeness is counted almost a necessity by
most supperers. As things now stand, no eating
house or hotelkeeper can allow alcoholic drink to
be consumed on his premises after 11 p.m. The
liquor may be, in all good faith, the private pro-
perty of the consumers, purchased legitimately
before the drink curfew rang; it makes no differ-
ence. Rhadamanthus shuts off alcohol abso-
lutely at 11 p.m. The leading Sydney re-
sort of the bon viveur, was visited the other
Saturday night after 11 p.m., and supper parties
finishing up the wine purchased earlier were
warned of the utter illegality of their conduct.
Almost the law was persuaded to take names or
make arrests; and as everybody who goes to a good
restaurant for supper doesn’t want the fact adver-
tised in the papers there was much consternation.
Apparently supper and banquet parties must
beware that glasses are drained at 10.55 and “no
heel-taps”; and Themistooles of the “larga
plata” must have a care that any stout served out
is consumed before 11 p.m. or not consumed at all.
Much of this seems absurd ; but it is, apparently,
the Law. The Liquor Bill was brought forward
by the Government in response to pressure
from the Temperance party, which controls many
votes. Then the Liquor party, which also controls
many votes, but not so many, dropped round to
Parliament House and remarked that “it was a
bit rough” in the ear of many an “old man.” The
Government didn’t like to go back on the Temper-
ance party, and wanted to be as friendly as it
could be to the Beer party, so the third party—
the public—was made to suffer. For what Bung
lost in one direction he was compensated for, as
far as possible, by concessions at the expense of the
restaurants and the clubs. That restaurant drink-
ing—the glass of wine or beer taken with a meal —
is emphatically the best type of drinking; the most
healthy ; to many people the most necessary ; and
the least likely to lead to drunkenness, didn’t
matter. The Liquor party had to have its sop.
The Bung party’s influence also had to be recog-
nised. The restaurant, and, incidentally, the
public, suffered;
Roaring Sucking Doves.
Bottom : I will roar that I will do any man’s heart good
to hear me. I will roar that I will make the Duke say,
“ Let him roar again, let him roar again.”
Quince : An you should do it too terribly, you would
fright the Duchess and the ladies that they would shriek ;
and that were enough to hang us all.
All : That would hang us, every mother’s son.
Bottom : I grant you, friends, if that you should fright
the ladies out of their wits, they would have no discretion
but to hang us. But I will aggravate my voice so, that I
will roar you as gently as any sucking dove ; I will roar
you an ’twere any nightingale.
They were brave talkers, the Sydney secessionists
last week, and on Thursday “ a vast crowd” (see
Sydney daily papers) assembled in the Town Hall
to hear a free organ recital and to get what fun
might be out of the roars of Bottom. But Bottom
wasn’t keen on aught that would suggest “enough
to hang us all ” and the crowd was grievously dis-
appointed. There was no roaring of secession.
Sir Norman n Norton, Mr. John MacLaurin
and the suburban mayors and legislative
councillors cooed like sucking doves and
expressly disavowed anything that would leave
“no discretion but to hang us all.” It was
a timid exhibition, after all the big talk. Joseph
Carruthers didn’t even appear, and there was a
marked absence of any man who counts for much
in the Federal or State Parliament. The organ
recital was fairly good, and the repetition of the
weary old lies about the Victorian conspiracy to
swindle N.S. Wales out of the capital seemed to
interest some. But on the whole it was a “ most
lamentable comedy.”
— + -
The Real Secret of the N.S.W. “ Grievance.”
A newspaper published in Adelaide expresses
naive astonishmentat Sydney’s secession rumblings
over the Federal Capital site. Certainly, it is a
curious issue on which to make a row, since these
facts stand admitted by even the representatives
of Sydney in the Federal Parliament
The demand that the Capital should be in N.S.W. was
not in the first instance made by the N.S.W. people.
They accepted Federation without attempting such
degraded bargaining. It was the action of the N.S.W.
State Parliament, in changing one of the conditions of the
Federal Enabling Act, which was responsible for the whole
humiliating incident. Subsequently that confirmed pro-
vincialist, Mr. G. H. Reid, who had connived at the
breach of faith involved in this change, wrung from the
other Premiers assent to a claim (which N.S.W. never
made) that all territory but that within N.S.W. and 100
.miles from Sydney should be banned for the capital site.
N.S.W. was requested by the Federal Government to
choose and offer a site, and refused. It argued, and
argued wisely, that it was the business of the r ederal
Parliament to do that.
At the urgent pressing of the Federal Government,
N.S. Wales appointed a Royal Commission to investigate
the various spots said to be suitable for the capital site.
That Commission gave first place to a site within a tew
miles of Dalgety, on the same river and in the same
dI The C< N.S.W. Government then offered the Southern
Monaro (Dalgety) site and several other sites to the
Federal Government, and agreed to reserve from further
sale all Crown lands around the various sites until a hnal
Ch The e Fed iament chose Dalgety. Thereupon
N S W. Premier Carruthers objected to Dalgety, on tne
grounds that it was “an unreasonable distance from
Sydney.” But he professed a willingness to give up
Tumut, which is further from Sydney.
To the outsider unacquainted with N.S.W. domes-
tic politics the situation is certainly puzzling.
Since the Federal Government waited on the
N.S.W. Government at every step and finally
followed, practically, the advice of the JN.b.VV.
Royal Commission, where is the grievance . Ut
course the fact is that if the Federal Parliament
had chosen Tumut, Yass, Lake George, or
even Lyndhurst, there would have been the
same row. The N.S.W. Government wanted
a row with the Australian Government as
the best means of drawing attention fro™
Lands scandals, in which it was being smothered.
A row was raised, and it has fulfilled its puipose
admirably. Hardly anyone in Sydney mentions
the Lands Scandals now, or rudely surmises how
many Ministers of the Crown got money from Mr.
Willis ; all are too busy discussing the grievous
wrongs inflicted on the city by Mr. DeakiN. Cur
friends in the other States must not bewilder
themselves with a perplexed analysis of the
N.S.W. grievance. It isn’t a grievance. its
like the cry of “Stop thief” from a smart pick-
pocket as he runs down the street—merely de-
signed to distract attention.
Victoria’s Incipient Lunatic.
With the passage of a new Lunacy Act in Vic*
toria last session and the appointment of a brand-
new imported expert in lunacy as Inspector-
General, decent and humane Victorian citizens
anticipated effective lunacy reform. But there
was a gap in the Act. It allows of private
asylums for certified lunatics only, under strict
State supervision; but no provision is made for
cases on the “ border line.” So these must either
be dealt with by the State—per police court and
gaol—or go to a private hospital. Hitherto there
were supposed to be no private asylums at all in
Victoria, but when the new Act came into force
the proprietors of nine existing ones applied for
registration. Two only were accepted as being
up to the mark ; three were ordered to make
such extensive improvements that they with-
drew their applications ; and four were rejected.
The point is that all of these seven rejected
“ asylums ” might have, if they had chosen, imme-
diately set up as private hospitals for the treat-
ment of “ incipient cases of mental disease.’ Ihe
Inspector-General speaks strongly about two of
these asylums, whose registration was refused.
“ In one, an ordinary suburban cottage, the pro-
prietress housed from eight to twelve semi-
imbeciles at 10s. per week ! The sitting-rooms,
beastly dark and dirty, were used also as bed-
rooms.” In the other, “a refractory ward was a
mere bare, hideous prison cell; and when the
proprietress’ license was refused she wrote offering
to sell her manacles.” Now both these places
could, under the Act, receive “incipient
cases.” Yet, obviously, if it is good work
for humanity’s sake to take the best of care of
the hopeless lunatic, it is even better work to
look well after the “incipient case” that may be
cured. But for the home of the “ mild case” there
is no inspection by Government officials ; proprie-
tors apparently carry on according to their own
sweet wills or according 1 to their superabundant
lack of knowledge ; and that the gain is profitable
is shown by the fact that they increase rapidly.
As for the State Receiving House for incipient
lunatics, which Premier Bent undertook to erect
about a year back, that gradual person had, at
latest, gone out to the Royal Park and viewed a
piece of land from the seat of his motor-car, and
bellowed to the universe that it would do admir-
ably for the purpose.
+
Wanted, Clean Butchery.
On Monday mornings the average man who has
just breakfasted oft grilled steak or chops has
grievous thoughts about turning vegetarian if he
passes a butcher’s shop and gets a whiff of its
atmosphere. Even when he has wandered into a
sweeter air he cannot get away from the
fact that there is an unbroken chain of connection
between the deadly odor he has just escaped from
and the meat he ate half-an-hour previously.
Yet the cleanest, sweetest establishments of a city
should be the meat shop, the dairy, and the
bakery. Others are important, but these three
make life and death. In Sydney the average
meat shop is horrible. Sometimes in the city and
in a few of the best suburban localities an odd one
is airy, fitted with tiled walls and manned
by assistants in clean clothing. But generally
one finds butchers selling meat in filthy, dark,
poky rooms, the walls of which are wood, the
floors likewise, and the only ventilation open
spaces through which the desiccated animal refuse
of the streets pours in. In these dark and horrible
places, baskets of scraps and refuse stand around
putrifying, and the swarms of flies pass from them to
the hanging meat which will go into consumption
by the surrounding population. And no one seems
to care. On Saturday night the meat vendors
store their remaining stock in what is euphemis-
tically styled “the ice-house,” and the exact
locality of that building can be discovered
at any time by the cloud of flies that hover
over it. Often it consists of a dark cellar in
which the heat of the earth is only slightly
modified by the presence of a couple of
blocks of ice, wrapped in blankets. lo this
cave the butcher carries the meat on Ins
shoulder, usually covered with a jumper saturated
with the week’s dirt. Occasionally writer has
seen the butcher cover his shoulder with a sack
to save the jumper ! And in such cases the same
sack generally does service till it rots of age.
On Monday morning the meat comes back,
and the cloud of flies follows. A city
that allows such atrocities in connection with its
food supply is really very little more truly civi-
lised than Benin, in West Africa, where the
butchers sell human flesh as often as that of
beasts. .The butcher says he cannot help it. He
is crushed between the upper stone of the carcase
butcher and the lower stone of unlimited competi-
tion, and declares that there is nothing in the
butchery trade. The best remedy seems to be
to create a monopoly which can sell meat
decently and will handle and store it as
it should be ; and the only party to be
entrusted with such a monopoly is obviously the
municipality. The whole of the meat shoula be
bought from the graziers by the municipality,
fattened up for killing in paddocks owned by the
same body, examined for traces of disease by its
qualified experts, killed and dressed m the city
abattoirs, and distributed in properly constructed
carts to municipal shops built according to scien-
tific principles, where it will be stored in proper
cool chambers, and never, under any cireum-
stances, exposed to the dust and dirt of the street
or the dirty gloved finger of the Mrs. lodge .
picking out a tender joint. This might make
meat a trifle dearer, but that is doubtful. Ji-ven
if it did it would be better to use less meat, with
the assurance that what one got was wholesome.
-
A Lesson in Land Monopoly.
The true grasping nature of the land-owning
person is never seen fully until you come to make
a deal with him. Victorian Closer Settlement
Board is gradually learning that. A month ago,
the Board proposed to buy the Werribee lark
estate. The board is still proposing to buy it, and
the owner, Mr. G. Chiknside, of the well-known
clan of land-absorbers, is still bargaining with the
Board. The price has been agreed upon—nearly
£l3 an acre. (The total purchase-money comes
to well over £300,000.) Now Mr. Chirnside
wants it to be declared that he is owner
of the coal that is believed to be under the
ground. In short, he wants to sell back to the
Government for £300,000 only the right to grow
things on the top of the ground. When Mr. Ghirn-
side acquired his land 50 years ago he paid about
£1 an acre, and was allowed to meet that in easy
instalments, spread over half a generation, lhe
land was good soil, and tillage of it alone pro-
duced a fortune; that fortune was materially in-
creased by the fact that hungry Melbourne sprang
up a few miles from Mr. Ciiirnside’s front door.
Also the Government built a railway alongside
Mr. Ciiirnside’s time-payment land, and
doubled its value without any expense to
the owner. The amount of land-tax he has
paid the State is not worth considering.
The State has made his land valuable, and now
the State is paying him good red gold up to the
extreme limit of that value. The land Act under
which Mr. Chirnside got his land gave the
frantee the right to all the minerals under it.
'or 50 years he has been absolute owner of any
coal that lies under Werribee Park; but he has
never bothered to dig it up. That was his way of
developing the country. The Transfer of Lands
Act 1890 expressly states that when any land of
which the mineral rights were granted to the
owner is transferred, the mineral rights become
vested in the Grown, and do not pass to the new
owner. Mr. Chirnside wants the law abrogated
in his case so that he may still retain his chance
of collecting coal royalties. (If the Iron Bonus
Bill is passed, a big company intends to smelt
iron at Laverton, Vic., and it may develop the
coal under the Werribee Park estate.) The inci-
dent is a fine argument for The Bulletin’s policy
of closer settlement bv adequate land taxation.
—♦
A Pretty Picture from the North.
The first report of the Controller of the central
sugar mills, which Queensland Government has
taken over, throws some light on the question why
the right kind of white man hasn’t been available
hitherto. Setting forth some reasons why he spent
£l6OO on the workmen’s quarters. Dr. Maxwell,
who can’t be accused of being a virulent enemy of
discolored labor, says —
The old barracks were buildings with bare walls and
gables, no shade being provided by verandahs to protect
the rooms from the heat and to allow the men to sit out-
side. . . . The bunks were of the crudest character and
in many cases were seed-beds of vermin and disease. . . .
The bunks were fixtures, and the bedding used was dry
grass, cane tops, or bagasse from the mill, and in no case
were mattresses provided.
Apparently, also, there were no partitions; the
whole crowd was herded in one room, and pigged
among the dry grass in a promiscuous way. But
Spruce Myth has always given his moustache an
extra twirl and said that it was necessary to have
Tommy Tanna and the rest because “experience
has proved that it is impossible to get white men
to work in this tropical industry.” Even
if you induced white workmen to go up
there, it was explained, you couldn’t get
them to stay. For which thank Heaven, any-
way ! When the white man will be content
to herd in a sun-baked room with a score of others,
sleeping among dry grass and the refuse of the
mills, without mattresses, in bunks which are
“seed-beds of vermin and disease” —when white
men will be content to do that, then the Caucasian
will be about played out, and Tommy Tanna
might just as well stay. But there is hope for
him when he won’t work under such conditions.
Whether the white man, unaided, will be able to
make a complete success of the sugar-growing
business in the North of Queensland may
still be more or less in doubt ; what is
not in doubt is that the right white man has
never been tried, for the right white man would
never submit to such conditions as Dr. Maxwell
discloses. What sort of man does Spruce Myth
think the barrister, even.of Sydney , would be if
he had to pig at night in a galvanised-iron shanty
with 20 others, sleeping aiuong verminous grass or
sugar-mill refuse, and swapping filth and diseases
in a foetid atmosphere ?
—_ «
Senator Pulsford confides that, in making up
his mind about the Federal Capital site, he didn t
inquire into any such stupid things as suitability
of soil, water supply, climate, and so on. He
simply took a map, found out where the popula-
tion was, then took the latitude nearest to the
centre of population, and Lyndhurst happening
to be near that latitude, decided on Lyndhurst.
But Pulsford doesn’t explain why he didn’t take
longitude into account as well as latitude. If it s
the right thing to see that the capital isn’t
further from the people of the north than
from the people of the south, it must be
an equally right thing to see that it isn’t
further from the people of the west than it is
from the people of the east ; and therefore, adopt-
ing the superb idea of Senator Pulsford, the capi-
tal obviously ought to be out somewhere near
Merrymerrygal, which you reach by crawling
through the sand the other side of Oondobolin.
Certainly there may be objections to Merrymerry-
gal on the score of water, soil, and vegetation.
But what are water, soil, and vegetation ?
♦
In the course of a very fair-minded article on Aus-
tralia’s immigration problems the Conservative
London Times says :
That the existing restrictions on colored immigration
into Australia are satisfactory can hardly be maintained.
Their cardinal defect is that they are based on subterfuge,
instead of on a square facing of the actual facts of the
situation. The consistent attitude of the Imperial Govern-
ment, hitherto, has been to refuse its assent to any legis-
lation openly and avowedly discriminating between per-
sons on account of their race. Our tradition has been to
lecognise only individuals and to take no account of
racial differences. But racial differences do exist. Dif-
ferent races have different degrees of vitality or of
economic efficiency. The highest types are not always
the most robust in the face of adverse conditions. In
England with its dense and firmly rooted population this
is hardly realised-though even here the influx of Polish
Jews into the East-end of London may give some slight
indication of the displacement which can ensue in coun-
tries where the white race is still a young and tender plant,
taking root with difficulty, if ;it is forced to nieet the
unrestricted competition of races accustomed to a different
standard of living. Australia is undoubtedly capable of
becoming the home of a large and flourishing British
population. But there can be nothing more certain than
that absolute laisser faire would make it the home of a
preponderatingly yellow and brown population. Restric-
tion and regulation, in some form or other, of the free
economic activities of other races is necessary to'the
existence of our race in Australia. The object should be
to make those restrictions as little invidious as possible,
whether to our own subjects or to our allies, or, indeed,
to any other people. . . . We must realise the nature of
Australia’s problems and modify our preconceived
theories to siyt i . Qpjtljp other hand, Australia, in
the interests'of the Empire and her own progress, must
learn to separate what is essential to the development of
the white race and to the maintenance of her standard of
living from what is unessential, so that she may retain
the former and discard the latter.
+
“ Jemand” writes in protest:—
“Two Seas” (28/12/’O5) asserts the Government does
not get enough value for the land it sells, and makes a
comparison of land he had from the Government at 2jd.
per acre, carrying one sheep to acres, and that for
which he is now paying a private owner 4s. per acre. But
why did he not state that he had to pay survey fee for
the 2Jd. land, had to build a homestead on it, fence it,
sink tanks and wells, clear the scrub and ringbark and hum
off the dead timber ; that it was 400 or 500 miles from the
market ; that he had to pay 2s. each sheep to send them
there, and £5 for each ton of wool ; that there were
neither roads nor bridges; that he had to travel
miles to get his mail, perhaps once or twice
a week ; that he had no neighbors, no schools, and had
to pay a tutor for his children ; that if he required a doctor
he had to pay from £2O to £5O for each visit ; that
he and his family were shrivelled up and sickly with the
continuous summer heat, where 110“ in the shade is a
common occurrence in the daytime, and 90° in the middle
of the night ; and that it cost from 2d. to sd. per acre to
fight the rabbits ? Your correspondent ought to have
told the public all these things, and he should have told
us where his 4s. per acre land is, and how he makes it pay,
when the nett average return from a sheep at best is
only 3s. a year.
»
For years the heavy hand of Sandy MaoTavish,
represented by the New Zealand and Australian
Land Co., rested heavily on Maoriland. Half the
company’s enormous capital of £1,500,000 was
invested there, and was just £1,500,000 of foreign
debt on which Maoriland had to pay interest to a
number of “decent bodies” in and around Edin-
burgh, North Britain. The compulsory clauses of
the Land for Settlement Act have done a lo
towards shifting the grievous incubus of that hairy
paw ; and in the last two years, according to the
chairman of the co., the Act has brought about
the sale of no less than £550,000 worth of land—
nearly half the company’s entire holding in the
country. The chairman said the “ capital had
been liberated for investment.” The Maoriland
view of the case is that thepeople of that State have
been liberated of £550,000 of debt, foreign debt
at that, and all that land that used to grow wool
to be sold abroad for the profit of the “decent
bodies ” round Edinburgh is now growing products
for the benefit of the Maorilanders who are culti-
vating it. Not only has Maoriland been liberated
from the drain of interest, but the land that was
formerly the source of the drain has now become
a source of profit. Unfortunately, Maoriland’s
gain is N.S.W.’s misfortune —the company has in-
vested the whole £550,000 in “ fine pastoral
country in N.S.W. capable of carrying 125,000
sheep.” This N.Z. & A.L. 00. is not a concern
that goes out to the back of Bourke to develop
the magnificent resources of the great country. It
hangs round the coastal belt where the rainfall
is, and has a partiality for river frontages ; and its
blessed horde of sheep will keep away quite an
army of men. When is the Federal Labor party
going to get that graduated land-tax plank into
working order ?
♦
“Bronson Elliott”: May a man “inside the
fence ” traverse your correspondents’ criticisms
of Tait’s railway management in Victoria.
Ganger’s lengths are longer than they were some
years back, the fact being that they were top
short then, though they were as .long as they
could be with the prehistoric ]tri,cycles and trollies
in use. Lighter tricycles, 4-man-power “quads ’
and motors, now used, give the men much longer
time to put in at useful work. The useof “ bogie”
stock permits a lower standard of track main-
tenance. All derailments of recent years
have happened to “fixed wheel-base” stock,
all of which stock must fall out of use when the
modern demand for big trucks with comparatively
light tare-weights is satisfied. Big double-headed
express trains—ten 40-ton bogie passenger cars,
two bogie vans, and two 90-ton engines—run daily
at speeds up to 75 miles an hour on our inter-State
lines. I’ve timed them, and they run so sweetly
that nothing but the watch convinces you of the
speed. Tait’s, economies may be summed as
“ working to the limit ’’—men, engines, and
stock. Each train must bring in its full load
daily, or get cut out of the schedule. Passenger
trains must show a dividend, or become mixed
trains. Trucks must fill, wait, or be paid for as
full. Eight hours means eight hours’ graft.
Dissatisfaction with Tait exists among
(a) Local potentates, who find that his leg is not to be
pulled by frenzied statements re the claim of Dingo Flat
to an express service.
(b) “ Loyalist ” engine-men, who find that the service
isn’t the soft snap the Arous said it is.
(c) Pained fossils, who find that Tait considers ability
first, and seniority not at all.
(d) Me, because he doesn’t give me £l5OO a year and
expenses to report on the working of foreign railways.
The statement by a correspondent in a recent
issue that mallee cockies run some of the outback
stations in exchange for one “ brief ” per annum,
is pure guff. Our stations are run either by an
S.M., by a woman-in-charge, or by the guard of
the train.


Hotel
A ust+rnlin
RATES:
12s. 6d. per Day
AND UPWARDS.
The Largest, Coolest, and
Best Appointed Summer
Hotel in Australasia.
SPACIOUS, COOL
DINING HALL
LOUNGE BAR.
During. Summer
Months the Winter
Garden is the Coolest
I’lace in Sydney for
Afternoon Tea, &c.
A Balcony Dining- Room has been
added to main Dining Hall.
Guest Nigiit Every Wednesday.
URE SMITH, Manager, ,
* • Casfclereagh-at,, Sydn ;
#
0
rigareftes
4 4
ARE*
FIRST
Favourites
T<3
d>
m
on account of
their purity*
& Flavour.
Gallaher Iff Belfast- belong fo noTrusror Combine
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Veronique.”
Theatre Royal “ Sinbad the Sailor.”
Criterion “ Shall We Forgive Her.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
(Queen’s Hall Urbanora Bioscope Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Utopia Limited.”
Her Majesty’s “L’Aiglon.”
Theatre Royal “The Lights o’London.”
Opera House Rickards’ Co.
Town Hall “ Living LondoVi.”
v
Some years ago, in order to ensure a
better standard of teaching, a renowned English
Academy of Music granted certificates to those
students who were able to prove before a qualified
board of experts their ability to impart musical
instruction. This was a good idea, calculated to
protect parents from the numerous teachers who
were often quite ignorant of the first rudiments of
the art of music. But, unhappily, it has been
abused. In addition to genuine rivals, small pro-
prietary institutions, with little or no standing,
came into the field and started granting degrees
to students, investing them with grand-sounding
letters after their names, and entitling them to
wear impressive robes. How many small colleges
and institutions of music have sprung up since
this money-getting practice was started may be
seen in the long list of them in the advertisements
of some musical papers. The advertisements are
all pretty well alike—granting some sort of -ships
to those who pass certain tests, and other -ships
to those who pass other. Various other -ships
are also given to gain still higher fees. All the
“degrees" “entitle the wearer” to order from
Messrs. Dash and Dash a cap and gown with
Elephant’s-Breath (or whatever color may be
chosen) facings. The fees to enter are from £1 Is.
up to £2 10s.—and even higher for some degrees.
Australia is literally a happy hunting-ground for
these institutions. And, in almost every case, as
soon as a girl or boy of any age from 13 to 17
gains a -ship in any of these colleges, he or she
joins the ranks of teachers who are absolutely
unfit to teach and who do more harm to the art of
music than can possibly be imagined. Likewise
he rushes with his or her picture in “robes” to
the illustrated papers. The system feeds vanity
and breeds inefficiency.
** # *
This is the last week in which those who
haven’t seen “ The Girl from Kay’s ’’ will have
the chance ; also these are the last nights in which
those who saw “The Girl ’’ on her early appear-
ance may note what great improvements a month’s
run has made. Lauri’s Hoggenheimer, the weakest
main feature of the show in its earliest outbreaks,
'has been changed, in many ways, for the better ;
and “ Piggy ” is a character now, and not a weird
caricature. All through the blazing days and
boiling nights of last week Florence Young’s
vivacity didn’t droop; if they wanted a bit more
of a song—as they generally did—she gave it to
them, while little Miss Margaret Thomas wilted
in the wings, and probably dreamed of the snows
of her Welsh hills as the house called in vain.
Saturday night “Veronique” comes to Her
Majesty’s from Melbourne bearing the benediction
of The Bulletin’s trans-Murray critic; and,
though “we sez it as shouldn’t,” that is a first-rate
introduction to travel with.
* *
Although there has been an almost con-
tinual supply of biographs in Sydney for some
considerable time past—bios, served up with an
air of piety and mild-cured ham jokes, bios, of the
frankly sensational and blood-curdling kind, bios,
that were as wicked as they dared to be—there is
still room for some more, which is proved by the
fact that manager Rickards had a large and
interested audience at his “Urbanora” perform-
ance in the Queen’s Hall, Sydney, on Saturday
night last. The Urbanora is the bio. under its
latest alias and in its newest dress. It is a verj
cl ear one, and can easily hold itsown against others.
The films shown are of a particularly interesting
and humorous type. One film of a hay stack on
fire is particularly realistic. By way of support
to the Urbanora, Miss Hilda Lane, Messrs. Roch-
fort, Hart and Keen, and a quartet of considerable
merit from the Cathedral choir sang some. The
whole show was bright; and it will twinkle at the
Queen’s Hall in future every evening and Wednes-
day and Saturday afternoons.
* * *
The Tivoli has put some body into its bill
by recalling the Jackson family, whose musical
“turn’ is good enough to throw the beginnings
of a halo round any programme. Fred Graham’s
shirtstudietta is another bright feature ; and the
gallery nightly insists that “The Bull and the
Bush ’’shall only be given a rest when Florence
Challis has finished her engagement.
# * *
The success of the Gilbert and Sullivan
Repertoire Company has encouraged the idea that
there is a demand for good comic opera as opposed
to inane musical comedy. At the Theatre Royal
next month, Mr. William Anderson’s newly-
formed Grand Comic Opera Company will stage
that classic opera bouffe, “La Fille du Tambour
Major.” Its revival will be welcomed by musicians.
Judging by his treatment of the present panto-
mime, Mr. Anderson will show that he is no mean
manager, and he promises a cast of distinguished
artists, a chorus of 80 picked voices, entirely new
scenery, wardrobe, &c.
* & * 3*
The rapid, questionable woman and the
string of horses, fast and otherwise, will, with
their attendant rogues and vagabonds and honest
varlets, stampede off the stage of the Criterion
next Friday. “ The Rogues of the Turf ” will be
replaced by “ Shall We Forgive Her ? ” Audience
will be sure to do so. if She is a nice girl—no
matter what her crime. Especially will it forgive
if Beatrice Holloway be the alleged sinner.
* * * *
Six nights’ revival of “The J.P.” is
announced. Florence Lloyd and J. J. Dallas
will be welcomed to Sydney these days when the
corners of Sydney’s mouth are down because it
can't live near Kosciusko. A play called “ There
and Back ” will be the successor of “ The J.P.”
-* * *
“ Sinbad the Sailor ” has reached that stage
to which all good pantomimes get—a second
edition. The use of a second edition is mainly to
give the old ’uns an excuse to bring the young ’uns
again ; and doubtless it will be fully availed of for
that purpose. Second edition is published to-
morrow (Friday) night.
* * iff -M
The Holy City was treated to a free
pyrotechnic display the other night. Some small
specimens of juvenile depravity were marching
about when they discovered a Celestial firework
establishment. Pressing the flat nose of covetous-
ness against the window pane, they discovered a
small hole in the window of the pyrotechnicery,
into which they dropped lighted matches until they
had the desired free show. It was a nice little
show.
“Utopia Limited,” introduced to Aus-
tralia at Melbourne Princess’, is worth a more
luminous performance than it got from the Reper-
toire Co. last Saturday night. The same thing
should presently be better done by the same co.
If several members of the co. were quite other
people than they are—and this remark includes
even Prank Wilson, who is the most promising of
the young members—one might form a fair idea
as to the merits of Gilbert’s libretto, judged by
the Gilbertian standard. But the first perform-
ance was weak in sundry places, and in only a sin-
gle instance did the character seem fully presented.
MissGhiloni, as the appallingly English governess
of the King’s two younger daughters, provided the
single instance. The pair of disciplined damsels—
Miss Aggie Thorne and Miss de Loitte—were
equal to everything but the necessity for looking
meeker and milder. Kenningham, with a very
humorous solo to sing, left no hing in particular
to be desired, and one of ths Utopian Judges
(H. H. Wallace) shone as a comedian in compari-
son with his colleague (Arthur Crane), but this is
not high praise. Miss Dolly Castles was remark-
able for her amateurish elocution among several
people who are likewise unsuited to their parts,
but are quite capable of speaking a dozen words
without dropping a syllable from" the middle of
two of them. And Howard Vernon’s idea of the
King was undoubtedly crude in conception and
rough in the rendering at his first attempt.
* * • *
Gilbert, always entertaining, is probably
not heard at his best in a performance of “ Utopia
Limited,” and it is absolutely certain that Arthur
Sullivan is heard at his worst. Some of the music
is colorless, some is dull, and none of it sparkles.
Conductor George Hall had to provide “encores”
on the slightest provocation in order to give the
brightest numbers a show to improve on acquaint-
ance. One of these encores was given in response
to a hearty burst of silence on the audience’s part.
In short, the opera is not in the same musical
street with “lolanthe,” “Patience,” “Mikado”
and others. But it is Gilbert and Sullivan opera.
** * *
More patrons than seats in Melb. Royal
on Saturday night, when Bland Holt turned on
again the “Lights o’ London.” Judging by its
reception, the old play, even without the aid of
its long-ago reputation,and its handed-down popu-
ALFRED DAMPIER, WHO SHORTLY
LEAVES AUSTRALIA.
larity, is strong enough to travel on its merits.
“The Lights” has bright dialogue, a Dickensesque
vein of domestic humor and pathos, and a cer-
tain air of possibility about the whole story.
You get all the dear old types of British melo-
drama. The haughty Squire (Max Maxwell) dis-
inherits hisonly son, because a hero (Walter Baker),
whose lines were not cast “ much in sorrow, oft in
woe, ” would deprive she-spectators of the luxury of
a good cry. The beauteous Baker, by the way,
still retains the rollicking manner, first adopted
by him as characteristic of his Australian
squatter, in the “ Betting Evil.” Onlookers
hardly wonder that the correct Papa resents son-
nie’s “slap-on-the-back-old-man ” demeanor.
The outcast heir’s initial mistake lies in his marry-
ing the. lodgekeeper’s one fair daughter Bess
(Frances Hoss). After he has been disinherited,
and castinto prison, falsely accused of murdering
his father, he escapes and wanders in convict
dress. Meeting Mr. and Mrs. Bland Holt, who,
for stage purposes, are disguised as travelling
tragedians, he is given shelter in their van, after
Mrs. Bland Holt has got all the fun possible out of
her “dishability,” otherwise her night-gown, night-
cap and slippers. The show couple’s infant-
phenomenon son, Shakspeare, is brightly repre-
sented by Miss Florrie Kelly. Harrie Ireland
and Arthur Styan undertake respectively the
naughty girl of the piece, and her father Seth
Preene. Latter is the play’s most note-
worthy character and gets full justice in
Styan’s hands. Charles Brown does Philo-
sopher Jack, while Albert Norman, as the villain,
enjoys some slight respite from his usual utter
■depravity. His present role is that of a sinner,
not of a fiend. He only instigates his tool to
commit robbery, not murder, as is the case in
most of his stage campaigns. Having smirched
the fair name of the village beauty, he stays his
hand and really treats her well enough in
the matter of diamonds and dress. One
has grown used to behold the enriched
village beauty pushed over stage precipices,
immured in madhouses, bound to torture-machines
and persecuted without rhyme or reason by her
betrayer. The play is rich in melting moments
when Baker and Frances Boss wander in snow-
storms, “frozen, rain-drenched, sad, betrayed,”
while the male-sufferer constantly apostrophises
his “Bess, his darling Bess.” Bright music,
slick stage-management, chic dressing all enhance
the lustre of the “ Lights o’ London.”
** * *
A “recital” at Melbourne Town Hall, a
few weeks ago, introduced another pneumatic
piano-player to local notice. It comes from Ger-
many, and is boomed by Allan and Co. as “the
Claviola. ’ Seemingly the new machine is worth
booming. It has a compass of six octaves, and a
very gentle pressure of the feet upon the pedals—
the sort of pressure with which a reverential lover
woos his best girl under the shelter of the tea-
table—suffices to supply the motive power,
what time the performer works the levers
with his hands. A lot of “expression” is man-
aged by the feet alone, and the hand levers con-
trol the treble and bass, whilst the loud pedal
is put into operation by pressing a button.
Leaving the loud pedal out of the question
what strikes one particularly in the Claviola is its
effective treatment of accompaniments for songs.
Miss Margaret Thomas sang two or three ballads
at the Town Hall recital, and the machine, under
skilful direction, did its work beautifully. Claimed
for the “ Clav. ”, too, that an artistic manipulation
of it is easily arrived at, and the music sheets, or
“record rolls,” are practically incapable of mis-
hap. The perforations are not the usual oblong
slits (which sometimes cause the roll to buckle on
the tracker board), but little round holes whereby
a perfect note is said to be ensured. In the in-
terests of humanity these pneumatic piano-players
deserve encouragement. They mustinevitably tend
to lessen the number of utterly incompetent per-
formers who torture their hearers by banging the
old box of music at first hand, so to speak. The
ranks of youthful amateur pianists will continue
to swell, but the fifth-rate soloist, who is the boss
fiend of the boarding-house, will be more or less
put to shame, when not actually supplanted, by
one or other of the mechanical affairs. The
machine can’t hit a wrong note. And whereas
years of hard toil are required for the obtaining
of a personal mastery, or balf-mastery, over the
pianoforte, an ordinary person, fitted with
commonplace hands and feet, can produce all its
possibilities from an ’ola after a comparatively
short course of study and practice.
** * *
At Her Majesty’s the Mereness of Mary
Ann will be asserted for the last time on Friday,
and on Saturday Miss Brune will appear in the
more congenial character of L’Aiglon, where there
is plenty of room for the actress to let herself go.
There are so many actresses nowadays who can’t
let themselves go or have nothing to let go of, that
the relinquishing powers of Tittell Brune cannot
be too warmly acknowledged.
* * *
All that was honorable in Melb. Opera
House bill last week remained to do it further
credit this week. Also, there are rumors of new
arrivals new Saturday, in which case the name of
the vessel that brought them hither will be
solemnly recorded in the advt., not necessarily
for public edification, but as a guarantee of good
faith.
The panto, at Melb. Bijou, which came by
special conveyance from Collingwood, was still
appealing to the public when these notes were
sounded. At the Town Hall the new Biograph
will take the sheet for the first time next Saturday.
The backbone of this Bio. is “ Living London,”
said to be a mighty fine and long picture of daily
facts—things that happen without previous
rehearsal.
UTOPIA LIMITED.
The King of Utopia, monarch fantastical,
Ruling the State on Gilbertian lines —
Social, political, ecclesiastical —
Formed a new plan after British designs.
Long time the people existed contentedly
(Nothing to do but to frivol and sing),
Whilst a couple of judges, behaving dementedly,
Guided the course of Utopia’s King.
Oddly he figured as monarch, and sniggered
Like one who is having his own little fling,
Comical sort o’ flat—
Playing the autocrat
Whilst his controllers were pulling the string.
Then his eldest little daughter (she’d no mother
dear to thwart her)
Came a-tripping back from England with some
gentlemen in tow,
She told her doting parent what her foreign tour
had taught her,
And he got those Sons of Britain to reorganise the
show, doncherknow.
Now, one imported joker
Was a glorified stockbroker,
A company promoter : so the Kingdom of Uto.
Was submitted to the nation
As a tempting speculation
And each and every voter was transformed into
a co.
Those judges, old and barmy,
Were extinguished by an Army,
A modern County Council, and a Court of Etiquette,
And at last when they protested
They were suddenly arrested,
And they went away to prison feelingly horribly
upset.
But the scheme of reformation,
Though its novelty was striking,
Didn’t satisfy the nation —
No, it wasn’t to its liking ;
To complete the regulation
Of the King and Parliament
The one thing that they wanted
Was a Party Government.
Each appointed politician
Had a lien on his position
And the course of legislation
Lack’d the cheerful agitation
That may happen in the land of a Carruthers or
a Bent
(God bless the opposition to Carruthers and to
Bent!)
So the comic King decided
That the State must be provided
With the troubles incidental to a Party Govern-
ment.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“E.F.” : The London showman, E. T. Smith, of whom
so many anecdotes are told, was not the father of Mel-
bourne’s John Thomas Smith, as stated in Pov. Point.
He was the father of £. £. Smith the mercurial little
doctor. John Thomas Smith , born 90 years ago, was a
native of Sydney. He migrated to Melbourne and there,
previous to. entering the Oity Council and becoming a
seven-times Mayor, formed his only connection with
“theatricals” by building the old Queen’s Theatre.
Hence, perhaps, the idea that he was a son of E. T.
Smith the showman. His namesake and contemporary
£.£. built the ill-fated Polytechnic Institute in Bourke-
street, Melbourne.
Brough and Flemming, reopening at Sydney Criterion
after a golden tour through Maoriland, will probably
produce their latest purchase—“ Dr. Wake’s Patient”—
early in the season. The co. is not due again in Mel-
bourne until the middle of May.
Czerny, “the Prince of Prestidigitateurs,” who has
been knocking them in Maoriland, under Anderson’s
management, was known as Alf. Lumsden before he left
Melbourne. Lumsden is a man of parts. A tall, slim, clean-
cut Victorian, he had a lot of platform experience as an
amateur conjuror before he made a determined attempt
to oust Frank Madden from his seat in the Vic. Assembly.
Given a little more time for his canvass, the likeable
Lumsden would probably have won the fight and become
a prosperous politician. As it was, Madden got back to
Parliament, and now Madden is Mr. Speaker, whilst
Lumsden calls himself Czerny, and produces cups of coffee
from paper shavings.
A French inventor claims to have perfected the com-
bination of biograph and phonograph after which thou-
sands of scientific men have been striving for ten years.
It is claimed that one movement operates both machines,
and the theatre-goer of the future may watch Melba’s
bosom heave as she gets out her top notes, and hear the
sickening thud of James Jeffries’ dirty left on Jack
O’Brien’s jaw at precisely the moment he sees that
lightning fist dart forward.
Comedian R. J. Knowles is to visit Australia shortly,
appearing at the Palace Theatre, Sydney, on Saturday,
February 10th, under Mr. J. C. Williamson’s management.
In conjunction with Mrs. R. G. Knowles, banjoist, and a
staff of biograph operators, Mr. Knowles will appear as
singer, dancer and story-teller. “ The Trifles that Trouble
the Traveller ” and “ Songs and Stories of the Stage ” are
the titles of his monologue entertainment. •<
“ E.” : How rarely you meet with a sense of humor in a
tenor ! One evening' recently, three or four men standing
at a 6d. bar in a metropolitan hotel were discussing the
capabilities and personal attractions of the female mem-
bers of a musical company then operating in the city.
Suddenly a tenor connected with the co. appeared
amongst them in a fine professional attitude. “Gentle'
men,” he said, oratorically, “ I beg of you that you will
not discuss Miss in my presence, as I intend to
marry that young lady as soon as I can get my divorce.”
Miss ——-’s name had not been mentioned, but the actor
man simply couldn’t refrain from putting - his oar in.
Henry Bracy, who stage-managed with such success
the recent productions of Gilbert and Sullivan’s “Prin-
cess Ida,” was the original Hilarion of the opera. “ Prin-
cess Ida ” was first staged on the sth January, 1884, at
the Savoy Theatre, London.
Charles Kenningham took the part of Captain Fitz-
battleaxe in “Utopia” in the original production of the
opera at the Savoy under D’Oyly Carte in 1883.
Wybert Reeve, so many years lessee of Adelaide Theatre
Royal, tells S.A. Rbqister. that he (and not Boucicault, as
commonly told) got Henry Irving his first big chance in
life. Irving (as an experiment) took Reeve’s place when
the latter ended a four years’ engagement at the Theatre
Royal, Manchester. Reeve was struck by his style, and
when asked, in 1866, to open at London St. James’s as
Doricourt in “The Belle’s Stratagem,” “having a com-
pany on my hands and two provincial theatres, my
thoughts turned to the young actor in Manchester, and I
advised Miss Herbert to engage him instead of myself.”
W.R. considered H.I. “essentially a strong character
actor,” and will not hear of his being ranked with the
Kembles, the Keens, and Macready.
“T.D.”: Queensland violinist, Nora M'Kay, after two
or three years deep study with Ovide Musin and the more
severe Anton Witek, has made a London debut. Her
style has broadened considerably, and the papers hail
her as among the best of the constant succession of new


Queensland Government sticks to its
position over the Fallen Soldiers’ Memorial Fund
at Brisbane. Morgan decided some time ago that
there should be no Government grant to help a
statue to the farm-burners. “Get it from the
Patriotic Fund,” he said. That fund holds £10,000,
and the trustees now intend to ask of the Supreme
Court permission to vote £700 to the Memorial
Fund. What is to become of the balance of the
Patriotic Fund, and the £2000 balance of the
Toowoomba fund ? There cannot be any further
claims to meet. Balances might be devoted to
the hospitals. Also, what has become of the big
credit balance of the N.S.W. Patriotic Fund ?
The success of the British Liberals should
advance Preferentialism by disposing of a number
of side issues. The proper prescription for clearing
the mentality of bewildering obscurities is D.C.L.
Whisky. There is a D.C.L. mind—a mind ever
illuminated by a preference for wisdom and cheer-
fulness. D.C.L. means these qualities as the sun
beams light.*
The Bulletin receives this letter from a
Sydney man at Cape Town (South Africa)
From time to time I notice cables to the effect that the
Federal Government is anxious to obtain white settlers,
particularly farmers with capital. I beg to suggest that
it should take advantage of the present unrest of the
Cape Dutch farmers, many of whom are leaving for
South America (300 left 21/9/’05, per S.S. Highland Fling,
and two steamers are .to take 1000 in January). The move-
ment is a widespread one. The Boers, having- been reared
under climatic conditions resembling your own, would be
far more suitable than men from a northern climate. He
is sturdy, independent and thrifty, and would make an
ideal colonist. Should the Federal Government or any
State desire to turn this trek to Australia they could do
it very cheaply through their commercial agents, who
could get some Dutch-speaking person to interview Boer
leaders and editors of Dutch papers. Government to
offer farm lands on terms equal or superior to Argentine
Government terms. The Boers don’t want charity, and
would pay their own fares and those of their families to
Australia. If you still believe in the “ White Australia
policy ” push this scheme for the welfare of Australia.
violinists who have assailed the Fog this year. The solo
fiddler doesn’t get very much show, for the reason that
many programmes give them no place, but Miss M‘Kay
should manage to mop up a good many fees in England
if she cares to face the fight. Some of the criticisms
refer to her tone as small, which it decidedly is not; the
real trouble is probably a three-cornered duel between
the classical style of Berliner Witek, the temperamental
style of Belgian Musin, and the individuality of Nora
herself.
Dolores scarcely seems to have made the great im-
pression in England that Australian admirers here con-
sidered hers by pre-emptive right. Dolores’ biggest
engagements at present are at the Chappell ballad con-
certs, and even there she fails to score as well as some of
the other artists.
Amy Castles got more good press opinions by her
second appearance in London, which she made at the
Boosey ballad concerts, when she was associated with Ada
Orossley, Evangeline Florence and prodigy Elman. Next
day she sang in Liverpool for the orchestra which Gran-
ville Bantock directs, and the local Philharmonic Society
engaged her straight away to sing for it. Her engage-
ments are pouring in.
“Edyson”: In Melbourne, at least, the tendency of
“swaggah” theatregoers towards the reserved stalls is
very marked, and now-a-nights at a big first event the
front five or six rows of the orchestra stalls display more
raw hide and .marbled shirt-front than any other part of
the house. Why is this thus? Evidently the “suckle”
is ceasing to be good form, but the splendid young gentle-
men who say, “ Haw 1 ” and the ladies who bud up out of
their frocks so opulently are sacrificing much in taking
to the front stalls. They are certainly the worst seats in
the theatre for seeing. In the front stalls you see too
much of the individual and too little of the whole. The
items stand out glaringly with their sins and grease paint
thick upon them, but the eye never seizes the whole
picture. The performance is out of focus, so to speak.
Further back, and in the circle, the eye comprehends the
whole, not merely scraps, and the illusions remain, since
the green eye-lid, the rouge-daubed cheek, and the black
shading (looking dreadfully like unwashed neck in the
reserved stalls) blend into a presentable face. Distance
is absolutely necessary to lend enchantment to a stage
play ; and the manager, wise in his generation, would be
careful to see his audience kept its distance, even at the
sacrifice of a few rows of crown heads.
“ O’Fipp ” : It seems to me that the phrase, still fre-
quently used, about the shoddy portions of a play
“ appealing to the gallery” is out of date as far as most
Australian theatres are concerned Bathetic, sickly-sen-
timental, and sham-patriotic passages are welcomed by
certain playgoers in all sections of the house, but I think
any sincere observer of Australian audiences will admit
that the standard of appreciation of the average gallery ite
is quite as high as that of the average person in stalls or
circle. The bottle-oh man and his Liz are not the only
frequenters of the upper regions. In some theatres they
are hardly seen at all, and when they are met with they
are more endurable than the inane man or the peroxided
lady often encountered in circle or stalls. The brass-
haired woman is an especial reveller in the meretricious.
Charles I. üby, who came to Australia with the original
Gaiety Burlesque co., and ranked next to Fred Leslie and
Nellie Farren as a comedian, was lately a sick man in the
most impecunious of circumstances. Somebody started
a relief fund for the invalid, and several hundred pounds
rolled in pretty quickly. Danby was a very good repre-
sentative of the old burlesque school, and in some of his
scenes with Leslie he was almost as effective as the more
brilliant mummer. His illness is a dreadful one. His
tongue and part of his lower jaw having been removed for
cancer.
“ Euphemia ” : I rise with ill-feeling to protest
against the idea carefully cultivated by the writers of
female letters for tLvolous papers that the Australian
girl is unanimously given to dogging the pretty actor man
with a raffish adoration. Strangers abroad would be
justified in believing that as soon as a strange, intense
actor man, with deep, dark eyes and a yearning air, strikes
Sydney or some, other Australian city, the local girl
abandons all self-respect, and spends her time openly and
shamelessly gloating on the fictitious hero. Up to now,
have not been able to discover evidence of an extensive
infatuation on the part of our girls for any painted and
bedizened performer, and my belief is that the imagina-
tion of the journalist is largely responsible for the libel.
Such a wholesale worship of the callow actor as the per-
sistent pars describe, would infer a pitiful decadence, a
disrespect for actual man, and a devotion to posings and
artifices, pads, and paints, and pretences, that would
promise badly for our country. What is the actor but a
shallow humbug, a vanity, in most cases, with the
mimetic talents of the cockatoo and the ape, mouthing
the thoughts of other men, strutting in the habiliments
of heroes, wadded, corsetted, cosmeticised, as deserving
of respect or affection as a cleverly designed marionette ?
I give my Australian sisters credit for discernment suf-
ficient to understand much of this.
Tittell Brune’s Napoleon 11., King of Rome, Duke of
Reichstadt, will have led thousands to crave information
about him. Wertheimer’s German Memoir is freshly
translated, just to hand in Australia. The marriage of
Napoleon and Marie Louise was eminently happy. She
was determined to stick to him after his abdication at
Fontainebleau, though circumstances had separated
them. She went to Savoy with her son, in a resolve to
join Napoleon at Elba. Now came in the subtle cunning
of Metternich. He .appointed Neipperg as attendant and
spy on her. Though a married man of 39, with only one
eye, and a shade over the other, he was a noted
ladykiller, with a tongue like Eve's serpent, as Fanny
Kemble said of Byron. Neipperg, with the one
eye, supplanted Bonaparte in Marie Louise’s affections.
Yet, strange to say, in after years Neipperg was chiefly
instrumental in firing young Reichstadt’s imagination
about JNlapoleon’s mighty deeds. The King of Rome was
born in 1811, died 1832. He left Paris finally when three
years old, was four in the Waterloo year, and 10 when his
father died at St. Helena. He evidently possessed a large
share of Napoleon’s capacity, and as French Emperor
might have been very like the present German Kaiser. It
is ludicrous to read that he was kept in ignorance about
Napoleon. In 1830, when Reichstadt was 19 years old,
there came a French Revolution, the sweeping away of a
King, and the installation of Louis Philippe. The Bona-
partists at once approached Metternich with proposals for
Reichstadt to be brought forward,.urging the danger of a
Republic ; but the Austrian statesman kept a level head.
Hortense, Louis Napoleon’s mother, had always a great
idea of abducting Reichstadt. and producing him in
France. Louis Napoleon (Napoleon III.) was three years
older than Reichstadt, and sprang up as an agitator when
L’Aiglon went down.
On the night before that of his death Irving acted in
“The Bells.” He was much exhausted. His valet
brought some beef extract. Irving said, ‘ Walter,, is not
this what they give to dying people ? ” *. ,
Late Daniel E. Bandmann, tragedian, was the most
troublesome star ever imported by the old Royal firm of
Coppin, Harwood, Stewart and Hennings. On the advice
of E. P. Hingston, Artemus Ward’s friend, R. S. Smythe
travelled out in the same steamer with Bandmann and on
arrival in Melbourne agreed to act as his agent. The
Melbourne business was good but the terms of the engage-
ment were such that Smythe was doubtful whether the
country business would prove sufficiently lucrative
for him. “When are you going to Ballarat, Smythe?”
asked Harwood one day. “ I don’t know that lam going
at all,” replied the agent. “ Why do you ask ? ” “Well,
you’re the only man who can manage the beast, and we
thought of asking you to represent the management as
well. We, as well as Bandmann, are on sharing terms
with the Ballarat theatre, and there is no reason why you
shouldn’t act for both. We would pay you the same
salary and commission that Bandmann pays you.”
“ Double salary and double commission would make it
worth my while, so I’ll go,” said the Much-travelled, and
he went. But fearful rows took place in Ballarat. Every
day Bandmann had a fresh grievance, and failing to get
any redress he told Smythe that he would give him a
handsome present if he could arrange with the Royal
management to cancel his contract. Previous to this, the
Royal management had promised Smy the a handsome
bonus if “he could relieve them of the brute.” Occupy-
ing a unique position, Smythe had no difficulty in arrang-
ing'terms. When he arranged to travel on his own, it
never occured to Bandmann that Smythe would not stay
with him as his manager ; but he didn’t,
“Yarrab”: It seems a disease for every she-serio to
heave off songs about “My Curly Headed Girl,” “Ma
Honey,” “Darling Bridget,” - “Oh, Flo,” and other
females. How is it that woman should be always gleeing
about her own species? To view the spectacle of an
obese fairy, in bright colored knickers and open-worked
Lisle hose, tripping about to the measure of “Linger
Longer, Lucy,” compels the query, “ Why does woman
receive so many free advts. ?” Man, who is generally
l esponsible for these maudtin vocal concoctions, ought not
to compel the opposite sex to make love to itself.
REFORM IN SYDNEY.
“By c you no Sunday beer? Me no opium pipe. We brudders in distress.?
Victor Daley.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
years ago Billy Hammond
introduced us. Daley was then living at
Abbotsford (Melb.). The back of his house
was in the direction of the IMarine 1 aiade, which
was never more than dead-marine, which the
bottle-gatherers made it.
Daley had always a man living with him. At
that time it was an ex-bank manager named Mer-
son. I was very fresh and aggressive then, and
Merson disliked me for it. But I admired Daley
so that I was shy of him. The dark red beard ;
the satiric grin suddenly replaced by a smile very
winning; the eyes frank, tender, shy and, in a
word, childish; the voice that was metallic and
could yet be tender—all these I gilded with my
admiration of the man’s written thought. One
day, loafing at full length on the basaltic flats that
end in cliffs to the Yarra, he gave me the MS. of
“ A Sunset Fantasy,’.’ and I bowed down and
worshipped.
The littlenesses of money, hustling and mutual
deviation separated us of later years, but we were
very near in thought in those days.
Merson frankly disliked me, and as I was then a
good fool and wanted to be friends with all the
world, I asked Daley, “ What have I done to him,
Vic. ? ”
He smiled. “You’re guilty of being 21 when
he’s 50.
Daley’s back fence always had a broken paling.
Strange geese came therein and ate Daley’s grass.
One day came one who went not out again. We
seized him for agistment fees.
Tom Durkin used to come there, lorn was an
inventive fellow. He once made a half grid, half
spit, of a piece of zinc and a bit of fencing-wire.
Then between us we invented the chops to cook
thereon, and the beer to drink withal.
*• * * *
We used oftenest to meet at the Pothouse, in
Sivanston-street. It was a merry company, of
little money. There were Bob Whitworth, a grey
and faded Apollo ; Jack Bunster, ex-army officer
and then story-writer, chronically hard-up, always
cheerful—good Jack Bunster, of the wondrous
youthful eyes'; Teddy Ryan, dead now, having
departed to-teach old Charon how to laugh;
Charles unor (he was my first political secretary,
and we started out at the golden age of 24 to win
a Parliamentary seat for me with £2 10s.), who
wrote “Dead Men’s Tales,” and loved arguing
unarguable things, such as political economy ;
little Albert Read, the barrister ; and another
legal light, who had for beer a love passing the
loveofawoman. Yeryrarely “Wingy” Smith came
there, but in those days he was making money
with Hindus, and was attended always by a string
of Hindus and their odors. One of Smith’s clients,
Whubby Bukks, smelled like a sheep-truck.
Even more rarely came John Finnamore, lawyer’s
clerk and author of two tragedies, very regardful
of his beer, and so polite that when the time came
for him to blow his light out he probably apolo-
gised to Mr. Death for calling him out at night.
Once there came an unacted dramatist, and he
took me to his lodgings and read me a cwt. of
plays, and as I fled from him at midnight he
bawled after me, “Come next Sunday, and we’ll
have a good long read.”
Daley was there at every session, and was king,
if that ungovernable republic could be said to have
had a leader. The lawyer with the wondrous love
of beer haunted the lock-ups, with which I had
much to do about that time, and I was continually
falling over him. On court days he was Napoleonic
in Ins pursuit of the young drunk, shamefaced
and novitiate. Mr. Parchment was an early riser.
The dryness that comes before dawn to the
drunkard, and the dromedary thirst that followed,
made him go to the ant or the pub. at 6 a.m.
Sundays were as a Sahara.
Once lie told me, when our acquaintance had
been sanctified by much beer, that-he had tried, to
be thrifty; tried to use that foresight which
every man in the law knew would have made a
judge of him but for his unfortunate failing. C
“ On'those occasions, sir, I actually took home
with me three bottles of beer e\ei'y Saturday
night. But on the second occasion the cat broke
one bottle, sir; so I became disheartened, and
drank the two bottles of beer before I went to bed
on Saturday night. I had to do it, sir ; I had to
do it in self-defence. . . Yes. . . After that I
drifted into the old way of letting Sunday take
care of itself ; and it is perhaps the wiser course,
young sir, the wiser course. Beer is better for a
little uncertainty. One has the pleasures of the
chase, eh ? —the pleasures of the chase—yes.”
Green drunkards, whom he impressed with the
terrible nature of their offence, were his only
chances of fees; but there were days when the
Thirsty One found no sad and ashamed wassailers
in the lock-up; and those days were terrible
indeed.
He came to the Pot-house one day with a thirst
stronger than his purse. Daley was declaiming
quietly, and had been interrupted by a new man,
who gravely announced that he would never learn
shorthand, as it would interfere with his literary
style. ,
Bunster took his pipe from his mouth, and
laughed the laugh of a blade of the sixteenth cen-
tury, and his blue eyes were full of joy and opti-
mism—the eyes of a boy on the head of an old man.
“God forbid your literary style should be hurt.
.... You! you’re like a hussy, always talking
about the virtue she never had. Damn it, man !
the first thing to learn is not to take yourself
seriously. You’re only the medium of your work,
good or bad as it may be.”
Said the Thirsty One: “Then you’re nob to
blame for anything you do, Bunster?”
“No.”
“ Lucky for you.” _
“He hasn’t been too lucky, have you. Jack?
said Daley, regarding Bunster with a fond eye.
“Oh, be damned ! ” replied Bunster, “I’ve had
all I deserved. We all get that. The good old
world is all right. When we’re young we waste
time, or we don t waste it,? according to the way
you regard waste; arid then, when we’re old, we
see that we were fools. If we are unjust fools we
blame the world. God bless the world. I say ! ”
The Thirsty One breathed ancient beer on the
assemblage, sighed, and blew upon his lips to cool
them. And then entered our grey Apollo, Bob
Whitworth.
“Hey, Bob,” said Daley, “where have you
been for a month ?”
The worn old face grew handsome again as he
smiled a greeting to us, and most particularly to
Bunster, whom he loved, and who loved him.
“ Where have you been, Bob ? ”
Bob spoke slowly always—“ Order your drinks
first. . . . Oh, literature failed, so I. adopted the
drama.” v.
“What, acting ? ” asked J unor.
“Yes, my son—the tragic drama. I was en-
gaged to play all the .parts in Punch-and-Judy,
which I did in twenty towns, until the winter got
into my throat and the dramatic company lost its
A fit of coughing interrupted him. He left a
few minutes later, and that was the beginning of
the breaking up of poor Apollo. .
Daley and. I had been talking apart. lhe
Thirsty One, Junor, and Jack Bunster were
arguing all things. The Thirsty One, made in-
sulting by the hot breath of yesterday’s beer, and
by his raw and uncovered nerves, which had all
come to the surface : Junor, half alert, half fool-
ish, dragging in small and ragged Latin quotations
at ’every dozen words, ready for the. moment to
commit any crime'which would give him a telling
phrase: Bunster’s eyes for a moment Inazing
porcelain blue as he was insulted, and instantly
deepening in shade to youth and humor as he
declined to allow the insult to rankle.
Daley had been quoting some of his own verse
—the hard rind of the man expressing, under the
influence of his own written, thought, only< a
melancholy tenderness. Suddenly he heard Ihe
Thirsty One insulting all such men as write it
they be not lawyers.
“ It’s cruelty to animals to allow some of you
fellows’ stuff to be printed,” said The Thirsty One.
“ I agree with you if the result is immoral,
said Junor, who cared not any more for morality
than that its expressions bulked'larger m statistics
than the other thing. _ i > *"
All the tenderness went out of Daley s voice.
He was a shy man; attack'd or slighted his
courage rose and his self-possession deserted him.
As a means of disguising his; shyness he had used
himself to taking small objects and throwing them
at pictures or at the wall while he spoke, and the
act, begun in nervousness, had become a not un-
graceful habit.
There was a litho. of Gladstone on the wall, and
one of Parnell below it. Daley grabbed a ship's
biscuit, broke it into pieces, and, with a trembling
hand, threw a piece and struck Charles Sruart
Parnell on the eye.
He spoke between his teeth, and paused after
every word or two.
“Mister —Junor’’ —(he threw half a biscuit at
Gladstone) —“ thinks —everything—can—be set-
tled ” —(he took two more ship’s biscuits from the
tray, and the sour barmaid frowned and took the
adamantine provender out of the poet’s reach) —
“ by—terms. There —is no—such thing as
morality’’—(he threw some biscuit at Gladstone)
— “or immorality”—(very appropriately he
struck Parnell with that piece) —“in art or litera-
ture —no—such—thing. There’s good art—and
bad art —and that is all. As for—cruelty to
animals —the Government should —prepare—a
special free pub. for —.” (He alluded to the
Thirsty One, and that gentleman became apo-
plectic.) Then came his elaborate insult.
“ What I have always said of your verse,” said
he, goggling at Daley, “is, that it is mere poetic
shorthand.”
Daley paled —the insult was deadly ; for a man s
work is his child, and who may brutally insult a
man’s child and live ?
Bunster laughed long and loudly, and I called
for more drinks. Daley threw a whole biscuit at
the beer engine, and the barmaid objected loudly,
and we were all friends again. The circle grew
bigger as the afternoon waned, and we drank and
talked and bandied insult for mere love of one
another. They are all gone—the Thirsty One his
thirst for ever quenched, gone to some place where
he might abjure sack and live cleanly without
effort. Whitworth died of consumption on the
threshold of old age; and Bunster, good, old,
merry Jack of the eyes that were always wondrous
voung, died alone—he who was as gregarious as a
sheep.
“ Can you imagine us sitting here, the only two
in the world, looking down on that city with all
its buildings and not a living thing in them ? ”
“Yes, Vic.”
“ It would make a man a God to do that.
“Yes. It reminds me. Do you remember
writing ?
I stood within the empty playhouse musing.
The lights were dead, the music dumb, the curtain furled,
And thought that when this play of life is o’er
So God will look upon the empty world.”
He nodded, pleased.
“Time to go home —sunset, Randolph.
“ All right, old man. And when' are you going
to write the great thing you talk about, Yic. ?” _
“Never —perhaps. Almost all the pleasure is
to fee! it—to dream it.”
‘ ‘ That won’ t do. What do you say, yourself ?
He smiled the pleasure of the poet at being con-
futed by his own rhymes. And why should not
that promise to sing the splendid song be the
splendid song itself ? , . ,
The sun set—we went down the heights ana
crossed the bridge.
* * * *
Bunster, Whitworth, Durkin, the Thirsty One.
Teddy—with whom I played a game of mad
euchre with Christmas cards—Junor, and now
Daley. All gone. Verily, “the world is a
shambles.” But damn these reminiscences—
“ aneedotage is dotage.”
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
Daley and I in Studley Park one summer after-
noon. I was 22, and self-depreciatory.
“ I’ll never be able to write, Vic.”
“ You will. Never mind wliat the others say.
I know. You’ve got stuff in you.”
“ No. Do you remember that ridiculous sitting
up all night at your house deliberately to write
literature, and we each wrote ten lines of rot,
while Billy Hammond smoked cigarettes ? And
then we drank rum ; and that was the last of our
literary evenings ? ”
“Yes, but that’s nothing against you or your
possibilities. Literature is not a thing to be done
of malice aforethought.”
We looked down upon the swift, quiet running
Yarra, at the yellow-flowered flats of Abbotsford,
at the towers and stacks and chimneys and haze
and smoke which were Melbourne, and I began to
quote his “ Reveries in Rhyme.” I knew almost
every line of verse he had written then ; and,
while I quoted, Daley purred mentally at the
compliment, which I did not then think was one :
All thing’s beneath the still sky seem
Bound by the spell of a sweet dream ;
In the dusk forest dreamingly,
Droops lowly down each pluindd head.
The river flowing softly by
Dreams of the sea ; the quiet sea
Dreams of the unseen stars, and I
Am dreaming of the dreamless dead.
The world is young-, the world is strong,
But Tin dreams have wandered long.
God lives ! What can death do to me ?
(The sun is shining on the sea.)
I yet shall sing my splendid song—
The world is young, the world is strong."


To Those Hfflicted with Sore Eyes
Dimness of Sight, Weak Eyes, Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids,
HAVE YOU TRIED -^
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
lh 'for £a s»nd? r Bli This , matveUous preparation is an absolute speciSc
tor bandy Blight, and is now in general use throughout Australasia as
THE NATIONAL EYE REMEDY.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers throughout the Continent.
If not able to obtain locally send a postal note for 1/9 to the
‘. Sole Proprietors, H. A. ROSE & CO.. 531 George St., Sydney.
BEWARE OF THE MAN WHO HAS SOMETHING JUST AS GOOD.
Amateur PhotograpHers
You will not go wrong with
your Holiday Negatives if
you make your Prints on
The Easiest, Quickest, Cheapest, and Best Printing Paper-
Prints made in a few seconds by Gas or Lamplight in the evening.
Sold in Packets. All Regular
Sizes at Popular Prices.
Instructions in every Packet.
Principal Distributors—
HARRINGTON
CO
LTD.
PHOTOGRAPHIC MERCHANTS,
336 GEORGE ST.
Near
G.P.O.
SYDNEY, AND 93 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
Society
PENFOLD'S
WINES
NEIGHBORLY.
Ive always tried to show a neighborly spirit
to them as lived in the house before you canine .
Mrs. Stooks, poor dear, as teas there last...
I laid her out. If there's any little service
I can do for you, my dear, I’ll do it, and
with pleasure ,”
A few days ago the authorities of Kew
Asylum (Melb.) reported to the police that a
patient from a private asylum was showing signs
of ill-treatment. But it now appears that the Kew
Asylum had its own little scandal on hand. On
January 12th a young woman lunatic, engaged as an
assistant in the laundry, was burned to death. A
secret inquest disclosed the fact that the laundry
“is by no means a safe place wherein insane
women and girls should work.” The belated
revelation of this hushed-up fatality and secret
inquest would seem to be the outcome of the pre-
vious revelation wherein Kew Asylum figured as a
model institution, in comparison with private asy-
lums. The pot has been rounding on the kettle.
Nothing is more productive of good than an un-
pleasant revelation. One sickening story brings
up another.
N.S.W. Attorney-General Wade refuses
to answer the problems put to him by puzzled
publicans as to the purpose of the Liquor Act he
has just passed. He is not, he says, a “legal
Aunt Sally” to face their queries; let them con-
sult their own lawyers. But surely Mr. Wade
knows the meaning of what he was responsible
for enacting ? And if he does, it is a fair
thing for him to let the public know, sp that they
may walk righteously in the path of the law.
As a bye-consequence of N.S.W. Liquor
Act there is a curious little battle between the
sexes, the issue of which will be interesting.
Since the pubs, and the supper-houses must close
at 11, Man suggests that the theatres should have
a care to finish at 10.30, and thus allow good time
for drinks ; to allow of this, performances might
begin earlier. Enter Woman, to point out that
she must have time to dress. It is difficult enough
rioW for her to swallow a cup of tea, four pepper-
mint creams, an ice and a pdt6 sandwich,
find then to have the moments necessary to
bare her shoulders and arrive at the theatre
in time to tramp over people’s toes
before they are actually absorbed in the mid-
dle of the first act. If the theatre is to begin at
an earlier hour she will have no time to dress or
to eat her frugal and disastrous meal. Thus Man
may have his whisky after the theatre only at the
expense of Woman’s tea before the theatre.
* * * *
A sensible suggestion is made by the S.A.
Attorney-General that in abortion cases resulting
in death the alleged offender should be charged,
not with wilful murder, but with a lesser offence
involving imprisonment only. He sensibly points
out that juries will not convict a man of murder
for an act which, however illegal, was performed
with the full consent, and perhaps at the solicita-
tion, of the victim. Result is that offenders escape
any punishment at all; and a punishment, to be
deterrent, must be sure if mild, rather than most
uncertain and savage.
# # f j|i
“Australis”: To relieve Sunday work,
Melb. Public Library officials have some slight
distractions. Visiting a friend one evening
lately I was led to the roof and invited to study
the view. Melbourne Hospital (partly Royal)
adjoins the Library, and—well it is really a shame
that the Hospital authorities don’t provide blinds
and curtains for the nurses’ windows.
* * * .
A man in Sydney these days if he pays his
rent and steers clear of
the Liquor Act thinks
he is keeping out of
harm's way. But let
him beware of 5 Rich-
ard 11. c. 8 sec. 21,
James I. e. 15 sec. 8,
and Henry IV. c. 9.
This a certain Thomas
A— did not do.
Having separated from
his wife, he entered
into agreement by
which the wife was to
have possession of the
house in which they
had been living and
the furniture. He
seemingly repented of
this, and came along
and turned her out of
his house. Perhaps he
thought he was only
breaking his agree-
ment ; but he reckoned
without Richard 11.,
James 1., and Henry
IV. Statutes passed
in the reigns of those
long-deceased gentle-
men provided that if
anyone forcibly and
with a strong hand en-
tered a messuage and
did unlawfully expel
anyone therefrom, and
did hold the same un-
lawfully and with a
strong hand, he should
be guilty of forcible
entry and detainer, the
punishment for which
may be imprisonment
and ransom at the
King’s will. So the
said Thomas A
finds himself com-
mitted for trial. The
next gentleman who
, , has any ddmestic
wrong had better turn up the statutes of William
I. before he does anything rash.
* * * *
Daily paper item :
Edmund J. Pearce, teacher of the public school at
Pooncarie, has been drowned whilst bathing in the
Darling River. Deceased leaves a widow and child.
So this unfortunate teacher was spending his
vacation m one of the hottest places in the State.
The conclusion is forced that he was unable to
leave the place owing to the great cost of doing
so. The Education Department has carefully
classed the divisions of the State, and has pro-
vided for extended vacations in the western dis-
trict at midsummer. And £BB per annum is the
amount usually paid to teachers in the far back
schools—or Sheols ! The married man with £BB
a year has a fine chance of a holiday.
* * • *
A valuable provision of the new Victorian
Pure Pood Act is that all temperance drinks must
be made from water sterilised or filtered to the
satisfaction of the Board of Health. This should
make better citizens of the anti-beer men, whose
soured view of life is probably in a large measure
due to the germs in the lemonade.
THEOLOGY UP TO DATE.
SCHOOL-TEACHER (reading): “‘And Abraham
went and took the ram, and offered him up
for a burnt offering instead of his son.’ How
what lesson do you gather from that? ”
BRIGHT BOY : “ Not to steal sheep. The sheep
didn't belong to Abraham.”
Your fate, if prosecuted under N.S.W.
Liquor Act, is largely a gamble. Two men found
drinking in an upstairs room in an hotel proved
that they had engaged rooms for the night, and as
their names were entered in the hotel books, their
lawyer pleaded that they were entitled to drink
till daylight if they chose, and never go to bed at
all. They were fined. In another case the man
in blue raided an hotel and discovered two
men in a room, in bed with their clothes
on. There was a plentiful supply of grog
in the room, and the officer reckoned that
being in bed with their clothes on proved that
the men were not genuine lodgers, and had only
taken refuge in bed to escape being detected
drinking. The Magistrate thought differently :
personally he always got into pyjamas before going
to bed, but if any man liked to go to bed with his
clothes on, he was at liberty to do so, and that did
not deprive him of his drinking rights as a lodger.
Case dismissed. Another publican who supplied
liquor to a lodger and a friend in a private room
pleaded that he was compelled to do so by law.
The lodger had invited his friend to stay the
night, and ordered refreshments to be sent to a
private room, and, as the hotel existed for the con-
venience of people who lodged there, and the Act
said that such lodgers could be supplied, the
lodger had legal right to be served. Case dis-
missed. By the way, is it part of the police duty
now to investigate hotel bedrooms and turn down
the clothes to see if the bed occupants are genuine
lodgers? If so, does this apply to lodgers of both
sexes ?
• * * *
Is a man, pushing a cart along, driving or
walking ? This is the latest legal question which
the High Court will yet have to decide. A Ben-
digo tribunal was asked to fine a man last week
because he was pushing a barrow along the right
hand side of the road, the police holding that he
was “driving on the wrong side.” His lawyer
contended, just as stoutly, that he was obeying
the bylaw that compels pedestrians to keep to the
right. The court fined him Is., notice of appeal
being given. When this weighty point is decided,
the next one for the world’s jurists is whether a
man leading a dog by a piece of string is a pe-
destrian or a driver.
* * * *
“F.C.” : The indeterminate sentence now
being served by N.S.W. bankrupt Waddell in-
terests me as to one point in particular. Waddell
says he may not account for certain payments be-
cause of a promise he made to some person—a
man, not a woman. It is understandable that a
woman should refuse to open her mouth in such
a case, but, presuming Waddell’s story is correct,
what sort of a man is it that declines to release
another from his promise when the keeping of it
involves apparently perpetual imprisonment?
“Bend
Or,” from
the inside:
R& the in-
crease in lu-
nacy. Every
new flight of
science in
the world of
invention
claims it s
little lot of
lunatics. We
have the
t e 1 e p h one
lunatic, the
wireless tele-
graph, the
phonograph,
and the radi-
um ditto ; in
fact, an asy-
lum is a howl-
ing menag-
erie of living
representa-
tions of terms
which dis-
turb th e
modern sci-
ence groper.
How the re-
cords would
show if we
were merely
b 1 u ndering
along in the
old stage-
coach and
lamp - stink
days is a
problem be-
yond me ;
but this I do
know, that
whenever
the announce-
ment is made
that Professor
Bi crobe has
made a new and
startling discovery,
we always expect the
early arrival of a per-
manent boarder with
the new craze ; and we
always get him.
* W
A precocious Maori-
land youth, aged eight,
lately got on a train and
had travelled some distance
before the guard discovered that he didn’t belong
to anybody, that he was consigned to nobody, that
he had no ticket, and that he only wanted to reach
London, and didn’t know what he would do when
he got there.
* * * *
A fine scheme for providing the nucleus of
the crews for an Australian navy is the Boys’
Naval Brigade, formed in Vic. a year or two ago
and now extending over every seaport in the
State. The Boys’ Brigade is the natural extension
of the cadet system to the navy. The youngsters
are drilled and trained in musketry and marching
like military cadets, and, in addition, they are
taught swimming, handling boats, and the rudi-
ments of naval education. A few weeks ago they
held their first camp, and the results were most
encouraging.
* * * *
Recently there were numerous complaints
at a public baths in Melbourne as to the loss of
articles by bathers. A detective was called in,
and, after thoroughly investigating the matter, he
found a simple solution of the difficulty. “Sup-
ply every person with a key.” “Yes, sir,”
replied the caretaker, “ and where would they put
them ? ” Sherlock Holmes hadn’t thought of that.
* * * *
Advt. from Melb. Age, January 16 :
“V'OUTH, strong, £1 month, keep, shallow digging,
country, play accordeon preferred; open until
Friday, 4 Moore-street, Footscray.
Is it a grave-digger who finds his job lying heavily
upon him like a tombstone, and wants a boy to
sit on the next grave and puff out “The Old Bull
and Bush” ?
* * * *
Townsville (Q.) Chows have opium enough
in hand to last them three months. Then comes
prohibition.
THE NEW MAD OURE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(Suggested by some recent a’legatioiis.)
Sound thumping and beating
Are good ways of treating
Old Johnnies whose reason has fled ;
Within an asylum
You lightly beguile 'em
By knocking them hard on the hea l.
The cut and contusion
Supplied in profusion
Are things that all lunatics need,
And muscular keepers
In blacking their peepers
Should always take care tl at they bleed.
A nose nicely broken
Will count as a token
Of kindness received in the cell,
Where a person demented
Is never contented
Unless he mistakes it for h —l.
For this is the latest of all the improvements
In curative treatment of mental disease,
This system of what is called “ combative movements,”
The finest of which is a kick on the knees.
You take an old chap when his senses are scattired,
His name and location you can’t make him tell,
But when he’s been carefully pounded and battered,
He gets the idea that he’s living in h —l;
A sudden light gleams through the mind that is shattered
He sanely supposes he’s living in h —l.
E.F.
HAUNTED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Across my path a shadow lies—
The shadow of a little child
(0 stumbling feet and shining eyes !):
Oh tiny grave with red sods piled.
... Unto my arms no more she’ll creep,
No more into my eyes she’ll gaze.
They wonder why I crouch and weep
While all the world in sunlight plays.
I loathe the night! But when it’s late
I have my hour. I climb the stair
And seek the couch where oft we sate,
And lay my load of sorrow there.
The blind is drawn, no moonlight pries,
No voices jar, or faces stare ;
Across my path no shadow lies—
Just God, and she, and I are there.
Across my path a shadow lies—
A cry within my heart rings wild
(Oh stumbling feet and shining eyes'.) —
The shadow of a little child.
vie.
DOROTHY FRANCES M'ORAE.


JAMES R. LAWSON & LITTLE,
'T
Fine Art & General Auctioneers,
128-130 PITT STREET (near King Street), SYDNEY.
The Cleverest CUTTERS and FITTERS in New
South Wales, regardless of expense, are engaged by
R. C. HAGON
Merchant Tailor,
129 Ring Street.
Acknowledged the Leading House in Sydney for
Original Designs in Tweeds, Coatings, Homespuns,
and Trouserings.
: WRITE for patterns and illustrated booklet.
“D.” : "What a humorlessly imitative bird
the wealthy Australian abroad becomes! Have
seen him in shoals, solemnly swallowing the waters
at Homburg and Carlsbad about August; doing
the little regulation walk; eating the unpleasant
little regulation hygienic meal; and, in fact, going
the entire curativehog. He is supposed to be suffer-
ing a recovery (in company with EdwardVll.) after
the excesses (in company with Edward VII.) of
the late London season : mostly he has never had
a chance of exceeding, but that’s another story.
I coidd show those Australians on their return a
spot (Yarrangobilly) in the Monaro district where
they would get better air, finer scenery, an equally
efficacious mineral spring, and the same plain
food—at about one-twentieth the foreign cost.
Moreover, I would throw in a trout river free for
which they would cheerfully pay vast sums in the
Cold Country. But I don’t expect the most dys-
peptic Australian to rush my offer. The place
lacks the cachet of that stout little man in the
green feathered hat.
* * * »
A sign of the times. A recent Melbourne
Age contained two advertisements for tuition in
the Japanese language—one from a school which
evidently is going to teach Jap.
m m * *
“P.” (Melb.) is thoughtful for the
young :
Late-evening suburban trains from Brighton, Box-hill,
Heidelberg, etc., are jiist now full of flannel-shirted boys
and fat, sun-burned little girls who dash madly up and
down the train looking for an empty compartment, so that
they may cuddle all the way home. They embarrass us
other passengers, who hate to disturb their gurgling joys,
but must do so while they patronise the well-patronised
first-class carriages. Let me give them a tip. Second-
class smokers are used almost exclusively by working-
men going to and from work, at fixed hours. At the
hours when the young go forth to canoodle, they are
empty. Having given this tip, let me iiope that I may
henceforth sit in a train without being glared at by two
warm little animals in the corner.
On the stone gate-posts of
Darlinghurst Court, Sydney, is
the carving in the margin. It is
intended for the scales of Justice.
But how remarkably like a double
gallows supporting two triangles ?
♦ * *
Publication in the Australian papers of
facts as to the cruel treatment, by an English
clergyman and his wife, of their Mary Ann (they
used to wallop her with a big stick, a hair-brush,
the toasting-fork and other queer instruments of
chastisement), reminds that in Australia the
domestic-who-knows carefully avoids “holy
houses.” Where prayers are rife, food is poor
and work is hard. One help, who had had a par-
ticularly hard time, was asked by writer why she
had stood it so long. “When I used to ‘give
notice,’ they’d pray at me and give me the notion
that if I left it was equal to going to a life of sin.
Then I’d stay, and they’d give thanks and sing
‘ A little talk with Jesus makes all right again.’
But no more pious houses for me ! ’ ”
DEGREE DEFINED.
MR. LONGTHIRST (to friend who has just ordered
two “ thrippenny ” beers): “Call that a
shout ! Why, its on’y a whisper!”
Has Dill Macky noticed that a Celtic
cross is topping the Macneil Memorial Church
being erected at Waverley ? Such an ornament
savors of Paddy, the Pope, and the Scarlet
Woman.
* * ... * *
“High collars,” said the doctor, “are a
curse. Ninety per cent, of the cases of throat
consumption that have come under my notice are
high-collared gentlemen ; and I can quite under-
stand how it conies about. Men have themselves
walled round to the ears during the sweltering
heat of a day in town ; and, after business, in the
evenings, the walls are thrown aside for comfort —
and colds. It used to be those old-fashioned com-
forters that caused the trouble, but the elevated
collars are worse; for the comforters, being of wool,
did let a little atmosphere in. The men, I have
found, who leave their shirt fronts wide open
oftenest are those who are least troubled with
chest complaints.”
Many of the women who whisper words of
temptation to the passing male in the streets of
Melbourne these nights are dressed in nurses’
garb. It almost seems as if the genuine nurse
would have to abandon the uniform to her fallen
sister. •
“F.C.” on
a matter relat-
ing to the innu-
merable cara-
van of the
dead :
Observing-that
Melbourne ’Er-
ald has lately
been much dis-
turbed in intel-
lect over the
neglected condi-
tion of the Old
Cemetery in
West Melbourne,
I strolled round
that placid God’s
Acre lately. It
is neglected cer-
tainly in that
there are no
mathematically-
planned walks or
flower beds, no
tins of artificial
flowers,- no shell
rockeries, but
otherwise the
place is only get-
ting back to
Nature —save for
the decaying
head-stones as
it was when the
blackfellovv
chased his gin
through the bush
thereabouts; The
nloutids have
mostly sunk to
earth-level, and
the long grass
and luxuriant
shrubs make it.
almost a wild
bush paddock.
It is now merely
the last resting-
place of the for-
gotten pioneers,
and it looks it.
What more is
needed? Those
pioneers, by the
way, didn’t
splash their capi-
tal on gaudy
tombstones, an or-
nate marble slab 10ft.
high being apparently
the most expensive. Many are of wood —one, a
simple pine slab, has stood the storms and stress of 50
years so well that the inscription in black paint is still
legible. A few are of iron sheets, a quarter inch thick,
with embossed lettering. These ancients planted nearly all
their dead facing the East; later generations in the big
cemetery in Carlton laid them all ways. The earliest
burial seems to have taken place in ’4O, and the grave that
holds that first deceased contains seven of his relatives—
the last going home only the other day, March ’O4.
One epitaph alone is worth quoting—“ Near this spot
lies the body of John Gauthorp, of Manchester, England,
who departed this life on the sth of May, 1853, aged 37
years. A victim to a faithless and ungrateful wife.” This
is on a plain sandstone slab which, at some very subse-
quent period, was broken in two and neatly repaired
with cement. Possibly the faithless wife fractured it—or
possibly it was accidentally smashed and the repentant
lady repaired it. But the most suggestive monument in
the burying-ground is the stump of an old gum tree.
The pioneers were too busy to grub out the roots,
and it stands among the graves, with the axe-marks still
visible, a solid block sft. in diameter. Away back in the
days of Cromwell it was a good-sized tree, older than
most of us are to-day.
■t •* * *
Latest development of the automobile is
the “ Turret Car, 5 ' an armored fighting machine
carrying a field piece and capable of travelling 25
miles an hour. The gun is mounted in a revolving
turret, and the drivers and crew are under cover
of i-inch pressed steel shields with curving edges.
The machine has been submitted to very severe
tests over ploughed fields and across broken
country, on rough roads and grass land, and
averaged a speed of 25 miles an hour. It can
take guns wherever horses can, and at three times
the speed, and as long as fuel lasts, without grow-
ing tired as the animal does. It has all the
advantages of the armored train without its fatal
draw-back, the limitation to rails that can be torn
up. The car can go anywhere, and manoeuvre as
desired, and it brings to land warfare all the
excitement and dash of sea-fighting. Cavalry can
only go till the horses are worn out; a force of
fighting cars can raid indefinitely as long as fuel
lasts. The men can sleep, or at least rest, while
rushing at 25 miles an hour to another spot to
strike a fresh blow.
* * * *
Willie, aged 9 years, of an up-country Vic.
town, is probably the most adventurous youth in
Australia. Since September he has run away four
times, twice taking little brother Arthur (7 years)
with him. On each occasion he has been a.way
two or three days before capture. After his
second last bolt Willie was solemnly warned by
Dickson, P.M. Next day he bolted again (with
Arthur). They took the old man’s horse, and a
neighbor’s, and the neighbor’s dog. Neighbor’s
horse proved (said Willie) too slow ; they turned
it loose and commandeered another. Then they
found a place where there was an unbroken pony ;
Willie discarded horse number two, and broke the
pony in. The youngsters lived in the bush from
Tuesday till Saturday. Willie’s downfall came
when he tried to sell the pony—now broken for a
l a^y —foj- a fiver. It was recognised. Willie and
Arthur clapped spurs and rode away like true
highwaymen, but the police whacked the bush and
found them. Now, Willie (9) goes to the Industrial
School to learn less glorious forms of adventure.
The old man guarantees to keep Arthur (7) in order.
* * * *
Rivalry between the Sydney Ferries Co.
and the Balmain Ferry Co. is interesting just now.
Balmain Co., in acquiring the Lane Cove Ferry
wharf, got a li foothold ’ at Circular Quay,
whence it was intended to invade Middle Harbor.
Sydney Ferries met this with the announcement
that a service would be run to Balmoral and the
Spit, both purely holiday resorts, from their
wharf, Circular Quay. Here the Sydney Harbor
Trust took a hand. In order to keep from the
congested. Quay the holiday traffic, the Trust
has built splendid wharfage accommodation
at Fort Macquarie, open to all steamers,
at 10s. a berth. To save this fee, and because a
start from the Quay suits the unthinking lazy
public, the ferry cos. choose to ignore Fort Mac-
quarie. So the Trust framed a regulation with a
£lOO fine for any other steamer but a bona fide
daily ferry steamer departing or arriving at the
Quay. The Sydney Ferries immediately altered
their service to a daily one, and, by dragging in
Clifton Gardens, describe it as a bona fide North
Sydney ferry service. This aspect of the traffic is
to receive the attention of the law courts.
MORE LABOR PROBLEMS.
ALGERNON : “I think I hear your father coming.”
SUSE: “ Then get further away quickly; he
doesn't give ‘preference to unionists .”
STEPPING STONES
[For The Bulletin.
Love is on the other side,
Let me find the ferry ;
Till he nestles by my side
How can I be merry ?
Love is on the other side,
I must ferry over ;
Who can tell how long may bide
Such an arrant rover?
Not a ferry ! Not a boat !
Love, ’tis bootless calling !
Bird and boat alone may float
O’er this water brawling.
“ Try the stepping stones,” you
say—
Ah ! my pretty master,
Stepping stones before to-day
Led to grim disaster.
“ ’Tis so easy ! ’’—cease, I pray,
Like a fond dove cooing ;
Still the stream runs on its way,
Mine would be the rueing.
“ Tho’ its help no ferry brings,
Tho’ you are faint-hearted ”
(Love laughs out), “ since I have w'ings,
Shall w»e long be parted? ”
m.l. Roslyn.
* * * *
“ Gumleaf ” : I wonder is Harry Rickards
looking for another Peggy Pryde. The other day
I told you about a Callan Park episode related me
by my little housemaid (good old Australia ! No
bowing and scraping with our domestics). Two
more samples of her stories (always told at
the first possible opportunity after a holiday):—
Merry Christmas ? Nice merry Christmas I ’ad ! Me
brother Thomas fell down the rocks at the picnic. ’E’s in
the ’orspital now'. The doctor don’t know w’ether ’is
back’s broke or not. Nearly all ’is front teeth is out
Me cousin got drowned. Funeral was Friday. Mournin’
coaches jam full, an’ er lot er carts an’ things. An’ w'ot
d’yer think. The lady opersit comes over an’ sez to me
aunt, “Enny objecksionster me cornin’ to the funeral, Mrs.
Ginnis ? ” “ None whatever,” sez aunt. The whole mornin’
we was all rushin’ round borrerin’ black things. Wot sh’d
she do (she’s no lady) but come in a blue blouse and spoil
the whole funeral. Me cousin Ethel’s got the measles.
C’n I ’ave New Year’s Day ?
Another day (had been home for an hour)
Me sister Liz’s married. She come ’ome yesterday after-
noon, newdress, ’igh-’eeled shoes, feathers long’s yer arm
in ’er ’at. Sat down. “ I’m married on the sly,” sez she.
Me mother screamed ; me father sez (takin’ ’is pipe out
er ’e’s mouth) “ Git out.” I sez, “ Where’s yer marriage
lines?” She sez, “I ain’t got ’em on me ; they’re at ’is
place.” Me mother wipes the suds off ’er arms, wipes ’er
face all over with the corner of ’er apron, puts on ’er ’at.
She sez ter me, “ Look after them kids, I’m goin’ ter see
them lines.” So me mother went out with Liz. She ain’t
ome yet. I ’ad ter leave th’ kids. Me father’s drunk.
’Two er them eggs we got at Tibbs’ this mornin’ W'as bad.
’E ’ad no steaki so I got chops.
Melbourne Age, which professes strong
democratic tendencies, published the other day a
long yarn about local citizen James Mailer and
“ his right by descent to the Scottish titles of
Duke of Gordon, Lord Lochinvar, Lord Lorn,
Earl of Atholl, Lord Gordon of Strathbogie, Earl
of Norwich, Baron Gordon of Huntley and Earl of
Huntley. He traces his connection with the great
Gordon family from 1050 to 1904, beginning with
Adam de Gordon, who was killed at the siege. Of
; Alnwick in 1093.” On his own merits Mailer is a
person to be respected. In his capacity as
mechanical and constructive, he has
helped to fix up machinery for sugar works in
Queensland. He made money by making bricks
in Westralia, and now he is spending it in the
attempt to prove that he is the lawful lord of vast
estates in Britain —a gilded drone in his own right,
a “noble” incubus on the people, by virtue of
his alleged relationship to a bloodthirsty swash-
buckler who came to a fittingly violent end Anno
Domini 1093. The subject is worthy of another
of Gilbert’s “Bab Ballads.” An active and
intelligent brickmaker perches himself upon a
throne of bricks and trills his lay of aristocracy—
Serjeant Ballantyrie bil UnjUst tf bit vittti bits i
l)uring lily experience I have rarely kiiowh a thoroughly
innOcent person convicted. I must, however, except one
class of cases in which I have seen very grave errors com-
mitted by juries, and I fear that many innocent people
have suffered. I allude to charges preferred by women
against the opposite sex. Juries in many of these
instances seem to bid adieu to common sense. The tears
of a good-looking girl efface arguments of counsel and the
suggestions of reason. However absurd and incredible
the story told may be, a fainting fit at an appropriate
time removes from their minds all its improbabilities. I
have often wished that such charges might be disposed of
by a jury of matrons. I could record many instances in
which I believe there has been a lamentably wrong con-
clusion arrived at against the person charged.
In one such case in. which Ballantyne was con-
cerned during his early career the defendant was
a fashionable barber. He was sentenced to a long
term of transportation, which was subsequently
remitted. The wife of the then Governor of
N.S.W. was in London at the time, and was
alleged to have implored the Home Secretary to
carry out the sentence, “ as there was not a decent
hairdresser in the colony”!
THIS
UTILITARIAN
AGE.
H E: “ Shall I tell
you how beauti-
ful you are?”
SHE: “ You may; but your drink will cost you
sixpence just the same.”
One of the best-known Bohemian resorts
of Melbourne has been swept away. Signora
Rovida, who for years ran “El VdSuvio,” the
Italian restaurant and cabaret in Exhibition-st.,
has been squeezed out of her haunt by the Salva-
tion Army. The Army bought the lease over the
old lady’s head and told her to quit. The
cockatoo, and the maccaroni, and the garlic and
the vermouth of that establishment are things of
the past.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
THE ACKNOWLEDGMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ All the world it loves a lover 1 ’*
So, beloved, loving you,
I have loves the wide world over,
Truer that they know me true.
“ If that be,” she answered softly,
And her arms about me curl’d,
“ Dare you leave me but a minute
I’ll be jealous of the world.”
E.S.E.
I’m lord of Lochinvar and Lorn,
And likewise Strathbogie ;
Three earls I’ve been s'nee I was born,
And the Duke of Gordon’s me.
My right to rank as baron, too,
I’m striving hard to show,
For I trace descent from a bounder who
Was captain of a lawless crew
Eight hundred years ago.
**’ * *


Shorthand, Bookkeep-
ing - , Engineering,
Drawing, &c.
“Home Study” Post Free.
STOTT & HOARE’S
Business College,
Moore Street, Sydney [2
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY
64 Pill St, SYDNEY appl.A"Ces_p„op. |_ TD . sO4 Little Co]l , ns S( „ MELBOURNE
Stocks STEEL RAILS, TIPPING TRUCKS, TRAMWAY MATERIAL.
Portable Engines, Vertical & Horizontal Engines, High Speed Engines
EXPLOSIVES and MINING REQUISITES </enera//y. L ‘ Rht & cONCENTRATING MACHINERY.
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER, Managing Director.
ROBEY
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Victoria has £1,513,200 of foreign debt falling
due at the end of this half-year, and Bent is going to pay
off J. Bull to that extent. He didn’t take kindly to the
idea of paying an underwriter’s commission, but was per-
suaded that the Stock Exchange, when it isn’t singing
‘ patriotic ” songs, is a hungry wolf whose friendship can
only be bought with plenty of bones. The usual people,
therefore, are to do the underwriting. The amount asked
for is £1,600,000, and lenders are offered three options'; at
the minimum these yield from £3 148. 3d. to £3 17s. 7d.
per cent. As this is a good deal above bank-rate, there is
likely to be a considerable rush of small tenderers, as well
as the usual big ones ; and the conversion will therefore
run through like water.
* * • „
The half-yearly meetings of the Sydney banks
of issue now on, are very ill-timed. The directors of these
establishments are nearly all to be found among the
supporters of the blubber of New South Wales, over the
sacrifices ” of the State for federation. These half-
yearly meetings nearly all tell the same tale, of the
increasingly prosperous state of things prevailing in the
despairing Ma State. One bank alone (the Commercial of
Sydney) chronicles deposit-increases which are a record.
* * » *
When it was announced that the N.S.W.
Government had sold by auction the vacant land in
Moore-street, opposite the Post Office, it was mentioned
that under arrangements with the Government, the
purchasers would erect offices to be used as an information
bureau and central booking office.” Why wasn’t the fact
that the Government was prepared to take a 30yr. lease of
the premises made known to the public? Had the
vendor given the public the guarantee that it gave one
possible purchaser in private, it is almost certain that, in
view of the present plentiful supply of money, several
co. s would have offered more than the University did.
Under the circumstances, the public offer of the land was
a, farce, and the business reflects the usual discredit upon
the Oarruthers Govt.
.** * *
The Comhebcial Banking Co. op Sydney
To Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
June, 1899.. £42,340 8 p.c. =£40,000 £2,340 £1,029,021
Dec., 1899.. 45,251 9,, „ 45,000 251 1,029 272
June, 1900.. 50,880 10 „ ~ 50,000 880 1 030152
Dec., 1900.. 51,509 10 „ „ 50,000 1,509 1,031’661
June, 1901.. 51,228 10 „ „ 50,000 1,228 1,032,889
Dec., 1901.. 51,249 10 „ „ 50,000 1,249 1,034,138
June, 1902.. 51,254 10 „ „ 50,000 1,254 1,035;392
Dec., 1902.. 51,455 10 „ „ 50,000 1,455 1,036 847
June, 1903.. 58,768 10 „ „ 50,000 8,768 1,045 615
Dec., 1903.. , 64,649 10 „ „ 50,000 14,649 1,060’264
June, 1904.. 65,555 10 „ „ 50,000 15,555 1,075 819
? eC- ’ Ioa!" a s Al° 1( * ” ” 60 ’ 000 15 > 570 1,091,389
June, 1905.. 65,204 10 „ „ 50,000 15,204 1,106,593
Dec., 1905.. 65,263 10 ~ ~ 50,000 15,263 1,121,856
Profits have been maintained, thanks to the reduction of
the rate for deposits, and, in this case, probably also to an
active foreign exchange business ; and no doubt a smaller
provision for bad and doubtful debts has been deemed
necessary. The deposits have in bulk far out-run the ad-
vances, as this comparison shows:—
Dec.,’o4. Dec.; ’O5.
Deposits .. £11,602,050 £13,165,595 Inc. £1,563 545
Notes .. 433,752 488,627 Inc. 54 875
®. s .y •• 601,360 821,883 Inc. 220,523
Liquid assets 5,629,486 7,877,418 Inc 2 247 932
Advances 8,708,162 8,318,151 Dec. Woil
Premises, &c. 447,850 459,425 Inc. 11^575
2oaa a,? l i llion j* nd a half more deposits in 12 months, and
£390,011 less advances. The result (added to some other
minor movements) is an extra £2,247,932 of liquid assets,
home of these extra assets, fortunately for the bank are
earning a trifle ; thus about £300,000 has been put ’into
Government securities. But the greater part is either in
.London, at short cal], or on the way there. Twelve
months ago London banks had only £l5 000 of
the Commercial’s money ; now they have £1 087 850
In this way money which ought to be earning
5 or 6 per cent, for Australians in Australia is,
tor want of securities, driven away to Britain ; instead
of its being used in Australia to help supply Australia’s
needs, and to finance Australian manufacturers, it is
being used to finance foreign manufacturers. Instead of
being used to make industries hum in Australia it
is being used to make industries hum somewhere
else and incidentally to prevent them humming
in Australia. And instead of the Australian bank
shareholder earning 5 or 6 per cent, with that
money, he gets only 1£ or 2 per cent. ; and every
morning the depositor takes up the paper in fear that he
will read of a further cut in the rate he gets. Then he
holds meetings to denounce the Federal Parliament—not
for maintaining the present fool of . a tariff, which is
almost wholly responsible for these things, but for some
vague interference with the “rights” of Sydney to have
a 4ederal capital alongside its own back door. If Sydney
watched its front door better, and gave the back door a
rest, it would improve the look of these banking figures.
Meantime, though deposit rates have been cut down the
earnings on the basis of shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserves) naturally sag :
June, 1902 .. £5 0 9 p.c. June, 1904 .. £6 7 3p c
Dec., 1902.. 5 1 1 „ Dec., 1004.. 6 6 4
June, 1903.. 5 15 4 ~ June, 1905,. 6 4 8 ”
Dec., 1903 .. 6 6 5,, Dec., 1905 .. 6 3 10 ”
If there were the work for it to do in Australia, this bank
coidd certainly do a great deal more. At present no less
than 55 per cent, of its liabilities to the public are in
liquid securities ; and seeing how it stands with the
Ku I<! ;^ 3s per cent - would probably be an ample holding.
The other 20 per cent, represents depositors’ and share-
holders money locked up in the safes or lent out at U or
cent, in London because Australia won’t put on a
tariff heavy enough to secure the industries which would
profitably absorb the capital.
The Queensland National Bank, which sus-
?Q<vr ef * an s* arran &ed with its creditors again in
1897, and still further re-arranged matters in 1904 pub-
fishes reports which have been suspected of not always
show ing the exact position. But, as far as the figures go
here they are for some recent years : h ’
. „ _ Repaid Repaid Total
Gross Written Govern- Private Re-
Profits. Off. ment. De- serves.
positors.
■'££ ■ £ £ £
Dec., 1899 .. 27,341 • 15,341 3000 6000 12 000
June, 1900 .. 27,447 15,447 3000 6000 15 000
Dec., 1900 .. 27,712 15,712 3000 6000 18^000
June, 190 x .. 28,350 16,350 3000 6000 21 000
Dec., 1901 .. 28,745 16,745 3000 6000 24^00
June, 1902 .. 25,605 13,605 3000 6000 27 000
Dec., 1902 .. 22,329 10,329. 3000 6000 30 000
June, 1903 .. 21,660 9,660 3000 6000 33 000
Dec., 1903 .. 21,777 9,777 3000 6000 36 000
June, 1904 .. 21,822 9,822 3000 6000 39’000
Dec., 1904 .. 21,823 9,823 9000 42 009
June, 1905 .. 22,009 10,009 9000 45 000
Dec., 1605 ~ 22,307 10,307 - 9000 48,000
In addition to the writings-off which are shown, there
have possibly been some that are not shown. The 1897 '
re-arrangement was based on an overhaul of securities bv
a Commission appointed by the late Hugh Nelson, then
Treasurer. This Commission found that, after deducting
shareholders’ funds, there was a deficit of £1,252,810;
and by the end of the current half-year this amount will be
more than covered by the debt to old depositors (payable
only out of profits), and the amounts shown to have been
written off out of profits. Towards filling the hole that
the Commmission discovered, this much has been done
Written off outiof profits £206,491
Depositors repaid out of profits .. 105,000
Government „ „ „ .. 39,000
Reserves accumulated 48,000
Total .. £398,491
That, besides anything that may have been written off
internally, is the net improvement in the position since
the end of 1896. Whether the exact size of the hole was
then ascertained is another matter. The Commission
acknowledged that it didn’t do anything drastic in the
way of re-valuation ; and the chances are that, seeing how
badly things went in Queensland for a few years after the
re-valuation was made, general-manager Ralston reckoned
it necessary to do some further writing-dovvn on his own
account. In that case, the position, so far as current
business goes, is better than the figures suggest.
The entire situation with regard to the Q.N.’s
old troubte is shown next
1897. 1905. Reduction.
Government deposits
(reconstructed) .. £1,833,327 £1,291,465 £541,862
Interminable stock
(debt to old deposi-
tors) 3,116,621 3,116,621 Nil
Debt to old depositors
repayable out of pro-
fits -. .. .. 1,038,874 933.874 105,000
Due to bank (debts in
suspense) .. .. 742,835 445,579 297,256
The old Government deposits mentioned in the first line
haven’t, of course, been reduced to that extent out of
profits ; the repayments have been partly provided by get-
ting in the old debts in suspense through realising securi-
ties, and partly by using other deposits for the purpose.
These old Government deposits, which now carry £2 12s.
6d. per cent, interest, have to be got rid of under the 1904
arrangement by 1921—equal instalments are repayable
annually. This means repaying money which is costing the
bank only £2 l2s. 6d. percent. ; and that money has to be
found (£86,097 of it a; year) even if the bank has to pay it
with fixed deposits which may cost 3J per cent. On the
other hand, the rapid discharge of the old debt will most
likely give the Q.N. a better name, especially as all new
business is specially protected, and the chances are that
current account money will flow in, and help to turn the
bank’s latest deal with the Government into a profit. To
be able to use free money to repay money which is
costing £2 12s. 6d. per cent, won’t be bad business. It
has to be remembered that against the old Government
depSsits there are assets worth (according to the Nelson
Commission) 20s. in the £ (the deficit has been provided
for in other ways) ; so if private deposits are swopped for
old Government deposits, there will be something sub-
stantial against the private deposits. It won’t be like
taking deposits on the doubtful security of an old
drunk.
At present, anyhow, the Q.N. isn’t short of
money. There has been a heavy increase of deposits in
the 12 months
_ T ■ ~ . Dec., 1904. Dec., 1905. Increases.
New Private Deposits.. £1,251,783 £1,617,176 £365,393
New Govt. Deposits .. 465,000 535,294 70,294
Bills in Circulation, &c. 663,563 752,949 89 386
All Liquid Assets .. 1,759,836 2,106’,561 346 725
Advances .. .. 4,926,337 4,953,744 27 407
Premises 275,938 277,862 1,924
This bank has so many old bad accounts to wind
up that it might get through a large amount of
new advance business without showing anything large
in the way of net increase in advances. The 'figures
do show a small increase, but -apparently not as much
as the bank could very comfortably stand; for the
liquid assets represent no less than 72£ per cent, of all
new deposits, bills, and such liabilities, though the larger
part of it is in a form that allows it to earn
On shareholders’ capital (£413,241) and reserves, the disl
closed profits show the following return for recent
periods:—
June, 1902.. £ll 14 4 p.c. June, 1904.. £9 14 4n c
Dec., 1902.. 10 3 0 „ Dec., 1904.. 913 o
June, 1903.. 915 6 ~ June,1905.. 913 5 ”
Dec., 1903.. 915 3 ~ Dec., 1905.. 914 8 ”
But these figures shouldn’t be swallowed without sale.
First, after throwing as much as they can spare to the
wolf called Contingencies, 75 p.c. of what is left must go
to the old depositors, and at even the present increased
rate of repayment, they won’t be satisfied for 52 years.
But doubtless long before 52 years have run, Con-
tingencies won’t be such a ravenous wolf ; and then with
75 p.c. of the profits going to the old depositors, and the
balance available for dividend, the old score will be wiped
out much more 1 jpidly. F
* * * *
The Commercial Bank of Australia, from the
1901 re-valuation :—•
Profits Dividends
(less loss (3 p.c.) Written Added Re-
on Assets on Pref. Off. to Re- serves
Trust). Shares. serves.
June,’ol.. £l6 917
Dec., ’Ol.. £42,400 £31,758 £lO 702 i>7’mo
June,’o2.. 38,434 31,758 6,676 34 295
Capital Forfeited .. 143,000 177’295
Dec., ’02.. 39,194 31,759 _ 7,435 184 730
Capital Forfeited .. 3,000 187 730
June, 03.. 37,442 31,759 5,683 193 413
Capital Forfeited .. 2,500 195’<m
Dec., ’03.. 40,638 31,759 - 8,879 204 792
Capital Forfeited .. 1,500 20fi’29?
June,’o4.. 38,746 31,759 £15,521
Dec., ’04.. 41,461 31,760 9 701 207’459
June, 05.. 39,470 * 31,760 5,000 2,710 210’169
Dec., 05.. 42,530 31,760 10,770 220*939
This bank, which burst after a furious endeavor to over-
shadow every other in Australia, found itself in Dec
1892, with a sore head and £12,635,066 of liabilities. Of
those liabilities £2,117 350 was converted into preference
shares ; of the other £10,517,716, £2,300,000 has been dis-
posed of by writing down capital in two lots. To-day the
paid capital is £2,212,631, and of that the interest of the
ordinary shareholders (who are the old shareholders') is
only £95,281. The most stony-looking of the assets of
boo >" concern were turned over to a Trust ; and from
1901, when the new general manager decided that the
assets were still over-valued, and that the second lot must
come off capital, this progress has been made :
T . ...... „ Dec.,’ol. June,’os. Dec., ’O5
Liabilities of Trust .. £3,334,903 £2 987 841 £2 973 917
Assets of Trust .. 1,800,000 1,600’,000 RsBsffioo
Deficit of Trust ..£1,534,903 £l, £1,388~917
Less Bank Reserves .. 27,619 210,169 220^939
Net Deficit .. ..£1,507,284 £1,177ffi72 £1,167,978
For the value of the assets of the Trust the-official sav-so
has to be accepted, but the new estimate is more liable to
be under than over the truth. In four years according
to this reckoning, the deficit has been reduced by
£339,306; and meantime 3 p.c. has been paid on the
pref. shares. Judging by the recent rush after this
banks shares, ordinary as well as the other it looks
.as if a good many people have only stopped to take
in that much. Even at the recent rate, it would
take 13 years to wipe out the deficit; but the
deficit has been reduced £147,000 through forfeiture
of capital, leaving only £192,306 as the amount
reduced from current profit, and further forfeitures of
capital cannotbe relied upon. The plain fact is that there
is still, basing the calculations on the general manav-er’s
estimates, a deficit of £1,167,978 to provide for • and
after paying 3 p.c. to the pref. shares, it will take 24
L ea ri? f . the * a ™ s , ort as the last four .rears- to wipe out
that blot. Probably a div. will be paid to “ ordinaries ”
before the blot wholly disappears, though it shouldn’t be •
bu ih, J°5 e the ordinaries get anything, the prefs. are’
entitled to another 1 per cent.; and 1 per cent, will call
for £l°’sB6 every six months. If Australia in general and
Melbourne in particular had a great rush of prosperity and
a boom in property-values, the Trust might be able to
unload a large quantity of its dead-horse. Otherwise it
is a heavy load fastened on to the hank. Consider four
years’ history
Reduction of liabilities .. .. £360 986
Assets realised ~ .. £215,000 ’
Aid from Bank .. .. 233,’382
448,382
Four years loss on Trust .. .. £87^396
That is, after the new re-valuation, it cost the bank
£87,396 to realise £215,000 of the assets and nurse the
rest. So it doesn’t seem as though the whole of the
bank’s profits will be available yet for divs. for many a
day.
The aid from the bank mentioned above is
shown in this list:—
Bank Aid to Bank Aid to
Profits. Trust. Profits. Trust.
June, ’O2 .. £67,852 £29,418 June, ’O4 .. £67,618 £28,872
Dec., ’O2 .. 68,882 29,688 Dec., ’O4 .. 70,398 28,937
June, ’O3 .. 66,773 29,331 June, ’05.. 68,464 28,994
Dec., ’O3 .. 69,824 29,186 Dec., ’O5 .. 71,486 28,956
The half-year’s results are the best reached since the days
of trouble. And the future seems brighter. Take a com-
parison :
Dec., ’O4. Dec., ’O5. Increases.
Deposits at interest.. £1,601,765 .£1,653,763 £51,998
Free deposits .. .. 1,756,852 2,106,107 349,255
Notes, bills, &c. .. 463,932 702,651 238,719
Liquid assets .. .. 1,961,718 2,259,671 297,953
Advances .. .. 3,859,354 3,969,487 110,133
Premises .. .. 453,320 454,369 1,049
As to deposits at interest, £300,202 of “ A ” extended de-
posits—the last of them—were paid off during the year,
otherwise the figures would be much larger. The business
shows an unusual expansion—the tide seems to be flowing
back to the bank.
A new plan for hurrying matters and wiping
out the Commercial Bank of Australia’s deficit in a whole-
sale way is through offers to repurchase the Assets Trust
deposits, which amount to £2,987,841 and are repayable
in 1916. Becent quote is about 13s. 9d. It isn’t a nice
way for a bank to help itself out of a hole—to buy its
promise to pay £1 for 13s. 9d. Moreover, if this bank’s
shares are worth anything like the market has recently
been valuing them at (in other words, if the security is as
good as the market thinks), then the extended deposits
are worth considerably more than 13s. 9d. ! And, anyhow,
when a bank is struggling to get itself trusted again, it
doesn’t seem a particularly happy time to seize for the
purpose of announcing that it is prepared to pay 13s. 9d.
in the £ to people who trusted it previously.
* * » *
The City Bank of Sydney
To Be- Ee-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1899'.. £BO7O 4 per cent. =£Booo £7O £109,343
Dec., 1899 .. 8212 4 „ „ 8000 212 109,555
June, 1900 .. 8041 4 „ „ 8000 41 109,596
Dec., 1900 .. 8223 4 „ „ 8000 223 109,819
June, 1901 .. 8105 4 „ „ 8000 ' 105 109,924
Dec., 1901 .. 8157 4 „ „ 8000 157 110,081
June, 1902 .. 8016 4 ~ „ 8000. 16 110,097
Dec., 1902 .. 8108 4 ~ ~ 8000 108 110,205
£109,000 transferred to Contingent Account .. 1,205
June, 1903 .. 9351 4 per cent. = 8000 1351 2,556
Dec., 1903 ... 9052 4 „ ~ 8000 1052 3,608
June, 1904 .. 9045 4 „ „ 8000 1045 4,653
Dec., 1904 .. 6158 2£ „ „ 5000 1158 5,811
June, 1905 .. 6060 2£ ~ „ 5000 1060 6,871
Dec., 1905 .. 6068 2£ ~ ~ 5000 1068 7,939
This bank might possibly stand higher in estimation if it
let the public a little further into its confidence. Year
after year, no matter how conditions varied outside, it
showed just enough profits to pay a 4 p.c. div. Then it
owned up to certain losses, wrote off its reserves, and,
apparently making a fresh start with a clean slate, next
showed about 15 p.c. more profits. But within 18
months, when conditions were still favorable for high
banking profits, it cut down its dividend, and, strangely,
has since shown profits just sufficient to pay this much-
reduced dividend. Was it fairly showing its position
when it declared profits, year after year, at just over
£BOOO per term, or when it declared them at a
uniform £9OOO, or is it fairly disclosing its posi-
tion now when they are at a‘uniform £6000? Bank
profits are of course variable ; the trouble with the City
Bank is that they stick at one point for a considerable
period, then suddenly spring to a remote point and
stick there for another considerable period ; and this
casts a doubt upon the figures. The declared profits last
half-year work out at £2 19s. Bd. percent, of shareholders’
funds, which is precisely the same return as for the
previous half-year. This is an extremely low rate, and
might result from the balance-sheet being stuffed with a
quantity of unproductive advances—which would mean,
again, that these assets want writing down severely. On
the other hand, it may be that the assets are good
enough, but that the expenses are abnormal. The bank
could set this doubt at rest by showing in its profit and
loss account what its gross earnings are, and what its
expenses are. Some other banks do it—the Bank of Aus-
tralasia, for instance ; and the Bank of Australasia isn’t a
bad lead to follow. Though it can’t show the item in its
balance-sheet, public confidence is one of the best assets
a bank can have ; and the City Bank, which could do
with a good deal more of it, seems to set itself steadily
against acquiring it. Yet the City- can show some
reasons for asking for it. Take first these figures
Dec., ’O4. Dec.,’os.
Deposits .. £1,052,745 £1,031,478 Dec. £5l 267
Notes, &c. .. 66,955 68,415 Inc. 1460
Liquid Assets .. 289,851 304,964 Inc. 15 113
Advances .. 1,128,848 1,065,761 Dec. 63 087
Premises .. 142,821 142,821
The capital is £400,000 and the reserves £7939 ; and that
means 32 per cent, of all the non-liquid assets. In other
words, you could write off 6s. 6d. in the £ from all non-
liquid assets (advances, premises, &c.), and the money of
the depositors and 'noteholders would still be intact.
Blit while this position is strong from the public view-
point, the comparison just given shows a generally
unsatisfactory movement; under the circumstances, the
shrinkage of deposits is hardly less satisfactory than the
shrinkage of advances.
* * * *
The Ballarat Banking Co. (Ballarat, Vie.)
Written Added
off Pre- to Be- Be-
Profits. Dividends, mises. serves, serves.
Dec., 1898..£2906 5J p.c. =£2337 £569 £56 779
June, 1899.. 3022 5J „ „ 2337 685 5L464
Dec., 1599.. 2990 5£ „ „ 2337 653 58 117
June, 1900.. 3153 5£ „ „ 2337 - 816 58’933
Dec., 1900.. 3334 6 „,, 2550 784 59 717
June, 1901.. 3542 6 „ „ 2550 £225 767 60484
Dec., 1901.. 3629 6 „ „ 2550 300 779 61 263
June, 1902.. 3689 6 „ „ 2550 1139 62 402
Dec., 1902.. 3627 6 „ ~ 2550 500 577 62 979
June, 1903.. 3474 6 „ „ 2550 250 674 63’653
Dec., 1903.. 4004 6 „ „ 2550 250 1204 64’857
June, 1904.. 3977 7 „ „ 2975 1002 65,859
Dec., 1904.. 3974 7 ~ „ 2975 999 66 858
June, 1905.. 4028 7 „ „ 2975 1053 67 911
Dec., 1905.. 4040 7 „ „ 2975 1065 68,976
This bank has no branches, and is run at verv small cost •
25 per cent, of the earnings after paying interest covers
all management expenses. And that makes all the
difference in the size of the cheque that reaches the share-
holders. The assets earn gross £4 14s. 9d. per cent. • in
another bank, the North Queensland, a bit larger than
the Ballarat, the assets earn gross £4 13s. per cent. The
assets of the two are therefore about equallv productive,
and might have come out of the one pod. " But the Bal-
larat has only to keep up one brass plate instead of about
20 ; so whereas expenses in the one case mop up 25 per
cent, of the gross profits after paying interest, in the
other they mop up no less than 75 per cent. ; and while
the shareholders get £5 ss. Bd. per cent, on their funds in
the one, in the other they get only £3 16s. lid. per cent.
Some day, when Australia goes in for closer settlement]
instead of trying to sprawl over vast areas, banks
probably won’t find it so necessary to dot the
continent with little, expensive branches that each
do only a thimbleful of business; where there is
only a thimbleful of business, the post-office will
do it. Meantime it is worth noting that you can’t tell the
value or productiveness of a bank’s assets merely by look-
ing at its net earnings. Yet the net-earnings rate is
valuable as showing how the bank itself is moving ; in the
Ballarat’s case it has gone this way lately :
June,’o2.. £5 0 11 p.c. June,’o4.. £5 6 2 p.c.
Dec., ’O2 .. 418 5 „ Dec., ’O4 .. 5 5 4
June,’o3 .. 413 11 „ June,’o4.. 5 6 1 ”
Dec., ’03.. 5 7 9 „ Dec., ’05.. 5 5 8
The business keeps remarkably steady. Twelve months
ago there was £39,469 of free deposits • now th* •
£40,926. Deposits at interest have gone fi-om Pi sio
£188,608, and advances from £297,632 to £297 eqi’ 9^, 4 . o
leaves a trifle more unproductive cash in hand n
there is no movement of any consequence to affect »JSJ*
profits one way or the other. ect * u * nr *
* * • *
The Ballarat Trustees, Exeoutorr
Agency Co. (Ballarat, Vic.) : 8 AND
Net m t>
•n IRQQ P i?na9 7 Dividends. serves, serve's
Dec., 1899 £1042 7 per cent. = £625 £517 *<?«
June, 1900 941 8 600 til 70a
Dec., 1900 1090 8 „ „ 600 490 ,2“
June, 1901 1113 8 „ „ 600 £lO
Dec., 1901 1252 10 750 502 221?
June, 1902 1748 10 „ „ 750 ing
Dec., 1902 1391 10 „ 750 64? BBM
June, 1903 1248 10 „ „ 750 493
Dec., 1903 1529 10 „ „ ’ 759 770
June, 1904 1268 10 „ „ „ 7 50 513 Sg
Dec., 1904 1503 10 750 753
June, 1905 1547 10 „ „ ’ 759 707
Dec., 1905 1834 12 „ „ „ 9 00 934 8149
The co. is making substantial progress. Eighteen months
ago, when such particulars were first supplied the trust
estate balances were £981,024 ; they are now £1 136 520
The half-year’s earnings show a return of £l6 12s ’ 3d'
p.c. p.a. on shareholders’ fbnds (capital and reserves')'
It is a big return ; but five other trustee co.’s show
even more than that; and, considering that trustee co
risks are not very large, somebody will be asking soon
whether it isn’t about time for these co.’s to reduce their
commissions. It will be easier to do it now than later on
when more of the public have bought shares on the basis
of the present high rates. All but £3999 of the Ballarat
co.’s capital and reserves* , ?ni>»overnment securities or
bank balances ; so it isn’t frdtn handling risky securities
that the co. shows such a high rate of earnings.
The Sandhurst and Northern Distict Trus-
tees, Executors, and Agency Co. (Bendigo, Vic.):—
Net Added to Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1896 ..£1,112 6 per cent. = £l2OO £2326*
1897 .. 1,110 5 „ „ 1000 £llO 2436
1898 .. 624 5 „ „ 1000 2060
1899 .. 1,174 5 „ „ 1000 174 2234
1900 .. 1,273 5 „ „ 1000 273 2507
1901 .. 2,365 5£ „ „ 1100 1,265 3772
1902 .. 1,452 6 „ „ 1200 252 4024
1903 .. 2,386 7 „ „ 1400 986 5010
1904 .. 3,091 8 „ „ 1600 1,491 6501
1905 .. 4,156 10 „ „ 2000 2,156 8657
This is an extraordinary jump in profits. In 1902 gross
receipts from commissions, after providing for contin-
gencies, were £lB3B ; in 1904 they had sprung to £2844 ;
now they are up to £4812. Nothing is said to
explain this remarkable growth. Possibly heavy provi-
sion was made for contingencies in the earlier years,
though there is no definite outward sign of it; possibly,
on the other hand, commissions have been unduly swollen
lately by large additions of corpus commissions. The in-
vestments certainly look better than they did ; in 1900 they
were returning only £3 11s. per cent. ; now, on the total
at the end of the year, they return £4 11s. 6d. per cent.
This looks as though some of the older “ mortgages and
other advances ” have been written down. The question
of interest is whether the big increase in profits shown is
a flash in the pan, or whether the profits disclosed a few
years ago were depressed by means of writings-off which
were not shown ; and the nearest we can get to an
answer is that, anyway, the investments are giving a
better return now than they did a while back. The
capital is £20,000 ; and the investments consist of £lO,OOO
Vic. Government stock, £6OOO office property, £10,774
mortgages, and £944 in freehold properties. The balance
of trust estates in hand is’not mentioned, which doesn’t
make it any easier to sum up the co.’s position. Profits
for the year mean £l5 13s. Bd. per cent, on shareholders’
funds —a remarkably fine return, yet only seventh among
Australasian trustee cos.’ performances.
• * * #
The Australian Gaslight Co. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
June, 1899.. £46,995 15 p.c. =£51,135 £112,756
Dec., 1899.. 55,628 15 „ „ 51,135 £4493 117,249
June, 1900.. 47,879 15 „ „ 51,135 113,993
Dec., 1900.. 54,033 15 „• „ 51,135 2898 116,891
June, 1901.. 48,352 15 „ „ 51,135 114,108
Dec., 1901.. 56,818 15 „ „ 51,918 4900 119,008
June, 1902.. 49,954 15 „ „ 55,045 113,917
Dec., 1902.. 61,546 .15 „ „ 56,205 5341 119,258
June, 1903.. 51,703 15 „ „ 66,250 114,711
Dec., 1903.. 60,445 15 „ „ 56,250 4195 118,906
June, 1904.. 52,187 15 ~ „ 56,250 114,843
Dec., 1904.. 61,555 15 „ „ 56,250 5305 120,148
June, 1905.. 53,343 15 ~ „ 56,818 116,673
Dec., 1905.. 63,623 15 „ „ 59,284 4339 121,012
Besides the reserves shown above, there are the fol-
lowing :
June, ’O5. Dec., ’O5.
“Suspense” (including
premium capital) .. £278,540 £271,512 Dec., £7028
Meter reserve .. .. 8,181 10,747 Inc., 2566
Totals .. .. £286,721 £282,259 Dec., £4462
The nature of the “ suspense ” accounts, and to what
extent they are actual reserves, is not disclosed. In the
past 12 months paid capital has increased from £750,000
to £799,062 ; but as the 16,666 new shares, £3 paid, were
issued at a 100 per cent, premium, the capital actually
got in amounts to about £98,000. This has allowed
some of the floating debt to be got rid of ; 12 months ago
it was £501,202; it is now £380,686, or £120,516 less.
That is to say, apparently debts to the public (apart
from consumers’ deposits) have been reduced by about
£22,500 more than the amount of the new .capital. This
additional amount is partly accounted for by undivided
profit. Also the assets appear to have been written down
out of earnings, though the writings-down are not shown ;
and that accounts for some more of the £22,500.
What this co.’s gross earnings are, and what is
the amount it writes off, and therefore what its
true profits are, it gives little chance to j udge.
But 12 months ago the fixed investments (lands, build-
ings, plant, mains, &c.) were £1,291,079; they are now
£1,264,812, or £26,267 less. In other words, the co. has
paid for all the new buildings, machinery, mains, &c.,
provided during the past 12 months, and besides has, out
of profits, written the value of these items down by
£26,267. That is just over 2 p.c. p.a., in addition to
whatever amount was paid for additional plant, &c. So
hard have the assets been written down that, even if the
£63,623 reported represents only the fair profits for the
half-year, the return on the total assets amounts to
£7 13s. 3d. per cent, per annum—that is, including the
borrowed money and all. And there is at least a hint in
some of the foregoing figures that profits are still being
suppressed by means of very liberal writings-off.
* * * *
Yale of Clwydd Coal-Mining Co. (N.S.W.):
To Re- - Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves
Dec., 1900.. £1648 10 p.c. =£lsoo £l4B £757
June, 1901.. 1546 10 „ „ 1500 46 803
Dec., 1901 . 1899 10 „ „ 1500 389 1202
June, 1902.. 1794 10 „ „ 1500 294 1493
Dec., 1902.. 1518 10 „ „ 1500 18 1514
June, 1903.. 1541 10 „ „ 1500 41 1555
Dec., 1903.. 1880 10 „ „ 1500 380 1936
June, 1904.. 1618 10 „ „ 1500 118 2053
Loss.
Dec., 1904.. 157 5 „ „ 750 me
Profits.
June, 1905.. 1606 10 „ „ 1500 106 1252
Dec., 1905.. 2269 10 „ „ 1500 769 2021
Included in half-year’s profits is £250, which has been set
aside for improvements ; and any improvements or addi-
tions made at the mine during the past year have also
been paid for out of profits. The capital is £30,000 ; of
this, only £20,684 is now,in the mine ; ffhe balance (with
reserves and some smaller items) is represented by
deposits £9502, and Lithgow Coal Association £5163.
Thanks mostly to the Lithgow Coal Association, the co.
is riding on a soft seat; and it looks as if the directors
might issue more glittering reports and accounts if they


Three Friends
The Best
Tobacco
on
Earth.
* *
376 George St., Sydney
28 Hunter St., Sydney
177 Oxford St., Sydney
A. A. MARKS, Sole Agent.
Broken Hill Mines owe a great measure of
success to the slime saving appliances of their mills. The
slimes contain the richest part of the mineral particles.
Several processes were tested but it was found that the
Liuhrig Vanners gave by far the best results. The mines
have installed Luhrigs as essential parts of their
appliances and these Vanners are erected in some
instances to save material that has been lost off other
tables. There are several hundred Luhrig Vanners erected
and in course of erection at Broken Hill, and they are
extensively used in all up-to-date reduction works. W.
& J. Leinpriere, Melbourne, are sole agents.*
* * * *
That the Card Concentrator is appreciated is
evidenced by the fact that for 3 month ending December
13th 110 machines were sold.*
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of. Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silbkriikug and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74. Eustace
Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
The British Broken Hill Silver Mining Co.,
after careful consideration of all types of boilers, have
placed an order with Babcock and Wilcox for three large
boilers, each of 500 h.p. Superheaters, chain grate
mechanical stokers and economiser have also been
ordered from the same firm. This now makes 40 boilers
of the Babcock and Wilcox type supplied to the various
mines and industries at Broken Hill. Wherever economy
in fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed. Hence the recent unanimous decision ot the
Expert Admiralty Committee to install Babcock boilers as
the standard for the British Nav".*
* * * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, w ith a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discrintion of cast or wrought iron work.*
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).* * * *
Send us your address and we will post you a
pamphlet gratis how to purify acetylene gas. Brandt
Bros., Pitt-street, Sydney, and Elizabeth-street, Mel-
bourne.*
* * * *
Charters Towers.—Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bovvry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* * * *
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they arc buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tantt and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
A 12 inch Suction Dredging Plant is being built
for the Weldbrook Tin Mines Co. The plant will be
similar in design to those erected at the Pioneer and
Briseis Extended Tin Mines (Tasmania). The engines will
be of the vertical compound condensing type of about
300h.p. fitted with an Edwards type of air pump and
large surface condenser. The boilers will be two in
number, of the marine type, and will work at a pressure
of 1501 b. to the square inch. The nozzle pump will be
centrifugal and directly connected to a vertical compound
steam engine. The barge will be 45ft. square. The
Austral Otis Engineering Co., of South Melbourne, which
is constructing this dredge, has been particularly success-
ful in building these large type of suction dredges and
owing to their reputation have just concluded a contract
for the erection of a plant in the Federated Malay States
which promises to be the fore-runner of many more of the
like.* t A -
* * » *
It is interesting to npte that the “Hornsby ”
patent safety oil engine has sustained its world-wide
reputation for reliability and economy. During the past’
year hundreds of squatters, recognising their adaptability,
have been using them for their shearing and general
motive power, and as they are specially suitable for
mining, electric lighting, pumping, etc., mine managers
have shown their appreciation by installing them on some
of the leading mines. The latest type of engine will run
at a cost of less than a farthing per brake horse power per
hour, and are manufactured by the well-known
“ Upright ” Water Tube Boiler firm It. Hornsby and Sons,
Ltd., Hay-street, Sydney and Spencer-street, Melbourne.*
• * » •
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining - and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can lie obtained of Felton, Grini-
wade and Co., Melbourne. Fourth edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Post free on application.* >
* * * »
The Sydney Morning Herald, in referring to
the last annual report of The Colonial Mutual Life Assur-
ance Society Limited, in its issue of Ist June, 1905,
wrote: —“The report of the .directors was unanimously
adopted. It indicated progress in all the main features.
The new business was nearly £lOO,OOO in excess of last
year.”*
. • • * *
Australasian Traveller. Shortstories wanted
at current rates. Length about 4500 words. Preference
given stories referring to incidents of social, domestic, or
work-a-day life of Australian commercial man. Forward,
stating price, enclosing stamps return M.S. if unsuitable, •
to Editor, 190 Flinders-street, Melbourne.*
• * * *
The Curtin Davis Proprietary Company, No
Liability, is prepared to consider offers of approved
.mining properties under working option of purchase for
cash. , Full particulars to R. E. Tweddell, Manager, 31
Queen-street, Melbourne.*
Commonwealth and Foreign patents ob-
tained. Collison and Co., 483 Collins-street,
Melbourne (and Adelaide.) Twenty-six years
practice. Write us for Inventors’ Guide.*
)»d the mind to. The co.’s old trouble with John
,I‘Laughlin hasn’t been finally disposed of ; the suspense
lability, standing six months ago at £1843, has been
•educed to £672. Apparently the little misunderstanding
s going to cost the co. a trifle over £2OOO altogether.
* * * *
There was some trouble in London over the
ifoposed Australian Smelting Corporation, projected to
ake up the affairs of the Smelting and Refining Cor-
loration, the New Caledonian Copper Co., and the New
Caledonian Mining Corporation, and it looked as if the
leal wouldn’t be put through. But as the prospectus is
,ut, and the cable ttientions that shares have been rushed,
lie trouble was apparently swept up somehow. Capital
£300,000), which has been subscribed twice over, is small
•onipared with what the original concerns staggered
i rider. The new co. will no doubt be good friends of
lie Zinc Corporation ; Bewick-Moreing will manage
»oth, and Baillieu, Herzig and H. J. Daly will be direc-
ors of both. F. C. Howard, who is managing director
if the Broken Ilill South, is the only Australian director
iot in the Zinc Corporation ; he’s a good but less-known
nan, an engineer as well as a business man, and that
ombination has done a lot for the South. The new
melting co. will, for a certainty, give up trying to treat
ire at Dapto, and shift the works probably to Newcastle.
[Tie rush for shares was no doubt helped on by the vigor-
>us booming- of the C.S. A. group already begun in Lon-
lon, where they have been printing paragraphs about
‘ another Broken Hill ” ; for the new field is rightly
■ riough represented as a place where smelting on the
nine is next door to impossible. Certainly if tlie C.S.A.
.-roup produces the ore it looks capable of doing, Austra-
i»n custom smelters should get a lift that they need
jrett.v badly. But, with all the money in the banks,
■ouldn’t Australia raise enough to smelt its own dirt,
v.thout having to go to J.Bull?
» » * *
Without any bonus to give them a start, the
Sulphide Corporation directors seem to have at last given
ip hope of establishing a great zinc-producing industry in
yustralia. They have spent big sums in experiments and
>lant at Cockle Creek, Newcastle (N.S.W.), but to handle
,he increased output of zinc concentrates they now pro-
jose “ the immediate formation of a subsidiary co. to
■ rcct zinc-distilling works of adequate capacity in Eng
and.” So Australia, for want of a bonus on Australian
iroduction and an export duty on crude material, will
lontinue to be an exporter of mere dirt. It will ship
stuff for which it will be paid perhaps 30s. a ton ; then
'oreign workmen will be employed raising coal, making
joke and retorts, and attending to the works, and the
i.anie stuff, as the result of the foreign labor employed
ipon it, will then be worth (say) £l5 per ton.
* * * *
Shareholders in the Broken Hill Water Supply
To. got one of their periodical shocks the other day when,
he B.H. Prop, applied for land to build a dam at Umbe-
•umberka and lay a pipe-track to the mine and works.
But the B.H. Prop, will have more than the Water Co. to
ight now. The Water Co.’s works pass to the State in
ibout 13 years, and the municipality (which hopes to
nake a deal with the State) isn’t inclined to see one of
the biggest oustomers lost. There was a rumor the other
week that the reservoir was low, but there is a nine
months’ supply, at least. .Still,, through the bursting ef
pipes, &c., the co. has been getting some unpleasant re-
minders lately that the reserves it has put away won’t all
he available to repay capital—the chances are something
considerable will be needed to renew works before the
co.’s term runs out.
* *■ * *
The opal market is a shade firmer again ; White
Cliffs (N.S.W.), which is now supposed to provide two-
thirds of the world’s supply, can even find a sale for
“candle-box stuff” —something between “potch” and
opal, and worth about Is. per oz. “ Firsts,” on the other
hand, are worth anything up to £lOO per oz. But that is
a rare price. The best realised lately (a small lot from
Turley’s Hill) has brought £3O per oz. This was sold just
before Christmas.
* • * *
This is one of the few cases in which ignorance
lias paid. Two young fellows at Ravensthorpe (W.A.),
while waiting for a job, went fossicking for alluvial.
They chose a spot at the head of a worked-out gully,
because it was free from scrub, and started to sink. A
S* v inches brought them to “bottom”; but, as they
didn’t know what bottom was, they continued in the soft
country rock until, 30ft. down, they struck a quartz
leader, and from a cap-full of stone do'lied Boz. Then
the leader opened out, and a trial crushing of 20 tons
gave 40oz. They have now over 100 tons at grass that
ought to go from 3oz. to soz. per ton. Reef is over 2ft.
wide, and so soft that it can be crumbled in the hand.
» * * *
The copper-gold field of Ravensthorpe (W.A.)
is in for some booming soon. The Kauffman syndicate
has taken a six months’ option over the Mt. Oattlin,
where there is a big sulphide lode worth about 8 per cent,
copper and 7dwt. gold. Price is £ll,OOO, and a 10 per
cent, deposit has been paid. Same crowd has bought for
£4500 the Mount Benson, three miles east. At time of
sale the Benson was in the hands of tributors, who were
making £2O a man per week, paying £3 a ton for
smelting, and taking copper on a basis of £5O per ton
(the State smelter advance). Kauffman has an option,
too, over the Mount Desmond, seven miles south from
Ravensthorpe. The district is large, and contains some
good shows, but in view of the coming flutter many
leases have been taken up that are not worth a thought
from an investor’s standpoint, though high assays may be
got from short pipes and stringers of ore. If it doesn’t
look out, the public, when the time comes, will drop in
by reason of those short pipes and stringers.
***■*■
'Fenian, Meekathara (W.A.), has cleaned up 78
ions for 5630 z. This was part of a parcel of 500 tons, the
balance of which will be treated as soon as the Govern-
ment mill can handle it. To date the mine has produced
364 tons for 19030 z. The Meekathara district is excep-
tionally rich, as the following returns will prove : Inglis-
ton Consols, 878 tons for 33180 z. ; Revenue, 15 tons for
24640 z. ; and Commodore, 1861 tons for 30050 z. All these
lots were treated at the Government mill, and do not
include tailings, which must be very rich.
* * * *
From Frank Reed, ex-general manager of Peak
Bill Goldfields (W. A.), writing from Auckland (M.L.)
“ Bulletin (Dec. 21) says again that the Peak Hill co.
worked an alluvial formation. It didn’t. Question
whether it was alluvial or reef was fought before ex-Chief
Justice Stone in ’99, and the co. won ; on our side, claim-
>ng that the auriferous veins were a decomposed mica,
and not a wash, were Gibb Maitland (Govt. Geologist), H.
B- Woodward (ex-ditto), Francis Gill (then Under-Sec. for
Mines), and others. Certainly the Peak Hill property was
priginally worked by dry-blowing of surface soil and crush-
}"g the 4ft. of cement underlying same, which, of course,
ls alluvial; but the co. operated on the lode formation
underneath, and treated same by battery amalgamation.
J he fall in shares since 1899,-and the fact that the first
shareholders sold out at a great profit, is somebody else’s
trouble. I only know that I recommended the promoter
to buy the property for £70,000 in 1893. He took my
advice; and under my management the speculative
public ran the shares up (300,000 of them) from £1 to
£9 55., or to nearly three million pounds. I suppose
those who won and those who lost played their own
game.” Which last is all very well; but surely as general
manager Mr. Reed was interested in that game too. Or,
as a man interested in mining, didn’t it concern him that
the public was paying £3,000,000 for a mine—the mine
he had introduced—which to-day isn’t valued at
3,000,000 d., and is hung up on a six months’ suspension?
* * * *
“Gentlemen, what did I tell you? Those who
have faith in the old mine know that it won’t go back on
them. Look at what we have done. Look at the debit
balance wiped out, look at the resumption of ss. divi-
dends, at £3OOO paid for plant, at the reserve fund safe at
£7OOO, and still plenty of cash in hand to pay another
dividend. It is a pleasant thing, gentlemen, to have lived
down criticism, to have got the shoot df gold again,
to have got the ship trimmed, the wind in the right
quarter, and the craft well officered. We have had to
face poor yields, but the lesson of the past has not been
overlooked. Costs have now been got down to 9Jdwt.,
and they are going to be cut further, so that now we are
on to stone again we will make brtter profits than
ever. Yes, gentlemen, it was all a matter of
faith in a mine that has never failed us. And
it won’t fail us in the future.” This is a fore-
cast of the speech Peter Finlayson will deliver on
Friday to the pardonably jubilant crowd of Long Tunnel
Extended (Walhalla) shareholders. And it will.all be true,
for the recovery made is one of the records of modern
Victorian mining. To drop down to being a lOdwt. mine,
and then to pick up oz. stuff 100 ft. below (at 2500 ft.), is to
have the luck of Gilead P. Begg. So it comes about that
the speakers have sworn off Extendeds as too hot to touch.
* * * *
Glen fine South, Pitfield (Vic.), hangs dubiously
on the halfway mark. Its glory as a quartz mine is gone
and forgotten', and it relies for a future upon being a deep-
lead show. Work now is out 1200 ft. west of the old
shallow alluvial on which Chisholm started the mine and
in deep ground tested by Richards. Very rich dirt has
been already got from the high ground, 120 fathoms
giving 4120z'. But the old birds don’t like the show, and
won’t recommend it to their friends. Reasons : (1) Be-
cause they think that the market is being cleverly
handled ; (2) because they can’t see more than a small
patch of good dirt; and (3) because the records of the
district tell more of the market than of divs.
* * * *
Berringa (Vic.) puts up good records. It is a
case of where the devil drives needs must, for 4dwt, or
sdwt. stone won’t stand any monkeying. That being so,
cheap work is done, and good divs. are paid. Ellesmere,
near Bendigo, has the record for divs. on low-grade
quartz ; under ldwt. has been made to return profits. But
there the mining is not so deep as at Berringa, and the
mineral is less. Birthday Tunnel and Williams’ Fancy are
the leaders at Berringa just now, the Bi rthday only paying
an occasional div. owing to the petering-out of the gold
on the No. 10 level. Birthday Tunnel milled 16,655 tons
last half-year for 41430 z. 14dwt., or just under sdwt., and
Williams’ Fancy 10,790 tons for 2921.(0z., or under s£dwt. ;
and each paid 6d. divs. consistently each month.
Costs at the Birthday Tunnel show how carefully pence
are watched—Mining,' 4s. 9"7d. per ton, battery Is. 10‘6d.,
filling 6d., hauling Is. 7d., and development 2s. 4‘5d., or a
total cost of 11s. l'Bd per ton. Stoping is going on from
300 ft., 400 ft., and 500 ft., and the shaft is well below 600 ft.
Costs like these do not invite criticism. Still, the co.
wants to modernize its battery work, and before it can
treat tonnage monthly it will have to get ore reserves.
The co.’s record so far is 24,588J0z. from 81,670 tons ;
value of gold, £102,000 ; dividends, £32,000. Therefore,
out of every pound’s worth of gold won practically a third
has gone into shareholders’ pockets.
Lord Nelson, St. Arnaud (Vic.), is replacing 40
head of antiquated stamps by 20 head of 12501 b. stamps.
Co.intends to crush coarse, amalgamate and concentrate,
then re-treat the pulp, and re-grind the separated coarse
stuff in pans, and send it again over the plates. Although
it will be probably the most up-to-date plant in Victoria,
the co. seems to have jumped in the dark as to some chief
essentials. For instance, in S’Africa,'the most suitable
mesh for the screens is determined by experiments
extending over as much as three months. Lord Nelson,
without making any experiments, calculates that it will
get a duty of five tons a stamp per day with a very coarse
mesh in the mortar and by re-grinding the coarsest
material in pans afterwards. In S’Africa, however, a
duty of five tons is common with a 700 mesh and no
re-grinding. The object of the coarse mesh is to
avoid sliming, and as a great deal of gold is in the con-
centrates it may be the best method ; but want of certain
knowledge as to the character and occurrence-of the gold
in the ore is evident. Why does Victoria stick to old-
fashioned ideas in mining and milling, and not have
scientific men on the mills who can study the ore on the
spot and so make the mill suit the ore ? Present plan is
to get a mill and then pick the ore to suit it, which means
waste.
* * * *
For Bendigo, the New Moon’s record is out of
the way—it has been a div.-payer every year since ’9l.
Last three years have, however, been best; they have
given £136,800 of the total of £276,000. Present co. began
in 1886; first four years it paid calls, then turned the
corner in 1891. Between 1567, when a co-operative co.
was formed, and the coming of the present co., £12,328
was paid ; it was poor stone in those days, averaging
only about 6dwt. Last year in the first six months the
average was 13d wt. 2gr. ; in the second, lldwt. 12gr. But
the co., which in many respects has been densely unpro-
gressive, has roused itself lately, and is making alterations
that will cut something sizeable off costs, so the recent
fall in grade of stone isn’t all loss.
The Etheridge goldfield (N.Q.) is having a bad
time. Even the prospects of at last getting the railway
do not counterbalance want of water. The whole 100
miles of auriferous country is endeavoring to keep going
on supplies from a couple of dams. Naturally it does not
succeed.
*•* * *
Richmond-Cloncurry railway extension has re-
ceived a temporary set-back through the dry state of the
country. The surveyors were confronted with the water
difficulty before they had got far out, and were recalled,
presumably pending rain. Just at present it is not a
hard matter to do a perish in Central Queensland,
although it has lately rained in spots. '
For the moment Ravenswood (N.Q.) is drinking
soda straight. The rich strike, recently reported, in the
Deep Mines at 1520 ft., has in a small crushing not yielded
the 3oz. per ton that the assayers stated it contained.
The stone is highly mineralised and heavily charged'with
zinc, so much so that not only was the gold lost, but the
mercury cleared also. Results from Aldershot, whither
the concentrates were sent, are now awaited ; but why
the mine should wait for the smelters’ figures is not quite
clear. Surely the co. knows what its concentrates con-
tain before they are despatched. It looks as if the gold
had taken charge of itself and gone. It is now intended
to send the next parcel to the smelter in the shape of
prill ore, which, in view of the peculiar nature of the stuff,
is perhaps wise. , * »
North Queensland’s little copper boom has pro- ‘
duced several doubtful floats, but the cheekiest of all is
the St. George Copper and Coal-mines, near Laura, west
of Cooktown. This undeveloped property is in a co. of
150,000 £ shares, of which vendors take 87,500.
Practically no work has been done ; the deepest shaft is
40ft.; the assays are apparently from picked samples ;
and the co. is now trying to issue 18,000 shares at Is. on
application and Is. on allotment. An “ expert’s ” report
says that “ the sulphide ore is of the usual type, and 3ft.
in width,” and the directors stake their existence on the
fact that the O.K. mine is only 30 miles away.
* * * *
Peak Downs Copper Co., capital £16,250 in 650
shares of £25 each, offers 400 shares to public ; ,vendors
take 250 paid up shares and £3OOO in cash. This syndi-
cate co. is being formed to unwater, open up, and develop
the old Peak Downs mine, after which it is proposed to
re-float the syndicate co. into a larger co. Old Peak
Downs might not be a bad proposition at present metal
prices; but consider the gall of the vendors in asking
250 shares and £3OOO for the brilliant idea of unwatering
a mine 1
• * « •
Capt. Warren has gone up to re-ojganise Smith’s
Creek tin (N.Q.). Three years or so ago, when it was
being vigorously boomed, mostly in Adelaide, he hadn’t
much enthusiasm for it; three months ago, when the
Adelaide people were on the point of giving it best, he
visited the mine again, said it hadn’t had a fair trial, and
recommended that a few thousands more should be
raised. The money was got (on the usual forlorn-hope
terms), and a quantity of new and old plant has been sent
up, which Warren will try and piece together. He’s hope-
ful. Most of the co.’s time and money has been just about
thrown away, he says; a horizontal fault put the managers
astray. But in at least one place in the bottom there is
a 40ft. body, carrying from 21 per cent, to 3 per cent, tin
and some copper to encourage them to go on ; and he
thinks there ought to be money in that. After almost as
long and good a record as any Australian mining man
owns, John Warren made a bad miscalculation early last
year over the Broken Hill Junction ; now if he can pul l
Smith’s Creek out of the fire, the whole credit of it will
be his, and it will about put him back where he stood
before. There are not many Australian mining men who
won’t wish him luck.
* « * •
One of Queensland’s industries, gold stealing,
which has been gradually dwindling, boomed a bit before
the holidays. Three robberies of specimen-stone were re-
ported from G.vmpie, while at three places at Charters
Towers somebody wished the amalgam a merry Christmas.
At one time stolen gold in Queensland was set down by
competent judges at £20,000 per annum. Chattels
Towers accounted for most, and, strange to say, made
hardly any effort to secure the thieves. The abolition ot
regrinding and re-amalgauiating in the pans, however,
has minimised the opportunities of stealing to such an
extent that the game is better now for the man who
works below, and who generally 7 is smart enough to get the
suspicion (when there is any 7) fastened on to a duller but
more honest mate.
* • • *
A Port Darwin wire reports that smelting by
the Northern Territories Mining and Smelting Co. will
start in March, “ but it is feared that operations must
again cease after three months’ running unless richer ore
bodies are discovered at the Ironstone Blow.” Head that
in conjunction with a par. just to hand from a man in
the N.T. “Smelting will commence again at the end
of February. A 120-ton water-jacket is being erected,
and this time a start seems assured, though you never
know in the N.T. General manager intends putting
through some 7000 or 8000 tons of high-grade ores,
mostly gossan. At present development is stopped
at the Ironblow, only six Chinese being employed
underground, with two white men as supervisors.
Ore in sight ready to be stoped runs to something like
30,000 tons gossan and 70,000 tons sulphides. Sulphide
ores go (according to co.’s assay), sdvvt. gold, 12oz. sl 7 p t ‘ r ’
5 per cent, zinc, 6 per cent, lead, 2 per cent, copper, (he
management only 7 intends to smelt a picked lot, which
will keep operations going for three months ; why opera-
tions are to -stop then, with the huge body of ore in
sight, is best known to the co. Ore is not seriously 7 refrac-
tory, and with cheap fuel should pay 7 .” The ways of the
foreign co.’s which own N.T. mines are a deep, dailc
mystery. Government Geologist Brown has been up
there inquiring into things. He admits that the N.i.
has never had a fair show, especially at the hands ot
foreign co.’s. But what he hasn’t suggested yet is a
practical remedy 7 .
* * * *
Lawrence Grayson writes : —“ Re Gladstone
Development Co. and par. of 4th January. Willingly
accept the responsibilities for any sins which can be
rightly placed on my' back ; but I did not report on the
Wyniford, nor did anyone who reported on that property
report on the Gladstone. One other point : the Gladstone
co. has a little more than a few acres in its 14 miles of
leases on the Ringarooma River that are dredgeable.
This fact has been proved by boring ; and I am content
to let the dredges speak for themselves, just as the one
already at work has done, as to what ground we have, and
the tin it carries.”
* * * •
More or .less reliable figures, about the world’s
gold production have been got together. For 1904 the
out-turn is put at £69,465,000, and for 1905 it would be
more judging by 7 the figures for the first six months. As
late as between 1880 and ISBS the yearly average was
£20,323,000 ; so tne increase in 20 years has been close up
to 350 per cent. The output has more than doubled in
10 years, and it is over 2£ times greater than it was in
“ the fifties,” though, between California and Aus-
tralia, the late “forties” and the early “fifties”
wear a halo of gold in most people’s memories.
And now since the vast increase in gold output
has killed bi-metallism stone-dead, because it has
robbed the bi-metallist of his biggest plea viz., that
there wasn’t enough gold to do the work of the world s
commerce comfortably—the people who used to produce
tons of leaden arguments about “the meejim of ex-
change” have switched on to “the quantity theory of
money.” But the Australian man who is hungry because
a rich, loafing landlord blocks settlement, and because
the job he ought to have is given to Hans Eckerstein, of
Frankfurt-on-Main —well, he won’t have to let his belt
out half-an-inch even if they settle the quantity theory
of money and put it where no further argument can
touch it.
• • * *
According to manager Capper, of the Austra-
lian Pottery Works, North Sydney, the clays on Kan-
garoo Island (S.A.) are something extra. Joseph Provis,
an energetic S. Aus. mining man, and the nerves of the
China Olay and Stone Co., lately sent over some samples
of raw and crushed stuff to the Sydney pottery works,
and they seem to have reached Capper when he was just
about on the point of despair. There is only a 20 per cent.
Protective dutv on pottery, and, in view of the cheap
skilled labor and regular market that Staffordshire
and other foreign parts have, 20 per cent, wouldn’t
have been more than enough even if all the clays
could be got somewhere handy in Australia. But for fine
work the raw product has not been available, and has had
to be imported ; and between that and the want of
trained workpeople and the prejudice against the new
goods (mostly because those turned out in the early
stages were pretty 7 rough), the Australian potter has had
a stiff fight. Now, however, Capper (who is an English
expert, only 18 months out here) says, after visiting the
place which supplied the fine samples he received : “ My
inquiries were made solely in the interests of the pottery-
industry, for which I have no doubt now there is a great
future in store. The quality of the china stone, china
clay, and felspar is quite equal to that found in England
or on the Continent. So far, all the materials used in the
manufacture of high-class china have had to be imported,
but this will fill the gap, and, I believe, be the salvation
of the industry out here.”
* * * *
The green imp of Jealousy will be more sprightly,
than ever, even though it is not the mad month Of May 7,
because broker Thoneman got - the underwriting of
Bent’s new loan. Thoneman’s way of handling loans is
as much objected to b,v a knot of his confreres on the
Melbourne Stock Exchange as is his success in getting
the borrowing State or corporation to let him have a fat
underwriting com. on top of the ordinary com. Report
says that he picks and chooses who shall be in the
deals With him, which vexes the man who misses the bus.
No one would say Thoneman is a genius, but he has the
quality of perseverance, he doesn’t wait for others to do
the work, and he has a following. If the grumblers at'
his ascendency were to read the parable of the foolish
virgins, and keep their financial lamps trimmed and full,
they 7 might not miss the hour when the bridegroom
cometh—Bent being the bridegroom this time. But if
they dream till all the largesse is scattered—well, they
mustn’t grumble if others have picked up the coin.
• ’ •»' '« *
Be present row aixyut auctioning the foreshores
of Yaucluse, Watson’s Bay, Sydney, there, exist placards,
dated 1838, announcing that “ Abraham Polack, auctioneer,
George-street,;Sydney,” would sell by auction “splendid
villa sites ” on the foreshores of Vaucluse. At that time
the property was worth little, and no business seems to
have been done. Captain Piper sold the property to W.
o.' Wentworth for a small sum,, but there is no evidence
to prove that wily 7 old Piper had any legal right to sell.
The property was originally 7 a Crown grant to Jim Lay -
cock, but had been knocked about from pillar to .post for
many years before Wentworth settled on it.
Sydney Exchange (which isn’t the Stock
Exchange) celebrated the reaping of the harvest this
week with a show of products. Very appropriately it put
in the forefront—gave it a place outside the entrance
door, in fact—an imported American harvester machine,
which is the harvest Australia reaps from its ridiculously
low tariff.
♦ * * * *
Rottnest: Granted that Westralia is supposed :
to do more in the way of sinking fund than any other
State ; but the fact remains that, while it is piling up
deficits, the sinking fund is largely a sham and a pre-
tence. And, having so large an amount of its debt out in
works to serve goldfields, which are being rapidly ex-
hausted, Westralia ought to have something extra in the
way of a 'real sinking fund... .Porson : Concern is over-
weighted with capital mostly represented by goodwill....
JTL : But where’s your grievance?, Yqu paid in £146
and received £96; so that your insurance for. 21 years-
cost you £5O. £>o you expect to be insured for 21 years
for nothing ? Remember that if you didn’t die and your
policy become a claim, others did—some of them before
they had paid their second premium. And how do you
think any society in the world could pay those claims, it
it paid you (because you didn’t happen to die) all you naa
paid in plus interest?....Federal : Hydraulic is a safe
enough investment; but you can’t expect much increase
in price or return ; co. is now paying 10 per cent., and it
it pays more than that it has to divide the excess with
the City Council, so it would probably prefer to assure its
business by reducing its charges.. F.S. :No ; hopeless
j.F. : A policy in the Australian office will give you
less worry.
* * * *
It would be worth the while of the Imperial
War Office to look into the matter of its fodder supplies.
Each year tenders are called for supplies to the military
camps, but by the time the notices reach Australia the
tenders are closed —closed so that certain firms will &et
their own prices for stuff that Australia could supply
much more cheaply.
* * * *
“Quidam”: Much as the gasoline motor is
cursed, as applied to motor bikes and cars, it
is safe to say the motor engine lias a mg
future before it in the bush. Know of a cyanide plant
where a 6 h.p. motor, taken off a motor-car, is running a
3-inch centrifugal pump, lifting 250 tons of solution daily
to a height of 32 feet, at a cost of three gallons of naphtha
per da v; cost about 3s. 6d. The whole engine c<u!d be easily
packed in a kerosene case, with room to spare. The oil
engine is already ahead of steam for many purposes, and
the engine that can supply an equiva'ent horse-power
while weighing less than the oil engine’s fly wheel, is
going to prove, in many instances, superior to both.


Householders will find that for uni versa*
use Little’s Phenyle Disinfectants are unsurpassedl
ihe .Soluble Phenyle is a powerful insecticide it
lulls bugs, cockroaches, fleas, &e., and is one of the
best washes for all domestic animals. Sold bv all
coemists, grocers, storekeepers, through Aus-
tralia.*
WATSON’S WHISKY
Rescli’s Waverley Bx-ewex-y, Agents.
WIRE CLOTH WEAVERS.
MAKERS OF ALL
KINDS OF WOVE
WIRE i n steel, Iron, Gal-
vanised, Copper, & Brass.
WE MAKE A SPECIALITY OF HEAVY WIRE CLOTH.
WE HAVE THE BEST ME
and LATEST MACHINERY
HE would be pleased to get in communication with those interested in WIRE QLOTH.
We will be found Quick, Oivil, Obliging and Cheap.
EASTWAY BROTHERS, 409
Factories: 533 A George St., and Albion Lane.
& 411 George St., Sydney
P.O. Box 858. Telephone 2075.
Aboriginalities.
* * * *
“Helen”: They were talking big tallies,
but the wool-roller, a man with a long beard and
an earnest face, took the belt. Said he, “I was
Working at Burrawang one year, and the boss got
knocked up writing out cheques, and had to put
his son on.”
* * - *
. A South Coast (N.S.W.) newspaper pub-
lishes a yarn that a farmer, going out one morn-
jng, tied a small dog to the fence by a chain. On
liis return he found a large carpet snake tied up
instead. It had swallowed the dog, and with'
him had taken on liis bondage.
COMPARISONS ARE ODIOUS.
STOUT PERSON (to charity visitor): “Blesh yer.
Miss, fer yer kindness. I got a daughter of
vie own what's got the same kind disposition,
Miss, 'n' cz like yer ez two peas. She’s in
gaol now, pore dear.”
“ Falder Re “Den’’and his collecting
dog (B. 11/1/’OG). When I was droving from
Sydney to Burragorang,-: I always took my kanga-
roo slut with me. Never used to buy any provi-
sions going down; “Fly” always kept me supplied.
Going into Camden, Fly would mysteriously dis-
appear, to join us at the camp, a couple of miles
out of the town, with a fine leg of mutton or a
roast of beef, and, if necessary, a second trip
panned out a tin of jam, cheese, or butter. She
was never caught, but got shot a couple of years
later under most distressing circumstances. She
heard me talking about being short for a couple
of hundred, to buy a team of bullocks and a
waggon, and next time we went through Camden
she stuck-up the bank for the money. Got the
notes out of the safe all right, but wasn’t quick
enough off the mark to escape the manager’s
revolver bullet.
* * • '* *
At Yinnar (Vic.), a week or two ago, an
unfortunate woman w r as killed as the result of
her having set fire to a tree op her farm. She
went to see whether the work of destruction was
going on properly, and it was. The burning tree
fell on her. •
, Reil y _ } hen the bushman isn’t a poet
he s a politician, and when he isn’t either he’s a
cabbage. The politician is grizzle-faced and hairy,
and swears bv (or at) Henry George. The poet is
also hairy, but placid. He dreams of Spring and
other young things, while his withered wife carts
firewood and pursues the dinner meat with a club.
As for the cabbage. Was at a bush dance and
heard a man (whose brother had put an end to
weird expectancy by shooting himself) tell his
partner : “ 11ns is where Billy blowed his light
out. Your legs is where hi§ head lay.” Then
they revolved with great velocity and “set to
corners. That man was a cabbage.
* * * *
“Via, ’: A black gin died recently at
Albany station, 110 miles west of St. George
(Queensland), leaving' two children ; a boy of eierlit
years and a “pic” of eight months. Through
tubal differences the other 1 -' of the tribe would not
take charge of the pair, so the hoy started for St.
George,' carrying his little sister. He arrived
starving and exhausted some four days later. The
, P l *?. (Ted from exhaustion shortly after arrival,
but the little hero is still on top. ' Many a white
man has been decorated for less.
■ blacks’ insensibility to
pain Wnen the line was being finished to Kal-
goorlie, the blacks were frequently given free rides
between that town and Ooolgardie on the contrac-
tors trucks. One morning, the train with its
< usky load had just started when one young buck,
who had been uptown buying sweets or something
tor his best girl arrived and made a dash for a box
seat. Missing his hold, he fell with one leg across
the rad This was chopped off above the knee.
Utrted to the hospital, the doctors soon got to
'?fii f ’i and T* h * e H aC H w ' as leffc witl] a short stump of
* iig i. I t took a lot of persuasion to induce him
) remain in bed that day, and when dark came,
i ff l( t nurs ® the ward for a few minutes,
he left too Four weeks after he turned up at
cor th the , tnhe > bopping along quite uncon-
cernedly on one foot.
11. S.L. : lie blacks’ insensibility to
pam Have seen a gin split from the right
. mu der blade to the left rump, exposing in places
mtn Tr by J\ bl T v f . rom a sharp-edged woo-
inti ® IVei 'v C - b ? her irate overlord for shifting
a little irom his side during the night watches,
-tier screams nearly turned my hair grey I
Irwin t got a shooter or I’d have slain the nigger.
Ihe other gins plastered the wounds with the
aro,mH™ Ud / ant i Se ‘ tlC ’ 1 P resume )- Gin was
2 d - I ?. f }. fe w. d ay< apparently very much alive
sni f t lV !. al r see ” aborigines, with heads
‘P • , P en i" 0 the: bone in all directions after an
m m over " n, fbt scrap, quite lively next dav
Kingdom Come man >V ° Uld haye been in
* * *
11. Hap ’ : Would like to warn those who
have contracted the habit of pulling and nibbling
stems of grass and twigs, and
other common herbage, that
there grows along the coast,
near Sydney, and probably else-
where, an exuberant herb which
possesses narcotic properties.
It has a sweet-acid taste. Was
with a camping party, recently,
when one of the company,
during a heated argument,
abstractedly pulled a sprig of
the herb and began to chew it.
He suddenly lost all interest
in the controversy, and lay on
his back dozing and making
irrelevant remarks. After
awhile, he, became aggressive,
and threatened to run amok
with a firestick and a gridiron.
J t took the united strength of
the party to hold him down.
When he recovered, he ex-
plained that he had been drift-
ing among the clouds for at
least 2000 years.
* * *
“ Oh Lee ” : Found that
the chickens were disappearing
from the establishment, but
the closest search failed to dis-
close any tracks of the
marauder. Determined to keep
watch. About midnight a large
goanna, carrying a branch of
gum-tree in his jaws, entered.
After placing himself outside
of three chicks he retreated
backwards on the same trail,
and, with the branch, carefully
removed all signs of his visit.
Waited until he got to the
door, and then as he backed
out I hit him hard on his
-r, , , thinking box with a shovel.
Beckon he was the Sherlock Holmes of the
go tribe.
*
Knuckler ” (M.L.): W. T. Goodie’s
poem, “The Man from Maoriland” (Xmas
number Bulletin), has one fatal line, and all the
dailies, &c ; , here are busy reprinting, with a cor-
rection—viz., Kaipara is substituted for Grey-
mouth. 1 here doesn’t happen to be a kauri pine
within a week of Greymouth. One might as well
look for rabbits at the South Pole as kauris in
Greymouth. [And could the noble Maorilander
pass an examination as to the habitat, say, of the
waratah, the flannel flower, the brown boronia
and the rose-wood ? M.L. is a big, important
place, buy the necessity of knowing every little
detail of its life isn’t clear to the Australian.—
ii/D. J3.J
* * * *
Stony : Another of the many tasks
to which the Australian rabbit is permitted to
devote himself is that of providing sweets for the
Australian youth. This fact came out at a recent
exhibition in Melbourne, where the finished
product was shown. The gelatinous pelt, after
the leit-fur is removed, is boiled down, and the
reaned result sugared and flavored and cut into
cibes.
IN THE THROES.
SNORKEY (writing to his bit o' shirt): “Now, I’d
like ter send Pheemy a real toff letter.
Wonder ’ow yer spell ‘ blimey’?”
‘‘ Nym ” : Ever notice how, like land
insects, etc., the yabbie changes color with its
environment ? In the station tanks yabbie is a
light yellow with greenish hues, about the claws
and tail. In the Campaspe, a stone’s-throw away,
he is inky black like the vegetable-discolored fluid
of the stream. In the lagoons around, yabbie is a
bluish color, and more ferocious than his river and
dam relations.
* * * *
The Times of India gets hold of the wrong
end of the stick with this
The hatred of Asiatics generally prevalent in Australia
is in a large measure due to the influx of Pathans which
at one time took place into that country. They were
brought in originally with the camels that were utilised
in Western Australia. Now, as is shown by a recent
notification, even camels are prohibited from entering
Australia.
It was the Chinaman who first prompted anti-
Asiatic legislation, and the camel is not a pro-
hibited immigrant or liable to be called upon to
pass the Education Test.
“Sixteen” : I was once tutor
to a king (black) for a consideration in
bunny skins. . After months of brain
fag and battling, he advanced in spell-
ing as far as words of six letters.
liis Majesty was greatly exercised
over the pronunciation of m—-o —u —s
—e. “The in the o the u the s and
the e; and by cripe that the hard
word, ain’t it.” I explained: “m—
-o—u—s—e > that feller cat chase longa
hole.” A beatific smile spread over
Jacky’s face. “By the cripes I got
tem this time all right,” he declared.
“The m the o the u the s the e. All
the same the cat chase longa hole.
Ya, the rabbit.” Hid not have the
heart to put him right. I resigned
instead.
* * *
“ 8.5.” : Worth some notice is
the Mallee “ice plant.” In hottest
weather it is covered with water
globules, which resemble ice or frost.
Nearly half-a-pint of water may be ex-
tracted' from a large plant. Cookies
curse it because no other plant will
grow near it.
* *
“ Janor ” : “Thank God ! ” said
the insomniac when the tiger-snake
attached itself to his leg, “I’ll sleep
at last.” But it was not so. On the
contrary, the snake died from want of
sleep.
Mt. Gambler (S . A.) local Scrattish High-
ifissE ,ms
**, 6 «
“ O’B.” : It is said that if Dr. Danysz is
let loose among Australian rabbits stringent mea-
sures will be taken bo see that the microbes do
not attack anything but rabbits. What measures
can be effective ? Dr. Danysz may be able to
control the microbes in his laboratory, but what
of their growth over the tropical and semi-tropical
climate of Australia? Flies and other insects
affected with the induced disease may be blown to
the mainland and driven hundreds of miles over
to tr C a o ns n fe r r y H ao ffl KJrl J buSt6r - h f beer ‘ kno . wn
to transfer clouds of fliesfive or six hundred miles.
“unp 6 - ® xpeidra ® nt here the Government must
superintend—not the squatters.
“T.D.” : Australia seems to be tk
B " count! 111 '
which the f a 2 :
children g”*
slaves of th e ”f a ;
er s cows. f, ' !
lend an ;g
tive ear to Wo -
f ? rie ? of cl j
labor in the E ‘
midland^;
Parts
? eds island.
ut excepti 0n
facilities f,
travelling A
parts most cor
demned h av
failed to Jg
any case so gk
as that 1
the Australia*
farmer’s boy, 4
for farm wort
it is done b,
grown men, an
one never see<
child of nine \
ten engaged i,
any other occu
Pation than h,
schooling; if suc )
a , youngste
should be seer
driving a coup],
of obstinate ok
cows home tr
their shed, de
pend upon it h,
is doing it j ust
for the sport ol
the thing. Ever
in Ireland, farm
children are not de-
prived of their schooling in
order to milk cows or feed pb S A
And on the continent of Europe ii
is the same. The Australian farmer
, seems to be the only person whose soul
hasnt risen above sweating his own children
into a condition of mental stupidity and physical
outwornness; but with the Australian landlord
to support, and no local market to speak of for
his crops, it is perhaps inevitable.
* • * •
“ Itan ” : What is this strange fascination
to the sundowner, the Out Beyond ? Met one the
other day, going back. He was very old and
lame, humping Matilda in the orthodox fashion.
Eor a time he had tried civilisation, he said, and
spent a term in a benevolent home; but he
yearned to go back to Drought and Dust. Where l
He wes not quite sure. How? Along the road
straight ahead. When? Vastly uncertain;
might reach the turn-back by the end of the year.
What a charm there must be in the freedom of
the bush, and with what confidence these battlers
face the life they have chosen, and walk on till
the desert swallows them up !
* * * #
“Milo”: The cattle-drover and the
sheep-drover in Queensland rarely get on well
together. A cattle-drover passing over a stock-
route is very particular to burn every sheep-break
along the track, the object being to make matterl
hard for the sheep-drover. Sheep are severe on
grass, not so much on account of the amount they
eat as on account of the amount they trample.
The Warrego stock route is chiefly used for cattle,
and any sheep-drover is looked upon as an inter-
loper who must be harassed.
BY THE SAD SEA WAVES.
MISS THICK : “Disgusting minx. I’d be ashamed to
be seen in a costume like that.”
MISS THIN : “ So should I. But some women don’t
know what objects they look.”
“Krcx ” ; Two Bulletin correspondents
t™ B r™' 3 sr* ,hey ™“ alm T “‘“ sooa
bitten by an adder as a goanna, I wish to say
emphatically that I prefer 40 goanna bites to one
adder’s. Anyway, a man has a bigger chance of a
first prize in Tatts.’ than of being bitten bv the
“g 0.,” unless he pursues that nasty reptile to
standstill, and proceeds to choke it by ramming a
finger down its throat. b
* * * *
What, is hhe lono-esf ™„;i t- ■
Australia ? One is fmm T? ■ l route m
S' It + rmantdn ’'
Normanton to Magowra route (444 mi£) therfis
nTI(J „„ °- lco r m W mues), tnere is
camp to Camooweak ’ the mounted police
MACHINE SHEARING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Three rams hocked ! Wot cher mean ?
Git yer cheque. I never seen
Sich rotten work.” That’s wot he sa : d,
That chunk-head boss of Wonga shed.
I don’t call it shearin’. Y’ oughter
Call it shavin’ (milk-an’-water
Graft, I call it), go d fer housemaids
An’ sich like. Give me th’ blades !
When the grinder shrieks an’ splutters,
Sharpenin’ up the combs an’ cutters,
An’ th’ steam-pipes cough an’ spit,
That’s not shearin’—not a bit.
Sorter job ter suit a to w nie,
Lop-eared cove who swallers brownie
By the yard, an’ plays th’ planner
Like a pea-struck blamed goanner.
Then yer’d think that blasted expert
Wus a god ; er mustn’t hurt
His feelin’s, or y.r pension screw
’LI get plugged up. Of course, he knew !
When th’ friction wheel is rockin’
Ten a second, sometimes hockin’
Can’t be helped, an’ then there’s hell,
PYaps yer git th’ sack as well.
Wot’s th’ use uv knovvin’ how ter
Grind a blade ? Some struttin’ pcufcsr-
Pidgin-breasted chump can allers
Shave ’em \yith his clumsy maulers.
Lot they know uv solid graftin’,
With their nuts an’ pins, an’ shaftin’,
Like some greasy stokers smeltin’
Wif their stinks an’ oils an’ beltin’. .
That’s my say ; an’ strike me black
If ever again I git th? sack
From chunk-head blokes who rant an’ roar
When sheep are hocked ; fer I’ll shear no more.
N.S.W.
A. P. ROGERS.


Which Sa.lt ?
Salt for the Bones, salt for the Brain,
Salt for the Nerves, relieves the Strain,
Salt for the Country, salt for the Town,
Salt to keep people from breaking down.
Salt for the Kitchen, salt for the Table,
Salt for the Delicate, salt for the Able,
Salt forthe Simple, salt for the Wise,
Salt for the Children, increases their size.
Salt of the Earth, without a Fault,
Salt of Life—lt is
GEREBOS salt.
Wholesale Agents:—Harrison & Attv/ood, Sydney.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
PR W. (Bright, Vic.): It's a jolly pretty photo, but we
don’t deal in that sort of illustration. Try. one of the
Melbourne weeklies?....G.H.R. : Not nearly up to the
mark.... Sas : The man who heard the clodk strike one
three times is played out. Also, he is dead. So is the
other ioke....M.J.M. : Far too crude as yet... .N.A.1..
No hope at a11....M.M. : Far too crude- for use....
11..J.L. :No indications of success as yet H.YV.I. .
Sketches rather weak; but show some promise.....
R.F.M.: Joke not worthy of sketch ; sketch rather good.
SKY P. : Sketch rather crude as yet; needs a little
more 'practice... .Unsuitable..: Veritas, Val., M.C., H.C.,
Mac.
Try the difference between a big glass of
your usual stimulant and a little of this pure
distillation. You will find the little drink a
livlier bracer for exhaustion for mind or body and
there will be no bad after-effects. We are talking
of Wolfes Schnapps*
Eleven
Reasons
Why we sell
so many Rings.
“Fx and R”
Diamond
Half-Hoop
Ring,
A Marvel
of Value,
£5 ss.
Pink Tourmaline
and Golden Sapphire,
and 2 Diamonds,
£5 ss.
Fine Diamonds
and Whole Pearl,
£l3 13s.
Special
Diamonds,
Our Own
1. We are the actual makers.
2. We make them in our own workshops.
3. We buy the gems in the rough.
4. We cut the gems.
5. We save all intermediate profits.
6. We are ring-setters.
7. We make only 18ct. gold gem rings.
8. We are gem experts.
9. We carry a large stock of unset, stones.
10. We receive them direct from the mines.
11l We sell at London Prices.
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery-
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street,
“ Brumby ” tells of taming an outlaw :
There were no rails to go down, no stockyard. Co-
lingwood Flat —just about two acr *\° £ , ™ on the
rounded on three sides by one-eyed ho > . r „
fourth by a wire fence around a '''°‘' k( ; d rp.,.Q s ide Jof the
a Paradise of thistles, goats and babies. T an(J sjzes
square were thronged by women of a , . g thers sa t
Children swarmed in the gutters while th m j]kmen
on the kerb, and chatted or joked with the
butchers, bakers and barrowmen who had come in ° esg
for word had gone out that the greatest champion
came to Melbourne was to be " dde "
Jigger Lavell. A cheer went up as amidst g ,| ie
of horses and in a cloud of dust two men d
Plat in a long-shaft jinker, followed by
outlaw, a great big bright bay near 17. hands of great
substance and showing lots of quality. stick about
his coat shone like satin. Jigger st’ck about
4ft. long, with which he had .to frequently tap
his charge on the nose, for it. had a P . horse had
suddenly charging and striking at him. The horse had
been brought from the Northern Territory to Kapnnda by
Kidman, who said he could buck off anything, but his
brand. He was bought by a Melbourne: bi tche* ,'' hose
usual breaker had given him up as a hop , - While
daring that nothing could cure him o£ kick , s ' the i iat
one of the men from the jinker passed round the hat,
another started to put on the saddle andLb • ddle
got such a volley of cow kicks that he . (
and ran, to the great amusement of the uo« d -, A S
was now by much ingenuity got over the o
and his near hind leg was secured to his heck bi a s
line, the saddle and bridle made secure, aud'niessthan
a wink Jigger was in the saddle the side line and bag re
moved, and the spurs jammed home It "as an squi:tie
cyclone, with a man in the middle, and the ma ‘3
the middle. He gyrated in a space of a few va ds the
rider on the apex of a cone. At one moment he
leant—almost hung-over his withers, the next
sat with a great lean-back, both hands gripj l ’ •
his eyes never off the horse’s neck just mlfrontofthe
pommel. The saddle appeared to rock with every n
from the horse’s hips to its withers, where it - 1
with a sudden jerk that shook the rider like a reed. The
cruel spurs brought blood at every buck. The horse
threw his head in the air, and bolted in a mad endsavor
to escape from his torment, giving great flying bucks ana
kicks, in which he appeared as long as three and
several times almost performed the feat of k ickin cl
over. Then he stopped dead. His ruler belted h>m w h
his hat, and drove the spurs in from girth to flank.
The horse replied with a few feeble bucks, aaid Jigg . ,
seizing a favorable opportunity, vaulted from his back,
just escaping a vicious cow-kick by a few uchhS. Tlie
horse stood limp, liis flanks heaving, his nostuls distended,
exposing a £reat surface of scarlet membrane, ibe lustie
of h?s coat had vanished. The sweat that cmne from him
in great drops, and ran in streams down his leg , <
him appear a dull leady color. He had put up l a
great battle, and though defeated was not m n^’and
h's conqueror is a master of the art of rough rid ST.
was himself almost as greatly distressed as the horse.
Now the horse’s days of freedom are ended, foi he will
be broken docile to harness and deliver the early sausage
and chop to the hash-house.
WOULDN’T MEET HIM AT ALL.
BERTIE (to navvy who has challenged him out to
fight): “My good man , on principle I
strongly object to fighting.”
NAVVY : “ Oh! yer does , docs yer! I’ve a good
mind ter wring yer neck.”
BERTIE: “ Well — et — er—as to that, I—er—object
to that, too.”
“D.H.R.” : What is the longest distance
ever travelled by a horse in one day, either riding
or in a vehicle? The three following instances 1
can personally attest : Mr. Thomas Burke, owner
of Marylands, near Walgett, once, m an urgent
matter, drove a horse in a sulky from Baradme,
or thereabouts, to Walgett—a distance of 120 miles.
The trip was accomplished in something under 10
hours, including a short stop. Know a man who
drove (in a sulky) from near Wellington to a place
eight miles below Warren, 125 The late
B Y Wolseley, one time owner of Buroka ana
inventor of the shearing machine, often drove
four-in-hand over 100 miles in a single day; and
once drove a very old horse in a, single-shafted
buggy with four men on board 110 miles. My
father once rode a horse, in a matter of urgency,
70 odd miles (bareback), from the vicinity of Lame-
stone (Q.) to a station, in about eight hours.
“ Mulgarian ” anent an institution peculi-
arly Australian :
Why no recognition so far of the “ gutter clubs ” in
Tiib Bulletin ? The “ gutter clubs ” are purely informal.
No vexatious rules trouble their members, who are sen-
elected and pay no subscriptions. No P re ™ s ®® " e
rented, but sessions are held on a gutter-kerb preier-
ably that one opposite the most popular public-house.
In the pit-districts of Newcastle, N.S.W., ‘ gutter
clubs” mav be found, where politics and the selling-price
of coal form the subjects of discussion ; but to see them
in their highest development it is necessary to go to the
hinterland mining townships of Queensland or W.A. Un
such, in the latter State, has had my constant admiration
for the past four years. . . „
It appears to be always in session. The president is so
constantly at his post that no “ vice ”is necessary. He
possesses all the attributes to justify his continuous
occupation. He has leisure, because his claim is uch
enough to warrant his putting on a man' to work bis
interest. He is liberal in regaling his fellow clubmen
during intervals of debate. Although one of the.post
ill-informed men in the camp, he can “ speak through his
neck ” for an hour on any subject brought up, Hunioi
credits him with having developed suman callosities in the
interests of his beloved institution—and how better cornel
he express his devotion ? .
Recently our Member (he had a portfolio in one Govern-
ment) visited us on his annual round. He is an old
prospector himself and knows the ways of his- constituents.
His arrival was unexpected, but he drove straight to the
“gutter club”—asked the President to arrange a meeting
for him later in the day, then went to visit a friend on one
of the outside leases. Returning at the hour appointed,
he was received by the President and accounted for his
political sins virtually under the aegis of the club. J-his,
I was told, was his usual custom. #
“ 8.H.D.” : What is the use of protect-
in" clucks at certain seasons of the year, and
allowing men to shoot them at other times m
thousands to make a living? Know of a swamp
up-country where seven parties of two men each
averaged 500 pairs of ducks a week per party,
using 5-bore and 8-bore guns. The 5-bore guns
were illegal, but this sort of thing continued toi
weeks after the season opened, and no one tried
to catch the men with the field artillery. The
way the law falls on a man to the extent of a hi
fine and sundries if he shoots a duck in the close
season, and, a week later, allows men to slaughter
them with a cannon, is what breaks up the simple
country sports.
“Helen ” : I remember in the early clays
they fenced in a 40-acre paddock of wheat with
bullock hide at Burrawang. No wire fences at
that time, and hides were valueless. *
“ 0.T.E.”: Am in charge of an Aboriginal
Mission station out Coonamble (N.S.W.) way,
and at odd times get hold of some queer
legends from the niggers. They account for
the smallness of the emu’s wings thus : The
emu used to have large wings, and fraternised
much with the blue crane. One day the
crane folded her wings closely to her body
and tied them there, and, meeting an emu,
told her that' she had cut her wings off, as
they were of no use in getting food amongst
the reeds and in the shallow pool-waters.
She advised the emu to cut her wings off,
as they were only a useless load to carry,
and of no assistance out on the plains.
The emu consented after a time to follow the
crane’s advice, and appeared next day with
no wings. The crane then untied her own
wings and flew away laughing at the sorry
plight of the emu. The emu determined to
have revenge on the crane and on the curlew,
who was now the crane’s friend. Some
time after, having hidden all her young ones
but' two, she approached the pool near
which were the crane and curlew. They
noticed the two young emus and asked
about the others. The mother told them
she had killed the rest as two were enough
to feed. They were struck with the idea,
and killed all but two of their broods.
The emu then went after her hidden little
ones and returning with her full brood
laughed at the crane and curlew. The
darkies say that the mournful night cry
of the curlew is a cry of mourning for her
murdered chicks.
* * * *
“ Scallywag ” ; I’ve got into a bad. habit
lately of critically examining my friends. I find
that 90 percent, of them have one ear (mostly the
right one) closer by from half an inch upwards to
the head than the other. This I’m sure is caused
by continually sleeping on one side. My male
city chums, too, always have the sole of the left
boot worn through about a fortnight before the
other, this being explainable by the habit of city
folk of alighting hurriedly on the left side (for
safety’s sake) from moving trams. When in the
street listen to the man walking behind you. Do
you notice one foot falling more heavily than the
other ? The left foot it is, of course. The teachers
are to' blame for this on account of the habit of
calling out “ Left! Left! ” to the children
marching into school, causing them to emphasise
the step of that foot. Have you observed, too,
that all city men carry their thumbs, and some-
times their Tittle fingers, outstanding from the
hand? This, of course, prevents the shirt-cutt
from coming down too far, but people, from force
of habit, carry it thus even without a shirt on.
And how distinctive some occupations make one !
Take the clerk, with his extravagant swing of the
left arm, soda-water-bottle shoulders, lark-heels—
i e one heel kicking at, or larking with the other.
These distinctions are the result of dawdling
about town after office hours.
A CALAMITY
CHILD.
AGED YOUTH : “ They’re
all right, them lads.
There ain't nothin
troublin’ THEM. Wisht
to the Lord I was
young agen!”
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Duke : Too familiar, and too much familiarity is
as objectionable in a story as in a creditor... .Adelaide :
Christmas bush is a charming' N.S. W. bush—a small tree
in fact—that at Xmas time comes out in a mass of dainty
pink flower. It’s one of N. S. Wales' consolations for
Carruthers and other grievances San Remo: You’ve
got the wrong end of the case in re that sugar drawback.
(1) At present the Commonwealth does not fully provide
itself with sugar; (2) by allowing a drawback on the
sugar contents of exported jams, jellies, etc., you don t
interfere with the Protection of Australian sugar and you
do help the export trade in jam— Kangaloon : You ask
“ What was the attitude of Bruce Smith towards the
Protestant Defence Association at the last elections?
It was one of abject slavishness. Spruce Snuff not only
souo-ht the patronage of that body but 'vent out of his
wav to state that he had never sent a child of his to a
RC school W.L.B. : Why do we publish advertise-
ments from the Yankee Harvester Trust ? A fair enough
question. In the first place no newspaper guarantees
its advertisements ; they’re printed for what they re worth
and the public has to make up its mind as to their state-
ments If a newspaper attempted to censor its advertise-
merit's the difficulty would arise that readers would
begin to look upon the advertisements as repre-
senting the paper’s ideas and the papers ascer-
tained facts, and would attach the same importance to an
advertised as to an editorial statement. Result of
that would be practically no advertisements at all,
since it would be iriipossible to put to rigid test the wide
range of statements in the various advertisements. In
the second place, it is doubtful whether it would be a
ri«ht thing for a newspaper to boycott any particular
business or firm. In an individual case it might be de-
fensible : as a general practice it could be a means to grave
wrono- On' the whole the journalistic custom all over the
world” to publish all advts., which are decent and are paid
for merely as the statements of the advertiser is sound.....
Lav B.: Not our idea of humor—the story of the man who
introduces indecent stories into a religious journal as a
ioke. That’s too much of the type of the rich fruity wit
of the small boy who writes something on the wall.
0.8. : The new order of precedence omitting
ail mention of ecclesiastics, in effect, signifies that the
Commonwealth is a strictly secular institution
Langouste: Clever, but with an air of unreality....
Fiona: Very promising, but work lacks polish as yet....
F. : Doesn’t follow at all. In embezzlement cases it is
the rule to proceed on one item alone, so long as that
item is sure ; it would make no difference if half-a-dozen
items were gone on with, as any additional sentence
would be concurrent... .E.B. :It was the Daily Mirrcr
(London) which advocated the LTm. waist Lou W. :
Some promise....E.R.M. : “An Ideal” and A Trail
both firmly declined....E.R. : Note your rather badly-
versed ambition to spend the rest of your Jay s the
rocks at Cape Schank... . Maxim : Booby Hatch
doesn’t sound like a real drunk... .W.H.D. . Re-
marks about “ English scorpions and Ireland s
shame” rather out of date just now._ The road
to Home Rule is by argument, not invective....
Jeach : One verse of your “ Billosophy as a sample .
Now this is the philosophy of Billjim and Jim bill
fT n Billiimjamy jargon it would make your blood run chill)
Done into decent English from the flowery Australese ;
“Life is mostly sinking duffers or a-falling pipey trees.
J A Deck : Gracefully written, but too feebly senti-
mental .... Wog: Absolutely no literary gift ...Black
Sheep : Par objectionable ; verses pretty, but conven-
tional... .R.C.: Far-fetched and obscure....E.R.E. :
Couldn’t read any sense or coherence into it .. .Nymsie:
Some ingenuity, but general workmanship faulty.. ..w.
Fanning: You have feeling but no skill... .Mike : Not
worth such a long lead-up Rek: Might have been
much better t01d... .Julie : Not Byron, but Byrom the
satirist T T.C. : Its badness amounts almost to genius.
Marker : A good deal of humor of a sort, but not in
our" line Amberite : You couldn’t explode half as
violently as the man did who had to read your Epitaph »
at the end of a hot day... .Sandbag :It wasn’t Norton,
but another alderman who made that remark about
Wiegand... Needlewood : An old theme treated with no
new vigor.... Hamer: Old,, old, old idea which has been
trodden to the dust by thousands of poetic feet.... o. »• O. .
Has a good deal of cleverness, but not quite up to the
mark.... Paul O. : Just miss... .Chris. N. : Verbose....
Exile: Clerics unreal.... R.S. : The “ lowered light m the
parlor” as a method of landing the unwilling young man
is a time-worn jest. It would take a genius to make much
of such a theme... .'Mungindi: Good knack of rhyming,
but too little to rhyme about.. ..Moulamem : The
creature is the “ant-lion,” the .larval form of the
neuropterous insect myrnnleo, and the ant — tuns
captured in pitfalls—is ils natural prey... .Quam-
batook: Fact that the whole township wanted to
scratch itself doesn’t make a yarn.. . .K.S. : Rattier tide.
...H.M. : A good deal of promise in sea sketches, but
there’s rather a straining after “fine writing.” Cse
simple language to record actual experiences and you 11
do better....H.D.G. : (1) Didn’t resign at all, is still on
deck, but takes things a little easy now. (2) Australian.
J C Mac. : Thanks Peter N. : Haven t lost sight
of'that point.... Marcus Clark: A good literary name
but copy not up to it-yet ...Bushgirl: Some skill, bt
too much talk for too small a point.. ..E.S.E. . Ui.e
smart little thing and several bigger things that are not
at all smart. Is your Pegasus bred for a short distance
only? Koala: You don’t quite climb the tree wi.ti
“The Witch,” though it looked promising as a lit ct
nonsense verse.... Afienod: Asia certainly could capture
the Northern Territory at any time, which is the
best of reasons why the Commonwealth should devote
its energies to effectively colonising* that province.....
H. Summer: Too formless and incoherent.. ..Julia .
Doesn’t get anywhere near the mark As Now : im-
possible doggerel.. . .F.O. : Hasn’t quite weight ni it....
R.P. : “Bushman’s Reply” says nothing in part.cu.ai
except “Good-bye, old fe110w.”... .J K.: Your cheek in
sending in that old joke as something fresh and
new is colossal, and if you had accepted pay-
ment for it the act would have been getting
money under false pretences... .Cecare : Some power, but
not finish enough Pipi: Funny, but too long, and
the dialect is overdone... .Cirrus : Hardly well enough
done... .B.No. 2: Both have more spirit than 5ki11....
T.A. Mac. : Too much moral claptrap about it u.w.u. .
Your verses lack swing and movement —A. W.K. :
“Point out the error.” Well, the error is everything—
general literary inefficiency... .Ambente : One verse, to
show what a cheerful philosopher you are :
...A.J.: Pathetically incompetent.... Ossian: “Sandy
is badly told Maxim :No merit... .Cecil L. : T
dull and prosy.... .R.S. : Sorry, but not up... .H.Cr.D. .
Candidly, verse is of the Valentine order, and not nearly
up to The B. mark... .S.S. : Seems unfair, with the lady s
present and future advantages, that she should have
poetry written to her as well. However, it is so poor as
not to count... .Ire. : May be something in them' but it s
not obvious to The Bulletin .... San Remo : Heavens, no ,
the number would run into many, many thousands
AJ W. (Tas.): One accepted. Please send address....
Unsuitable: Phoenix, A.M., P.C.A., Exile, Roe, Yankee
Whaler, Perhaps, G.W.C., P.W.S., E.M.S., Joan T., S.,
E.W.S., W.S.
I know the birthright of a Man-
Ay, know it but too well ?
’Tis discontent—for death he’s Meant,
And ultimately Hell!


Jujtfce • S ro on
y€Ars
0«V 9k C-b^nct
2ft" h»s l- Ije
V?i»>i 'ho H»">s €^f-
T u “^s
\H»S M
fjt wi H boV
*V>y
Sb^ecbe^
<
Ofyrs b* is+c
3rr^v,o G toy v>cw
ihsh.h4 .fV
v^gtg
'foin (Vf-fye J^Ye WeII JlUner)
'* reme»»)b*irtcA Sir Jol>n wljen Ije
WA*)
.
At> o*Jy ay.
Copies ojj
\\)<&> lch«W . ’
vscxy J"
7
Ise o n iff
"'lbc. Qovt will I? ~fo
do l»r> borts\nt~ worKTi*)
> bui~ 1)4 (M r o«ot^
decli'ioccj -f~ O op
wUr "
\ery N
1
A 'S>
A
W? ft**)'! - ■ —' '’fljcy y ot4
bijk is } b*f—
your fj^S gr 'JfcK «
Ts-Vheonce ms \
irv)i llion
'to Send Coljfcn
\ he/'J' July — , r — -
\*Ms W** 'SUndt^s-tn^
X+b l/ v< <A
xjo Sec. it'sa+el'/v
« e "t^a,
aw<zL
' SA ,c^
y\t was A
j| ScrA'fclj tacfC
y° b "
fet'is |<?4 > I |>)Wyel -fo
»» >^e'tar> ) | OK s ) v
IW- IS.qmn.hj lusi, e ss+^ s if o«t-«f *„-!*«.!
"file 'pir \qo& will for ever fa .denWd fl„ £„ ? )
*' | s % of flj* . 5
JUSTICE ON A JAUNT.


Hotel Guest ': “ Yes,’l did ring.
I’ve been taken suddenly 111.
Get me a doctor at once I ”
Buttons : “ Hajn’t nobody except boney
fido guests allowed on the premises
arter closin’ hour. If you want
a doctor you’ll have ter see J Jm
outside.”
Policeman (suddenly appearing before
dinner-party at public restaurant) :
“It’s ’leveh.o’clock, an’ ye’ll have to
disperse, or it’ll be my Jooty to take
yez all in I ” ■ ,
(Diagnosis made and patient
on the steps of hotel.)
Mr. Boreni (after long speech proposing
the guest of the evening ): “ And now,
gentlemen, I’ll ask you to drink his
health 1 ” Voice of landlord, who. has
suddenly appeared : “ I can’t allow it.
It’s just struck eleven, and this hotel’s
got to be closed 1 ”
UNDER THE NEW LIQUOR ACT.-HIS
. SUNDAY GUEST.
Convivial. Husband : “Allow me, m’dear,
t’ introdoosh my friend, Mishter Demi
John; he’s, come to spend Shunday
with us.” _
Barmaid : “ You look rather young to
send for beer, sonny.”
j .Sonny : “I looked old enough when I
, started, but, unfortunately, I stopped
at the barber’s oii. the way and had a
clean shave”’
f irst f estive Cuss : “ Shay, Bob, hadn’t we better go (hie)
home? It’s af'er 11 o’clock,”
Second ditto: “Sh’pose we’ll have (hie) to. Nozzing else
to do. ■
“ A Sabbath well spent
Brings a week'of content.”
Hotel guests now have to entertain
their’visitors in the gardens, and keep
a jolly sharp look-out for the police.
THE SORROWS OF SYDNEY.


FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 4S samples
and S fine cabinets or
stereos, all ey-juisitely finished French work, 5/- Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. CEINERT, SpC. FBI St. Marlin, Paris, Franc:.
s?
w.
Mmm'm
Mmm
£iB$SBS&
MmM
WMmi
mmm
•mm
m
B
<2 Kill Rabbits
Aiywkere. s. Every wkere
* All Round.
Write Us.
[ING.SMrnHs
MANUFACTURERS i
' or manures a* 1
jMELrfi^URME.
<3-0 TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nageo, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Pries Lists Gratis.
shirtsT
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Hal, - dozen, free by post throughout
A ustrt.lia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTOA3TLE St SONS, BRISBANE.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Bishop Ridley, of New Caledonia, claims
that he does all his own cooking and mending and
washing, and backs himself to bake a batch of
bread against all competitors—a haiidy sort of
shepherd for the Heavenly Overseer to put in
charge of a back paddock.
Mr. Joseph Chamberlain professes his
willingness “ to face three, four, or live elections”
in the tariff reform cause. The fifth election
would be, probably, 25 years hence. Joseph
promises himself a long life.
Dr. Bleeds Fitchett went away an Argus
man vituperating Australia, he returns a heated
A ustralian appreciator. The Age scarcely noticed
jos departure, and devotes columns to his return.
The Argus overflowed at his departure, and
scarcely notices his return.
Those obsequious persons who have man-
aged to get themselves labelled C.M.G. have
made the appalling discovery that the Governor-
General completely forgot their existence when
making up the official order of precedence.
Back on a visit to Australia comes Malcolm
M‘Eacham. Of course, ho is calling in at Japan
first.
The death of Fitz Gibbon leaves Puitell,
Ebenezer Ward, J. C. Neild and a few others to
fight for the Champion Doggerel Belt.
Eric Roberts, son of journalist “Jack”
Roberts, bids fair to make his mark as an illumi-
nating artist in Sydney. Some of his work which
Tun Bulletin has seen is excellent.
Jack Bailey, now trying his hand at
repairing the neglected Brisbane Botanic Gardens,
sprang from botanist Bailey, whose father was
John Bailey, the first botanist of South Australia.
Members of the Price (S.A.) Government
customarily take their wives on their official tours.
The ladies are keen politicians, and they are vary
frequent visitors to the Assembly when Parliament
is in session.
Senator Staniforth Smith spends this
recess visiting the Straits Settlements, the Malay
States and Java. He will, without expense to the
Commonwealth, report to the Government on the
ec momic conditions of those places in relation to
the development of Papua.
• Lewis A. Bernays, clerk of Bananaland
Legislative Assembly since Separation established
it in 1860, finds himself in his 76th year without
any signs of relinquishing the job. For seven
years before he began in the northern State he
was a clerk in the N.S.W. Assembly.
Bishop Stuart, who passed through Sydney
lately on his way to his old Maoriland diocese,
Waiapu, gave up that See several years ago for
the work of a rambling missionary in Persia. The
bishop is a brother of Alexander Stuart, one-time
N.S.W. Premier, and whose illness at one juncture
gave. W. B. Dailey the chance of his life as an
“Empire builder.”
THE LIQUOR BILL IN N.S.W.
JOHN ASHTON, sec. of N.S.W. Licensed
Victuallers, who looks after the Liquor intevest.
The will of Mrs. Margaret McCracken
(widow of Robert McCracken), of Ascot Yale,
near Melbourne, pans out well. McCracken’s
brewery, L.itfle Oollins-street, earned the best
part of this money in the ’fifties and ’sixties. The
great beer factory is not now' so prosperous,
having boonjed itself in the ’eighties till there
was much more froth than the pot could carry.
They have a new hangman in England, a
gentleman with the breezy name of Alec Taylor,
and the Daily Mail gives a description of ho,vv he
practises on dummy figures to get into “form.”
It is. interesting to know, on the authority of the
same paper, that Alec th,e Nooser is “endowed
with much geniality.” It must be soothing to be
scragged ip a genial way by a man called Alec.
Nowadays Premier Seddon regrets ever
ha ving made himself too cheap with the public.
Years ago, before he rose to the zenith of his
political fame, he rather liked being addressed as
“Dick” by old cronies, but that familiar name is
beginning to pall. Almost everybody has dropped
into the habit of using it, and w'hen the Premier
is awaiting deportation by train, or is about to
make a speech, and ribald youngsters holler
“What ho, Dick ! ” or “ How are you, Dick, old
boy ? ” the big man gets visibly annoyed. Maori-
land youths haven’t a bit of reverence for their
Premier—until they carefully wipe their boots on.
ljiis mat, take off their hats, and plead for a job.
Newly-arrived Admiral Fawkes’ reported
dislike for ceremonial salutes, etc., marks him as
a different kind of admiral to the crowd we’ve
been used to, and the local Kow-Tow Brigade
seems to have considerable difficulty in under-
standing the phenomenon. T’other day, he
visited the A.N. A. Exhibition, and, as the Herald
rather quaintly observed, “there was a danger of
his passing unrecognised, but fortunately ”
John Burns commenced work at ten years
old, in Price’s candle factory. Then he was a
page, then was apprenticed to engineering. He
went on a long job to the Niger, Africa. After
he had married, in London, he lost his work
through speaking at a Socialist meeting, and for
seven weeks the pair were near starvation. He is
a little man, in blue serge. Must he burst into
Windsor uniform and a Court sword ?
Premier Seddon is a great admirer of the
phonograph, for it enables him to speak in several
places at once. He lias presented one to each the
M.L. hospitals for insane. Being unable to attend
a social at Nelson, the other day, he spoke his
regrets into a recorder, and the men of Nelson
heard the Seddon bark, with an added Punch
squeak, apologising for his bodily absence, but
stating that he was present in the spirit.
Apropos B. B Wise’s reputed inclination
to settle down in London and cultivate the Aus-
tralian legal business which finds its way there,
Mr. Randolph Want, brother of the late J. H.
• Want, barrister, went to London to catch Aus-
tralian legal business in the solicitor line, and
succeeded beyond expectations. He was the first
Australian solicitor to strike Babylon in that
character.
In the bad old days of boom and borrow
and shearers’ cheques, a prominent member of the
Bananaland Assembly used to run a pub. out in
the far west. He belived in facilitating the melt-
ing process, so when the cheque was passed in to
the till safely, he would leave the shearer in the
bar with a deep beer for a start, and repair to the
paddock at the back, where lie would ring a bul-
lock bell vigorously. Then all the dead-beats in
the town, in answer to the call, would stroll up
and join in the burst.
General William Butler goes to S’Africa to
report to the British Liberal Government on its
condition. Butler is the man who was military
commandant in S'Africa before the war and who
was treated with disdain as a “pro-Boer ” because
he maintained that a war with the Boers would be
no “ three-months picnic,” Now time has justi-
fied his views, and he goes back to In's old camp,
above the heads of military and civil leaders, to
report direct to the British Government on all
matters affecting S’Africa.
Combating a Stinking Fish crier about
Australia in England, a champion of this maligned
continent could only mention the name of Mor-
timer Mempes as an Australian artist. Leaving
out of account all at present in Australia, he might
have added Longstaff, Mackennal. Conder, Bunny,
M‘Comas (now doing well in U.S.A.), Minns,
Lambert, Nankivell, Streeton, Roberts, Mahony,
and half-a-dozen others who have made some
mark abroad. The world, in fact, is spotted
with Australian artists.
James Ruse, the man who set going one of
“our great natural industries,” by growing the
first wheat in Australia, was buried in Campbell-
town (N.S.W.) cemetery. The inscription—still
more or less legible—on his tombstone tells his
story thiswise
Sacred to the memerey of James Ruse, who deparated
this life Sept. sth, in the year of Houre Lord, 1837. Natef
of Cornwall, and arrived in this coleney by the forst fleet.
Aged 77. My mother reread me tenderley, with me she
took much paines, and when I arived in this coelney I
sovvd the forst grain, and now with the Hevenley Father
I hope for ever to remain.
Miss Rita Hope, the young Melbourne
pianiste who received a complimentary send-off to
Germany some while ago, had a narrow escape
from death on the voyage. Two or three of the
sailors were shifting one heavy thing or another
carelessly, when it slipped from them and fell
down the companion-way and struck Miss Rita,
laying her senseless in the proverbial pool of
blood. The damsel was much damaged about the
face and head. The shock didn’t appear to have
any serious after-effects. The shipping co. got off
lightly in paying her only £2OO compensation.
William Lovegrove, who died recently at
Marrickville (N.S.W.j, did a lot of pioneer work
in the Shoalhaven district, and founded the first
Illawarra Steam Navigation Co. The Shoalhaven
district contributed about £4OOO, and operations
were started with the steamers Planet and Nora
Greina for the river and sea services respectively.
Lovegrove, with Captain Noel, surveyed and
charted the river entrance, and afterwards
examined the whole navigable waters of the
Shoalhaven River and Broughton Creek. He
became Government Resident-in 1857. Later he
carried out the dredging of Crookhaven Creek,
and at his own expense built floodgates and
drained Lovegrove swamps.
“L.” : Senator William Zeal, the alert,
waspish little man who used to be president of
Victoria’s House of Landlords, abandoned that
frilly post in the hope of getting the Senate Presi-
dency ; but, though many Senators promised him
support, he scored only two votes. So Zeal took
a seat in a far corner of the Senate, and lias sat
there ever since. Mostly he keeps silent, occa-
sionally interjecting to bores that if they don’t
stop he’ll make a speech too. The threat usually
stops them. Zeal has a sense of humor and about
ll| times the brains of the ordinary Legislative
Councillor. He is best worth watching when
Simian Phraser, or Blobson—Gobson—Hobson,
from Tasmania, is being tormented by the Labor-
ites. Then Zeal curls into his corner like a little
red terrier, his eyes glisten, his beard wags
happily, and he chuckles with delight. His
neighbors on the benches are O’Keefe and Givens
“Socialists,” whom his old pals speak of with
foamy mouths. Probably Zeal holds on to poli-
tics in the hope of some day securing again a posi-
tion which will surround him with official frippery
and give him a high place on the precedence list..
JUST WHEN THE LADY PASSED, TOO!
SMALL BOY (to young Ribboncounter—a recent
addition to the Naval Brigade): "Hullo,
son! wot was you put on the Sobraon for?”
“ L.E.” : To my mind Daley looked to the
life an old-world poet. I don't think he was ever
deeply moved by the spirit of Australia. He
seems to me now an Anacreon with philosophic
doubt. Tf lie had been born in Bananaland
he might have been the Bard of the Tropics, but
on the whole liis work lacks the stamp of place
and.time. Though maybe more attractive, it's
less an Australian achievement and possession
than Lawson's. But Daley was a writer of whom
any country in the world might have been proud.
“Melb.” : I thumb-nailed our respected
Key. Digby Berry, the other night, in Hooker’s
cafe. Hooker’s, Plisch’s, and the Regal are rival
places asyou go on the westsideof Swahston-street,
to Princes Bridge. On this night, at a late hour,
my f iend (and everybody’s) Digby was quietly
sipping his coffee, after some tussle at the Evan-
gelical Union, when a rush of girls from Princes
Court flooded the place in muslins, flop
hats, life, laughter and joy. What a study Digby
was for the Private Secretary ! By the law of
incongruity, I expected the whole company, with
the gentleman in black in the centre, to plunge
into the comic opera dance from the “Vicar of
Bray” or something from “In Town.” “Not
quite my sort” was written on Digby’s quizzical
phiz.
A man who was saved from a death sen
tence by the arrival of the lately-deceased Vic-
toria on the throne died out in the wilds near Tum-
berumba (N.S.W.), on Jan. 17th. Son of a Church
of England clergyman, he entered the navy, where
he drew his sword (and used it) on a superior
officer who had insulted a lady connected with
his family. Victoria’s coronation happened along
in a few days, and he, with others, swam
out to Australia and life, on the wave of
clemency. In time he became a reporter on Henry
Parkes’ paper, the Empire, and, later, on the
S.M. Herald. Landing in Adelong in 1853, he
tackled mining, and in 1856 he sought the big-
timber at Bargo, where he continued to live until
his death. During those 49 years lie hunted for
gold with varying success. At a time when there
were no schools he, for no other return than gra-
titude, walked each night about two miles to
teach the children of two families ; and one of his
pupils read the burial service over him at the end.
“■Rolf Boldrewood ’’ acquired a lot of the material
for “Robbery Under Arms” from the old man.
Died, in the midst of the wrangle whether
the A.M.P. Society should pursue business out-
side Australia, the society’s chairman, Thomas
Littlejohn. His disappearance leaves J. T. Walker
the oldest director. Littlejohn had been (chair-
man ever since J. P. Abbott died, and even before
that had the billet for 12 months. That was the
time when two directors had to go, and only one
was eligible for election, and, being both extra
keen on fees, they couldn’t settle between them-
selves which it should be. Then J. P. Abbott
got one of the shocks of his life —the Board decided
that he should be the one to stand down. Thomas
Littlejohn was appointed chairman, but stepped
out again when, 12 months later, Abbott returned
to the board. But the A-IVL p. has an older chairman
than either of these still living—J. H. Goodlet, who
followed Professor John Smith; latter is a curiously-
forgotten man, considering the space he filled, as
professor, lecturer, M.L.C., A.M.P. chairman,
commissioner to inquire into scores of things, and
president of the old Council of Education. Thos.
Littlejohn wasn’t a John Smith, but in nearly
50 years spent in N.S.W. he had acquired a fine
nose for the value of investments ; and that was
where he scored.
“I gave away a shilling to-day,” said
Bamford at the Old Age Pension Com-
mission in Sydney. There are two
Senators, fairly level in the matter
of domestic obligations, one of
whom barely saves as much as
clothes him out of
his senatorial
salary, where-
as the other
leaves an
average of
£4 a weelc
behind i n
the bank.
The first is,
in no sense
of the word, a
s p e ndthrift;
day in, day out,
he personally con-
sumes as little as
his saving brother;
but indirectly the
money goes. Not
only constituents,
but odds and ends
of all sorts of misery
strike him, and his
hand goes to his
pocket in response.
The second Senator
has a bad memory
for faces; three
months after an
election he would
not know a needy
relative at five paces
off, and if an odd or
end of misery ap-
proaches he so
hangs his lip that the
party shuffles by with-
out accosting. He has
been known to walk two
streets round to avoid a
corner where he learned a
reduced friend might be standing.
An analysis of these two men
explains, at all events in some cases,
why men with equal powers and oppor-
tunities may reach old age in widely different
circumstances.
Herbert) Paul’s “Life of Froude ” relates
that that brilliant historian was once, in a sense,
sacked from the head-mastership of a Hobart
(Tas.) school. The High School—afterwards
amalgamated with Christ College, and now the
University of Tasmania —was an “endowed
school,” and one of the conditions of the endow-
ment was that the headmaster should be a C. of
E. clergyman. The post was a very good one
from a salary point of view, and a successful
applicant for it on one occasion was Froude.
Before he left London his “ Nemesis of Faith”
was published, showing that his religious views
were not strictly orthodox. Therefore the
trustees of the college cancelled the appointment.
Froude, later in life, showed his anger by omit-
ting all mention of Tasmania from his “Oceania.”
If he had included it, and said frankly how he felt
about it, his remarks should have been worth
reading.
A Melbourne ratepayer is booked under
name of Thomas Orlando William Henry Mervyn
Dunstan Knuckey.
A CHIP.
“Say, fader, you neffer give me no acknowledg-
ment for dot penny I lent you yessertoday.”
“J.T.” on the personalities of Sydney’s
futile secession meeting : —•
The Sydney Town Hall platform lacked the presence
of some of the old familiar figures of the anti-Billite
palavers of the past. Two of these—and they, once the
chiefs of the old crowd—John Robertson and John Henry
Want, and a third—Walter Bradley (who defeated the
Federal candidate of East Sydney), have prone to rest
where neither the wraiths of Victorian wolves nor the
shadow of United Australia will trouble them more.
Thomas Michael Slattery, who was the seconder of the
anti-Federal amendment moved by John Henry Want in
the N.S.W. Assembly, and who generally acted asJ.H.’s
lieutenant on the anti-Federal side, has for good and suf-
ficient reasons found it expedient to become a sojourner
in a foreign land. John Haynes, once most persistent
of Federation’s foes, but now shorn of the Parliamentary
dignity that gave him a place in the foremost
ranks at all anti pow-wows, was absent. He wouldn’t
have been welcome among Joseph Carruthers’ crowd.
Another absentee was one whose legal status used to
help to give some steadying tone to the Cabbage-tree Hat
Mob. Though not retracting his old anti-Billite
opinions, Julian Salomons bows to the logic of accom.
plished facts, and loyally accepts the Constitution of his
country. Of the old brigade who were not missing in
person, some w’ere much wanting in the spirit of
fight. L. F. Heydon looked depressed. Another of the
ancient figure-heads of the past whose face was visible,
though his heart seemed wanting, was Dr. MacLaurin, who
was once set up as the anti-Federal prophet. He hardly
had a word of cheer for the remnants of his old asso-
ciates, and of him, as of the others who fought and lost
for the ragged banner of disunion, one may, at this date,
say “ Requiescat in pace.”
TO A BOHEMIAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, weary pilgrim to the Life Ideal,
A luminous stroke of yours is this —
To show vain seekers that the brightest way
Is in living the antithesis !
G.J.


Anthony Hordern’s Sale
Commences on Monday Next, January 29, 1906.
SALE CATALOGUE sent POST FREE TO ANY COUNTRY ADDRESS.
m
sss
LSa
■
pIH"
X
U
:
1
nji«u«imriflH».UMTrag
I#
um
i\i
raiKi
Anthony Hordern
PALACE EMPORIUM, SYDNEY. v
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS
General lan Hamilton in his 4 4 Staff-Officer s
Scrap Book” on the late war
Both Russians and Japanese show a much higher
standard of morality as regards chickens and pigs than
did our troops in South Africa. Notwithstanding much
newspaper reference to Russian barbarity, the fact
remains the Muscovites have not lifted so much as an egg
even during the demoralisation of a retreat.
<i Adelaide ” : W hat kind of chump is
“ Two Seas,” who confesses (8., 16/11/’O5) that he
paid £lO to “ the accursed tribe of lawyers” over
the transfer of 15 guineas worth of land, State not
specified? In S.A., at any rate, that transaction
would cost in out-of-pocket fees just 155., and if
the purchaser hadn’t the skill to fill up a sixpenny
transfer-form correctly, a guinea to a lawyer oi
licensed land-agent would cover all further
damage. I was lately interested in a case where
a £l9OO block of land changed hands, ihe Govern-
ment took £lO 2s. in stamp and transfer fees, but
the lawyer, acting for both parties, charged only
the same old guinea for the simple form that he
had to prepare. Of course, if land is not under
the Torrens Act, a bill of costs may hang on to it,
but then “Two Seas” shouldn t buy that class ot
goods, or should make the vendor give an up-to-
date title. By the way, legislation for the bring-
ing of all land 44 under the Act ” would be a long-
sighted benefit. It might put thousands of pounds
into lawyers’ pockets at once, but it would keep
tens of thousands out of them in the near (and
remote) future.
The Shine that
Outshines
EVERYTHING else in the
way of shoe-shines is the shine
you get from Hauthaway’s
Crozine
Blacking
which is pleasant and easy to use, and more
than pleasant in the effect it has upon your
boots and shoes There is no uncerlainty
about it. \X hile putting the shine on to the
boots it puts softness into the leather, and
and thereby renders them more comfortable
and more durable. The shine that Crozine
insures is a shine of deep shimmer.ng
black, as brilliant as jet.
Can be had from all Boot Stores.
Insist upon having Hauthaway’s.
It is best to get the best.
C. L. Hauthaway & Sons, 346, Congress
Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.,\.
The EDISON * *
Gem Phonograph
50
20,000
Edison Records
to select from.
Send for Latest
List of Records.
RECORDS—
1/-, 1/3, & 1/9
each.
The Edison Standard, £5
The Edison Home, £7 10s
-
>Y a(hPHP=
ns
Hie;
A wonderful instrument
that has great volume
of tone, and giyes you
perfect music.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUES.
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd.,
«MY OPTICIANS,”
Importers of Phonographs and Records,
393 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (facing Royal Hotel).
SMOKE OH !
Cigar
Smokers
TRY
KING of AH K.
& B.
HIGH LIFE CIGARS
Mild, Medium and Full Strength, 17s 6d per Bo * »*%***
Sd extra. for ts wcr h as sample-posted free.
Agents: CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George st„ Sydney,
For* Racing,
Polo, etc.
BREEDING STOCK
PONIES
FOR SALE.
Registered in the General Stud Book and
Polo and Riding Pony Stud Book.
Col. E'. N. HENRIQUES
Invites correspondence and inspection at
Mursley Stud, Winslow,
Bucks, England.
BLOOD POISON.
FOR MORE THAN TWENTY YEARS
we have made the cure of blood poison a
specialty, P. imary, Secondary or Tertiary
Blood Poison Permanently Cured. Youcan
be treated at home under same guaranty.
Capital soo.ooo dols. We solicit the most
obstinate cases. If you have exhausted the
old methods of treatment, and still have aches
and pains, Mucus Patches in Mouth, Sore
Throat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spots,
Ulcers on any part of the body, Hair or
Eyebrows falling out, write for proofs ot
cures, ioo-page Book Free.
COOK REMEDY Go.,
1102 MASONIC TEMPLE, Chicago, U.B.A.
The first
Essential
for the preservation of the
teeth is to keep them clean by
, constant attention at least every morning
and evening.
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Tooth Powder
makes the work of your toothbrush so much
more complete and satisfactory, because it
perfects the cleansing and also supplies the
necessary antiseptic properties.
It is also delightfully flavoured and
refreshing to use.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
Y/
AIDS DIGESTION.
BRACES THE NERVES
PLASMON
COCOA
It non-heating. One cup contains
inoro nourishment ilia \ 10 cnpa o t
i,Liy oxiiiuuty cocoa*


The important subject of the complexion
and general feminine beauty in this skin wrecking
btate is receiving enlightment from Mdlle. Helen!
Rubinstein—the oracle from Victoria side. SKF
has a remedy for all the ills that spoil the face or>
womankind, and sound scientific reasons at the/
back of all treatments. The Sydney girls need no
longer pine and sigh over spoilt beauty. Mdlle.
Rubinstein has the secret of imparting life and
light to figure and face. To be wise in time and
beautiful for ever is woman’s surest road to!
happiness.
It is generally thought that there is ho I
cure for stoutness, because the usual treatments
only confine themselves to combating single
symptoms instead of attacking the root of the i
disease. Pyrolene Pellets remove not only the ',
superfluous fat, but also the internal deposits of
fat which hinder the action of the heart and lungs.
We advise a trial. Pyrolene Pellets improve the;!
breathing, give the heart freedom, and enable the;
lungs to expand naturally. Sent free by post to i
any part of the States on receipt of Postal Note ?
for 3s. 9d. or 13s., according to size required.
Arnold’s Balsam Co., 3G4a Little Collins-street. f
Melbourne.
From Camperdown (Victoria) :—
Closer Settlement in the Camperdown district is making 1
slow progress. Squatters J. C. and W. F. Manifold have
■ , cu '' l or( hy holdings to some extent, but their
idea of cutting up is to. keep the land and let it for the
last possible penny the farmer can pay. The rent keeps
the tenant s nose to the grindstone all the time, and his
sons are still fleeing from the land as if it were a pesti-
lence, and making for any place on earth where they;,
won t be the slaves of Manifold. Still there are old wrecks
in the Upper House who ask, with a baby stare of astonish-
ment, what possible need there is for a Closer Settlement
law, or for compulsory resumption, or for anything at all,
seeing that people like the Manifolds are so generously
eager to cut up their estates.
There seems a chance of Mr. H. C. L.
Anderson, of N.S.W. Intelligence Department, !
developing into a recruiter of cheap labor. He
announces in the papers that he has nearly 100
applications from city-bred Britons who are willing
to work a year for enough food to keep them
healthy, enough shelter to keep out the weather,/
and enough money to pay for clothes. All this
m order to learn farming. Mr. Anderson says he
is anxious to hear from farmers who will take
these people in, and also from other farmers who
require native-born apprentices (they will proba-
bly be harder to take in than the British ones
and not so much in demand).
London Morning Post sees no harm in an
Australian navy -
Let us assume for a moment that, say, Australia should
build a number of warships to be officered and manned by
Australians. The wish of officers and men would be to
make themselves competent in their duties. The officers,
in consequence of that wish, would study naval war and
strategy, and would not proceed far with the study before
they would meet with the principle of the concentration
of forces. They would say to themselves “ our Australian
Navy cari fulfil its mission of protecting Australia only in
union with the British Navy.” So soon as they had
realised that truth, the unity which by the creation of an
Australian Navy would superficiallv appear to have been
lost, would in principle have become more perfect,
there could be no more effective pleaders for the unity of
the Umpire than would be the instructed officers of an
Australian Navy. What applies to Australia probably
applies to Canada also. In any case, the British Navy is
not too strong, and every ship built by a colony, every
officer and man trained by and in a colony, is an addition
to its force, and should be welcome.
What ’ the Russian people are now-
showing their ruler can be done also by other
Luropean peoples. We are of the opinion that
the people will never allow themselves to be again
driven into war. To-day war can only be made
with the support of the entire people.”— Labor-
leader Bebel in the German lieichstag .
“Brother Charles,” in the Church Com
monwealth, gives a sensible sermon on temper-
ance, concluding :—
• J he , faot matter is that a man ought to feel, and
lu * u , usual !.v d° es ( ee l rather ashamed of confessing
that he is a total abstainer, because while there are manv
excellent reasons for drinking in moderation, there is
only one valid excuse for total abstinence. The Christian
man may not lawfully refuse the wine that maketh glad
the heart, of man on any ground other than this : the
well-being of other folk—his brothers towards whom he
has realised his responsibility—his brothers for whom
Ohnst died. For this cause, for the sake of others—his
wite, his children, his friends, and others whose hapiiiness
depends upon the preservation of his mental powers—the
man who has any tendency to drink, hereditary or other-
wise, must be a total abstainer. On this ground, but on
this ground alone, that it is for the sake of the hundreds
with whom he will be thrown in constant contact, to
whom under existing circumstances strong drink will be
ovnnf a J f f tl,e parson may, I trust, reasonably
excuse his total abstinence. Otherwise he has no leg to
stand on. So at least I feel, who am myself, I am bound
to confess, a total abstainer.
V''
&
71
4S
DELICATE
WHOLESALE
PERFUME
& PERSISTENT
ONLY ——
MIDDOWS BROTHERS, SYDNEY
MELBOURNE BRISBANE PERTH & WELLINGTON**
HIGH-CLASS COMFORTS.
BUCHANAN # 01
WHISKY
QUALITY and AGE.
DUPUY
BRANDY
New
orsets
For Distinction of
SHAPE, DESIGN,
and STYLE.
• • •
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, January 23, 1906.
My Dear Aeinj,—
Only distraction and excitement we get these
days of too much sun (heard a woman complain
that the sun was accordeon-pleated) is in the
coming or going of English or foreign war vessels.
Last to displace water in Farm Cove is the
Catinat, a French cruiser with a nose like a shark.
Am told that the cruiser is obsolete as a
fighting machine, despite its powerfully ugly
mm. But all the women who ran down to the
* rench reception at Rose Bay Lodge last Saturday
said it didn’t matter a ram about the vessel. All
its officers who were at the reception were right
up to date, and some were the day after to-
morrow. The flirting power of the French navy
is all right, whatever its fighting power. The
Commodore is a handsome upright greybeard, and
as for his staff, the younger female members of the
Alliance 1 are not done saying 44 Oh, my!
at memory of the Henri of Navarre person with
the pointed beard two shades blacker than a bush-
mans billy, or the Herve Riel man who spoke
English with adorable breaks. Then there was
another who was D’Artagnan reincarnated, and he
drank tea just to please a pretty, fat woman, and
got her to spell all the tram routes. Recent visit-
ing Italian sea warriors mostly brought figures
like box-ottomans to receptions.
Madame Pinard and consort received the
strangers, and Dr. Rougier, who. is the tenant
ot the receiving place, showed them how he
makes broths and jellies for his microbes.
Ihe Doctor represents the Pasteur Insti-
tute, and if you should want hydrophobia
or tetanus in a hurry he is the man to deal with.
Madame Moreau, an Australienne, in white, with
a Hat like a big hydrangea, talked first-class froggy
talk, and her husband, who is the Irroy repre-
sentative here, looked to it that the Commodore
didn t lose himself in the jungle-like garden.
Mrs. Burdekin and her daughter, Mrs. John
Sheridan, the W. P. Mannings, and the Allen
laylors were present. It was grateful and
comforting to learn that everyone isn’t at
Bong Bong or in M.L. Mrs. de Wyn, who
is a Sydneysider and married to a foreign
wool man, was the smartest-dressed of the
gathering. Her high collaring amounts to
genius in the matter ot fit, and she suspends her
hanky to her bangle by a chain and clasp in the
cunningest way. Mr. Bertie Kelly came along,
also talking pure frog and getting congratulations
on the arrival of a son and heir. It was most gal-
lant of him to assert that he'd have liked
better another daughter. All women like a man
to say that—although they don’t believe him
when he does say it.
i.i le n o s y° u don't do in Sydney, ” said the
lady to the ducal-looldng shop-walker, “are
amazing. She had only asked to hire one of
their imported gowns, or if they hadn’t one
ot the latest would they make her something
thoroughly recherche and up to date 1 She
would design it herself if they pleased
and hire it for the Bong Bong and Tiranna
races. She would hire another creation—hat and
all, of course—for the Autumn races at Randwick
the floor-pacer said “No’’with care and tactful-
ness, lhen she told him the firm was not too old to
learn, gave the address of her bankers, and
explained that she had lived long in Paris where
any of the famous houses would lend her a gown
for a big occasion, oil-silk at the collar and arms
no injury done to the most fragile material. She
would tell all she met where the gown had been
got, and the shop would have many new cus-
tomers. She was a beautiful figure, and would be
\j*pJ, en i dl H ,^. dv V /or a gown. The Walker
admitted all this, but—but the firm was firm.
A N.9.W. up-country public school teacher had
occasion to find fault with one of her pupils and
denounced her as “a little goose” before the
Whole school. On her return after dinner hour she
Was confronted by an indignant mother, heading
ppr family of seven children. The infuriated
parents grievance was this: “Ye called me
Bridget a goose this mornin’ before the whole
glass. Wud ye be kind enough now” (with a
nourish in the direction of her brood) “to name
the rest of the poulthry ?”
Just heard of an obscure little romance. When
the gorgeous British warriors took Sydney by
storm during the Commonwealth celebrations one
specimen of six-feet-four guardsman fell in’love
With a fascinating little milliner, who worked at
p,ne of the big city shops. It was a straight-out case
pf requited love at first sight. The soldier soon had
to sail away. Years passed, andeach month brought
a batch of ardent letters. Finally the warrior ob-
tained hisdischarge and stepped out of h isgold-laced
harness on to a liner, and sailed.for Sydney They
were married in a Sydney suburban church a few
months ago, and the ci-devant guardsman is now
embarked in a prosperous business in the city.
Ihe little bride is very proud of her giant, and
says that the yarn about soldiers’ fickleness is all
rqoonshine.
An Australian daily paper, after mentioningin its
society news that the usual presents were numerous
and costly, said that “ the breakfast was served
at the residence of the bride’s parents.” Which
3jva,sn’t any the less true because the bride’s father
IS a Chinese veg table John, and the residence
mentioned is probably the usual hut among the
cabbages.
An angry Aucklander sends me samples of cor-
respondence from the N.Z. Times ( Wellington).
The silly season is out of its straight-jacket in
M.L., and as every head, except those on the
staff of the N.Z. Times, is labelled, so to speak,
“ Apartments to Let,” that paper started a March
hare. “Is Woman Civilised?” the beastie of
discussion is named, and it was branded “Omar.”
My correspondent tells me she is having some
lead put on the end of her best knob-kerry, and
is going out after dark to look for the man who
started the question. Other women are “lay-
ing” for him with reliable sandbags. No Maori-
land woman can now appear in public without
some man calling her attention to the fact that
she remains an uncivilised barbarian, that she
cannot speak the truth, or treat other women
with courtesy, or pay her Bridge debts, or sustain
a friendship with her own sex, or keep a secret,
and that her cave-dwelling habits are still discern-
ible in her dislike to fresh air and light in her
home. And it is to this savage survival that
generous man has given the franchise !
w Didn’t some German write a book entitled
“Are Women Human Beings?” His argument
was a negative one, if I recollect aright. Any-
how it made me laugh, and any book that makes
one laugh ought to be read.
Is it allowed to laugh at the Pink ’Un— or to
confess.that one laughs at it—now and again ? It
tells this story of Mr. Winston Churchill, the new
Under Secretary for the Colonies. He cultivates
an absurdly small moustache. Said a grand
dame, whom he had riled: “Mr. Churchill, I
loathe your politics, and I do not like your
moustache.” “Do not trouble yourself, madam.
You are never likely to be brought into contact
with either.”
At a crowded Blue Mountain hostel the only
bathroom in one small wing of the establishment
was occupied every morning by a lady who took
an unfair time over her splashings. Besieging her
was a small army of women in bath-robes.
I resently out she came with the key in her hand,
swiftly locked the door on the outside, smilingly
went to the room of another lady of her own race
and gave her the key, and the receiver thereof
had the hot and cold water taps going before the
flabbergasted army outside the door realised how
it had been out-generalled. Next morning the
manoeuvre was repeated, then the “waits’’com-
plained to the management. Latter stopped that
juggle, but the Lady of the Key was hard to beat.
She had her bath as usual with the usual army
waiting, then she half-opened the door and
bawled through the throng for her nurse to bring
the children for their bath ! (N.B.—l’m afraid
this perfectly true anecdote will strengthen
Omar s case.)
Young Cavendish, who has just endured divorce
at the hands of the fascinating Isabel Jay, seems
rather a unique character. He is a cadet of the
-Devonshire family, and consequently fairly
affluent. He has also cut a figure in the explorer
fine of business, and is a persistent harasser of the
more dangerous class of big game.
In a “cause celebre ” a few years back, the
dauntless sportsman described how he himself had
been plugged at short range—financially. A band
of spook-raisers, per medium of a Blanchette
table, had actually induced him to make over
most of his inheritance (about £20,000) to one of
the gang—in default he was threatened that the
spirits ” would be hurt, if not absolutely vexed.
Later, he re-considered the position, demanded
his money back before an astounded court of
justice, and got it. If the spirits’feelings were
hurt, they didn t show it in any pronounced way.
,^ r - Trevor Ogilvy-Grant, a brother of the Earl
of beatield, was married the other week in Christ-
church, Maori land, to Miss Hardy-Johnston, a
member of one of the families of that flat province,
whose personal eminence is reckoned to atone for
the place s general flatness. Mother of the bride-
groom, with her daughters, was for a time living at
a boarding-house in Sydney. The ladies Ogilvy-
b!i'"t ™ er e what complaisant acquaintances
called decided blondes.”
Elder of those two much-liked and good-looking
Clarke girls (Mr. Robertson Clarke’s sisters), who
went back to England a few weeks ago, will return
to Australia by-and-bye to settle here. She is
engaged to the manager of her father’s station.
Another engagement is that of Miss Connie
Brven, third daughter of Mr. Stephen J. Bryen,
to Mr. Jack See, eldest son of Mr. John See.
One of bride-elect’s sisters married a son of Mr
Matthew Harris. Another is the wife of Mr
C. M. Alcock.
Narandera Hospital advertises for a proba-
tioner. Salary, 2s. 6d. per week for the first six
months, with an increase of 2s. Gd. per week every
six months till 10s. per week is reached. Success-
ful applicant, when she gets the first half-sov.,
after two years, will probably develop the form of
lunacy 1 ve heard called the insanity of grandeur.
An English visitor, telling why she left a cer-
tain paying guest house “ next morning,” in great
indignation : “We had some friends to dinner,
and about 9.30 they suggested that I and my hus-
band walk part of the way home with them. I
went to my wardrobe to get my theatre-coat. It
was not there. I waited up until the other in-
mates of the house returned from the theatre and
met them in the hall. There was the landlady’s
daughter wearing my coat.”
Looks as if courageous persons were going to
take time by the fetlock and anticipate appendi-
citis. Iwo teachers are actually putting in their
Nmas holidays at a hospital after having had
deliberately and without provocation, their ap-
pendices removed. The other day I heard a
society milliner lament the fact that business was
never slack enough to allow her time to go and do
likewise.
Marriage of Mr. Watts-Dunton, the English
novebst’ poet, and lifelong friend of Swinburne, to
Miss Reich, his literary secretary, is a pretty
enough if slowly matured romance. She has been
secretary to the writer for 15 years, but is very
much his junior. Watts-Dunton and Swinburne
have occupied the same house for thirty years
and both protest that the lady won’t fracture their
love tor each other.
A PLUCKY AUSTRALIENNE.
Harriet Ruperta Edwards and her little charge, Thelma
Finlay son. Miss Edwards is a nurse girl, and saved
the baby from a snake, being herself bitten as she did
so. The Royal Humane Society has recognised her
pluck.
Photo, by W. Solomons, Armidale (N.S.W.).
The death of William Sharp in Italy clears up a
literary mystery which has long puzzled critics
and readers of poetry. Ever since 1904 volumes
of verse have been appearing by “Fiona Macleod.”
JNo one knew who the writer was. Now it is known
that William Sharp and “ Fiona Macleod ” were
one and the same person.
Not often does a man writer take a feminine
name. Once I heard a local barrister assert that
n he could write fiction he’d write a risky, frisky,
sex novel, sign it with a woman’s name, and make
a lot of money therefrom. He argued that no one
would read risky-frisky that they knew to be
written by a man.
Other day, at a garden fete, a girl, wearing a
beautiful black picture-hat, spoilt my enjoyment
ot the summer landscape and the effect of the hat,
with the pimples on her face—scores of them.
However, the memory of the disfigured face under
the artistic hat brings to mind something in a
booklet that I’ve intended to mention for months
past : “ Pimples are a greater disgrace than would
be the broad-arrow over the .fleur-de-lis .” That’s
from Ihe Gospel of Health,” a recent Sydney
publication.
Hie Bachelors’ Club on the “ Pahfie ” warship
(don t call it “Powerful,” or they’ll know you’ve
never, never studied '; haw ” at its source) inflicted
its first fine on one of its members a few days after
the arrival of the vessel, and on one of whom
they were most proud and sure. He got
a letter with a long golden hair fastened down on
the envelope under the stamp. His protestations
that he couldn’t help it were vain. He had to
pay his fine.
Died on Saturday, suddenly, Dr. William
Sneldon, at North Sydney, where he had been
practising for 20 years. One of his sons (Mark) is
married to a daughter of the late Mr. Thomas
Dalton : another to a niece of Mr. Julius Caro.
, Mr - Alfred Dampier’s benefit matinee came
Mr. George Rignold and the dandy little parson
North Ash, and shared a box. A R.C. priest
nipped in at the back of the circle, but slipped
out again early and quickly when the six girls
from Kay s came on in bathing dresses; It took
Andrew Mack to bring the R.C. shepherds to the
wm- and keep ’ em in their seats. Mr. J. C.
Williamson bought his own box from himself for the
benefit, and his wife and other ladies occupied it;
and the Rickards came in in time to applaud the
Begs in the Air. Otherwise it was a very
Dampiensh audience, and mostly women and
children. I flittering of hundreds of fans—for the
temperature would have been high for a lizard
—gave the actors dancing dervish sensations. But
it was a huge audience, and in the gallery and
stalls not another spectator could have been got
in with a shoe-horn.
Flats built bv Dr. MacCormick in Macquarie-
street must be like the mansions of the Blest. For
the smallest and backest you’ll have to pay £350 a
year. For others, £5OO. The Chris. Bennetts
and Miss Eadith Walker are going to have lairs
there.
A friend tells me that, at Woolwich (Eng.), the
alder manic directors of the baths are gradually
approaching the mixed -bathing stage. So far
they have only got as far as allowing “family
bathing “ Family ”is defined to mean husband
and wife, father and daughter, or brother and
sister. Cousins are not allowed, nor are deceased
wives sisters and deceased husbands’ brothers.
Also, any prince who attempts to enter the baths
with his morganatic wife is sternly turned awav
% W® town clerk, while the mayor, clothed in
official robes and dignity, withers with a glance
the grass-widower who comes along arm-in-arm
with a grass-widow for a joint wash Apparently
Woolwich isnt quite sure yet whether it can
stand the shock of mixed bathing, and is breaking
the news to itself gently.
Australian artist NuttaM saw Kubelik going
about New York with his hands in a muff. His
managerial watchdog couldn’t bear to see him
take those precious add highly-insured paws out
of the muff to, help himself up into a tramcar, or
to hang himself on to a strap.
■»M——
A discussion is yelping in a little English week p
on “men-like” women. Tt originated throufj
the tragic death of a woman prisoner whom a co -
stable was taking, handcuffed, to prison. SI a
had been arrested as a man, and tried and coi.
victed as a man, and she committed suicide lily
one—under a railway train. Then arose que-j
tioners asking why women wish they had bed
born men. Replies give various reasons—as fot-
instance:—
Although I can do almost all that is required of ,
woman, this does not suffice me. I want to do more
something more lasting and important.
When I go out and look about me and see the vas
buildings, bridges, railways, etc., started and completely
by man s hands, then I think ami see what poor, insig
nificant creatures we women are.
Another explains that male disguise is mostly
assumed for nefarious purposes. If a clever-
woman sets about defrauding or burgling, she will
find herself handicapped by being pettieoatedj
The fact that so many women who impersonate
man do so to do man s work on ships, at house!,
building, at soldiering, or in other laborious-
channels, proves that some women should havd
been born men. Nature made a little mistake, s
they are simply proving themselves capable'
of being Jacks after she had despitefully made,
them Jills. V
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.


36
POST
fret;
>1
AUTY
n
SARAMA
THE IDEA l FACE COEAM . SMS FOOD
Every pot contains Government Analyst’s certificate.
GORDON & NICHOLLS, 3 Queen’s Place, Sydney.
(Dress
SHIELDS
Ladles! Don’t Spoil Your Dainty Gown
BY WEARINC IT WITHOUT DRESS SHIELDS.
KLEINERT’S FEATHERWEIGHT
Once used will give you such comfort that you will wonder
how you ever got along- without them.
Look for the Name “ KLEINERT.” IT IS YOUR GUARANTEE.
Dress FABRies
64
TRADE MARK
Are Stocked bv the
Leading Drapers.
THE VARNISHED RCARDi
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, January 23, 1906.
My Dear Yarrie,—
The saddest sight in Melbourne any of these
J anuary mornings is the congregation of suburban
Marms in a crowded domestic Registry Office.
4 “, e y ] lne the walls with the air and manner of tired
defaulters waiting for arrest. Almost every Marm
is given notice by her more-than-merely Mary
Ann after the holidays. The lonely house and
6 S j llse toil while the missus pleasured away
the days at the beach prove too much for the
patience of the local maid of the mop. She gives
notice and quits. And the sunburnt Marm travels
in, morning after morning, making one of a de-
lected gathering of similar miserables, all waiting
tor a new ’elp to transpire. When she does the
humble, sorrowing Marms are submitted to con-
temptuous inspection, and the one that meets
with snuffy approval is put through a testy, short-
tempered oral examination. Sometimes she
passes, and Mary Ann consents to try the place,
and all the other Marins heave a great groan of
envy. More often she doesn’t do, and Mary Ann
bounces off, leaving the ranks of the enemy com-
pletely broken up.
Domestic woe is recorded of a little Summer
seaport where Palermo cottages and Venice
streets abound. There is in the place hut one
washer and mangier to cater for the cleanliness of
the whole village. A hundred cottagers or more
clamor for that Grace of the Tub. Some of them
have to wait weeks for their turn, and then, should
the autocrat of the mangle feel like a rest or a trip
to town, three weeks’ washing is left over for an
indefinite period and a whole family falls into
arrears of socks and hankies. When she wilts
from a cold or a little indiscretion of diet the
whole yiHage turns nurse and lays jellies, wines,
and milk-puddings at her feet. Anything to get
her back to the tubs.
Which reminds me of a friend of mine who was
sorely tried by the frivolous habits of her succes-
sive Mary Anns ; they were always wanting to go
to “ parties ” and “dances.” Finally, in despera-
tion, she decided on getting a Mai'y Ancient.
Behold a help of 50 or so installed and counted
safe against the fascinations of social frivolity.
But, alas, there was no improvement. The
elderly one had a passion for funerals. Funerals
of relatives, of friends, of celebrities she would
travel far to see, and no local burying but was
graced by her tears.
There’s a lesson in a marriage that didn’t
happen at North Melbourne lately. They were a
fond couple, but her people objected. Still the
early bird determined to arrive, so at 7 o’clock one
recent morning the lady with two bridesmaids
and a friend descended from one cab, while the
intended husband and his friend arrived by
another. They were about to enter the church
when a determined-looking dame of about 35
rushed up to the bride and earnestly besought her
to consider what she was about to do, if only for a
day or two. The damsel heeded not, whereupon
the protestant clung strenuously to her bridal
gown and shrieked that this thing should not be.
Heaven knows whence a crowd arrived at that hour,
but people seemed to rise from the earth in all
directions. The groom was robustly urging his
lady love to enter the church, when the waiting
parson, in white robesand a sacrificial smile, feebly
murmured that there seemed to be an irregularity
about the proceedings somewhere. Finally the
energetic sister prevailed and escorted the weeping
bride-not-to-be homewards, while the defrauded
groom collapsed and had to be revived with
brandy. The next time—and here is the lesson—
the pair go a-marrying they should dispense with
bridesmaids, parson and similar passementerie
and try the registrar. A person who wants to
stand in the limelight unobserved generally spoils
things.
A squatter’s chick, who flounced it in great
style last season, and was dubbed an engaging
heiress by the chiffon chronicles, and proved her
claim to the adjective in a brief space of time, has
ended her season of fluff, her engagement, and her
fame for fortune all at once. At present she is
toiling on her dad’s station to save the wages of
an extra employee. That’s a quicker whirligig of
Fortune than most we hear of. Next time a sud-
denly-boomed heiress gets engaged, she’ll pro-
bably wed her boy at the top of her shining hour.
A marriage that set this place of the yearly
Henley-on-the-Drain abuzz not so long ago, has
led to a beastly cold and practical statement of
fact. The bride, reckoning on the ’groom’s
reputed fortune, rose to the chiffon occasion and
caused a sensation in wedding clothes. The
’groom, counting the bride a daughter of Dives,
put his best foot foremost and held up his end of
the stick right gorgeously. The nine days of
wonderment at the costliness of things having
passed, the sorry spouse admits that she isn't
Croesus and not even a next-of-kin to Cr<esus, and
the wife explains that her ddt is exhausted. It
was used up on the wedding clothes. What said
this scribe a week or two ago ?—a woman weds the
trousseau not the man. But what does the man
wed ?
Mrs. Frank Stephen, plaintiff in a big Mel-
bourne suit a couple of years back, is now in the
Heavy Smoke, where she acts as companion to
Countess Rosslyn, the ’Murkan wife of an Earl
who has been by turns mummer, dabbler in shares,
war correspondent in S’Africa, man-that-wanted-
to-break-the-bank-at-Monte Carlo, and pretty well
everything else that an up-to-date Earl could be a
failure at.
Lady Rossyln was formerly a member of the
“profession,” and, unlike most mummers, was
able to face the altar with a considerable fixed
income in her own right. Lord Rosslyn is,
amongst other things, brother to the brainy
Duchess of Sutherland, and his sudden (second)
matrimonial plunge in company with the beauteous
Yankee provided the champion sensation of last
London season. His first wife was daughter of
the well-known Mr. Robt. Vyner.
Melbourne University is being democratized.
The higher standard of performance is accom-
panied by the gradual disappearance of millinery
and frill. Professors and lecturers alike despise
the trappings, and seem happier with their coats
off than with the haberdashery imported from the
English universities tripping them up. At the
annual conference lately solemnized, the cap and
gowned undergraduate was the exception. Intel-
lectual Australia put off its coat to deal with any-
thing specially tough, and one or two from up the
country removed that curse of civilisation, the
stand-up collar, when Laurie’s logic paper called
on them to go and wrestle with a syllogism in the
wilderness. But the women cling to their mil-
linery. No girl student leaves off her corset and
lets down her back hair on examination day.
The snap-shotter has been having a gay old
time with the sea-nymphs at St. Kilda. There
have been aquatic matches by the dozen, and the
Aphrodites have risen from the foam to stand in
their wet candid bathing clothes to every camera-
fiend that happened along, Some of the published
groups have given the fraternity that wears
bottle-green specs and other symbols of a blaming
life, a terrible shock,
Advice for the matured she-dipper these dog-
days ; Han’t laugh long, loud and loose in the
briny, for they will fall out. And they will sink
quiok as a flasn into the sandy bed ! And you will
never see them more, The notices on the bunks
at various bathing-quarters with offers of rich
rewards fqr a return of them are grim reading,
But the wise one knows there’s no hope. Once
they go to the bottom, they seem to have a knack
of staving there. So don’t laugh too generously
when in the sea.
A beauty-actor declares that he did not wear a
different suit on board every day coming out to
this land to dazzle the fair deckers, but to beat
the Customs of duty.on new clothes, The glory
of his forty suits of pyjamas and promenade trap-
pings was one of the absorbing interests of that
salt voyage. Same gentleman is understood to
believe that he is not quite the most beautiful
man that ever trod the stage; that there is
another equal to him ; and consequently it is a
little hard for him to understand the absolute
furore that he rouses among the girls.
Dr. Cole, the city coroner, had a ghastly
experience for New Year’s Day. He was holiday-
making at Dromana. In a frail craft of burden
that bears lumber and stores to the onion seaport,
the coroner’s fatted goose, plum pudding and
starched collars were carefully packed. And the
craft drifted about Port Phillip Bay for 14 days,
and when at last it reached Dromana the coroner’s
goose was the most decayed body that ever came
under his notice. It was hardly possible even to
sit near it.
Mrs. Darbyshire, wife of an Age critic, performs
the various strums in the musical course of
“Merely Mary Ann.’’ She has the good sense to
vary the touch for the four mummers who take
turns to flourish their digits at the keys, and,
night after night, emphasises the difference con-
sistently. So far, the fullest sympathy has pre-
vailed between the invisible strummer and the
obvious mummer, and the bulk of the audience
regard the co. as the most musical it has sighted
for many seasons. The piano never goes on play-
ing after a bogus intrumentalist has arisen from
the stool of delusion.
Two households are turned topsy-turvy by the
pranks of boy Cupid. One is a dentist’s and the
other a doctor’s. And all Collins-street is con-
cerned. Also the suburbs of their particular resi-
dence. Not strange that the pincers and lancet
professors are coming to be objects of grave sus-
picion to husbands, fathers and engaged young
men. Pulse reckonings and the dental laying-on
of hands seem in some cases to induce amorous
propensities on both sides, and nowadays there is
nobody less convincing than the woman who in-
dignantly protests that she never, never in all her
life, heard of a doctor or a dentist squeezing a
patient’s hand.
A picture story from Paris Matin. At Mont-
martre you can get painters to turn out a “ Rem-
brandt ” for a tenner. A dealer in such forgeries
struck upon an excellent imitator. “Ah, this
work,” he exclaimed on seeing one forgery, “is
too good to pass under any name but your own.
Paint over the Rembrandt signature and put your
own.” Done, and the picture was consigned to
America. Then wrote anonymously that dealer
to the American Customs: “A genuine Rem-
brandt goes to New York by the ; but, to
deceive, the signature has been painted over with
another.” The Customs took the hint, scraped
off one signature and found that of Rembrandt.
Result—picture declared to be a genuine R., paid
duty on £24,000 and was sold for nearly that sum.
Jack London, who is more in the public eye
than any other novelist just now, was divorced
(’Frisco Examiner reports) by his wife the other
day (Nov., 1905). Same month he married
another lady—said to be the original model of
Maud Brewster in the “ Sea Wolf.”
“Woman desires three husbands at once; one
rich, one comely, one fierce—to support her, to
love her, to beat her.” — Roumanian proverb.
A vigorous sermon on Mixed Matches echoed
round the stout pillars of the R.C. Cathedral last
Sunday, what time a pushing young politician
who contemplates an early sample of matrimony
with an “ outsider,” sat forward in a prominent
seat. It wasn’t directed at the Benedict-elect in
particular, but the politician, I hear, blushed
furiously, and reckoned that his arrival and his
doings in this Bent State had been trumpeted a
bit overmuch. The he-transgressor among the
R.C.’s always gets the worst of it when a mixed
match is mooted. Rome gives forth that since
the wife has the larger say in the house and the
greater influence over the family, therefore the
Protestant wife is a special danger. But Dan
Cupid shakes a derisive forefinger at such impedi-
ments. Does one ever hear of a man, truly in love
with a girl, giving her up because ecclesiastical
thunder rumbles ? Or vice versa 1
A Melbourne bride, the other day, received
sufficient toast-racks, letter-racks and paper-racks
to furnish a religious persecution. As soon as she
finishes the honeymoon she will probably start to
think deeply on the hidden thoughts of the old
chums who, with' such unanimity, sent her racks.
A rack is an unpleasant thing to. send to a young
bride. Now, a comforter or a tea-cosy sounds
sweet and soothing, and there is a cheery
significance in a strawberry-dish, and a warm,
hospitable ring about a liqueur-stand. ■ A rack
grates on the ear. To find that nearly all your
presents are racks suggests that your friends
mused: “So Betty’s going to marry that nice
Percy Smith. Won’t she give him a time of it !
Now, what ought Ito send as a present. I know,
a rack—a toast-rack ! ”
Nothing slicker than Senator Curly Keating’s
knot-tying has happened in this State for quite a
time. And nothing quieter. But ten eyes—
divided among'five people—looked on, and the
echoes of “I will” resounded prophetically
through the holy building. A St. Kilda R.C.
church was not the place to suspect for a casual
knot-tying of any particular interest. The bride,
Miss Sarah Monks, wasted her ivory chiffons
on a large extent of bare bench, and hadn’t any
dresses to compare with her own but the loud
garments of the stained-glass window saints. The
Tasmanienne is a pretty brunette with a bright
eye to correspond, with a nimble tongue, and
more than the ordinary portion of feminine intel-
ligence. Also she has a turn for languages, and' a
large musical bump to denote her capacity in that
direction. The Senator is to be congratulated.
Percy Grainger, of the pale-gold hair and poetic
brow, is carrying his nimbus into lofty circles in
the Big Smoke. He not only moves duchesses,
and such, to a tender wish to bedew his baby locks
with sympathetic tears by his capable strum on
the ivories, but he is collaborating with belted
earls of a musical turn for the making of new
melody. Percy’s Mamma, by the way, is
acting as a sort of chaperone, and it will be a
pretty smart duchess who eludes her vigilance.
The best-looking serenader and singer of “ Thy
Blue Eye ” in this capital is said to be engaged to
a brune beauty who has many scalps to
her credit. The girls who used to gather
close round the baritone to hear his passion-
ate liltings in adorably defective English—that
sounded as if it had been broken by angels—
are miserable at the news. What hope of
a sentimental audience has the male warbler once
he has become wrapt up in one best girl ? The
love lyrics he trolled so buoyant]}, and the chan*
sons he carolled so softly, lose their effectiveness
for the sex when it is one oidy, and that one an-
nounced, who inspires the fervor. Concert artists
of amorous liltings should hide their private loves
and go on making eyes and thrillful sighs at the
orowd for ever, A woman can forgive a man for
not loving her; she oan seldom condone his loving
someone else.
All the most effective copper repousse panels
that were circulated this year give red, roaring,
bush-fire scenes. There are crops and cottages in
a series of leaping, dancing devil-flames, and the
settler riding for dear life away with the baby
and the billy and other cottage necessities from
the blaze, There are other desolate tracks under
fire, with the lofty gums raising their naked limbs
burnt to the hot sky. The three-railed fence
afire, and the log hut in a threatening glow
provides another variant. Why such hot disastrous
scenes to decorate a calendar or make a pretty
copper panel ? Apart from the fact of giving
strangers abroad the idea that Australia is in a
chronic state of bush-fire, there is a depressing
effect in scenes of damage and destruction to the
eye, not suitable to a greeting which should be
glad and gay. A picture of fat kine, exultant
crops, hill, river or seashore would be infinitely
preferable to a blazing strip of country. But then
the effect of a roaring fire, tongues of red-gold
flame, high scarred trees, is cheap and easy—
especially in the fashionable copper work.
Colonel Templeton and his recent wifie have
shipped by the Miltiades for a holiday jaunt.
The long route by the Cape was selected by a host
of local gadders making for London, among them
the Henry Cornishes and Miss Gair, by whose
departure Melbourne is one beauty the less for a
long spell. A quartet of Powers set off by the
same liner for the Cold Country.
The one humorous episode that has illuminated
the dreary Argus controversy re medical charges
was submitted by a she-correspondent, in a wholly
naive manner. She described several visits paid
by doctors at various times—one when an ankle
was fractured, another when a neck was seriously
disarranged—and a fee was never demanded.
In fact, the menders never mentioned the vulgar
subject of payment. The artless dear didn’t
enclose her photograph, or if she did the paper
didn’t publish it; but one must guess that she is
an exceptionally piquant patient.
An Adelaide doctor has engaged a Monkeyland
physician, matron, and nurse for his private hospi-
tal ; reason given, an overwhelming admiration
for Japanese medical science. By the way, can
the Jap. doctor count four pulses at once ? I’ve
heard somewhere something of the sort.
One brass plate in Collins-street has the
unornamented inscription—“ Gertrude Halley,
M. 8.”; nothing more. It’s plain and practical’
and has the effect of a neat, simply-dressed woman.
There was a fat gathering of the Cream for
“ Utopia,” on Saturday night, attracted partly by
the promised box full of Vice-Regals. The circle
flowed over, and there was even a difficulty in
clearing a passage for the Exes, when they hap-
pened. Mr. H. Bracy put his best foot forth and
stretched his smile an eighth of an inch
further than is his stately custom. Dame North-
cote was dressy in milky chiffon and a garniture
of pink roses. Pearls of great price and little
lustre walled in her throat.
There’s a new decree out concerning head-gear.
Millinery is to be revolutionised. After a long
consideration and digestion of the latest millinery
notions as issued by a great Paris firm, I have
arrived at the idea that hats henceforth are to be
trimmed with hair— your own hair or the precious
switch of adoption. You buy a rim of straw, a
mere strawberry-leaf, or chip shaving, and
arrange it on your thatch so that your own top
coils will rear up an 4 form a fuzzy crown. The
tail was recently ordered to be lopped off our hats,
and now the crown is dismissed. What next will
we go without ?
The daughter of an ex-politician, who took a
turn at governessing in a Victorian woolly , dis-
trict, is booked for matrimony with one of the
squattocracy. She’s a charming girl with fetching
eyes. Her governessing was a short sweet term,
and endeth in an engagement ring.
The returned globe-trotter who knows, sends
word round to her p.ds as soon as her raiment is
out of its travel creases, that she is ready for an y
amount of tea and talk. Then she spreads her
raiment to their admiring view. There are frocks
bearing Paquin’s or Worth’s brand in gold letter-
ing on the neck-loop or the waist-belt, and a hush
of awe comes over the room. Only in one
instance did the worn look of the crea-
tions give the show away. The owner whispered
“ Yes, they are what they look, worn.” You buy
a Paquin frock or two in a Paris or London shop,
second-hand. In this way you get a creation
A LIKELY PLACE.
Swarms of rabbits have recently infested the Spring-
field Tank, Cobar. They climbed the netting surrounding-
the tank, and died in the water in hundreds, even making-
into the caretaker’s cottage for shelter.— Daily Paper.
bay, Annie, have you seen my slippers any-
where?”
No; but I'll look under the rabbits in mother’s
room, if you like.”
worn by an artiste or leader of fashion for half the
original cost. The American girls have done it,
spite of all their dollars, and not a few Aus-
tralians are at the game now. In London the ex-
change of clothes goes on to a shuddersome extent.
A cat-fancier exchanges a pet for an under-skirt.
Someone else very likely offers a canary for a
singlet, or a clutch of eggs for a pair of garters,
all unblushingly.
One of those extraordinary marriages that upset
the whole cartful of one’s theories at one bump, so
to speak, occurred the other day in an eastern
suburb. The bride was up in the forties, the
groom just of age. A double decade lietwixt and
between, yet they were joined for better or worse
with a wild flourish of trumpets.
All the Johnnies whom Florence Challis had
been inviting to come and smile with her down at
the old Bull and Bush lined up in force at
Rickards for the farewell. Some of them occu-
pied the front pews, to get the full force of
Florence’s magnetic gaze. Others took a sort of
header from the back ledge of the circle, a Collins-
street medico of strong theatrical tastes among the
rear-guard.
Way versus Way and another, a Victorian
divorce case. The parting of the Ways.
Yours Affectionately,
TRYPHENA.
In Ins book, ‘‘Young Japan,” Professor
Scherer says the two cancers at the core of the
Jap character are deep-set dishonesty, and aban-
doned impurity. •
“J ” : Meta man in Surry Hills yester-
day. He waved his hand from the other side of
Riley-street, and roared out “ I’m goin’ to blanky
well secesh from me ole woman ; she won’t gimme
beer money: ”
“The Year Book of New South Wales ”
for 1906 is out, with the usual handily-arranged
mass of good information about the Ma State,
and some, also, about the other States. There is
so much care manifest in the production that, in
connection with the list of Australasian fire-
insurance go’s, one wonders how it is that the
“Year Book” hasn’t yet found out about the
existence of the M.L. Farmers’ Co-operative Co.
and the Commonwealth Co. (Melbourne).
“ S.R.” (from Brisbane) : Kidston has
become unpopular in many quarters, and the
Labor party does not support him as strongly as
of old. An ugly split is evident in that party.
Granted that Kidston had a hard task before him
as Treasurer (someone had to do the cleaning up),
that alone does not account for his unpopularity.
He has grown rather apathetic upon labor ques-
tions, and his party is sore that he did not secure
more representation in the Ministry for Labor.
Then he missed several chances of coming out as
a strong democrat. There was that matter of
appointing a Governor. Certainly, he got a
reduction in the salary, but a strong man would
have made a stout protest against filling the billet
at all (at least from England).
“Aus. A sample of the methods by
which Tait gets his surplus on the Victorian rail-
ways. Windermere railway station, on the main
line to Adelaide, was once worked bv a station-
master and two porters. That was probably
extravagant, but now it has been converted into'
a woman—one woman—in charge. The staff
is thewifeof a platelayer. The station is equipped
with up-to-date signals, worked from a box con-
taining 20 levers. Adjacent to the station is a big
chaff-mill and its siding. The resulting heavy
goods traffic is all worked by the woman in charge.
One has only to watch the luckless female tugging
at “ point ” levers to understand how much lies-
behind Bent’s bellow that he “ made the railways.
pay-”
“The Moodier”: Have often wondered!
what the mischief that advt. for insectibane,
appearing in The Bulletin, represents. It looks',
like a Chinese puzzle or a new brand of night-
mare. Worried some more over it this week, and
find it represents a man s face. On one cheek is a.
beast that looks like a dragon fly. Then on the
man’s forehead is a white spot, also four on his
nose and one on the other cheek, which I guess,
are drops of perspiration. He has one eye open,
and the other squinteth apparently at the dragon:
fly. It is a weird mug, any wav, and ought to
get the owner of one like it gaol for life. The
flies are very awful at my dirt-box, so I think I’ll
try threepen’orth of the insectibane.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.
324 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
A SCIENTIFIC “PICK-ME-UP.”—No
better tonic and restorative for the victims of
social festivities exists than a morning draught of
Hunyadi Janos. Sure, swift, searching, yet safe,
and in every respect salutary. The best and
safest natural aperient.*
Interesting to smokers of cigars. Messrs. Craig
and Aitken, of 654 George-street, on another page are
bringing under the notice of smokers a very fine brand of
cigars called “ King of all K. and B. High Life ” which are
offered for private sale by the single box in mild, medium
and full strength. Lovers of a good cigar will do well to
try them. On receipt of Is. Messrs. Cra'gand Aitken will
post to anyone four of these cigars as a sample, securely
packed and post free.'*'
ARTIFICIAL
LIMBS.^
it
9
We make them on the premises.
We make more than any other firm in Australia.
We also import them from the famous American
firm, A. A. Marks.
Every kind of Artificial Limb supplied at reason-
able prices.
Send for Free Book on Artificial Limbs.
DENYER BROTHERS
Surgical Instrument
Makers,
281 George St., Sydney (opp. Hunter St.).
Also at .Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Poor old New South Wails !
Queensland going to the dogs since Federa-
tion ? Well, the insolvencies last year (300) were
less than for 19 years.
When is Mr. Joseph Carruthers coining
along with his secession referendum ? A rumor
went round that he was fixing up details with Mr.
John Norton at Medlow, but so far there is no
reliable announcement.
Possibly it is with the idea of saving the
British Tory the trouble of going all the way to
Australia to discover the evils of a Labor party
that the British electors have provided him with
one of his own. The curse has gone "home” to
roost.
N.S.W. “secesh” absurdity brings to light
once again, in a tierce letter to the D.T., Mr.
Nugent Robertson, who, five or six years ago,
predicted that just about this time, on account of
Federation, half of Sydney would be a deserted
wilderness, in which the graziers of the period
would find luxuriant pasturage for their stock.
THE STRAIGHT TIPI
“ You rude person! Where are you going?”
“ Well, first and foremost, marrn, to see the
fellows that brought them Chows to the Rand.”
Mr. Bent, the Socialist, now proposes to
set apart two blocks of the lately-purchased
Wyuna estate and start the Department of Agri-
culture to work on them, giving the settlers a
practical lesson on profitable cultivation by irriga-
tion and intense culture. A good enough idea,
which will come in handy as a precedent when
the State sets out to show the mine-owners how to
profitably work a coal mine, or the ship-owners
how to run a line of steamers with advantage.
Reported that a nephew of the, Emperor
of China and the chief engineer to the Chinese
Government are now in England making arrange-
ments for the construction of a great military rifle
factory in China. No one is making arrange-
ments for an Australian rifle factory.
The Victorian Butter Commission did at
least one good thing : it showed dairymen the
advantage of grading and improving the quality
of their product. Consequently, though the State
only exported 35,917,2081 b. last year, as against
37,948,2161 b. in ’O4, it got £18,851 more for it.
Sunday, the 14th, the mild and gentle
Kanaka raised Hell at Thursday Island, and was
only brought to order by a police volley, which
wounded five mild-and-gentles—two of them seri-
ously. And—The Bulletin is forced to record
with a sob—they were mission Kanakas, too.
Germany, at all events, does not intend to
letU.S. competition ruin any of its industries.
After March next a new German tariff comes
into operation, and it is designed to apply the
closure to many of Uncle Sam’s goods. The
duty on cereals is increased to 250 per cent. ;
on dried fruits and preserved meats to 350 per
cent. Sewing machines, typewriters and agri-
cultural implements are to pay in future 110
per cent. Cotton, which Germany wants, is
to remain on the free list. Australia has just
been told even by the Freetrade papers that
“ there is no unemployed question in Ger-
many.” Perhaps this is part of the reason.
Germany has so much work to offer
to artisans through the growth of its
manufactures under Protection that
it is absorbing, on a rough estimate,
half-a-million immigrants per an-
num. In the old Freetrade days
the German swarmed away from
his own country to look for work,
till every new land had its Ger-
man colonies, and every Ameri-
can city had its German quarter,
and the sour-krout and lager-
beer joke was in every comic
paper. Then Protection arrived
and German emigration dropped
to one-tenth of the old figure.
The Fatherland now sends away
about 36,000 people annually,
and it attracts more than ten
times that number from outside,
while Freetrade Britain sends
away about 250,000 more people
annually than it receives. And
despite this export of its unem-
ployed population, in 1904 68
out of evdry 1000 Britishers were
out of work, while German un-
employed were only 22 per 1000.
What wonder that the naturally
bumptious Kaiser William some-
times hits the floor of Europe need -
lessly hard with his tail !
Sydney D.T., discussing that dismal non-
secesh meeting
The keynote of the agitation was struck by the speaker
who said that this was a question upon which “ the
political honor of Australia was at stake.”
Cool impudence this phrase, “political honor,”
coming from the paper which championed the
crowd that caused all this pother by breaking the
solemn terms of the Federal Enabling Act !
Sydney daily press doesn’t find Bill Lyne
so ductile nowadays. As Minister for Customs,
he has important tariff notices from his de-
partment wired to the Sydney daily papers
simultaneously with their appearance in the
Commonwealth Gazette. But those papers don’t
publish the wires, and want them to be paid for
as advts. Against that William is firm.
Closely following the Tallarook (Vic.)
boiler explosion, whereby two men were killed
outright and others badly injured, came a
similar fatality at Dandenong (Vic.). A far-
mer, driving and attending to his own chaff-
cutter and boiler, was suddenly slain. The
subsequent inquest revealed the facts that
there was no competent engineer in charge,
that deceased had himself plugged the safety-
valve while a laborer held the lever down
with a crowbar, and that he had also wired
the steam pressure gauge so that it showed
a paltry 301 b. to the sq. in., when, as a
matter of fact, the pressure must have been
between 1301 b. and 2001 b. ! The least unsatis-
factory thing about the episode is that the
exploding boiler seems to have spent its
whole force on the responsible person—the
one directly responsible, that is. The men
on whom the indirect responsibility lies for
these deaths are the Victorian Fat Land-
lords, and the Tories of the Lower House,
who restricted the boiler-inspection regula-
tions of the Factories Acts of ’99 and ’96 to
the metropolitan districts.
Fairly safe to prophesy that Iceberg
Irvine, if he gets the chance, will be a
dismal failure in Federal politics. First, he
would enter with too much apparent vanity.
The Argus talks reverently of “the career
in Federal politics which he has marked out
for himself,” and that is typical of Irvine’s
sublime conceit. Irvine didn’t leave office
too soon in Victoria. He wouldn’t have
lasted anything like as well as Bent. Vic.
State Parliament is now very impatient under
the conceited lectures that Irvine’s throaty little
voice pours out.
Reported that some of the immigrants who
came from Britain to the Myall Creek farms com-
plained bitterly at the terms, and so on, when
they had seen the farms, ahd were thereby success-
ful in getting them on pretty well their own
conditions!
“ P,”: I am a large foreign capitalist, and
I intend to withdraw the millions which I have
invested in the British Isles. I could not think of
risking money in a country which has a Labor
party. I wonder that the A.M.P. Society should
talk of operating in England under such dangerous
conditions.
For some time after taking office Kidston’s
bulky form at Q. Treasury scared off the Roads
and Bridges beggar. Now returning prosperity
enables him to spare a little cash, and deferred
repairs to public buildings are proceeding apace.
In the last six months more contracts were let
than in the previous 12 months.
Trouble in Sydney Hibernia over Mr.
Higgins’ visit. It is alleged by one side “ that a
mere handful of Irishmen, calling themselves the
United Irish League; invited Mr. Higgins,
M.H.R., to Sydney during the holidays; that
Mr. Higgins spoke at Coogee on a holiday to a
Home Rule audience so small that it nearly got
lost, and that at the banquet in the evening only
20 persons, including four pressmen, assembled in
their might.” Hibernia is divided into two camps
in Sydney, each one with a newspaper to sool it
on ; and each camp hates the otlier with more
virulence than it does the base and brutal Saxon.
Bent Thomas, momentarily dropping his
Premiership and speaking as a Moorabbin coun-
cillor, lately explained to his fellow-councillors
how to become a Minister: “It was time he
(Bent) did something for South Brighton, rle
had assisted the Mentone people to get a hall.
The Mordialloc people had had assistance from
the Government. The Black Rock people had
had £3OO from the Public Works Department tor
their breakwater. To Sandringham £llOO in all
had been given. Cheltenham and East Brighton
had had some attention.” All these places are in
Mr. Bent's electorate, so South Brighton coyly
allowed itself to be persuaded into accepting £lOO
from Mr. Bent’s Government towards a new
Shire Hall.
MR. BALFOUR GOES TO THE COUNTRY,
AND THE COUNTRY MEETS HIM
HALFWAY.
He has served his country well.—ARGUS.
And his country has served him right.— Australian
Sentiment.
Premier Bent says, over the appointment
of his Commercial Agents abroad, recognised now
as a business exuding a strong odor of fish : “ The
papers are making a great fuss about it now, but
it’s all right—it’ll be forgotten in a few days.”
The elector’s capacity for forgetting is the salva-
tion of politicians like Bent.
Cabled that the Orient line is building two
new steamers for the Australian trade. This is
the line which, a short time ago, “ held up ” the
Australian Parliament with the bluff that the
Australian service didn’t pay. It recalls the yarn
of the man who sold all his goods at a loss,
and accounted for his profits by the quantity he
handled.
Hawthorn (Vic.) Municipal Council, be-
cause it was pig-headed and preferred protracted
litigation to spending £lO or £l2 in repairing a
drain, has up to date paid in law costs £2409. It
still has to pay the plaintiffs taxed local costs, a
few hundreds more on account of appeal to Privy
Council, and its own local costs. It will take
about £2OOO more to see the council out of the
affair.
By forbidding, at the request of the better-
class Chinese residents in Australia, the importa-
tion of opium for smoking, the Australian Govern-
ment loses £60,000 a year. To prevent Indian
opium plantations suffering a loss, England waged
an unjust war on China, forcing that country to
cancel its law against importing opium. Yet
John Bull has the cheek to speak in a sorrowful
way of Australia’s “cruelty to colored aliens.”
Digby Denham, Works Minister in Queens-
land, although a member of a Cabinet composed
partly of Labor men, used to be ever reviling the
“tyranny ”of Socialism. There may be nothing
in the coincidence, but just when the help of
Labor men to climb to the Premiership might
have been handy, Denham’s Works Department
issued the following notice
Not less than the union rate of wages ruling in the dis-
trict shall be paid by the contractor under this contract.
A few years ago, Italy, which just now is
setting about doing all its own torpedo building,
didn’t know how to make a felt hat. It imported
its hats mostly from England (better class) and
Belgium (lower grade). But a paternal Govern-
ment soon altered all that. Now Italy’s felt hats
go to the four corners of the earth. The famous
Italian felts practically drove the English felt from
Australia. Why can’t Australia return the com-
pliment ?
Reported in the European press that
the Marquis Ito, and other Japanese envoys to Korea,
brutally forced the Korean Emperor to sign the docu-
ment recognising Japan’s suzerainty. His Majesty’s
Ministers, who fled from the Palace, are alleged to have
been captured by Japanese soldiers, and compelled to
countersign and seal the document.
Korea has been “liberated from the tyranny of
Russia ” by the noble Jap ; and isn’t finding its
new liberty any too beautiful.
From S.M. Herald last week :
The prudent financiers who rule the affairs of the
Sydney University would not have entered upon so
serious a speculation as the purchase of this block means
if they were not well assured of the growing prosperity of
the State. Another proof of this prosperity and of the
confidence business men have in its steady continuance is
to be found in the buildings which we see springing up
everyu'here, and in the annual report of the Master
Builders’ Association, of which we printed a summary
yesterday.
Now what do these “prudent financiers” and
“ business men ” mean by “giving proofs of their
confidence in th<> steady continuance of pros-
perity ” in this uenighted, anaichical land, which
is being turned by Federation and the Labor
party .'
In politics, as in life, the dog that sticks
to his kennel may be doing the best work, but the
dog loafing on the kitchen doorstep often scores
the best bone.
Sydney Telegraph hails as another vic-
tory for the Liberal cause in England the announce-
ment of each seat won by the Labor party. In
Australia the Telegraph denounces Labor poli-
tics as class politics and therefore opposed to the
very breath of Liberalism.
In reckoning up the sacrifices made on
behalf of N.S.W. in the interests of the other
States, the Sydney secessionists are always silent
on the matter of the Imperial Navy contributions.
While the Naval subsidy is paid by the people of
Australia at so much per head, practically all the
money is spent in Sydney. The British Govern-
ment has just published the return for the period
Nov., ’O3 to March, ’O4 (the blessed British
Government is as rapid as usual), and in the five
months £77,000 was spent in the city of Sydney,
and practically nothing elsewhere in the Common-
wealth.
Sydney University has bought from N.S. W.
Government the vacant area in Martin Place,
opposite the G.P.0., and will erect thereon'a big
building which the Government will then rent for
30 years. An involved arrangement, similar to
that carried through with the Citizens’ Life by
the recent Government, and practically amount-
ing to floating a loan in an indirect way. The
revenue will get the benefit of the land-sale money,
and will be "‘saved” the cost of putting up the
building, but will be burdened with the interest
in the form of rent. The number is infinite of the
dodgeswhich N.S.W. Treasurers devise for raising
the wind.
The Carruthers Government, by soiling
two city blocks of land, cleared over £lOO,OOO in
one week. These sales, following the Centennial
Park sub-division and the selling of the old police
court site, George-street West, constitute a record
for any recent Government as regards the disposal
of city property. No published announcement
has been made as to the ear-marking of the pro-
ceeds of these, sales towards reducing the public
debt, and apparently the lot is to go into the
consolidated revenue. If Carruthers and his
Ministers were directors of a company, and sug-
gested that they should sell their best assets to
pay the year’s expenses, the auditors would
certainly have something to say.
Sydney Telegraph, which, a few months
ago, used to weep regularly every Monday morn-
ing because Australia had spent £20,408,000 of
last year’s plentiful harvest in paying its interest
and some of the principal, instead of spending an
extra £20,408,000 on goods from foreign factories,
is getting out its handkerchief again :
The exports of merchandise this year are hound to
exhibit a large expansion. But why is Australia this
year keeping its gold in the country ? The past 10 months
have witnessed a reduction of our gold exports of some-
thing like £6,000,000. The idea that it may be held to
find employment for our people is a wild one. Sovereigns
in the country no more indicate the volume of employ-
ment than bushel-measures represent the volume of the
wheat crop. If they lie idle their advantage disappears.
Which is mostly true. It is no use holding gold
to establish factories and extend industries
while the fool-tariff that the Telegraph helped to
make lets in the “ dumper ” to knock out the fac-
tory and the industry after it is established, and
opens the door to the product of the Jap, who, as
the Telegraph showed lately, still works long
hours for Is. 2d. a day. But"the fact that Aus-
tralia has the gold to buy machinery, &e., with,
and the people to work the machinery when it is
bought, and the population to consume what the
people and the machinery produce, suggests that
it’s about time to put the Telegraph’s fool-policy
into the stove and its fool-tariff into the ash-
barrel.
A trade label The Bulletin notices :
“ Safety ” matches for Australia from Japan !
Chamber of Manufacturers’ Conference at
Launceston (Tas.) shows by its resolutions that
some of the Australian manufacturers have not
yet learnt that the only possible Protection is
Radical Protection, and that the “ high-tariff low-
wage” man can have no place in the Common-
wealth councils. Its expressed opposition to
Federal control of industrial legislation shows the
Tory hoof. There are only two logical alterna-
tives in a Commonwealth wherein inter-State
Freetrade rules —Federal control of industrial
laws, or no industrial laws at all; else the State
which legislates for the proper treatment of its
workers will endanger the life of its industries.
Freetrade is only just where industrial conditions
are equal; since Freetrade within Australia is
established, the industrial conditions must be made
equal.
“OUR SACRIFICES.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Please let me tell a doleful tale
And whine a weary, woeful wail;
Or let me rant and rave and rail
Like raucous old Cambyses !
I much regret, and always will,
I voted for that wretched Bill !
It makes me ill to think ; quite ill,
About our sacrifices !
Both Barton and O’Connor were
Among the ablest lawyers here.
We sacrificed them 1 They are there
(Or were at last advices).
And where, oh where, is G. 11. Reid ?
It fairly makes my bosom bleed
To think we’ve lost him ; chief indeed
Of our great sacrifices !
And then —oh, what a sight to see
Our ablest statesmen turn and flee,
Because Four Hundred’s more than Three
And faith depends on prices !
Whom have we left worth voting for?
We must accept Oarruthers or
M'Gowen, whom we all abhor !
Such are our sacrifices !
The men who had some common sense
Have gone, and gone at our expense !
We’re left with third-rate persons ; hence
How could we meet a crisis?
And yet Tim Bulletin pretends—
If not Tiie Bulletin, its friends—
That New South Wales for Federal ends
Has made no sacrifices !
W. T. GOODGE.
DISINTEGRATION.
Carruthers is a patriot
Who loves his land in sections.
“ Advance Australia ! ” he cries
t “ In several directions.”


i;
y -i *
Newcastle
Sydney
&-
Send for Catalogues—Post Free. Old Pianos taken in Exchange.
Easy Terms if you wish.
W. H. PALING (Si CO., LTD., 338 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
“BEST”
RAZOR GUARD
MEN WrfO SHAVE with a “ BEST ” RAZOR GUARD
attached to their own blade experience the
delightful sensation of being quickly, safely and com-
fortably shaved. Guard requires no fixing, and is
easily slipped on to the ordinary-razor blade, no
matter what size or shape. Instantly converts your
blade into a SAFETY RAZOR that is perfectly safe
to use under any conditions—travelling on a train, or
even in the dark—without fear of cutting yourself.
Makes your razor shave as smooth as velvet, just as
close as desired, in half the time you ordinarily take.
Absolutely prevents scrapes, even to the most
tender skin. Just as useful to the “good ” shaver as to
the novice. To try it is to appreciate it. Thousands
now in use. Every one sold makes a friend for life.
Send 2/-, Postal Notes or Stamps, and a Guard will
be mailed you to any address in Australasia. Agents
Wanted.
E. P. BREWER & CO.,
o»o. G.P.0.. MELBOURNE.
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
w SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BEST.
Sold\
by n.
all first- N.
claw stores n.
in Australasia. 'v
No. 8176. J 2-BLADE \
“ PAMPA,” \
Cocoa Handle 1/6
Buffalo Handle - 21-
Stag Handle - - - 2/6
Visitors to Melbourne
WILL FIND
THAT . . .
Neale’s Temperance Hotel
(Tankards)
. , LONSDALE STREET (Next Law Courts)
£S«*J*“* j° aW >' at - Bein S close to Railway
fc °rf’» T^ eatr ® s J and Wharves ; and three minutes’ walk
irom c.i.O- Bedrooms on Ground Floor if desired.
Board and Residence, 4s. 6d. per day ; or from £1 per
week. Telephone 1640.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bullktin Writers. Cloth, 300
1 I'tico, 4s. CJ.
6IVEN AWAY
FOR ONE MONTN ONLY.
2000 OSTRICH TIPS, nine inches
long, will be given away absolutely
free during the month of February,
to advertise our Feathers.
Write for Coupons and-PtertictrtSrsT^'
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Cr. Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Mention The Bulletin.]
l\ l \N
01 [c«-y»
'vgy i
il.)
Gam Electric Mine Locomotive,
GANZ Electric
Mine Haulage
Equipments..
Have been specially designed to
meet Australian mining conditions,
and have been brought up by
many years’ experience to the
highest degree of perfection.
Sole Australian Agents—
AUSTRAL OTIS ENGINEERING CO.
Telephone
No. 331.
Cr* Hanna and Kavanagh Streets, SOUTH MELBOURNE*
' ■' • .
[3
FULL CREAM
CONDENSED
IS THE
CREAM OF MILKS
BURNS, PHILP & GO., LTD., Sole Agents.
f/ffi
WWrnt
CD V
? JO
mm
O *T7
MEMORY.
A COURSE OP
THE PILMAN-FOSTER SYSTEM
OP
MEM ,RY TRAINING
will increase your power of thought-concentration arul
cure the habit cf mind wandering'. The best positions in
e\ery business and pr< fession are filled by tnose with tiie
btst inemor.es ; therefore if ycu wish to suejeid* TRAIN
your memory.
The Ps man-Foster System
aScientifioally trains the natural memory and enables
nvone to remember names, faces, facts, figures, business
details ; ti spea.s without notes, to follow .lectures and
onversat on.
It is easy and interesting, and the oldest and youngest
can learn it. No matter what your life. wo,(k may be,
THE PEL,HAN POSTER SYSTEM will make you more
successful. . ...
WRITE for a FREE explanatory booklet, “Memory
and How to Improve'lt,’’
The Secretary, The Pc I man School of
Training, Box 402,
G.P.0., Melbourne.
ENGLAND : 4 Bloomsbury St., London W.C. PRANCE :
109 Avenue de Neuilly, Paris. SOUTH AFRICA : Lynn
Buildings, Durban. AMERICA: 001 Whitehall Building,
New York. GERMANY : Pranneistr 13, Munich.
W. Watson & Sons
ARE AGENTS FOR ...
PAUL’S _
ANItyATOSRAPN.
Ti 0
Cett
Living:
Picture
A'acliine
Extant.
&
Larg:e
Stock of
Newest
Filins
Always
on
. Hand.
PRICE LIST GRATIS.
W. WATSON <fc SONS,
78 Swans tors Street,
MELBOURNE.


“M OTA ” brand
Motor Car Spirits
Are the finest power spirits the world produces.
Sold by all Motor Manufacturers,
Importers, Repairers, etc., or of
The BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD.,
Agents, Adelaide, Melbourne & Sydney.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives.
Brewery and Offices:
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
J.D. on two-up as it strikes a man who has
seen many games : I was ushered with some ceremony,
the other night, into one of our most exclusive Sydney
two-up schools. 1 have lost money in most quarters
of the globe from Monte Carlo “trente et quarante”
down to the miserable “ Petits Chevaux ’’ game of the
average French watering-place. 1 have also sampled the
roulette boards—faked and otherwise—of Cairo and the
Fast generally. In many ways, 1 put the local gamble
in a class by itself. To start with, there is no “ Zero,” no
“ Numfero Oinq.” One naturally asks, “ Where on earth
does the bank come ini'” Apparently the mild-looking
sportsman seated on the cushioned biscuit box by his
miniature canvas-spread circus ring, is risking anything,
from liberty up to a considerable sum in hard cash, for
sheer joy at the sight of the happy faces round him.
As a fact this is. not so ; but his actual arrangement
is on a par with the charmingly unbusiness-like
and courtly manner in which the show is run.
With the exception of a few shillings thrown into the
bank by each successive wielder of the “ kip” (nor is any
one compelled to use the kip) the bank looks for its
profit solely to the generosity of the big winner of the
evening. The punter seems to be on velvet. Here is
surely the only place on earth where he gets a dead level
chance for his money. I refrained from asking what
would occur if a winner point blank refused to disburse
to the bank any of his gains. He could leave, no doubt,
but he probably would meet with scant enthusiasm if he
ever tried to return. Here, in place of the green table,
we stake on the floor. A player, apparently of the
bottle-dealing fraternity, steps into the ring and hurls
the glove of defiance by offering to wager “a crown
heads.” He is accommodated by another whose fancy is
“a crown tails.” They jointly deposit their crowns in
the ring, and retire to await events. Picture £4O or £5O
in silver and gold, comprising two or three hundred
separate bets, thrown into an immense ring—no croupiers,
no police, the whole assembly wandering at will amongst
the cash. One looks for arguments, disputes, recrimina-
tions, bets denied, and so on. Nothing of the sort occurs.
The warning, “get set,” is intoned for the last time (equal
to the Continental ‘ 1 Fdites vonjeux ”), the crowd, some 200
strong, surges back to the ringside and forth fares the
wielder of the kip. A laconic “Fair go” from the direc-
tion of the biscuit box—local substitute for the wide world
“ Les jeux sont faites ; rienne va plus" —and the pennies
are flung high in the air. They fall “heads,” and my
friend the bottle-oh strolls absent-mindedly into the ring
and picks up his half-sovereign. For a moment the
silver-spotted arena turns black with winners picking up
their gains, and then it is clear and the whole business
begins afresh. The two-up atmosphere is one of absolute
mutual confidence and of dignified calm. Here the an-
guished, forehead-slapping gambler of fiction would be
looked at with loathing. There are those hovering round
whose mission, I fancy it would be, at about the second
slap, to fling the ruined one violently into the street.
I did not note the obsessed cleric madly playing up the
proceeds of his hypothecated chasubles, albs, stoles and
other final assets in the hope of getting back the collection
plate he has lost in play ; nor yet the absconding bank
clerk loaded with bis employer’s gold. They may have
been there, likewise the employer himself. If so all were
effectively disguised—mostly as bottle-oh’s. Somewhere
on the premises, no doubt, reposes the iron hand ; but it is
rarely in evidence. The Sydneyite seems an orderly and
philosophic gambler, and 1 never saw less emotion shown
than here over any stakes, big or small.
* m * *
The swimming at Elkington Park Baths, Bal-
main (Sydney), on Saturday, again demonstrated the fact
that N.S.VV. has no one who can at present fill the posi-
tion of dead champion Kieran. His last record, that for
220yds., made at Brisbane, Nov. 25, last year, just before
he died, was not impaired in the race for the State cham-
pionship on Saturday. The competitors in the final in-
cluded Cecil Healy, the 100yds. champion, Len. Murray,
the ex-schoolboy streaker, and nuggety Bob Craig, the
quarter-miler. They got away simultaneously, and swain
in a straight line for the first 30yds. or so, and then Healy
forged ahead, and at the turn was a full yard beyond the
bunch. During the second lap he increased the lead
by another three yards from Craig, who had left
Murray and Byers racing chin to chin another
five yards behind. “He must ‘ crack up ’ in the
next few yards,” said the frenzied supporters of his rivals.
But he continued to show a smooth, unbroken surface to
his speed, and it was Craig who began to crack. Then
Murray was seen to be shearing through the water like a
needle through silk, and overhauling the leader very fast,
■till the ten yards lead was reduced to four. Could he do
it? The shouting stopped, a heavy silence fell on the
.crowd which placed its hands between its knees and
waited, glaring at the water. Instead of tiring, Healy
went off with a terrific burst, tearing great holes in the
water with his arms into which he kicked himself with his
plunging feet. Behind him the gliding Murray could
travel no faster, and Healy increased his iead and won by
about 10 yards in 2min. 35sec. Kieran’s record w r as 2min.
28 2-ssec.
* * * *
So far only £OB Bs. 4d. has been contributed
towards the Kieran Memorial Fund, which argues that
N.S.W. in the mass is not particularly proud of having
produced the fastest known swimmer of all time.
* * * *
For this and many other summers almost the
first question put by the Sydney doctor to the typhoid
patient is, “What bath do you swim in?” And then
comes the name of one or another of the swimming baths
that dot the shores of Fort Jackson. It is a horrible fact
that the class most afflicted with the dirt fever in Sydney
is that which washes itself most, and in this city, which
rests by so many waters, the swimmer has to take his
chance of being drowned by the undertow at Manly or
Bondi, swept out and devoured by sharks in the same
localities, or infected with typhoid scattered in the
various coves. Over in Lavender Bay the North Sydney
Council recently spent several thousand pounds con-
structing a swimming resort, and now' it is found that
quite a number of houses along the foreshore discharge
their sewage into the Bay in close proximity to the baths,
and a storm-water channel brings down a smellful rein-
forcement every time it rains. So bathers are warned
not to take their morning dip in the Lavender Bay baths.
Why Lavender Bay has been picked out for a special
warning is hard to imagine, except on the ground that
the Lavender Bay baths are owned by the Municipal
Council, and most of the others are run by private people,
and the profits of private enterprise must not be
diminished or endangered. The Harbor Trust is “ taking
steps” to prevent the pollution of the waters over which
it has control, and it is just possible that within the next
few years one may be able to bathe in the waters of Fort
Jackson without hiring a cot in the typhoid hospital
beforehand.
* * * «
Martini’s Buckjumper Show threatens to detract
attention from the Cabbage-tree Hat Gang. L. A.
Skuthorpe, of Harrisville, l)., wired to this office last
week: “Tell Martini I will ride his buckjumper till
the sun goes down, in my own saddle, if he puts up
£lOO. £25 won’t pay my expenses.” The Bulletin
found Martini, a smart little bushman in a black tunic
shirt, Assam silk pants and a white Panama, quite undis-
turbed by the challenge. He smiled : “ Oh, yes ; I’ll
make a match under certain conditions. I don’t say my
horse can throw any man, but I think he’s got a fair
chance with Skuthorpe, and I’ll deposit the ‘ stuff ’ with
you before the match on condition that his (Skuthorpe’s)
saddle is an ordinary saddle, with leather knee-pads not
more than three inches high. Of course, his own saddle
might mean a patent contrivance which no horse on
earth could buck with, and I’m not going to stake my
money on fake saddles, or saddles with steel knee-pads.
If he likes to try with the ordinary hunting saddle,
without knee-pads at all, I’ll lay him 3 to 1 the gee-gee
throws him. Anyhow, you fix up about that saddle and
then we’ll get down to business.”
* * * *
Thk Bulletin wired Martini’s offer to Sku-
thorpe, who sent the following wire in reply :—“ My
challenge is to ride any horse alive in my own saddle. If
Martini thinks his horse can buck he should not shuffle
about saddles. Let him put up £lOO. Then I will show
him whether his horse can buck or not. I will back one
of my buckjumpers to throw any man in Australasia out
of any saddle they can put on him,"from £1 to £lOO, and
will not use a flank rope. Or I will give any man £25 that
can bridle, saddle or ride him. No horse can buck that
you have to use a hunting saddle on.”
When Martini read these few remarks he
seemed grieved : “ I’m not out to provide centuries for
horsemen, but to make money ; and to boom business I
don’t mind losing a little in a sportsmanlike way. You
can tell Skuthorpe that he can use his own saddle,
but it must be of the hunting pattern, and
if fitted with knee-pads, they must be of
leather and not more than three inches. Skuthorpe
and some other gentleman devised a saddle with steel
knee-pads that no horse on earth could heave a man out
of, and I’m not going to bet against that. This is a match
in horsemanship, and anything that takes in a saddle
with a clinch like a roller-skate clamp is not horseman-
ship. I can’t say anything more than that.”
• * * *
In order not to interfere with the Manly Regatta
both the Sydney Yachting Clubs left Saturday afternoon
open, and the Sydney Sailing Club had the waters of
Port Jackson to itself. Fourteen sail turned up for the
start, and a new boat, Vera 11., capsized off Blues Point
on the way to the rendezvous. A light nor’ easter was
blowing at the time and the boats got away excellently,
and immediately split up, six making towards the
southern shore while the main body beat for Bradley’s
Head. The trembling nor’-easter died gradually away,
and the fleet was hung up, making spasmodic starts as
faint puffs came from the S.E. This intermittent business
continued till the fleet once more bunched at the Light-
ship, and, as they drifted round the Sow and Pigs,
the roaring southerly stampeded a wild mob of
white horses over them. Zena, Alert and Merlin retired,
and later Australian’s main-sheet blew out with an ex-
plosion like the crack of a cannon. Then that Nestor
of open-boat sailing, George Ellis, sailing Vision, who had
been left far behind for want of wind, began to worry the
rest of the skippers. A bad last at the Lightship, Shark
Island found him fourth, and only 3min. lOsec. behind
the leader, Donnelly. On the lead to Clark Island, Vision
went plunging past them one after another to second
place. Rounding the mark another boat retired, and,
when they raced for Taylor Bay, the 14 had been reduced
to four, and Crescent had passed Donnelly. On the
thrash, Donnelly again went to the front, and, in a des-
perate effort to make up the lost water, the Crescent
swamped and went over, and Donnelly swept home a
winner by linin. 40sec. from Vision. The third place was
filled by Tasman.
» • *
Notwithstanding the fact that the southerly was
signalled from Jervis Bay by mid-day on Saturday, the
buster had a gay time on Sydney Harbor when it arrived
about 4.30 p.m. At Manly a regatta was proceeding
gaily, and the cove was alive with yachts, open boats,
and motor-boats. The nor’-easter suddenly died down,
and then a wild display of foam-caps heralded the
southerly. In a moment it was on the crowded cove,
and masts were broken, sails blown out, yachts driven
ashore, and open boats capsized, and the afternoon’s
sport came to a confused end. But it was worth
the trouble and damage to see the way the masterly
yachtsmen swung round, and, with their sails almost flat
down on the water, skimmed away to the open space in
front of the Heads and drove for home.
* * * *
Sydney medico, Dr. Piers Hatton, has an
ambition to own the fastest boat in Port Jackson, and he
doesn’t mind how he scatters the shekels to get it. He
brought the Lady Marjorie from England, and replaced
her 7 h.p. engine with a 4 cylinder one of 16 h.p. to wipe
out all rivals. Then he had a cruiser, the Lady Freda,
built for comfort as well as speed by a local firm. When
the Standard 111. showed at the first regatta held on the
Parramatta River that there was no other like her on
these waters for speed, the doctor drew his eyebrows
down, and announced his intention of having that boat
or a faster one. Now he has bought the flier, re-christened
her the Lady Eileen, and is making arrangements to
shake up the motor boat community considerably. A.ll
three of his craft are entered for the Anniversary Regatta
events, and they will either win or blow up.
Amateur sculling champion Bourke, of Tas-
mania, will represent this continent at Henley, England,
this year. Bourke is a gritty oarsman, and if he doesn’t
exalt the tail of the kangaroo in the face of all England
he will at least put up a good struggle.
* * * *
Ben Thoroughgood—Newcastle’s recently un-
earthed possibility for world’s sculling supremacy—is
aptly named, as far as physique goes. A big, husky
youngster, scaling, when fit, 13st., he takes the eye as a
new Stanbury. He doesn’t smoke, neither does he liquor
up. In watermen’s skiffs Thoroughgood has sustained his
family name by finishing “on his own ” every time.
Newcastle is providing its latest athletic development
with a boat, and, by and bye, will put its last garment on
him as it did on Tressider when Towns triumphed.
* * * *
The squabble over the sculling championship
terms is no nearer settlement. Stanbury is willing to
make a match with any other aspirant “ on even terms,”
if only to make the Towns party angry. The squabble
emphasises the need of a controlling body to supervise
matches for the title —a representative body to take the
matches out of the hands of the syndicate which reaps the
big profits for little or no outlay.
On Wednesday night in Sydney the heavens
wept because there wasn’t going to be any secession, and
the consequence was that the cycling at the Cricket
Ground developed into a skidding match. The riders had
a very rough time. The important business of the even-
ing was confined to the semi-finals of the Summer Wheel
Race, which were run off in three heats: the first fell to
four N.S. Walers, all front markers, who beat Mayer, Pye,
Brook: and Horder. They made the pace a cracker from
the first, never gave the back men a moment to breathe,
and got over the ground in lmin. 58sees. The second
heaters took the hint, and by loyally pacing had the field
bagged half a lap from the bell. The front men put up a
stern struggle, and Bestel (80yds.), Sandberg (40yds.) and
Samuelson of the U.S.A. (10yds.) dead-heated for third
place. The exhausted Rutt managed to just qualify
through the dead-heating of the three men in front of
him. That heat also occupied 1 min. 58secs. The third
heat was a curious affair. The virtually scratch men
were on the 80yds. mark, and among them was Dick
Arnst, whose poisoned toe made it almost impossible for
him to walk, but did not seem to interfere with his
cycling. It seemed a hopeless task, but the red jerseyed
Maorilander waggled his head to some purpose and at the
end of an amazing lap sprint won by a length, having
travelled the distance in lmin. 54 4-ssecs.
* * * *
The Summer Wheel cycling carnival at Sydney
Cricket Ground came to an end on Monday evening. The
chief interest was the final of the Summer Wheel race,
first money £lOO. With the exception of W. E. Samuelson,
the Yankee, all the foreigners were eliminated in the
semi-finals, and Samuelson and Farley, on the 10yds. mark,
were the virtual scratch men. The front markers refused
to pace one another, and seemed determined to throw the
race away, and succeeded beautifully. The Yankee paced
Farley up to the field. Once up with the field the big
Victorian could probably have downed anyone in that
field, and Samuelson brought the champion up before the
first lap was run. Then at the tussle he just rode
away from them. A beastly uninteresting' race, and
one that ought to have earned the disqualification
of the whole of the front batch. The spectacle of the
night was the Motor Bicycle Handicap. This was run off
in two heats and a final, and in the latter J. Doherty gave
Saunders 320 yards and Jarman 500 yards in the two
miles spin. It seemed an awful gap, but when Doherty
came roaring round the track at an angle of 45 degrees,
or more, it was seen to be a mere trifle. He swept round
like a tornado, and while you winked he whirred away
in the greenish light to the far side of the ground. He
passed Jarman as though he were standing still, and when
Saunders spurted Doherty seemed to fairly leap after him.
At the Ladies’ Stand he went by him with a bound, cut
down in front, and as the pistol cracked was away past
the scoring board. A splendid sight.
* * * »
During the motor-cycle handicap, writer lay on
the grass and watched the flying Doherty closely. The
track is a most dangerous one for fast travelling, and
Doherty was rushing over the mile in lmin. 21sec., and
the point of his foot-rest seemed to have only the fraction
of an inch between it and the track. Had it touched,
there would have been a sensational accident. For fast
cycling, that track is not banked enough ; for motor-
racing it is a death-trap. It wants to be made wider and
banked right up to the top of the present rail, and, now
the Cricket Trustees are so affluent, they ought
to get it done. It would pay in the long run, for, in spite
of all the twaddle talked by the dailies and some of the
weeklies, people are deeply' interested in motor-racing. It
is not the machine, but the man on it. On Monday night
there was more cheering and wild excitement over the
whizzing motors than the racing men.
* * * *
Lawson and MacFarland made money in Wes-
tralia, the former netting £9B and the latter £4B, in
addition to substantial appearance fees. They were
reckoned sure things for the Westral, but a local man
won it, and the hole that miss left in the combine’s
pocket must be burning yet. They' were to have gone
right hack to Europe from VVestralia, but it is whispered
that some of the Melbourne promoters have climbed
down, and will pay the appearance money demanded. No
denying that both men are popular and attractive riders.
“Dareel”: After studying the methods of
“ Ikev Mo ” (with some profit to Mo), I am prepared to
dispute the right of that person by majority rule to
furnish a name for the betting ring. So far as Sydney
courses go, it should be either Mick or Pat, and as for the
real Mo’s, they are a pattern that the other gents of the
bag might well copy, as regards demeanor to the public.
For blatant, blastiferous gutterese after a “ skinner,” or
whilst paying out a winner, the Irish-Australian ringmen
are easily first. At a suburban meeting recently held,
one of the reputed leaders of the ring almost wept his
curses because the punters backed* a winner at sevens
“ when the blanks could have got tens elsewhere.”
* * * *
For the last 15 days of January no less than
38 race meetings were announced in N.S. W. There are 28
days in February, and it has 21 race meetings announced.
* * * *
“ Obs ” : My count of jockeys killed during
recent holidays made the total seven ; and, as I was busy
part of the time, the chances are I missed a corpse or two.
I’m waiting to see the Spanish papers to find out how
many people were killed in the “brutal bull-fights”
during the same season. I’m ready to bet it won’t be
seven. As for the respective amount of cruelty to animals
there won’t be any means of judging. With this whole-
sale slaughter of jockeys (mostly youngsters not old
enough to look after themselves), it becomes absolutely
necessary that State supervision be given to the condi-
tions under which they carry on their work.
* » " * *
People living near the Caulfield (Vic.) race-
course want a gateway placed in the fence, to allow
women with perambulators to get through the course to
the railway station. The V.A.T.C. thinks it too danger-
ous, seeing that horses may be going round the track at
the speed of an express train. Imagine the effect on a
queer-nerved horse like Emir if he ran into a baby in a
pram at his top pace !
* * * *
No one took the J. J. Kelly benefit match
between the Australian XI. and N.S.W. too seriously.
The chief object of both teams seemed to be to keep the
match going as long as possible in the interests of “gate,”
and, in spite of an unpromising start, they managed
to spin it out for four days. Which was good play from
the financial standpoint. Kelly scored £l3OO and retired.
No one grudges Kelly his windfall. Now it is
proposed to give Sydney Gregory, who is understood to
be not too well off, a similar benefit. Probably no one
would grudge Syd. Gregory a benefit either, but where
will it end ?
* * * *
E. A. Windsor, who is easily the best cricketer
in the Flyspeck, reaped all the glory when North
Tasmania defeated the Souths in the annua] fixture
recently. He scored 103 runs and took 13 wickets for
183 runs.
» * » *
Victorian Cricket Association has decided to
pay the claim of H. Stuckey for £BBlos. 6d. medical fees—
the outcome of an injury while taking part in an inter-
state match last season. The Association is considering
a proposal for the formation of a compulsory accident
fund amongst cricketers, and thus shift the onus of acci-
dents on the players.
* * * •»
The Tasmania Cricket Association waxed wroth
with the Victorian Association for picking a second-rate
team to play the annual match with the Flyspeck, and
declared the fixture off. Tasmania takes itself rather too
seriously.
**. * *
Jack Lyons, the tremendous hitter of Australian
Xl.’s from 1886 to 1893, has resuscitated himself (advan-
cing years and varicose veins have combined to keep him
out of the field of late years) and taken to Westralia a
useful S.A. team, including Gehrs, Claxton, Reedman,
Travers and Hack. It will play several matches about
Perth, also on the goldfields, if General Desire shouts
loud enough.
* * * *
Wright, of the S.A. XI., hurried back to Ade-
laide from Sydney, went straight on to the field after two
nights in the train, and won an electorate match by a fine
piece of bowling—six for 81. He also added another out-
first-ball to his long list of ciphers. Wright is certainly
the worst batsman playing in first-class cricket.
* * * *
A year since, when Poidevin was out here on a
flying visit, he complained that New South Wales had
“too many good cricketers.” That, of course, depends
upon the point of view, and Poidevin’s point of view was
that of an aspirant for a place in the big matches. But,
all the same, there is no denying that the abundance of
tip-top performers is embarrassing. A couple of months
ago, when the inter-State selection committee was picking
a dozen players for the Adelaide-Melbourne trip, it had
47 candidates under consideration. Ernest Hume’s note-
book was a curiosity.
* * * *
Laver’s success as a bowler is, of course, due to
his skill with the curving ball ; and he believes that “ the
great trundlers of the future will be curve bowlers. . . .
The better and faster the wicket, the more the curve
bowler likes it.” He notes (in his recent book) that a ball
which curves one way in the air breaks in the opposite
direction immediately it touches the ground. Giffen and
Noble he regards as Australia’s greatest curve bowlers,
but it is doubtful whether either of them could do this :
“ I can,” writes Laver, “ if three posts are placed in a
straight row (say) at fifteen yards apart, easily make a ball
go inside the first, outside the second, and inside the
third, whilst the ball is still in the air.” A batsman who
got a ball like that would have the right to consider him-
self a much ill-used person.
» * • *
Frank Laver has written a book. But it is safe
to say that it will not make him any fresh enemies. It
deals with the tour of the recent Australian Eleven, and,
except for the last chapter, it is entirely namby-pamby
and non-committal. What a fine chance has been lost 1
There was plenty of dramatic material available.
Kermode, the Sydney bowler who promised so
well a few seasons ago in the matches N.S.W. v. the visit
ing English Eleven, thatMaclaren took him to Lancashire'
to qualify for the county, is back in Sydney for a trin
Kermode, who bowled well against his fellow Australians
last year, is looked upon as a possible coming bowler in
England, where new bowlers are apparently as difficult to
discover as in Australia.
» * * *
Is it not about time that the newspapers ceased
to make a fuss whenever a large aggregate of runs is
knocked up on short order at the Redfern (Sydney) Oval?
There have been two cases in point within the iast few
days. On Friday, in the match between the Broadway
Club—assisted by Trumper brothers—and the Public
School Teachers, 542 runs were scored in the afternoon •
and on the following day 744 runs were obtained in three’
hours and three-quarters, in a match between a Redfern
eleven and Paterson, Laing and Bruce. In the season
1902-3, the Paddington Club made over 600 in one after-
noon. But the ground is only the size of a pocket-hand-
kerchief. Hits which on, say, the Sydney Cricket
Ground, would be catches to the outfield, go over the
fence at Redfern, and yield five, and it needs only a tap to
send a ball to the boundary for four. Redfern records
therefore, are artificial. The same trouble is likely to
occur at the Chatswood (Sydney) Oval, headquarters of
the new Gordon club, when the grass has been cut.
* * * *
A yellow gambler who strolled into one of the
three big fan-tan and pak-a-pu shops in Lilly Buck-stleet
(Melb.) one night lately started playing on a capital of 6s.
The dens run all night, Sundays included, and Ah Fat
left in the morning with £6OO in his pocket. He fled by
the next steamer for China, where he will live on his
wealth. Another case of capital leaving the country.
* * • *
Sydney bowlers are a desperate set of sports.
Finding that city men cannot, as a rule, reach Lonesome-
hurst in time to have a game on the local green before
dinner, the suburban greens are going to install artificial
light in order to make bowls possible by night. Mosman
has already started the idea. Consequently the gentle-
man who reaches home on all-fours at a despicable hour
will have a new excuse and a fresh explanation—“ Bowlsh,
my dear.”
* * * *
In wrestling, the exhibition, or put-up job, con-
demned by the Judge in the Hackenschmidt v. Woods
court case, of some months back, as a huge farce, but
advocated by The Bulletin as best from the onlooker’s
point of view, has been endeared to memory by the recent
“ genuine go ” wrastles in Melbourne. Weber and Hindu
Singh juggled sawdust for three dreary hours at the
Circus Building. On the same night, Delhi Neilsen, of
Cornish fame, met Dick Porter, and those wrastlers put
up 20min. strenuous give-and-take work, only to retire
for the star event, no fall having been gained. Monday,
15th, the lightweights met, at the Athenaeum Hall, at
level weights, 10st. 61b., conditions two out of three falls
to decide. First bout lasted 34min., Porter gaining the
verdict by securing a hammer-lock, Neilsen giving in. On
resuming, the mass of brawn occupied the mat for 60min.,
and, though the men had a wipe-down every 15min., no
fall was gained ; things were quite lively enough through-
out to prevent the small attendance from dozing. Never-
theless these prolonged contests are unsatisfactory. In
the good old-time prize-fight, where men must keep their
feet, it was just a matter of time before one or the other
was knocked out or fell from sheer exhaustion, beaten.
In any style of ground wrestling the person underneath
(who, from a practical view, is defeated) may be able to
last out time in a restful position when the contest, like a
penny magazine yarn, is to be continued in our next.
The person who saw Hackenschmidt at Melb. Opera
House was greatly impressed by catch-hold wrastles, but
owing to recent watching and waiting in vain, the last
spark of enthusiasm has been extinguished.
* * * *
Private letters from Calcutta tell of the death
there of visiting Sydney sport Tom Taylor, prominent as
a coursing man and, years ago, when licensee of the old
Halfway House, at Randwick, a central figure in pugilism
—as trainer, second, and backer. It was Taylor who
brought Peter Jackson to Melbourne to fight long-since
dead South Melbourne blacksmith Farnham.
* » * *
Invercargill’s (M.L.) Scotch field games’cham-
pion, Frank Ford, went within 9in. of A. A. Cameron’s
(Scotland) world’s record 221bs. hammer-throw (100 ft. 9in.)
early this month, and two or three days later came out
and beat it with a cast of 100 ft. lOJin., and in such a way
that onlooking judges insist he will tack 3 or 4ft. more on
to the distance next time.
* » * *
N.S.W. Rugby Union has declared next foot-
ball season a “ close ” one, the only fixture outside of club
football being a visit from the Bananalanders. The
Maorilanders’ visit has been put off till 1907. A team of
Britishers will probably visit Australia and Maoriland in
1908.
* * * *
The Arthur Cripps-Bob Frazer fight, at Sydney
National Sporting Club, last week, like most scraps that
go the full 20 rounds, was a tedious affair. It reminded
one of a deal between a Christianised Jew', a Syrian
hawker, and a man from Aberdeen—all trys-on, but no
business. After musical selections by the audience,
including “ The Dead March ” and a variety of cat-calls,
had filled in the time, the audience w’as startled to hear
referee Beckett announce that Cripps had won the fight.
A torrent of inquiries as to where the fight happened was
cut short by the departure of Mr. Beckett.
* * * *
The “fight” between ex-silver miner Mat
Mitchie and colored coon Joseph Walcott at Sydney
Gaiety Club on Saturday night was a humorous inter-
view. It was like the meeting of Esau and his long-lost
brother Jacob, and writer never saw two men embrace
one another so frequently and fervently before. It was a
hugging record. They b th grabbed at each other imme-
diately they came within striking distance, but Walcott
generally got there first. After 10 rounds of this sort of
frivolity a weary referee, tired of issuing warning’s, dis-
qualified the blackfellow, and gave the white man the
verdict.
* » * »
Ex-champion bruiser Billy MpCall evidently
agrees with The Bulletin that the man who works hajd
and fights occasionally has a better qhance than the pror
fessional pug who relies upon training only, to get himself
in condition. He has given up his public-house, and is
going back to hard work again for a spell before seeking
to recover his lost laurels. It was steady graft as a
maintenance-man that made him the hard hitter, by
virtue of being which he won his championship. And he is
going back to it to be renovated. Apropos, i t was years of
hard toil as a boilermaker that made Jim Jeffries the
mighty smasher, and covered all his vital quarters with a
thick armor of muscular tissue. The next battle between
Tim Murphy and Billy McCall will be looked forward to
with great interest, when McCall’s extra physical supe-
riority may possibly counterbalance Murphy’s superior
cuteness.
* * * *
A sturdy and fairly clever boxer who stuck to
the policy of knocking all the sawdust and “science”
out of his highly cultured opponents would soon make a
fortune as a “phenomenal champion” in Britain and
America these times. The amount of gate money forth-
coming for “ fights ” was never so large as now, and there
never was so little fight given for the money. The boxing
reflects the feebleness of the Johnnies who pay a guinea
and more to look at it. Those ladylike Johnnies would
pay double the sum to be awfully excited by a fellow who
was a devil of a fellow for hitting the other fellow,
doncherknow,
LONG ODDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The old horse faltered and shook his head,
For the whip cut deep, and the spurs were red ;
“I’m blown, and I’m pulled to the wide,” he said,
“ And the game is surely over ;
But I’ve played it straight, and I’ve played it bold ;
It’s the pace that kills when we’re getting old.
May I end my days in clover.”
But “ sport ” is cruel, and Fate is hard—
“ Even s” a cab and the knackers’ yard ;
Thousands to threes the clover.
ALSO RAN.


Vic. Agent-General Taverner writes Pre-
mier Bent that he meets with many stranded
Australians who are yearning to return to the
sunny land of the ’roo, but don’t know how it is
to be done. Taverner mentions the case of a
Scotchman who was farming for ten years in
Gippsland, but sold out and returned to Bony
Scotland. “Now,” he writes, “my little Aus-
tralians are crying all day long to be taken out of
this climate of wet and cold, and I’d do anything
to get back to Australia.” Those little, frost-
bitten exiles from Australia, wailing in the Scotch
mists to be carried back to their native sunshine,
appeal to the heart. With all this talk of our
great craving for British immigrants isn’t it worth
while to make an effort to get our own back—from
S’Africa, Britain and elsewhere ? Apparently the
little Australians in Scotia crying for the sun are
much in the position of ordinary children crying
for the moon.
Amusements.
ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Lessee J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
Gorgeous Spectacular Comic Operatic Pantomime,
SINBAD THE SAILOR,
OR, THE FAIRY OF THE DIAMOND VALLEY.
POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s and Is.
Box Plan at Elvy’s.
Q R I TERION
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction of EDWIN GEACH.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S
PREMIER DRAMATIC ORGANISATION, including
the Charming Young Australian Actress, MISS
BEATRICE HOLLOWAY, in
THE ROGUES OF THE TURF.
SATURDAY NEXT, JAN. 27, SHALL WE FORGET HER 7
Prices, Players and Plays Popular.
ER MAJESTY’S
THEATRE, SYD JEY.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
EVENINGS, at 8. WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON, at 2.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of Mr. Williamson’s
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY in the
Musical Comedy,
THE GIRL FROM KAY’S.
SATURDAY NIGHT NEXT, JAN. 27, VERONIQUE.
Box Plan at Paling’s. {AY“ PRICES AS USUAL.
PALACE THEA T R E, SYD NEY.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 27.
' BRIEF RETURN SEASON.
SIGNAL SUCCESS EVERYWHERE,
THE J.P.
Under Arrangement with Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
REVIVAL FOR SIX NIGHTS ONLY !
Mr. J. J. DALLAS,
Miss FLORENCE LLOYD,
Supporting STRAND THEATRE COMEDY CO.
Direction Messrs. MEYNELL and GUNN.
QUEEN’S HALL, SYD hTW.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
NEXT MATINEEE, WEDNESDAY, at 2.30.
SPECIAL HOLIDAY MATINEE FRIDAY.
A GREAT SUCCESS. A CERTAIN BOOM.
URBANORA BIOSCOPE COMPANY,
Including all the Latest Films, tog-ether with a Full and
Efficient Company of High-Class Vocalists and
Polite Entertainers.
Plan at Paling’s, 10-5 ; White Rose Confectionery, 5-7.
POPULAR PRICES—2s, Is, and 6d.
TIVOLI T H EAT R E, SYD J i Y.
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
JACKSON FAMILY, Premier Musical Team.
MISS FLORENCE CHALLIS. GRAHAM and BENT.
8 ENGLISH PRIMROSES 8. THE TWO BELLS.
MR. ALF LAWTON, the Popular Comedian & End Man.
MR. POST MASON, Operatic, Descriptive and
Character Vocalist.
A. G. SPRY. CARLETON and SUTTON.
Mr. PERCY COWARD, Miss OLIVE LENTON, BABY
WATSON, CATHEDRAL CHORISTERS.
OPERA HO USE, ME LBOU R N E.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
BARNARD’S PICCANINNY MARIONETTES.
PERCY DENTON, Character Comedian.
TIM HOWARD, Comedian End Man.
ARTHUR ALBERT, Actor Vocalist.
LOTTO, LILO and OTTO, Trick and Comedy Cyclists.
ADA CERITO, Serio Comique Character Actress.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s, 2s Cd, 2s, Is.
EW THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee ' .. BLAND HOLT.
GREAT SUCCESS EVERY EVENING,
BLAND HOLT and his Popular
Combination of Commonwealth Dramatic Favorites in
the Popular Adelphi Melodrama,
THE LIGHTS O’ LONDON.
t£T PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Business Manager, Mr. C. SIMONSENS.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
THURS., JAN. 25, FRIDAY, JAN. 26, Last Two Nights of
MERELY MARY ANN.
SAT. NEXT, JAN. 27, Australia’s Favorite Dramatic Star,
MISS TITTELL BRUNE
N
L’AICLON.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mrl J. C. WILLIAMSON.
GREAT SUCCESS EVERY EVENING of
GILBERT AND SULLIVAN OPERA COMPANY
—in—
UTOPIA (LIMITED).
(For the First Time in Australia.)
An Exceptionally Strong Cast. Additional Attractions.
“ QRINCES COURT,” MELBOURNE.
• General Manager .. .. A. L. BAIRD,
iff- ADMISSION Cd. ; CHILDREN 3d.—2.30 to 11 p.m.
A Good Resolution—
. ... TO “PRINCES COURT” ONLY . . .
Attractions Katzenjammer Castle Fun Factory—
Helter Skelter —Maze—Chute—Toboggan—Rifle Range
—Dragon—Diving Exhibitions —Naval-Military Exhi-
bitions—Cafe Chantat Entertainments, &c.
Japanese Tea House. Wine Kiosk.
Popular Price Refreshment Kiosk.
YOWN HALL, MELBOURNE.
Direction .. .. J. and N. TAIT.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, 27th JANUARY, ’O6.
The Latest in Moving Pictures
LIVING LONDON.
An enormous Moving Picture sent out direct from London
by Mr. J. Nevin Tait, takes you all over London, shows
you all its Streets, its Parks, its Bridges, Institutions,
Busses, Markets, Waterways, Docks, its wonderful Traffic
and hundreds of other Interesting and Educational
scenes.
PRICES, 35., 2s. and Is. Plan at Allan’s.
F. STETSON, Manager.
A police magistrate in Adelaide has decided
that a conversation by telephone can be admitted
as evidenqe, but the point is to go to the Criminal
Court.
Government Notice.
Victorian Government Loan, Issued Under
the Authority of Act No. 1990, for £1,600,000.
Redemption of 1 Per Cent. Will be Provided Annually ;
Principal and Interest Payable in Melbourne.
TENDERS will be received at the Revenue and Pay
Office, Treasury, Melbourne, until Noon of Friday,
the 9th February next, for the whole or any portion of
the above-named sum in any of the following securities :
3k per cent. Inscribed Stock under Act No. 1990,
redeemable in or after the year 1917, upon 12
months’ previous notice being given in the
Government Gazette.
3J per cent. Debentures under Act No. 1990, due
1926/41; or
3J per cent. Treasury Bonds under Act No. 1982, due
1916.
Interest, which is free of Income Tax, is payable Ist
April and Ist October.
First coupon due Ist October, 1906.
No tender will be entertained below £9B for Stock, £96
for Debentures, £97 for Bonds. Applications must specify
which security is required, and also the denomination of
Debentures or Bonds.
Stock will be issued in multiples of £6.
Debentures or Bonds in denominations of £lO, £5O,
£lOO, £5OO, £lOOO, £lO,OOO.
Each tender must be sealed and addressed to the Trea-
surer, and must contain a deposit, in cash or bank draft,
of 5 per cent, of face value of the security applied for,
and an instalment of an additional 5 per cent, must be
paid on the 23rd February, 1906.
If the tender be accepted, the balance must be paid
on or before the 25th day of June, 1906. Failure, to do so
will cause the forfeiture of the deposit and accrued in-
terest thereon.
Tenderers of the highest premiums over the respective
minimums fixed for Stock, Debentures, or Bonds will
have preference. Tenderers of even rates at or over the
three respective minimums specified will receive allot-
ment proportionately to the sums applied for.
Fractions of a shilling other than sixpence will not
receive preference.
Interest will be allowed upon deposit and instalments
of balances at the rate of 3J percent, per annum from
dates of payment up to the 31st March, 1906, inclusive.
On all payments of balances made on or after the Ist
April, 1906, a rebate must be made to the Government
equal to the proportional a jrued interest represented in
the first coupon.
Members of recognised Stock Exchanges of Australasia
will be allowed brokerage of J per cent, upon their
accepted tenders.
Forms of tender may be obtained on application to the
Under Treasurer, or to the Secretary to the Tender Board,
Melbourne.
Copies of the authorising Acts or other documents may
be inspected at the Revenue and Pay Office, Melbourne.
THOS. BENT,
Treasurer.
Treasury, 19th January, 1906.
Business Announcements.
WHAT A LOT THERE IS IN LUCK !
IN ALL HAS BEEN
THE LUCKY NUMBER. NAPOLEON
WOVE HIS MOST SKILFUL COM-
BINATIONS ABOUT THE MYSTIC
SEVEN. 777 IS THE NUMBER OF
TATTERSALL’S GOLDEN PEN.
TRY YOUR LUCK WITH ONE FOR
YOUR SWEEP TICKET. BOX OF
EIGHTEEN FOR SIXPENCE Any-
where, or send Eightpence in stamps
to 777, BOX 98, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
FOR A PERFECT COMPLEXION USE
Florentine Beauty Sachets
13
TRIAIv
my
F'liEß
TRIAL,
Refreshing, Soothing, Clearing and Beautifying.
Banishes Blackheads, Acne, Moth Patches and Dis-
colorations ; Removes Tan and Sunburn and Amelio-
rates Freckles ; cures Redness, Roughness, Pimples
and Abrasions and Speedily Removes the most
Obstinate Wrinkles.
Wonderful Magnifying Complexion Mirror Free
T AIMF.S are invited to try the Celebrated Florentine
*-> Beauty Satchets. We will post to any address a full-
size Sachet on receipt of Threepence to pay .Postage.
With it we will Send the Ladies' Book entitled Health
Beauty and Fascination,” absolutely without charge, the
Florentine Beauty Sachets are composed of the most delicate
ingredients, that are certified by the British Board of rnar-
macy to be highly beneficial to the complexion and
perfectly harmless to the most tender skin. When
troubled with blackheads or suffering from sunburn the
Sachets will be found marvellously cleansing and soothing.
There is no other preparation that will so speedily allay
redness and irritation of the skin. The. Sachets are delight-
fullv perfumed and impart a natural bloom and velvety
softness to the complexion. The manner of applrcation is
very simple and pleasant,, and each Sachet may he used
several times. Full directions are printed on the wrappers.
A box containing Six Sachets will he posted to any address
on receipt of a postal note for 2s. 6d., and with each order
received from a new customer who “ e " tlon '
we will present absolutely free one of the WONDfcKfUL
MAGNIFYING COMPLEXION MIRRORS, the very latest
invention for closely examining the skin and critically watch-
ing the effect of the improvement, of the complexion You
should order at once, as we may withdraw this special offer
without notice. The Florentine Beauty Sachets are obtain-
able only from
The Union Mfg. & Agency Co.,
359 and 361 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The
MASSACON
Treatment
for
DEAFNESS.
u
r*r
npHE office of the world’s latest scientific CURE
1 FOR DEAFNESS— the MASSACON— is to
massage the middle ear so that the ossicular chain
may be RE-VITALISED and restored to FULL
VIGOR. In design, materials, and workmanship
every detail of this instrument is as PERFECT as
years of careful experiment can make it, and the
apparatus has been pronounced by judges a
NOTEWORTHY EXAMPLE of the results attain-
able in the cure of this disease. Write to-day for
FREE BOOKLET A, giving full particulars of both
the MASSACON and the ACOUSTICON.
ACOUSTIC PATENTS, LIMITED,
Equitable Building, Melbourne.
Mr. Fred Call, warehouseman, dealing
both in imported and locally-made boots, before
a N.S.W. Select Committee :
Since the advent of Protection, under Federation, our
imports have fallen over 80 per cent., although we have
an increase in trade ; the increase is with colonial-made
goods. If we had Freetrade again to-morrow, the grea
percentage of these boots would never again come to
Australia. The public know that they can get better
value in the colonial-made boots. lam an importer, and
Isay that if we had Freetrade tomorrow that would be
the result. Where at one time I paid £lO,OOO a year to
an outJide firm I do not pay £lOOO now.
An account of the Sydney meeting which
didn’t secede
Most impressive thing about the parochial demon-
stration of Sydney importers and their political creatures
at Sydney Town Hall last week was the Soldiers’ Chorus
from Gounod’s “ Faust,” played by city musician Arthur
Mason on the Grand Organ. The idea was a noble one :
The citizens of N.S.W. were to roll in to the vast hall to
the strains of splendid music, and send forth a blast of
indignation that would make the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment take refuge in the first hole available. With the
Soldiers’ Chorus the free recital that was to lure the
people to the show came to an end. Then came the
disappointment. Instead of some furious revolutionary
getting up and yelling “ Secesh !” a gaud mayor arose
and gave practices in lay-reading. He spoke in truly
Ebenezer style. The ribald crowd that came to whoop
was hushed ; it felt that it was a mothers’meeting, and
fumbled in its collective pocket for its hymn-book. Then
“ Jock ” Garland got possession of the floor —hungry Jock
Garland, who can’t get a seat. His position was mostly
negative. They were not there as Secessionists. Neither
were they met for the purposes of recrimination. But
they had .not gathered there as humble petitioners, but
(very solemnly) to take their stand on the broad prin-
ciples of the Constitution. It was a slander to describe
them as nation-wreckers—they were all good unionists.
They did not expect the Federal machine to work
smoothly from the start ; it was too vast, and everyone
must do his best to make the thing go without jump-
ing. Having mentioned all the things they were not
there to do, Mr. Garland went on to explain what the
gang had really got the Town Hall for, and when he
had finished, it appeared that they were there to insist
that the Constitution should be interpreted according to
the spirit of an alleged resolution of what the Sydney
anti-Federalists used to call the “secret conference.”
This alleged resolution was said to have been discovered
in the archives of N.S.W. State Parliament seven years
after the date of the conference. It had not been laid
on the table of either House with the rest of the papers
dealing with Federation, but it explained that the
Federal capital was to be “ within a reasonable distance
of Sydney,” and, according to Mr. Garland, barrister-at-
law, they were there to claim that this piece of paper,
that had blown in from somewhere, should interpret and
limit the Australian Constitution. It would be inter-
esting to hear lawyer Garland’s opinion of an opposing
counsel who pleaded that a deed of private partnership
should be interpreted in a like manner !
The principal boy of the pantomime was Mr. John Norton.
Mr. Normand Maclaurin, Mr. Ebenezer Vickery, and the
others were merely his “ support.” The story goes that
Mr. Norton intimated to the promoters of the meeting
that he was going to speak at the “gathering,” and he
left it to them as to whether it should be for them from
the platform, or against them from the body of the hall.
So they accepted Mr. Norton on the platform. It was,
in one way, well for them that they did so, for Mr. Norton
alone interested the crowd. And ever}' time he
gasped for breath a delighted and wriggling audience
howled and stamped, begging him to keep it up. And
this was the star actor the ungrateful mob on the plat-
form ignored. He entered alone. He sat down unwel-
comed, the only one of the crowd on the platform
ungreeted by so much as a friendly nod. Their frigidity
would have frozen anyone not fitted with a rhinoceros
hide. When he had finished they took no notice of him
as he passed through their ranks with his hat jambed
down on to his large red ears. It was ingratitude in its
most hideous form. Likewise it was pretty tough hypo-
crisy. Many of those pious gentlemen carry under their
goodly white waistcoats what John Norton blazons on his
forehead.
With the disappearance of Mr. John Norton from the
platform the meeting practically came to an end. Other
speakers got up and talked, but their voices w T ere
drowned in the trampling of departing thousands. When
the audience did show some inclination to listen it found
it was being' addressed by a gentleman apparently devoid
of front teeth, and the exodus recommenced.
Up till the night of the meeting there was a general
impression that in Sydney at least the Cabbage-tree Hat
Mob had a following. The meeting proved that, by
giving a free organ recital and advertising largely, it
could get a crowd together. It also proved that they
could keep it together just as long as Mr. Norton spoke.
How uncertain of their ground they felt is proved by the
fact that the Gaud Mayor refused to accept any amend-
ments. It was a meeting of free citizens at which they
were only at liberty to express the opinion put before
them.
Very Old Vatted,
..Wr.
LiqueurWiiisky.
Distilled &Bo tiled by
<1 aA
Tent
U
Kilmarnock .Scotland.
MOTHER’S FRIEND.
PEDIC POMADE for the Head,
Strikes infesting vermin dead ;
On all hands it is confessed,
Surest, finest, foremost, best.
Destroys vermin; kills nits; heals sores.
By post—Small 1/2, large 2/3, extra large 3/6.
Manufacturer —P. KLEESATTEL,
Traralgon. Victoria.
Blocked by a hostile Upper House, the
Queensland Government proposes to get the
betterment for the State, when new railways are
built, this way. Suppose the prairie value of the
Crown lands is 10s. per acre, and the value is
increased threefold by the railway, the price
will be raised and 10s. will be credited
to the Lands Department and the balance
to the railway construction account. Objection
is that the newcomer to the district has to bear a
burden which the old hand escapes. After all,
there is nothing like a universal graduated land-
tax.
“ Broadman ” writes :
Under the heading, “The Yellow Mongrel in His
Kennel,” a letter signed Thorold Dalrymple appears in
Tiik Bullktin of Dec. 28th. It is nothing more nor less
than a gross libel on the people of Londonderry, whom he
is pleased to designate as Williamites and Patricks.
The paragraph relating to the sanitary condition of the
city—that humans dwell with porkers in the hovels of
its main thoroughfares, that slops and odors are thrown
out of its front doors, and that all is filth —is a vile and
unmitigated falsehood. My business as a commercial
traveller called me to that city periodically for about
eight years, so that I know something about it, and to
all his statements I can give an unqualified denial.
Londonderry is beautifully situated (Auckland reminds
me of it). The streets are wide, well-paved and clean.
There are no hovels in the main thoroughfares, but shops
that would not disgrace the best parts of Sydney. There
is a good water supply and drainage, and the electric
light has been installed for some years.
Neither is Derry behind the times in commerce and
manufactures. There are shirt factories employing
thousands, foundries, flour mills, distillery and brewery,
and some fine specimens of Derry’s shipbuilding have been
seen in Sydney harbor. Altogether Derry will compare
favorably with’any city of its size in the world.
Thorold Dalrymple further says, “In the hotels here
every bedroom is conspicuously supplied with a copy of
the Bible.” Now most of the hotels and pubs, are in the
hands of Patricks. I used to stay at “ The City,”a favorite
and well-conducted place, and the hostess (Mrs. Toy)
was a pious Patrickite. I do not know where Thorold
could have stayed, but I do know that the Derry whisky
is “just the stuff,” and under its influence he may have
probably wandered into the purloined, Cathedral, and
there fallen asleep, to wake up “ with a head,” surrounded
by Bibles and a nightmare in the shape of a yellow pup
sitting on his chest.
“There are still snakes in Ireland.” Poor fellow ! He
has my sympathy, and I trust that he has succeeded in
brushing them off.
rr-
»—cr —r-r~v. l j- 3
Hs
*CLV S _ th©
iv© s
sA
„n R
is n<;„ V^A P
s ain e a* 11 *
TlS-
as
pA c
VioN
V
\
„d * cC s °J,
*
» >l,t =ch * r ®
v^h'
tH s
•• \
ifr*
/
K, .
A'- 1
A**®


GIFT SUGGESTIONS.
>A FEW SELECTIONS FROM
OUR IMMENSE STOCK.
urcler early, and avoid delays and dis.
appointment. All goods sent POST FUni
TO ANY ADDRESS.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver
MATCH BOXES, 8s 6d.
Larger, 10s 6d, 12s 6d.
Smaller, 5s 6d, Gs 6d,
7s 6d, 8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
DRESS RING,
Rubv and Pearls,
12s 6d.
15ct. Gold, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
35ct. Gold RING,
Diamond and Rubies
or Sapphires, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Pearl Set
Bird BROOCH, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Fancy Curb Pearl and Opal or Turquoise,
PADLOCK BRACELET, £3 ss.
loot. Gold, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold RING,
Pearls and
or Sapphires' 12s 6d.
Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires, 255.
“W'
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold RING,
Pure Double-Cut
Diamonds and
Rubies or
Sapphires,
£7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Zealand Greenstone BAR BROOCH,
Gold Mounted, 12s 6d. A Neat Design.
A. SOUNDERS.
New Zealand Greenstone
HEART, Gold Mounted, 15s.
Smaller, Ss 6d, 10s Gd, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold
RIBBON BROOCH,
Set Pearls and Turquoise,
£2 10s.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Ilalf-IlocSp
RING, Diamonds
and Rubies or
Sapphires, 40s.
Very Effective.
A. SAUNDERS.
MOROCCO LEATHER PURSE, Extra Heavy Silv
Lock and Mounts, 15s.
Other Styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, Cs Gd, Bs. Gd, 10s 6d,
32s 6d, 17s Gd.
Gold Mounted, 30s, 355, 40s, £2.
YOU’LL
BE
SATISFIED
WHEN YOU COME
TO US TO BUY.
Our Enormous Stock
affords such an
Excellent Assortment
to choose from,
and the quality
of our goods
is such that you
have confidence
in them.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Five Diamond
Half-Hoop RING, £5.
Larger, £6 3.05,
£7 10s, £lO.
NICKEI,
15s.
NICKEL,
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gunmetal or Nickel Open Face Keyless WATCHES,
7s 6tl, 8s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s.
Our “Unrivalled,” 20s. London Level - , 255;
All Guaranteed.
OUR
CATALOGUE
will be sent FREE
for the asking.
To the Country
Resident
we assure
satisfactory
Mail service.
It brings our
Large Stock
to your own home,
at City Prices.
All goods sent to
any address.
TRANSIT FREE.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Extra Heavy
HAND CLASP, 25s.
15et. Gold, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold
Half-Hoop RING,
Diamonds and Rubies,
or Sapphires, £3.
Larger Stones, £3 10s,
£4 10s, £5. £6 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Bird and
Heart CHARM, 7s (id.
15ct. Gold, Pearl Set,
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Floral Scroll BROOCH, Set Fine Pur
White Pearls, £3 ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Pearl Set Bird and Spray
Scroll BROOCH, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Cloth or Hat
Long White Bristles, 5s
Other Styles, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s
brush,
6d.
6d, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold
BREAST PIN,
Pure White Pearls,
20s.
H M
mmmm
,
mm
iuuiii*®'*''
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s POCKET BOOK, Crocodile Leather,
lure Silver Mounts and Lock, 20s.
Other Styles, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d,
15s. 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Mounted
Bloodstone Seal
PENDANT. 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel SHAVING SET,
on Wooden Base, 10s 6d.
Other Styles, 6s 6d, 8s 6d,
10s, 14s 6d, 21s, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver TIE CLIP,
2s 6d. Chased, 3s 6d.
Solid Gold, 12s 6d. ( based, 15s.
lV'<3
°
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Two Bar BROOCH,
Opal and Pure Double-Cut
Diamonds, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
“Dinna Forget”
Friendship
CHARM, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Doe Skin TOBACCO POUCH,
Pure Silver Shield,
Best Rubber Lining, 7s 6d.
Other Styles, 3s 6d, 4s 6d, 5s 6d,
7s 6d, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Star
BREAST PIN,
Pure White
Pearls, Diamond
Centre, SOs.
LADY’S,
15s.
LADY’S,
20 s.
I
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Black Open Face Keyless
WATCHES, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s,
20s, 255, 30s, £2.
Our “Nurse’s” Watch, 255.
Specially Recommended.
A. SAUNDERS.
9pt._ Gold Amethyst
or Garnet; 255.
loot. Gold, £2 ss.
18et. Gold, £2 JOs.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Heart
and Dumbbell LINKS
12s 6d.
i 1 *
' j
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s TRAVELLING ROLL, fitted with every
convenience, 15s. Gent.’s, 17s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 20s, 21s, 255,
30s, 355, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold
SIGNET RING, 20s.
15ct. Gold,. £2.
18ct. Gold, £2 10a.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Opal Set
LINKS, 355.
15et. Gold, £2 10s.
SILVER,
£2.
GOLD,
£3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s High Grade Solid Silver
Keyless WATCHES, 255, 30s, £2, £2 10s.
Solid Gold, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4,
£4 4s, £4 10s, £5 10s, £6 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold PIN
and Greenstone
Heart, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver HAIR BRUSH,
Extra Long White Bristles, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s.
A. .gAUNDERS.
Gold Photo. .Heart
LOCKET, 15 s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid" Silver MANICURE SET,
comprising'Five Pieces; 255.
Other Styles, 7s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s Gd, 15s, 20s.
SOLID
SILVER.
£2/10.
GOLD
CASED,
£4/4.
• . :
n
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Silver Hunting Keyless WATCHES,
£2. £2 10s, £3, £4, £5, £6, £7.
Gold Filled, £3 3s, £4 4s, £5 ss, £6 10s.
Solid Gold, £7 105,.. £8 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, to £4O.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold BRACELET, Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphire, £3 15s. 15ct. Gold, £5 ss.
All Diamonds, £7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Crocodile Leather
CIGARETTE CASE,
Pure Silver Mounts, 20s.
Others, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Pearl
and Turquoise Set
PENDANT. 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold PIN CHAIN and
CHARM. 5s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS,
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER.
SILVERSMITH, .AND OPTICIAN,
809, 811, 813, 815, 817 GEORGE-ST
Opposite Railway Station, SYDNEY.


Women of ™e Highest Type
Take
D'Morses oqOT
pills
vz.
m
A/A
I
I
I
I
I
A
s
1
m
m
i
i
“IF
I
V/.
A
I
/
Jf
f
v"
%
i
I
l/'N
1
i
I
m.
I
I
X
I
i
I
1
%
#
m
'm
i
I
i
#
/in
i
I
m
w.
\Ss\M
7 <7A
w.
'"//
m
jg?
*
M">
W/t
W,
!//"A
//*
30
w,
7/2
r
1
/.«
5£
~," //T/////y
‘V,.*
%
Sr
Sr
%
\0
y
m
-.A
>v
i
7/V
1
w
■*% -Ml] X #N%V
?& 3.
JG
2
%
3
«!
STrS
3\
i
£
%
&
*K
VVs
?H
/fill
r
i
i
X
n
OMEN OF THE HIGHEST TYPE, women of superior education and refinement whose sane discernment and good judgment give weight and
force to their opinions, highly eulogise the wonderful corrective and curative properties of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. Throughout
the many stages of Woman’s Life, from peevish girlhood, through the ordeals of Motherhood to the declining years, there is no safer or more
reliable Remedy.
Years ago, Pills were the medicine of the poor only. To-day the efficacy of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills to overcome the common ailments of
mankind, and to restore Health and Happiness to sick and ailing women, has convinced not only the working section of the population, but the wives and
daughters of the more wealthy, professional, and independent classes that
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
Are WOMAN’S BEST FRIEND, and are absolutely INDISPENSABLE TO EVERY LADY’S BOUDOIR.


‘
■ . $?" ■ .
IB£
.*j
■As.&c'}
im*
’... \
-1 i*§3f
&>€* ;f
■'«TOMW' . . rfrLj/i
. :
>4. S : ./r, :
: / ,3l /;;• 1 lisliilii:, S' £££
•>‘
m
mm^
1£ IS -
■
\ * v *'£
m
■
&£'?E
feSl
■ . ;••
'
■ - - "'
■sgms
as?
'
Good Book and a
of ‘HAVELOCK*
to soothe the Tired Brain.


TO THE COUNTRY HOME FROM
THE CITY STORE.
:
8 liii •
, >
.
* ~i 1
■
■
mMm
m
4a‘‘
; v, .4
i \
*
tiiSsii
Owr Goods reach you anywhere carriage paid.
A PENNY STAMP
Is all it costs you to
shop with us, and it
is an additional ad-
vantage just now for
our, ..
SUMMER
SALE ...
is on with bargains
in all Departments.
Write for our SALE
CATALOGUES, they
are illustrated and
faithfully represent
the Bargains we
have to offer.
HOW to SHOP BY POST WITH US.
Per the medium of our numerous Catalogues which represent our stocK
you can order from your own hearth witK as mucH ease and certainty
as the town buyer.
We Deliver Goods Carriag'e Paid
excepting
Furniture and
Floor Covering
to any P.O. in
the Common-
wealth.
Our Mail
Order
Room
where your
order is
despatched.
The present is an excellent
occasion to try this means
of shopping as you get all
the benefit of Sale Prices.
Hundreds of our Customers
do it and And it satisfadory.
We Sell only
Reliable Goods
and our Prices are
Competitive.
rs
rj
t a
We clothe everybody at Sydney Prices.
David Jones Co.
SYDNEY
OPPOSITE
G.P.0.,
* -V
XJI


’to/x.S i jt l
ft
V
, i A .V'v-gje.*
/I
NO PRESET
aa
»V
SvV
I
v.
mm-
-mw*
'/
mm*
Ssft
I
i!»A >Sg
1
Q
’y i k |.» A* t*fcY7v?SH£?>*J«
(W
\ x
S V
■to befiii»e:i;t|*
#» <S
***m.t&Miiem
\i
*K2
tVvkJ
MB
jsxw
***££o
£2
“V '■_' '•; .7 A t'.’.T** 7cw?!KPp»trJTViy Ti -n
iWM
•*'
k>?
i2N
/ rtS
5
/
?SSB
>&> c
DYason, Son tasP m elbow
MANUFACTUR
V.
V; >
i
rt
6
if
•e»
_ >
/
worn
mmm
m
vv*?
v?;
'iiMi
Ki
Pi
5*./;
L
w-
s v^V/
2
be kept irv every home’’


Queensland’s experiences under Local
Government offer many warnings to N.S.W.,
wmeh is just now preparing to cut its teeth under
the shire council system. “Don’t borrow,” is the
wail that comes across the border from all direc-
tions. Many Queensland shires are so deeply in
1? • ? or un P r< Huctive works that it takes half
their income to satisfy the man whose nose casts
a shadow over the land. In the boom times, when
the Parliamentary boodlers borrowed and spent
magnificently, shire councils followed suit, and the
dead horse that they acquired in those times was
larger than an ordinary elephant. They built
town halls galore, made and repaired roads out of
loans, paid heavy salaries also out of loans.
Then the slump came, and it was like the shearer
being told by the wayback publican that his
cheque was finished. Another warning is : “Col-
lect your rates every year.” Every shire in Queens-
land has hundreds of pounds owing, mostly
irrecoverable. The main reason is that the
land is not now worth the amount it nominally
owes in rates. Part of the arrears could be col-
lected, of course, but the shire councils lack the
energy. The slothful Ways which they acquired
ill the boom days still stick to them.
The houses of Australia’s “old nobility”
have sadly come down. Most of them have been
reduced to the status of charitable homes or hash
houses. Ormonde House, Paddington, originally
known as Juniper Hall, built over three quarters
of a century ago by Robert Cooper, distiller, is
now the headquarters of the Boarding-Out De-
partment and the Children’s Court. Cleveland
House was for a time the headquarters of the Un-
employed Bureau people and Joey Creer. Lynd-
hurst Hall, Glebe, the home of Dr. Bowman, who
married a daughter of John MacArthur, became
a lying-in-home and a branch of the Salv’army
Rescue Department. Barham, Darlinghurst, E.
Deas-Thomson’s house, is now a church some-
thing. Craigend, Darlinghurst, once the home of
Thomas Mitchell, is a private hospital. Ultimo
House is still in the Harris family, but the broad
acres are built upon. Moorecliff, Miller’s Point, is
the Eye Hospital. Capt. Christie’s house at Pyr-
montis theofficeof theßailwavGoods Department.
Toxteth Park, Glebe, and Eiswick, Leichhardt—
the former George Allen’s, the latter James Nor-
ton’s property-—arenowß.C. charities. Strathmore
House and Avon House, Glebe Point, the mansions
of G. W. Allen and Macafee respectively, are C.
of E. charities; and the list can be extended.
Two or three old mansions are still tenanted by
wealthy people, but not the original owners or
their descendants. Goderich, Bayswater-road,
Sheriff McQuoid’s house was afterwards occupied
by Bishop Broughton, “Bishop of Australia.”
Waratab, next door, at one time Edwin Tooth’s
home, is still in private hands, but hemmed in
with bricks and mortar; and Simeon Lord’s
residence, a massive pile in Macquarie Place,
now a nest of offices, is about to give way to a new
building for the Bank of New South Wales.
Many things point to the truth of the
rumor about the intended abandonment of the
West Indies by Britain. Is it a case of drawing
in forces and concentrating strength for what
may be a final struggle ?
“ Smith " (or else Jones) writes :
It’s wonderful how a girl loses her modesty at the sea.
side. The blushing maid, who would hesitate about allow-
ing her own mother to view her ankle at home, displays
considerable lengths of open-work stockings when the sea
air gets in her nostrils. To see a really modest miss
paddling up Middle Harbor is a revelation.
ARE
YOU
A THINKER?
Brain wears away day by
day in just the proportion
that it is used, but will
become stronger and keened
than before if daily rebuilt by
proper food —the true way !
GRAPE-NUTS
the scientific food, contains the
brain-building elements in just
the right proportion, and 10
days’ trial will show any brain-
weary, nervous person the
lioad to Wellville.
It’s worth while!
There’s a reason.
[3.
AUSTRALIAN MORTGAGE, LAND
AND FINANCE COMPANY, Ltd
Head Office: 13 Leadenhall Street, London, E.C.
Colonial Offices : Melbourne Sydney, and Geelong.
MELBOURNE—IO3-105 William Street.
Board of Advice—ALßEßT AUSTIN. Esq.,
WILLIAM LEONARD, Esq.
J. J. FALCONER, Manager for Australia.
SYDNEY—4 Bligh Street.
Board of Advice— Hon. H. C. HANGAR, M.L.G.
JAMES KIDD, Manager.
WOOL AND PRODUCE DEPARTMENTS.
MELBOURNE—Australasian Wool Stores, Collins Street West. F. J. SKIPPER, Wool and Produce Manager.
SYDNEY—4 Bligh Street. Stores : Pyrmont. B. B. ALLEN, Wool and Produce Manager.
Wool, Grain, and Produce Sales held throughout the year.
The Company makes advances on Grazing Properties, acts generally as pastoral banker and agent, and
undertakes the supervision of Sheep Stations for Trustees, Absentees, and others.
Liberal Advances granted on the ensuing clip of Wool and on Produce consigned for sale in Melbourne or
Sydney, or for shipment to London.
CLOSER SETTLEMENT.
WHeat s? WHeat v? WHeat
The Best Wheat Land in IM.S.W.
IN AREAS TO SUIT
ALL BUYERS.
Can be sold at Prices no Wheat Farmer can afford to miss.
The Land Is cheap now, but district progressing rapidly.
THE ...
FAMOUS
“MIMOSA” ESTATE
CLOSE TO FOUR RAILWAY STATIONS.
42,720 Acres Torres r«/e 42,720 Acres
FOR SUBDIVISIONAL SALE AT TEMORA, N.S.W.,on
Wednesday, February 28, 1906,
AT 11 A.M.,
Id FREEHOLD BLOCKS, 320 to 1000 ACRES, and HOMESTEAD BLOCK, comprising larger Area.
This grand Estate, which has long been'spoken of as one of the most suitable in N.S.W. to support a Farming
Community, is at last available for Settlement.
The Eastern Boundary is 9 miles from Temora Railway Station ; Northern, 10 miles from Beaconsfleld Railway
Station, on Temora-Barellan Railway ; South-Eastern, 10 miles from Marrar Railway Station, Junee-Narraudera
Railway ; South-Western, 10 miles from Coolamon Railway Station, on same line. All good roads.
The COUNTRY is flat, or slightly undulating, lightly timbered with Box and Pine, RINGBARKED AND DEAD
FOR MANY YEARS, with numerous Currajong Trees left for shade. The soil is a strong red loam, very responsive
to rain, and the moisture is conserved by a rich clay subsoil. All first-class Wheat Land.
The ample WATER SUPPLY consists of numerous large Tanks, and the Subdivisions have been made to distri-
bute the supplv as fairly as possible. Splendid catchments everywhere.
Land-seekers are invited to send for full particulars and lithos., which will be immediately sent on application.
They will be met at Temora and shown over the Estate. A thorough inspection courted.
SPECIAL FEATURES OF THIS SUBDIVISION ARE
The TEMORA DISTRICT is destined to be one of the principal granaries of N.S.W., and has a great future.
The Land for sale has been officially reported on as “ Eminently suitable for closer settlement.”
There are no residential conditions or other irksome restrictions, and no inquisitorial formalities.
The responsive nature of the soil makes the average annual rainfall— about 19 inches—ample to ensure successful
*Very lightly timbered, and having been dead so long is inexpensive to clear. It is estimated that the whole area
could be made ready for the plough at an average of 6s. per acre.
Purchasers will be able to put in crops this season, thereby getting a return for the first year. A large lightly
timbered area can be put under crop without clearing straight away, and the clearing done gradually.
The immense advantage to agriculturists of the timber having been dead so long can hardly be over-estiinated.
Prosperous settlers all around, few of whom started with anything like the advantages now offered.
PITT, SON, and BADGERY, Limited, Sydney,
have been instructed by Messrs. BUCKNELL and MARSDEN to conduct at TEMORA by Public Auction the above
very important SUBDIVISIONAL SALE. : . .
The Auctioneers urge all people seeking Land for farming to avail of the opportunity, as it is surely the best
available for agriculture.
It is the particular wish of the Vendors that the property is to be in no way over-described, so that distant
buyers can inspect with every confidence.
Do not fail to send for full particulars and lithos., which will be freely sent on application.
TERMS One-fourth Cash. The whole of the Balance may remain for three years at 5 per cent., when arrange-
ments for further terms can be made if required.
Solicitors for the Estate, Messrs. BUCKNELL and MORIARTY, Yass.
BEAUTIFUL WOMEN.
MDLLE. RUBINSTEIN, who is respon-
sible for the introduction to Australia
of the Valaze preparations, and has
just returned from an extended trip to
Europe, is on her way to New Zea-
land, and has broken her journey at Sydney for
a short period, and may now be consulted daily
at Washington H. Soul’s, 160 Pitt-street. The
ladies of Sydney are advised to take full advan-
tage of Mdlle. Rubinstein’s short visit to inter-
view her on complexion matters. As a result of
her trip to Europe, she brings with her some
wonderful new Beauty-giving preparations
secured by her in the Beauty Institutes of
the Continent.
Although Miss Rubinstein’s faith in Valaze
was unshaken, she was determined during her
visit to study, with an unprejudiced mind, all
the well-known systems and preparations in
use on the Continent, with the intention of
placing before her clients in Australia any that
proved to be better than Valaze. Miss Rubin-
stein’s faith in Yalaze was justified, for after
careful and indefatigable inquiry she came to
the conclusion—satisfactory to herself and to
her clientele here —that Valaze is the plea-
santest, the safest, the quickest, and the most
reliable skin preparation on the world’s market.
The effect of the use of Valaze is certainly
magical. Wrinkles,.Freckles, Tan, Sallowness,
Blackheads, Sunburn, Chafing, the ravages of
Time, Illness, or Weather, every Blemish, Dis-
figurement, or Imperfection imaginable disap-
pears under its spell immediately. The face
then becomes fair and radiant as a little child’s.
After regular applications, the skin assumes the
soft, dainty glow of perfect health and beauty,
and an enviable, brilliant complexion is secure.
Another good point about Valaze is that it is
absolutely non-hair producing. It is simply a
pure herbal food, which builds up the tissues
and nourishes the delicate pores of the skin,
preserving the youthful freshness indefinitely.
In fact, by its use one can defy Time in a great
measure.
Miss Rubinstein, on her recent trip, visited
Dr. Lykuski, the famous discoverer of Valaze,
in his home on the Carpathian Mountains, on
the slopes of which the little herb grows that
possesses the marvellous properties in nourish-
ing, cleansing, and making the skin beautiful.
No man living holds such a potent secret —the
secret of perpetual Beauty—in the hollow of his
hand ; no laboratory has ever seen an equally
wonderful discovery ; no similar boon has ever
been brought —ever will be brought—to the pro-
duction and perpetuation of Beauty in Woman-
hood than this marvellous Russian Skin Food —
Valaze.
This great discovery of the famous Dr.
Lykuski’s might have remained absolutely un-
known to the women this end of the world had
it not been for the enterprise of Mdlle. Rubin-
stein, a countrywoman of the famous Doctor,
who has brought it to the daughters of this Fair
Southern land. The debt of gratitude the users
of this marvellous Skin-food feel they owe to
Mdlle. Rubinstein is expressed in thousands of
letters telling eloquently and gratefully of its
Skin-transforming powers. The writers of these
unsolicited testimonials can, hardly find words
extravagant enough to express their astonish-
ment and delight at its Beauty-giving virtues.
Miss Rubinstein had another purpose in
going to Europe—to make a special study of
the skin and its treatment under the very best
skin specialists. She not only saw the leading
skin doctors established at headquarters, but
entered into negotiations for tuition and the
learning of everything that could be taught to
an expert. She not only studied, but had two
young Viennese ladies initiated into the various
branches of Massage as practised in the most
famous laboratories. The three boast certificates
proving the value of the close study with emi-
nent professors.
The result of Miss Rubinstein’s world-wide
investigations is the establishment of the Beauty
Institute at 274 Collins-street, Melbourne, where
a suite of five rooms are fitted up on the most
up-to-date Continental plan. The reception
rooms are charmingly artistic and beautifully
decorated ; the Massage Department is replete
with almost every rectifier that could possibly be
employed in the improvement or remedying of
the female face and figure. There are a wonderful
variety of instruments of ingenious contrivance
employed for the treatment of Wrinkles, Double
Chins, Superfluous Hair, Warts, and all other
blemishes. Besides, for the use of those who
are at too great a distance to visit the Institute,
simple and inexpensive Massage Rollers are
provided, which can be sent by post with full
instructions for home use.
For use after shaving, Valaze is delightful.
Thousands of gentlemen use it regularly. It
allays any irritation shaving may have caused,
and leaves the skin cool and sweet and soft.
The fact that many of the most eminent
physicians and surgeons use Valaze is proof of
its soothing after-shaving properties. It is
pure, and it induces purity. Gees straight to
the spot, and works its way into the tiny pores
of the most sensitive, delicate skin. It is one
of the things that makes the morning shave a
pleasant matter. And when the Valaze Herbal
Soap is used for the shaving itself, followed by
the application of the Valaze Skin Food, the
comfort-bringing combination is complete. Men
who are more than ordinarily particular about
their facial appearance use Valaze.
One of the best of many new preparations
secured by Miss Rubinstein in Europe is a mar-
vellous cure for Blackheads and Open Pores, a
facial blemish, unfortunately, from which many
Australians suffer. Those who are not troubled
in this respect will not be particularly inter-
ested, but those who suffer from this disfigure-
ment will be glad to know that its virtues are
positive and marvellous. This preparation,
compounded by the famous Dr. Lykuski, abso-
lutely removes Blackheads, effectively closes all
Open Pores, softens the skin, and assists in pre-
serving a beautiful complexion. Continual
daily treatment will effectively remove the worst
and most obstinate case. Miss Rubinstein
discovered this treatment during her visit to
Europe, where it is used by all the most eminent
medical authorities. It is also most effective
for keeping the hands in a beautiful soft condi-
tion. When used on the face it is only neces-
sary to take about half a small spoonful in the
palm of the hand, made into a lather with some
warm water and rubbed lightly all over the
face, as though washing with both hands. This
is one of the most marvellous beauty prepara-
tions secured by Miss Rubiiistein during her
recent trip abroad.
There is an admirably-written and fully-illus-
trated “Guide to Beauty” Booklet issued by
Mdlle. Rubinstein on the subject of skin care
and treatment, containing valuable and most
practical knowledge regarding the complexion.
It is published at threepence, but a copy will be
posted FREE to anyone mentioning this paper.
In the booklet one learns much that is new and
vastly interesting. Mdlle. Rubinstein is im-
mersed in the subject, and she writes with
authority on all matters concerning toilette care.
The greatest tribute to the virtue of Valaze
is abundantly set forth in the thousands of
letters Miss Rubinstein has received from ladies
in every station of life and in every corner of the
world. It would be absolutely impossible to
quote at length from a perfect mountain of eulo-
gistic letters—letters that come as genuine ex-
pressions of gratitude and appreciation, but
here are some :
Newcastle Hospital, Nov. 21, 1905.
To Helena Rubinstein. Dear Mdlle. —I shall be very
glad to receive the booklet and list of new goods. I
must take this opportunity to tell you that the Black-
head Cure is simply marvellous. I had them very
badly, and two applications made a wonderful differ-
ence. lam still using it. Yours truly,
FLORENCE McALLISTER, Matron.
Charlton, Victoria, Feb. 14, 1905.
Dear Miss Rubinstein.—Please send me another jar
of Valaze. My daughter has had a rash on her face
for years, and I cannot say how many doctors she has
seen. I heard of Valaze, and she has just used one
pot, and her face is quite clean. Yours truly,
M. E. WILSON.
Castlemaine, Victoria, Dec. 11,1905.
Mdlle. Rubinstein & Co. —Kindly send me one cake
of Herbal Soap. Postal Note enclosed. I find your
soap very good for the skin, and will always for the
future use it.—Yours sincerely,
R. E. DINSDALE.
40 Burnett-street, St. Kilda,
November Ist.
Dear Miss Rubinstein.—Will you allow me to say
how highly I approve of “Valaze” Skin Tonic and
Soap—the first is not only pleasant to use, but of
signal service in counteracting the trying effects of
the Australian climate ; it is, in fact, a perfect skin
food, giving new life, strength and beauty to the skin
tissues. The Herbal Soap is the very best I have ever
used, and is so durable as to be really economical. It
should certainly be used in conjunction with Valaze.
The Skin Lotion, which is antiseptic and tonic, is
most refreshing and invigorating. With every good
wish for your continued success.—Believe me, faith-
fully yours,
FRANCES E. SADLIER FORSTER,
Sec. Women’s Health Society.
Otago, Ngw Zealand,
January 2nd, 1905.
Mdlle. Rubinstein and Co.—Would you kindly send
me two large jars of your marvellous Valaze. The
small jar you sent me simply worked wonders. I
have tried other preparations of so-called skin foods,
but they are not to be compared with Valaze. —Yours
gratefully, MRS. E. FITZGERALD.
Drouin, Gippsland.
H. Rubinstein and Oo. —Dear Madam.—Kindly send
one small jar of Valaze by return. The result of the
first jar is far beyond my expectations, and I shall re-
commend it confidentially to all my friends. Trusting
you and Valaze may meet the goqd fortune you
deserve.-—Yours sincerely,
F. S. MURRAY.
“The Nest,” Leura, New South Wales.
To Mdlle. Rubinstein. —I am enclosing stamps for a
second jar of Valaze. I am pleased to say it has
alreadv made an improvement in my skin.—Yours
faithfully, MRS. CLEMENTS.
Outtrim Park, Outtrim,
December, 1904.
Miss Rubinstein. —Please send me another pot of
your Valaze, and also one cake of the Herbal Soap by
return. 1 have used several jars of Valaze, and it has
made a wonderful improvement in my skin.
DORA HART.
Singleton, New South Wales.
Dear Miss Rubinstein.—l do not think I could find
words to express my pleasure of Valaze as a skin food.
It has made a vast difference in my complexion, all
the dark blemishes entirely disappearing after a few
applications. Will .you at your earliest convenience
send me another jar ? Yours faithfully,
M. L. VINES.
—♦
LIST OF PRICES of
VALAZE PREPARATIONS.
Valaze Russian Herbal Skin Food, 3s. 6d.
and 6s. Posted to any part of Australasia,
6d. extra.
Valaze Herbal Soap, lasts six months, 2s.
Cake. Postage 2d.
Valaze Herbal Face Powder, contains no
lead, chalk, or bismuth, 2s. Postage 2d.
Dr. Lykuski’s Special Blackhead and Open
Pore Cure, guaranteed to cure the most
obstinate cases, 2s. Od. Box. Posted 3s.
Comtesse Potocka’s Voskpasta. to be used
with the Herbal Soaps, for filling out the
face, 3s. jar, postage 6d.
Comtesse Potocka’s Creme Promenade, for
use before concerts, outdoor entertainments,
&c., 3s. 6d. jar, postage 6d.
Massage Rollers, for use in the home—write
for prices and full directions.
From all Chemists throughout the Common-
wealth and New Zealand; Washington H.
Soul, 160 Pitt-street, Sydney; Civil Service,
Pitt-stret, Sydney; W. A. McGuffie, Queen-
street, Brisbane; or Mdlle. Rubenstein and Co.,
274 Collins-street, Melbourne.
A “ Guide to Beauty ” Booklet is sent FREE
if you mention The Bulletin.


The Japanese, we are constantly told,
don’t v, ;int to leave their own country ; yet they
swarm into the U.S. A. (to which country they
have the right of entry), and the whole Pacific
Coast is now threatened with Japanning. As for
Hawaii, it is Japanned already.
Shipping.
LUND’S BLUf ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
*Twin Screw. (Calling at Hobart.
And Regularly every Four Week thereafter.
LONDON .. ' .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll6.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Rent street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
1)1 William-street,
' Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
, Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
v—'Pfl IC—.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices • - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
The lion. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The I lon. 0. J. Roberts,- C.M.G., M.L.O
The Hon'. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
Resident Secretary .:. A; Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,920,230.
Policies issued 98,401 assuring £29,370,925
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,5.08,272.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses -eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
*l9 & 421 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,240 15 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 45,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock .. 3,116,021 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specialty protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors.— Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Cailan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.—W. Y. RALSTON.
Pe Bank of Rorth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager— Local Director —JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
CAPlTAL—Authorised ... .. .. £700,000
Paid-up .. £lOO,OOO
Uncalled . .. 250,000
Reserved Fund .. \ 20,000
(Invested in Government Stock) f £370,000
HE TRUSTEES. EXECUTORS
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £17,000 0 0
Directors: F. It. Godfrey, lisq., Chairman : It. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BOItItOW.MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
OCE AIN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, 1). Clyne ; Adelaide. W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane. A. Hamilton Hart ; Perth. A. W.
Farquiiar. J. J.ALLEN General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Zthe— ~
CITY MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
(Established 1879.)
Head Office— HUNTER & BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life Office
in Australia.
Agents Wanted. GEO. CROWLEY, Manager.
Saule of New South Wales .
Established 1.17.
Head Offiee-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital 2,000,000 0 o
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. .. 1,425,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
Total .. .. .. 5,425,000 0 0
Directors:
The Hon. Charles K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
The Hoh. Reginald James Black, M.L.O.
Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
Auditors :
Harrington Palmer, Esq. Frederick W. Uther, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea-
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through-
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the world.
J .RUSSELL FRENCH,
General ManaireP.
Business Announcements.
Shlpp'ng.
IST. ID. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Three-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
•Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Pour Weeks, via BRISBANE, NEW
BRITAIN and NEM&GUINEA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
*PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons.. 17th FEBRUARY.
*PRINZ SICISMUND, 3300 tons.. 17th MARCH.
•WILLEHAD, 4761 tons .. .. 14th APRIL.
•Twin gcrew Steamers.
\
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safely and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Exoellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOIIMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-styeet. Sydney.
m i /ph""
I’ll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand. ■
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOU! AGENTS.
The Result.
CRAIG &. AITKEN, N.S.W Barber’s Supply
House, 654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, (fee., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
MEDIC, to Sail on or about
23rd FEBRUARY,
AFRIC, SUE VIC, PERSIC,
and RUNIC to follow.
FAItICSi —Capetown .. .. £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 9
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables , and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dal {/eh/ and (Jompanti, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
i_. x nxr b,
QC B A.KTIC S.S. Co. A.. and. A.
NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS—EVERY THREE WEEKS.
R.M.S. VENTURA, 6200 TONS, SAILS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5.
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, SAN FRANCISCO, &e., &c.
FAST PASSENGER SERVICE to AMERICA. CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN,
EUROPE and ROUND THE WORLD.
PT* CHEAP THROUGH FARES TO ENGLAND.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
SOUTH SEA
ISLAND
CRUISES
Do you know what charming
trips can be made among the
Islands of the Western Pacific? Are you aware that
our steamers will carry you comfortably round the most
interesting of the Island Groups, with your home always on board, at an average
cost of about Ten Shillings a Day— that is less than your hotel expenses alone
would be on your usual holiday. May we have the pleasure of mailing you our
new illustrated descriptive matter ?
BURNS, PHILP & GO., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes
Security.
FAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
nxr.s.-w.
|l)ont de pete Co*»DW.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEE.EAGH ST., SYDNEY.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED. «
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £457,538 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 175,812 10 0
Reserve Fu>'D(lnvested in Government Stock) 65,000 0 0
£698,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the. World.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government -» .. .. 1,000,000
Preference Shares issued, to the Crown in
terms of Bank of New Zealand Act
(N.Z.), 1903 .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
total Capital
£2,000,000.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
NEXT SAILINGS—
February 19, March 19,
April 16.
The Magnificent New Turbine Steamer.
MAHENO,
SAILS, APRIL 16, 1906.
This vessel is fitted with Three Propellers
on the Turbine System, which ensures
a maximum of steadiness with an entire
absence of vibration. Her Splendid
Sweeping Decks provide more space for
Passengers than any other vessel trading
to Australia. Six circuits of the
Promenade Deck constitute one mile.
3S IT Send for Illustrated Pamphlets Furnished Free.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. V
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter),
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Sheet of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
FIRE HAS NO TERRORS!
CAPITAL, £1,900,000.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £500,000.
ANNUAL REVENUE, £300,000.
Fire has NO terrors that Fire
Insurance cannot quell.
Put the South British on guard!
™ e South British
FIRE and MARINE INSURANCE CO.,
GEO. jI. .JIOoUE, Manager.
GHAS. T. METCALFE, Assistant Manager.
12 Bridge St, Sydney .
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian!
Viotorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANOE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Innamiricka, Jan. 27.
S.S. Gran tala, February 3.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
.
S.S. Wollowra, February 3.
Ilest and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Mari times
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7s’
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
MANILA, ChFnA, JAPAN,
. . BY TUB . .
E. and A.” LINE.
’ Iv XX XI V V7l IUAU VVJ I AVVjtIM.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada
and the U.S. America.
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
also at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Hotels.
PETTY’S HOTEL,
SYDNEY
decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will be
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed.
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding- Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET
C. W. CUPIT, Manager.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
the (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con«
venient and Healthy Locality,
flodern Appointments. noderate Tariff.,
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every ooniror and convenience at—
MRS, TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
SI. KILDA.
’I'HF- Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies.. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower tharilioensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
W IMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trains. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or froni
2 Guineas per Week.
THE LAST OF SIX
Price 6d. Post Fbks.


Torrey and Alexander, the Yankee reli-
gious comedians who raided Australia a few years
ago, claim to have “converted” 95,000 persons
during their recently-ended season in Britain.
W. E. Geil, the other American who did a turn
with their show in Australia, has not been appear-
ing with them at the English halls. Geil bitterly
remarked a while back to an English religious
editor that his ex-associates were careful not to
mention the fact that he was largely concerned in
the numerous Australian conversions committed
by the troupe. Still, Geil need not have troubled.
Most of the converts have backslidden by this
time. Alexander, who seems to have done well
out of the British season, says, “ I told the Lord I
would trive the whole thing entirely into His
hands. I wanted Him -to choose my wife.
Mr. Alexander’s wisdom in this decision may
be judged when it is mentioned that his
choice was Miss Cadbury, a wealthy mem-
ber of the cocoa-manufacturing family. On
another occasion Alexander (so he says) prayed
strenuously to have his shabby duds replaced by
a new suit of clothes. Next day an acquaintance
came and offered him £4, inviting him to get a
suit with it. He went to a tailor’s, praying on the
way that “the Lord would help me to choose a
good suit of clothes and lead me to the right
pattern.” He found that a suit of the material
he picked would cost £8 instead of £4. A bit
more prayer transpired ; then the tailor mentioned
that a suit of that material had been left on his
hands, and if it fitted Alexander he could have it
at half-price. And it fitted. Probably the tailor
realised that Alexander would just fill a stock
size from the ready-made department. Some
religious papers actually gush over this sort of
thing as “a helpful anecdote regarding the value
of prayer ” !
DYSPEPSIA
CANNOT EXIST
where the stomach is entirely
relL /ed of its work of diges-
tion. When the stomach has
nothing to do but rest, it gets
<J)*sH£i- DONS
_ '/i
well and strong in a natural
way. The perfect dyspepsia
cure, therefore, is one that will
digest the food and permit
Nature to restore the stomach.
DR. SHELDON'S
DIGESTIVE TABULES
do just this thing. No matter
how much you eat or what
the condition of your stomach
is, your food is properly and
perfectly digested and your
stomach regains its strength
and gets sound and well.
SOLD EVERYWHERE 2/6 PER TIN.
WILLIAMS
SHAVING
STICK
■
mm
51
.. . ■■ . "..
.•* >
'
V-J
m
m
'WfM
Sit
MM
v -
What is your Face Worth?
Isn’t it worth too much to take any chances with Shaving Soap?
Isn’t it worth infinitely more than the small cost of Williams
Shaving Soap —to always have it smooth and fair and absolutely
safe from irritation and more serious troubles? .
Better ask yourself these questions before you experiment witn
other soaps.
Sold by Chemists , Hairdressers and Perfumers , all over the world, or mailed
to any address on receipt of price in stamps.
Williams’ Shaving Sticks, Is. Williams’ Luxury Tablets, Is.
Williams’ American Shaving Tablets, 6d.
(Trial Size) of Williams’ Shaving Stick, 2d. Trial Tablet Williams’
Shaving Soap for id. stamp by addressing
THE J. B. WILLIAMS CO.
65 Gt. Russell St., LONDON, W. C. 161 Clarence St., SYDNEY.
Head Office and Factories, Glastonbury, Conn., U. S. A.
mm mum
ft®
a
G/9
m
rfmtrrn
m
VE6ESALIS
| TABLE SALT
| WHICH JS SALT
= With Vegetable Virtues.
I DOES NOT BLACKEN SILVER.
Does not Cake.
= USE IT WHEN COOKING
E VEGETABLES instead of
E OBJECTIONABLE SODA.
Wholesale Agents-
E WEST AUSTRALIA— _ ■
WATSON BROS., Fremantle.
VICTORIA—
— ROBERT NELSON &. CO., Melbourne.
= NEW SOUTH WALES— -
=r W. H. ARIELL & CO,, Svdney.
QUEENSLAND- ' ..
J. J. VERNEY & Go., Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND—ELLIS & MANTON, Wellington.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA-dAMES ROBIN & CO„ Adelaide.
MELANCHOLIC MEN
AND
Weary Women
Will you allow yourselves to
remain in a miserable state
of Nervousness or Debility f
when a Cure is at hand ?
Mr. HOWARD FREEMAN,
Director.
THIS IS A SERIOUS MATTER.-All
who have lost will-power, either by con-
tinually committing themselves to habits of
dissipation or by neglecting the opportuni-
ties to amend, become unfitted for any of the
walks of life. Now 20,000 men and women
have overcome their feelings of reserve to
such an extent that they have openly
endorsed the methods of
DR. RICHARD WALLACE,
Physiclan=in-Chief.
The FREEMAN & WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL INSTITUTE.
They restore sufferers to a perfect, healthy state. This is not the confession of merely one person, but o f
TWICE TEN THOUSAND HEN TALKING TO YOU.
make careful investigation. .
The Freeman arid Wallace Electro-Medical Treatmant
, • , , VT » r vTP.nT!, and ENERGY to men and women who have wasted their strength and
energies Those who h2ve’wrecked their health MUST certainly suffer. Remember that, and be warned
in time. "
MEN. Registered chemists dispense his prescriptions. ..
ESS fess aa»
Institutes of Health and Healing.
FAILING- VIGOR.
When this begins to go, you
will twitch and show signs of
premature weakness. Fol-
lowing are some of the symp-
toms
Your facial nerves twitch,
You are all run down,
Spots before your eyes,
The muscles twitch,
Pains in small of back,
Pains in head,
Shooting pains,
You feel fatigued.
You are weary,
Your head swims,
Your knees knock,
Your hand trembles.
NERVOUS TWITCH-
ING.
A nervous person easily gets all
of a tremble, gets fits of weak-
ness, fits of twitching.
Here are some symptoms •
Your eyes twitch,
Your hands tremble.
You feel shaky,
You walk haltingly,
You are melancholy.
Kinging in the ears,
Blood is poor,
Your eyes weak,
Your eyes bleary,
Your head swims.
DEBILITY.
This affliction destroys ambition,
organic strength, energy, and
hope. Following are symp-
toms
You feel weak,
You feel eold,
Yow hack aches.
You lose flesh,
You sleep poorly,
Are low-spirited.
Your eyes sunken,
You have hot flushes,
Your memory impaired,
No rea.l vigor,
You have sick headaches,
Nausea after eating,
Hands or feet moist,
Brightness leaves the eye.
DO NOT DELAY.— Delavs are at all times dangerous. You would not throw away a
.void - neither would you discard a pearl of great, price; yet health is more to you than M y^“ ese -
What is the value of a million of money, doubled fourfold, to a millionaire, if his arteries are aneurised, r
his brain softenened beyond all hope of cure? The moral of thesefacts lies l n the proverbial truth Do
not delay. PROCRASTINATION IS THE PRECIPICE BELOW WHICH YAWNS THE AWFUL GUL*
0t NCE. —Every man know* it is dangerous to trifle You rnght aS
well stand at the mouth of a loaded cannon. While you have time, write to tne SPECIALISES at the
INSTITUTE; state your symptoms, act according to their “stations, and OFTESTL
self again Their record is a series of professional triumphs. THEY HAVE IHOUSAJNUS Ui* J-aaii
MONIALS TO PROVE THEIR UNEQUALLED SKILL.
SURE
We publish here two testimonials out of the
thousands which we possess. They are from
gentlemen whose'names are familiar in the commer-
cial and athletic spheres of Australia. They are
now strong and able-bodied men, happy in the con-
sciousness of renewed health and vitality
MR. PATRICK LARKIN, J.P., of Sydney, after a brief
course of our medical methods, writes regarding
our Electro-Medical Treatment
“I am satisfied it gives health and vigor to the
system. For some time my nerves were out of
tone, but now I am perfectly well, and have regained
my usual strength.”
MR. RALPH WELLS, of Melbourne, a Professional
Pugilist of very high order, and who recently
fought Jim Corbett, writes to us on October
Ist, 1904, thus
«it gives me pleasure to state I have oeen under
your methflds, being run down and suffering from
poorness of blood, with its complications. A buef
course of treatment at ypur hands has had most
satisfactory results and I am myself again. ’
FREE MEDICAL BOOK! !—During the Summer Season our great medical treatise, “Clinical
Experiences,” may be obtained FREE on application. It contains 600 bages, 150 jnedical illustrations,
and 31 chapters, replete with valuable information. The best Book for Men with Serious Ailments.
FACTS THAT DEFY ARGUMENT.
We are treating thousands of cases annually, and is it not reasonably to suppose that we under-
a ss&rs
when you place your case in our hands. Do not} despair. Order your treatment at once, and let us
add your name to our long list of cures.
If the slightest doubt exists in your mind that our treatment will not cure you, it is a duty you
oweyourself to write to some of the references we herein publish, and send an eiwelope
. Ask anv of the attendants who have given their testimonies to us if they think we can
advice by letter ,
The FREEMAN & WALLACE
Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute,
Cor. Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney and at Melbourne
DE RICHARD WALLACE, M.D., Physician-in-Cbief\
DR,'ELIZABETH WHITE, M.D;, Dept, of Women/
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director.


Baby’s Awful Suffering from Eczema
Could Not Hold Her —Tore Face
and ArmsAlmoct to Pieces —Grate-
ful Mother Says:
“CUTICURA REMEDIES
SAVED HER LIFE”
“When my little girl was six months
old, she had eczema. We had used cold
creams and all kinds of remedies, but
nothing did her any good; in fact, she
kept getting worse. I used to wrap her
hands up, and when I would dress her,
I had to put her on the table, for I could
not hold her. She would kick and
scream, and when she could, she would
tear her face and arms almost to pieces.
I used four boxes of Cuticura Ointment,
two cakes of Cuticura Soap, and gave her
the Cuticura Resolvent, and she was
cured, and I see no traces of the humour
left. I can truthfully say that they have
saved her life, and I should advise any
one suffering as she did, to give Cuticura
a fair trial. Mrs. G. A. Conrad, Lisbon,
N. H., Feb. 7, 1898.”
FIVE YEARS LATER
Mrs. Conrad Writes:
“It is with pleasure that I can inform
you that the cure has been permanent.
It is now six years since she was cured,
and there has been no return of the
disease since. I have advised a lot of
friends to use Cuticura in all diseases
of the skin.”
SLEEP FOR BABY
Instant relief and refreshing sleep for
skin-tortured babies, and rest for tired,
fretted mothers, in warm baths with Cuti-
cura Soap and gentle anointings with
Cuticura Ointment, the great skin cure.
This is the purest, sweetest, most'speedy,
permanent, and economical treatment for
torturing, disfiguring, itching, burning,
scaly, crusted, and pimply skin and scalp
humours, from infancy to age.
Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Pills are sold throughout the
■world. Depots: London, a 7 Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 5 Hue de
la Pair; Australia, R. Towns & Co , Svdncy. Potter Drug St
Chom. Corp., Boston, IT. S. A., Sole Props. °
tearSehd-for" Cuticura Skin Book." .Mailed Free ■
Sunlight
LAUNDRY SOAP *
makes
you
feel
good.
To feel good is
good. Sun-
light Soap
makes you feel
good) for Sun-
light Soap is
good and does
good work for
you.
30?
When you have proved the value of Sunlight Soap
you will be equally satisfied if you will try
Monkey Brand for scouring metal and woodwork.
UEtS.
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless oires.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
ence.
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for. Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing-. .
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Everything.
Australian Users now num-
bered by the hundreds.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH
Colonial Mutual Building,
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
NORMAN BROS.
58 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS*,
A.M.P. Building-, Perth.
' Of course you have System
in your office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER!
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Write for Catalogue.
FOHN SANDS, 374 George St«, Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent
mm
EBB
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the fame
diseases in 48
hours without
incon-
venience.
Bach Capsule hears the name t/r
FOR YOUR HEALTH AND WELL BEING.
0
Si
V
M
OF
' // Hi'
y
y
DY<J
DBO
KIDNEYS, UVER ANO BOWELS.
>
SBBB3A
£
32 SNOW Hill IONDOS l C
D
Sn
P <tf
The
One
Remedy
that
Cleanses
the
System
pleasantly
and
naturally.
Acts
Gently
on
Kidneys,
Liver
and
Bowels,
overcoming
Habitual
Constipation
NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE,
A delightful liquid laxative, and the only true remedy for habitual
constipation and the many ills resulting from a weak or sluggish
condition of the kidneys, liver, and bowels. Pleasant to the taste;
and prompt, gentle, and thorough in action.
THE CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO., 32 Snow Hill, London.
Australian Branch—7 Barrack Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE- POEMS of
Victor Daley
Australia’s Sweet Singer.
BULLETIN has a limited number of copies
*■* of “AT DAWN AND DUSK a collection
of Victor Daley’s most charming work. PRICE—
4s. 6d.; post free, ss.
EARLY APPLICATION NECESSARY.
HARDY’S
700 Prizes.
TINTARA
WINES. .
Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Ageriby Go.
Lid.
SYDNE Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SH UPSHIFTS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL
SKINS are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered
promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
“A truly delightful Thirst Quencher.” ■
The Lancet writes : —“Lime Juice is, particularly during the
summer, afar more wholesome drink than any form of alcohol.”
LIMEJUICE CORDIAL
“ Montserrat ” is obtained solely from the celebrated
Lime Juice Plantations in the Island of Montserrat.
To obtain the genuine, specify “ MONTSERRAT."
OF ALL STORES AND CHEMISTB.
One Woman.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hl/TISS BOWEN was thinking. Her
I usually pale, commonplace face was
flushed and stirred with unwonted feel-
ing. For the first time in her life she was shaken
out of the groove of habit. What had done it ?
Merely the idle chatter of two girls in the long,
green showroom of the fashionable emporium of
which she was manager. She had worked up to
her position by a quarter of a century’s hard
devotion of all her energies to the well-being of
the firm.
Often she had heard the chatter of people in
the showroom, but, strangely enough, it had
never really filtered into her being before. For
two days she had turned away, again and again,
a mad idea which had run like fire down her every
vein and nerve—and now in her quiet room after
dinner, when all the other boarders in the dis-
mally select boarding-house had betaken them-
selves to their various amusements, it had come
again.
How many years had she sat at this window
looking out on the world of the idle street ? An
impatience of time and space quite foreign to her
nature began to stir.
“Why not?” she said suddenly, and layback
in the chair.
Closing her eyes she allowed a still small voice
to speak plainly. “ Why not ?” it said. “Think
of the past lifetime of work—and what have you
had out of it? Years of drab monotony—just a
striving to gather together something to keep you
in your lonely old age.”
“Your lonely old age”—it said again as the
woman stirred uneasily. “How many friends
have you ? And relations none. A woman of no
account in the world at large. Oh ! I know you
cannot help it, but there it is. You never could
make people care for you. And you have a gray
past and a gray present—and the future is grav
likewise. Soon you will be a back number at the
emporium. Why not take your bank-balance
and roam till your last shilling is spent ? You
can go to sleep then. It will be only a little
earlier, and you will have had some pleasure for
your years.
Then the voice ceased suddenly, and a (Quiver-
ing silence filled the room. Miss Bowen was
weighing her life.
She stretched out her hand to the bank-book,
and her eyes rested on the sum-total. Her life
lay there in three figures—the savings of years
upon years. “ How long it takes to grow,” she
thought. How much could she possibly hope to
add to it before she became a- back number ?
She glanced in the mirror. Her brown hair
was already “ pepper-and-salt bah ! She
sprang up and looked at herself in the mirror
of the wardrobe door. Tall, spare, with no line
of grace about her whole body. And her face
Calmly she looked at herself ; scanned iierself
closely as she had never done nefore.
Fading blue eyes looked into fading eyes—color-
less features of no particular type—middle-aged,
and narrow.
The woman laughed—a curious little laugh—
and went to her table. Then she drew a chair up
and began to make page after page of calculations.
It was nearly midnight when she rose and with
deliberation locked away the bank-book and paper
of figures. And then into the fading eyes had
come a new light.
The emporium was thunderstruck when she
resigned at the week’s end. All sorts of rumors
flew about; but, true to life-long habit, she
said little about herself—simply that she was
going to travel, and should not be going into busi-
ness again.
Truly she must have had a fortune left her, they
all concluded, and envied her greatly.
Two weeks later Miss Bowen left Sydney and
began her pilgrimage of pleasure. As the boat
swung up the Indian Ocean she let the long, de-
licious roll of its waters soothe her and fill her
with fresh life. Long, dreamy days to lie watch-
ing the swell of the waters and the clouds in the
blue above. Strange how soon the sights and
sounds of her past life died out of remembrance.
She smiled more often now.
She stayed a few weeks in Ceylon, then moved
on to Egypt. Life now was a moving blaze of
color—she had sold the years of old age for this,
and they were worth selling at the price.
She laughed softly as she stood in the shadow
of the Sphinx. “Are you wiser than I?” she
said, looking at the face of old age which has
gazed on the sand so long. Slowly she moved on
into Italy and drank the rare vintage of Italian
life as one drinks choice wine.
She lived every minute—none who saw her
quiet, well-tailored grey figure moving in and out
of the crowded streets and squares could have
guessed of her enjoyment.
The beauty of little wayside towns, the color,
the light and shadow, everything was new to her,
and each day was a delight to go through with
lingering tenderness. Rome, Florence, Venice,
Milan—what did they all mean to her !
. Then she moved on to France, Belgium, Ger-
many, Holland—even to Denmark. Everywhere
full living, pulsing life. Once she entered the
doors of a huge emporium, but the old days of
bondage and four walls gripped at her heart, and
she almost ran from the place. She sat outside
the- little wayside inns and sipped her wine, break-
ing the .brown bread and smelling the sweet rosy
apples.
In days of old holy men walked to the Holy
Land—were saunterers. So Miss Bowen had
become a saunterer, and the whole world was holy
land to her. She was free—knew no lord ot
master.
• * • *
To a little Cornish town came a quiet lady in;
gray. She suffered with insomnia, so her landlady
said. The village had only just grown accustomed
to her, 4nd began to give . her hearty “good
morrows,” when she was found dead in her bed
one morning. An overdose of a sleeping draught.
Nothing was found in her baggage except odd
papers—and a purse with sufficient—but only
sufficient—to defray all expenses.
Miss Bowen was asleep again, and had escaped
old age.
D. S. GRAY.


/
N
/
4
u
n
k
m
1
The best thing that can be said about a Watch Is, “ It’s an
Honest Watch.” It tells you the correct time always—you
never find It mislead you. If you want just such a Watch we can
recommend for your perusal our 48-page Booklet of Honest
Watches, prices for which range from 14/6 to £7O. We will be
pleased to post a copy to any who will make the request. We
mention on this page half-a-dozen dependable Watches, any of
which we will send free and safe by post, together with our
written guarantee, on receipt of remittance. ORDER TO-DAY.
r
4/2 GEORGE ST SYDNEY
For the Average Man
we find onr special make of Waltham Lever Watch is par-
ticularly suited. The price is comfortably within his reach
while the Watch is neat and handsome in appearance.
The movement is jewelled, f-plate, with exposed winding
wheels, Brequet spring,
and compensation balance.
The winding is keyless,
and the cases are of the
Hunting style, made of
Hall-Marked Solid Silver.
We guarantee and sell this
Watch for
1
<D
A Three-Quarter Plate
English Lever Watch
is a favorite with many, the movement being so constructed
that the Watch is thinner than would be the case with a
full plate Watch. The balance wheel being situated below
the level of the plate, is specially protected from damage.
We offer a Gentleman’s Keyless Silver Hunting, Jewelled,
Brequet. Spring, Com-
pensation Balance, En-
glish Lever Watch, with
guarantee, for
i
A Special Dust
Protected Watch
and one that has met with general approval, is the “ Excel-
sior.” This is an old favorite of ours, but lately we have
completed important improvements, including the addition
of a full dust cap, which completely covers the works and
excludes all dust and damp. It is a man’s Watch, fully
iewelled, f-plate movement, Brequet Spring, Compensation
Balance and has full Hunting Solid Silver Cases. A.
splendid country
watch is the Excel-
s : or English Lever,
and we post it to-
MAKERS PRICED
ET
For the Woman who
takes note of time
and the one whose daily occupation demands that she have
the correct time always by her, we confidently advise the
purchase of one of our Keyless Silver Hunting, Solid Gold
Case jointed, Waltham‘Levers. They are splendid for
time-keeping, and were made especially to our order by the
Waltham Watch Coy. for sale in our eight Australasian
Stores. The movement
and winding work, etc., is
on the same system as the
men’s size. We will post
one free with guarantee
on receipt of
An Ideal Lady's Watch
is our 15 Jewel American Waltham Keyless Lever in its
18ot. Gold, Engraved, Hunting Cases. Manufactured to
suit the Australian climate, it has all the known improve-
ments. The movement is of polished nickel, and is fitted
with best Compensation Balance and Safety Hair Spring.
It is a High-Grade Watch in
every way, and will give
unequalled pleasure. Posted,
with full guarantee, for
Get a Gold Watch now
Don’t put it off until possession gives you no pleasure, buy
it now when you would really, find satisfaction and delight
in it. We* can supply a 14ct. Gold Filled (only you can tell
it is not Solid Gold through and through) Watch with a
guarantee by the Waltham Watch Co. that the case will
wear and look well for five anti twenty years. The move-
ment is a fine f-pl ite Keyless, Jewelled, and Brequet
Spring Waltham.
No man need be
without a Gold
Watch when we
offer this exception-
al one, with full
case and movement
guarantee, for
MELBA ACCORDEONS
Produce the
most . .
delightful
music.
They are
easily learnt
No know-
ledge of
music being
required to
become a
skilled
performer.
NEW 1906
MODELS
With 1,2, 3, or $ sets of reeds, six, eight or ten
fold double and triple Bellows with metal bound
corners, and all latc3t improvements.
Prices from 7/6 to 26/9.
Packed and delivered free to any Post Office or
Railway Station in Australasia.
Ask for our 1906 Illustrated Catalogue. We
will send it Post Free.
ALLAN & CO. Propy. Ltd.
276-278 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Ltd.
FINNEY, ISLES & CO.
POST FREE THROUGHOUT THE
COMMONWEALTH O U R
‘BIG BLOCK' Sac Coat and Trousers
Made to Measure.
In WHITE, BROWN, or KHARKI DRILL, and in
WHITE, BROWN, or DARK-GREY CRASH—
In ASSAM SILK, 37s 6d.
17/6
Send lor PATTERNS and SELF-MEASUREMENT FORMS.
THE BIG BLOCK,
EDWARD and
ADELAIDE STS.
BRISBANE.
And at MARYBOROUGH, Q.; MURWILLUMBAH, N.S.W.
and 27 Milton Street, LONDON, E.C.
WILL ANDRADE » BOOKS
AND
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition, Is ; post Is
3d. BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Marri-
age Guide by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition, hard covers, im-
proved. Magic Up-to-Date, ,ls. Hqrsr And Cattle
Doctor, 6d. Donelly’s Art l of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings. Is. Maria Monk, Is
6d. How to Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous
Dialogue Book, 6d each. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat Gould’s Novels, 6d each,
posted Bd. Devil in Sydney, Barmaids, Baidheads,
etc., Is. House Painting and Papering, 1/3. How
to Play Billiards, Is. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d.
The Cuckold, Is ; post, Is 3d. Britain for the
British, 6d. Freemasonry Exposed and Ex-
plained, 1905 edition, with key to all degrees, Is;
Cycle Building and Repairing, new -edition, 190
illustrations, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Train-
ing, Is. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Roccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the First
Night, 1/3. How to Write Signs, Tickets and
Posters, Is 3d. Staining. Varnishing and Polish-
ing Wood, Is 3d. Electric Bells, 1/3. Boot-
making and Repairing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise :
Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal
Gustave, Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
Piano Tuning and Repairing. Is 3d. How to Make
Love, Is. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card
Games, Is. Picture Frame Making, Is 3d.
Poultry Keeping, Is. Dream Book, Is. Every
Man His Own Builder, Is and Is 3d.
NOVELTIES.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, Real Photos, 200
Kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s.
ZINCARA GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS, LOVE, BUSI-
NESS, FUTURITY, &0., with full directions, Is ; posted 1/3.
v"
VS
%
YXi
Free Catalogues:
No. I—Plays, Reciters,
Make-up, etc.
No. 2— Conjuring Apparatus
and Books.
No. 3—French Novels in
English.
No. 4—Books for Presents.
No. s—Useful & Mechanical
Books.
No. 6—Books for the
Married.
No. 7 Advanced
Literature.
Confessions of a Melbourne Barmaid, illus., Is 3d.
Gay Life in Melbourne, illus., Is 3d. Hoffman’s
New Conjuring Entertainment, Is 3d. How to Bet
and Gamble, Is 2d. Kropotkin’s Fields, Factories
and Workshops, Is 3d. A Midnight Mystery, Is. A
Left-Handed Murder, Is. God and My Neighbor, 9d,
p. Is. Engineer's Practical Test: engines, boilers, gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6. How to Make Up, Illustrated
Guide to the Stage, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is.
Sandow, 3s. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 124 S pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Midwives’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is. Building Model
Boats, ls3d. New Tricks with Coins, ls. Phrenology,
Is. Blacksmith’s Work, 1/3. Lover’s Letter Writer,
Is. Photography, Is. Monster Song Books, 3d,
6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post: Age of
Reason, Is 3d. Ingersoll’s Works, 9d. Irish
Song Book, Is. Lightning Calculator, Is. Min-
STrel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is 2d.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
The most
training-, s
MANNING’S GREAT HORSE BOOK
complete work ever published. 1905 Edition. Fully Illustrated. Deals With breeding, breaking
heltering, buying, selling, telling age, racing, etc. Diseases— their hmv to know them and
how to cure them. Worth £lO for its information, but offered for 10/6.
508 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY
AND
201 BOURKE ST.,
MELBOURNE.
(OPPOSITE
VICTORIA MARKETS)
PHONOGRAPH
RECORDS.
COLUMBIA Gold-
Moulded Records
Are BEST for
All Phonographs.
Price 15/- per Dozen
Send for Latest Lists.
COLUMBIA DISC
RECORDS.
'7-inch, 10-inch, 12-inch, and 14-
inch sizes. Will fit all Disc
Talking Machines.
LISTS FREE.
m
COLUMBIA PHONOCRAPH
CO..
25 Ash Street, Sydney.
G Stratmann’s *
FINE...
CHOCOLATES and
5 W EETfI EAT S
124- to Lawson’s Auction Koonn
Made '®x tub
Premises
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List, with 100 Minia-
tures and 3 Cabinet Size Photos.,
55., P. 0.0. or Stamps.
8. RECKNAC EL HACHF, Munich, Brloffaoh, Germany.


The site of the English, Scottish, and
Australian Bank, Melbourne, has a certain his-
toric interest as being the spot upon which Dr.
Barry Cotter opened the first chemist’s shop south
of the Big Trickle. He came to Port Phillip from
Van Diemen’s Land about 1837. and an advertise-
ment in the Port Phillip Gazette of January,
1839, sets forth that “Dr. Barry Cotter is in
active business, and offers for sale at his surgery,
at the corner of Queen and Collins streets, sago,
turpentine, candied lemon, bluestone, corrosive
sublimate, &c.” The shop was built upon a half-
acre of land purchased by G. W. Umphelby for
£Ol, and after it disappeared the site was occu-
pied for some years by the Angel Inn, noted as
possessing the first billiard room in Melbourne.
“ J.F.D.” : I yvent into a gospel tent-in a
Sydney suburb recently, and heard a man speak
about God as if He were a personal acquaintance.
Ihe orator had a face like an old, disused sin, and
'ihe hair sprouted in clumps all over it. His
mouth opened as if the hinge were on one side, and
every time his jaw dropped his right ear got in
the gap and the words stumbled over it as they
climbed out. He said he had a sick child and the
doctor advised him to do certain things, but God
advised him to do the opposite. “The doctor
was in the bedroom,” he shrieked, “and I went
out and spoke with God in the back yard, and I
took God’s advice, and the child is well to-day.”
Then the crowd screamed “Hallelujah!” and
struck the earth with their kneecaps till the tent-
pole shook. I mentioned the matter to a policeman
outside, but he. looked towards Jupiter and
mumbled something about having no instructions.
885
Se&rft
TO
from ah
Qiwp
BRAS
etc-clc
wcliidirs
Sidnor€\RLOi)ANl
FIT
MSC
UNIVERSAL RECORPS
Of the World’s Greatest Artists, Bands and
Orchestras. lOin. and 7in. Records, will fit
any and every Disc Talking Machine.
ABSOLUTELY UNBREAKABLE.
NICOLEPNONES
TWO SPECIAL « The Colonial,
INSTRUMENTS The Hew Standard.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE FREE on application.
W. G. KING,
SOLE
AGELT.
316 George St.,
SYDNEY
SOME BOOKS
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “ PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the-notion of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, new 1904 edition,
2s 6d posted. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr, Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted. Marie
Corelli’s God’s Good Man, 2s 9d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. [Jp-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s How
to Train the Horse, Is 6d. Passion’s Paradise, Is 6d.
Stolen Sweets, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
lbs 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
ii» Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Qiiiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
ljs 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamf on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s (id.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Datf,, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Eas.v, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is.; post
.Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Cd.
Inquirer’s Oracle ; Wiiat to do and How to do it,
' 3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
, His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training,
Is. Elements of Social Science, 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection, 6s 6d. A Life of Pleasure, Is 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
pon’t be fooled into paying; more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. IST" Established 20 Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FRO/1 THIS ADVT
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Advice to Women, Is post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s (id. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is posted.
All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s Freemasonry,
Is 2d post. Vest Pocket Dicti6nary, 8d posted.
Toxology,' 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances, 2s.
IngersolUs Complete Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, &e., with
full directions, Is posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciirvasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s (id posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s 6d. The .Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d'posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. The
Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d pci. t. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood,
ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. French
Art Studies, 500 kinds, Is-3d dozen. New Tricks
with Coins, Is posted. A Modern Siren, Is 6d.
SIR
BEAR
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney
fcYHFAHT ¥EED\HG
n No Mother s'uoxAAbe W\\foo\& %
\ sex\t OX\ request.
#
V
/!prepress/re d/etary adapted to tde prow/tp d/pest/Ve powers
Milk Food N?I
//■Off) />//■//> /o 3 mont/s
Milk Food N? 2
from 3 to 6 mortAs
Malted Food N 93
from 6 moot As 00 words
Bridge & Loftus Sts., Sydney
NESTLE’S
SWISS
MILK
CHOCOLATE
SO GOOD
FOR
THE
CHILDREN
This
Trade
Mark
AERT
a
ON DON
on
every
Garment.
AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR
Shirts, Pyjamas, &c., &c.
Shirts made to measure from 5/6.
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
UNDERWEAR and other garments in stock and
made to measure, in Cottons, Lisles, Wools, Merinos
and Unions.
FABRICS BY THE YARD.
PAMPHLETS AND PRICE LISTS POST FREE.
__ Sole Agents in N.S.W.:
DA V/D BRA HAM & CO.
75 King Street, Sydney.
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
X Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OF SELF-CURE, Will
forward the same, free of charge, to any-
one interested.
Address: A.MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
To soothe
the Skin , 1
smarting under the heat o? a
burning sun. and to remove the
effects of perspiration,
CALVERT’S
Prickly=heat Soap
is specially adapted. Though indispensable
in eases of Priekly-heat (whence its name)
and other irritation of the skin, it is also
popular for general bath and toilet use, being
pure, antiseptic, and refreshing.
- Sold by all local Chemists and Stores,
in bars and tablets.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co.. Manchester.
England
sT w £
%
I
Superior
to
All Others.
Jl\e Xcrrjcet describes it as—
“ Mr. Benger’s admirable
preparation.”
Z>Jje British jtfedical Journal
says—
“ Benger’s Food has by its
excellence established *
reputation of its own.”
GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION. LONDON.
$
n
FOOD
For INFANTS,
INVALIDS
» nd * he AGED.
Bekqeb’s fooD is sold in Tics
by Chemists. &c. everywhere


A
Look for
jf the name X
'WOOD-MILNE
moulded on the face of your
rubber heels.
These splendid rubber neels re-
duce fatigue and jar in walk-
ing, prevent worn-down heels,
and make a pair of boots last
twice as long. Smart and
economical.
WOOD-MILNE SHOESHINES KEEP
BOOTS POLISHED FOR DAYS.
On sale at all Shoe and
Rubber Stores.
Sole Wholesale Agents for Australia—
D. and W. MURRAY, Ltd., Adelaide,
South Australia; Perth, Western Aus-
tralia; Kalgrorlie, Western Australia;
Melbourne,, Victoria; Launceston, Tas-
mania; Brisbane, Queensland; Towns-
ville, Queensland; Broken-hill, New
South Wales.
WOOD-
MIL/NE/
RUBBER
HEEU
DUNKLING’S
WATCHES
Are Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronograph .
*
H Hiipyrm
■CLBQIIME
Gunmetal Open Face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Minute Re-
corder, and all the newest improvements.
Guaranteed for 3 Years. Post Free to any
part of Australia.
Warranted equal to any £lO 10s.
Chronograph made.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Australian Depot for ZEISS and
GOERZ FIELD GLASSES.
W. DUNKLING,
315-317 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
LINOLO
GLEANS, SHINES, POLISHES
Linoleums, Wood Floors,
Furniture, Harness,
Boots and Shoes, &c.
THE FINEST AMERICAN POLISH
YET PRODUCED.
All Grocers, Ironmongers, &c.
Australasian Agents—
AMERICAN HYGIENIC AGENCY, Ltd., 177 Liver-
pool Street, Hyde Park, SYDNEY.
Sole Victorian Distributing Agents—
J. J. MADDEN & CO., 58 Queen St., MELBOURNE.
Bole Queensland Distributing Agent—
ALFRED MOON, 37 Adelaide St., BRISBANE.
FREE SAMPLES any State on application.
BOVRIL
Supplies Energy.
Bovril gives Strength to Resist
Disease and greatly aids
recovery from exhausting
illness.
Beautiful Home Decorations
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
“SAPOEiy” I'LOOU STAIUB stain and varnish with one operation.
Brilliant, rich, permanent limmlwoiml (colors produced on Floors, Borders,
Woodwork and Furniture where extreme durability is desired.
“SAPOEIW” AIiUmSfUM Et\AilKh gives unsightly Pipes. P,oilers,
or anything made of metal, wood, etc., a durable,untarnishable silver tluisli,
in or outdoors. Simply brush i t on.
JAPANESE ««I,D PAINT (Heady Mixed). Unequalled in lustre and
ease of application. Adheres to any surface. For all decoralive purposes,
economical and sal isfaetory. f
.For sale by all up-to-date dealers■ Avoid imitations.
Success Sully used is* this climate tor over 20 years.
GERSTENUORFER EROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of “OUR FAVORITE - ’ COED ENAMEL, ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” BATH
TUB ENAMEL, Etc.
8111 <1
|2SM@
J^StopTulol^..
oe Underwriters’ fire extinguisher
...COMBINING...
SIMPLICITY, QUICK ACTION, HANDY SIZE.
Highly Concentrated Extinguishing Power.
Long Distance Throw and Certainty of Action.
The most Efficient and Reliable Hand Fire Ex-
tinguisher ever produced.
Single Machine - S 3 10s.
Agent—P. A. HOWARD, 90 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Weak Men!
GIVE us a Man who is Nervous, whose Brain and
Body are Weak, who sleeps badly and awakes
more tired than when he goes to bed, who is
easily discouraged, and inclined to brood over imagin-
ary troubles, who has lost ambition and energy
to tackle hard problems, who lacks animal
Electricity, and in Three Months of our Treat-
ment we will reorganise his
entire system, build up where
he is broken down, invigor-
ate his circulation, and pump
his system full of New Life,
New Energy and New Vigor.
Dr. McLaughlin’s
Electric Belt
Will Cure, because it gives
back the Natural Element
that constitutes life. Elec-
tricity applied by our method
cannot fail. Every day new
testimonials prove that it
does not fail.
This Belt accomplishes
cures that read like miracles, and sufferers ;rom Rheumatism, Lumbago,
Sciatica, Weak Joints, Liver, Kidney, and Bladder Troubles, Indigestion,
Insomnia, Varicocele, Rupture, etc., wih surely obtain permanent relief.
¥ / -
Thousands
have been
and are
being cured
by this world-
famed Electric
Belt. It is the
only remedy for
Weak, Sickly
Men & Women.
READ THIS
Weak Back and Chest, Consumption, &c.
Greenlake Road,
ROCKHAMPTON, Q.
Dear Sirs, —As you are anxious to know about
my health, I now take the pleasure of writing
you a report. For five years I had been troubled
with a Weak Back and Chest, Dizziness and
Dullness in the Head, and I was also Con-
sumptive. After wearing your High-Grade Elec-
tric Belt for nine weeks I am now happy to state
that I am back to sound and perfect health
again. I don’t think this ; I know it for a fact.
In all parts where I was weak before I am now
strongly fortified, for which I have to thank your
Belt. I will be glad to recommend your treat-
ment to all whom I know, and you may make
any use you like of this letter.
Wishing you every success, I remain,
Yours very truly,
E. O. NITZE.
Our ELECTRO-PLASTIC TRUSS is a
Sure Cure for Rupture.
The McLaughlin Co.,
100 W. Market-st., Sydney
N.Z Office—s 4 Willis Street, Wellington.
W.A. Office—9o William Street, Perth.
William Charles Crawford
CUT OUT
THIS COUPON, FILL IN
NAME & ADDRESS AND
POST
IT TO
US
TO-DAY.
A GRAND HEALTH BOOK
FREE BOOK.
TTf E publish a Grand Illustra-
* * ted Book, showing how
we apply this wonderful
Life-Giver, in all sorts of com-
plaints. It shows how the
wonderful Electric Current is
carried to all parts of the body,
and how our Belt is as good
for women as for men. It also
gives photos and names of
hundreds of cured and grate-
ful patients. If you are ailing
send for it to-day. Do not
delay.
Please send me a Book
as described above.
Name.
Address.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
Posted Is. Id
Post Free.
RothwelTs!^
Only Address,
Edward St., Brisbane.
Manufacturers of Masonic
Rega-ia. Best Quality Blue
Apron and Case, £lls. [3.
BEST PRESENT FOR
THE BOYS!
rrHE New wizard Gy-rotary Top.
J- Spins in any position, upside-down,
sideways, on the pedestal, or runs along'
a wire. Complete with pedestal, string,
and full directions ; only 1/- carriage
paid. Send stamps of any State.
STAR NOVELTY C 0.,“
229-231 Oollins-st./ Melbourne.
«w® mbu2o tt
■o*
A
m
! Jit)*
•A v>
.A*
. VV <»'
5> \\ v
#
* &P
Himself Cured.
"pvEAR SIR,— I have been cured of Weakness and
U Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and
will be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers.
I do this entirely out of platitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURST,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOP-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers bow they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address —
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
SYDNEY.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
C.vi'.uutii is inflammation of
tin; lining membrane of the
nose ail') adjoining passages.
If this inllaminaiion is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the
sight and hearing, destroys
I lie sense of taste and smell,
renders the breath offensive,
breaks down the alfectcd tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
fileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge,passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? If so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia,Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
Brice,complete with 4 months’
treatment by mail, 10s.
Write for Booklet, free, or send order direct to
Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins-st., .Melbourne.
MEDICATOR.
FREE TRIAI !
NOT A PENNY DOWN
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved nigh grade ELECT KIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever InTented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back, Kid-
ney, Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all Weakness of Men and Women.
ttle will aloe Free
to each per-
— , _ son writing
to us one copy'uf our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
men and women. If you-are weak in any. way
delay no longer, but write to-day for our
splendid Book and Belt Frete. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co. t
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, Via
Please mention this pauer.
F THOUSANDS OF
RUPTURED
PEOPLE have been and are being
CURED
by Dr Langston’s perfect
Combined Treatment.
No Pain, Operation, or Detention from
Work. Immediate Relief, and Certain
Cure. Convincing Testimony and Refer-
ences from nearly every town in Australia
sent with my Valuable Book,
“RUPTURE, ITS HISTORY & CURE”
FREE TO ALL.
the LANGSTON INSTITUTE
l 12 9 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.


TATTERSALL’S
(George Adams,
CONSULTATIONS.
Hobart, Tasmania.)
NOW OPEN
HOBART CUP, Elwick, Hobart, February 7
NEWMARKET HANDICAP, Flemington, Vic., March 3
AUSTRALIAN CUP, Flemington, Vic., March 6
NEWCASTLE CUP, Newcastle, N.S.W., March 31
50,000 at 5 2 each.
100,000 at 10/4 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
50,000 at 5/2 each.
IMPORTAKTT NOTICE.
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d. on each
Ticket and 4d. oil eacli 10s. Ticket. Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to cany on the
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. . Parcels may be forwarded through any PARC tJk
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booicing Fee, 3cl. per Parcel.
DRUNKARDS
CURED SECRETLY.
I*",
EUCRASY.
Tuis harmless and
tasteless remedy is
given in Tea, Coffee,
Food, etc., to cure
Drunkards. Any
' wife, sister, daughter,
or mother can cure
) her loved one of this
fearful and degrading
habit by this new
simple remedy, as did
Mrs. Scott, who
writes : “Oh ! how
happy I am that my
husband has lost all
hi s appetite for
whisky; he now hates
the sight of it, and
refuses to drink, even
when others offer it
to him. Your remedy
is surely a blessing
for drunkards.”
Mrs. Scott’s word of gratitude is only one of hundreds
in possession of this company. Anyone who will send
their name and address to
THE EUCRASY COMPANY,
62 Hunter-street, Syd ney, will receive by mail, sealed, a
free book about this wonderful remedy, and full instruc-
tions how to cure the drink habit.
GOUT
IS OUR HERITAGE, AND WHAT
THE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
IS HOW TO CURE IT.
GOUT
PILL'S
Is the Great English Cure for GOUT, and all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified to it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Gout and
Rl. eumatic medicines.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
BO restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and Co., 229
Strand, London, and sold at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. per
box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
Hearne’s Bronchitis Core.
THCE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption, has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
And a Complete Cure is certain.
HEWA-RE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
BRONCHITIS AND PLEURISY.
A SEVERE CASE CURED BY TWO BOTTLES OF
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
AFTER OTHER TREATMENT HAD FAILED.
Mr. Hearne, Chemist, Geelong.
Dear Sir, —Some months ago, in Sydney, I suffered from
it severe attack of influenza, and was confined to my room
for about a week, at the end of which time, feeling some-
what better, I cot up and tried to transact my business
as usual, hut I got up too soon, for the very next day I
had a relapse, and suffered tortures from what the doctor
told me was pleurisy and bronchitis. The pain from the
former in my chest and shoulders was frightful, and for
four long weeks I was'confined to my bed, under the care
of a well-known Sydney doctor, and all the time his medi-
cine gave me but temporary relief. The landlady of the
hotel (the Cleveland) where I resided told me of a medi-
cine—Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure —from Victoria, which had
cured her of a bad attack of bronchitis and pains in the
chest, and begged of me to try ic. I did so, and, in thanks
and gratitude to you, tell you that, after the second bottle, 1
my cough had ceased ; but, what is more astonishing, the '
pains from pleurisy entirely left me, and, in about a week,:
I was able to attend to my duties as usual. —Yours faith-:
fully, J. BRAHAM,
Melbourne Punch Office, Melbourne, i
BRONCHITIS.
CHILD’S LIFE SAVED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE.
AFTER THE CASE HAD BEEN “ GIVEN UP.” !
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —We have to thank your bronchitis;
cure that we have one little boy spared to us, as we :
nearly lost him. After doctors had given him up, we,
saw the advertisement for your Bronchitis Cure, and
gave it a trial, with the result above mentioned.—Yours'
faithfully,
(Mrs.) E. GRANT,
c/0 Mr. Harvey, Baker,
Chiltern, Victoria.
QUEENSLAND TESTIMONY.
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable results, the child being quite
cured in three doses.—We are, faithfully yours,
THOMASON, CHATER and CO.,
69 Queen-street, Brisbane.
BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA.
A TWELVE YEARS’ CASE WITH DISTRESSING
COUGH.
CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS AND
ASTHMA CURE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send by post to Cop-
manhurst a complete course of your valuable medicine,
for obstinate asthma. The last medicine you sent to me
cured one man that bad a distressing' cough for twelve
years. Please find post-office order enclosed for pay-
ment. —Yours thankfully, WILLIAM CANHAM,
Upper Copmanhurst, via Grafton, N.S. W.
BRONCHITIS
A CAMBERWELL RESIDENT EXPRESSES
GRATITUDE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Ybur Bronchitis Cure has
relieved my wife of a cough which followed on an attack
of influenza. While I acknowledge that all good comes
from only one source, ordinary gratitude bids me to
offer my earnest thanks to you, through whom this parti-
cular blessing has come.—l remain, dear sir, yours very
truly, GEO. S. CALDWELL,
Camberwell, Victoria.
CHRONIC BRONCHITIS.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE THE MOST EFFEC-
TIVE REMEDY.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I have used a number of bottles
of your medicine for bronchitis, which was a chronic com-
plaint of mine, and I must say that of all the medicines I
have taken (including those from Drs.), none have proved
so effectual as your Bronchitis Cure. I have recommended
it to many others.—Yours faithfully,
THOS. OLIVER,
Proprietor of The Lilydai.k Express,
Lilydale, Victoria.
SEVERE COUGH.
COMPLETELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE AFTER OTHER TREATMENTS HAD FAILED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Having used your
Bronchitis Cure with very speedy and good results for
severe cough and cold on the chest, I am sending you
this testimonial to make any use of it you wish. I have
used many cough medicines and can unhesitatingly say
that yours gave me the quickest relief, and I have not
been troubled with the cough since. I have also given it
to my little boy, aged two years, with equally good
results, andnow recommend it to my friends. Wishing you
every success.—l am yours truly, J. ERSKINE,
ASTHMA.
TWO OBSTINATE CASES CURED BY HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA CURE.
AFTER OTHER TREATMENT HAD FAILED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —It is with much thank-
fulness I write to let you know that I have taken three
bottles of your Bronchitis and Asthma Cure. I had pre-
viously suffered terribly from asthma for about three
years, and had tried everything', and had advice, but
without avail. I had been for a fortnight at a time with-
out moving day or night put of my chair. If I Went to
bed I was not able to lie down. We came to New Zealand
about three years ago from Tasmania. One of my uncles
there suffered with asthma for a number of years till he
took your cure about five years ago, and has never had
the asthma since. I knew this, but it had passed out of
my mind until reading your advertisement in some Tas-
manian papers brought it to my memory. I told my
husband, and he got your cure for me, which I have taken
with completely satisfactory result.—Yours respectfully,
W. McCOMBE,
Mosgiel, New Zealand.
BRONCHITIS.
A SYDNEY GENTLEMAN IS SO SATISFIED WITH
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE THAT HE SENDS
A SUPPLY TO LONDON.
Mr. W. O. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I am in receipt of your
favor of the 27th instant, in which you acknowledge my
order for Bronchitis Cure to be sent to my parents in
London from your Liverpool Depot. I am sure their
annual bronchial attacks will be greatly relieved, if not
cured or prevented, by your valuable preparation. My
own experience, and that in connection with my two-
year-old son, has been pre-eminently satisfactory, and I
shall continue .to highly recommend it for both old and
young, and I offer you the use of this letter should you
deem it worth the using.—Yours truly,
HERBEET E. WHITE,
“ Holmsdale,” Bowral-street,
Kensington, Sydney, N.S.W.
ACUTE BRONCHITIS.
LIFE SAVED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure
in stating that I have derived great benefit from taking'
Hearne’s Bronchitis cure. Can confidently say it has
saved my life. I was a martyr to Acute Bronchitis before
taking it. I trust this letter will induce others to try
it,—Yours truly,
E. F. BROTHERTON,
223 Chapel-street, Prahran, Victoria.
A CHILD SEVEN MONTHS OLD—A SUFFERER
FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
as I cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now' she is three years old,
and has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid
medicine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.—l remain
yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE,
Violet Town, Victoria.
A SEVEN YEARS’ CASE.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I had suffered for upwards of
seven years, during which period I was scarcely ever free
from coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing
was so distressing that for nights in succession I had to
sit up. I write you this acknowledgment from a sense
of duty, as in my case every other treatment had failed.
For a year previous I had been getting very much worse,
and at the time I obtained your medicine I was confined
to bed, suffering from a most violent cough, expec-
torating blood and matter, and apparently beyond hope
of recovery. The first dose of the medicine gave me
welcome relief, and I steadily improved as I continued
the treatment, until I became as I am now, quite well—
Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.
BRONCHITIS.
A VERY OBSTINATE CASE.
CURED THROUGH PERSEVERING IN THE TREAT
MENT BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Having been a sufferer
from Bronchitis for a number of years, and not being able
to get relief from Doctors, I started taking your Bron-
chitis Cure about two years ago, and have been taking it
on and off ever since. lam happy to tell you that I now
feel thoroughly cured, and I can bear testimony to its
worth. —I am yours truly,
W. J. CLARKE,
Redbank, via Avoca, Victoria.
HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CUBE—“mail Size, 2s. 6d.; Large Size, 4s. 6d.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA
FORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
branch depot- . jj 0 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.


TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
C
SGRUBB’S cIoudy AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubh & Co. on each Bottle.
t
In the Good Old Times.
By “Youth.’
Did the Rood old times, which we so often hear the praises of from our elderly relatives and
friends, ever really exist? Perhaps the judgment of these enthusiasts is obscured by the glamour
always lent by distance. Perhaps, too, their pulses are so quickened by recollections of their early
youth, when the world was new to them and all things seemed good, that they forget all but the
roseate streaks, and omit to remember the shadows.
To us who read descriptions of the kind of life endured by people, not only in Australasia, but
in the old world, .fifty or seventy years ago, it seems incredible that anyone can call those times
“good ”so void were they of comforts which we now look upon as necessities. Fancy, for instance,
getting up on a cold morning and fumbling about with flint, steel and tinder before a lire could be
started. 1 Why, the very thought makes one’s spine creep! Of the use of steam people knew
but little, and electricity was merely a toy of the chemist. The useful applications of science
which are now so common that we take them for granted, were unknown. Medical and surgical
treatment, instead of being, as now, reduced to sciences, were then largely empirical. Even at
the present day such complaints as rheumatism, gout neuralgia, lumbago, sciatica, blood disorders,
anaemia, indigestion, biliousness, jaundice, sick headache, general debility, gravel, stone and bladder
troubles are occasionally treated as specific diseases instead of as disorders caused by the retention in the
system of uric acid and other urinary and biliary poisons which would have been dtdy removed from
the body by natural channels if the kidneys and liver had been acting actively and efficiently.
The kidneys of the average person filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine
every day. In this quantity of urine should be dissolved about an ounce of urea ten or twelve grains
in weight of uric acid, and other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly
an ounce. If the kidneys are working freely and healthily al this solid matter leaves the body
dissolved in the urine, but if, through weakness or disease, the kidneys are unable to do their work
properly a quantitv of these urinary substances remains in the blood and flows through the veins,
contaminating the" whole system. Then we suffer from some form of uric poisoning, such as
Rheumatism Gout. Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Persistent Headache, Neura gia, Gravel, Stone,
and Bladder Troubles. A simple test to make as to whether the kidneys are healthy is to place some
urine passed the first thing in the morning, m a covered glass, and let it stand until next morning.
If it is then cloudy, shows a sediment like brick-dust, is of an unnatural color, or has particles floating
about in it the kidneys are weak or diseased, and steps must immediately be taken to restore their
vio-or or Bri-ht’s Disease/Diabetes, or some of the many manifestations of uric poisoning will result.
° The Liver is an automatic chemical laboratory. In the liver various substances are actually made
from the blood. Two or three pounds of bile are thus made by the liver every day. The liver takes
sugar from the blood, converts it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to again supply it
to "the blood as the latter may require enrichment. Ihe liver changes uric acid, which is insoluble,
into urea which is completely soluble, and the liver also deals with the blood corpuscles vvhich have
lived their life and are useful no longer. When the liver is inactive or diseased we suffer from some
form of biliary poisoning, such as Indigestion, Biliousness, Anaemia, Jaundice, Hick Headache, General
Deb So t mGm d ate°s o l?re°lSfo r n between the work done by the kidneys and that done by the liver that
where there is any failure on the part of the kidneys the liver becomes affected in sympathy and vice
versa. It was the realisation of the importance of this close union of the labor of these vital organs
which resulted in the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as Warner s Safe
Cure Certain medical men. knowing what a boon it would be to humanity if some medicine could be
found which would act specifically on both the kidneys and liver, devoted themselves to an exhaustive
search for such a medium, and'their devotion was eventually rewarded by their success m com-
pounding a medicine which possesses the required quality in the fullest degree. W arner s Safe Cure
exhibits a marvellous healing action in all cases of functional or chronic disease of the kidneys and
liver and restoring them, as it is able to do, to health and activity, it of necessity cures all complaints
due to the retention m the system of urinary and biliary poisons. A vigorous action of the kidneys
and liver naturally eliminates the poisons, and troubles due to the presence of tne poisons cease.
Cures effected by'Warner’s Safe Cure are permanent, simply because they are natural. [ll
THE HAND THAT ROCKS THE CRADLE BUYS THE SOAP.
LET IT BE
WRIGHT’S COAL TAR SOAP
For it has THREE UNRIVALLED MERITS:
It is delightful in use. It is absolutely pure.
It protects from all infection.
6d. per Tabiet. ‘Box of 3 Tablets Is. 6d.
The Homecoming.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
OH, have you seen the sea-house?
Alone and very bare it stands
The farthest out along the sands,
A lonely house by day. By night
A lonely beacon light.
And have you heard the sea-house ?
When the salt sudden sea-wind wakes
Its every crazy timber shakes,
Its shrunken doors clap to. Above,
Its weathered shingles move.
The sands about the sea-house
Stir to the wind and whirling, lift,
And fall, and rise again, and drift
Up the worn flags, and thinly pour
Across the empty floor.
Beside the lonely sea-house
Three mighty timbers rearing high
Show blaick against the sunset sky ;
Ere night the cresset that they bear
Throws out its crimson flare.
And when upon the sea-house,
The darkness comes with sudden stride,
A whisper hisses from the tide,
The long waves leap and crash, and slow
Grinds the harsh undertow.
A little boat flew toward the land
At the dawning of the day ;
She thrust her nose in the shining sand—
She had come a weary way.
“ Oh, Mistress, give me milk and bread !
Mine eyes fall down for sleep,
Two nights, two days, have I been led
Across the trackless deep.
“Two nights and a day the land wind blew,
And I went I know not where ;
Last night fell calm. The moon was new.
The dawn-wind brought me here.”
She drew the settle to the hearth :
“ Thou’rt welcome here,” said she.
She gave him freely of her dearth ;
Her eyes were like the sea.
A day and night he slept and slept,
The morning saw him rise.
“ Mistress, why have you often wept ? ”
And he looked in her grey eyes.
‘ - 1 weep that lam all alone
And my husband on the sea;
When I hear the rising storm wind moan
Black fear gets hold of me.”
He dipt her round her lithesome waist,
“ Art all alone ? ” cried he,
“Grey eyes, grey eyes, grey eyes are best!
I’ll bide along with thee.”
All through a month of halcyon days
The sea wind scarcely blew,
The gannets dived ’mid flashing sprays,
And up and down their thousand ways
The gleaming seabirds flew.
Through summer nights all rose and pale
(But never a one was dark)
They saw the saffron sunset fail,
They watched, they two, the glimmering sail
On many a home-bound barque.
Above hung the cresset black and bare.
“ My Grey Eyes like the sea,
On such a night what need for a flare ? ”
“ Oh love, I need but thee ! ”
The sea-house door stood wide, stood wide,
As they went out and in ;
Their love rose high as a summer tide
(Can ever love be sin ?).
But when the midsummer month was past,
The month and a week as well,
Out of the south sighed a shuddering blast
And the sound of the deep sea swell.
“Nay, fear not, tho’ the tempest rise,
Nor fear the angry sea.
Come to my arms, my own Grey Eyes,
No storm shall reach to thee.”
He has piled the logs on the chill hearth place,
They flicker and redden and glow,
Bolt and bar drop home apace,
The wild winds come and go.
He draws her close to his side at last,
Beside the red hearthstone,
The long flames leap and roar to the blast,
“ Now Love, thou’rt all mine own.
“ Under the lift of the summer blue
I loved thee a many ways,
But now we are nearer yet, we two,
Beside the good red blaze.
“Why dost thou tremble upon my breast ?
Dear Heart, what dost thou hear ? ”
“ I hear'a step on the wind-swept flags,
And ever it draweth near.”
“ Why dost thou shift from thy lover’s side ?
Grey Eyes, what dost thou see ? ”
“My man all wet and drowned from the tide —
He draweth a-nigh to me ! ”
They have sprung apart or ever they knew,
And one sits down between—
They feel the chill of his hand, they two,
Though the hand is all unseen.
They hear the shriek of the baffled wind
By the barred —the bolted door ;
The lash of the driven rain is dinned
Through the breakers’ hiss and roar.
But they must list as best they can
To one small sound alone—
The drip, drip, drip of a drowned man
Beside the red hearthstone.
QUEENSLAND.
A.W.
A Curtain Raiser.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
a “ heavy old man ” of
the Morton Melodramatic Company, sat
at the door of his cheap restaurant gazing
at the poster of Annette Raymond, the beautiful
singer at the Opera House, on the wall opposite.
The pose of the head recalled memories. He
was lazily digging into his past for the woman
when Dalrymple rushed in, hesitated as he passed
Treveythan, and then pulled up a chair beside
him. Dalrymple was another “ heavy old man ”
in the same company, and a seedy, beer-worn
“ pro.” like Treveythan, but the process of strut-
ting out their arid and artificial existences had left
Treveythan’s face a monochrome in paralytic red,
and Dalrymple’s a nocturne in bilious yellow.
“Great news, Trev. !” said Dalrymple ex-
citedly. “ Listen to this ! But first, I suppose, I
must re-people the past for you. Twenty-five
years ago you and I visited this very town with
the Royal Dramatic Company touring the East,
India, and Australia. Cora Lynn dropped out
here. She was soon to become a mother.”
“Yes, yes, what of it?” said Treveythan im-
patiently, and the color on his cheeks faded.
“Go slow ! Let me fill the centre of the stage
for a brief act, old man.. I want you to be Greek
chorus, weeping with me and rejoicing with me.
Well, while we were playing in Melbourne, Cora
died here in childbirth. The child lived. I was
the father.”
Treveythan gripped his chair and a smothered
exclamation escaped him. His eyes keenly
searched his companion’s face to see if, perchance,
like the masks of the ancients, it laughed on one
side. It was solemnity itself.
“Fact!” Dalrymple declared. “I have a
packet of old letters from Cora to prove it. You
look amazed, man ! How well I must have acted
the secret tragedy Fate wrote for me those days !
I was the much-married husband of the star
actress to you all—nothing more. But now for
the news. Cora stayed here with a dresser at the
theatre, a small, black woman, with a heavy shade
on her lip—the kind of woman Time allows no
incognito—and I knew her as well to-day when I
met her in the street as I did 25 years ago. I
struck up a yarn with the old woman, and what
do you think she told me ? That Annette Ray-
mond is Cora’s child ! In the very town of our
parting we meet again.”
Treveythan said not a word ; but his evident
emotion elated Dalrymple.
“Yes, it is gospel,” he exulted. “Now, old
man, what do you think of it? You were one of
us those days, and I could not resist telling you at
once. How do I figure as Annette Raymond’s
father ? I was told the child died, I think, and
must dwell on that mistake to excuse my neglect.
Lord, what could I do for it in my position ?
Well, Annette shall hear from me. I expect
nothing, of course—but who knows? She is a
high-minded girl, by all accounts. Again, who
knows what may happen when I present myself
to her? lam off to re§,dy myself up for the
interview. Wish me luck, old man, wish me
luck.”
He sped away while he spoke, his yellow face
working with excitement. Treveythan still sat
gazing at the poster. He rooted no more in his
heart’s cemetery for the woman it resembled.
* * * *
Dalrymple called at Annette’s hotel with a
yearning look in his eyes which might have been
the stirring sense of fatherhood, or might have
been thirst, for his mirror had warned him that it
would be wise to lead a beerless life for an hour
before the interview. He gave his cleanest card
to the porter, and was presently ushered to Miss
Raymond’s suite of rooms.
“Mr. Dalrymple,” the porter announced.
Annette sat at the centre table of the long room
and close to a high screen. She was a daylight
beauty, and the blinds were high up, and the sun
rioted around her, and alluvial shafts dallied with
her golden hair. Dalrymple advanced and
handed her a faded packet of letters.
“Miss Raymond, will you read these letters?”
he said with husky stage emotion. “They have a
personal interest for you, and will explain my
presence here to-day.”
Annette examined the bundle curiously, scanned
a few of the letters, noted their dates and signa-
tures, and laid them down thoughtfully. “Am I
to understood, Mr. Dalrymple,” she said, slowly,
“ that these letters were written by my mother to
you ? ”
Dalrymple bowed.
“And to deduce from them that you are my
long-lost father ? ”
Dalrymple bowed again.
Annette burst into silvery laughter.
“ Come out from that screen, Mr. Treveythan ! ”
she said.
Treveythan came out from the screen, and the
two men glared at each other. The sunlight was
merciless to them both.
“ Mr. Treveythan called just half-an-hour be-
fore you,” said Annette, “and also to claim a
daughter. He, too, brought a faded packet of
letters from my mother to him, Marcus Trevey-
than, the father of her child. He was agitated
when you came, so I persuaded him to step be-
hind the screen. Well, gentlemen,” she continued
briskly, “I am delighted to meet you. But,
really, although singers are supposed to have pro-
digal tasts, I am not so extravagant as to want
two fathers.”
She touched a bell.
“Porter, these gentlemen leave together.”
MARY LLOYD.
On the Road.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I WAS travelling from Charleville to Ada-
vale, which provides an interim of 120 milet.
Beyond Glengary pub. I camped at a gilgbi
on a swampy flat. A few nights in such a camp
would give a man the horrors. There was a cease-
less hum of insects in the mulga and gidgee trees ;
curlews screamed wildly from the ridges, and
dingoes greeted one another in prolonged, in-
tonating howls. Frogs were jumping about in all
directions, and when one came with a cold,
clammy dab on my hand, the spontaneity of my
spring was something to look at. Horrid-looking
centipedes and scorpions wobbled out of the burn-
ing logs, and sought refuge on my residential
lease ; beastly spiders spun down from the tree-
tops to connect with my apartment; triantiwonti-
gongs scurried across me; great beetles came
booming through the air, and winged things
darted into and fizzled in the fire. Ducks
came quietly into the gilghi hole, and now
and again made a terrific splash that conjured up
visions of wall wees and bunyips, and left me sim-
mering in a state of dread uncertainty. One of
the most abominable of all the night prowlers was
a long, thin grub, which takes a stride like a
leech, then jerks its two extremities together.
Three times I got up and bashed wildly at a
crooked stick, which, in the flickering firelight,
appeared to dart and wriggle like a snake. At
last I made a huge blaze, and by its light gathered
up all the sticks and twigs around and cast them
away in the darkness, lest I should “get ’em
again.”
After passing Burrandilla station I met a pil-
grimage of frogs. They were in thousands, travel-
ling south-east, and their mode of progression
was something between a crawl and a walk. Iheir
grotesque position was akin to that of a frog as it
raises itself on its four legs after it has burnt its
belly on a coal. I think they must have crossed
some burnt country. They were about the size of
a large toad, brown in color, with light, yellowish
markings. They mostly looked fresh and hearty,
though a few had sore feet. One or two baby
frogs looked worn out, and stopped occasionally
to wipe away a tear. A very few tiny ones were
in arms—that is, they were being carried on their
parents’ backs. They appeared to be a sociable
community, for none of them were squabbling or
°A cofd, cloudy night on Langlo Creek induced
me to rig the fly, and to make the fire close up to
keep my feet warm. An hour afterwards the fly
was in flames. I tore it down in time to save
my furniture and miscellaneous valuables. It was
now raining, and it rained all night. I rigged a
gunyah with bushes, covering it with my saddle-
cloths, which broke the fall of the raindrops.
Under this I sat and slept, as there wasn’t room
to lie down without getting my feet wet.
From Langlo into Adavale is a lonely road,
through dense forests and scrubs, monotonously
flat, with one or two interesting red scrubby
ranges. The only habitations are little bark
shanties, or tents, called “mail changes,” mostly
in charge of hatters, where one gets nothing but a
pipe of tobacco or the loan of a firestick to light
up with.
Just before entering the town I was stopped by
a carrier’s wife, who was camped under a waggon
a little off the road, She warned me to keep my
eyes peeled in that blank of a place. Maybe I
had met a young man sitting in the back of the
coach that day with handcuffs on ? I had. 'V as
there a policeman with him ? There was. Did
they look happy ? The bobby did.
“ I hope he breaks his d neck on the road, ’
she snapped, clasping her hands under her apron.
“The bloke with him’s my son,’’she continued.
“ They give him three months jes’ for knockin’ a
p’liceman down with a brick. Three months for
that ! My Gawd, this country’s cornin’ ter some-
thing when a man can’t throw a brick at a
copper ’thout gom’ to quod for three months.
An’ they’re talcin’ him to Roma! Ihats
th’ sort they are ’ere. Lord send me
further ! If I had me own way I’d be off ter-
night. But there’s Bill’s bullocks—ole Rattler an’
Strawberry—been away this week or more, an lie
can’t find ’em high or low. It’s my firm belief
that some o’ the dorgs about ’ere ’as put ’em away.
My word, I’d like ter ketch ’em ! I’d shake ’em
up a furlong or two, take it from me. Bill s too
slow. I’ve told him time after time that; Straw-
berry an’ Rattler wouldn’t go away on their own.
‘You’re only lookin’ for a mare’s nest,’ I ses,
‘ pokin’ round these cricks. Why don’t yer go
inter some o’ther paddiclcs? That’s where ye’ll
find Strawberry an’ Rattler, I’ll be bound.
Offer ten bob or a quid an’ see how quick
they’ll turn up. Don’t I know it! Didn’t one
o’ the d— snoozers come ’ere one night an shake
the coggle off o’ Louisy’s bow 1 Didn’t I ketch
another of ’em sniggin’ Leopard’s keystring to
make a bootlace ! They’d steal the eye out of yer
head, they would—the old hunks o’ cats’ meat!
She paused, eyeing the environment of Adavale
with ferocity. Then she indicated the waggon
with a jerk of her thumb. “Yer welcome, yer
know.” “ Unfortunately I must push on,” I said.
“Ah, well, good luck to you,” she returned.
“ Could yer spare th’ least bit o’ tobacca for poor
old Bill ? He do ’ave the tramps.”
WERRIMEE.


Head&cbe
WISE doctors treat headaches as a symptom only, not
as a disease. An aching head is proof of the dis-
order of some other organs —generally the stomach or
liver. Bile Beans are so successful in curing headaches,
because they remove the root cause, by
correcting and stimulating the liver and
digestive system. As an illustration* Mr. T.
Williams, of Union-st., Newtown,
Sydney, says : —“ I have proved
Bile Beans to be a thoroughly re-
liable medicine. I suffered with
severe headaches and attacks of
Biliousness. The headaches were
accompanied by throbbing pains,
and rushing of blood to my head.
At these times I suffered intense
agony. Seeing Bile Beans adver-
tised as a cure for headaches, I
decided to try them, with the result that my trouble was
completely banished. I never fail to commend Bile
Beans to fellow sufferers/’
BILE BEANS are a SAFE and SPEEDY CURE for BILIOUSNESS, HEAD-
ACHE, INDIGESTION, CONSTIPATION, PILES, DEBILITY, FEMALE
WEAKNESSES, NERVOUSNESS, BAD BLOOD, BAD BREATH, ANAEMIA,
DISTURBED SLEEP, LOSS OF APPETITE, SUMMER FAG, and, in
fact, all ailments that owe their origin
to defective Bile Flow, Assimilation or
Digestion, Obtainable generally at
Is. lid., or 2s. 9d. Large Box (contains
three times the Is. lid. size).
'I
1b
f
/)
A
m.
*•
A. ®> F.
PEARS,
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKRRS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Biotic®
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels;
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
Along the Castlereagh.
THE HINDU.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AT night he haunted the children’s
dreams. Uncle Jim’s homestead was
two miles from the railway siding.
Fifty acres of uncleared land shut it off from a
narrow bush road, and when the Hindu came
ramping to the verandah with his bundle, Aunt
would gesticulate fiercely to the children, lock the
door, and wait with a heart that could not breathe
until the turbaned blackguard had gone. Uncle
was rarely at home. He would ride seven or
eight miles to do a bit of fencing at 4s. a day. He
did jobs for Moloney. Moloney was an inspired
contractor who offered Uncle £5 an acre for clear-
ing land. Uncle accepted. Then Moloney
offered his own services at ss. a day grubbing,
poking the fires, and filling in the stump-
holes. Uncle began to see the thin end
of a swindle, until Moloney threatened to
give the contract to someone else. Uncle closed
with him. Uncle worked like a devil on the first
acre, and Moloney seemed to work harder than
Uncle. He would get up in the night and lever
the burning logs close in to the stumps. He felled
trees and dug and started fresli fires before Uncle
was on the ground in the morning. At the end of
three weeks Uncle measured off an acre of cleared
land and looked at Moloney,
There was a livid powder-blaze on Moloney’s
cheek and sap-scalds on his blackened hands. The
veins of his arms stood out like roots. His eyes
were limpid and tender, and he had been known
to weep bitterly at the poverty of others. “ Small
wages for ye this month, Jim,” he said consolingly,
“ but ’twill be betther as we work t’rough the
heavy scrub.”
“My oath, it won’t!” snapped Uncle. “If it
got 50 times batter I’d almost die of hunger.
Four-ten fer Moloney; ten bob fer me. Gawd’s
truth ! A sheep dawg’s worth more ! ”
Moloney never argues. He straightway offered
Uncle the making of a road—all stumps to be
Yankee grubbed, no ballast, four bob a day.
Uncle grew more civil as they walked home.
People say that Moloney sticks to Uncle all the
year round.
, Aunt complained about the Hindu while Uncle
ate his dinner. The children whimpered. Bobbie
said that the black man with the colored scarf
round his head was peeping in at the window.
The children howled. Aunt woke in the night
and said she was sure a number of Hindus had
camped in the gully. “Rot,” said Uncle. “Go
ter sleep, Emily.”
Uncle explained to Constable Murphy next day,
but Murphy told him that nothing could be done
until a witness was procured who would swear
that the Hindu used violent and abusive language.
Uncle said he’d wrap the language in blue paper
next time the hawker called. It was his first and
last appeal to law’n’order.
Returning from his road-making, Uncle found
the house in a state of siege—windows barricaded,
children limp and hysterical, Aunt sobbing miser-
ably near the fireplace. He stayed at home next
day—no Hindu. He returned from his work un-
expectedly two days later, and concealed himself
in the scrub near the creek road—no Hindu. Then
he hung about in the gully at all hours until
Moloney asked him if he was ever going to finish
the road. There were “ fifty smart fellows eager
to go on with the work.” said Moloney, sharply.
The Hindu dropped in first day Uncle resumed
work, and Aunt, in her fear, bought up most of his
stock. It seemed a simple way out of the diffi-
culty. A series of blackmailing visits followed at
the most inconceivable hours of the day. The
house became filled with'garish rags, cheap combs
and brushes. The drawers were crammed with
lollies and scent-bottles. We seemed to have no
money for anyone but Lai Chundra.
He seemed to avoid the main road when visiting
us. He cut in t hrough the scrub, and vanished
with the velocity of a cheetah.
The scum of the coast haunts the Castlereagh.
The sea-weary sailor, pining for a spell in the dry,
hot bush, humps his bluey unhandily there. He
has coal-dust about his eyes, and he cadges like a
blackfellow. But the Hindu is the real tiger of
the Australian bush.
One day I called upon my friend Dutchy, of
the monkey-shop, and found that a bull-dog
named “ Beel ” was for sale. Bill is the dog that
nursed the grey wolf for fifteen minutes when the
Jew bookmakers betted against him. Bill has a
9-mch face, but he is more companionable than a
sheep-dog. He never advertises himself at two in
the morning—he barks with difficulty.
I forwarded him in a box to the Castlereagh,
and Uncle, who is really fond of a good dog, rode
12 miles to the station to receive Bill.
Showmen have taken bears and stuffed sharks
along the Castlereagh, but no one in the district
had seen a face like Bill’s. They put it down to
hysteria, but Uncle said that all dogs went like
that after they had bitten a policeman.
Uncle took Bill on a chain through the bush.
A cat sprang across the track and regarded them
curiously. Bill looked at Uncle for orders.
“Don’t take any notice, Bill,” he said, “she’s
on’y a river-cat, an’ don’t know any better.”
The children screamed when they saw Bill.
Later, when he lay asleep in the sun, the chickens
ran over him while the old hen fussed about his
nose. Bill had been educated in a bird and
monkey shop; parrots had ridden on his back,
and in the winter nights he had slept with the
baby ’possums and the little brown monkeys from
the African coast.
People have seen Bill kicked down two flights
of steps for behaving improperly in the presence
of a landlord or a bailiff. A couple of retrievers
and a bottle-oli’s pup cornered him at the abattoirs
one day, and the butcher closed the gate to see
the fun. Bill looked hurt, but he dusted round
and drew a three-stone retriever away from his
friends. Then Bill showed nine paralysed meat-
shifters how a good little dog can get through his
work at a pinch. In G 5 seconds he shook himself
from a mass of mongrel yelps, and headed for
Jinnno, the retriever’s brother. Jimmoputupa 15
seconds’ running fight. It took the head slaughter-
man and two others to save him from annihilation.
Casey’s goat came up the river to see Bill. He
stood on a boulder and watched him for three
minutes. He was greatly impressed. Several
other goats appeared in the afternoon and held a
meeting outside the fence. One of them, a huge
fellow with a beard, informed the others that Bill
Was a stock inspector.
The children made a soap-box cart and 15ill
hauled then: up and down the paddock. “He
seems a very quiet dog,” said Aunt. “He doesn’t
bark a bit. What’s the matter with him ? ”
The children pointed out to Bill where the
Hindu trampled upon the few flowers when he
ran in upon them from the scrub.
Uncle told Aunt not to let Bill sit in the
draught. He explained that when a bull dog
sneezed he always fell on his face. Aunt pro-
mised to be careful.
One day, About a week after finishing Moloney’s
job, Uncle climbed into the old sailor’s hammock
at the back of the house and fell asleep. The
smell of sheep drifted up from the dusty flat. A
shrilling of locusts seemed to sharpen the heat.
Somewhere in the gully a man with an axe was
striking at the heart of a gum-tree.
Uncle fell asleep. Bill lay under the hammock.
He wakes the moment Uncle falls asleep ; it is
convenient in case of bailiffs or fire.
A door banged suddenly. Sitting up in the
hammock Uncle heard a terrified whisper from the
children. Aunt made frantic gestures from the
back window. Then a great noise broke upon the
verandah. A voice in sonorous Punjaubi was
cursing the house and the shut door.
“Why you not open the door, eh? Why you
think a dam gentleman coine 10 miles from the
te-rain for nothing ? ”
He invoked the spleen of his 13 beast-gods upon
us. He shouted as though the point of his beard
was between his teeth. Something of the terror
of the lonely bush women and children dripped
into Uncle. He took up a large stone mechani-
cally ; the idea of bowling it into the stomach of
this turbaned blackguard came upon him. Then
he looked at Bill and dropped it sharply. Bill
was still lying under the hammock, his nose
towards the house, a nimbus in his eye like that
which sometimes travels down a lightning rod.
Uncle made a step towards the house. The dog
shot in front and looked back. “Come here,”
said Uncle. A collie would have bounded to
heel. Bill gaped and held his ground like a
pocket tiger.
“Lie down,” whispered Uncle. Bill stood and
wagged his tail. Bill will do things that never
enter into an ordinary dog’s head, but you may
kick him through ten acres of burning grass and
he won’t “lie down ” after getting up.
Uncle walked quietly to the front of the house.
“Come off th’ verandah, Mr. Bengal. Someone
will have ter clean up the mess. Just come off
th’ verandah,” he said.
The Hindu had worked himself into a business-
like rage. There was foam on his heard. His
strong, greasy hands were covered with jewellery.
He reminded one of a cheap devil in opera. He
turned swiftly, and his thin lips puckered as
though he would spit. He looked up and down
the quiet bush road, and he seemed to gather
courage from the unbroken silence.
“ Ah, goot day you.. . I sell you some silk for
the lady. lam Chundra Lai, the great wrestler ”
He snapped his black fingers, and the sound was
like a whip crack. “I catch a man here—so.”
His thick muscular body bent forward, and Uncle
saw three quick feinting movements, and the
double catch that leads to a hammerlock. Then
the Hindu sprang forward and hurled an imagin-
ary opponent to the ground. “You see!” He
spat and grinned. “No goot to take me for a
soft job, eh ? ”
His face was as large as a Nubian’s. The pride
of Goliath was in his eye, and he spat betel juice
over Uncle’s verandah. Shouldering his bundle
he came down the steps, and as he passed he
lifted his strong right arm. “Bah!” and his
betel j nice went over the flowers.
Immediately his feet touched the ground a hot
bull-dog clung to his knee and gripped his waist-
band.
“ Call off da beast.”
The Hindu struck downward with his big fist.
Bill wriggled, and in a flash was holding fast by
the black hair under the Hindu’s throat.
Uncle sat on the verandah rail. “ Even money
Bengal,” he said. “Anybody want to buy a
hawker ? ”
“ Call off, call off .. . this pariah. Ah Kismet,
ah dam ! ” He bit like a jackal, pitched like a
falling bull, knees and brows striking the earth.
When Bill changes his hold it is a sign that
something bright and luminous has occurred to
him. By a twist of his short body he slipped
from his throat-hold and caught Bengal by the
padded vest a little below the right shoulder.
Uncle put this down to Bill’s failing intelligence,
and foresaw that the Hindu would play Thug
with both hands and reduce Bill to a gasping meat
squash.
But the hawker grew suddenly livid. A torrent
of curses came from him that stayed in the ears
like poisoned shot. He fought with teeth and
fingers but the dog’s flat jaw was so close to its
hold that the Hindu’s thumbs and fingers failed to
coop his throat.
When a thing wriggled and cried under him
Bill knew it was beaten. The fist hammering
his ribs grew slack and the dog’s nose began a
series of rifling movements among the Hindu’s
crimson sashes. With a whine Bill drove his head
flat to the bosom and in a fraction of time he dragged
a bundle of bank notes from their silken hiding
place.
“Ah dam. . . Spare my money, Sahib. By
the gods, it is my sweat, my blood. Sahib, by
the Christ of thy people, the money is not mine.
Ah, goddam ! And there is nothing left. I die,
I die ! ”
Bill with the notes in his mouth made a short,
quick feint at the Hindu’s throat and then dis-
appeared in the scrub.
The Hindu stood upright stiffly. There was
dog-foam on his breast, and he wiped his brow.
“ Where—where has the accursed gone ? ”
Uncle replied with fitting dignity that Bill was
a stranger in the district, and that he had come to
him without a reference.
Chundra Lai smote himself on the breast and
brow. “Ah dam ! I die soon. The dog that
hath no snout hath stolen my money, my money !”
He ran with lunatic strides into the bush. He
called to the wilderness to deliver up Bill. He
said that if Bill would return his money he would
allow a discount for cash. All the bites he had
received would be forgotten. In a voice broken
with grief he offered Bill an annual allowance of
beefsteak if he would return with the notes.
There was no reply from Bill. People say he
had met a Hindu before. In the night, the
station-hands at Woolombi heard a hawker tear-
ing through the scrub asking someone to give him
back his money.
When the children had gone to bed a face looked
in at the door. Aunt turned pale. “Jim,” she
said, “look.”
Uncle got up in a flurry, and nearly stroked
Bill’s back off. “ Hello, ole chap. Come in an’
have a bit o’ tucker. Hope ye ain’t left them
notes where th’ goats ’ll chew the numbers off.”
Aunt is religious, but she swears that the dog
winked.
ALBERT DORRINGTON.


Lost flesh rapidly, was greatly weakened, took
quantities of medicine, failed all the time. Was
quickly cured by Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
“ Some time ago I had a very
severe attack of influenza which
left me greatly weakened. I lost
flesh rapidly, and was in a very
bad way. I took quantities of
medicine, but grew constantly
worse. Finally, I tried Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla, and began to im-
prove from the start.
“I took about six bottles and
was perfectly cured. I have used
this remedy in my family a great
deal and I know it to be a thor-
oughly reliable, health-giving
compound and family medi-
cine.”
Mr. John Murrell, railway
1 station master, of Sunnybank,
Queensland, sends us this letter, together with his photograph, which
we reproduce above. v
This is a strong letter, one which must remove all doubt, iou
ought to profit by it greatly; for if you are weak, have lost flesh, are
without appetite, and feel languid and depressed, here is a quick and
certain cure. . . ...
Perhaps the trouble is with your blood, and you are suffering from
headache, boils, eruptions of the skin, scrofula, or rheumatism. If
you are suffering from weakness of any kind, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla will
restore to you strength and energy, and will make life the better
worth living. Be sure you get
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
There are a great many substitute Sarsaparillas on the market that will disap'
point you. Avoid imitations.
Prepared by DR. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowed, Mass., U. S. A.
Take Ayer’s Pills with Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. One aids the other.
n
|o
R 8
I!
Henry Skinner,
Olarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10 43. CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terras.^
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING
of Various Sizes Supplied.
FLOORS
HERE’S A NEW HELP
lor the ears—a greater lielp than
has been before invented
THE ELECTRSCpN,
It does what all other devices have
been trying to do. It does more,
actually makes the ear better. Per-
fectly harmless, easy to adjust and
comfortable. Send for our booklet.
THE L. R. VERNON COY.,
60-64 Hunter Street, Sydney.
■ve\
Itl
’er- *
A SOBER MAN
IS HIS OWN MASTER,
WHY BE A SLAVE TO DRINK?
Dr. Langston’s Vegetable Cure for Alco-
holistji never fails. A few closes produce
a wonderful change. The craving for all
intoxicants is destroyed, the nerves be-
come steady, the appetite for food returns,
refreshing sleep ensues.
IT MAY BE GIVEN SECRETLY
and Cures are effected Quickly, Easily, Safely
and Permanently. DRUNKENNESS is a Dis-
ease, not a Habit, and can be cured.
MOTHERS,SAVE YOUR SONS,
Release themiirom bondage whether they will
or not. My'Cure takes away,all desire for
liq.uor without tlm patient’s knowledge.
My Book “Reclaimed,” No. 5, Posted FREE.
Address all Communications to the
Dr. LANGSTON INSTITUTE
129 CQILmS ST., MELBOURNE.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
o* R X CQRO>
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DE3ILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Manhosd to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important'elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 38s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 4-7 Queen
St., Melbourne ; F. H. Fauldingr & Co., 1S O’Connell St.,
Bydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, aVid Perth. -
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness
Atrophj', Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annuallv. Reined*’
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS “
Write To-day.
Address: HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
DR. J. GOLDS BROWNE'S
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, 00LDS>
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c. bears on the
Government Stamp the name of
the Inventor
Pr. J. COLLIS BROWNC
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to tfie exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
iadame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOB YOUNG MEN, giving instructions' for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat;,
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
i Completely overcome Dbaeness
land Head Noisps, no, matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfoijjable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet free.
••mteoqpK - TS WIHOO SM 'MIK
HANDY TO HAVE
IN THE HOUSE.
A Box of BEECHAM’S PTLLS is a handy thing to have in the
house, and if a dose is taken at the moment of need, much
illness will be saved.
Any Trouble arising from derangement of the
Digestive Organs is quickly set right by
BEECHAM’S
PILES
This unrivalled medicine will do more to
build up robust health and maintain it
than any other remedy .
THEY ARE UNEQUALLED FOR . . .
SLUGGISH LIVER,
SICK-HEADACHE, Indigestion,
LOSS OF APPETITE,
CONSTIPATION.
Females especially will find that BEECHAM’S PILLS will restore free
and regular conditions, and bring about that physical grace and beauty
which only come through perfect health and regularity.
Sold Everywhere in Boxes,
Price 1 11 (56 Pills) and 2/9 (168 Pills). [s
I
Carters
AxianoHS
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
Small Pill. Small Dost. Small Prloe.
They TOUGH the live
Be Sure they are Carter’s
YOU OUGHT TO
WR tfTE at once for my new book (illus-
trated), “ Mens Sana in Corpora
Sano.” Valuable information fREb for
EVERY MA'N. The following- subjects are
dealt with and'thoroughly explained-Marnage
False Modesty, Culpability of Parents, blood
Poison, Imss of Vitality, Varicccele, General
Debility, Rupture, etc., etc.
The book is writteiffor sufferers to under-
stand, and points out'the way to a permanent
cure. It tells you what you want to know,
and what vou ought to know. Neurasthenia
and various other Nervous Disturbances arising
from neglected Varicocele are fully explained.
Posted FREE.
My Electro-Regenerator
(Patent Secured)
is the result of the Latest Scientific Achieve-
ments in Electro-Medical Therapeutics. It
tadds up the Nervous System and sends a
Curative Wave of Electricity throughout the
entire organisation
WRITE TO-DAY.
SURGEON LANGSTON,
129 COLLINS STREET!
MELBOURNE.
BRIAULT’S INDIAN CIGARETTES 1
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved hy GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR.
ETTES. Said by all Chemists.
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
INSTRUCTION FREE!!
You can become a Hypnotist in a few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
sway the minds of others, control friendship
and affection, cure disease and bad habits,
gratify your ambitions and produce amuse-
ment by the hour. My mammoth Illustrated
Lesson or Key to Hypnotism which I send
free cf charge and postage paid, will tell you
allabout thi < marvelous science. It contains
be autiful and artistic engravings, and shows
you just what Hypnotism is and
What it will accomplish. Send for
it and learn to Hypnotize. Remember, this wonder-
ful book costs you noth ng. If you men-
tion this paper-, I will also include a large
package of other valu ble, interesting,
and profusely illustrated iiveratur.e, with-
out charge. A chance of a hie »»»««.
Wj.it© to-day. Address—
"Prof. R. H. BARRADEN, «9 Pitt St., Sydney-
A
POLICY FOB *IIIK COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d ; Posted, Bd.


Your Garden
Wants a Hose
That is, if it has n’t got o no
already. It ought to have
a Garden Hose if you want
good crops. You can’t better
the best. You’ll get it at . .
Perdriau RubberCo.^
270 George St., Sydney.
AIDS DIGESTION.
BRACES THE NERVES
PLASMON
r „ „ COCOA
it non-heating. One cnp contains
mora nourishment than 10 caps of
«nj ordinary cocoa.
FOB thh COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d; Posted, Bd,
WORTHINGTON PUMP CO., Limited
Reciprocating Centrifugal and Power Pump, Condensors, Feed Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
ATT’S
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
MARK.
07
7*!*X
WOLF
At the Showrooms-
EMPIRE CHAMBERS, 93 YO
SYDNEY
Alee at—
BLOCK,”
Collins-St., MELBOURNE
J. & J. MAXFIELD, Proprs., SHEFFIELD.
Showrooms re-arranged with additional cases and entrance fitted with Electric Elevator.
_ TO YOU FREE! A Solid Silver Watch.
T’O introduce our Catalogue into as many homes as
“ possible, we have decided to give away 1000 Solid
Silver Watches to persons of either sex who send in the
correct solution of the following puzzle :
OXR WXXCXXS AXE TXE BXXT.
The only condition is that, if your answer is correct,
you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains to
wear with the watch. We make this condition because
we want our Catalogue to get into the hands of reputable
persons only. These watches are not toys, but Solid
Silver, and Fully Guaranteed. Early application is neces-
sary. Forward your letter, and enclose a self-addressed
envelope and 2 penny stamps for reply, so that we may
inform jrnu if you have won the watch.
Address: Puzzle Competition,
ARTHUR PRyjvgE * CO.,
Wholesale & Retail
Jewellers, Etc.,
A.F. PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S. W.
i/unid
>
THE
‘PLUM’
Q E razor ** superior to a ny other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground Hum
, , Vi „ e :’ and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
afc 1. required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of vears can tesM#
their merits. VYE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS. yearS * 01111 testlfy fco
THE “ PLUM ” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7a 6d.
“RAZOLEO” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d. cake.
Price j f n strong Leather Case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21s.
\ Single Razor, in Ivor) Handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30&
Registered and Sent Post Free to Any Part of the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
sole agents: CRAIG & AST KEN f 654 George StSYDNEY
“There is
Wh ■'
than
the .
Every Pump Guaranteed.
11l iilP
m
;v-:y
■Si
KNOWLES’ PUMPS for every kind
of servr.; kept in stock. Single and Duplex
Vertical and Horizontal.
Boiler Feed or Pressure Pumps, Double Acting
Plunger Pumps, Tank or Light Service Pumps,
Vertical Sinking Pumps, Air Pumps, Circulating
Pumps, etc .
PARKE & LACY CO. Ltd.
60 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
Tha Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
TRUMAN'B NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. A Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colouies.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
s^szrjoixriEs-xr.
wm
Fred Matters & Co.
RAMQES
am* STOVES
Manufacturers in N.S. Wales,
South Australia and West
Australia.
All influential storekeepers act as
our agents and stock our Stoves.
HEAD OFFICEB ;
558 George St., Sydney.
142 Rund/e St., Adelaide.
Wif am St., Perth.
SORE
SINGLE TON’S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORES AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
restores eyelashes.
A CERTAIN REMEDY
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
I'M EVER FAILS.
Ask your Chemist for the Little Book •
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
A NOVEL PRESENT .
to any
of our HANDSOME
ROUND WIRE
or M.O. for 5/- we will
address in Australia one
dct. COLO-FILLED
BROOCHES, with any
Name or Three Initials, Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross
Pendant, guaranteed the same quality as brooch ; and
without pendant, 3/6. In 15ct. G.'F. Twisted Wire,
8/6 ; without Pendant, 6/6. Illustrated Catalogues
sent Free. All letters carefully addressed to B. SIMS, Gold
Wire King, Cole’s Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
TEN DAYS’FREE TRIAL
Is allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
money in full refunded without question
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
i cycles, warranted six years.
LATEST
MODELS
£2mIO to £ 6
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or t lincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Kim
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
Packed and Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee safe
delivery.
Second-Hand Cycles
m fwKs "'£/ to £2.10
Great factory clearance sale at half factory prices.
EARN A CYCLE
taking orders from sample
- - _ machine. Active Agents
wanted in each district. Large profits easily made. Write at once for
wee catalogues and our special offer, using sufficient postage,
lyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs. Ac.. half prices.
MEAD GYGLE GO. Dep'. 839
LIYERPOOL, LONDON AND CHICAGO.
FEW PE
know what a wonderfully
simple and efficient pump
PULSOMETER
is, if
correctly
designed.
It will pump anything liquid. Can be slung 1 anywhere.
Only a steam pipe required.
THE PULSOMETER ENGINEERING CO., ENGLAND
N. Gilt BRIDGE, Ltd., Agents,
- -
BOND STREET, SYDNEY;
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
