

DEWAR’S
SIXTY YEARS’
REPUTATION .
sd
R. C3r. WATKLIKTS & CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Dliuing' and Contractors' Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW AMD SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
EFFREY.
HOBART.
jjadley’s Orient Hotel.
y PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C.Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 7 Bent St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Invite correspondence from anyone having LARGE QUANTITIES OF GOODS to
They are prepared to submit plans and specifications for CONVEYING and ELEVATING
MACHINERY most suitable for the work in hand.
Write for Catalogues to Gibson, Battle & Co. a 7 Bent Street, Sydney, N.S.W .
fs
Take it back,
I must have -
HUTTON’S
FincAppic Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBBS SAFES
THE ROYAL
EDISWAN LAMP.
(YAH
'I
h ! ■
Economy in Current.
Equality op Light.
THE
EDISON & SWAN
United Electric
Light Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch :
58 CLARENCE ST.,
SYDNEY.
Queensland Depot:
Commonwealth
Buildings,
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE.
tL
u
Rabbit Skins, Marsupials, Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins # Wool
BBsro xo
GOLDSBROTTGH, MORI & CO. LTD.,
Highest Values, Speedy Returns. SYDNEY.
E. J. E. MACKENZIE, Manage*.
ASK
FOR
STANDARD PALE ALE
UNRIVALLLED ZN QUALITY - PT I3XT
df
SIMPLEX
The World's Best OH Engine .
!■»■■ IRRIGATION PLANTS SUPPLIED.
ABSOLUTE
In
Reliability
Simplicity
Efficiency
Durability
Eoonomy.
No Worry or Trouble
NO LIGHT wanted.
IGNITION is
AUTOMATIC.
No Carbonization
whatever.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
All Sizes.
Stationary & Portable.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue B.
E. COULSON
116 a’Beckett Street,
Melbourne
A. HARRIS CO.
156, 158, 160 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Wholesale Buyers & Country Storekeepers write Tor Catalogues anti Special Sale Prices.
Importers of Crockery, E.P. Ware,
Watches, Jewellery, Fancy Goods,
Tobacconists' Supplies, &c., &c.
(Wholesale and Retail).
Gigantic Bankrupt Stock Sale
NOW ON. SEE DAILY PAPERS.
HELIDON SPA.
Absolutely the BEST TABLE WATER.
G-OZjXjIST «8s CO., iLgeuta.
The Bulletin
yd. 27.—N0. 1388.]
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
[Thursday, September 20,1906.


TO ARRIVE IN ABOUT 10 DAYS,
,A «S, C “ S TREASURE OF HEAVEN
Nearly 600 pages, with photo, of tbe author ; paper wrapper, 2s. Gd. ; cloth binding, 3s. 6d. ; postage Gd extra
Orders are now being registered, and will be despatched immediately on arrival.
THE QUICKSANDS OF
By H. A. Vac n ell.
2s. 6d. : cloth, 3s. 6d.
THE AWAKENING OF HELENA RICHIE,
By Margaret Dkland.
l’aper, -2s. 6d. ; cloth 3s 6d postage Cd.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP. LTD.,
71 CASTLE f
G. B. LANCASTER’S NOVELS
Can be obtained from the BOOK LOVERS’ LIBRARY,
239 Collins-street, Melbourne, for 3/6 and 4d. postage.
“SONS O' MEN.”
“A SPUR TO SMITE.”
Favourably reviewed by English and American Press.
HUDSON’S
SOLD BY CHEMISTS,
IN TINS, ne.
EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC REMEDY
For the Cure of COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION of CONSUMPTION.
o
A—The Larynx, or organ of voice.
B—The Trachea, or windpipe.
C—The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected lung.
T)— A lobe of one of the lungs.
Unlike Cough Medicines, “EUMENTHOL
JUJUBES ” do not interfere with digestion. On
the'contrary, they have a beneficial effect, as
their Antiseptic Properties prevent abnormal
fermentation of food. *• *
THE RED PAGE.
A CANADIAN POET
11.
CAMPBELL’S most forcible piece of verse
is entitled “ The Mother,” and is founded
°u " P a * ; betic German superstition
. that the dead mother’s coming back in
the night to suckle the baby she has left on earth
may be known by the hollow pressed down in the
bed where she lay.” It is too long for quotation,
but the volume is worth purchasing to read tha i
alone.
I dreamed of my babe for a day and a night,
And then I rose in my graveclothes white.
I rose like a flower from my damp earth-bed
To a world of sorrowing overhead.
Men would have called me a thing of harm,
But dreams of my babe made me rosy and warm.
I felt my breasts swell under my shroud ;
No star shone white, no winds were loud
But I stole me past the graveyard wall.
For the voice of my baby seemed to call ;
And I kenned me a voice, though my lips were dumb:
Hush, baby, hush ! for mother is come. . ,
I nestled him soft to my throbbing breast,
And stole me back to my long, long rest.
And here I lie with him under the stars,
Dead to earth, its peace and its wars:
Dead to its hates, its hopes, and its harms,
So long as he cradles up soft in my arms.
And Heaven may open its shimmering doors,
And saints make music on pearly floors,
And hell may yawn to its infinite sea.
But they never can take iny baby from me.
For so much a part of my soul he hath grown
That Ood doth know of it high on His throne.
And here I lie with him under the flowers
That sun-winds rock through the billowy hours,
With the night-airs that steal from the murmuring sea
Bringing sweet peace to my baby and me.
The most free and lyrical piece is callec
“ Beyond the Hills of Dream.” Some stanzas
Over the mountains of sleep, my Love,
Over the hills of dream,
Beyond the walls of care and fate,
Where the loves and memories teem ;
We come to a world of fancy free,
Where hearts forget to weep
Over the mountains of dream, mg Love,
Over the hills of sleep.
Over the hills of care, my Love,
Over the mountains of dread,
We come to a vatley, glad and vast,
■ Where we meet the long-lost dead :
And there the gods in splendour dwell,
In a land where all is fair,
Over the mountains of dread; my Love,
Over the hills of care.
Over the mountains of dream, my Love,
Over the hills of sleep :
Could we but come to that heart's desire,
Where the harvests of fancy reap.
Then we would know the old joys and hopes,
The longings of youth’s bright gleam,
Over the mountains of sleep, my Love,
Over the hills of dream.
Yea, there the sweet old years have rest.
And there my heart would be.
Amid the glad ones loved of yore,
At the sign of the Fancy Free ;
And there the old lips would, repeat
Earth’s memories o’er and o’er,
O’er the mountains of might-have-been,
Over the hills of yore.
Unto that valley of dreams, my Love,
If we could only go,
Beyond the mountains of heart’s despair,
The hills of wiliter and snow,
Then we would come to those happy isles,
Those shores of blossom and wing,
Over the mountains of waiting, my Love,
Over the hills of spring. . .
And when we reach there toe will know
The faces we knew of yore,
The lips that kissed, the hands that clasped,
When memory loosens her store ;
And we will drink to the, long dead years,
In that inn of the golden gleam.
Over the mounta ins of sleep, my Love,
Over the hills of dream.
And all the joys we missed, my L-w,
And all the hopes we knew,
The dreams of life we dreamed in vain,
When youth’s red blossoms blew ;
And all the hearts that throbbed for us,
In the past so sunny and fair,
We will meet and greet in that golden land,
Over the hills of care.
Over the mmintains of sleep, my Low,
Over the hills of dream,
Beyond the walls of care and fate.
Where the loves and memories teem,
We come to a land of fancy free,
Where hearts forget to weep,
Over the mountains of dream, my Love,
Over the hills of sleep.
Throughout the volume are many fine lines,
ike—
Of heaving of vast anchors, vanishing strands...
Some solemn, lonely, love-devoted spot...
—and also many bad lines, where Campbell has
.o stand on stiits of language to reach his
thought. He lias, in fact, the poetic impulse
rather than poetic power. On the whole he
wants originality, and in the end he wants vital
nspiration. His virtue is not equal to his valour,
and all his effort cannot compensate fo- essential
ack of magic. Nevertheless, his volume must be'
reckoned a considerable performance in current
verse ; and it includes perhaps a score of pages
of which, now that we know them, we would not
willingly be deprived. The book should be added
to every library in the Commonwealth where
poetry is esteemed.
THE CALL OF THE BUSH
SYDNEY in the year 187 —
Two slouch-hatted, blue-shirted, rec
sashed men get out of a cab and knock
the door of a house. A boy not yet te
years of age opens the door. Before the men ea
speak he calls out, “Dad! Mum! Here’s m
uncles!” What a commotion! Dad had no
seen his brother for nearly fifteen years. Mu
and her brother have not met for twelve year
Mum and her brother-in-law have never met ti
now. Dad and his brother-in-law also meet for th
first time.
“How did you know we were your uncles?”
The question was an easy one for the boy. II
had heard much talk, and brothers and sister
resemble each other. When blood meets blood 01
its kin . . . it “ I knew !”
J*
“Met him on the Palmer . . . dying in his ten
.. . dysentery. Do3ed him with Collis Browne
Compared notes . . . relationship. Left Cooktow
three weeks ago.”
“Strange how one meets,” Dad says. “Mei
my old captain in the Dragoons when
joined the Lambing Flat escort. He was in
oharge.”
Strange meetings. A Carlisle schoolmaste
puddling wash on a western creek. An Iris
parish priest in Central Queensland. Anr
So-and-So from . Fourteen years for robbery
under-arms.
How the talk thrilled a city-born boy who hun
on the speakers’ wojsds.
Swags, bags, bundles. Strange freight thes
adventurers brought home.
J*
Tea on the table, and more talk. Stanthorpe
The Boy knew it on the map; had written wit!
infinite care a letter and addressed it to Stan
thorpe. _ Maori land: there also written greet
ings of his had sped. Other letters he had heart
read-that came from far-off places which his fathe
pointed out to him on the maps in his school atlas
and which the Boy had marked with ink.
As the talk went on, the spots on the map
took shape... A tent-lined gully, down whiol
the gold-stealer fled, to be brought up by a wore
and a threat backed with a revolver. In one o:
those tents his letter had been read. The Boy
left most of his meal untouched ; the appetite fo
food gave way to something stronger, fiercer
He was on the threshold of a new world ; felt
new life pulsing within him.
The Boy sat on a stool between the two new
comers. Tea was over, and the night was given
up to talk. The Boy listened. Now and again
his eyes wandered from the speakers to the swags
Gold dust, nuggets, cheques, money, revolvers
cartridges. Wonderful ! And the two men—
nay, three men ; for Did on escort duty and on
man-hunting expeditions had played a part—were
there in the flesh to tell of it all.
What was the history book in comparison ? The
books of travel and stories of adventure. Books
books ! books ! And three live men walk right
into a boy’s life and talk—ah ! Far into the nigbl
the talk went on. Keeping sleep at bay, ant
scorning bed, the Boy listened and learned.”
Of new chum’s gold.. . The many uses of green-
hide.. . r I he use of a magnetised sheath-knife to
the prospector ... Teat making a damper calls for
plenty of ashes and no coals... Uf how to sleep in
blacks’ country with your rifle beside you ; the lock
at your hip, where your right hand may grasp it
at once ... Not to put gold or money under your
head ; it might mean the bashing out of your
brains... The correct way to throw a revolver up
to sight ... Horse, sheep, cattle, bush, river,
tindier, and other craft. And the Boy absorbed
to saturation.
J*
Pictures. What a panorama it was! The
men talking. The woman contributes notes of
Braidwood. Of an old school on a coastal river.
Of long coach journeys inland. One picture of a
little girl singing for the coach passengers on the
Braidwood road, singing herself to sleep, steadies
the men in their talk. The Boy rows restive :
the talk of action, the brave ways of men, are
more to his mind.
Pictures. With closed eyes they can all be con-
jured up again. Strings of pack-horses climbing
a Maoriland range .. . Snow .. . Ice .. . and
Gold. The fool who brought his wife young and
delicate into such a place ... A baby buried with
a gin-case for coffin.
The gold in the river bed ... a dam ... a flood
sudden and swift. . . a good mate and true . . . Just
as his luck had turned.
A roll-up .. . Iffgeon-House .. . flying Chinkies
short of a pigtail.
Blacks on the overland telegraph line . . .
Crack ! crack ! crack !—that will teach them . ..
Blacks out beyond Coopers Creek . .. Blacks fur-
ther north ... Cut the spear out . . . sucked the
wound ... !No hope.
A ship bound for Maoriland ... Diggers for cargo
... No old dry Amontillado. . . No champagne.
.. Only Scotch whisky ... £1 a bottle .. . Another
ship staggering up the Queensland coast. . . An
angry crowd of diggers. . . Water short, provisions
ditto .. . Curses for captain and owners.
Hokitika in winter... Cooktown in summer...
everywhere in Australia between Port Darwin
Port Pirie. Nothing mean in it all. Nothing
petty or paltry.
Floods ... fevers ... blacks .. . bushrangers .. .
gold stealers... jumpers.. .gamblers.. .stampedes
... tallies... races. Life—hard, vigourous, rigour-
ous life.
The splendid life of action. Of doing and
suffering. The life for a mail.
y*
So they talked, With ah unquenched thirst
tor knowledge the Boy drank it all in. He caught
the words as they fell, discarding mere details,
seizing essentials, till they talked of their child-
hood and native lands England and Ireland.
L’hen the Boy fell asleep. The message of the
Bush was finished. It answered his call in dream.
“ Hands up or I’ll fire ! ” he shouted. They picked
him up and put him to bed.
Next morning the Boy was missing from his
home. At nightfall a policeman brought him
back. J ound near Parramatta.
Sydney, 1904. The Boy is in Sydney—home
tor Christmas. I here have lieen good cheques
made out of wolfram ; but cheques vanish ; the
city wearies ; and the Bush still calls.
JACK SHAY.
CHARLKS LEPER
FOR the interest of the book, Charles
Lever : his Liie in. his Letters, by
Edmund Downey (Edin., Blackwood ;
21s. net) is published a generation
too late. For the literature, it amounts to
valuable material for a biography. Other-
wise, it is a pleasant compliment paid by a
publishing tirm to one of its founders,
though here and there a Lever devotee may
con the two considerable volumes. Cer-
tainly they make Lever a real figure. A
hearty Irishman, with all the dashing out-
door temperament of his race, he found
himself tied to the writing trade for life ;
and his letters recounting literary progress
are so many groans at a hard task-mistress.
The book is fitly dedicated “ To the memory
of John Blackwood, a Member of a House
whose transactions with Charles Lever are
an object lesson in the relations which may
exist between Author and Publisher.”
Charles Lever was born in 1806 at Dublin :
he died in 1872 at Trieste. That he was Irish
he owed apparently to Erin’s atmosphere,
for there was little ‘‘wild Irish ” blood in
him. His father was English—a Lancashire
man ; his mother a Candler, of Kilkenny.
Both were Protestants. The father was an
architect and builder, in sufficiently comfort-
able circumstance.?, and Lever was sent at
the age of sixteen to Trinity College,
Dublin. He took his B.A. degree in 1827,
and in the next year went to Gottingen to
study medicine. In 1820 he made a curious
voyage to Canada, and incidentally was ad-
mitted full member of a tribe of Red
Indians. In 1830 he was back in Dublin,
again busy at medicine. He married in
1832, and presently commenced practice at
Brussels.
The success of Harry Lorrequer turned
Lever permanently to literature, and for
some years he had plenty of money (though
never enough), and was able to indulge his
taste for European travel. Downey says :
It is impossible to arrive at any definite con-
clusions concerning Lever’s earnings from his
writings. It is certain that during some years
his annual income was not less than £2OOO. If
the whole of the period from “ flurry Lorrequer ”
in 1837 to “Lord Kilgobbm ” in 1871 was taken
into account, his estimate of £l2oO a year would
not be very far astray. It is most likely an
under-estimate. £50,01)0 would .probably repre-
sent more accurately the sum of his literary
earnings.
In 1858 Lever wots appointed to the
sinecure place of British Consul at Spezzia.
This he held till 1867, when he w r as made
Consul at Trieste, with a salary of about
£'7oo a year—remaining till the end.
The matter of Downey’s volumes consists
chiefly of glimpses of the personal and
business side of Lever’s life. At 35 years of
age his price for a novel was £2OOO.
Editing The Dublin University Magazine for
MrGlashan, he drew a salary of £l2OO a year,
with half profits on all that he wrote. The
average circulation of the Magazine (pub-
lished at half-a-crown) was 4000 during
Lever's editorship. The circulation gradually
fell away, and early in the ’eighties the
periodical died. Downey’s remarks on the
Irish attitude to Lever are worth quoting.
In Great Britain Lever is recognised merely as
the humoursome delineator of the rollicking, mule-
cart-topping, bullet-proof dragoon : in Ireland he
is regarded by a considerable' section of his coun-
trymen as a farce-writer, or else as thal:,abomina-
tion, the Anti-Irish Irishman. Some of his Irish
traducers—meaning to be scornful—speak of him
as an Englishman, and imply that he was unable
to view men and affairs with an Irish eye.
Thomas Davis, like Lever, was the son of an
English father, and of a mother who was of
Cromwellian Irish stock, yet no Irishman dreams
of referring to Davis as “a foreigner.”
Manyof Lever’scritics —English, Irish, American
—assert that his sketches of Hibernian life are
hopelessly out of drawing, that his gross exaggera-
tion smudges the picture. William Carleton w'ent
so far as to accuse him of deliberately giving to
the public “disgusting and debasing caricatures”
of Irish life and character. This class of criticism
is born either of ignorance or of jealousy or of
crossness. Any one who will take the trouble to
make himself acquainted with the chronicles of
social life of the periods described by Lever will
find that there is little exaggeration in his pic-
tures. Of Irish peasant life he did not possess
that intimate knowledge—it can be acquired only
tnrough actual experience that Carleton pos-
sessed ; but in none of Lever’s books is there to be
found anything bordering on disgusting and de-
basing caricatures of the peasantry.
One of his later Irish critics goes so far in
another direction as to insist that Lever “rep-
resents the native virtues of the'lrish so delicately
and justly that no Englishman is suffered to scoff
at the poverty or ignorance-qf the people.” The
same critic continues : “ Irish novelists are blam-
able for much of the reproach cast upon Ireland
in other countries. But Lever is not chargeable
either with caricature or concealment. Whenever
he has to deal with the good qualities of a race
much maligned, he shows that he is engaged upon
a labour of love.” And his Irish gentleman is a
gentleman. If any class of Irishmen has a right
to complain of unfair treatment at the hands of
Harry Lorrequer, that class is the priesthood :
but this applies only to his very early books—
and Father Tom Loftus atones for much.
The English novel-reader in the lump cares less
than nothing for Lever's most valuable opinions
and sketches of current political and social life, or
For his admirable pictures, of a bygone time in the
Emerald Isle,—he is anxious to “cut the cackle
and get to the ’osses.” Many an Irish reader pro-
fesses to hold the belief that because JLeve
occasionally treads upon a pet corn he was impreg
nated with a savage desire to stamp diligently on
the foot of the patriot, eager to offer him a jibe or
a sneer in lieu of an apology.
Irishmen —if an Irishman may say it—are too
ready to take offence at having their foibles
laughed at. Race-feeling has much to do with
this sensitiveness : circumstances more. The
prosperous Briton can afford to enjoy banter. He
himself, “He laughs best who laughs
last ’; and'he is confident he is going to have the
last laugh against somebody else. The mere Irish-
man resents having fun poked at him. He pre-
fers, or pretends to prefer, unstinted praise to a
reasonable mixture of praise, blame, and sarcasm
he knows that in his inmost breast he harbours
the quality of merciless self-criticism. He does
not desire laudation for the comfort of his inner
self, hut for blazonry—for the eye of the world
outside his beloved island. Lever made no
attempt to pander to this idiosyncrasy—like
Don John, he laughed when he was merry
and clawed no man in his humour; but whether
he laughed at or with his country or his fellow-
countrymen, there was no bitterness or spiteful-
ness in his mirth. Whatsoever his political
opinions, his sympathies were as Irish as the
Wicklow hills, and his kindly heart could not
foster malice : even for his relentless enemy, the
gout, he could always find a pleasant word.
All his life Lever was a spendthrift. He.
made money freely and spent it too freely.
A friend upon one solemn occasion tendered
advice on the score of his extravagance. He
pointed out that Lever kept too many horses and
too many servants, gave too many dinners, and
played too highly at cards. The friend —a per-
sonage—wound up his homily by saying, “Begm
your reformation with small economies.” The
novelist determined to economise, and he tried to
think where it would be easiest to begin. He
racked his brain throughout the night in the en-
deavour to hit upon a starting-point in the pro-
posed career of reformation. At length a happy
thought occured to him. He was in the habit of
indulging in pistol-practice at a shooting-gallery,
and he used to give a franc to a man who held his
horse while he was amusing himself in the gallery.
Now, it would he an admirable effort in the
scheme of economy to do away with the splendour
of hiring a man to hold his horse. Henceforth he
would fasten the bridle to one of the hooks of the
jalousies.
When he arrived next morning at the gallery
the man who usually held the horse was in wait-
ing. Lever informeddiini that he did not require
his services. The dismay of the man smote the
economist to the heart, but he had been told that
he might expect to endure many pangs in the
effort to inaugurate the campaign of frugality.
He hitched his horse to the hook, shamefacedly,
and entered the gallery. The effort to economise
steeled his nerves, and at the first shot he hit the
centre of the target. This excellent example of
shooting had the effect of ringing a bell denoting
the triumph of the marksman. The bell startled
the horse outside, and the animal broke away,
“carrying the window-frame with it,” according
to Lever. “Altogether,” he says, “the repairs
amounted to eighty-seven francs. . . . This was
my first and last attempt at economv.”
A Miss Boyle, writing in 1879, gives
good description of Lever. She recalls him
as “one of the most genial spirits” she had"
ever met. ‘ ‘ His conversation was like
summer lightning—brilliant, sparkling,
harmless. In his wildest sallies I never
heard him give utterance to an unkind-
thought. He essentially resembled his
works, and whichever you preferred, that
one was most like Charles Lever. He was
the complete type and model of an Irish-
man—warm-hearted, witty, rollicking, never
unrefined, imprudent, often blind to his
own interests—adored by his friends, and
the playfellow of his children.”
And Lever’s conversational powers are
praised by everyone who knew him. H|s
wit and humour never lacked for a moment
a continuous cross-fire of bon mots, unpre-
pared and spontaneous. His extraordinary
memory was always astonishing. Sir
Hamilton Seymour bears testimony to
Lever’s wonderful brilliancy as a table-
talker. Once he said to the novelist, “Try
to write that anecdote just as you have told
it.” “Ah,” replied Lever, “it can’t be
done that way. All the ingenious con-
trivances ever invented could not impart to
a bottle of Vichy or Carlsbad the freshness
of the water as it sparkled from the foun-
tain.”
A.G.S.


RABBIT SK
Also KANGAROO, WALLABY,
OPOSSUM, &c.
Consign to :
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd., Commission Salesmen Only, SYDNEY.
MICK SIMMONS.
sd
sS£j ' 6WI: r
ULill
CRICKET
MENS BATS
Postage on Bat, Is., N.S.W. ; Is. Bd., Inter-State.
BUSSEYS ... . ... ... ss.
CLAPSHAW’S 6s, 7s 3d, 8s 3d, 10s 6d, 15s.
F. H. AYRES’ All Cane 13s, 15s.
F. H. AYRES’ DOUBLE RUBBER HANDLE STAMPED
“CAN’T BE BEAT” SPECIAL SELECTED ... 18s 6d.
F. H. AYRES’ International
COBBETT’S
WISDEN’S
WARSOP’S
SYKE’S
SHAW & SHREWSBURY’S
SHAW & SHREWSBURY’S
BARTLETT’S
DARK’S
NICOLL’S
HEARN’S
STUART SURRIDGE
GUNN & MOORE’S
SPECIAL VALUE BATS
20s 24s 29s
... 10s 6d, 15s 6d, 18s 6d, 20s, 22s 6d.
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 21s, 255.
12s 6d, 16s, 18s 6d 20s, 255.
8s 6d, 14s 6d, 21s, 255.
8s 3d, 8s 6d, 11s 6d, 14s.
18s, 19s, 19s 6d.
12s 6d, 15s, 18s, 19s 6d.
... 10s 6d,17s 6d, 245.
... 15s 6d, 18s 6d, 225.
14s 6d, 22s 6d, 27s 6d.
... 13s 6d, 17s 6d, 21s.
21s, 255, 275.
l2s 6d
MEN’S STUMPS
Postage on one set Stumps, 25., N.S.W. ; 3s
PLAIN BLACKWOOD
SUPERIOR ASH
ASH, Brass Tops, Steel Shod ...
ASH, Revolving Tops, Steel Shod
HICKORY, Brass Tops, Steel Shod
Bd., Inter-State.
... 2s set.
... 3s, 3s 9d set.
5s 9d, 7s 9d, 8s 6d set.
... 10s 6>d set.
... 16s 6d set.
MEN’S LEG GUARDS
Strong White Twill ... ... ...4s 6d pair.
Tan Leather, Continuous Straps ...6s 6d pair.
Tan Leather, Vent., Continuous Straps.. 8s 6d pair.
Tan Leather, Skeleton, Continuous Straps
10s 6d pair.
Best Quality Gold Cape...l2s 6d, 13s 6d, 16s 6d pair.
Postage on 1 pair Pads, Is, N.S.W. ; 1/8, Inter-State.
BATTING GLOVES
Featherweight ... ... ... 4s 6d pair.
Chamois, Tubular Rubber...ss 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d pair.
Surry Shields ... ... ... ... 4s each.
Postage on one pair Gloves, 4d pair.
Leather Balls
(s|oz.)
“ M.S.” Special Gut Sewn,
4s 6d, 6s 3d, 7s 6d each.
Specially suited for Matting
Wickets.
DUKE’S ... 5s 6d, 6s 3d, 7s 6d each
WISDEN’S...4s 3d, 6s 3d, 7s 6d each
SPECIAL SIX SEAM PRACTICE
. BALLS—
Is, Is 3d, Is 9d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d each.
Postage on one Ball, 3d. extra.
Cricket Bags
Strong Canvas, Double Ended (leather), 14s 6d each.
Postasre Is. 9d., N.S.W. ; 3s. 2d., Inter-Stace.
f
Men’s Gauntlets
Tan or Drab Ventilated ... ... ••• 58 pair
Gold Cape, Ventilated ... ... 68 6d, 8s 6d pair
White Kid, Ventilated ... ... ••• 7s 6d pair
Buff Chamois, Rubber Palm ... ••• 7s 6d pair
Gold Cape, Rubber Palm ... 9s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d pair
All England Special ... ... ... Us pair
The “Lilley” 14s pair
Postage on pair, 4d.
sdf
Cricket Nets
Complete S. Tarred, 18 x 6ft. ... 13s 6d each
42 x 6ft. ... 27s 6d each
42 x Bft. ... 35s each
Cricket Mats
Full Size Double Wickets, in t.wo pieces, 6ft.
wide, green color—
£3 10s, £4, £5.
Boys’ Bats
Size —1
Solid Handle, Plain ... ... 9d.
Solid Handle, Polished ... ... Is.
Half Cane Handle
All Cane Handle
All Cane Handle, Selected
Postage on one Bat,
Boys’ Cricket Balls
Leather, Six Seam, Is., Is. 6d. each.
Composition, 3d., 6d., 9d., Is,, Is. 6d., Is. Bd.,
2s. 3d. each.
Postage on one Ball, 3d.
Boys’ Gauntlets
Chamois or Tan, Ventilated, 3s. 6d. pair.
Gold Cape, Ventilated, 6s. 6d. pair.
Postage on one pair Gauntlets, 4d.
Scoring' Books
1 Pocket Size (Postage 3d.), 6d., Is. each.
2 Pull Size (Postage 3d.), Is., Is. 6d., 2s. 6d.
each.
Bat Handle Covers
1 Plain Red Rubber (Postage Id.), Is., Is. 3d.,
Is. 6d. each.
2 Pure Black Para Rubber, Is. 3d., Is. 9d. each.
3 Red Rubber (Fancy Patterns), Is. 6d. each.
4 Red Rubber (to Bind on Handle), Oafferay’s
Patent, Is. 9d. each.
Boys’ Leg 1 Guards
Strong Canvas, continuous Straps, 4s. 6d. pair.
Tan Leather ~ „ 55., 6s. 6d. „
Postage on one pair Guards, Is., N.S.W.;
Is. Bd., Interstate.
Boys’ Stumps
Polished, with Bails, 6d., 9d., Is., Is. 6d., 25.,
2s. 6d. set.
Postage on first three sets, 9d., N.S.W.; Is. 2d.,
Interstate ; on last three sets, Is. 3d.,
N.S.W. ; 2s. 2d., Interstate,
Cricket Sundries
1 Ash Bails (Set of Four), (Post. 2d.), 9d. set.
2 Lignum Bails (Set of Four), Post 2d.) Is. 6d.
set.
3 Rubber Bails (Post. 4d.), 2s. 6d. set.
4 Steel Shoes for Stumps (Post. 4d.), Is. 3d. set.
5 Bat Binding Twine (Post 2d.), Is. Gd., 2s. 6d.
ball.
6 Boot Spikes, on Card (Post Id.), Is. card.
7 Boot Screw Nails, on Card (Post Id,), 6d.
card.
8 Wicket Regulator (Horn and Parr’s), 2s. Gd.
each.
9 Bat Oil, specially prepared (Post. Is. extra),
lOd. bottle.
10 Book on Cricket (Post. Id.), 6d. each.
Illustrated Fishing Tackle, Sports, Tobacco Lists, Anglers’ Guide and Hints on Fishing—Post Free,
The Leading Sports Depot.
GUNS and RIFLES.
ms&smamamßM
The “Bullseye” Rifle, 22 Calibre,
20in. Octagon Steel Barrel, rifled, Remington action, walnut
stock, open sights, weight about 3|lb.' . * '
Postage—ls 9d N.S.W. ; 3s 2d Inter-State).
11/6
The Celebrated
“MAINE”
RIFLE
fitted with Sporting- Rear Sights to 300yds., Bolt
Action, ISin. Blued Steel Barrel, Walnut Stock.
Shoots 22 Short, Long, or Extra Long Cartridges.
Weight, 2flb.
"THE MAINE"
Pifie
tSheujing Pifle /tparf.
0* PRICE 15/6
POSTAGE ON RIFLE—N.S.W., 1/3; INTER-
STATE, 2/2 EXTRA. .
'SNOIAIIAIIS MOllrtJ
WINCHESTER THUMB TRIGGER RIFLE.
22 cal., 20in. Blued Steel Barrel, bolt action, weight about 211 b
Postage : N.S.W., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d..
Winchester S.S. Rifle, 1902 Model, 22 Cal., R.F., peep or V
sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2Jlb.
■_ _ Postage: N.S.W., Is 3d; Inter-State, 2s 2d..
Tft °s"d ; iS'ta“ e !' 22 Calibre ’ R - F - 20in - barrel . weight BJlb. Postage-
13s Od
18s Od
16s Od
Winchester
1904
Model*
sd
“Winchester” Single Shot Rifle, 1904
. Model, for 22" short or long rim lire cartridges,
21m. heavy round steel barrel, plain trigger, bolt action,
adjustable rear sight, length of rifle over all 37Jin., bead front
sight with patent alloyed tip, which will not
ire! I ™?' w( % hfc about 41b. (Postage, Is 9d rt s .
N.S.W. ; 3s 2d Inter-State). 24S
f
Stevens’
Little
Kra.gr.
Stevens' S.S.
barrel, 20in. long:
sight, with V sig)
" eight about 3Jlb.
“ * <r f £>” 22 Calibre, bolt action, blued steel round
, walnut stock, steel scroll trigger guard peep
it if required 6d extra, length over all 36in
(Postage, Is 6d N.S. W. ;2s 8d Inter-State). ’ -Z JL S
sd
Stevens’ “ Favorite.”
Stevens’ S.S. “Favorite,” 22, 22 W.R.F., 25, or 32 cal., rim
fire, half octagon 22in. barrel, case-hardened frame, solid breech block,
under lever action, open front and rear sights, weight 4£lb. (Postage, Is 9d NSW •
3s 2d Inter-State) .. .. .. - _ _ ' ' ' ’
Stevens’ S.S. “ Favorite,” 22 or 32 cal. R.F., fitted with beach combination, front sight
rear and vernier, else same description as above (Post., N.S. W. Is 9d ; Inter-State, 3s 2d ’
£1 10s
open £2
Leston
Daly
Coy.
D.8.8.L.
Gun
MICK SIMMONS
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.8.8.L. GUN, 12 gauge, top lever, steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding locks, left choke, pistol stock, weight about 71b. Postage—N.S.W., 2s 9d;
Inter-State, 5s 2d
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.8.8.L. GUN, same as above, but with Greener Cross Bolt.
Postage—N.S.W., 2s 9d ; Inter-State, 5s 2d
35s
45s
MICK
SIMMONS
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 or 16 Gauge, top lever, twist barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks,left choke, patent - _
D. &E. fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. Postage, N.S.W., 2/9 ; Inter-State, 5/2. 40S
ISAAC
HOLLIS
& SONS’
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Real Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Gross Bolt,
Left Choke, Rebounding Locks, Snap Fore-end,
chambered for 2fin. Cartridges. Guaranteed
for all Smokeless Powders.
Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
HOLLIS & SONS’ “THE RELIABLE” D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
GUN, 12-gauge, top lever, genuine Damascus or “ Siemen’s ” steel barrels,
both choke, side lock action, automatic safety bolt, extended rib,
Deeley-Edge patent fore-end, fitted with Greener cross-bolt, neatly engraved, chambered for
2Jin. cartridges. GUARANTEED FOR ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, and absolutely the
finest-quality Gun in the States. Postage, 2s 9d N.S. W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
£l2 12s
fsd
“The Reliable,”
£6 12s 6d
REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.


The DEFEAT of DISEASE
Some facts concerning the Wonderful Electro=Medical
flethods of the Freeman & Wallace Staff of Specialists by
which Hen suffering from almost hopeless Diseases are cured
and made strong with the Strength and Power of Youth.
Illustration of GLOBE * 4 NEBULIZER ”
... in use for the Cure of . . .
' 1 • '
Jmm
ALL THROAT, LUNG, NASAL and
Catarrhal Disorders.
The Electro-Medical methods of the Freeman and Wallace Institute are
wonderful in their effectiveness and rapidity to cure. They get at once to the
root of disease, uproot it, and fill the jaded nerves of the run-down and
physically wrecked man with electro-magnetic strength, they charge him with
the force and vigor of youth, giving him re-invigorated faculties, and new
nerve power.
They Make Life Worth the Living to all Men.
They give health for sickness, power for weakness, hope for despair. Any
man physically weak, who thinks he is beyond hope of cure, after he has read
these lines, may depend upon it, he can be cured permanently by the
Specialists’ electro-magnetic systems. Strength departed is restored, and
nerves, muscles, and vital organs regain their normal activity.
Men get their Grip in Life Once More
and love to live their lives. Thousands of men have been cured by The
FREEMAN and WALLACE SPECIALISTS. Such men as the great
Sculler, TOWNS; PETER KLING, Champion Pugilist; Mr. E. M.
CLARKE, J.P., North Shore, Sydney ; Inspector FOWLER, N.S.W. Police,
Mr. PATRICK LARKIN, J.P., and a host of others have testified to the
great benefits of the wonderful Freeman and Wallace treatment.
We strongly advise all men to consult us because it is a folly to delay.
Hesitation may mean that the curable disease may develop into the “ incurable,”
and health may never be regained. Remember, our Specialists are Experts
in Men’s Diseases. They specialise them. We have
Four Legally Qualified Medical Specialists
to attend to you, and who may be consulted FREE if you want candid opinion
as to the nature and cure of your trouble. All letters are treated with
absolute secrecy and confidence.
The Globe “ Nebulizer ” in Use .
This wonderful appliance is only one of the valuable
instruments used in the Specialists’ Electro-Medical treatment.
It possesses the latest up-to-date and most approved accessories
for the successful treatment of all forms of throat and nose
troubles, arising from Catarrh, and all forms of Nervous Deaf-
ness and Naso-Pharyngeal troubles. It has been specially
manufactured and imported by the Specialists of the Institute,
and is the only one of its kind in Australia at the present
time. In its use the best results are to be found in conjunction
with reliable and scientific medical treatment, and in deep-
seated ailments, the combined action of electro-medication with
the “ Nebulizer” the most wonderful results are obtained. The
Globe “ Nebulizer” treatment acts with excellent success and
gratifying results in Catarrhal ailments, wherein medical treat-
ment has failed, especially in acute nasal troubles, Hyper-
trophy of the tissues, and where the nasal passages and
Pharynx are involved. In cases of ear troubles, after being
treated with the “Nebulizer” in the usual way, inhalation
and vapor massage follow, and this has been proved to be the
most successful method known to the scientists of the day. In
many forms of obscure cases, wherein the symptoms call for a
different line of action, the “ Nebulizer ” stands alone from a
curative standpoint, and pulmonary troubles such as Asthma,
Bronchitis, Tonsilitis, and Consumption in the first stages,
readily yield to the inhalation processes and vapor massage
dispensed by its wonderful healing action.
TWO DAYS FREE TRIAL will be
Given in any Genuine Case. It
stands unrivalled as a curative agent.
If you are living too far away to visit, write at once, in strict
confidence, giving full particulars of your trouble, and you will re-
ceive a plain and distinct statement of what we can do for you.
The Strictest Confidence may be Relied upon.
We have References from every District in the Colonies.
Almost every post brings us fresh evidence of Success.
For a Quarter of a Century the Freeman and Wallace Medical
Institute has been a fixed fact, and will remain so. It is as standard
as Australian gold. Send for a pamphlet dealing principally with
testimonies. You will be surprised to know how many thousands
we have cured and benefited.
Some of the Diseases we treat with unfailing success
are Deadly Varicocele, Urinary Affections, Contagious
Blood Poison, Lost Energy, Weakness, Rupture, Piles,
Insomnia, Sciatica, Rheumatism, Bladder Disorders,
Kidney Ailments, Indigestion, General Debility, and all
Reflex Ailments,
If you suffer, call upon us or write. We charge nothing
for advice.
GEORGE TOWNS, the World’s Champion Sculler
says of our treatment .......
Messrs. Freeman and Wallace,
You have successfully treated many
athletes, and # have often heard your
Electro-Medical Methods of Treatment
eulogised as being most effective. I,
upon recommendation, underwent a
course of your Electro-Medical Treat-
ment. / soon felt better and strong,
and perfectly confident that 1 could
stand any strain hard and continuous
training might impose. / used your
Medical Battery. It is the Best Electrical
Appliance / have used.
(Signed) GEORGE TOWNS.
GEORGE TOWNS.
As we cured this man, so we can cure you. He is but one of many who praise our treatment. Write your
troubles. Letters promptly answered, and Medicine sent by Parcels Post.
Mfujf A Your Troubios you cannot call at our office, fully describe your symptoms, and
M * iiVM y OU w jj2 rece ive in a plain envelope a scientific and honest opinion
of your case, and a book of valuable information free of charge. GUARANTEED CURE IN EVERY
CASE ACCEPTED. Diplomas and Certificates of qualification and registration open to inspection. The Chief
Physician, Dr. WALLACE, L.R.C.S., E., L.R.C.P., E., L.M., is registered by Australian and English Med.
Boards, and may be consulted free by post or personally. He bears diplomas from some of the leading Medical
Centres of Great Britain and Scotland. The Specialists’ 750-page Medical Work post free upon application.
W FREEMAN & WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL AND SURCICAL INSTITUTE,
Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets, Sydney,
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director of Institutes
DR. WALLACE, Physician-in-Chief
DR. ELIZABETH WHITE, M.D., Diseases of Women
DR. F. BELL, Lecturer to the Institutes.
And at
Melbourne.


For coughs and colds.
“ A friend in need is a friend in-
deed.” Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral is j ust
such a friend. Never be without it.
It will prove a good friend when you
have a fresh cold, bringing immedi-
ate relief. You will find it equally
true in old colds, bronchitis, whoop-
ing-cough, asthma.
If you will use
Mger’s
'Gkerrif Sectoral
for an irritable throat or weak lungs,
you will find it “the best friend in
the world.” It acts as a strong tonic,
clearing up the throat, giving tone
to the relaxed tissues, and greatly
strengthening the lungs.
There are many substitutes and
imitations. Beware of them and of
so-called “Genuine Cherry Pectoral.”
Be sure you get AYER’S Cherry
Pectoral.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J.C. Ayer&Co., Lowell. fI!a:s..U.S.A.
To soothe
the Skin , ;
smarting under the heat of a
burning sun, and to remove the
effects of perspiration,
CALVERT’S
Prickly-heat Soap
is specially adapted. Though indispensable
in eases of Prickly-heat (whence its namei
and other irritation of the skin, it is also
popular for general bath and toilet use, being
pure, antiseptic, and refreshing.
Sold by all local Chemists and Stores,
in bars and tablets.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
England.
Your Age
makes no differ-
ence whatever -Jt
Young, old or middle-
aged, Scott's Emul-
sion of cod liver oil
and hypophosphites of
lime and soda will
cure your cold and stop
your cough with the
same promptitude and
certainty.
Here is a case of a grown man:
Fern View, Nundle, N.S.W., Oct. 19th,
1905. “ For a very long time I had a
bad cold which settled on my chest, and
I was also a sufferer from indigestion.
I took Scott’s Emulsion. My cold has
entirely disappeared. lam better and
stronger in every way.” W. A. Wooley.
And here is a case of a child?
Arcadia Street, Merrylands, N.S.W.,
Nov. 2nd, 1905. “My son Alexander
suffered with colds every winter, and
was attacked by croup. After taking a
few doses of Scott’s Emulsion he was
completely cured, and he has not had
the slightest return of the trouble since.
He has gained in weight, and feels and
looks thoroughly well.” Mrs. C. E. Reid.
Why does Scott's always relieve?
Because it is the finest food medi-*
cine in the world, acting especially
on the organs of the throat and
chest, building up sound flesh all
over the body, and helping the
Vitality as nothing else can.«^«^
Always get the Emul.
Bion with this mark—the
Fishman—the mark of
l,he “Scott" rrocessl
Always secure Scott's.
No other emulsion can
touch Scott's for the
chest. If you would
care to try it free, send
for a trial bottle gratis
(enclosing 4d- for post-
age and mentioning this
paper). Scott &Bowne,
Ltd., 483, Kent Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
IRISH
FOR—•
-The besf remedy
INFLUENZA,
COUGHS,
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS.
ASTHMA.
Ask for Bonn mg ton's
and see that you get it.
THE fIOQORPEON for Country Residents.
f
We don’t believe any Accordoon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price a£l
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price <£l 7s 6d;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Aecordeons from 7/6 to- 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments,
watches, jewellery, etc., 210 Queen St., Brisbane
m
OSTRICH PLUMES
From our Famous Farms in South Africa.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 10| inches).
This style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
3 for 10 -
POST FREE
to any adcfress.
We make this Special Offer to advertise our Ostrich Plumes. Write To-day. Send Postal
Notes or Money Order payable to John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free
BLACK or NATURAL FEATHER BOAS, 12/6. Length, I\yds.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
[Mention The Bulletin.]
Also at Corner of Bourkc and Smanston Sts., Melbourne.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
sdf
His Majesty
The King and
Royal Family.
MOIR’S
New Season’s Genuiue
“SCOTCH” OATMEAL
This Meal contains special fattening and
nourishing powers not obtainable in. any
other. Scotch Oats are world celebrated.
In hermetically sealed packages. TRY
IT, and you will never use any other.
MOIR’S
WORCESTER SAUCE.
EXTRA SUPERIOR QUALITY
IS PURE AND CENUINE.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, Limited
HERBERT J. SOLOMON, Agent,
47 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
[1
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
(Regd.)
!
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
DAY AND
NIGHT
WEAR.
Economical
because
Durable.
From
Leadiiig
Drapers.
The Queen says You can wear it for
nignt dresses all the year roifnd.”
SEE THE LABEL 'ON THE'SELVEDGE.""
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Inspiration.
The singing men of long ago
Still sing ; and, through the mould
That stops their chapiess mouths below,
We hear their songs of old.
And Philomel, on summer nights,
Flits o’er the grass to learn
Some ancient but forgotten flights
Of music from an urn.
The rose betrays a richer red
Between her fretted leaves ;
The snowflakes in the garden bed
Drop tears upon their sleeves.
A thousand Naiads storm the brook
That glitters through the glade ;
Their lifted bosoms gleam and look
Like cassia in the shade.
The mountain-wind forgets to sleep
And, joining in the strain,
Sends echoes back with hands that sweep
The harp-strings of the rain.
Thus all the sweetest melodies
To-day we treasure so,
Are phantoms lifted from the keys
Of autumns long ago !
N.S.W.
HUGH M'CRAE.
Love’s Parting.
There’s an end, and all’s over between us
Because your hurt pride wills it so.
You have something of Dian and Venus,
But still, at the best, are Lescaut.
And I, whose deplorable courses
Offend you, am human. We met
When God and the devil joined forces,
My Lady Coquette.
We met, and I loved you, and ever
The thought of you glowed in my heart.
To-day I dethrone you ; but never
The joy of my dream shall depart.
For I dreamt (0, mad dream !) of a creature
Courageous and tender and true,
As perfect in mind as in feature—
-1 dreamt that was you !
Light breaks, and I wake from my dreaming,
The skies of my hope overcast.
O, woman of beautiful seeming,
1 see you and know you at last !
I know, as I stand and look at you,
The worth of your love —And its price;
Eternally posed like a statue,
Your virtue’s your vice.
I loathe your pretences inhuman,
Your epicene graces and quips ;
Give me just a sweet, breathing woman,
With nerves, and a heart, and warm lips !
A woman with pulses and passions
(No decorous, divinity dove,
Enslaved by her creed and the fashions) —
With courage to love 1
And yet, though your slow heart were twenty
Times harder and colder, ah me !
In this wide world, where women are plenty,
There is only one woman for me—
One woman, aloof and uncaring,
Immaculate, exquisite, sweet,
Who tortures and spurns without sparing
My heart at her feet.
MAOEILAND.
PRANK MORTON.
The Song Ere Dawn.
Before the eastern sky was writ
With promises of light and heat,
And dawn’s gold lamp was still unlit,
A man came singing down the street.
His matin song was soft and clear—
The carol of a careless boy ;
The sleepers woke, and smiled to hear
His notes subdued and rich with joy.
The silent street was all his own,
The stars his audience ranged afar;
The music of his soul was thrown
Aloft in many a golden bar.
Had he gone by a songless man,
I would have guessed that in him went
A toiler, new from sleep, yet wan
And dull with care and discontent.
But careless as a youth, when first
He sets his feet where perils throng,
He challenged Fate to do her worst
In ringing notes of joyous song.
A lark’s task surely lay before
That minstrel of the waning night—
A task that made his spirits roar
To beautiful, far realms of light—
A mission among flowers, perchance,
With birds’ society to cheer,
And many a shy, delicious glance
From eyes, dark eyes of damsels dear.
Or work in gold awaited him,
The making of some chain whose charms
Would lend a light of grace to slim,
White woman with round throat and arms.
Or rubies dark, like blood drops, called
His craft to show their hidden ray,
That men might gaze with eyes enthralled
Upon dark tresses where they lay.
As he went singing down the street,
Light-hearted as a glowing lad,
Some loveliness, some labor sweet,
Awaited him and made him glad.
He passed, and as he passed there stirred
A wind of dawn ; the night was gone.
The East awoke in gold and heard
The singer ere his song was done.
What came to him, that minstrel bright ?
What sad, old lesson had he learned—
That, while the sunset flowered in light,
He did not sing as he returned ?
N.S.W,
RQDERIO QUINN.
“Philo”: Awhile ago, some “Abo.” person
remarked that goats are hard to kill; but I’ll back
the wombat for the Australian championship.
Know a man who caught one, and tjrmed it. It
quickly made itself at home, but its energy and
aptitude at digging holes in the yard, and the
manner in which it interfered with the birthrate
among the poultry, got its owner displeased, and,
with an evil intent in his eye and a substantial
lump of wood in his hand, he took that erring
wombat into a convenient paddock and assaulted
it often and vigorously on the head, until it looked
extremely dead. Next day, his attention was
attracted to the spot by the vigorous barking of a
neighbor’s dog. The dead wombat was on its
feet circling round and round, energetically defy-
ing the dog’s attempts to get in a rear attack.
Again he repaired to the paddock with a grim
determination and the best part of a tree, and
vigorously assaulted that wombat on the cranium
until he felt satisfied that it belonged to the great
majority of wombats. Next day, he heard a dis-
turbance in thefowlhouse, and arrived in time to see
the wombat finishing the last egg. And that man
and the wombat and the tree limb made another
journey to the paddock. When he left the scene
of action he was quite convinced that that par-
ticular wombat’s soul had gone where the good
dead wombats go. But next day a rather indis-
posed-looking wombat came across the paddock and
sat down at his back-door. The man sprinted to a
friend’s place, and possessed himself of a Winches-
ter rifle. In the meantime, the wombat had
thought better of the matter, and died a genuine,
dead die. But the man was taking norisks this time.
He dragged Mr. Wombat back to the paddock,
and killed him two of the deadest deaths it is
possible for a dead wombat to die.
“F.H.R.”: While partaking of my six-
penn’orth of mystery at a cheap restaurant lately,
“Old Dad’s” uncle came and sat opposite me.
After tucking his handkerchief up under his chin,
he beamed round good-naturedly. He said
“G’day” to the waiter, and asked after his
health. The waiter retaliated by breathing the
menu all over him. “Be eripes, that feller be
wastin’ his time ’ere,” said Uncle ; “ ought ter be
in Parlyment.” The man from beyond ordered
soup from the first waiter, but, while he was
getting it, three other energetic waiters visited
him and received the same order. The room
being pretty full, the surplus soup was disposed of
somehow, but the event was confusing. I finished,
and was glad to leaveere thatsoup was. “ Uncle ”
had a long, matted beard, and the handker-
chief, being underneath, kept fairly clean, for,
though the soup was strong and penetrating, very
little managed to soak through those “ wait-a-
while ” whiskers. Every mouthful he repeated
the word “ sooup,” and arrested a little rivulet of
the same that trickled down his whiskers. He
finished by scooping up the surplus salt from
his plate and carefully replacing it in the salt-
cellar. “ Bw-tiful salt that,” he murmured ; “lot
coarser where I comes from.”
‘ ‘ Greenstone ” : Rev. Gerard, of Maori-
laud, writes in the London Tablet about the kea.
Does this bird kill sheep ? It only prevails from
4000 ft. to 5000 ft. above sea, in the South Island.
The accepted story is that it picks at the sheep’s
back, down to its kidney fat, and kills the animal.
Gerard is dubious. He cannot make up his mind.
Here are settlers wanting to wipe the kea out,
while naturalists say the yarns are all nonsense.
Before settlement, the bird was only a feeder on
honey from flowers, and little insects. In the
same way the starling appears to have mysteri-
ously changed its tastes in Australasia. It was
imported to kill inseots, and took to eating fruit.


Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONET TO LEND
Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the ® cc “ , ' , * y
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any ot tne Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.0.; P. E. Winchcombe, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape, Esq.
General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, P.1.A., F.P.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Cures "WHile 1
You Sleep
, ESTABLISHED 1879.
:A Vaporized Medicine having Extraordinary
Curative Powers over
Whooping Cough, Croup,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza,
AND DISTRESSING COUGHS IN YOUNG AND OLD.
IT PROTECTS YOUR HOME AGAINST CONTAGIOUS DISEASE.
Vapo-Cresolcne complete 7-6$ Cresolene, 16 oz., 7-6; 4 oz., 2-85 2 oz.j I*3»
VAPO-CRESOLENE COMPANY, NEW YORK, U. S. A.
Trade Supplied by THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG COMPANY, LTD.
sd
MAKE
your
own
AERATED WATERS
WITH AN
AUSTRAL AERATED
WATER MACHINE.
AERATED WATERS cost less than
FOURPENCE PER DOZEN pro-
duced by these machines.
Prices from £lB and upwards.
Catalogues and full particulars from—
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
214 Queen Street,
Melbourne, Vic.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
XitcS..
SYDNE Y,
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL
SKINS are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered
promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPBTITIOKT.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
&c
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
f
MM
m
mm
m
RIFLE AND PISTOL CARTRIDGES
Winchester Rifle and Pistol Cartridges of
all calibers are loaded by machinery which
sizes the shells, supplies the exact quantity
of powder, and seats the bullets properly.
By using first-class materials and this
up-to-date system of loading, the reputation
of Winchester Cartridges for accuracy,
reliability and excellence is maintained.
They cost no more than inferior makes.
Ask for them, and insist upon getting them.
THEY SHOOT WHERE YOU HOLD
K
For Kangaroo and Big Game
.44 C.F.W. Cartridges are Known by all experienced
sportsmen to be reliable. They are specially
adapted for, and tested in, Marlin, Winchester,
Remington and other standard rifles. When pur-
chasing cartridges, specify those made by the
UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE COMPANY
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U.S.A.
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENO’S
BILIOUSNESS,
HEADACHE, ‘FRUIT
AND CONSTIPATION. salt:
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.— Sm Capsule marked ENQ’S 'FRUIT SALT/ Without it you hare a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Pnpartd only by J. O. IDNO, Ltd., * FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, UNO.,
by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
i
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
i ■
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
There’s SECURITY In
C
IRTERS
ITTLE
PILLS
Small Pill. Small Don. Small Pries
They TOUGH the
Be
LIVER
Sure they are Carter’s
[BEST SHIFTS
PELHAM,
ENGLISH
MANUFACTURE.
GROUND
IN BLACK & IVORY HANDLES. (EACH RAZOR IN A CASE).
»
f
°NI'
rlBB3 g
I
The
HOLIOWIGROMDi
Qi.
sdf
Refuse . g ee t j mt \ a i> e i on Razor Case is exactly as above.
Imitations
I Wholesale: OSBORNE, GARRETT & Co., London, England.
Pure Grape H.V.D. BRANDY
J. B. COOK, Ltd., 82 Pitt St., Sydney, o 4gents.


# e
%
«/
’ OlHTMENt
CURES
eyes
ftw
v
%fi \>
The first
Pcepntiflt for t!le preservation of the
teeth is to keep them clean by
constant attention at least every morning
and evening.
CALVERTS
Carbolic Tooth Powder
makes the work of your toothbrush so much
more complete and satisfactory, because it
perfects the cleansing and also supplies the
necessary antiseptic properties.
It is also delightfully flavoured and
refreshing to use.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores. ■
Made by F. C. CALVERT & Co.. Manchester, Eng.
RHEUMATISM.
gift’s
GOUT
Plli&S
Are recommended by doctors with confi
dence as one of the valuable results of
medical science, and the only remedy
ever discovered for these disorders, in
that they not only rapidly cure blit pre-
vent the recurrence of the malady.
Of Chemists and Stores, 1/1J and 2/9 per box.
Proprietors— PßOTJT & CO., 229, Strand,
London, England.
FAT FOLKS
REDUCE
your weight
51hs. a week
No inconvenience. No strict diet. Pursue
your ordinary avocation. Endorsed by Physicians,
Book and particulars free. Address —
JA S. CRAIG & CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne.
he Ideal
for weather extremes....
CADBURY’S
Absolutely Pure
COCOA.
An invaluable food-
drink foryounjg- l old.
at all times & seasons.
“The Standard of Highest Purity-7& Lancet
‘A Perfect Xao&"-Health.
df
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s '■
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA.
m
AGNES
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEN, specialist
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
Weak Men
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
ALF ALINE VITALITY PILLS
Will Cure the Nerves, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Seif-Confldenee, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 2S/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
ni nnn piipjC Dll I Q Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
dLUUU buns. 1~l L.I.D. Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blood
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43/6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
uinwinn Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6.
WBSIK women Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches: 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE ; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE;
111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE ?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
HANS PCTER RASMUSSEN.
SORE
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
NEVER RAIL
Ask your Chemist for the Little Book:
‘HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES
CURED
m
s=?/
V
54/
>■
2
0^
cj
-a
The Dr. ricLaughlin Co.,
100 W. riARKET ST., SYDNEY.
WILLIAM CHARLES CRAWFORO
Men’s Weakness
Cured toStayCured.
DURING the past five years in Australasia we have restored
ten thousand weak men to perfect health and vigor. These
men were, in many cases, complete wrecks of their former
selves—“ Weak ”in every sense of its meaning. They are, to-
day, splendid examples of manly strength and vigor.
Let any weak man come to us and follow our advice for three
months, and we will restore all his former strength, and in many
cases give him more vitality than he ever had.
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt
does more for the health and growth of this sunny land than
all Legislation, Public Resolutions, and Pulpit Exhortation
combined. It has only to be given a fair trial to be appre-
ciated. It positively cures the worst cases of Loss of Vital
Power, Varicocele, Enlarged Prostate Gland, Kidney and
Bladder Troubles, Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica, and
Derangement of the Digestive System. It is guaranteed in
every case undertaken. The cure is always permanent.
CONSULTATION FREE .
Call and consult us about your condition. We charge no
fee for advice, and if you call we will give you a free test to
show you what our Belt will do. You only buy if your judg-
ment directs you to do, so. Write or Call To-Day.
SEND THIS COUPON TO TJS TO-DAY.
FREE BOOK.
Send us this Coupon and
we will post our hand-
some Free Book to you
free of charge. Our Book
is worth its weight in gold to chronic sufferers. It points the
true and only road to health and vigor, and give the prices of
the different grades of our Belt. Send for it AT ONCE.
NAME
ADDRE55...,,.......'.......
Bull. 20-9-6.
Don't
waste time in
expert men ting.
Thirty Years *
unbeaten and increase
ing Success is the
best proof of the claim of
Onbiidgfe
£ungTbnfc
to be the WORLD'S CURE
for Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
and other Throat and
Lung Troubles.
It can ba obtained from
any Chemist or Store,
and Saves Many
Lives.
fOK
BOSISTO’S
“PARROT A
BRAND
EUCALYPTUS OIL
a a/d REFUSE
i SUBSTITUTE
sd
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
Is allowed on every cycle bought of üb. Your
Money in full refunded without question
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grads
cycles, warranted six years.
MODEM £2.10 to £6
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or Clincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Rim
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
Packed and Delivered Free
.o any port in the world. We guarantee safe
delivery.
Second-Hand Cycles
all makes, f £2.10
good as new, .
Great factory clearance sale at half factory prices.
EARN A CYCLE machine. rd Activo Agents
wanted in each district. Large profits easily made. Write at once for
free catalogues and our special offer , using sufficient postage.
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, &c., half prices*
MEAD CYCLE CO. Dept. B 3*
LIVERPOOL. LONDON AND CHICAGO.
200
L
DEAFNESS
“The Electricon.”
A miniature Device
for the EAR—invis-
ible, easily adjusted,
and entirely com-
fortable. Makes low
sounds and whispers
plainly heard. Over
fifty thousand sold,
giving instant relief from deafness
and head noises.
There are but few cases of deafness that*
cannot be benefited. Write for booklet
and testimonials.
fsd
THE
L. R. VERNON CO.,
60-64 Hunter St., Sydney.
BLOOD POISON.
FOR MORE THAN TWENTY YEARS
we have made the cure of blood poison a
specialty, Primary, Secondary or Tertiary
Blood Poison Permanently Cured. You can
be treated at home under same guaranty.
Capital 500,000 dols. We solicit the most
obstinate cases. If you have exhausted the
old methods of treatment, and still have aches
and pains, Mucus Patches in Mouth, Sore
Throat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spots,
Ulcers on any part of the body, Hair or
Eyebrows falling out, write for proofs of
cures. 100-page Book Free.
COOK REMEDY Co.,
1102 MASONIC TEMPLE, Chicago, U.S.A.
FREE TO THE
DEAF
If you suffer from Deafness, Head-noises Dis-
charging Ears or any aural complications and
desire a complete and permanent cure, write at
once to The “EAROSCOPE” CO., 90 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W., for a FREE pamphlet, fully
describing an entirely new, self applied method
which will be sent to you gratis and post free on
mentioning this paper, **
» POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH.
/\. Price Cel, from The Bulletin Office.


THE “LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
An Ideal Fabric for Outdoor and “At Home” Wear.
As rich In appearance as Lyons Silk Velvet costing a Guineaa yard, and wears longer.
the NEW “LOUIS” CHIFFON VEL DUVET
is one of the most fashionable PILE FABRICS for entire Costumes manufactured
for the present Season. Nothing else has such lustre of finish, such sheen and
softness of texture, and no other fabric yet produced shows such varying play of
light and shade.
Every yard of the “Louis” Velveteen, and the “Louis” Chiffon Yel Duvet, is
stamped with the name spelled L.-O-U-I-S and guarantee of wear, and Ladies
should insist on seeing this and thus avoid the substitution of inferior imitations.
From Drapers & Silk Mercers throughout the Colonies.
THE “BRUNSWICK”
Household
ICE MACHINE
IN the hotter parts of this Continent, in the tropical
islands of the South Seas, and anywhere, where
the thermometer soars up and stops pretty con-
sistently during' summer at about 100 in the shade, or
over, the luxury of a small, compact Cold Storage
becomes an absolute necessity. Such is the Brunswick.
It is the result of years of researcli and experiment,
and it successfully brings within the reasonable reach
of your pocket a wealth of ice and cold dry air, at
all times, at a price that is moderate and possible.
1
ifMlI
353
We have several sizes of plant, and will give you FULL PARTICULARS UPON APPLICATION
BUZACOTT & CO., Ltd., So,c /,gents > 7 & 9 Market St., Sydney.
Also Sole Agents for Sharpies’ Tubular Separators, * Hercules ’ Oil Engines, Cyclone
Fencing and Cates, &c., &c.
fsd
I
&L
inZl
ILL
ty'.jfmmig/ dLu&u'
C Jkcftm ft)/SaotdmUa vau-
Jafofo&ut v-mdafotfot/ for uJ
w>ik come foitifo u/is Co uatvT'
zdfomate for cconovvy y dated ■
faction. foe/ ednfonnatum/
im tuenct, 90U/ anuerforemcitwr
fowl %ufo/ , fo/fa 'ffofown
William Fleming#' equitable m. ceorces t .svdjiev.
afar
GOOD HAIR FOR AI.L I
HOLLAND’S Marvellous Hair Restorer
has gained a world-wide reputation for arresting the premature decay,
promoting the growth, and giving lustre to the hair. If your hair is
falling off, try it ; if it is thin, try it.; Price, 3s, 48, 68 ; .Postage 9d extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE
for Eczema, RingWorni, Parasitical, of the Head, and for
making hair gro.v on Bald Patches. Price, 6s ; Postage 9d extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE
for Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Color. It acts Quickly,
Naturally, and Effectively. Price, 5/6 ; Postage 9d extra.
CONSULT E. HOLLAND for ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
HOLLAND,
HAIR
SPECIALIST,
195 Collins St., Melbourne
' ■ ~ ■
FINNEY, ISLES & GO., LIMITED.
OUFt FAMOUS
big block suits,
Made to Measure. In
All-Wool Tweeds
f
and Ptire Indigo
Serges.
TROUSERS ONLY, 12s. 6d.
POiST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN |THE COMMONWEALTH.
SEND FOR PATTERNS.
•‘THE BIG
BLOCK,”
Edward & Adelaide Sts., BRISBANE.
BOVRIL
is the Cook’s best friend.
An appetising and nutritious soup
is quickly made by the use of
Bovril and it renders Curries and
all made dishes palatable and
strengthening.
Nature’s Own Food
The concentrated
nourishment
of Fresh MilK
PLASMON
One ounce contains more food
value than a beef steah.
6^
TRY
OATS
COCOA
9
Go twice
as far as
any others
sdf
Send Your WOOL to
WINCH COM BE, CARSON & CO., LTD.
The Leading* Sydney Salesmen.
BK
mm
HOTEL
METROPOLE
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
cnee
%alish r
Sold b\
.Jewellers
frcir to see our PHOTOGRAPHIC CARD of New
Watches, just forwarded to every JEWELLER
in the Colonies.
7\ Certificate. Given With Each Watch.
**‘s y/„±*oo
0* 9 V\ '««8
vV '892 fr 9626 2
%
ROTHES H AH S
LONDON
hW
175 Q
■fj
%
eixce
.
sd
Prairie Lands, Forbes, sth June, 1906.
Messrs. E. Rich & Co., Ltd., O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, . .
I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter of the 24th ult., and thank you for the
information contained therein. My Anchor Fence was the means of Messrs. atitt Bros.,
of Boyd, using it; also Mr. Coward, of Carrawobity, and I have just supplied particulars
and specifications to Messrs. Edols, of Burrawong, who, I believe, are renewing their boundary
fence, and were much taken with my style of fence. I am, myself, satisfied that at present
it is the best system of fencing, both for economy ana utility. Will
you please send me, as early as possible, 3000 galvanised Anchor Clamps, oUU galvanised
Anchor Standards, 38-inch ; 1 cwt. Tie Wire. ™
Yours faithfully (Signed) WALLACE HUNTER.
Read what
Mr. Wallace
Hunter thinks
of his
Anchor Fence.
. . the best system
of fencing, both for
economy and utility
Wholesale Agents:
E. RICH & CO.,
LIMITED,
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE.
Have you
any use
for a
Fence ?


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Odice, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
v0. 27.-N0. 1388.
THUUSDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1006.
Pbiob tin.
AN INTERRUPTED DEATH-SCENE.
Fatman (in alarm to Arbitration): “Good Heavens, sir, make an effort, now and live a little longer. If a big coal strike
comes, where will Ibe? Can’t you get up and settle it?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Austral in for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at tlie
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ... OIS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tun Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have. Tun Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
71 ou> to A ddress Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some, care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. 'To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, ivliere practicable,
acknowledge iii the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing r with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 8000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Neivspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tim Bullbtin wiTZ return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed,. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it ‘will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, farther, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not, responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amu tours in /thick unit White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or ivdsli, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
■—f.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be, paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each, mail from Messrs. Gordon and,
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, No. 1 Broad-street Place.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Messrs. B. A. Thompson ,b Co., 98 Biebeck’Street, Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco.—TP. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Breiver and Co., 99 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6§in. x 1/An.,
will be fonvarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1906.
ANTI-SOCIALISM AND ANTI-CHRIST.
Jesus Christ was the first Socialist with whose
doctrines the white man’s world is intimately
acquainted, and, according to the theories taught
by Him, Socialism is on the straight road to
Heaven, and Anti-Sosh is a sign-post on the
broad track to perdition. Socialism may be a
dream, but if so it is much the same dream as
Christianity—and, perhaps, just as remote. It
embodies the plans and specifications of a doctrine
of unselfishness and brotherhood, whereby indus-
tries will belong to the community and be worked
for the common good, and whereby land will be
owned by the community and be used for the
common benefit. It is the reverse of individualism,
which implies that every man shall reach for all
he can, keep all he can, and tread on whoever
gets in his way when he is acquiring all he can.
Individualism has been modified a good deal,
partly by laws—wrested from the treader by
the threats of the trodden—which limit the
extent to which the successful individualist
may trample on his fellows ; partly by the
action of the wiser variety of individualist
himself, for he realises at times that a man who is
successful in owning all the earth except one last
half-acre, may over-balance in reaching for that,
and fall on his head, and lose everything. Its
worst effects have been modified a little, also, by
charity, which is partly the successful individual-
ist’s faint apology to Goo lest something dreadful
should happen to him in the next world (the
faintness of the apology being evidence of the
exceeding weakness of his conventional belief in
any Gon or in any world save this), and partly a
concession to his own vanity, and love of power,
and desire for applause and advertisement. But
individualism, in its essentials, remains, despite
all alleviations, the same old brutal idea that
every man should take all he can get, and should
get it anyhow he safely can. It is naturally
the creed of the rich, just as Socialism is
naturally the creed of the poor. The pros-
pective state of justice and equal opportunity
appeals much more to the poor, who would
be raised, than to the rich, who would be dimin-
ished. When the rich man in the New Testament
was told to sell all he had and give to the indigent,
the indigent doubtless applauded a great deal more
than he did. Which is a case in point.
* * * *
The attitude of the Church towards the new
faith—which is essentially the old faith over again
—is a pathetic business. The Church fell away
from Socialism on the same day that it fell away
from Christianity. Jt began its mission by telling
the rich that this life is so short and the next one
so long that riches don’t matter. Later on it
found it easier to preach to the poor that this life
is so short and the next one so long that poverty
doesn’t matter, which is not the same attitude by
any means. If it hadn’t done this the rich im-
porter and the wealthy land-grabber would prob-
ably be worshippers of Jupiter to this day, and the
temple of Serapis might hang out about King-
street, Sydney, close handy to William McMil-
lan’s warehouse and not too far from Bruce Smith’s
office. The world was never really converted to
Christianity, for Christianity left off existing
when it left off having Socialism for its earthly
foundation. It gained the support of the rich
and the great by throwing its essence and its very
soul overboard. In the beginning it had so vast
a faith in the Paradise to come that the things of
this world were as nothing. This life was only a
span—something less than a pin-point on a
continent or a fly on a range of Andes—
and to take even an infinitesimal risk of
losing Paradise for the sake of the greatest Calico
Jimmy business, or the biggest estate on earth, it
held to be madness. It preached, then, in dead
earnest, that the prospects of the rich man—not
merely the rich man who had acquired his wealth
by special or extra injustice, but just the rich man
—in the future state were bitterly precarious.
In this respect the original Christianity went much
further than modern Socialism, which doesn’t
threaten the great landlord with terrible pains and
penalties unless he parts with his fortune; still,
Socialism is the only political creed which fits in
even to a modified extent with the uncompro-
mising Christianity of the apostolic days. But the
original Christianity died before the first Roman
Emperor, let alone the first Australian.importer,
began to follow the corpse of the new creed—new,
yet dead. Nowadays, no orthodox Christian is
expected to have so much faith in the next world
as to let go any opportunity in this one. The big
estate and the profitable Calico Jimmy business
are real and tangible. Paradise is intangible and a
perfunctory dream.
■* * » *
If the general trend of the doctrines of the four
Evangelists is to be taken as a guide, then the
Church is mostly lost, and the rich importer,
land-grabber, monopolist or money-king is
mostly damned, and the individualist or anti-
Socialist is mostly anti-CiiKiST. Of course, it
must be admitted that if any of these personages
went back baldly to the doctrines of the Early
Christian Church, Society would cast them
out. It is mostly the same old Society
which worshipped Jupiter and other sundries,
only modified with just a shade of charity as a
fire insurance against a possible hell, and the
premium on its policy is cut as low as possible—it
is some 2s. fid. per £lOO, that being about the
lowest rate in ordinary fire insurance business for
a detached brick building, slate-roofed, and used
for no hazardous purpose. Supposing the Church
returned bodily to the original creed, and de-
manded adhesion to that creed as the price of ad-
mission, the moneyed community would probably
do without the Church, and if the great land-
owner, or the rich sweater, felt that he must have
a religion of some sort he would try how Baal or
Dagon or any other old image would serve his
purpose. At present, however, he isn’t reduced
to these straits. The Church obligingly sticks to
its new attitude for his benefit. Instead of preach-
ing: to the rich that wealth isn’t worth keeping be-
cause this life is so short and uncertain and the
next one so immeasurable and so sure, it explains
to the poor that wealth isn’t worth getting because
this ’ife is brief and the next one endless. That
enables it to be a supporter of Proputty (as a
worthless thing that isn’t worth giving away), and
Vested Interests (as mere dross that are not worth
parting with). It still declares that the meek
shall inherit the earth, but it mostly reserves that
remark for the poverty-stricken ; it knows that
the meek don’t put up at the Australia Hotel as a
general thing, and it can’t, even in its wildest
moments, profess that there is any meekness
about the Peel River Co. when it demands £25 an
acre. Probably the Church’s position would be
impracticable in a social sense if it acted other-
wise than it does, but if so, according to its own
creed, it has to choose between losing its position
and losing its soul. And the essence of its creed
is that its position is of much less importance than
its soul.
* * * *
Socialism begins just as the real original Chris-
tianity did, in the lower (financially lower) strata
of society. The original Christian doctrine of
equality and brotherhood appealed first to those
who had the least to lose, just as the Socialistic
doctrine of equal opportunity for all appeals most
to those who have least opportunity. And the
early Christian doctrine appealed just as little to
Nero, of the close corporation of rich Caesars, as
the new Christian-Socialistic doctrine is likely
to do to, say. Dr. Embling, of the close corpora-
tion of the Victorian House of Rich Landlords, or
to George Reid, of the close corporation of rich
lawyers. The gibe that the followers of the new
faith are the men who are likely to profit most
by the general acceptance of it applies equally
well in either case. While Christianity remained
theold Christianity, theback view of theyoungman
turning away from the Truth because he had great
possessions was identical with the back view of, say.
Senator Simon Fraser turning away from the
very same faith (the same, at least, so far as con-
cerns the material part of it) for the same reason.
The great landlord of to-day—no matter how he
got his land—isoften aeon ventionally religious man
of a severe type; but his alleged religion doesn’t
prevent him being just as mad at the idea of a
graduated land-tax, to make him sell his big estate
even at its full value and thus give his fellow-men
a show, as if this world were the only one,
and the pomp of possessing great estates
were the only thing to be gained either here or .
hereafter. Nothing could more completely show
the deadness of his faith. And nothing could
more completely show the deadness of the
Church’s faith than the fact that it sees nothing
surprising, and often nothing regrettable, in his
attitude.
* * * »
Christianity in its beginnings was a combination
of Faith and Works. The new Socialism
represents the Works, because the Faith—or
rather the corpse of what used to be it—is mostly
in the enemy’s camp. If the Church has any Hope
of getting back to the old Christianity the best
thing it can do is to get back to the Socialistic
ranks and take the Faith there with it; to get
back to the old position, which might be im-
practicable, but which was at least honest; co
give up greasing the memory of the rich usurer,
and taking the subscriptions of the rich sweater ;
and instead of telling the poor to be content,
because they will inherit heaven, to lay more
emphasis on the equally prominent feature of
its creed, that the grasping and bloated will
assuredly peg out an allotment in a very different
place. That would mean that the Church would
be resuming its job at the point where it dropped
it, some sixteen or seventeen or eighteen centuries
ago, and starting afiesh to convert the heathen
still heathen—world. As it is, Socialism has
taken up the practical and visible part of the
Church’s abandoned and neglected business. It
hasn t openly taken up the spiritual part also, but
it is still much nearer to the old gospel than the
Church, which props up the rich landlord and the
affluent money-grubber. It has the Works. If it
isn’t quite a matter of certainty that it has the
Faith also—or so much of the Faith as it might
have—this can be set down as its apology :
that what calls itself the Faith has been seen for
many centuries in very bad company. The
alleged Faith has been found so often weeping
over the graves of wealthy and unjust persons
simply because they bought the approval of the
clerical profession with ill-gotten cash, and pass-
ing its plate at the usurer’s table for a second
helping of the ill-gotten turkey, which is really
human flesh and bone, that it can’t expect to be
viewed otherwise than with suspicion until it
mends its ways.
BRITAIN’S BROWN ALLY-AND
KOREA’S.
The text of the Anglo-Japanese Treaty is refresh-
ingly brief, but, by way of maleficent compensa-
tion, its possibilities are aggravatingly long—also
wide. Article I. reads :
Should either of the high contracting parties be in-
volved in war in defence of territorial rights or
special interests, the other party will at once come to
the assistance of its ally, and both parties will conduct a
war in common and make peace in mutual agreement
with any Power or Powers involved in such war.
Under that clause it is quite possible that, in the
event of Britain becoming involved in a war with
one or more Powers which could control the sea
for a very brief period, a Japanese army corps, or
several, might be landed in Australia to protect
British interests. Korea had a similar treaty
with the Mikado, and the Japanese went there to
protect Korea. When further protection became
unnecessary, they stayed to exploit—in short,
they kept the country. Which is where Austra-
lian interest in what happened to Korea comes in.
* * * »
The Korean-Japanese protocol, whereby Japan
forced the paw of friendship on the Government
at Seoul, provided that “ the Imperial Govern-
ment of Japan shall, in a spirit of firm friendship,
insure the safety and repose of the Imperial
House of Korea.” Also, that “ the Imperial
Government of Japan firmly guarantees the in-
dependence and territorial integrity of the Korean
Empire.” Further, that “incase the welfare of
the Imperial House of Korea, or the territorial
integrity of Korea, is endangered by the aggression
of a third Power, or internal disturbances, the
Imperial Government of Japan shall immediately
take such necessary measures as circumstances
require, and in such case the Imperial Govern-
ment of Korea shall give full facilities to promote
the action of the Imperial Japanese Government.”
On the strength of this protocol Korea was flooded
with Japanese troops, the telegraphs and tele-
phones were seized without notice, and the capital
occupied by a Jap army. The Korean Emperor
held no very high opinion of his protectors.
They had butchered his Queen a few years
before because she was opposed to Japanese
influence, and immediately he found that they
had seized his capital the Emperor fled to the
American legation, and begged to be allowed to
live there. He was afraid that they might insure
the “repose of the Imperial House of Korea” for
ever. In this he was wrong. They did not want
his life. The whole internal administration of the
country was taken over by Japanese officers, and
the population treated like a conquered people.
In order to checkmate any foreign interference,
or request for it, the Japanese forced the
Emperor to sign another protocol, in which
he gave away the last vestiges of sovereignty
that still clung to him. He agreed to appoint
a Jap, recommended by the Imperial Nippon
Government, as director of the Finance De-
partment ; another foreigner, recommended by
the Jap Government, as Director of the Foreign
Office ; and to make no treaty and carry on no
correspondence of a diplomatic nature, nor do any-
thing with or concerning foreigners, without first
submitting the whole question to the Jap Govern-
ment. This was all, of course, to prevent the
simple Koreans being taken down by some more
cunning and unscrupulous nation. ' Korea had
become a Japanese province.
* * * *
The next step was to recall all Korean diplo-
matic representatives from foreign courts, and
turn over the representation of the Hermit
Kingdom to the Japanese legations. The army
was reduced, and to a great extent disarmed. A
Japanese police force was established, the postal
department taken over and “reorganised,” old
railways completed and kept in Japanese hands,
and new ones of strategic importance, and con-
venient for the conveyance of Japanese troops
when Japan is ready for more conquest on the
Asiatic mainland, were built with incredible
speed. The whole fiscal business of the country
was handed over to a Japanese financial institu-
tion known as “ The First Bank,” which collected
Customs and all internal revenues, paying the cost
of collection. But it kept the money for Japanese
purposes, and didn’t even pay Korea interest on
the gigantic steal. Then the First Bank issued a
new coinage, and though the coin was produced
out of the stolen Customs revenue of Korea, that
miserable country is compelled to pay 6 per
cent, interest on the amount invested in its
new coinage. The First Bank has power to
issue notes of its own, on the security of property
belonging to the Korean Government. Korea
supplies the security, and the Jap bank takes the
profits, and if the Jap bank repudiates its notes
or defaults, Korea pays. The whole profit of the
Mint was taken from the Emperor of Korea and
given to this Japanese bank. This did a lot to
ensure the repose of the Emperor—he used to
stay at home and smoke instead of going out and
having a riotous time on the proceeds of the Mint.
When this reform came into force it was hailed
by riots among the Koreans, but Japanese troops
shot the rioters, and rode over them with cavalry,
and then inquired blandly if there were any more
gentlemen who had objections to offer.
* * * ♦
Japan found time, busy as it was in other
directions, to do most of these steals while the
war was in progress. When the war was ended
the Japanese occupation started on a new phase.
Nearly all the industries in Korea are carried on
by foreigners—most of them by Americans and
British, some by Germans and Frenchmen. Owing
probably to the Alliance, the British have not had
their toes trodden on very severely as regards
businesses already established, but no Briton, no
European of any kind, no American, can start a
new business of any sort in Korea. All new
enterprises are nominally reserved for Koreans
and Japanese—practically all for Japanese.
Some of the concessions granted to Europeans by
the Korean Government before the war have been
cancelled. For instance, the concession to con-
struct and operate a railway from Seoul to Yalu
was originally granted to a French company, but
the Jap Imperial Government has built a railway
of its own, regardless of the French rights, and
declines to pay any compensation. Other
enterprises that are firmly established the
Japanese are seeking to buy out, on the ground
that the Koreans should own the industries of their
own country. All of which is very true. Unfor-
tunately, the Japanese, after buying up these
industries very much at their own price, forget to
pass them along to the Koreans, and they remain
Japanese. Japanese immigrants are pouring
into the country through subsidised emigration
bureaux in Japan, and their attitude towards the
Koreans is that of the conqueror to the conquered.
All the Japanese proposals are set forward as those
of the Korean Emperor, and any popular opposi tion
to the alleged Imperial commands is suppressed
ruthlessly by J apanese troops. Hundreds of in-
fluential Koreans have been summarily executed
by Japanese troops for “ disloyalty to the Korean
Emperor,” in spite of the Korean Emperor’s
opposition. Among other choice schemes pro-
posed by the Japanese for the improvement of
Korea was the handing over, under long leases,
to the Japanese Nagamori Company of all
unoccupied Crown lands, and privately-owned
land not already under cultivation. Roughly
this meant two-thirds of the area of the country
to be handed over at practically no rent, on a lease
which everybody knew would never expire. The
Koreans made such a demonstration about it that
it looked as though it would be necessary to
slaughter nearly the whole nation to carry the
thing through, and, for a time, the Japanese have
dropped the scheme. That is to say, it is dropped
till the Jap garrison is stronger. The final stroke
was the “negotiation of an agreement,” by which
a Japanese Governor-General was to- administer
the Government “ under the Emperor.” The
Korean Emperor and Cabinet flatly refused to
sign the document. The palace in which they sat
was surrounded by Japanese troops, and the Em-
peror and Cabinet made prisoners. The Cabinet
broke up, and then the Japanese emissaries sought
the members out individually and obtained their
signatures. As quite a number of the Cabinet
committed suicide immediately afterwards, there
is a dark suspicion that some startling forms of
suasion were used to obtain those signatures, and
torture is hinted at. But the signatures were
obtained.
* ■* * *
And all these things were done by a Japanese
army that had come in a spirit of “firm friend-
ship” to protect the unfortunate Koreans from
the Russians. It really seems that if Britain
does get involved before Australia has built up its
army and arms factories, it would be better
for Australia to invite Britain’s white enemy to
come right in and defend the country against
Britain’s Brown Ally. But the best thing
to do is to break up our big estates, make
land in the well-watered districts cheap and
plentiful, and encourage a stream of white
settlers who will form the kind of material
out of which France over and over again
built up armies in a day. With a large agricul-
tural population, small arms and ordnance and
ammunition factories, and a proper defence
system, Australia will be in a position, when the
time comes—as it has come to all other nations—
to put the national back against the wall and fight
with both hands and feet to keep out white in-
vaders and Brown Allies.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Bogus “Protestantism” in Politics.
The Vic. Protestant Electors’ Committee, with
Knox, M.H.R., in the chair, adopted an impu-
dently fraudulent platform the other day. Some
of its planks are disguised with a thick coating of
patriotic whitewash, as, for instance :
(2) The public weal above pleas of party, sect, or class.
(4) Support of approved candidates, irrespective of
party, sect, or class.
(6) Purging of appointments from sectarian partiality.
As though the V.P. E.C. could possibly approve
of any R.C. or Hebrew or Agnostic candidate,
or ever look at the “public weal” through other
than yellow spectacles! Knox and Cos. are
working in direct opposition to the Australian
National party, introduced by Chakles Atkins,
the busy Protectionist barracker. The real character
of the V.P.E.C. platform was stated frankly
enough in a recent issue of the local Watchman.
which complains of the non-sectarianism of
Atkins, and evidently regards Protection as a
paltry, irreligious matter for voters to worry
about. The Watchman quotes Bilk, M.H.R.
in explanation of the Protestant committee’s holy
purpose. “Eiscalism counts for nothing, the sole
object of the association being to support candi-
dates who will support Protestantism, loyalty and
good government.” The three most suitable
candidates so far discovered in Victoria for this
honor are Simian Phraser, J. H. M‘Coll and
Alexander Ramsay, “all good, GoD-fearing,
conscientious men, and uncompromising oppo-
nents of Romanism.” There is evidently no
possibility of an R.C. candidate getting the
blessing of the Watchman and the vote of the
V.P.E.C. “irrespective of party, sect, or class.”
Eor that matter The Bulletin wouldn’t care a
straw whether he did or did not, but for certain
side issues. When a man like Simian Phraser
gets in because he is “an uncompromising oppo-
nent of Rome,” he never does any damage to
Rome, but usually wades in to damage Australian
industries. This paper cares very little what
happens to “Rome,” or Jerusalem either, but it
worries a lot about Australian industries. Eor all
that Simian Phraser and his crowd have
attempted in Parliament during the last six years
to depress “Rome,” they might as well be
“Rome” themselves. They haven’t proposed to
disqualify Roman Catholics as Ms.H.R.,
or as Senators, or as electors; they haven’t
shunted one R.C. out of the Civil Service ; they
haven’t advocated a Eederal endowment for the
Protestant churches; they haven’t done any-
thing. In short, almost every blastiferous
Orangeman of the push seems to be more or less
of a Foreign-trader, an enemy of Australian in-
dustries, a solid advocate of big estates, an oppo-
nent of land settlement, and a supporter of nigger
labor or cheap white labor. They all get in under
false pretences. They are elected by foolish
people who expec t to see them make an unholy
smash of “Rome,” and give “the Scarlet
Woman ” seven days for being a red bush-fire on
the landscape, and all they do is to go in sys-
tematically for depriving Australian Protestant
workmen of employment so that much of it may
go to Roman Catholics in France, Belgium,
Bavaria, Austria, Italy—any place, however
steeped in “superstition,” that the cheap goods
come from. In this respect Bill Wilks and


Jesskp, the Orangemen, and Joe Cook, the
Methodise fanatic, are worse Protestants
bv far than such Roman Catholics as
R. E. O’Connor and Owe’Sullivan. And
in N.S. Wales especially a whole lot of the
Orange party, in addition to helping the foreign
Papist all they know, have lent their aid to the
parochial elamorers who abuse everything Vic-
torian as if it were accursed—who denounce Pro-
tection to Australian Protestant industry as a
scheme to “ pamper Melbourne manufacturers,”
and call the proposed capital at Dalgety the out-
come of “a Victorian conspiracy”; for all of
which it is mighty hard to find a reason, except
it be that Victoria has a far smaller proportion of
Roman Catholics than N.S.W. or (Queensland.
Between their utter neglect to do anything for
Protestantism, their yearning to take the bread
from mostly-Protestant Australian workmen so
that it may go to foreigners who are largely
Roman Catholics, and their bitter fury against
one of the most Protestant States of the Common-
wealth, the Orange push of N.S.W. is a remark-
able push and looks very like the hidden emissary
of “Rome.” Some of the Orange pushites are even
so mad about N.S. W., the most Roman Catholic
State of Australasia, being united with five other
States all much more Protestant than itself, that
they talk wildly of “ Secesh.”
♦
The Tory Crowd s Land-Tax Lie.
Mr. Webster (N.S.W.) desired to know if the Prime
Minister was aware that pamphlets were being circulated
by the anti-Socialist party throughout the country
districts of New South Wales, containing more lies to the
square inch than ever previously known with regard to
the Labor party’s policy. The pamphlet charged the
Government and Labor party with desiring to impose a
Federal income-tax and progressive land-tax of one
shilling in the £, and also stated that the Labor party
was going to nationalise all monopolies and all industries
right away.— Parliamentary Report in Sydney Tele-
graph (12,9/’06.)
One of the Labor members complained that an anti-
Socialisfc pamphlet containing statements of opinion which
he chose to regard as unorthodox was being insolently
circulated in his electorate, and this seemed to be
regarded by the Prime Minister as amongst the grievances
calling for remedy by means of a Royal Commission. —
Sydney Telegraph leading article (same date.).
The second quotation is only the mildest part of
an article in which the Sydney Telegraph raved
at large because its opponents dared to object to
the methods by which the remarkable Tory-
Foreign-trade party is seeking to struggle back to
office. During the present campaign, even in its
early stages, many alleged “gentlemen” of the Tory
faction have exhibited a capacity for gross and
shameless lying which would shock a Domain
loafer, and whichevensomehardened thieves would
be sorry to emulate. Their simple rule appears
to be that, in dealing with their Democratic
opponents, all the rules of decency, good breeding,
fair play, honor, and truthfulness, are suspended,
and that an alleged gentleman may, without
losing caste, become a liar, a slanderer, and a cad
of the worst description, A fair example of this
tendency is the pamphlet of which Webster com-
plained. The fiction on which it is based first
reached this paper in the shape of a circular issued
from an office in the Courier Buildings, Brisbane.
It was commented on in these columns some
weeks ago, but it is a matter which can’t be exposed
too often as an example of Tory tactics. The
circular dealt with the proposed Federal gra-
duated land-tax, and set forth the case as
follows:
FEDERAL LAND TAX.
How It Will Affect the Queensland Farmer.
Savvoubavea 80 Acres, 200 Acres, 640 Acres,
at £5, at £2105., at£l,
r arm or =£4oo. =£soo. =£64o.
Your municipal
and shire rates,
at 2d. in the £,
will be .. .. £3 6 8 £4 3 4 £5 6 8
The FEDERAL
LAND TAX, at
Is. in the £, will
be .. .. 20 0 0 25 0 0 32 0 0
Add to which the
State Treasurer’s
tax of, say, 6d. in
the £ J .. .. 10 0 0 12 10 0 16 0 0
This would mean a
total for the
Three Taxes of £33 6 8 £4l 13 4 £53 6 8
Which you will have to pay EVERY year.
Note.—The above taxes will be in addition to the in-
come-tax.
This is a fair specimen of the Tory methods of
political warfare. No one knows better than the
“ gentlemen ” of the Tory crowd that the proposed
Federal graduated land-tax starts with an exemp-
tion of £SOOO. Therefore, the alleged tax of £2O
per annum on the miserable farmer with £4OO
worth of land is a premeditated lie, for he would
be wholly exempt. The alleged tax of £25 per
annum on the unfortunate agriculturist with £SOO
worth of land is a wholly intentional falsehood,
for he would be exempt even if he owned ten
times as much land. The alleged impost of £32
per annum on the struggling cultivator with £640
worth of land is an outrageous deception such as
only an unutterable cad would be capable of. The
Is. in the £1 is a lie, for the amount proposed so
far ranges from |d. in the £ up to a maximum of
4d. Also the Queensland State Treasurer’s tax of
6d. in the £ is a lie; there is no such thing.
A person named Ananias has been held up
to scorn for nearly 1900 years for telling one
lie, but the man who issues this circular tells at
least five in a single act, and so deserves five
times as much damnation and execration as
Ananias, or 2h times as much as Ananias and
Sapphira combined. The whole idea of the
proposed Federal graduated land-tax is to reduce
the burden of the small farmer by shifting some
of it on to the huge land monopolist ; to
make it easier for the small man to get
land ; to enormously increase his numbers
by making 100 of him grow where only one big
monopolist grows now, so that his vote will be a
power in the land, strong enough to suppress at
the polls any party—if any such foolish party
should arise—which would talk confiscation or
propose any measure of oppression. The Tory
party’s deliberate reversal of the whole programme
—its deliberate representation of a scheme for the
relief of the farmer as a device for plundering him
—puts it on a level with Titus Oates and other
notorious liars of history. It was the circulation
of this kind of literature in his electorate to
which Webster took exception, and it was
because he complained of this species of political
warfare that the Telegraph discharged its airy
scoff about matter “ which he chose to regard
as unorthodox.” Apparently the ’Graph doesn’t
regard sheer falsehood as unorthodox, when
circulated by the ’Graph’s own party in the
’Graph party’s own interest. In this matter the
party and its apologist seem worthy of each other.
At all events, whatever may be said of the apolo-
gist, many of the alleged gentlemen of the Tory
faction are putting up a record in this campaign
which, if a political party had the same right to
protect itself from slander as a private individual
possesses, would land them in a well-earned gaol.
J. "Ward’s Land Policy.
As particulars of Premier Ward’s proposed new
land policy drift through from Maoriland it looks
more and more brilliant. Its three great features
are:—
(1) No more selling of land.
(2) No more accumulation of big estates in the area that
is already freehold.
(3) Steady reduction of existing big estates.
All existing large estates are to be valued, and
where the value is over £50,000 the owner is to
have ten years in which to sell sufficient to bring
him down to the £50,000 limit. It is reckoned
this will strike 63 very indignant gentlemen j ust
where the knock will do the country most good.
As regards new purchases, the limit seems to be
by area. Every individual who buys even a
quarter-acre of land must first swear that this
purchase will not increase his holding to
more than 1000 acres of first-class or 5000
acres of second-class country. Premier Ward,
it is understood, intends to gradually aban
don the costly process of repurchasing estates
for settlement purposes with loan moneys,
and to let the land cut itself up automatically
under the new law. If he can carry' his policy,
and make up his mind to leave of all borrow-
ing and do a little repayment instead, Joseph
Ward will rank as the most statesmanlike Pre-
mier in Australasia. Even Sydney Telegraph
spoke rather kindly of Ward’s scheme —which
seemed an astonishing departure for it until it
started to point out how much wiser this device
was than the proposed Commonwealth graduated
land-tax. Then the cloven hoof of Toryism be-
came apparent, as usual. The Australian Parlia
ment can’t adopt such a scheme as Ward’s with
out an amendment of the Constitution, because it
has no direct control over lands, and it is pretty
certain that the present State Legislatures won’t.
Therefore, if Australia could be switched off on to
Ward’s idea, the big estates would have another
long lease of life.
♦ ■
Ballarat and Bloated Melbourne.
Grant Hervet, on Victorian railways :
Viewed from the standpoint of the Ballarat consignor,
the Victorian railways resemble the tentacles of a gigan-
tic octopus. That vast network of lines, converging to
Melbourne from the Western District, the Wimmera, the
Mallee, Mildura, the Murray, the Goulburn Valley, and
Southern Gippsland, is really a traffic-sucking apparatus
which exists for the sole purpose of dragging everything
to and from the metropolis. The whole of the internal
interests of Victoria are sacrificed in order to keep the
metropolitan octopus bloated up to its full capacity.
From the border of South Australia to the southern boun-
dary of N.S. Wales, not one prosperous out-port is to be
found. The following table, showing the 1904 esti-
mate of the population of Victoria and of its principal
towns, will succinctly expound the results of centralisa-
tion :
All Victoria 1,210,304
Greater Melbourne .. .. 608,450
Ballarat .. .. .. .. 49,202 -
Bendigo .. .. .. .. 42,660
Geelong .. .. .. .. 25,957
Oastleniaine 8,018
Warrnambool .. .. .. 6,650
Maryborough 5,848
Stawell 5,200
These figures are taken from the latest Victorian Year
Book ; which incidentally shows that the populations of
Stawell, Bendigo and Ballarat have declined since the
census of 1901. As the table indicates, Greater Mel-
bourne contains 364,915 more inhabitants than the seven
next largest towns put together.
There is a reason for this discrepancy, and it goes on
wheels. Take Ballarat as an example ; the towns
are all the same. It doesn’t pay to be either a
merchant or a manufacturer at Ballarat. The Railway
Department, with all the powers of Government behind
it, has apparently set out with the determination of
wiping Ballarat off the industrial map. Its weapon, as
usual, is the blastiferously dishonest preferential rate
system. The freight charges are so manipulated, that it
pays consumers on the border of South Australia to get
their goods frdm the Yarra-side octopus, instead of deal-
ing with the midland city. Nobody in the Western Dis-
trict will touch Ballarat manufactures, because the
freight charges add anywhere from 20 to 100 per cent, on
to their cost. On the other hand, the rates on consign-
ments direct to or from Melbourne are cut dowm to
swindling minimums—in order to enable the metropolitan
importer to dump his wares on the Western District at
competition-breaking terms. The contrasts are so g laring,
that if a privately-owned railway company were to adopt
similar centralising tactics, the whole State would be
shrieking- for a Royal Commission. The whole iniquity
is based on the system of charging special low rates on
Melbourne goods, and piling the full mileages on con-
signments from Ballarat. It amounts to a wholesale con-
spiracy to wreck the business of the inland towns. The
subjoined table, showing the charges made for hauling
Class 111. goods from Melbourne, together with the
impost for bringing the same goods from Ballarat —a
shorter distance by 96 miles —will expound the situation :
Per Ton.
Miles from Melbourne Ballarat Impost on
Melbourne. Charge. Charge. Ballarat.
(Ballarat 96
miles less). £s. and. £s. and. £s. and.
Dunkeld .. 200 2 11 6 2 13 0 1 6
Moutajup .. 207 286 216 6 80
Hamilton .. 219 200 320 120
Branxhohne.. 235 2 0 0 310 6 110 6
Condah ..243 2 0 0 3 14 6 1 14 6
Milltown ..250 2 0 0 3 17 9 1 17 9
Heywood .. 257 200 409 209
Portland ..273 2 0 0 4 7 3 2 7 3
As will be seen, the Melbourne rate falls at 219 miles to a
dead minimum of £2 ; and it sticks at that minimum
while the Ballarat rate—for the shorter journey—climbs
up to 7s. 3d. more than double the figure ! If the rate
from Melbourne to Portland were proportionate to the
rate imposed on the distance between Ballarat and Port-
land, the Department should charge £6 at the very least
for every ton of Class 111. goods hauled from Octopus-
ville to the Western seaport. The size of the swindle can
be shown by quoting the Department’s own mileage
rates for similar distances. Thus (pages 45-6, Goods
Rates Book, 1906) :
Per ton. Per ton.
Miles. Class 111. Miles. Class 111.
200 .. £4 17 0 243 .. £5 14 9
207 .. 419 9 250 .. 517 9
219 .. 5 4 9 257 .. 6 0 0
235 .. 511 6 273 .. 6 5 6
So that, on its own figures, the Victorian Railway Depart-
ment grants actual rebates ranging from £2 ss. 6d. to £4
ss. 6d. per ton, in order to destroy the Ballarat manufac-
turer. This is State aid to metropolitan interests with a
vengeance. Having gone so far, the Department ought
not to boggle at a few shillings ; but should cart imported
boots and furniture, etc., from Melbourne to the Western
District gratis. Then the ruin of Ballarat would be
complete ; and a host of struggling manufacturers would
escape a lot of needless financial agony.
To round off the situation, a table is now submitted,
showing how the Ballarat consignor fares at present on
the Branxholme-to-Casterton line. This, incidentally, is
the line which is bordered by squattages which have risen
in value, consequent on the construction of the railway',
from £1 per acre purchase price to £4O per acre rent
valuation: —
Miles
from Mel- Per Ton.
bourne. , A
(Ballarat Mel- Impost
96 mile§ bourne Ballarat on
less.) Charge. Charge. Ballarat.
Branxholme .. 235 £2 0" 0 £3 10 6 £1 10 6
Grassdale .. 245 2 2 6 3 15 6 1 13 0
Merino .. .. 253 2 2 6 3 19 0 1 16 6
Hentv .. .. 258 2 2 6 4 1 0 1 18 6
Sandford .. 264 226 436 210
Casterton .. 267 226 449 223
It is nothing short of a blazing scandal that the Depart-
ment should be allowed to juggle with freight charges
like a common race-course spieler. Here is the Depart-
ment’s own list of the fair mileage charges for the same
hauls :—
Per Ton. Per Ton.
Miles. Class III. Miles. Class III.
235 £5 11 6 .. 258 £6 0 6
245 5 15 9 .. 264 6 2 6
253 5 18 9 .. 267 6 3 6
The rebates on this branch, therefore, vary from
£3 11s. 6d. to £4 Is. per ton in favor of the Melbourne
consignor. If Parliament were to pass an Act forbidding
any Ballarat merchant or manufacturer to trade in the
Western District, the effect would be exactly similar to
that which is produced by the operation of these accursed
rates. But, not satisfied with shutting Ballarat off from
its natural trade area, the Department provides special
facilities for wrecking Ballarat’s own local trade. A
special rate of £1 11s. 6d. per ton applies to all Class III.
goods consigned from Melbourne to Ballarat. If the
charge were proportionate to the rates which affect Bal-
larat consignments to the Western District, it would cost
£2 9s. per ton instead. With a cut of 17s. 6d. per ton on
a haul of 96 miles, the Melbourne octopus is enabled to
suck up Ballarat’s local trade like an ocean dredge. If
the Wimmera were opened up for Ballarat, in the same
way that Western Victoria is made available to the Mel-
bourne dumper, it would be a fairer deal. But the
Wimmera is barred to Ballarat, just the same as the
western area is shut off. Ballarat’s proper mission,
according to the Railway Department, is to become a
commercial and industrial corpse with the greatest pos-
sible velocity, so that the metropolitan vampire may
bloat itself to bursting-point. Hence these rates.
And Ballarat isn’t an isolated case. It is only an example.
Now the policy of any sane railway system would be to
give the inland town the advantage, rather than the dis-
advantage. The inland towns represent Australian-
made goods ; the seaport represents, in too many cases,
imported goods. The growth of the inland towns means
a more general diffusion of population, while the further
bloating of Melbourne is unhealthy congestion. And the
dragging of everything to Melbourne means the placing
of everything just handy for the first invader to knock it
to pieces—the placing of all our eggs in one basket, and
the leaving of that basket on the shore to be a target.
Election Expenditure.
Last week madness reigned supreme in the
columns of the Tory press over the suggestion
that a Commission might possibly be appointed
to investigate the financial doings of candidates in
the Federal electoral campain which has already
commenced. The Sydney Telegraph, which
was about as wild as all the other papers put
together, rose with rumpled hair and blood in its
eye to remark that ‘ 4 It is safe to say that no
Ministry, on the eve of a general election, ever
took advantage of its position to attempt intimi-
dation of such an audacious kind before.” And
it is probably quite true that no Ministry in Aus-
tralia— tjhe Telegraph’s silly habit of throwing
superlatives loose around the universe made
it talk as if nothing of the kind had
ever been previously heard of in the
world at large—ever did it before, or
had cause to do it. The Commonwealth
has a law—a most just and wise one —limiting the
amount which a candidate may spend, or which
he may authorise other people to spend, on his
electoral campaign. This is only an expansion of
the anti-bribery law. In every decent country it
is illegal to buy votes directly. In every decent
country it is also illegal to buy them indirectly,
by appointing a vast section of the electorate as
paid canvassers, by purchasing newspaper support
with vast advertisements, by subscriptions and
charities given at election time, and similar
means. It is equally illegal for a rich candidate
to swamp his opponent by taking all the avail-
able halls in order to prevent him addressing the
electors, and by similar devices. These things
are made unlawful by the limitation on the
amount which a candidate may spend, and this
limitation is intended to prevent the man with a
£500 motor car getting more than a certain start
over the man with nothing but a pair of
ready-made boots. Up to a certain point
money may carry the day, but any political
services rendered, which the fixed amount of
money will not pay for, must be given free by
supporters for sheer love of the cause, and if the
cause is worth anything such gratis services can
be secured in abundance. The present trouble is
simply this : Certain electorates, now represented
by prominent Democrats, are being trodden flat
by the multitude of Tory canvassers, and the
local cow is being scared off its fresh green feed
by the blowing around of red and blue Tory
ilterature, much of it containing falsehoods which
ought to make Ananias shudder in his grave.
As regards the canvassers, if they are giving their
services free, or nearly free, from sheer love of
Toryism, there is nothin* to be said, but if they
are being paid at anything like a reasonable scale,
then it appears that in some cases the limit of
election expenditure will be reached long before
the election comes off, if it hasn’t been reached
already. There are rumors, here and there, of
very liberal payments and offers of payment, and,
in any case, many of the herd of canvassers don’t
look like people who could afford to work without
fair payment, and the cause doesn’t look like one
that any person would serve gratis, neither does
the candidate. The Democratic member objects
to give away his seat to a person who wins by
huge and illegal expenditure of money, and then
probably covers up his illegality by supplying a
false return of his expenditure. After looking at
some of the political literature issued by some of
his opponents, the Democratic member recognises
that certain of his opponents are liars of such
magnitude that anything in the way of false re-
turns might reasonably be expected of them. So,
before there is time to cover up unpleasant-looking
financial tracks, it is proposed to hold an inquiry,
to see how much money is being spent—to
give the suspicious herd of canvassers a chance
to swear that they are working for pure
enthusiasm, or for not much more than that,
and to overhaul things generally. The Protec-
tionist party declares itself willing to have its
accounts inspected. The Labor party is ready to
have its books overhauled, and the penny and the
unused postage stamp at the bottom of its cash-
box pawed over and audited. And the Foreign-
trade and Tory party is purple with rage at this
proposed business-like application of the law
dealing with election expenditure, and claws the
air, and bellows about “unprecedented oppres-
sion.”
♦
Another Block to Settlement.
Bent’s Closer Settlement Board—an eminently
Fat body, but one which knows that its billet de-
pends on its getting land for settlement somehow
—has confessed that it cannot obtain more land
in Victoria at fair prices, wherefore it urges its
boss to somehow give it powers of compulsory
purchase. The Board lately meandered round the
Western district, and discovered, what nearly
everybody knew before, that in the counties of
Ripon, Grenville, and Hampden there are 3500
square miles of country, very suitable for agricul-
ture, but at present carrying little else except
sheep. On these two million odd acres the hold-
ings average 14,000 acres each. The Board valued
the land at £3 15s. per acre, and it told Bent that
if it could get it at even £4 10s. an acre it could
presently find farms for 5000 or 6000 families—
which would be something like a scheme of land
settlement! But the Board assured Thomas that
the land sharks either scoffed or swore when
it offered a fair price. The land-tax valuation was
about £1 an acre ; the municipal valuation almost
equally low—when it wasn't lower; but the
soil-grabbers wanted £8 and £lO an acre.
If the State builds a line through these
waste territories the owners will coolly de-
mand £ls or £2O an acre before they will
sell, so the line can’t be built before the land is
cut up, and the landlords won’t cut it up. So the
Board advocates compulsory purchase. Yet it
must know that Bent hasn’t the ghost of a chance
of getting a Compulsory Purchase Bill through
the House of Rich Landlords—all he has is the
right to resume land if the Upper House
gives its consent to each resumption separately.
And even if he got a general right of
resumption mere compulsory purchase would
make things very little better. Supposing Bent
could take one of these estates which pays State
land-tax on a bogus value of £1 an acre, and
municipal taxes on a sham value of, perhaps, 15s.
per acre, and the price had to be settled by the
court. Every lying land-owner in the district
would then come along to swear that the lowest
value was £lO an acre, and through all that hard
swearing the court would award the compulsory
seller a ruinous price—one which would burden
the new small farmer with an utterly hopeless
debt. The best remedy is a heavy Federal
graduated land-tax (it is impossible to make it
a State tax, for the State House of Landlords
won’t pass it) which will make the holding of
great properties absolutely impossible. Every
form of negotiation is hopeless to shift the
holders of these 2,000,000 acres, yet shifted they
must be. This handful of land grabbers is not
only a restraint to settlement, a hindrance to pro-
gress, a drawback to the State, and a block to
increased wealth, but a positive danger to
the Commonwealth. For the fiercest sheep that
ever bleated will be of little use for defence when
the day of trouble comes.
+
The Victorian Gambling Bill.
The Gambling Suppression Bill, which Bent and
Gillott have introduced to the Vic. Assembly, is
a sudden and drastic measure that embraces all
sorts of gambling—totes, betting-books or cards,
lotteries, sweeps, missing-word competitions, etc.
Betting on a racecourse, and sweeps in similar
places, are exempted, provided the sweep doesn’t
exceed £5. Also, a sculptor or artist may rafHe
his works for his own sole benefit. The Govern-
ment may declare any scheme a lottery which
appears to be such ; and all advertising thereof
will then become illegal. Also, parcels may not be
sent to lottery promoters in Victoria or elsewhere—
the “ elsewhere ” being, of course, “ Tattersall.”
The sale of a ticket, “commonly known asa Chinese
lottery ticket,” is evidence that there is a lottery.
As to betting, a “place” is “any place whatso-
ever, whether within a building or not, whether
on land or water, and whether private property or
not.” Any person found gaming in any street,
roadway, etc., may be arrested without warrant.
Two-up, hazard, etc., are declared unlawful, and
the Government may declare any game of chance,
or of chance and skill, an unlawful game, if it has
a mind to. More drastic still, the publication of
betting information in newspapers, the issue of
tipsters’ cards or circulars, and the exhibition of
betting cards and notices are illegal. If a house
be “declared” a common gaming house,
it may not, so long as the declaration is
in force, be used for any purpose whatever.
It is to become blank, empty, leprous and ac-
cursed, and the grass may grow in it, and the
dingo and the scorpion run races on its stairway,
all unhindered. In fact, it will become like the
abandoned residence in Jerusalem described in
“ Ben Hur, ” which fell to pieces for a generation
under the influence of a mere placard, stating
that it was confiscated and had become the pro-
perty of Caesar. While a house is mouldering
under the curse, the police may enter it at anytime,
and seize anything (except the curse) that they
can find inside, and arrest anybody. Street
betting is made utterly illegal, and a “street ”is
almost anything that isn’t a bottle or an elephant.
The Bill also regulates racing. No racecourse
within 20 miles of Melbourne is to have more than
16 days’ racing in the year, and no courses out
The Cry of the Children.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Nearly everything that a man sees argues Protection,
but nothing argues it more than the display of State
school work at Melbourne Exhibition. What is the use
of training youngsters to be fit men, if you find nothing
for them to do after they grow up ? Out of the 250,000
people who went to the Exhibition in its first 10 days,
how many realised that ?
“ Here are the works of our hands,” say the
children ; “ we made them, created them ;
We have brought brain and eye, eye and hand
into one; we have joined them and mated
them;
We are craftsmen in little, and artists; the work
of the world is begun for us;
Now, Rulers and Statesmen and Writers and
Voters, say what have you done for us ?
“ Have you said : * Of your work we shall buy, we
shall eat, ice shall henceforth be clad with it,
With the ploughs you shall make we shall dig ’
have you got that belief? Are you mad with it?
What else should you dream ? What else are you
trimming and turning and splitting for?
Why else were we born ? What else can our
brain, hand, and muscle be fitting for ?
“Shall we do our own work? Shall we build, make,
invent, scheme, contrive, for this land of ours ?
Raise round it the wall of a Tariff, to make it
secure for these hands of ours ?
Will you say : 4 ’ Tis for children Australian we
govern ; they press at the back of us ’ 1
Or whine to the German, the Jap, the Hindoo
4 Gome, fill up the lack of us ! ’
“ See the play of our bodies and limbs, see our
muscles all tautened and strengthening !
We are fit to make soldiers to fight with ; you
have foes, and their shadows are lengthening.
Not liock-bottle shoulders, but square ; every one
would be thrilled were a gun with it;
You have this at your hands—look again ; think
again—what thing have you done with it ?
“You have come—fifty thousand a day!—with
your staring, your talking, your listening;
You have gone from the'sight of our work and our
play, hearts moved, and eyes glistening ;
We’re Australians, just that through-and-throngli;
no-fate lies across the white foam for us ;
Will you give up our land to our foes, or work for
it, make it a home for us ? ”
VIC.
PRIAM.


A BIG DIFFERENCE.
Host : “ There is no
smoke like ciga/r smoke:
Isn t there l You try Gallaher’s Tobacco !
250
OUTSIDE WRAPPERS
/ROM
■<&> DELICIOUS
(CHOCOLATES, V.
CAILLER’S. p.o box 136
SYDNEY
In cricket field or football bounds,
Sporting- with gun, or following hounds,
In swift horse-race or yachting course,
Where’er a man’s delight finds source,
One more delight keeps him i, iow—
B“st game of all—’tis sport l n know
That Woods’ Great Pepper . .nt Cure was sent)
To be man’s best medican ;t.*
side that radius more than 12 days’ a year. No
race meetings whatever are to be held on any
course whose running ground is less than six
furlongs in circumference. These provisions will,
among them, wipe out Wren’s courses at Rich-
mond and Fitzroy, and leave him only 16 days’ a
year at Ascot. There seem to be no extra provi-
sion for dealing with welshers, balancers and the
like, but a civil remedy is provided for recovering
wagers within 12 months. Penalties generally
run from £lO to £IOO (or from 14 days to three
months) for a first offence ; £SO to £2OO (or from
three to six months) for a second ; and after that
from six to 12 months hard labor every time. On
the whole, it seems a very good Bill.
♦
The N.S.W. Coal Crisis.
The difficulty in the northern coal trade of
N.S.W. promised, at time of writing, to come to a
speedy settlement. If that promise is fulfilled, it
will represent a satisfactory ending to a labor
battle which was begun, if all reports are true,
rather discreditably. For some weeks now the
news has been current in Sydney financial circles
that there was going to be trouble at the
Maitland collieries. In financial, not labor,
circles the report went round; it was the
employers who seemed to know best that
the workers were about to strike. With this
news were expressions of guarded satisfaction.
It would have been rather a desirable thing—
from a financial circles stand point—toshutdownfor
a while the Maitland collieries, which were bur-
dened with low-price contracts—contracts which
could be broken by a strike. But as the difficulty
came to a head, Labor put rather a different aspect
on the situation. If the Maitland collieries were to
be shut down for the convenience of the employers,
then the Newcastle collieries would stop too,
for the convenience of the Miners’ Union.
That was a position that financial circles had
not contemplated and did not appreciate. As
soon as it was plain that the'stoppage of the
Maitland pits meant the stoppage of all the
northern pits and the paralysis of the Australian
coal trade, a peaceful settlement of the difficulty
became probable. It is significant that, through-
out the crisis, the N.S.W. Arbitration Act-
designed to prevent striking and to put an end to
the disastrous effects on the community of
“financial circles” and labor unions making of
great industries pawns in a war game—has barely
been mentioned. Unsympathetic administration,
judicial hostility and press misrepresentation have
combined to destroy that beneficent Act, and
have,, to a very great extent, succeeded. “The
Act,” said the Judge who now administers it, and
does his best to give it a little effectiveness, “is
on its death-bed.” It perhaps needs some great
strike, staggering to the reviving prosperity of
the State, to show how unwise is the policy which
leaves the Act on its death-bed when resuscitation
is so easy.
+
Coddling.”
The exhibition of minerals now going on at
Sydney Exchange has caused the local daily papers
to remark a little more than usual about “Our
Primary Industries.” The Telegraph got off a
leading article on the subject on September 14,
and handed out this purely unsolicited testi-
monial :
For a great metal-producing country such as this, the
situation is full of hope, and although it is unwise to
prophesy until you know, our mining industry gives
more promise now than at any other period of its exist-
ence. And, like all the great primary industries, it
ASKS FOR NO TARIFF CODDLING.
The “ great primary” jobs are always getting this
kind of butter handed to them on a costly dish,
and, according to the strict letter of things, the
butter, in this case, is mostly justified. The
metal industries don’t ask for much tariff
“coddling.” So long as they are coddled
by having the N.S.W. railways carry a ton
of their crude ore 100 miles for 3s. 9d.
(about one-tenth as much as is paid for carry-
ing some classes of manufactured goods, and
about one-fifth the average rate for manufactured
goods, and less than one-fourth the wool rate, and
much less than half the average rate for all goods,
and just about half the actual cost of carriage),
and their coal and timber are brought to them at
about half the cost of carriage, and their finished
metals are carried away for not much more than
half the cost of carriage, and they get their mineral
leases for a mere nothing per acre, and they aren’t
asked to make anything, but only to eat up the
country’s irreplaceable capital—as long as these
things are all right they don’t ask for much
tariff coddling at present. All the “ great
primary industries” of N.S.W., except wool—the
industries represented by coal, coke, shale, other
minerals, crude ore, timber, grain and flour (if
going to Sydney from the interior), hay, straw,
chaff, bark, road-metal, seeds, meat, &c. —are
enormously subsidised and coddled by ruinously
low railway charges, and other industries that are
not called “primary” pay gigantic rates to make
up the loss. No wonder some of these primary
industries don’t worry much about “ tariff
coddling.” They would indeed be whales if the
railway-coddling, and the exemptions from local
rates, and the other sundries, weren’t sufficient.
Prime Minister Deakin has stated sadly that
there won’t be time to do anything about the
Federal capital this session, whereupon the Sydney
press howled bitterly under the heading “The
Capital Shelved.” The Bill that Deakin hasn’t
time for this session is the Bill to compel the
miserable N.S.W. Government to come to some
sense of fairness and decency ; to recognise the
Monaro site which was selected by the Australian
Parliament on the recommendation of a specially-
appointed N.S.W. State officer; to cease the
insane demand that N.S.W. shall have the sole
right to select the capital, and that Australia in
general shall take whatever capital N.S.W.
chooses to give it, and pay the money, and look
pleasant; and to get out of the unmannerly habit
of cancelling the offer of a site as soon as the
Australian Parliament selects it. If the N.S.W.
Government and Parliament can’t behave
like a rational institution, then, until the
Australian Government can find time to kick
them hard and bring them to a better state
of mind, the capital is shelved. But if the
N.S.W. Government and Parliament will accept
the very reasonable proposal of the Dalgety site,
the capital proposal comes off the shelf there and
then. The conduct of the N.S.W. State Govern-
ment in sulking and behaving horribly in a corner
has kept the Australian capital on the shelf for
some years now. It is high time the State Go-
vernment came out of its corner, and dried its
eyes, and blew its nose, and promised to be good.
+
According to a probably unreliable report in
S.M. Herald, somebody appears to have been
pulling W. Lyne’s long leg regarding the results
of State life and fire insurance in Maoriland.
Anyhow, he is alleged to have said, at Tumut,
that they “ had not been a success.” As for fire
insurance, seeing that the appearance of the State
office had the instantaneous effect of pulling down
premiums by about 25 per cent. —in other words,
getting for the public for 15s. the article
that had previously cost £l—it isn’t likely that
the public will agree with William. And, as for
life insurance, the Maoriland office had last year
a revenue of £490,924, which was £104,000 more
than it had 10 years previously, and it issued 3110
new policies in the 12 months, making the total
issued 97,604, notwithstanding that it hasn’t, and
never has had, a single agent outside Maoriland.
There is only one other life-assurance office which
does anything like the same amount of business
in Maoriland ; and any office which runs level or
thereabouts with the A.M.P.—as the Maoriland
State office does—can afford to smile at the sug-
gestion that it isn’t a success. All the same, it
will wonder why W. Lyne doesn’t take better
care of his leg.
The International Review, published at Tokio
in Japanese and English, appears to be intended
as a link between Britain and its brown ally.
The Review, although “devoted to the work of
‘Shohosha’ (Bureau of Information),” has one or
two pages of “comic relief” in which the draw-
ings are almost as extravagantly humorless as the
legends. For example, there is a crude sketch of
a bald-headed man (European) presenting’a large
box of lollies, or something, to a scraggy female,
whilst a larger and infuriated female sits on a
chair close by. The three figures are ranged
almost in a line, and the drawing has no back-
ground or foreground. The three people are
merely situated in space. Here is the legend :
A Good Mother : “ Is that for me, Mr. ?”
Miss (listening all about in its neighboring room) : “O,
no ! ”
Evidently this is the Monkey man’s notion of a
joke constructed on London Punch lines, but he
calls it “Something Our Original.” His know-
ledge of English is not so far advanced as the
pro-Japanese enthusiasts in this country had
given us to understand. All the same, it suffices
to reveal some of the depths of his heathen dark-
ness. Under the heading of “Travels” we are
told :
In Tokio the month of June is considered place to be
the season of festivals, which take once a year in connec-
tion with various shrines and temples. . . A procession
of the Mikoshi, or small temple containing the spirit of
god, shall he constantly followed by the crowds of people.
At the head of such procession one would usually find a
big tall man masked, supposing he shall clear the path,
t is then understood that the temple is out of god while
he Mikoshi is in its procession.
The Commonwealth Government might do Aus-
tralia a timely service by ordering 10,000 copies of
the International Review for free distribution
hereabouts. The Mikoshi god is a warlike spirit
who means business in foreign parts, and this
journal of the Monkey men announces their inten-
tions to the world. It speaks candidly :
The only thing to do is to just step onward. Already
added Smokeless Powders, the Development of Small
Arms, Wireless Telegraphs, Torpedoes, &c., among our
leading achievements. Without making much noise about
it, we are turning out a fleet of vessels, and a great deal
has been in our export articles.
+
The final report of the S’Africa War Stores
Commission saw the light 9/8/’O6. It uses
tolerably strong language—“ muddling,” “ex-
treme incompetence,” “stupendous want of
business aptitude,” and the like. It is hardly
consolatory to those concerned to be told, after
they had been thus condemned as a pack of
incompetent fools, that there was “no evidence
that things were corrupt.” And no palliating
circumstances are allowed :
As to the plea that officers of the supply services were
overworked and tired men, the faults of their administra-
tion, in our opinion, spring from other causes—
irresponsibility, and want of intelligence. The Army
Service Corps is a commercial undertaking, and its
officers should be taught to recognise that it must he
conducted on business principles, and trained to act on
them.
All of which w dd be consoling if there were any
reason to believe that the old Dame Trots
who drafted the report are any better
than the men they condemn. But there isn’t.
In war time, the usual policy (witness the cases of
Stoessel, Rohdjestvenski and Kuropatkin in
Russia) is to send the best available men to the
front, and keep a few human odds and ends at
home to court-martial them or inquire into them
when they come back defeated. The best men
may be bad, but the men who sit on them when
they come back are generally worse. They are
the individuals who walk backwards, and see the
thing after it happened, and discourse learnedly
on the tail and heels of the opportunity that has
passed, instead of on the forelock of the one that
is coming. One court which will tell how to win
the next battle is worth a hundred that will ex-
plain the loss of the last one.
♦
A Mossman (N.Q.) sugar-farm hand, charged
with “absconding from his hired service,” pro-
duced lately a copy of the agreement he had
signed in Brisbane. He undertook “to be respon-
sible for all property entrusted to his charge, and
to be of respectful demeanor during the said
period of 12 months ” ; and for that, and for act-
ing as general farm laborer, he was to get—l2s.
per week and “found ” ! When the English new-
chum who signed that remarkable bond found out
that the ruling wage in the district was 30s. and
“ found,” he struck out for Mt. Molloy, where he
was arrested. Little incidents like this show the
need of that Commonwealth law prohibiting the
importation of contract-labor—the law that the
Six Hatters fiction was built upon. For if this
new-chum English farm-hand could be filled up in
Brisbane, as he was, with the yarn that 12s. was
the regular wage up North, it would be a lot
easier to fill up other English farm-hands with
the same yarn while they were 16,000 miles away.
“ Pkiam ” on the Constitution :
Anew and horrible fetish has been raised in Federal
politics by the lugubrious wail concerning the sanctity of
the Constitution. The Constitution consists of a few
bald legal statements on paper. They were drawn up by
a large committee of persons (consisting mostly of bald,
legal men), and were approved by vast majorities of the
electors of every State in the Commonwealth—bald or
hairy, legal or otherwise. The persons who were respon-
sible for the provisions of the document (especially the
bald ones) came to the conclusion that it was advisable to
make it a cumbrous process to arrive at any alteration in
them. Consequently, they determined that before the
Constitution could be changed in a single line, the change
would have to be authorised by absolute majorities in both
Houses of Parliament, and by a majority of the voting
electors of the Commonwealth, and by a majority of the
States of the Commonwealth. That would seem enough
to prevent anybody who wanted to alter the Constitution
from doing it in a way that was hasty, or unwise, or
reckless, or precipitous, or calculated to sap the morals
of this young community. But now that amendments
are suggested which will contribute to the establishment
of old age pensions, or to the suppression of monopolies,
or to the performance of useful debt-consolidation by a
Liberal Government, Toryism has set up an extra barrier
by preaching that the piece of bald, legal parchment is a
fetish, and a joss, and a sacred stone, and the bones
of the martyrs. The Commonwealth electors are
invited to kneel down and pray before the Con-
stitution which they themselves made, as the
heathen in his blindness wails before the wooden
idol which he chopped out of a piece of teak or
red-gum. The Constitution is no more “sacred,” so far
as the electors are concerned, than is, to a shire council, a
resolution that Smith be appointed collector of dog-taxes.
If the council chooses to decide that Smith shall no longer
collect the dog-tax, then there is just as much sanctity
about that dog-tax contract, once determined, as there is
about every clause of the Constitution. The only differ-
ence is that the Constitution is harder to alter than the
dog-tax contract is. Therefore, the elector, when called
upon to mutter incantations before this latest Tory fetish,
will refuse. _ The only sacred thing in the Constitution is
the sacred right of the electors of a free country to do
what the} darn well please with their Constitution. And
that is only sacred because they can back it up with Biff.
All Sacred Rights have been, or have to be, defended
with Biff sooner or later. Let us build an altar to Biff.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ The Great Millionaire.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Squaw Man.”
Town Hall Blanche Arral.
Tivoli Rickards’ Go.
Hippodrome.. Bohemian Dramatic Cos.
Lyceum Hall Edison’s Popular Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Two Little Vagabonds.”
Her Majesty’s “ La Mascotte.”
Theatre Royal . “The Earl and the Girl.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Cos.
Athenaeum Hall ...... Best and Baker’s Pictures.
Town Hall Dolores (Sept. 27th).
One of the pleasant and deserving shows
of Sydney these days is the mineral exhibition at
Sydney Exchange. There are heaps and heaps of
things to be seen there. Almost every kind of
raw material that man can tear out of the ground,
just as his forefathers did ages ago, is represented.
There is the iron that we don’t smelt, and the
crude ores that we often send away just as they
are to Germany, and the coal that we export
to keep the fire going under the boiler
of somebody else’s industry ; and (by way of being
a shade further advanced) there is the tin that we
don’t make into tin utensils, and the copper that
we don’t make into telegraph wire and the like,
and, in fact, there is almost everything that we
don’t make into anything. But, thank the Lord !
it isn’t nil like that. We do make something. In
the middle of the show are some candles and sun-
dry bottles of oil.
** * *
This “Veronique,” played by No. 2 comic
opera co. at Her Majesty's, Sydney, was as much
like the other “ Veronique ” as good drilling could
make it. In some respects, in fact, it was No. 1
“ Veronique,” and the other was No. 2. It is no
discredit to Miss Margaret Thomas to say that
she was very little of an actress ; she was a singer,
fresh from the concert platform, and perhaps, in
later days, suffused with the idea that her comic-
opera days were numbered. Miss Dolly Castles
has had no great experience as an actress,
either; yet she showed far more vivacity than
had been expected of her, and she promises
very well in this last addition to her rapidly mul-
tiplying roles. Certainly the “Swing Song”
beat her; but, then, the see-saw motion upset
Miss Thomas, too, on her first night, though the
more experienced actress was able to make a
rather remarkable recovery on that occasion.
With Miss Castles’ success was coupled Miss Olive
Godwin’s. She misses her dramatic opportuni-
ties, but her “Apple-tree Song,” the most popu-
lar thing Messager has yet written, deserved the
double encore the first-night audience sent to her
for her reward. Just at present, when Miss God-
win is supposed to be vocally imploring some-
body on the stage to do something or other,
she addresses her eyes and other remarks
to the audience in front of the footlights.
But, then, Miss Godwin isn’t long out
of the chorus; and the front' of the house,
where the rich Johnnie lives, as a rule holds 99
per cent, of the chorus maiden’s hopes. As it
happens, Miss Godwin has other very well-
grounded ambitions ; and so the stage and not the
house needs her eyes. Mr. Frank Wilson,
beginning as too robustious a Florestan, ended by
being too matter-of-fact a one, though the
“Letter” song was very well done; Howard
Vernon pushed the part of the bailiff into promin-
ence, and the artistic elaboration improved it;
H. H. Vincent battled hard with the heavy part
of Coquenard ; and Miss Celia Ghiloni, with more
singing to do than the original Australian Countess
de Champ had, made more also of that delightful
old lady’s vicissitudes. On Wednesday (last)
night the co. went (or was to go) back to Gilbert
and Sullivan and “The Gondoliers”; and on
Saturday night “ The Squaw Man ” elbows out
the too-short season of comic opera.
** * *
Bland Holt does well to revive, next
Saturday, at Sydney Royal, “The Great Mil-
lionaire,” the most successful of the “ new ” melo-
dramas, which are sensational, but do not drag
shrieking Probability by the hair through four
acts. Until “The Great Millionaire” comes,
“Woman’s Hate” holds the stage.
** * #
“ If you are fortunate enough to have your
aura, or envelope, of a pure deep blue, the blue of
the lotus, then you will be one of those who are
loved by all at first sight. The public
performer, whether singer or actress, who has
a lotus-blue aura is irresistible and doubly
fifted.” There’s a lot more of it, but this
nky wayfarer can’t even remember whence
it comes. In fact, while reading it, this Inky-
wayfarer remembers grinning. Kipling has said
something fine and occult about auras in his per-
fect (of its kind) short story “They,” and, after
all, why should anyone grin at what he doesn’t
understand ? If the blue aura theory be correct,
this or any other Inkywayfarer is open to buy a
blue aura, even if the million or so that
the owner would demand had to be stolen.
But but can one buy a theory? Especially
a lotus-blue one. The question is too fatiguing to
be pursued further. What made writer light upon
it was the reflection that perhaps Madame Blanche
Arral is enveloped in deep blue. The large audi-
ence that met her for the first time on Friday
night at Sydney Town Hall—met her practically
unheralded and unknown—didn’t wait for a note
of song before it shouted its appreciation. It
burst into spontaneous applause as soon as
her bow and nervous little smiles were offered up
to it on the altar of improvised proscenium.
Grand opera, given by an artist all on her own,
with orchestra, scenery and costumes, is some-
thing new under the sun of Sydney. Madame
Arral fairly justified the florid advts. of her
management. She is a finished vocalist,
and her charm as an actress is no less
patent than the finish of her technique.
The trying garden-scene from “Faust” (includ-
ing the “King of Thule ” and the “Jewel Song”)
was sung and acted beyond expectation, and
Sydney’s expectations of foreign artistes are
pretty exacting. In the “Mignon” selection
(“ She is there by his side ”), Madame’s dramatic,
fiery soprano completed her easy and early-begun
conquest of her audience. Mr. Rivers Allpress
conducted an orchestra that made a capable back-
ground for the charming prima donr.a’s warble.
Her costumes threw into drab shadow anything
hitherto worn in the same operatic rdles by visit-
ing stars.
** * &
Sydney Criterion is due for a varied set of
experiences this month. The Charles Holloway
Cos. having departed, a semi-amateur organisation,
headed by Frau Elsa Buhrow and Mr. William
Holman, occupied the early days of this week
with “The Ladies’ Battle,” a comedy “trans-
lated and adapted ” from Scribe (where it was
“adapted” showed in spots at which the dia-
logue threatened to be really French and giddy
and then suddenly veered off). The play was
acted smoothly, and with some degree of
life throughout, Frau Buhrow putting much
energetic and intelligent work into her part. The
best joke of the show was Mr. Sydney T. Price,
as Gustave de Grignon, in clothes that would have
made Solomon turn muddy color with envy.
Gustave was a perfect peach in sky-blue and rose-
pink satin, and patent-leather top-boots (it
was a riding costume). He deserved to be
condemned to half-an-hour on horseback in
those beautiful pink satin pants. Another
equestrienne was turned out in a riding habit,
high - heeled shoes and open - work stockings.
Such correctness of costume as is demanded on
the professional stage is not, of course, expected
from amateurs; but a degree of fidelity within
the scope of the average private wardrobe it is not
unreasonable to ask. And when, as in the case of
Gustave, there has been an obvious rush to get
into the most gorgeous clothes possible, suitable
or unsuitable, the effect is ludicrous.
* * • *
Next occupants of the Criterion will pre-
sent a “musical spectacular scena” called “The
Newsboy’s Deam” in which there will he much
choral singing by apparently good little, boys in
clean pinnies. Probably no angel's character
comes near to the high cherubic standard suggested
by a Cathedral chorister’s appearance wearing his
nightshirt outside his clothes. This doesn’t pre-
vent many of them being imps after Satan’s own
heart. “The Newsboy’s Dream’’will last until
Sept. 29, when “ The Fatal Wedding ” will again
offer its fascinating badness to public patronage.
** * *
Built of cheap materials, according to plans
that are tattered and torn through much bad use,
Philip Lytton and J. C. Lee’s home-built melo-
drama, “The Three Waifs,” is not, in its present
form, likely to make anybody’s reputation.
Though home-built, it might have been built
anywhere. The plot is mostly laid in London,
which is, no doubt, an advantage in this way—
what an Australian audience would spot at once
as impossible if pitched in Australian surround-
ings, is taken for granted when set in an unknown
London slum. The three waifs are entitled to
£50,000; and, as their father is dead, and their


The Speediest Cure.
It Gets There Quickest,
%
SI
JX
ALL CHEMISTS, Is.
Four Times the Quantity, 2s 6d.
INSIST ON
“FISHER’S”
Kidney ]ilments
\A/HEN you have any SUSPICION that your
W KIDNEYS are GETTING BAD, take
“FISHER’S” PHOSPHERINE
TO CLEANSE AND STRENGTHEN THEM.
It is invaluable as an agent to ward off Diabetes,
Bright’s Disease, and Backache.
Thousands of people take an occasional dose of
“ Fisher’s ” Phospherine
to keep their kidneys in perfect order, and up to
the mark.
A most WONDERFUL MEDICINE, easy to
take, absolutely superseding’ awkward pills and
heavy drugs.
l t people as a precaution against kidney and
bladder troubles take it in their whisky or in wine.
TEN DROPS MAKE A DOSE.
A MOST EFFICIENT DOCTOR,
AT SMALL COST.
(post free) FISHER & CO., Chemists, 337 George Street, Sydney.
mother is supposed to be also an angel,
the bad uncle wants to get the young-
sters out of the road that leads to afflu-
ence. So he hands them over to the usual
bad woman. Of course the mother isn’t dead;
and, turning up in quest of her waifs, she —who
had made the money as a prima donna—takes to
singing in the slums in order to discover the lost
darlings, just as Melba or any other prima donna
would be sure to do. The bad uncle finds out that
the lady is alive, and when she sings at the
Frivolity Theatre he shoots at her and then puts
an end to himself and the story, after making a
clean breast of the whole business. The yarn is
helped out with a bomb or two, an idiot, a motor-
car, and a children’s party after the manner of the
“ Fatal Wedding ” shivoo ; but even the bomb and
themotor-car couldn’tsave the piece from dragging.
The half-witted but blundering protector of the
waifs is, though a depressing character, pretty
well drawn ; the villain and villainess are conven-
tional; the waifs themselves rather prosy—but
that is a fault which can be remedied by judicious
“cuts.” As the singer-mother, Miss Madge
Hope both sang and acted her emotional part
very well; Mr. Mark Williamson, as the bad
uncle, was handicapped by an excess of crude
villainy; and as the three waifs, Miss Caryll, Miss
Carbasse, and Cyril French were satisfactory.
The children’s party, a slum scene, and an
evening at the Frivolity allowed a variety pro-
gramme to be introduced without seriously dislo-
cating the plans of Vice or stemming the current
of Virtue. In these scenes Gladys Boyd, a bright
little actress, and Dorothy Curphey, who gave
some good imitations of Tittell Brune and others,
were conspicuous. The piece, which is improving
as it goes, is being played at Sydney Palace,
which doesn’t now have a couple of electric-light
boilers under the main vestibule, as it had up to a
week or two ago.
* * * *
Sydney is nowadays blessed with many
shows. A fresh arrival on Saturday will be a
series of pictures—bioscope, biograph, vitascope,
vitagraph, or something—showing “America at
Work.” Cinematograph pictures have so far
shown a tendency to illustrate people at loaf—
royalties proceshing, military forces parading, and
so on. It will be a refreshing novelty to have
pictures showing work ; and it may, in an indirect
way, suggest to Australia to follow America’s
example and get to work in earnest. The Bul-
letin would give a big subsidy to a cin. show
pourtraying Australia at work building a mail
steamer.
* * * *
Nothing else, at present, is so good at Syd-
ney Tivoli as the takings. Now that we know she is
girl, the Moto Maiden seems to get less and less
worthy of the big type she is printed in ; and
there are other rather weary things besides. Olive
Lenton has been singing absolutely the most banal
imported Japanee doggerel up-to-date. Consider
it, or something like it, in cold print:—
This is what the Anglo-Jap alliance is doing for
the London ’alls ! The time is also arriving when
something unpleasant will have to be said about
Maud Fanning’s coon songs, which seem to be
fished up nowadays from the bottom of the barrel.
Miss Fanning does all for them that an expansive
mouth can do; but even that can’t save them.
For the rest, Bedford, the new comedian, and
Chester, the comedian who isn’t so new, and
Dawson, the comedian who isn’t new at all, hold
the fort behind the big letters in the bill; and
until they leave at the end of the week, the
Cabiacs, who tie themselves into graceful
knots, will help them in their laudable
endeavor.
“La Mascotte,” revived after an interval
of 12 long years in Melbourne, sounds sweeter
to the general ear than any of the newer French
operas. Also, the story retains its original popu-
larity. It has not been staled by plagiarists.
When Rocco and Bettina, and the grotesque
potentate who commandeers them, are taken
from the managerial shelf and dusted for repro-
duction in public, they look quite fresh. Fiam-
metta, too, can claim to be the only
Princess in comic opera who yearns for a
lover capable of putting away a whole leg
of mutton at a meal. There’s a lot of
character and melody and costume in “La
Mascotte,” and if the author had made better
use of his main idea the work would be more often
revived, no doubt. As it is, the third act contains
very little more than an army in shining helmets,
•the dressing, marching and lighting of the army
being so altogether admirable on Saturday night
that the gallant troops carried the house by storm.
The co. is mostly as good as could be wished in
this tuneful undertaking. Miss Florence Young,
after doing badly in her opening solo, proved
herself about the best of Bettinas up-to-date. She
• sang well, and played the part with plenty of feel-
ing , without descending to boisterousness. A rudely
hoyden Bettina is out of keeping with the pages’
•chorus at the beginning of the second act. Lauri
Robert Poynter, Chemist, Coleraine,
Vic., writes: “ Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
has a large and increasing sale in this district, and
the approval it has met with during the past four
years bears out the statements that its manufac-
turers claim for it, when they say that it is the
best and safest cough medicine to have in the
family medicine chest.”*
is the same old reigning monarch that he used to
he, and Ban took is a satisfactory Rocco. Miss
Scott, who comes to light for the first time this
season, makes a sufficiently spirited Fiammetta,
hut her elocution has no royal grace about it, and
she still persists in sounding the letter “y” as
though it were double “ e.” John Ralston has a
fairly good voice for Pippo, combined with a
plump appearance, suggestive of a shepherd who
would rather eat a whole lamb than let it be
wasted. Roberts is a serviceable Prince Fritel-
lini, and the chorus appears with marked success
in a series of gorgeous disguises.
* * * *
Two more Saturday matinees of “La
Poupee in Miniature,” which is an astounding
performance with a humor of its own, will be
given at Her Majesty’s (Melbourne) for the benefit
of all those citizens whose curiosity has been
excited by the other people who saw the first
performance. The advt. states that the children
in “La Poupee” are the most wonderful com-
bination of juvenile talent yet seen in Australia.
It couldn’t fairly say less,
* * *- *
The sacred lamp of melodrama is about to
be extinguished, at Melbourne Royal, by arrange-
ment with John F. Sheridan. “Thunderbolt,”
in its third week, is a terribly prosperous story of
Australian criminal life, and the fact that five of
the noblest characters at least ought to be com-
mitted to chokee is no business reason for taking
the low-spirited bushranger off the Andersonian
bill. But Sheridan, aforesaid, has contracted to
interrupt the flow of melodrama for a few weeks,
and on Saturday he will inaugurate his inter-
ruption with “ The Earl and The Girl,” a title
that bears the brand of musical comedy on its
cockney brow.
* * * *
At Melbourne Princess’s these are the
last occasions of the Deadly Wedding and the
Tin Can Band. On Saturday the Charles Hollo-
way Co. will take the floor, and Melbourne will
renew its former acquaintance with “ Two Little
Vagabonds.”
* * * *
Best and Baker’s cinematograph is still
supplying a want twice a day at the Athenaeum
Hall, and two more Dolores recitals will fall due
at the Town Hall on Thursday night (27tli) and
Saturday afternoon (29th). These are to be the
last, final, farewell appearances in Melbourne of
the alluring songstress, for the city will see her
no more prior to her return to Europe. And, by
the way, Leinare is to give the Town Hall organ
a further chance to express its amended feelings
on Saturday next.
* * * *
The admirers and non-admirers of that
hugely undeveloped young man, Hal Cohen, were
offered a pleasing opportunity to see the last of
him (for some time) at the Princess’s on Saturday.
A full orchestra had Marshall Hall in the chair,
and the rest of the entertainment was mostly
scenes from grand operas performed by Conserva-
torium students. In two of these the honors
fell to Miss Ruby Gray and Miss Carmen Pins-
chof rather than to Cohen, but the hero in
question brought himself to an impressive con-
clusion in the, fourth act of Verdi’s “Otello.”
Miss Gray was an interesting: Desdemona
(although so very ventriloquial in her mezzo
singing that she sounded like a voice from behind
the scenes), whilst Hal Cohen showed vocal possi-
bilities and a distinctly natural talent for acting
in his Otello. It is not often that a very painful
young man is so very promising.
*- * *
At Melbourne Opera House the motor-car
joke of Harry Tate and Co. is now generally
THE LATE SAMUEL DAVENPORT, A
S. AUSTRALIAN PATRIARCH.
accepted as a very good joke in spots. Tate
hims P elf represe nts a distinct type of natural
English jo hnnie, a solemn companion sketch to
the festive idiot that Geo. Huntley created ; also
the persistent small boy and the casual inebriate
who mistake the motor for a sausage-and-coffee
stall are humorous features. But some of the talk
d ra g S tediously. Little Cliff, Cassie Walmer,
and the barrel-jumpers and Brinn are proceeding
as before supplemented by the lady with the
d and monke y S . These misguided animals
bounded into the programme on Monday night,
* * *
Amusements in Adelaide attained their
maximum of brilliancy for Show week. At the
Royal, the tearful “ Squaw Man ” made room for
the gloomy “ Christian, ” and Miss Ola Humphrey
had a real chance at last. Henrietta Watson, as
Glory Quayle, has left a recollection which is not
to be wiped out; but this newcomer is another
sound emotional actress, and Charles Waldron
scored a second success. The all-round acting of
this co. is a notable circumstance. “ The Yir-
ginian ”is winding up the season. At the Tivoli,
Sanford’s American Players have finished
a second season with cheerful studies of
the madhouse and the city sewer, which they
had found valuable stage accessories on their
former visit. They have a great opinion of Ade-
laide as a supporter of melodrama, and the members
of the co. deserve better plays than they usually
produce. The worst man in the crowd is tit for a
better part than that of the sewer. West and the
Brescians, too, have closed their season at the
Town Hall; and various Show concerts have
filled up the Exhibition till the coming of Dolores.
The Ice Rink has broken out into various
carnivals for the benefit of the country cousin.
Altogether, Adelaide feels unwontedly giddy, like
Mr. Toots and Mr. Feeder when they bought the
j ug of beer and the snuff.
O, my Tchio,
I want to flyo]
To the skyo
With my Tchio !
For you I’ll dieo !
All day I sigho,
O, Tchio!
THE MYTHICAL MASCOTTE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When I was young I dreamed awhile
That each best girl possessed a charm—
An artless lien on Fortune’s smile
Like her who came to Eocco’s farm,
And when I caught the one I’d chased
(Her head upon my shoulder laid,
My arm around her slender waist)
I thought I held a Mascotte maid.
But, though the girls were kind and true,
They never got me out of debt;
I wasted time ; I’d cause to rue
The blissful day when first we met.
With some I was their dearest friend ;
The game of Love with Kate I played ;
We both were losers in the end—
-1 n jver found a Mascotte maid.
A girl deserves the sweetest name,
I call her angel, goddess, duck,
Or peach, or plum ; hut, all the same,
She does not bring a fellow luck.
Upon the lyric stage I see
These fair Bettinas come and go.
No Mascotte ever came to me
To make my meagre income grow.
VIC.
E.F.
AT POVERTY POINT.
It is reported by cable that in the United States—the
land of the free, where the star-spangled banner blows
regularly when there is any wind, and the distended
nostrils of the public inhale the rousing breath of liberty—
some New York Zoological Garden people have acquired
a human pigmy from Africa, and are exhibiting him in a
cage along with a quantity of monkeys.
A curious revival of an old London theatrical manager
is that of W. H. C. Nation, who has come to light again
as the lessee of Terry’s theatre. Forty years ago Nation
went into management, having the ambition to get some
feeble songs of his own composition introduced into
musical pieces. His ventures were treated as jokes, and
the Figaro of the period ridiculed him under the nick-
name of O. U. R. A. Notion. When he had dr _d some
thousands and gone into retirement, Natic as soon
forgotten. He was supposed to be extinct, i.ut seem-
ingly he is a partner in a brewery, and the annual con-
sumption of beer has restored him to a state of riches.
Not content with reviving the ancient glories of W. H. 0.
Nation, the veteran has re-engaged the antique business
manager who looked after him in the ’6o’s.
Roy Redgrave, who made a quiet departure from Aus-
tralia some months ago, has popped up in the London
suburban distrjct as the hero in “Master and Man,” a
melodrama by Sims and Pettitt, which Bland Holt has
neglected to revive of late years. Bland’s first Australian
production of “ Master and Man ” was not as successful
as it should have been. In Melbourne he staged it at the
Alexandra (now Her Majesty’s), a house where he had no
luck. Few managers got any luck at the barnlike
“ Aleck ” of old.
Dan O’Connor reports that he met Sara Bernhardt in
San Francisco, and “la belle Frongsay,” remembering
him and his bad French of 16 years before (these are not
Dan’s words), rushed at him, called him several nice
names, and finished up by kissing him on both cheeks
(these are Dan’s words, or the substance of them). She
insisted upon his living at her expense or three days,
and gave him the only photo, of herself she had, with
something nice written on it. Also, at parting, she again
kissed him, and wept, and Daniel Demosthenes wept also
and mingled his tears with those' of the divine Sara, and
went away with his whiskers quite wet.
A London critic summing up the recent grand opera
season at Covent Garden from the general public’s point
of view—“ One of the most marked features of the season
has been the popularity of Signor Puccini. There is no
doubt that he is greatly indebted to Madame Melba for
the success of ‘La Boheme ’ (played nine times), to
Madame Giachetti for acceptance of ‘La Tosca’ (three
times), and to Mile. Destinn for the popularity of ‘ Madame
Butterfly ’ (nine times) ; but it is no less obvious that his
music contains that which appeals to music-lovers of
to-day. Mr. Hammerstein, the American impresario,
gives Madame Melba £4OO per night for his operatic
season in New York, and has offered M. Jean de Reszke
£6OO, but the latter has declined.” And now, who was
the author of the Australian rumor that Melba had lost
her voice? The same person, perhaps, who invented the
picturesque yarn of her having hurled an ill-cooked
chicken at the waiter in a Tasmanian hotel. If the
tempestuous Melba of fiction bore a close resemblance to
the prima donna in fact, she wouldn’t be now command-
ing a fee of £4OO a night.
“S.S.”: I hear of a standard actor who is infesting a
Victorian mining and pastoral district. He is a hoarse
veteran, and he has a keen appreciation of beer. His
method is to drift in where men are met together in bars,
in the boiler-houses at the mines at crib time, or in the
huts in the evenings, and recite Australian verses. He
seems to know The Bulletin from Genesis to 1906, and
can find rhymes or yarns appropriate to any occasion.
Then he takes up a collection, even cigarettes being
thankfully accepted when coppers run out. After that
he gives more racing, backblocks, or mining verse, and
concludes with, “Now, gentlemen, make up eighteen-
pence amongst you, and I won’t recite ‘ Curfew shall
not ring to-night.’” He always gets his eighteen-pence.
After all, he is generous. I know reciters who would not
refrain from giving the “ Curfew ” for less that 2s. 6d.
In his latest book, “ Whispers About Women,” Leonard
Merrick (who has had experience as actor and dramatist)
gives a feasible view of the playwright as the new
Frankenstein. Merrick’s hero loads/everything through
the expense of bringing out a play'he has written. To
crown all, the leading actress, with whom he is in love,
succumbs to the charm of an actor in the cast. And the
stinging fact is that this particular mummer has no real
charm at all. What passes for it is the fascinating senti-
ment put into his mouth by the dramatist, who has
thus raised a modern monster to his own undoing.
Apparently the adoring girls in the audience are not the
only ones to be deluded by the stage hero’s noble utter-
ances, though an actress ought to know better, being
herself in the slop-sentiment department, and busy all
the time handing down ready-made pathos and humor
from the shelves.
“ Skull ”: I find that it is possible for an actor man to
become almost famous as such without his having made
any discoverable appearances on any stage. For in-
stances I find quite a resounding local disturbance about,
let us say, Alberto Ssmmiitthh, although as a consistent
theatre-goer tor years I have never heard or seen this
particular and most distinguished Ssmmiitthh. But
Alberto is about to be tendered a benefit, the proceeds of
which are to send him to Clapham or Peckham Rye, or he
is to figure in a charity matinee, or it is his aunt’s birth-
day next month, and suddenly his photographs break out
upon the town like scales upon the fretful herring. They
stare at you from a hundred shop windows, you encounter
them in many papers. Alberto is literally all over the place
—Alberto as Othello, Alberto as Mephistopheles, Alberto
as Hamlet, Alberto as Don Jose, Alberto as all the grand
figures in dramatic or operatic literature, wearing the
clothes and the fierce or dove-like expression peculiar to
each. And suddenly Alberto Ssmmiitthh is a great actor.
Photography could do no more for the greatest. He has
appeared in all the great roles—in the photographer’s
operating hospital—and here is the camera to swear to it.
Now, if a man could get credit as a poet by merely pro-
ducing a few hundred large photographs of himself
poetising, we might hear no more of the writer’s lot
austere, or of Australia’s callous indifference to literary
genius.
Nowadays the “silver coin” mummer is quite a bloated
millionaire compared w.ith some members of his pro-
fession. A hall in a Melbourne suburb provides a variety
entertainment of about the usual suburban standard of
excellence—or lack of excellence. Ooon-singers, serios,
eccentric comedians, and the other things that go to
comprise the vaudeville box of tricks are there complete,
but there is nothing to pay at the doors. Patrons are
referred to the lolly-shop next door, where it is notified
that “ every purchaser of our milk chocolate, at 3d., is
admitted free.”
According to organist Leinare, Sydney Town Hall organ
is still the world’s “ top dog.” The St. Louis (U.S.A.)
“ baby,” built for the Exposition, certainly has more
stops, but “ it’s general volume of tone isn’t a tenth of the
Sydney instrument’s.”
Advices from London show that Miss Pansy Montagu
“ Milo ” is no longer a whited sepulchre of plump female,
but is posing, pink and lifelike, at the London Pavilion, as
Velazquez’ Venus.
In “ Round the World with ‘ A Gaiety Girl ’ ” this inci-
dent is related by Fred Kaye—he of the amazing legs.
He and Charley Ryley were at the Empire Hotel, Sydney.
On the morning after arrival Kaye was trying to get full
value out of the bed, when there was a knock at the door.
Kaye told the visitor to burst right into the apartment.
A gentlemanly person entered, called the recumbent one
“Fred,” said he had just seen “Charley,” who had
promised to come to dinner with him, and remarked that
both he and “Charley” would be pleased if “Fred”
would come also. He was affable and off-hand, and Kaye
assumed that Ryley had struck an old friend. He
promised to go to dinner. Kaye’s money was on
the dressing-table, and the stranger managed to borrow
two sovereigns off him with such perfect ease that it
wasn’t till his fascinating presence was gone, and his
mesmetic eye had ceased to glitter in the apartment, that
Kaye realised the enormity of the thing. It looked all
right while the polished one was there, but when he was
gone the fact stood out in all its naked hideousness that
a complete stranger had borrowed two quid. Kaye threw
himself headlong into his clothes, and went to Ryley’s
room. The story ought to run that Ryley had lent the
fascinating one five quid, but it doesn’t. However, Kaye
is £2 out to this day.
The Two • Little Vagabonds are sometimes deceptive
infants. Lewis Carroll, greatly taken by the perform-
ance of two juvenile-looking London actresses as Dirk
and Wally, sent them copies of his books for children,
accompanied by letters adapted to the understanding of
very little girls. He got a shock when they revealed the
fact that they were both married women.
Mr. Horace J. Moon, Secretary, Empire
Hotel, Wellington, N.Z., is a great believer in
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. He says:—“l
am pleased to be able to speak in high praise of
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy, it having cured
me of a very severe cough. Other cough mixtures
I had taken failed to even relieve me.” *
This is the telegraphic summary of a
recent outbreak by Worrall, the advertising par-
son, of Victoria :
The White Australia policy was lunacy. It was an
insult to Almighty God and to the Empire. No such
color distinctions should be made. . . . The only place
they had in Australia for a shipwrecked colored mariner
was in gaol. If, for instance, Jesus and St. Peter came
to the Yarra, the only place which would be found for
them would be in prison ; yet Christ in His own day had
said of a little Syrian child, “ Of such is the Kingdom of
Heaven.” Any country which put up such barriers of
color would be cursed by God.
Yet Worrall couldn’t, not even to save his
miserable, slanderous life, quote one instance
when a shipwrecked colored mariner was put in
gaol in Australia unless he was a thief, or a
murderer, or something like that. And his impli-
cation that the Son of God couldn’t pass the
education test, which is the only thing that
could keep either Him or St. Peter out of
Australia, is an effort of blasphemy which passes
the average.
Sing the song of the five-starred cross,
Hung low o’er Southern Seas,
Then tell about our frightful loss
From coughs and colds and sneeze ;
Again, again let voices ring
In one great, grand bravure,
To praise the magic healing king—
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure. *
To “ J.A.” and others: A. Gr. Stephens has
not gone to England, and has no intention of
going. Merely the S.M. Herald blundered.
DUE SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Australia’s national song- has yet to be written. A
Highland piper named J. W. Hogg—possibly a descen-
dant of the Ettrick Shepherd—has been attempting to
remedy the omission, and has submitted to the Prime
Minister (Mr. Deakin) an Australian anthem. — Argus.
Yes, let’s import our nation’s song
From Leith—or Khatmandu ;
Let’s brew the Austral spirit strojig
In Paisley—or Pegu ;
For patriotism’s flames will burn, if only we will fan them
With a semi-alien, Scotch-Australian, brose and bagpipe
anthem.
And if our tongue-tied land refuse
To join with muffled mouth
In songs from Perth (N. 8.), we’ll choose
A coon-song from Down South.
Bruce Smith would be the first to cakewalk down the
centre for us,
And bear a hand to join the band with a piebald ragtime
chorus.
Or what’s the matter with a ping-
Pong tune from far Japan?
Australia would do anything
To please the Monkey-Man ;
If we can’t get a coon-tune soon from down in Alabama,
Why, let’s import the yellow sort that’s made in Yoko-
hama.
Yes, let’s obtain a hawker’s hymn
To cheer the oiled Afghan,
Or buy a paoan from the slim
Brown men of Hindustan ;
But do not let us speed the plough, or swing the hissing
sabre
To any tune not made by coon, cheap Chow, or nigger
labor.
VIC.
KETTLEDRUM.


Furred shins
Rabbit tSKins
FORWARD YOUR CONSIGNfIENTS TO—
HILL CLARK <& CO.,
Wool and Produce Salesmen, SYDNEY.
fsd
fsdf
£lOO c ASH REWARD
To the person who can satisfy us that there is any Hobby practised
in the whole civilised world which is more conducive to the
acquirement of general knowledge, is more generally interest-
ing and educative, and gives more lasting pleasure to man,
woman and child than
AMATEUR PHOTOGRAPHY,
Applications for the reward should be sent to
HARRINGTON’S
PHOTOGRAPHIC EMPORIUM,
the chief depot for the supply of Latest Style Cameras, Photo. Appliances and Materials. Beginners Out-
fits, conmlete with Camera and Materials, &c., from 15s. to Two Guineas. Cameras from 7s. 6d., ms. ~
215., 30s.i 355., 405., 505., 605., and so on to Ten and Twenty Guineas. Lenses, Field and Opera >
Telescopes, Cinematograph Machines and Films, Lanterns, Mounts, Photo, and Picture Frames, met
Postcards, Albums,and every conceivable requisite used in and allied with Photography.
Illustrated Catalogue Free.
386 George Street ( G n p a o.)> Sydney, and 93 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Society
PENFOLD'S
WINES
“ F.W.0.” : Have been studying that
frequent (in S.A., anyhow) daily paper advt.
commencing “Mrs.
Dash and family
beg to thank Dr.
Puteinoff for his
attention, ”&c., and
ending “during
their recent sad
bereavement.”
Have not, up to
date, come across
any advertised
thanks to Dr. P.
for pulling the old
man through. It
seems as if the
doctor’s patients all
peg but. When I fall ill, I
intend calling in some medico
who has never been thanked
by bereaved persons.
Once or twice a year, on
an average, every school in
N.S.W. is circularised to ask
•whether it possesses a “dia-
gram of Australian snakes,”
•and, if not, one is forwarded
•with most un-Departmental
velocity. This diagram is
.a big thing in colors, costing,
when carriage is added, 255.
It is of such a size that
.■scarcely any of the small
.■schools can find wall-space
tfor it. Why this feverish
anxiety to circulate the dia-
gram of Australian snakes ?
“ J. 0.” : Is £lO,OOO a year too much for
Northcote ? No, not a penny. For does he not
tour inland ? Has he not lately finished some
weeks of hearing, every day or so, Alderman
Boggs declare his fealty to “the throne and
pusson”—that dreadful “pusson”! On each
diurnal round does the unfortunate G.G. listen,
when working out his wretched pay, to the
expression of the exploded royalty superstition.
He tastes the wine which Boggs laid in according
to his (Boggs’) judgment, and repairs to where
the National Anthem is to issue from the lips of
innocence (and, excepting the literature to
which the law objects, is there any poetry
more immoral than “Sendhim victorious,” etc. ?).
Leaving youth thus corrupted, the adult co-partner
in religious atrocity lands in the hospital, where
probably another edition of Boggs—most likely
Joggs—repeats the ethical outrage of the first. He
shakes hands with the nurses (and here Provi-
dence relents a whit, for they do wear pretty
caps), seriously raises the temperature of all the
patients, accepts the last report “ for future peru-
sal ” (the Lord forgive him), and, in a state of meta-
physical staggers, find himself at the “banquet.”
Here Coggs or Doggs or Proggs, who differ even
as Primitive Baptists from Secondary Nonahlu-
tionists, for the fifth time that day talks of “ His
Majesty’s illustrious representative,” and he talks
in turn of “splendid progress of the town and
district,” “ hardy jiioneers,” “fine type of bush-
man." He has “been simply delighted.”
And when three waiters and most of the Senate
have inserted him into his hat and coat he gets at
last to bed—and to a nightmare of aldermen, all
Boggses.
That ballroom caper known as the Lancers
has of late been danced with such fury in Maori-
land that informal rules are being drawn up for
the government of the sport. It is proposed that
any whirling person who knocks down a lady
shall be disqualified for the rest of the season,
and any man who makes a habit of severely bump-
ing his brother man will be urged, when it is
decided that he is an incurable collider, to go and
dance in the bush, where the brawny native has
ways of suppressing such as he. At a very highly
varnished hop, recently, one of the men was so
lost to all the finer instincts of humanity as
to trample over Lady Plunk., wife of the list-
less Governor. This was the most unkindest
bump of all, for the Plunks signalised their arrival
in M.L. by treati 11 greporters to scathing criticisms
of M.L.’s best girl in her walking dress, and
M.L. s best girl’s best boy as he behaved when hav-
ing a good, bealthy “darnce,” and the population
simply yearned to dance beautifully before the
Plunks, in order to show them that they were
wholly mistaken. In fact, Maoriland fondly
thought that it had danced beautifully, and had
lived down the aspersion, when Lady Plunk was
trodden upon, and now it fears that, in a dancing
capacity, it can never hold up its head again.
I lie swiftly revolving person who fell against
Lady Plunk has been tacitly disqualified for
life on all recognised courses, and tin- best thing
he can do is to go and polka surreptitiously in the
scullery.
The last military duty of General Finn,
was to superintend a “staff ride” of N.S.W.
officers. What a staff ride is may be best ex-
plained by a story. 111 India a man carrying a
bag met a curious wayfarer. “ What have you in
the bag?” asked the curious one. “I have a
mongoose,” lied the other, resenting the imper-
tinenceof the question. “ And what do you want
with a mongoose ? ” “ Well, my brother, on the
plains, has been drinking, and he sees snakes.
This mongoose is to kill the snakes.” “ But the
snakes your brother sees, you foolish man, are not
real ones.” “No ; and this, you impertinent man,
is not a real mongoose.” In a staff ride an officer
leads a force which isn’t against another force,
which also isn’t. He has to make careful arrange-
ments to provide imaginary food for his imaginary
men, and keep his imaginary guns outjof danger
of imaginary capture. The staff-ride is supposed
to assist materially in training officers to efficiency.
It should, at least, give them vigorous imagina-
tions and qualify them for the sphere of war-cor-
respondence. Also, when they rise to command,
it should get them in condition for providing a
feasible explanation as to why they lost the battle.
This staff ride, by the way, encountered some-
thing real in the way of rain, and was abruptly
abandoned.
LET HER GO, GALLAGHER!
SHE: “Didn’t the doctor tell you that if you
didn’t give up whisky you’d probably go
blind?”
HE : “ Ah, well, Ah'm gettin' an auld man noo,
an’ Ah think Ah’ve seen aboot everything
that’s worth seeing.”
The Maoriland ginger-beer brigade will
have to start heaving bricks at arithmetic, or peti-
tion Premier Ward to insist on making two and two
add up five. About 17 years ago the brigade was
so certain that the whisky-nipper and the beer-
swiller were robbing the ginger-beer children of
insurance bonuses by killing themselves before their
time, that they had an Act passed providing that,
for the future, there should be two sections in the
State Insurance Office—the Temperance and
the Ordinary—that the mortality experiences
should be kept separate, and that the
former party should get the whole of the
fat bonuses which would result from old
age induced by ginger-beer. The first valuation
after the Act was passed gave the Temperance
section the better bonus, and that was the only
time it has ever worked out that way. At the last
three valuations (which cover the past nine years)
the whisky-drinking general section has every
time got more bonus than the other; wherefore
Ginger-Beer begins to suggest that it means a lot
of extra book-keeping to keep the whisky and
soda separate, and that they had better be poured
back into one tumbler again. Still it hasn’t, for
all that, left off its habit of talking of whisky and
beer as “curses that kill.”
“Spring”
writes (The Bul-
letin can give
the address of
the street, but
won’t) :
The moans of
“Grade” and
others re disturb-
ing night noises
make me scoff. I
live in a nest of
free and happy
families who be-
lieve in paying as
little rent as they
can as infrequently
as possible. My
room overlooks a
neat cottage with
a stable under the
vines at the back.
The hairy owner of
the horse hardly
ever sleeps ; his
van is out far into
the small hours
shifting the goods
of people who are
bilking the land-
lord. He comes
back with a clat-
ter, and hoses his
prancing, snorting
steed. When these
sounds die down
there come the
felines rollicking
on the tin roofs,
the untimely crow-
ing of many roos-
ters under the de-
lusion that the big
lamp opposite is
the rising sun, the
baying of canines,
the wild Norse
chanteys of drunk-
en mariners tack-
ing for Woolloo-
mooloo wharves,
and minor out-
bursts. The noises
become distant and
dreamy because of
the closer clasp of
Miss Morpheus.
Suddenly a fierce
row starts in a
house at the back.
It is the murder
tenement. How I
have cursed Cain
for inventing mur-
der ! There is
something so
arousing in the
deed that night
after night I spring
up to witness it.
The first night
the tragedy hap- !
pened I thought L
a troupe of inconsiderate ham-fats were rehearsing a
yeller-drama. There are four women and a man of a
sort. The women spend the earlier portion of the
night in consuming beer, which brings forth a
crop of jealousy and envy. A big woman in an
Oriental wrapper is evidently sick of some old passion,
and there is another, who continually and sarcastically
and drunkenly asserts that the old passion is in quod for
robbing his aged parents. This nagging goes on for some
time, and then the dialogue is something like this:
“Yes! he robbed his pore ole man.” Woman in the
wrapper: “ I’ll kill you!” “Yew will.” “/’if kill yer!”
“You will?” “ I’ll murder yer ! ” “You will !” Then
the enraged murderess showers thumps on her victim,
who breaks forth into a chapter of screams. These
gradually die down to a whimpering request
for mercy, on the ground that she is too drunk to
die. More thumps, and then a mighty joyous crash of
glass, as the corpse is hurled through the window into
the street. A lurking policeman swoops upon it, and
locks it up for dying on the footpath. Then all is police,
perfect police, until the next night, when a fresh victim
turns up to satisfy the big woman’s craving for gore.
*** • . *
Melbourne has produced a real poet, a
blind bard, like Milton or Homer, and, like
Milton, with serious domestic troubles. Joseph
Trafford, “a blind man, described as a poet,’’
was sued at the Brunswick Court by Mrs. Annie
Sneddon for leaving his illegitimate child without
means of support. Ah, these passionate poets !
And thisone’s name was Joseph. Joseph Trafford
was not ashamed of being a poet, as most of the
breed are. He said proudly, “ I sell poems, and
earn about 30s. a week.” Think of it, you bards—
thirty shillings a week! The Heloise of this
Abelard—this Croesus with 30 bob a week—
was unworthy of him. She spoke to the Bench
thus : “Defendant travels with poems.” As who
should say, “He sells socks.” Her name is
Sneddon —Sneddon ! How could poetry be ap-
preciated by anyone called Sneddon? Fellow-
poets, hot-blooded sons of the morning, keep
away from married ladies named Sneddon whose
husbands left them 11 years ago ! You cannot
afford it, even if your name be Joseph, and you
travel in sock-poems that bring in 30 bob a week.
* * * *
“T.P.” : The latest disgusting freak-idea of
the Christchurch (Maoriland) exhibition people is
to import a crowd of Japanese rickshaw men to ply
for hire in the city during the show. They assure
the public that the preliminary feeling of disgust
which a healthy minded citizen feels at being
dragged round by a partially nude human animal
soon wears off, and is succeeded by a feeling of
deep gratitude that it is the other fellow who is in
the shafts. The Ch. Ch. city council has said
“No” with emphasis, but deep schemes are
being tunnelled underground to overrule its
decision. Meanwhile, the views of the cabmen
are quite unpublishable, and their language is
like nothing in the Vatican library.
A WET SUBJECT.
SCHOOLMASTER : “ And, besides, boys, if we had
no water we could not leirn the noble art of
swimming, and who, then, would rescue the
drowning.”
Two usually irreconcilable bodies— the
military officah and the Labor M.P.—have come
a bit nearer to understanding each other in S.A.
The Eight Hours Demonstration, on Sept. 3rd,
deciding to drop all bicycle races, offered £lOO in
prizes for military sports. This brought in big
entries, and the officers attending to do the
judging, were invited to the official lunch and
speech-making. There they discovered that the
Labor-man does not necessarily shovel in food
with his knife, while he in turn found out that
the Australian soldier-man does not say, “Haw !
Damme ! ” to any large extent, and a better (if
somewhat surprised) feeling arose.
* * * *
The feature of the flood that swept parts
of Victoria last week was its amazing suddenness.
The rain fell most heavily about Mt. Macedon and
Mt. William, and the Campaspe and Saltwater
Rivers were promptly gorged. At 9 o’clock on
the Sunday night everything seemed all right;
by 2 a.m. a torrent was roaring through the
streets of Rochester, and the inhabitants were
feeling their way in the darkness for their roofs.
The Saltwater River threatened even greater
danger. It runs mostly between high banks, and
tore down with the wind behind it. At Mari-
byrnong it came down literally in layers, rising
6ft. in an hour. By three on Sunday morning the
river at Maribyrnong, which is usually about 200 ft.
across, was half a mile wide —a foaming whirl-
pool, in which no boat could live. Through the
black darkness came cries for help; but no help
could be given. Yet no lives were lost, though
the two hotels and the few houses at the bridge
were flooded to their first-floor ceilings! A 30-ton
barge came tearing down like an avalanche,
crashed into a house and carried away most of it.
Miles below, at the city abattoirs, the “handy
men ’’ of the Fire Brigade were plunging about in
the darkness, up to their armpits in water,
rescuing the superintendent’s wife and his family,
then turning their attention to the drowning
sheep and cattle. Ten thousand sheep and 250
cattle were suffocated in the filthy overflow. The
rain poured on steadily till lace on Sunday after-
noon ; yet by noon on Monday one could walk
over the scene without wetting the tops of his
boots. For forty years the river had purled along
placidly and harmlessly. A few hours’ steady
rain brought disaster to all along its banks ; next
day it was the same lazy, winding stream as of
yore.
A DEPUTATIONIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ministers are fairly rushed with country deputations
at Show time. —Victorian news item.
In a little country spot wherein I have lived a lot,
There’s a man named Jones, who owns a creamery;
He went down two weeks ago to the city for llie Show,
On behalf of local men of property.
And to me it’s very clear that at this time every year
Jones discovers that the shire will surely fall
If the roads are left neglected, or a culvert not erected ;
So he calls a monster meeting at the “ hall.”
There the resolutions passed, in a manner short and fast,
All point to sending Jones away to town
To take counsel with our member (whose term’s up in
next December).
For the sake of rhyme we’ll say his name is Brown.
And they, wait on Tommy Bent to explain their discon-
tent
((What Tommy tells them matters not a jot) ;
•Jones is down to see the Show, all his exes, paid, you
know,
And his trip is on the nod, which means a lot.
He returns with pride indeed (he was introduced to Reid,
And the other noisy Foreign-trading skites);
He is crammed with Tory lies touching private enterprise,
Confiscation, Socialism, and State rights.
Still, the moral of this skit will not worry Jones a bit;
At the first convenient opportunity
He will send round to inquire for the exes from the shire,
Due to Mister Jones who owns the creamery.
VIC.
GOOLWA.


fdgfdgdf
1616 IS NOT MUCH.
SIXTEEN- AND-SIX is not much of a price to pay for a
oot like this. Of course, any shoe store will sell you a
oot at this price, but not by any means of the same quality
as this. You wouldn’t get the fine quality of leather—nor
the workmanship—nor the finish.
No other Boot at the price will give you such all.
round excellence and comfort.
Let us sell you a pair on the money-back-if-you.
want-it principle. That means NO risk to YOU.
The supply of this particular Boot is limited—
TO-DAY is the day to call.
SEND US YOUR SIZE OR AN
IMPRESSION OF YOUR FOOT
ON A PIECE OF PAPER.
16/6 and 1816
PE APES & CO., Ltd.
Men's and Boys'
OUTFITTERS,
SOQ'-Sll GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
In one of the most dramatic effects pro-
duced by the Saltwater floods in Melbourne, the
chief actor was a racing pony. The big crowd
gathered near Hopetoun bridge saw the pony
come down stream, fighting hard to keep its end
up against the rush of waters. It was thrown
against the bridge, and then commenced a great
struggle for life. The pony headed for the shore,
and fought desperately with the tide, that beat
it back and bumped it on the big timbers
time after time. But the nag was getting nearer
land with every fight, and at length, when it
found a footing and stumbled ashore on the rail-
way side, the crowd cheered with as much en-
thusiasm as if it had been a man. But luck was
against the game little horse. It staggered on
to the line, and fell there, exhausted, and before
the rush of helpers could reach it, a suburban
train dashed up, and the little hero was left
headless.
* * * *
Much of the Flemington end of Mel-
bourne having been under water recently, quite a
number of hotels out that way suffered from an
invasion of the teetotal element. At one establish-
ment popular with race crowds, the publican was
chased from his bed on to his bar counter, from
there to the shelves, and from the shelves to the
roof. He returned slowly by the same stages as
the water subsided, and was sitting on his counter
amongst the mud, with the water still breast high
in the bar and 3ft. deep outside, a wet, slimy,
bedraggled, and disgusted man, when suddenly a
stranger swam in through the bar window that
had been broken by the invasion of a drowned
cow, and clutched at the counter. “ VVatjer want
’ere?” growled the hapless publican. The
swimmer righted himself, wrung the water out of
his whiskers, and said: ‘•Gimme a long beer,
mister. Watjer think I want here ? ” Business
was resumed.
* * * *
At one Melbourne hotel they were taking
up a collection for the flood sufferers, and at
breakfast a pert waitress shook her box under the
nose of a big Western District agriculturist, a
Caledonian tall and wild, down for the Show.
“ Will you give something to the Floods Relief?”
she said. “ Aye, aye,” responded the man of the
land, “I will that.” He took some silver out of
his pocket, selected a thr&epenny piece, and
dropped it in the box. “Could you Spare it?”
said the girl, scornfully. “Aye,” replied the
agriculturist with profound seriousness. “Ye
ken, I prayed for rain before ganging to bed on
Saturday. ’Twould be worth hoondreds o’ poonds
ta me, ye mind, if it rained heavy. So I pro-
mised the Board if it did, I d gi’ something ta glide
works. Oh, aye, lassie, I can spare it right week”
Then the good, grateful man went on with his
breakfast, only pausing a moment later to say to
a neighbor, “I aye keep my word wi’ the Board,
mon.”
Melbourne Age prints what it calls a
particularly good story of the King. Edward, it
seems, had taken a motor ride with “ a well-
known sporting peer,” and the unfortunate noble
was pottering about his coffee mill with an oil can
when His Gracious held out his hand to say good-
bye. Think of the terrible position of the poor
sporting peer, confronted by royalty with out-
stretched paw, while his own right hand was
covered with dust and grease. But our old
nobility is never long at fault, bless you. An
inspiration struck the aristocratic chauffeur.
“With an ungraceful movement he wiped his
right hand on his trousers, then held it out to
grasp that of his Sovereign.” That is all. It
would be a peculiarly stupid anecdote if there
were not a King in it. One of the uses of royalty
is to make dull stories sparkle with wit by merely
consenting to figure in them. In this case it is
hardly even a story of the King, for it wasn’t he
who wiped his hand on his unspeakables, nor did
the peer wipe his hand on the King’s trousers or
on the imperial coat-tail, but Ed. VII. stood by
and lent the anecdote his moral support.
HER DEFICIENCY.
ECCENTRIC COMEDIAN : “Fancy you figuring in
opera, Sis."
MISS LEADINLADY : “ Ok, that’s all the governor's
doing . I haven t a voice in the matter
ECCENTRIC COMEDIAN : “ That's What everybody's
saying."
The bogus Machine Shearers ’ Union carried
its campaign against the Australian Workers’
Union to. the point of issuing in its paper slander-
ous statements about A. W.IT. officials. Result:
The paper has been shut down and the printers
pay enough damages to endow for a year a cot in
Sydney Children's Hospital in the .lame of Hector
Lamond, of the Workers’ Union.
* * » *
When you can buy Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy for Is, 6d. and have same guaranteed to
give relief, why experiment with so-called cures,
balsams, etc..' Buy Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.
Try Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy and you will
not be disappointed.*
In one respect, the Bananaland railways,
slow as the trains are, afford a lesson to N.S. VV.
On all mail trains running at night in the northern
State sleeping accommodation is provided for
second-class passengers. Berths
may be secured for 55., or sleep-
ing room made available on
seats for 2s. fid.
ETIQUETTE.
SMALL BOY (indignantly, to important officer): “’Ere, where’s yer manners? Why don’t yer
give the lady a hand down?"
This, from Kalgoorlie Miner (W.A.), is
about the most business-like thing of its kind so
far :
MATRIMONY.
T ADY, attractive, would like Meet Gentleman, Mari-
tana-street Bridge, about 8 to-night, view to
above.
No gradual making of acquaintance on moonlit
verandahs or shy approaches amid the rustle of
silks in retired corners of drawing-rooms; just
“ view to above ” on a bridge.
* * * *
What with the Watchman in Sydney and
the dog watch in Maitland, things have been
busy this week.
Here’s another job thrown at Victoria’s
Bent ! Murphy, the quaint P.M., has written a
JL.XYJ.., 110/0 Wilt tell Cv
bit of a book on ‘‘Prison Re-
form.” He doesn’t make any
secret of the fact that he him-
self is the best prison reformer
on hand, and lie is angry that
he wasn’t appointed to the job
of Inspector-General when he
applied for it ; still—-
If Mr. Bent would give up his pre:
sent position and take the control
of our gaols, more reforms would
be effected in a week than have
taken place in the last fifty years.
Murphy, it seems, has now
literary ambitions for himself ;
wherefore this suggestion that
Bent should be sent to tho
prisons. Already he describes
himself as “ Author of ‘ Beyond
the Ice,’ ‘The Blakeby Tra-
gedy,’ &c., &c.” In a conclud-
ing “ personal explanation,” he
puts the matter in this vvay :
Every strong man, of strong
opinions, who believes that the
children of his brain, like the chil-
dren of his body, are given to him
for some wise purpose, and must
not be set aside or suppressed, makes
many enemies. I am no exception
to this rule, and to prevent any of
my detractors saying that this
pamphlet is merely a bid for a
billet, I beg to say that I am con-
tent with the honorable position I
hold, and have no intention of re-
linquishing it. All my l'fe I have
been working for the position of
police magistrate, and in the hopes
that after middle age I could settle
down on an estate of my own to
carry out my hobbies and write
books in the spare time that even
the busiest vocation allows. I can
now do all this. I have earned
peace, and I intend to enjoy it.
But why, oh why, not let the public also eniov
peace ?
* * * »
Last week a Collingwood (Vic.) girl gave
her brother in charge for playing on a tin whistle.
Their Pa was ill and couldn’t stand the noise.
Brother wouldn’t stop, so a Collingwood bobby
was called in and locked the musician upon a
charge of insulting behaviour, and next day a
Collingwood bench fined him £5, which he richly
deserved whether Pa was ill or not. Even if Pa
is dead no one should be allowed to play on a
tin whistle.
“Melb.”: Talking of N.S.W. proselytes
to Jewry, there is a big fight on hand at one of
our Synagogues, m regard to applications for the
admission of fourteen.
* * * *
Suppose you try Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy the next time you have a cough or cold
If you are not pleased with the results after using
two-thirds of a bottle according to directions, you
may return what is left and your money will be
refunded.*
Some Westralian Government officials have
been complaining that their scale of allowances for
special exes, doesn’t come nearly up to the re-
quirements of persons of their rank and station.
One of the complainants, whose salary is £420 a
year, was asked to keep an accurate statement of
his expenses on a Government official trip to
Kalgoorlie, lasting from March 19th to April 2nd.
The scale regulations allowed £lO 18s. Id. for the
14 days. The official’s statement showed a gross
expenditure of £l9 3s. 3d. His hotel bill, pure
and simple, was £8 12s. But the drinks of
, the £420-a-year official during this 14 days’
trip amounted to £6 3s. 6d. — at the rate of
, £l6O a year.
“ T.P.” from a Maoriland city :
The cricketers of Maoriland are a pure merino flock.
They can’t cricket worth a fourth-grade Sunday school",
but they have great ideas for improving the game. Last'
season Melbourne C.C. accepted their invitation to come
and crawl over them. The kangaroos made no mistake
about the thoroughness with which they trampled over
the wekaand kiwi, but their methods evidently lacked
the particular finish which-marks the caste of Vere de
Haw. So this year, that there may be no mistake, a
picked team is to be introduced from the only land
whence one can thoroughly depend on getting perfect
gentlemen. Professionals are barred. After demur, M.L.
consents to the gentlemen bringing a hireling umpire
with them, but only on condition that he travels second-
class and keeps out of sight at the receptions. It is to be
hoped that these arrangements will improve the breed of
M.L. cricketers. One thing is certain, the genuine
purple-blooded batsmen will teach the Maorilanders the
game in a way mere ordinary Hills and Trumpers could
never attempt. And thus is one more strand woven in
the silken ties that bind the snobocracy of all the earth.
The glad news is cabled frpm England that
Edward. VII. has made £2,000,000 (two millions)
by a gigantic share gamble on the New York
Exchange. Surely it is now up to Judkins to
throw off his allegiance.
* * « *
A comely 16-year-old girl, who says that
she was seduced under promise of marriage when
she was something over 15, has been awarded
£350 damages by a Sydney jury for breach of
promise. This is a hurried age, and nowadays a
girl is liable to get breach of promise damages
while her long hair is still hanging down nearly
to the tail of her short frock.
* » * *
Advertise or die ; die and advertise. From
Melbourne Argus (7/8/’O6): —
WALLIS.—In sad remembrance of my dear husband,
who died on the ,7th August, 1876, at the Burnley -
street Tannery, Richmond. Was pioneer of the
fancy morocco leather dressing in all its branches.
Formerly of Bermondsey, London. Worked up a
trophy, which was put in the Exhibition for Mr.
Barrel, of the Colonial Tannery, River-street, who
got £lOO for new industries ; also he made the
leather for the suite in the council room in the
new Town Hall, Melbourne, Mr. Thwaites the
upholsterer. Inserted by his loving- wife and
children, Mr. Richard YVallis, 68 Condel-street,
Fitzroy ; Mr. G. T. Wallis, plumber, High-street,
E. Prahran ; Mr. Harry, 405 Bridge-road, Rich-
mond (with his mother); also J. S. Norman.
.But, taking it all in all, it’s a better record, and
one to take more proper pride in, than the
“ fought at the battle of so-and-so,” which
evokes no unfavorable notice when advertised in
the death columns.
“ Yarrurn’s ” friend explains things to
“ Yarrum ”
Me crimping at Newcastle. Met my friend the baker,,
who knows all about it, in Watt-street, last Saturday
evening. Said he: “Yes! There’s any amount of it
yet, and always will be, so long as these deep-sea captains
are paid so wretchedly. You’ve seen these skippers
havin’a good time, and spendin’ small fortunes down
town o’ nights ? Do you think they are doin’ that on
their legitimate pay? Not much! But I think those
Parliament blokes in Sydney went too far, and not far
enough, if you can understand. Too far, because they
made matters far worse than they really are ; and not far
enough, because they didn’t give names and addresses of
crimpers. I could name over a dozen within a hundred
yards of where we now stand. See that John
just passin’ with his hands behind his back—one open,
with the palm turned upwards. Force of habit, you’d
call it; but there is more than that in it, if you can
understand. I stood on the wharf one night, hands
behind as you see him, waitin’ for the missus to come
over from Stockton. After a bit, a couple of men carried
something like a fat pig down, and flopped it into a boat.
Then one of the blokes happened to twig me, and he came
along and slipped half-a-kiek into my flipper. It nearly
took my breath away, but I stood it. It was the attitude
of me as fetched him, if you can understand. To get at
the true strength of this crimpin’ business, there should
be a Royal Commission appointed, with me as president.
What Sullivan and the other bloke said of crimpin’ was
only hearsay, but I’ve been there. Why, I’ve served
every house in the city, and know ’em all
personally ! Crimpin’! Yes, there’s any quantity of it.
And that reminds me. I saw you a bit squiffy the other
Saturday night, and in dashed shady company, too. You
mind you don’t wake up on , the high seas some of these
fine Sunday mornings, with an enlarged head, and a little
hard tongue in it 1 You’re just the sort they’d pick up,
as there would be no inquirin’ friends. You’d not be
missed. Yes 1 It’s a rotten enough place to live in all
right, and I’d quit to-morrow, only it owes me some
money. You’d never dream that old” Just here
we were interrupted by a listening trap, who advised us
to move on. Then I lost the baker in the crowd, and
didn’t get the story of old .
* * * *
A small charge re an alleged theft of cake'
led to the appearance in a Sydney court last week
of the Exhausted Boy. He said he had lost his
job for sitting down, and when he saw the offence
committed he was leaning up.
* * * *
Judge Neighbour, in Vic. Civil Court, the
other day, said he wished somebody would show
him what a long beer was. The beer was not
forthcoming, and his Honor is still immersed in
ignorance. A long beer, we may explain, is the
Great Australian sup, used to wash down the
Great Australian bite.
* * ff *
The citizen with a fad (name of Ballard),
who brought an action to recover £2OO from the
council of the Sydney Zoo. was lately dished by
Justice Pring, who, with his tongue in his cheek,
openly poked borak at the Law. Ballard
proceeded against the Zoo people under
an Act of George 111. because they kept
the place open on Sunday, March 4, and
charged for admission, whereby the Zoo became a
“disorderly place.” Justice Pring berated the
plaintiff for his meddling, and uttered some home
truths on the subject of George 111. and his Acts.
He wound up by nonsuiting him on the ground
that he (plaintiff) had not proved that the members
of the Zoo council had kept the Zoo open as
alleged., Now the Judge knew, and the
plaintiff s counsel, and the Zoo’s coun-
sel, also the jury and the Court tip-
staff all knew jolly well that nobody but
the Zoo council could give orders for the gates
to be open, and that the council had publicly
announced its intention to charge 3d. a head
on the Sabbath. But the learned Judge gravely
announced that though the law was broken, he
could not for the life of him see who had done it.
And his remarks about George 111. were pain-
fully accurate, anyhow.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment,
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance,
from George or King-street.*
AT THE TYPEWRITER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Just outside my office window the dust lies on the leaves,
And the great shadows sway and pass
Dark splashes on the wind-swept grass,
And tall and slitn a date palm flings its green crest to the
eaves.
My fingers pick the black notes and clatter on the white ;
The purple ribbon slides along—
Ting ! goes the sharp voice of the gong.
Click ! from the carriage handle jerking upwards on the
right.
I rest my fingers on the keys and pause awhile, to dream
Of polished leaves in forest dells,
Of far-off clang of teamsters’ bells.
Gold afternoons, and still lagoons where water lilies
gleam ;
Of a bird voice, clear and joyous, out beyond the timber
line ;
Of sawdust drifting from the mill;
Of grass trees climbing up the hill;
Of scent of almond from the scrub and resin from the
pine.
But, there ! I’m wasting time to-day ; this typing must
be done.
’Twas just those shadows brought it back
Like swinging vines across the track
In days when everything was hope, and everywhere was
sun !
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY
64 Pitt St., SYDNEY
424 Little Collins St., MELBOURNE
APPLIANCES, Ltd-
ROBEY
STEEL RAILS. STEEL TRUCKS. TRAMWAY MATERIAL.
Portable Engines, Tractions, Thrashers, High Speeds, Vertical and
Horizontal Oil Engines, &c., &c.
BRUNTON’S SCOTCH WIRE ROPE. Hayward’s Sheep Dips, Pearn’s Pumps, Mining Requisites, &c., &o.
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER, Managing Director.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
'w
Victoria’s surplus last financial year (to June 30,
1906) was, according to Treasurer Bent, £675,528, which
has been, or is to be, disposed of in this way :
Wiping off accumulated deficit .. £500,000
Providing railway rolling stock .. 60,000
For capital purposes 65,528
Building and repairing schools .. 50,000
Total .. £675,528
Victoria’s accumulated revenue deficit—that is, the
amount by which Victoria has simply drifted into arrears
—amounted on June 30, 1905, to £2,009,119, exclusive of
a debit balance of £267,489 in the Land Sales by Auction
Fund. The whole of this shortage, except £50,000 of
Treasury bonds, had been provided by the Trust Fund
trustees ; which is the nice way of saying that when —
mainly through its failure to tax the big landlord, and
because it wouldn’t charge enough for carrying the great
natural resources to market—Victoria has not raised
enough revenue to pay its way, it has made up the short-
age by collaring Savings Bank deposits. Most of this
money, thus collared and used as revenue, is not repre-
sented by anything in the shape of assets ; and Thomas
Bent, in applying the bulk of his surplus towards restor-
ing the misappropriated Savings Bank deposits, puts it to
as good a use as could be found. In four years £797,000
has now been used for this purpose, in addition to the
repayment of £lOO,OOO of deficit bonds and £130,813
grabbed from the Land Sales Fund.
During the next couple of years Cohen will call
on Victoria for the following amounts :
July 1, 1907 .. .. £4,000,000 4 per cents.
Oct. 1, 1907 .. .. 1,000,000 3£ „
Apr. 1, 1903 .. .. 2,000,000 4 „
After that the State will have a rest for about five years.
Bent has gone some of the way towards providing for the
first £4,000,000. The £500,000 of Savings Bank deposits
which he is repaying will be lent to him again,
along with another £1,500,000; but the difference
between this transaction and the last is that the Savings
Bank deposits, being used to pay off foreign loans which
were spent on more or less “ permanent and reproduc-
tive ’’ works, will have something solid in the way of assets
against them. Another £500,000 will be provided out of
the State’s and Metropolitan Board of Works sinking and
redemption funds, leaving £1,500,000 yet to be arranged.
Victoria’s revenue and expenditure for seven
years past:—
June, Revenue. Expenditure.
1900 .. £7,453,355 £7,285,636 Surplus, £167,719
1901 .. 7,712,099 7,672,780 Surplus, 39,319
1902 .. 6,997,792 7,398,832 Deficit, 401,040
1903 .. 6,954,619 6,759,960 Surplus, 194,659
1904 .. 7,319,949 7,339,608 Deficit, 19,659
1905 .. 7,515,742 7,343,742 Surplus, 172,000
1906 .. 7,803,958 7,128,430 Surplus, 675,528
For 1906-7 Treasurer Bent estimates that he will only get
£7,554,568 of revenue, that his expenditure will be
£7,550,225, and that the surplus will be £4343. Bent
knows the political virtues of a surplus as well as J.
Carruthers does. But there is this difference between the
two. Bent provides for his surplus by cutting down his
probable revenue ; Carruthers provides for his partly by
faking his expenditure, and charging things to works
funds, loans, &c., which Bent charges against revenue.
Bent’s surplus is cash, which can be used to reduce the
debt; Carruthers wouldn’t have any surplus at all but
for the sale of public lands, and most of even that
surplus goes in works, &c., which ought to be charged
against revenue in the first place.
Victoria’s expenditure on revenue account last
year was £157,206 less than it was in 1900 ; N.S. Wales’ was
£1,078,862 more. And whereas Victoria is actually
reducing its debt, N.S. Wales is charging so much to
loan account that it is still adding nearly £1,300,000 a
year to its liabilities. It is easy enough to scoff at Bent’s
cheap-jack surpluses ; but, anyway, it is better to pretend
that you are only going to get in £7,000,000, and arrange
your expenditure .accordingly, and finally stand in the
limelight holding a cash surplus of half-a-million—it is
better to dp that than estimate revenue at £7,500,000, and
bring down bogus expenditure estimates of £7,000,000,
and finally hold up an alleged surplus of £500,000, manu-
factured by paying a vast number of bills out of another
account —which is often a loan account. And that is the
situation in N.S. Wales under Joseph Carruthers and
“ Reform.”
* * * *
The State Bank of South Australia:—
Busi- Premium
ness on Bonds Total
Loss. Sold. Profit. Deficit.
June, 1896 .. £986 £671 £315
Reserves.
„ 1897 .. 2162 3163 £lOOl 686
Profit.
.March, 1898 .. 707 1477 2184 2,870
„ 1899 .. 1184 711 1895 4,765
„ 1900 .. 1196 75 1271 6,036
„ 1901 .. 1724 1724 7,760
„ 1902 .. 2011 2011 9,771
„ 1903 .. 2731 2731 12,502
~ 1904 .. 3051 3051 15,553
„ 1905 .. 3116 3116 18,669
~ 1906 .. 3315 3315 21,984
This State Bank, financed by mortgage bonds, continues
to make steady progress, and is slowly building
up a reserve fund to provide against possible
disaster. Besides this reserve, an annual amount
of about £7OO is included in working expenses
to cover contingencies, though what these contingencies
are is not disclosed. The amount of overdue instal-
ments is also not shown in the balance-sheet; but as the
arrears of interest total only £1793, which is £5 less than
it was 12 months previously, the item is probably not
large. Twelve months ago these arrears of instalments
were said to be about £ll,OO0 —a very small amount, con-
sidering that the repayments had then reached £342,857.
And apparently there are no foreclosed properties what-
ever on hand. The working expenses bear the same
proportion to outstanding advances as they did the
previous year :
Advances Working Expenses p.c
Outstanding. Expenses. of Mortgages.
June, 1897 .. £260,011 £3510 £1 7 0 p.c.
Mar., 1898 .. 360,802 2610 19 4 „
„ 1899 .. 420,297 3516 16 9 „
„ 1900 .. 454,552 3701 16 4 „
„ 1901 .. 507.40 S 3773 14 10 „
1902 .. 536,906 3985 14 10 „
„ 1903 .. 561,746 3955 14 1 „
„ 1904 .. 602,642 4120 13 8 „
„ 1905 .. 582,215 3968 13 7 „
„ 1906 .. 602,366 4105 13 7 „
In the Maoriland State Land Bank the expenses amount
to ss. Id. p.c.; but then the advances there total
£3,125,069; which makes all the difference.
Under the S. Australian system, as advances
are repaid, mortgage bonds have to be paid off, and new
bonds must then be issued to provide for fresh advances
—a plan which must mean more book-keeping, more
expense, and more anxiety than if the mortgagors’ instal-
ments could be used to provide for fresh advances. This
list shows the recent movements :
New Old Bonds Increase of Total
Bonds Re- Bonds Out- Out-
Sold. purchased, standing, standing.
1901 .. £87,700 £37,700 £50,000 £504,200
1902 .. 86,550 61,600 24,950 529,150
1903 .. 68,290 54,440 13,850 543,000
1904 .. 100,490 55,510 44,980 587,980
1905 .. 35,340 54,570 568,750
1906 .. 76,690 64,110 12,580 581,330
Comparing the total of bonds outstanding with the ad-
vances—the latter exceeding the former—it will be seen
that the bank has the greatest part of its reserves out in
advances. Still, there can be no run upon it for coin. It
has no deposits on current account; in that way, it of
course misses big profits; but it also misses some risks.
Nevertheless, it takes by far the biggest risk that the
ordinary bank takes—the depreciation of securities. As
usual, the State is cheerfully permitted to do what pays
least well; but to go into that part of the business where
the good profit lies is “ an unwarrantable interference
with private enterprise.” Still, even as is, the bank is
doing good work in a quiet way ; and all the work isn’t
shown in its own figures ; for its competitors in the
mortgage business have to cut their claws, so the hun-
dreds of farmers and others who never go near the State
Bank benefit by its existence.
* » » •
The Melbourne Permanent Building Society:
Business Loss on Total Dividend, Re-
July, Profit. Property. Loss. 2J p.c. serves.
1897 ..£1220 £3OlO £1790 £16,437
1898 .. 1523 7718 6195 10,242
1899 .. 1913 7122 5209 5,033
Profit.
1900 .. 2614 603 2011 7,044
Profit.
1901 .. 3423 841 4264 11,308
Loss.
1902 .. 4733 10 4723 16,031
1903 .. 4460 485 3975 20,006
Capital written down from £177,164 to
£70,866; £257 being added to Reserves 20,263
1904 .. 4012 4012 24,275
1905 .. 2617 2617 £1741 25,151
1906 .. 2875 2875 1737 26,289
This society reports that, during the past year, it sold
properties standing in the books at £16,714 for £18,258 ;
but the profit of £1544 is not shown in the accounts —it
“ goes to increase the provision for losses on property
still in hand.” Why should shareholders and debenture-
holders not know the size of this reserve? What is the
use of publishing accounts at all if pretty well half the
year’s trading profit is not shown ? Certainly this has a
much better right to be classed as profit than the addi-
tions which have been made to the insurance fund. The
latter amounts now to £1381; and, though it is included
in the foregoing table with the reserves, it is not a true
reserve; it is simply an accumulation of insurance pre-
miums which are liable to be called for at any time.
There is perhaps even less justification for keeping these
property-sale surpluses out of the accounts because of the
directors’ statement that, on the written-down values,
properties “can be relied upon to produce a fair margin
of profit on realisation.” Still, a reserve ought to be pro-
vided, aud the accounts ought to show that it is
provided. To show a reserve as against fire and not a
reserve against depreciation seems pretty absurd. The
ordinary trading profit for the past two years makes a
worse showing than it did awhile back, because of the
increase of debenture-interest from 2£ to 4 per cent.
These debentures have been reduced during the year
from £168,712 to £158,665 ; but loans at call have risen
from £2492 to £6549. New business has increased during
the year from £33,812 of advances to £43,948. Working
expenses remain practically the same.
* ■* * *
The Economic Permanent Building Society
(Melbourne): —
Business Loss on Total Dividend Nominal
June, Loss. Property. Loss. 4 p.c. Reserves.
1897 .. £135 £2044 £2179 £1832
£lOOO Capital written off and carried to Reserves 2832
1898 .. 77 849 926 1906
Profit.
1599 .. 136 145 9 1897
1900 .. 79 956 877 1020
Deficit.
1901 .. 335 2184 1849 829
1902 .. 1045 2020 975 1804
1903 .. 833 1248 415 2219
Profit.
1904 .. 1007 163 844 1375
Reserves.
Capital written down from £42,640 to
£17,056 ; £3508 being applied to reserves 2133
1905 .. 1030 1030 £682 2481
Profit.
1906 .. 1086 241 1327 682 3126
In the previous year about 55 per cent, of their book value
was written off properties. Apparently properties of the
written-down value of £lOOO have since then been sold
for £1241. The profit shown on sales, therefore, simply
means that the loss is less by that much than had been
provided for. Nothing- much has been done during the
year in the way of extending the business, which, as it
stands, is hardly big enough to be carried along on its
own. Deposits have been reduced during the year from
£5397 to £4307 ; so, in spite of the realisation of property,,
the advances have only moved up from £5401 to £5871.
Fortunately, working expenses are very modest, other-
wise even a 4 per cent. div. couldn’t be relied upon.
* * * *
The Wellington Building and Investment
Co. (M.L.) :
Added to Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves-
-1897 .. £2931 9 per cent. =£1790 £ll4l £8,107
1898 .. 2730 9 ~ ~ 1800 930 9,037
1899 .. 2909 9 ~ „ 2115 794 9,831
Premiums on new shares .. .. 3750 13,581
1900 .. 3444 9 ~ „ 2469 975 14,556
1901 .. 3344 9 „ „ 2475 869 15,425
1902 .. 3585 10 „ „ 2750 835 16,260
1903 .. 4061 10 „ „ 2750 1311 17,571
1904 .. 4116 10 „ „ 2750 1366 18,937
£19,250 of Reserves capitalised .. )
1905 .. 3510 10 „ „ 2762 /
1906 .. 4708 6 „ „ 2989 1719 2,154
The 6 per cent, paid for the past year is calculated on the
capital inclusive of capitalised profits. Reckoning on
the basis of capital actually paid by shareholders, the
dividend is just under 10 per cent. The business is
extending, and it is proposed to carry it still further.
Recent movements are shown hereunder :
1896. 1904. 1905. 1906.
Capital and reserves .. £26,946 £46,437 £49,820 £52,154
Deposits .. .. 60,018 123,233 118,565 137,143
Other liabilities .. 177 13,215 13,066 26,024
Advances .. .. 83,724 156,435 150,103 177,281
Freeholds, &c Nil 23,623 25,302 40,749
Other assets .. .. 3,417 2,828 6,046 561
Expensesp.c. advances 19/9 14/4 16/8 14/2
Expenses do not include interest, which last year
amounted to £5836. Considering the size of the deposits,
the liquid assets are perilously small. In fact, there are
practically no liquid assets ; while, on the other side,
the “other liabilities ” already include an overdraft of
£5959 and a mortgage on the freeholds. Even assuming
that the deposits are fixed, a concern which depends SO’
much on deposits ought to be in a position to meet a
sudden demand for repayment. If a crisis happened in
Maoriland (and a crisis is always liable to happen to
such an inveterate borrower), the fixed depositor would
turn up for his money in nearly as great force as the cur-
rent account man, and the effect of refusal to pay even
the first doubting Thomas might be disastrous. It may
be unreasonable to expect a bank or co. to pay fixed de-
posits on demand ; but Reason isn’t lord when a run sets
in. At present, the co. has £218,591 worth of assets
liable to be hit by a slump in values ; and of that only
£52,154 worth are its own ; which means that a slump of
barely more than ss. in the £ below book-values would
wipe out the co.’s capital and reserves. It is dangerous'
finance ; the co. certainly should not extend the opera-
tions without increasing its capital. In fact, it should
increase its capital anyway.
The Queensland Woollen Manufacturing
Co. (Ipswich, Q.): —
Dividends Added
and Written to Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
1898 .. £3169 Nil £3169 £10,212
1899 .. 3883 Nil 3883 14,095
1900 .. 4168 Nil £12,000 6,263
1901.. 4151 21 p.c. = £1225 2926 9,189
1902 .. 2140 " Nil 5,000 6,329
Loss.
1903.. 1386 Nil L 943
1904 .. 2880 Nil 2,063
Deficit.
1905 .. 2795 Nil 7,175 7,907
1906.. 446 Nil 5,733 14,086
It is cruel. In Queensland’s old Protectionist days the
co. did fairly well, and paid for nearly 20 years an average
of just under 4 per cent, per annum. Then the drought
came, and Queensland’s hard times. After that
the co. was making a steady recovery, until the
Queensland tariff was cut down by G. Reid and
party—the same G. Reid who has lately been telling
Queensland not to trouble about the tariff, but to fight
anti-Socialism. Which is about the same as if G. Reid
first gave Queensland a dose of prussic acid, and then
advised it not to worry about the poison, but to bark as
loud as it knew how at the myth in the moon. Close
upon two years ago this co. was forced by financial stress
to “do something.” Its overdraft amounted to £26,256
in 1904, and, apart from stock, its principal asset was
machinery, plant, and buildings (£33,991), which the
Freetrade and the sink-the-fiscal-issue party had ren-
dered of exceedingly doubtful value. The co. was prac-
tically ordered to shut up all its branches and retail
shops, and realise ; and the effect of this semi-forced real-
isation is shown in the amounts written off during the
past two years. At present the loss is shown as “suspense
realisation ” debit balance ; apparently this will be wiped
out by a writing down of capital. Yet, so ruinous has
the realisation been, added to recent trading losses, that
the overdraft is still £22,723. In 1900 the co., in manu-
facturing alone, spent £15,630 in wages, and indirectly it
paid as much more ; in the past year the wages bill was
only £8902. And, since the co. certainly must get to the
end of its tether some day, unless things change, the
chances are that there must be a further shrinkage. The
mongrel tariff has starved out more than half the
employees ; it has cost the co. half its capital; it promises
to starve out the other half of the men and cost the other
half of the capital. Meantime, the S.M. Herald writes
leading articles wondering why there should be £25,000,000
more practically unused deposits in Australian banks now
than there were three years ago. But it pours out its
benediction upon G. Reid and his precious anti-Socialism
all the same, and just as though there were no such ex-
periences as this to supply the real reason.
Mort’s Dock and Engineering Co. (Sydney):
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1900 £10,307 6 p.c. =£6ooo £4307 £28,671
June, 1901 4,305 -j g” ” 3750 [ 27,726
Dec., 1901 8,844 6 „ ~ 6000 2844 30,570
June, 1902 2,147 Nil 2147 32,717
Dec., 1902 2,663 {gf 1 ! ” ” gj} - 27,870
June, 1903 6,859 6 „ „ 6000 859 28,729
Dec., 1903 5,516 6 ~ ~ 6000 28,245
June, 1904 7,438 6 „ „ 6000 1438 29,683
Dec., 1904 6,686 5 ” ” 435 30 . 118
June, 1905 6,102 -j 5” ” 375® j- 852 30,970
Dec., 1905 5,879 ’6 ” ” 6000 30,849
June, 1906 5,382 6 ~ ~ 6000 30,231
The published accounts are a mere skeleton. The re-
serves move up and down without explanation ; in the
foregoing these movements have, of course, been reckoned
as profits and losses. The profit and loss account of
itself has shown, the following profits:—
Dec., 1901 .. £6149 June, 1904 .. £4868
June, 1902 .. 4410 Dec., 1904 .. 6169
Dec., 1902 .. 2859 June, 1905 .. 5201
June, 1903 .. 6392 Dec., 1905 .. 5934
Dec., 1903 .. 5971 June, 1906 .. 6237
But for an unexplained shrinkage in reserves, the profits
would thus have been this past half-year much better
than usual—which, on account of the want Of enough
Protection, isn’t saying much. The co. carries £148,300
of debentures. For many years the amount stood at
£150,000, so a start has been made to get rid of the
gentleman who calls round for his interest regularly,
whether it had been earned or not. That gentleman’s
first-cousin, the cumulative preference shareholder, is
quite enough of the family for any Australian manufac-
turing co. to have on the premises until Protection gives
it a little more security.
* * * *
The Civil Service Co-operative Society of
N.S.W., Ltd. (Sydney) :
Div. (10 p.c.) and
Net 10 p.c. Bonus To Re- Re-
Profits. on Purchases, serves. serves.
July, 1901 .. £5371 £4953 £4lB £13,587
Jan., 1902 .. 6322 5464 858 14,445
July, 1902 .. 5870 5576 294 14,739
Jan., 1903 .. 6862 6163 699 15,438
July, 1903 .. 5806 5938 15,306
Jan., 1904 .. 6829 6564 265 15,571
July, 1904 .. 6658 6451 207 15,778
t lanz J 8195 7250 945 16,723
**an., 1990 • • Premiumsonnewshares6BB7 23,610
July, 1905 .. 8410 7188 1222 24,832
Jan., 1906 .. 8925 7751 1174 26,006
July, 1906 .. 8057 6794 1263 27,269
Some of the figures in the last line are necessarily esti-
mates ; it has been assumed that about the average
proportion of purchasers’ bonuses will not be called
for. There has been a considerable fall in cash pur-
chases ; the “ Civil Service” found what was practically
a liquor-bar trade gone when the N.S.W. Licensing Act
was passed. But, apparently, the store gave long
measure for sixpence ; anyway, though the takings have
shrunk, the profits have not been seriously knocked out.
A comparison :
Gross Proportion
Cash Profit On Working Expenses to
Receipts. Sales. Expenses. Receipts.
July, 1896 .. £43,354 £9,589 £6,221 14’4 p.c.
Jan., 1900 .. 67,521 15,997 10,158 15’0 „
Jan., 1905 .. 98,408 24,165 14,974 15’2 „
July, 1905 .. 95,967 23,824 14,327 14’94 „
Jan., 1906 .. 104,062 25,738 15,667 15-06,,
July, 1006 .. 95,479 23,452 14,317 14-99 ~
The gross profits in the previous half-year were 24-7 per
cent, of the receipts ; in the past half-year, with the bar
wiped out, they were 24’5 per cent. The working ex-
penses shown above do not include the bonus invariably
voted to employees or the variable amount written off
furniture, &c. After deducting the amount of bonuses
called for and to be called for, the profit for the past year
will show a very substantial return of about £9 19s. 6d.
per cent, on capital and reserves combined.
* * * *
The People’s Prudential Assurance Co.
(Sydney), which began with a deficit representing good-
will (in a “ mutual medical benefit society ” !) :
Expenses Total
and Divi- Out-
Aug., Income. Claims, dends. goings. Deficit.
1897 £8,611 £3966 £3796 £7,762 £2651
1898 11,670 6173 4646 10,819 1800
1899 11,782 5935 4674 10,609 627
Assurance
Fund.
1900 11,544 5164 4737 9,901 1016
1901 12,255 5517 5933 11,450 1821
1902 12,566 5019 6537 11,556 2831
1903 12,684 4484 6706 11,190 4325
1904 13,425 5273 6689 11,962 5788
1905 13,956 5467 7081 12,548 7196
1906 14,738 5871 7060 12,931 9003
This co., which has a paid capital of only £4782, is some-
thing like an insurance office, and something like a
medical benefit “ lodge,” and a good deal like neither.
It issues about 19 different sorts of policy; but about
three-fifths of its “claims” consist of payments made
to doctors and chemists under one or other of the
benefit tables. For the greater part, then, there is pro-
bably not much need to accumulate funds. But at the
last valuation there were something over £35,000 of
ordinary assurances. Presumably this business is kept
separate from the other ; but the accounts combine them,
and that is unsatisfactory. The real liability under many
of the industrial and benefit tables cannot be ascertained ;
wherefore that sort of business should not be mixed with
the other. The office “loading” for expenses in the ordi-
narv branch amounts to approximately 19 percent, of the
gross premiums. Is the business being done for that ?
if not, where is the difference coming from—from the
benefit business, or out of the reserve which is requ.ia
to meet claims? While the accounts are mixed, thes e
things can only be guessed at. If the ordinary busines 9
is costing much less than 50 per cent., then the benefit
business must be costing spmething a good deal more
than that; and whatever it is should be ascertainable.
Here are the combined figures:—
Expenses in Proportion to Total Income.
1899.. £39 13 5 per cent. 1903.. £52 17 5 per cent.
1900.. 41 0 8 „ 1904.. 49 16 6 „
1901.. 48 8 3 „ 1905.. 5014 9 „
1902.. 52 0 5 „ 1906.. 4718 0 „
If the ordinary business is costing no more than the office
“ loading,” then the benefit business is costing some-
thing excessive. Why men and women should pay these
heavy expenses and provide a dividend as well, with
purely mutual benefit lodges open to them, and fairly
well guaranteed by State examination, is one of the
mysteries of life.
* * • *
Inner history of the recent knock-out of O.iv.
stock would make the lone-hand dealer in mining shares
wonder what sort of a game it is he is playing in. The
railway was at the bottom of the business. There are
two routes to the mine—from Biboohra, which would put
nothing into Chillagoe Co.’s pocket; from Mungana,
which would give Chillagoe all the haulage, and perhaps
some ore to treat as well. The raid on the stock was
made, anyway', by the two firms most interested in
Chillagoe ; one of them underwrote a good part of tne
last Chillagoe reconstruction. That they have nothing
against the mine itself is pretty well proved by the
fact that they—with others—lately tried to get
hold of the reserved shares. Remembering that,
their game seems fairly clear. They engineered
a knock-out in the expectation of being able to
get in later at a low price—to get in deep
enough to change the control of things. The office,
it was arranged, should be shifted south ; and probably
Longbottom would be sent up to report on the mine, and
thus simplify the making of a market for the stock in
London. The change would also mean the building of
the line to Mungana—which was where the Chillagoe
people were to get their reward. It was expected at one
time that the market could be got down to 12s.
Possibly they may do it yet. The bears certainly have
the superior weight. The other party, however, is top-
dog in the management; and so the mine won’t be worked
for bearpurposes. The mine may, therefore, beat the bears.
Even while the new furnace is being built (and paid for),
6d. a month can be paid out of the 200 tons of copper
that the present 6x3 “coffee-pot” can produce; and a
steady monthly 6d. a share on a low-priced stock is a
hard thing for a bear to bump against it. The new fur-
nace will not be ready till the end of December ; but,
when it is available, a mixture of the bottom-level ore,
with its excess of iron and sulphur, with the top-level
ore, rich in copper and silica, should make smelting rapid
and cheap. The new furnace should put through a much
larger tonnage with smaller consumption of coke and
limestone.
» • *
Developments at Mt. Elliott, Cloncurry (N.Q.),
are highly satisfactory—still viewing the mine as a pro-
position unproved in depth. In the north crosscut, 90ft.
from shaft, at the 125 ft. level, there is 10ft. of 12 per
cent, ore, Oft. of 6 per cent., and 20ft. of 23 per cent.,
with 35 per cent, ore in the face. The estimate of ore
explored has now been increased to 45,000 tons, bulking
20 per cent. A. E. Savage’s estimate, on which John
Moffatt and Linedale put it off less than a year ago, was
that down to 105 ft. a block of 15,040 tons had been ex-
plored, worth (at 20 per cent.) £168,000, of which £88,450
would be profit. Copper was taken at £56 per ton, which
seems safe enough for three years, at least. If the new
estimate is anywhere near the mark, there should be close
upon £250,000 of profit in the mine as far as they have
gone. Either this estimate is out, or the market is out;
for the latter has been valuing the mine at about £150,000
until within the last few days, when a wire reported a
new make of stone rich in copper and assaying also up to
9dwt. of gold.
•» * * «
Hampden-Cloncurry new shafts go down slowly
by reason of short timber supplies. Local sawmill
is bound to Mt. Elliott in the first instance, and Hampden
proposes to import sawn timber for shaft-slabbing.
There is plenty of good timber in local watercourses, and
the proposal to carry slabs 200 miles by team looks like
bungling. One way and another, Hampden has bungled
a good deal.
* * » *
Charters Towers mills for August treated 21,864
tons for 11,9150 z., as against 18,154 tons for 13,8650z.in
August, 1905 ; and the bloom was thought to be off the
rose even then. Cyanide (21,863 tons) gave 10,1970 z.
In August last year calls by 24 cos. ran to £11,321; this
year 21 cos. called up £9098. Alexandra, St. George,
Brilliant Central, and Queen Cross were all out with divs.
last August ; this August would have been a blank but
for Mills United, £15,000; and £15,000 has to be beaten
out thin to go round 300,000 shares.
* * * *
As to the relative importance of silver and lead
to N.S. Wales —which practically means to Broken Hill,
for the output from other fields is very small. So much
of the metal is exported in the shape of concentrates
(Australia is a whale on exporting dirt and letting the
foreigner do the cleaning and refining) that exact figures
cannot be set down. Approximately, however, last year s
production was—
Silver .. .. 10,285,495 oz.
Lead .. .. 162,226 tons.
Taking silver at 2s. 4d. and lead at £l5, these metals were
worth-
Silver .. .. £1,199,974
Lead .. .. 2,433,390
Which makes the lead output worth rather more than
twice the silver output.
* » * *
William Jamieson, who goes back to the Board
of the Broken Hill Prop., vice Wigg retired, was the
Government officer who had the joh of surveying the
co.’s blocks 22 years ago. Jamieson, when ordered west,
was so disgusted that Dalglish, then District Surveyor,
had to persuade him not to throw up his billet. Later
on he bought a fourteenth share in the mine for £lOO >
and a few weeks after that he got another interest, but he
sold that out on a few pounds rise. A man who had a four-
teenth and stuck to it, and to the shares in pup cos., would
by this time have been over a million to the good. His
divs. and bonuses alone (including share bonuses) would
have totted up £760,000 ; and the market value of his
B.H. Prop, shares would be £280,000.
* * * *
Block 10, Broken Hill, is slowly getting its
additional concentrating plant to work, and the sooner
the better for the returns. At present there is a great
deal of waste, and somebody ought to see if things can t
be bettered. The waste of water that is taking place
from the mill may be only a small item, but, small as it
is, it will stand remedying. Every hole and corner of the
mine underground is being looted to keep the mill going,
but this will probably be bettered by the time the main
shaft is down to the next level. That is, if the insatiable
creep hasn’t by that time gathered Harvey shaft into its
destroying embrace.
* * * *
The Gillies concentration plant, now almost
completed on Block 10 lease, Broken Hill, is a P re tty
compact affair ; but it is small. Compared with the
preparations made by the Zinc Corporation for hostilities
against the Block 10 and other tailings dumps, theGilhes
frisk is like a small terrier’s alongside an elephant s. ihe
tailings which have been purchased from Block 10 are to
be trucked over a tramline about a quarter-of-a-mue long
in ordinary mining trucks, such as are used under-
ground ; and that is extravagant cartage, to start with.
However, good results have been obtained by the pro-
cess, and if work of a similar quality can be done by this
plant, operations on a larger scale must follow.
A * * *
Diamond drilling is now being dangled before
the eyes of those interested in the starving outside
shows on either end of the Broken Hill main line of lode.
The New White Leads has had a dig, but the ore bodies
in that part of the field seem to be too elusive ; and for
that very reason diamond drilling is little better than a
gamble. Still, it is a cheap gamble ; and whatever most
of these shows have, they must get it cheaply, for none ol
them has a decent working- capital.
« * * *
“Bromide” writes from Broken Hill: “Will
Bulletin kindly inform us re the followingA small
party of miners takes on a silver-lead show and gouges
out a parcel of ore. We get an assay, and, as it generally
goes pretty well for lead, we expect a decent figure , but
when the cheque comes for ore, less cartage, &c.,
get a paltry £3 or £4 per ton. A party had ore bulking
45 per cent, lead and 19oz. silver, and was told that t
stuff was only worth net £3 15s. per ton. With lead over


©6e Best Tobacco
ttie world can
produce.
C\g l per
• ounce.
3 STRENGTHS—
A 1 Mild.
B 2 Medium.
C 3 Strong.
/
o
'2oz. Tins l/=
4oz. Tins 2/*
Boz. Tins 3/9
Sold Loose only by
'a. a. marks,
George St.
George St.
28 Hunter St.
177 Oxford St.
SYDNEY.
£l7 per ton, what is ore assaying A 5 per cent, worth
Can you give us a table by which we could work out the
approximate value o i our parcels? A Government
smelter is badly needed here. If we had one, there would
be thousands of men working on the co-operative system,
for then we’d know we weren’t being rooked. But the
game isn’t worth being taken on at present, because we
are at the mercy of the ore-buying firms, and have to
take what they like to offer.”
To which, by way of reply :
‘‘ Bromide ” does not say whether his ore is carbonate
or sulphide, or what sized parcel he has. Assume his ore
is sulphide, and he has a parcel not less than 10 tons.
Then compare some results.
(1) For a 5000-ton parcel of concentrates, 45 per cent,
lead and 19oz. silver, a Broken Hill co. would get—
Lead 45 p.c.—l*s p.c. =43-5 p.c. at £l7 .. £7 710
Sliver, 19oz. at 2s. Bd. fine .. .. .. 210 8
r _ . Total .. £9 18 6
Less —lvau freight, and charges .. .. 417 6
On trucks, Broken Hill, per ton .. .. £5 10
If carbonates, the stuff would be worth about £5 11s. per
ton for a 5000 tons lot. *
(2) For 25 tons delivered at Cockle Creek works :
Lead 45 p.c.—l's p.c. =43 - 5 p.c. at £l7 .. £7 710
Silver 19oz. at 2s. Cd 2 7 6
Total .. £9 15 4
From that deduct charges, which may be put as follows:
i cbar B' e > £3 155.: railage, <&c., to Port Pirie
los. bd. , freight to Newcastle, 10s. ; insurance, delivery
to works, Pine charges, exchange, &c., ss. lid. ; total
£o 4s. sd. : leaving the ore worth £4 10s. lid. per ton
on truck,” Broken Hill. y
(3) For 10 tons delivered at the Aldershot Works (0.).
which lost money and had to close, the return would
have been £2 lOd. per ton ;or £4 10s. 4d. less £llss. (id.
tariff ’ &C ' X IIS 1S based 0n those works’ published
Though the Broken Hill buyers, mainly on foreign
' £5 ls - P er ton os against Cockle Creek’s
note that the latter price is for
?ll ’ the * ormer for 6000 tons. This makes
th rp,„? lff n lenoe 111 cost of supervision, handling,
Ac. Tiie Bulletin would be glad if the miner
ore wbole £l ° per ton that the metals in his
at pe , rcen f ft B' e 8 and prices quoted ; but as
snielters wages, &c., have to be paid for,
wa“ps flnH PO f half - year the &H. Prop.’s mining
', a f ~d contl ’act payments came to £127,833; while
, :,:?’ t ‘sv and 81n tenng, and refining wages, fluxes,
fuel and freights, came to £247,313. Latter figure gives
has’beennid comparatively, the ore cost after it
has been put on trucks at Broken Hill. There isn’t much
being o eonnfiled k ?o le h table i for Iver1 ver - v ' da >’ Prospectors’ use
! f t ! P ' dfc show valne of ore of various grades, and
leadprices. Simplest way is-Take value of
' , : d ,netal contents at .market prices (which is a
£■ i t r ° b eni ),’ fchen ded,lefc freight to seaboard,
orhirAho returning charges, and 10s. for cartage and
“ *""• “ «•“**
* * • *
Harden Gold Mine (N.S.W.) got quietly on the
u*| k Vth°T months ago, and was for a long while viewed
district t hki a th r V n hat cou , ld be ex Pected out of an old
distnct like that, the market wanted to know. Still,
with brains, energy, and new methods behind it, the
of tUrmng out . far alle ad of expectations. Reserves
InL n nOW estimated at 12,000 tons, worth as an
£l| r nfn in ° Ver and the re looks to be £lO,OOO or
±.l-,000 in divs. available within the next 12 months.
** . *
At Wy along (N.S.W.) smelting has now almost
*-esaLlts ed b e utdoPs lnation '- Smelting not’only gives better
centrites A d r fiw ay W 'f h l he double'handling of con-
the best in thp S «/ y t B w ° rks the chlorination plant, about
, best in the State, has been idle for some time and
AsVeDth ra Ct ‘i f be 'v,f converted into scrap’iron.
As depth is attained at VVyalong the ore is becoming
more mineralised, and the bitterv ore islargely dccS
Sar^- In f ition ’ tile principal It,ns aTe
fh- y ac Q u,nn g their own batteries; and,, unless
arfd n oTme U d. nS UP ’ the dayS ° f the public •
* * * *
W y al °nf?—20 tons'for 2040 z.
gold. The reef is 12 inches wide. The crushing was
aken from the 400 ft. level, and gives six men £l2 10s.
each per week for 10 weeks’ work.
* * * *
Cobar (N.S.W.) has vast faith in its own
nntbo ry ’ \ nj ' how - After B. South Extended had been
woke mv al p^ e > a H OUP 60f days > fche hew Cobar Exchange
woke up excited one morning and quoted buyers £2
nrlrkp, m, se 11 ers £3. It didn’t stop to sound the'Sydne.y
looked 1 at Vh < ? ffel ' £2 ’ At the same moment, having
fc A! an ’ S - vdne y f elt cold about South Ex-
P_^ n ed > and . the re were sellers at 10s. premium. On
Notfh' Rwfk lnff th< \ v ~*7 well-recommended Budgery
North Blocks was put off in 1000 shares, £lO each, £2 on
for P Svdne°v w aPotnient ‘ Only 100 shares were reserved
CohnrHht}’ , b * there was such a scramble for them at
Oobar that a wire was rushed along* imploring- the Sydney
“'float ” tnnl e io Cobar f baVe u oof these back - The local
float took 10 minutes—which is speedy launching*.
**** ° * '
i St i nk ffl lode at the Budgery, Collar
vv‘stm'nnrfU ffif:la l y by the dir ectors as 12 degrees
west of north , and as the crosscut runs 16 degrees north
cast, it may be taken as fairly correct to say that it
m thT w! y dlre c‘ jrcross the lode. This crosscut, at 45ft.
m the body, is still in black oxides. There are over 100
tons of ore on the dump, broken in the crosscut, which
le l St 12 P er cent - Shares (l-100ths) have
touched and, as these are unwieldy, the formation
fr. ! P ontnbu tmg.shares, and all to be first offered
to vendors) is being considered.
**; * *
South Budgery will commence operations with
f n"? edlate^ fche hanging wall is reached in
the parent Budgery. The distance of Budgery South
the Budgery main shaft, on what'appears
to be the strike of the lode, is 310 ft.
* * » *
m pV, nde » Stood . thal i the Great Cobar Syndicate
like Vh’is- te /f pa / ln n a ex P® nses - was split up something
Ww T t A * Dansar ’ Dr - Read - A. J. Gould, and
nnn T 'T 7if WOrt . h ’,n' ei3o ’ 000 eac h; vv - vv - Robertson,
, ‘ n , fcbe pasfc 10 years they have also drawn vast
sums out oi the mine.
* * * ♦
So far, Shuttleton (N.S.W.) hasn’t made up its
'y itbth , e recently-developed ore bodies
tLt in U^ erst , 00 . d tbe , mine is Prepared to sell the
ores to Growl Creek if the latter will deal on what are
reckoned fair terms. Meanwhile, an air-compressor and
rocMriß are being installed to push on the opening up
of the lower levels. roe
* * * *
Lead carbonates sent away from C.S.A., Cobar
(N.B. W.), to keep the pot boiling, have been very con-
sistent in value, so far. Total is 888 tons (net), which,
has yielded £4165 after paying all charges off the mine.
* lrst Parcel was worth £4 14s. per ton to the co. : last
parcel, £4 10s. 6d. ; and the average, £4 13s. 6d. The
lead has run from 49 to 54 p.c. ; silver, a shade over Uoz. ;
, ?„ eold has S° ne off from 2dwt. 12gr. at the start to
ldwt. 13gr. now.
* * * *
Gundabooka, near Cobar (N.S.W.), continues
to improve with depth of shaft. Go. has now purchased
Mulga King battery, six miles distant, and acontraet for
carting 100 tons to battery has been let. Late rains,
however, have interfered with that job.
* » • •
F.H.R. Does the N.S.W. Mines Depart-
ment know that absolutely no reliance is placed upon its
free assays by miners all over the State ? Is it a fact that
those ores sent for assay (many of them refractory) are
handed over to students at the Technical College ? 'if so
no wonder I got a blank assay from stone showing gold
to the naked eye. And what has been done about the
Imperial Bushmen’s scandal, when the result of assays
was known in Sydney before it reached the prospectors
at Kerrs Creek (N.S.W.)? I think someone wants to
light a fire under N.S.W. Mines Department.
* * • *
A wail of woe comes from Walhalla (Vic.).
When one prominent resident blows his nose and says
Ve haf never seen such dings,” there’s a solid bleat of
sympathy. Walhalla went out of Long Tunnel Extended
and bought Long Tunnels, believing that the old mine
would soon gobble up its neighbor on the underlie theory.
But Extended goes as strong as ever, and Walhafla
isn t happy. Then Walhalla hadn’t the sense to
see that shares at £9 were too high. It gambled on
the north-west ground, and got left. Later, when the
market slipped down to below £6, with the speckers on
top all the way, and with Walhalla nursing the babv, it
had grievance No. 3 ; for Walhalla hates being behind
the other man. Walhalla lives in a little valley, and it
vvants to know-all that goes on in that little valley a little
ahead of outsiders. That is just what Long Tunnel direc-
tors and old Dick Noble always tried to block. With a local
director on the board, as is suggest ed, Walhalla would have
the veil up pretty high. Other shareholders prefer the devil
they know to the strange devil; so Walhalla is not likely
to become top-dog just yet. Not that there isn’t reason
for its dwellers to yap ; and, if indications don’t lie, there
will be plenty of frothing at the half-yearly meeting
directly. Directors, of course, could not put gold into
the north-west stone, but they could stir their shanks a
bit over the pump difficulty. Last yield showed a b'g
drop in the average— 1400 oz. from 2200 t ns, against
ISOOoz. previously from same quantity ; but plates yielded
well, so the board hasn’t even the excuse of a poor return
to plead for being slow off the mark.
* * * *
Will some kind soul tell the reason of the delay
in starting the battery at the Ajax, Davlesford (Vic.)?
There isn’t too much stone developed, but that is a detail
when there are so many men of strength to back’
the show in the market. Jubilee pays Is. a month
and keeps work a long way ahead 'of the battery.
Betting is odds-on that the first ciushing will go 25dwt.
but there isn’t the same readiness to lay about a six-
months! average. The Ajax “ pups,” are somewhat quiet,
blit there ate,a host of other little district floats, all of
which are being pushed on the market with true Ballarat
vigor. Some of these were fair surface shows, but the
gold pinched out, as it has done pretty well everywhere
m Daylesford, and only when the memory of the past has
faded have men been found with the pluck to re-open
them. r
* * * *
Last week saw the wisdom of the warning given
about the Goldfields group, Bendig-o. Now- comes the
tall in specimen Hill and New Argus,- and thei-e is no
hustle on to buy United Ulster. All three'stocks went
above their worth. Had Bendigo been left alone, the rise
' would have been checked long ago. Prices never keep .
up at Bendigo unless dividends can'be seen, and there
was no Sure:4os! in New Argus any more than there was
50s. in Specimen Hills when shares got to those prices.
Ihe best of the.stone was beaten out of the New Argus
too rapidly, and Specimen Hill, in turn, has to look to low
grade stone.
Directors of South German, Maldon (Vic.)
abandoning local tradition, have called in geologist Moon
to light up that dark corner into which the co. has got
since it hit the floor at 1750 ft. Mine did not get really
"°, ld P icked U P the reef below a slide at about
600 ft. ; but it kept on the dividend list until the floor was
cut at 1750 ft. When the South German-Deep amalgama-
tion was on, the experts promoting the deal from the
Deep side spoke very wisely about what was beyond
the boundary of the South German in the Deep ground,
bo far all the gold seen has been that which some gentle-
men were able to gather in from realising shares on the
carrying through of the amalgamation. Moon, w-lio
knows the field, says : “ If you want to pick up the gold
you must spend money in prospecting for it.” He can be
supported also in urging that the co. should try the
shallow- ground. Maldon mines, with very few excep-
tions, have given out at shallow depths. In cases where
they have continued profitable there has generallv been
pretty extensive faulting, as in the South German. It
would be edifying to hear what Nankivell and other
local authorities have to say abouf,'saddle formations
developing in the mine.” This assertion of Moon’s is so
like a bit of E. J. Dunn that it could be fancied the latter
had done the inspection. This is not the first time that
saddles have been claimed for Maldon, though local
miners never endorse such discoveries. Still, the main
point is, is there any gold in the South German mine ?
Moon has given a programme ; will the board have the
pluck to carry it out ?
* * • *
“0.H.5.” : Appended is the result of a dissec-
tion of the July figures of two adjoining .Kaigoorlie mines
working under similar conditions ’
Tons treated (20001 b.) .. A f2&j* d
Total gold value .. .. .. £34!648 £17,0 56
„ „ „ per ton .. .. 60 2 39/-
rotlt £21,504 £2,495
„ per ton .. .. .. .. 36/10 5 9
Total cost £13,144 £14,561
„ per ton 23/4 33/3
Cost of mining per ton .. g/g 7/51
~ treatment per ton .. .. 11/9 721
Total working cost ~ „ .. 18/61- 217-
Number of No. 5 ball mills .. .. 9 a jq
Short tons crushed per mill per 24’
hours 4 0-3 28'2
* * • *
Hannan’s Star, Kaigoorlie, which has been
under a cloud for some years, may come ao-ain. Tre-
wartha Janies, consulting engineer of the show, who has
long reckoned it no good, recently let a tribute, and the
tributors are having a good time. A parcel of low-grade
ore was, some time ago, treated at the Eclipse mill on the
co.’s behalf, hut the result was not verv satisfactory
Since then, however, tributors have proved that the mine
s better than the management imagined.
* * * •
North Kalgurli (W.A.) has long looked as if it
were utterly played out. But a tribute was let in the
Brookman’s Boulder section of the property, and so far
as one can judge, the tributors here also will make a good
tiling.
* * * *
The boom in Phillips River (W.A.) continues
and this new copper-gold field is likely to give a muefe
•desired fillip to languishing W.A. Price of property at
Ravensthorpe has increased very rapidly, and the ship-
ping cos. are running weekly and bi-weekly steamers
instead of casual boats at long intervals. Manager King
late of the Boulder Perseverance, is very confident of
results, and predicts a great future. Any amount of
money is forthcoming from the London Cohens to
thoroughly test the district.
* * * *
The management of the Ivanhoe Junction
(W.A.) still lies low, and does nothing to verify its state-
ments that it has thousands of tons of pay ore in sight
A machinery pall was recently made, but there is still no
sign of machinery. There is no reason, so far, to alter
the opinion that the mine is a duffer.
* * * *
One of the directors writes “Re Lyell Blocks
(B. 13/9/’O6). The actual increase in fees was from £250
to £4OO ; and the dividend which the Blocks paid was a
sixpenny. As The Bulletin says, manager Ferguson is a
real good man ; he got the extraction up from about 50
per cent, to 70 per cent., and as the ore runs only about
1-85 per cent, copper, and contains a good deal of glance
this is splendid work. But as to opening the ground, we
can t go far ahead, as, owing to the swelling nature of it
drives collapse in no time.” ’
A note about what is usually claimed to be the
biggest known wolfram deposit in the world, though a
while ago John Moffatt, of N.Q., said he knew what he
believed to be a larger, and was biding his time (and a
better market) to work it“ The Northern Territory's
biggest thing in wolfram is at Wolfram Creek, about
11 miles from Fine Creek. W. Brock, J. Burns and T
Goggens are the owners, holding a lease of 80 acres.
Tbe output of wolfram from July, 1904, to July,
1906, was 200 tons, averaging 68 per cent, tungstic
acid. A shaft on the top of a hill is down 50ft
on a 3ft. mulloeky leader, very rich in cubes:
boulders of copper ore are met with, some going
as much as 60 per cent.—grey ore, pretty free from
wolfram. These are picked out and bagged. Copper is
the only foreign metal in the pipe. Sixteen tons of
wolfram were sent away from another shaft down 40ft.
the country below the hill is quartz and ironstone. A
shaft is down 70ft. on a pipe 50ft. long by 14ft. wide, with
a 2ft. seam of copper sulphides on the footwall,
running 26 per cent, copper. There being much mundic
in this lode the ore (which averages 14 per cent, acid) is
burnt before crushing. Whether the lode lives to adepth
is an open question, but about 100 tons of ore is in sight :
and the country is full of torpedo-shaped pipes. Two adjoin-
ing claims have been worked, but are now idle. The
mode of crushing is most primitive. Four spring, dollies
worked by Chinese act as a battery. Sluicing is done
by the wheel process—also worked by Ah Fat. Writer
watched the result of a clean-up of one-third of a load ;
ioon av E , b - wolfram concentrates. Slugs weighing
1001 b. have been found.” 6
rs * * * *
Good old Wallaroo and Moonta, which have
been pouring opt copper into S. Aus. for 44 years without
a break, paid ,£40,000 last half-tear—at the rate of 124
per cent, on capital, which is by far the best record
since the underground fire forced the co. to carry out a
badly-needed-reorganisation. Recent results:—
Surplus of
inr ,, Dividends. Liquid Assets.
Tw’ Jon* " ” itS ’ 000 •• £79,247
Dec., 1905 .. .. 8,000 .. 118,087
June, 1906 .. .. 40,000 .. 116,516
Accounts are only published at the end of the year : but
)a S‘s, the half-year’s profit was, as shown above!
3 agamst £51,364 for the previous 12 months,
lfie £38,429 came from 2667 tons copper, equal to £l4 8s
per ton. And the co.’s outlay on plant, &c., has been ex-
tensive ; otherwise, in fact, seeing that copper has
averaged £B2 2s. 9d. per ton, the figures would only be
fairly satisfactory ; for an average of even £72 can’t
safely be reckoned upon ; £56 was long the favorite basis
was £67 2s U Id *'° r the flrst : half of last y ea ‘lthe average
* * * «
Widgeon : Don t know the firm, and there’s
plenty of internal evidence that it is a swindle. Some of
the securities are said to be guaranteed by “a French
Government bank.” There is no French State bank
Greagh : Address 12-14 o‘Oonnell-street, Sydney....
1:“™'. ; Ordinary trustee co. charge for an estate up to
£50,000 is.2J per cent, on the capital value and an annual
2£ per cent. on receipts W.M. : (i) Prospects of new
nnne look fairly hopeful—can’t say more than that. (2)
Kalgoorlie Miner Investor :A, D, and E the best of
the bunch ; C good, but the market liable to be flooded
and present price high.
* * * *■
G. R. Gilfillan, a Melbourne mining expert,
who is not wildly imaginative, has returned from a two
years inquiry into the matter of Burma’s mineral re-
sources, and his report is more than favorable. “ Burma ”
B y,? W e ' tall Australian aforesaid, “is one of: the finest
of British seizes,’and will be one of the wealthiest when
opened up. Leaving out of the question the ancient
silvei-lead mines towards the Chinese border, no serious
attempts at mining have been made until within the past
tew years. At the present time there are vast areas of
rich country waiting development. In the south of
Burma there appears to be any amount of gold
and tin ; further north, you find copper, silver-lead
coal, graphite, as well as the famous ruby mines
and the great oil tracts. The oil fields are held
chiefly by the Burma Oil Co., with headquarters in
Glasgow'. The Standard Oil Co. made an attempt to get
a footing in the country, but this was frustrated by the
Government, which desires to keep the oil industry in
British hands. Australian hands, by the wav would
count as ‘ British ’ in this connection, and I might men-
tion that other oil areas are known—other than those
worked by the Burma Co.—and these could be inexpen-
sively exploited. Throughout the whole length of the
Malay Peninsula in Siam and the Malay States exists a
continuous tmfield, wdth magnificent possibilities. Con-
siderable areas have been surface worked bv Chinese
under primitive and careless methods, by which
the bottom, and probably richest, layers have
been left untouched. Their tailings and dump
heaps .yield as high as Hlb. and 21b. to the
cubic yard. Talking of gold, the mining law's are
liberal in Burma. Large areas are granted under
prospecting license for three years, with the right to
acquire a less (but ample) area on permanent lease if the
ocal Government officer is satisfied of the bona-fides of
the operations. An absolute title is given by the Crow'n
The laws are being amended to admit of special dredging
leases of large area, the old laws having been framed for
reef-working only. Several dredging cos. are already
operating in Upper Burma, and away to the south two
or three English ventures are reported to be doing well.
Apart from these the country at present is practically
unexplored from a mining point of view, but attention is
being drawn to it, and there is every inducement to
get in without loss of time. Burma, to my mind is
a sure thing. Magnificent tracts of forest'are beim-
reserved by Government under the care of divisional
officers. The matured timber (teak, and other valuable
varieties) is marked by experts, and either cut and sold
,J..P°yp?' nlnenfc or leased b .V' tender on royalty terms
With this careful administration the forests should
increase in value as timegoes on. Rubber was introduced
into South Burma a while ago, and is making excellent
progress, the climate being most favorable to a prolific
growth. Trees reach the producing stage in the fifth
year. There seems to be a lot of money in rubber. But
l am talking of the country’s mining future, and I’m con-
vinced there is a lot of money in that."
• * * *
“Adelaide”: The most sporting wager in mv
experience was made by an Adelaide broker, eight or ten
weeks back. He took 10 to 1, and backed shares then
selling eagerly at £56 to be worth less within six months
than another line, valued at about 17s. To-day heproudlv
recalled to my notice the bet, which is already won The
low-priced stock has just held its own, but the other-
the smellful Narlarla Hills-after going up to £7O has
come back to next to nothing.
* * • *
Some developments of this tin boom remind one
of the hopes that Lord Howe Island had once. Someone
—an important official—had samples of tin ore.taken from
the island and submitted to Government analysis, w'ith
the result that 80 per cent, of tin was announced. The
Howeites thought their day had come at last. Handy-
man trank Darnell was appointed Mining Warden, and
officials were despatched to control the rush. After a lot
?! 11 ?°!\ ey " a< * een squandered in expenses, it was found
that the samples which had been taken, to Svdnev had
been originally taken from Sydney to the 'island by
Magistrate Wilkinson. J
* 9 * *
. nr^l 1 v ?. r : Range was a late mining rush
1? Westra ia Ninety pc. of the inhabitants live in tents.
It is 96 miles from Mt. Magnet and 200 miles from Leonora.
Was advised not to do the trip, as it was “100 miles of
monotonous mulga." I did not find it monotonous.
This is "’hat it panned out: One emu, three Dagoes, two
Japs, one Chow, three Afghans, four niggers, four camel
teams (40 camels one baby riding on its mother’s back)
two pubs, four shanties, six swamps, one lake (not on the
map), three creeks, 12 cyclists, two swagmen, 10 horse
teams (three, bogged), four women, six youngsters 30
sheep, plenty goats, one Sikh, one German, one Irishman
.10 crow’s, four hawks, one mail-coach, one gold mine two
gates, three wells, one rabbit-proof fence, two pigs six
humpies, and about 50 acres of wild floivers-everlastin*
daisies, white, yellow and pink. The road is most v
dust and drought, but the Murchison had just had some
inches of ram—the best for 12 months.
* * * *
The increased production of silver in the refining
of copper and lead is becominga factor in the silvermarket
Already electrolytic copper accounts for the production
o 20,000,00U0z. silver in America, and the better refining
li!nL a ° C ! )UntS fo , r , a s t l,l linger quantity. Australian
metallurgists, as well as American, are doing good work
I £-,r and ! ing j° w copper ore containing a few
shillings worth of silver or gold. With copper at £BO
'J cent, ore at Mt. Lyell. (Tas.) more than covers
v orlting costs. Chillagoe returns, including customs ore
average over lOOoz. silver per ton of copper. A late
Mount Morgan return gives an extraction of over 13oz.
g-old per ton of copper. Wet concentration of copper and
silver ores is likely to receive' more attention ; there are
®°ro e bl K propositions of this sort around Gladstone
(Q.). The Anaconda (U.S.A.) is the leader of this type of
mine f it can treat 6000 tons of low grade ore per day
and produces 40,000 tons of copper a year.
Blasphemy, from “8.N.Z.,” now in London:
I went into the Bank of England. There were three
other people there—one, like myself, having a look, and
two apparently doing business.”
* * » ,
The Aerial Tramways now being erected at the
British and Central Mines at Broken Hill on the Bleichert
system, will enable mine managers of Australia to learn
the saving in transport charges of ore from mine to mill,
or null to railway with concentrates. Many mines pay
from Is. 6d. upwards for horse and dray, whereas they
could do the same work at about one penny per ton by
means of a proper Automatic Ropeway. W. and J.
Lempriere, of 506 Little Collins-street, Melbourne, are the
Agents for A. Bleichert & Co., of 76 Cheapside, London.*
*•» * *
Two patent portable traction, scoop engines
are being built to the order of Messrs. McLelland and
Cooper for cutting the main irrigation channels in the
Waranga Basin District of Victoria. The engines will be
placed on opposite sides of the channels and will pull and
tip the scoops in their own direction, and so make the
channel and forni the embankment. There are two
engines of the vertical compound type, and, along with
winding drums, frictiou clutches, worm gearing, and
other appliances, are mounted on a mild steel framework
carriage which projects above and forward over a portion
of the locomotive boiler. The boiler is mounted on
driving and steering wheels. The main haulage engine
is 160 I.H.P. and the smaller one 35 I.H.P. The Austral
Otis Engineering Company Ltd., South Melbourne, are
the manufacturers.* r„ i
* * * * 1
The Australian public is lucky in having a
chance to benefit by Marconi’s great invention The
issue of shares in The Marconi Wireless Telegraph Co of
Canada on the face of it looks about the best thing ever
offered here. Like the great invention itself, it seems
almost too good to be true. And yet Marconi’s system is
in full force and capable of transmitting* up to 50 words a
minute at 6d. per word. It must earn gigantic profits.
Anyway, 11. G. Robinson, the representative of Munroe
and Munroe, is giving a free demonstration of the wonders
of wireless telegraphy at the Centenary Hall, York-
s''l every evening from Wednesday 19th to Saturday
29th inst., which should not be missed.*
• * * *
■The immense interest felt in wireless telegraphy
by a community thirsting for information—and good
investments —was shown by the fact that eager crowds
failed to gain admission to hear Mr. H. G. Robinson’s
eloquent and lucid description of the great discovery at
Glen’s Hall, Melbourne, last week. Mr. H. G. Robinson,
who gave three free lectures in Melbourne, and is now in
Sydney, is specially representing Munroe and Munroe, of
New York, agents for the Marconi underwriters of
America. A block of shares in the Marconi Co. offered in
Melbourne, was speedily over-subscribed.*
* * * »
The Advertiser (Adelaide), in its issue of Ist
June, 1905, stated : —“ The annual report of the Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited, shows that
substantial progress continues to be made. The premium
income is larger by £lO,OOO than last year, and the
increase in the total income is £16,000.”*
To Mine Managers, Assayers and others.
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime, Zinc Shavings,
Mabor, and all Mining and Assay Chemicals and
Apparatus, Microscopes and accessories can be obtained
of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne. Agents for
Oertling’s and Schlag and Berend’s Balances.*
The best brand for sheep now in the market is
Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and is con-
siderably cheaper than any other. It will scour out and
should certainly be used by those who hope to get a good
price for their wool. E. Rich and Co., Sydney and
Brisbane, hold stocks.*
* * * *
Cobar. —For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
Auriferous Sands and Cement.—Advertiser
is prepared to successfully treat same by a new process.
Send samples to Findlay, 19 Macquarie Place, Sydnev.*
* * * *
B. H. Pascoe, stock and share broker, member
of the Stock Exchange of, Melbourne, 311 Collins-street,
Melbourne.*
* * * *
Connolly, Keam and Co., 123 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
or flotation.* Must stand close expert investigation. *
“Geo. E. Dickenson, 60 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, Manager and Trustee is prepared to consider
offers, sale or purchase of approved Mining properties
under working option or cash purchase.”
* * » *
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive or talogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silberbers and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coaled steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works’
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts
and every discretion of cast or wrought iron work * ’
* * * *
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo A
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
* * * *
The enterprising engineering firm R. Hornsby
and Sons, Ltd., Grantham, England, world renowned
manufacturers of the “Hornsby”' Patent Safety Oil
Engine, the latest adaption of which is their Traction
Engine, have entered the Gas Engine arena and are now
making the Hornsby-Stockport Gas Engine and Suciion
Gas Plant. The latter we learn will develop upwards of
10 brake horse power at the cost of Id. per hour. The
minimum cost and attention required should prove a great
inducement to users of motive power to instal this type
of plant. The Australasian addresses of the above firm
are: Sussex-street, Sydney and Bourke-street Mel-
bourne.*
* * * •
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street’
Melbourne. Commission business only. Agents everv-
where.*
* * * *
The Zinc Corporation has taken careful advice
in connection with the large plant required at Broken
Hill, and has ordered Babcock and Wilcox water-tube
boilers with Superheaters and mechanical stokers This
order has been followed by the great firm of mining
engineers, Messrs. Bewick, Moreing and Co., placing
orders wi th the same boiler company, in connection with
le , '■’ outh Blocks, also at the Hill. These instances
further_ prove the assertion that, wherever economy in
fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
Sydney* ThlS °° mpany sfcock boilers at “ Haymarket,”
* * •
Charters Towers.—Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
ion on the field.*
CQmmDnwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
Colhson and Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and


ANGLERS
Send
for our
FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE.
It will please you.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
409 and 411 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resells Waverley Brewery, Agents.
David storer (Q. Sons’
Tattoo Oil
[Registered Trade Mark]
IS THE ONLY ABSOLUTELY
In Three Colors:
BLACK, RED,
(EL BLUE.
Kept by . • •
ALL MERCHANTS
(SL STOREKEEPERS.
SAFE WOOL-MARKING OB
SHEEP BRANDING OIL.
THE PERFECT
SHEEP-MARKER.
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
THE LAMBING-DOWN SEASON.
PUBLICAN: “ What! Come in on yer own, Jim? Where’s yer mate?”
JIM: “ Oh, I slipped him. ’E’s a right enough chap to graft with, but when ’ e comes into the
township he gets too blanky selfish for me. Why, ’e won’t give anyone else a charnee to
buy a drink. What’s yours?”
“ 8.C.” : A scientific paper states that
tomato plants have been grafted on potato stems,
and the result is a crop of tomatoes above ground
and a crop of spuds underneath. That is nothing.
A friend of mine lately grafted an onion stem on
a spud stalk, and then grafted a salt-bush cutting
and a pepper-tree ditto on the resultant stem.
The plant grew so heftily in a flower-pot that, to
save the utensil, he poured boiling water over it
to kill it. Result, a pot of Irish stew. Science
is a wonderful thing.
* • * *
Householders will find that for universal
use Little’s Phenyle Disinfectants are unsurpassed.
The Soluble Phenyle is a powerful insecticide, it
kills bugs, cockroaches, fleas, &c., and is one of the
best washes for all domestic animals. Sold by all
■chemists, grocers, storekeepers, throughout Aus-
tralia.*
■ ( Janor ” : Here, in the heart of Gfipps-
land, to-day (end of August) that glorious asset of
the spring poet, the wattle, bows its golden head
beneath a heavy crown of glistening white. For
last night the first snow of the season arrived and
now lies six inches deep on the ground, and
heavily veils the tallest eucalypts. The smaller
trees and saplings, with branches borne down by
their thick snow-loading, look oddly like the firs
of far away Alpine regions. The crash of falling
limbs is almost continuous as they are torn off by
their snowy overburden, otherwise the air is silent
with a ghostly silence. No bird-notes strike the
ear; even the “jacks” have retired in disgust.
The only bird seen to-day, a hapless fantail, flut-
tered in at the open door, and died on the
threshold, perished with cold. The air is motion-
less and chill, the sky dark grey and lowering, so
that vision is restricted to about a mile in any
direction, but this matters the less inasmuch as
all the beauties of valley and mountain are hidden
under the dead white mantle. A joyless day to
be trapped in a bush camp, with nothing to read,
and 18 miles between us and the least remote
whiskv.
* * * * *
“ Paul Cupid ” : As The Bulletin recently
suggested, the N.S.W. Fisheries Board should
have the shag designated as a pest, and put a
price on its sinful, obscene head. Much trouble
and expense are incurred in the production of
select fish ova for our rivers. They are sent inland
with great care, and are liberated in the rivers
with more care (and a lot of demmed trouble, so
the consignors reckon), and the shag gobbles them
out of the water again without any demmed
trouble. The cormorant is plentiful on many of
our rivers, and, being of no value, is left unmolested.
It is a gross, baggy, voracious feeder, and the
quantity of fish required to satisfy its rapacity is
marvellous. And it is such an excellent fisherman
that a catch never slips off its hook. I have seen
a shag waving an eel much longer than itself, and
it could let it go and pick it up again without
trouble. The eel is swift and sinuous, yet the
shag parted with it, and drifted affably after it,
and had it again in the beginning of a second.
And when I disturbed it, it just made a cavernous
sound like a moaning substance being swallowed
by a whirlpool, and that live eel longer than itself
was gone. , , »
“ Gip ” : How does snake-bite affect
animals? Dogs die quietly, I believe, when
fatally bitten. But I saw a fat bullock die of
what was supposed to be the bite of a tiger snake
last summer, and his antics were more like a
Chinese insurrection than anything else. In fact,
a recklessly excited stockman, looking on, shouted
wildly: “ Holy blessed wars ! Bet any o’ yez a
quid ’is ears drops off d’reckly.” He bellowed,
bucked, stood on his hind legs, stood on his head,
tried to balance on his tail, charged the fence in
several places, sprinted twice round the small
grass paddock like a racehorse doing a trial, and
finally died on his back, apparently in great
agony, with foaming mouth and rolling eyes.
“ Pan wick ”:—
In conversation at the local School of Arts, the other
night, I spoke of having seen cassowaries in N.Q., and
was laughed at by my hearers, who asserted that the
bird, if it exists there at all, must be a very recent im-
portation. Can The Bulletin enlighten these cocksure
potato-raisers?
The N.Q. cassowary (casuarius australis) has
been known since 1854. There are nine or ten
other (existing) species.
THE HEATHEN IN HIS BLINDNESS.—LANDING OF THE NEW MISSIONARY.
REV. MR. GLADDICOMBE: “ Many sharks about here?”
NATIVE BOATMAN: “ A great many.”
RRV. MR. GLADDICOMBE: “ Do they ever—cr?”
NATIVE BOATMAN: “ Eat people? Oh, yes, often. Do you know, I sometimes think there is
something almost human in the shark’s fondness for the flesh of man!”
“ The Prooshan ” : Adolphus Diggins was
“just out,” with all his “haw” fresh upon him.
He had come to Alloyville with his uncle, of the
Golden Hole G.M. Syndicate. The uncle drew
the local legal manager aside and said: “Can
any of your chaps show Dolph a wombat? He
wants to get one for a bookmark.” The L.M.
referred him to Snagger, who knew the haunt of
every wombat in the district. “Ai should oah-
fully laike to see one. Weally, now, could you
catch one? Ai should be delated, bai Jove, Ai
should, weally,” said Adolphus. Snagger said
he would show him one next day. That evening,
he took the uncle into confidence, likewise the
rest of the party, save Adolphus. Next morning,
before the company arrived, Snagger had young
Perkins, son of the braceman, fixed up as a most
fearsome-looking creature with the aid of charcoal,
paint, skin, tusks, &c., and sent him into a vacant
cave to wait events. All the party had guns
loaded with blank cartridges. Snagger gave his
instructions in a deep, firm voice. “Now then,
gents, stand back, please. I’m goin’ to turn the
water into this ere ’ole to bring the wombat out.
Take dead sure aim, fer if yer miss he’ll’ave a
sample of yer quick and lively. Awful savage
wretches er things—rip yer open in a second.”
“Bai Jove !” said Dolph, and cocked both barrels.
Presently there was a roar inside, and the next
second a great black creature received five charges
of powder, and made straight through the veil of
smoke for Adolphus, who flung aside his gun and
ran, saying “Bai Jove.” He tore over rocks and
fallen timber, occasionally glancing behind, to
find the fake tearing after him with a big stick in
his paw. The party of onlookers fell down with
laughter. Presently the wombat found a hole to
slip into, and Adolphus, on looking over his
shoulder, was paralysed to see the earth swallow
his adversary. On getting back, he was speech-
less at first, but glared indignantly at his uncle,
lying dead with mirth on the grass. At last
he gasped, “Good gracious! Ai had no aideah
whatever that Australiah possessed such fearful
monsters. Ai nearly lost mai lafe ! _ And fave
shots, too ! What a fearful demmed hide he had,
to be shor. I should have those howwid caves all
closed up. I should, weally.”
“ Arual ” : I never knew a moving object,
from a monkey on dog-back to an ass on horse-
back, that the magpie wouldn’t charge. But the
most hateful of all hateful things to a nesting
magpie is a boy Chinaman. The bird is a true
Australian. A Celestial schoolmate of mine was
forced to go half a mile out of his road every day
to escape the belligerent patriotism of my pet
worm-eater, and also of a brother bird in the wild
state who held a strong position on a hill. And
rn aggie’s bill is a terrible weapon. My own pet,
although an old maid, built a nest on a stump. It
was constructed entirely of pieces of strong wire,
so twisted and interwoven as to form a perfectly
rigid structure—all done with the bird’s beak.
* * * *
A school-mistress writes :
New Christian names are hard to find. Lately I came
across girls named Eucalyptus, Wattle, Sarsaparilla, and
Belladonna. lam looking forward to Gum and Supple-
jack among the younger limbs.
“ Caber ” : “ S.R” (B. 6/9/’06.) is a little
previous in saying that the prickly pear is
included in the Queensland Noxious Weeds Act.
Never knew of any Board or Shire making a
request to have it included, and if any of them did,
no sane Government would grant the request.
Just imagine giving the Waggamba (Goondiwindi)
Shire the power to compel the State to clear of
“pear” the abandoned stations of Billa Billa and
Terawinaba. Kidston himself couldn’t balance a
ledger with such a thumping weight on the wrong
side. Even Shires coterminous to the big
municipalities are afraid to ask, and the State is
afraid to enact, special legislation against prickly
pear. When “ S.R.” takes a trip from Warwick
to Toowoomba, and gets one glimpse of that
luxuriant crop of pear at Spring, Creek he will
agree with me that the plough is the only thing (o
tackle the “ pear ”• curse with.
THE FINISHING TOUCH.
“ Yes, my boy, the kangaroo’s a won'erful animde.
Oi hev seen two on ’em hev a stall-Up fight,
an’ a mob av about forruty for-rm a ring
aroun' th ’ combatants.”
“An’ vosn't any ‘bookies’ there?”
Alleged that recently some Otaki (M.L.)
people made a fire to boil their billy with some
“rubbish,” found on the beach, Later, they dis-
covered that the rubbish was ambergris, and worth
several hundred pounds.
* * * *
“F.H.R.” : My par. was strictly about
the “Wagga rug.” but “Dagon” (B. 6/9/’O6)
seems to be writing of a bed. Did “Dagon”
never hear of blankets ? If not, I’ll send him
the photo, of one with full instructions how to
use. Well, I had plenty of blankets underneath
me and between me and the rug. That’s all!
THE HONEST ALDERMAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Once a well-known citizen
Made a fortune in cement,
Bought a motor-car and thought
That he owned the firmament —
Modest, unassuming gent!
Then as alderman he sat,
And he helped to fix the rate.
As he owned enough of coin
Honest was he ; very straight
(An authentic fact I state).
His integrity was known ;
Thoughts of snatching pelf he spurned.
At suggestions to “ go crook ”
Righteous wrath within him burned —
He was rough, uncouth, unlearned !
But one day he lost his breath,
Shuffled off this mortal sphere :
And unto the bone-yard he
Was escorted —on a bier.
His cement works still stopped here.
Then the City Council met
Where he once was wont to sit.
It agreed that on some stone
His great virtues should be writ
And they voted pelf for it.
So unanimous were they
That the public funds they spent,
And they reared upon his grave
An artistic monument —
Fashioned from his own cement.
Some nights after, cruising round
When I should have been in bed,
Met a solemn visaged ghost;
Knew it for the lately dead,
And in solemn tones it said :
“ ’Scuse me wand’ring round like this ;
Thought, when stiff, I’d gone to rest,
But some blighted fools put eight
Tons of stone upon my chest—
So I’ve guv’ the bone-yard best! ”
This the moral of my tale—
’Tis a good one, you must own—
Harmless corpses ought to be
Burdened by their sins alone—
Not by cumbrous chunks of stone.
N.S.W.
T. A. NICCOLLS.


fsd
By Appointment to
H.M. The King and H.K.H. The Prince of Wales.
f
w SALT °
A pinch or Salt gives flavour, but a pinch of CEREBOS Sait gives Strength
.. , H ® alth as we *l> because it contains the bran phosphates which make
e ifference between White Bread and Whole Meal Bread.
Agents—Harrison <V Attwood, Sydney.
CHOICE DIAMOND JEWELLERY
WE SPECIALISE ON.
WE MAKE IT. WE MOUNT IT. WE SET IT.
Ou o rst<-x°k n of n il,,ip t ; eS T t dC ? ffnS> whicl ? we re ceive by each mail.
Ur fTX> °J Uns ft Jewels is one of the Largest in Australia.
It affords us pleasure to submit special designs.
As manufacturers, our prices never exceed London fio-ures.
10b
Ruby, Sapphire and Diamond Trefoil and Whole Pearl and
Diamond Bangle, £27 10s.
Choice Whole Pearls and Selected
Diamonds, £4O ; 2nd quality, £2B.
Plain Figures
Cash
* FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter St,
'•S.S. : Just lately the resourceful and
enterprising illustrated papers of Melbourne have
been filled to overflowing with pictures of prize
bulls, and captivating photographs of exalted
boars and sows of exquisite breeding and refine-
ment, also illustrations of many rams, all with the
quaint cast of countenance characteristic of Legis-
lative Councillors, there are some hundreds of
process-work reproductions of cows, too, all speak-
ing likenesses, and more of haughty stallions, rep-
resenting the bluest equine blood in the country.
This is very thrilling, but what interests me most
is the highflown breeders quaint taste in nomen-
clature. For instance, I find a bloated hog decked
with a ribbon that is probably the emblem of a por-
cine C.M.G.-ship, and its name is “Briton’s Glory.”
A she pig of enormous proportions is called “Sweet
Violet,” and another he pig is “Our Boy.”
Another prime sow is “Lady Mary Cosgrove!”
The natural inference is that this is a delicate com-
pliment to some actual, human Lady Mary.
Many of the cows and bulls, likewise the entires
and the rams, have names selected from the
British peerage, a circumstance that leads to
somewhat startling statements when certain
happenings interesting to breeders are casually
recorded in cold print. Nothing restrains me
from struggling to the pinnacle of lasting fame but
dread lest some prosaic hog specialist should
name his chief mass of bacon in my honor.
“Hamer”: “Starr’s” cockatoo (B.
IG/8/’OG), which lms been 44 years in its present
occupation, is a kid compared with many of its
kind. In England there are birds that have been
in families through three generations, though
their birth certificates have been mislaid. And
they should five linurer in Australia.
JUST WHAT HE WANTED.
COEY (engaging new hand): “All right, you
can go on. I hope you’ll suit me.”
NEW HAND: “ That’s all right, sir. I’ve had a
lot to do with pigs.”
“ Karachiensis ” writes from Karachi,
India:—
interesting are the ways of spiders. I sometimes
catch a female with a leg-spread of 2in., put her under a
large glass, then catch a few males and put them under
tne same glass. Their amatory advances towards
tne lair one are lessons in strategy, but generally
end sadly, as, for the one she accepts as a
lo\er, she rejects—and devours—half-a-dozen. The
fpaVfni 6 1 of . some of these large spiders are
L. ° T b i eL ' fcs wh J en viewed under a magnifier. A female
spider 1 had under a glass once refused all food, and
remained motionless for two days; and on the third
underTL 1 f ? Und ’ T°*“ y sur P rise > apparently two spiders
!, i ’ d V t , he glass I found one to be merely the skin of
he spider, which she had shed during the night. Though
the\”ive, d B lb <iB i? f H hlS ? kin were now only empty shells,
'■'\ e ®? hard aild strong that 1 easily scraped with
one a deep line on a deal table.
POSITIVE PROOF.
FLRSI FOSSIOKER: "German Charlic tells me them strangers are on good gold.”
SECOND DO : “ Don’t yer b'lieve it, Bill. They worrit up at the pub larst night.”
“ J.T.G.’' : So much has been told about
bush hospitality, that it almost demands inclusion
amongst the great natural resources of the country.
This “Abo.” liar knows ot two adjoining home-
steads, occupied by father and son. Both places
are voted desirable . camps by hawkers, in-
suranee and tea agents, swaggies, &c.
Yet the owners have their little
lifferences. Whiskers, sen.,
lately borrowed a saddle
from Tom (the son) for the
purpose (which transpired
later) of impounding Tom’s
cattle. The old man’s dog
used to kill Tom’s sheep,
and old Whiskers, when
duly cautioned, declared
that Nipper was just the
thing in dogs, and never
left the premises. Two
mornings later Tom heard
the bells going, and,
stuffing a cartridge into
the rifle, went out and per-
forated Nipper. An hour
later Whiskers the elder
had a visitor. “ MOrnin’,
father.” “Mornin’, Tom.”
“ Seen your dog this morn-
m’, father? ” “ Oh, yes, he
was here a few minutes ago.”
Which wasn’t true. “Well,
he’s here now, father, anyway,”
remarked Tom, which was true, be-
cause Tom emptied him out of a bag,
and dashed the carcase down on the
breakfast table, right in the middle of
everything, and its tail went in father’s
plate, Nipper was quite dead, and Tom went
back home. But he still cuts father’s crop and
hair yearly, and the children enjoy the run of
grandfather’s orchard, as usual.
* * * *
“Matchbox ” : Visited a mountain school
recently, set in a nook of wondrous beauty, rich
in every variety of Australian flora. A creek
trickled by, just below the school-house—clear,
limpid water at play with the pebbles. The bird-
notes led the spring song of the under-world.
“Here,” thought I, “is the ideal school-house.
Here the child, in contact with Nature, may learn
life’s greatest lessons unconsciously.” I went in.
“ You have ideal conditions for Nature study,” I
said to the high-browed enthusiast who ran the
business. “Yes! Yes! Just look at these speci-
mens.” The impaled bug and beetle struggled
with one another for sfiace on the over-crowded
card. The preserved serpent and the centipede
glared stonily at the children from sealed bottles
on the mantel shelf. The grub left his slimy
track on the wall. “ What—what Nature study
have you been doing?” I asked, less surely.
“ Bugs, beetles, and worms,” said the enthusiast.
“ on the prickly pear and other
matters
• J* ave been trying- to get someone to take an interest
in the prickly pear as a basis ot profit. Why shouldn’t it
be turned into alcohol for motive power and general
household purposes, and take the place of Standard oil?
in Mexico the natives make an intoxicant from it called
pulque. Everybody makes it, and, I believe, it is an
intoxicant of the furious order. Still, spirit from the
pear would do for kitchen stoves, and things like that.
In the Argentine, pulque is made in all the pulquerias
from the agave. There is practically no alcoholic differ-
ence between the pear and agave. And the residue
would surely come in for something—as fibre for admix-
ture . with cotton or hemp, as wood pulp, as manure,
possibly as a potash.
We used to make jam and pies of the fruit, and a lovely
dye from the juice of the red fruit in N.S.W. However
you can set aside all the apparently frivolous in what f
have written, and take hold of these central facts:—
Prickly pear yields alcohol.
There are miles of prickly pear waiting for destruction,
i-iie no Kiers of land should be ylad to pay some thine* for
its eradication.
The Government wants to get rid of it.
The unemployed could be put on to it to experiment as
to its yield of marketable products.
To break up the pest for alcohol would be easy. Every
Paraguayan lias his own sugar mill and makes his own
rum. He and his wife harvest the cane and hand-work
the mill. These mills, or trapichen, are made entirely of
wood—simply three rollers set on end, and working one
against the other with wooden cogs. Well, if a Para-
guayan can set up a W'ooden mill to crush his own cane,
why couldn’t two, or ten, or twenty Australians and a
tew horses set up an iron mill —a glorified mangle—and
lun prickly pear through it, get alcohol from the juice,
and pub the fibre to other use ?
South America has little fear of the Standard Oil Trust,
for it makes alcohol a thing of common use. The last time I
came down the River Plate I saw steerage passenger
women boiling water for yerba mate and coffee. They
simply took an enamelled wash basin and set it on the
cabin floor; in the bottom they laid half-a-dozen bits of
quartz, or pebbles. They filled a kettle with water,
poured alcohol into the dish, among the stones, lit it with
a match, and set the kettle on. It was an easy and a
*u U s?.. wa l of doin 8' things, arid they were so expert at it
that the name only burned about half a minute after the
kettle boiled. Water is boiled on long-distance train
journeys in the same way, also in hotel bedrooms, for a
basin is always handy, and always safe, and alcohol is
cheap. Why shouldn’t it be the same with us ?
* * * *
Caber : Wliats all this about snakes
giving chase? Of course they do. The black
will chase only to reach its nest. The brown re-
treats and advances in a scrimmage with an
assailant, taking turn about at chasing, but only
then. But the tiger snake will chase without the
slightest provocation, especially during the
coupling season. Had occasion to cross a pad-
dock near Inglewood (Q.) to catch my horse, when
a tiger snake came wriggling along looking as if
it meant business. Bemembcring Billings’ ad-
vice, “never to argy agen a suksess,” I made a
break to the next house three-quarters of a mile
away, and the striped atrocity kept me running
my darnedest for more than half the distance.
POLICE AND PIETY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Chief Secretary Hogue (N.S.W.) told the Legislative
Assembly last week that a proposal to grant a Sunday off
once a month to members of the police force could not be
entertained.
And will this godly Government
Commit the moral crime
Of keeping men of pious bent
On duty all the time?
A lunar month four Sundays hatli;
May not the Lord have one ?
And why? Because this man of wrath
Declares it can’t be done !
And this is in a Christian land,
Where men oft kneel and pray !
Our cops must wear the Devil’s brand
For seven-and-six a day !
For every eight-and-twenty men
If we appoint one more
They all could have a Sunday then—
One Sunday out of four !
One twenty-eighth additional
(Some months one thirty-onetli)
Would free each bobby from the thrall
One Sunday every month !
Do this, James Hogue, for godliness
And once a month, content,
The cop will lie in bed and bless
His godly Government !
.vs. w.
W. T. GOODGE.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
A' o notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. ivill be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Locust : Not taking any of the theory that
when you bet with an insurance co. against death or fire
or marine loss, it is the same as betting that your horse
will win the Derby. The one great difference is this : the
loss of life (which is a cash asset) is unavoidable
(a racehorse isn’t), and combustible properties and sink-
able ships are necessary (the Derby isn’t); therefore
insurance isn’t a gamble but an agreement to pool
unavoidable and unforeseeable losses, so that no one
individual need be ruined, just as a nation is a concern
which pools defences and war losses. They are not
gambling, but are a means whereby we avoid gambling' ;
the gambler is the man who sends his ship to sea unin-
sured, and bets Providence so many to one against a
fatal storm, or fails to insure his life, and thus bets with
Providence that he will live long - enough to provide for
his family. You might as well say that the fortifications
of a port are gambling ; they represent the bet the nation
puts up against the ironclad of a possible enemy....
Squiffy : Too much froth and too little beer about your
“Bung.” J.A.M.: None up lt.C. (Yea): Built
up too laboriously... .Stranded : The good points
not new ; the new points are not g00d....
A. : Jap story quite out of our line ; it's
prettily written, but not real. It is British
love-sentiment planted amid Jap scenery Darcy
M. : Sorry it’s no good. Your verse-faculty is very
defective... .Rob Roy : You are modest. We get much
worse stuff sent us with much more confidence... .E.F. :
Style too rambling and inconsecutive John M. : Hope-
less from the literary point of view B.M.E. : Fairly
funny, but otherwise unsuitable C. Leslie : Trite re-
flections in mildly meritorious verse Euterpe : Neat
style, but hardly strength enough of treatment for such
a weary old “situation.” J.A.D.: Good of its kind,
but too long fc.r its interest... .G.F. (London): Heavy
disquisition on British Toryism not in our line 8.8.’:
Thanks ; will use the information in due course
T.S.M. : The capital of the United States is, of course,
Washington... .Stony :As to one of the men, it may'be
Due, but the other is certainly a “snake.” Bulan :
That’s it; old and rusty Miro: Far too long a yarn,
and in places obviously exaggerated Mainshaft (().) :
Surely you misunderstand altogether the meaning of
“concurrent sentences.” Friend: “The Fenians ”
were an organisation of Irish in revolt against the British
Government Phcenix : Possibly there wasn’t any
reason why “ Itan ” (B. 9/8/’O6) should have dragged
Gympie into his par re Blackall Banges ; but, as applied
to those ranges, what he said was substantially correct.
Also, by the way, there are evidences of volcanic origin
about Gympie (vide opinion of Government Geologist,
Australasian Handbook ”) J.B. :Of course, you can’t
make a good general from indifferent material by train-
ing. But that’s no argument against training officers
S. : Conclusion of “Glory Hole” buried too deeply in
obscurity. It is possible to leave so much to the imagi-
nation that the point of the story is lost L.M.W* :
Begret to say they are all rather too rugged J.P.S. :
You start by saying you are sick of the crow discussion ;
then you throw in a fresh crow yarn J.L.C. : “Tone
Picture” only two plain and rather crude slabs of im-
morality G.T.H. : One good verse in “Socks.”
Best rather below the Plimsoll mark A.S.J. : Love’s
Bevenge ” is a circumlocutory way of saying that you ai e
mashed on the girl, and she doesn’t care for you. So many
girls do tbuo sort ofthing that it is hardly' worth mention-
ing.. ..Lilian : The lines
Hark ! the bells on distant cattle
Waft across the range,
&c., are in Gordon’s “Ye Wearie Wayfarer.”.. . .E.II. :
The reunion of the long-lost drunk son and the long-lost
weeping parent respectfully declined Nilgo : Probably
she was a good girl, and forgot to say “good-bye” out of
sheer cussedness. Don’t worry about it in five verses
B. : “Love ald mode” whirls around in too promis-
cuous an orbit N.G.S. : “ Bookland” wanders loosely'
over the centuries without definitely arriving anywhere.
....B.K.D. : “Old Adam” not sufficiently frivolous.
When Adam bursts out he should go it stronger than
that G.K.J. : “Stockyard Bails” not quite a dead
poem, but dying.... The Carrier: “ Eastward Ho” has
some merit, but not enough. And too much “Ho”
harrows the spirit... .B.J.H. : “Unfinished” rather
humorous, but too rugged... .Alberta - : “Mossy dell,”
murmuring stream,” “sunbeam’s golden gleam”
“rustic wooden bridge,” “limpid pool,” “way-worn
traveller,” “crystal waters,” “cooling breeze,” “holy
calm O, pretty and poetic girlie, these are all the oldest
of old “props,” and had made the world feel tired
before your glad little personality W'as born. DM •
Both very poor, especially “Motor-Bike.”... .A.C.w! :
Unintelligible... .B.T.H. : Smartly' written, but has
quite a garland of libel actions hanging' to it... A.B
(W.A.) : Funny, but too roughly worked out... .Groper :
Falls rather flat, like horizontal pancake on billiard-
table... .J.A.S. : Yes; y r ou should try again.... A.J.P.:
Much of it is superfluous and some of it weak... .Tom F •
Too stiff and awkw'ard T.S.B. : Your “Lament” is
lamentable. Try to lament cheerfully. Be a happy
funend N. or M.: Hangs fire a good deal in the telling.
E.S.B. : Facile, but faulty in form and trite of theme
. . ..Minnie M.: Very tyro-ish and conventional, but not
devoid of promise.... T. Ashford (or something like that):
Verse containing manufactured words should be specially
legible. Don’t remember the items you mention
W. P. Swift: Very thin and weak.... W.A.M. : Good
material, inartistically handled Sandy-Blight: Weirdly
imaginative, but rather crude in detail. Nulla-
“ Beverie ” is musical as a whole, but has several weak
spots.... Hack : A solid truth awkwardly presented....
Mussel: Don’t be so confoundedly long-winded. Observe
the condensed form in which your stuff appears.
C.J.D. : Verse, very poor quality. Story better, but
greatly lacks literary finish Car : Deficient in strength
and symmetry E.C. : Workmanship too clumsy..
Nothing novel or striking about it—except the
spelling M. Seville: Too wooden and mechanical
Such a subject needs a very light touch... .Girondin •
Well-intended, but you haven’t the skill co do the theme
justice.... J’s No. 2 : Too much preliminary, and too long
for its interest, anyhow Nameless: Bather smart
but quite unprintable....Janor: “Loaming” is too dry’
and technical... .John G. : You haven’t the necessary
T.W.F. : Hardly good enough....
Huffin-Guffm : Hardly up to your usual standard .
G.A. : Well enough versified, but the country- v. citv
theme is suffering from great fatigue N. McC • Not
well enough put together.... S.T. : Almost it persuaded
us Cassius: You ‘can’t find anything wrong with
tne metre, because you obviously mispronounce certain
w °, , s : Cerements,” for instance, has only two
syllables; vagary” should have the accent on the
second syllable, “toward” on the first, and so on
Gam : Second-hand ” will be reported on next week
Meanwhile, try not to be short in your postage every time.


ow r s
"teirjo develoj>
VI itjeir fV"j l ' lc S. f or
fljs wofK o{ "je • (a^-sI
{rib® ■'* cy f KC ss
iSo-gUs •* dr*wines, clymoMiy
Zk wood Wor K,
Cyb'bifs
SljoW ItoW //
children na yz \A
fested SV"H«* .XT
of- mi IK, X
Soils fb«
huFriH/e °r
recov'd pd t ,
Rfe yields of-cows./
v (*^
i-»
7 D id *.*‘•“"tTr
o>-«Wn PoHjS lW«a 7 J f
Sodded Wajer.'
of Ij>e neighbourhood, in J»u+ty
witness to I^efAe-T .H)aT i>j« true yn/dy of-
*b« S'*»s V* - How»e • _
Qur Town^bij^. "by Cl)J\>die f&y/or
‘>V 0 ffcr soh’»C-
-form *f li'jts U*deK
jr>s)»ect7o»>
JL "b'S G A r S Invoice v« ”by
r o rKyHPirv, grmelody . (/\rpi)
BhcVr litffc ©iris, Oodai-
S°f > « rV 'V o f^ ir '^t-ricfress
held /"
Cooking ~ [ ,^A)
de^on^*!iKm^&A/
/^+ u re e sil.‘*Y I,
P * f On« chlia t fM AS S' J.J
.f =>>■. W-T-a^
lm "«cr ►*> V'y
-if)9. -PrecKly on* To**> • i„
/. qv»! SW jm^sK..
- Ko, Ur sH« <** ***** K ,c *
£&ll
: <rns /t'lacMcaJ!
j iic if <Aa+*LJt*s>i.c£- /Yc WZ,
i SUArUt <yaAt£ SZ-ta-JC)
<~y6*W ■'*yue<Zf*te~ .
(ylAa^u~S
" j .
o€<k ''frlfyrrigtfc,
sdf
Bobby Jones BewF) ’.
" [ I'm dvoned I
Jo I —— Corine. s on^4
of weeds, insect Collected "by children M
labelled rcsj»«c+',vcly-” Fl'iends ofije Fv*» & fees of fl»a .
BENT’S STATE SCHOOLS’ EXHIBITION.


It is proposed to construct a. miniature Hfle range at Sydney Town Hall.
Miniature rifles will now be used by the aldermen, instead of soda>water
bottles, to discharge the cork projectiles at the target.
King Ned Is said to have cleared £1 aaa aaa
“ .he New York su,ck .
“flosh I This is better than reigning l ’» e/'
.«rt'f«^‘..ll nd L M,nJ9ter Asbton makes 14 cf ear that the political land
agent la atill to be encouraged in the *• Reformed ” Lands Apartment
THE NEW DISEASE.
Man in the Street: “Hellol what’s wrong?
I Broken arm?”
Scoopenham, M.L.A.: “No; land agent's elbow.”
ANTI-SOSH MOVES TO THE BATTLE.
LAND AGENTS, KINGS, &e.


§
WihemV/onltls^Denliiteicei
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Said that Peter Close, of Sydney, has sunk
a lot of siller in the purchase of a potter’s field
down South.
Tim Quinlan, Speaker of the Perth (W.A.)
Assembly, was a publican at one time, He is
flow reputedly within one good land shout of
being a millionaire; owing to the rise in value of
Perth dity property. The unearned increment is
tdillrtg day and night for Tim Quinlan,
Queensland ex-Prenlie'r Arthur Morgan
fhafchfeid lfis half-fcfentury SbptefnbCr 19,- and rusts
jßeachfuliy dS President Of the Legislative Council;
He, Is the, pWlitieialh Adji df if politician father;
(hid >V;is/ Clmiririiuj Of Coffiuniitte'es'iri the Assem-
bly duhirig three Prfeniiership’s.
Mrs; Ge'rmiaiiid Theres’e Esjfiriasse is ;
in Sydney for the dissolution of het marriagfc With 1
dramatist Espinasse; now in London 1 , o’n 1 thg'
ground of desertion. His full name is Bernard
Reuben Isaac Julian Lilian Maximilian Espinasse,
and yet it is declared that he went to London to
make a name for himself.
Captain Barton, who makes such a woeful
mess of governing Australian Papua, has plenty
of friends in high places. Whispered that iPs
vice-regal influence which bulwarks him in his
position, and a recent titled English visitor pass-
ing through Sydney took care to give to the press
an interview full of glowing appreciation of the
captain.
The Stinking Fish Party is having a bad
time in England just now. Added to B. R. Wise
and T. A. Coghlan, Australia has another capable
defender in Senator Matheson, who can write
With a perfect Oxford accent and consequently
challenges attention when he combats anti-
Aiistfalian lies in the newspapers,
The importing marl in again. Archdeacon
Halford, of Rockhampton (Q.), is to be succeeded
by ParsOrt Rogers, Who is to be brought all the
way front HriintOn,- Lincolnshire, England. The
importing Craze aiflotffits to a disease in the sin-
shifting business, especially When the shifter is
a Bishop or an Archdeacon. For staftll curate
jobs the Australian is mostly good enough.
“Melb.”: Justice Hodges Was scathing,
the other day, at the dedication of a memorial
window to Professor Morris in the Church of
England Grammar School. His fervid and emo-
tional praise of Morris palpably had a reference
to the fact of that gentleman being ousted from
the head-mastership. Morris W'as son-in-law to
George Higinbothaffi, Under whose auspices he •
gave a lecture at South Melbourne; on agrarian
laws, supporting the most advanced ideas. The
squatters thereupon jerked him out of his billet.
SPRUCE MYTH'S IDEAL—HIMSELF.
Tommy Bent, in the days of his political
youth, set an example which Bruce Smith and
other advocates of colored brotherhood should
follow for the sake of consistency. At his first
Brighton election he printed his election address
in Chinese and distributed copies through the
Chow gardens, then numerous in the district.
Every naturalised Chinaman voted for Tommy.
T. H. Smith, who surrenders his chance of
a pretty sure Parliamentary seat to forward the
candidature of iron-master Sandford, is one of
the veterans, as Australian politics go. He sat in
N.S.W. Parliament 32 years ago, and has been
sitting, or trying to sit, most of the time since.
He is a staunch Protectionist; also, he is a
brother of Sydney Smith, the Globular Ones
friend, known appreciatively as Pumpkin.
Louis Spitzel, diamond-setter, pauper,
financier and millionaire, was sued in Melbourne,
away back in the seventies or eighties, for a debt
of £126 16s. A verdict for the amount, with
costs, was secured. Spitzel sequestrated his
estate, and was to have got a certificate if he paid
ss. in the £. He didn’t pay, but left Australia,
and died, the other day, worth £2,000,000. Now
the dead millionaire’s estate is to be drawn on to
settle the debts of nearly 30 years ago. Spitzel
would turn in his grave if he knew of the proceed-
ings. Nothing hurts a millionaire more than
paying old debts that he contracted when he was
poor. ’ They were his stepping-stones to wealth,
and it seems like vandalism to obliterate the old
-monuments.
Pa Brunker’s appearance, as he
Smilfes blandly round the N.S.W. Legisla-
Chamber, misleads many as to his
chafal6tet and disposition. Peace with all
men, and all an'y price, is by HO means the
maxim thai Wiles hirii 1 . Public Stjlfrepcy,
land settlement, aid grbat national affairs
generally do not, indeed, stif thb d6ef) Cur-
rents of his being. They pass aid lbave
him the same mild Brunker. But let any-
one, who wants to see the primitive
Brunker, take an unfair point on Pa in a
cow or calf deal. Then lie will find the
lava still hot beneath the crust. There is
in everybody the old primeval man beneath
the veneer of civilisation —the hairy and
cave-dwelling Brunker who took his life in
his hand three million years ago. and told the
pterodactyl that he would see it blowed first.
According to the nature of man and the
kind of veneer he has acquired, there are
different wavs whereby you can arouse the
boiling and hidden Brunker within him. In
Pa’s case the way is Cow.
“ Professor ” Richard has been
gaoled again in England on a charge of
obtaining £250 from 17 patients on the
false pretences of his “electric-healing”
treatment, Richard is the fellow who, 13
years* ago,- duped Dr, "Billy” Maloney
jritO taking him Seriously, and testifying to
niS tjoiid-fidcS; wbat time he was doing a
bfislt business as rt healer in Melbourne.
Ilb \vaS then identified as one Geismardo,
foi-ffieriy a! liigb-toWed glover, who had
formerly k6f)f a! fffi'op in the Melbourne
“Block.” A good iiiaii'y of his women
clients retain tender recollections of “Geis-
mardo” Richards, owing to his electrical
method of caressing their hands wheii he
was fitting them with gloves.
Jos. Symes, who found the Australian far
too sensible a person to get violent about his want
of belief, reached England last month and was
warmly welcomed by the Freethinkers there.
More scope exists for the Atheist agitator in
England than in Australia, where the people
generally don’t bother even to unbelieve.
A big slice of Queensland Premier Kid-
ston’s success is due ,to his wife. Night after
night, when anything of importance is moving in
Bananaland Parliament, she is to be seen haunt-
ing the gallery or Kidston’s room, waiting and
watching. Her eyes roam after the big, bulky,
auctioneer-looking husband wherever he wanders.
When he speaks, her bright, comely face lights
up with a new radiance. She listens to each
sentence, and regularly nods her head in a silent
kind of approval that Kidston enjoys. That nod
of approval is part and parcel of his success.
Most remarkable of all is her scowl at Philp and
eo'. when any of them says disrespectful things of
her husband. Another silent listener in the
gallery is the wife of Lands Minister “Joey”
Bell. She, too, waits and watches. But her look
of approval is a weak, untrained thing compared
to that of Mrs. Kidston, and in her glance of scorn
she is also 1 a failure compared with the wife of
Bananaland’s Premier.
The' history of Australia’s imported mili-
tary authorities has closed with the sincerely-
regretted departure of General Finn.
The series began with Victoria’s first
importation in the early ’Bo’s. He was
a Major Disney, a plodding, industrious
man, and a rather conspicuous failure.
General Owen, in S. Australia, was
more successful; he was an older man,
but with a more pliable mind, and he
got on with the Government of the
State, to which he was able to make his
scientific knowledge useful.
It is rumored in Maoriland that
when Commandant Babington returns
to the Ala Land Premier Ward will
endeavor to fit a Maorilander into the
vacant gilded tunic and the lonesome
pants of office. The idea of a mere
Maorilander, without the cultured
“haw,” getting the much bespangled
job has hit the Jingo papers very hard,
and they are busy prophesying earth-
quake, fire, and the bursting loose of
the devil generally. Ward’s choice will
probably fall on Kurnel Davis, V.D.
(or is it D.C. ?), the officer commanding
the Auckland district. When Maori-
land was first seized with the farm-
burning craze Davis was a surveyor at
Hawera. He went out as a lieutenant
with the first mob of armed lien-stealers.
He subsequently became Colonel of a
later batch of the “Undesirable,” and
the Imperial authorities were so im-
pressed with the surveyor’s ability as
a leader that they made him 8.H., or
X.Y.Z., or something. Another “in
the running ” is Colonel Robin, of
Dunedin, who commanded the first
Maroiland Cohentingent. The third
candidate is “Majah Jacky” Hume,
commanding the Maoriland Permanent
Force, who spent a few months in the
Ma country, and has a fair imitation of
the real “haw.”
B. E. Minns’ old N.S.W. country
friends would be delighted if they could
see the charming pictures he has been
sending from France and England for exhibition
in Sydney. As a water-colorist Minns has pro-
gressed by leaps and bounds, and his work finds a
ready market wherever shown.
Dead at 95, a total abstainer and non-
smoker all his life. These are the specialties of
old John Loudon, whom many grandfathers of
the present day used to call Old John forty years
ago as he stood outside his little shop at the Glebe,
Sydney. He was a fairly good business man, a
regular church attendant, and otherwise up to the
conventional standard. His notable claims, how-
ever, are that he lived to 95 without a glass of
beer or a pipe of tobacco, and thus his serious,
plain, uneventful brown existence supplies a text
for Boyce and points the moral of Worrall.
“F.C.”: Passing along Simpson’s-road,
Collingwood, the other afternoon, I stood while a
funeral, over half-a-mile long, bore down the
street the remains of a man whose name was
hardly known outside his own suburb: Edward
Shaw, manager of the Denton Hat Mills, where
some hundreds of workers are treated with the
consideration due to useful citizens. Shaw was a
“white” man; yet it was not so much his
benevolence that brought tears to eyes of women,
and even men, for he was by no means rich ; but
he never treated the employees as money-earning
machines. He kept them on, at half-time, as long
as he could when things were bad, and he earned
good dividends for his employers without attempt-
ing to cut wages. Yet he was unknown outside
his own suburb, while the chattering Cook, who
would have no hat mills, and no hundreds of busy
workers in Australia, is known, by name, anyway,
from one end of the country to the other. It is a
strange, lop-§icffid world.
"YOUNG" LAURI, COMEDIAN.
Bulletin (23/8/’ob)' recorded the case of
two Broome (W.A.) pearl-shellers upon whom
Dame Fortune smiled twice in one day. Well,
here’s a reverse picture. A Clermont (Q.) man
named Halas fell down some steps, broke a rib,
damaged one of his kneecaps, and knocked out
some teeth. He was put to bed, and the same
night a piece of loose timber fell on him, and
knocked out some more teeth.
Extract from the annual report of a Sab-
bath school, whose superintendent had lately been
elected to Parliament, and consequently chucked
up his job :
The only event of any particular note during the year
has been the election of Brother (our late super-
intendent) to the Legislature ; but we regret to have to
state that “ swelled-head ” has set in, and this brother,
finding he had no time to do both the Devil’s work and
the Lord’s, has unwisely chosen to serve the former.
Louis Becke’s respectability is a tender
plant these days. Virtuous personal slab from
his recently-published “Skippers I Have Sailed
With ”
During the two years I was with him (“Bully” Hayes),
we visited many hundreds of islands, trading for cocoa-
nut oil, pearlshells, shark fins, &c., and in all this time
Hayes never committed any act of piracy. I need hardly
sav that, had he attempted such a thing, I should have
quickly severed my connection with him.
Bill Lyne’s opponent for Hume, James
Gibb, the 20-stone silent Tory, is about the most
highly-paid vegetable on earth. During his three
years in Parliament he has spoken one consecu-
tive speech of five minutes. And he has drawn
£l2OO for it. Tory eloquence, which consists in
looking sad, and breathing heavy phrases like
“cow,” “responsible government,” “marriage
tie,” “driving away capital,” seems an expensive
luxury at £240 a minute.
That anaemic giant, the S.M. Herald,
recently commented on the refusal of Alfred
Deakin to accept a Federal Judgeship at the
hands of his colleagues. It first condemned the
habit which Australian public men have of
“escaping” from Ministerial office into Judge-
ships and Agent-Generalships (meaning thereby
Barton, Griffith, Jenkins, James, &c.); then it
seemed to see itself forced into a commendation
of Deakin for not doing the thing it said he
shouldn’t have done, and it closed up rather sud-
denly.
N.S.W. public bodies have taken lately to
wiping the name of Banks off local lamp-posts and
similar conspicuous elevations. The substituted
names may not be improvements, but it is
significant that this movement to get rid of
Banks has started since J. H. Maiden and
other Banks idolators declared their intention
of imposing the ancient botanist on the public as
the “Father of Australia.” This father business
is apt to be overdone.
The advice of an M.L.A. to all who desire
seats in Parliament is never to miss attending a
funeral. “In or out of the constituency you
court,” he insists, “be seen as often as possible
among the mourners. It shows the domestic—
the family—feeling strong ; it denotes an observ-
ance of religious conventions, and it is taken as
proof of a loyal heart, a heart that beats for an old
acquaintance even in dust. At one contest I
attended, on an average, two funerals a day every
day of the last week, and the polling was my top
score. The name of being a liberal shouter used
to ring-in the votes, but nowadays it’s miles behind
being known as a kindly mourner, a man with a
tear ever handy to his eye.”
“The Stoker,” from Perth (G.L., he.,
Groperland):—
Re Parson Janies who decamped to America during his
holidays with a young and desirable female. I happened
to drop into a Wesleyan church the Sunday after the
report which he caused to be circulated of his drowning
in Sydney Harbor. There I listened to a most exhaustive
eulogy on the “ dead saint.” The preacher pointed out
to hi.s flock how the dear brother, weary with well doing,
had decided to take a hard-earned rest, for the purpose of
strengthening the weak flesh to carry out the sacred
desires of the spirit. But, right at the beginning of his
vacation, the Great Mastersaw fit to call on him to throw'
down his burden of flesh, and join that noble army of
martyrs singing around the throne of grace. The con-
gregation was dissolved in tears, but the good man told
it to be comforted and to take James for a pattern,
walking in his footsteps as closely as possible. Before
the next Saturday came round the true report was out,
and I went to church again, but there was a silence on
the subject that could be felt. ’ I suggest that before a
church canonises its dead brother it should see the corpse.
There is some sense in the eminently cautious R.C.
system, which refuses to canonise a man until he has
been dead 100 years. Most people are quite deceased
and beyond all fear of further scandal after they have
been reported dead 100 years.
Queensland Premier Kidston’s ill-health
largely due to overwork. No previous Treasurer
did the work that Kidston gets through. “ There
is-nothing of the penny-in-the-slot business about
the Treasurer’s signature to documents nowa-
days, ,f remarks one Treasury clerk. “Mr. Kidston
must understand fully the contents of every docu-
ment which he sighs.- I have seen a stack of
documents rattled through- by some of the old
Treasurers as fast as signatures eouM be applied
to the papers, with no more check than the query,
‘ Are these all in order, Mr. So and! So
“ I wonder,” remarked a N.S.W, Supreme
Court Judge, the other day, “shall we ever agai®
hear a peroration at the Bar ? The seniors nows'-;
days make no effort, and the juniors seem afraid!
of the thing. In my young days, a peroration
was essential. In fact, I, like others, used to
write out my peroration and commit it faith-
fully to memory. I turned over an old manu-
script book, the other day, with over 100 perora-
tions in it. They were all carefully compiled
pieces of English, with warmth and rhetorical
finish, and here and there a trope or figure, yet I
may say I was regarded as dry and serious—
stodgy, in faet—in comparison with others. It
was quite a common thing for us to gather into a
court to hear one another’s perorations, and it was
by his peroration we judged a man’s intellectnal
powers.” But there are no perorations nowadays.
About a late citizen who didn’t deserve
to be lamented :
Two or three weeks ago the Melbourne dailies pub-
lished respectful obituary notices of old Henry Beattie, a;
pioneer grazier. The virtues of this delectable citizen as
an importer and improver of Hereford cattle, a sheep-
breeder, and a shire councillor, were duly set forth, but
the paragraphs were discreetly silent as to what sort of
grazier he had been in his domestic circle. He was twice
married. No. 1, by whom he had a family, drudged for
him until death removed her to a brighter sphere. Some
years after her decease, the aged money-grubber offered
his heart and hand to a Melbourne city hotel
waitress, a well-respected Phyllis of about half his age.
She made the sad mistake of becoming Mrs. Beattie. In
the character of Mrs. Beattie she subsequently returned
to the hotel, the same hotel as before, after enduring the
life of the old man’s drudge for a few years. He had no
idea of dealing fairly by the woman he had promised to>
make happy and comfortable. He permitted no improve-
ments in his old unlovely way of living at the dull, inhos-
pitable homestead. His wife, who had taken him on
trust, without stipulating for any marriage settle-
ment, was at length made to feel sorry that
she had given up a decent billet in order to
earn her tucker as a skinflint’s helpmate. He
proved to be a tyrant with a turn for religion, and when
he wanted to make himself specially unpleasant, he
sentenced his weary wife to sit quiet for two hours,
whilst he droned out chapters from the Bible concerning
the patriarchs and their flocks and herds. At length he
worried his wife into proposing a legal separation. He
offered her a weekly pittance, which she accepted, and
he brought her a document to sign, telling her it w uld
ensure her against starvation as long as she lived. But
because he was suspiciously amiable and eager for her
signature, Mrs. Beattie took the paper to a solicitor, and
found that her unvenerable spouse was bent on cutting
her off, at his death, without the proverbial shilling.
The pittance, as he offered it, was to continue for the
term of their “joint lives ” only. So the wife’s solicitor
got the agreement amended, and she is a beneficiary
under her late wealthy husband’s will to the extent of
her paltry annual allowance.
FOR OBVIOUS REASONS.
The following telegram has been received from Mr.
Langdon Bonython: “Domain Bill will not he dealt with
this week. Prime Minister says it is improbable it will
be touched next week.” — Adelaide Paper.
Maoriland has three ancients who have
satisfied the Old-Age Pension Department that
they are respectively 102, 103, and 105 years old.
One of them, whose birthday has been satisfac-
torily fixed for the 24th June, 1803, turns up
regularly at the Ashburton office for his pension ;
but the other two are beyond taking any personal
interest in the matter.
“Dick” Meagher, of the Dean case and
the conflicting emotions in the tram-car, must
have about put up a record in the way of unsuc-
cessful attempts to get into one Parliament. At
the general election in August, 1904, he was
defeated for Rous ; February, 1905, in the bve-
election for the same electorate, caused by J. W.
Coleman’s death, he was again beaten ; and in
July, 1906, Surry Hills refused him.
The late millionaire Beit— dead Beit he is
now—has left, among his benefactions, a sum of
£20,000 to the Union Jack Club, whatever that
may be. It’s a fine thing to think that one
belongs to that grand old bulldog breed which
possesses such examples as Milner and Beit, both
of whom were born somewhere in Hamburg,
while the latter spoke broken English with a
Yiddish lisp to his dying day. The British lion
will yet have to be shown chewing the cud and
dividing the hoof, in order to invest him with the
necessary kosherness.


ANTHONY HORDERNS* Jewellery Department
At the NEW PALACE EMPORIUM = ■ ■ =
s situated on the FIRST FLOOR OF THE MAMMOTH STORE, and is well worthy of particular notice. True it is that a great many people take little interest i
eweliery, and indeed there are a FEW PEOPLE who consider the wearing of Gems, both gold and silver, as VAIN AND FRIVOLOUS. ANTHONY HORDERN’
have every respect for the opinions of those good people, but it is part of ANTHONY HORDERN’S PROGRAMME to provide for all.
a 02
9ct « K U , St o rat! °"; Pla ' n ’ 523 6d Set w!fch Turquoise or Pearl 60s, or Pearl and Turquoise alternately, 635.
9ct. CURB CHAIN BRACELETS, with Padlock— Baby’s Size, 10s 6d ; Full Size, 21s, 255, 33s 6d, 40s, 455, and 635.
15ct - » » » .. .. 57s 6d, 72s 6d, 77s 6d, 82s 6d, £5 and £6. g c t. MOUNTED GREENSTONE BRACELETS, 40s.
9ct. GOLD BEAD BRACELET, as illustration, 84s.
9ct. GEM SET BRACELETS, 20s, 22s 6d, 27s 6d, 30s, 32s Cd, 34s 6d, 40s, 425, 4?s 6d, 50s, 52s 6d td £4 ids each.
15ct. „ ~ ~ £4 4s, £4 10s, £5, £5 12s 6d, £6 6s Upwards.
A large stock of 9et. and 15ct. Bracelets to select from, both in Gem Set and Plain.
ekv
9ot. PLAIN BAMBOO BANGLE, Child’s Size, 15s.
» » „ Full Size, 21/-, 25/-, 30/-, 37/6,
and 42
» » „ „ „ 49/6, 72/6, 84/-
15ct.
The Stock of ANTHONY HORDERNS’ JEWELLERY DEPARTMENT is
up-to-date, and in it will be found a glorious array of PRETTY
BROOCHES, BEAUTIFUL BANGLES, DAINTY NIC-NACS, WEDDING
RINGS, and other symbols of LOVE and MATRIMONY, and every
* • . . Production of the Jeweller’s Art ....
Watches
Walt hams (EL
WaterbUi-ySj
Both field (el
Silver ; i
AI«D AN
Endless Choice
of Presents lot*
either Cady or
Gentleman . . .
All made the more
acceptable by the
soothing influence of
Anthony
Horderns'
Famous Low
Prices.
sd
Oct. COLD, AMETHYST SET BRACELET, 27s 6d
Other designs, AMETHYST SET,
20s, 238 6d, 27s 6d, and 32s 6d
9ct. PHOTO BRACELET, 628 6d.
ANTHONY HORDERN SONS,
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS jS-
PALACE EMPORIUM, SYDNEY.
r
Maße Your Own
Aerated Waters...
At a Cost of Less than
FOURPENCE PER DOZEN
... WITH ...
AUSTRAL
Aerated Water Machines
Prices from £lB and Upwards.
Write for Catalogues and Particulars to
ECKERSLEY ®. SONS,
214 QUEEN STREET. MELBOURNE. Australia.
r->


Mdlle. Helena Rubinstein, the Russian skin
and complexion specialist, can be consulted daily without
charge at the Valaze Massage Institute, 158 Pitt-st'reet,
Sydney (above Washington H. Soul and Co.). All ladies
by whom beauty and freshness of complexion are desired
will find her advice in the highest degree valuable. The
Valaze Institute is fitted with the latest and most
scientific appliances for the removal of birth marks,
moles, disfiguring growths, red noses, double chins,
superfluous hairs, and other facial blemishes, which dis-
appear like magic. Valaze, Dr. Lylcuski’s Famous Skin
Food, will beautify and clear the muddiest skin by drawing
out the impurities that clog the action of the delicate
pores. This shows at once that the impurities are being
brought out, not driven in, to appear later and cause end-
less trouble. The impurities disappear after three days.
Valaze Russian herbal Slcin-food, 3s. 6d.; a large jar,
containing three times the amount, 6s. Posted to any
part of Australasia, 6d. extra. Valaze Herbal Soap
surpasses any other for beautifying the complexion, 2s. a
cake ; 2d. postage. Valaze Herbal Face Powder contains
no lead, is hygienic and pure, 2s. box ; 2d. postage. Dr.
Lvkuski’s Special Blackhead and Open Pore Cure,
guaranteed to cure the most obstinate cases, 2s. 6d. a
box ; 3d. postage. Rusmo Hair Killer is guaranteed to
instantly remove superfluous hairs from face, neck, and
arms, without injury to the most delicate skin. Price,
6s. 6d. Valaze Massage Rollers, for home massage, will
remedy both overstoutness and thinness. Single roller,
Bs. 6d. ; small size, set in case, complete, 10s. 6d. : com-
plete set, in case, 255. These rollers will last a lifetime.
Valaze Blackhead and Open Pore Cure. A certain remedy
prepared by Dr. Lykuski for these disfiguring complaints,
no matter how obstinate. Recommended by eminent
medical authorities in Europe; 2s. 6d. a box, postage 3d.
“ Guide to Beauty ” posted free on receipt of 3d. to cover
postage. All the above toilet preparations obtainable
from leading chemists, or direct from Mdlle. Rubinstein,
158 Pitt-street, Sydney, above Washington H. Soul and
Co., and 274 Oollins-street, Melbourne.*
Dymock’s Circulating Library.
Considering the immense number of books now pub-
lished, it is impossible for a regular reader to purchase
half the books he would like to peruse. A subscription
to the above up-to-date Circulating Library will place at
his command, immediately upon their arrival in Sydney,
the best and latest works in fiction, biography, history,
belle lettres, reminiscence, philosophy, popular science,
etc., etc. Intelligent assistance is given in the
selection of suitable reading, and special attention
is afforded to country exchanges. For the small
figure of £2 12s. 6d. per annum, or £1 11s. 6d. for
six months, we exchange eight volumes at a time to
any country address as often as we receive intimation of
return of previous parcel. Write or call at 428 George-
street (next Royal Hotel), Sydney, for full particulars,
catalogues and lists gratis.*
Are You Being Poisoned ?
"When the liver is overworked, as it frequently is, the
system hecomes. clogged. It is then that sallow com-
plexion, bad taste in the mouth, headaches, dizzy spells,
continuous langour, &c., indicate that the poisonous
matter which should be carried off is slowly tainting the
blood. If not remedied at once this condition will cause
serious trouble. Senior’s Pills, the great liver remedy,
provide just what is needed to quicken the liver into
action. If you take these pills when needed all danger
of this slow poisoning is avoided. They are a positive
cure for constipation. They will lend the necessary aid
and make you feel like new. Pleasant to take and mild
in action, they make the most perfect laxative and liver
regulator that can be found. They are not an experi-
ment, they passed that stage 50 years ago. Composed of
simple vegetable remedies —remedies that have been long
used by physicians and known to be safe and reliable.
Price, Is. and 2s. per box, or Is. Id. or 2s. Id. post free,
from Senior’s Pharmacy, 246 George-street, Sydney.
£
I
o
Charles Heidsieck
Has the Royal Warrant /)
\s of H.M. Edward '
VII.
And is used by all the Lead-
ing Sportsmen in the
world.
-wLL
V.
urn
THE PRIDE OF COGNAC.
OTARD-DUPUY BRANDY
VINTAGES—IB2O, 1848, 1865, 1875, 1880, 1885, 1890.
TRADEMARK
„ . _ 39
THE VARNISHED BOARD
Are
Dress fAßßies
Stocked
Leading
BV THE
Drapers._
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, September 18, 1906.
My Dear Arini.—
The giddy, golden Spring has got into the heads
of the committee of the Royal Exchange. No
other cause can explain the execution and hanging
of that immense painting outside the Exchange
. main entrance in Bridge-street. The picture
ought to have been shot instead of hung. At
present the R.E. is holding an exhibition of the
wild, hairy, untamed minerals of N.S.W., and
the blot above the door is emblematic of the
union of Capital and Labor. Capital is repre-
sented as a beautiful young female, full Ama-
zonian size, seated on the ground. She wears
one immense pink garment —that is, part
of her wears it. From an eminently kissable
arm and shoulder and back, especially back,
the pink robe falls away—considerably. Labor
—in moleskins, leather apron, and holding
a pickaxe —and the Pink Amazon are about to
join hands across the knees of an enthroned
party, also a young woman with roosters’
tails on her head, who is evidently blessing
the union. She must be a clergywoman—
perhaps a bishopess. But, what I want to know
is—which of the Royal Exchange capitalists is
represented in the large Pink Lady with the
departing clothes? Mr. C. H. Hayes, the secre-
tary, isn’t like her. I’ve seen him. Perhaps
she’s meant for Mr. Russell French, the boss of
the Bank of N.S.W.
Until you see the shale exhibit you won’t realize
what a number of beautiful and useful things,
solid and liquid, come from that drab mineral.
All the crude minerals, except the coal speci-
mens, look like huge lumps of road metal.
Perhaps that’s why the expositors have adorned
them with violets, and tied baby ribbon round
their necks, and decked them with palms. The
coal exhibit, large, shining and black, like the
countenance of Uncle Tom, is on view outside the
building, and the humorist looks up at the Mait-
land product and asks, “Where’s the dog-watch?”
Men with “ labor-loosened knees ” come in
crowds to the exhibition, and softie bring their
toil-worn wives; and there Bill and Mary Ann
read with lack-lustre eyes the intimation that
N.S.W. 1 gold output has grown like a swelling
wave up through the years since 1851, until, in
1905, it crested to a billow with an apex marked
£53,235,286. It’s enough to make you see yellow.
Yet all the katz (fonetik spelling) I, or anyone
I know, possessed, all turned out to be wild
—wild as Nature and speculators could make ’em.
Some persons must belucky in their catteries. When
one’s katz turn out pinchbeck instead of gold is
the time to tilt your toque haughtily back from
your eyes, fold your arms into your elbow sleeves,
and quote, “ Let none admire that riches grow in
Hell; that soil may best deserve the precious
bane.” Someone else will say, “ Sour grapes.”
Talking of our great natural mineral resources.
Why shouldn’t our women take a hand in their
development ? In America a Mrs. Ella Reader is
called “the greatest business woman in the
world.” A large title, supplemented by another,
‘‘the Copper Queen of the Andes.”
Less than, 15 years ago she arrived in New York, a tall
girl of 18, with only £3 as the whole of her worldly
wealth. At 32 she is president of the mining company
owning the largest silver and copper areas in Peru, with
£2,400,000 capital and palatial offices in Wall-street, New
York.
She began by addressing envelopes, then started
as a stenographer, and later went into railroads
and mines. From our old friend the Sultan of
.Tohore (or was it his father?) she secured
a £1,000,000 railway contract. The lady could
then afford to keep a husband, so she mar-
ried Mr. Athol Burnett Reader, who formerly
practised as a lawyer in Maoriland.
But I don’t think that woman can do much in
the way of personally getting the coy and retiring,
not to say obstinate, mineral out of the earth,
especially as I hear there are often rats and snakes
in mines. She might do something with it when it
is out —a few Sydney girls are studying assaying.
The daughters of Delprat, general manager
of the Broken Hill Prop., although beastly rich,
are studying professions—medicine and chemis-
try. They are Dutch. Ma Delprat, when she
arrived here, and sized up Australian women,
was surprised at the small amount they spent
on the education of their children.
Mrs. Shelley, the Australian lady who had a
much advertised court ease against a baronet in
London recently, has published a novel,
“Enderby,” to which the critics are mildly
flattering. Baronet hired the Shelley flat and is
said to have stuffed the lady’s Paris gowns into
boxes anyhow. If the book had been published
then the frock fracas would have been a good ad.
Mrs. Shelley was a Miss Pell, of Sydney, and she
used to dress up to fashion-plate perfection. To
stuff such clothes as hers into a box anyhow was a
worse crime than the surreptitious burial of a
complete stranger in a boot-trunk.
A woman who is cleverly using a court case as a
sort of ad. for a book of verses is the Marchioness
of Townshend. An inquiry as to her husband’s
mental condition is crawling through the English
law courts. He was looking for a wife with a tub
full of money, and it is alleged that he was yarded
with the lure of a non-existent fortune. Marquis
is sft. short; his wife is sft. Bin. high, and her
mother is a towering person who could stoop
down and graze on the hair of the tallest man in
court. The case is a terrible example of a very
small man marrying a large woman with an
immense mother.
If all the people present at the Watson-Marks
wedding give the doctor-bridegroom a call when
they are sick, he will have a great accession
of practice, especially if they were mostly un-
healthy people who attended, (Every doctor
ought to ask unhealthy people to his wed-
ding, and get an incurable for best man.)
The bride’s gown was, to quote the bridal
hymn, a “Perfect Love.” Roman satin, silver
gauze, tulle and Brussels lace are mentioned
in its building and construction. Bridesmaids
were chiffoned in pale pink, and capped with pale
pink and Val. lace, and had wreaths of stocks.
Amongst the bridesmaids was a Miss Bullock,
from Maoriland. The bride’s mother and auut
(Mesdames James and John Marks) loomed large
and extensive in black, and were as like as twins.
Mrs. Herbert Marks had most of the looks in the
crowd. The bridegroom dashed his presents
around—coral and diamond earrings, and finger
rings of the same gems, and other koh-i-noors and
regalia.
Miss Carr-Smith, sister of the Rev. Carr-Smith,
rector of St. James’(who is away on a holiday), has
married in England Mr. Albert Docker, of Sydney,
a widower with grown-up children. The Carr-
Smith brother and sister were given up long ago
by the St. James’ parishioners as hopeless celi-
bates. They weren’t reckoned to be in the motor-
Carr, or even in the horse-Carr division, for the
slowest matrimonial ’bus seemed to keep ahead of
them.
Won’t the English chorus and ballet girls rage
furiously together over the marriage of Lord
Haddo, eldest son of the Earl of Aberdeen, to
Mrs. Cockayne, the wealthy, but honest, widow
of a Sheffield draper? She is not described as
“pretty” or “smart” by any of the corres-
pondents, and she is old enough to be the mother
of the fine-looking young fellow she has married.
My copy of the Beerage tells that Lord Haddo
was born in ’79, and he is, therefore, 27 years of
age. Young man Cockayne, when he took home
his friend Haddo on a visit, secured a stepfather.
Never again will he invite a serpent to his house
to steal away his Ma. The Aberdeens are rich,
and have inherited much of the earth, so the
Haddo is not marrying for the need of money,
though he may be doing it through the
craving for more money. The stage beauty’s
most dangerous rival is the widow. Someone
ought to write a bridal hymn for use at widows’
weddings. “ See the Conquering Relict Comes,”
it might be called. Aberdeen father and mother
were present at the wedding of their son, so evi-
dently they accepted the lady who had taken
notice again. Perhaps she is like her name—
intensely English. In an Emersonian essay on
“ English Traits ” the English character is
analyzed under the word “Cockayne.” “Better
the widow Cockayne,” said the noble earl;
“she’ll be the fond wife and careful mother, and
if Haddo didn’t marry her he might have gone
to the altar with Rosamond viola Temple-
Clifford—otherwise Betsy Wragge, of the music-
halls.”
One “0.K.” writes in comment on some recent
remarks :
Have been reading in “ A Woman’s Letter ” that
Annette Kellermann, before making her second attempt
to swim the English Channel, was smeared all over with
lanoline, which “ caked ” on, causing, her flesh to “ shine
like marble ”in the water. Was this likely to improve
the mermaid’s chance of accomplishing a great feat of
endurance? She needed a greasy skin food rather than a
skin plaster. Captain. Webb, who knew every trick of
the sea, prepared himself for his long immersion by
smearing himself from head to foot with the fat of a
defunct sea-citizen. It was porpoise oil, if I remember
rightly, that gave him nourishment for the body and pro-
tection against the ocean brine. He had no misgiving re
the larger portion of Webb which travelled under w r ater,
but he was afraid of getting “ chapped ” and salted on the
Webb that was exposed to wind and sun. His skin took
in oil enough to keep him greasy for 24 hours, but the
lanoline that “caked on” Annette must have “caked
off ” after a while.
An Auckland girl—a Miss Howard, whose
father is manager of a bank in that city—is now
“lady entertainer” at Medlow Hydro, in the
Blue Mountains. A lady entertainer is a
stipendiary sunbeam, whose duty it is to smile
when her worst corn is a raving lunatic, to amuse
tlie old, the dreary, and the half-dead, to gladden
the person who makes a point of being miserable,
and to bring a laugh to the timber countenance
that never opened before except for food and
theological disputation.
Pianist Borschke, who went hence in last trip
by one of the American steamers, was discovered
by Messrs. Knowles and Spruson to be travelling
steerage. The sight of a Fine Artsman anywhere
but in the first saloon was more than the Sydney
men could bear. They raised a subscription
(asking of even the Chinese cook) for the rest of
the first-class passage money, and brought the
player and his mane into the seats of the mighty.
When the minister of a Phillip-street church
gave out the text of his last Sunday’s sermon, “ I
will restore to you the years which the locust hath
eaten,” there was an instant’s pause while the
preacher was marshalling his opening words. But,
in the silence, a forest-devil from under the
shadow of Mount Kosciusko murmured : “Which
the rabbit has eaten —make it rabbit, Lord, and
keep Your promise, and I’ll build You a church.”
Talking of rabbits reminds me of Dr. Danysz.
He is asked to dinner by Society five days a week,
and is learning to say “ No” in a ring-tailed way
that won’t offend, for he has discovered that he is
often asked as a curiosity. Instead of a scientist
or two to strike sparks from him, or at least to
catch his sparks, he gets this kind of thing from
his hostess or one of her guests: “ You must miss
Paris dreadfully, doctor. I’ve been there, so I
can sympathise with you. I thought I should
have died when I returned here and experienced
the awful difference. Such life there, and culture,
and the newest of—of discoveries. Although out
here we live so far from the centres of modern
thought, we—that is, a few of us —quite keep in
touch with them by reading. It is very rarely
that we have such good fortune as to meet one
like yourself, of whom Europe speaks so highly.
I do hope you’ll be successful in killing off our
rabbits. You have made a start, haven’t you ?”
The half-hypnotised scientist rouses himself to
remark that he comes from Berlin.
Danysz, junior, a youth of 19 or so, has been
taken to rather kindly by youthful feminine
Sydney. He was at the Royal Art Society’s
conversazione last week, with his hair sprayed
over his forehead and a vest that made him look
like a finely-upholstered boudoir ottoman. He is
by way of being an artist, and has done some brush
work while here.
Miss Dolly Castles goes to join her sister Amy
and her brother for further study abroad after-
Christmas. An amazing family the Castles. A
small boy Castles, aged between eight and nine,
lately took second prize in a competition for boys,
under eighteen. Dolly is staying with her mother
at a Sydney hotel. Although so fluffy-looking,
she is a little beaver for work, and has learnt,
eleven operas in 12 months.
Beautiful Maud Jeffries Osborne has been seri-
ously ill in a private hospital in Sydney. Half
Sydney thought she had taken her Australian
husband to show him to her people in America,
but she has only been up on the Osborne station
considering the sheep and the fleece thereof.
A Double Bay lady is unfolding a long and
curly tale of woe to her friends. Ihe tale is coded
around something I wrote about somebody who
lives on a raft, boils eggs in his halo, and is related
to five emperors. Then the tale tells of an apology
from me, and is tipped with something about an
“angry editor.” Nary an apology did I make to
the lady, and, as for an infuriated editor —I have
never seen anything so exciting.
A motor went forth recently with a smart
widow, the eligible Adonis of the University pro-
fessional staff, and several other guests, including
a clergyman, aboard. The party ran to Manly,
and came back with its elements unchanged.
Seems such a waste of opportunity for a wedding,
There was probably even cake aboard. No,
matter even if it wasn’t white-iced. And some-
one could have tooted the Wedding March on the.
motor horn, which would give a heavenly toot in.
such a cause.
A mere man sends me this :
From a man’s view-point, the Empire gown is rather an
amusing kind of thing to see on a woman. There is the
kind which is Empire in front, and is generally called a
dressing-gown ; and the other kind which is Empire in
front and behind, and is sometimes worn in ball-rooms.
A dashing damsel of some 14st., or less, came out at a
recent ball in one of the latter kind of gowns. The
trouble in dealing with the Empire-dressed maid at a
dance is that you can’t quite find her waist, except by the
bow of ribbon which the more sensible girl fixes in the
middle of her back. The man who dances with her can
then locate her waist with comparative ease, with the
ribbon-knot as a safe guide. In this particular case, the
14-stoner went in for sweet bath-robic simplicity, dis-
pensing with the ribbon, and had her programme filled in
spite of it, although the simple dressers smiled and
scoffed as they watched the fatted maiden’s partners ex-
ploring below her shoulder-blades each time the music
started.
Cyril Monk is back from Europe, looking as if
he wanted a course of good feeding on chops and
claret. But his clothes are like unto those worn
by the men of the royal family (when not in
uniform), and he is full of music—music as they
interpret it abroad.
Mr. George Grimm, the well-tailored and care-
fully finished baritone, has already settled down
at Mosman after his wedding on Saturday.
The ceremony made a great splash at Richmond,
forthebriae, MissKateDurham, wastherecognised
prize girl of the district. Really these are luscious
surroundings in which to grow. Most of the
Richmond girls are sleek and sweet as butter can
make them, and the years that the Cow hath eaten
do not diminish their loveliness.
Last Sunday, Monsieur Herokl Bassett and
Madame Arral, who are rabid animal-lovers, went
to the Zoo, and whilst the Monsieur was passing
close to a monkey's cage, the black baboon thrust
out a hand, plucked him by the sleeve, and shook
him as one having authority and not as the scribes.
Then, having attracted attention, man’s poor
relation offered the hand in greeting. Monsieur
stared for a moment, a “ you-have-the-ad van tage-
of-me-sir” stare. Then he remembered with a
great remem bersomeness, grasped the prof-
fered paw, and the Man and the Creature
shook long and silently. “Bars all around
me yet I cannot go with you to drink,” thought
the baboon. He had been Monsieur’s possession
and friend for three months in Singapore, and
Monsieur had given him, along with several other
jungle inhabitants, to someone who had later sold
him into his present captivity, even as Joseph
was sold into Egypt by his brethren.
Organist Lemare and his Burne-Jonesy type
wife leave for Wellington to-morrow. He had
fine audiences, yet nearly all the people whom I
asked, “ How did you like Lemare? ” replied
cheerfully, “ Oh, very well; but I only stayed for
half the programme.” These were the people who
liked storm and battle effects played on the thing
of stops and pipes.
“Sunshine” Harvester man M‘Kay and Mr.
Harry Musgrove arrived by the latest American
liner.
Madame Durand’s Musical At Home will
occur at Sbadler’s Cafe on the evening of
October 4. The pianiste will be assisted by
Messrs. Burns-Walker, Henri Staell, and E. P.
Truman, and Miss Lynn Mills and Mrs. Hay-
Dalrymple.
That Master of the Ivories, Laurance Phillip, is
richer this week than he was last by the posses-
sion of a silver and ebony baton. In acknow-
ledgment of his two years’ conductorship of the
Great Synagogue Choir the elegant souvenir
was presented (accompanied by the flattering
word) to Mr. Phillip by the members oft he choir.
My Brisbane correspondent writes: —
Lady Chelmsford, the new patron of the Pioneer Club,
and bonnie Du Cane, lent that institution the light of
their countenance for an hour on Thursday. Lady C.
wore wine-tinted silk and a big silk hat in the same
shade, and Mrs. Du Cane a flowery muslin and hat to
match.
Another story goes the rounds over the Brooke masked
shivoo. Lord and Lady Chelmsford decided to partake,
unofficially, in the revel. When they arrived at the gate,
duly cloaked and dominoed, they were accosted by a
policeman. Now you can imagine the rest. The police-
man wants to know their names. They won’t give them.
He won’t let them pass. Finally, Lord C. unmasks, and a
policeman feels that his is a blighted life, and only recovers
breath when he finds that the affable Lord C. does not
intend to send him to the scaffold. It’s an old, old yarn,
and is always told to illustrate the condescension of
Governors.
Died at Armidale (N.S.W.), on August 26th, of pneu-
monia, Arthur Stacey, one of Brisbane’s best known
beaux in the tail-fragment of last century. Stacey, who
was of the big “ Good-morning-have-you-used-Pears-
Soap ” type, was a brilliant footballer until his knee got
badly hurt, and a sad dog among the girls. He was
always highly decorative at toney dances and teas, and at
the theatre he was much loved by the gallery boys, from
whom he took chaff with unfailing good humor. Some
years back he drifted over to India, where he went into
partnership with some individual who is still at large, in
theatrical managership, with the usual results. _ He
came away with all the experience, and that is said to
have comprised most of his assets in later years.
Yours Affectionately,
AKKNEHI.
Thus J. X. Merriman, M.L.A., of Cape
Colony :
England persists in regarding South Africa as if it were
bounded by the goldfields, and as if the influence of
public policy on the Stock Exchange was the “ be all and
end all” of statesmanship. ... You tell me that state-
ments are made in England that 90 per cent, of the
European population in South Africa are in favor of the
importation of Chinese. I can scarcely believe that such
monstrous misstatements can gain credence. The Cape
Colony and Orange liiver Colony are practically solid
against the Chinese. In the Transvaal all the Dutch and
a majority of the English take the same view. For Natal
I cannot answer. She has an Asiatic problem of her
own, which stands as a menace and warning to those who
wish to study the effect of such experiments. What we
feel is, that this evil has been inflicted on this country
against our will, as expressed by petition, in meetings, and
in tlie unanimous vote of the Legislature, solely for the
purpose of the Stock Exchange, and in order to prevent
the inconvenience that would accrue to the owners of
mines from having to deal with workers who have the
rights of free citizens.
Japan has adopted a new military law
which will immensely increase its army—and that
is already something like 600,000 strong. Japan has
just added two more great ironclads to its fleet, and
before the end of the year it is said that it will have
completed two more (each of 19,000 tons, and
said to be better than anything Britain can show),
also four cruisers of 14,000 tons each (which are
practically ironclads under another name), and
24 new torpedo vessels. It has also doubled its
naval vote. Well, thank the Lord, Australia has
at least got the old gunboat Protector, and the
bulky form of Tom Playford, Minister for Defence
and Apology.
The electro-plated general, whom Maori-
land hires to address its cohorts and dance in the
official set of Lancers, goes back to the place
whence he came in October next. Whoever looks
after Maoriland’s defence has a thankless job of
making bricks without clay. The retiring Babing-
ton’s last report to Parliament talks pretty strongly
about political wire-pulling, public apathy, and
poor physique in the Volunteers. The House
received it with seven yawns, and returned to its
Address-in-Reply. (The Address-in-Reply habit
does more damage than the opium habit in Aus-
tralasian Parliaments.)


SUPERFLUOUS HAIRS.
AN ABSOLUTE CURE FOUND AT LAST.
I ADY, self-cured of this distressing affliction, will
forward remedy on receipt of 4/6, postage 6d.
extra. Other States, 6/8. Send Id. Stamp for booklet
on treatment and testimonials from grateful clients
cured. Only genuine postal address—“ Tonic,”
Central Chambers, 77 Swanston St., Melbourne.
I
SQI3IH
For Outdoor Costumes, a Perfect stockinet.
Anatomically Made*
Full Sizes.
KLEINERTS*
fik
’.ENSURE
GRACE
AND
EASE
IfVEfifflT
BY
WEARING
P.D
C°JU3^tS.
m
to liis Majbty King Edward VII.
ft
THESE Celebrated Teas are Grown and
Packed in Ceylon in hermetically
sealed Lead Packets and Tins, thus
retaining the natural fragrance and aroma.
They are also packed in 5 & 10 lb. tins and
wooden boxes. Shipments arrive weekly
from
LIPTON’S CEYLON
PLANTATIONS DIRECT
so that Freshness may be relied upon.
Lipton’s Teas have the Largest Sale in the
World, and over 1,000,000 packets are sold
weekly in Great Britain alone. If any diffi-
culty in obtaining Lipton’s' Famous Teas
from your Grocer, please write to the
Sole Agents—■
Duncan Preston (Si Co.
Lombard Chambers,
i 107 Pitt Street, SIDNEY
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, September 18, 1906.
My Dear Yarrie,—
Dame Talbot has quietly, and minus fuss,
resumed her habiliments of woe. This time it’s
for a brother-in-law. By the way, a swaggah
friend of the Grey Dame cries out against every
word of harsh or humorous comment directed by
Tryphena at the Ex. He describes her in the
first place as the finest strummer of the ivories to
be heard anywhere in the land. A big order ! He
also calls attention to her sketching and painting
talents, her knowledge of the poets, her speaking
of foreign tongues, and her “general bright fund of
conversation.” This authority, whose office throws
him into the familar circle of Stonington now and
then, reckons the Dame does as much for the
Australian cause in the matter of patronising
local industries and supporting local talent as
Lady Northcote. Finally, he winds up : “ She’s
a woman amongst women, cheery, interesting,
gracious.” Accepting that the lady is all this,
she has impressed at least a section of the public
differently, and hidden her light and amiabilities
from them behind the carriage cushions or in her
lorgnette case.
An invidious difference made in the exaltation
of certain supper-guests at a G.-G. function hurts
the overlooked. The selection is carried out care-
fully and quietly. The aides murmur softly to
the favored few the will of the Exes, concerning
their place in the supper sanctuary, and these
drift out at the heels of the dais party when the
refreshing-hour comes. The bulk of the gather-
ing struggles disconsolately to the buffets and
there swallows, in a perpendicular position, cab-
horse fashion, one or two V.-R. caddies looming
in view now and then to see that no one is
neglected or choking with indignation.
A double relay of vice-regals is booked to show
up at the Findon Harriers’ race meeting next
Saturday (22nd). Should the weather be agree-
able, there’ll be an outburst of saucy spring
chiffons—this being the cream rally of the sport-
ing year.
The State Talbottle cantered out to the motor
meet at Heidelberg on Saturday, when hill-climb-
ing tested the speed of the local petrol-cars. The
new aide, Captain Lukin, and curly-headed Cap-
tain Crichton accompanied him. Close on four
hundred spectators gathered at the contest. Mrs.
Dunbar-Hooper was the one dame whose smile
gave away her identity despite her motor-dis-
guise. Most other feminines had even protected
their smiles from the dust.
The engagement of Miss Stuart-Wortley is
announced to one of the Salisbury Cecils. The
Miss in question deserves a good match. While
at Stonington with Aunt Talbot (how near that
sounds to Tabitha) she brightened things con-
siderably, lighting up the grey shadows of the
vice-regal roost with intelligent gaiety and
vivacious, glowing health.
The Grey Dame of Stonington, with the corre-
sponding Ex. and a brace of caddies, put in an
austere appearance at the Glaciarium the other
night, when a show to swell the funds of Miss
Sutherland’s home for waifs and strays held the
icy space. The rink seemed to freeze the harder
for this august patronage.
It’s a grey-faced, anxious-eyed Prime Minister
who sprints to and from Parliament these days.
Even at the Northcote reception the Deakin air
of bon camaraderie was noticeably lacking, and he
had little of the usual conciliatory persiflage for
the butterflies of his gracious ken.
Mrs. Andrew Rowan was just back from India
in time to usher a daughter into the social vortex
at Gov’ment House. This is the third Rowan
chick now at large. Two elder sisters are jaunt-
ing leisurely from the Curry Empire on their way
back to the parent nest. All the Rowans, like
their cousins, the local Chief Justice’s brood, are
over-serious and weighted with stylish affectations.
The fresh-air craze is bringing trouble in its
wake. Two engaged people are fighting on
the matter. The man is a profound believer
in the outdoor life, and sleeps through the
varying seasons under the stars, or, at least,
within sight of them from a verandah crib. Evan-
geline is a dainty young thing, who likes to take
her sun-bath only with her afternoon tea on the
velvet lawn. Edwin (or Bill) demands that Evan-
geline should learn to sleep in a healthful hail-
storm. She stamps her foot and says “Never !”
And that engagement threatens to fall through.
It’s unfortunate that the debate wasn’t shelved
till after the Voice had Breathed : somehow a dis-
cussion of where to sleep would seem more
appropriate then.
Rupertswood is in the market. Should a sale
be effected, the absentee Dame, who queens it to
dukes and the strawberry-leaved generally in
Mayfair, coruscates hither to save the family
brie-d-brac and sentimental mementoes from the
hammer.
There must be acres of ibrush-work, paintings
and designs at the Exhibition. The N.S.W.
exhibit is the pick of the /basket, notably the
colored studies of autumn leaves. The children of
to-day are taught to take theimselves very seri-
ously. A girl has a knack of flower-painting;
she is advised to form her poppy-sprays into a
design for wall-paper. Toddlers no longer chase
butterflies. Instead, they daub, blue-pencil pic-
tures of a fatted beetle in their kindergarten
drawing-books and label the caricature, “This
is the moth that flew against I, coming to school.”
The country is threatened with an epidemic of
journalists, artists, amateur botanists, naturalists,
and geologists. Local leader-writers try to avert
a scare re educational fads by suggesting that
nature-study and sich will lend charm to rural
pursuits and induce men and maidens to go on
the la,nd instead of flocking to cities. According
to this view, the milkmaid of the morrow will
forget catarrh and chilblains as she ponders the
constituents of cow’s milk and considers the Cape-
weed how it grows. Up against this comforting
theory is the fact that Bobbie Burns, who got as
much thrill out of a daisy or a field-mouse as most
people, resigned the post of ploughman as soon as
convenient. Shelley raved over a skylark, and
Wordsworth’s heart “danced with a host of
yellow daffodils,” but neither of them took to
raising pigs or potatoes professionally.
The State school show’, still drumming and
trampling at Melbourne Exhibition Building, is a
huge advertisement for Director Tate, who, not
content with the rhapsodies of daily-paper re-
porters, has spread himself in a pamphlet expound-
ing the ideals and work of his Education Depart-
ment. Said “ideals” are tip-top affairs, aiming
at “complete self-realisation.” Says Theorist
Tate: “ Let the schoolboy live his life here and
now, fully, normally, and pleasantly. Utilise his
interests at every step, encourage him to examine
himself, to think for himself, to express his own
thoughts, and to keep alive his sense of love,
wonder and delight in what is fine.” So much
for the aim. What of the achievement ? To
ascertain how far Tate and co. succeed in making
Young Australia “think for himself,” I yarned
casually with various young “ nature-students,”
embryo artists, and unconscious poets ” (vide
press reports) met at the exhibition :
“Did you write your show-exercises at home or in
school?”
“In school; but teachers weren’t allowed to help.”
“ Why not?”
“Durino, but Gov’ment wouldn’t let them.”
“ I wonder why? ”
“ They’d have got the bag if they had.”
“ Perhaps Government thought it would be mean of
boys to show work not done wholly by themselves?”
“ Dunno !”
The lads interviewed as above ranged in age from
9to 11. They were likeable youngsters, not
prigs, but typical children— i.e. , gross materialists,
given to guzzling penny ices, throwing for cigar-
ette-cards, and uttering uncouth outcries.
Another Tate sentence says, “ Everything that
hinders physical development on right lines is
wrong educationally.” Yet Tate’s own teachers
are worked to death. The younger ones, not
much more than boys and girls themselves, are
urged to prepare for a degree, which implies
evening lectures at the University on top of their
day’s teaching, and the best part of Saturday
grinding at the Training College. Some of these
toilers look ghastly. Said sufferers are the
Erize-scholars of our educational system. They
ave been trained on the lines laid down by the
present administration, and if modern methods
were all they are claimed to be, these young people
should be able to dispense with cram, grind, and
similar relics of educational barbarism, and
swallow erudition like oysters. Instead, they
seem to find study as trying as did the fogies of
yore. Mr. Tate has evidently not yet discovered a
royal road to learning.
On Friday afternoon, when the sunny-hearted
were abroad tripping through the city in the first
flush of spring’s coming, a large back dress-pad
(which is used, when necessary, to give a rounded
contour to the rear of “thefigure”) wasfound lying
in Collins-street. It had broken away from its
moorings and slipped right down, and one unfor-
tunate had to complete her sunny afternoon
without the curve of her adoption. The faces
of all the other feminines were a study. Many
blushed, others looked cold and haughty, arguing
a horror of such expedients, and all expressed
annoyance in some shape or form. The high,
ignorant air of some who footed the article out of
their path was too much for most male onlookers,
and a masculine grin stretched all along the
crowded cake-walk. In any other street than
Collins-street the men wouldn’t have known what
the girls were kicking at.
Miss Una Bourne ships herself back to Mel-
bourne. The pale, aesthetic Una has given a few
London performances, and word comes of their
“pronounced success.”
A mayoral dance is to usher in October, the
month of the brisk open air.
Lecturer Darn ley-Nay lor ships for England
before settling down to the classic professorship
that waits him at the’Varsity of the Holy City.
The blue-eyed lecturer bears a precious resem-
blance to memorable Charlie Ryley, and for that
girls honored him. Also, he boasts a conversation
of some charm, and the tuneful art. Even matri-
mony plus wealth has not spoilt his little gift of
song.
Miss Ruby Grey scored one as the consumptive
Mimi at the Cohen benefit, and Miss Carmen
Pinschof two as her operatic namesake. The
healthy young chick of the Conservatorium mis-
tress was probably the youngest Carmen to strut
the local boards. We most often view a seasoned
star in the giddy Spanish rdle. Miss Pinschof has
pretty shoulders and an ankle that invites a pro-
longed focus of the glasses. Also, her singing was
correct and her dancing knowledgable.
Miss Queenie Cadden, who was heavily encored
for her song at the Hal Cohen benefit, and figured
in “LaMascotte” chorus, is off to Europe in a
little while. She did fairly well as one of the
Australian quartette circulating tuneful notes in
the Cold Country. She went away when her
family was still fairly well off. She returned
when it had much less cash, and, after her return
concerts, she went gladly into Williamson’s
ranks. She reckons Melbourne’s a bad place to
be poor in, so leaves to try London once more.
Mr. and Mrs. Claude Macdonald are on their
way to Melbourne after a piotracted gad abroad.
Mrs. Claude threatens to be the queen-dresser of
the coming season. Before she married into the
affluent sheep clan, as Miss Greene, a tony dress-
designer, she was more decorative than any other
Melbourne chiffon-architect. This second trip to
Europe should have great frilly results.
Mrs.’Kennerley Rumford (Miss Clara Butt) has
three nippers, yclept Joy, Toy, and Roy. She
hasn’t arrived at Cloy yet. All the family, and a
group of servants, travel out with the colossal
Clara to these parts.
A gentle correspondent, who writes in violet ink
on blush-pink paper, wants to know why the Alex-
andra Club is not called the Kit-Cat Club —Swift
fashion. And she goes on purring gently with
her reasons—a soft purr in violet ink on pink
paper.
Widow Fitzgerald, who was lately on her way
to India with a squad of circus nags, writes in
fresh distress (her stationery being already heavily
black-bordered) to say that most of the beasties
died cn route. “ But the one I grieve over most is
‘Nap.’ It was like losing a brother. We had
been close chums for many years, and we under-
stood each other so thoroughly. Up till the time
when he began to get old, he’d aliow no one to
mount him but myself, and, full of tricks as he
was, he always behaved himself when I was in the
saddle.”
Hockey and croquet are the mild joys of the
Toorak hour. Golf is left largely to the squat-
tocracy and Miss Brodribb. Mrs. Balmain (Miss
Alison Fairbairn) started the hockey crane, and
rallied together the Dunraven team, which is
vigorously assaulting shin bones for glory at pre-
sent. Mrs. Robert Harper gives her benediction
to the croquet players, and promotes the gentle
curate sport into a means of buying soup for
charity homes. At present a tournament is
being billed for the Cottage by the Sea, one of
the remote institutions deserving charitable atten-
tion from the fashionable quarter. It was hoped
that dame Talbot might acquire the croquet
craze, but that Ex. has her parrots and her dogs,
and needs no other distractions.
The Cliveden brood miss the Cup carnival of
November. Thev return home after the Cup,
arriving here in the track of the Christmas goose.
That is, unless either of the two girls is netted
before then.
Miss Guthrie, of Geelong, which is dead, seems,
of late, anxious to announce the deadness of that
town. The other night, at the fancy-rig ball [ri ven
by Mrs. Jack Fisken and Miss Winter-Irving,
she appeared as “ Incroyable,” in silver and black
edges, like stylish mourning paper. Silver and
black always have a flash funeral, altogether
shuddersome effect. At the Northcotes’ party,
the Geelongite topped her sombre thatch with a
cluster of hearse-like plumes that proceshed round
the room ominously, and sent a cold shiver down
the spine of the beholder.
The arrival of the Landales, and their bouncing
mother, and tired brother, and travelling kit, has
been an event. The whole of Toorak is on
the tip-toe of expectancy. Chiffons branded
“Paquin” and “Bond-street” are being un-
loaded. There’s one thing about the Landales —
they are humorous, and get good fun out of
the shocks they now and then give their
timid pals. The time they danced into
the centre of a figure of Lancers at Cliveden,
and, drawing puff and mirror from their elbow-
sachets. adjusted their facial scheme, was a bigger
chuckle than the scared onlookers imagined. In
fact, the wider the gaze of shocked wonderment,
the bigger the joke. One must forgive the chic
sisters much for that humor.
Mrs. H. M. Cox at a recent fancy hop struck
a gay note of dress as a French follower of the
hounds, but the gaiety ended in the apparel.
Some people take their good fortune (Mrs. Cox is
happily married) very sombrely, and others
rejoice in the very face of trouble. One social
chick in this city boasts that she’s happy only
when in debt, and is lonely without worry. Her
optimistic unconcern about the unpaid milliner is
a wonder and a scandal to her pals.
Glen’s Hall was a tight fit for fashionables who
flocked to farewell Miss Florence Hood, bound
for Europe again in chase of additional musical
culture. Miss Hood plays with delicacy and
charm ; she has some broad and noble tones at her
command. Unlike many a more stormy and
stressful interpreter, the violiniste, t’other night,
kept, hearers in touch with the theme of the
Kreutzer Sonata throughout the “drums and
tramplings” of the composer’s treatment. A
thing of merit was her rendering of a Capriccioso
by Saint Saens, the composer of that other quaint
caprice, “Danse Macabre,” wherein skeletons
rattle their bones in a dance of death till the
morning cock crows, then toddle back to their
graves. Dvorak’s “Humoresque” was another
haunting trifle —a suggestion of tears and laughter,
set to music.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
The Tortoise Town aristocracy elbowed and shoved
its way through the vice-regal garden spree to meet the
Admiral and Admiraless of the strong but modest iron-
clad Pahf’l last week ; and there wasn’t any law against
weeping some salt and regretful moisture, too, as a
farewell to the Le Hunte dame, who roveth afar in a few
days. The weather did its best to get a w r eep on just to
keep the vice-regal one in countenance, but something
went wrong with the celestial water supply, and it didn’t
fall to the occasion. Of course, there was the usual wild
excitement about the invitations that didn’t arrive, and
the usual herd of frenzied matrons asking each other
what they were going to do about it. A vice-regal spree
wouldn’t be complete without these spicy embellishments.
And, of course, there was the usual struggle to make the
frosted bun survive the ravages of the multitude. In
fact, everything was duly and properly usual, and other-
wise vice-regal. The Pahf’l’s officers cast a splotch or so
of gold lace on the landscape.
’Tis said that Mr. Trehearrie’s place at the Conserva-
torium will be filled during his Foggy-visit by .Miss Elsie
Jefferis, A. B.C.D.E.F.G. (or something like that; I can’t
be sure to a letter). She’s a daughter of patriarch Dr.
Jefferis, who sits on the ’Varsity Council, and does other
occult things like that, and who once disported himself in
the City of the Harbor. Believe there’s another daughter
who’s a spring poet, though, perhaps, it is unkind to
mention it. She may have repented ere this ; although
it wasn’t bad poetry, I’m told.
Adelaide has a second Wanda Radford on hand. Its
latest wonder —no bad pun intended—Helen Dale
Andrews, aged seven, is making the city sit up in haste
by her dancing, singing, and wonderful mimicry. The
kiddy hasn’t yet reached the spoilt stage, and sings and
acts apparently because these things are natural to her,
and she can’t help them.
Tortoise Town has been suffering from an agricultural
show, and the backblocksperson has come down in shoals,
and other extraordinary garments, to exhibit his prize
pig. The thing I like most about the feminine back-
blocks person is the tenacity with which she clings to
her gloves. She has ’em on everywhere, however hot
it is, and seems to regard the undressed paw of the town
girl with gloom, and the girl as a highly-improper damsel
who ought to be arrested. Some base person suggested a
street collection horror during Show Week ; so Hospital
Saturday was backed up to Thursday, and the pet charity
scooped in something over £500. The greatest pile was
made by the wife of draper James Marshall at the Show
gates and Mrs. Chief Justice Way at the Beehive corner.
The collection included 46 sovereigns, 35 half-sovereigns,
328 half-crowns, over 15,000 pence, over 10,000 three-
penny bits, and only about 2000 half-pence. Which
shows that the average Adelaide citizen is economical,
but lacking in moral courage. Apparently 17,000 times
he wanted to refuse, but hadn’t the courage, so he gave
a copper. A copper, when it strikes the floor of the box,
sounds just like half-a-crown, and only a very clumsy
man lets the girl-collector see what lie is putting in
(when it is a copper, that is).
Yours Affectionately,
TRYPHRNA.
Of all the preparations for improving the com-
plexion that have been introduced to Australia, nothing
has approached that ideal Skin Food, Patti’s Beauty
Cream, for purity, daintiness, and efficacy in harmlessly
and rapidly clearing the skin of Wrinkles, Pimples,
Freckles, Blackheads, Sunburn, Roughness, and all Skin
Blemishes, leaving the completion smooth, clear, fresh,
health)’, youthful and transparent after a few applica-
tions ; in fact, chemists speak of it as the standard of
excellence in toilet preparations. We do not advertise
hysterically about half-a-dozen preparations. We simply
state a few indisputable facts about one, and its users
prove these facts and spread glowing reports of its virtues,
so that to-day it has a greater sale than any other toilet
preparation. Moreover, it is not necessary to keep on
using Patti’s Beauty Cream for months. We positively
guarantee to give you a clear, healthy, velvety com-
plexion if you use one pot of Patti’s Beauty Cream faith-
fully according to directions. Its curative and anti-
septic properties have brought it into great favor, also
with gentlemen after shaving ; and Burns, Cuts, Scalds,
Bruises, etc., are healed almost instantaneously by apply-
ing a small quantity of Patti’s Beauty Cream/ Price
3s. 6d. and 6s. per pot, of all Chemist and Stores through-
out Australia and New Zealand.
It is to be hoped that the Commonwealth
Government will make better work of its deep-
sea trawling scheme than N.S.W. State Govern-
ments have done. During fifty years the State
Government has kept up a constant pretence of
being about to trawl violently, but, with the
exception of spending thousands of pounds on
sea picnics and providing a few lazy-man billets,
the outcome has been nil. Governor Denison
and Speaker Daniel Cooper almost inaugurated
Responsible Government with a trawling scheme j
it was to be the making of the fishing industry
of the State, but they mulled the project.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work,
assortments, XO/ and 20/-* money order on
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, 89C. FBG St. Martin, Pari:
5/-. Fine
London.
s, France
f
CSrO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Frsd. Nagei), Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stkipe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free, by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MQUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
This Elastic Truss
Elastic
Truss—
Single, 15/-
Double, 20/-
is the aemeof comfort, made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Said a British politician of high rank to a
private interviewer the other day: “The
Government that in a time of any peril to Eng-
land sent a single battleship to Australian
waters would go out of office the next day.”
Said that Peter Airey will not be a
“ Labor ” candidate Sxt next Queensland elections.
It is a poor advertisement for the Queensland
Labor party if it cannot keep a man of the stamp
of Airey—a genuine radical and proved democrat —
in its ranks.
In the present trouble in India, as in the
Natal native rising, Britain can trace the results
of the Anglo-Jap alliance. One colored man has
been admitted to the intimate circle of John
Bull’s friendship, and other colored men, denied
the same privilege, want to know “ Whaffor ? ”
Vic. M.L.A. Colecliin is fathering a pro-
posal that when an owner refuses a Government
oTer for his land, the price offered, and refused as
not good enough, shall in future constitute the
lowest basis of valuation for taxation purposes.
It is so transparently honest that the House of
Fat is certain to jump on it with all its feet.
N.S.W. Carruthers Government carried its
jealousy of the Australian Government so far as to
champion its servant Suttor’s attack on the White
Australia principle when challenged on the point
by Dr. Arthur. Still, if Mr. Suttor is wise he
will keep such political opinions to himself.
Another Government may come which will take
a different view of the matter.
THE SNUFFLE CORDON DRAWS
TIGHTER.
A violent parsonic attack on boxing is going on
in Melbourne.
I asmania, where the cry about being
“ruined by Federation” has been very deafening
in some small mean quarters of late, has just
closed its financial year with a surplus of £47,552,
which, considering the respective sizes of’ the
revenues, is equal to about £700.000 in N.S.W.
And it expects another surplus next year. And
it says it is ruined.
Philp in and Philp out of power in Banana-
land are two very different Philps. Philpout is
now advocating the abolition of the income-tax
which Philpin imposed, and his opinions on the
wickedness of Kidston in not abolishing it are
tremendous. And if Kidston did abolish the tax,
Philpout would then point a finger of denuncia-
tion at his deficit, and by much pointing he might
become Philpin again.
Old James Gormly, M.L.C., made some
interesting remarks to N.S.W. Public Works
Committee when giving evidence re the proposed
Barren Jack reservoir :
The land on the Murrumbidgee has been monopolised
by large owners—absentees, corporations, mortgagees,
etc.—and they have practically stamped out settlement]
and caused the towns to shrink into insignificance. It
is desirable that all the estates that would be benefited
by the scheme should be resumed before the additional
value is given them.
The Victorian Bible-in-State-schools folk
are out after Premier Bent with the object of
getting another referendum on the introduction
of the reading u f iioiy Writ into the curriculum.
And as Tommy begins to scatter pious reflections
through his speeches, one never knows what may
happen. Rev. Filehitt says of the referendum
that his followers will not be satisfied till they get
it. But a more important point is that they will
be very much dissatisfied when they get it.
Skene, M.H.R., Tory candidate for the
Senate in Victoria, tells the truth about himself
m an interview with Melbourne Argus :
As to my political career? That is soon told. When
Federation was accomplished, Ist od for, and was elected
for, the Grampians, and I have held the seat since.
And, in point of fact, that is absolutely all that
there is to say about Skene.
Laborist Page, M.H.R., told a Melbourne
audience:—
He was a Freetrader. If the Labor party was to govern
Australia they would have to take up some fiscal policy.
That policy would be Protection. Whether he could
swallow that remained to be seen. He might have to
retire.
Presumably, when it attains power, the Labor
party will lie Protectionist because it will believe
Protection essential for Australia’s welfare. Why,
then, isn’t it Protectionist now?
Here is Fairbairn, M.L.A., the elect of
Tooralc, the embodiment of Toryism, the very
essence of Fat, stating that
it seems that we in Victoria have hit upon a scheme in
our Wages Boards that, well administered, will do away
with strikes. They are an example for legislation ail
over Australia.
Yet, when the principle was first applied—but
10 short years ago—it was going “to drive capital
out of the country, ” disrupt business, harass em-
ployers, and generally make Fat’s life not worth
living.
Some anti-Sosh lady canvassers have
lately tried to storm Bill Lyne’s stronghold at
Tumut (N.S.W.), terrifying the old women with
the news that if Lyne’s party gets back to power
the abolition of the marriage tie may be expected
next year or so, and that children will be taken
from their mothers at the age of nine months and
kept in Government institutions till they reach
the age of 18 years. Any female who goes out
against a genial and experienced old warrior like
Bill with yarns like that is a pathet eally fresh
sort of amateur.
For true kindness always look to the
trading community in your hour of trouble. There
were reports last week of a coal strike in N.S.W.,
and Victoria largely depends on N.S.W. for its
coal. So a week ago, when the strike was still
only a rumor, the Victorian importers met and
conspired to dab an extra 10s. per ton on the
selling price. Their stocks being estimated at
35,000 tons, that would mean £17,5(10 extra profit
for themselves and £17,500 fine imposed on people
who, if the strike came, would have enough losses
without this. For picking the pockets of the dead
and wounded commend us to the good old im-
porter.
“J.”: Between the Labor treachery and
the shelving of the Preferential Voting Bill some
Liberals and a few Laborites are likely to come
croppers in Vic. nextlNovember. An amazing choice
is the Government’s selection of Ramsay, ex-mem-
her for Williams-
town, for the Sen-
ate, with Styles
and Atkins. Ram-
say has also been
coupled by the
Yellow push with
Simian Fraser and
M‘Coll—two Fat
candidates—which
leaves things much
mixed. Unless
some controlling
body intervenes,
the Flinders elec-
torate will be a gift
to the Iceberg, on
a minority vote, as
Protectionist Kelly
is Labor nominee,
and little Arthur
Nicholls stands as
Deakinite. Ran-
dolph Bedford, who
should possess
more wisdom, will
carry the Labor
banner —or part
of it—in Burke against Ilume Cook, seeing
which the Foreign-traders are hastily skirmish-
ing round for a likely man to slip in between
the two. In Mernda, Robert Harper would have
a hard job to beat Laborite Hughes, boss of a local
paper with a big circulation, and a smart and well-
educated Democrat, but here again a Farmers’
League candidate, semi-Protectionist, seini-Free-
trader, and more-than-semi stodgy Tory is after the
minority vote that too often wins.
Already there are signs of a repetition of
the split vote, which, at last elections, enabled
sundry Victorian Foreign-trade Tories to crawl
into the Australian Parliament as representatives
of small minorities. Even at this early hour nine
candidates are announced for the three Senate
seats ; and for the Reps, three candidates are
mentioned for Balaclava, Corangamite, Fawkner,
Indi, Cooyong, and Yarra; four for Batman]
Flinders, and Mernda ; and seven (another version
says eight) for Wimmera. Give us a second ballot,
or a contingent vote, or any old thing that will
let the real majority have a show.
The Council of the Victorian Immigration
League has started another fool project. Two or
three “intelligent practical farmers” from
England are to be given a free trip round
Australia, and it is expected that these men will
blow so hard when they get back about what they
have seen, that a regular flood of immigrants may
be expected. But the reason that immigrants
don’t come to Australia is not because the possi-
bilities of Australia are unknown, but because the
facts as to land monopoly are too well known.
The first step towards a successful immigration
policy is a progressive Federal land-tax.
Try the difference between a big glass of
your usual stimulant and a little of this pure
distillation. You will find the little drink a
livelier bracer for exhaustion for mind or body, and
there will be no bad after-effects. We are talking
of Wolfe's Schnapps.*
AT SEA.
The London press warns Britain significantly of the
possible result of its neglect of Australian aspirations
after local naval defence.
THE KID : “I may hare to cut it if he doesn’t
wake up.”
“ E.” writes :
Premier Bent discovers the necessity of compulsory
purchase in order to make a success of closer settlement
in Victoria, and is about to have a try with the pro-
vision of his Act which allows compulsion in certain,
circumlocutory ways, provided the House of Rich Land-
lords consents. Gippslanders are at Thomas to take hold
of the Heart estate, near Sale, but the owner says he’ll
see the Government strung- first, hence Tommy’s resort
to the one complicated and procrastinating method he
has left open to himself. Every stout democratic leader
Victorian Liberalism has produced has had to thrash the
Leg. Council, and if Tommy really-aspires to be a people’s
man it is about time be girded up his loins for his little
mill to a finish with the House of Privilege.
H. G. Wells, referring to child slavery in
America:—
America has difficulties to encounter of which we know
nothing. ... In each separate State the forces of right
and progress must fight the battle of the children and the
future over again, against interests, lies, prejudice, and
stupidity. Each State pleads the bad example of another
State, and there is always the threat that capital will
withdraw.
How the S.M. Herald must blush when it sees a
dear old friend, like this threat that “ Capital will
withdraw,” coupled in its own columns with
“interests, lies, prejudice, and stupidity.”
President of the N.S. W. Employers’
Federation, sneering at the Commerce Act: —
One clause of it dealt with food adulteration. It was
a pity that politicians could not have been brought
under this, so that before a man was eligible for political
life he should guarantee himself to have not less than
75 per cent, of honest intention. (Applause.)
And ’tis a pity, so it is, that sneers of the sort are
voiced and applauded at gatherings of employers,
for it leads the public to believe that these
employers really favor the unrestricted sale of
impure milk, dishonest sugar, felonious butter,
and disgraceful meat.
J. B. Suttor, N.S.W. commercial agent
in the North, appears to invite our congratula-
tions on the fact that he is commissioned to obtain
from N.S. Wales “platelayers, bridge foremen
and locomotive men” for Asia. It’s gratifying,
no doubt, to our national pride that our skilled
men are in demand, even if it’s only a foreign
demand; but doesn’t it strike that subtle politi-
cian .Jokarrothers that it is rather absurd to pay
Coghlan a good salary to rake Britain for new-
chum—mostly unskilled—immigrants to dig up
“our natural resources,” and at the same time
pay Suttor and co. to ship away our trained men
to the blasted North ?
Senate-candidate Neild has been telling
some amazing anti-Sosh yarns up North. At
Murwillumbah (N.S.W.), where he started, this
happened:—
“Mr. Watson,” said Neild, “ had proposed to tax all far-
mers a shilling in the £ on the capital value of their land.”
At the end he offered to answer any question, and got this
one “Is it not a fact that the Federal Labor party has
decided that the small farmer shall not be taxed at all;
only the large owner to have a graduated tax to pay ? ’’’
To this the Jawbone replied :—“ I cannot say ; it’s not
my business to know all the Labor party decides.”
In short, what’s the use of knowing anything
about the Labor people when it’s so much easier
to invent lies about them ?
Seddon’s death has given life to the Inde-
pendent Political Labor League of Maoriland.
It is not creditable to us,” says a manifesto,
that Maoriland should be the only country in
Australasia that has not its organised Labor
party in Parliament.” Also M.L. is the only
country with a State Land Bank, progressive land
taxation, compulsory land repurchase, arbitration,
old age pensions, and a liberal closer settlement
policy. Some other States have one or two
of these, but none other has all of them. It is a
darned sight more creditable to have these things
without a Labor party than to have a Labor
party without these things; so if there’s any
worrying to be done, the Maorilander can let the
Australian do it.
S.M. Herald will never forgive Joseph
Carruthers for buying hundreds of miles of wire
netting direct from the English manufacturer
without giving the local importer some of the
profit he was expecting, The old lady jumps on
her bonnet in wrath whenever she thinks of it,
and just now is getting delirious in trying to
prove t? at Garruthers lies when he says that he
can land his netting in Sydney for £1 Os'. 6d.
a ton charges. All the importers the Herald
meets at the club always charge up to £2 10s.,
and how Joseph is to do it at the price makes
Granny wild between curiosity and disbelief.
After a week’s imploring, Carruthers had the grace
to reply. He said if his estimate was ss. out he
would be surprised, and the Herald is madder
with him than ever.
The Cohen party,
which is composed ex-
clusively of Cohen, late
deputy-leader of the Op-
position, recently gave
an example of its state
of splendid isolation in
S.A. Assembly. Foolish
little Cohen, who is
always heckling the Go-
vernment, made dark in-
sinuations against the
.Lands administration,
and hinted that there
might be disc! osures
almost as bad as tho.-e
of Sydney. He moved
that a return he pre-
pared, showing all con-
cessions granted to land-
holders for a vast num-
ber of years. Lands
Minister O’Loughlin
pointed out that it would
cost £3OO to prepare the paper, and he wanted
something definite before agreeing to that outlay.
Despite advice from all sides of the House, Cohen
persisted, and his brassy bray was the only sound
in response to the Speaker’s call for Ayes.
Some of the things the Queensland Labor
Government has done, or promises to do : Surplus
has been £127,811 (second largest in 25 years);
railways have paid £3 2s. lOd. per cent, on capital
invested (second highest rate in their history);
central sugar mills have in 2| years paid £51,<173,’
compared with £28,220 in 8J years before that;
Government has started a Labor Department ;made
provision to put poor people on the land and help
them while they get a start; it is proposed to
exempt from income-tax all incomes under £l6O,
and to exempt £l2O of incomes between £l6O and
£200; auction sales of land for revenue purposes
are to be stopped ; all public officers receiving
less than £2OO will get increases; endowment to
hospitals, benevolent institutions, schools of arts,
technical and grammar schools, etc., will be in-
creased ; the police will get better salaries and
deferred pay ; school teachers will get grade pro-
motions. so long withheld ; and railway employees
will get privileges restored. These and many
other good things are promised, with a modest
surplus to finish up with, and no borrowing.
The Bishop of Bunbury (W.A.) lately
came back from a trip to the North-West, and
states that he found no evidence of ill-treatment
of aborigines by squatters. It further transpires,
however, that his Gaiters camped with squatters
all the trip, and naturally they didn’t show him
any ill-treatment or put him in the way of seeing
any. The story recalls that long succession of
parsons who went up to Queensland in the days
when the Kanaka question was still unsettled, to
see if Tommy Tanria was well-treated, lived a
moral life, was contented with his lot, a desirable
citizen, and essential to the sugar industry. They
all came back burning with indignation at the
proposal to get rid of T. Tanna, and, so far as
The Bulletin remembers, every one began his
story, “I was hospitably entertained at Ham-
bled on ” (or some other) “plantation.” Not one
called on a Labor member o" other anti-blaek-
labor mail to ask if he could show that there was
another side to the question. They just went and
dined with the defendant, and heard his case,
and brought in a verdict. It was a truly par-
sonical way of exercising the judicial faculty.
The voice of Premier Bent:—
This Government is going in for a spirited public works
policy— PUBLIC WORKS TO BE PAID FOR OUT OF REVENUE
MONEYS, AND NOT OUT OF LOAN MONEYS.
Can’t the Deform Carruthers, of N.S.W.—who
has £4,000,000 a year more revenue than the Vic-
torian Premier to be honest on—say something
like this instead of moaning about the wrongs of
Ma State? N.S.W. now spends over £3,000,000
a year more than it cost in 1900 to run the same
services ; that is to say, the Commonwealth has
relieved it of about £1,500,000 a year of expense,
and despite this relief it has increased its State
outlay by about £1,700,000 a year as compared
with the figures for 1900. Surely almost any
kind of a Deformer or Deformity could some-
where save £1,500,000 a year for new public
works out of this awful increase.
Immediately the Representatives raised
the duty on harvesters to £l2, manufacturer
M‘Kay, of the Sunshine works, reduced the price
of his machines by £6, thus anticipating the con-
ditions stipulated for when the duty was raised.
As M‘Kay sold 2000 machines last vear, that
means a gift of £12,000 to the farmers. * But when
Aloysius Fox lobbied the House during the pass-
age of the Tariff Act, and succeeded in killing
the Australian distilling industry in the interests
of the importers, did those gentry straightaway
lower their prices by even 8 per cent. ? Not by a
jugful ! They even kicked at paying their jackal
his wages.
“ My little girl suffered for three months
from whooping cough,” says A. Kilborn, Carlton,
Vic., “and during that time I had the best
medical advice for her, but she obtained no
benefit. One day I was looking over a little
newspaper issued by the Chamberlain Medicine
Co,, and, seeing what they claimed Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy would do, decided to give it a
trial. lam glad I did, for a perfect cure resulted,
and I cannot speak too highly of Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy.” *
According to a reply given by N.S.W.
Minister for Mines, the rebate in rates allowed
by the Railway Department during the drought of
1902-3, when fodder and stock were carried at
“starving stock” rates, amounted to £303,610.
The value of freight-paid seed-wlieat issued to
farmers during the same period was £87,196.
That’s the sort of Protection the “great natural
industries ” need now and then.
A SIMILE AND A MORAL.—“What
the dustman is to the dwelling in which we live,
that Hunyadi Janos is to the local habitation of
the human spirit.” Thus writes a well-known
medical writer.*
WONDER CHILD WILDIE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Joseph Cook : “When Kelly starts you will he in
the soup.” —Daily paper.
When Kelly starts to speak by book.
All flee the scene save Joseph Cook ;
Joe’s gaze is proudly turned upon
His Infantile Phenomenon,
But others seek some quiet nook.
Joe cries (as Jove, who planets shook)
“ A quorum here, by hook or crook ! ”
It comes—but soon again is gone
When Kelly starts.
For, spite of Joe’s adoring look,
Wee Willie’s prattle few can brook ;
Yea, some irked soul may hurl anon
A thud-producing stodgy scone,
Or portion of an aged chook,
When Kelly starts.
via
TERENCE O'FIRR.


Ronisch
Pianos at
Paling'*s.
Pianos
with a re-
cord hard
to equal.
Xhe i r
sterling'
qualities
are well-
Known.
“They
stand like
rocks.”
Come and see our
new models.
Catalogues Free.
Sole Agents-*
Paling'*s,
338 George St.,
Sydney.
57
A Fine
Violin
*1 :11 s 6
sd
“STUDENT’S”
MODEL.
Complete with Bow,
Case, Resin and Set
of Extra String's.
Post Free to any
town in N.S.W.
£1 : 11 : 6.
Write for Handsome
illustrated catalogue
post free.
PALINGS
338 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
Upp
Pianos.
Sole &g&z%ts
Paling's.
If you
require a
truly art-
istic Piano
with a fine
tone, qua-
lity (EX per-
fect touch,
buy a Lipp
Piano.
Catalogues free
Sole Agents
Paling’s
338 George St.
Sydney
66
BAIL UP!
HOW many times Captain Thunderbolt uttered these startling words to
travellers whom he waylaid during his career of crime is not chronicled, but
the work which we are offering entitled “ Three Years With Thunderbolt,”
is a true history of this celebrated outlaw’s exploits during the time that his
partner (William Monckton) shared his exciting adventures and escapades.
Thunderbolt, without doubt, was the most chivalrous, courteous, and romantic
character that ever followed the “ profession ” of a bushranger, and the story, as told
by William Monckton and edited by Ambrose Pratt, is brim full of incident and
adventure, making exciting reading from beginning to end.
A new cheap edition in artistic cover just published of this popular work—
THREE YEARS WITH
THUNDERBOLT iuustra,ed
Price Is 2d Post Tree. Cloth Edition, 2s 4d.
New Edition—
In the Roaring Fifties
By” .. •
Edward Dyson
Cloth Edition, 2s 4d
Post Free
Mr. Dyson,‘in writing of this stirring period of life on the Victorian Goldfields,
fully maintains his reputation as one of our foremost Australian authors. The work
is full of dramatic incident, there being not one dull page from beginning to end.
The description of the • historical Eureka Stockade is finely told, being graphic and
interesting. The love element in the book is all that could be desired.
Special to ALL AMATEUR CARPENTERS
and WOODWORKERS.- ■■■IIIIHl»» r
The Handyman’s BooK of
W oodworkings Illustrated £ Post Free.
This is a handsome volume bound in cloth, containing 422 pages of useful receipts,
also descriptions of tools and how to use them, and best materials for working.
Every handyman should secure one, it being a splendid reference book.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO.
9
THE UP-TO-DATE
PUBLISHERS, BOOKSELLERS,
STATIONERS, &c.
476 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
And ALL BRANCHES.
II
A SOURCE of |
SATISFACTIOn
Sri
.
Pi
r-
;
j im;
.. ./ *
-
■' . \*. . .. • *
.
■\y, : .To^
8%
:
. ■ * A*
mmwM
mu


Dreadful Headaches
Yield to the Corrective Influence of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
Many women habitually suffer from head-
aches and a general derangement of the system,
which make life a daily purgatory. If men
suffered with headaches as women do, business
would be at a stand-still. The truth is that
women’s headaches are mostly due to womanly
fsd
f
Mrs. Mart Macey.
(from a photo.)
causes. For these ailments
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
are invaluable, as is fully
proved by the following case :
Mrs. Mary Macey, of 24
Hartley - street, Roz e 11 e,
Sydney, says:—“For a
number of years I have
suffered from sick headaches,
indigestion, and biliousness,
which made my life a misery.
I could not take any pleasure
in my work, and was in a
state of despair, I tried many
so-called remedies, but of no
avail, until one day, about six months ago, a lady
friend told me the benefits she derived from
the use of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills for these
complaints, and I decided to give them a trial.
After taking about two bottles I found that the
headaches had entirely left me, and that I was
better in my general health than I had been for
years previous. I consider them a splendid family
medicine. You can make whatever use you like
of this, hoping it will be the means of inducing
other sufferers like myself to give them a trial.”
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a perfect blood
purifier and a positive and permanent cure for
biliousness, indigestion, constipation, headaches,
sallow complexion, liver and kidney troubles,
piles, pimples, boils and blotches, and for female
ailments.*
TWIN SCREW MARINE MOTORS
Foe
SPEED LAUNCHES
AUXILIARY YACHTS
LIGHT DRAFT VESSELS.
Sole Agents : F. H. RELPH.
MOTOR. LAUNCH AGENCY,
' CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY. T. 1760.
“M OTA ” brand
Motor Car Spirits
Are the finest power spirits the world produces.
Sold by all Motor Manufacturers,
Importers, Repairers, etc., or of
The BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD.,
Agents, Adelaide, Melbourne & Sydney.
Pratt’s Motor Car Spirit.
Highest Grade
American . . .
PETROL
ALWAYS UNIFORM IN QUALITY.
In stock at the Kerosene Stores of the COLONIAL OIL
COMPANY.
At all the Leading Centres of Australia and New Zealand.
*sa yj*
T^mmo
»»
till
Cable Address—
PASTIME, SYDNEY.
M. J. MOLONEY,
TattersaU's Club,
SYDNEY .
♦ —-—
COMMISSIONS Executed.
WF
LONGEST riARKET RATES
GUARANTEED.^-^
TEL. 1542 or 251.
Write or wire for Quotations.
Price Lists forwarded on Application.
♦
Telegraphic Address—
MOLONEY, Tattersall’s,
SYDNEY.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to TTis Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERGILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., EEDFEEN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
There was no final for the Sydney metropolitan
Rugby premiership. The honor and glory having passed
irrevocably to Glebe, that club forfeited to Sydney, and
Rugby interest is now fixed on the doings of the Univer-
sity team in Maoriland. In the first match against Otago
University the Cornstalks were rolled in the mud, and
beaten by the disgraceful score of 21 to nil. A second
match against a Dunedin team saw them to somewhat
better advantage ; they were beaten by only six to three
—quite a splendid achievement, considering. On Satur-
day last they met Otago University again, and the invad-
ing forwards displayed a nippiness of which no one
suspected them. They rolled over the Otago forwards
and smothered the backs, so that the Otagonians could
not get the machine to work at all, and were compara-
tively helpless. From a,free kick the Sydney University
managed to strike the cross-bar, and missed a goal by
about half an inch. It was not till well into the second
spell that Otago University managed to get a rush on
and scored a try, which it failed to convert, and so won
by three to nil.
» * * •
In a game as full of illegalities as a cheap dog is
of bark, Pymont stamped Balmain flat in the semi-final
for the Gardiner Cup, and wiped out the idea of equality
that the draw of the previous week had created. The
score was three to one, but the Pyrmont crowd was much
the better of the two. This leaves only the final to be
played off between Pyrmont and Glebe next Saturday.
In the football world Glebe is raking in things this season.
Its Rugby crowd won the premiership ; it has already
mopped up the Kerr Cup ; and at time of writing the
chances are that it will appropriate the Gardiner Cup
also.
• * * *
Saturday saw the beginning of the end of Mel-
bourne football for the season, when Carlton beat ’Wood
and ’Roy walloped Essendon in the League semi-finals,
leaving these two to settle the premiership question next
Saturday. There is no “ challenge ” final this year ; the
closeness of these two teams’ scores makes Saturday’s
victor ipso facto the challenger. Huge crowds, at double
prices, swelled the gates at the M.O.C. ana Fitzroy
grounds, and at the latter place there was full value for
the money. Carlton started with a rush, and, before the
Magpies realised what was happening, had scored four
goals one behind to nil. Then the ’Woods got their
system going, and gradually pulled up, though both
sides were over-anxious, and the Magpies too regardless
of the rules. All through the game the penalty kicks
were about twq to one against them, and that counted at
the finish. At the half-time spell the blue and whites had
scored six goals three behinds to their opponents four
goals three behinds, and their supporters were “ skiting.”
But on resuming the Woodsmen started to do things,
and presently' they had put up seven goals, five behinds
to Carlton’s six and eight. Then the 'Woods’ eagerness
got them down, and a “ trip ” in front of their own goal
gave a penalty kick to Carlton’s surest punt. A lucky
shot from the ruck cave them another sixer, and there
was no time to equalise the scores. The bell rang with
Carlton 64 points to ’Woods’ 54. The team deserved its
win, for it played half the game a man short, Gotz being
carried off with a badly-damaged shoulder. The
'Roy v. Essendon argument was less interesting.
The maroons had it pretty much their own way,
and exactly doubled Essendon’s score at the
finish—lo goals, 12 behinds to five and six. The
Association, with an exceptionally, keen eye to the gate,
spread its two semi-finals over two Saturdays and left the
final and the challenge ditto for two further week-ends. In
Saturday’s semi-final West met North at East Melbourne,
and a gorgeous discussion ensued. North bears much
the same relation to West as the Ma State does to Vic-
toria or Queensland, and the notion that an upstart
young club like West should presume to battle with its
aged but dishonored parent for premiership honors was
quite unendurable, not to say indecent. So the barrackers
—a good 20,000 of them —were argumentative and will-
ing, and the players—especially North’s—ditto. Scraps
were frequent, not so much open disagreements as sly
punches, vicious elbow-jabs, and an ugly jerking-out of
a tricky foot. It was a nasty game to watch, the only
satisfaction to an onlooker being' the well-deserved defeat
of North by 72 points to 28.
* * » *
The most strenuous game of the week, however,
took place on the Wednesday half-holiday', when the
South Melbourne Trades met the St. Kilda ditto in the
semi-final of the Wednesday Football League. These
’bailers are supposed to be mostly of the counter-jumping
and delivery cart habit, but they' are a fine upstanding
lot, and what they lack in skill they' make up in stoush.
During Wednesday’s argument one St. Kilda player sus-
tained a broken collar-bone, and three others were carried
off hors de combat. Also.a couple of players indulged in
a willing Squires-and-Murphy opposite the Stand, con-
tinuing till constables climbed gradually over the railings
and persuaded them to postpone their private discussion
till the game was finished. It ended —South, 63 points ;
Saints, 40 points ; which latter wasn’t too bad for a team
four men short.
» » * *
Delightful racing at Rosehill (Sydney), on
Saturday. The daily papers reported that everything
passed off very smoothly. Only , four horses feil, one
being so badly damaged as to necessitate its being put out
of its misery, and, by the way, a couple of jockeys were
seriously injured. Otherwise everything passed off
“ smoothly.” And yet they talk about the brutality of
boxing 1
* *■ * *
More than usual public interest was centred on
the Rosehill Cup. Tattersall had drawn a couple of
sweeps on the event, and Mr. J. H. Crick’s Collarit
was known to be going for the boodle. The public
rolled up and said it would go nap on “Paddy’s
neddie.” And that noble animal gave them a great run
for their money, most of which was on at sto 2. Collarit
left the line like a bird, and went to the front in a flash.
Behind streamed 31 horses for a race that was worth
£164 only. Evidently there were more than Collarit
going for the sweep-money. Collarit led the field to
within a few yards from home, and then the brown
Rosemead opened out with a terrific rush. As Rosemead
drew alongside, the plucky colt made a great effort, but
the fresher steed won by a neck. There certainly seemed
to be a grievous lack of the wisdom of the serpent in
asking a horse to lead a field of 31 from start to finish of a
2300yds. race, and yet that is what Collarit was asked to
do, and all but succeeded in doing. The close finish
shows that the owner had a fairly good idea of what the
brown colt could do.
* * * #
Racing at Rosehill on Saturday had a marked
effect on Epsom and Metropolitan betting. Veteran
Famous’ manner of winning the Spring Stakes, though he
is in same stable as Epsom favorite Berthier, impressed
greatly', and Berthier’s success in Rydalmere Mile made
his position more solid than ever, as he gave weight to all
other starters. Previous first choice for Epsom—Magazine
—who lost her place through going under to Pompous at
Randwick, Saturday before, made additional friends by'
finishing alongside Marvel Loch—well up —in Spring
Stakes, and this without being forced much in the
straight, thus demonstrating that she may be expected
to race every inch of the mile.
People who backed Lord Ullin’s Daughter for
Spring meeting events have lost their boodle. The mare
has been withdrawn from preparation, that jarred tendon
threatening to bring about a complete breakdown if
training were persisted in. .
* • * »
Owing to having developed lameness, Mania-
poto has been withdrawn from all A. J.C. engagements,
and may not, it is said, be seen at the V.R.C. meetings
either. Christian Moses chuckles gleefully, for, by the
withdrawal of Lord Ullin’s Daughter and the Maoriland
galloper, he has scooped a great haul already.
* • * *
Adelaide is beginning to wonder whether
Heaven is frowning on its occasional race-meetings. The
S.A. Derby should have been run on September 3, but the
course at Morphettville was so sticky that the Jockey
Club put up a record by announcing postponement two
days beforehand. Then the heavens dried up, and the
3rd was beautifully fine, and football and the Eight
Hours’sports got the benefit of increased gates. The
Derby was then set down for the Bth, but by that time a
flood had come, and Morphettville was under water. (So
was Flemington, but they hadn’t a big race due there.)
And, after a wild temporary idea of making the Derby a
boat-race, there was another postponement. Last week
the Agricultural Show and the football final had four
days of perfect weather, but the Derby is still unrun, and
it iooks as if the Adelaide Racing Club’s track may have
to be borrowed for it—provided the Government will wink
at the transfer of the totalisator licence.
* * * •
Backers were very indignant over the scratching
of Maniapoto, Noreen, The Bairn, and Lord Fitzroy for
the Rosehill Cup. But what asses the owners of those
valuable animals would have been to leave them in such
a crowded race to be jostled, roughed, and perhaps over-
thrown like Zoz, Obverse, Sleeper and Waikato.
* * * *
Figures of last season’s bike racing in Victoria
give the value of prizes at £5594, spread over 158 meet-
ings. Mile events attracted 2923 entries, while half-mile
spins drew 2036, and 1177 entered for two-mile events.
There is little doubt that the mile spin is the most appre-
ciated by riders.
* * * »
The spectacle of 235 men accepting for the
big Dunlop Warrnnmbool-Melbourne Road-race is fairly
solid evidence that the spirit of amateur cycling is not
dead. The first prize is worth only £3O, and the most
keenly desired trophies, the Dunlop fast time medallions,
are valued at a few shillings. And yet hundreds of men
will toil, and sweat, and struggle over an exhausting race
of 165 miles for the honor and glory of winning them. A
Dunlop road-race is a much more severe contest than
that which rages round the gilded Sydney Thousand, and
no one ever heard of 235 acceptances for that bloated
event.
* * * V
A. H. Shepherd, in a road-race from Singleton
to Newcastle (N.S.W.), is credited with having covered 50
miles in the astounding time of lhr. 62min. 7sec. The
previous Australian best was that of M. Unger, of S.A.,
who flew over 50 miles in 2hr. 6min. Shepherd is said to
have had the aid of a gale behind him, and he would need
it to average 27 miles an hour for nearly two hours.
# * * «
Some-time champion cyclist George Farley will
be seen on the track once more at the Eight-Hour Sports
in Sydney, when he will contest the Australasian track
mile championship, which carries a first prize of £5O.
His chief rival is expected to be N.S. Waler O. H. Brook.
* * * *
Interesting cable in Monday’s evening papers:
“ A motor car, containing the Duchess of Connaught
and her daughter, killed a boy yesterday. The accident
was due to the boy’s own fault.”
Of course it was. Who suggested that it was not?
How could it be otherwise ? If the offensive little
beast hadn’t got in front of the car the accident would
not have happened. Much sympathy is felt with the
Duchess and her Miss at the inconvenience they were put
to.
* * • *
Mr. Gorrick, who owned the Standard 111. (now
Lady Eileen) when it burst triumphantly into the arena
on Parramatta River, has ordered another flier, which
will arrive in good time for the opening season. It is
slightly larger than the Lady Eileen, and will be fitted
with 25h.p. engines, guaranteed to drive it at 22 knots an
hour, when required. Several other comets are whispered
of, and it looks as though, by the middle of the season,
Mr. Relph’s Invincible will have to fight quite a series of
rivals to maintain the supremacy of Port Jackson.
* * • *
The youngest motor-boat driver in N.S.W. is
little five-year-old George Whatmore, of Woolwich, on the
Lane Cove River (Sydney), who occasionally takes charge
of his father’s speed launch while the old man leans back
and admires him.
* * * *
Some rowing items: J ames Stan bury has decided
to go to Maoriland and row Webb on the Wanganui River
on Boxing Day for £2OO a-side. Dick Arnst is said to be
improving in a marvellous manner, but the chief trouble
is that he is too strbng for his boat, and pulls the thing
to pieces. To make a boat strong enough to suit Dick’s
herculean methods means building a plank craft; yet
unless something is done, George Towns will be worn
right out with his labors at hurriedly repairing Dick’s
boat between breakages. Durnan is understood to be
coming here accompanied by a party with moneys to
burn, and what between his crowd and the partv that is
travelling with O’Hagen-O’Brien, Australia will have
quite a lot of cheap foreign capital to squander during
the next six months—that is, if the foreigners splash the
gilt in the way that has been threatened. As a rule, this
foreign skite does not clean up for more than a color
to the dish.
* * * *
Just now the star of the Towns family is in the
ascendant. George is champion of the world, both his
brothers are doing well in the outrigger, and his pupil,
Fogwell, fairly smothered Mitchell, who was trained by
Stanburv, at Ooraki last week. Things seem to have
gone well with Towns since he bought that electric belt.
The question is—do his brothers and pupils share the use
of the belt gratis, or how ?
* * * 9
Footracing is still booming in Westralia—
booming louder than ever, in fact. The first week of the
current month saw the Charity Hundred spread over
three nights, and it drew record crowds each night. The
race from which the meeting took its name was an affair
of 130yds. and worth £l5O. It ran to 16 heats and four
semi-finals, and was won by J. M. Condon, off the
12yds. mark, in 11 9-10 sec. The result of the meeting was
to divide over £3OO among the charities of Kalgoorlie.
» * * *
Arthur Postle put up a great race against Mario
Rossino, an Italian cyclist, at Kalgoorlie lately. The dis-
tance was 100yds., and betting favored the runner three
to one “ on.” The excitement was intense, and the way
Postle got off the mark was a revelation. At 70yds. the
flying Queenslander was 12yds. in front and going like a
rocket. Behind him the Italian crack hurled his machine
through the air at a tremendous pace, and, amidst a per-
fect frenzy of cheering, passed and beat Postle by 3yds.
The time of the cyclist was clocked as 9ssec. And
9 3-sths is the world’s record for the hundred.
• * * *
S.A. holds its Amateur Athletic Championships
this coming Saturday (Sept. 22), for the first time for
nearly 20 years. Adelaide, so keen on most kinds of
sport, let this particular form of it die right out,
though formerly it was very much alive (O. C. Kingston’
among others, was a noted athlete in his day). A strong
association has been formed, pledged to small prizes and
pure sport, and it hopes to grow.
♦ * * *
Turkish and other Asiatic ’rastlers have brought
the bone-breaking biz. up to such a pitch of perfection
that matches in the Cold Country are now controlled by
stringent regulations, enforced by referees who know
the game from A to Z, and are capable of making a firm
decision in order to avoid the application.of cruel and
unsportsmanlike holds as applied by the dusky expert.
In the recent Madrali-Hackenschnudt match the men
contested under strictest conditions, otherwise it would
have been a cruel business, as Madrali is a past master in
the art of leg work and the agonising modes of downing
his opponent by its aid, and the burly Russian is quite
capable of looking after himself. To allow “ all in ”
holds simply brings a fine, manly pastime down to the
level of the vilest stoush. Buttan Singh, the Pathan, has
introduced the brutal Asiatic methods into almost every
contest in which he has engaged, the most notable
instance being the strangling of Clarence Weber at
Wirth’s Circus, and the temporary crippling of Peter
McGregor with a series of brutal leg and foot screws
that made the white Australian audience rise on it's
hind legs and hurl language at the dusky Singh.
McGregor and the “ Hindu ” met in a return contest at
theCyclorama building, t’other Wednesday night, before
only a fair attendance of enthusiasts. The conditions
were—if Buttan obtained two falls in an hour he won ; if
“Mac.” got one fall to his credit, the side-bet and gate
receipts went to him. It was soon made evident that the
wrestling game, when played for keeps by a colored per-
son, and controlled by a novice referee (who admittedly
does not know the hammerlock from the arm up the
back), should be included in Bent’s Boxing Bill. Buttan
played the first act on reasonable lines, keeping his man
underneath and in difficulties from start to finish. Peter
made the most of a clear spin out that deluded the wily
one time and again, but at last Singh got Mac’s one
shoulder down and t’other on the road, some two inches
off the mat (McGregor alone holding out through his
tremendously powerful bridge). Then an appeal from
Singh’s second evidently bustled the referee, who declared
a fall in 40min. 50sec. Experts in equally as good positions
to view, declare emphatically that daylight showed be-
tween the mat and Mac.’s shoulder. Peter was bound to
go sooner or later, but it was an unsatisfactory decision.
After 10 minutes, M‘Gregor and the nigger got
into holts again. Buttan was getting anxious about his
side-wager and the gate-receipts, and began to really exert
himself. He got Peter partly down, but couldn’t com-
plete the job, and the Asiatic that was in him began to
manifest itself. Buttan knelt on Peter’s spine and drove
his sharp shins deep into the Scotty’s back, and fastened
on to his countenance, and twisted Peter’s ample feet
until they cracked with the strain. Knee-joints were
racked, wrists and shoulders pinched and screwed.
Every dodge in the Oriental bag of tricks was worked off
on the Scotchman, who lay there groaning and exclaim-
ing, in broad Scotch, “ Ye deevil 1 ” and worse, while
he glared at Buttan, and gnashed his teeth in futile rage
as he remembered that he had to endure this sort of
thing for some more minutes. McGregor was so ex-
hausted with pain that Buttan should have made short
work of him, but the Scotchman’s pluck pulled him
through, and he just lasted out the 60 minutes. As soon
as the gong sounded “ time,” McGregorgottohisfeetand,
with a roar like a long-baited bull, sprang at tbeniggerand
hove both hands forcefully into his short ribs before a
crowd of brither firemen rushed the ring and bore him
away. The audience cheered itself hoarse; not a man
there but would love to see a white man champion and
the nigger downed. McGregor seems to be the person to
do this. He has the courage of a bull-dog, and the
tenacity of one. Also he has the strength for the task.
He only lacks the cunning and trickiness of the Asiatic. '
Six months with a first-class instructor ought to make
McGregor so clever that he could trap the nigger in
his own snares. He is a beautiful swearer already.
* * • •
Judging by some evidence given in a case that
arose out of the ownership of a rooster, at North Sydney,
lately, cockfighting is not an unknown excitement in
Attorney-General Wade’s suburb. Just at present de-
tails are not available, and, for some reason, none of the
people who were present seems inclined to furnish any
particulars.
* * * i
Crawford Vaughan, the South Australian
humanitarian, who endeavored to pass a Bill to suppress
pigeon-shooting, but was prevented by a political gasbag
named Rounsevell, who talked the Bill out, is now
trying to achieve his laudable object by a side wind.
The Price Government has introduced a Bill for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, and Vaughan has
moved an amendment that will, if carried, effectually
suppress the cruel and loathsome “ sport.” As for
Rounsevell, The Bulletin sincerely hopes that next time
he lives he will be consistently shot under the tail by a
humorous devil and sardonic imps.
• • * *
On Saturday last the Victorian baseballers
inflicted another walloping on N.S.W., winning by 17 to
eight. This was the final of the rubber, and the cham-
pionship goes to the southern State. In 1900, ’Ol, and
’O3 N.S.W. won the rubber. There was no contest in
’O2. In ’O4 the Victorians got the upper hand, and
maintained it in ’O5 and this year, so, as regards rubbers,
honors are now easy. Counting by games, N.S.W. has
won 10 to Victoria’s eight. But, as mentioned- on a
former occasion, in a community that loves a little gore
in its sport it is impossible to rouse much enthusiasm
over the rounders championship.
* • • *
“ Jimmy ” Riddell, a spare, wiry ped., provided
a refreshing surprise in the Ten-Mile Cross-Country
Championship, run at Caulfield (Melb.), t’other Saturday,
by fairly smothering a field of some 166 runners repre-
senting 15 teams. Riddell finished, a fresh and vigorous
harrier, with nearly I|-minutes to spare from previous
triple winner, Alec. Stillwell. The field lined up at the
Caulfield Cup start, and, at the “ signal,” broke away
with a wild rush up the straight, the most conspicuous
being the newspaper peds, who generally retire at the
back stretch where the stamina, pace and training asserts
itself. At the jumps a vaulting and scrambling mass
battled its way with prominent elbows, and before a mile
was covered the field was in bunches and straggled out
in Chinese file for fully 500yds. The first mile and a-balf
was reached by Ballaratite “ Charlie ” Suffren, in
7min. 58 2-ssec., with “Jimmy” Riddell, Bult, Fer-
guson and “ Olympian ” Blake bunched together behind.
Half a mile outside the racecourse Suffren went to pieces,
leaving t’others to battle on to the halfway, where the
winner can generally be settled on. The turn for home
saw Riddell a good 100yds. in front of Stillwell, with the
“Olympian” toiling along 10yds. away, and East Mel-
bourne boy, “ Jim ” Imrie, full of running, in sixth place.
Tas. ped., S. Schofield, handicapped by the loss of a shoe
at the start, had moved up into 21st position, and
Sydneyite A. W. Braid was somewhere about 56th. On
the home run, “Jimmy” increased his lead, and Imrie
and Bob Arkley supplanted Blake, who found difficulty
in driving his rheumatic legs along. In the earlier stages
of the race, Stillwell, with the one idea that Blake was the
man, hung like a leech and let the wiry one go, expecting
him to stop at any moment and cry enough, but Riddell
was out full of running, and with the sole idea of winning
from start to finish. T’other surprise was Imrie, who put
in a fast run home, finishing in third position, a
few yards behind Stillwell. Schofield was 17th, and
Braid 46th, 7min. llsec. behind the winner. The team
supremacy was won by East Melbourne Harriers, who
permanently annex the Cohen challenge shield with
three previous wins. Ballarat and Eaglehawk were total
failures, ’Hawk only finishing one representative out of
its 12 starters in 63rd place. Of the 166 that left the
mark, 118 mud-bespattered and wire-marked peds. com-
pleted the ten miles. Riddell’s official time for the
distance was 58min. 57sec. on a surveyed course. Last
year Blake took 57min. 59sec. to cover 200yds. less.
* * * m
A Sydney paper tells of a boxing automaton
which has been invented for the “benefit” of learners
and people who want exercise. It is driven by an elec-
tric motor, and hits in all manner of unexpected ways.
Swings, hooks, straight drives, and counters all happen
without the warning that you occasionally get in the case
of the human boxer, for the automaton does not draw its
arm back when it is going to hit. The arm just flies out
suddenly, and returns to its place. The floor of the room
where this Frankenstein monster lives is full of spring
arrangements, and, if the boxer flees from his enemy, he
is sure to step on one of these, and whenever one is
stepped on it sets the monster rushing about the room
and lashing out at everything in a fearful manner. There-
fore, the one thing is to stand your ground till the beast
runs down. Tub Bulletin is certain that the trade in
these creatures will be small till people realise their
value as burglar smashers. After that it will just boom.
* * * •
N.S.W. Metropolitan Rugby Union will have
plenty of time to ponder over next season’s requirements
for the betterment of football, but the first thing re-
quired is the purchase of reliable timekeepers for referees.
The recent Glebe v. Newtown struggle (which decided
the premiership) wasn’t a fair tussle—the second half lasted
12 minutes over time, owing to referee Howe’s watch
having stopped. It was just as well that the points
which decided the game were not put up during the
over-played spell, or there would have been trouble.
4 tr * %
James L. Birch is the coming N.S.W. amateur
champion ped. This season he has scooped in all
the “ All Schools ” championships up to 440yds., and
recently was successful in four events in one week.
Birch, who is only 17 years of age, is a student of St.
Joseph's College, Hunter’s Hill, and distinguished him-
self in schools football.
(Continued on page 39.)


“SMOKED 40 YEARS
AND NEVER
MET
>///»'
m
m
CIGAR TO
EQUAL THEM.’
Mr. HENDERSON, J.P., writes:—
“ Effingham, Crawley Down, Sussex.
“ Dear Sir,—Thank you for so kindly sending my Marsuma Cigars. Having
11 smoked for something like 40 years, I can safely say I have never met with one to
equal them.—Yours truly, “J. HENDERSON.”
The Marsuma has already the largest sale of any cigar in England. Its intrinsic merit has recommended
it everywhere. A cigar that has received praise from Lord Kitchener, Sir Henry Irving, Right Honorable
the Earl of Dunraven, Sir Edmund Barton, and the hundreds of other well-known' men, must be something
out of the ordinary.
SOLE AGEUTS
FELDHEIM, COTTHELF & CO., Sydney, N.S.W.
FOTHERCILL & CO., Fremantle, W.A.
MR. DAN REDDAN, Fitzroy, Melbourne, Victoria.
Mr. DUNCAN McLEAN, Creymouth, N.Z.
Messrs. AULD & SONS, Adelaide, S.A.
Messrs. WHITE & CO., Hobart, Tasmania.
Mr. P. A. 0. BYRNE, Launceston, Tasmania.
R. W. SWAN, Adelaide. [2
MIRACULUM
THE SURE PUNCTURE STOP
For MOTOR CARS, MOTOR CYCLES, and
BICYCLES.
COULD ANY PROOF BE STRONGER THAN THIS?
TESTIMONIAL from C. C. BECKETT,
Cycling-round the World.
Long Reach, Queensland, 22nd August, 1906.
Dear Mr. Jefferson,—About 10 miles south of Blackall,
my companion ran over a stump of a tree, and a piece
of wood ran into his tyre, penetrating the tube. He
noticed the hole in the tyre, but did not touch it
until wewere within two miles of Blackall, when we
were having a rest, and he pulled the chip of wood
out of the tyre, and it immediately became deflated.
We unscrewed the valve and turned the tyre round
until the hole in the tube was pressed against a solid
part of the tyre. We then blew it up, and it has
remained so. That was about a week ago. In that
case, as other cases, “ Miraculum ” proved itself
genuine. It has given us entire satisfaction, as all
our tyres are simply full of thorns. All the shearers
ride bikes, and they are greatly interested in
Miraculum. (Signed) C. 0. BECKETT.
Write for Booklet and testimonials from the lead-
ing Motorists and Cyclists in Australia, to
Miraculum Corporation Ltd.,
Next Independent Church,
RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
POLICY fob the COMMONWEALTH,
Price, Gd.; Posted, 8d
x OUR Hats x
have won their way to Aus-
tralian heads.
BITTER opposition from Foreign Traders—lies,
slander and misrepresentation—these have
hounded the placing of our Hats on the
Australian market. But in spite of all we are
forging ahead, will continue to do so, and with
your help are bound to succeed. Our Hats—
made of AUSTRALIAN FUR,
by Australian workmen, under
Union conditions, as to wage and time, in
sweet, sanitary surroundings—are now worn the
length and breadth of Australia. They have won
this prominent position from pure force of merit.
They’re better than any other Hats sold for the
money—absolutely better, and guaranteed to be
so. Sold in all shapes and styles, suited for the
Squatter, the City Man, the Miner, the Station
Hand, the Farmer. Our Hats are hand-made,
from pure fur—light, and long-lasting—absolutely
fast in color, and will give thorough satisfaction
in every way. They are sold by all
the Leading' Stores through-
out Australia, but—be sure of this
—that our full name is stamped on the inside
leather of each Hat —without which none is
genuine. Ask for them. Insist upon having
“the genuine best.” Don’t let the spurious
“just as good "be foisted on you.
Austral Hat Mills Propy., Ltd.
X Abbotsford, Melbourne. X
PADEREWSKI
ENDORSES THE
PIANOLA
WITH SPECIAL REFERENCE TO THE METROSTYLE.
Gentlemen,
“ It is astonishing to see this little device at work, executing the master-
pieces of pianoforte literature with a dexterity, clearness, and velocity
which no player, however great, can approach.
“ Everyone who wishes to hear absolutely faultless, free of any kind of
nervousness, piano playing should buy your ‘Pianola.”
“ I consider the Metrostyle indispensable to the Pianola, and I have
indicated my interpretation to several compositions with great interest.
“I. J. PADEREWSKI.”
PADEREWSKI NOT ONLY ENDORSES THE PIANOLA, BDT DSES
ONE. LATER, IN A LETTER, HE WRITES:
“I desire to order another Pianola for use in my residence. Will you
kindly select an instrument in Rosewood, and have packed with it rolls of
music, and shipped via steamer.”
The significance of this and hundreds of similar statements rests in the fact that
it is the voice of authority. It is the earnest conviction of a great artist who has
investigated the subject of piano-players, and who knows whereof he speaks.
No ex-parte statements can compare in weight and impressiveness with this care-
fully formed opinion from a musician whose name and fame are world-wide.
If the thousands of owners of “ silent ” pianos could be
brought to a keen realisation of bow much of pleasure
they are losing, everyone wbo could afford a Pianola
would have one.
The piano, a barren investment to most of those who bought it, and only mastered
after years of patient toil, was changed by the PIANOLA’S touch into an instrument
fertile with possibilities for everyone’s enjoyment.
And, most marvellous of all, the PIANOLA enables you to
play your piano at once, though you may never Have
played a note in your life.
FREE INFORMAL RECITALS DAILY, from 10 to 12, and 2 to 5.
WRITE FOR ART CATALOG L, posted gratis on application
357 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
Branches at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, and ADELAIDE.
Agents in West Australia : NICHOLSON! & COY., Perth, Fremantle and Kalgoorlie.
Made
from
Australian Fruits, Flowers
and Herbs.
Nothing
So Good
On Earth
For Skin,
Complexion,
Scalp,
Hair,
Skin Disease,
Chapping,
Redness.
m m
r
i '
« V
Quite Unequalled for
Shaving.
Ku
]ierWlv-/kir\*X,&p be
aJI OkerrM/ly.X)rAp> ttv <£>w/fbre, keeper./ tt>rou©kout*
dt 2>f CT per E) ox o/* <ls> 'jL&blcts.
. Jf *ot Locally. J“Crsd
y*? JojtaJ Note orJtAmp/ a/ <mw -Stade
, , —.-v- . Jtdmp/ stade toVadue o/2f”
To wKer\ it will per Re,turrs/!.
SoieUpr, e rory H-E-KUOELIIMti <2> COMPANY
WHOLE JALE-tiRUGGI/T^-d,-riANI/rACTI/RER/.
H~I6QUEEN; S\IiEL5 R " f H 99 CLARENCE 5 T SYDNEY.
L Atxd AT ADELAIDE & DR 15 BAM EL .
FREE SAMPLE sent on receipt of Twopenny Stamp.
More of the Tyson money for the Law, which
ought to sing two hymns of thanks every anniver-
sary of the day that the old man’s will was burned.
Two of his nephews, Arthur Charles Denis and
Albert Prince Edward, took up Corrong and
Pevensey stations, near Hay (N.S.W.), in partner-
ship. Arthur died, leaving his brother executor.
Affidavits showed that a profit was made in ’Ol,
but heavy losses in ’O2 and ’O3; and a question
arose as to whether Arthur’s widow was entitled
to receive her share of the profits of the fat year
without regard to the losses during the lean years.
It took three expensive barristers, instructed by
three expensive firms of solicitors, aided by one
expensive firm of accountants to draw up a scheme
of distribution—to lay before a judge. His
Honor then ordered the scheme to be embodied
in certain formal minutes, to be subsequently
presented to him for acceptance, presumably by
three more lawyers, etc. Costs, as usual, to come
out of the estate. But for that “estate” the
matter could probably have been adjusted by one
accountant in half-an-hour.
Much trouble has been made over Bigjohn
Forrest saying at the Melb. Agricultural Show
that, though he was a Protectionist on land, he
was a Freetrader at sea. The remark is so
obvious that it is not worth troubling about.
Every Freetrader is at sea.
Recent arrival of the Maheno from Canada,
packed with Canadian machinery, times nicely
with the tariff debate in the Australian Parlia-
ment. As an example of what a High Protective
Tariff has done and is doing for Canada, some
items of the Mahcno’s cargo are worth noting
314 cases of sewing machines.
12 boxes, 13 cases, and 10 crates of machinery.
125 crates of machines.
71 packages printing ink.
2 cases boots.
15 cases paper.
500 cases Quaker Oats.
6 cases bicycles.
Public opinion on both sides of the Tasman
Sea seems to be dead against the Australia-
Maoriland reciprocity treaty. The Maoriland
hostility is easily understood. F’rinstance, under
the proposed treaty Australian-made sugar was to
enter Maoriland free. Ward’s Islands have a
flourishing sugar-refining industry at Chelsea,
employing 800 hands, which pays £5 per ton duty
on its raw material from Fiji.. Under this treaty
that industry would close with a crash. Flour
and certain kinds of fruits are also on the proposed
free list, and the farmers and orchardists in
Maoriland. are in a state of violent upheaval
against the idea. It was the Maoriland farmer
who yelled most loudly for a reduction of the
tariff on what he called the. necessaries of life, but
these weren’t the necessaries he meant.
The
NEW
sd
Dunlop
Road Racing'
Tyr
Should be used by every Road Racing Cyclist who
DESIRES SUCCESS and NO TYRE TROUBLES.
THE
NEW TYRE
is the FASTEST and MOST DURABLE ROAD
RACING TYRE yet placed on the market. Covers
weigh only 16oz. each. Fabric sides of cover are protected
by a skin of unvulcanised pure Para Rubber of great tough-
ness —thus preventing cutting of fabric. Non-slipping or
plain wearing bands fitted at option. Make it your busi-
ness to see one of these fine tyres. A set of these light tyres
has been ridden over JfiOO miles by a well-known tourist.
DUNLOP
SUCCESS
“DUNLOPS” are still demonstrating their speed—and
reliability on the road—the latest achievement being 0.
M. Smith’s victory on DUNLOP’S in the 25 MILES
A¥STRALASIAN CHAMPIONSHIP recently decided
on Victorian Roads.
The DUNLOP RUBBER COMPANY
Melbourne, "'iclney, All States and N.Z.


OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE CONTAINS AN
ENDLESS VARIETY OF DESIGNS, AND
OFFERS MANY
A. SAUNDERS.
JEWEL CASKET, pure silver-plated, richly embossed,
silk-lined, lCs 6d. Other styles, 12s 6d, 15s,
17s Gd, 20s, 255, 30s.
ES.
Art China Statuette
ORNAMENT, 7Ain high.
5s 6d pair. Larger,
7s 6d pair.
PLEASING SUGGESTIONS
-
A. SAUNDERS.
BACK COMBS, 9-ct gold-mounted, 15s.
Other styles. 10s 6d, 12s Od, 15s, 20s.
Silver-mounted, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s.
ok
.
m
cs
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver EAU DE
COLOGNE CASE, richly
embossed, 4iin high, 255;
sin high, £2 ss.
SUITABLE FOR WEDDING, BIRTHDAY, OR OTHER
GIFT PURPOSES.
SENT, POST FREE, ON REQUEST.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver SEWING COMPANION, comprising 8
articles, in silk-lined case, £2 ss. Other
styles, 7s 6d, 15s 6d, 18s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
PRAYER BOOK, pure silver-
mounted, “Pearl” or “Garden
of the Soul,” 7s 6d. Church
of England Prayer, 7s 6d.
BUYING
BY MAIL,
You can buy by mail
just as well as in
our store.
Our personal mail order
department makes it
possible, and guarantees
it. All goods delivered
post free to any
address.
f
A. SAUNDERS.
Rapid-adjusting FIELD or MARINE GLASS, achro-
matic lenses, large field, clear definition, with
solid leather sling and case, £2 10s. Other
styles, 12; fid, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s; 355, 40s, to £lO.
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
Choose from our
catalogue any design
you like.
Over 3000 illustrations
to select from.
We send it, post free,
to any address.
Write for it.
A postcard will bring
you a copy.
A. SAUNDERS.
PHOTO. FRAME, solid silver, cabinet
size, richly embossed. Marguerite
design, 10s 6d. Other styles
7s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Best French. Briar PIPE, real amber stem,
pure silver screw and mount, in leather
case, 12s 6d. Other styles, 7s 6d,
Ss Gd, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Toilet POMADE JAR, cut
crystal glass, pure sil-
ver top, in 4 sizes.
5s 6d, 8s 6d, 12s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Juvenile CUP, pure silver-
plated, nickel silver, 4s Gd.
Other styles, 7s 6d, 8s 6d,
10s Gd, 12s Gd.
W£siM
r-Y t y r '. ' . ■ ;.'
MHE&
a WHEfeaggawMiA
«g£sß
A. SAUNDERS.
Crocodile-leather Wallet POCKET-BOOK, calf-lined,
pure silver mounts and lock, in Tan or Green, 255.
Other styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
Richly-ornamented Gilt Bedroom
“Cherub” base, first-class timepiece,
20s. Other styles, 8s Gd, 10s, 12s
17s 6d, 255.
CLOCK,
7in high,
Gd, 15s,
sdf
A. SAUNDERS.
Folding Travelling MIRROR,
bevelled glass, Russian leather
case, 4s 6d. Size larger, os 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver SHOE LIFT and lIOOK, 7in long,
silk-lined case, 7s 6d.
Other styles, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s.
;^&SSS
if
SR
S9S
W
ssSss:::£s;?S
»»ssgs::s;s
gg^g^maiii
ESS
fssssss
iff
iSS§i«e
SSf
,B*6
31ii i r
&nii
s»?
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Imitation Lizard-skin Strap PURSE, pure
silver mounts and lock, . calf-lined, 7s 6d.
Other styles, 5s Od, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s.
SHAVING CUP, pure silver-
plated, white metal, richly-
embossed, 20s, Other styles,
5s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Collar-stud BOX, pure silver-
plated, richly pierced sides, 7s 6d. Other
styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Baby’s RATTLE, solid silver, bell,
xylonite ring, 4s 6d.
Other styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d.
k 1
WHISKY FLASKS, pure silver-plated, patent
screw tops, Morocco, Lizard, Seal, or Crocodile-
leather, 15s. Other styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 20s,
255, 30s.
m
n
5)5
S 3
iso
£*»>
Os
rsv
m
m.
— ... < .
o
m
m
Ksf
A. SAUNDERS.
Automatic Roller SHAVING
STROP, pure silver-plated, JL3s 6d.
Other styles, 10s 6d, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
HEAD SALTS, pure sil-
ver-mounted, richly em-
bossed, 3s 6d. Other styles,
2s 6d, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d.
.
• ‘v
A. SAL\ ; !■ '.
HAIRPIN BOX, pure silver-plated, handsomely em-
bossed, satin finish, 8s 6d. Other styles, 5s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Presentation INKSTAND, pure silver-plated, A 1 qua-
lity, hobnail cut-glass bottles, richly embossed base,
£2 10s. Other styles, £2, £3, £3 10s, £4.
Lady’s Travelling ROLL, fitted with
ence, leather ease, 15s. Gent.’s, 17s 6d.
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, SOs,
Fitted Bags a Speciality.
every conveni-
Other styles,
40s, to £l5.
Solid Silver HAIR BRUSH,
extra long, fine, white brist
les, 255. Other styles, 10s 6d,
12s 6d. 15s.
Solid Silver Shav-
ing BRUSH and
SOAP HOLDER,
15s 6d. Other
styles, 15s 6d, i/s
WSKMm
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Military HAIR BRUSH,
richly embossed, fine white bristles, 8s 6d.
Other styles, 7s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
CIGAR CASE, Black Morocco Leather,
pure silver shield, 6s 6d. Other styles,
7s 6d, Ss 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 16s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s SHAVING TIDY, Seal Leather, plain,
domed silver mounts, 12s 6d.
Other styles, 5s 6d, 10s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d.
Sydney's Leading Jeweller,
Silversmith, and Optician,
A. SAUND E R S,
809, 811, 813, 815, 817
GEORGE-STREET,
opposite
Railway Station,
SYDNEY.


'tis the
Sauciest Sauce
( MADE IN AUSTRALIA )
%
m' -
4* . met
mm gW| I
—f.
a«x*'
2K
«3
*WS*i
~ ' ■
r*p*w»
.
M-
->* ;: - '
»W *- „ 8 ' : '
w*S
..... mmm
**■ - ,:™,.. ■• w)ss> ' . jBjHSSffWS
.• •
• • »o«?! *
ISI
1 \
f | 1 • ■ j
i I
‘I//.. ■/;
f/ y / w
". j / > *
JF&- mr\.
>.,,— ■J*sj& t ' ' jr 'jf JF
>' ■»iF r Js ; *
-■"*■ 11l- .
3*311 ni
k.o'YSWr
JINI i»
twreßurf
ft
TS
I'


%
fud
m
i n
v
■A
S*»i
&
mmi E:
fc
If
w
'■
If '■ i l: i
a
\\v
isj
SSSK
2VSS2
SS
//
=ss?
/gP <*>
H^rr v J* V/ C 3 S 1 "i
A Happy Day Ashore with Yankee Doodle.
NO. 3. A fiale arises » arvd tlie craft goes full speed ahead. JacK Tar Keeps steam up with YANKEE DOODLE
~' <the best coaling' tobacco in the world,*’ as he calls it.
(To be continued in our next.)


s*
\
Vs
\
*, \<(
“Made in Australia.
SQMET
TO
s**i;
* ■
V- 1
THE MITCHELL
Tlie Strongest and Lightest Draft Harvester.
Sizes Made, sft. and Oft.
THE BEST MUST WIN.
All makers claim that theirs is the lightest draft
Harvester. Last year farmers got tiled of it.
They knew if 12 makers made the assertion, 11 of
them must be lying, so they arranged a test under
ordinary working 1 conditions.
They only wanted to be let alone, and find out for
themselves, so they got a Dynamometer and set to.
They made no awards of any kind.
Here is the result.
sd
Horse Power. —The average number of units will
be found to be 309 per machine, and as four horses
were used in the majority of cases, a horse-power is
reckoned as equal to one-fourth of 309 —that is, 77
units.
The “ Mitchell ” Harvester therefore works out
at horse-power. No. 2 machine (which is claimed
to be a horse lighter than any other Harvester) is
almost half a horse heavier. Nos. 3, 4 and 5 take
practically four horses. No. 6 is a 4 1-Gth-horse
machine. No. 7 takes 4 l-sth, and No. 8 takes 4| full
horse-power.
Though only eight Harvesters of different make
show in the draft test, some makers had as many as
three machines. Only one was allowed to be tested
for draft, so it follows each maker selected the machine
which pulled the easiest. There was only one
“ Mitchell” Harvester at the trial.
We publish this partly to show that “ The
Mitchell” is really the lightest draft Har-
vester ; partly to show that “ The Mitchell ” is
£ a horse lighter to pull than the nearest
competitor, and f of a horse lighter than the
heaviest; but chiefly to explode the common claim of
all makers that theirs is the lightest draft machine.
Bear in mind that all the machines were tested
in the crop for about 34 chains. They were
tested by farmers under ordinary farming condi-
tions, so the result is of great practical value to
intending purchasers.
All makers claim all sorts of things. Make them
prove them.
MITCHELL & CO.
Agricultural Implement (Kb
Machine Manufadurers,
Mention This Paper when writing.
MELBOURNE
“THE MITCHELL,”
The Strongest HARVESTER.
You know how a horse can be “faked ” for sale
so it’s hard to see anything wrong with it ?
Anyone can build a Harvester that LOOKS all-
right at first sight.
But all Harvesters are not alike, no more than
are all horses.
You study a horse a long while before you buy,
and as a Harvester costs you more than a good
horse, it is to your interest to carefully examine
each one’s points, isn’t it ?
If you want a plough-horse, you don’t buy a
racer, do you ?
Must have good “timber” under him —clean
4 ‘ steel ” legs withou t “ splints. ” Doesn’tmatter how
fine about the body if the legs aren’t built to last.
Why not buy your Harvester on the same lines,
with the same care ?
What’s the use of fine-looking points if the
foundation won’t hold up?
You want a Harvester for work—long, heavy
work, when you’ve no time to spare, so you must
have one with “ bone.”
That is the great feature of The Mitchell- -
BONE, FRAME, FOUNDATION.
If this were not our great feature, we wouldn’t
have won this Farmers’ Draft Test (see left of this
page).
♦
• ■ f ' i i •
Australian-Made Ploughs,
Grain Drills, Shippers,
Winnowers.
“White ” Oil Engines,
"Walter A. Wood Harvesting
Machines.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
*Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Week thereafter.
LONDON .. ## £l6 to £ F i t?
CAPETOWN and NATAL “ £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
HOUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine
lor Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Mblbo ,jr nb Agents: JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO.
-Jx? IS ,' iANB Agknts: WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
The Bank of Australasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital £1,600,000
Reserve Fund 1,250,000
(tyseyve Liability of Proprietors.. 1,600,000
£4,450,000
London Office ; 4 Threadneedle Sti’eet.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
AMES HELLICAR,
Superintendent.
national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporatedunder the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th J une, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,245 5 0
Reserve(inGovt. 5t0ck,£43,435) .. 51,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.O. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager,.— W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial mutual tile
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
wiUhout Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,990,533.
Policies Issued 102,148—Assuring £30,193,326.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,784,725.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New Sodtii Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon. J. F. Borns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, 0.M.G., M.L.O.
The Hon. Brock Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of j)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
IIRAETQ on Australia, New Zea-
Lf firtr I O land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
The Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
CAPITAL — Authorised .. .. .. £700,000
Paid-up .. £lOO,OOO
Uncalled .. .. 250,000
Reserved Fund .. ) 20,000
(Invested in Government Stock) /
GRANTS
£370,000
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. litd. of liondon.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood, Esq. Adelaide: L. A.’
Jbssop, Esq. Melbourne : Hon. F. S. Grlwwade
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
DfILCETY &TCO MPA NY
LIMITED.
Capital Fully Subscribed ... £4,000,000
Capital Paid up £1,000,000.
Reserve Fund £165,000.
Hoad Office—96 Bishopsgate St.
Within, London, E.C.
BRANCHES:
VlCTORlA— Melbourne and Geelong.
NEW SOUTH WALES— Sydney and Newcastle.
QUEENSLAND— Brisbane, Rockhampton & Townsville.
WEST AUSTRALIA— Perth, Fremantle, Kalgoorlie,
Geraldton, Albany, Carnarvon and Roeburne.
NEW ZEALAND— Dunedin, Christchurch, Wellington
and Napier.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— AdeIaide and throughout the
South East.
This Company makes Advances on, and conducts the
Sale of, Land, Stock and Station Property, and receives
for Sale in: London or any of the markets of Australia or
New Zealand consignments of Wool, Skins, Hides, Tallow,
Frozen and Preserved Meats, Grain and Dairy Produce of
all descriptions, and carries on a Financial, Shipping,
Insurance, Indent, Merchandise, and General Agency
business. - G -•*
SMppin;
KT. ID. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa)
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
•Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving; MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydnej.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via NEW BRITAIN
NEW GUINEA and MANILA to HONGKONG KOBE
- and YOKOHAMA.
•WILLEHAD, 4761 tons .. .. 29th SEPTEMBER.
WALDEMAR, 3300 tons.. 27th OCTOBER.
*PRINZ SICISMU 0 , 3300 tons.. 24th NOVEMBER.
•Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing' Qualities .Maximum Speed
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOU MANN & CO.. 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Svdnev.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
The Royal f|ank of Queensland
Capital Paid-up £457,013 10 0
kkskrvk Liability op Shareholders .. 175,737 10 0
Ruskuvh i'u.\'D(lnvested in Government Stock) 67,000 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE. ’ '
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, QUEEN VICTORIA ST., LONDON, E C.
l'f Bt anches in Queensland. Agents anil Correspondents
Throughout the World.
WHITE STAR LINE.
fe
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
PERSIC, to Sail on or about
Ist OCTOBER,
RUNIC, MEDIC, AFRIC and
SUEVIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown .. .. £l4 11 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables , and all other Information
on A fif/ictUion.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DaUjetp and Co in pant/, Ltd
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown. Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
DAMASCUS .. I H. A. Schleman ..
•MILTIADES .. T. F. Spalding ..
MORAVIAN I A. Simpson
Noun, Sept. 22
Noon, Nov. 9
Noon, Nov. 23
♦Twin Screw’.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £o2 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the higheststandard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyet/y and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
(3 *' E -A- 3XTIO SS - Co. -A. A. LIWE (via SAN FRANCISCO).
THREE-WEEKLY 1* AST MAIL SERVICE run in conjunction with the Most Luxuriously Equipped Trains
and Steamships in the World.
SHORTEST LINE FASTEST TIME TO
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN AND EUROPE.
R.M.S. VENTURA, 6200 Tons, Sails from Sydney MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, at I p.m
SO Enqu?r°e P Vor t s?are8 t »to t ‘‘£° ME^ RD TH " OUGH AMERICA- is an expensive way.
enquire tor tares etc., etc., and learn tacts betore booking elsewhere.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
I WINTER
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
m
}•
HOLIDAYS'!
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO.,
Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking. Public
Upon - all -
Security.
Companies. &c.
Classes - of
■OP
PAIR INTEREST.
PASY TERMS.
WE
&
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to
Suppress Usury.
3W.5.-W.
Iljont deplete o.^|.|}o.,|jtd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE,
and 229 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
-the trustees, executors
I AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £22,500 0 0
Directors: F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grioe, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORROWS!AN, Manager.
FREDIi. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
OSHa
SP
Gives
Permanent
Polish.
Preserves and
Cleans the
Leather.
SOLD BY ALL STORE-
KEEPERS AND BOOT AND
SHOE SHOPS.
CANADIAN-AUSTRAUAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
XHe Favorite Steamer
MOANA
Sails Ist October.
NEXT SAILINGS—
Oct. 29, Nov. 26, Dec. 24.
The Cheapest ancf Best
Route to Canada, United
States, and Europe .
£3T Send for Illustrated Pamphlets. ISfe
+
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. V
WONDERFUL VALUE. '
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter)
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Kail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Fish (o-ives
the definition of your character very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Sheet of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Rin«- or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
RABBIT SKINS.
TO FILL OUR ORDERS WE REQUIRE
6,000,000 RABBIT SKINS
this Season, and are prepared to pay EXTREME PRICES.
IMMEDIATE RETURNS, NO COMMISSION.
Consign to— JAMES FAY, MCDONALD & CO
270 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
_ Victorian and Queensland Ports.
for -MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
esperange bay
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Grantala (frorw Mel-
bourne), Sept- 'M.
S.S. Yongala (from Mel-
bourne), Get-10.
BRISBANE, I
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Cairns. I
j S.S. Woliowra, Sept. 22.
rS.S. Innamincka, Sept. 29.
S.S. Pilbarra, October 6.
n l “ d Koute to tiohltieUla.
first l’nrt ,f sSa n e ket , s are interchangeable after the
servioes S,?ht ! t Wlth °^? r "Rer-State Companies on all
on Timlin '^ ect toconditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Messageries M!ari times
Stn?mpl Y T°« S no NE>ON ’ via COLOMBO and PARIS.
“ of 6joo tolls . under Postal Contract with the •
AIDE Mrni'S t L ; al ! in «- at MELBOURNE, ADE-
: Tl.u : n r ‘> COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ.andl
l UR I SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows •
Steamer
DUMBEA
SYDNEY
AUSTRALIEN
VILLE DE LA
lt, i h,/ SEj '' (i ! ,:l i S booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75
including table wines. ’
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
IT SPOKEN ON BOARD.
tnySo" arrivalat Marseilles English interpreters meet
mi r London and fe rive them every assistance
in landingand passing- theirluggage throug h the Customs
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
lor further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street. Sydney.
I)E TUUY, Principal Agent
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
Bank of (few South
__ Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEJ;
2,(100,0(10 0- o '
1.450,000 0 0/
2,000,000. 0 Oi
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund.. .. " )"*
Reserve Liability of Proprietors ..
Total .. ... .. 5,450,000 oOr
Directors:
The Hon. Charles K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnik, Esq.
Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
Auditors :
Harrington Palmer, Esq. Frederick W. Cr-iraa-,, Efeg
London Office—Old Broad Street..
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents though
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe,, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the- United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the-West.lndies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares id Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks ; and conducts all customary
banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the woi Id
J .RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manager
MONEY to LEND
—ON—
PASTORAL LANDS
At Lowest
Rates.
ALEX. JOBSON, A.I.A.
Public Accountant, 90 Pitt St., Sydney.
Tel. 4552.
Hotels.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
W 1 find every omior and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, a to 5 Beaconsfield Parade>
SI. HILDA.
I 1 ’ largest and Besc-Appointed Boarding-house in f
cne Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower thaulicensed hotels. City, 4-hour
ov tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, YVindsor.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
the (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
riodern Appointments. floderate Tariff.
Visitors to Melbourne
WILL FIND
THAT. . .
Neale’s Temperance Hotel
(Tankards)
LONSDALE STREET (Next Law Courts;
is the handiest place to stay at. Being close to Bailway
Stations, Theatres and Wharves ; and three minutes’walk
from G.P.O. Bedrooms on Ground Floor if desired.
Board and Besidence, 4s. 6d. per day; or from £1 per
week. Telephone 1640.
IMiJV
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.,
lv. i lda Rai way Station and Cable Trams. Largest-
I Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
IJNOLUSIV E TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week. . >


WIRELESS TELEGRAPH
Free Exhibition.
...THE...
Wonderful Invention fully Explained and Demonstrated.
(WITH FULL SET MARCONI INSTRUMENTS).
Sending' Messages through the Walls, Ringing' Fire Bells,
Blowing Fog Horn, WorKing Railroad Danger Signal, and
Lighting Electric Lights, ALL WITHOUT ANY WIRES.
Only One WeeK More.
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 24th,
AND EVERY EVENING TIEE
FRIDAY NIGHT, SEPTEMBER 28th,
AT 8 P.M.,
Centenary Hall, Yorß St
This will be the only opportunity to see these instruments.
A limited number of Shares for sale, Price, 255. each.
WIRELESS MESSAGE
To the Business Man and Man of Family.
The opportunity to invest a few pounds so as to bring in a large income very seldom
comes to the poor man.
The chance of a lifetime is now offered. A few pounds taken from your business will
not hurt you, and will be the means of laying the foundation of a large and steady
income in the future.
Do not miss this opportunity like your fathers when they let slip through their fingers
the shares of Edison Electric Light, Westinghouse Air Brakes, Western Union,
Eield’s Cable and Bell telephone shares and others.
Think what immense incomes you would have to-day if your fathers had invested a few
pounds in the shares of any one of the above companies.
Take advantage of the opportunity and secure the future for yourself and family.
NO PREFERRED SHARES.
NO FURTHER CALLS.
SHARES FULLY PAID UP.
For further information See
H. G. ROBINSON
Special Representative, MUNROE CSL MUKROE,
No. 1 Ground Floor, 88 Pitt Sydnayf-


;'V' J&.t
s
AV»»#
* A"
y
VPMUiZI
***s&>»!<;
■ ; '3 .
E,.(& A.
Mail Line.
MANILA—CHINA-
JAPAN.
Via QUEENSLAND and
PORT DARWIN.
Space for Frozen Cargo.
Saloon Accommodation amidships. Large, airy
two-berth cabins, all on the upper deck, and fitted
with electric fans. Through booking via Japan,
Canada, United States of America, and Europe.
_ ' Aosnts an Australia _
GIBBS. BRIGHT &C?
ADELAIDE. MEIBOURNE. SYDNEY. BRISBANE.
GRENFELL STREET. 34 QUEEN STftEEL 37,PiTTSimr. EAGLE STREET.
Particulars of Passag'e Money, Ports of Call, (Sic.,
forwarded to any address on application. £?
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Garryowen”: H. C. Hall, tea expert to the
Salv’army, has been elected to Essendon (Vie.) Council,
lie is a son-in-law of the late John Darling ; consequently
brother-in-law to cricketer Joe, and politican John. To
develop a certain sort of business cuteness the Salv’army
isn’t a bad school. I had an interview once with
“ Commissioner ” Booth in reference to the sale of certain
goods. Head of my firm was a very devout Wesleyan.
Brought him up to try and make an impression. “Ah,”
he said, “Mr. Booth, we are very near to one another
—we Wesleyans and the Army.” “That’s all very well,”
said 8., “ but what we want at present is the best value
for the money.” And he took good care he got it.
» * * •
News comes from the West Indies that a syn-
dicate has been formed in Barbadoes to make paper from
“ bagasse,” the fibrous refuse of crushed sugar-cane,
which has hitherto only been used for fuel (and in Aus-
tralia for fibrous plaster). A paper-mill offers the Bar-
badoes planters £1 per ton for their bagasse. Suggests a
new opening for Australian sugar-mill owners.
* * * *
Make never mock of cold nor cough—
They danger spell, however slightly ;
Nor e’er esteem it quite enough
To treat the primal symptoms lightly.
Consider, ere you money spend.
To buy but mixtures safe and sure—
Remember one—and recommend
[lie worth of Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
One-time half-Premier M’Lean and F. E. Lee,
State Agricultural Superintendent, join in contributing
a paper to Victorian Journal of Agriculture on Maffra
beet sugar. The downfall was principally through insuf-
ficient beet and failure to extract the usual sugar per-
centage, which ought to be 9 or 10, but was only oj, out
of the full 14. The German experts said this was through
an unusual proportion of invert sugar—that is, sugar
which will not crystallise. It was due to growth on
virgin soil, and would disappear in a year or two.
M’Lean thinks the chief reason was defective cultivation,
such as absence of autumn ploughing, winter fallowing
and artificial fertilisers, and general laxity in working the
soil; also, that a large proportion of roots were left on
the field for two weeks or more, after being topped.
When the top is cut off, the root begins to bleed.
This is liable also to produce fermentation, which
retards crystallisation. The enormous shortage in
the sugar produced (nearly one-half) made all the
difference between success and failure. To get
enough beet there ought to be 500 or 600 growers, each
only cultivating a few acres, the beet being grown in
rotation with other crops. The recent visit of the
Minister of Agriculture to Maffra, has shown that the
farmers are ready to plunge again. The factory premises
cover 30 acres, within 200 yards of the railway station,
connected by two lines. The complete plant was supplied
by the Brunswick Go., Germany, for £33,149. It is
guaranteed to 350 tons a day, able to work up to 400 tons
in 24 hours. Maffra beet sugar, what there was of it,
when put on the Melbourne market, fetched a good price,
£22 per ton. The plant is in first-rate order. Mr. Lee
writes on the meteoric progress of the sugar beet industry
in the United States, after many years of pioneering non-
success. The Victorian conditions, he says, are even more
favorable.
* • * »
One portion of “ The Jungle,” which filled the
average meat-eating reader with particular horror, was
the reference to the way in which new-born calves,
technically known as “slinks,” are used. It is just two
years ago since The Bulletin— under the heading, in fact,
of “ Slinks ” —drew attention, with both print and picture,
to the fact that there is a brisk and profitable trade done
in that loathsome article in our own country. Last year,
at this time, it again referred to the evil; and now, as
the slink season is again with us, it makes its usual attack
on the awful thing. Just now, from practically every
railway station in the dairying districts of Victoria (and
probably N.S.VV. too), there arebeingsent daily hundreds
of carcases of calves, the vast majority of which are less
than a week old. As everyone knows, the flesh of just-
born calves is absolutely unwholesome, and if it were dis-
played raw in the shops, the butchers would soon be
deserted. But the offal never hits the public directly.
It is made up into all manner of sausages—Germans,
Frankforts, and the ordinary hash-house variety. Also,
it masquerades as minced meat, and often gets into the
brawn and black pudding. The dairyman gets a good
price for the rubbish, so that someone must pay well for
it at the other end. Even the unborn calf, or the calf
that is born dead, goes down to Melbourne, and is paid
for at full rates. There is supposed to be a regulation
forbidding the sale of calves below a certain weight; but
at this time of the year that regulation gets mislaid, or
lost. Anyhow, the slinks get past it, or fall over it; and
thence onward their path, until they reach the human
stomach, is easy.
* * * *
The following notice adorns the exterior of a
residence at Auckland (M.L.): —
Chronic and Acute Diseases Treated.
Spinal Affections, Asthma, and Consumption, Paralysis,
Deafness, and Neurasthenia.
Deformities Receive Special Attention.
Fifteen Years Absolute Success.
Marriages Solemnised.
♦ * * *
“Tim”: I have been running a small estate
and general agency, and here is a record of one day’s
business. First a young Scotchman appeared, and tried
hard to sell me a battered gold tie-pin. He produced
letters of recommendation from several members of the
British Parliament, and asked for work, I offered him a
job on a dredge. He shivered and left. A woman who
has written some beautiful verses came in. I had often
pictured her in my imagination. Let that ideal rest in
peace. The reality was fat, and had eyes like boiled
gooseberries. She was selling scraps of poetry at
a small sum each, and left a sample and a dog-eared
card and said that she would .call again. Then a gaunt
individual who bore an uncanny resemblance to my' old
dad up-country shuffled in and tried to hide his broken
boots under the counter, while he confidentially unfolded
to me a glowing account of a solid reef of gold that he
had discovered in some wilderness. His geography and
technicalities were very mixed and vague, and he finally
ended by asking me straight out for the loan of 3d.
to enable him to buy a mine battery until the morn-
ing, when he was going to float a loan of £6OOO
to obtain a night’s lodging. Hardly had he quitted
when a stylishly-dressed woman, whom I had noticed
surveying the office for some time, sailed in, gave me a
bewitching smile, and inquired whether I was alone in the
office. I said that the accountant was in consulting with
the manager and directors, the junior clerk in the
telephone box, and the office kid under the counter
sorting out papers. She left. I think if I had been alone
she intended to shriek for help until bought off. The
last caller was a Chinaman hawking a few stray articles
of jewellery. He produced a pair of gold sleeve links.
“Good gold, John, candlestick gold?” I enquired. He
assured me that they were, and seemed hurt when no
business resulted.
* * * »
Australian toilet soap manufacturers are having
a hard fight to secure recognition of the superiority of
their products over imported articles, and are getting no
assistance from the big city retailers, who still pander to
the prejudices of the people who think Australian goods
“no class,” compared with foreign articles. The big Mel-
bourne retailers have the audacity to attach labels—
“ Imported direct by -—-,” or, “ Imported specially' for
” over the names of well-known local manufacturers.
* > * * * "•«)
“G.P.8.”: Some Wellington (M.L.) pickle
producers have lately become curly about the legs
through endeavoring to kick themselves in the most
suitable anatomical part. Maoriland eats few imported
pickles, but in Wellington at least the green cauliflower
basis of the finished article was, for many years, imported
by the numerous hogshead from Germany. An observant
manufacturer in another line of business saw in this an
opening. He arranged with a farmer in Taranaki to grow
several acres of cauliflowers for him. The blossoms were
sent down to Wellington, and in due course made fit (by
a special process) for the needs of the pickle-makers.
But those Foreign-trade parties flatly refused to patronise
their fellow-countryman, and continued to import the
sauerkraut product. But they reckoned without a reso-
lute man, who wasn’t going to have acres of cauliflower
left on his hands without a struggle. He had started
with the idea of supplying only “ the trade,” but now he
went into the pickle business for himself, and, after only
a year’s operations, he has the largest pickle industry in
the city. Therefore do the old picklers knock their heads
against the wall and say' “Ichabod.”
* « * #
“ Aramis,” on Australian wines in England:
“The shippers’ agents allow the English grocer, who
doesn’t understand bottling red wines, far too free a hand
under the cover of their label; and I don’t believe in the
screw-stopper for wine. Why don’t the Australian
growers go in for vintage wines, carefully selected, and
bottled in Australia, under the best conditions, with
proper corks, branded with the year of vintage ? They
must do it some day, if they wish to compete with
Europe. I tasted a bottle of 15-year-old Burgoyne’s white
Singleton Hermitage in a little hotel in Somerset, Eng-
land, last y'ear, and it was a revelation ! But no one
thinks of laying down Australian wines in England. Why
not ? Because the Australian growers and their agents
seem quite content to supply merely the grocer and the
suburban dinner table, and are only anxious to get rid of
the stuff they import, without any questions asked or in-
formation given. No first-class West End wine merchant
catalogues Australian wines with any confidence. Their
reputations are not nursed ; they are quite neglected by
the epicure, and yet even the cheaper qualities are far
ahead of the common French and German wines that
replace them in the cellars of the wealthy.”
“The Hack”: Of all the human sharks who
infest Australian capitals none so badly needs his teeth
drawn as the so-called “business agent.” His victims
are mostly people of small means ; young men w’ho, dis-
gusted with the hardships of the back country, have
quarrelled with the old man and set out to seek an easier
fortune in “ the city ” ; widows of artisans, left insuffi-
ciently provided for ; young couples who have married, in
the foolish belief that love will enable them to live
happily together on a pound a week—these and a dozen
other similar types. The most any of them know about
“business” is that it consists in selling your goods
for more than you paid for them. Many' of them
don’t even know that much. All of them are
under the impression that they' have only to display
their goods and open their shop doors, and the public
will immediately rush to empty money into the till. They'
have only to be shown a shop with a few pounds’ worth
of showy’ stock in it, and they' straightway decide that
there is a fortune there, and plank down their hard-earned
savings in payment. After a week of heartbreaking wait-
ing for customers who never come, it gradually dawns on
them that they have paid away' their £2O or £lOO for £5
or £lO worth of unsaleable stock, and a goodwill which
is a minus quantity. I have personally’ met over 20 such
cases in one city' in the past five years, while I know of
fully 100 others by' hearsay’. Certain it is that legislation
is needed to protect the public in this direction. To be
effectual, such legislation should provide that the
transfer of a business from one person to another shall
be illegal unless such transfer be accompanied by' a
sworn statement, setting out—firstly 7 , the wholesale value
of the stock sold ; secondly, the average monthly takings
and profits of the business while it has been in the
vendor’s hands. That would at least be something to go
on with.
* » • *
“W.M.” on tea: Australia is the dumping-
ground of a lot of low-priced teas, a fact that is due, in a
great measure, to the firms which spend thousands of
pounds telling people there is no finer tea than their
“ one-and-threepenny.” In times gone by, grocers got a
good price for tea, and gave the public really good teas.
But the big advertisers have changed all that. Even the
poorest people in Ireland willingly pay 2s. or 2s. 6d. to
get good tea, and people here, who could afford to part
with more than that, pay Is. 2d. or Is. 3d. Have often
seen men who would turn up their noses at anything less
than choicest brands of Scotch whisky or Havana cigars
go in and buy a pound of one-shilling tea for wifey, and
then grumble if it were not best quality. [The era of
bad tea really started in Australia when the Labor party
insisted on Freetrade in tea. Since then, Australia has
been the dumping-ground for all the tea rubbish of the
world.—Ed. B.j
» X * *
“Algol”: The Bulletin is concerned about
the national debt. My remedy: Let the Australian
Government prohibit the importation of pills. Then let
it make pills a Government monopoly—the proceeds to go
towards reducing the national debt. “One pill one
destiny”—none genuine without “ National Debt
£230,000,000 ” on the box.
* * » *
Two Brisbane ladies, while globe-trotting,
asked an Edinburgh jeweller to show them some Scotch
pebbles, desiring to purchase as mementoes. He produced
some amethysts, which they recognised. He smiled.
“Would you be surprised,” said he, “to hear that our
best Scotch stones, both topaz and amethyst, come from
Queensland ? ”
* * * *
“F. Paul”: Struck an ingenious fraud. A
man came into my office, yesterday, looking-very bad, and
told a pathetic tale of his illness, and how he wanted to
go to Mareeba (a neighboring town), where his brother
lived. All he asked for was a twopenny stamp, so that
he could write to his brother, who would promptly send
him the amount of his train-fare. My generosity imme-
diately bubbled over, and I handed him the stamp.
Half-a-dozen other men told me afterwards that he had
played the same game on them. I tracked him up, and,
by dire threats of “ police,” elicited the fact that he had
17s. 6d. worth of stamps on him, and that he made, on an
average, from Is. to Is. fid. an hour at the game. He
said only about one man in ten refused his request.
* . * * *
“For croupy coughs,” says Mr. J.
Abbott, genera] merchant, Dandenong and North
Mirboo, “ there is nothing quite so good as Cham-
berlain’s Cough Remedy. It is the one medicine
that I always keep in my home, so as to have
convenient to give any of the children who may
show symptoms of a cough or cold. The longer I
use it st> does my faith increase as to its efficacy.
The people, of Dandenong think a great deal of
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy, and the comments
are always flattering.”*
From the Twentieth Man :
The Australian Democratic Union (otherwise the Anti-
Sosh Tory crowd) made a superhuman effort to form a
branch at Rookwood (N.S. W.) the other night. The con-
veners anticipated a mighty attendance, and hired the
Council Chambers —the largest hall in the town—in order
that the fighters for Private Enterprise and protectors of
the marriage tie could stream in by thousands. The night
chosen was Saturday, when people had time to stream.
Then the conveners lit the big place and sat down to
await the mass of indignant populace. It was a dreary
wait, and when a start was made, the enthusiasm of the
cause had attracted 20 free and enlightened electors, who
found the room too large to fill with their ravings. The
Democratic Union is only referred to in whispers now in
that region.
What could more eloquently support the
contention that the world’s spirit of progress
waxeth stronger than the fact that more than 12
million gallons of D.C.L. whisky are distilled
every year? Inasmuch as it is true that the
wisdom of the imbibers increases at the same rate
as the consumption of D.C.L. there is some hope
for this old world yet. Man is what he drinks.*
“ R. Hap ” : The lady who burnishes the
linen fronts of the male boarders of our establish-
ment has had a serious falling out with her neigh-
bor. Correspondence of a high temperature has
passed between them. But the climax was
reached when she received this letter (she wants
to know if the remarks therein are actionable) :
Mrs. W
your nedent think your brother is a ploceman you can
burn my childs rounder ball when it went into you yard
last saturdy burnt under the copper when we could smell
it burning i will make you prove it if you are not carful
about you and what is more his father aint a femail shop-
lifter like some what talks about him and he didn’t steal
a borders hat to and get married in it
yours respecterful
Harriet
P.S.—A stil tongs is a wise head.
Winchcombe, Carson and Co. (Sydney) report:
Many of the large w'ool sheds in the Western and North-
Western Districts are now in full swing. From amongst
these we have received advices from the following sta-
tions : Merriwa, Boggabilla ; Emby, Gulargambone ;
Drildool, Wee Waa; Pineridge, Gulgong; and Warge
Rook, Parkes. Most of these stations expected to cut
out early next month, but rain has somewhat retarded
shearing operations during the past week or so.*
Judging by the size of their income-tax
bills, the merchant and the grazier are the men
who are making the most money in Victoria.
While in the “industrial” division—which in-
eludes the bloated manufacturer—the average
amount paid by the taxpayer last year was
£3 13s. 4d., the graziers groaned under a burden
of £l5 6s. 6d., and the merchant (which is
mostly another name for importer) fumed at the
demand for an average £l5 11s. The dairy
farmer, of course, isn’t a “grazier.” The
grazier is the person whose father grabbed
the land, if the grazier wasn’t there to
grab it himself; and the dairy farmer
is generally the sweater who rents a part of the
land from the arch-sweater. The arch-sweater, as
remarked just now, has an income large enough to
pay £l5 6s. 6d. tax a year; while the smaller
sweater only averages £2 2s. The draper, grocer,
and butcher cut up respectively at £6 13s. Id., £3
7s. 5d., and £3 Bs. 4d., which seems to show that
there are more profits in rags than in either sugar
or mutton chops ; while the difference between
the Law and Medicine is the difference between
£ll Bs. 4d. and £9 11s. 4d. Law wins.
TIME-PAYMENT.
As recounted by the Scrub-cutter.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
01’ Simon Sliprail, ’im
What works for Cornish Jim
A-fellin.’ trees an’ scrub,
An’ hangin’ round the pub—
You know the bloke 1 mean,
As soft as grass, an’ green ?
’E’s seen a bit o’ life—
One time ’e ’ad a wife.
’E ’ad a kiddie, too,
Fair ’eaded, eyes o’ blue,
Wot filled 'is ’ome with mirth ;
The ’appiest bloke on earth !
Till, by a grim mishap,
A smart time-payment chap,
When Si’ was not about,
Just drawed ’is missus out
An’ sold ’er chairs an’ things,
An’ fancy furnishings.
'Course, Simon made a storm —
My Gord, ’e did perform !
Takes years at that there rate
To wipe it off the slate.
Next week the same chap calls,
Sells picters fer the walls,
Tables an’ carpets, too ;
Poor Simon turned pale blue—
Yer should ’ave 'eard ’im shout,
E’ a’most laid ’er out.
But stormin’ an’ abuse
Was not a bit o’ use ;
For, cornin’ 'ome one day,
It took ’is breath away
To see, agen the wall,
A pi-anner, stool an’ all!
Just think, if you an’ me,
On cornin' ’ome to tea,
We found the ’ouse all queer—
Chock full o’ fancy gear —
Knowin’ years would be took
To clear it off the book !
So now you’ll understand
Why Simon raised ’is ’and—
Tho’ quite a decent chap—
An’ give ’is wife a tap.
It ’urt a bit, no doubt,
But not like she made out.
And though she took it bad,
It didn’t cure the fad ;
She purchased fancy clothes,
An’ ’ats an.’ goodness knows !
A bloke’s respect it kills
Facin’ eternal bills ;
Gettin’ all sorts o’ duns,
’Avin’ to face the guns —
'E was, you’ll understan’,
Only a workin’ man.
Whether ’e’d grin or curse,
Things w'ent from bad to worse ;
She, findin’ cash was short,
Would toss ’er ’ead an’ snort;
An’ steady, by degrees,
Got still more 'ard to please,
Though Simon paid in scraps
Quite five time-payment chaps ;
At last the bloke gives in,
Through scarcity of tin ;
An’ they, what’s fair enough, s -
Walked in an’ took the stuff.
’E would ’a’ felt relieved ;
But ’ow ’is missus grieved !
Grew nasty an’ morose—
Though stiekin’ to the clothes.
She wanted marble ’alls—
Not bare an’ grimy walls ;
She seemed to dote on “ life,”
Though just a workman’s wife.
An’ cornin’ ’ome one day,
With all ’is weekly pay,
Lookin’ dead worn an’ grim,
’E found a note for ’im
Stuck on the table bare—
She’d pinned it for ’im there.
It said as ’ow she’d been
Livin’ a life too mean,
An’ ow a chap she knew —
A wealthy pot—a J ew—
Would keep ’er in the style
That made a life worth while.
’E’d dress ’er like a swell,
An’ swore to treat ’er well 1
She’d writ the end in haste,
Just so—“ Yer needn’t waste
Yer time in huntin’ me—
My face yer’ll never see.”
The post-script give ’im ’ell—
“ I’ve took the kid as well.”
Down on the floor ’e slid,
For ’e fair loved that kid.
E’s never yet ’eard tell
Of ’er or ’er Jew swell;
’E lives by clearin’ scrub—
’ls wage goes to the pub ;
Though once a teinp’rate bloke,
’Es always now in soak —
01’ Simon Sliprail, ’im,
As works fer Cornish Jim.
VIC.
A.B.C.


Mining.
BUDGERY.
Write direct to
G. M. FIELD
for Reliable Information. On the Ground.
Business Announcements.
T>ARTIES desiring to go into the CEILING
BUSINESS can get their MODELS,
DIES and MACHINERY, in fact the whole
Outfits, at the ACORN MODELING WORKS,
INDIANOPOLIS, IND. SPECIAL
MACHINERY FOR METAL WORKERS.
Amusements.
■J" O W N HALL, SYDNEY
SEPTEMBER 24th and 28th.
THE FRENCH PRIMA DONNA,
BLANCHE ARRAL
FAREWELL APPEARANCES. IMMENSE SENSATION.
Plan at Paling’s.
LYCEUM HALL, SYDNEY.
SATURDAY NEXT.
FIRST PRODUCTION IN AUSTRALIA of
EDISON’S POPULAR PICTURES.
AMERICA AT WORK.
AMERICA AT PLAY.
PRICES—2s. 6d., 25., Is., and Sixpence. Box Plan
at Elvy’s.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ ■ Under the Direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS and FAREWELL PERFORMANCES
of the REPERTOIRE OPERA COMPANY.
THURSDAY, SEPT. 20, Complimentary Benefit to Mr.
Mr. HOWARD VERNON-THE GONDOLIERS and a
SPECIAL CONCERT.
FRIDAY, Last Night of the Season— THE MIKADO.
SATURDAY NEXT —Williamson’s New Dramatic Com-
pany in the Sensational Play, THE SQUAW MAN.
Box Plan at Paling's. PRICES AS USUAL.
“NEW SEASON'S
INSPECTION INVITED.
SAMPLES POSTED FREE.
GOODS^
We have Just Opened
15 Cases of WOOLLENS.
They comprise the very latest Fashions in Suitings and Trouserings.
We have an exceptional line in Pure Indigo Dye Serges at
the SAC SUIT TO ORDER
63s
HAGON BROS.
107-9 Oxford St.,
Amusements.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee .. .. .. J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
BLAND HOLT’S Fascinating and Absorbing Domestic
Melodrama,
WOMAN’S HATE.
SATURDAY, SEPT. 22—THE CREAT MILLIONAIRE.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s and is.
AY MARKET HIPPODROME, SYDNEY
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING, at 8 o’clock.
BOHEMIAN DRAMATIC COMPANY.
SPECTACULAR DRAMA.
Under the Direction of E. J. OOLE,
Headed by Miss VENE LINDEN and Mr. W. H. AYR.
CHANGE OF PROGRAMME WEEKLY.
PRICES—6d. and Is.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
• Sole Proprietor A Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
Continued Success of LA MOTO GIRL.
SEYMOUR and DUPRE, Comedy and Specialty Artists.
LES CABIAOS, the Famous French Acrobats.
Enormous Success of MR. HARRY BEDFORD.
MISS NELLIE KILBURN, the Charming Young English
Burlesque Artiste.
KELLY and AGNES.
MAUD FANING, TOM DAWSON, OLIVE LENTON, &o.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
FLORRIE HENDERSON and her Performing Dogs and
Monkeys.
HARRY TATE’S Co. in Corned y Sketch, “Motoring.”
LITTLE CLIFF, Comedian, Expert Dancer.
BRINN, Juggler, Cannon Manipulator, in “Fun on a
Battleship.”
CASSIE WALMER, Contralto Eccentrique.
AUSTIN and HARTLEY, Barrel Jumpers, in “ Athletes
at Play.”
Plan at Allan’s. OS' PRICES—Bs, 2s 6d, 2s, 1 s
LJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ 1 Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING.
Mr. J. 0. Williamson’s Royal Comic Opera Co. in the
Old Favorite Opera,
LA MASCOTTE.
For 12 Nights Only.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
|V| EW THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
1 * Lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 22nd, 1906.
RE-APPEARANCE OF
JOHN F. SHERIDAN,
after 3 years’ absence, and first production in Melbourne
THE EARL AND THE GIRL.
Prices —35., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’& The Grand.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
• Direction of EDWIN GEACH.
STARTING SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 22, 190(1,
MR. CHAS. HOLLOWAY in
TWO LITTLE VAGABONDS.
After Lapse of 8 years.
PRICES—6s, 3s, 2s, Is. Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’ and
The Grand.
r
No. 123
Former Price, 18s,
No. 122
Former Price, 18s.
VI7/
No. 127.
Former Price, 16s.
Mm
401®
—•
No. 125.
Former Price, 18s.
mem
wmm
No. 111.
Former Price, 14s.
No. 129.
Former Price, 18s.
\A!/
s>
No. 130.
Former Price, 245.
No. 120.
Former Price, 18s.
Former Price, 14s.
X>
861
Former Price, 14s.
871
Former Price, 16s
GREAT CLEARANCE SALE
On account of Expiration of Lease.
EVERY ARTICLE MUST BE SOLO IMMEDIATELY. YOUR LAST OPPORTUNITY TO GET
BARRIOS DIAMONDS
Any Article herewith illustrated, and thousands
of others, which we have no space to picture,
TO-DAY AND WHILE THEY LAST
Send for our ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE. Mai / Orders Promptly Fil ed
4 ;/*
EACH.
ANY .. .
ARTICLE.
OUR GUARANTEE.
We guarantee each and every stone we sell
to retain its brilliancy for ever, arid the setting to
give satisfaction. We will willingly replace any
article which does not give satisfactory wear.
The Barrios Diamond Co.
TO-DAY
And while they last,
4/-
EACH
MAIL ORDERS
Promptly and Carefully Executed. We will
send any article to any Address upon receipt
of Money-order or Postal Note, with the under-
standing that money will be refunded if not as
represented.
BARRIOvS DIAMOND CO.
Open till 10 p.m. SATURDAYS.
100 KING STREET, SYDNEY
52 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE
m
944
Former Price, 12s.
y 'n
907
Farmer Price, 14s.
935
Former Price, 245.
908
Former Price, 16;
N\\
60
Former Price, 18s.
Former Price, 16s.
Former Price, 18s.
Mil/
mssr
875
Fcrmer Price, 16s.
The uneasy Worralifcy movement is spread-
ing to such an absurd degree in Victoria that the
other day a guessing competition re the weight of a
stout bullock was solemnly exorcised as accursed
from the programme of an agricultural show.
Reps. Hughes, Mahon, Fowler, and
Poynton voted steadily alongside Joe Cook,
Kelly, Conroy, Reid and Gibb for lower duties in
the divisions on the agricultural machinery tariff.
Do they really want to force their fellow-Aus-
tralians from comparatively well-paid, skilled
employment into either idleness or to such
sweated, low-class work as milking cows, or mind-
ing sheep, or bagging a little wheat for a few
weeks in the year—putting the wheat stripped
by an imported machine into imported bags and
sewing them with imported string? Anyway,
so long as the workers persist in putting Foreign-
trade advocates into the Australian Parliament,
they deserve all the unemployment they get.
The organising sec. of the Melbourne
Y.M.C.A. has introduced the latest American
methods of morality culture. Two teams of
Christian young men are now competing in
strenuous rivalry to lure new members into the
association. The team that captures the larger
number of recruits will celebrate its glorious vic-
tory with a dinner—a full Christian meal—whereat
the members of the losing team will act as waiters,
and serve the feeders with meat and vegetables,
and pudding (two helps of pudding !) and dry
ginger ale. When the victors have been filled to
repletion, the waiters will receive each a plate of
porridge, and brotherly merriment will assist
digestion. “Extensive educational work” is to
be carried on among the members. They will
assemble together at night, in little lots of 20, and
show one another the way to become more useful,
and earn more money. In short, the Y.M.C.A.’
is going on a “jag” for the improvement of
youngmankmd. The Bulletin surmises that the
new secretary from ’Murka is a student of dear
old Bronson (of “ The Belle of New York ”) who
chanted, ‘ln the field of Christian en-dea-vour
no competitor can shake a stick at us.”
Melbourne Harbor Trust, composed mainly
of proputty owners and presided over by Pitt, of
the House of Rich Landlords, is noted for turning
up its nose at everything Australian. It has just
accepted the tender of an English firm for a
hopper barge (about £13,000), and has bought a
dredge in the same quarter. The Assembly
wanted to know why Bent, who is always shout-
ing about the excellence of everything Victorian,
let the Harbor Trust go to England for its plant,
iomniv fenced for a long time, but at last, bad-
gered into a corner, he said : “I don’t want to
say it here, but if I was outside I'd say that the
Newport workshops should make it.” Then he
became bolder, and said that he would try to re-
arrange the matter. Bent has some fine notions
about this sort of thing, if he only had the courage
to put them into operation. The trouble is that
lie owes favors to too many people—debts of obli-
gation incurred in his bad old days, that are being
collected now. Just when he has decided to do
something that would stamp him as a statesman,
one of these relics of former days comes along,
breathes into the Thomas ear, and nothing is done.
Newport workshops can turn out work as cheaply
and as well as any other engineering shop in the
world. It is too absurd altogether to see a band
of anti-Sosh maniacs, like Melbourne Harbor
I rust, ignoring the State shops, and, for the sake
of their fanaticism, sending work and money out
of the country.
Melbourne Police Magistrate Panton,
vexed at some of his decisions being upset by the
County Court, broke out the other day
He could not help remarking upon the neglect of
magistrates for the bailiwick to sit at the Court of
General Sessions, the highest court in the bailiwick. It
was their duty to do so, but they neglected that duty.
The result was that a single magistrate upset the
decisions which had been given by that court for years
past.
Panton objects to a County Court Judge presum-
ing to know more law than J. A. Panton and the
ex-butchers and grocers who sit on the Bench
with him. At General Sessions the Chairman is
the County Court Judge, and the ignorant
“J’s.P. of the bailiwick” have the right to sit
on the Bench with him and give their deci-
sions. This right has not been acted on
for so long that it has virtually ceased to
exist. Panton proposes to revive it—to inflict on
the Court of General Sessions those awful amateur
Solons and Solomons who disfigure the City Court
Bench at the present time, so that they may
overrule the trained Judge who at present
corrects Panton’s illegalities. The Victorian
“honorarium ” is a pretty remarkable scandal in ;
the courts of summary jurisdiction. If he is to
invade the County Courts too, Justice will run its
course to general laughter in the southern State.
S.A. Chamber of Manufactures has issued
a striking blue “patriotic” stamp, with the
prominent legend, “ Buy Goods Made in Our
Own Country.” The members (and the Chamber
is a very flourishing concern) buy the stamps by
the gross, print across the face two or three
words about their specialties, and stick them on
every letter and parcel sent out. It all makes a
good advertisement for Australia.
By the grace of Justice G. B. Simpson,
N.S.W. newspapers may once again publish the
full and horrible details of divorce cases, the wise
prohibition of his locum tenens being set aside. In
this matter Australia is a good deal behind some
civilised communities. In France details of
divorce eases may not be printed in the news-
papers. In England a start has been made in the
limitation of journalistic abuse of the Divorce
Court by prohibiting the sketching or snap-
shotting of witnesses or parties.


pH
1
It
332
(Iraphophones
Make Happy Homes,
m
GENUINE
COLUMBIA
MAKE
| Price, 15/" Complete, |
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH Co,
GEN’L.,
25 ASH STREET, SYDNEY.
W
A DUCK POND IN EVERY HOME. *
A VERY CHARMING
NOVELTY FOR LADIEB.
THE MOST BEAUTIFUL AND UNIQUE ORNAMENTS EVER BROUGHT OUT.
ALL ladies will be most anxious to secure these Handsome Ornaments. Nothing of the kind has ever
been brought out before. The above illustrations show very clearly the appearance of the Ornaments when
undisturbed. On catching hold of one and rotating it slightly, the Pond becomes quite lively with the
graceful movements of the Swan, or Fishes, as the case may be, which continue even after the Ornament has
been replaced on the Shelf, until they gradually settle down to their former position again.
Such Pretty Ornaments as these will add greatly to the attractiveness of your home. Their handsome
appearance catches the eye of visitors as soon as they enter the room, consequently are always an object of great
interest. The Globe is of Fine, Clear, Crystal Glass, very strong, and the water cannot by any means leak.
Gentlemen find them most useful as Paper-Weights. Children will play with them for hours.
The Price is only 2s. each, which includes postage to any address, or we will send three to any
address on receipt of ss. 6d.
A. J. SMITH & CO., Martin Chambers, 6 Moore St., SYDNEY.
Missing Friends.
MAGEE, DANIEL, late of Bendigo,
Victoria, son of the late Arthur Magee.
Information required by the undersigned as to
his whereabouts. If he, or any one who knows
him, wilFcommunicate it will be to his advan-
tage.
FRANK J. MACOBOY,
Solicitor,
Albion Chambers,
Bendigo, Victoria.
WILL W. E. DALRYMPLE, or anyone
knowing his whereabouts, write friend,
“ADELAIDE,”
care Gordon and Gotch, Melbourne.
RODS
Edw. NORTON.
For Locating MINES,
LOST TREASURE&c.
The Latest Improved.
Write for Booklet, 2 Stamps.
64 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
..THE..
PELMAN-FOSTER
MEMORY COURSE
converts a treacherous memory into a reliable one.
Gives the mind control and mental poise. An easy,
simple, and scientific method of training. Original
and of absorbing interest. Requires but a few minutes
each day, and richly repays the time invested. No
matter what your life-work, the PELMAN-FOSTER
System will make you more successful.
SLIPS of MEMORY
Often mean the Sacrifice of Success,
Happiness—and Even Life itself.
Knowledge is power ; hut, without a good memory,
how much time and energy must be expended to
obtain even a limited amount; then, if we cannot
recall facts when needed, to what practical use can
we put the knowledge we possess? Master your
MIND, COMPEL IT' TO RESPOND INSTANTLY, ACCURATELY
AND CLEARLY.
Our new booklet, “Memory, and How to Improve
it ” will be sent to you, Post Free, on application to
The Secretary, The Pelman School of Memory
Training:,
Box 402 G.P.0., Melbourne.
London: 4 Bloomsbury Street, W.C.
Paris : 109 Avenue De Neuilly.
South Africa : 42 Lynn Buildings, Durban.
America : 901 Whitehall Building, New York.
Germany : Prannerstr, IB Munich.
A
R
C
O
E
E
A
S
T
I
C
c
A
R
B
O
N
p
A
I
N
T
■ :
3m
m
The truth of the matter is TttlS !
A.M.5
The reason that most Paints crack and peel off is simply because
they are not ELASTIC.
When the Oil, which is the LIFE of a Paint, evaporates, it leaves
a CRUSTY SURFACE of pigment, and as the changes in the
atmosphere take place, expanding and contracting the surface—OFF
comes the paint.
Now, Arco Elastic Carbon Paint is, as its name implies,
ELASTIC. That is, it contracts and expands with the climatic changes,
and thus, under ALL circumstances and conditions, it STICKS.
Under ordinary conditions Arco Elastic Carbon Paint will last
INDEFINITELY, but under SEVERE conditions it’s Guaranteed
for FIVE YEARS.
Manufactured in RED, BLUE, BROWN, GREEN
and BLACK, by . . .
&he ATLANTIC REFINING CO.,
Equitable Buildings £/ Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
Wholesale Agents—
Dalgety & Co., Ltd. - - - Sydney, Brisbane and Adelaide
Tasmanian Woolgrowers' Agency Co., Launceston, Tasmania
W. D. Moore & Co. and Harris, Scarfe & Co. - - Fremantle
J. S. Munro & Co. Zeehan, Tasmania
A
R
C
O
E
L
A
S
T
I
C
c
A
R
B
O
N
p
A
I
N
T
The development of Socialist clubs in
Vic. grows complex and humorous. Before Tom
Mann arrived there was a Social Democratic
Club which was more defunct than animate. As
soon as T. Mann toot-tooted the club awoke,
arose, and increased its members to about 300,
and became very active. Later on T. Mann
founded the Socialist party. Meanwhile, the
older and first club, having retained most of its
members, decided to re-name itself the Socialist
Labor party. This party has become affiliated
with the Sydney branch, that publishes The
People. Its aim, as one member proudly ex-
plained, is revolutionary Socialism (which nowa-
days denotes a Maxim-gun capacity for firing off
words).
The United Commercial Travellers’ Associ-
ation of Australasia is a body that believes in its
country, and is doing its best to let the world
know what a magnificent territory this is.
“ Australia To-day and New Zealand ” is the title
of the annual the body is issuing. In this
elegantly printed and illustrated production will
be found an enormous amount of information as
to the resources, wealth, progress, climate find
sundries of Australasia. All that we can offer the
tourist, the investor, and the man who wants to
make his home here, is set forth in detail and all
statioised. Among the illustrations is a full page
supplement, “The Crossing Place” by J. H.
Scheltema, which was painted specially for the
work, and is done on fine art paper, and left loose
for framing. As a counterblast to the lies of the
Stinking Fish party the annual should do good
work. The issue will be ready for distribution on
December 1 so as to give intending purchasers
plenty of time to send it to their friends in less
favored lands by Xmas.*
The British House of Lords is composed j
of red-hot Radicals, as compared with Victoria’s .
House of Fat. The Lords were probably never in j
worse odor with the people than at the Reform j
Bill epoch of 1832, yet they only rejected the
measure once. The Victorian Landlords have re-
jected the Female Suffrage Bill eight times.
“K.”: Yes, it is time that N.S.W. fol-
lowed the lead of Queensland in prohibiting the
employment of Hindus at dairies. Also, Victoria
wants a similar enactment. In both Gippsland
and the Western District there are Hindus em-
ployed in dairies; and anyone who has seen the
average Hindu, and smelled him. or who has
inspected his'camp, and also smelled it (this can
only be done once with safety), would never
dream of using butter or milk from a dairy that
allowed him on the place. The average Hindu
never changes his clothes. When they fall off he
gets a new, or, rather, another second-hand, rig-
out. Also, he never appears to wash his hands or
face, and his long hair is a tragedy.
“Yarrum”: Other Saturday dropped on
an old man in Newcastle district engaged in
building a cabbage-tree hat. I learnt that he
was a Freetrader—had been so since before he
game to the country. Also, he was a firm believer
in G. Reid, B. Smith, and “Dave” Storey—he
knew the hatter personally. Asked how the hat
trade was with him. “ Bad ! very bad. It s all
on account of these straw hats and panamas
coming into the country from Europe and else-
where.” Later on, he told me he was due
for the old-age pension ; and if things didn’t
mend, he reckoned he’d have to knock off honest
toil and throw himself on the country.
Lithgow (N.S.W.) District Benevolent
and Poor Relief Society (what a satire such a
society, with such a name, in a district which
should be the Birmingham of Australasia!) reports:
“The number of applicants for relief has been
greater than for several years past.” Meanwhile,
the Yankee Steel Trust is about to spend
£15,000,000 on an extension of its plant; and
Joseph Cook is still member for Lithgow.
Goldsbrough Mort and Co. report: —The recent
rains retarded shearing during the past week, and
arrivals have been very limited. Since last report the
market has been quiet, many buyers being absent at the
Brisbane sales. The tone, however, is more confi-
dent, and indications point to present prices being
maintained for some time. The buying element is being
augmented daily, and many new operators have put in
an appearance during the past week. We are to-day sub-
mitting an attractive catalogue of about 3000 bales, com-
prising portions of these well-known clips :—Jones/Bulla-
green, from the Gastlereagh ; C&G/Retreat, from Cen-
tral Queensland ; WV/Quail Island, from Central Queens-
land ; Fremeran, from Nymagee ; CC/G and CAC/Marlovv,
from Burren Junction ; F&G/Winjalu, from Coonamble ;
ABT/Wilgar Downs, ABT/Meryula, ABT/Canonbar, East
Nyngan ; Wilgar Downs, from Nyngan ; Bunna Bunna,
from Moree, &c.*
Bill Wilks has chosen to rush into print
in contradiction of Robert Harper’s statement
that G. H. Reid kept office in N.S.W. solely by
the favor of the Labor party. Well, ■ ■ ,
of parties in 1895 was Reidites 47, 1 rotectionist
Opposition 46, Labor party 32. As soon as the
Labor party deserted him Reid fell like a tun of
tallow.
S. M. Herald’s “ On the Land ” column
derides the attempts of the Immigration League
to attract settlers from outside without first
seeing that there is land available for them o
settle on :
That considerable areas of good farm lands have been
relocked in large estates within recent years is, of course,
a verv unfortunate feature of the position, but difficulties
are niade to be conquered. There remain three ways in
which land can be secured and placed before interim g
settlers. There are the areas which are held in reserves
to no good purpose; the resumption of the farm lands
secured under improvement lease ; and the purchase o
freehold estates, to be cut up into farms.
A fourth and obvious way is ignored in deference
to the Hkkald’s editorial susceptibilities—a pro-
gressive land tax. Dr. Arthur might wisely start
his league agitating in that direction.
Brisbane Telegraph barracks in a wild,
frothy way for Freetrade. But it advocates
free postage, or, at least, specially-reduced post-
age for local newspapers, which isn’t Freetrade by
any means, and it howls for a heavy duty on im-
ported printed matter, circulars, posters, &c. In
short, it believes in Freetrade only for the other
fellow.
A Wellington (M.L.) tobacconist dropped
into the Commonwealth recently on the look-out
for girl labor for cigarette-making, no girls being
available locally. An offer of exactly double the
Australian piecework price and free steamer fares
drew 14 girls away from their native land. Six of
them earned £2 10s. apiece the first week. This
item is presented to G. H. Reid and the Labor
Freetraders as a text for a sermon against High
Protection and Socialistic legislation.
N.S.W. makes a start with “miniature
rifle ranges ”; the distance, the target, the
weapon are all reduced in proportion, so that
rifle practice is safely possible on a 60-yards
range, and has almost as much value in ensuring
accuracy as ordinary range shooting.


The People’s Prudential
Assurance Company Limited
84 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Shareholders of the people’s prudential
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED, are hereby
a DIVIDEND at the rate of FIVE POUNDS
PE ® CENTUM has been declared, and is now payable
at the Company’s Offices, 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
I. SPARROW, F.S.S., Secretary.
To Let
Tho newly erected premises known as
ADAMS’ BREWERY,
HOBART, TAS.,
consisting- of Four Flats with spacious
cellar, divided as under.
CELLAR-
116ft. x 60ft., 9ft. 6in. high.
GROUND FLOOR—
Three divisions, 57 x 28ft., 96 x 39ft.,
and 59ft. 6in. x 29ft.
FIRST FLOOR.—
Five divisions, 96 x 39ft., 57 x 28ft.,
96 x 26ft., 110 x 70ft., 61 x 28ft ’
61 x 28ft.
SECOND FLOOR-
Two divisions, 170 x 36ft., 170 x 28ft.
THIRD FLOOR
Two divisions, 170 x 28ft., 170 x 36ft.
With the above there is the old Brewery
building, consisting of capacious cellars,
ground floor and first floor; also commodious
iron building, detached, containing two
divisions on ground floor, 40 x 47ft. and
39 x 47ft., and first floor, 79 x 47ft.
The premises are suitable for various
manufacturing purposes, or for cool storage.
A very Low Rental will be accepted, but
the premises will not be let for brewing
purposes. Full particulars on application to
H. NICHOLLS,
CASCADE BREWERY,
HOBART, TAS.
VISITORS TO BRISBANE.
Miss Wills,
fsd
Union Club,
CHARLOTTE STREET,
Premier Boarding- Establishment; heart of city
lawn, large garden, cool rooms, good cuisine.
The Pipe
Without a Rival
The Standard of Quality
in Briar Pipes.
obtainable
from all Tobacconists.
SAVED
FROM
sfsdf
free and g f t ro n this curse of habit, will send
vourself at vnn tia ’ £ all n,foi ™ation how to cure
a t you own home, without publicitv nor
detention from your daily routine work Send no
money, it is Free and Strictly Confidential.
Address—
ANALEPTIC CO., 90 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
PHONOGRAPH
SONG BOOK
This book has been issued to meet a wide-spread demand amon?
Phonograph Buyers A Splendid Collection of the complete words of
nearly 80 songs, and each number is a popular favourite.
JUST READ THIS CONTENTS LIST.
A Little Boy in Blue
Absence Makes the Heart Grow
Fonder
Answer
Any Rags
Asleep in The Deep
Because I Love You
Bombay
Calligan Call Again
Daddy’s Little Girl
Down at the Old Bull and Bush
Early in The Morning
Fou the Noo
Gipsy Love Song
Glory Song
Good-bye, Little Girl, Good bye
Good-bye, Sweetheart, Good-bye
Hear the Pipers Calling, Jennie
Mine
He’s Me Pal
I Wouldn’t Leave My Little
Wooden Hut for you
I Would Like to Marry You
If a Girl Like You Loved a
Boy Like Me
If’ I Were Only You
I m Wearing My Heart Away
For You
In Dear Old Georgia
In Friendship’s Name
In the Good Old Summer Time
In the Shade of the Old Apple
Tree
In the Shadow of the Pines
I’ve a Longing in My Heart for
You, Louise
I’ve got a Feelin’ for You
J ericho
Just a Little Rocking Chair
and You
Just Like the Ivy I’ll Cling to You
Kathleen Mavourneen
Keep a Little Cosy Corner in
Your Heart for Me
Keep on the Sunny Side
Killarney
Kiss Me Goodnight Dear Love
Little Boy Called “Taps"
Make a Fuss Over Me
Mamma’s Boy
My Coal Black Lady
My Cosy Corner Girl
My Irish Molly O!
Nobody
On the Banks of the Wabash
Only a Message from Home,
Sweet Home
Please Come and Play in My
Yard
Please Mr. Conductor, Don’t
Put Me Off the Train
Seaweed
She is Ma Daisy
Silver Threads Among the Gold
Somebody’s Sweetheart I want
to Be
Someone Thinks of Someone
Starlight
Stop Yer Tickling, Jock
Sylvie
Take Me to Your Heart Again
Teasing
Tobermory
The Golden Wedding
The Lighthouse by the Sea
The Parrot Said “ Come In”
TheSaftest O’ the Family
The Singer was Irish
The Song of the Steeple
The Waltz Must Change to a
March, Marie
Then You’ll Remember Me
There’s Nobody J ust Like You
Walking Home With Angeline
Way Down Upon the Swannee
River
What Might Have Been
Will You Love Me in December
as You Do in May
When the Boys go Marching By
When the Mocking Birds are
Singing in the Wildwood
Where the Sunset Turns the
Ocean’s Blue to Gold
THE ONLY BOOK OF THE KIND IN EXISTENCE.
Price, I/- Posted, 1/2.
Obtainable from all Phonograph, Music, and Book Stores throughout
Australasia and New Zealand.
m.
PRIZES value £l5OO
IN THE
EIGHT-HOUR ART UNION
(Under sanction of the Hon. the Attorney-General.)
Drawn 27th OCTOBER., 1906.
First Prize, value £5OO.
Second Prize, value £lOO. Third Prize, value £63.
And 197 OTHER VALUABLE PRIZES.
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. Grace Cowderv, Waterloo
Sydney, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on 2nd
November, 1906. Tickets may be had from Agents in all Country
Towns, or direct from
ALLAN McDOUGALL, Secretary,
Trades Hall, Sydney. Eight-Hour Committee
PENICILLARIA
The Best Fodder PFant
in the WorSd.
Price 2/6 per packet posted.
Produces 95 Tons of Green Fodder
or 16 Tons of Hay per acre.
Four to Seven Cuttings each season.
WILL GROW 12 TO 14 FEET HIGH.
As many as 76 stalks from one seed
Grows in Poor Soil and any Climate.
Resists both Drought & Flood
One pound of Seed will sow an Acre. .
Cattle, Horses and Pigs thrive on it.
'T'HIS wonderful new Forage Plant was introduced into
North America two years ago from Africa. The first
year, according to official returns, 74,668 farmers planted
Penicillaria, and their experience was so entirely satisfactory
that last year 225,000 farmers adopted it, and this year over
a million have undertaken its cultivation in preference to all
other kinds of fodder plants. The American agricultural
\ newspapers are full of letters from farmers in all parts of the
States, from the cold prairies of Manitoba to the torrid plains
of Texas and Florida, from the Atlantic seaboard to the Pacific
coast, all describing the amazing success of Penicillaria:
Not a single failure has been reported.
Statements having been circulated adverse to Penicillafia,
we desire to state that we import the seed from the lowa
Seed Company, a reputable and long-established American
firm, and that the above description is taken from the com-
pany's catalogue. Further, that many of those who had
samples of the seed last year have reported perfect success
with it. Mr. Alexander Robertson, of Struan House, Nara-
coorte. S.A., one of the best known men in Australia, has
...... ~ _ , „ ... ' , _ . piYen three orders for this seed.and expressed his complete
satisfaction with it. Mr. Peter Guillerme. of Yering, Vic., stated that he fed four horses all last summer 0 n renicii-
lana, and that at the time of report the crop was 12 feet high. Any customer who failed with last season’s seed may
have packet without charge. Sample packets 2s. 6d. posted. Send for Descriptive Circu'ar jriviner full particulars
and directions for cultivation ; we will post it free. Obtainable only from
THE UNION MANUFACTURING AND AGENCY COMPANY
299 ELIZABETH STREET MELBOURNE.
sd
JUST TRY THIS RAZOR!
SEND 10 6 for the PLUM RAZOR— try it
, . ; for a fortnight, and if you don’t
think it s the best razor you ever bought at the
price we’ll return your money.
A Wonderfully Smooth-going Razor- the
Secret’s in the Blade.
10/6 POST FREE ANYWHERE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George St.
SYDNEY.
THIS MEN’S
'Bush Boy* Watch
GUARANTEED for 12 MONTHS,
Post Free to any Address in Australia
FOR
7 16
7(6
'T'HIS is a splendid Watch for country use. You
* couldn’t get a better timekeeper if you paid a
Hundred Guineas. We call it “The Bush Boy.”
It is a Polished Steel Cylinder Keyless Watch with
Jewelled Movement. You can have the Cases in
either Nickel or Gunmetal, as you like (say which).
Both are practically Dustproof—has a Strong Crystal
Glass Face. Can be wound up, and hands set with-
out opening the Case. Every Watch is guaranteed
in writing for Twelve Months. Sent Post Free any-
where for 7/6. Sit down and write for it to-day. It
will stand plenty of knocking about, and be none the
worse for it. Ask us to send you FREE our Beauti-
fully Illustrated Catalogue of Watches, Jewellery and
Plated Goods.
“DUNKLINC, THE JEWELLER,”
317 Bourke St., Melbourne.
fsd
\VfILL forward to any address our GOLD WIRE
T ▼ BROOCHES on receipt of money order or
postal note. 9ct. Gold-Filled Round Wire Brooches,
3/6; with Pendant, Heart, or Cross, 5/-. In 15ct. G.F.
Twisted Wire, 6/6; with Pendant, 8/-. Illustrated Cata-
logue sent Free. R. SIMS, GOLD KING, Cole’s
Book Arcade, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
THE BALLET GIRL
fs
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.O.s SYDNEY.
OR. J. CCII.US BROWNE’S
f HLOROPyNE
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, <fcc. bears on the
Government Stamp the name of
the Inventor
Pr. J. COLLIS BROWN €
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it. and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
WHAT IS CATARRH?
df
MEDICATOR.
Catarrh is inflammation of
the lining- membrane of the
nose and adjoining passages.
If this inflammation is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
.and lungs. It injures the
sight and hearing, destroys
the sense of taste and smell,
renders the breath offensive,
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? If so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache,Neuralgia, Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
Price,complete with4months’
treatment by mail, 10s.
• Write for Booklet, free, or send order direct to I
Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Coliins-st., Melbourne. I
“Turo”: You ask (30/8/06) “When did
Irvine suggest Unification, a national system of
defence, or scientific Protection ? ” My reply is—
at his first meeting in the Mechanics’ Hall,
Korumburra (11/6/’O6), at which I was present.
.He said :
With our population of four millions we have seven
Legislatures. . . . That is too many. . . . Looking into
the future I say, without hesitation, that if we are
ever to be a great nation, all the national functions of
Australia must be relegated to the National Parliament.
.... There must be a gradual shrinkage of State and in-
crease in Commonwealth functions, and the necessary
corollary of this is the strengthening* of municipal govern-
ment in Australia. ... I firmly believe that, if properly
appealed to, Australians would respond to the call, and
undertake a policy enabling them to take their fair share
of the burden of defence. ... I am not in favor of a
naval contribution. ... I am not in favor of making
any contribution in money to England so long as we in
Australia cannot be represented on the body which con-
trols the navy. No nation ever grew great or inde-
pendent by paying tribute for its defence. ... I firmly
believe our proper course is to make the nucleus of an
Australian fleet. I am in favor of effective Protection
that will prevent the manufacturers here from being
crushed by foreign competition.
Is that strong enough for The Bulletin ? It cer-
tainly is for me. My only difficulty is that I feel
that I cannot trust him ; that he is only talking
for the sake of election. [Which is probably true.]
A Peruvian custom. At roll-call on every
warship the first name is “ Admiral Grau.” Grau
is exceedingly dead ; after keeping the whole
Chilian navy busy for months with one small,
superannuated ironclad and a scouting vessel he
was trapped at last and died fighting the Chilian
fleet single-handed, while his old vessel looked
like a shambles. So they call the hero’s name,
and someone answers for him, “Absent, but
accounted for.”
C. F. Lungley, a Melbourne man, has
applied torpedo action to a searchlight; the
ship despatching the torpedo searchlight is
not visible to the enemy, who is visible to the
attacking ship. The idea is to fit the appliance
to obsolete torpedo cases. As long as the torpedo
case holds its motive power of compressed air the
cvlinder remains horizontal; the exhaustion of
the air opens a valve and admits the water, and
then the torpedo is partially submerged and floats
vertically. This position reached, the flame
bursts out and burns for about half-an-hour.
“ Blue Metal ” : We have had Playford,
Defence Minister, up here, at Thursday Island,
and he decided at once that he would not remove
the two holes made in the ground on Thursday
Island, to Goode Island, as they were good holes
and only required a little calico to stick up in
front to hide us from the enemy. He did not
even know that the defence of Goode Island was
only a link in the chain of defence for the Straits.
Grave as is our position, graver still is the comic
opera in Melbourne, known as the Federal
Defence Department.


sdf
PATENT TWENCENT
INCANDESCENT OIL LAMP
60 Candle Power for Less than One Farthing
per Hour with Ordinary Kerosene. V? V?
STAND LAMPS complete from 18/6
EACH.
. ALSO .
Brackets Hanging Lamps.
DOES yoor LOCAL STOREKEEPER STOCK THESE GOODS i
IF NOT, WRITE TO
WELSBACH LIGHT C°
OF AUSTRALASIA., LIMITED,
439-441 KENT STREET, SYDNEY .
230 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE. 48 VICTORIA ST., WELLINGTON, N.Z. PERRY BROS., BRISBANE.
HAROLD COLTON & CO., ADELAIDE. J. M. FERGUSON, LTD., PERTH, W.A.
I’ll Try It.’’
WhatCAPILLARINE Will Do!
It will produce a moustache —a full grown,
luxurious moustache in the quickest time
on record. It has been doing it for over
20 years. Try a pot of CAPILLARINE —the
only sure moustache producer.
The Result.
Posted to any Address in the World for
under Sealed Cover
1016
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY.
FREE!
to those who help us- introduce our remedies. This Talking- Machine
reproduces Songs, Speeches, Band Music, &c., and can be used at all
entertainments, in any size hall or room. It has a 14-inch Metal
Amplifying Horn, with Concert Base. Many of our agents are making
big money by giving concerts with this machine, which we give away
Free. Send us your name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
of our New Life Vegetable Pills (Formulae printed on each box). Sell
them at 1/- a box, then remit us the 8/- received and we will promptly
forward you, without extra expense or work, the valuable premiums as
listed. This is the biggest offer ever made, and you will be delighted.
We are an old, reliable firm, and we will present £lO in cash to anyone
who can prove we do not do as we say. Our Pills are good sellers, and
we are anxious to introduce them no matter what it costs us. Send at
once. Don’t delay, it costs you nothing to try. We take all risk.
Electine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
MAKE BIG MONEY
We give away TALKING MACHINES,
GOLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &c.,
sd
£IOG
a Weeß
Given
Away
Free
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair - IGI KING ST., SYDNEY
Workers & Dermatologists, Next Herald Branch Office. Telephone 2138.
Personal Attendance by the Proprietors. DRESSING & RECEPTION ROOMS ON GROUND FLOOR.
A Large Assortment of Transformations, Natural Hair Pads, Fringes, Tails and all Accessories
kept in stock. Combings made up. TOILET REQUISITES OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
Ladies’ Homes visited by Appointment. Country Orders Promptly Attended to.
fs
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals
xmm:
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Works: Birmingham, England
The Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assurance Society Limited
<M ™“ > chS'SSYIr h.6.w.- 263 George Street, Sydney.
LIFE, ACCIDENT AND INVALIDITY ASSURANCE IN ONE POLICY.
ANNUAL PREMIUM for £lOOO, person aged 30, payable at 60 or Death, £39 19s. 4d.
SPECIAL BENEFITS : (1) £2OOO if death takes place as result of accident; (2) £lOOO for Permanent Total
Disablement; (3) £5OO for Permanent Partial Disablement; (4) £6 per week for Temporary Total Disablement;
(5) £1 10s. per week for Temporary Partial Disablement; and (6) £6 per week for incapacitation through
specified diseases. For full particulars and conditions call Or write for Prospectus. V. H. BAXTER, Res. Sec.
Alarming Increase in Haldness!
-- A REMEDY OFFERED
Which possesses all the dements that go to produce a good head of hair. Its powerful,
stimulating properties go straight to the hair roots, giving them a life and vigour they
never knew before. And life and vigour to the roots mean more hair, stronger hair,
better hair. It will assuredly do all this for YOU, as it has done for thousands of others.
B D WAR D S’
HARLENE
FOR
THE
HAIR
The Great Hair Producer and Restorer.
The Finest Dressing. Specially Prepared
and Delicately Perfumed. A Luxury
and a Necessity to every Modern Toilet.
Mr. HARRY DE WINDT,
The Great Explorer, writes t
"I have only used your ‘HARLENE’ for TWO
MONTHS and am perfectly astounded at its
marvellous results. My hair has ceased drop*
ping out, and is growing again quite thickly.”
1/ 9 /fi A /fi per Bottle, from Chemists and
/*i *»/Q stores all over the world.
fm
.Edwards' “Harlene" Co.
95 fi? 96
High Holborn,
London, w.c.
O
0
i
&
&
IIXIARD £$&
ables.
Has it ever struck you what fun and enjoyment
it would be to have a Billiard Table of your own,
even if only a small one? You can get one from
the first makers in the trade, for Messrs. Alcock
& Co. have devised a perfect minia-
ture, at a cost well within the
.compass of everyone. Write for
(complete catalogue, which will ba
mailed free to any address.
MELBOURNE DEPOTi
155 Elizabeth Street.
SYDNEY DEPOT:
422 George Street,
MOULDER BROTHERS & CO., Ltd.
Passengers Booked to
All Parts of the World.
STEAMSHIP OWNERS, FREIGHT CONTRACTORS,
SHIP, INSURANCE & CHARTERING BROKERS.
THE HOULDER LINE STEAMERS. for Conveyance of
Passengers, General Cargo, Frozen Produce, &c.
To and from AUSTRALASIA, AFRICA, LONDON, LIVERPOOL, GLASGOW, &c.
Steamer. Tons.
HORNBY GRANGE 3,750
OVINGDEAN GRANGE 3,700
URMSTON GRANGE.. .. .. .. .. 5,600
LANGTON GRANGE.. .. 9,200
DRAYTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10,000
ELSTREE GRANGE 6,000
ROYSTON GRANGE .. 6 330
Steamer. Tons
BEACON GRANGE .. 6,300
RIPPINGHAM GRANGE 9,200
OSWESTRY GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10,000
THORPE GRANGE 6,350
HAVERSHAM GRANGE .. 11,200
EVERTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 11,000
SOUTHERN CROSS 7,300
First, Second and Third Saloon Cabins situated Amidships. Excellent Cuisine. Electric Light.
For full particulars, apply at the OFFICES OF THE COMPANY, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
12 Pall Mall, S.W., London. 14 Water-street, Liverpool. 30 Gordon-street, Glasgow. 337 Calle Cuyo, Buenos
Aires. 446 Calle San Martin, Rosario, Gran Dock, Ensenada, La Plata. Capetown and Durban, South Africa.
Head Office: 146 Leadenhall-street, London, E.O.
df
BATH HEATERS
Send por Catalogue. “*I
For use with
Gas,
Kerosene
or Wood-
BRANDT BROS., 236 Pitt st., Sydney
and 197, 422, and 424 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
sanl'&ddifionlofjj
w
%
Ask
er
MF'store
ee
BASED UPONTHEWEUKNOyVN'hONTSERRAT”LIME FRUIT JUICE.
All Chemists
and Stores,
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
sdf
sd
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
NOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
T*n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A 2/6.
MOSQUITOES.
igents-Elliott Bros.,
Sole Makeri: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Sydney; Felton, Grimwade & Co., Melbourne.
fśd
BOORS.
PLAYS.
CONJURING
APPARATUS.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
ADRIAN & CO.,
(late WILL ANDRADE),
308 George Street, SYDNEY.
“ U.” : Whenever I hear a pulpit orator
preaching honesty I feel inclined to arise and call
his attention to a certain lack of that quality dis-
played by most religious sects. Consider the
hymn books. Nearly all teem with items that
have been annexed (both words and music) with-
out asking the owner’s permission, or giving name
of author or composer. To make things worse,
they are hardly ever printed as originally written.
Brother Snobkins, or some other heavy-hoofed
compiler, sneaks a really good poem and. alters
it ungrammatically to suit his own taste and
make it fit his church’s particular view of
the brimstone question. Booth’s War Cry
is another sinner. As soon as a new comic
song is made public Lieutenant Abigail
Prankey or Ensign Sarah Spiff turns it into a
blpod-and-fire hymn and gets it printed in the
Cry, with due acknowledgments to herself. The
adaptation is a very easy process. One simply
alters “Walking out with Angeline” to “Walk-
ing out behind the drum,” and “Down at the Old
Bull and Bush ” becomes “ Down at the Penitent
Seat.” Perhaps the perpetrators of these steals
think they have a good precedent in the fact that
the great John Wesley mutilated another man’s
novel and published it in a way that gave the
ignorant' am impression that it was John’s
own. Only last week I heard a prominent
city parson deliver, as his own, big slabs of a
sermon by a famous old-time divine, now little
read. In my churchgoing experience I have
found that kind of thing fairly common, but the
plagiarist usually puts some ambiguous intro-
ductory words before the extract, which could be
construed into an acknowledgment if he were
brought to book. The best thing is for the
reverend gentleman to hold up two fingers before
and after the steal as inverted commas.
“ J.A.C.”: I suspect “Lead Kindly Light”
par. (B. 6/9/’O6), from Melbourne Tocsin, as being
“ fishy.” The yarn is hoary-headed in the Eng-
lish book-trade, and originated in a Bradford
auctioneer’s putting in his catalogue of book-
sales :
Lead, Metallurgy of.
do. Applied to Arts and Manufactures,
do. Kindly Light. Newman.
Same genius also classed Burton’s “ Anatomy of
Melancholy ” as a medical work. But, to come
nearer home, Roget’s “Thesaurus” was once
catalogued in a Sydney library under “Zoology,”
as a book upon crocodiles.
A railway from San Francisco to Paris,
via Alaslta-Siberia, is a possibility of the near
future. The engineering feat in the whole scheme
is the 38 mile tunnel connecting America and
Asia. Experts pronounce the tunnel perfectly
feasible, and have so reported to the Russian
Government. The tunnel would be through solid
rock all the way, and it is said the material to be
excavated would not be excessive.
The French convicts who are transported
to Cayenne (said to be the most Sheol-like penal
settlement that has yet existed) are mostly fed on
tinned provisions that have been condemned as
unfit for food by the naval and military authorities.
So there will still be one market open for Chicago’s
discredited tinned stuff.
“Nulla”: An old artillery officer (B.
23/8/’OG) recalls the experience of the A. Battery
(N.S.W.) in S’Africa. The battery didn’t do
much over there, mostly because its imported
colonel didn’t give it a chance. But on the few
occasions they did get into action, the Australian
gun teams made the Englishmen gasp.


m
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH •
SCRUBB’S cIoudy AMMONIA
A MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
fsd
AFTER TWELVE YEARS
Of Suffering: from Indigestion a Sydney Woman Finds
Quick Relief and a Cure.
SHE SAYS SHE OWES HER GOOD
HEALTH TO
MOTHER SEIGEL’S SYRUP.
Mrs. Emma Relton is to-clay a hearty, plesant-
faced woman, living at 218 George-street, Circular
Quay, Sydney, where her husband carries on
business as a tailor. For nearly a dozen years she
was a great sufferer from indigestion, and was
hardly ever able to enjoy a meal. She tried
many kinds of medicine, and had treatment from
doctors, but with no lasting benefit, and finally
lost all hope of being cured. In 1900 a friend
persuaded her to try Mother Seigel’s Syrup. In
a letter, dated March 2nd, 1906, she says :
A HAPPY WOMAN NOW.
“After taking only three small bottles I could
eat and sleep better than I had done for years,
and was able to relish my food. This relief was in
itself a great boon, and, feeling encouraged by it,
I went on using the Syrup, gaining health and
strength from every dose, until, after emptying
six bottles more, I was feeling perfectly well again,
and I have remained well ever since. ' Mother
Seigel’s Syrup is the sole cause of my cure, and is
the best medicine I know of, and I always keep it
handy in the house.”
Mother Seigel’s Syrup is made entirely from
the extracts of roots, barks, and leaves, and is
Nature’s own remedy for Indigestion, Bilious-
ness, Constipation, Headaches, Wind, Palpi-
tation, and all disorders of the Stomach.
Liver, Kidneys and Bowels.
RANKINE & DOBBIE
Manufacturing Stationers,
Printers and Bookbinders.
MINING SCRIP
A SPECIALITY.
285 COLLiNS STREET ,
Telephone
3227.
MELBOURNE
Henry Skinner,
CJlarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10h3.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Ball
Catered lot
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied,
JUST A FEW BOOKS
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1006 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare boolt ny De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted; Gleason s
Big Horse Book and How to Train the
Horse, Is 6d. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, ls3d. Mechanic s
Workshop llandybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3J.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. Tiie Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is p'ost free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Ciiiniquy’s Priest, Woman
and the Confessional, Is 6d. The Art of Jui-Jitsu,
9d and Is 6d. God and My Neighbor, lOd. Britain
for the British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How
to Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
H
i
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vami> on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle's
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, is posted. Letter Writer Ui>-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s od.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.’*
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-cOvered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. On Our New Selection, 6s 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught,
Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d
posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying- more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. iST~ Established SO Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only)
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere lor the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY:
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, la
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6a.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy 'ls post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure,’ Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged'Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, ihy price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. Tiie Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
Jl\e Xarjcet describes H as—
“ Mr. Benger’s admirable
preparation.”
Z’tj3 British J/iedica / Journal
says—
“ Benger’s Food has by its
excellence established a
reputation of its own ”
GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
fsd
FOOD
For INFANTS,
INVALIDS
,nd the AGED.
Bender's fooD is sold in Tins
by Chemists, &c. everywhere.
“Silas Snell”: The Judkinses and similar
creatures who clamor about the shocking brutality of
boxing never for a moment doubt that their own opinions
on this point arise from the peculiarly beautiful disposi-
tion they possess and their superior refinement and taste.
Thev shrink with a sense of nausea from the sight of two
-trong trained athletes punching each other with gloved
hands and shedding a little blood by the way, and con-
clude at once that it is something extra-special in
the nature of sensibility that induces the feeling
of disgust. To my thinking their tender and
beatific emotions, instead of arising from some-
thino- fine and elevated, are provoked by their own
nervous degeneracy. It is their weakness that cries out
—their own sickness. Their horror of blows is the body’s
confession of its decadence. The strong, healthy man is
not afraid of a few thumps and a. bleeding pose ; he is
prepared to take and to give both. From his school days
he has recognised that in struggle there has been a kind
of joy, and he has not been wholly ashamed of his wounds.
Itisnottheboxers themselves who complain of the blows.
They are strong, trained men, with toughened muscle all
over them, and no blubber to pulp and bruise under a
punch. The “ terrible punishment” of which the fragile
and timorous Judkinses make so much, the boxer wipes
off with a towel. His troubles ! In many years’ experi-
ence I have never heard a boxer complain of his hurts.
The question is this: is the boxer’s physique, his
strength, and his fine contempt of a few superficial hurts
better for the race than the stunted figure and the
nervous sickness of the anti-boxing crusaders? And I
submit that the Judkinses show no particular intellec-
tuality as a set-off to their physical decrepitude.
Throughout the recent anti outburst in Victoria not a
single memorable sentence has been spoken by the
crusaders, not the smallest gleam of originality has been
introduced into their arguments, not a new thing has been
said, not a clever thing done.
* * *
“K.” : Some of the most enthusiastic followers
of prize-fighting give it the worst possible ad vt. by in-
viting their non-enthusiastic friends to accompany them
to a “ hall of science ”to witness a good set-to. “ Put on
an old felt hat and keep your coat buttoned,” is the advice
given with the invite. In a multitude of fine, manly
“sports” one can’t be too careful about his watch and
chain and pocket-book.
» * * *
“Philo”: Re “Mul’s” remarks (B. 23/8/’OG)
anent the disinclination of the professional pug to use his
fists outside the ring. The professional is in the habit of
being paid for taking the risk of getting hurt by other
people, and he doesn’t believe in putting anyone on the
free list. To expect a professional fighter to take part in
unprofessional encounters, except upon great provocation,
is like expecting a bricklayer to carry bricks for amuse-
ment in his spare time, or like expecting a professional
actor to play with an amateur show for the mere fun
of the thing.
* * * *
There are some queer petrol engines puffing
round the globe. The Levavasseur has no flywheel and
no carburetters, the petrol being injected by pumps.
Another engine that is going to make a considerable
noise in the future is the Van Auken. This curious
invention has no cylinder-head, but is fitted with two
piston-heads, and the explosion, taking place between
them, drives them both. It is like two engines joined
together in the middle of the cylinder. A feature of
this engine is that it has no valves.
*•* * *
The slump of the hjcycle as an instrument of
sport! Eight Hours Day in Adelaide this year included
a series of military sports, but the once all-powerful
pedal-pusher was only allowed in as a buffoon in a fancy-
dressj parade. And the joint committee of the two leading
schools has dropped the bicycle-race from its annual pro-
gramme of sports.
* * » *
W, T. Burgess, the Yorksliireamateur swimmer,
has scored his seventh failure to cross the English Channel
from Dover to Calais. Although the failure was a fine
feat, it showed once again that Burgess, like other modern
endeavorers, lacks the seamanship that carried Captain
Matthew Webb to the end of his task.- A faster swimmer
than the man who put up the record 31 years ago, Bur-
gess is said to have gone 40 miles in 18 hours, yet he was
four miles from Calais when the cramp doubled him up.
Webb crossed from shore to shore in 21J hours, but the
distance, as he swam it, with a breast stroke all the way,
was estimated at not more than 35 miles. Seemingly,
Burgess is quite capable of beating the record if he had a
Webb to direct his course. He has the speed and
endurance, hut not the necessary knowledge of the cur-
rents.
» * * *
Gus Rennert, the German-Australian (he
became an Australian about 25 years after he became a
German; but he became one, nevertheless) whom
Hackenschmidt took to London with him, lately re-
turned to Australia. Rennert has played many parts
since he went away. His duty was to visit towns a few
days before Hack. Then the champion wrestler of Peru
or Nigeria, or any old place that was a long way 7 off,
would hurl out a haughty, broken-English challenge to
Hack, from the pit or the stalls, or somewhere. Hack,
would accept, and the two would dogaedl.v wrestle, amid
the cheers of the audience, as though they had never seen
each other before. Of course, Hack, could throw 7 Rennert
every minute of his life if he wanted to ; but he didn’t
want to throw Gus quite so often as that.
* * * *
The law as to gambling is getting itself into a
worse tangle every day 7. In Melbourne, an Ikey has just
got leave to take his ease to the Full Court. He hangs
out a shingle notifying that he “ communicates with
George Adams by every mail ”; and the Attorney-
General, observing this amazing piece of information, is
suing for £2OO under Act 6, George 11., chapter 35, and
for £5O under Act 4, George IV., chap. 60, sec. 41, on the
ground that defendant is offering' to procure tickets in a
foreign lottery. The Acting C. J. was impressed with the
feasibility of the idea that Tasmania may be a foreign
country, so he passed the matter on to the Full Court.
Simultaneously, Judge Neighbour, adjudicating on
Wren’s Betting Club cases, remarked that there was an
Act—lB of George ll.—under which a man was indictable
if he made a bet by which he lost £lo—there was
apparently nothing immoral in winning £10 —or if he lost
£2O in several bets in 24 hours, but no person on earth
could say with absolute certainty whether it was in force
in Victoria or not.
» * * »
The Motor Boat Club of N.S.W. is again talk-
ing about that reliability test race, but cannot get much
forrader. During the just concluded winter, the ocean,
instead of being calm, has been unusually rough, and
hardly a week has passed without gigantic seas sweeping
the coast. The next two holidays are not available,
having been granted to other clubs for regattas, and
after that the strong north-easterlies will be howling on
the face of the ocean, so it looks as though the reliability
test will not eventuate this year.
* * * *
The cabled information that a proposal by the
Kent county club to extend the term of residential
qualification—at present two years—for the admission of
“ colonial ” cricketers into county clubs is being supported
by 7 several counties, is not unexpected. It is said to be
cbieflv directed against Middlesex, which has in its team
Australian cricketers Albert Trott and Tarrant, which
formerly had Roche, and will probably have Vogler in the
near future. The reason for this movement is stated
to be the ability of Middlesex to secure engagements
for its Australian professionals on the M.C.C.’s ground
staff at Lord’s to the detriment of young English profes-
sionals, but the astonishing success of several Australians
playing in English county cricket is probably a truer
reason. In addition to Trott and Tarrant, other Aus-
tralian professionals in England are Kermode and Harry
(Lancashire), Cuffe (VVorcestershiie), and Ben Dwyer
(Sussex), while Alan Marshal, formerly of Queensland, is
qualifying for Surrey, and Vogler is doing likewise for
Middlesex. This objection to Australians is nothing new.
Speaking of Kermode’s inclusion in the Lancashire eleven
in 1904, “Wisden’s Cricket Annual” said: “One need
not here go into the question of a great English county
importing from Australia. Personally, we would like to
see more counties follow the example cf Yorkshire and
Notts, and rely entirely upon native players ; but it was,
of course, just as right for Lancashire to play Kermode as
for Middlesex, years ago, to secure the services of Albert
Trott.” Also, at the beginning of this season, The Times
(London), upon the appearance of Vogler for the M.C.C.,
made unfavorable reference to the importation of Aus-
tralian players.
'X* * *
In some respects Sydney’s great aquatic park is
a drawback. It is so spacious, so full of delightful nooks
and fairy bowers and winding reaches which one can
spend a whole afternoon exploring—with the right girl—
that little or no attention has been paid to ocean-going
motor-boats. Around the stormy coasts of Britain a
whole fleet of splendid and powerfully engined cruisers
rides through great storms and occasionally does life-boat
work. In Sydney, with the largest motor boat club in the
world, we can count the men who go “ outside ” on the
fingers of one hand. The auxiliary yacht is very much in
evidence in English and Scottish waters, and the great
bulk of the boats are built for pleasure and comfort; the
fast racing craft are comparatively scarce, but those they
have got are what is vulgarly known as whales. But the
really fast boats are in France, where a 250 horse power
craft is being built to travel at 50 miles an hour, and
another is to carry engines of 600h.p. How will it fly?
* * * »
Jabez Wolffe, a native of Glasgow (Scotland),
although the name is more suggestive of Judea, made an
attempt to swim the English Channel on July 18. His
effort was about the best since the time of Captain Webb,
and for the first 10 miles he established an absolute time
record for Channel swimming, but he had to give up
when about three miles from the'French coast. From
the tug which accompanied him he was “cheered up”
by tunes on the Scotch bagpipes. Under these trying
circumstances he certainly deserves credit for his pluck.
But for the fact that he strained the muscles of one leg he
probably would have succeeded.
**• * »
Wanganui (M.L.) sculler W. Webb is supposed
to be a large cut above the average, and strong efforts
are now being made to “bring him out.” He i 3 an
amateur, but hankers after the scalp of the world’s cham-
pion, whoever he may be, when the money can be secured
to tackle him. In the meantime, his friends are raising
£lOO to bring over a good second-class sculler from
Australia, to row a race on Wanganui river. There is no
question of Webb’s ability, but he would have to be put
in the hands of an expert before aiming at the highest
game. He is not the raw rower that Dick Arnst is,
having had years of experience. The only fault this
writer has to find with Webb is that he is a Prohibi-
tionist, and drinks too much ginger-beer. And ginger-
beer causes the accumulation of a large quantity of gas
in the interior.
* * * *
The soil industry in the Bulb (N.S.W.) district
is assuming quite respectable proportions. The virtue of
the Bulli earth is that after rain it gets rid of the mois-
ture easily and hardens quickly, which makes it valuable
for cricket pitches. Already 600 tons of the soil have
been trucked for the new season's wickets, every State in
Australia sharing in the output.


l Collins &SwansfcnMelbourne^ 2
-WEST. AUSTRALIA
Hay St Perth
QUEENSLAND
Queen & Edward Brisbane\i|u
NEW ZEALAND
865 145 Queen St. Auckland
b
G v
18-3 LambtonQuay. Wellington.
2365235 High S';
Princes 5 DowlinqS* Dunedinju
c
+ s t sVPHtj
AH Gcods are sold for CASH ONLY, and are delivered
Free on receipt of remittance.
Write for a FREE FULLY-ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST.
If it's from
[Stewart Dawsomsl
ils good.
. Write the _
store nearest
you.
15he STEWART DAWSON advertising' is distinguished from
most others by the omission o/ “ glaring misrepresentations
and foolish exaggerations.” Compare the Prices and
Goods; then you will be fully satisfied.
No. G 6752 —Pearl Set
9ct. Gold and Enamel
Pendant, 30s.
No. ll22l—Oct. Gold
Locket, 30s.
No. G9445—15ct. Gold
Nautical Brooch, £2.
No. Go7s4—Pearl Set
Gold and Enamel
Pendant, 30s.
No. 11222 —Gent.’s Oct.
Gold Locket, 30s.
No. G6755—9ct. Gold,
Pearl and Enamel
Pendant, 2?s. 6d.
No. G5787—15ct. Gold
and Diamond Locket,
£6 108.
No. G9451—15ct Gold Nautical Brooch,
£1 12s. 6d.
No. G9977—Pearl Set Music Brooch,
225. 6d.
No. G9394—Fine Pearl and 15ct. Gold
Spray Brooch, £3 10s.
Silver-Plated Sutfar and Cream Frame,
China Dishes, 12s Cd.
No. G944B—Fine Pearl Set and 15ct. Gold
Brooch, £4.
No. 1187—Gent’s Best Quality Travelling Case, 2Ss
with Extra Razor, 30s.
No. Hls9—Lady’s Pearl Handle and Best Sheffield Steel Pen Knife 3s
Men’s Medium Size ditto, 6s 6d.
No. E 7168 —Out Glass and Silver-Plated
Butter Dish, 14s 6d.
No. G2222—China and Silver
Plated Tea Pot Stand, 14s 6d.
No. G9S7l—
Silver
having- Brush,
10s. 6d.
'
-
Gold-Mounted Amber Cigarette Holders, in Case,
11s. 6d. and 12s. 6d. ; Cigar Holders, 11s. 6d.,
13s. 6d., 14s. 6d., 225. 6d.
No. G 9870-
Solid Silver
Shaving’ Brush
14s. 6d.
No. GB2s6—Pearl and Amethyst Bangle, 9ct. Gold,
£2 15s.
No. G 9393 —Fine Pearl and 15et. Gold
Spray Brooch, £3 3s.
OLD ENGLISH.
A 1 Quality Silver-Plate on Nickel.
Either Pattern Spoons and Forks, Table Size, 355. per dozen.
» >. » » <• Dessert Size, 255. per dozen.
~ ~ Tea Spoons, 15s per dozen.
No. G9443—Finely Designed Golf Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £2 15s.
No. G9444—Real Pearls and 15ct. Gold Golf
Brooch, £3.
GlOS—“ Love’s Awakening ” Silver-Mounted
Comb, 10s 6d.
Solid Silver Soap Dish and Shaving Brush,
in Case, 30s.
No. 64525 —9ct. Gold Knife Charm,
9s.
No. GBB44—Silver-plated Bamboo
Gong, 21s.
No. E 7469 —The Wicker Sugar, with
Sifter, Silver-Plated, 14s 6dV
No. G9976—Pearl, Ruby and Sapphire
Set 9ct. Gold Brooch, 17s. 6d.
No. G972l—9ct. Gold Music Brooch,
15s. 6d.
No. GB492—Carved Green-
stone and 9et. Gold
Links, 255.
Xo. G4725.—0ct. Hall-
Marked Gold Medal,
17s 6d.
No. G 6860 —Out Glass and Silver-Plated Full
Size Butter Dish, 18s 6d.
No. G 9450 —15ct. Gold “ Nautical ” Brooch,
£2 ss.
niniimmnnntiimfnmiinniiniiiiminiinni(tu
No. G7677—Case of Two Solid Silver Butter
Knives, 27s 6d ; Jam Spoons or Jam and
Butter, if preferred, 27s Cd.
fw
No. F7736—Silver-Plated Knife Rests, 8s 6d pair
fcfi
No. G 4282 —Silver-Plated and Fancy Cream Glass
Butter Dish, Us 6d.


Brushed Scales from Face Like Pow-
der-Under Physicians’ Care Six
Months But G; :,v Worse—Some
Said Face Would Be Marked for
Life —Now Without a Blemish.
CUTICURA REMEDIES
WORK WONDERS
f 'A.s I was a sufferer with eczema
I write to tell you what a great friend
I found in Cuticura Remedies. In
f
six months I had
tried three doctors,
but did not get any
better. It was on
my body and on my
feet so thick that
I could hardly put
a pin on me with-
out touching ec-
zema. My face was
covered, my eyebrows came out, and
then it got in my eye. I then went to
another doctor. He asked me what
I was taking for it, and I told him
Cuticura. He said that was a very
good thing, but that he thought that
my face would be marked for life. But
Cuticura did its work and my face is
now just as clear as it ever was.
“My brother-in-law told me about
the wonderful Cuticura Remedies.
I took his advice and got the Ointment,
Soap, and Resolvent. I washed with
the Cuticura Soap and then applied
the Ointment, and took the Cuticura
Resolvent as directed. In a short
time my face began to get better, and
when I had taken one bottle of
Resolvent I could brush the scales
off my face like a powder. When I
had taken four bottles my face was as
clear as ever. I feel so thankful
I want everybody far and wide to
know what Cuticura can do. It is a
sure cure for eczema. Mrs. Emma
White, Camden, N. J., April 25, 1905.”
The original of the above testimonial is on file in the
office of the Potter Drug & Chemical Corporation.
Reference: R. Towns & Co., Merchants, Sydney, N. S.W.
Complete External and Internal treatment for every
Humour, from Pimples to Scrofula, from Infancy to
Age, consisting of Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and
Resolvent Pills (Chocolate Coated, in vial of 60), may be
had of all druggists. A single set often cures. Potter
Hrug& Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston,U.S.A*
03F*Mailed Free, “ How to Cure Eczema.”
Address R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. "W.
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones,
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Storekeepers.
Australian Users now num-
ber over one thousand.
QUEENSLAND
Colonial Mutual Building,
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Sub-Agbncif.s :
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
VARLEY BROS.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Bookman’s Building's,
Adelaide.
West Australia—
MIDBOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth
Of course you have System
in your office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
UNDERWOOD “VISIBLE”
BILLING TYPEWRITER.
JOHN SARDS, 374 George St., Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent Wabash Systems.
M Britisft'Jlustralasian
&
1 BROAD STREET PLACE, LONDON, E.O.
DAH POST FREE, £1 per year,
* jIIC/W in advance, all over the world.
Managing Director- - Mr. J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
The British-Australasian is the journalistic
principle of connection between Great Britain
and Australasia.
It is the NEW SCHOOL in the develop-
ment of Australian thought. It gives Austra-
lian writers not only the benefit of Australian
circulation, but introduces them first-hand,
through its British circulation, to the teeming
millions of Great Britain.
The British-Australasian is the Organ
of Appreciation; THE AUSTRALIAN
LITERARY CITADEL in London.
Original Australian articles dealing with the
growth, development and resources of Aus-
tralia are particularly suitable; also Australian
stories, sketches, verse, &c., &c.
95,000
“THE WAY BACK SERIES.’
NO 3, RED HARRY, 1/-
NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE'
California Syrup of Figs restores strength to
the weakened bowels, cleanses the blood of
impurities, gives tone to the nervous system, and
stimulates the action of the Liver and Kidneys
when the inactivity of those organs indicates a
constipated condition. The valuable tonic action
of California Syrup of Figs gradually over-
comes the tendency to Habitual Constipation.
ALIFO
>YRUP
A
GS
is a simple, safe, and reliable laxative, pleasant to
the taste, pleasant in action, pleasant in results.
The most agreeable family remedy for con-
stipation, sluggish liver, biliousness, indigestion,
depression, feverishness, loss of appetite,
headache, and all kindred complaints;
speedily restoring health, appetite, energy, and
good spirits. Of Chemists, in two sizes.
AGREEABLE, MILD AND SURE
INDIGESTION.
The torments which are suffered when tho digestive organs fail to do their work thoroughly are,
unfortunately, so well known to most of us that it is not necessary for the various symptoms ot indi-
gestion or dyspepsia to be given in detail here.
Indigestion has several sources of origin, the principal being Gastric Catarrh, in which the food
becomes covered with mucous, and consequently resists the action of the digesti ve juices , Gastuc
Flatulency, the development of wind or gas ; Gastric Diarrhoea, caused by the food being bumid
through the digestive organs unassimilated, and Constipation. Constipation is by far the mvt
frequent and obstinate cause of indigestion, and it must be recti tied or digestion cannot be otherwise
than imperfect. G
Food must be eaten in sufficient quantity, and must be digested and be converteff into blood
Nature makes this one of her most imperative laws of life. During the process of digestion food is
entirelv changed in composition by the action of the juices of the internal orguins through whic
passes. In the mouth it is thoroughly mixed with the saliva. Ihen it is swallowed, and enters the
stomach, where it is acted upon by the gastric juices, and becomes partly liquefied From the stomach
it passes to the smaller intestine-which is about 18 feet m length-and there certain portions of the
food are liquefied by the bile and other juices. The food thus made fluid is m a condition to be
absorbed into and becomes a constituent part of the blood. Ihe indigestible portion of thei food s
discharged into the larger intestine, whence it is m turn expelled from the body together with other
refuse matter. , .
Just as certainly as that it is necessary to life that food must be absorbed, so, likewise, it is
essential that the blood-must be in a condition to absorb the food. . Torpidity of the liver is the chief
cause of nearly every case of indigestion, and when the liver is torpid the kidneys are al • y
sympathetically affected to a greater or lesser extent. The blood, which should be transformed,
cleansed and filtered by the kidneys and liver, then contains urinary and biliary poisons, and there-
fore a feeble absorbent of nutriment. This condition of the blood reacts upon the nervous system of
the digestive organs, and prevents the flow and alters the quality of the digestive juices.
The entire nerve energy of a person suffering from indigestion is weakened, owing to the con-
taminated condition of the blood, and the general feeling of mental and physical depression, which is
experienced during an attack of dyspepsia, is due to this cause.
The blood must be continuously purified by the action of the liver and kidneys, or good digestion
cannot be expected to occur.
Many sufferers from indigestion obtain temporary relief by eating predigested foods or taking
medicines, such as pepsin, which act as digestives in the intestines. A course of such treatment “ ie rely
encourages a slothful action of the digestive organs, and causes them to become gradually weaker and
less capable of performing their duty, just m the same way that a person who takes little ornoexerc se
becomes incapable of responding to any demand for exertion. Other sufferers irritate the digestive
organs into temporary and abnormal activity by taking purgative medicines bo frequently that
presently the stomach and intestines refuse to act except under such irritating stimulation, lhe only
rational and permanent cure for indigestion is to create such a condition of the blood that each
corpuscle becomes hungry for food, and ready and eager to absorb it The
then respond to the demands of the blood, and the stomach and intestines will perform their work as
a matter of course. When the blood is laden with uric acid and other urinary and biliary poisons it
cannot adequately absorb food, and makes but a feeble attempt to do so.
Warner’s Safe Cure
is not a nurgative medicine. It permanently cures dyspepsia, smpdy because rt
restores the liver and kidneys to health and activity, so that the blood naturally, becomes from
urinary and biliary poisons and ravenous to absorb nutriment freely. Nutriment is then conveyed by
the blood to the nerves throughout the body. The nerves of the digestive organs being prope y
nourished, the organs are in a condition to do their work efficiently. Nature is merely aided in
efforts to preserve a balance in the manifold and complex processes of waste and renewal by which
life is maintained.
Remember, constipation or irregularity of the bowels must be overcome. Warner’s Safe Pills
should, therefore, also be taken in sufficient quantities to ensure one free movement daily.
Do not overload the stomach. Avoid tea, coffee, alcholic stimulants and rich or fat foods. Do
not eat generously of any solid food.
Write for treatise on Liver and Kidney disorders. Sent post free by H. H. Warner and Co.,
Ltd., Australasian Branch, Melbourne. ' L -*
TELEPHONE 3088.
From INCLEY & CO.
IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT.
Mr. Inciey begs to notify that be has taKen into
t partnership Mrs. TRENTHAM, Miss HOGG, and
Mr. STRINGER. From September Ist, 1900,
the Firm will trade as
INCLEY & CO.. 258 Collins Street. Melbourne,
The Inky Way.
Critehley Parker, the hustling advertising man who
got hold of the Australian Mining Standard some years
a«-o and made money out of it after others had dropped
plenty, has bought the Money Market Review—a fairly
respectable, 40-year-old finance weekly that does its little
best to light up the Great Fog.
* * * *
“Stranger”: Your remarks about Australian writer
B°rnard Espiuasse remind me that I was a fellow pas-
senger with him when he left these shores on the Persic,
and” several interesting tilings happened on the voyage.
One was a fancy dress ball, with pewter pots, or some-
thin4 ** as rewards for the best disguises. I forget which
pot Espinasse won, but we didn’t see him during the
early part of the dance. Later on, however, a sulky
ship’s boy slouched along the deck with a paint pot and
began solemnly painting the bulwarks—or, at least,
waving a brush at them —in the midst of
the festivity. The dancers raged at the prospect
of wet paint on their clothes, and bade the nasty
bov depart. The nasty ship’s boy painted stolidly.
Then the dancers rushed round and fetched everything
on the ship that wore brass buttons, and they all fell on
the horrid boy, and asked him how dared he, and bade
him °et back to the forecastle. Thereabouts the
wretched, sinful boy left off professing to paint, and
rev ’ed himself as Espinasse. He was either awarded
one of the pewter pots for the excellence of his disguise,
or thrown overboard, or something.
* * * *
On the staff of the West Australian (Perth) they have
two ex-parsons, and two of the reporters are named
Bishop and Archdeacon. Their relative positions are,
however, reversed, Bishop being subordinate to Arch-
deacon Hackett, who bosses the paper, is a strong
churchman, and tremendously proud of the honorary
degree conferred upon him by Dublin University when he
visited the city of his birth three or four years ago. The
doctor” is sixty, fussy, but a good fellow at heart, and is
proud of being a father for the first tune, at an age when
menxre usually called upon to present christening mugs
to ttieir grandchildren. His paper is awfully antiquated,
and lags far behind the press of the Eastern States, but his
partner Harper—a dismal apple-growing Groper, of great
worldly possessions, with a son who is installed as pros-
pective manager—persistently opposes modern methods.
Casual advts. are set in brevier, and four-fifths of the
paper might be dropped with profit and advantage to the
readers Three columns are devoted to “Social Notes,”
mostly descriptive of dresses worn by barmaids at gold-
fields race meetings ; ten columns to Parliamentary drivel,
three or four columns to church and Oddfellows’ meetings,
and half a column to State mining news—these comprise
the dailv dish served up with the cablegrams of the West
Australian. Yet it is miles ahead of any other paper
in Groperland. * * *
“ C W.” : A popular member of the staff of a leading
Australian daily recently approached the editorial chief
and suavely asked: “I have been wondering, sir, how
vou would act if Mr. So-and-So(mentionmg a leading adver-
tiser and pompous draper) were run in for drunkenness
and obscene language. Would you print his name in the
police court reports, or treat him with respectful silence ?
“ M v boy I would print the fact that he had been charged,
but would have his name spelt so as to hide his identity.
Mistakes will happen, you know, in the best regulated
newspapers.” “Then, sir,” replied tlje reporter, will
vou kindly spell my name backwards in to-morrows
issue’ I have just been fined 10s. for drunkenness and
disorderly conduct, and I wouldn’t like the managing
director to know it.”
* * * *
Another sample of the expressive journalism of way-
kaok “ One of the most awful accidents that ever
occurred was narrowly prevented on Tuesday last.”
“OF”: Re derivation of the phrase “yellow jour-
nalism ” (B. 30/8/’O6). Soon after the Yankee journalistic
abomination was so christened, its name was said to have
been suggested by the doings of “ The Yellow Kid.” The
Kid (always printed in a jaundiced shade of yellow) was
a misshapen infant, whose painfully funny practical
j o kes were a regular feature of the crudely-colored
“comic” pages in one of the earliest “yellow journals.”
“Home papers please copy” is a phrase that quite
often stili occurs in 8.,,D. and M. announcements in the
Australian press. Whatever value this tag to the death
1 notice might have had years ago,, it is certain that it has
none now. No advertiser can be fatuous enough to
think that any paper is at all likely to copy his 3s. advt.
and republish it free of charge, nor can any of them
flatter themselves that they are persuading their neigh-
bors that the recent happening in their family is of itself
so important as to make its republication m England a
likely event. The remaining explanation is that it is
desired to make known that the cadaver did not origi-
nate in the beastly colonies.
THE BARD OF TOOL A MINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We had a bard at Toolamine,
And Toolamine was well content,
For Flayer said that very fine
Was every high, Miltonic line
Flung from his pen, as ’twere a note
Emitted from the mellow throat
Of some big, brazen instrument.
His poems were anonymous—
It was the poet’s modest whim
To blush unseen. We made no fuss,
For no one seemed to care a cuss,
Until a city scribe with views,
Who read one day the Toola News.
Excitedly discovered him.
And then the wondering world was sure
There lurked somewhere at Toolamine
A bard whose poems would endure
While there was English Literature —
One worthy of the splendid past,
Whose pearls of poesy were cast
Before the dull, unheeding swine.
X 1.;.; Flayer was a man of might;
Ilis pen had swept an overplus
Of Austral bardlets out of sight,
And one was famous. Over night
Of hiih the critic made a joke,
And in the morn the bard awoke
To find himself grown infamous.
He said the poet he had found
The ravages of time would flout;
Tlie thunder of his rhyme would sound
In ears unborn the world around.
But no one else could understand
How he was great; why he was grand,
Or what his stuff was all about 1
Still little critics took their cue
From Flayer, and in ecstasy
They cried how beautiful, how true,
How old, and yet how strangely new,
How wonderful, almost divine,
Was this great bard of Toolamine—
Whoever this great bard might be.
While Flayer praised, and quoted much
To prove the mystic poet’s worth,
The clamor of the crowd was such
That now the bard his latest clutch
Of verses signed, and so we knew
That Gonoff was the poet who
Was set apart to shake the earth.
Of city critics twenty-three
To Toolamine as pilgrims went.
We roared their antics grave to see
Before the bard, beneath a tree.
The township idiot was he,
The efforts of whose cranky Muse
The editor of Toola News
Hid printed just for devilment !
VIC.
EDWARD DYSON.


TATTERSALL’S CONSULTATIO
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
NOW OPEN
METROPOLITAN STAKES, Randwick, N.S.W., October 1
CAULFIELD CUP, Caulfield, Victoria, October 20
MELBOURNE CUP, Flemington, Victoria, November 6
MELBOURNE CUP, Flemington, Vic., November 6 (Drawn Morning of Race)
100,000 at 5/2 each.
100,000 at 5 2 each.
100,000 each 5/2 and 10/4.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
IMPORTANT nxr OTICE,
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d. on each
ss. Ticket, and 4d. on each lOs. Ticket. Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. Parcels may be forwarded through any PARCELS
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
97 Queen St., MELBOURNE.
98 King William St., ADELAIDE.
(Booking Fee,
3d.
I per Parcel.
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING <& MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
THE
1
0
t
i
The Milk Foods closely approximate in composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant.
They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns.
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys” Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys” Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
ALLEN & HANBLRYS Ltd., LONDON, « Bridge #Loftus Sts., Sydney
LINOLO
CLEANS, SHINES, POLISHES
Linoleums, Wood Floors,
Furniture, Harness,
Boots and Shoes, &c.
THE FINEST AMERICAN POLISH
YET PRODUCED.
All G roceus, Ironmongers, &e.
Australasian Agents—
AMERICAN HYGIENIC AGENCY, Ltd., 177 Liver-
pool Street, Hyde Park, SYDNEY.
Sole Victorian Distributing Agents—
J. J. MADDEN & CO., 58 Queen St., MELBOURNE.
Sole Queensland Distributing Agent—
ALFRED MOON, 37 Adelaide St., BRISBANE.
FREE SAMPLES any State on application.
Hearne’s Bronchitis Core.
THCB FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OE ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A COMMERCIAL TRAVELLER SUFFERING IN-
TENSELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
HAS SINCE CAMPED OUT AND TRAVELLED
MUCH WITHOUT CONTRACTING A COLD.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —In 1898, I was for four years previously in
Queensland travelling’ representative for a mercantile
house. Having contracted a heavy cold, I placed myself
under a medical man, and used all kinds of chemists’
prescriptions without avail. I was then staying at Hayes’
Terminus Hotel, Brisbane. The manager did all possible
for me, for which I shall always feel grateful. Mr. Duncan
Currie, at that time acting manager for the New York
Life Insurance Co., came to see me daily, and he advised
me to try your Bronchitis Cure. I was about done for,
could not eat, or scarcely swallow ; in fact, used to nearly
suffocate a dozen times a day, suffering intensely. Guess
of my thankfulness, when Mr. Currie brought me a bottle
of your Bronchitis Cure. A few doses actually cured me.
I took another bottle away from the city with me, and
gave part of it to a young girl at Southport, and it also
saved her life. The balance I gave to Mr. T. McMillan,
Tweed River —three persons cured by your valuable
medicine. Although I have camped out and travelled
about 10,000 miles since my illness, I have not contracted
a cold since.—l am, Sir, your best well-wisher,
THOS. ROSS,
Labasa, via Suva, Fiji.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A QUEENSLAND RESIDENT CURED BY HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
IT MADE A NEW MAN OF HIM.
NO SHORTNESS OF BREATH SINCE.
Mr. W, G, Hearne. Dear Sir, —I had Bronchitis several
times since 1898 in Victoria, Western Australia, and here,
and had paid many pounds away in medicine ; but when I
arrived in Cairns in 1900 from Western Australia, I was
induced to fry your Bronchitis Cure, I took five bottles,
and it made a new man of me. I could afterwards run a
mi}e of climb up and down a vertical shaft without any
feeling of shortness of breath. No medicine for Bronchitis
that I have ever taken has afforded me such relief as your
Bronchitis Cure. —Yours faithfully,
RICHARD GOBLINS, Mine Manager,
Irvinebank, via Cairns, North Queensland,
BRONCHITIS.
A SOUTH AUSTRALIAN STOREKEEPER TESTIFIES
TO THE EFFICACY OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE,
A SUFFERER 70 YEARS OLD CURED BY IT.
WELL AND HEARTY NOW.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir.—l am a storekeeper,
living- in this township for the last 20 years. One of my
oldest customers has been subject to Bronchitis for a
number of years, and has been in the hospital with it
several times. Hearing of your valuable medicine, he
tried it, and found that it gave him great relief. One
bottle was sufficient to put him right. This gentleman is
over 70 years of age, an old bushman, who has been in
these parts for the last 30 years, and is well known. He
makes my house his home when here, and got the
medicine from me. He is at my place now, and he says
that this winter is the freest he has had from Bronchitis
for a number of years, and he wishes to return you thanks
for your valuable Bronchitis Cure. He is well and hearty
now. You are quite at liberty to publish this or any part
of it you like, as it may be of great benefit to other people
suffering from Bronchitis. —Yours truly,
M. GOGLIN, Storekeeper,
Yunta, South Australia.
BRONCHITIS.
A FOURTEEN*MONTHS’ SUFFERER IN
QUEENSLAND.
COUGH SO DISTRESSINGLY BAD COULD NOT GET
ANY REST.
CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
AFTER OTHER TREATMENT HAD FAILED.
Mr. W. G. Hearr.e. Dear Sir,—l write to add my testi-
mony to the wonderful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I
suffered for 14 months with a terrible cough. It was so
distressingly bad at night that I could not get any sleep.
I consulted doctors to no purpose. I saw your medicine
advertised, and sent for a bottle, which has taken the
cough clean away, and I feel a different man. You may
depend on my making your wonderful medicine known.
I have sent for another bottle to keep by me in case it
may return at any time, lam writing this, as lam sure
there are a great many people out this way that if they
knew the wonderful effect of this medicine they would
send and procure it at an}' price.—Yours faithfully,
J. P. BOYD,
Contractor, Torrens Creek, North Queensland.
SEVERE COUGH.—A FIVE YEARS CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
“ Dear Sir, —I suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once
and can’t be licked.—Yours sincerely,
“ VV. TREMELLEN,
“ Modewarre, Victoria.”
ASTHMA—A SEVENTEEN YEARS CASE.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes :—“After suffering from asthma for
seventeen years, and having been under a great many
different treatments without benefit, I was induced to try
Hearne’s Medicine for Asthma. After taking three
bottles of this medicine, I quite got rid of the Asthma,
and since then, which was the beginning of 1883—fifteen
years ago—l have not had the slightest return of it. The
medicine quite cured me, and I have much pleasure in
recommending it.”
Writing again two j'ears later, he states: —“I am
keeping' very well. Never have the slightest return of
the asthma.
GRATITUDE AND APPRECIATION.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN CIRCLE.
The Scientific Australian Office,
169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who, during the last few years, has been repeatedly
working for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bron-
chitis Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
This gentleman some three years ago was recommended
to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, accountant,
Collins-street, and the effect that it had was so marked
that he has ever since been continually recommending it
to others.
We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintances.
Believe us always to be,
Yours most faithfully,
PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.
BRONCHITIS.
TWO PERSONS IN NEW ZEALAND CURED BY ONE
BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
ONE OF THEM HAD BEEN SUFFERING FOR
TWELVE MONTHS.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I had a very bad cough, so I
bought one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, and used about
one-half of it, which cured my cough in two or three days.
My daughter, who had been troubled with a bad cough
for the past twelve months, then used the remaining half
of the medicine, and it cured her also. I think your
Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful remedy.
I have lived on my farm at Bombay for about 36 years.
You are at liberty to use this letter in any way you
please.—Yours respectfully, CHAS. WOOTTON,'
Bombay, Auckland, New Zealand.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A SUFFERER FOR YEARS.
IMMEDIATE RELIEF AND COMPLETE CURE BY
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I feel in duty bound to express
my gratitude first to you for your marvellous Bronchitis
and Asthma Cure, next to Mr. Cheshire, Chemist, North
Brighton, for having so valuable a cure in stock. My wife
being a sufferer for years, I purchased one bottle of your
Bronchitis Cure. It gave immediate relief, and, con-
tinuing it as directed, it effected a complete cure. M.v
wife and I recommend it to all our acquaintances who
suffer with the same. You can use this letter for publi-
cation if you wish.—Yours sincerely,
F. A. CUTTEX,
Elsternwick, Victoria,
BRONCHITIS.
A SYDNEY RESIDENT, CURED BY HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, EXPRESSES APPRECIATION
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —Accept my testimony to the success of your
Bronchitis Cure. I was very ill last February in Mel-
bourne, and was recommended by a friend to try your
Bronchitis Cure. After three doses, I felt immense relief,
and the cough vanished before the first bottle was finished.
Before leaving Melbourne I obtained three bottlesof it, as
I would not like to be without so wonderful a medi-
cine.—Yours faithfully ,
N. KILMARTIN,
Darlinghurst, Sydney.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Large Size, 4s. 6d.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA
FORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
BRANCH ° E - T ~ Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.


IT MAKES YOU
SHUDDER!
No matter how dainty food may be, or how carefully prepared, it is simply
repugnant to you if your stomach is out of order. That dull pain in your
stomach causes you to simply loathe the sight of food—you cannot eat, and yet
you want something and don’t know what. When you do eat you suffer
tortures afterwards. Do you realise what will happen to you if you continue
in this way ? Your body will become depleted and any sickness is apt to take
hold of you. If you escape such evils, you will do as lots of other dyspeptics
have done—die of exhaustion.
You positively can avoid all these troubles by taking
Dr. SHELDON’S
DIGESTIVE
TABULES.
The reason why any wholesome food is not properly digested is because the
stomach lacks some important element of digestion. Some stomachs lack
peptone, others are deficient in gastric juice or hydrochloric acid. The one
thing necessary in any case of poor digestion, is to supply those digestive
elements which the stomach lacks, and nothing does this so thoroughly and
safely as Dr. SHELDON’S DIGESTIVE TABULES.
They digest what you eat, thus giving the stomach a rest and
assistance until it is restored to its normal action and vigor.
One of these tabules will digest 1500 grains of meat, eggs, and other whole-
some food. They are a genuine tonic, because they bring about in the only
natural way a restoration of nerve power, a building up of lost tissue and
appetite, by the digestion and assimilation of wholesome food.
/2
V
&
*9
Si
y
Dr. SHELDON’S
Dig'estive Tabules
Are sold everywhere at 2/0 for a tin containing 80 Tabules, or will be
posted upon receipt of the price by the
SHELDON DRUG COMPANY,
15 O'Connell Street, SYDNEY.
Purely Vegetable.
Always Effective.
They purify the blood, invigorate the digestion, and
1 cleanse the stomach and bowels. They stimulate
the Liver and carry off vitiated bile and other
depraved secretions. They are a tonic medicine 1
that regulate, purify, and fortify the whole system.
For Constipation, Dizziness, Coated Tongue, Bad
Breath, Headache, Indigestion, Dyspepsia, Liver
Complaint, Bilious Headache, or any disorder
arising from an impure state of the blood.
Each Pill contains one grain of the solid extract of Sarsaparilla
40 pills in every box.
Established
w 1752.
A Squall off the Leuwin.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE vessel steadied, as though settling down,
The awnings flapping all like muffled thun-
der,
As though the song on deck they longed to drown;
While hissing foam-fields, passing, burst asunder
Beneath the menacing and ugly frown
«Of storm-swept skies that bade us stand from
under,
As plain as though, from rocking scaffold high,
: Some loaded hod of bricks obscured the sky.
The good ship rose ’mid flying wastes of foam,
Groaned, trembling to the keel; then sank again,
To poise once more and dare the darkened dome,
.Ere the last plunge of all beneath the main ;
At least, some thought so, dwelling on their home
And all their loved they ne’er might see again ;
Tis strange how weak the many are in Hope,
How drab the glass in their kaleidoscope.
And, all this time, the captain on the bridge is,
With two beside him, clutching at the rail,
Three ebon figures there, against the ridges
-Of white-maned mountain waves that flee the gale.
A moving monster and three human midges,
Whose giant hearts at danger never quail;
But, under God, are gifted to control
-Our iron world and all its burning soul.
Blocks clash and clatter, stout chain halliards slap
In fury on the masts, as, through the shrouds,
The gale screams dolefully, and awnings flap,
Blown all to tatters ’neath the Stygian clouds
That rolled a-stern a mile or so, mayhap,
From salt-white funnels, starred with sparks in
crowds
That whirled and died upon the darkened main,
Which drank its full of those red stars again.
The gale had half abated, but the sea
Makes most for danger as one nears a coast,
Still running mountains high, ahead, to lee,
To weather and astern, yet ruled the roast:
The ship yet plunging wild and groaningly
Through waves that washed the lee yard-arms at
most,
Invading half the deck, and flinging high
The fleecy foam-drifts towards a leaden sky.
VIC.
G.G.M'C.
A Yellow Sunset.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
mHE studio was an imitation. It spoke
a brief trip to Paris and an acquaintance
with Trilby. The brilliant-eyed, dank-
haired little artist had given up expecting the
public to buy his works, good though they un-
doubtedly were, and had taken to teaching the
ambitious how to handle a mahl stick and to feel
Bohemian.
The ladies, being the more adaptable, achieved
the “gay, rollicking dare-devil” feeling first, and
friskily squandered it in adoration and afternoon-
tea.
The men worked fairly hard, and received the
aforesaid adoration and tea with becoming
modesty. The artist had a brother, a minor
mummer, who, when in town, relaxed his brain
with Art, and all the time that could be spared
from his three-line part was spent at the studio.
He worked creditably, and was a law on most
When he bent his brows and closed his
lips with a snap, the last word had been said.
He revealed the advantage of taking oneself
-seriously.
One hot forenoon there was a desultory feeling
in the studio, and the model was the only being
who looked comfortable. One of the students, a
.long, lean man, begged for tea. “ This weather
plays the deuce with our nerves,” he said. Miss
Taylor, who was born in Eootscray, and had a
French accent, began to prepare it, when the
studio door opened.
The actor sprang up with an exclamation and a
.grab at his watch.
“’Pon my soul, Maggie, I’m so sorry; my
watch must be slow ”
“ Oh, it didn’t matter,” stammered Maggie,
-putting down a large, old portmanteau. “I
thought—l thought you were busy, and I asked a
-cabman to bring me here. I knocked,” she con-
tinued, apologetically.
The little artist was called and his country
-cousin introduced. The actor had spent his last
“ rest ” at Maggie’s home, and as he looked at her
Rushed face, under a huge millinery outbreak, he
.heartily wished he were out of the way.
The little girl, shy and embarrassed, looked
appealingly at him, while Miss Taylor fussed
round her, remarking with many weird shoulder
.shakes that the English girls were such—er—
“what you call it? Ah, yes, such dears ! ”
“I’m not English,” said the little country
mouse, tremulously.
“But no?” asked Miss Taylor. “You are, then,
-of what nation ? ”
“ Pm an Australian. Aren’t you?”
The long, lean man laughed. Miss Taylor
looked angry.
Maggie gulped down her tea and went away
with the actor, who undertook to put her safely
.under her married cousin’s protection.
*■*■■*■*•
Her holiday was not so bright a gaud as it had
■seemed from a distance. She lay in the strange
bed, her nerves quivering with the noise of trams
.and cab wheels, and wished God had let her die
when she was little. “ He said ‘ for always ’ ” she
■moaned to her pillow, “and he does not care a
.-scrap. He even forgot I was coming.” And the
little country heajt swelled with a great ache over
its first lesson.
The actor, as ,e walked back, wished he hadn’t
been such a fool as to kiss her when he was at the
farm. Heavens ! What a spectacle she was. The
; ac«nt of burning-off came back to him in the city
street, and he remembered Maggie had looked
rather nice out in the lower paddock. He re-
membered it not in her favor, but as an excuse for
His folly. Why ever had she come to the city ?
What was Aunt Polly thinking of ? Though he
was vain he did not guess how long the day had
been to Maggie after he left, how tiresome her
daily duties had become, how she had counted the
hours after her parents had decided to send her
to Jane’s for a change. Nor did he guess how
carefully she had packed all her little bits of
finery, anxiously wondering which of her new
frocks he would like best," how her heart had
throbbed when the train stopped at a station,
nor, when it went on again, how she wiped her
hot face and refixed her wonderful hat, or how
chill she felt as the people hurried past her,
greeting, laughing, hunting for luggage, and she
stood alone, unwelcomed!
A careless kiss or two, a honeyed phrase—in-
teresting enough under some conditions—but in
the city ! How plain and clumsy she looked !
Oh, well, he would be very busy for the next few
weeks. Jane would look after her.
He glanced in a street mirror as he passed,
then dismissed his folly from his remembrance,
and went back with a jaunty step to the studio.
* * * #
“That little cousin of the boys, she very
funny,” Miss Taylor told the studio crowd, one
day. “She come every day and sit and mope
and mope—she is as miserable as what you call
the wet hen.”
“ She wants a glass of fizz every morning,” said
Miss Trevore-Molloy, arranging a red curl under
her red hat. “ That would waken her up—it’s
the only thing that keeps ine going. Goodness
gracious! is that the time? I must fly ! lam
to go for a drive, then dress for a big dinner, then
the theatre, supper to follow, and then a glorious
drive home. Au revoir 1 ”
“ Trevore’s programme never alters,” said one
of the girls. “ I rather suspect her dry champagne
means gingerbeer with the chill off.”
“Oh, she’s all right,” said another; “she loves
to talk—here she is, back again.”
“ I just met this dear little girl on the stairs ; ”
and Miss Trevore-Molloy tripped in, .hugging
Maggie. “I am telling her she should drink the
best English ale every morning, and Heidsieck at
night. Sit down, dear, sit down.”
“Won’t you be late for the drive of your
friend ? ” asked Miss Taylor.
“Oh, I won’t go—it will do him good to dis-
appoint him. Men want you when they think
they can’t get you. I want to talk to Maggie ; the
boys neglect her shamefully. Do you know,
dear, that after the ball last night I sat in my
room, the roses still in my hair—l wore pink. I
sat there thinking of you, dear, and your gray
eyes—so like his ” —her green-brown eyes sent a
languishing glance towards the actor. “ Ah, you
are young yet, child, you do not know.”
Maggie sat silent. She hated the studio, and
yet couldn’t keep away from it. Miss Trevore-
Molloy left her at last, and she watched the little
artist prepare a canvas. He grumbled im-
Eatiently. Miss Crosby, the model, was late, and
e wanted to get on. The actor was working and
talking as he put the finishing touches to a yellow
sunset on a grey sky. He remarked :
“ That tone of grey always appeals to me as the
symbolic color for love—it is so mystic, so soft, so
spirituelle ”
“ But devoid of passion,” interrupted the long,
lean man.
“Exactly,” said the actor. “That is why I
chose it. Passion is material, coarsening. It
makes me angry to hear you raving about love.
It is passion, not love ! ”
“ Same thing,” remarked the long lean man.
“ But you must admit,” said another, “ that it
is the body more than the mind fiiakes a man lose
his head.”
“Yes, and when a man loses his head, you call
it love ! I’ve no patience with this pandering to
the senses,” and the actor’s lips snapped.
Maggie sat by, hardly hearing. She was look-
ing from Miss Taylor’s pretty face to Miss
Trevore-Molloy’s vivacious one and seeing herself
in all her countrified plainness. She hated her
unbecoming clothes, she hated herself. It was no
wonder Hugh preferred them. She had no charm,
no grace—
The color rushed to her face as a thought came to
her. She had sat with watching eyes in the studio
and had learned one thing. She looked again at
the artist. She rose and went over to him.
“Would you like —do you think—l—l—would
do ? ” She asked graspingly.
“Do for what?”
“ Do instead of Miss Crosby ? ”
The little artist stared at her.
“ Why, it’s a nude, old girl.”
“Yes, I know. Please let me sit.”
“Yes, but I say—oh, dash it all, if you want
to—go in behind there.”
He got sketching materials, half smiling at her
simplicity in thinking her figure would do for his
picture. He thought perhaps he ought to send
the others away, but they were intent on their
work. He would sketch her quickly—and while
he paused in indecision Maggie came quietly from
behind the screen. She held an old curtain about
her and as she let it slip down the artist gasped.
Heavens ! What length of limb—what curves !
He posed her in a recumbent position, and
began to sketch her.
“Crosby is out of this act,” he muttered.
The electricity in the air made the others turn.
The actor half rose, but the little artist implored
them to be quiet.
“ I’ve never had the chance of such a model in
my life before. Great Scot! girl, why ever have
you swaddled yourself up in those clothes?”
Maggie posed perfectly, her burning face
hidden. Miss Trevore-Molloy began a charcoal
sketch of her, but the men felt uncomfortable,
and when Miss Taylor sniggered they left with
awkward explanations of appointments. The
little artist was oblivious of everything but his
work.
Suddenly Maggie sprang up. “I can’t, I can’t
any more,” she cried and fled behind the screen.
The little artist looked ruefully from his sketch to
his canvas.
“ Her flesh tints are divine,” he said, “ I could
work for hours.”
“You had no right to let her pose,” and Hugh’s
brows met in a scowl.
“ Heavens ! The girl wanted to, and I hope
will still go on wanting to. Her limbs are perfect.”
Maggie came out with averted face and tried to
pass behind the brothers to the door, but the actor
turned and stopped her.
“Wait a moment, Maggie, I’m coming.”
His hand trembled on her arm and his eyes
shone with an eager light.
He got his coat and hat, and hurried her away,
not giving her time to answer the little artist
who implored her to come early for another
sitting. He tenderly helped her down the dark
stairs, and forgot that the love color was grey.
“Matter over mind,” said Miss Trevore-Molloy
with a laugh, as she tied her veil.
STEAY.
The boodle crowd intend to spare no
effort to oust Q. Premier Kidston at next State
elections. The first move has been the purchase
of the Rockhampton Argus by the Leahy Bros.
The placid Sydney suburb of Petersham
shelters a builder named Ptolemy—possibly a
descendant of the Ptolemy who tendered for the
erection of the Pyramids.


SKIN ERUPTIONS
Zam-Buk is a Prompt Cure.
PIMPLES, boils, blotches, and irritating rashes make their appear-
ance on the approach of Spring. When the skin is suffering
from Spring sickness, however slight, it offers excellent breed-
in •’•-"round to the germs of disease, and a pimple may prove the biith-
sdf
place of Eczema, ulceration, or the
itching and inflamed sores of some
other skin-disease. The skin should be
examined frequently and carefully, and
the slighest manifestation of disorder
treated with Zam-Buk. At this season
danger signals may usually be found on
the face, neck and back. The Zam-
Buk protective, and corrective treat-
ment for the skin, is ideal because it
is natural, and natural because Zam-
Buk is prepared from Nature’s own
vegetable saps and juices. The
following case is an illustration.
Mr. J. Wedlock, of Kent-street, Mary-
borough, Q., says:—“lt gives me great
pleasure to write you these few lines re your Zam-Buk
Healing Balm. I was troubled with sore Pimples on my face,
which gave me considerable pain, and were a great disfigurement.
I applied Zam-Buk, and in a little while the Pimples had completely disappeared,
leaving my face nice and clear. I can confidently recommend Zam-Buk as a sure and
speedy cure for Pimples.”
Every Home Needs Zam-Buk.
ZAM-BUK, the GREAT HEALER, is a Speedy Cure for PILES, ECZEMA,
BOILS, RUNNING SORES, SORE LEGS, SORE FEET, RINGWORM, &e. As
an EMBROCATION for STRAINED MUSCLES and TENDONS, ZAM-BUK,
rubbed well into the parts affected, is UNEQUALLED. As a HOUSEHOLD BALM
for CUTS, BURNS, BRUISES, PIMPLES, BLACKHEADS, FRECKLES,
RASH, and BITES OF INSECTS, ZAM-BUK is INVALUABLE. From all
Medicine Vendors at Is. 6d., or 3s. (id. Family Sine (containing nearly four
times the quantity), or from The Zam-Buk Co., Pitt-street, Sydney.
■m
AM
C REAT SKI N 'CURE.
the
A. <Bb F.
PEARS,
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
IRotice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
Brogan’s Lane.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THERE’S a crack in the city, and down that
street,
In couples with guns, tramp “ rossers ” on
beat,
To bash with a baton’s butt. Labor in vain,
For a hotter nor Hell is Brogan’s Lane ;
Brogan’s Lane, Brogan’s Lane,
Rats pinch from each other down Brogan’s Lane.
There’s nary a light, and the steps shoot down
straight;
Drunks land on their heads when they come to
their fate.
’Tis a curious study, when sobered again,
How the drunk lost his balance down Brogan’s
Lane ;
Brogan’s Lane, Brogan’s Lane,
Lost his balance and clothes down Brogan’s Lane.
Flash Ned, when he “dives on a red lock,” takes
care,
When the crowd gazes round Flash Ned isn’t
there;
Up some side-cut he sneaks, but he doesn’t
complain,
He’s as safe as a chapel down Brogan’s Lane ;
Brogan’s Lane, Brogan’s Lane,
It’s a short cut to Heaven, this Brogan’s Lane.
When Flossie is fresh, only toffs will she meet,
But beer drags lier down to a girl of the street;
Till, one morn, lying out in the cold and the rain,
They find her dead body in Brogan’s Lane ;
Brogan’s Lane, Brogan’s Lane,
She strikes the Dead Finish down Brogan’s Lane.
With its opium dens, and its cribs, bones and rags,
>Tis the haunt of thieves, wastrels, poor women,
and vags;
They booze to bring joy, they sin to numb pain,
But the “ Jug” lies close handy to Brogan’s Lane;
Brogan’s Lane, Brogan’s Lane,
The river and morgue follow Brogan’s Lane.
vxo.
LOUIS ESSON.
The Salvation of Father.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sunday dinner was in course of
I preparation, when young Snyder, with
distended eyes, arms going like wind-
mills, and gasping fit to burst his jacket, bounded
into the kitchen.
“Father’s found the Lord !” he piped. “A
Salvo bloke’s jes’ tole me—lie’s over there now,
shoutin’ like mad, an’ hoppin’ roun’ like a bloomin’
kangaroo. They copped ’im on the square,
watchin’ the ‘footy’.”
Having discharged himself of his great news,
he rushed away again. Fragments of a general
invitation to follow were borne back on the
breeze. “Y’s better all come; ’e’s hoppin’roun’
like a ’oly show.”
Heading for the Salvation Barracks, Snyder
vanished in a whirl of the north wind, and his
family’s silent astonishment broke into clamorings.
Mother sat down heavily. The little ones took
advantage of her inattention to lay desecrating
fingers on the pastry, and, unobserved, the cat
licked up a custard.
Joe, rocking with merriment, followed full tear
in Snyder’s wake. His sisters made hasty efforts
to “tidy theirselves,” and betake themselves to
the gate, and still Mother sat heavily.
“Found the Lord!” Father, who had never
found anything (but fault and beer) since he was
born. It was incredible. He who had so long
been the “Ebenezer” brethren’s trump card—
useful as a “ horrible example,” on account of his
refusal to make one of the glassy-eyed worshippers,
preferring rather to gather insolently with dere-
licts every -Sunday on the square, there to squat,
sucking at his pipe and inciting the rising
“sports” to fresh iniquity. He —the thing seemed
impossible.
True, Mother, assisted by Mrs. Pengelly, leader
in prayer at “Ebenezer,” had long “wrestled”
with the Lord for a “ Change of heart ” in him,
but apparently never with any idea of being taken
seriously, or why should Mother now throw her
apron over her head and weep, and begin to beat
her old prunella shoes on the hearth in the tattoo
of hysterics ? But she explained. “ They’re
tears of joy, I tell ’e,” she wailed, crescendo, and
beat her boots, and shivered, and wailed, and
beat her boots again, till the girls were unwil-
lingly dragged in to administer comfort.
Mag was cheerful, on the whole. ’Liza took a
pessimistic view. “He might have got saved
respectable,” she said.
Joe reached the barracks breathless, and, assum-
ing a casual air, slipped furtively into a back seat.
Sure enough, there was Father, as Snyder had
said, hopping round like a kangaroo. He came
down one aisle, skirted the bottom benches, and
turned up the other, platform bound. His white
hair was flying, his bones were creaking, his eyes
shone crazily. As he bounded past the boys he
was puffing like a locomotive, yet “ Alleylooyahs ”
still rattled out of him.
“Pretty well pumped,” muttered Joe into his
hat.
The convert was hauled, amid cheers, “halley-
looyahs,” and the rattle of tambourines to the
place of honor on the platform, which, in defi-
ance of his blown condition, he held in windy
testimony, against all comers, till the close of the
meeting.
His depressed offspring stole away home with
lurid details of the scene, and Father’s appear-
ance, hitherto of no moment whatever, was now
awaited with some trepidation.
He came to dinner full of importance and pom-
posity. Beyond fixing his illumined eyes on
Mother and saying, “I’m a noo man, Mary, my
girl, I’m born again,” he offered neither explana-
tion nor apology. But he proceeded to lay down
new laws for the regulation of the household.
“For the future,” said Father, “all my’ouse
shall serve the Lord.” He swallowed some meat.
“The Lord gave—He has —has —er”— (He aban-
doned it and tried another.) “Put your trus—
What d’yer mean by blowing yer nose like that
’ere—you young varmin?” he asked, with sudden
violence. “If I ketch you mocking Brother
Brown’s cornet again I’ll thrash yer—d’yer hear ?
Leave the room, and get ready for service, sir.”
He banged his hand imperatively, and the
startled Snyder obeyed with alacrity.
For the rest of the meal Father, eating ab-
stractedly, as in an ecstasy, eulogised his new
comrades, more especially Brother Brown, cornet
player, who, it appeared, was blest with the
“ gift of tongues,” and could “ sway multitoods.”
From that Sunday began a reign of terror. We
all had to get religion or get. The youngsters got
it first. It enabled them to shelve, on the pre-
tence of prayer, the uncongenial jobs of “morning
wood,” “knives” and “winders.” On Saturdays
they set out on joyous excursions, ostensibly
delivering the War Cry—in reality playing
behind dust-heaps.
Sunday meals were the worst of all. They were
dished up with texts, and topped with a long-
winded grace, during which Father, in the dual
capacity of preacher and castigator, exhorted and
kept order with his belt among the scoffers,
simultaneously.
Our Maggie’s ’Arold, hitherto accepted without
question at his own valuation (a high one), now
had reflections cast on his character. Father saw
in him a rank deceiver and a man of sin. Under
the new order of things he had either to court
Mag in the derisive publicity of the kitchen, or
endure Father (a hateful third) in the frost-bitten
parlor.
’Arold took it with philosophy a couple of nights.
The third evening came round, but he did not.
He went over to Johnson’s. There were three
girls there —one had money. We didn’t know
for certain which girl he selected, but young
Snyder said it was the one with money.
Liza, too, was in trouble. Her track was rough
at any time, but now it had become almost
impossible, for the Rosette Assembly (strictly
select), which was her most promising field for
the pursuit of a “boy,” had been struck out by
Father with a heavy hand. Several times she
was actually put to the inconvenience of taking
to bed at a moment’s notice—curly hair, dancing
shoes, and all—there to lie with a feverish cold
till the coast was clear.
In course of time Father became an officer and
carried the banner, and capered awkwardly in
front of the corps. He belted three of us, in-
cluding Liza, the night he rose to his new dignity.
He wasn’t a success with the banner, and no one
realised this more than Brother Brown ; but as he
hoped for Father’s influence to get him a job at
the factory, and especially as he was given the
use of our parlor to practise in, he magnanimously
refrained from complaining at headquarters.
We kept open house in the meantime to any-
thing in army duds. Pert “ lassies ” ate Mother’s
scones and cast serious reflections on the sincerity
of Mother’s professions. “Was she saved?”
That was the question—a question, by the way,
which, suggested by Brown and fired off defiantly
by Father at old M'Allister—his boss, and a rigid
Presbyterian—nearly got our progenitor the sack.
Wide streaks of hypocrisy, hitherto concealed,
now worked through to Father’s outer surface.
He sacrificed tobacco on the altar of the Lord,
and cantankerously chewed bits of leather in-
stead, glaring like a basilisk at the boys’ pipes the
while. Unfurling the standard in all weathers
and cheerfully standing in puddles for “ the
work,” he would totter home, a crabbed bundle of
rheumatic pains—a tyrant, whose creaking joints
demanded endless attention at the hands of
Mother till the small hours. Mother became a
laggard in the morning through loss of sleep, and
Father, at breakfast time, while scalding his throat
with gulps of boiling tea, taken standing, used to
rate her in Christian, but still emphatic, manner
for her indolence.
Finding her in the usual tears one morning,
Jim vowed to “ go for’’“the old man at night, his
rage being further increased by news of a dramatic
breaking and burning of all pipes found on the
premises. “ The devil’s weed is forbid in my
’ouse,” the tyrant had said. “I cast it be’ind
me.” Father was a bad second in the affray, and
Mother, in open revolt, told him not to “ack the
fool,” in the presence of Snyder, too.
There were certainly crosses ; but when, neatly
sewn up in red clothes, he proudly trod the boards
at the barracks, he felt his halo to be a great and
visible thing. About this time he took to haunt-
ing the kitchen when Mrs. Pengelly and other
lights from “Ebenezer” occasionally drank tea'
with Mother. Warped by the loss of his pipe, he
passed and repassed, glaring at the cups and
measuring the loaf with his eye, till the visitors,
shrinking from his baleful glance, would pre-
maturely take their leave.
Mother became very tired of living with a
saint. She changed her own colors, and appeared
in the guise of a Temptress, laying traps—a pipe
and bits of tobacco ; sometimes (when she was
flush) even a “sprat” would peep casually and
temptingly from ’neath the matchbox.
She came upon him, one day, tenderly and
abstractedly jamming his little finger into the
bowl of a pipe.
“For Heaven’s sake have a smoke, Father,”
implored the Temptress; “ it’ll settle your nerves,
maybe.”
Father threw the pipe in the fire, and, putting
on. his wings and halo in the passage, rushed away
to “God’s house.”
The “Square,” the haunt of his past godless-
ness, had become abomination in Father’s sight,
and young Snyder had long since been forbidden
to desecrate the Sabbath thereon. Sunday saw
him, when not at service, a close prisoner at
home, his boots confiscated to make doubly sure.
Heading the Army past the Square, one Sunday
afternoon, thankful that among the tumbling
footballers Snyder was not. Father saw the ball
rise to the heavens —a beautiful kick. His sport-
ing instincts were keen. Involuntarily he paused.
The corps did likewise.
Again the ball ascended. Simultaneously there
rose a limp, black object. This descended neatly
on a tambourine. It was a boot—an old prunella
boot —and Mother’s. Father could swear to it by
the bunion hole.
Surrendering the blood-and-fire banner to other
hands, he rushed on to the field. From the
writhing heap of arms and legs he tried to disen-
tangle a limb ending in Mother’s other boot. He
found and seized it. Snyder kicked like a Her-
cules, and Father’s eye was blackened by the
contact. He went down, and rose again. As he
rose the ball struck his other eye, and the scrum
rushed headlong over him. A muddy ruin was
led home for repairs.
That was the last day of Father’s career in the
red jersey. He went to work next morning a
bruised and rheumatic person speaking severely
about the sins of the family. He was back again
at ten o’clock. He staggered slightly, smoked a
new clay and exuded an old familiar beery odor.
“Mother, Mother,” he bellowed “where the
deuce are ye ? Mother , that blanky hang-dog chap
with the blanky cornet you’ve ’ad ’anging round
’as worked me out o’ me job ! ”
WEEROONA.


Boils, Pimples, Rashes-all eruptions of the
skin, cured by Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. A splendid
blood-purifier and strength-restorer. Read Mr. J.
Sinkinson’s strong words in its praise. His photo-
graph is also given.
sdf
“I suffered for years from indigestion,
and a sort of heat lumps over my body.
The medicines recommended to me did no
good and I only wasted my money on them.
Being strongly advised to try
AYER’S
Sarsaparilla
I did so, and was agreeably surprised, as it
did for me all that is claimed for it. After
taking several bottles I was cured entirely
of my complaints. This is some years ago,
but I have continued to take two or three bottles every year, as Ayer’s Sar-
saparilla builds me up and enables me to carry on my duties.”
J. Sinkinson, Unley, S. A.
Keep your blood in good condition, keep your digestion
strong, and keep your nervous system vigorous. Then
you will not suffer from the weakening effects of hot
weather. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla was made for just these
purposes. It cools the blood, tones up the digestive appa-
ratus, puts force into the nervous system. And it fortifies
against hot weather, cold weather, or changeable weather.
It gives strength to ward off disease.
Don’t be deceived by trying some other Sarsapa-
rilla. Don’t experiment with imitations. Hold fast
to the tried and tested Sarsaparilla —AYER’S. A
tonic for all seasons of the year.
Prepared by DH. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowed, Mass., TJ. S. A.
Ayer’s Pills are a purely vegetable laxative for the whole family.
FRE
Colored and Artistic
Post Cards.
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us vour name and address and we will forward you 12 packets,
each containing 6 of our colored and high art Post Cards to
sell for us at 6d. per packet. When you have sold the cards re-
turn us our 65., and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from the list of jewellery which we send you. By
continuing the sale of our cards you can earn a Ladles’or
pent ’s Silver Watch and Chain ; a Photo Camera
sdf
F.
It
E
E
loaded for use ; Silver Hair Brushes, and other exquisite and choice prizes. Re-
member, we want to do business with you again, and to do this we must give you full
satisfaction. We take all the Risk. You can return the cards if not sold. We have
no connection with any other firm. We are the largest dealers in post cards
m Australia, and import our Jewellery, or we could not make you this liberal offer. Be
the first in your district. Our post cards sell at once, wherever seen. Every month we
are changing and improving our post cards, which are all copyright and cannot be ob-
tained elsewhere. Our illustrated gems of Australian poets, Lindsay Gordon, Patticrson,
«0,, are unique. Our Actress Series is a collection of popular artists, comprising Grace
1 alotta, Sarah Bernhardt, Nellie Stewart, and many other artists renowned for their
talent and beauty. Our London Series contains world famous historic London buildings.
Our prizes give full satisfaction and are as represented in illustrations. We refer to any
trade agency, or to our many well-pleased agents. We have thousands of testimonials,
having built up our large business by giving full satisfaction to all.
REGAL POST CARD CO.. BK O’Connell St., Sydney, N.S.W.
YM
<A
m
FREE TRIAL/!
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
lat s* mproved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever i nvented.
It will cure all eases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney, Live , and St mach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all weakness of Men and Women,
We will give Free son writing
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in any way
delay no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free Write to-day.
The Dr Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALISE
KABUNSUI, showing sufferers how they mav CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address--
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
S'sriDiEsriE'^r-
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
■how long standing. Are the same
fto the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Aidzm-A. M. HAST, 145 Collins St., Melboara*
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
IQ6 R* CORD?
|t.SS€-^ ct °y \_\ F
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Rlcord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 38s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Faulding & Co., 18 O’Connell St.,
Bydney, and at Newoastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC, INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sulferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Oastlereagh
Street, Sydney.;
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy-
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address s HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney,
THE
HANDY HOME REMEDY
A Box of BEECHAn S PILLS should always be kept in the house,
as, like a “stitch in time, ’ they may save much future worry and expense.
On the first sign of any derangement of the system a dose should be taken,
and they will invariably have the most beneficial effect.
“Prevention is better than cure,” we are told. Next time you feel
“out of sorts,” just take a dose of BEECHAM’S PILLS, and so prevent
a seemingly small ailment growing into serious trouble. BEECHAITS
PILLS prevent illness as well as cure it. Most people take them to keep
themselves in good health. These are wise and happy ones—they hardly
ever know what ill-health is.
There is no medicine in the world to compare with
Beecham’s
Pills.
They will not harm the most delicate—and the strongest will benefit
by using them. They are a tried remedy—the trusted friend of thousands
of families all over the world.
Women especially suffer from Headache, Backache, Loss of Energy
and Spirits, Nervous Dyspepsia, and many other ailments which make life
almost unbearable. Every woman can be immediately relieved of this
suffering if upon the first sign of derangement she will take a dose
of BEECHAfI’S PILLS.
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
Sold everywhere in Boxes, Price 10|d. (36 Pills), Is. l|d. (56 Pills),
and 2s. 9d. (168 Pills).
[i.
WHEN YOU
GIVE A MAN
a. present, give him something
that he will use every day—a
thing that will not be put away
and forgotten. A good tobacco
pouch makes a nice present for
a smoker.
sd
The pattern illustrated can be supplied in Buckskin for 4e. ; Kangaroo Skin, ss. 6d. ; Antelope Skin, 6s. 6d. ;
or Seal Skin, 7s 6d., post free to any address. The Silver Shield is included in the price, and if you add
Is. to your remittance we will tastefully engrave your friend’s initials on it.
Cigarette Holders, Real Amber, Mounted in 9ct. Go d, in Case, 15s. ; with mount at top only, in
Case, tOs. 6d.
Other articles for men will be found in our Catalogue. Ask for a copy.
Every article sold by “ the Store where Quality Counts,” is sold on the distinct understanding that if not
exactly as represented, you can immediately return it, and we will refund the amount paid.
ANGUS & COOTE,
George Street, corner Royal Arcade, Sydney,
Opposite the Barometer,
Q.V. Markets.
fsd
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the fame
diseases in 48
hours without
incon-
venience.
Each Capsule bears the name tm~
f
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tiled In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE WEANS OP SELF-CURB, will
forward the same, tree ot Sharge, to any-
one interested.
Address: A.MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
V. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collection of his best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price, 4s. 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
DR.. MARTIJXT, M.D., Consulting Physician, &o.
MEN and WOMEN SUF-
FERERS, if you have failed
to find relief elsewhere, if
you are despondent, and des-
pair of ever being cured,
CONSULT DR. MARTIN.
He is the Best Authority
on all Diseases of men and
Women. His successes in
Chronic and so-called In-
curable cases have gained
for him the LARGEST CON-
V,
men
A NO
WOMEN
SULTING PRACTICE in the
Commonwealth.
DR. MARTIN’S long ex-
perience as a CLINICAL
SPECIALIST In the Hospitals
of Europe has made his
judgment infallible on Pri-
vate, Nervous, Blood, Skin,
and Genito Urinary Diseases.
He has NEVER FAILED to
Permanently Cure any case
he has undertaken.
Free to All
A 50-page specimen copy of DR. MARTIN’S great work on the DISEASES OF MEN AND
WOMEN ; Contains 34 Illustrations and Colored Plates. Write to-day for it. Posted Free.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
‘‘THE DISEASES OF MEN AND
WOMEN AND THEIR HOME CURE,”
May be had from all booksellers, PRICE 7/6 ; or, if you
apply to him now, a copy will be POSTED FRaE for 3s.
This magnificent medical work contains 692 pases Crown
Bvo., over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illus-
trations, with beautifully Pour-Colored Plate.
“ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH-STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY
(Please Mention this paper when writing.)


y<>Gr La(ll7dry Sir —
The unpunctual characteristics ef
your laundry need never trouble
you if you keep one of our
Celkiloid Collars
handy in your drawer. They
retain their nice white glossy
appearance, and look as well as
linen collars, besides saving 50
per cent, on your washing bill.
All
Sizes.
All
Styles.
Perdriau Rubber Co. L Ji
270 George St., Sydney.
ASTHMA CURE
BRIMAULtS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Couphs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR.
ETTEB. Sold hv all Chemists.
WORTHINGTON PUMP GO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
MAM MATTS
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
(OSiQGD
nvvw
(dHb
*£lbb
Ji
or
AX
r'e.l.
WOLF
At the Showrooms—
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street,
Also at SYDNEY
" THE BLOCK,"
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
Showrooms re-arranged with additional cases
and entrance fitted with Electric Elevator.
J. & J. MAXFIELD, Proprs., SHEFFIELD.
HARDY’S
pr
TINTARA
WINES. .
700 Prizes.
Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide.
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
- V 'V,
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill for
Mines or Quarries. Weight about 181bs. Operated by compressed air, consuminer about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Strictly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
S OLE_ME»TS^ W & J. LEMPRIERE;
506 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
As well as Mining Machinery, Steam Engines and Boilers,
ft
%
V)
o
09
s
vi
CO
CO
a>
o
c
'So
o
CO
h
> w
<! E
n■£
Wood Pulleys
Shafting:
Hangers
Plummer Blocks
Collars
Couplings
Drills
Reamers
Wrenches
Valves Valves Valves Valves
Oster Stocks and Dies and Taps, Crane Hinged Pipe Vyces, Emery
Wheels and Grinders, all kinds of Lubricators, Starrett Fine
Mechanical Tools, etc., etc., etc*
write for Prices to 60 Clarence-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
PATERNOSTER’S
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
L
R
TRIAL OUTFIT.
AERTEX CELLULAR DAY SHIRT,
Soft Negkband and Cuffs.
AERTEX CELLULAR SINGLET,
Half-sleeves.
AERTEX CELLULAR TRUNK
DRAWERS.
AERTEX CELLULAR HALF-HOSE,
Hand-make.
FOR
12/6
Try one of these Outfits for Spring and Summer
wear. Recommended by doctors, and an abso-
lute safeguard against colds and chills.
Sole Agents—
DAVID BRAHAM & CO,
94 King St., Sydney.
Price Lists and Patterns Post Free. All Orders over
£2 Parcels Post Free.
On the Trail
Of the Trust
By “Bulletin” Writers.
The Book is adorned ...
By “Bulletin” Artists.
IT CONTAINS A DOZEN COOP YARHB—ALL
POINTING to the NECESSITY of PROTECTION.
It’s Worth 1/3
Which is the Price Post Free from this Office.
sdf
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
v SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
PAMPA’
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BEBT.
Sold
by
all first-,
class stores
in Australasia.
No. 8176. V 2-!'.LADE
"PAMPA”
Cocoa Handle 116 \
Buffalo Handle -
Stag Handle - - - 2/6
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
s-TEraDnsriEY.
If you want the BEST QUALITY, get your DELIVERY, SUCTION, STEAM, and AIR HOSE, INDIA
RUBBER and CANVAS BELTING, ENGINE PACKINGS, JOINTING SHEET, etc., etc., from
THE INDIA RUBBER, CUTTA PERCHA & TELECRAPH WORKS CO., LTD.,
Estimates and Quotations on application. 279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IT
where you will, then turn on the steam.
No packing—no oiling and very little attendance need be given
THE PULSOMETER STEAM POMP
Especially adapted for mine service where the attention of an engineer is not always available ; has no inside or outside easily deranged mechanism.
No Pump can equal the PULSOMETER for low lifts—ore and coal washing or elevating tailings.
jmm— LARGE CATALOGUE WILL GIVE YOU VALUABLE INFORMATION.
CENTRIFUGAL, SINKER and other Pumps manufactured by Pulsometer Engineering Co., England
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTD., Sydney and Melbourne, Agents.
