

DEWAR’S
SIXTY YEARS’
REPUTATION.
wi3:iisis:"sr_
Mining
and Contractors’ Plant,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS
107 Kent Street,
—FOR—
Engineers’ and
IRONMONGERY NEW &m>
Sydney,
Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
HOBART.
' —-iSjK—
.9
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., *1 Bent St., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SOLE AGENTS
ĥ
ECONOMICAL
DURABLE
Send for Illustrated Lists and Particulars. Tor General Farm Purposes, Grinding Teed, Pumping Water, Chaff Cutting,
• — —————— — —
ħ
Take it back.
have
must
s
HUTTON
Pine-Apple Brand
h
CHUBB’S
PATENT LOCKS
LINOLITE
(LINE O’ LIGHT).
The New System of ElectricalTHumination for
SHOP WINDOWS, PICTURE
GALLERIES. ADVERTISE-
MENTS, PUBLIC ILLUMINA-
TIONS, PRIVATE HOUSE
LIGHTING, &c.
Suitable for Continuous or Alternating Current.
Sole Agents for Australia :
The Edison & Swan United
Electric Light CoLtd.,
58 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commonwealth Buildings, Adelaide Street, BRISBANE
Australian Buildings, Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
'STS
U
d ukA
ĥ
To Send your WOOL and PRODUCE to
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO.
WOOL COMMISSION 2 Per Cent.
The Only Charge to GROWERS.
LIMITED,
E. J. E. MACKENZIE, Manager.
ħ
SIMPLEX
The World’s Best Oil Engine.
-IRRIGATION PLANTS SUPPLIED.
ABSOLUTE
Reliability
Simplicity
Efficiency
Durability
No Worry or Trouble
NO LIGHT wanted.
IGNITION is
AUTOMATIC.
No Carbonization
whatever.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
All Sizes.
Stationary & Portable.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue B.
E. COULSON
116 a’Beckett Street,
Melbourne
#
BECKS LAGER
Steamers
&
N
D
L
&
supplied
the
P
O
to
As
Bottled by KAISER BREWERY
CO., BREMEN, GERMANY
Brewed
&
BECK
&
T*
a
Trade Mark
Regd.
WUNDERLICH
METAL CEILINGS.
A. HARRIS CO.
156, 158, 160 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE. •
Wholesale Buyers & Country Storekeepers write for Catalogues ana Special Sale Prices.
importers of Crockery, E.P. Ware,
Watches, Jewellery, Fancy Goods,
Tobacconists’ Supplies, &c., &c.
(Wholesale and Retail).
Gigantic Bankrupt Stock Sale
NOW ON. SEE DAILY PAPERS.
HE LI DON SPA Absolutely the BEST TABLE WATER
1 1 C3K3X.X.I3XT jfc OQ.. Agentß.
The Bulletin
Vol. 27.—N0. 1398.]
[Thursday, November 29, 1906.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW
BOOKS
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.,
71 CASTLEREACH ST.,
SYDNEY.
Weyman, Chipping, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, postage 6d.
“ Rita,” Saba MacDonald, 2s 6'd & 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Chamber’s Concise Gazetteer, new edition, 7s 6d, postBd
Nicholson. Relation of Rent and Wages, 2s 6d post 6d
Perugine,’X3omedy of Charles Dickens, 6s, post 6d.
Johnston, Writing and Illuminating, illus., Bs, post 6d
Technological and Scientific Dictionary, 245, post Is
Gloag, Book of English Gard ns, illus., 12s 6d, post 'is.
Hoare, Arctie Exploration, illus., 9s, postage lOd.
Fourniers, The Electron Theory, 6s, post 6d.
SQmerville and Itoss, Some Irish Yesterdays, 3s 6d, p. 6d
Pratt, Ambrose, The Counterstroke, 3s 6d, post (id.
Crawford, A Lady of Rome, 2s 6d, & 3s 6d, post 6d.
BaikiefWhrough the Telescope, 6s, post 6d.
Giacomo Puccini, Masters of Music, 3s, post 4d.
The Gibson Calender, 1907,155, postage 9d.
Steuart, The Wages of Pleasure, 3s 6d, post 6d.
Hume’s Essays, R.P.A. Series, 9d posted.
Send for list of volumes of EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY- a series all bookfellows’ should have.
I’IHE BOOKFELLOW’S, Hamilton Street,
1 Sydney—the New Book-Shop—supplies
All the Literature of'Out-Back. “ Along
his iront no weapons shine, No blood-
red pennons wave, His banner bears
the simple line, Our duty is to save” your
money by selling THIRTY-FIVE SELECTED
SIXPENNIES FOR £l, post-free anywhere.—
Memo. : O. Wilde’s plays, hitherto at fancy
prices, just out in a fine edition, two vols., for
16s. post free.—WRITE for EVERYTHING in
the BOOK LINE to A. 3.8.
THE AUTHOR WITH THE LARCEST PUBLIC
The Sales of Nat Gould’s Novels exceed
5.000,000 (five million) copies
Mr. JOHN Lons has, at enormous expense,
secured the sole rights of publishing all Mr. Nat
Gould’s N'eiv Novel#. They are produced in more
attractive style than hitherto, with cover designs
in colours by Mr. Harrington Bird, the well-known *
horse painter. The following are those published *
by Mr. John Long : •
Price 2 s !. each, picture boards ; or cloth gilt
2s, 6d. each. Crown Bvo, 288 pages.
ONE OF A MOB Ready
THE SELLING PLATER Ready
THE LADY TRAINER Ready
A STRAIGHT COER Ready
A HUNDRED TO ONE CHANCE Ready
A SPORTING SQUATTER Nov.
CHARGER AND CHASER | Jan., 190 V
NAT GOULD’S NEW SIXPENCES
Large demy Svo. Cover in colors, sewed
ONE OF A MOB Ready
THE SELLING PLATER Ready
A BIT OF A ROGUE Feb., 1907.
Fourth Year op Publication
NAT GOULD’S ANNUAL
(1906)
THE PET OP THE PUBLIC
Price Is., large demy Bvo., 160 pages, sewed,
cover in colors
Note.— This Popular Annual, containing a com-
plete and entirely new long Novel by Nat Gould
will be ready in November.
N.B.—A Novel by Nat Gould without the im-
print of John Lose is an old, one. Therefore, in-
sist on being supplied with those bearing the
imprint of John Long.
London : JOHN LONG, Publisher
13 & 14 NORRIS ST., HAYMARKET
And at every Library and Bookseller’s throughout,
the British Empire.
FOR THE LUNGS, THE THROAT, THE VOICE.
The Great. .
ANTISEPTIC
REMEDY
For the Cure op
Bronchitis !
and Influenza !
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
h
A. The Larynx, or organ of voice.
B. The Trach.ea, or windpipe.
O. The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
“ Of great service in
affections of the
voice and throat.”
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
Unlike Cough Medicines, do nob cause gastric discomfort or digestive derangement.
“ Thb Practitioner” says “ Useful in Tonsilitis, Pharyngitis, and similar ailments.
Sold by all Chemists. Tins, Is. 6d. *
THE RED PAGE.
SONNETS BY GEORGE MEREDITH
LUCIFER IN STARLIGHT.
On a starred night Prince Lucifer uprose.
JLired of his dark dominion swung the fiend
Above the rolling ball in cloud part screened,
Where sinners hugged their spectre of repose.
Jroor prey to his hot fit of pride were those.
And now upon his western wing he leaned,
Now his huge bulk o’er Afric’s sands careened,
Now the black planet shadowed Arctic snows.
Soaring through wider zones that pricked his scars
With memory of the old revolt from Awe,
He reached a middle height, and at the stars,
Which are the brain of heaven, he looked and sank
Around the ancient track marched, rank on rank
I he army of unalterable law.
EARTH’S SECRET.
Not solitarily in fields we find
Earth’s secret open, though one page is there ;
Her plainest, such as children spell, and share
With bird and breast; raised letters for the blind.
Not where the troubled passions toss the mind,
In turbid cities, can the key be bare.
It hangs for those who hither thither fare,
Close interthreading nature with our kind.
a j 1 bearing History speak of what men were,
And have become, are wise. The gain is great
In vision and solidity ; it lives.
Yet at a thought of life apart from her,
Solidity and vision lose their istate,
Eor Earth, that gives the milk, the spirit gives.
THE SPIRIT OF SHAKESPEARE.
i.
Thy greatest knew thee, Mother Earth; unsoured
He knew thy sons. He probed from hell to hell
Of human passions, but of love deflowered
His wisdom was not, for he knew thee well.
Thence eame the honeyed corner at his .lips,
The conquering smile wherein his spirit sails
Calm as the God who the white sea-wave whips,
Yet full.of speech and intershifting tales,
Close mirrors of us : thence had he the laugh
We feel is thine: broad as ten thousand beeves
At pasture ! thence thy songs, that winnow chaff
From grain, bid sick Philosophy’s last leaves
Whirl, if they have no response—they enforced
To fatten Earth when from her soul divorced,
ir.
How smiles he at a generation ranked
In gloomy noddings over life ! They pass.
Not he to feed upon a breast unthanked,
Or eye a beauteous face in a cracked glass.
But he can spy that little twist of brain
Which moved some weighty leader of the blind,
Unwitting ’t was the goad of personal pain,
To view in curst eclipse our Mother’s mind.
And show us of some rigid harridan
The wretched bondmen till the end of time.
O lived the Master now to paint us Man,
That little twist of bra.n would ring a chime
Of 1 whence it came and what it caused, to start
Thunders of laughter, clearing air and heart.
GRACE AND LOVE.
Two flower-enfolding crystal vases she
I love fills daily, mindful but of one :
And close behind pale morn she, like the sun
Priming our world with light, pours, sweet to see,
Clear water in the cup, and into me
The image oJLherself : and that being done,
Choice of what blooms round her fair garden run
In climbers or in creepers or the tree,
She ranges with unerring fingers fine,
To harmony so vivid that through sight
I hear, I have her heavenliness to fold
Beyond the senses, where such love as mine.
Such grace as hers, should the strange Fates with-
hold
Their starry more from her and me, unite.
THE COMFORTING COMMA
mHE golden rule in punctuation is :
| Do your punctuation your own way—
and the compositor will do it his.
And it is evident, from the specimen
printed hereunder, that it is quite time
Rudyard Kipling changed his compositor.
For so preposterous is the punctuation of
some of his later verses in Puck of Pook’s
Hill that Kipling can only plead in palliation
the machination of his compositor. The
trite thought in the following verses from
Puck is gracefully expressed—but the cor-
ruscation of superfluous commas !
Cities and Thrones and Powers,
Stand in Time’s eye.
Almost as long as flowers,
Which daily die:
But, as new buds put forth,
To glad new men,
Out of the spent and inconsidered Earth,
The cities rise again.
This season’s Daffodil,
She never hears,
What change, what chance, what chill,
Cut down last year’s :
But with bold countenance,
And knowledge small,
Esteems her seven days’ eontin uance
To be perpetual. ♦
So Time that is o’er-kind,
To all that be,
Ordains us e’en as blind,
As bold as she :
That in our very death,
And burial sure,
Shadow to shadow, well persuaded, saith,
‘ See how our works endure ! ’
A consideration of these verses will show
that Kipling, the rare artist in words, has
lost himself in a jungle of commas ; his rough
and ready rule seems to be-r-when in doubt,
put a comma at the end of every line. It is
only necessary to print these verses as prose
in order to show how distressfully Kipling
has come out in spots.
Cities and Thrones and Powers (comma) stand
in Time’s ey & (comma) almost as long as flowers
(comma) which daily die (colon) but (comma)
as new buds put forth (comma) to glad new men
(comma) out of the spent and inconsidered Earth
(comma) the cities rise again. This season’s
Daffodil (comma) she never hears (comma) what
change (comma) what chance (comma) what chill
(comma) cut down last year’s (colon) but with
bold countenance (comma) and knowledge small
(comma) esteems her seven days’ continuance to
be perpetual. So time that is o’er-kind (comma)
to all that be (comma) ordains us e’en as blind
(comma) as bold as she (colon) that in our very
death (comma) and burial sure (comma) shadow
to shadow (comma) well persuaded (comma) saith
(comma) “ See how our works endure ? ”
With the most liberal allowance, there are
at least half-a-dozen commas too many in
these verses. And Kipling sins not only
against the uncomplaining comma ; in his
verses quoted last week he has sentences as
slip-shod as this : ‘ £ He knows what far
snows melt; along what mountain-wall a
thousand leagues to the North.” Here he
has brutally misused a semi-colon. Let us
commend to this tiro in punctuation the
careful study of the thirty pages treating of
the proper use of the mere comma in The
King’s English (Clarendon Press), where he
will find such advice as this :
Any one who finds himself putting down several
commas close to one another should reflect that he
is making himself disagreeable, and question his
conscience, as severely as we ought to do about
disagreeable conduct in real life, whether it is
necessary.... Erasing a pair of commas may make
the difference in writing that is made in conversa-
tion by a change of tone from the didactic to the
courteous.... It is a safe statement that a gather-
ing of commas (except on certain lawful occasions,
as in a list) is a suspicious circumstance. The
sentence should at least be read aloud, and if it
halts or jolts some change or other should be
made.... Ungrammatical insertion of stops is a
high crimeand misdemeanor, whereas ungrammati-
cal omission of them is often venial, and in some
cases even desirable.... It is a sound principle
that as few stops should be used as will do the
work.... Everyone should make up his mind not
to depend on his stops.
ET CETERA
There is no need for the supernatural nowadays:
Kipling’s device of a magic-working Puck is hut a
clumsy expedient when contrasted with Jack
London’s scientific basis for recreating the past.
In Everybody's Magazine London begins a serial,
Before Adam, which promises interesting develop-
ments. He uses the simple device of the racial
memory surviving in a modern man in a super-
developed form, and vexing him with vivid dreams
of that prehistoric past when ape-man was just
beginning to desert his comfortable trees and walk
erect on the strange and terror-filled earth. Inci-
dentally London draws these pictures of his
Mid-Pleistocene arboreal mother and father.
“She was like a large orang-utan, or like a
chimpanzee; and yet, in sharp and definite ways,
quite different. She was heavier in build than
they, and had less hair. Her arms were not so
long, and her legs were stouter. She wore no
clothes —only her natural hair . . . And, like a
fury, she dashed upon the scene. She was gritting
her. teeth, making frightful grimaces, snarling. . . .
He was not an extremely prepossessing father, as
fathers go. He seemed half man and half ape,
and yet not ape, and not yet man. . . . His
face was broad and flat, and the eye-
brows overhung the eyes. The eyes themselves
were small, deep-set and close together. He had
practically no nose at all. It was . squat and
broad, apparently without any bridge, while the
nostrils were like two holes in the face, opening
outward instead of down. The forehead si mted
back from the eyes, and the hair began right at
the eyes, and ran up over the head. . . . There
was an elemental economy about his body—as
there was about all our bodies. The chest was
deep, it is true, deep ; but there were
no full-swelling muscles, no wide-spreading
shoulders, no clean-limbed straightness, no gener-
ous symmetry of outline. ... I remember that
he could not walk on the flat of his foot. That
was because it was prehensile, more like a hand
than a foot. . . . He came through the trees, leap!
ing from limb to limb, and from tree to tree ; and
he came swiftlv . . . swinging along through the
trees, a four-handed, hairy creature, howling with
rage, pausing now and again to beat his chest with
his clenched fist, leaping ten and fifteen-foot gaps,
catching a branch with one hand, and swinging*
on across another gap to catch with his other hand
and go on, never hesitating, never at a loss as to
how to proceed on his arboreal way.”
The reader will look forward with interest to
the description of the heroine.
J*
The business side of American magazines.
This is hovy they ad vertise—for their advertisers.
Scribner's informs advertisers that it is “in the
200,000 class; your advertisements will go into
200,000 homes where your goods should find a con-
tinuous market.” Harper’s has “an exclusive
circulation among the refined ar.d well-to-do.. .
a powerful buying clientile.” McClure's “deals
with over 414,000 families.” The American quotes
its editorial staff with the remark that' these
writers “have added to circulation of
other magazines in 100,000 ' lots,” and for
the future “ their work will be devoted to
the up-building of The American.” The pick of
the bunch, however, seems to be Gunter's, which
“covers a territory that no other publication
reaches. This territory consists of Archibald
Clavering Gunter’s following.... This publishing
house can show a record of over ten million copies
of a dozen romances by this author, and 50,000 of
his following buy the magazine each month.” It
is apparently a wild distinction to be one of the
following of a person of the name of Gunter.
“O’Fipp ” : Isn’t it time the white-haired boy
of the “literature societies” was publicly re-
christened ’Damn Lindsay Gordon ? -
“ Mudd ” hazards another derivation for
boyangs. Suggests that as the miners of ’49
carried their sheath knives in the tops of their
Wellington boots, and later in their boyangs, the
word might have arrived from “ bowie-hangs.”
This derivation has, at least, the charm of ori-
ginality.
THE PIONEERS.
Poet, whose verse in lines that glow,
Shull tell lads yet to come
Of Hawke’s dread swoop upon the foe,
Or rattle of Drake’s drum, ;
. Bard of that bright sea-glory’s roll,
Where battle splendors play,
What can this bring to touch thy soul,
This land of mere To-day ?
Sundered—a hemisphere away ;
Distant—an empire’s length ;
Resistless, friendly myriads lay,
Great England’s shattering strength.
But here, strange hills and silent shore
Shut in the lonely few,
And o’er dark ridge and torrents roar,
The very stars were new.
Through gorge and flood, ’neath gale and sun,
They forced their trackless way.
Meeting in fight hard-fought, hard-won,
Brown warriors brave as they.
Through storms they jested, rode or slept ;
They fought with brightened eye ;
Baffled or conquering they kept
A stoic levity.
And then—the narrow days ; the numb
And slack, discouraged mood.
And coarse monotony, and dumb
Entombing solitude ;
The weary, spirit-deadening page
Of lean, resultless years.
These were their foes —more fell to face
Than soul-awakening fears.
Strong few, of solitary thought
And visionary ray l
Brave common many, who yet wrought,
Enduring for their day 1
Passing, they saw their race abide,
And now we know them great,
Whose hands took plain and mountain-side,
And graved thereon a State.
[From a scholarly set of verses, inscribed To
Henry Newbolt, by \V. P. Peeves, poet and High
Commissioner, in Oct. National Review .]
Lord Rosebery adds a personal note to Win-
ston Churchill's life of Lord Randolph in the
shape of a small volume published by A. L.
Humphreys, Loud, (per The Book Club). In his
balanced and sonorous prose Lord Rosebery, after
paying the highest of tributes to Winston
Churchill’s Life, draws this portrait of that
“shooting star of politics,” his dead friend.
Randolph’s personality was o‘ne full of charm,
both in public and in private life. His demeanor,
his unexpectedness, his fits of caressing humility,
his impulsiveness, his tinge of violent eccentricity,
his apparent daredevilry, made him a fascinating
companion; while his wit, his sarcasm, his
pieroing personalities, his elaborate irony and his
effective delivery gave astonishing popularity to
his speeches. Nor were his physical attributes
without their attraction. His slim and boyish
figure, his moustache, which had an emotiot»of its
own, his round, protruding eye, gave a compound
interest to his speeches and his conversation. His
laugh, which has been described as “jaylike,’’was,
indeed, not melodious, but in its very weird-
ness and discordance it was merriment itself....
He had also the vital mainspring of zest. To
whatever he applied himself he gave for the time
his whole eager heart. He was strenuous at
politics, but he was also at times devoted to
hunting, racing, and chess, and he took gastro-
nomy as seriously as Maeauley. But whatever it
might be, politics or pleasure, it possessed him
entirely; he did it with gusto, with every nerve
and every fibre,... He returned to England... and
went on the turf. This was a new passion with
him ; inferior, indeed, in excitement, as Lord
Palmerston once remarked, to politics ; but new
and absorbing. ... Racing remained a passion
with him to the end. Almost every letter that I
had from him in his last years of life was about that
sport. Let not ambition mock these homely joys...
He .will be pathetically memorable, too, for the
dark cloud which gradually enveloped him, and in
which he passed away. He was the chief mourner
at his own protracted funeral, a public pageant of
gloomy years. Will he not he remembered as much
for the anguish as for the fleeting triumphs, of his
life? It is a black moment when the heralds
proclaim the passing of the dead, and the great
officers break their staves. But it is sadder still
when it is the victim’s own voice that announces
his decadence, when it is the victim’s own hands
that break the staff in public.
fit
Arthur 0. Benson, who has a habit of publishing
his books anonymously, gi ves his impressions of
the reviewer in Oct. Putnam’s Monthly. He
believes that hooks are actually read by reviewers,
and rather carefully, though “ probably with a
certain practised speed that would be incredible
to a man whose business it had never been
to tear the hea»# out of a book and vivisect it.”
And the days of the old slashing and bullying
review are practically over. Modern readers do
not want style; they want amusement, an emo-
tional thrill. They want the characters to be
manly, womanly, typical. They want sentiment
rather than poetry, color rather than delicacy.
The trouble about reviewers is that they accept,
and do not educate, public taste. “ The public
seems to want a vast supply of not very masterly
novels, and there is no reason why they should
not have what they want.”
fit
“Leonardo”: “Imagine Esperanto, with ita
consistency and exactness, the universal scientific
and philosophic medium, and then think of
reading Schopenhauer, Haeckle, Voltaire, etc.,
straight from the minds of the authors, instead of
being retransmitted through the translators’
tinted spectacles.” Well, imagine it!
The primrose path. “ A Complete Apprentice-
ship to Literature” is advertised in a London
literary periodical. “Our success course, written
by a novelist whose name is a household word,
will«teach you the essentials which are necessary
to your success, and save you years of fruitless
striving.” Now, who is that novelist ?
Mirk Twain, in his Autobiography , discourse*
with R. L. Stevenson upon “submerged renown-
Stevenson had heard of a writer named Davis
who was apparently,the most popular author
the United. States. His books had to hav
freight-trains to carry them, not baskets.
“ Nobody has heard of Davis.. . . You never see
his name mentioned in print, not even in adver
tisement; these things are of no use to Davis, no
any more than they are to the wind and the sea
You never see one of Davis’s books floating 01
top of the United States; but put on your diving
armor and get yourself lowered away down anc
down and down till you strike the dense region
the sunless region of eternal drudgery and starva
tion wages—there you’ll find them by the million
The man that gets that market, his fortune is
made, his bread and butter are safe, for those
people will never go back on him. An authoi
may have a reputation which is confined to
the surface, and lose it and become pitied, then
despised, then forgotten, entirely forgotten—the
'frequent steps in a surface reputation. A surface
reputation, nowever great, is always mortal, and
always killable if you go at it right—with pins
and needles, and quiet, slow poison, not with the
club and tomahawk. But it is a different matter
with the submerged reputation—down in the deep
water ; once a favorite there, always a favorite
once beloved, always beloved ; once respected,
always respected, honored, and believed in. For
what the reviewer says never finds its way down
into those placid deeps; nor the newspaper
sneers, nor any breath of jthe winds of slander
blowing above. Down there they never hear of
these things. Their idol may be painted clay, up
there at the surface, and fade and waste and
crumble and blow away, there being much
weather there; but down below he is gold and
adamant and indestructable.”
Steele Rudd's Magazine, “all Australian,” for
Nov., contains an interesting critical article by
Arthur A. D. Bayldon upon the art of novel-
writing ; “A Policy for Australia ” ; a well-
illustrated chapter of the life of Robert Brough ;
and much cheerful Australian fiction, verse, and
many illustrations. Some of the latter do not
adorn even the advertisement pages into which
they have been callously thrust. Altogether a
readable issue.
Correspondents will note that the controversy
as to which poet balances himself “on the pinnacle
of Australian poesy ’’ is hereby brutally butchered.
The pinnacle is still to let.
Stratford-on-Avon now possesses American
soda fountains and a meandering steam launch
named Georgg Washington. Stated that a local
publisher contemplates bringing out an American
translation of Shakespeare. Stratford-on-Avon
is the village where Marie Corelli lives.
“D.B.MTi.” : Reports of Deniehy’slectures on
Scottish Song might be found in Freeman’s
Journal of the time. They are not separately
procurable.


Will
Senel Your WOOL to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., LTD.,
The Leading: Sydney Salesmen
THE LEADING FISHING TACKLE DEPOT
We carry a Complete Stock of all the Best Continental Fishing: Tackle suitable for Australian Fishing 1 .
The Largest and Most Up-to-date Stock of
Mlok Simmons
FISHING TACKLE
In The
States.
RODS, REELS, LINES, FLIES, MINNOWS, SPINNERS, HOOKS, Suitable for any Fish.
Rods and Reels Built to Order, Prices on application.
All our Goods are made of the best materials and by the most improved machinery and
mechanics it is possible to obtain, therefore we can fully guarantee that they will bear
out the reputation they have gamed of being the best and cheapest in the world.
Best Spiit Cane Rods .
These Rods are made especially to our expert’s
designs and guaranteed to stand the severest tests.
No. 1, Pattern 800—15 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip,
bronzed fittings, serrated ferrules, best snake rings,
silk whippings, rubber button and metal knife for
butt; weight, 21bs., complete in bag, £5 10s.
No. 2, Pattern 800—14 feet. 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip,
bronzed fittings, serrated ferrules, best snake rings,
silk whippings, rubber button ; weight, 14oz. ; com-
plete in bag, £4 15s.
No. 3, Pattern 800—12 feat, 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip,
bronze fittings, net handle hollow for tops, best snake
rings, silk whippings, button ; weight, 13oz. ; com-
plete in bag (metal brazed), £2.
No. 4, Pattern 800—11 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grjp,
bronzed fittings, German silver snake rings, silk
whippings, best finish, button ; weight, Boz. ; com-
plete in bag (metal brazed), 21s.
No. 5, Pattern 800a—12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip,
bronzed fittings, lock joints, net handle for tops,
serrated ferrules, best snake rings, silk Whippings,
rubber button and metal knife for butt; weight,
14 oz. ; complete in bag, £2 10s.
No. 6, Pattern 800a—12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, steel centre,
spiral lock joint, bronzed fittings, serrated ferrules,
German silver snake rings, silk whippings, landing
handle hollow for tops, rubber button and metal
butt; weight 16oz. ; complete in bag, £4 10s.
Best Greenheart Rods.
Many of the leading anglers who have used our Greenheart
Rods speak in the highest praise of their durability.
No. 13, Pattern 200—13 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, balanced
grip, bronzed fittings, best snake rings, universal
winch fittings, knife for butt, superior finish ; weight,
14 ozs. ; in bag (metal brazed), 26s 6d.
No. 14, Pattern 200—12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, balanced
grip, bronzed fittings, best snake rings, universal
winch fittings, knife for butt, superior finish (weight,
1 lb. 12 ozs. ; in bag (metal brazed), 245.
No. 15, Pattern 200—14 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, balanced
grip, bronzed fittings, best snake rings, universal
winch fittings, wood button, superior finish ; weight,
1 lb. 12 ozs. ; in bag (metal brazed), 30s.
No. 16, Pattern 200—12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops (one short,
balanced grip, bronzed fit tings, snake rings, universal
winch fittings, knife for butt; weight, 14 ozs. ; in
bag, 14s.
No. 17a, Pattern 200—12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops (1 short),
balanced grip, bronzed fittings, snake rings, universal
winch fittings ; weight, 16 ozs. ; in bag, 14s.
MICK SIMMONS
No. 400.
General Rod for Fish up to 61b. Weight.
No. 18, Pattern 200—12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops (one short), cork grip, lock joints, bronzed fittings, best snake
rings, universal winch fittings, wbod button, superior finish ; weight, 14oz. ; in bag (metal brazed), 255.
No. 19, Pattern 200—12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip, bronzed fittings, best snake rings, universal winch
fittings, wood button, superior finish ; weight, 140 z.,; in bag, 21s.
No. 19s, Pattern 200—12 feet 3 joints, 2 tops, wood grip, bronzed fittings, best snake rings, universal winch
fittings, screw butt, superior finish ; weight, 16oz. ; in bag, 17s 6d.
No. 22, Pattern 400—13 feet, 3 joints, 1 top, balanced grip, bronzed fittings, snake rings, universal winch fittings;
weight, 14oz. ; in bag, 11s 6d.
No. 23, Pattern 400—12 feet ,3 joints, 1 top, balanced grip, bronzed fittings, snake rings, universal winch fittings ;
weight, 16oz. ; in baer, 9s 6d.
No. 24, Pattern 400—10 feet, 3 joints, 1 top, balanced grip, bronzed fittings, snake rings, universal winch fittings,
wood button ; weight, 160 z.; in bag, 9s 6d.
No. 24a, Pattern 400—11 feet, 3 joints 1 top, balanced grip, bronzed Sittings, snake rings, universal winch
fittings, wood button ; weight, 170 z.; in bag, 10s 6d.
No. 25, Pattern 400—12 feet, 3 joints, 1 top, balanced grip, bronzed fittings, snake rings, universal winch
fittings, wood button, strong make : weight 14oz. ; in bag, 11s.
No. 26, Pattern 400—14 feet, 3 joints, 1 top, balanced grip, bronzed fittings, snake rings, universal winch fittings ;
weight, 14oz. ;in bag, 15s 6d.
No. 27, Pattern 400—14 feet, 3 joints, 1 top, balanced grip, bronzed fittings, snake rings, universal winch fittings,
wood button, in bag, strong make ; weight, lib. 60z., 16s 6d.
No. 29, Pattern 500—12 feet, 4 joints, 3 tops, tapered butt, best fittings, snake rings, universal winch fittings,
wood button ; weight, lib. 3oz. ;in bag, 16s 6d. Post free, N.S.W., 17s 3d ; Interstate, 17s Bd.
No. 30, Pattern 500—10 feet, 4 joints, 1 top, tapered butt, best fittings, snake rings, best winch fittings, strong
make, wood button ; weight, lib. Boz. ;in bag, 9s. Post free, N.S.W., 9s 9d ; Interstate, 10s 2d.
No. 81, Pattern 500—12 feet, 4 joints, 1 top, tapered butt, bronzed fittings, best snake rings, universal winch
fittings, strong make, wood button ; weight, lib. 4oz. ; in bag, 15s. Post free, N.S.W., 15s 9d ; Interstate,
16s 2d.
No. 32, Pattern 500—12 feet, 4 joints, 3 tops (1 short), tapered butt, best fittings, best snake rings, universal
winch fittings, extra strong make ; weight, lib. 40z.; in bags, 18s 6d. Post free, N.S.W., 19s 3d ; Interstate,
19s Bd.
No. 33, Pattern 600—12 feet, 4 joints, 3 tops, tapered hollow butt for carrying tops, bronzed fittings, universal
winch fittings, best snake rings, knife for butt; weight, 140z5.; in bag (strong make), 19s 6d. Post free
N.S.W., 20s 3d ; Interstate, 20$ Bd.
No. 34, Pattern 600—14 feet, 4 joints, 8 tops, tapered hollow butt for carrying tops, bronzed fittings, universal
winch fittings, best snake rings, knife for butt; weight, lib. 6ozs.; in bag (strong make), 21s.
Best Lancewood Rods.
8008.
Split Cane.
No. 12, Pattern 100—12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, balanced grip, best nickel fittings, best rings, best winch fittings ;
weight, llozs. ; in wood case and bag, 10s 6d.
No. 17, Pattern 200—12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops (1 short), balanced grip, best bronzed fittings, snake rings, universal
winch fittings, wood button, superior finish ; weight, 150z5.; in bag, 13s 6d.
Best Quality Hickory Rods.
These Rods are especially made to our own designs and guaranteed to stand satisfactory tests.
No. 35, Pattern 500—12 feet, 4 joints, 1 top, tapered butt, best fittings, upright rings, best winch fittings;
weight, lib. 6oz. ;in bag, 7s 6d. Post free N.S.W., 8s 3d ; Interstate, 8s Bd.
No. 36, Pattern 500—11 feet, 4 joints, 2 tops (1 short), tapered butt, best fittings, snake rings, universal winch
fittings ; weight, 140z5.; in bag, Bs. Post free N.S.W., 8s 9d ; Interstate, 9s 2d.
No. 37, Pattern 500—10 feet, 5 joints, 1 top, tapered butt, best fittings, snake rings, universal winch fittings ;
weight, 13ozs. ; in bag, 10s. Post free N.S.W., 10s 6d ; Interstate, 10s Bd.
No. 38, Pattern 500—12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, tapered butt, best fittings, snake rings, universal winch fittings;
weight, 1 lb. 14 ozs. ; in bag, 10s 6d.
No. 39, Pattern 600—12 feet, 4 joints, 2 tops (1 short), tapered butt, best bronzed fittings, snake rings, uni-
versal winch fittings, best finish ; weight, 1 lb. 2 oz.; in bag, 9s 6d. Post free N.S.W., 10s 3d; Inter-
state, 10s Bd.
No. 40, Pattern 500—11 feet, 6 joints, 1 top, tapered butt, best fittings, best snake rings, universal winch
fittings; weight, 1 lb. 1 oz.; in bag, 13s 6d. Post free N.S.W., 14s 3d; Interstate, 14s Bd.
No. 41, Pattern 600—12 feet, 4 joints, 2 tops (1 short), tapered butt, best bronzed fittings, best snake rings,
universal winch fittings, best finish, knife for butt; weight, 1 lb. 3 ozs. ;in bag, 15s. Post free N.S.W.,*
15s fid ; Interstate, 16s 2d.
No. 41a, Pattern 500—12 feet, 5 joints, 3 tops (1 spinning), tapered butt, best fittings, snake rings, universal
winch fittings, best finish; weight, 1 lb. sozs.; in bag, 13s 6d. Post free in N.S.W., 14s 3d; Interstate,
14s Bd.
No. 42, Pattern 500—14 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, tapered butt, best bronzed fittings, best snake rings, universal
winch fittings, knife for butt, superior finish, strong make; weight, 1 lb. 12 ozs. ; in bag, 27s 6d.
No. 43, Pattern 500—10 feet, 4 joints, 1 top, tapered butt, best fittings, upright rings, best winch fittings;
weight, 1 lb. Bozs. ; in bag, ss. 6d. Post free N.S.W., Cs 3d; Interstate, 6s Bd.
Illustrated Fishing Tackle, Sports, Tobacco Lists, Sample Sheet of Fish Hooks
ana Hints on Fishing, POST FREE.
Nottingham Pattern Walnut Wood Reels
HI I
All our Nottingham
Wood Reels are
manufactured from
the Best Materials
and Properly
Seasoned Wood.
No. I—B es t Solid
Brass Fittings,
Fast Handles, pol-
ished, 2in. dia-
meter, Is 6d
each ; 2£in., Is 9d
each ; 3in., 2s 3d
each ; 3£in., 2s 6d
each ; 4in., 3s 6d
each ; 4£in., 4s 6d
each; Sin., Gs
each.
No. la—Solid Brass
Fitting's, Fast
Handles, polished,
2in. diameter, Is
each ; 2£in., Is 3d
each ; 3in., Is 6d
each ; 3£in., Is 6d
each; 4in., Is 9d
each.
MICK SIMMONS
No. 2
No. Ib—Brass Back Polished Boy’s Reel, one handle, 2in. diameter, 6d each ; 2}in., 7d each ; 3in., lOd each*
No. 2a—Best Star Back, brass handle plates and fittings, movable check, 3in. diameter, 5s each ; 3Mn., 6s each
4in. 7s each, without guard. .
No. 2—Best Star Back, brass fittings, movable check, 3in. diameter, 5s 6d each ; 3Jin., Cs 6d each ; 4in., 7s each
4jin., 7s 6d each ; sin., 8s 6d each, without guard.
Our Expert is visiting the Xumut and Cooma Trout Streams*
No. 10
No. 10—Gunmetal Movable Check Reel, Screwed
Fittings, Plated, 2in., 2s each ; 2£in., 2s 6d.
Best Tackle Books -
No. 80.
No. 96—Best Combination Tackle. Book, 6in., 7s each
No. 92—l£in. Grained Leather, 2 Parchment Pockets,
Pages for Flies, Flannel, &c., Is, Is 3d, Is 6d each
No 93 —4in. Leather, Three Pockets, Trout Pages,
Felts, Strap and Buckle, 3s 6d each.
No. 94—5 in. Solid Leather, Two Pockets, Parchment
Pages, Felts, &c., Strap and Buckle, 4s 6d each.
No. 95 —4in. Canvas Cover, Waterproof, Two Pockets,
Trout Pages, Parchment Pockets, Felts, Strap
and Buckle, etc., 5s 6d each.
No. 3a —Best Combination Reel, Star Back, Movable
Check, Patent Line Guard, Detachable Barrel,
3in., 12s each ; 4in., 13s 6d each.
We have just published our immense
Fishing Tackle Catalogue.
Palley’s Cast Case
Superior Quality Fishing Lines
10s
12s each.
14s
16s
20s
No. 146 —The Standard Waterproof Plaited Braided Silk Line, rolled on cork.
No. 20yds. 40yds. 80yds.
660 3s
F4O 3s 6d
ESO 4s
D2O 5s
No. 146 T—The Standard Double Taper Lines, for Trout Fishing, waterproof
braided, plaited silk in coils of 40yds. No. 30 to 60, 9s. 6d each.
No. 1460—The Perfect Waterproof Plaited Braided “Sure Oatch” Silk Line, on
Cork. No. 40, 25yds., Is 3d each ; 50yds., 2s. 6d. each ; No. 30, 25yds., 2s 6d
each ; 60yds., 5s each.
No. 148—The Crown Waterproof Twisted Braided Silk Line, on Cork. No. 60,
40yds., Is 6d each.
English-Plaited Hemp Lines on Cork—
No. 20yd8. 40yds. 80yds.
60 Is 9d 3s 6d 7s
40 2s 4s 8s
No. 148 L—Best Plaited Irish Linen Line
No. 60, 25 yards .. Is each
No. 60, 50 yards .. 2s each
No.
80
20
20yds.,
2s 6d
8s
X Strong, on Cork-
No. 40, 25 yards
No. 40, 60 yards
40yds.,
5s
6s
80yds
10s
I2s
Is 3d each
2s 6d each
No.
100
80
60
40
30
Best Japanese Gut, 2yds. in one length, no joins
2d. each ; XX Pine, 3d each.
Reliable Gut Cast Lines.
Best Selected Gut, Blue, White or Green.
Quality No, 101, Pine, Iyd. in length, with No. 1/0 hook
attached, Id each.
Best Double Gut Cast Lines .
Quality No. 10, Fine, Iyd., 3d each ; 2yds., fid each.
Quality No. 9, Stout, Iyd., 4d each ; 2yds., Sd each.
Remittance and Freight Must
Accompany Order.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney,


Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Annual Distributions of the Surplus.
All Participating: Policies issued on or
before 31st December next will share in
THE CASH BONUS FOR THIS YEAR.
Amount of Surplus divided for the Year 1905 was £635,533, yielding Reversionary Bonuses
of about One Million Two Hundred Thousand Pounds sterling.
BONUSES ALLOTTED BY THIS SOCIETY LARGER THAN THOSE OF ANY OTHER LIFE OFFICE.
TOTAL CASH BONUSES DIVIDED TO END OF 1905, £12,216,401.
Write at once for full particulars to the Head Office, or any District Office or Agent of the Society.
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Heeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin
Short, Esq. j The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq. ; James Burns, Esq.; Rollo A. Cape, Esq.
General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. 9th November, 1906. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
The Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assurance Society Limited
(Mutual) „. 8 W ._ 263 George Street, Sydney.
LIFE, ACCIDENT AND INVALIDITY ASSURANCE IN ONE POLICY .
ANNUAL PREMIUM for £lOOO, person aged 30, payable at 60 or Death, £39 19s. 4d.
SPECIAL BENEFITS: (1) £2OOO if death takes place as result of accident; (2) £lOOO for Permanent Total
Disablement; (3) £6OO for Permanent Partial Disablement ; (4) £6 per week for Temporary Total Disablement;
(5) £1 10s. per week for Temporary Partial Disablement; and (6) £6 per week for incapacitation througa
■Ptoified diseases. For full particulars aud conditions call or write for Prospectus. V. H. BAXTER. Res. Sec.
FREE!
MAKE BIG MONEY
We give away TALKING MACHINES,
GOLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &0.,
to those who help us introduce our remedies. Tiiis Talking Machine
reproduces Songs, Speeches, Band Music, &c., and can be used at all
entertainments, in any size hall or room. It has a 14-inch Metal
Amplifying Horn, with Concert Base. Many of our agents are making
big money by giving concerts with this machine, which we give away
Free. Send us your name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
of our New Life Vegetable Pills (Formulae printed on each box). Sell
them at 1/- a box, then remit us the 8/- received and we will promptly
forward you, without extra expense or work, the valuable premiums as
listed. you will be delighted.
We are an old, reliable firm, and we will present £lO in cash to anyone
who can prove we do not do as we say. Our Pills are good sellers, and
we are anxious to introduce them no matter what it costs us. Send at
once. Don’t delay, it costs you nothing to try. We take all risk.
Electino Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
'Him:
£lOO
a WeeK
Given
Away
Free
IiRBNn
I
S 3
Q>
'Jv
&
Silo ard
Tables.
Has it ever struck you what fun and enjoyment
it would be to have a Billiard Table of your own,
even if only a small one? You can get one from
the first makers in the trade, for Messrs. Alcock
& Co. have devised a perfect minia-
ture, at a cost well within the
compass of everyone. Write for
Icomplete catalogue, which will be
'mailed free to any address.
MELBOURNE DEPOT i
155 Elizabeth Street.
SYDNEY DEPOT:
422 George Street.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Go.
X.tdL.
SY DNB Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “GRIP DROPPER.”
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY OOMPBTITIOKT.
WINES Tkt Best B Z rh onh ° f SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
rv.
R
“REPEATER”
SMOKELESS POWDER
SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES
Carefully inspected shells, the best com-
binations of powder, shot and wadding,
loaded by machines which give invariable
results are responsible for the superiority of
Winchester “Repeater” Factory Loaded
Smokeless Powder Shotgun Cartridges.
There is no guesswork in loading them.
Reliability, velocity, pattern and penetra-
tion are determined by scientific apparatus
and practical experiments. Do you shoot
them ? If not, why not ? They are
THE ONLY CARTRIDGES TO SHOOT
ĥ
ħ
h
ĥ
ħ
h
HOULDER BROTHERS & CO., Ltd.
STEAMSHIP OWNERS, FREIGHT CONTRACTORS,
SHIP, INSURANCE & CHARTERING BROKERS.
THE HOULDER LINE STEAMERS. for Conveyance of
Passengers, General Cargo, Frozen Produce, &c.
To and from AUSTRALASIA. AFRICA, LONDON, LIVERPOOL, GLASGOW, &o.
Passengers Booked to
All Parts of the World.
ĥ
Steamer.
BEACON ORANGE
RIPPINGHAM GRANGE ..
OSWESTRY GRANGE (Twin Screw)
THORPE GRANGE
HAVERSHAM GRANGE ..
EVERTON GRANGE (Twin Screw)
SOUTHERN CROSS
XOU o
6.300
9.300
10.500
6,350
11.500
11,500
7.300
First Second and Third Saloon Cabins situated Amidships. Excellent Cuisine. Electric Light.
For full particulars, apply at the OFFICES OF THE COMPANY, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
12 Pall Mall, S.W., London. 14 Water-street, Liverpool. 30 Gordon-street, Glasgow. 337 Calle Cuyo,
Aires. 446 Calle San Martin, Rosario, Gran Dock, Ensenada, La Plata. Capetown and Durban, South
Head Office: 146 Leadenhall-street, London, E.O. ..
Buenos
Africa.
Nature’s Own Food
The concentrated
nourishment
of Fresh Milk
PLASMON
One ounce contains more food
value than a beef steal!.
TRY
OATS
COCOA
Go twice
as far as
any others
U!i I
jC* 1, jj|[|iii|i;
J Mi
U
.22 calibre cartridges cart
be relied upon to help;
clean out the rabbit pests*
U. M. C. -.22 short and long
cartridges, loaded withblack
or smokeless powder,
are accurate, sure of fire, and have great killing power.
Furnished with ungreasedbullets, also made with hollow-
point bullets which are very effective on small game.
UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE COMPANY
iMimillMiimiMi.. BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U. S. A. I |{j{|ii j||.j.jj||j/J]
END’S FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE, ‘FRUIT BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION. salt:
The effect of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt ’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is'simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.-Sm Capsule mark'd ENO’S 1 FRUIT SALT.* Without It you haro •
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Pnp&iad only by J. 0. UNO, Ltd., * FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON. BNQ.,
by J. O. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists. «Sc., everywhere.
ħ
C ( There’s SECURITY In
ARTER’S
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
\ FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
they TOUCH the
BO
LIVER
Sure they are
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
Carter’s
!


For coughs and colds.
“ A friend in need is a friend in-
deed.” Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral is j ust
such a friend. Never be without it.
It will prove a good friend when you
have a fresh cold, bringing immedi-
ate relief. You will find it equally
true in old colds, bronchitis, whoop-
ing-cough, asthma.
If you will use
Mger’s
'Cherrif 9eetoral
for an irritable throat or weak lungs,
you will find it “the best friend in
the world.” It acts as a strong tonic,
clearing up the throat, giving tone
to the relaxed tissues, and greatly
strengthening the lungs.
There are many substitutes and
imitations. Beware of them and of
so-called “Genuine Cherry Pectoral.”
Be sure you get AYER’S Cherry
Pectoral.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell. Mass.. U. S. A.'
Learn to Swim & TRI
AyvadsJg&VVater
.
Price, 1/6 & 2/6.
Great Sport in the Water.
A person weighing from 50 to 2501b. can float on them
without an effort. Inquire of anyone who has used
Ayvad’s Water-Wings and be convinced you can learn to
swim the first day you are in the water. For those who
can swim they furnish a source of amusement nothing
can equal. Easily adjusted. Take no more room than a
pocket handkerchief. Sold through all stores, dealers in
sporting goods, outfitters, chemists, &c. Australian
agents, Ayvad’s Agency, 82a Pitt-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
Sole manufacturers, Ayvad Manuf’g. Oo., Hoboken, N.J.
Note —Educational Dept., London County Council, classi-
fied Water-Wings with books, &c., as necessary school
supply.
PROOF
I I
Harris & Ethel Streets,
Parramatta, N.S.W.,
October sth, 1905,
“My little boy, Jack, had
at various times many
chest complaints, namely,
bronchitis, croup, pul-
monary catarrh, and
diphtheria; from the lat-
ter he was left with a
very weak throat. Scott’s
Emulsion has completely
restored him to good
health and strength, he
eats and sleeps well, just
as a boy in perfect health
should do. Scott’s Emul-
sion agreed well with
him.”
(Mrs.) Possie Rooney.
——+ +
Many thousands of similar letters have
reached us since Scott’s Emulsion of
cod liver oil and hypophosphites of lime
and soda was first introduced 30 years
since. The original Scott process, now
world-famous, has been constantly im-
proved, and to-day
Scott's Emulsion
is unquestionably the best of all
cod liver oil emulsions, and the
most pleasant, digestible, and
effective form of cod liver oil in
existence*
9000 doctors, 2000 nurses, and 300
hospitals constantly use SCOTT’S*
+ +
If these proofs prompt you to try Scott's
do not hesitate to write to us for a free
trial bottle (enclosing 4d. for postage and
mentioning this paper)* SCOTT &
BOWNE, Limited, 483, Kent Street,
Sydney, N.S.W,
o
§
<8
IRISH
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE*
BOMNINO-TOM’S
IRISH MOSS
SSL-—.
STS»*«^>ll t '» "j!UiS X>
Sssts S3 1 *
george"bonninoton.
■hh
MOSS
CURBS WHILE
SLEEPING*
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Golds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
ADRIAN & CO. " BOOKS,
Stationery, Conjuring: Apparatus, Tricks,
FRENCH’S PLAYS, RECITATIONS, JOKE BOOKS, MINSTREL SHOW
WIGS, GREASE PAINTS, &C.
AND ANY OTHER ARTICLE YOU MAY REQUIRE (at Cheapest Rates).
Send to us, whom you may rely on for promptness and attention.
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition, Is.; post, Is.
3d. BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Marriage
Guide by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition, hard covers, im-
proved. Donklly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, Is. Maria Monk, Is
6d. How to Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d each.
Ventriloquism Made East, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Humorous Dialogue Book, Is. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is. House Painting
and Papering. Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post, Is
3d. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and
many others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the
First Night, 1/3. Staining. Varnishing and
Polishing Wood Is 3d. Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and
Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ;
post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy,
Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. How to Make
Love, Is. Dream Book, Is.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Poultry Keeping, Is.
Confession of a Melbourne Barmaid, illus., Is 3d.
Hoffman’s New Conjuring Entertainment, Is 3d.
Ideal French Art Studies, 5 parts, 10s. Zingara
Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love. Business,
Futurity, and with full directions, Is; posted, Is 3d.
Howto Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Dr. Foote’s
Plain Home Talk, 20th Century edition, very
latest, 124 S pages, over 400 colored plates and
engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappiio, genuine, Is. Mid.
wives’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phren-
ology, Is. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is. Tocology
for Mothers, 7s 6d. Lightning Calculator, Is.
Minstrel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, 1/3. Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren Is ; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is 2d.
And any book you want, at regular rates.
Above prices include postage to any address
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
NOTE.—A SPLENDID LINE OF 6 POSTCARDS for 6d., posted Bd, depicting all
Towns In Great Britain (something special and British Make). We won’t
disappoint you. Send for a set. And all other qualities kept in stock. The Pines
Selection of Favourite English Actress Cards, spangled and plain finish. Kindly inspect.
ONLY
ADDRESS,
508 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
By
Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
h
His Majesty the
King and
Royal Family.
IF YOU REQUIRE A DELICACY, COMBINED
WITH GREAT NOURISHMENT, USE
MOIR’S
11 MAYFAIR”
Jelly Crystals
SUPERIOR FLAVOURS AND VERY
TRANSPARENT.
TRY...
MOIR’S
Worcester Sauce
It is Replacing All Others, on account of its
EXCELLENT QUALITY and GUARANTEED
PURITY.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, LIHITED,
London, Aberdeen, and Seville.
Sydney Agency: 47 Macquarie Street,
Circular Quay.
THE HIGH-CI.ABS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyelia’
□
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
THhe Ideal Material
for
Sibirts, Pyjamas,
&c.
Economical
BECAUSE
Durable.
2Ptena
Leading Hosiers,
Outfitters, &c.
6EB TUB LABEL ON THE SELVEDGE.
The first
Essential
for the preservation of the
teeth is to keep then! clean by
constant attention at least every morning
and evening.
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Tooth Powder
makes the work of your toothbrush so much
more complete and satisfactory, because it
perfects the cleansing and also supplies the
necessary antiseptic properties.
It is also delightfully flavoured and
refreshing to use.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. CALVERT ft Co., Manchester, Eng.
MORRIS'S
IMPERIAL
FVF
ointment
CURES
m&A
MONEY to LEND
—ON—
PASTORAL LANDS
ALEX. JOBSON, A.I.A.
Public Accountant, 90 Pitt St., Sydney.
Tel. 4552.
At Lowest
Rates.
RANKINE & DOBBIE
Manufacturing Stationers,
Printers and Bookbinders.
MINING SCRIP
A SPECIALITY.
285 COLLINS STREET,
Telephone
3227.
MELBOURNE
For the Federal elections, read “ A Policy
for the Commonwealth,” by James Edmond,
price 6d., post free; and “On the Trail of the
Trust.”, by Bulletin writers, freely illustrated,
price Is., post free.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
South Seas.
It has drawn, this dreaming isle,
Its white magic ring around me ;
I am captive in the circle of its reef.
With a woman’s quiet guile,
O, it beckoned and has bound me ;
I lie prisoned here beyond unrest or grief
How they call and call to me—
Those long blinding yellow beaches,
And the white spurt of the combers leaping high.
And the maddening blue of sea,
And its green, pellucid reaches,
And the splash of palms upon the silken skj )
So I lie for evermore,
(Hark, the boy a-beating kava !)
Idly listening to a brown girl’s lulling croon
Crouching cross-legged on the floor
In her dainty lava-lava,
With her little toe a-tapping to the tune !
And the spell of waving arms
And her voice of liquid sadness
Softly open in my soul a sudden door ;
I remember —like the palms—
All those long dim lives of gladness
That we dreamed through here together long
before!
Nikaulofa.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
My Troubles.
When purpling mists of evening fall
Upon the mournful tomb
That hides her fairness—teeth and all—
My life is wrapt in gloom.
Alas, the floweret’s fairest bloom
Soon passeth into Dusk !
Our most beloved find the Tomb
Wherein their beauties rust.
The earth is full of sad farewells,
New suns old Shadows cast;
And in our living Pleasures dwell
The spectres of the Past!
Of ebbing tides and stabs of pain,
Dead girls and gloomy night.
When I’m in melancholy vein
As properties I write.
And yet few girls that I have known
Are rusting with the dead ;
That into dust fair flowerets go
Gives me no special dread.
I am as gay as I know how ;
My soul is not downcast;
No silent sorrow lines my brow,
Or links me to the Past.
The only chain I ever own
Is mostly up the spout;
I’ve pledged it for a trifling loan—
The ticket’s near run out.
Yet there’s a Presence ever near
To plead for memory—
In fact, before my supper beer
My wife sits down with me.
And oft the thought will come to me
While she chats gaily there,
How truly happy we might be
Had she not dyed her hair !
N.S.W.
HAMER.
The Old Engines.
Upon the railway’s bye-ways
The worn-out engines lie,
And past them on the highways
They watch the trains go by.
And round their leaning smoke-stacks
The nesting swallows fly.
There, lame, and blind, and broken,
All bleared with smoke and grime,
They linger, an unspoken
Reproach on ruthless Time,
Those old and shabby actors
Of a bygone pantomime.
With paint and brasswork wonders,
And gay in gala dres3,
Adown the track there thunders
The arrogant express,
And the old and broken engines
Seem to watch it in distress.
With slow and ponderous action
The “ freighter,” coarse and black.
Her squat sides built for traction,
Goes groaning up the track,
And the ancients wonder dimly
If she ever will come back.
With lean and high-pitched boiler,
And quaint and spidery wheel,
They watch the modern toiler
Along the road of steel,
And strange, regretful yearnings
Their rusty hearts do feel.
Across the dim blue ranges,
When first the way was won,
With Progress and her changes
Towards the setting sun,
With deep-drawn breath they labored
Until their task was done.
Now shunted off the highways,
The worn-out engines lie,
’Mid grass upon the bye-ways,
They watch the trains go by ;
And to their rusty smoke-'staoks
The nesting swallows fly.
N.3.W.
HORACE HALLORAN.


3 ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
JOHNBECCS.|
SPECIAL UDIIIUR B
Scotch whisky Si
N,
wm
m
B
HR
z
Z
7,
A
ALL THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
FOR UPWARDS OF 60 YEARS.
vSAC
SUIT
To Order,
63/-
YOUR XMAS SUIT
Any gentleman will do himself justice by wearing a suit of our
making.
We have a multitude of handsome patterns.
Leave your order early.
SAMPLES POSTED FREE.
HAGON BROS.,
107-9 Oxford St., Only.
NOTE ADDRESS :
THE “ BRUNSWICK ’’ ice MACHINE
ĥ
POR THE COLD STORAGE OF
PERISHABLE ARTICLES OF FOOD.
THE BRUNSWICK is not an Ice Cream Freezer;
it is a Household Ice-making and Cold Storage
Machine. The smallest size, as illustrated,
has a cooling capacity equal to the melting of 2001bs.
of ice, and takes J-horse power to drive it.
It is specially adapted for large Country Stations,
Hotels, and all places where ice is costly and the
thermometer “ kicks the beam ” at something over
100 degrees.
The accommodation is roomy and the engine is com-
pact and complete.
We Invite correspondence, and will promptly
quote price and full particulars.
BUZACOTT & CO., Ltd., So ' e — ae 7 & 9 Market St., Sydney.
218
Grain Drill
Buyers...
We have on hand a small
stock of the well and
favorably known...
“SUPERIOR ”
“AMERICAN”
and “ONTARIO”
Grain and Fertilizer Drills.
They are new. In perfect condition, and fully warranted —
per usual.
Those who act QUICKLY, and pet their orders booked
before the stock Is sold, will pay only as follows: —
HOE
DISC
9 coulter £29 10 O
11 and 12 coulter 31 10 O
13 and 14 ~ 33 O O
13 .. 34 IO O
Grass Seeders, all sizes,
£3l O O
33 O O
34 IO O
36 O O
£l3 0 extra.
Delivery: F.o.b. Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, or Launceston,
Orders must be firm no cancellations permitted.
Terms at above prices: Spot cash at time of starting or
farmers of approved credit may pay the small sum of £3 TO O
In cash at starting to cover interest, and give two P/IN’s of
equal amounts to cover the above prices, the first to fall due
on February 13th, 1908, and the second twelve months later.
Those who apply EARLY get a full assortment of sizes
to choose from.
« INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AMERICA
Agents throughout Australasia.
(Incorporated)
Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide and Launceston
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
Regular Shipments.
The Trade Supplied.
Incandescent Acetylene Burners, with Mantle, Complete, 5s each.
ACETYLENE MOTOR, BUGGY, BICYCLE AND TABLE LAMPS, GAS FITTINGS, &C. SS-Send for Catalogue.
BRANDT BROS., 236 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
and 197, 422, and 424 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
YOUR FORTUNE FREE
By the World’s Greatest Astrologer. Send me your
name, date of birth, sex, if married or single, and 1/-
for postage, etc., and I will mail you, sealed and confi-
dential, a document of great value to you in the
pursuits of your future happiness in love, business and
other fields of life’s activities. Thousands are this day
blessing the hour they first wrote me ..Address
Prof. Henri de Astro, 366 Bourke-st. Melbourne
£BOO
FOR NOTHING.
I am continually paying
sums from £1 to £5O (some-
times as much as £800) for
lots of OLD POSTAGE
STAMPS on lettersput away
years ago and forgotten.
Surely YOU know some old families who may have some?
Hunt them up at once— they are worth money. Send
for my “ Illustrated List ” containing pictures and prices
of the valuable ones. (Estb. 1890).
T. H. NICOLLE, 14 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
RABBIT SKINS WANTED.
A/so KANGAROO, WALLABY,
OPOSSUM f <fcc.
Consign to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., ltd., Commission Salesmen Only, SYDNEY.
ħ
HOTEL
METROPOLE
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
Roth^sSs
*.*'s
VBO*.
•Sag
* oo *
o*o
*e e}
1892
Nr
KOTHE
Htns
LON
m
Sold by
All Jewellers
Ante to see on? PHOTOGRAPHIC CARD of New
Watches. Just forwarded to every JEWELLER
In the Colonies.
7\ Certificate. Given With Each Watch.
Estate
175 Q
::
RUBEROID
DAM PC RSE
DEFIES
DAMP
IT? syd HEY & B RIS SAhfl"'**"
IThj^au
There is a
Sense of
Security
when the
foundations
of the
House are
laid with
Ruberoid
Damp-
course


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 27.—N0. 1398.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 1906.
Prick Od.
Agar Wynne, Tory candidate for some place, says that it the
land-tax is passed, farmers 41 will see ruin staring them In the
face.”
LONDON, Thursday, 3 p.m.-Owlng to the collapse of the
columns supporting the vats at Cray’s Distillery, Glasgow,
200,000 gallons of whisky escaped into the street,
persons were almost drowned.
Farmer : 44 Who on earth are you?”
Jim-Jam : “I’m ruin!”
Farmer : 44 Is that all I Thank Heaven ! I was afraid you were
the landlord! ”
■” / /
, /
Sandy : “ Mon, Jock, A’m thinkln’ what a /
awfu’ calameety if some ower muckle /
offeesheous buddy u’d try to resky i
us the noo I ”
„ „ „, hWt Hestrover. has been taken 111 on Broughton Island.
Rumor that his assistant inadvertently boiled the doctor’s chief microbe
in mistake for an egg .. For light and entertaining reading commend
me to an item like that!”
“At that time I carried my policy, and would, under
such circumstances, take help from the devil himself.”
—George Reid on tour .
WOMAN ON A PEDESTAL.
.. , C «, tain des P erate Politicians and the Tory press have suddenly discovered
mat Woman (with a capital W and a vote) is their long-lost sister, and the
anxiety they are showing to induce her to use her newly acquired power is
truly pathetic.
CARTOONLETS.


XMAS EDITION
. . . OF . . .
The Bulletin, 1906.
A Special and Enlarged Issue.
Published on DECEMBER 13.
It will contain Verses, Sketches and Stories, grave and
gay, by the foremost writers of the Commonioealth.
The illustrations will represent the best Black and
White work in Australia, and will picture the national
humor.
The Bulletin Xmas Number, year by year, is the
standard epitome of the life of young Australia.
Agents will be supplied at the usual
rates, but, in consequence of the heavy
outlay on this Special Edition, NO
RETURNS will be accepted.
ORDERS FOR EXTRA COPIES should
be forwarded at once to ensure delivery.
Single copies post free to any of the Commonwealth
States and Maoriland, 6|rf. ; foreign Addresses, Bd.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia /or the A xistralians. ,>
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Tiventy-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
11 oxo to Address Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin ivould oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (ivith regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. r l'o send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Sjiecial Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
_ The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, ivhether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
tivo columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications xvill be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. ivhen the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is fonvarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in. lil.aek and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under ivhich
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Cordon and
Ootch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, No. 1 Broad-street Place.
South Africa. —The Central Neivs Agency, Capetoivn ;
Messrs. R. A. Thompson Is Co., 28 Riebeck Street, Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
The Clark Stuart Co., Ltd., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco. — W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
HongKong. —Brewer and Co., 22 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Agents * Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6%in. x lUin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 1906.
THE PARTY OF HATREDS.
Dealing with tariff matters, Mr. Wilks said he wished
to be open and candid. He had been a Freetrader all his
life, and had fought against the followers of Protection.
But he now found men supporting 15 and 20 per cent,
duties and calling themselves Freetraders, AND IT WAS
REMARKABLE THAT ALL THESE DUTIES WERE FOR
VICTORIAN INDUSTRIES. He should still endeavor
to have all duties taken off the necessaries of life, and,
after that, if he saw the present system of levying taxes
for the benefit of Victoria was continued, he should see
that New South Wales was cared for. He declared openly
to Freetrader and Protectionist that, if loot and boodle
were to be distributed, he w'ould see in future that New
South Wales g»t its share. This was one of many ways
in which he declared he should stand free from any party
tie. —Sample of Anti-Sosh hatred.
The Bulletin quotes the above, not because
William Wilks, M.H.R. for Dailey (N.S.W.), is
of any personal importance, except for his bad
qualities, but because he is the type of a class—
almost the worst type of the very worst class in
Australian polities. The political party which
George Reid is leading at the present election
has gathered to itself all the notable hatreds in
the community. It is the thing with the muck-
rake, and Wilks is prominent becausehe represents
at the moment about the largest rake and the most
conspicuous heap of dirt. Reid’s party has
annexed the State Frights crowd (the old Anti-
Federal push under a new name) which slan-
ders and denounces the Commonwealth —and the
Commonwealth is Australia —on every possible
and impossible occasion. It has recruited the old
Cabbage Tree Mob of N.S.W., which built up a
coarse and savage hatred of the next-door State
for no visible reason save that Victoria com-
mitted the unpardonable offence of creating a
city which, for a time, overshadowed Sydney —
the mob which still grits the word “ Victorian ”
through its teeth as if it were uttering an adjec-
tive which embodied all the possibilities of
degradation. It has collected to its infected
bosom the insectarian party which puts up candi-
dates on a “religious” ticket, and with gross
hypocrisy talks of charity, goodwill and brotherly
love, while urging the denominations to all
hatred, malice, and uncharitableness. It has
accumulated to its party the people who
hate Australian industry, and lose no oppor-
tunity of denouncing Australian manufacturers
as robbers, and who decry Australian goods as rub-
bish that shouldn’t rank (simply because the goods
are Australian) in the same category with any-
thing imported—the class which is embittered at
the sight of an Australian artisan making fair
wages, or an Australian factory-owner making
fair profits, while there is a Roman Catholic
workman in Belgium who wants the wages,
or a Roman Catholic manufacturer in Bavaria
who could do with the profits. Also it in-
cludes the Anti-Settlement party, which is dis-
gusted at the idea of the people having land to
settle on if the great land monopolist chooses to
keep Australia empty, and which denounces all
proposals for making the great monopolist sell his
empty areas, even at their full and inflated value,
as “confiscation.”
• * • »
And these are not all. The banner of Anti-
Sosh is wide enough to cover, and its camp is
large enough to hold, other unclean elements, and
no matter how divergent may be their views they
gravitate to the Anti-Sosh camp quite naturally.
The common bond of being unclean and un-
patriotic keeps them together. Therefore, in the
following of Reid, who says he invented the term
“White Australia, ” are to be found the colored-
labor advocates like Bruce Smith— the men who
hate to see an Australian citizen have a job if it
is possible to get a nigger or a Chinaman to do it.
And in the same army are the slanderers who
incite class hatreds with gross falsehoods about
the alleged intentions of the Democratic
section of the community to “destroy the
marriage tie,” and “break up the home,”
and indulge in foul orgies of free love and satyr
revelry. With these are the people who de-
nounce all proposals that Australia should make
serious preparation for its own defence, and
desire to see the country left open to the first
Asiatic invader who may happen this way. With
them, also, is the Stinking Fish element—the
crowd which, for years, filled the papers of
England, India, the United States and South
Africa with falsehoods about honest English
hatters who were put in an imaginary gaol ; and
about honest colored seamen who, being wrecked
on an inhospitable coast, were wilfully permitted
to drown (according to one lie) or arrested and
gaoled (according to another Ananias) ; and about
capital that was all leaving the country, and a
population that was leaving so unanimously
that no one remained who could get away
(vide the utterances of the late Ebenezer
Vickery and the survivors of his class).
And all these hatreds are buttressed up
by the support of wealth and monopoly—
the huge fortunes and the huge acreages.
Tooralc and Darling Point are with Anti-
Sosh. The senile decay of the State Upper
Houses gives it a moral support. Worrall, the
screaming preacher who denounced the alleged
curse of God on Australia by way of a pulpit ad ver-
tisement, is understood to be with it. Maximilian
Hirscii, whose paper received a considerable sum
of money from the American Harvester Trust to
assist it against an Australian industry, is one of
its ornaments. On top of all is George Reid,
who once said (Federal Hansard for 1901-2, page
6800): —
We all hope that Australia will have a great woollen
industry, but that will have to come when we are not so
well off. . . . How are we going to compete with under-
paid, sweated countries until our own labor is underpaid
and sweated too?.. . In the plenitude of time, when our
millions become tens of millions, we shall have a crop of
misery which will solve the difficulty in regard to cheap
manufactures.
The leader who deliberately “hoped” for the
arrival of something which, he said, must in volve
sweating, under-payment, and a crop of misery,
is worthy of his followers, and his followers are
worthy of him. Such a “hope” represents
hatred in a condensed state.
* * * *
The writer commenced by quoting Wilks, and
then wandered away from that insignificant but
objectionable person. Wilks represents, in the
main, three of the hatreds of Anti-Sosh, and
represents others in a less degree. He would
split the community lengthwise by sectarian
hatreds, and cross-wise by inter-State hatreds,
and diagonally by the hatred he strives to create
between the 1, agriculturist, whom he professes to
regard as “the producer,” and the city artisan,
whom he teaches the bucolic person to regard as a
parasite living on his endeavors. His latest pro-
nouncement, quoted above, represents the effort
to sow dissension between States in its meanest
form. With a wonderful pretence at virtuous in-
dignation the old Foreign-trade crowd, which has
now developed into the Anti-Sosh crowd, professes
to see a conspiracy of Victorian industries against
N.S.W. industries, just as it professes to see a
Roman Catholic conspiracy against our national
institutions, and a Democratic conspiracy against
marriage and legitimate children. It alleges
that, in some weird, wild way, Victorian indus-
tries are protected and N.S.W. ones are not. It
doesn’t stop to explain, for explanation would
be fatal; it merely raves and hurries on. The
facts are against it; hence the lack of explanation.
The sugar industry, which is exclusively a
N.S.W. and Queensland industry, received heavy
Protection. The N.S.W. tobacco industry, which
was a large affair, was also heavily protected.
The boot industry, which was almost as large in
N.S.W. as in Victoria, judged by the number of
hands employed, got 30 per cent. Piano manu-
facture (an exclusively N.S.W. industry) got 20 per
cent. Woollens and agricultural implements, in
which Victoria and other States were largely
interested, while N.S.W. was but slightly con-'
cerned, got only 15 and 12J percent, respectively.
The timber-dressing industry, m which N.S.W.
was more than twice as heavily interested,
according to the number of hands employed, as
Victoria, was protected by a whole sheaf of duties.
Brewing, which was then and still is, largely a
N S W. industry, was heavily propped up by the
tariff, while distilling, which was mainly a
Victorian business, and was also an industry in
which N.S.W. had no interest at all, was
killed by the tariff —so f ar > T a J'„l eas V,
Victoria was concerned. Even N.S.W. s little
paper-bag industry was protected (there was no
paper-bag industry in Victoria). As a matter of
obvious fact, the tariff is the same for all Aus-
tralia ; an industry in one State gets the same
assistance as in another. The only trace of a differ-
ence seems to lie in this fact: The original tariff,
as drafted by Kingston, from South Australia,
and accepted by Premier Barton (from N.S.W.),
and Ministers Lyne and O’Connor (from N.S.W.),
favored all industries alike. But the fierce opposi-
tion of the Sydney Foreign-traders cut down the
Protection in the case of many industries in which
Victoria was more largely interested ; while the
same crowd made much less resolute opposition
in the case of the industries in which N.S.W.
predominated. Therefore, on the whole, N.S.W.
came out best, though the difference was not very
great at any time.
* • * *
The Bulletin doesn’t give William Wilks
credit for inventing the Anti-Sosh hoax that
the tariff protects Victoria, and doesn’t pro-
tect New South Wales (by some curious
mental twist it is only at rare intervals
that the Sydney Foreign-trader of the Wilks
class seems to realise that there is anything
else in Australia beyond N.S.W. and Victoria).
It only quotes Wilks as about the most virulent ex-
ponent of a silly fiction which seems to have come
unexpectedly to the front through some of the
other fictions getting sore feet and being unable
to keep up. The fiction itself is the lineal successor
of the other great Tory device for promoting inter-
state hatred—the perjury about how, in some
impossible and impenetrable way, the other
States were stealing the surpluses of N.S.W. and
Westralia, and spending them in beer and revelry.
Also it is a poor relation of the fiction that the
action of the Australian Parliament, when it
selected a site for the capital in N.S.W., and in
the district most warmly recommended by the
N.S.W. State official appointed to report on pos-
sible sites, is evidence of a fixed intention not to
select any site. All these inventions are linked
together to make up the creed of Anti-Sosh. And
on polling day Anti-Sosh will rise up as the Party
of Carefully Fostered Hatreds, and gather in votes
because of its hatreds. It appeals to a small sec-
tion of Anti-Federalists in N.S.W. to vote for it
because of their hatred of Victoria—a sentiment
created solely by falsehood and misrepresentation;
to a handful of misguided bigots of one church
because of their hatred of another church; to
the great landlords because of their hatred of
the small settler; to the importers and their
hangers-on because of their hatred of Australian
industries; to the black-labor crowd by reason of
its hatred of the whole white proletariat; to the
Stinking Fish fragment because of its hatred of
Australia in general. It would fain divide and
subdivide the brotherhood of the Australian
people into warring clans—six States kept apart
by State feuds, and these States subdivided into 12
sections by sectarian animosity, and again into 24
by tariff feuds, and again into 48 by class hatreds
based on the “ marriage tie ” fiction and such like,
and so on to an almost unlimited extent. And
out of all this dissension its miserable sordid gain
is that one-half of each hatred must vote for it.
It stands on the same level as the individual or
alleged individual who circulated fearsome reports
of alleged crimes and secret horrors perpetrated by
the Jewish section of the community, that he
might thereby get the Anti-Jewish support. He
created Anti-J udaism in that district, with much
destruction and riot, so that there might be an
Anti-Jewish vote to support him, and his simple
excuse was that he couldn’t get the Anti-Jewish
vote till there was one, and that he wanted some
kind of a vote badly. His position then was that
of the Reid party now—to a hair.
* * * *
The Bulletin urges the Australian people to
vote against the REiD-Tory-Foreign-trade-Anti-
Sosh party simply because it represents every
needless and purposeless grudge and quarrel in
Australian politics. It has created some of them ;
it has kept the others alive when they might
otherwise be in a fair way to extinction. The
inter-State feuds would be forgotten but for its
perpetual discovery of imaginary wrongs done by
“ the other States” to “our State,” which wrongs
can only be righted by the election of Reid and
Pumpkin Smith. The Anti-Federal sentiment
would be dead but for its constant finding in dark
corners of imaginary outrages done by us in our
Australian capacity upon ourselves in our State
capacity—outrages which can only be alleviated
by the return of Wilks and Kelly with large
majorities. The sectarian row would have just
about perished but for its incessant habit of
dropping on imaginary designs on the part of
“Rome,” the one way to avert which is the
enthusiastic sending into Parliament of Joe
Cook and Simian Phraser. All these things are
good enough for- Reid and Wilks and the rest,
who, for want of a constructive policy, have to
live on the base passions and mean animosities
of the community, but they are a grievous thing
for any true Australian to contemplate. And
just because there are many true Australians,
who want to see the last of State rows, and sec-
tarian rows, and Anti-Federal rows, The Bulle-
tin hopes that December 12 will be the day when
Anti-Sosh is buried, without any tombstone.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Lie That Shamed the “Telegraph.”
It looked for a while as if the busted yarn about
the enmity of the Labor party to the marriage-
tie and the sanctity of the ’ome had been removed
from Anti-Sosh’s stock-in-trade, Sydney Tele-
graph and other Anti-Sosh organs having pro-
tested that they were really ashamed to be seen
in the company of the slander. But as Anti-
Sosh must have something to go to the country
with, and as it has no merits of its own to offer,
and as most of its other perjuries have also been
busted, it is thrown back, apparently, upon the
yarn that the Telegraph was ashamed of ; and at
election times a yarn has to smell worse than
two dead whales before the Telegraph’s stomach
turns against it. Recently, before the Tele-
graph had given the perjury up, The Bulletin
implored somebody to send it for publication the
speech or writing of so much as one representa-
tive Australian Laborite in favor of abolishing
the marriage tie or in defence of free and pro-
miscuous “ love.” There are known to be a third
of a million Laborices in the Commonwealth ;
and, if they don’t believe in marriage as Anti-
Sosh alleges, it surely wasn’t too much to ask for
the declaration of just one of them to support the
yarn upon which Anti-Sosh asks for votes. After
a long expanse of silence, during which appar-
ently the heaps of Labor language and literature
were carefully raked for aspersions on the ’orae,
Liberty and Progress, which says it is the
journal of the Vic. Employers’ Federation, pro-
duced an article written by Tunnicliffe, one
of the Victorian Labor candidates for the Senate.
Boiled down, it says, Tunnicliffe’s article means
that men and women should be able to terminate
marriage at will, and that “boys and girls may
freely listen to the promptings of nature.” But,
instead of leaving it at that, the organ of the
Employers’ Ass. makes the blunder of printing
what Tunnicliffe wrote, and makes the still
greater blunder of printing in capitals the awtul
words upon which it mainly relies. And of tho
said words these are the chief :
The age of sexual puberty in the human animal is
between 16 and 20 years of age ; and to compel men to
live apart until they are 25 or 30 years is unnatural and
unjust.
The capitals stop right there. But Tunnicliffe
didn’t. He went on—
Wages are so low that marriage with its necessary con-
comitants is impossible, and
why shouldn’t The Bulletin use some capitals
too ?
ILLICIT INTERCOURSE ON THE PART OF WOMAN
BRINGS DISGRACE AND ENDS IN PROSTITUTION.
“Wages are so low.” That is the key-note.
Therefore, says Tunnicliffe, man cannot marry.
Therefore there is “disgrace and prostitution.
So far, however, from advocating “ disgrace and
prostitution,” Tunnicliffe appeals for a system
which will stop it—
Under the social democratic system marriage would be
more universal, and would take place at an earlier age.
So, instead of advocating no marriage, Tunni-
cliffe advocates more marriage ; instead of advo-
cating the “illicit intercourse” which he says
“means disgrace and ends in prostitution,” he
would abolish the sweating which prevents mar-
riage and produces prostitutes. And this is the
man, tlnd this is the argument, on which Anti-
Sosh relies to prove its case ! As an Anti- party,
it asks support, not on its own merits, but
on the alleged horrible nature of the proposals of
its opponents; it says the abolition of the mar-
riage tie is one of those horrible proposals; and
then, dri veil into a corner and challenged to pro-
duce one speech or one argument in support
of its infamous charges, it quotes the writings of a
man who implores the public to adopt a system
“ under which marriage would be more universal.”
So Anti-Sosh goes to the poll as the party of one
more Busted Lie. And, somehow, Busted Lies
about an opponent don’t seem to be much of a
policy to build a nation on. A man of very ordi-
nary common sense wouldn’t trust the building of
a hen-coop to a man who based his whole claim to
the job on the yarn that a rival hen-coop builder
was a bigamist and a person who ate two boiled
babies at a meal. And when the yarns were
proved to be mere lies—the lies of a man who
wanted the job, and cared not a straw about any-
body else’s reputation as long as he got the job
—well, he would get no hen-coop to build. He
would just get contempt and the heaviest boot on
the premises.
About a Challenge, and a Cheque for a
Hospital, and the Dead Silence of Senator
Gould.
The Commonwealth had no power, nor was such a
thing ever contemplated, of imposing a tax for the pur-
pose of bursting up big estates, and such a proposal was
a barefaced attempt to interfere with the State rights
and the State prerogative.— Senator Gould, of N.S.W.,
as reported in Sydney ’Graph.
This paper has now been waiting quite a long
time to hear from Senator Gould, solicitor, Tory
and Foreign-trader, on the above subject, and
has been calling in his ear every week without
getting any response. Mr. Gould alleges that
the Commonwealth has no power to impose a
graduated land-tax, and The Bulletin has asked
him persistently to produce the clause of the Con-
stitution which says that it has no power to do so.
If be can’t do that, then he didn’t tell the truth
when he made the above-quoted statement. If
he doesn't attempt to do it, there will be a very
general impression that he is a cocktail, a
backer-down and a creeper-out, also that he
is a political welsher inasmuch as he doesn’t
pay his political debts. For three weeks
The Bulletin held out a considerable cheque
as an inducement to Mr. Gould — or to any
of the multitude of Anti-Sosh politicians who talk
as he does in this matter—to come forward and
prove, by producing that clause, that the truth
was in them. It didn’t get an answer from one
Anti-Sosh politician in the crowd. They were all
just as dead-silent as Mr. Gould. It was the
most unanimous wilt and back-down and crawl-
out that this paper ever met. Anti-Sosh seemed
to wither up unanimously when invited to come
to the point. Even Wilks of Balmain was silent
—dead silent—and didn’t seem to want the money.
That cheque is at present in pawn, so to speak ;
although not one Anti-Sosh politician claimed it,
a demand was put in by a private gentleman of
the Single-tax persuasion in Melbourne. He bases
his claim on a rather extraordinary interpre-
tation of one clause in the Constitution;
still his case must be heard, and The
Bulletin has named its arbitrator and
invited the Melbourne Single-tax gentleman to do
likewise. If, by any apparent impossibility, the
Single-tax gentleman wins his case, The Bulle-
tin’s cheque will have to go to a Melbourne
institution instead of a N.S.W. one—all through
the backing-down and creeping-out of Senator
Gould, of N.S.W., and his Anti-Sosh friends,
including WTlks, and Lonsdale, and George
Reid, and Bruce Smith and Conroy, and not
forgetting Johnson and Kelly, and also remem-
bering Gibb who is running against Bill Lyne
at the Hume, and likewise keeping an eye on
Pumpkin Smith. Most of these people have
talked a whole lot about the alleged wrongs of
N.S.W., but if The Bulletin loses its case, and
through their cowardice that cheque goes to
Victoria, there will be a real, solid wrong to
N.S.W. and they will be responsible. If The
Bulletin, on the other hand, wins on the arbi-
tration, there is no reason at all why these
remarkably silent gentlemen should not have a
shot at the cheque, if they can find any
reason for claiming it apart from the busted
reason of the Single-tax gentleman from Mel-
bourne. It would be absurd to arbitrate a second
time on exactly the same case. Meanwhile,
though the Single-tax gentleman in Melbourne
has the first call on the cheque, there is nothing
to prevent Senator Gould clearing his political
character from any suspicion of gross untruthful-
ness, simply for the sake of his character. That is
to say, if he thinks his political character worth
clearing. And there is nothing to prevent Wilks
and Lonsdale and George Reid and Bruce
Smith and Conroy doing likewise, also Johnson
and Kelly, and not forgetting Gibb of the Hume.
They are simply invited to produce that clause
of the Federal Constitution which forbids a


Federal graduated land-tax, and which thereby
shows that such a thing was never contem-
plated,” as Gould puts it. If they haven t a
copy of the Constitution, they can come to this
office and look at The Bulletin’s copy if they
like.
The “ S.M. Herald’s ” Hatred of Australian
Industries.
It is difficult to find any falsehood or misrepre-
sentation th#t is too gross for the Foreign-trade
papers when they think they see a chance of
injuring or obliterating an Australian industry,
destroying Australian capital, and depriving
Australian workmen of employment, lhis from
the Herald (26/11/’O6) is a sample:—
The local newspapers in the Hume electorate are giving
their readers a full, true and particular account of
William Lynb’s action in creating a monopoly tor
the Sunshine harvester. Mr. Lyne is so emphatic
in his denunciation of monopolies that the facts are
being brought home with additional force. William Dyne
admitted that before the additional duties were imposed
the harvester combine fixed the prices to be paid by
farmers. Eventually some of the members withdrew
from the combine, with the result that farmers were able
to buy their harvesters at £65. Since the re-arrange-
ment of the tariff, the price of harvesters has been fixed
for the next twelve months at £7O, £75, and £BO. The
result of this spoliation of the farmer is that a tremen-
dous profit goes into the pockets of Mr. M Kay, who
admitted that last year he made a profit of £30,000
on the sale of 2000 Sunshine harvesters. A Corowa hrm
claims that the increased duty is quite unnecessary, as
under the old duty of £5 they could sell harvesters at con-
siderably less than the price fixed by William Dyne, it
must take a good deal of explanation on his part to con-
vince the farmers of the Hume that he is doing them a
service by compelling them to pay an extra £5 for their
harvesters.
There are three points worth replying to here,
and they represent the whole of the Herald s
alleged case:—
(1) It is an outrageous falsehood to say that the dut.V
“created a monopoly for the Sunshine harvester,’ which
is M‘Kay’s implement. There are in Australia about a
dozen other firms besides M ‘Kay’s which make harvesters.
The Herald knows that perfectly well, for a list of the
names was published in the Sydney papers only a few
days ago. A man can’t have a monopoly when he has to
meet a lot of competitors. The Herald knows that also,
but its hatred of Australian manufactures makes it swipe
out at random. It doesn’t matter what it hits so long as
it is something Australian.
(2) The price of harvesters (largely imported) was from
£75 to £95 before Bill Lyne interfered with the tariff.
The price, as the Herald admits, is now, under higher
Protection, £7O to £BO. The alleged £65 was a paper
quotation which was made by the foreigners, apparently
for advertising purposes, when they found they were
going to be crowded out of the field. There is no
record that The Bulletin can find of any machines being
sold at that price, and even the Herald doesn’t say its
Corowa firm actually sold any. It says they could sell
them. That means nothing. The S.M. Herald could
give £20,000 to the funds of the Protectionist Association,
bat it doesn’t. , . , .
(3) The Herald says that M‘Kay “admitted making
a profit of £30,000 by running an Australian industry of
harvester-making. It would be well for the Herald to
say when he admitted it, and to whom. A few weeks ago
the Foreign-traders were charging M‘Kay with refusing
to state his profits. A little later they said the £30,000
was an “estimate.” To-day they say it is “admitted.
If M‘Kay does make that amount, it is cleaner money
than the reputed £50,000 a year of the Herald, made as
the organ of the party which tries to destroy Australian
industry. Curiously enough, the Herald never throws
mud at the many thousands a year made by the great
importing firms. It hasn’t a word to say about
the fact that, if its yarn is true, the foreign
harvester-makers who were flooding the Australian mar-
ket, and selling at exactly the same price as M Kay
before the latter made his recent reductions, must also
have made £30,000 on 2000 harvesters. That is all right
in the Herald’s view. It is only when an Australian
manufacturer is alleged to be making money that the
thing becomes utterly hateful in the Herald s eyes.
+
The Federal Stinking-Fish Party.
It is surely time that something stringent in the
way of solitary confinement or hard, labor should
be done to that unscrupulous gang of selfish and
unpatriotic Tories which is filling the atmosphere
just now with venomous, anti-Federal lies and
perversions. This party is foaming at the mouth
because the Australian Parliament is more demo-
cratic and progressive than the most advanced of
the State Parliaments ; and because it is begin-
ning to “ think in continents ” instead of meditat-
ing in parishes. The anti-Federal party s speakers
are continually referring to Federation as a
failure” or “an experiment” ; and they moan at
great length, in the anti-Federal press, over the
awful prospects of a deluded country. In addi-
tion to these more or less open attacks, a lot of
underground work is being done. The country
press is used for all it is worth. Leading and
other articles, with a savage anti-Federal bias,
are being supplied free, and the silly country jour-
nals are gaily helping to cut their country s throat
by publishing them. A sample from just one of
these “supplied ” leading articles
It is the fact that the Commonwealth Government has
fallen so entirely short of the great expectations on which
it was built—that it has been nearly six years in existence,
and has done little or nothing to advance the most press-
ing interests of the nation and the people It has done
absolutely nothing to save the States a penny by the
anpointment of a High Commissoner, or by the federation
of State debts Its willingness to launch into a trans-
Australian railway scheme of £5,000,000, and other ex-
pensive projects. , i • i i
This is a fair sample of the lying rubbish with
which the country is now being flooded. Taking
the last three items seriatim
When the Commonwealth Parliament spoke about
appointing a High Commissioner, it suggested that the
States could then save money by doing away with their
present Agent-Generals, who are all expensively dupli-
cating each other. The reply was that the Australian
Government could mind its own business; and, out of
six States, only two would even look at the business-like
offer. Also, the Federal Government was accused of
“ reckless extravagance.” .
Everyone knows that the whole obstacle in the way of
federalising the State debts is the impish and insect-like
opposition of the State Governments. Only the other
day Bent said that he didn’t want the Commonwealth to
bother about his debts, as he was quite able to look after
them himself. All that has been accomplished is the re-
sult of hard and tactful work on the part of the Federal
Treasurers.
The transcontinental railway is a highly-necessary
undertaking, as its opponents would soon find out it a
foreign nation landed an army at Perth. But the Aus-
tralian Government hasn’t expressed its willingness to
build it. It only asked for a survey ; and Parliament
hasn’t even granted that. So what is all the row about ?
And while State insects in the east are thus denouncing
the Australian Parliament for a willingness (which it
hasn’t shown) to build the railway, State insects in the
west threaten secession because it hasn’t built the rail-
way. What Australian Government could satisfy these
insects ?
A Parson Who is a Man.
What the average parson says when he preaches,
or where he goes to say it, is, on the whole, an
unimportant matter. The Church nowadays is
more or less of an effete institution in the spread-
ing of practical manly ethics. Its melancholy
priests are either preaching weird verbal tangles
regarding “doctrine,” or are screaming hysteri-
cally about harmless indulgences against which
the moral sense of the community refuses to revolt.
Yet all the while there are for parsons T or for any-
body else—magnificent opportunities in the work
of moral regeneration. In Australia there are tens
of thousands of men and women of a standard of
morals and intelligence which prevents them from
being the useful citizens they ought to be. ihey
are mostly people who are poor m this world s
goods. People who are well off and decently
educated are immoral and unworthy citizens,
because of viciousness or depravity, and many
who are poor are unworthy through ignorance.
At the Anglican Congress, the other day,
bishops and other things wailed that the
out-back parts of Australia abounded in men
who were indifferent to religion and ethics
and morality. To a certain extent their wail
was true. But how many bishops (and
things) do anything to alter that undesirable
state of affairs ? The parson arrives on a station ;
he talks to the squatter, and his wife, and his
daughter, and he gets it announced that he will
also preach a sermon to the men. Jrom his
superior niche between the squatter and the
squatter’s wife he preaches (generally patronis-
ingly) about the wickedness of being wicked. And
what the devil do (say) the shearers care about
him when his conduct says so plainly • What the
devil do I care about the shearers ? While the
Anglican parsons were discussing these thongs
there came along a Man—a parson, but a Real
Man. He was Brother Charles, of Dubbo
(N.S.W.), alias the Rev. C. H. S. Matthews, and
quoth he: —
One of the greatest obstacles is that the church is re-
garded as undemocratic. I don’t wonder at it, when
vou charge five bob—l mean five shillings; I forgot 1
was speaking in a town (laughter)-for peop e to come
to this congress and hear a lot of parsons speak ! I think
it’s disgraceful! The men where I come from say that
the church cares for the squatters and for those who
have got the money ; that the parson goes where he can
get the collection, but that he doesn't care for the work-
ing man. There is too much truth in it. What have we
done for the swaggies-the men who go about with
“ Matilda up ”or “ humping the bluey, ? My collea ue,
Mr. Campion, is forming a Wayfarers Union for them,
and they say, “ It is the first time the has ever
bothered whether we have souls or not.”
Again, to a very great extent, we are a foreign church.
We import our bishops when they are too old to learn
anything about the conditions of Australia. (Laughter
and applause.) I hope that the day is coming when we
will havenothingbut an Australian bishop foran Australian
diocese... They don’t care a rap whether you are High
Church or Low Church in the bush. They want men who
are in earnest. (Applause.) They want young Australian
priests to come out and work in the bush. There is a
great cry about importing Englishmen into the plum
parishes of Victoria. (Laughter.) But there is no out-
cry about importing them to the bush, where we get
Englishmen so stiff in the legs that they can hardly put one
leg over the saddle. (Laughter.) I hope that the day is
coming when we shall have an Australian democratic
church for Australian democratic people.
And then the Real Man sat down, and there was
a moment of embarrassment instead of a collec-
tion.
Re Charles Atkins.
Melbourne Age, in apology for discarding its
former-protege, Charles Atkins, re his candida-
ture for the Senate, offered the very reasons
which will commend him to a great many electors
as a desirable man. “ His whole life,” said the
Age, “ has been devoted to the pursuits of busi-
ness. He is the right stuff, but he is not ripe
enough. He may have a political future, seeing
that his face is turned in the right direction, and
that he has such a fund of energy on which to
draw. But, without deprecating him, he cannot
certainly claim a place beside three political
veterans such as Messrs. Styles, Fraser and
M‘Coll.” The truth is that Atkins, an alert,
middle-aged man of sanguine temperament,
is unripe only in his knowledge of poli-
tical tactics—the knowledge which soon
comes to members of Parliament, and which
the best of them are sorry to have to acquire. As
a business expert, he has proved himself the most
luminous Protectionist among the Senate candi-
dates. In dealing with Tariff anomalies, his all-
round quotations from the volume of commercial
facts are equally apt and numerous. With the
question of an Australian Navy looming large in
the future, and the troubles of marine labor
always demanding attention, there is a particular
reason why Atkins should be preferred to such
“ ripe ” —not to say rotten —politicians as Fraser
and M‘Coll, anyhow. He didn’t begin life in a
merchant’s office. Atkins had some years of
experience at sea in his youth and young man-
hood, and, even after he had opened a little office
in Melbourne, he worked his passage back to
London on an Orient boat witn a view to
more business. If there’s anything of a shipping
Labor vote in Victoria, it should certainly go to
Charles Atkins, the ex-seaman, who, as a hard
and fast Protectionist, aims at restricting Aus-
tralian State imports, as far as possible, to the
freights of Australian coasters, and who would
be in sympathy with the toilers of the trade
afloat and ashore.
-♦
The Professional Schoolboy.
A marvellous development in professionalism
has taken place in Australian educational circles
in recent years. The professional schoolboy is
now a recognised institution, like the professional
footballer or the professional tote proprietor.
The moment a State school pupil distinguishes
himself he is pounced upon by the drummers
of the big public and private colleges, who
desire to secure his services, in order to obtain
records for their individual institutions.
The morning after a State school exhibition ex-
amination, it is safe to say that every successful
candidate will find sundry touts waiting on his
doormat before breakfast, eager to outbid one
another, and all determined that the hated con-
tinuation school —the State’s institution foi
secondary education—shall not secure the coveted
genius. They offer various inducements, such as
payment of train and tram fares, free lunches at
school, free books, and, in a few instances, parents
have asserted that the touts have undertaken
to refund to them the £8 yearly allowed by
the Government to the institutions which impart
secondary education to the winners of State
school exhibitions. But the public and private
schools go a step further than this. Not content
with bidding for brainy youngsters to boom their
educational methods, they chase just as eagerly
after promising athletes. Whenever a bullockmg
football follower or a tricky bowler is discovered
on the playgrounds of the State schools, his
parents will be waited on by a polite gentleman,
who will point out the advantages to be gained
by attending the Calithumpian College or the
Church of St. Judkins’ Grammar School. 1 roba-
bly the old man, with his clay-stained bowyangs
still round his moleskin pants, will remark that
it’s hard enough to get seven bob a day as it is,
and he’s about to apprentice Harold to a
slaughterman. Whereupon the urbane gentleman
will assure him that a little thing like that needn t
trouble him, as the school committee has scholar-
ships to give to promising pupils, and it needn t
cost Harold a brass farthing as long as he plays
up to form in the school eleven. If the old man
demurs, the free fare, free lunch, free book oner
comes along, and if this doesn t suffice for the pro-
spective loss of Harold’s wages m the blood-
manure business, an arrangement will be made tor
the reimbursement of expenses. V hether Harold
can read words of two syllables or add two rows
of figures matters not a scrap. As long as he can
kick four goals out of five shots or claim a batting
average of 20 he goes into the St. Judkins’ as a
bright youth worthy of the higher education, and
lives the life of a fighting cock, until his whiskers
become too manifest or the old man thinks it up to
him to earn more than the college can afford. Ihe
Vic. public and private schools, which are ex-
tremely loud in their howls for the preservation
of pure sport and amateurism, are maintaining
as fine an assortment of gladiators as the world
has seen since the Coliseum had “ Standing Room
Only ” hung on its doors.
A Find of Land.
Victorian Minister for Lands Mackey has made
a proposition for providing more land for settle-
ment. Between Victoria and S. Australia there
is a strip of No Man’s Land containing about
330 000 acres. Victoria says it owns this De-
batable Land, and S. Australia says it doesn t.
Anyhow, Victoria holds the land, but on an
agreement with S. Australia that none of it shall
be alienated in any way. That this agreement
was necessary was shown by the fact that just
before it was made, some friends of the Govern-
ment of the day acquired the fee simple of 20,000
acres of the best of this strip of country for a
mere song. Since the agreement was arrived at
grazing licenses, for terms of seven years, re-
vocable oil six months’ notice, have been issued,
and the land is of such a quality that the grazing
rights have been sublet for 2s. an acre per annum.
In this manner 190,000 acres have been leased ;
but the total rental that the State receives is only
£2700 a year. The tenants, however, are
not allowed to clear the land, and are not
allowed to cultivate it. Previous Ministers
have considered that the agreement with S.
Australia means that the Debatable Band must
not be interfered with in any way. Minister
Mackey, however, has fixed his eye earnestly on
the old document, and comes to the conclusion
that it does not forbid clearing or cultivation, so
long as there is no alienation. He has found
80.000 acres of first-class wheat-growing soil in
the Debatable Land, and this is to be cut up into
handy blocks, and let out on permissive occu-
pancy for seven years. The effect will be to
bring in an income of about £lO,OOO a year, and
to cause'an increase of about a million bushels a
year in the wheat production of the State. One
great object-lesson will be gained from this
settlement. The Tory party declares that if
agriculture is to prosper, the cultivator must own
the freehold. It declines to sell the freehold to
its own tenants, but it talks this kind of mullock
when it wants to buy its leasehold sheep run
from the State. The Debatable La,nd is a big
region in which there can be no private owner-
ship. So the experiment that is about to be made
there will be interesting.
•+
S.M. Heralds “On the Land” column fairly
fizzed with indignation, the other day, at the
barrenness of the present session of JN.S.W.
Assembly in Class Legislation for the pro-
ducers.” One thing that vexed the Herald was
that the “producers” [i.e., the farmers) hadn’t a
Minister ali to themselves, instead of sharing one
with the mere miners who, of course, don’t pro-
duce anything ; and it was moved to speak these
burning words :
It is so plainly evident that the whole scheme is badly
in need of a thorough shaking-up and re-invigoration
from top to bottom that the neglect of the Government
and of Parliament clearly proves that the average politi-
cian regards the institution as a mere means of providing
matter for political speeches.
And then the old paper got even more infuriated :
A greater question is that of water conservation and
irrigation. Unless some of these matters receive atten-
tion, and are brought to a practical issue before the end
of the session, members who seek at the next election
for a continuance of the support of the producers should
certainly be asked to account for an absolutely barren
session so far as producers’ legislation is concerned.
Boiled down, the great anti-Socialist paper
shakes a hostile gamp at the Assembly and says :
“Give the anti-Socialist ‘producer’ more State
Socialism, and plenty of it, and give it darn
quickly, and come along mighty sudden with
Class Legislation, or you’ll be emptied out on
your heads.”
♦
Theke was a great land-sale at l.umut (N.S.W.),
last week, and the Sydney papers headed it
“Closer Settlement.” At the sale were buyers
from S.A., Victoria, and all over N.S.W., and
farm land realised as much as £33 per acre, while
quarter and half-acre township allotments fetched
as much as £4O. The cause of all this great financial
whoop is that the Cootamundra-Tumut railway
runs right through the land. The State buiit
that railway, and didn’t charge the private land-
owner any of the cost, though the line doubled or
trebled the value of his property. Ihen it carried
the landowner’s produce so much below cost that
the line had to be subsidised out of the taxes,
largely paid by the town and city workers, to the
extent of £14,000 a year. This subsidy further
boomed up the value of his land. Next, the
State didn’t charge the landowner for his own
roads. They came out of loans and general
revenue ; that is to say, the city worker pays for
his own roads and streets in local rates, and also
pays in general taxes a large share of the cost or
roads in the country. This further subsidy again
boomed up the price of land. Therefore, because
the community paid all these things for the lan -
lord, it has to pay twice or three times as much
for the land as that land is fairly worth. „ And
the result is called “Closer Settlement. it
should be called “Close up to Robbery. And
when it is proposed to only partly counterbalance
all these aids, subsidies, grants, beggings and
steals with a graduated land-tax, the big land-
owner cries out that such a thing is con
tion.”
Melbourne Age, after weeks of mental wavering,
decided to follow the Abgus lead as regards two
of its nominees for the vacant Vic. seats in the
Senate. The Argus long ago pinnedits lory
faith to Simon Fraser, J. H. M Coll, and
Thomas Skene (a recognised foreign-trader, who
poses as a tariff-reformer in the sacred interests
of Anti-Socialism). And now the Age, which
took up Charles Atkins, but subsequently
dropped that indefatigable worker for Protection
on discovering that Labor voters had a natural
leaning towards him—now the Age is going f
Fraser and M'Coll, with J. Styles for its
other selection in place of the Argus man, Skene.
Indications point to Styles as the man who will
top the Vic poll for the Senate, whereas the
combined influence of the two morning
dailies will probably fail to return M Coll and
Fraser. The chances of old Simon the Yellower
seem to be dwindling every week. Men who sup-
ported him of yore on the Age ticket »re every-
where remarking that his name is Iree/er
this time as far as they are concerned
and, though there may be a rath ® r w^ r °" g
current of Protestant sectarianism next Wednes-
day week, it is not likely to bear the fossil
figurehead of Orangeism back to
An energetic, square-jawed fellow like Atkins,
who points his Protection doctrine with the facts
and figures of many local industries, is worth a
dozen Simon Frasers. Even though Simon had
been a sturdy Protectionist and a progressive
Australian in the past—and even his servile friend,
the Age, admits that he hasn t—his present
antiquity should put him out of serious considera-
tion. He is in his 77th year. So the Argus and
Age are advising the Vic. public to send Frase
back to drowse in the Senate until he be B<s.
♦-
The Bulletin invites attention to the distress of
the Rev. Hopkins, of the South Sea Islands, as
voiced at the Church Congress the other day.
The Rev. Hop. is crying out against the repatri-
ation of Kanakas from Queensland, and urges the
Church to do something, probably with a view of
inducing Australia to abide by its Kanaka, ihe
reason why this good shepherd does not want
the Kanaka back on his fertile isles is that
he plays fire and brimstone with the local
Christian flock when he gets home, and already,
on the tiny isle of Malaita alone, there
have been 14 murders perpetrated by repa-
triated “boys.” Worse still, the returned
laborers, with guns on their shoulders and watches
in their pockets and strange, eloquent curses in
their mouths, are accepted as chiefs by the un-
enlightened nigger, to the ruin of missionary
authority. This wail is in direct contradiction
with the hard sob of the piebald Australian
churchman to the effect that it was iniquitous to
ship the Kanaka back to his native isles, because
his unregenerate countrymen would batter the
intelligence out of him with a club as soon as he
landed. Likewise, the statement strikes the pie-
bald Australian churchman on the other ear, inas-
much as he pleads that the Kanaka should not be
excluded from the blessings of civilisation as
these things are in Queensland, and now it seems
that the church lias so neglected him in Queens-
land that he has acquired nothing there save guns,
rum and devilment. And the piebald church
is smitten on its third ear, inasmuch as lots of
parsons went up to look at the Kanaka in the
canefields, and put up at the planter’s house, and
heard his story, and went round with him, and
saw what he wanted them to see, and then came
back and gave the nigger a certificate of character
that only required a hole in the middle to be a
halo, which certificate now seems to have been a
foolish lie from first to last. These were the days
when the church said the Kanaka should remain
in Queensland because of his goodness. Now it
says he should remain because of his badness. It
always wants him to remain.
A little behind-the-scenes history of the har-
vester duties in the House of Reps., as told by
Government Whip, Hume Cook, is interesting.
A careful count indicated that the £l2 duty was
in jeopardy—it might go under, or it might get a
majoritv of two —and Hume Cook set out after
the Opposition Protectionists. McLean was
absent, and paired against the duty; McColl
was hostile, and only McCay remained. Ihe
Whip cornered the man who wants Crouch s
Corio seat, and asked him how he was going to
vote. Replied McCay : “I may as well tell you
that I have promised the Opposition to vote
against the Bill.” Then quoth the Whip : And
I may as well tell you that if you vote against the
duty, the Bill is lost, and I will see that public
attention is drawn to the fact that, although you
say you are'a Protectionist, you voted against a
Protectionist duty that would have been of great
value to the farmers.” Thereupon an alarmed
McCay scurried off, and had a long talk with his
deputy leader, Joe Cook, and seemingly that con-
scientious Freetrader gave him some politic advice,
for at the division McCay voted against his
deputy-leader, and for the duty. As it happened,
the Government didn’t want McCay th©' duty
was carried by tour votes. Still the episode is
interesting, as showing what a foolish-looking
person a politician may be when he sets up in the
“rat ” business. A final touch of humor comes in
the fact that McCay is now posing before the
Corio electors as a most enthusiastic supporter of
the harvester duties.
The Producers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The farmer man is right enough,
’Tis not for him I frame the curse,
But for the sempiternal bluff
That this good fellow, hale and tough,
Is holding up the universe—
That all the corn and all the oil
He’s busy tearing from the soil,
And that we grind his weary bones,
To feed the vicious city drones.
The tiller well performs his task
Who sows the field or tends the vine,
But artisans who make the cask,
Or mould the bottle or the flask,
They also help to make the wine.
And in the city, by his bench,
With chisel, hammer, saw and wrench,
The man who builds the stripper true
Is something of a farmer too.
The old petition, “ Speed the plough,”
Too oft asserts the narrow creed
Of canting fools who won’t allow
That as the tool is fashioned now
The city worker finds the speed ;
And like an old and spavined cow,
Would be the farmer’s wooden plough
For slowness, if ’twere not for these
Despised “unnatural” industries.
The farmer all the bards admire,
And sing him monarch of the soil,
But in the foundry, by his fire,
The iron-worker may aspire
To rank a swarthy king of toil.
He beats to shape the grand machine
That cuts the furrows deep and clean,
And he will plough, when all is done,
Ten acres to the farmer’s one !
The clerk behind his counter may
Be helping on the oil and corn,
The smith is making butter pay,
And at the titter’s bench to-day
Some fifty million sheep are shorn.
So, Hayseed, be not proud, I beg,
Nor heed the rogues who pull your leg.
For in the arid city street
We too are growing Mallee wheat.
VIC.
EDWARD DYSON.


h
IT WAS GALLAHER’S.
Customer : “ I want a tin of the very best
tobacco you're got.”
Tobacconist: “Here you are! GALLAHER’S
GOLD PLATE or TWO FLAKES.”
One bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera,
and Diarrhoea Remedy goes a long way towards
relieving suffering humanity.*
/
250
IN
pgIZES
sash
TO
Te> OF
OUTSIDE WRAPPERS
FROM
ugn fi DELICJOUS
Chocolates,
CAILLER’S. p.o box 136.
SYDNEY
More Petriana.
The S.M. Herald, on Tuesday, discovered another
horrible Petrianlt affair in the treatment of the
shipwrecked Chinese who were on board the
steamer Australian. The Telegraph, with ex-
actly the same information at its disposal, curiously
enough failed to see any great horror in the circum-
stances, and printed them in rather smaller type
than it gives the prize pumpkin. The Herald’s
screech was to the effect that 25 shipwrecked
people were refused a landing in Australia, and
were “hustled”on to “an old coal hulk,” and
moored off the land, where they were “huddled
together like animals among huge masses of
fuel.” That is the sober Herald’s way of
putting it. The Telegraph, which didn’t or
wouldn’t seize the chance to throw mud at
Australia in order to advance its party interests,
got the same facts, as before mentioned—
the whole information consisting of a brief wire to
the agents. Yet there wasn’t a word in it about
the Chinese being “ hustled,” there wasn’t a word
in it about them being “huddled like animals,”
and, instead of it being an “old coal hulk,”
it may be the newest thing in lighters for
all the message mentions. Likewise, the “huge
masses of fuel ” that the Chinese were cast
amongst exist only in the unpatriotic Herald’s
imagination. Further, instead of the Chinese
being “absolutely forbidden to land on our
shores,” they were, according to the Telegraph—
with the same information at its disposal as the
Herald had—brought by a Government steamer
from the wreck, “ and landed with other passengers
at Port Darwin .” From Port Darwin some of
their number appear to have gone to Thursday
Island, and there, in that place of mixed breeds,
where it would be next to impossible to sort these
men out from the crowd, they were accommodated
with floating quarters in the harbor pending the
arrival of the Changsha. Out of the mouth of its
Anti-Sosh fellow-sinner, the Telegraph, theS.M.
Herald is therefore convicted of gross prevarica-
tion, and of grosser exaggeration. It has been
proved once again an enemy of Australia—a
contemptible print that doesn’t hesitate to foul
and slander the country that keeps it, in order to
fool its readers into voting for its own political
joss.
-4,
G. H. Reid wobbled into Tamworth (N.S.W.),
the other day. and, according to S.M. Herald,
threw this off his chest
The Federal Parliament had no right tojburst up big-
estates. II they began to allow the Federal Parliament
to invade their State rights, and deal with them IN A
WAY THE CONSTITUTION DECLARED WAS AN
OUTRAGE, the day would come when they would not
like it.
That leaves G. H. Reid self-convicted as a wilful
perverter. If the Constitution did declare a
graduated land-tax to be an “ outrage ” — George
Reid knows well enough that it doesn't —there is
no such word as “outrage” in the Constitution
from first to last—then the said George Reid
wouldn’t foam so much. He would simply, when
the tax came along, take a case to the High
Court, point to the section of the Act with
“outrage ” in it, and get the whole thing annulled
as unconstitutional, and cover himself with glory
and fees in the process. It is just because there
isn’t any such clause to fall back on that the
Scarce Land party says wildly there is such a
clause—in hopes of persuading land-taxers that it
is no use attempting to do anything.
*
About a heavy smoker :
Chief Commissioner Tait has introduced into the Vic-
torian railways the worst feature of American railway
business—the secret rebate. Nothing in railway manage-
ment lends itself more easily to corruption, or creates
more discontent, or is more opposed to the spirit of a
State-owned department. Tait has done the thing
cleverly, from behind the ambush of his cigar, and no one
knew that the secret rebate existed until it had been in
force for some time. In the Western District, where
the big squatters dwell, there are two classes of
competition for the railways to face—the waterways and
the road. Tait set himself out to kill both. Agents—
special, confidential agents—were sent all through
western Victoria, interviewing the men with wool and
other produce to send to market. The schedule of
freight rates, fixed by the Commissioners under Act of
Parliament, was ignored, and the best rate the agent could
get was accepted as the freight rate for that particular man.
The consignors soon found out what was happening, and
those who had been left to pay the schedule rates raised
a howl, while even the cheap-rate folks wanted to know
why there were others who paid a cheaper rate still. The
whole system of secret rebate is unjustifiable in State-
owned railways. The railways are for the benefit of the
people as a whole, andif the Departmentcan afford to carry
one man’s wool at a low rate, it can afford to carry all
wool at that rate. A State Department should never
be used for differentiating between individuals. Tait has
been mixed up with Private Enterprise so long that he
cannot be brought to see that he is not running an
“ octopus ” now. It is certain that he has not by any
means heard the last of the present trouble. Unless
Tait puts his cigar down for a bit, and alters his methods
considerably, his days promise to be shorter in the land
than he expected.
4
“ Squidge ” on “ the Chow and the Law ” ;
Premier Bent’s attempt to protect the white men en-
gaged in the furniture trade of Victoria from the unfair
competition of the Chows provoked the usual storm of
opposition from the strongholds of sweating the
churches and the furniture warehouses. As a counter-
blast to the God-and-Mammon deputation that urged the
Government to take special care of its yellow berruther,
and allow him to eat as far as he chose into the vitals of
Victorian industries, a deputation of white employers
and employees in the furniture trade asked the Anti-
Sweating League to support Bent, and the League
appointed a committee to investigate the conditions of
the trade. This committee took evidence all over the
country, and heard both sides impartially, but the Chows
convicted themselves out of their own mouths. They
showed that the Chinese section of the trade had evolved
a system of work in direct contravention of the Fac-
tories Act, and the decisions of the Wages Board.
The first provision made under the Wages Board was one
restricting' work in the trade to day labor. It was
thought that as the Chows would have to receive the
minimum wage, the white man would then meet them
on equal terms. But the Chow, with his usual indiffer-
ence to other people’s laws, ignored that provision, and
nearly all the Chinese are on piece-work, and earn much
below the minimum fixed by the Wages Board, and far
less than would suffice to keep a man, according to the
white standard of living. The hours were fixed at 4S per
week. But the Chows work from daylight to dark in
their little hovels, and always work on Sundays and sta-
tutory holidays. The result is that the. furniture
trade is passing out of the hands of Australians. The
cost of making the Chow obey the law would be enor-
mous. It would take an army of spies and inspectors,
and even then the Chow would onl} r more obstinately
refuse to obey. He has been given a chance, and
a long chance, and he has ignored it. There-
fore, the committee before-mentioned came to the
sensible conclusion that either no more Chows should be
allowed to enter the trade, or else the number employed
in it should be limited, and rigidly kept within the limit.
At present the law requires all Chow-made furniture to
be stamped so that it may be recognised ; but furniture
is made all oyer Victoria by Chows and sent down to
Melbourne without any distinguishing mark, to be sold as
Australian-made. It is admitted that the Chow can’t be
made to obey our laws, so he should be treated like any
other confirmed law-breaker, and barred from the busi-
ness in which he won’t keep straight. He should, at the
least, be dealt with like a hotelkeeper who won’t keep the
law—persistent offending should lose him the chance of
breaking the law, by altogether barring that calling to
him. We make our own discredited white Bung take
that medicine ; and the worst Bung is no greater public
danger than the Chow who brings the white cabinet-
maker and his family to the point of starvation.
♦
It is as well just now, when the Foreign-
trade and Dear Land party is spinning many
weird fairy yarns about the harvester duties, for
the Australian elector to refresh his memory as to
the methods by which foreign harvester manu-
facturers tried to throttle the Australian industry.
This slab from the evidence given by Mr.
Lincoln Holland Cowles, general manager of
the International Harvester Company, to the
Tariff Commission, at Melbourne, in January,
1906, may supply a little of the necessary re-
freshment :
Did your company in Australia have anything to do
with the distribution of a special issue of the Reformer
on the harvester question? We furnished some of the
information embodied in that article.
Did you request its publication? According to my
recollection it was first suggested to us by the editor of
the Reformer.
Name, please ? Mr. Hirscii.
Did you enter into any arrangement with Mr. Hirsch
as to payment of any of the cost of this ? We did.
Will you tell us how much you contributed to the cost
of this special issue? I cannot tell you off-hand.
Examination of Mr. Cowles was continued next day :
, Can you give that now ? Yes ;it isas follows : Amount
paid to Reformer. Answering question asked by Mr.
Higgs, I beg to advise that we paid on account of the
special edition of the Reformer the sum of £l9O 12s. 4d.
How many copies of the special issue did you receive
for £l9O 12s. 4d. ? I think we had 15,000. That is sub-
stantially the number.
Did you distribute these copies at your own expense ?
Yes.
This little monetary transaction helps to explain
at least some of the Australian journalistic fury
against the harvester duties. Mr. Max. Hirsch,
by the way, the man who, at the bidding of
American gold, tried to destroy a great Aus-
tralian industry, now wants the Wimmera (Vic.)
electors to return him to Parliament, presumably
to continue his good work there. But Hirsch’s
chance is a footless stocking without a leg.
Two serious things have, within the month,
happened to the Danvsz experiments, undertaken
to determine whether there can be introduced to
rabbits a fatal disease uncommunicable to other
animals. The experiments are being carried on
at Broughton Island (N.S.W.), where Dr. D.anysz
and three others contracted a disease described as
ptomaine poisoning. It is said that the eating.of
mushrooms was responsible. If so, the disease
with which the doctor is experimenting may be
found not guilty. Still, four days before the
report was published a rumor was circulated that
there was sickness on the island, and that calls
for investigation. The second awkward thing
is the arrival of a report from the Bureau
of Government Laboratories in the Philippines,
stating that draught cattle there have developed
haemorrhagic septicaemia. Now, haemorrhagic
septicaemia is the disease with which Dr. Danysz
hopes to destroy rabbits, and which, he says, is
not communicable to other animals. A medical
writer in Faulding’s Medical Journal (Ade-
laide) says—this was before the Danysz party
suffered from mushroom-eating : —-
. The two medical reporters in question state that there
is not the slightest doubt that organisms resembling
those of haemorrhage septicaemia are found in rivers and
in soils in the Philippines.
This must add to the onus which will have to be
borne by any authority that permits the distribu-
tion of the Danysz disease in Australia.
In cases in which suspended or abolished
solicitors make application to N.S.W. Full Court
for re-instatement, Chief Justice Darley now
makes it his first query, “ Has the money been
paid back?” The question, to judge by the
ghastly expression on the countenance of the
applicant’s counsel, is usually a disconcerting
business. One barrister is said to have fallen
back in his chair and feebly demanded a glass
of water when asked if the money had been paid
back. Time was in N.S.W. when being struck off
the rolls was like the life sentence which expires
in 15 years—after a certain period ex-Gentleman
One applied to be re-instated, and, on his counsel’s
assurance that there was no affidavit against the
re-admission, he came back automatically. Nobody
asked then if the money had been paid-in fact,
no one sterued to expect that it had.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Koval “ The Lights o’ London."
Her Majesty’s “ The Virginian.”
Criterion “The Midnight Wedding.”
Palace “ Turned Up.”
Y.M.C.A. Hall Amy Sherwin.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Lyceum Hall Edison’s Popular Pictures.
Bondi Wonderland.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s Brough-Flemming Co.
Her Majesty’s “The Spring Chicken.”
Theatre Royal “ The Face at the Window.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
St. Kilda Esplanade.. . “ Dreamland.”
—-—-♦
Meynell and Gunn are great on matri-
monial pieces. Their first production at Sydney
Criterion was “The Fatal Wedding ” ; then came
the “ Rake’s Wife,” and on Saturday night the
upheaval was named “ The Midnight Wedding.”
With which of these samples of matrimony
the “Little Stranger,” who appeared recently at
the Palace, was connected is not known. The
matrimony which was done in the dead waste and
centre of the night is by Walter Howard, listed
on the programme as the author of “ Why Woman
Love Men” and “Under the Russian Flag.”
Walter seems to make plays on the simple plan by
which Hermes acquired cattle, for the nocturnal
marriage is in the main a re-hash of Stanley
Weyman and Anthony Hope. The story is
located in the Kingdom of Savonia, where Prin-
cess Astrea von Strelsburg, bound by her father’s
will to either marry Captain Rudoif von
Scarsbruck, a villain, or take the veil, does
neither. There is no alternative, which is why,
when she is discussing the situation with her con-
fessor in the private chapel of the Straddle bugs,
and Paul Yalmar, sword master to the Red
Hussars, comes through the window in a wild
hurry to esca,pe from the consequences of having
run his toasting-fork through his superior officer
(Astrea’s brother), the confessor insists that he
shall marry the lady. He has never seen her
before, and she doesn’t know him from a crow,
and his sword is stained with the blood of her
own brother. Nevertheless she marries him, and
Paul hurries on to escape the penalty of outraged
discipline. When at last he is brought before the
Croton Prince of Savonia, Paul, very naturally,
turns out to be the potentate’s own son by a mor-
ganatic marriage. The rest of the drammer tells
how these two curious people come to love one
another through the plots of Scarsbruck and
Astrea’s brother to kill Yalmar and get the Prin-
cess, who seems to have the family splosh, married
off again. The comic relief is mostly supplied
by a private soldier and a barmaid, who
exchange their clothing in sentry boxes, and by
soldiers who talk about yellow-stockinged girls
in wine gardens. In the end the Crown Prince
becomes the King. In his presence Valmar and
the chief villain fight a duel, which he watches
very unemotionally in company with Astrea, and
Scarsbruck is killed. Scarsbruck falls very artis-
tically, and Valmar declines to became Crown
Prince, because he is very much in love with
Astrea, and though the lady is a princess, her
blood, for some complicated reason, isn’t suffi-
ciently royal to make her a possible queen. At
this point a really scientific dramatist would have
the lady’s blood analysed by a competent chemist,
and he would put things straight by finding it to
contain the royal microbe in sufficient quantities ;
but this point is omitted.
* * * *
Take it by and large, “ The Midnight
Wedding ” is one of the best melodramas Sydney
has seen for a long while. The atmosphere of
Anthony Hope and Stanley Weyman is artistic,
and there is a sense of relief in getting away from
the squire and the old stock properties. Further-
more, the appearance of Harcourt Beatty in the
role of Paul Valmar gives that rather priggish
young man a reality and vigor with which the
author failed to provide him, and the parts of
Captain Scarsbruck and Lieutenant von Strels-
burg are excellently done by Charles Vane and
Conway Wingfield. As the Crown Prince
Leopold, Herbert Leigh tramps around with
royal dignity. Miss Dina Cooper doesn’t get any
opportunity to speak of, but makes a lot of what
she does get; and Miss May Congdon is cast in a
part that somehow does not seem attractive.
“The Midnight Wedding” will probably be a
boom—at least this paper lays a shade of odds to
that effect.
#* * *
“The Little Stranger’s” run at Sydney
Palace will be brief ; the unpleasant little beggar
will be partly cooked in the monstrous hanging
lamp for the last time on Friday night, and then
“ Turned Up ” will be staged.
** * *
“ The Virginian ” will run to the end of
the Waldron-Humphrey season at Her Majesty’s,
Sydney, though there seems to be a call for a
brief resurrection of “The Squaw Man,” apiece
which looks better the more you consider it.
Sometimes the front view of a drama as it is
coming towards you isn’t specially attractive, and
yet the back view, after it has departed, is full of
interest. Afterwards Sydney and Maoriland
swop Miss Ola Humphrey and Miss Tittell Brune.
The latter comes back to fill in with “ La Tosca”
till Christmas and “Parsifal” arrive. The latter
being far too heavy fare for any Australian who is
too young to have a vote, “Alice in Wonderland”
will frivol by day while “ Parsifal ” thunders by
night.
* * *
“The Lights o’ London ” are still twink-
ling at Sydney Royal over the woes of Walter
Baker Armytage and the sins of his villainous
cousin, Clifford Albert Norman. One grievous
fault about “The Lights” is the obscurity in
which the future of Hetty Preeneis veiled. Does
she get away with the Armytage diamonds, or
does she lose them and have to pawn the magnifi-
cent gown in which she gloats over the stolen
jewels while Pa Seth does his stretch in Dartmoor,
or wherever he expiated his monstrous crimes?
Of course, it is only surmise that Seth expiates
worth a cent; perhaps he gets off for turning
King’s evidence in the kerbstone court presided
over by the detective. The future career of a
business-minded girl like Hetty Preene should be
interesting. She is the ideal character to make a
success in a land of unrestricted Private Enter-
prise like England, and “The Lights” is doing
yeoman service at this election-time in showing
what deplorable characters are bred under Anti-
Sosh conditions. Walter Baker and the lodge-
keeper’s lovely daughter are good, painfully good,
and horribly incapable. Albert Norman, Arthur
Styan, and Hetty Ireland Preene are all ener-
getic, capable, and shockingly villainous. This
sad state of affairs will perhaps be remedied
now that England has got a Labor party.
Madame Amy Sherwin will give three
®* tra concerts this week at Sydney Y.M.C.A.
Hail, and no one who isn’t seriously ill or in gaol
ought to miss hearing her, and the pair of gifted
boys who help to make the concerts a crowded
two hours of melody. Basso Gauge is growing on
his audiences—-at first his voice startled them
some, as did the Saxon legions sweeping over
■Britain—but his management of his finely-trained
squad of notes and legions of tones has conquered
criticism. Besides, the girls have discovered
that his teeth and ties are first-class. Pianist
Harvey, too, has unfolded a reverential feeling in
his playing. He studied for the R.C. priesthood
tor some years, and has had a cathedral in his
voice ever since.
Newest thing at the Tivoli is more freak
music this time aluminium bars, out of which a
gloved hand rubs melody of much the same sort
as the ungloved hand used to produce from the
musical glasses.” The lady of the Stewart-
Lorraine musical pair is responsible for this deft
performance. For the rest, the Alaskas, “Fisli-
ing, ’and Cassie Walmer are in the bill; and a
bill holding those three items is always worthy of
respect.
** * *
A revival of “Dr. Wake’s Patient,” at
Melbourne Princess’s, shows a marked improve-
ment in the performance of a somewhat excellent
comedy-drama, and this improvement mitigates
the artificial effect of the plot whilst enhancing
the charm of the dialogue. The second act of
“Wake,” with its frank and unaffected comedy
scene in the doctor’s waiting-room, and the short
after-scene in his solemn sanctum, where he earns
a large income by prescribing simple remedies for
dyspeptic bishops—the second act is now as bright
as the best work ever associated in Australia with the
honored name of Brough. Four women characters
—one of them, Miss Temple’s, being merely inci-
dental to one scene—are played to admiration.
Mrs. Brough has settled down comfortably into
the part of the Countess, who derives nerve-
nourishment from a smelling bottle, and bewails
the awful impossibility of her light-hearted
daughter. Miss Day, ever on the up-grade of her
acting, gives new interest to the robustly senti-
mental Lady Gerania; also. Miss Gordon Lee is
more simply natural, yet not less incisive than
before. On a previous occasion the talk
of the three women in the doctor’s ante-room
was interrupted by a very effusive young man of
the modern ladylike English type. He reiterated
his catch-word, “ absolutely,” with great success,
but he made one sorry for the dear old Mother
Country. Moreover, he was too effeminate for
the part, which is now presented quite as humor-
ously by versatile Gregan McMahon, in whose
creation there is the desired suggestion of mas-
culine feeling. Such gussie mummers as the
original exponent of Duff Wynterden, and the
later new-comer who minces around in “Wig
and Gown,” are almost destitute of masculine
suggestion. They ought to be called Gwendoline
every time. The plot of “ Dr. Wake’s Patient ”
doesn’t improve on acquaintance, but in so far
as Herbert Flemming, Pickford, and even
McKeown, as the angular earl person, have taken
artistic steps towards the goal of probability, the
play looks all the better for its revival. It is
essentially a play to please the womenkind. Old
Mrs. Wake (Miss Major) makes a specially plump
and tender appeal to the maternal instinct of the
she sex, and her heroic son is deeply beloved by
matrons in general because of his having presented
“Mawther” with a spring mattress, which she
found very soothing, although it caused her to
“ bounce a bit ” at first.
* iff -£ *
Afc Her Majesty’s (Melbourne) the bird of
giddy omen seems to have moulted a feather from
its narrative as the result of the regrettable illness
of Reg. Roberts. Last week the invalided tenor
was replaced by his understudy—a placid warbler,
with no grain of ginger in his composition. On
Monday of this week Arthur Crane was to take
up the advocate’s robe of the original Gustave, and
burst into conjugal infidelity the moment he had
shaved off his beard. If Crane can cheer-
fully impersonate a learned Chicken who goes
astray in the Spring, the mixed entertain-
ment at Her Majesty’s may be guaranteed to
continue until the pantomime season sets in.
Tuneful songs and the quaint climax of the
first act have decided Melbourne in favor of a
show which merits the severest disapproval of
Judkins and his fellow moral endeavorers.
** * *
Considering that “ The Power and the
Glory ” gives several members of the Anderson
Co. one or two chances to put a dramatic situation
on a reasonable basis, the highest interests
of Art will not be served by a withdrawal from
Melbourne Royal of the angelic apparition in
favor of “The Face at the Window” next Satur-
day (Ist). All the same, it is certain that “The
Face” will prove a shocking success. A number
of people who witnessed this gruesome spectacle
in the past have been shuddering ever since at
the recollection of it. On the other hand, “The
Face” is reputed to have cured several cases of
paralysis by making the patients jump, and the
trumpet of Fame has blown so many stories re
the marvellous results of Anderson’s drama that
public curiosity is raging high.
* #- * &
A musical event, dated for Saturday, at
the Town Hall, is another Wagner-Tschaikowsky
orchestral concert, to be conducted by Frederic
Beard. Two or three concerts and song recitals
have happened, or will shortly occur, at Glen’s
Hall. The dancing academicians are in their
annually excited state. The Misses Hyams
rally their pupils for a demonstration at
St. Kilda Town Hall this week, and Mrs. Gt ;en
promises a big display at the Town Hall on the
10th. Also, The Bulletin is reminded that
“Dreamland,” at St. Kilda Esplanade, invites
patronage every day until further notice. The
side shows, which were idle fancies a fortnight
ago, are being converted into realities one by one,
and the first faint indications of a Melbourne
summer will give “Dreamland ” a much-needed ad.


I
<
USE
William Fleming# equitable bp?, georcest.syd/iev.
XCfJ/bmmg/
cjktfum ft) iSandmM y<no
Ju/i/i&uC wutiitititi for uJ
Aewc ccm& fatiy u/i/Co uowf'
iMwud& fan economy YMtto -
faction. ’'Pn/ amlofm/zOMn/
iw AcundLyou/ cmur fanmmwn
fatvrt wutyjfrjfk, PfiftMi
a
\
*
v_
\
FISHER’S
BEAUTY
PIUS.
IF THERE WERE ONLY THREE WOMEN LEFT IN THE WOkLD
Two of them would get into a corner and talk about—What ?
The other ? Oh, no ! About
Fisher’s Beauty Pills for the Liver.
A positive cure for Pimples, Blotches, Sallow Skin, Furred Tongue and Biliousness.
They ensure clear and bright complexions. All Chemists and Storekeepers, 1/- per box.
MANUFACTURERS,
FISHER Sn CO., Chemists, 337 George St., SYDNEY.
“ T.” writes :
Miss Lizzie Newbold, much boomed as a “ young pheno-
menal soprano,” gave a mild entertainment, labelled
“grand concert,” in Glen’s Hall (Melb.), last week.
Neither the occasion nor the singer justified such grand-
iloquence.
The phenomenon was supported by several other im-
mature performers, but she bore the brunt of the pro-
gramme on her own plump shoulders. She sang,
amongst other ambitious numbers, the “Shadow
Song” and “ Lo ! Hear the Gentle Lark,” which latter
was very suggestive of the concert itself. She showed
accuracy and facility of technique in her management of
an unexceptional voice, with a quaint falsetto range high
up on the ledger lines. The piping notes in altissiino
have the charm of novelty, hut that doesn’t atone to a
tired audience for mediocrity in the legitimate portions of
the work. Miss Newbold reproduced the phrasing and
interpretations of experienced artistes in all her efforts;
hut she didn’t once illuminate them with any spontaneity
or understanding. She merely sang with passionless
precision.
This concert w'as intended as a forerunner to a big
benefit which would enable Elizabeth to pursue know-
ledge and fame in the Cold Country. Well taught she is
now. The essential sympathy of voice she lacks in great
measure. Short-skirted and pig-tailed, on the model of
other more-or-less juvenile debutantes, Miss Newbold is a
pleasing figure, but that isn’t any reason w 7 hy the general
public should be induced to subscribe to an attempt to
send her to compete in an over-loaded market, with the
world’s best artists.
** * *
A pair of banjo players —Casselli and
James—are just now twanging the favorite
implement of nigger melody with exceptional
shill at the Opera House. The breezy club-
juggler and plate-shifter is another recent arrival
who finds favor, and would appear even more re-
markable if his name were not Selbo. Public re-
spect for assumed names that end in “o” has
been somewhat exhausted by the long strain upon
it. In other respects the Rickards bill gives no
cause for complaint. The Moto Girl is still a
draw, also Les Cabiacs ; and Duncan and Godfrey
have changed their dialogue. The new conversa-
tion is mainly conducted by Godfrey, who scores
a larf in several places.
X * X
About a show, from the Melbourne dra-
matic critic’s understudy :
Vic.’s Parliamentary Jubilee was a variety entertain-
ment. It opened with the depressing spectacle of 200 ex-
legislators assembling in the (Queen’s Hall and gazing at
each other as if to ask what the other fellow was
doing there. Nobody looks so hopelessly “ex”as an ex-
legislator. Half of them were elderly and well-dressed;
the other half of them looked as if they had strayed
out of the Salvation Army’s shelter by the back
door. After they had been standing sufficiently long to
wonder if they were forgotten, they were led into
the different Chambers. In the Council, centre-
man Wrixon said nothing in mellifluous tones, and
invited Mr. Fitzgerald, who had been sitting in the House
of Fossildom for 42 continuous years, to say the same
thing. Fitzgerald made the exactly similar remark in
the way anybody would expect from a person who had
been immured in the Council for 42 years. Then the
Council, past and present, arose and crowded into the
Assembly, where Bent was doing his best. Bent sur-
passed his effort on the occasion of Parson Worrall’s ap-
pearance at the bar of the House. “I remember
Butters there,” he said. “The first time I saw him
he had his whatyecallums on—those Scotch things—kilts 1
go on, not kilts—that other thing. You know. Yes,
that’s it—his sporran. What are yer grinning at,
Thompson Moore? Eh, what’s that? And I went home
and told my mother I’d seen a man with the finest pair
of legs I’d ever seen.” After Thomas had thrown off
statesmanlike stuff of this description for half-an-hour,
Wrixon said some more nice, mellifluous nothings, and,
just as the whole affair was degenerating into sheer
burlesque, Deakin came along and saved the situa-
tion. Meanwhile Gov. Keggie Talbottle had assembled
in the hall, and Wrixon presented him with the address
to the King, which had been carried by both Houses.
Talbottle wasn’t supposed to have seen the address till
then, yet he read a cablegram, said to have been already
received from Edward VII. in reply. This cast a gloom
of suspicion over the scene. It was too much like Wren’s
alleged cablegram from Jack O’Brien. Then, when people
were just wondering whether anything else was going to
happen, one newspaper man tried to collar the sacred
copy of Ned’s message from another newspaper man,
and the gilded assemblage was treated to the
view of a short, fierce struggle, in which one
scribe got an inky twist on the gullet of his reptile
contemporary, and compelled him to let go a badly-
crumpled piece of gilded vellum just as his eyeballs were
about to spill on the red baize floorcloth. Before the
combatants could be struck dead or immured in a for-
tress, they disappeared, and the crowd, which had turned
up to see some fun, and hadn’t got anything else but the
scrap, rushed the refreshment rooms and made
the waiters lead the strenuous life. There was
pathos as well as shrieking humor in the scene.
Some of the pathos was supplied by the presence of poor
old barrister Fisher, now an inmate of the Austin Hospital
for Incurables. It is difficult to imagine any place where
an ex-member could be more completely “ex than a
hospital for incurables. It represents an obliteration
that is more obliterative than the grave.
*X X X
The Gilbert and Sullivan Co. has passed
on from Adelaide Royal, much regretted.
“Utopia” was splendidly dressed, and, being a
complete novelty, filled the city with enthusiasm.
Howard Vernon played with the brightness and
energy of 20 years ago, and his wife showed un-
expected powers of comedy. Miss Olive Godwin,
who is getting splendid chances, played the Prin-
cess. She also had the lead in “Princess Ida,”
for Dolly Castles again stood out, though Dolly
obliged with a song on the farewell night, when
Henry Bracy—the gallant Prince of the original
production at the Savoy, London, in 1884 came
in to take the part of Cyril. The Royal is now
occupied by a moving-picture enterprise on a
large scale, and this affair says it is going to show
the rest of the world what Australia is like.
Adelaide streets were duly taken one afternoon,
when sundry artful individuals, and somebody s
thirty-shilling suits, obtained much bold adver-
tisement by fleeing across the path of the camera.
Outdoor evening shows are becoming frequent,
hut the weather, stormy and un-November-like,
has discouraged them a good deal.
It costs but a small amount to keep Cham-
berlain’s Colic, Cholera, and Diarrhoea Remedy
always on hand, and it is economy in the end.*
“J.A.C.”: “Attacked by Octopi 1 ’ is
S.M. Hekald’s heading of an up-to-date fish
story, concerning cuttle-fish. “ Octopi ”is good ;
I don’t know what it is, but it is good. “Octo-
puses” is the English plural of “octopus”;
“ oktopodoi ” would probably be the Greek, and
“octopedes” the Latin, if there were any such
word in these languages. But there isn’t; in
both languages the name of the creature is
“sepia.” There is in Latin a word “octipes,”
signifying an eight-footed animal, but not a
cuttle-fish. An octopus is not an octopus, but a
decapus, for it has ten tentacles. Ido not give
all this as gospel, for my Latin and Greek are
shaky. But “octopi” is barbarous; perhaps it
is Choctaw.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“J.A.C.”: And yet another! Word comes from
London of the death of Wybert Reeve, at the age of 75.
Fully a third of these years he spent in Australia, but
for a much longer period he was pretty widely known
as an intelligent actor, not brilliant but consider-
ably above the average. I first remember him about
the end of ’77 or beginning of ’7B, “starring” in the
English provinces, and about a year later I ran across
him a <r ain in Maoriland. He was best known thiough-
out Australasia as Count Fosco, in his own drama-
tisation of Wilkie Collins’ “ Woman in White,” arid,
as Henry Beauclerc in “Diplomacy,” an English
version of Sardou’s “Dora.” In the former character
he earned a well-merited reputation, although in appear-
ance he was singularly unlike the ideal Fosco. Wilkie
Collins describes that sinister personage as pluming him-
self on a certain resemblance to the first Napoleon, and
as in that assumption, always appearing clean-shaven,
while Reeve would never sacrifice his moustache, which
was ornamental. Yet he satisfied the author, with whom
he was well-acquainted, and concerning whom he recently
published some reminiscences, for Reeve could write as
well as act. When he first came to these parts he was
a bit upper-crustish and stand-offish, but it was only a
veneer and soon wore off and revealed a genial nature.
He however, could never stand any vulgarity on the
stage, and when the late Sam Poole, who was not the
pink of refinement, was once engaged to support him, he
was not delighted. The company was producing “ All
For Her,” and Reeve was one day conducting a rehearsal.
He was born in London, and never got over the Cockney
aversion to the letter “ r.” In explaining relative positions
on the stage, Reeve said to the leading lady, “ You stand
theah, t.hechildisonhawkneesheah,andyou,MistahPoole,
theah ’’ pointing up stage, “ with yaw back to the audi-
ence.” “ Back to the audience ” didn’t suit Poole, who
got on his dignity and replied, “ What, heah ! No blanky
feah ! ” and walked away, which little diversion cost Sam
his engagement. For a number of years Wybert Reeve
was lessee of the Adelaide Theatre Royal. He also repre-
sented the Dramatic Authors’ Society, and in that
capacity put a spoke in the wheel of numerous brigands
who had been drawing fees for plays to which they
had no earthly right. Reeve wore a jasey, an unmis-
takable jase.v,'which never could pass muster for any-
thing else. (I may here mention that “jasey”—l don’t
guarantee the spelling—is theatrical slang for “wig,” but
for a wig worn in private, not on the stage. A stage wig
is simply a “ wig,” nothing more.) He had two of those
adornments, one a trifle longer than the other. On the
approach of summer he would pass his hands through the
flowing locks and say, “Getting very wawm; must get
my ha-ah cut,” and next day on would go the shorter-
haired wig of the two.
ATTITUDE.
“ But, tell me Frankly what do you weally think
of Mr. Watson's pwesent allitude? ”
The late Wybert Reeve always used to claim that it was
he who gave Henry Irving his first real chance. A lead-
ing juvenile was wanted for “ The Belle’s Stratagem ” at
Manchester. Reeve had the offer of the part; but he
was fully engaged at the time, so he said, “ Give that
young Irving a show,” and they did.
Strange coincidence that Oily Deering and Wybert
Reeve should have died in the same week. Oily was a
member of Wybert Reeve’s co. what time the English
actor was playing his first few seasons in Australia,
where he subsequently went into semi-retirement.
Reeve introduced two of Pinero’s plays—the earliest—to
this country, and in one of them, “ The Squire,” the
quaint comedy part of Old Gunnion fell to Deering.
Wybert Reeve’s last effort in playwriting, probably,
was his adaptation of an Italian farcical comedy which he
produced at Melbourne Bijou twenty years ago under the
title of “ Only Dust.” Maj'eroni did the translation from
the Italian and Reeve wrote it up to its English setting,
playing the principal part himself. Other old identities
who figured in that rather feeble piece were Signor
Majeroni, Henry Harwood, J. R. Greville, and Immense
Augustus, otherwise Gus Glover, all dead now.
“F.” sends another Wybert Reeve biography:—
« Wybert Reeve, who died in London last week, was the
best English-reputationed actor of all the old Australian
stage identities, with the exception perhaps of George
Rignold. Reeve was a cockney, born in 1831, and as far
back as ’52 he made a little mark as a dramatic author.
He produced a farce under the prophetic title of ‘ An
Australian Hoax.’ In after years, he worked many Aus-
tralian hoaxes, notably his three delusive wigs with which
he almost succeeded in concealing his age from himself.
He changed his wigs on a moonlight system. There was
the beauteous ‘ half moon ’ or moderately hairy wig, giving
place in four weeks to the ‘ full moon,’ or long-haired wig.
Another month passed, and Wybert, passing his hand
through his thickened locks, would say ‘By Jove 1 I
must get my hair cut.’ Next day he emerged from the
barber’s inner sanctum with an absolutely convincing
‘ new moon,’ or hair-cut wig, the sprucest veteran young
man in the theatrical profesh. But to resume. Wybert
Reeve was still a young man when he started to run
his own show and stage his own literary efforts, and he
seemingly had something of a name in London before he
made a 'big success as Count Fosco in Wilkie Collins’s
drama, ‘ The Woman in White.’ The other Fosco fell
ill, and Reeve took his place. He had played the charac-
ter more than 1500 times in Britain, America, and Canada
before he came to Australia, a man of 50 or thereabouts.
Although he stayed some years in Australia he didn’t
linger long on the stage, and the present generation in
Sydney and Melbourne knew him only by name as the
lessee of Adelaide Royal before he went back to his birth-
land to write his reminiscences, and, in due course, to
die. He presumably allowed himself to go bald ere he
reached the good old age of 75.”
The influence of the local German autocracy in Mel-
bourne musical criticism could be detected or fairly
suspected —in the Argus notice of Signora Dane-Valenti s
song-recital. Miss Nora Dane, of yore, went to Europe
with a valuable Australian voice, which hadbeen leu -
tonised in its production by a course of training at the
University Oonservatoriuni, what time Marshall Hall was
the Professor and Madame Wiedennann schooled the
singing- pupils. In Europe she studied a littie while with
Marchesi before reconstructing her warble on orthodox
Italian lines, and now that she is back in Melbourne as a
Signora, from whose vocal method the old Conserva-
torium brand has been completely erased, she gets no
enthusiastic praise from the German musical govern-
ment. The Age seemingly ignored her song recital, and
the Argos man wrote in disparagement of her biggest
efforts (the operatic numbers) as compared with her
singing of little songs in German or English, two of the
latter being very trivial compositions by Madame Wie-
dermann’s daughter. This unhandsome criticism of
Nora Dane-Valenti, an artist travelling on her recognised
merits, has been contrasted with a recent glowing Argos
notice of Madame Maggie Stirling. Lady Northcote and
Lady Talbot were present at Madame Stirling’s recital,
and the Argus man enthused accordingly. “It was a
perfect feast of song, such as we have not had since
Mdile. Dolores left us. .. . As a singer of Lieder and
chansons and ballads, Madame Stirling need not feat-
comparison with anyone. Her voice is rich and resonant
and of exceptional compass, and her interpretations are
all full of genuine artistic feeling.” These utterances of
the oracle should be borne in mind by Melbourne people
who have heard the one singer since her return from
Europe, but have not yet heard the other.
The majestic calm of Asia was disturbed and
broken up by the overthrow of Buttan Singh in Mel-
bourne the other night. One large buck Hindu provided
much amusement by his antics at the back of the
“ stage.” He was about 6ft. 4in„ and must have weighed
16 stone in his socks. He had as much black hair about
him as a bull buffalo, and his bunch of coiled whiskers
would have upholstered a train. He was a truly for-
midable object, and his elephantine antics when Buttan
got first fall upset furniture and imperilled the lives and
limbs of inoffensive citizens, while his roars shook the
building. When Buttan was thrown and staggered to
his corner all out, a beaten nigger, the huge Asiatic was
struck dumb. Suddenly a small boy in his vicinity
attracted his attention. The boy was about thirteen,
and undersized at that. He was shouting: “The white
man’s won ! Hurrah, the white man’s won ! ” This was
too much for the Indian ; he uttered the bellow of an
infuriated bull, and bore down on that boy like a
mammoth on a grub. “What you say?” he yelled.
“ What you say? White man win ! I fight you myself.’
The boy dodged, and some men got in the way. “Yes,
yes,” thundered His Whiskers, “I fight you myself!”
There was a scuffle, and the hoy backed away, and fell off
the staging, and Asia was foiled again.
“Squidge”: There isn’t enough money put up yet to
allow George Musgrove to engage artists for his grand
opera season. He is to make contracts with enough prin-
cipals for a double company, a la Oarl Rosa. Conse-
quently Dukes of Hesse Darmstadt and Kaiser Bills, and
other long-named folk, are giving permission to Mussy to
engage their pet artists ; but Mussy, although he has
made all his arrangements, even to the color of the flower
he will wear in his coat on the opening night, cannot
definitely fix a single singer. The secretary of the Aus-
tralasian Grand Opera Co., Limited, has to resort to
insidious paragraphs in the papers suggesting that if the
public really wants to hear the very grand opera co. at
all, it must hurry along and drop its £2 into the box.
Face is that people who buy shares like to see a chance of
profit behind the scheme ; and people who really dote on
grand opera are usually a dreamy, unpractical lot, with-
out the price of a drink in their clothes.
The death of Miss Mabel Lane recalls her last appear-
ance at Melbourne Royal. She was supposed to have
been incarcerated in a lunatic asylum by the villain, her
husband. She escaped, and, having dashed vitriol in his
face, she raved for about five minutes, and afterwards
wandered in and out without any visible means of sup-
port. It was the irony of Fate that kind-hearted, bright-
eyed Mabel Lane, who entered the profesh with high and
justifiable hopes of presently starring as Juliet, should
have finally quitted the stage iii the character of an awful
victim of Andersonian bellowdrama. circumstances.
“Ven ”: The Melbourne girl has been accumulating
superfluous sentiment ever since the departure of the
last beauty mummer. There is now absolutely no one on
the boards in Melbourne on whom she can lavish her
affection—not one has the power to give her “ that ten-
der twilight feeling.” Doesn’t J.O.W. see the want ?
“Shooting the Chute" has had a brief, inglorious
career at Brisbane, and has now shot into liquidation. It
lived a hare six months at Earl’s Court before it died, and
it was really dead most of the time it professed to be alive,
but was merely shooting to save the burial expenses of
its chute. In fact, it was horn dead, and it is merely as a
matter of courtesy that it is alluded to as living during
the six months in which the corpse uttered an occasional
remark. Brisbane never took kindly to the chute, and
several enterprising Valley tradesmen are left to lament
a ghastly investment. They are solvent men, however,
and the late lamented will pay twenty tombstones in
the £.
“ f.” writes : Apropos Myra Kemble. This lady was at
Melbourne Theatre Royal long before she ever saw
Sydney, or Sydney saw her. She was brought into pro-
minence by mummer Harry Leston, at a benefit given to
clown Tom Lewis. Harry and Myra did an Irish act
together. Manager Harwood advertised the pair as
“ Harry Leston and his pupil Venus.” In that pantomime
she used to recline on a large fern leaf as Venus, and was
lowered from the flies in the transformation scene. Miss
Kemble’s first appearance in Sydney was at the Theatre
Royal, when it was opened by Sam. Lazar, in 1875.
H. O. Willard, the long-standing- villain of Anderson’s
dramas, will sneer no more upon any stage, poor fellow !
The strange “skating gait” and evident feebleness of
Willard during the last months of his stage usefulness
were explained by a wasting disease which is said to have
shrivelled one of his legs until it is now some inches
shorter than the other. The afflicted actor, who was a
very competent and somewhat picturesque performer in
his wicked line of business, has been “ resting ” at Ade-
laide of late, and, if his misfortune were announced by a
matinee benefit at Melbourne Royal, the public, Ander-
sonian and otherwise, would doubtless be glad to sup-
port it.
“ Cuss ”: Re Dan Demosthenes O’Connor and his 5000-
caser proposition (B. 8/11/’O6). I opine that the Spald-
ing referred to in the cable is Al. G. Spalding, baseball
magnate and impresario, who flirts with prize-fighters,
cake-walkers, freak-lecturers —any old thing that he
thinks he can shake a dollar out of. I figure that he is
running Dan as the great Irish-Australian song and dance
artist (with a French accent, acquired at great expense
from Sara Bernhardt). Spalding holds the fort at
Chicago.
Annette Kellermann, the Australian mermaid, is now
travelling about Scotland with a circus, but is not
rejoicing much in a success that entails having the ice
rubbed off her shapely form after every turn.
ROBERT HOWE, who runs against William
Wilks, at Dailey (N.S.W.).
“ J.A.C-” : On October 9 died Adelaide Ristori, one of
the greatest actresses the world has ever seen. She was
buried in Rome on the 11th. Rome’s chief citizens
assembled to honor her memory, arid the circular vege-
table came from all parts. Ristori was born in Friuli
(Italy) in 1821, and was consequently 85 at the time of her
death. The stage was her inheritance. Her parents
were actors ; when three months old she was carried
on in a farce ; at four years she was playing children’s
parts; and at 12 she did soubrettes and sentimental
melodramatic heroines. At 20 she was appearing in
Goldoni’s comedies. At the age of 26 she married the
Marquis Capranica del Grillo, and retired from the stage,
but not for long. A casual appearance for a charitable
purpose brought with it a longing for a return to the
same old boards. But she determined to fly at higher
game than before, and pursued the tragic muse. She was
swift on her feet, and soon overtook it. In her new
capacity she made her debut in Rome, in 1849, in Alfieri’s
tragedy of “ Myrrha,” and was an overwhelming success.
For the next 25 years she toured Europe and America,
her fame ever increasing, playing such parts as Maria
Stuarda (Mary Stuart), Medea, Lady Macbeth, Giacomet-
ti’s Queen Elizabeth, Marie Antoinette, and the like.
She played a whole herd of queens in her time. In 1874,
being then 53 years of age, she set out on a tour of the
world, visiting South America, the Pacific Islands and Aus-
tralia. She was accompanied by her husband and children,
and a complete Italian company. Among her followers
were the Majeronis, husband and wife, afterwards so well-
known throughout Australasia, and a very excellent
actor with the very un-Italian name of Glech. Madam
Majeroni was Ristori’s niece, and her brother Tessero
(Ristori’s nephew) was also with them. Tessero remained
here for many years as a theatrical manager and agent,
and was also an hotelkeeper in Sydney and Melbourne.
He fell from being Ristori’s nephew to being Mr. Public-
house. There were also the two youthful Majeronis,
Mario and Giorgio, now fast making a name for them-
selves in the Australian dramatic profession. They then
appeared as two children (a boy and a girl) in “ Marie
Antoinette.” The company reached Australia in 1875,
and opened in Sydney on 21st July. In later years
Ristori essayed acting in English. One of her last enter-
prises was the leasing of the Theatre Royal, Glasgow, in
the autumn of 1882. There she played Lady Macbeth in
English, the Macbeth being our own Walter Bentley, who
did the Maeßichelieu in Sydney.
It’s a pity Dean Phelan (R. 0.), of Melbourne, did not
accept Manager Williamson’s offer to put on a matinee
performance of “The Spring Chicken,” solely for his
benefit, that the priest might judge whether it was as
wicked as he had believed it to be when ha exhorted good
Holy Romans to stay away. The audience and the per-
formance would have supplied a most interesting new
version of “ A Question of Propriety.”
“Skull”: My first impression is that Manager Bill
Anderson has secured a most capable actress in Miss
Helen Burdette. She has a good appearance, a fine voice,
shows cultivation and intelligence, and can convey an
excellent idea of vehemence without “ tearing it,” as the
good gods would say. The new woman makes the com-
monplace claptrap of melodrama sound human and
reasonable, and that takes a bit of doing. I have heard
much clamor of effusive greeting raised over worse
actresses—only they were imported.
“J.A.C.”: Tenor Caruso, who lately got into trouble
in New York, suffers from enlarged head. An instance
of this affliction occurred in ’Frisco immediately after the
earthquake. Caruso was discovered in a vacant lot,
guarding his goods and chattels, when a brisk little man
came along carrying a “grip-sack.’’ He not only put
this down on the same planet that Caruso was using, but
on the same lot, and right under the great man’s nose.
When the immense being recovered from the shock of
the outrage he threw the little man’s “ grip ” into the
next State, and the little man retaliated with his fist,
which caused the eminent’s head to swell to an even
greater extent, f
“Ah, my beloved, fill the cup.” You
may just as well fill it with the purest spirit avail-
able. Wolfe’s Schnapps is the liveliest stimulant
and best tonic for mind or body.*
“ Captain Starlight ” was, a month ago, a star turn at a
London hall, with Frank Gerald as the desperado. Aus-
tralia lost sight of Gerald 15 years ago ; up to that time
he and Duff toured the country with Gabbett, Good Mr.
Dawes, and other Australian properties. But a cold
frost set in, which cured Duff, and sent Gerald and his
wife to England.
THE VIOLINIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sing, violin, sing soft, sing low,
Cry like a voice, throb like a heart,
A simple song of long ago,
Until their eyes grow dim and smart.
Sing, violin, sing fierce, sing loud ;
Rise like a storm, sink like a gale,
Then tear the dead Love from its shroud.
Sing, violin, you shall not fail!
Sing, violin, sing slow, sing sweet,
Live like a sob, die like a kiss,
Like a wild wave arise and beat
Above the bed of buried bliss.
Sing, violin, sing soft, sing low ;
Cry like a voice, throb like a heart—
A simple song of long ago,
Till they are sobbing, heart to heart.
VIC.
DOROTHY McCRAK.
THE PASSING SHOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In some old haven, where the wine is red,
We’ll sit and watch the sober world go by—
The eve of that fell day when maid doth wed
The weaker of us two—is’t you or I ?
And, ere we part, we’ll drink some Burgundy
To Friendship and the Free-and-Easy Days,
And pay the score to Mistress Margery,
And say farewell, and go our sep’rate ways.
VIC.
KODAK.


Deafness Official Tests
OFFICIAL Investigations of the Deaf are well described
v in the “ EAROSCOPE REVIEW,” explaining fully
the wonderfully-constructed mechanism of hearing, the
Causes and Dangers of Deafness, Head Noises, &c., &c.,
and how to cure yourself at your own home with pure
natural Aural Kinetics. No Medicine. No Electricity,
and No Ear-Drums necessary.
A Graduated Nurse writes : “lam happy to tell you
that after 15 years of suffering I am now completely
cured. I hope that all unfortunate victims will be fortu-
nate enough to hear of your wonderful EAROSCOPE.”
A Retired Squatter writes: “I find my memory
better, and my hearing is improving every dav.”
An Ex-Postmaster writes: “Your EAROSCOPE is
the best treatment I have ever tried ; all complications
have entirely disappeared.
Call or write for full FREE particulars. Address—
THE “EAROSCOPE” CO., 90 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
GRAND
PHoto.
Post
CARDS
SIZE
Bin. x in.
ħ
Authorised by the P.O. Regulations to be
sent to any part of the World for Id.
The Most Agreeable Departure from the ordinary Post
Cards ever issued. An innovation that has caught on.
PHOTOGRAPHERS
STOREKEEPERS and STATIONERS.
THE GRAND CARDS ARE A LINE IT WILL PAY YOU TO HANDLE.
Write at once for particulars and quotations.
They are already selling 1 by Thousands.
A Trial Order will convince you.
Our Collection of Australian Views is superb, comprising—
Bush Scenes, Rivers, Mountains, Farming', Mining,
&c., &c. An Assortment to surr All Tastes. UNEXCELLE
OUR FACILITIES are such that we can supply any quantity of PHOTO POBT CAROS
—Plain and Colored, with any Special Lettering, Titles, Mottoes, &c.—up to 100,000 <
from our own special subjects or customers’ own negatives.
City Views
> IN FINISH.
and GRAND CARDS
more per month,
HARRINGTON
& Co.,
Ltd., 386
TRADE FINISHING DEPT.,
GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
SOCIETY
ENFOLDS
WINES
TAKING ONE CONSIDERATION WITH ANOTHER.
“ George, dear, you are very gray for so young a man.”
“My dear, you must remember we have been married nearly ten years.”
A loyal English paper indignantly repu-
diates a base American journal’s assertion
that King Edward finds it increasingly hard
to keep awake. If there is anything in the
Yankee yarn the sleeping complaint is pro-
bably hereditary. “The Early Years of His
Royal Highness the Prince Consort,” which was
"compiled under the direction of Her Majesty
the Queen ” (Victoria), gives the information that
“ from his earliest years the Prince had to struggle
constantly of an evening against the feeling of
sleepiness. . . . Nor did the Prince, manfully as
he strove against it, ever entirely conquer it.”
Still, despite all this drowsiness in high places,
the Empire manages to jog along somehow.
Sydney and its suburbs are swarming just
now with she-furies canvassing in the Tory
cause—supercilious harridans from the fashionable
suburbs, and haughty maidens who brush aside
all doubt about their incredible assertions by a
reference to the authority of “Pa.” There is an
abounding recklessness and a huge disregard of
consequences about these women who put on their
best hats and rush in where angels fear to tread.
They assure everybody that whoever opposes their
Tory candidate is a Socialist, and that the
Socialists are going to “confiscate the home.”
They don’t mind, at a push, inventing particulars
to back up the statement. One who recently
called at a boarding-house in Kelly’s electorate
stated to the harassed lady of the house that her
premises and furniture would be confiscated, and
her poor little hash business taken from her, and she
would really have nothing left but her clothes,
if the Tories didn’t win. The alarmed landlady,
hoping against hope, asked who announced these
dreadful things, and the lofty one waved her
hand and implied that her assertion ought to be
quite sufficient. Being further pressed, she got
reckless, and said that Mr. Watson had per-
sonally announced the wholesale confiscation
policy in her hearing. And she is only one of a
number of fashionable and incredible Sapphiras
in petticoats, who, when cornered for evidence,
allege cheerfully that they “heard Mr. Watson
say it,” or something of the kind. There are
quite a lot of the fashionable women now canvass-
ing for Reid or Kelly or Bruce Smith or their
kind, who would stand a very fair chance of
getting three months in gaol for malignant
slander if Watson were a less affable gentleman,
and cared to proceed against them for the accusa-
tions of robbery and immorality that they throw
at him, and the astounding infamies which
some of them are prepared to state that they
heard him advocate. These reckless beings in
silk stockings and chiffons and picture hats go
round takiner chances that an old political cam-
paigner wouldn’t even dream of.
* * * •
Justice Street, of N.S.W., has just done a
wrong thing. The late Peter Tyson left £lOOO
by will “ for patriotic purposes,” and the execu-
tors applied for instructions as to how they should
use the money. Plainly the testator’s idea was
that the money should be applied to election
purposes to help to keep George Reid out of
office, but Justice Street, with this clear intention
staring him in the face, ruled that the bequest
was unintelligible, and cancelled it.
A half-caste native girl at Mount Gambier
(S.A.) lias been made the subject of a successful
gamble by the barrister who defended her on a
charge of murdering her infant. The verdict was
manslaughter, with a recommendation to mercy,
and her counsel boldly took the point that it was
bad in law, the thing being either murder or
nothing ! In short, he tossed strangle or quits.
So all parties went before the Supreme Court,
and the barrister, in effect, threw up his client,
and she came down tails—acquittal. Gordon, who
tried the case, was for letting the girl come down
heads (or rather neck), but the other two judges
were against him. The barrister probably gam-
bled on the sporting instinct in man. Legally it
might be plain, obvious murder, but there was a
feeling that the girl had had one run for her life,
and that it wasn’t a square thing to turn her out
again with the same dog after her.
More casualness. At Wellington (M.L.),
t other day, an Austrian fisherman named Jacob
Something rose early and tied himself by the
neck to a beam. Later, the boarder (evidently a
well-trained boarder) arose for the purpose of
lighting the fire. Passing the outhouse contain-
ing the corpse, he (the model boarder) observed
the suspension of Jacob, but not wishing to make
breakfast late, he (the well-trained boarder) pro-
ceeded with the kitchen conflagration. Later, he
(the aforementioned well-trained and model
boarder) and the “missus” adjourned to the out-
house and considered the suspended attitude of
J acob, but came to no decision, and the matter
was hung up. Considerably later in the day a
friend, who chanced to call round, passed a knife
through the cord, and Jacob fell to the ground
with a dull thud. Almost the same day, at the
Hutt (M.L.), a boy dropped into a store and made
two statements. One was that the old man had
died an hour previously, and the other that he
(the boy) wanted some fireworks. A staggered
grocer asked if he was going to explode the
crackers at his father’s funeral, but it transpired
that he wanted them on account of Guy Fawkes.
• * * «
“The Girl at Blue Creek,” by George
Checkley, is a decidedly amusing volume, just out,
described as “a Book of the Bush, with Some
Mention of Town.” It contains sixty-odd illustra-
tions by Laurie Tayler, and appeals as well to the
grafter on The Edge as to the “towney” in his
luxurious summer camp. Post free, 2s. 9d., from
The Southern Press Agency, 243 Collins-street,
Melbourne; or 2s. Gd. on the bookstalls.
“U.”: I have often wondered what the
“ converted ” lover of melodrama finds to oc-
cupy the place of the plays he or she used
to patronise, for even the most eloquent
shepherd’s discourses hardly seem
to provide as much excitement
as “ The Best Barmaid in Mt.
Boppy,” or “The Night
Fiends of Brewarrina.”
1 wonder no longer.
My landlady’s Mary
Ann, who has been
converted for quite
three weeks, and
has abstained f rom
stage melodrama
dur i ng that
period, kindly
allows me to
read specimens
of a cheap im-
ported series of
“Thrilling Life
Stories of the
Masses,” which
are published by
“ The Thrilling
Stories Commit-
tee” at an address in Man-
chester, and purveyed in
our suburb by one of Mary
Ann’s church sisters. I
don’t know who axjpoints
the committee. Possibly it
consists of a publisher who
is a good judge of tripe.
Anyway, the whole melo-
dramatic box of tricks is
used in the production of
the stories—wrongful accu-
sations of murder and other
crimes, missing wills, “se-
cret of your birth,” and so
on. The only variation upon
the ordinary stage dialogue
is that the villain lays the
monstrous charge in a speech
interlarded with Scripture,
and the hero supports his
refutation of it with texts,
and the heroine protests
that she is in-no-cent, as anyone can see who
will turn up the third Epistle to the Corin-
thians, chapter two, verses five and six. Also, the
walls of the Old Manor House are mostly hung
with texts, and the fair young daughter of the
squire is fond of bursting forth into hymns in
which “rain” rhymes with “same.” But, apart
from the texts, it’s just plain Han Barryism and
threepenny barnstorming.
* * • *
The pig-tailed ambassador from Pekin
heard himself very rudely spoken of, the other
Monday, in Melbourne. After figuring gorgeously
in the vice-regal enclosure, at the Albert Park
review, his stolid Serenity was left to get home as
best he could. Northcote and co. had their car-
riages in close attendance to take them right away
from their reserved space, but the appalling
visitor in the distinguished dressing-gown had to
push with the crowd and hail a cab. Just as he
was beginning to look very conscious of his
strangeness in a strange land, an impetuous young
Australian, staring wildly at the apparition,
shrieked to his mate, “Come here, Bill! Come
quick, and look at this Chow ! ” Bill, coming up
in time to catch a glimpse of Tong Gong before he
drove off, thrust his hands into his pockets and
said, “My oath ! What price is he ticketed ’ ”
* * * »
“ The Traveller ” : Melbourne Age, in a
brief report of the railway accident at Lara (Vic.),
on the Geelong line, was chiefly concerned be-
cause the smash caused a delay to the 2 a.m.
goods train from Melbourne. The 2 a.m. is the
“Paper Train,” or “Davy Syme,” as the rail-
way men call it. These paper-trains are a source
of constant mental worry to the Spencer-street
goods yard staff. For half-an-hour or so before
they are due to leave, the “ departure ” lines must
be kept clear, and shunting operations are prac-
tically at a standstill. Should the signals be
against a driver who wishes to pass the Dudley-
street goods junctions in the very early morning
he knows it is useless to whistle for “ line clear ”
For “Davy Syme” is about to be published.
The pick of the North Melbourne loco, depotmen
and engines are commandeered for the paper-
trains. Only half a load is put on in order that
the great Melbourne dailies may scoot like all
Gehenna to Ballarat and Bendigo, and arrive in
time to compete with the local sheets. (The
North-Eastern line doesn’t matter so much
There’s no big daily to suppress there.) Each
morning the first duty of the heads of the
branches at Spencer-street is to peruse the
special messages (which must be there, or some-
body would be sacked) relative to the safe running
of these trams and their furious and headlong
arrival. Verily, “Davy Syme” is a great Vic-
torian institution.
* • * *
Panton, Melbourne’s decayed P.M., was
quite sympathetic to tlie crew of the steamer
Lord Antrim who took law proceedings against
their captain. Panton said that “this kind of
seaman had a good idea of justice and if fairly
treated did not cause trouble.” But it was a
Chinese crew. Panton, tottering superfluous on
the stage, decides against the white seaman with
hardly a fair pretence of hearing the case, and
gives him beans, and he couldn’t glare at him
worse if his eye were a tram-light.
INSOMNIA IS NOT CASH.
THE WIFE: “ The fact is, he yets no sleep think-
ing how he's going to pay you.”
THE CREDITOR: “ I see. He'd rather lic awake
thinking of his debts than get up and work
them off.”
In Melbourne General Sessions, last week,
Judge Hickman Molesworth laid down the law
of the Immigration Restriction Act straightly.
The case was that of Ah Cheong and Ah Yin,
aged 17 and 15, sons of Loo Loon Hock. Loon
first transpired in Lilly Buck-stleet in ’95. In ’O3
he went home to visit his wife, or his wives
possibly, returning in ’O5. Shortly afterwards
Mrs. Loo, the mother of these young sons, died,
so Loo decided to bring them to Australia and
train them to carry on his business. But they,
naturally, failed to pass the test. As prohibited
immigrants, P.M. Panton ordered them to be
detained pending deportation. Thereupon Loo
appealed on the ground that, he being domiciled
here for eight or nine years, his sons were likewise
domiciled here. Judge Molesworth, however,
supported Panton in a firm voice ; so Loo will
appeal to the Pull and probably to the High
Court. Said his Honor :
Putting aside the question whether these two immi-
grants could be legally considered the sons of Loo, they
having been born in a country where polygamy is legal
and customary, the real question was that the Act of ’O5
repealed all previous Acts, and under it the only test was
the language test—and the appellants had failed to pass
it. The Act was passed to enable the Government to
keep out of the Commonwealth certain undesirable
persons, and it might well be that certain persons were
undesirable as Australians, no matter what their conduct
might be.
And, anyhow, was Loon ever domiciled in Aus-
tralia ? It’s a very well-established principle of
law, on which many a would-be land dummy has
been fired out, that the home of a married man is
where the wife is, and the more wives he has, the
more thereabouts, one would think, his home
should be.
* » ■* *
The Vicar of Wakefield, an ancient inn in
Harbor-street, Sydney, goes the way of all old
inns. A generation ago one George E. Wake-
field kept, at the corner of Dixon and Liverpool
streets, an old-time pub, known as the Hand and
Heart, and about the same time he was under-
stood to have an interest in the property in
Harbor-street, upon which a Mr. Mann erected
the Vicar of Wakefield pub. Wakefield after-
wards kept it, but the house is chiefly notable for
the fact that Edward Parley, the one-time
favorite basso, and well remembered as General
Boom in “The Grand Duchess,” and Devilshoof
in “ The Bohemian Girl,” was proprietor for a few
months, and sold the unkempt “colonial beer”
and the tall pewter of porter to the humble
worker threabouts. Next door to the Vicar, in
times long gone by, the “big Tooheys,” J. T. and
J. M., commenced business as ale bottlers.
* * * *
Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera, and Diarrhoea
Remedy can always be depended upon. Por sale
everywhere, Is. 6d.*
THE ISLE OF MANN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, will you tell us, Mr. Mann,
Exactly what to do ;
There’s quite a lot of unemployed
At Day Dawn and at Cue,
And in the places further back,
And right along the outer track,
The hungry drifters sorely lack
A leader such as you.
Prom Southern Cross to Marble Bar
We’ve limped along in pain,
We’ve borne the white man’s burden far
Beyond the Byro Plain.
We’ve called at every town and place
Within the intervening space,
And now, alas! we have to face
The same old trip again.
But is there not a country where
The workers do not roam,
But sit around and smoke and swear
(There is no place like home) ?
Oh, is there not a land wherein
’Tis counted as a deadly sin
To be morose or sad or thin
At sunrise or at gloam ?
And we have heard that in that land
A princely wage is paid
For painting rails, and shifting sand,
And resting in the shade ;
And that the gents who represent
The working men in Parliament
Have proved, by clear experiment,
The beauties of Freetrade.
Oh, had we but a leader true
'To take us by the hand,
And guide our weary footsteps to
The country, rich and grand,
Where bosses never are annoyed,
And everyone is overjoyed
To help the local unemployed
To settle on the land !
Where is this Freetrade Isle of Bliss ?
Oh, mark it on the plan,
And we will struggle out of this,
And get there if we can.
That land must full of beauty be,
Where everything is duty free ;
Plexse tell us, on the strict Q.T.,
Where is this Isle of Mann ?
WESTIIALIA.
TOM BEASLEY.


ir
Blue Tipped UNDERWEAR*
THAT’S the name of a brand of Underwear which is guaran-
teed to l>e absolutely unshrinkable.
We know positively that we have reached the best source
possible for t hese goods.
We have made this question a great study, and we can say
that Blue Tipped Underwear will give the best satisfaction.
It is Pure Natural Wool—soft to the touch—woven correctly
to fit the form perfectly, and is in various weights to suit the
seasons. „ _
ONE PRICE FOR ALL SIZES.
Undershirts or Pants, 3s 9d.
POSTAGE, (id.
CUT THIS OUT AND P3ST TO US.
Please send me an Undershirt (or Pants). Size round
waist for pants Size round chest for Undershirt
I enclose
NAME
ADDRESS
PEAPES & CO., Ltd
Men’s & Boys
Outfitters,
309=311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
AN INJUSTICE.
FLORRIE (returning from her first visit to school) : “ I don’t fink much of the teacher, mum ;
she slapped me ’cos she couldn’t count.”
MUM : “ How’s that?”
FLORRIE: “She says: ‘Spose I give you two apples, an’ then two more; how many’ll you
have !’ I says five, an’ she says four lots o’ times; an’ then I shows her one I had in
me pocket, an’ she got wild.”
An Auckland (M.L.) Band of Strivers
lately hurt a young Striver’s feelings fearfully by
discussing an alleged weakness of his. They may
have said he couldn’t recite the Book of Revela-
tion, or that he had lost a hymn book or some-
thing. Anyhow, the Striver rushed off and
printed a couple of big tickets, saying that be
forerave his fellow Strivers, and that his body
would be found in the harbor, though his soul,
etc. The police found a coat hung on near
the water, and, having read the Striver’s farewell
message, they sprinted for the grappling irons.
They didn’t find any dead body, because the
Striver wasn’t dead. He was at home drying
himself. When charged with a failure to commit
suicide, he told the magistrate ho really did try to
drown himself, but the harbor was too cold and
wet. He was going to England, he said, because
his fellow Strivers were unkind to him. As an
advertiser he ought to make Judkins envious when
lie has a bit more experience. Why doesn’t Jud-
kins drown himself?
DRIVEN TO IT.
Twenty-four importations are at present at work in the
Victorian Anglican Ministry, and the tendency, as evi-
denced in the case of St. Columb’s, is to bring out other
men to fill other vacancies that may be deemed worth
coming for. Young Australians who enter the church
service are packed off into the bush. —News Item.
NATIVE-BORN PERSON : “ Anti-Socialism and
fiscal peace 1 Never! Sooner Socialism every
day, and an import duty on English clergy-
men.”
“ Relay ” writes from Melbourne :
Once more has the public been gulled by an abortive
and scandalous “official inquiry,” conducted by the in-
competent military authorities here. The scandal hushed
up this time is the shameful overloading of the Govern-
ment launch Vulcan, and its despatch in such weather as
caused the old tub to all but turn turtle. One of the
submarine mining company (by pure luck not the lot of
us) was drowned. Of course the inquiry was private,
and only the findings were published, but as a survivor
and one who is in touch with the witnesses, I know that
startling facts were tendered in court as evidence. The
presiding officers, however, treated the affair very super-
ficially : ~ , .
(1) It is said that there were only 87 aboard (see Argus).
We know there were at least 100.
(2) It is claimed that the launch will carry ISO, but 100
appear to have been enough to cause it to almost founder.
(3) It is said the launch was only 100 yards from those
who fell overboard when it turned. The fact is, the
skipper was noton the bridge when the accident occurred,
he having other duties to attend to, and by the time he
had got there and had signalled the engine-room, the
launch was at least 300vds. away.
Only three buoys were available when wanted, and it
the launch had turned turtle (as it all but did—but
nothing was said of this), there was only a small boat to
carry what would have remained of the two companies
and crew. In other words, out of 100 men eight might
have been saved.
The devil only knows if this affair will cause more care
to be exercised in future. Not having seen the devil
lately, my information stops here.
The latest news is that the shut-up Inquiry is
likely to be re-opened, so “Relay” may yet get
a chance to blow off some evidence.
* * * *
Infantile colic is promptly cured by
Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera, and
Remedy. For sale everywhere, Is. (id.*
Parson Tregear’s collection of escaped
Convent girls in Melbourne still numbers only
four, but additions are expected. The enthusi-
astic young parson has hopes of taking over the
whole of the Abbotsford Convent girls, and has
visions of himself leading an army of escaped
laundresses to force 'the hand of the Government
in the matter of bringing the Convent, which is a
huge steam laundry, under the provisions of the
Factories Act. Mr. Tregear may be having his
leg pulled with a 40-h.p. strain, but the Roman
Catholics of Melbourne would be wise to invite
a thorough investigation re the charges of con-
tinuous sweating, cruelty, and actual bondage in
the case of females immured in the institution,
which charges the raging Methodist is scattering
broadcast. The Convent employs hundreds of
girls in the wash business ; it pays no wages, and
is exempt from supervision, and escapes all the
provisions of the factory legislation. An insti-
tution so situated cannot expect to satisfy the
outside public when it answers circumstantial
charges of the gravest nature with silent con-
tempt. Charitable legislation like the Vic. Fac-
tories Act should be very welcome in a charitable
institution. A large, enthusiastic offer on the
part of the R.C. magnates to support a Bill
placing their charities under the Factories Act,
provided that it applies to the charities of all
denominations alike, would be a grievous turning
of the flank of Mr. Tregear if the R.C. charities
can bear inspection. It would amount, in fact,
to a sudden turning up in his rear, and the
capture of his ammunition waggon. All depends
on how much investigation things can stand.
The fussy Anglican prelates in Melbourne
grew mixed over their arrangements for the gaudy
ceremonies at St. Paul’s Cathedral, where they
opened their congress. G.-G. Northcote and
Plain-G. Talbottle were among the invited guests,
but when these dignitaries arrived the parsons
were so busy getting into their purple nightgowns
that they forgot all about the necessary reception
on the Cathedral steps. Governor Talbottle came
first and, acting under instructions from Arch-
bishop Lady Clarke (at least, he looks like Arch-
bishop Lady when he has his official skirts on),
drew up outside a locked gate. The flunkey in
front of the carriage shouted “Hi!” and
Talbottle and Victor Nelson Hood stuck their
heads out of windows and shouted “Hi !” also,
but not even a lay reader appeared. Talbottle,
who stickles considerably for his dignity, began
to bite his moustache as fiercely as ever he did in
the Soudan, and Victor Nelson Hood used
language which vastly increased the multitude’s
respect for that small-fashioned but largely-
named person. Eventually the Gov. got into the
Cathedral by forcing the catch of the scullery
window, or something of that sort. The G.-G.’s
carriage drew up in the midst of a line of fish-
carts near the side-walk, and the G.-G. and his
dame wandered forth unattended to find entrance.
The G.-G. is suspicioned of having lifted his wife
in through a window, thereafter the vice-regal
persons scowled from their reserved seats while
Bishop Stretch preached that the Church’s mission
was the perfecting of social order. The relations
between Church and State have never been so
badly strained before, and it wouldn’t be at all
surprising if either King Ned or the Archbishop
of Canterbury were forced to resign.
* * * *
Australian Civil Service Commissioners
wrestle a good deal with the problem of what
constitutes a civil servant’s household when the
expense of removing him from one locality to
another has to be considered. Perhaps the rule laid
down by Tam worth (N. S. W.) Wesleyan Synod with
regard to the removal of a parson might serve as
a guide. That thoughtful body of experts defines
a parson’s household, for removal purposes, as
including the parson, his wife, children, or
adopted children, his father and mother and his
wife’s father and mother, if they reside with him.
It seems comprehensive, yet it leaves him to pay
out of his own pocket for the shifting of his bed-
ridden grandmother, his maiden aunt, his uncle
who has taken to drink and is being reformed,
anc l if he is a man like the Rev. Tregear—any
escaped convent girls he may have on hand.
Give Chamberlain's Colic, Cholera, and
Diarrhoea Remedy a trial, and you will use no
other. For sale everywhere, Is. Gd.*
Sydney people look askance at the
ministering angel in the natty nurse’s attire just
now. A few days ago two members of the low-
voiced, soft-handed, tender-hearted sisterhood
were ordered to Goulburn gaol for two years, there
to remove the fresh and innocent-looking costume,
and wear their hair according to Government
regulation, and inhabit small cold apartments,
and hustle at servile tasks, and bear themselves
reverently before the matron. This was the result
of a long course of acquiring assets by false
pretences. Later on, the younger of the pair was
brought back to court at her own request,
and proceeded to confess largely, though it
was, to a great extent, a case of confessing
how bad the other nurse was. She stated
tearfully that a case heard last year in which
her fellow-nurse had, with her aid, demanded
damages from a Sydney citizen, was only
another example of their joint wickedness. The
citizen, one Benjamin, had hired the two bright,
tender creatures to attend his wife, and one_ of
them, corroborated by the other, accused him,
after a while, of assault, battery, and partial
strangulation. For these injuries she wanted
£lOOO, and she actually got £l3O. Also, Costs
were a serious item to Mr. Benjamin. The pair
put up a very weak case against Benjamin, but
they looked guileless and gentle in their pretty
clothes, while Mr. Benjamin only looked like a
plain male citizen with an umbrella and bqll-
topper. So the jury overlooked the discrepancies,
and Benjamin fell in. Which was desperately
rough on Benjamin. The same sort of thing is
liable, also, to be rough on the next Benjamin
unless he can get a blind jury. A further item of
the confession was that the same pair had
put up a wholly false charge against a lady,
which led to her husband suing for a divorce,
and naming Dr. Chisholm Ross, of _ Sydney,
as co-respondent. The charge, it is said, drove
the lady mad, and she cut the proceedings short
by suicide, but there is nothing in the confession,
so far as it was published, to show that the weight
of her tombstone lay at all heavy on the chest of
Nurse Daisy Greville or on the bust of Nurse
Kathleen Dwyer when they went to bed at night.
Wellington (M.L.) appears to have a plea-
sant sort of parson as chairman of its “Benevo-
lent Trustees.” The other day an old blind man
who can’t read or write complained that he was
never allowed to move out of the “ home,” and he
would rather, he said, be found dead in the streets
than kept always a prisoner. “You can please
yourself about that,” said the sympathetic rev.
chairman. It is by such tender words of pity,
dear friends, that we help our afflicted brothers
to bear their crosses.
* ~ a *
The Law further advertised its incom-
petence, the other day, when it escorted a Bal-
larat woman off its premises with a
vacant expression and an assurance that
it couldn’t do anything. The lady had ,
a daughter of 17, employed at a res-
taurant. The miserable girl had suc-
cumbed to the blandishments of an un-
employed half-caste Chow, and the
pair had eloped to Lilly Buck-stleet
or thereabouts. The mother assured
the police that she had no objection
to the damsel marrying a white
man, though it might be better for
her if she waited a year or two, but
she viewed with natural horror the
union of her clean, white Australian
daughter and a semi-Chow with no
work to do. And all the Law could
do was to tell the worried mother
that if the damsel had stolen six-
pence it would arrest her, but that
as she was only ruining herself, dis-
gracing her family and polluting
the race, it could do nothing. Then
it murmured some regrets, and the
episode closed.
Cow, that ghastly uddered tyrant which
persuades dairymen to put their children into
slavery, assails even the church. Archdeacon
Hindley mourned to his Anglican brethren
m conference that owing to the demands of
Cow, dairymen stayed away from church. He
urged that in Cow districts services should be
held at times which would suit Cow, and that the
churches should be built right alongside the
milking yards, so that Cow might not be neglected
too long. The parson-community will yet begin to
realise the excellence of Australia’s most popular
objurgation : “You Cow ! ”
' * * * *
The relative value of man and beast, as
shown by the “ Country Notes ” of a Taranaki
(M.L.) daily:—
Mr. James Smith, of Koru, had the misfortune to lose
a very fine Berkshire boar on Tuesday last ; the animal,
which was a prize-winner at Waitara, Inglewood, and
Opunake, unfortunately ate a large quantity of poisoned,
meat intended for birds.
Mr. John Brown, of Mokau, lost a son last week.
Mr. M. Williams, of Raglan, was out riding on Monday,
when his mount, a fine, thoroughbred by St. Michael, out
of Tinplate, bolted and ran into a boy ; the horse received
nastv scratches on the shoulders, but with care may be
well"in a fortnight. It had a providential escape, and at
first the accident, it was feared, would prevent its appear-
ance at the Waitotara show. The boy expired next day.
Evidently neither the son of John Brown nor
“the bov” had ever won prizes any where.
*** * *
The struggle to get it all in for sixpence:—
WOULD some kind person give poor woman some
baby clothes to shorten baby? A., Balmain P.O.
Poor woman ! And poor long baby !
Lindsay Russell, the engineer of the Lily-
dale and Warburton (Yic.) Railway Trust, whose
account-books weirdly disappeared just before an
audit was due, has written a dramatic finish to
the mystery, and closed the book with a bang.
The Trust sued Russell for the recovery of the
bulky tomes. Russell said they had been stolen,
and a number of letters were produced from
alleged “tugs,” who, in shocking English and
incorrect slang, wrote to the shire president and
HEAPS AND HEAPS.
HE ( explaining what a s weepstake is): “You pay
in a pound. Then you draw lots”.
SHE : “ How easy ! And if you pay in three
pounds you draw lots, and lots. and lots ?
others explaining that they had stolen the books
because they owed a pound or two to the 1 rust,
and wanted to obliterate the debt, of these
letters lauded Russell to the skies as the very
model of a modern engineer. The Judge and
iury disbelieved the story, and ordered the
engineer to pay £5O damages or restore the books
and pay £25 damages. Russell’s reply was to
consult with his solicitor and then go to the
detective office and solemnly run himself in on a
charge of having embezzled several hundreds of
municipal money. He makes about the tenth
trusted but ill-paid Vic. municipal official that
has gone up in the last year.
* ■* * *
According to an old inhabitant, Neuralgia
Smith was once proposed to a rev. bush brother
as the name for a young N.S.W. outbacker of the
feminine persuasion.
, * * •
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
FATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Most of us seem to forget in the turmoil of the Present
the «nd for which we are destined. Surely that end
approaches, and which of ye shall be prepared ?—Extract
from the same old sermon.
What is the end of a cat or dog,
When the bill of its days is due?
Of course, you may say it ends with a tail,
And a very good answer, too ;
But think of the harmless oyster-folk
That end in an oyster stew.
The turtle that wanders wild and free
By his caves on the wave-worn coast,
In the commonplace cause of turtle soup
Shall give up his greasy ghost;
And the bright little quail that whirrs and tweets
Will soon be a quail-on-toast.
The turkey that thumps his lordly chest,
With a vain-consuming pride,
Notes not that a spectral waiter stands
And menaces by his side,
And mouths at the words that will soon be said :
“ Turkey, sir, b’iled or fried? ”
The jocund lambkin that gambols free,
’Tis well that he knows or sees
No fateful presage of mutton chops,
Mint sauce, and sweet green peas ;
’Tis well that the beeve recks not of beef
As he chews his cud at ease.
And you and I, and the banker's clerk,
And the civil servant, too,
The tradesman smart, and the working man,
And the struggling cockatoo,
Are just small fry for a Fat Man’s pan,
Or a snack for a hungry Jew. .
VIC.
A.B.C.


CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY
M Pitt St, SYDNEY APPLIANCES, Ltd. iU tittle Collin, St, MELBOURNE
STEEL RAILS. STEEL TRUCKS. TRAMWAY MATERIAL.
ROBEY Portab,e Engines, Tractions, Thrashers, High Speeds, Vertical and
Horizontal Oil Engine's, &c., &cV a
BRUNTON 8 SCOTCH WIRE ROPE. Hayward’« Sheep Dips, Pearn’s Pumps, Mining Requisites, &c &o
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER, Dir . cto ’.
The WILD CAT
COUMN
There is no doubt about it—Joseph Carruthers
is a great financial reformer, with a soul above small
i“* a “ * or ™ a "y y ears the otherwise-uninvested
funds in the control of the Master in Lunacy, being at the
command of the Treasury, carried 3 per cent.—the same
rate as sums left with the Government Savings Bank.
But when Joseph Carruthers was producing a surplus to
make his halo with, he cut down this 3 per cent, to 1 per
cent. . If a family has the awful misfortune to see its
head put under restraint through mental trouble, Joseph
the Reformer promptly fines it 2 per cent, per annum on
the funds in the hands of the Master in Lunacy : he cuts
down the interest on the lunatic’s money bv that much
. e sane man can get 3 per cent, from the State ; the
insane only 1 per cent. The woman who is something
rather worse than a widow would appear to most men as
rather a worthy subject for sympathy and gentle treat-
ment. But that is not the way of the modern Reformer,
ue says : Hullo, here’s a woman with a madman for a
husband. She can’t squeal, and if he does nobody will
take any notice of him, so let’s sneak two-thirds of their
I v«M°! ne Tk ro “ “! e *" nds in hand '” There’s reform for
you ! There’s high finance !
* * « «
Treasurer Carruthers has been giving informa-
tion about the N.S. Wales Government’s fire and marine
insurance business. For a couple of years the State did
its own fire insurance, and had already built up a re-
°f > fc hat is, on a two years’ run a
profit of £2304 was shown on the business. When Car-
i uthers decided to grab this accumulation and use it as
revenue which he did last year—it was at least expected
that the Government would establish an Insurance
Department, which would simply mean setting aside
a Treasury clerk to attend to the State’s insur-
ance business, just as Goldsbrough-Mort’s and other
concerns of that sort do, and just as the Vic-
torian Government also does. The result of that
would have been that the Government could have
been listed”—just like the Victorian Government,
and just like big private firms with much insurance to
do That would have meant a rebate of 5 per cent., so
that the insurance cos. would really have paid the
insurance Department’s expenses. Instead, however of
doing anything so sensible, the Reformer puts the busi-
ness through wholly superfluous brokers and middlemen.
u? words, the Reformer abolished the system under
which there were no pickings for anybody, passed over a
system (adopted by the Victorian Government and all
financial houses of any size) which would reduce the
p issible pickings to little or nothing, and adopted the
system which gives the opportunity for the maximum of
pickings. And sooner or later the State, of course, has
to pay for the pickings.
The N.S.W. Government was apparently so
anxious to bring in the system which would provide
pickings that it doesn’t seem to have even troubled to
give any instructions about the placing of the business.
Ihere are reputable Australian offices quite capable of
doing all the business that offers, but, according to the
answers to questions put in the Assembly, a large amount
of the business is given out to foreign offices. For some
time a Canton office did the Government’s marine busi-
"e®s - has been stopped ; but, though at least two
iLb. Wales cos. have offices in London, the N.S.
Wales Government’s marine insurance on shipments
from London is farmed out to English offices and their
foreign connections. Moreover, risks which don’t appear
to have been covered at all while the State did its own
insuring, are now covered. While insurance didn’t mean
commission, the need for insurance was not seen When
however, insurance meant commission, the need for in-
surance appears to have been seen pretty soon. That may
of course, be merely a tribute to the persuasive powers of
the brokers. On the other hand, it may indicate how
willing someone in authority is to pay out £lO of the
public’s money in order that friends of someone in
authority may pocket £l.
* * * *
Once more a Companies Act is going through
N.S. Wales Parliament without any provision to oblige
cos. carrying on business in the State to have an office
within it. They need not, under either the existing or
the proposed law, even have one in Australia. Though
they may carry on business nowhere but in N.S. Wales
their only office may be in England—or in Germany’
France or Guernsey. At least two Australian cos. have
their offices in Guernsey. Under common circumstances
this absence of an office within the State means no more
than a little delay in the transfer of shares and the
payment of dividends. But supposing a man dies with
shares in one of these cos. as part of his estate—shares
for instance, in Lloyd’s copper mine, so much dealt in
lately—the tedious and expensive process of re-sealing
has to be gone through, because technically the property
is not in N.S. Wales, but in the country where the
register is.
* * * •
Forty million rabbits, or thereabouts, will be
shipped from Australia and sold this year, and the trade
seems good for as long as there are rabbits to sell and the
little beasts are not suspected of being diseased. This
rabbit trade is a considerable set-off against the rabbit
plague; and if Australia does anything to destroy the
trade while leaving the plague just about where it was it
will be the two ends of a fool. That is the whole
situation with regard to the rabbit-disease experi-
ments. If Dr. Danysz can undertake to wipe
the little beasts clean out, well and good * the
only question that will remain then is whether he will
also wipe other things out at the same time. But if he
can only reduce the number, without making a clean
sweep, then he ought to be ruled out; and he will abso-
lutely kill the trade even if he only wipes out one in every
100 rabbits by disease—the public won’t risk getting the
one diseased animal in its pot. Last year the export
trade was worth £389,738 ; this year it will probably run
to about £sso,ooo—more than the value of the frozen
beef trade, and about half of the value of the exports of
mutton and lamb. This isn’t a business to be fooled
with. Australia would be better off if it didn’t have any
rabbits at all to make such a trade possible ; but' as the
trade is a certainty, it can’t part with that certainty
for an uncertainty. And if Dr. Danysz is merely going
to reduce the rabbits, then he will be doing* no more than
is being done now. The difference would be that the
reduction in one case would cost money and cover the
country with a bad smell, while in the other it puts half-a-
million a year into Australia’s pocket, not to mention the
quarter-of-a-million or over derived from the sale of the
skins—exact figures for 1905 were £244,400.
* « * *
When Yic. Premier Bent bought Werribee
Estate from the unhappy-looking Chirnside, at £l2 or £l3
an acre, it looked a mighty bad bargain. (It is a mightv
bad bargain when it is remembered that Chirnside got
it from the State for next to nothing, and made a fortune
out of it before he sold it back.) But Bent had something
up his sleeve, and if his proposal comes off, as seems
likely, he will show that the old boomster can still do a
cute trade in land. Bent’s proposition is to bring in
water from the hills round Bacchus Marsh and Ballan.
Enough of the drinkable can easily be collected to irri-
gate about 15,000 acres of Werribee land, and the effect
will be to jog it up to the neighborhood of £2O an acre—
perhaps £25 and £3O. A big irrigated area like this,
within half an hour’s journey of a city of half-a-million
people, has a fortune in it, if the watering process can be
done by gravitation.
The Bank op New South Wales
Profits. Dividends. To Re- Re-
serves. serves.
Mar., 1900 £99,859 9p.c.= £90,000 £9,859 £1,229,876
Premiums on new shares .. .. 46,404 1,276,280
kept., 1900 100,463 10 p.c. = 100,000 463 1,276,743
Mar., 1901 100,153 10 „ „ 100,000 153 1,276,896
kept., 1901 104,647 10 „ ~ 100,000 4,647 1,281,543
Mar., 1902 115,507 10 „ ~ 100,000 15,507 1,297,050
kept., 1902 118,229 10 „ „ 100,000 18,229 1,315,279
Mar., 1903 115,793 10 „ „ 100,000 15,793 1,331,072
Sept., 1903 117,370 10 „ „ 100,000 17,370 1,348,442
Mar., 1904 119,582 10 ~ „ 100,000 19,682 1,368,024
Sept., 1904 120,435 10 „ „ 100,000 20,435 1,388,459
Mar., 1905 127,811 10 „ „ 100,000 27,811 1,416,270
Sept., 1905 126,963 10 ~ „ 100,000 26,963 1,443,233
Mar., 1906 129,385 10 „ „ 100,000 29,385 1,472,618
Sept., 1906 130,115 10 „ „ 100,000 30,115 1,502,733
Even in the boom days of the late ’Bo’s and early '9o’s such
profit as is shown for the past half-year was not reached,
although in those times a dividend of 17J per cent, was
paid. But that was on a smaller capital than the bank
has to-day. Just at present, depositors and shareholders
alike have a good deal to be thankful for in the fact that
London wants money badly ; whether, as a huge borrower
in London, with many loans falling due shortly, Australia
in general has the same reason to be thankful is another
matter. But for this demand for money in London,
either Australian depositors must have suffered through
a further reduction of deposit rates, or shareholders
'vould have been obliged to put up with smaller profits.
In Sept., 1903, the deposits of this one bank were
£20,628,463 ; they are now £24,812,021, or no less than
£4,183,558 more. Meantime the advances have, in the
three years, increased by only £758,285. Had the other
three-and-a-half millions or thereabouts found no more
profitable employment than to lie in the bank’s vaults,
or, at the best, had they been earning the old
rate of 1£ per- cent, in London, the situation would
have been a good deal different from what it is.
But London has taken large sums at almost phenomenal
rates ; no later than two years ago this bank’s short-call
money there amounted to only £200,000, whereas to-day
it is £2,520,000—a quite unusual outlet, which has also
helped the bank by stiffening the rates for accommoda-
tion in Australia. One way and another, in the past six
years, Australian banks have had a lot of luck, as, for
instance—(l) They made big profits by taking large risks
during the drought; then a run of remarkable seasons
followed the drought, and wiped the risks out, but the
big profits remained good. (2) They have been able to
pass on their pastoral assets, etc., at prices which they
hardly even hoped for. (3) Now, with a large surplus of
money, London has come in as a customer.
Comparing present figures with those of
12 months ago, these results are obtained :
Sept., ’O5. Sept., ’O6.
Notes .. .. £960,477 £959,908 Dec. £569
Bills, &c. .. 2,564,816 3,354,027 Inc. 789,211
Deposits .. 23,320,148 24,812,021 Inc. 1,491,873
Liquid Assets.. 10,749,341 12,316,286 Inc. 1,566 945
Advances .. 18,942,298 19,705,604 Inc. 763,306
Premises .. 706,000 715,000 Inc. 9,000
So in the past 12 months the debt to the public has in-
creased by £2,280,515 ; and of that amount £1,566,945, pr
nearly 70 per cent., is on short call in London and in
other liquid assets. Taking the whole of the liquid
assets, they represent 42 per cent, of all liabilities to the
public—which is well over the proportion (say 35 per
cent.) regarded as the limit of safety. As to profits, the
earnings on total funds (capital and reserves) have lately
been as follows:
Mar., 1902 ..£7 010 p.c. Sept., 1904 ..£7 3 0 p.c.
Sept., 1902 .. 7 3 5 „ Mar., 1905 .. 710 10
Mar., 1903 .. 619 9 ~ Sept., 1905 .. 7 8 8
Sept., 1903 .. 7 011 ~ Mar., 1906 .. 710 3 ’’
Mar., 1904 .. 7 210 „ Sept., 1906 .. 7 910 ~
Considering the exceptionally large amount of public
money with which this bank is favored, this is not a high
rate. Only just over 10 per cent, of the money in the
business belongs to shareholders ; for every £1 of its own
it has the use of over £8 of the public’s. This, of course,’
should mean large profits for shareholders ; it necessarily
also means large risks, seeing that the capital and
reserves are the public’s guarantee for the return of its
deposits, &c., intact. What will happen when the Lon-
don demand eases 'off it is hard to say. Some of the
money may be used to pay Off London loans, in which
case it will still go on earning perhaps 3J p,er cent. And,
if Australia is wise during the next few weeks, and elects
to Parliament men pledged to High Protection, a great
deal more of it will be absorbed in financing new indus-
tries.; and that money will earn a good deal more than
3J per cent.
* * » •
The Westekn Austkaltan Bank (Perth, Wes-
tralia): — ’ .
Profits,
Less Sums
Written To Re- Re-
Off. Dividends. serves, serves.
Sept., 1900.. £12,811 17£p.c. = £8,750 £4,061 £221,368
Mar., 1901.. 11,787 17£ „ „ 8,750 3,037 224 405
Sept., 1901.. 17,476 „ „ 8,750 8,726 233,131
Mar., 1902.. 17,416 17| ~ „ 8,750 8,666 241 797
Sept., 1902.. 15,489 17| „ „ 8,750 6,739 248 536
Mar., 1903.. 18,780 17J „ ~ 8,750 10,030 258’566
Sept., 1903.. 20,974 17£ ~ „ 8,750 12,224 270,790
Premiums on 2500 new shares .. 31,250 30 9 040
Mar., 1904.. 22,278 17£ ~ „ 10,938" 11,340 313380
Sept., 1904.. 24,846 17| ~ „ 10,938 13,908 327,’288
Mar., 1905.. 21,233 17| „ „ 10,938 10,295 337 583
Sept., 1905.. 21,369 20 „ „ 12,500 8,869 346 452
Premiums on 2500 new shares .. 25,000 371 452
Mar., 1906.. 20,556 20 „ „ 12,500 8,056 379’508
Sept., 1906.. 24,059 20 „ „ 15,000 9,069 388’ 507
In these figures the half-year shows an improvement •
but the real improvement isn’t as great, because in the’
March half-year £2500 was paid to the Provident Fund
and in the half-year before that the officers got a bonus
of £3350, while in the past half-year there were no extras
of this sort at all. Moreover, in running one eye down
the Profits column, the other eye might be kept on the
fact that £106,250 of new capital has been got in since
1902, £56,250 of which, being premium, does not count
for dividend. Still the 20 per cent, dividend even on the
1903 lot of shares, which were issued at a premium of
125 per cent., means very nearly 9 per cent. ; and if
shareholders can go on getting a return of that sort on a
recent investment, they are a very lucky lot. Last year’s
issue—at 100 per cent, premium—shows alO per cent,
return; and that is something more glittering still. As
a matter of fact, so far as the published figures show
the shareholders’ funds are not earning that 10 per
cent. —in other words, the new capital is not earn-
ing what is being paid on it in dividend ; and that
means, again, either that it should not have been
issued at so little as 100 per cent, premium, or that
the present dividend should be reduced. A bank whose
funds earn less than 10 per cent, has no right to pay a 20
per cent, dividend if it issues new shares at a premium of
only 100 per cent.; and if it does issue shares at that
price, it must expect a less dividend later on. The
earnings on funds (capital and reserves) for some terms
past have been :
Mar., 1903 .. £lO 15 6 p.c. 1 Mar., 1905 .. £9 7 9p P
Sept., 1903 .. 11 14 0 ~ Sept., 1905 . 9 4 9 *
Mar., 1904.. 11 0 5 ~ Mar., 1906 814 5”
Sept., 1904.. 11 6 9 „ | Sept., 1906 .. 9 1 9’’
The 20 per cent, dividend allows a lay-by, it is true "of
38 per cent, of the profits ; but, considering the unsettled
state of Westralia, and its dependence upon goldfields
which are being rapidly exhausted, that is by no means a
large provision for reserves.
That Westralia is in an unsettled state still can
best be told by the very large proportion of deposits not
bearing interest. 011 this and some other points the fol-
lowing comparison may throw some light
_ T .' . , Sept., 1905. Sept., 1906.
Notes in Circulation ..£llB,OOO £124,078 Inc £6 078
Bills, &c. .. .. .. 135,093 111,740 Dec. 23,353
Deposits at Interest .. 884,433 867,494 Dec. 16 939
Deposits, Current Ac-
T . CO™, 11 1,126,744 1,161,234 Inc. 34,490
Liquid Assets .. .. 1,267,114 1,102,871 Dec. 164,243
Advances 1,424,458 1,652,741 Inc. 228,283
Premises .. .. .. 60,000 62,500 Inc. 2,500
There has been a notable increase in advances ; but as
Westralia shakes down, the chances are that, though
risks will grow less, rates for accommodation will also
shrink, and there will have to be a pretty large increase
in advances to counterbalance that. There is, however,
only one way in which this bank can safely increase its
advances far beyond the present point, and that is by the
turning of the large current account balances into fixed
deposits ; and that, of course, costs money. The
whole situation appears to be that the bank has
had its period of boom profits ; and, though it is quite
possible that through extra-good management it may
have no boom-burst losses, no amount of good manage-
ment will be able to maintain the old rate of earnings or
secure for the bank the benefit of so much non-interest-
bearing money. From the depositors’point of view, it
looks reasonably safe ; its own funds represent 6s. 3d. in
the £of the assets liable to depreciation. A shrinkage of
a good deal more than 6s. 3d. in the £ in goldfields secu-
rities is no doubt easily possible ; but, presumably, larg e
margins of safety have been required, and the 6s. 3d. in
the £is extra. Still 6s. 3d. in the £is not so much
in such a State as to suggest that there is room tor much
increase in the advances.
• * *
The Australian Mortgage, Land and Finance
Co., which through foreclosure and otherwise has become
one of the biggest landholders in N.S. Wales, especially
in the parts where Drought is mostly king:—
Nominal
Written To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1898 £39,656 p.c. = £39,000 £656 £303,649
1899 46,649 7£ „ „ 39,000 7,649 311,298
1900 61,586 7£ „ „ 39,000 22,586 333,884
1901 39,616 7£ „ „ 39,000 616 334,500
Loss.
1902 78,963 Nil 255,537
June, Profit.
1903 688 Nil 588 256,125
1904 12,135 2£p.c.= 13,000 265,260
1905 53,259 6 „ „ 31,200 £20,943 1,116 256,376
1906 100,354 7£ „ „ 39,000 12,394 48,960 305,836
It is a marvellous recovery; no wonder that in good seasons
the real Australian bush is a Siren. Markets and seasons
have both favored the squatter ; he has netted more from
his thousand head than a few years back he could net
from 2000 ; and, having to carry only the thousand head
where formerly 2000 ran, the country has had a chance
to recover from the shameful eating-out process to which
it had been subjected. The serious question at present
is whether the eating-out process won’t again be forced
upon occupiers. The biggest movements on to the land
have taken place under just such conditions as prevail
now. With the country looking at its best, with high
market prices ruling for products, men took up land at
extravagant prices, and got what proved to be extrava-
gant advances from pastoral-finance cos. and banks—the
advances were proved extravagant by the immense losses
of capital made by these concerns. In the desperate
struggle to keep their heads above water when the
seasons changed, and the wool and stock markets weak-
ened, every possible hoof was crowded on to the
country ; and when drought arrived the country was in
the worst imaginable condition to stand it. So the fine
profits made by such a co. as the A.M., L. and F. must be
considered soberly, or trouble will follow.
Partly through not altogether losing its head in
the former days of pastoral boom, and partly through
close economy since then, the A.M., L. and F. has come
through better than almost any other concern of the
kind. It has, besides its capital of £520,000, £2,000,000
of debenture stock, £1,900,000 of which carries 4 per
cent, and the balance 3 per cent., and it has kept the
interest paid. The amount shown above as written
off applies to reserve fund investments only ; the present
appropriation brings the co.’s holding of Consols down to
85 in the books. Amounts written off pastoral holdings are
charged to profit and loss direct. What these amounts
are is not disclosed; but there have been considerable
realisations, or considerable sums have been written off.
For the position compares in some respects with that of
five years ago:—
_ . 1901. 1906.
Cash, public stocks, &c., less
sundry creditors .. .. £48,095 £614,050
Advances and properties .. 2,363,214 1,993,560
Sundry debtors and store pre-
mises, &c. .. 469,355 241,126
And though cash and public stocks will not earn the
shareholders’ 7£ per cent.—will not earn even the deben-
ture stock-holders’ 4 per cent.—there is very little doubt
that, even assuming that the change in the figures is due
to sales, a pound in the till is a good deal safer than a
pound m squattages at the present prices of land
* * *
The Executor, Trustee, and Agency Co. of
South Australia (Adelaide)
Written Added
off Lease- to Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. hold. serves, serves
1898.. £l3lO 5 p.c. =£536 - £774 £1475
1899.. 1593 5„ „ 589 £2OO 804 2279
1900.. 927 5 „ „ 745 75 107 2386
1901.. 1577 5 „ „ 767 685 425 28U
1902.. 1833 5 „ „ 767 690 376 3187
1903.. 2836 6 „ „ 921 _ 1915 5™
1904.. 1987 6 „ „ 921 95 971 6073
1905.. 2302 7 „ ~1075 100 1127 7200
1906.. 2662 7 ~ ~1075 151 4436 gggg
Tile capital is £15,350 ; and on this and reserves combined
the profits show the very fine return of £ll ig s 8d n c •
and i he divid “ d calls for onl y 46 p.c. of the net
profit. The leaseholds amount now to £l3OO • so
though the life of the leases isn’t mentioned,’this
isn t a bottomless pit, at any rate. Though the profits
are so good, the expenses are heavy ; or there is another
possible way of putting it-profits may be good because
the business isn t run on cheap and nasty principles The
expenses run to 4s. 9d. per cent, of the trust estates in
hand (£1,452,874). The interests of those estates are pro-
tected first by the capital and reserves before-mentioned °
then by an uncalled capital of £34,650. The paid capital
and reserves are mainly on fixed deposit or in Treasury
bills, and, though they don’t bring in high interest, are
an unexceptionable lot, from the clients’ point of view
One other thing in connection with this co. mav be
noted : the auditors certify not only to the correctness of
the co. s accounts, but to the correctness also of the
accounts and securities relating to all estates under the
co.’s control.
* * * .
The North Queensland Insurance Oo (Syd-
ney) J
„ . , _ . Added to Re-
kept., Loss. Dividends. Reserves, serves
1896 .. £776 Nil _ £ a 6o o
Profits.
1897 .. 10,688 6 p.c. =£3206 £7,482 16.982
1898 .. 1,089 4,, ~ 2138 15*933
1899 .. 4,174 5 ~ ~ 2672 1,502 17’,435
1900 .. 14,064 8 „ „ 4275 9,789 27 224
1901 .. 15,291 8 ~ „ 4285 11,006 38/230
1902 .. 11,629 8 „ „ 4295 7,334 45 564
Loss.
1903 .. 4,369 Nil _ 44495
Profits.
1904 .. 11,057 8 p.c. = 4300 6,757 47,952
1905 .. 8,527 8 „ „ 4300 4,227 52,179
1906 .. 13,212 8 ~ ~ 4300 8,912 61^091
Probably on account of its considerable marine business
this co.’s profits are somewhat erratic ; yet, all round
very substantial progress is being made. In its first
10 years it only built up a reserve fund of £9500 -
in the past 10 years £51,591 has been added to’
that. For the twelve months just ended, though
the profit ran to £13,212, the dividend is wisely kept at a
rate which calls for under a third of that amount, leaving
over two-thirds to go to the fund for the protection alike
of insurers and of shareholders’ capital. Still, though
the profit (if what an insurance co. makes in any one year
in excess of that year’s outgoings can be called profit) ran
to £ll los. 2d. per cent, on capital and reserves, the loss
rate is comparatively high :
Loss Expense
Premiums. Loss. Expenses. Rate. Rate
1895 .. £40,681 £28,703 £13,058 70’7 p.c. 327 p c
1900 .. 75,310 44,053 20,529 58'5 „ 27-2 *
1904 .. 72,230 38,615 26,007 537 „ 36'0 ”
1905 .. 74,118 43,129 26,020 58'2 „ 357 ”
1906 .. 79,232 41,483 28,321 52‘3 „ 357 ’’
Nevertheless, though by comparison with other cos’,
figures the loss rate is high, the year’s experience is
much better than this concern’s own average—no doubt
because in these latter days this co. has left off pursuing
business in the far ends of the earth, where business is
very hard to watch. Looking at the situation from the
insurers’ point of view, the co. is doing exceedingly well
for them. As pointed out just now, its lay-by last year
was over 66 p.c. of the profits ; and, for the last 10 years,
of the total net profits of £85,362, only £33,771, or 39 p.c.,
has been paid in dividends, allowing- 61 p.c. to
be put aside to protect risks. The average lay-by of
Australian cos., though among the highest in the world,
i 8 per cenr - of profits; so the North
AnH e hnf>. n ?Q«-? o i ln{ ’i >^, ' ter for insur ers than the average.
a,ld reserves are for the most part in-
vested in liquid securities ; 76 per cent, is on fixed deposit,
or in cash or Government securities. The result from
the shareholders point of view is, of course, low interest
° n t^e i . avei ]age amount invested, about
£6 16s. od. per cent. Still, as the reserves now exceed
the paid capital, even that interest very nearly pays the
dividend, the underwriting- profit for reserves,
against that bad day which pretty surely arrives for
every fire-insurance co. sooner or later.
* * * *
Apparently on account of some flaw in the
Companies Aet--now in course of amendment —the
.North Queensland Insurance Co., instead of itself taking
accident business, formed, during the past year, the
North Queensland Accident Insurance Co., with a paid
capital of £13,437. For seven months, to Sept. 31sfc, it
shows a profit of £1613, or at the rate of over 19 per cent,
per annum. The expenses ran to about 29 per cent, of
the net premiums, and the losses were as little as 10 per
cent. though accident-insurance rates have
been cut down, and are still being cut, it is even yet a
highly profitable business—for the Private Enterprise
that sells the insurance. This co. pays 4 per cent, for the
seven months—equivalent to just under 7 ner cent, for
the year.
* * * *
Broken Hill Junction Mining Co.
Written off for
Loss. Depreciation. Deficit.
Mar., 1903 .. £2740 £1766 £17,914
Sept., 1903 .. 3904 1686 23,504
Mar., 1904 .. 1910 1600 27,014
Sept., 1904 1858 1520 30,392
Mar., 1905 3708 1381 35,481
Sept., 1905 .. 2468 1303 39,252
Mar., 1906 .. 6802 1249 47,303
Sept., 1906 .. 3731 1177 52,211
Just 10 years ago the 100,000 shares of £l, into which this
co. was then divided, were worth 625. each. They were at
that time paid to 16s. 6d. When the calling power had
been exhausted, the 100,000 shares were divided into
200,000 of 10s., with power to make calls equal to ss. on
100,000 shares. Of this ss. (£25,000) all but £5OOO has
now been called up, and the shares were recently
down to about 4s. They are now double that —pre-
sumably on the strength of the continuous losses shown
above. Since, 10 years ago, they were boomed to 625.
and more, they have paid only one dividend ; but they
have paid about a dozen calls. It is a little bit of
Broken Hill history that will probably pay a good many
people to read up just now. In 1896 there wasn’t a more
fashionable Barrier stock ; there seemed to be no end to
the dividends—they rolled out. Finally, English in-
vestors nibbled at them, and tried to get hold of a block
of 30,000 shares. And then disaster happened. It
started with a smash in the mine ; it ended—well, it
hasn’t ended yet. The co. has now £9582 of a surplus of
liquid assets over liabilities ; and its ore reserves are
estimated at 17,000 tons ; but they can’t be got out
economically. The eo. is liable to get into a pipe or
deposit of good ore at any time, and so the shares have a
value as a gambling counter. Ten years ago they were
included among the “ investment stocks.”
* * * *
One of the best-known of Papuans, Nelson, of
Woodlark, tells Tins Bulletin : “ Warn them against
this new rush. I believe there’s good gold there, hut
men simply can’t get at it. They can’t get ‘ boys.’ The
old hands can’t, and if they can’t, the new ones haven’t a
hope. It’s all the same whether you have £lOO or £lOOO.
For months past all the boats have been going round
recruiting, and they can’t get ‘boys.’ And, of course,
you can’t get there without them. The nearest store is, at
the least, 12 days’ journey from where the gold was
found ; it’s five days from the nearest field, but there’s
no store at that place. As to the gold the prospectors
got, it wasn’t 20000 z., as I’ve read. It wasn’t a tenth
part of that. In fact, it wasn’t lOOoz. What they might
have got I don’t know ; as it happened, they had to push
through, and didn’t get a chance to work the find.”
•* * * »
In theFingall, Day Dawn (W. A.), the thirteenth
level has, at latest advices, been driven over 700 ft. For
the most part it is worth only 2dwt. or less, though about
150 ft. are worth about 6dwt. This practically means that
the bottom of the shoot has been reached, and a new
shoot will have to be looked for—or a new mine. At
the last annual meeting Algernon Moreing told
shareholders that a vigorous policy of prospecting
would be introduced, but so far it isn’t visible. The co.
has a big cash balance, and has written down its equip-
ment and property to merely nominal figures ; and, so
far as bookkeeping goes, is easily the strongest co.
in W.A.
* * * *
Lake View Consols, Kalgoorlie, although still
not much to boast of, is looking rather better than it did
a year ago. The ore reserves have been increased from
87,000 tons, worth 365., or eight months’ supply, to
121,400 tons, worth 30s. 9d., or 11 months’ supply. The
lower levels have always been disappointing, but are
opening up rather better in quantity, though the grade
continues low ; but to some extent this has been balanced
by reduced costs. Co. is interested in various highly
speculative ventures. However, £73,500 bought half the
Broken Hill South Blocks, and this holding is now valued
at £250,000, or about 14s. per L.V. share ; but what the
shares would realise if they came into the market is
another matter. They are probably only worth £250,000
until the co. tries to sell them.
* * * *
Phillips River Gold and Copper, Ravens-
thorpe (W.A.),, has shown a great amount of energy since
its flotation in January last. Co. acquired eight separate
properties by purchase, and three on option, containing
637 acres, and has pushed along developments eagerly.
Klug, formerly manager of the Fremantle Smelter, and
latterly of Boulder Perseverance, is general manager,
with Fred. Morgan, formerly of Golden Horseshoe, as
mine manager—a very fine combination. The parent eo.
is now floating the Mt. Catlin, of 30 acres, into a separate
concern, with a capital of 200,000 shares, of £l, of which
100,000 are set aside to provide working capital. As it
is eventually intended to float off the other ten scattered
properties, it is certain that the present flotation will be
a success. Bull-Cohen is behind the venture, especially
that part of Bull-Cohen known as Rothschild’s Ex-
ploration Co.
* * * m
Flag Gold and Copper is another Ravensthorpe
(W.A.) venture offered to the public. It consists of 50
acres, from which a good deal of gold and copper has
been won. At the Government Smelter, bought by
Kaufman, 205 tons of ore from the show have been
treated for a return of £4BOl, or £23 Bs. per ton, £l5 19s.
representing copper and £7 9s. gold. This was excep-
tionally rich picked ore ; but, all round, 1222 tons have
realised £7 per ton treated. So far the prospectors have
sunk to 114 ft., where the reef is sft. wide. This co is
capitalised at £25,000 in 100,000 shares of ss. each, of
which the vendors get 60,000 and £750 cash. The Flag is
a purely local concern with its office at Ravensthorpe,
and may be handicapped for want of cash. It certainly
will, he handicapped if, in trying to make a market for its
shares, it starts out to distribute any profits it may make
in its early days. That is just where the Queensland
mine, the 0.K., somewhat similarly situated, made a
mistake.
* * * *
Meekathara, Murchison (W.A.), some 92 miles
from Nannine, is coming to the rescue of the country.
For a distance of 1£ miles, nine mines have been opened
up down to water level (about 150 ft.), and all have given
satisfactory results. Thousands of tons of stone are
awaiting treatment, but, owing to scarcity of water, the
Government mill has only been running one shift daily
and cannot overtake the demand. To date, the Halcyon
has won 12660 z. from 1750 tons, Marmont 58250 z. from
1480 cons, Fenian 54160 z. from 1401 tons, Ingliston Ex-
tended 38490 z. from 6550 tons, Ingliston Consols 45540 z.
from 1519 tons, Commodore South 889 oz. from 316
tons, Commodore 25440 z. from 1655 tons, Inglis-
ton United 104 oz. from 197 tons, and Ingliston 6610 z. from
390 tons. The Ingliston Extended is a Bull co. of 60,000
£1 shares, but all the others are locally-owned, struggling
* * * *
Mararoa, Norseman (W.A.), held under option
by Prnieess Royal Central, still continues to develop
well, and the lode at 240 ft. is worth 60s. per ten,
the same as at 150 ft. With the advent of the railway
working* costs should be reduced. Consulting* engineer
Bill Henderson has great faith in the property, and
there seems little doubt that it will eventually turn out
trumps. The pending* calls are the drawback.


2%e Best Tobacco
the world can
produce. £? &
fi/1 P er
\Jr 'UI • ounce.
3 STRENGTHS—
A 1 Mild.
B 2 Medium.
C 3 Strong.
Sr
Sr
O
S,
A*
D
S
'2oz. Tins 1/*
r 4oz. Tins 2/-
Boz. Tins 3/9
Sold Loose only by
A. A. MARKS,
y/370 George St.
310 George St.
28 Hunter St.
177 Oxford St.
SYDNEY.
Whitford Reward shareholders the other day
(22/U/’O6) gave the directors power in Adelaide to dispose
of the 12,000 shares in reserve. Immediately afterwards
the board accepted Sh offer of Is. 6d. a share for the lot.
This would be all right except for the fact that there was
a market at about 3s. lOd. for the stock, and buyers were
strong. Shares were Is. Bd. the previous day ; but they
were more than double that when the reserved shares
were sold at Is. 6d. Under the circumstances it would
be just as well for the directors to say who the pur-
chasers were. Possibly the sale was really made before
the meeting was held ; in which case, of course, the
meeting was a farce. As the market is still over 3s. some-
body has had a chance to make a fine scoop. The co.’s
intention in raising the new money was to get a working
option over the Callion mine at Davyhurst (W.A.).
The Broken Hill cos. proposed to give 12J per
cent, rise in wages to their workmen when lead is over
£l6 per ton. Rundown this list—the half-yearly aver-
ages of lead, from B.H. Block 10 report, and then ponder
over the generosity of the proposal:—
Mar., 1900 .. £l5 14 9£ Sept., 1903 .. £lllllO
Sept., 1900 .. 17 6 9 Mar., 1904 .. 11 8 9|
Mar., 1901 .. 15 111 Sept., 1904 .. 11 15 8
Sept., 1901 .. 12 3 3J Mar., 1905 .. 12 11 6
Mar., 1902 .. 11 4 6 Sept., 1905 .. 13 8 0
Sept., 1902 .. 11 5 9 Mar., 1906 .. 16 0 3
Mar., 1903 .. 11 8 lj Sept. 1906 .. 16 17 9
Present price is £l9 155., or thereabouts; and share
values are apparently based on that —if they are based, on
anything. Seeing that, instead of the output declining,
it is increasing, while no new outlet for the metal has
been discovered, this list also holds out mighty poor hope
of the price staying where it is.
•k •* * m
The Broken Hill miners and owners have fixed
up their wage-scale. The grotesque proposal to pay an
increase only with lead above £l6 has been abandoned;
and a rate has been fixed for two years instead. The rise
runs from 15 per cent, to about 11 per cent.—the 7s. 6d.-a-
-day surface men get the 15 per cent., and the men who
have been getting 9s. a day or over are to get an extra
Is. A sliding scale, based on metal prices, would be the
nearest approach to a scientific settlement of the
problem; but, if they can help it, the Broken Hill men
won’t have any settlement that doesn’t mention a fixed
time. They remember that they had an open agreement
once before ; and suddenly, without a day’s warning,
that agreement was terminated just at the moment when
it might have done the men some good. So they are
“off ” open agreements.
* * * *
There may be nothing important in the fact
that Block 10, Broken Hill, had a mullock pass squeezed
in, the other day, but it at least shows that the force
which some months back crushed in the upper levels is
still dangerous. The last movement was purely local and
caused no interference with ore-production. Some
slight modifications have been carried out at the mill. It
was previously thought that if the crudes were crushed
to a fine grade' a better concentration would be
effected. But experience proved that the idea was
wrong. Fine grinding resulted in too much sliming, and
the proportion of concentrates was consequently reduced.
A coarser product is now returned from the first crush-
ing, and the adoption of this principle has already had a
good effect. It has reduced the percentage of slimes and
added correspondingly to the concentrates produced.
The grinding pan is not yet installed in Block 10 mill, but
one is on order. All the mines along the line of lode are
going in for grinding pans.
* » * *
Additional slime-dressing appliances
are to be used at Block 10 mill, Broken Hill. The re-
covery of lead in concentrates on that field has improved
of late years, but the improvement depends very much
upon the class of ore treated. Block 10 mill had to deal
with ore assaying 13T per cent, lead and 13'loz. silver ;
for every unit of lead there was an ounce of silver. The
ore was hard and fine-grained, producing an excessive
quantity of slimes. The recovery of 65'69 percent, (or
nearly two-thirds) of the lead looks low, but it is really
very fair work. The recovery of 36'4 per cent, of the
silver seems even worse, but when a large quantity of
slimes are made, heavy losses of both silver and lead are
inevitable. The value of the lead recovered from Block
10 crude ore about equals the value of the silver that is
lost; in other words, as high a money-value is lost in the
tailings as is saved in concentrates. Out of 13 T per cent,
lead ore, Block 10 saved B'6 units and lost 4'5 units
per ton of ore. North B.H. mine, milling 17 per cent,
lead ore, of a coarse grain and good milling quality,
recovers 76 per cent, of the lead, or nearly 13 units ; it
consequently loses four units, or half a unit less than
Block 10. But note the difference in the ore. Block 10
probably did as good work as any other mill could have
done on similar stuff.
* * -Jr
The various zinc-process people are very busy
in Broken Hill, and the battle for the survival of the
fittest should soon begin. There is bound to be a lot of
preliminary fireworks, and only after the smoke has cleared
avyay and the rocket-stick has had time to come down
will the public he able to estimate the real va ue of these
processes. Gillies, inventor of the Gillies process, has
been working night and day for months past, trying to
get a move on his small but compact and expensive plant
on Block 10, but so far has not been able to do much. De
Bavay is also hard at work at his plant on the North
mine, trying to get a sufficiently large production of the
“really beautiful” zinc concentrate he obtains to justify
working costs. On the British mine Huntley, manager
of the Zinc Corporation, with zinc-expert Queneau, is
“ shaking things up,” and this time the co.’s representa-
tives mean to do or die. The lightly-mentioned
“ modification ” of the Potter plant meant the de-
molition of the whole disappointing caboose, and the
disrespectful “ chucking out ” of every acid-smelling pan
in the place. Quite a pretentious building is now being
erected on the ruins of the old experimental plant, and
no expense is being spared to make things “ gee ” this
time. The Elmore process man, who tickles the liquid
product with an electric current, thus securing separa-
tion of the metal particles, is also burning a small experi-
mental candle to attract the festive manager-moth. The
Elmore plant is to rise from the ashes of the Australian
Metal Co.’s dismantled works at Railway Town, and for a
start will be supplied with tailings by the Zinc Corpora-
tion. The Zinc Corporation, having no process of its
own, is glad to encourage anybody who is even suspected
of having such a thing about him.
* * * *
Rumor is busy with the Junction North shaft.
Three times during the past fortnight has she knocked
the shaft out of plumb, and then found out that she
was the same old liar as the ancients found her. There
need be no fear for the Junction North shaft as long as
the Junction ground holds up.
* * * *
The British mine, Broken Hill, was short of ore
last week, owing to the shifty nature of the ground in
Marsh’s section, adjoining the Junction. No firing could
be done on account of the risk, and the process of barring-
down had to be treated with the utmost caution. There
are hot arguments at Broken Hill, based on recent obser-
vation, about what becomes of the ore bodies in Marsh s
section. A knowing crowd says they are all running into
the Junction North and North mines. Those who sup-
port the theory have this to stand on, that Marsh’s ore
body has not been proved below the 600 ft. level, where it
apparently enters the North mine.
As The Bulletin pointed out two or three
months ago, the New White Leads, which is supposed to
have a continuation of the Broken Hill lode, has not yet
got the true ore body at the 400 ft. level. All the time,
however, a few seams of galena, with patches of sulphides
at intervals, have been foisted on the public as the true
ore body coming down from the 300 ft. level. One of the
directors now admits that driving south will still have to
be continued for some distance before any hope can be
entertained of picking up the shoot of ore.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: “Of the 960,000 Broken Hill
Prop, shares, only a few short of 700,000 are now on the
English register ” (B. 8/11/’O6). Yet there was a time (and
that when the mine was at its very best) when little Ade-
laide owned more than London and Sydney and Melbourne
together—owned more than half of the whole thing.
* * * *
At present the holding in Broken Hill South,
the coming Barrier mine, is cutup something like this:—
Adelaide and Broken Hill, 70,000 ; Sydney, 55,000 ; Mel-
bourne, 45,000 ; London, 30,000. The principal recent
movement has been towards London.
» * * *
The men who play in the present Broken Hill
gamble in the one hope that they won’t be holding the
baby when the school breaks up got cold shivers last
week. In one day Souths tumbled from £8 18s. 6d. to
£8 4s. Things like that set them thinking that when the
slump does come it won’t come in pence.
* * * *
The Budgery shows (N.S.W.) are now practi-
cally all at work, either sinking or costeening—the latter
mostly scratching that should have been done before the
public was asked to come in. Considering its situation,
and that it was so early on the market, Budgery South is
the slowest; and it has much need to hustle, for, though
it must get the lode if the lode carries that far, the
chances are that it will have to do a good deal of sinking
to reach it.
* * * *
Harden (N.S.W.), having got thi-ough with the
additions to its treatment plant, pays a sixpenny div. in
December ; and there’s sixpence a month in sight for 12
months after that.
* # * »
“J. Long, mine manager,” writes at vast
length to assert that the West Harden (N.S.W.) is a better
mine than it was given credit for in 8., 16/11/’O6. Two
recent crushings are mentioned —30 tons, which gave
15dwt.; and 90 tons, which gave loz., without the sands.
Such crushings were not disputed. What was affirmed
was that the makes of stone are small; and, though the
property is worth a test, it isn’t worth a boom.
*■*•*■*
The greatest depth now attained on gold-bear-
ing stpne at Wyalong (N.S.W.) is 1200 ft. At that depth
the True Blue Co. has a 2ft. to 3ft. channel, carrying both
battery and sulphide ore.
* * * m
After many months of prospecting at Mulyan
tinfield, Connolly and party have brought in to Wyalong
13 tons of tin ore, which yielded 1 ton of pure tin con-
centrates over the battery. Taylor and party, from the
Buddigower tin find, treated 50 tons for 1J tons of con-
centrates. With concentrating appliances, the tin de-
posits at these places should pay as long as good markets
favor them.
* # * *
Latest thing on the market is the Elsie Tin Mining
Co., a New England (N.S.W.) proposition, with some of
the Commonwealth Oil Corporation people behind it.
Proposed co. is in 25,000 shares of 10s. each, of which the
promoters and vendors take half and £lOO, though appa-
rently all that the vendors and promoters have done is to
put in a few pegs, apply for the land and write a prospectus.
Two reports are submitted. One says that there is
£520,800 worth of tin available ; the other says the gross
value of tin likely to be won is £185,492. There seems
enough discrepancy between these figures to suggest that,
if the ground has been tested at all, it has only been tested
in a very perfunctory manner; and the public has a
very good right to sniff with suspicion at estimates put
forward under such circumstances.
* * * ■*
The weak point in most of the Tingha (N.S.W.)
tin propositions, in which Melbourne is much more inte-
rested than Sydney, is showing up already ; the first
month of summer finds them threatened with an early
failure of the indispensable water supply.
* » * *
Baker’s Creek (N.S.W.), 350 tons for 9840 z.,
including concentrates ; yet the return did not cause a
ripple in Sydney. Adelaide, however, jumped the shares
up a little. A number of weak holders got out at ridicu-
lously low prices, if last crushing is any guide ; but, un-
fortunately, it is not too sure a one.
* * * *
New Moon, Bendigo, will give its shareholders
a Christmas box of 4s. per share. It has now divided £l3
per share, and the promise of future prosperity is assured
if the directors agree to let the manager infuse some
more life into the working of the property. It needs a
little hard driving to turn to account the low-grade stone
at the south shaft. The best thing the directors could do
would be to send the manager to Westralia before he starts
to joggle out the south shaft quartz. The co. can do
cheap work, for to date it has put through 300,000 tons
at an average cost of about 14s. per ton. As the grade
of the dirt has been 9|dwt., dividends have come with
regularity. Furthermore, discretion has tempered the
beating-out of the stone. This is more than can be
said of one or two mines near by. The New Moon’s
record looks well indeed. Capital called up, 3s. 6d. per
share on 24,000 shares; total paid capital, £4200; tons
treated to September 30, 389,405 ; gold won, 175,8480 z. ;
dividends paid, £312,328. Divs. work out at 53 per cent,
of the gold won, and working expenses have been 40 per
•cent. South New Moon, next door, shows better figures,
but it has come pretty well to a standstill. They do for
comparison, however: Capital called up, 17s. 7d. on
32,000 shares, or a total of £28,133; tons crushed,
203,319 ; gold, 163,7510 z. ; dividends, £421,600. There-
fore, the difference in favor of the South is over
£lOO,OOO in divs., the high-grade stone yanked out during
the last years enabling it to establish this record. To
makeup a handicap of £lOO,OOO is a long way to travel,
but New Moon is so well handled and has such chances
with its south shaft stone that there seems to be every
hope that it will at least get level with its neighbor. But
as it has now low-grade stone tp deal with, the old
methods will hardly do. .
* * # »
Chalk’s No. 3, Carisbrook, has got some cash in
hand, after a long up-hill drag, which tired out most of
the old hands. Co.’s accounts show up a shade worse
than those of the majority of deep lead concerns, and are
instructive as proving the heap of cash that is swept
away before profits are reached with such mines.
Capital amounting to £78,383 has been called up,
and the gold won is valued at £133,430. All
this has been mopped up, as well as a Government grant
of £5OOO. Two shafts have had to be sunk, and a big
block of the claim has been worked-out to get to the
present stage. Wash now averages 14dwt. per fathom,
and it takes 12dwt. to pay for, this if the work done at
No. 2 shaft is debited, as it ought to be. The co. has a
block of ground ready at the No. 1 shaft. This will soon
be drawn on to its full extent. There is more than a
little market uneasiness as to its limits and as to
the width of the run of gold. In the No. 2 shaft
the wash is still green and ought to be let stand to drain.
The co.’s report just out isn’t half as explicit as that of
the Chiltern Valley or Great Southern, Rutherglen.
These latter give details of cost, and tell plainly the width
of the runs of gold. The public won’t jump at Chalk’s
No. 3 until there is definite evidence on this doubtful
point. It is this hiatus in the report that makes the
directors’ assurances that there need be no fear over the
area of the wash at No. 1 shaft appear so exceedingly
thin. The market takes the rumor to the contrary rather
seriously, and it isn’t often far out.
* * ■ te ■*
Ballarat takes a very low place in the gold list
nowadays. As a producer, Bendigo, during the Septem-
ber quarter, headed the fields of the State with 45 2980 z.
and divs. £68,624; Walhalla, with only the two’ Long
Tunnel mines, is second with 11,5570 z. and £13,200 divs
Then Buckland, Harrietville, and Bright, all dredging
districts, gave 63200 z. and divs. £8240 ; next Chiltern and
Ru.therglen, 12,8180 z., divs. £5BOO, all from the Chiltern
Valley and Great Southern ; then Pitfield and Berrinea
gold 10,2200 z., divs. £3700 ; and then sixth and penulti-
mate, Ballarat, 13,7910 z., divs. £2lOO. p
Band and Loch, Ballarat, shows some remark-
able figures, even for that mining Sahara. As the Sir
Harry Loch it paid consistent divs. ; but then the shoot
of gold pitched into the Star of the Bast, and lean years
followed. This brought about amalgamation with its
neighbor, so that to-day the co. owns to the name of the
Band and Loch United. As such the mine has yielded gold
worth £124,000, and shareholders have paid up £46,000,
with nary a div. to cheer them on a cold and chilly call-
paying course. On the crushing done last half-year this
ought not to be the case, for 4100 tons averaged fully
lOdwt. The mine, however, is worked on the dog’s-hind-
leg system, and there can be small hope of anything
better until Homeric attempts are made to cheapen costs
by putting the mine in proper trim. As it is, every level
the co. sinks under present conditions handicaps it more
and more. If Manager Mason hits the shoot of stone he
is searching for at 2303 ft. he ought to tackle the problem.
Otherwise Band and Loch, like the rest of the Plateau
mines, must continue to be a mining delusion.
* * * *
Up comes an old titled friend in the person of
the Duke of Wellington, Bamganie (Vic.). The result of
the Duke of York corner prevented any like prac-
tices with the Duke of Wellington, so it had to
live on its gold. This turned out so well as to save
the fields, and to hold the allegiance even of those who
did not like the smell of the Duke of York coup. But
the show now has dwindled down to a contract claim of
the Ballarat order. Those who work down below on that
field know what that means. It probably explains, too,
the item “ contractors, £908,” in the last balance-sheet.
Co.’s calls last half-year totted up to £1261, or about
half the value of the gold won. Law costs ate up £6OO,
and, lumped on to “misappropriation, £521,” just about
took all that the shareholders subscribed. The deficiency,
by a neat bit of sarcasm, has been debited to “working
account.”
* * * *
In north-east Victoria just now they talk little
except buckets and barges. At Bright the various
Tewksburys are gladdening the hearts of scrip-holders
(mostly Sydneysiders) with big divs. The other lot are
also mostly on payable wash. Fletcher’s claims on
Yackandandah Creek are on good gold. Lower down the
tributors on Mrs. J. A. Wallace’s Rowdy Flat barge are
getting something better than wages. The widow’s barge
at Allan’s Flat is giving a satisfactory return, and her
claim at Baranduda is now doing a little better. There
is also a chance of the reefs at Twist Creek being worked.
The English co. now working at Rocky Point has taken
up the Polar Star lease, and is erecting a battery. A
Yackandandah syndicate has been raising ounce stone for
some months from a reef near the Polar Star, and every
reef in the locality has been pegged out. A cyanide plant
has also started at Twist Creek.
* * * •
The Maori Queen gold dredge, Bright (Vie.),
is a cheap worker. The money value of the 5300yds. of
washdirt handled per week averaged s’3d. per yard ; ex-
penses took 2'57d., renewals 0'57d., and profits were a
shade over 2d. per yard lifted. Profits should amount to
over £4O per week on this basis ; say £2OOO a year. But
depreciation is heavy, and the margin of profit is so
narrow that there is no room for high capitalisation of
stock.
* * * »
“Old Bendigonian ” (who isn’t an interested
party): Apropos G. D. Meudell and the Bendigo City
float. Every statement made by the promoters concern-
ing this mine can be amply verified on the spot. As to
the “ little swag of paid-up shares,” those shares are only
paid up to the amount of the first allotment money.
Whenever it is necessary to make a call—that is, in the
event of the money placed to the credit of the co. not
being sufficient to put the mine on payable gold—these
so-called paid-up shares will have to pay the same as the
rest. The Golden City Co.’s lease is right inside the most
highly auriferous square mile of the Bendigo goldfield,
and, until the ground is proved, no one can say
that it will not be as rich as the best. For nearly 50
years it was occupied with building allotments,
and anyone who knows the terrors which promoters
have to face under the Mining on Private Property
law, will not begrudge the little lot of paid-ups, &c.
Bendigo, from the surface down to 400 ft., was, generally
speaking, much richer than Bendigo below 400 ft. All the
grand old Bendigo mines whose names are before the
public were rich above 400 ft., and that is why they have
since been carried down to such great depths. The land
of the Bendigo City Co. was shut against miners in the
early days. It was utterly impossible to do anything
prior to the passing of the Mining on Private Property
Act, and even now that there is such an Act, promoters
need to be men who are not afraid of preliminary trouble
or of law and clerical expenses either, to tackle a block of
ground covered by 31 citizens’ residences, and owned or
part owned by about 40 different persons.
« * * *
“ Pea Green ” : .Recently had a few days round
Arltunga, in the far north of S. Aus., and saw the mica
field, 50 miles out. There is a good waggon road from the
Arltunga Government ore-reduction works as far as
Claraville, eight miles out. From there on it is any sort
of a track, easily followed, however, by keeping in
sight of tinned-dog shells and the empty bottles.
A pub.-keeper on the route was eloquent on, the
subject of mica mining, and incidentally said that
his city grog accounts nearly doubled during the last
co.’s ten months’ existence there. He “can’t make out
’ow the Adelaide people don’t put more money into the
shows. There’s mobs of good mica buried in them
mullock-heaps yet.” Well, having seen the shows, this
writer can tell how no more money is available for that
area. No mining worth mentioning has been done ; old
mullock-heaps have been fossicked for a few cwt. of
mica worth about £75, at a cost, in one case, of
£lOOO. Waste, waste everywhere. At White Range
the same old wickedness of many sorts is still
rampant—whisky and gins ; the latter do a good deal
of the “mining.” Great institution this tribute busi-
ness! The Excelsior, a long way the best show there,
has been on tribute for three years ; co. not spending a
penny on the lease ; board drawing fees ; tributors crush-
ing at Government'works, which actually collects the
royalty for the co. The royalty is just enough to pay
offices exes., and leave a few shillings over. Didn’t see
Winnecke’s, but heard it was dead.
* * * *
Tarcoola Blocks, the Adelaide co. which is
putting up a better struggle with its far-north S. Aus. mine
than any other concern in that State, is getting in plant
to allow the deep ground to be tried. From flat surface
stone, followed for as. much as 500 ft. on the underlay, ■
£lOO,OOO worth of gold has been got out. The blocks are
a network of narrow reefs, and the chances are that they
either cut out altogether or junction at depth. A verti-
cal shaft will find out which it is. Costs are deadly:
cartage has to be done by, camel teams—they hitch the
ghostly beasts to waggons—and timber is so scarce that
for shaft work Westralian jarrah is used.
* * * *
Drilling will start early in December to settle
whether the old Kapunda copper mine (S. A.) was a sur-
face deposit, caught in the folds of the rock, or a lode. -.
Meantime there is a quantity of low-grade (l| percent.)
stone in the mine, of which a couple of truck-loads were
sent to Broken Hill to be experimented with. Fine
crushing and the Wilfleys make a concentrate that will
show a profit, with copper down to £BO. Point now is to
determine the approximate quantity of this stone.
* * * *
North • Queensland’s wet season has started
earlier than usual with a fast fall of 4|in. This will make
things good for the tin-streamers, but is likely to make
things bad for such mines as the Vulcan, Dalzell’s, O.K.
and others that have haulage difficulties. Their output
will be more or less interfered with up to, say, April.
* * * *
Recent movement in Mt. Molloy (Q.) shares
is based on the expectation of an early division of some
of the big cash reserves. The co., in 80,000 shares issued,
has well on to £50,000 in hand. Shares, which in Sep-
tember stood at 14s. 6d., have had sales this week at 265.
* * * *
Bulletin remarked a few weeks ago that
between then and 12 months hence, when Mt. Elliott and
other Cloncurry (Q.) shows will begin to really show their
paces, there would be some pretty games in the market.
One was played this last week, when shares jumped from
about 435. to 70s.—merely on buying-orders from London.
Fact is that the shares are so well held that, if a buyer
arrives, he has to pay to get in, and then a section of the
public always wants a leg-in in anything that has a rising
market. These latter are mostly weak holders, who
don’t buy for keeps ; and the chances are that before the
12 months are up, they will sell out at 3fts. or 355. Pro-
bably prices will be got down there or thereabouts to
oblige them.
Henry, who discovered the Oloncurry (Q.)
copper field 40 years ago, has hung on to the place with
pathetic fidelity. His dream of amassing millions still
visits him nightly. The confidence of a miner is
unshakable.
* * * *
The revived Peak Downs (Q.) is to go ahead at
once with the building of a new big smelting furnace.
* * * •
The Manual, a London publication, prints the
typical sort of yarn on which J. Bull is being hustled
into “ Barriers.” One of recent date was that the South
Blocks shaft is 900 ft. deep, and has seven levels devel-
oped. If J. Bull would divide these figures by three, he
would get near the truth. Presently, when J. Bull finds
out and swears, the bad name that Australia will get will
be put down to Socialistic legislation as usual.
**'*.*
One of the special points to be considered by
the Broken Hill British Mine in the extension of their
present mill, was a suitable rockbreaker. There are
several types of crushers at the Hill, but the management
of the British decided to purchase Austin Rotary Rock-.
breakers after exhaustive enquiry and practical work
with other makes. The Block 10 00. purchased two
Austin’s some time ago, and these were put to a very
severe test for capacity, horsepower, and wearing ability
—the result has been a triumphant and conclusive proof
that the Austin is the best machine at present offering,
crushing more material with less h.p. than other makes.
They have forced lubrication, double counter shaft
bearings, and are of heavy construction to withstand all
strain. W. and J. Lempriere, of Melbourne, are the sole
agents."
* * * •
The Charlotte Plains Consolidated G. M.
Oo.’s new Havillah Shaft has just installed a high
lift pump to make all necessary provision against
any increase in the volume of water now that they
are opening up large areas of wash dirt. This instal-
lation is in addition to the large three throw pump
which has given such high efficiency and such constant
service since its inception. The new pump is of the high
lift turbine type, electrically driven, and is capable of
lifting 2,016,000 gallons of water in 24 hours against a
total head of 350 feet. The mechanical efficiency of the
pump is guaranteed at 71 - 5 per cent, and all repairs and
replacements apart from undue wear are likewise
guaranteed for twelve months. The pump has four
runners and four vanes made from best bronze and the
shaft is attached by means of a flexible coupling to a
Ganz three phase motor 440 volts pressure, 60 cycles
capable of giving 207 h.p. The Austral Otis Engineering
Company, of South Melbourne, have executed this con-
tract. This Company has had the manufacture of most
of the big volume deep alluvial lead pumping schemes in
Victoria and has met in each with unqualified success.* [A]
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick ; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.,
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * * *
The Insubance Freeman (Liverpool), in its
issue of 1st September, wrote :—“ Quietly, unobtrusively,
but none the less surely, The Colonial Mutual Life
Office is becoming a most important factor in the insur-
ance world. To have accumulated close upon £3,000,000
in 32 years is in itself a performance unique in the history
of British ordinary life offices, and this achievement is but
one among many of the accomplishments of the Society.”*
* * * *
To Mine Managers, Assayers and others.
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime, Zinc Shavings,
Mabor, and all Mining and Assay Chemicals and
Apparatus, Microscopes and accessories can be obtained
of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne. Agents for
Oertling’s and Schlag and Berend’s Balances.*
Cobar. —For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* « * *
Cobar. —For information on all mining matters,
apply to G. Marshe. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* • * *
D. H. Dunlop, Stock and Share Broker,
Cobar. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Budgery.—Write G. M. Field, Hermidale. On
the field.
• • * •
Connolly, Keam and Co., 123 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
or flotation. Must stand close expert investigation.*
* * * *
“Geo. E. Dickenson, 60 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, Manager and Trustee is prepared to consider
offers, sale or purchase of approved Mining properties
under working option or cash purchase.”
■k * •* m
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silburberq and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
» » ♦ *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, w'here the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discrintion of cast or wrought iron work.*
» * * •
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
***-•»
The enterprising engineering firm R. Hornsby
and Sons, Ltd., Grantham, England, world renowned
manufacturers of the “Hornsby” Patent Safety Oil
Engine, the latest adaption of which is their Traction
Engine, have entered the Gas Engine arena and are now
making the Hornsby-Stockport Gas Engine and Suction
Gas Plant. The latter we learn will develop upwards of
10 brake horse power at the cost of Id. per hour. The
minimum cost and attention required should prove a great
inducement to users of motive power to instal this type
of plant. The Australasian addresses of the above firm
are : Sussex-street, Sydney and Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne.*
• * * •
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A - Queen-street,
Melbourne. Commission business only. Agents every-
where.*
* * * *
The Reavell Air Compressor is an entirely new
departure in compressor design, and by its numerous
good points is already finding considerable favor in Au -
tralian mining circles. As there are no suction valves,
the volumetric efficiency is at least 5 per cent higher than
•any other compressor. It is unrivalled for driving by
means of an electric motor, and is the only machine in
which driving gears can be altogether dispensed with.
The sole licensees for Australia are Babcock and Wilcox,
makers of the well-known water tube boiler, whose Aus-
tralasian office is at the Haymarket, Sydney.*
* * * •
Charters Towers.—Mining speculators would
■do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
■Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* * • *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
'Collison and Co., 483 Oollins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*


Hotel
Australia
BATES PROM
12s. 6d. per Day
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light, it is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
ANGLERS
Send
for our
FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE.
It will please you.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
409 and 411 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
(The “ H. & B.” Post Card Firm.)
nR!VATE CHRISTMAS CARDS, printed specially for
■ you with your own name, address and greeting
fro m 2/6 Dozen. Beautiful Art Designs. Orders
posted same day as received. Prices Complete, post
free, 2/6, 3/6, 4/9, 6/6, and 8/3 per dozen. Send
three penny Stamps for specimens, or send along
Postal Note and leave choice to us. We will satisfy
you or return your money. HARDING and BILLING,
Fine Art Publishers, 250 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
(Tiie “ H & B.” Post Oard Firm.)
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resells Waverley Brewery, Agents.
ABORGIN
ALITIES
“Skyp”: A policeman with a strange
report has struck terror into the simple hearts of
the blacks at the camp at La Perouse (N.S.W.).
Interested persons in high places have decreed
their removal to Kurnel, across Botany Bay.
The present reserve is to be made into a scraggy
park, where the sixpenny tram-trotter may dis-
port himself without the disquieting sight of a
black face. This is villainous treatment ; for on
Kurnel side the land is more exposed, the fishing
is poorer, and the men will get no sale for their
shell-work and native weapons, the sole degenerate
industries left to them.
LIVELY FOR THE CANDIDATE.
THE CANDIDATE : “I trust the electors of Craufoot are more civilised than those at
Cravelbark. There the wretches threw eggs at me.”
M‘A LISTER : “Na fear, mon, we wadna be sa eemprovident. We're brought stones .”
“ Jans” : I wish to enter the North-East
Dunday tramway (Tas.) for the slow train com-
petition. Length of railway, Zeehan to Williams-
ford, is 18 miles; schedule time three hours.
That’s for the express. The heavy goods (fire-
wood) usually does a trip a day, though occasion-
ally it has to camp out on the hillside for the
night, and drags itself into Zeehan next forenoon.
“ Agricola ” : The lyre bird is just about
played-out as a subject for discussion in the
“Abo.” column. But there is one little pecu-
liarity about it which I have never yet seen
touched upon. It seems to take the most pride
in its dancing and mimicry in the depth of
winter, when the season for grand opera among
the other birds has not commenced. In the
spring-time, it is not nearly so joyous, and, any-
way, its performance is over-shadowed by the
hosts of warblers who are busy quenching the
silence of the bush. To get it at its best,
you must choose a miserable winter evening, with
snow half-way to your knees, and a knocked-up
horse under you. While you are hankering for a
season-ticket to Sheol, you may hear the feathered
lunatic in the gully below you, yelling at the top
of its voice all the scraps of last year’s warm-
weather songs it can remember. Then you do
not feel at all grateful for the music, and consider
its cheerfulness very much misplaced. It is at
moments like these that the Birds’ Protection
Act becomes a dead letter, and, if weapons are at
hand, the “lyre” stands a good show of becoming
an exceedingly ditto bird.
* * * *
A record just completed by a Scone
(N.S.W.) cow will take some beating. Outwardly
she s plain, ordinary “moo”; her unusualness
consists in the fact that for the past five years
consecutively she’s come up as the proud moo-ma
of twins. The fifth pair (males) arrived during
November, and bring her record up to ten calves
m a little more than four years. The offspring
were neither weak nor deformed in any way, and
all were successfully reared.
* * a «
. * GOLDEN OPPORTUNITY. —A way out of a difficulty
is provided by the “8.1. G.” novel and easy plan of pur-
chase of necessities and luxuries. If the purchase of a
nice diamond half-hoop ring is needed, or a good-grade
watch, gold chain, or bangle, or any silver-plated goods
or cutlery is required to be made, make it at once on our
easy deferred monthly payment system and have the
goods now. The advantages are yours ; so don’t lose
time. Write or call at once for our catalogue ; it will
please you. The British Imperial Goldsmiths, 65 Pitt-
street, Sydney.*
The Australian long-distance stock-droving
record has again been put up—as usual by a
Queenslander. In June, 1905, one Rose left
Lissadell Station, on the Ord River (Westralia),
with a mob of 3000 cattle for Charleville (Q.), a
distance of 3000 miles—one bullock per mile.
When about half-way across the Northern
Territory he encountered drought conditions, and
turned north into the ranges. He zig-zagged up
and down the water-courses for months, and
gradually made his way eastward, finally coming
into good country by the Nicholson River route.
At times it was necessary to send exploring
parties as much as 150 miles ahead to locate safe
camping places. Rose’s party consisted of twenty
men, and the cattle, to the number of 2600, were
delivered at Charleville in splendid condition, and
sold on November 14. Rose gets great praise for
his feat. The 2600 bullocks get killed.
•V * * *
“Douglas T.”: Out here in the flooded
part of Riverina (between Barham and Moula-
mein) shearers have their troubles just now. I
spoke to one a few days ago. He was literally
wading from a shed to the drowsy little town-
ship on the Murray. A long stretch of the
road he had to travel was covered with water, in
some places deep enough to reach his chin. Still
he looked happy and irresponsible, although han-
dicapped with a bike and swag attachment. His
cheque he intended to carry in his ear. He got
through all right, too, though how he managed
with the bike and Matilda is a puzzle. A citizen
such as this is of more value to the Commonwealth
than a cubic mile of Judkinses.
“Paul Cupid”: Can “ Prooshan ” or
“ San Remo,” or anybody who habitually carries
snakes about explain why he escapes being bitten,
or whence he gets the power (possibly from
Gehenna) to do with the squirming things what
others can’t ? Bike the above scribes, I knew an
Australian bushman who used to carry all kinds
of serpents. Sometimes he would call at a neigh-
bor’s on his way home from work and stay for tea,
and when paterfamilias was imploring grace on
the provender a serpent would crawl out of the
visitor’s shirt and look into the countenance of
the “old man,” who invariably tacked a fearful
swear on to the grace, and took a back somersault
and overturned the meal on to the floor. The
man walked into the local editorial sanctum one
day, to complain re an allegedly scurrilous par
published about him. He pulled a couple of
snakes out of his shirt and put them on the table
preparatory to fighting the scribe. The scribe
screamed for help, and three or four comps,
rushed in, but the injured citizen poked the right-
hand snake in their faces and kept them at bay
while he hit the editor with the left-hand reptile.
This man was never bitten, he did no hocus pocus
business with the snakes, he never tried to make
anything out of his peculiar power, and he could
not tell why a snake never tried to bite him. The
unbitten man calls for investigation.
AT ANY COST.
O’FLIP : “ Never marry a widdy, Regan.”
REGAN : “ Sure , it's a widdy ye married yerself, O’Flip.”
O’FLIP : “ Oi did , Regan, an' 'tis the prayer av me heart to see her a widdy agin to-morry.”
“ Hassan ” : The green cicada is evidently
a believer in punctuality. Last year I heard him
first on Oct. 28. This year he chose the same date
for his appearance. And when one considers that
he is three years (or so it is believed) on the
earth, arid that he has no calendar nor watch, this
performance is one commanding respect. The
tjny ones, no larger than blue-bottle flies, which
sing on the reeds, usually make their appearance
a couple of weeks earlier, while the “floury
baker,” adorned with two white sacks in
which the sound organs are developed, invariably
waits until the end of December. And, by the
way, if the editor will permit me to mention the
fact—any aboriginality contributor in the Nor-
thern or North-Western Territory who wishes to
advance the cause of science (and my collection)
can do so by sending me any specimens of these
insects (locusts) which fly on to his hat. [Any
locusts sent to this, office will be thrown into the
ash-bin.—Ed. B.]
* » * *
“ Huffin-Guffin ” : I was riding in one of
Bent’s trains from Ararat to Hamilton last week,
and the stately, casualness of the journey gave
me plenty of time to cake some observations. On
the private leasehold settlement around Willaura
(formerly Wickliffe Load) the generally healthy
appearance of the crops and the wholly unhealthy
appearauceof the settlers’ “houses” were notice-
able. The landlords impose strict conditions
upon the tenants to ensure, as far as human
agency can go, a crop that will pay the rent.
The tenants’ habitations are probably elaborate
enough to correspond with all they have left after
paying the rent. That does not concern the lord
of the manor-house, auyhow. All that troubles
him is the rent.
“ Bon ” : Concerning that porpoise on
which “Yarrum” held a literary post mortem.
(B. 18/10/’O6), I am puzzled over the mortality
caused by the eating of the carcase. On whaling
ships the sighting of a school of porpoises is hailed
as a fine opportunity of obtaining fresh meat, and
the most expert harpooner is deputed to the bows.
Following a successful strike the whole ship is
soon redolent with the appetising odor of fried
porpoise steaks. It is stated by whalers that the
flavor much resembles that of pork, and forms a
welcome relief to the monotony of the salt-horse
cask. Porpoise-catching is not a sport for the
tender-hearted, as the victim, on being towed
alongside, cries in a manner horribly suggestive
of a child in acute pain. “Yarrum’s” subject
must, I think, have joined the Stinking Fish
party, whose chief habitat seems to be the shores
of Sydney harbor.
* * * *
“ 8.H.D.” : I noticed, during a recent
trip to the Mallee districts of Victoria, an unex-
pected scarcity of rabbits. Inquired the reason,
and was informed everywhere that it was closer
settlement (encouraged by the bursting up of
such large estates as Springfield, Marlbed and
Karyrie) which had caused the bunny-famine.
Yet the rabbit at one time threatened to take
possession of the whole Mallee area, and in the
days of the great estates it seemed as if neither
man nor beast would ever shift him.
THE OUTBACK’S HOTEL AUSTRALIA!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bulletin, stand chided ; stand sworn at; cower re-
buked ! To tantalise us by advertising “ Hotel Australia,
12s. 6d. per day,” in your “ Abo.” column. What next?
When I lay me down to ponder where the bull-ants
nimbly crawl
O’er my weary limbs at noonday by the lonely barren
track,
Then in marble halls in Sydney, in sweet dreams I softly
sprawl,
Till the claret-visaged waiter, puffing, puts me on my
back.
Soon my brow is fanned by Phyllis, while my heels rest
on a star,
And my soul has found a haven where the pianolas
play.
In a hostel by the harbor where the wealth and fashion
are
I’ve dined like any shepherd king at twelve-and-six
a day!
Through the haze o’ recollections I remember once on
earth
In the woe-days I was grafting for King Cocky for my
keep ;
It was damper, bear and treacle—then I chuckle in my
mirth
To think that in the stripper through the starry night
I’d sleep !
Waitah ! Pass me, please, the chablis, just a slice of
pheasant, and
When you’ve cashed this doubtful fiver, bring me in a
bob cigah—
Ough! Is that a live electric wire that fell upon my
hand?
What! A bull ant—wandering loose in the Hotel
Orstraliah !
vie.
NYM.
YES!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When city life and sordid strife grew raptureless to me,
A kind acquaintance impregnated with poetic fire,
Averred the pathless Bush, with its profound serenity,
Would iny dejected soul with peace and poesy inspire.
He said the Bush was tranquil—ever tranquil and
content.
That birds sang careless carols in the intertangled trees,
And winding bush-tracks wooed the wand’ring redolence
of scent,
The indolence of butterflies and industry of bees.
He raved about its breeze-blown hills, its moss-clad rocks
and creeks,
The brightness of its noonday sun, the radiance that
imbues
Its sunset skies ; its shady alcoves Contemplation seeks ;
Its blossoms and its ever drifting leaves, and crystal
dews.
And many other wild delights be pictured to my mind,
Till on a pilgrimage into the Bush I did embark,
And when 1 got well into it, the traits he had defined
I noticed, and discovered he was pretty near the mark.
The noonday sun was brig'ht. By snakes, it was —red,
blazing bright!
Some birds did sing', especially the crow, and no mistake
The pathless Bush was tranquil—yes, so tranquil through
the night
That I could hear the dingoes breathing as I lay awake.
I met no sordid mortals there, and evidently I
Was all there was—at least, the bush-flies thought there
were no more;
And to the haunts of Nature I was welcomed (warmly) by
Carnivorous mosquitoes, also ants in search of gore.
I found the sky exactly where he said I would. The
hills
Were there, large hills, good sudden hills, fine solid hills—
and he
Was right about the busy bees, their application thrills
The mortal mind—in fact, it thrilled some other parts of
me.
He said the dew would fall. It did—good, saturating dew !
Its crystal sheen I didn’t notice much, but it was wet,
Beal wet; and as he prophesied, the crickets carolled too,
All night; also the mopokes (I can hear the beggars yet).
I did recline upon the shaded grasses, thoughtlessly,
And suddenly arose and spoke a long and dreadful curse ;
I watched the dry leaves, drifting ever, flop into my tea —
They gave me indigestion, and I never had it worse.
The winding tracks he mentioned, they do wind all they
know ;
The Bush was rather pathless when I struck a mulga
scrub.
He said commercial clamor there was absent—it was so—
Conspicuously absent! Damned if I could find a pub.
But still I hadn’t met the weird mirage. I wish I had ;
The imitation even of some water would to me
Have been a comfort; but, unlike most wand’rers, I went
mad
Without mirages, and I’m just regaining sanity.
VIC.
ALFRED E. BRIDGES.


ħ
By Appointment to
H.M. The King and H.R.H. The Prince of Wales.
hh
OtSEfrCj®.
w SALT g
Report of the INSTITUTE OF HYGIENE, London:
1 Cerehos Salt is cornnosed of refined table Salt, combined with phosphates which
« ~25i« most food products in the natural condition. The phosphates in wheat
' SKchdtaSMto?he‘ preparation of flour
< veo-etahles are to a large extent, lost in cooking. The use ot Cerepos bait m piace
‘ of ordinary salt restores these natural and valuable products to the daily food.
Agents: Messrs. Harrison Attweod , Sydney.
AMETHYST Jewellery
Is all the rage at present—especially in
Pendants, Necklets and Bracelets. Our
Xmas Display includes all the new things
and recherche designs, and, as we make
them from the latest London creations,
our prices never exceed those of London.
In 15ct. Gold Set,
with Amethyst,
21s 6c#:
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House
in Sydney,
Plain Figures.
Strictly Cash.
23 Hunter Street.
ĥĥ
Fine Gold, set with Pearls and Amethysts,
£5 ss,
“ F.L. J.” : “ Agricola ” (B. 8/11/’O6) says
tame dogs cannot be induced, either by flattery,
bribery or coercion, to enter into any familiarity
with a “porcupine,” and, even if they did, the
result would be failure. “Agricola” should
change his brand of dog. I have seen as many as
seven “porks” killed in one night by the right
brand. They were hard nuts to crack, but the
dogs in every case had the same mode of attack.
When “porky” is discovered he commences to
burrow’, but, in soft ground, the dog can shift
twdce as much earth. The dog gets alongside and
scratches away until he is able to grab porky’s
leg. Then he carries his victim to some place
where the nature of the ground is in his favor,
and the rest doesn’t take long. [But how does
the dog get the porcupine out of his spiky casing,
even when “the nature of the ground is in his
favor ” ; and what kind of ground prevents the
spikes being indigestible ? — Ed. B.]
* * * *
In deference to Judkins of the unsub-
stantiated charges, the Vic. Agricultural Depart-
ment has decided to put “ the kybosh ” on the
egg-laying competitions which have been a
feature of its agricultural college work during the
past few seasons. It is well-known that the
students wagered freely on the results, and every
college worthy of the name had its tote, in which
some hens have paid large dividends. The long-
distance hen that was all behind in the early
stages of the race, but came with a rush in the
straight, laying a wild stream or cataract of eggs as
it travelled, often had only a single backer, and he
raked in everything. So the department has shut
down. The eggs and the odds were becoming too
much alike.
* * * *
“Janor”: With one hand I seize my
crested wipe to remove the foam from “F.H.R’s.”
lips, and I grasp my best gold pen in the other to
implore you to decide as suddenly as possible
which is the corner of the Commonwealth where
“snakes are thickest,” as “F.H.R.” phrases it
(B. l/11/’O6). I want thick snakes. No snake
can be too thick. I’m in a hurry to take up
“ F.H.R’s.” defiance. I want to blow the froth
off that fiver. I’m not a stickler re conditions,
but stipulate that the slaying happens within
reasonable distance of a pub. ; that articles be
signed at Speewa head station, and that Crooked
Mick be judge. I’ll trot along my own referee,
and I don’t care a snake’s foot who referees for
“F.H.R.”
* * * *
Golden Grove (S.A.) has produced a new
and militant breed of rats, which got right away
with five young pigs in two days. The week-old
pork-babies disappeared mysteriously from the
face of the earth, and not till the stone paving of
the sty was pulled up was their fate explained.
A DESPERATE CHARACTER.
THE PLUMBER : “Now, if I catch you loafing
agin I’ll pull yer ear for yer. I pulled
young Tommy's yesterday .”
THE NEW BOY : “Did yer, sir ? Didn't he job
yer? ’E’d er jobbed me !”
Those who pass a Chinese vegetable
garden near Narromine (N.S.W.) may see the
humiliating spectacle of two white girls of about
16 working in the vegetable patch amidst a gang
of Chinamen. Can Bruce Smith, Cole and Co.
spare the time to go to Narromine?
“ I'.H.” : He was a beery derelict, and we
were abusing him for bringing in undersized fish
to trade for drink, when he suddenly burst out:
“ Wot the ’ell do you know about it ? Wos you
ever fishin’ for sponges in the Bah’mas wid a
Malay skipper aboard, who ’ad a watch in one
’and and a revolver in the other, ready to pot yer
if yer showed yer ’ead above water a second under
the specified two minnits ? An’ then if yer
escaped the battery, wos yer ever cussed m four
different langwidges for bringin’ up squidges
instead of glove-sponges? Or wos yer ever divm
for pearl hysters in the Persian Gulf, wid a Dago
that ’ated you like pizen on the pump, ready an
willin’ to cut off yer air-supply the minmt the
skipper’s eye wos off ’im ? I say, was you ever in
them perdicamens ? ’Cause, if yer wasn’t, don t
talk to a perfessional fisherman. An’ if yer wos,
yer ought to be pole-axed fer doin’ nigger’s work,
blast yer.”
J * * » *
“ Quan ” on prickly pear :
Am 1 Kidston ? “ Oaber ” (B. 8/11/’O6) evidently thinks
so. If not, why does he say “No hope in ‘ Quan’s ’ 2s. 6d.
per acre idea ” ? It had been asked (B. 16/8/’O6) : “ What
is Queensland going to do about its prickly-pear curse ?
“Oaber” (B. 30/8/’O0) gave the history of various un-
successful efforts to get rid of the porcupine vegetable,
and finished up by stating that “ Queensland looks to
Kidston to take action.” This was an insinuation that
no action had been taken in the matter. Well, I told
him about the action of Kidston, or rather the Minis-
tries with which Kidston has been, and is, associated,
and I gave him the official figures concerning the
amount of land taken up as prickly-pear selec-
tions. So why call it my idea? “Caber” says
closer settlement is the only remedy for the fretful
vegetable. I didn’t say that it wasn’t. But would he
know closer settlement’from an improvement lease if he
saw the two in company with a land agent ? Up to how
many acres in one block does he consider closer settle-
ment? Within the first few days of January next 60
prickly selections will be thrown open, two of which are
10 and 12 acres respectively. Is that anything like closer
settlement in “Caber’s” opinion? And the present
system of dealing with the spiky offence isn’t rapid
enough for him. Does he remember a certain proverb
about the building of Rome ? And because Foxton failed
to get any applications for a 50 years’ lease of the
Canning Creek lands, he assumes that Kidston’s Ministry
will experience a similar fate in the matter of beastly
pear selections. But the crowd with which Foxton was
politically associated failed to do a number of things that
Kidston and Co. have done. For one thing, it failed to
omit the amount received from the sale of public lands
from its revenue accounts. Anyhow, I would advise
“ Caber ” to study the figures I gave (B. 4/10/’O6), and lie
will see that Foxton’s marvellous record is already badly
beaten.
• * • *
“ Janor ” : The “battler ” who drives the
whip-horse up at the mine is an original youth,
old for his age, and filled right up to the lid with
surprises. The lid flew open the other day, and
the surprise that poppied out was addressed to a
large snake, which had eluded all ordinary attacks.
The medium was the fruit of the hen. Removing
that portion of
the egg that,
under happier
auspices, might
one day have
sported feathers,
the snake charm-
er re-filled the
shells with a
mixture of tar-
taric acid and
carbonate of
soda, neatly
covered the per-
forations with
white paper, and
arranged the egg
show temptingly
inanestnear the
shaft. It was
surprising how
quickly that
snake found
them and swal-
lowed the whole
dozen. He rose
at once and took
charge of the
atmosphere, and
hurtled round
like an electric
sky rocket, full
of volts and
ohms and other
strange devils
galore. After a
whirling, flash-
ing and plung-
ingshow, hegave
an exhibition of
ground-tumbling
unique and earn-
est. The tool-
sharpener, who
had shovelled
sawdust when a
youth in Chia-
rini’s circus, and
was an authori-
ty, said it was
thefinest“turn”
of carpet contor-
tions he'd ever
seen. “Co’rseit
is,” said the Battler, “ain’t he a carpet snake?”
Meanwhile, the medicated reptile grew in girth
until he presented quite an anti-Sosh figure. After
failing dismally in the attempt to turn himself
inside out, he tried to crawl down his own throat
and remove the effervescence with violence, but the
effort was too much. He exploded with such a
loud report that the whip-horse bolted, rushing
along the horse-path through a dense shower of
scales and desiccated snake and egg-shells till the
tightening of the hauling-rope threw him vio-
lently, breaking his off leg. He is now dead, bo
is tlie snake. The boy still lives ; but, thank
Heaven, he’s looking for a job, which, in this
importing country, is nearly as bad as being dead.
THE DEVIL WE
KNOW.
BILL (to Jim, as the motor
passes): “ Dangerous dam things,
them moter cars. Yer wouldn't catch
me on one er them!”
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
James W. : Your suggestion reached us on
Wednesday of last week. Curiously enough, “ Hop.”
drew a picture on exactly these lines the previous Satur-
day.. ..Kuipara : Suppose we ought, in fairness, to pub-
lish your reply, but the blowfly subject spoils our dinner
this warm weather... .Cameo : “Noggin” is a vessel or
a cup, though in some parts of England the term signi-
fies a gill —four noggins to the pint Uloola : Snake
tern, &c., declined A.S. : “Behind the Bar” very
good verses. We thought so when we first printed them
in The Bulletin years ago. You are a discriminating
“ lifter"... .J.J.S. : If we published your group of Eureka
Veterans 25 people would write to asperse the genuine-
ness of some of them, and 25 more would dig up alleged
Eureka veterans all over the shop and rush them at us.
And we want peace and quiet.... T.G. B. : One reason of
the scarcity of bush-workersis perhaps that the race died ott'
a good deai during the drought.. . .J. Barr: It was a wrong
translation. Should be “ The wages of gin is death.”. ...
Cam. : Very fair jingle ; but only suitable for publication
the day after the Cup.. . .L. H. P. : If “ Mari tan a ” was
“ sung in Italian in New York in ISSS ” —well, New York’s
far away, and 1885’s far back, and “ Maritana ” is pretty
old, anyhow W.H.D. : Verses about Holy Hindle un-
intelligible British Settler (New Hebrides): No hope
from either. The Commonwealth Government has no
Advances to Settlers Department, and the Maoriland
Government's authority does not stretch to the New
Hebrides Jabez: To put your story in a handful of
words—he was drunk, and his clothes took fire, conse-
quently he became a burning and a shining tight....
J.R.M. : For a history of agrarian legislation in the past,
see Prof. A. Stephenson, “ Public Lands and Agrarian
Laws of the Roman Republic ” ; Sir H. S. Maine, “ Village
Communities in the East and West”; E. De Laveleye,
“ Primitive Property.” For the fall of great nations of
history, perhaps G. Itawlinson’s “The Five Great
Monarchies” (Chaldaea, Assyria, Babylonia, Media,
Persia), and A. M. Sayce’s “ The Ancient Enipires of the
East” might suit your purpose.... D. B. M‘L. : Reports
of Deniehy’s lectures on Scottish song might be found in
Freeman’s Journal of the time. They are not separately
procurable.... Matai: Might have been worse.... C.
Rock : Dead-and-alive kind of style... .Bill F. : Much too
long, even if it had no other faults... .Stephen P. : Too
conventional in form and spirit... .O.G.D. : Both are
weak and inartistic D. Mcl. : No originality or dis-
tinction P.R. W. : Mildly pretty only Goril :
Nothing in that F. Glen : Weak and faulty handling.
.... Hooks: Will boil down into a par.... H. Davis : Very
good, but for the awkward versification Freda : Both
of fair quality, but somewhat out of our line... .Reflex :
Quite pointless, and rather silly... .E.P. : Good idea, not
well enough worked out Backblock : The rhymes are
nearly all faulty... .Ivy P. : Pretty and poetical, but
the first verse is weak and loose of expression
Yedo: Not up to print-level.. .Picnic : There’s low
comedy in it, but it isn’t well enough worked 0ut....
J.W.McM. : Your verse goes well in places, but slumps
badly in others... .W.J.W. : Spoilt by several weak
passages... .A.M.F. : Versification too bumpy F.J.B. :
The onion-scented breath gag is very old and weary....
Nick: You are humorous, but too jerky and scrappy.
Also, you cost us 4d., short postage.... Blue Jay : Ex-
presses an undoubted truth, but is awkwardly versified.
....W.H.D. : Admirable sentiments in stiff and wooden
verse Larry : The humor of “ Pebble ”is very mechani-
cal. You send no name for return of MSS W.D.W. :
The defective versification kills it Alfred C. : We
could do nothing with that M.J. : “ A Wish” is weak
and ill-worded.. ..T.C.L. : The tales are feeble, and the
verses not strong', though they have a reasonably good
swing Domino: Indifferent treatment of a well-worn
theme Rea: Lacks grip and verisimilitude Te
Aroha: Shallow and insignificant G. W. : Didn’t im-
press us R.B.L. : Flabby and ineffective M.G.M. :
Rather juvenile and foolish.... The Builder: But the
man who wrote that joke about “the Curse of Litera-
ture ” isn’t the disappointed contributor you take him
for. He is one of the most successful pressmen in Aus-
tralia, and only does things like that in frivolous moments
....Tan: Too steep.... J.A. : When The Bulletin said
that the woman who was convicted of that offence
“called herself” so-and-so it meant just what it
said. In like manner, George Reid calls himself George
Reid, and it is hard to see why he shouldn’t.... J.Y.R. :
Can’t say till we know if matter is good enough. We
never appoint correspondents. Those we have simply
appoint themselves by the quality of their work... .De
Rougement: Old cow jest... .M.C.L. : Mr. Habibulla
is dead, and the subject drops. He was a British
subject and he dropped Sirocco: Declined.....
W. Starr : You don’t surely profess that you invented
those jokes. They are so very old and common.... D. de
N. : No special faults, but no special merits either....
D.C.L. : Verses good, but story too long and prosy....
J.C.D. : Not enough in either.. .T.Hj : Rather fiat and
pointless Sylvia : You are a most disastrous speller
Hal B. : Too long and weak in the literary loins F.
Mac.: Excellent in form, but vapid and meaningless
JB.B. : Thev seem to have been a rather scared lot of
volunteers..". .D.D. : There are great possibilities about
“Simon,” but you haven’t done the case justice....
C.C.B. : “ Domestic Troubles ” founders on its rhymes.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS
Bromide : Sorry, but can’t now recollect exact reason
for rejection... ,W. J.S. : Some wild humor in it, but
altogether too rough.... J.H. : A feeble thing in pencil,
with a feeble pencil jest attached.. ..E.E. : Would save
much trouble by just putting name, address, and stamps
on back of picture. Never mind sending letter as a
herald or ministering angel in advance S.T. : You are
threatened with humor, but you have escaped art....
Peerman : You surely don’t call that an example of
humor?....G.C. : Horse-feed joke not good enough to
carry such a poor picture Anonymous Alleged Artist:
“Hard on Auntie” is the dnllest thing received this
week.... Joe R.: See some faint beginnings of art in
your picture Lance P. : Badly-drawn beer pic-
ture A.F.M. : “Mixed Drinks” is an ill-constructed
whisky sketch H.B. : Neither art nor humor
R.M. : The man who posts his drawings on Tuesday, so
that they will reach this office on Wednesday, and writes
excitedly on Thursday, saying he has not yet received an
answer, is in too much of a hurry for this world P.S. :
Humor of “ Playing Card ” too deeply hidden... .Noah :
No use for picture of small woman reading enormously
disproportionate Bulletin Colonel Squirt: Furiously
dashed into the waste paper receptacle F.A.G. : Pain-
ful and gruesome style of art C.H.F. : “Our School-
room ” quite unfit Snag : Picture of the devil drawing
a cart is spoiled by your failure to draw the devil.
Dear Bulletin, —Yes, I know. “To
other men and 7.” And in a little tiling I fancied,
too (“ The Bard of Furthest Out ”). Read both
proof and revise, too. The thing hit me at mid-
night, and I haven’t slept since. “To other men
and me,” of course it should read. But then it isa
rhyme, so 1 can’t put it on the comps, this time
(though they be agreeable), nor the editor, nor
the sub., nor the devil. But I might blame it on
the other devil-—or the shade of my old bush
schoolmaster. He always used the first personal
pronoun in speaking, when he had a preposition
before it for an excuse—no matter what preposi-
tion. “ D’yer think the Lord is goin’ to alter the
weather for you or 7, me boy?” (re praying for
rain). And it gets me yet, when I’m hurried or
not feeling well. Or feeling too well. The school-
master with the highest marks in our district
always said, “Don’t do that no more.” And I
won’t, I’m afraid. Clarke Russell said, “All
hands was lost.” So I’m not alone. I spell
Friday with two “ y’s ” yet, and “anxciety ” thus
—with a “e,” as my old master always did it in
the copy-books. But Sir Walter Scott always
spelt journal “gurnal.” And Josh Billings was
worse. —Yours truly, Henry Lawson.
At the first unusual looseness of the bowels
Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera, and Diarrhoea
Remedy should be given, and all danger will be
avoided.*


FAT’S WIFE’S ADVICE.
Socialism can be best exposed by showing that it is destructive of the family life.— Women': National League Manifesto.
Mrs. Fat (cheerfully) : “My dear, if you vote for the Labor candidate your comfortable little home will he taken away from you.”
Mrs. Unemployed ( drearily): “Yes, and who’ll get it ? Does any one want a home like this?”


r^tH>
"BaJUraJT V-
fo +a.iw % s'*'!> °f,.. <_y
fljt |«sehr^ , •
(anus's y
"Two njoYo. I^ d y S o **^
Were sajenficed to tye cAuse
of free sJ>Wlf *X P'aVa'T
las-P S*n»r<kjr
l Y [As«j ■
jk ~xCuvr{&tf
I JHk
W\ @7
1
fcllov/
Uvc,
over
| Wiffy Son7© oj;
[f PEL'S P£ LCf j->\LTAK
" ibe lVjy jjiil
wofea for ijotfiiri^
) w *'l)
-ft «!.«>•» m <• co«fiy
«fe & /
kc* 1 Q“ ecn • I
Wi W
\f> Q
fO* ,r
• -+—
KoW,
fiT7 »7of~ot7e oj- r
> .Sort - \ /, ///fs
7 "|n fl oK 4 n Vou,
dozens Are of
k\ Ioya"? “t® w»*»e *•»« . ,
0\ a>fec+ion for you*'
M\ bci-toh more f**T r, ]X • C'
|||\ Koon?<i ,r » VScfoKia.
fl (Vie Panjabi lee
|||/ Tc^J^.RcTy
n) ee P... 1
tH*y
SV
/
6«t~~ Yict"
Jyrves'/'' iti<z P
rgaj CfclJjrtt' [
, t ' Of>en •‘to ►*«£©+ i*Te.
l/e still to correct"
id'ano*^, a l*ies
VICTORIAN VIEWS.


I
I
The Worlds
Dentifrice
PERSONAL
ITE MS
“ He used to sneak down the back stairs
and go to the races.” —Willis, describing Crick’s
conduct when N.S. W. Minister for Lands.
Every State Parliamentary member for the
Federal district of Adelaide, with the wives
of the married legislators and the sisters of
the bachelors, signed the nomination paper of
C. C. Kingston. There was no opposition.
A recent defaulter, who got out of his
visible difficulties by suicide, owed his troubles to
neither gambling nor drink, but to the other chief
weakness of swift men. Now, no less than Hvo
damsels mourn his loss, or theirs. Theirs amounts,
in each case, to 7s. fid. per Week,
SO LITTLE NOISE TO SO MUCH BULK.
Reid is merely puffing up a palpable pretence.—Age.
GRANNIE : “ Lor lumme, a lion wouldn't shamble
about murmurin' like that. ROAR, FEORGE,
ROAR ! Remember, you're not a bloomin'
suckin’ dove.”
Premier Tom Bent, of Victoria, is con-
tracting the falling-off habit almost as badly as
Governor Tom Brassey had it. He seldom gets
in or out of a cab without falling off the step.
When he gets out of his motor-car somebody
always stands close up, so that when he falls (he
always does) he may cannon up into the perpendi-
cular again. At Netherley, last week, Tommy
fell off the plain level earth, and got stunned.
He tripped over a log, his protuberant wealth of
body having hidden the log from view. Tommy
was unconscious for a few minutes, hut recovered,
and made the usual incoherent sort of speech,
urging people to go on the land, or something like
that.
James Whiteside McCay, now standing
for Corio (Vic.) as the
anointed of Anti-Sosh,
owes his present posi-
tion as a barrister,
and an officah and
gentleman, to the fact
that he won a State-
school scholarship
when he was a small
white-headed urchin
at Castlemaine, some
years ago. That is
to say, if it hadn’t
been for the Socialistic
system which insti-
tuted scholarships, by
which smart boys are
able to gain a second-
ary education free of
charge, James White-
side might now be toy-
ing with the end of a
pick-handle and pay-
ing his dues to the
local branch of the
P.L.L.
A candidate named Tilly Brown is running
for Isaacs’ seat at Indi (Vic.). Mr. Matilda Brown
is a colorless person, as his name would imply,
and when asked what he believes in, replies,
“ Mr. Reid.” He has been urged to retire in the
interests of Cameron’s parrot, said parrot being a
notorious bird possessed by a bush publican.
Even the whizz and the trail of the motor-
car have their uses, the apple-growers of “ Zomer-
zedshire ” in the Cold Country reporting that,
owing to the dust or smell from these cars, there is
less blight in the orchards than there used to be.
Now we know why God made Willie-motor Kelly.
First He made little apples, and then He made
little Kelly.
“ S.S. ” : How are the mighty fallen!
Near Nicholson-street, Melbourne, I came upon
a small portable pie and coffee stall. It
sported a sign almost as big as itself, in-
scribed “Mrs. Birglit, Coffee Stall, Under the
Management of Gunga Brahm.” Gunga Brahm
is the big Indian wrestler who for some time dis-
puted the championship of Australia with Buttan
Singh. The pride of the Sikhs is now shop-
walker to a pie stall.
Richard Windeyer Thompson, a descend-
ant of Sydney’s first official Windeyer, and for
several years M.L.A. for West Maitland, died
last week, aged 74. He entered Parliament on
the votes of the sporting crowd, and represented
horse and dog interests, also football and cricket,
until John Gillies came along. Gillies was even
horsier and doggier—in theory at least—than
Thompson, and the stable and the kennel rallied
round him, and the late member retired chewing
the straw of disgust.
The unopposed return of Ben Watkins,
who isn’t yet quite 22 years old, for the State
electorate of Queenstown, gives Tasmania the
youngest M.P. in the Commonwealth. The
Speck has become so used to the slumbrous
regime of senile Doddery that this infusion of
riotous young blood is expected to result in mixed
bathing, or hansom cabs, or something dreadful.
Tile Christian name .of Toorak’s newly*
elected M. L. A., Norman Bayles, is the worry of
his life. When he got into the Victorian House,
it was explained to the reporters that nothing less
than “Norman” would meet his case—no plain
N. Bayles. This moved the other Bailes of the
House— “A 1 f ” Bailes, ex-compositor, ex-jour-
nalist, ex-footballer, ex-publican—to take action;
and when next the chairman of committees
“saw” this Bendigo Bailes he cheerfully called
out “Mr. Shrapnell Bailes.” Then Bendigo felt
happy; in the matter of fancy-frill front-names
it had let the world know that even Toorak
couldn’t beat it. Of course, one man is Bailes
and the other is Bayles, and Bayles is supposed to
be as much ahead of Bailes as Baillie is of Bailey,
which latter is only one remove from Bailiff, but
all the same the similarity of sound is beastly.
“ B.” : It is worse than a misstatement to
say that Joe Cook ever did any of the hard work
of the coal miner from the time he
ceased to be a pit boy. As soon
as he reached manhood he looked
out for and collared such light
jobs as those of weigher, check-
taker, time-keeper, union secretary,
and so on. To climb on his fellow-
workers’shoulders out of the hard,
badly-paid groove of the under-
ground manual toiler was his earliest
ambition, and Joe was an agile
climber.
The House of Reps, would no
doubt be so glad to see “Holy”
Hindle. He hadn’t been many
months in the N.S.W. State Par-
liament before, preaching in a
Methodist Church at Lithgow, he
shuddered over the unsober and
immoral crowd he had to associate
with. Bluff old George Dibbs, who
loathed that sort of Pharisee, was
for throwing Holy out of the
House ; but he was persuaded
that Holy’s constituents were only
waiting to spare him the trouble.
No candidate in a N.S.W.
electorate deserves more cordial sup-
port from Australian nationalists
than Robert Howe, who has under-
taken the task of displacing that
blatant humbug Wilks from the
Dailey (N.S.W.) seat. Howe is a
sincere Radical, an advocate of the
New Protection, a trades unionist
Of distinction and a man of ideas.
His face suggests Bryan’s and
tells of the-speaking power which he possesses.
Dailey should take this opportunity to return a
man in place of its old insectarian.
The just-deceased Patrick Maguire, of
Kangaroo Valley (N.S.W.), born in 1814, the year
before Bill Adams defeated Napoleon at Waterloo,
was reputed in his own circle during his latter
clays to be the oldest Freemason on earth. It
seems improbable, however, unless the banquets
had killed the others, or they had got their feet
tangled in the regalia, and had fallen down on the
implements of their craft, and broken their
necks.
Canon Boyce’s reluctance to take the
proffered gaiters of Bendigo shows that he isn’t a
mercenary apostle. Redfern, which is the
reverend one’s pastorate, was at one time one of
the best of the Sydney city parishes. Nowadays
it is an impecunious centre, and the struggle
against poverty and dirt becomes more accen-
tuated every year. There is hunger in the col-
lection-plate, and the wolf is already half-way up
Boyce’s aisle.
HOW THE ANTI-WOMAN SUFFRAGIST
HOPES TO GET ACROSS.
I will have the great majority of the female vote. —
Tory Candidate.
“ Ho, despised one! Bear me to yonder shore!”
Maoriland speculated recently on the
probable chance of a complete new Ministry.
Influenza badly bowled over Minister of Labor
Millar, killed Defence Minister Col. Pitt, and
left the genial Timi Kara, Native Minister, only
about two ounces of vitality to go on with. At
the time when Millar was battling with the fiend,
his wife died of apoplexy.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
The list of Federal candidates reveals
some curious occupations. Most remarkable is
that of Philip Fysh, who gets a fat income from
Tattersall’s sweeps, and believes in Toryism and
the Dear Land policy. Fysh calls himself a
“legislator.” O’Malley, rather more modest,
fills in his occupation as “politician.” For
Wimmera (Vic.) there is an “author” standing,
and a “newspaper proprietor and landowner,”
both Tories and supporters of the Land Famine
policy. Andy Dawson says he’s an “amalga-
mator,” and everybody who has noticed the close
amalgamation that seems to exist between him
and Jack Wren marvels at his frankness. Three
candidates are just “gentlemen,” but not one
has given his occupation frankly as “bloke.”
Yet it takes up quite as much time to be a bloke
as a gentleman—that kind of gentleman.
The charity of the philanthropic is like the
grace of God —it passeth all understanding.
Wilfrid Lawson, the British baronet,
heavy humorist and Cold Tea advocate,
passed over Jordan recently. He left
£227,114. The eldest son and heir gets
the bulk of it, the widow receives £2OOO
a year, the other sons and daughters
£lO,OOO each. Two “faithful agents”
get £lOO apiece. Each household menial
of 10 years’ service gets a legacy of £lO ;
of 15 years’ service, £l5; of 20 years’
service, £2O; and so on—£l for each
year during which they ran swiftly when
the baronet touched the bell. The tem-
perance cause got £5OO. Now Cold Tea
is taking the hat round to collect funds
to build a memorial fountain in memory
of the labors of the wealthy deceased,
just as they are passing the same worn
human lid in Sydney for a memorial to
Ebenezer Vickery.
The dreamy-looking Ramsay Mac-
donald, M.P., and his bright-faced wife,
are just now objects of worship in Mel-
bourne Labor circles. Among Victorian
Laborities there are many mere blokes
whose presence in Parliament is hard to
explain, and to them the philosophic and
rather-visionary Socialist is a mysterious
person. They aren’t quite sure whether
to accept him as a noble leader or to put
him down as a Tory in disguise. Perhaps
the rudest shock to their feelings was
when they found that Mr. and Mrs. Mac.
were actually on terms of close acquaint-
ance with an Argus proprietor and his wife, who
visited them in London. Australia hasn’t got
used to fashionable Sosh yet.
Deceased ex-Governor Hampden’s N.S.W.
career was devoid of force, character, or value.
His family name and his father’s record in the
British Commons served him as pedestal, but
even that pedestal could not maintain him in
public notice. He affected to study history, but
his mind was so porous that half-an-hour after
closing a book he forgot what it was about. And
there was no tank under his mind for his for-
gotten history to drop into, so that it might be
found again later on. It just dropped right out.
Towards the end of his time in N.S.W., he
regarded even his few official society duties as a
burden, and it is surprising that he took the
trouble to live to 65. But perhaps it was that he
couldn’t take the trouble to die.
Tom Bent, talking over early Vic. Parlia-
mentary days, told the House of a fiery, flame-
colored Scot named Ferguson who turned up at
one sitting with his hair dyed coal black, whereat
John M’lntyre, in levity, called Mr. Speaker’s
attention to a stranger. Ferguson took it badly,
and heaved the Holy Bible in among Mac’s
features. “ I was strong those days,” said
Thomas. “I got hold of him !” There Tom’s
anecdote ends abruptly, and as Ferguson does not
reappear in history we are left to assume that he
died in Bent’s grasp.
Died at Bath (England) recently, aged 90
years, Dame Cooper, relict of Charles Cooper and
daughter of Charles Burton Newenham, who
settled in S. Australia in 1837, and was Auditor-
General and Sheriff. Charles Cooper was born at
Henley-on-Thames, England, in 1795, and came to
S. Australia in 1839, with an appointment as “ Sole
Judge.” The position was named “Chief Justice”
in 1849. He held office until 1861, when he resigned
and returned to England. He died at Bath in
1887, aged 92. Cooper Creek was named after him
by Explorer Sturt.
A letter from the north :
Old Tom Ellem, a North Queensland mining pioneer of
long standing, has laid down the pick and shovel. He
was born in 1841 on the Hawkesbury River (N.S.W.),
where the tall men come from, and went north in the
early sixties. He struck poor luck at Canal Creek, so he
organised a party to ransack the Burdekin basin.
There he zig-zagged over the face of the country
for 18 months with more poor luck ; the Burdekin
only yielded tucker, and kept the billy on a feeble
boil. In ’67 he opened the Cape field, and got the
Government reward of £lOOO. Two years later he Headed
a party which struck payable stuff on the Gilbert. A
month after Mulligan had opened the Palmer, Ellem was
there amongst the gold-seekers. Where Maytown now
stands, he got payable gold, and also at Limestone.
Three years later —’7s —his party penetrated to
the Hodgkinson, and worked there with vary-
ing success, but missed the Government reward
by a head. Usually the old prospector’s luck was from
poor to moderate. Ellem afterwards took to droving,
when the freight was £5O to £6O per ton between the
Hodgkinson field and Port Douglas (70 miles). But again
his luck was moderate, for the tick decimated his teams
in ’94, and he went back Oapewards with the pick and
shovel. He had great faith in the country about the
source of the Normanby, McLeod, and Palmer rivers, but
failed to hit the spot, and was obliged to keep the pot
warm, even if it wouldn’t quite boil, by occasionally
working tin ground around Mount Spurgeon. Cancer
was the cause of his death.
“ W.” writes about a politician and a
lady :
The Bulletin (somewhere in October) said that that
bulky and bull-like Tory, Gibb, was “making use” of Mrs.
G. in his fight against Bill Lyne in the Hume electorate.
The B. mistakes. It is Mrs. G. who makes use of G.
Gibb never had any political ambitions, but his wife grew
tired of seeing his large and unintelligent bulk lying
stranded all round the house, so she ran him as a candi-
date for Flinders (Vic.). Flinders grew tired of him, and
notified (not too gently) that he had better quit. But
they didn’t notify Gibb ; they notified Mrs. Gibb, over
afternoon tea. The prospect of seeing Gibb once more
torpid on the dining-room and drawing-room sofas alarmed
his ruler, and she hade him go forth once more, hoping
to unload his dull presence on Parliament through the
medium of some other constituency. She picked Bill
Lyne as another large, good-natured man who would bolt
in terror from a small woman with an active parasol.
That’s why Gibb nominated for the Hume. Don’t
suggest any more that Gibb is making use of his
wife. I know ’em both. It’s just the lady trying
to get her uninteresting husband off the sofa.
The Hume can elect Gibb if it likes, hut
Mrs. Gibb will really represent it. They used to say
in the Reps, that Gibb telephoned to his wife for in-
structions when a division was on. That is, whenever
his intelligence could grasp the fact that a division was
coming. Gibb doesn’t want to be in Parliament ; he’d
rather go to sleep on his own verandah. But he has to
do as he is told. If he would give up his habit of going
to sleep on the verandah his wife might let him off. But
he won’t ; so she is running him for Parliament again.
HIDE THOSE RUINS!
The Anti-Sosh cry is simply dust scattered by the
Reidites to obscure the real issue. —BARBOUR, candidate
for Kooyong (Vic.).
THE DEATH’S-HEAD PARTY: “Ruins? WHAT
ruins ? No ruins here, my dear electors.”
“F.”: Apropos ancient mariner Captain
Charles, M.L.C. (B 22/U/’O6). The venerated
old salt did not make his pile dairy-farming. A
metal was discovered on his property at Kiama
(N.S.W.) —not gold, but blue metal, the only
deposit which retorts 20cwt. to the ton ; and the
captain’s cow pasture was dug up and trodden
into the streets of Sydney.
“Priam”: Canon Mervyn Archdall, of
Sydney, was one of the jokes of the Anglican
congress. The enthusiastic old gentleman spoke
on every theme that was brought forward, and
did it in a high, wild Irish voice that swept every-
thing before it. It was a shock to locate the
Voice and find that it wasn’t waving a shillelah
after all, and that it hadn’t a caubeen on its head.
Two members of the first Parliament of
Victoria under Responsible Government (opened
21st Nov., 1856) were present at the jubilee on
Wednesday—Charles Read, now aged 92 years,
and P. Finn. John Dennistoun Wood found
that he was too old to struggle over from
Tasmania and join the function. Charles Read
has j ust been pensioned off with £7B a year.


i
V ' *
■VSf
m
m
Semper Eadem, Mild and Fragrant—box of 50 for 9/6
CHOICE CIGARS
At ANTHONY HORDERNS*
FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
O ATAV|fI
A
K
H
La Batavia SLotliscliilds. An excellent Cigar
—box of 25 for 6/-
POSTAGE
EXTRA*
si
Wf
».v
‘ &
S*ijr
v v _• ■
R 4 W 4 m~
y
iSj-X
Zephyr Patriotas. Very Popular—bo:
of 100, 18s 6d.
%
iic.
m
Alhambra Exquisitos, Choice Manilas—box of 25 for
PRICE CIST
of Pipes and
Tobacco . . .
Post Free on
application.
Triumph Rothschilds. One of our Registered
Brands —box of 25 for 8s.
La Corona Castelares, high-grade Hahanas-
box of 25 for 21s.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal Providers,
Palace Emporium, SYDNEY.
515
Former Price, 18s.
A,, „, ,
7 /i\ 210
Former Price, 16s.
Ml!//,
\\ x
/' X
545
Former Price, 245.
7/
864
Former Price, 18s
'M
935
Former Price, 245.
77
m
871
Former Price, 16s.
THEY MUST GO !H
Bona-Fide Closing Out Sale to the Very Last Piece .
Our Lease Expires! So our Stock MUST BE SOLD!
BARRIOS DIAMONDS
Beautiful, Brilliant and Everlasting.
Set in Real Gold-Filled Rings, Pins, Brooches, Earrings, Lockets,
Pendants, Bangles, Studs, Cuff Links, Scarf Pins, &c.
THOUSANDS of STYLES to Select from.
The Very Same Goods we Formerly Sold from Bs. to 245. each.
Each
Your Choice
ANY ARTICLE
REGARDLESS OF FORMER PRICE.
ħħ
This Sale has proved the Greatest Jewellery Sale ever held in Australia.
WHY ? SIMPLY BECAUSE we are selling to the public articles of Jewellery at a price that in most cases does not
cover the cost of the gold used in making the settings. But we are determined not to take a single article back to
America with us, as the customs duties there are prohibitive.
We could sell the greater part of our stock in bulk to local jewellers, at a far better price than we now offer them,
but we prefer to give the public the advantage of this opportunity, as every article we sell more thoroughly advertises
the now World Famous BARRIOS DIAMONDS.
MAIL ORDERS
To give those in the country the opportunity of this Sale, we will
send any article illustrated upon receipt of 3s. AH orders sent
with the distinct understanding that money will be refunded if goods are not exactly as
represented.
CAUTION.
We have no branches or agents, anti our Barrios Diamonds can be
purchased at our two shops only. Owing to the wonderful success of our
diamonds, it has fed persons to attempt to imitate them, but without success, and we caution
our patrons not to be deceived, as there is but one true imitation of the genuine, and that is
the BARRIOS. ===========================
BARRIOS diamond coy.,
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue
POSTED FREE.
52 Swanston Street, Melbourne;
100 King Street, Sydney.
J
ra.Vi
22D
*
iv\\
, /4s.
Formes*
936
F o |*pi ■“ /4s.
\\\ M 1/
ii
1 "3fJ
S>iZ2.nS,'
’% 200
Former Price, 16s.
S^fe
552
Former Price, 245.
908
Former Price, 16s.
a
''v77mr^
944
Former Price, 16s.


A Perfect Complexion.— Not all the silken
fabrics of the East can match the radiant complexion of
a woman with whom Valaze is a daily habit. That
brilliant smoothness, that delicate skin texture that
follows the use of Valaze is won by alliance with the
workings of nature. Valaze extracts the foreign sub-
stances that clog the activity of the skin pores, and, by
nourishing the exquisite network of tissues that underlie
the skin enable it to bloom with a beauty that se’lom
unaided extends beyond the years of childhood. Wrinkles,
crowsfeet, blotches, tan, sallowness, freckles and all such
facial imperfections disappear with the use of Valaze,
giving place to a clear, soft and dainty complexion.
Guaranteed not to encourage the growth of hair. 3s. 6d.
and 6s. jar (containing 3 times as much), postage 6d.
Valaze Herbal Soap—compounded from almonds and rare
herbs—greatly assists the beautifying action of Valaze—
feeds as well as cleanses, 2s. cake, postage 2d. Valaze
Blackhead and Open Pore Cure —prepared by Dr. Lykuski,
the Russian Skin Specialist as discoverer of Valaze.
Unfailingly cures the most obstinate cases—2s. 6d., posted
3s. Rusmo Hair Killer—a sure remover of superfluous
hairs—will not harm the most sensative skin, ss. postage
3d. “ Guide to Beauty ” a new edition of this charming
Brochure on the care of the skin and complexion for-
warded anywhere for 3d. in stamps or free with the pur-
chase of any Valaze preparation. Ladies who are visiting
Melbourne or Sydney should make a point of visiting the
Valaze Massage Institute. Here the exquisite processes
of Pace Massage are practised under Mile. Rubinstein’s
personal supervision. Also birth marks, moles, disfiguring
growths, red noses, double chins and such like blemishes
are successfully treated whilst the permanent removal of
superfluous hairs is made a speciality of. All Valaze
Toilet Specialties sold by leading chemists or direct from
Mile. Rubinstein and Co., 274 Collins-street, Melbourne,
and 158 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
Dymock’s Circulating Library.
The question of a suitable Christmas present now
engages our mind. What more lasting pleasure and
what gift more appreciated than a year’s reading of the
latest and best literature ? We can supply it; our books
are all clean; they are covered in a neat green cloth;
every writer and author of note from the English and
Am erican publishers are represented by their new works in
quantities sufficient to enable every subscriber to get the
book they ask for, immediately upon application. Our
terms are reasonable, for £2 2s. per annum or 255. for six
months a resident in the city or suburbs may change two
volumes and two magazines as often as they wish ; for
21s. per annum or 12s. 6d. for six months one book and
one magazine are allowed. To residents in the country
we send a parcel of eight volumes at a time for £2 12s. 6d.
per annum or £1 Us. 6d. for six months. Special low
parcel rates have been arranged for on the railways.
Write or call for our catalogues with full particulars.
Dymock’s Book Arcade and Circulating Library, 428
George-street, Sydney.*
For Indigestion. —When one thinks of medicine
something of disagreeable taste is generally brought to
mind. There is no reason why you should take unpleas-
ant remedies for indigestion, however, as Senior’s Diges-
tive Dinner Tablets are as pleasant to the taste as a sweet.
Put up in lozenge form they are convenient to carry with
you. They give immediate relief and cure the worst forms
of indigestion quickly. There is no better remedy for
acidity, heartburn, colic and wind. If you have a tablet
handy when you are troubled you can get relief quickly
without drugging yourself. Senior’s Digestive Dinner
Tablets are a vegetable compound that can’t do you any-
thing but good. Sold in boxes at Is. and 2s. 6d., or Is. 2d.
and 2s. 9d. post free, from Senior’s Pharmacy, 246
George-street, Sydney.*
*3
<b
.v
0
a
&
&
&
&
©v
&
<j
!JP
**
\>
$y
&
S£a,
zft<WcA/
THE PRIDE OF COGNA C.
OTARD-DUPUY BRANDY
VINTAGES—IB2O, 1848, 1865, 1875, 1880, 1885, 1890.
i'i
Dress faßßies
Are Stocked by the
Leading Drapers.
varnished board
A WOM AN’S LETTER .
Sydney, November 27, 1906.
My Dear Arini.—
Several charming persons are leaving Australia
for visits or permanently. There should be a
law against charming persons leaving here
except for the purpose of having their charm
freshened up, so to speak. Charming per-
sons should be out on bail, and should not be
allowed to leave, except on giving solid security
for their early return, and extra-charming persons
should be paid to remain here permanently. Herr
and Madame Degen leave by the German liner on
December 8, and on the same date by the Moldavia
go the W. P. Mannings, to the extent of papa,
mama, and little daughter Trixie, who will “come
out ”on the other side. A Manning son, Fred., is
in England, and has lately done some critical
reviewing in dizzily high-class London weeklies—
the sort that have a ladder sold with them, so that
the reader can climb up to their mental altitude.
There was one that had a balloon sold with it,
but so many readers fell out and broke their
minds that it ceased publication.
By the Himalaya that left yesterday went Mrs.
Burdekin and two of her daughters. Also, a Lady
Tennant whose husband is said to have been
something in the beer line. When she sheds her
weeds (black doesn’t “go” with a rather swarthy
complexion and raven black hair) Lady Tennant
will look what she is—a handsome woman. She’s
in her prime, and has a most attractive manner
and voice. She did the Blue Mountains, stayed
at the Carrington at Katoomba, and at the
Medlow Hydro, and explored the Caves. Also,
she did not refer in public to the housekeeper at
either hotel as “the housekeeper person” or
“ that woman.” This achievement in ill-breeding
was reached by a Sydney woman with her hair
done pretty-cocky fashion.
But the most regretted of Saturday’s departers
is Captain Leslie Wilson, who has been A.D.C.
to his Excellency Rawson. He, however, says he
will come back in March, which bone of comfort
alone stopped a lot of Sydney women from swim-
ming after the vessel as far as the sharks would let
them. Curiously enough, in spite of his Adonis-
like outfit and the impressionable feminines, he
was never even alleged to be engaged to Cori-
sande This or Nancy That. All the other
unmarried Yice-regals are always being misfitted
with a white man’s burden. There must be some-
thing of the sea serpent in Captain Wilson ; he was
wise and slippery, and knew exactly when to
dive and how long to remain below. The Teeces, of
the A.M.P., have come back from a European
time. A daughter is to be married to one of the
Littlejohns presently. The youngest Teece son
is down with appendicitis.
Miss Lamb O’Neill, the fair and globular
Sydneysider, sister of a local doctor, is reported
all well from London and doing a round of country
house visiting. She was one of the most cultured
of the R.C. section here, and was haloed by the
memory of an interview with the late Pope Leo.
Mrs. Jack Want and her daughter stay at the
Australia for the space between the auctioning
of their household furniture and their departure
for England. • -
Miss Ruby Lane-Browne—the second girl of a
group of large-eyed Strathfield-line sisters, whose
frocking and hatting were always first past the
fashion post—is back in Sydney for a few months.
She and a sister have acquired the flat habit in
London. This might be called the elevated, or
upstairs, horizontal disease. Another sister who
married, here, a man-o’-war doctor named Pearce,
lives happily at Malta, where there’s a naval
garrison, lovely lace, and small dogs. Also
Malta is where St. Paul fried the snake. The
returned wanderer’s sulphur-colored hat, big
bunch of brimstone ribbon, brimstone straw,
pink roses, and brimstone feathers—suggestive of
wearing Gehenna on the head—are what They
were wearing when she left the fashion centres.
Two ancient Australian names were joined in
wedlock last week at St. John’s, Milson’s Point,
by Rev. H. C. Vindin, when Yera, youngest
daughter of G. G. Blaxland, of “ Kanimbla,”
Fitzroy-street, Milson’s Point, was wedded to
Mr. Herbert Charles Rouse, second son of the
late Richard Rouse, of “ Biraganbil,” Mudgee.
The families of Rouse and Blaxland date back a
century in Australia, and, like other families of
their time, they were largely engaged in horn and
hide. In the race for wealth, it is difficult to say
whose cow ran first, but there are many old
families which claim to be a good second. One
hundred years ago John Blaxland, who had
frontages on both sides of George-street, near
Market-street, finding that he could not sell live
stock, opened a dairy and butcher’s shop, and did
a “cutting trade,” much in the interests of the
poor of the time.
Someone writes (too many persons have acquired
the vice of writing) to point out (too many persons
are at heart semaphores and finger-posts) that it
is solicitor W. H. Drew who is to be married to
the step-daughter of Mr. Stitt, of the innocent
facial expression, not Mr. Charles Drew, who is
also a Gentleman One, but already provided with
a charming wife. Don’t know what W.H. stands
for, but if W. is for William, the initial-owner
must expect to hear, by-and-bye, whenever he
loses his temper, “Billy, you are boiling over.”
Anyhow, Drew is a good name for a solicitor and
suggests acquisition. And after all this I hope the
Drews, Charles and William, will both stand by me
with cheap law when I am run in for “lifting”
calves and lambs from travelling stock for the
land lam acquiring out back. It’s the only way
I’ll have of starting herds.
Another interesting engagement. Mrs. Andrew
Seton Chisholm, of Goulburn, who, in her prime,
was said to be the most beautiful woman in
Sydney, is to marry Mr. Waller, one of the
Commissioners of the Harbor Trust. He is the
step-father of that Dolly Yarden beauty, Mrs.
Scot-Skirving. Also, he has a daughter of the
fascinating name of Eastermorn, who is by
way of being a violiniste. One of Mrs. Chisholm’s
daughters is Mrs. Norman Alston of musicianly
fame.
Who is Mr. Harry Leader, of Sydney? The
British Australasian says he is a young Aus-
tralian writer of considerable attainments, living
in London, and that through illness his position
has become precarious, and unless he can voyage
to Australia soon his doctor says he will die. Mr.
Frank Gerald and Mr. Arthur Greenaway are
asking for subs, for the passage-money of the
disabled youth.
Same paper publishes an interview with, and a
portrait of, May Beatty. May’s fair face wears
the most cave circem dolosque (Maori for “ beware
the enchantress and her wiles”) expression
that ever knocked a man flat. By the interview,
May was born at Christchurch (M.L.), and
has faithfully adhered to two most important
traditions of the comic opera artist. “ She had
her jewellery stolen, and she was reared in a con-
vent.” Isn’t a third tradition necessary—that of
being a clergyman’s daughter ? Recall the chorus
of laughter that went up (in the book, “John
Storm ”) when Glory Qurvyle told the other
friskers that she was a parson’s daughter. “Same
old gag.” Miss Beatty says the London crowds
surprise her by reason of their lack of objective
and destination. People in Melbourne and
Sydney walk along smartly. Not one of all the
millions in London seemed to be in a hurry.
One day May was late, and she “raced along,
and the people stood still to gaze at someone
actually hurrying.” A back view of a racing
woman isn’t on any occasion like a daffodil
dancing—but a back view of the opulent-
figured May doing a sprint would give even a
George-street crowd pause in its alleged haste,
which is that of an express caterpillar. And May
is going into boy’s clothes for the Xmas panto, in
Dublin.
That hustling, plucky young party, Ethel
Marcus Clarke (her father wrote “ His Natural
Life ”), who was with the Bland Holt Co. for some
time, writes from California, where she is on tour
with a good road company. Ethel says she is
getting along “just fine and dandy,” but she
had a terrible time during the fire that followed
the earthquake. All her wardrobe became a
cinder. “ But dear, good Mr. Bland Holt sent
me a lot of nice frocks, and I was enabled to
take to the road in style again.” At time of
writing the co. which grey-eyed Ethel adorns
was wrestling with the famous “Monte
Christo” and doing huge business. Ethel —
who has taken her mother’s maiden name for
the stage—plays an old hag, and doubles
the part with that of the young soldier boy,
Count de Morcerf. Mighty versatile work this
playing of a crone and a gallant.
An Orange girl (sounds as if something about
Sweet Neil were coming) tells me that Orange
lost its coolness on the arrival of , Amy Sherwin,
so warm was its welcome of the soprano. The
E. B. Daltons—Mrs. E. B. has a pretty voice of
her own—rained roses over Amy, and Mrs. Simon
Kearney, whose play, long since accepted by Mr.
J.C.W., we are still waiting for, came along with
more roses and with a musical reminiscence of
Madame Sherwin’s debut —a pianoforte score of
“ Lucia.”
Wonderland (Bondi) opens next Saturday even-
ing. Premier Carruthers does the opening with a
speech and a corkscrew. Society and officialdom
have responded to their cards of invitation with a
unanimous Yes. Mrs. Anderson (Miss Eugenie
Duggan) and her little daughter are over from
Melbourne for the Event, and are staying at
Adams’ Hotel.
Miss Birdie Bruce, a pupil of Mrs. Quesnel, has
been honored by a request to proceed to Tasmania
to sing the soprano part in the “Messiah” pro-
duction. Andrew Black will do the Grand Roarer
role in the oratorio.
S.M. Herald, the other day, in its “ Page for
Women,” copied from a mildly abject British
magazine the statement that there are more
female applicants for places at court than there
are places to be filled. Yet here are the quali-
fications :
Two qualifications are an absolute necessity. The first
is the power to make one’s self agreeable at all times and
seasons. The second is the physical capacity to stand for
several hours consecutively.
And the delights of the life :
A lady-in-waiting must have no opiniops or moods
whilst on duty. If the Royal personage wishes to sit up
till the early hours, no fatigue must be shown. An atten-
dant on royalty must only be tired or sleepy, hungry or
thirsty, when her mistress is in a like condition.
But the mildly abject magazine forgets to mention
what happens to the lady whose legs give way
beneath her in the fourth hour of her consecutive
perpendicularness. Presumably she is dragged
out in disgrace, the hall being wiped with her
prostrate form as she is removed, and when she
has sufficiently recovered to tender a sincere
apology, her boxes are put out in the road in
front of Windsor Castle, or the Tower of London,
or wherever the place may be, and she waits till
she can bribe some passing carter to take her away
somewhere out of the eye of the world. On the
whole, it seems as if the favored royal attendant
might almost as well have been a Miss Sambo, of
the IX.S. slavery days. Miss Sambo’s mistress
also made her stand up a good deal. Sometimes
she made her sit up.
Young Herbert Casey, the bank clerk who died
suddenly at a dance at Wellington (Maorilana),
was a son of Mr. Walter Casey, of Manly.
News comes from England of the death (at
Chatham) of the young wife of Lieutenant Harold
Bedwell, R.N. She was a Sydney girl, formerly
Miss Frances Lyons, and married only a few years
ago. Another much-loved personality, Mrs.
Alf. Phillips, died last week. She was Miss Julia
Nathan, of Auckland, and was still in the early
twenties.
The Mother Rectress of St. Vincent’s Hospital
has sent out invitations for Friday, the 30th inst.,
when Mayoress Allen Taylor will present the
hospital ball cheque.
Canadian Commissioner Larke, who does some
sky-pilotage in his spare time, put a dreadful and
ill-chosen foot in it at the Town Hall farewell to
Mr. Stitt, the pleasant magnate of the Canadian.
Pacific railway. The Unpleasant Gentleman,
trying to say something nice about the Pleasant.
Gentleman, stated that he always took his
troubles and worries to Mr. Stitt, and in-
variably came away much relieved. When.
Mr. Stitt was gone, he said airily, the Canadian
colony here would be mere residuum, or words to
that effect. “Residuum” sounds so much like
plain “dregs” that the other Canadians present
had to hold themselves down on their chairs. If
they had let go even for a moment the chances,
are that the Stitt testimonial would have been
trodden underfoot in the tumult that would have
ensued.
An Australienne at present in London writes
to tell me that the British Australasian
readers are agitating for the starting of a fund for
stranded Australians. She suggests that Austra-
lians with the “strand” habit be kept at home, and.
so save the starting of the circulating hat. Perhaps,
we shall yet see this kind of advertisement notice:
“Friends of Miss Lute, the promising Sydney
soprano, are requested to meet at the Hotel Aus-
tralia next Wednesday at four o’clock. Business:
The formation of a fund to enable Miss Lute to
remain in Australia.” My correspondent goes on
to say that “ three singer girls recently arrived in
London who averaged £lOO or £l5O each, on which
to live and study until they could make a paying
appearance. And one of the warblers started the
‘ strand ’ act by paying £5O on her concert and
£lO for a dress. The musical world is hideously
overcrowded 1 And when the fact that she is a
failure is brought home to the music-maker she
rushes into journalism, with dire results.”
“Journalism,” as rushed into by a “failure”
singer, is most likely of the form that tells of the
arrivals and departures and frocking of the Lucas
Tooths, the Rupert Clarkes, and such large deer.
And as this kind of work is as easy in a mental
sense as being asleep in a comfortable bed,
naturally the market for it is also hideously over-
crowded. Physically it must be more wearing
than domestic work, for the society woman’s
reporter has to be fossicking around at all hours
of the day and night. A Queensland woman—
have no clue to her identity—has written in an
English paper a significant and logical warning to
these rushers into reporting. Their education is
defective, their reading of no account. They
have nothing fresh to say, and they say the old,
unfresh thing in the old stereotyped fashion. A
London editor often gets 40 reports of the one
society function —he can choose but one from the
batch. The secretary of a great London hospital
told the writer (of the article) that girls and
women in the freelance scribbling line come
to him by the score, hoping for a chance
par, and the kind man always has tea and
piles of sandwiches ready for them ; for, he said,
“they are always hungry and always tired.”
The Queenslander entreats this kind of freelance
to turn her attention in preference to the more
honorable and respected occupation of domestic
service. The Mary Ann is at least a person who
is in demand, and she need never, unless she is a
wholly execrable Mary Ann, find her life embit-
tered for lack of a sandwich.
It gives one a pain under one’s Swiss belt to
think of an Australienne having to be glad to eat
that kind Sec.’s sandwiches! Failure here in
Australia, either as a singer, or as a pursuer of
personal pars., or a writer of things beginning
“Among those present,” “The ballroom pre-
sented a brilliant appearance,” and “ A smart and
pretty wedding, ” must be so different to failure at
these things in the Great Blot.
A Sydney man dressed in grey clothes, with a
vest and shirt of the same shade as the green
fumed oak (fashionable furniture), and a tangerine
tie, is said to have quite a hair-trigger touch of
style.
The Maori shares with the Scot a natural
ability to play “goff.” In the first place, a few
wealthy Hawkes Bay natives, attracted by the
gaudy clothes and the beautifully-colored stock-
ings of the male “goffer,” decided that the labor
of smiting the gutta-percha ball was a small price
to pay for the privilege of wearing the festive
rig-out. Presently latent talent came to light,
and every Maori in the sheep-farming province
took to the fearsome game with vigor—the Maori
is ever vigorous in the cause of “ sport,” although
he abhors hard work. Finally, Kurupo Tareha,
a young rangitira, won the championship of
Maoriland, and the tangi which celebrated the
event lasted for months —it is reported to be still
lasting. At first sassiety was a bit surprised at
the intrusion of the aborigine, but the good-
natured Henare Hapuka said that he had no
particular objection to playing with the sassiety
herd, and sass collapsed in a heap on the turf.
Mixed foursomes are played between Mr. Whare
te Moana and Miss Millicent de Courcy, also Mr.
Godfrey Shorteash and Mrs. Maggie Ruatamata,
and after the game Mr. Whare te Moana drives
the party off to lunch in his yellow and red motor
car. There’s nothing bigoted about Mr. Hapuka.
On Cup Day in Sydney one bookmaker drove
a thriving business in a tea-room run by an
austere firm of irreproachable respectability. He
circularised his numerous clientele some days
before to the effect that he was to be found in
the Hard-Shell Baptist rooms, Pitt-street, and
would be glad to discuss business with any of
them over a friendly cup of the brown fluid. The
friends called round, and the bookmaker called
for tea for each friend and himself, and the room
did a roaring business. The cashier became sus-
picious, and counted the tea, and it was found
that between 10.30 a.m. and 5 p.m. the book-
maker ordered 148 cups. Now, he ordered tea
for two each time, yet there was no tea on the
floor, so apparently the bookie drank 74 cups.
About the 73rd cup, the proprietor was rung up
and informed of what was going on, and about
5 p.m. he arrived in a state of fury, and foolishly
cast a profitable customer forth with great indig-
nation. Such a man doesn’t deserve to prosper.
“ Rosna ” writes from Adelaide :
The death by burning of Mr. Edwin Crozier was a great
shock to South Australian squatting and sporting folk.
The deceased was one of a well-known pastoralist family,
which squats all over the State, more or less, and he was
generally popular. The accident that caused his death is
another illustration of the folly of reading in bed by
candle light.
• Bach Society, the champion noise-making club
in the steepled city, achieved a concert last week at the
Town Hall, and collected a large audience, as usual. The
Bach shows are always crowded shows, and are always
worth the pawning, in moderation, of the family plate.
The society is manipulated by Dr. Harold Davies,
who caught the first Mus. Doc. degree in Australia,
and has a considerable reputation for driving
choirs and steering melody round difficult corners.
Pianiste Elsie Hamilton and violiniste Nora Kyffin
Thomas, two girleens of foreign study, provided instru-
mental interjections, and cut a large slice off the loaf of
acclamation. All the musical folk of Adelaide put on
their worst clothes and went along. You put on your
bad clothes for a concert to make people think you were
so dazed with the joyful prospect of hearing such melody
as only a Great Soul can appreciate, that you didn’t
know what you were putting on.
The postal authorities, evidently having some super-
fluous leisure on their hands, amused themselves last
week by counting all the letters that left Adelaide for the
Ma Country by the Christmas mail; and discovered that
said Ma Country had increased in popularity since last
year to the extent of some 4000 letters. No doubt the
extra 4000 were written to the people who have been
driven away from here by the machinations of the Labah
Pahty.
Some excitement was caused at the Anglican Congress
in Melbourne, t’other day, by the reading of a paper on
the necessity for auricular confession, by a ritualistic Ade-
laide parson. Said parson, who is young, eloquent and
curly-haired, has been much worried by the attention*
of the allegstocracy, and although he shepherds
a somewhat poor and undistinguished suburb, the
Very Best People dash out to hear him every Sunday.
His ritualistic practices provide endless newspaper corres-
pondence, and endless romances. One she is said to have
marched up to the rector after the service, shaken him
enthusiastically by the hand, and remarked, “ Thank you
so much. I’ve enjoyed myself immensely. I shall be
delighted to hear you perform at any time.”
I think myself that auricular confession, when the par-
son is young and romantic-looking, would be a great
success, provided the penitent was also young, and, in
addition, feminine and romantic. She ought to kneel
before the object of her adoration in ordinary cases of sin.
In very bad cases she might lie flat on her face in an atti-
tude of picturesque abasement, which would draw atten-
tion to the abundance of her back hair. Then, when she
had confessed, and it proved that she had done nothing
very bad, and was merely a tender soul with abundant
back hair who took an unduly harsh view of herself, the
eloquent preacher would necessarily raise her up, and
call her “sister” or “daughter,”and speak to her like a
Dutch uncle—l mean like a father, with a mixture of a
brother and an apostle. In such matters I should say a
great deal depends on attitude.
Dolly Castles stayed on in Adelaide with Williamson’s
company, although she had no part in either “Utopia
Limited ’’or “ Princess Ida.” At the first night of the
latter, Dolly dimpled upon her chums from the audience,
looking a smaller and fairer edition of her sister Amy,
whom she joins in giddy London next year. In
“ Princess Ida,” Cyril was played by Henry Bracy, that
old Adelaide favorite. On the closing night of the
Williamson season, Dolly Castles warbled “ Poor Wander-
ing One” to some enthusiastic acclamation. The best
tones in the company, however, undoubtedly belong to
Olive Godwin, who played lead in “Utopia” and
“ Princess Ida.”
There is a movement on foot to organise a complimentary
concert, at the Semaphore, for the Doubleday girleen as
she passes through this part of the U'orld on" her way to
Germany next month. The German boat, by which little
Leila goes Parnassus-climbing, stays at the Semaphore
anchorage two days, and the show is fixed for Decem-
ber 14th.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.


Your
Xmas Ham!
Buy the Q. M. E. Brand —any good
grocer will supply you. Equal to
ANY brand of English Ham—
sweeter —more tender j uicy—
with a flavor that is all their
own. Make up your mind
to have the best Ham your
money will buy and let
it be a Q.M.E. They
cost no more than
the ordinary kind.
MX E
HAMS and BACON
rroanaUANCine
SEASON
mm
4?
A
■r\
£$
a
cj
%
ir
O,
TJ
o
§
A
vc
r\
I^s
Cors
Ask For
here's a
NICE
CUP OF TEA
IPTONS
Teas
ALL. GROCERS
Duncan Preston (SI Co.
Sole Kept esentatives for Australasia,
107 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Dress
shields
]y[ORE than one Smart and Effective Costume has been
rained by the use of Poor Dress Preservers* A sure
way to avoid such a disaster is to use only KLEINERT'S.
A guarantee against damage with every pair*
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, November 27, 1906.
My Dear Yarrie,—
Another infant junket is announced from the
Federal Vice-Regal lodge, and all the cherubs of
account are being put into curl and rehearsal for
the show. Every girl-child will have its knee-
joint trained to double up before a dummy, until
it is proficient in the curtsey. Last time Dame
Northcote gave a party, she had a poodle
and several caddies at heel, and the kids made
rather a burlesque of the ceremony. Some fled
past the dais in affright, others pulled up and
curiously viewed the doggie with its staid parlor
manners, others wept copiously with stage terror
at the moment when they should have bobbed.
Davne Talbot raised her gentle voice in speech,
the other day, on behalf of the proposed Exhi-
bition of Women’s Work. Lady Northcote
initiated the movement, and the “Stonington”
Grace supported the idea by a Town Hall cor-
roboree and a speech. She is herself a stitcher of
poetic designs, and she urged femininity to devote
itself to the needle and thimble cult, for the pur-
pose of making a great display.
The tired Talbottle has been moving round the
gum-tree area a bit, in a spasm of endeavor to do
or say something before adjourning for the bush-
fire season to the cottage at Macedon. He has
journeyed about and conversed with the hewer of
wood and the crop-grower. On one or two occa-
sions he has unexpectedly called at a settler’s
thatched cottage or a grazier’s snuggery, and sent
the womenfolk into tremors of anxiety and throbs
of joy by the visit. The question of what to do
and how to do it vexes the she-soul cruelly on such
occasions. The book of etiquette isn’t at hand,
and whether she should sit i n the presence of the
Exalted, or stand, or retire with her family to the
cheese vat till the V.R. magnificence had passed
from the land again, is a problem of moment.
A small squatting dame lets me into the secret
of her “terrible” embarrassment when the
Talbottle and bodyguard landed at her eyrie.
“Jack didn’t care now they came, or when, or
anything else. He couldn’t be made to care.
He’s a trying man sometimes. But I hustled the
babies into the nursery, and then felt like burying
myself in the garden well till the hour had
passed. Don’t think me a silly fool. I didn’t
want to do the wrong thing or look stupid. Tea
was prepared. Jack took some in the laziest,
most nonchalant fashion in the world, and left me
to worry the Governor along. The two aides
evidently mustn’t sit down without a written and
signed order or something. Also, they mustn’t
talk. So they stood looking out of the window
till their sphinxy attitude struck Jack, and he
blurted out would they have a whisky. You
should have seen their stained-glass window
expression. They declined, while the Governor
looked over his tea cup at his boot-cap with a
terrible air of dignity. Jack was a pig. After-
wards I cried. Temper and hysteria and Governor
were the causes. Next time I’ll ask them to have
beer. See if I don’t.”
On another occasion the “ Stonington ” pro-
cession, winding its way into the eucalyptus land,
arrested itself at “ Springbank,” the residence of
that veteran settler, Robert Laidlaw. On arriving
at the Heidelberg house of the hills, the owner,
who is now minuetting through his ninety-third
summer, was gathering a festive rose for his
buttonhole, and greeted the Ex. and party with
all the dignity and easy calm of his years.' The
cheerful ancient can talk Victoria better than
astute landowners half his age, and no doubt he
interested Talbottle no end.
A. knotty question is being discussed by the
Very Best People as to whether a hostess should
employ a pair of eye-panes on a fantastic prop in
inspecting her own cronies. The G.-G. dame has
her own particular style of perching herself on the
vice-regal dais and surveying the Bidden through
her lorgnette. It is suffered by the victims with
a certain degree of philosophy that deadens the
pain of the indignity. They reckon it better to
be bidden to the Government House quarters and
regarded with the interrogatory stare or magni-
fying orb of a curious and interested Ex. than be
left to chew the cud of neglected humbleness
at home. But the present grief is that an ordi-
nary Toorak hostess, who—according to the voice
of Blander, uttered through the false teeth of
Aspersion grew prosperous on the sale of
washing blue or something in the laundry line,
should have the audacity to bring a pair of inspec-
tion glasses, erected on a jewelled prop (another
laundry emblem), and review her guests with these,
assuming a haughty goose-neck the while. Only
that the lorgnette was chained to the hostess’s
person on the last occasion of great pique, some
dear crony would have grabbed it and thrown it
all the way to Collingwood.
As a wind-up to the tea and muffin rallies that
made Menzies’ a pleasant port of call for many
faded and gone Tuesdays, a big charity show is
billed for the approaching Saturday by Napoleon
Boffard and Co. The proceeds go to fatten the
very thin funds for the Memorial to Australian
Bills (Tommies are not our type), who spilt their
life’s gore for Mother Britain in South Africa.
There’s a stupendous programme to justify the
high-priced tickets, and the Very Best People are
likely to crowd along in the Cup frills that badly
want all the airing they can get before the brief
span of summer passes.
The difficult bachelor gets better catered
for every day. A hostess now pays him the
compliment of submitting the list of invited for
his edification. If it falls short of his ideal, and
the bachelor objects to some of the bidden, the
crushed and tottering hostess has actually to lose
his company. Otherwise she has to shunt the
undesirables, or arrange things so that the eligible
is never, during all the picnic hours, constrained
to be within sight of the unfortunate guests who
have earned his disfavor. Think of the mental
calisthenics of that hostess 1
It’s marvellous how the fashionable grieves
about tbe spelling of his or her name. One of the
most important sports hereabouts frets and fumes
when a redundant “ e ” is carelessly added to his
cognomen, and a lively Tooraketty Miss almost
weeps when the absent-minded write her down
“Edith” instead of “Edyth.”
The chicks of the Solomons of the Bench are
inveterate songsters. The Maddens were the first
to brand the nigger plantation lullaby a proper
parlor lilt. The Cream followed, in large spon-
taneous clots, as it were. Now the brainy Miss
D. Chomley practises scales and soars to song in
the track of a local Signorita. Mrs. Vallange and
her young, unattached sister are preparing to
platform it for charity in song. The pair have
skated and danced no end for the deserving sick
and poor. Now they warble to help some dis-
tressed fund or other, and when they butcher
themselves for a public charity who can cavil?
The Justice Isaacs folk has said goodbye to
flat life for a while. When they return from
Sydney, the family of the new Solomon will drift
up to Macedon, there to idle with bush-fire raid
Bridge diversions through the summer.
The new Toorak representative in the House of
Babel and Bent has settled down into his collar.
In the House Mr. Norman Bayles already looks
like an old, staid Parliamentary battler, and his
stylish “haw” is fading away like his spring
buttonhole of blue blooms. Few members say
“ Haw, Mistah-ah-Speakah ” after their first
session.
The other day Mr. George Fairbairn, the
squatter-member of great altitude and cash
tonnage, had to declare a Pincushion and Bran-
Pie Fair open for a host of females. To see that
M.L.A. unfold his lengthy limbs and stretch to
his top inch for the opening utterance of the
Penny Dip fete was a ludicrous matter. What
does the Penny Dip need a curtain-lifting speech
or benediction for, anyhow ? Does the Bran-Pie
attract an extra copper on account of the poli-
tician’s laying on of gas ?
Poodle parades are the latest hobby of the
charity hostess. The dame who lets the multitude
in on her lawn to buy socks in the cause of a
creche, or pickles for the good of the Immigrants’
Home, now evolves the idea of charging admission
to a dog show as a means of fattening the funds
of some good cause. Such a Poodle Fete and
Parade is now in course of preparation.
The Rymills went back to the Holy City after
the Cup junkets. What the young dame thought
of the whirligig—regarded with the eye of newly-
married dignity—after enjoying several gee-gee
seasons as Miss Shylie Blue, the S. Australian star
flutterer, it would be interesting to learn. There’s
such a mighty gap between frisking it with a
swarm of adorers through the Cup whirligig and
floating quietly through with a permanent mate.
The Carnival Hop, being arranged by Mrs. W
Green and her nymph-like daughter, is on a
colossal scale. Several hundred small fry are to
amble, hop, glide, twist, evolute and whirl
through a bill comprising all the fancy pirouettes
and new measures of 1906. The Town Hall will
be the scene, and the date will be December 10.
It is the grand season of Kids. Grown-ups
retire with a blast air from the show-case and the
front social windows. The knickerbocker and
short-coated fry take all the room that’s to spare.
Last week a flock of lovely youngsters took the
floor at the Masonic Hall, and went through an
evening’s pirouette without any squabbles or
casualties. Tommy danced with Toddles like
any full-sized dandy, and Miss Jeannie Brenan—
the presiding Terpsichore—fluttered over the
scene like a large guardian butterfly in chiffon
wings of delicate coloring. It was a delightful
function.
Postmaster Outtrim quits the service and takes
a restful jaunt abroad. He proposes a leisurely
journey with his life-mate and melodious son, who
leaves the comic opera ranks for that purpose.
This son, some time ago, relinquished the surplice
and left off pedalling the church organ to foot it
in comic opera. The struttings and warblings of
two years spent with the giddy mummers have
failed to destroy his angel look. He must surely
one day drift into curacy and shovel hats.
A young man of msthetic tastes and a lingering
love of the Gynthias of a Keats world writes to
Tryphena in horror of the summer cricket girl.
“ She plays on a green within view of my window
at South Yarra. She is a shocking young person.
Ido not know which is worse—to see her standing
spread, keeping wicket, windmill fashion, or
climbing into the air, all arms and legs, to catch
a ball. She is not pleasant fielding even, but
sometimes she can run and not remind one of an
elephant waltzing. It is, however, a trying- sight
at best. At hockey she’s hoydenish and rough.
At cricket she is unpleasantly vulgar.” And he
winds up with a prayer to stay the gentle maiden
from wicket play.
The local needle-dodgers get another piece of
ostrich tail in their collective cap. One of the
most knowing beauties in this quarter has put
her trousseau—a dozen and a half of everything,
with a Sabbath-day’s journey of bebe ribbon on
each—into the hands of a local stitcher. This,
too, on returning from the world’s centre, where
the engagement was made, and where, had the
bride-to-be so desired, the wedding garment might
easily have been ordered. “Melbourne wants
some licking,” this gentle Toorakite murmured in
referring to the matter.
A shockingly tired son of a Victorian wool-
gatherer was roused from slumber the other night
by the servants’ alarm of burglars. “Go away,”
droned Adolphus. “Go away. Clap your bands,
all of you, and get the bad men to clear out.
Beastly nuisance of you, breaking into one’s
sleep.” Accordingly, tbe assorted staff went back
to bed in disgust. Adolphus is an Eton product.
The pallid countenance and the shovel
hat of the curate takes all the room in the
trams and bun-coops of this city. Wesleyans,
Baptists, and the more fanciful religionists are
swarming over the city. Conferences of the sky-
pilots and the annual growl of the sin-sbifters are
the cause. One day the shovel hat disappeared
from view, and no longer blotted out the horizon
with its inky numerousness. It had assembled en
masse at Bishopscourt for a lawn rally, and the
city had room for a little giddiness again. At
that corroboree the State and Federal Exes, were
divided in the Scriptural fashion of tbe sbeep and
the goats, and were provided with tea and wafer
in the Bishop’s parlor, while the crowd browsed
on buns in the outer tents of plenty. Looking
round at a Stonington collection of the gaitered
and shovel-lidded last week, when the Talbottles
hosted the godly, I ruminated on the matter of
pallid and unhappy sky-pilots. In the Christian
interest oughtn’t reverends to look cheerfuler?
Who wants to follow the dyspeptic and gloomy
cleric to a mansion in the sky, if the prospect of
the mansion makps like that ?
The De la Pbe'Y'BaSfefdrds— brother and sister
—submit a bill of warble to the interested this
week. The he-Beresford has made a hit with the
aristocracy that gather round when he raises his
voice in song. A he-warbler has only to choose
ihis tailor discreetly and charge his glance with an
■electric soul-current to move society to earnest
■enthusiasm and the purchase of more concert
tickets.
A feature of “Dr. Wake’s Patient” on Satur-
day night was the amount of floral offering that
went up to the Patient and her stage relatives
from the Princess’ audience. Miss Beatrice Day
.and Mrs. Brough hauled in rafts of roses, and tall
masts garlanded with carnations, and woodbine,
and other fragrant trailers, while Miss Emma
Temple also gathered many fair, green tokens.
The three comediennes won the tributes from
women friends. Yet the woman-friend’s devotion
to her own sex seldom runs to any expense.
A he-admirer of Melba forwards me word of
the lady’s re-appearance in Italian opera at
Oovent Garden. He describes her “ Rigoletto ”
performances as a sublime treat, and says “Bats! ”
likewise “Bunkum!” to the report as to the
deterioration of Melba’s top C. “ Honestly and
impartially,” he writes, “she was never better in
all her career. There wasn’t the slightest flaw in
any number. Every note was as perfect as her
incomparable voice and great art could make it.
She’s cold, I grant you, but I want no better
thrill from any singer on God’s earth.”
Manager George Tallis dreads the cherry season
for his Royal Comic Operatics. Already Mr. R.
Roberts is laid low, with the usual appendicitis,
as a result, ’tis alleged, of nibbling the stoned
fruit. The co. has been warned not to gaze on the
cherry when it is red, and the host who spreads it
before any of the ladies of the show is to be re-
garded as a bitter enemy of gaiety, and a Judkins
in intention.
This is from a base man: —
One hears too much about the vice of great cities,, and
not enough reference to the shocking immorality of
small communities in the healthy country districts.
Attacks on female character seem to have been habitually
misdirected since the early dawn of polite literature. It
has always been the giddy lady of fashion who was
exhorted to mould her morals in emulation of the vir-
tuous rural housewife, as though human life were purified
in pettiness, and lovely woman acquired fidelity and art-
lessness from her ignorance of the frivolities of civilisa-
tion. Two eye-opening stories of matronly virtue in
out-of-the-way districts have come from Hungary within
the past few years. The latest narrative alleges that
a number of weary husbands as well as tired wives have
been poisoning their domestic partners at the instance of
two women, who supplied the deadly drug. Probably
the men in most cases wanted to be free from the nuptial
tie, but it goes without saying that each lady poisoner
had a further husband in view. Anyhow, the practitioners
in the previous story were all married women—scores of
thtm—-and the purpose in every case was to clear the
way for another venture in connubial bliss. The male
sex collectively can get a glow of conscious pride from
the thought that a lot of married women will
do anything to get a second, third, or fourth
husband, or more ; but the individual man who dwells
amidst the wickedness of a populous city feels grateful to
Providence for being preserved from the temptations
of the Simple Life. The modern provincial white woman
is fairly represented, one supposes, in the small towns
and villages of Hungary, which is a light-hearted country
where the picturesque dances come from. Now, it seems
that when a Hungarian matron sits squeezing the cow
with the crumpled horn she is apt to be wondering how
many grains of strychnine she can safely administer to
her husband in a pint of milk. Considering that the
modern woman is a faithful study from the antique as
regards her poisoning proclivities, it speaks volumes for
the chivalry of man that through all ages he has gone
writing odes to his best girl.
A Melbourne landlady gave a new boarder (an
art student) notice to quit because she observed
on one of his bookshelves Wake Cook’s work on
“ Anarchism in Art and Chaos in Criticism.”
The high and mighty hash-princess remarked
that her ’ouse had always been a decent one,
thank ’Eaven, and she wasn’t agoin’ to ’ave no
anarchists ’angin’ round, not ’er.
The ideal picnicker is a peculiar type. She is
energetic, cheerful, accommodating. If her lot
is cast with a he-companion, and that person is
(say) a botanist, she’ll harken to his leafy enthusi-
asms and be content with the few straw-like re-
marks she casts into the current of his floral talk.
If he is flirtatious she’s not unwilling, but earns
her thrill with a mild sensation of joy. She isn’t
ardent, she isn’t dull, but just the happy common-
place medium, and to collect as many as possible
of her type round the tea-billy and the sand-
wiches is the grand hot-season ambition of her
life. Of course the pair who, without warning,
find themselves to be twin souls, and who have to
be whistled up from a mossy dell where they
have been swopping dreams and squeezing hands,
presently give picnics best. They find it best to
al fresco on their own.
From Brisbane:—
The committee of the Local Children’s Hospital is in
the agonies of a big river-side Fete, to take place on
Saturday next. The proceeds are to be devoted to the
building of the much-needed diphtheria ward. (During
the last outbreak of that disease, cases that had just
come off the operating table, where tracheotomy had
been performed, were often to be seen being tended on
mattresses on the floor—every bed being full). The com-
mittee is run by the portly editress of the Courier.
This astute dame believes in the drawing power of the
military, and has enlisted all the miscellaneous Napoleons
and Caesars that were hanging round. A full-blown major
is to run the Aunt Sally, and the absent-minded Carroll will
handicap for the billy-goat races, and there is some idea
of obtaining the services of the subs as waiters in the tea
room. Unfortunately for the harmony of the situation
almost every committee lady wants a Napoleon to herself,
a id there isn’t enough of the hero of Austerlitz to go
.ound.
The blow has fallen, and private sec. Frank Newton’s
long and willowy presence will soon grace the Govern-
ment House menage no longer. Ostensibly he goes to
join his regiment, but it appears likely that his distinc-
tion-without-a-difference regarding the sending out of
last season’s vice-regal invites may have had much to do
with it.
On Friday afternoon, Lady Chelmsford, accompanied
by Miss Du Cane, presided at the annual meeting of the
Girls’ Friendly Society. The only sensible suggestion
made during some very confused proceedings came, as
usual, from her Ex., who looked cool and smiling in a
pale green gingham made for the heat, with a pretty and
shady hat. Miss Du Cane was her own smiling self in a
pretty heliotrope print and an awful mushroom hat. It
is only the fact that I own and wear one of equal plain-
ness that prevents me further enlarging upon the short-
comings of the toadstool in question. I may even admit
that my hat is the more reprehensible of the two.
A weird tale is drifting round regarding an indiscreet
male being. It is said that he laid his heart and
affluence at the feet of a golden-haired widow,
but she, after considering matters, declined the
alluring offer. The fatal decision reached the would-
be bridegroom in the writing-room of a certain Sydney
hotel. He rose to the occasion. “ Here, boy,” he called,
“ what’s the name of that woman that runs the at
?” “Miss , sir,” replied Buttons. A few
moments’ scratching with a “J ” nib, a letter was
entrusted to the boy for delivery to the lady, and the
engagement was announced next day.
Yours Affectionately,
TRYPHENA.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, 89C. FBG St. Martin, Paris, France
mm
pea
GrO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei), Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MQUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
ARTIFICIAL
LIIBS.^
$
We make them on the premises.
We make more than any other firm in Australia.
We also import them from the famous American
firm, A. A. Marks.
Every kind of Artificial Limb supplied at reason-
able prices.
Send for Free Book on Artificial Limbs.
Surgical Instrument
Makers,
DENYER BROTHERS,
281 George St., Sydney (opp. Hunter St.).
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
It is claimed as a virtue in anti-Socialist
J. 0. L. Fitzpatrick, who is standing for Calare
(N.S.W.), that he, when a N.S.W. State
member, _ vigorously demanded that the out-
standing indebtedness of farmers for Government
seed-wheat should be wiped off the slate by a vote
of Parliament. This was carrying beneficent
Socialism to the point of repudiation. The
hollowness of the Anti-Sosh argument is con-
cisely illustrated in this effort to popularise
FitzP. —the Repudiator.
Old Tory Bill Knox, of the Surprising Hat,
is an alleged Protectionist candidate for Kooyong
(Vic.). Knox was elected as a Protectionist to
the first Australian Parliament, and ratted mag-
nificently. He voted to abolish the Protective
duties on tobacco, sugar, vegetables, spirits, bis-
cuits, butter, cheese, candles, paper, and textiles,
and he helped to cut down the proposed 20 per
cent, on woollens to 15 per cent. He still calls
himself a Protectionist, but it is up to Kooyong to
write off Bill as a bad debt.
To show the undesirability of G. H. Wise,
Allan M‘Lean’s opponent in Gippsland, the
ARGUS quotes a Labor secretary’s letter to another
branch :
gefWise) is a good democrat, though he cannot see his
way to sign the Labor platform. For the State Parlia-
ment he advocated a land-tax, and during the railway
strike he sympathised openly and practically with the
men.
An electorate with a candidate whose enemies
hope to kill him with charges like that ought to
be able to pick the right man in the dark.
IN A FUTURE STATE.
REID : “ Who are you? ”
THE HORROR: "I’m your election bogey. How
do you like me now we’ve met!
The Chinese Commissioner, Hwang Hon
Cheng, who is now shaking a loose skirt in these
parts, was lunched at Adelaide by the representa-
tives of the United Asiatic League, and Mr.
Bhagat Singh urged Hwang Hon, when he got to
England, to induce the British Government to
compel Australia to let the brown and yellow multi-
tudes of Asia swarm into this country. And Hon
girded up his pretty frock and was understood to
say he would do his best.
Foreign-trade has evolved in Molden a
choice candidate for Bourke (Vic.). “Yes,” he
said at Brunswick, the other night—“ Yes, I con-
fess lam a Freetrader; but I won’t vote for Free-
trade if you return me.” In short, Molden be-
lieves that Protection is a curse ; but be will put
upwith the curse if only Bourke will put up with
Molden.
In sizing up election probabilities, Sydney
elegraph has flattered itself that Anti-Socialism
is making such strides in Westralia that its partv
is sure to gain in that State. Yet the election for
vreraidton has resulted in the unseating of the
Ministerialist, and is the fourth seat won by the
YVestralian Labor party during 1906.
Lieut.-Kernel M‘Cay, the Anti-Sosh can-
didate for Corio (Vic.), was asked a disconcerting
question at Geelong. The Kernel had just
finished a lonpr rambling address, consisting
mostly of what Deakin had said of him, and what
ii - ^e a-k- When he had finished, he
called as usual for questions, whereupon some-
one asked : “ Will the candidate state his policy?”
And it proved that a policy was the one thing
the Kernel didn’t have about him. He had his
silk socks and all his pretty clothes, but be hadn’t
his policy.
“ San Remo”: Whafchappened in Queens-
land House of Fat on the Wages Board Bill adds
to my faith in the manufacturer rather than the
importer. In that House are the biggest retail
rag-man in Brisbane, and a member of the biggest
boot-manufacturing firm—Beirne, rags; Davey,
boots. Beirne attacked the Bill furiously, and
did more to kill it than any other member;
whereas, right through, Davey spoke and voted
m favor of Wages Boards. He kept hammering
into that wooden-headed House that good wages
couldn t injure the employer, provided all men
paid them. But it was all wasted.
The editorial silence last Monday in the
Anti-Sosh press, when the result of the Castle-
reagh (N.S.W.) election was known, was so heavy
that the carts broke down with the papers.
Oastlereagh is a part of the Darling electorate.
George Reid lately made a special trip there in
the interests of Anti-Sosh, and, from the press
accounts, the seat was as good as won from Labor
man W. G. Spence. Yet the State Labor candi-
date won on Saturday by about 400 votes, while
the late Hugh MacDonald won in 1904 by only 14.
Premier Bent is probably beginning to
have some respect for the system of Elective
Ministries. Though Education Minister Saehse
has been told by almost every newspaper in the
State and by many fellow-politicians what they
think of his conduct, he still sticks like glue to his
billet. He knows perfectly well that, had a
really strong man been at the head of the Oppo-
sition, his behavior would mean certain defeat to
Bent’s Ministry. Bent knows that too, and most
likely he doesn’t feel so good as he did towards
the fine old British system under which the House
can’t fire out one objectionable Minister without
firing out the whole Government.
At Hursfcville (N.S.W.) the other night,
Johnson, the No-Work-For-Australians can-
didate, announced, as proof of his own
iricorruptibility, that he had been approached
with money bribes by McKay’s agents to
vote for the harvester duties. He men-
tioned another M.H.R. who had also been “ap-
proached.” Well, what did they do about it ?
Did Johnson and his friend get anybody gaoled ?
Is Johnson merely a liar, or is he an unpatriotic
person who allows scoundrels to go round corrupt-
ing Parliament, and then, instead of getting them
punished, makes capital out of their crimes?
Tait is earning the heartfelt hatred of the
begging Vie. municipalities. The councils have
to maintain their own roads, and they feel
hurt. Most of them have to bring gravel
and other road-material from a distance.
They think Tait ought to cut down
his freight charges for the material,
and hold out their hands for backsheesh.
They tell him that their roads are cut
up by the waggons that cart timber and
firewood and wheat to his stations, to be
carried to Mel-
bourne at rates
that are a dead
loss to the rail-
w ays, and
they think
he should
make the loss
bigger by in-
directly pay-
ing for road
repairs. But
Tait says
that the stuff
must come to
the by - sta-
tions, good
roads or bad
roads, and that
the municipalities
must repair the roads whether he helps or
not. So he shuts his face, all but enough of it
to admit his cigar, and points to the door.
Cameron and Bent are both in favor of
helping the municipalities, but Tait isn’t,
and when Tait doesn’t want to do a thing
he just keeps on not doing it, and smokes hard.
And Tait is right. The hard-begging shires get
quite enough subsidies.
Wilks, the Balmain (N.S.W.) Foreign-
trader who wants to expose the iron works
at Mort’s Dock to all the blessings of
foreign competition, asks indignantly why
the Labor men don’t propose to nationalise
the brewing industry as well as the tobacco
industry. Perhaps it is because beer isn’t
the same huge monopoly that tobacco is.
Perhaps because they aren’t the wild confiscators
Bill Wilks says they are. By way of an equally
good conundrum—why has William Henry Wilks
been for 12 years an alleged Freetrade politician
who never once tried to get the heavy Protective
duties taken off the beer industry?
Thus Tilly (or Silly) Brown in a speech to
the Yackandandah (Vic.) miners:—
I am strongly against a Bonus Bill. Fancy spending
thousands of pounds to grow coffee, cocoa, etc., IN
QUEENSLAND. lam astonished at such a thing.
Later on, same night, same speech, same Silly
Brown :
Look at the reefs you have in this district only
awaiting a little capital to develop and make payable.
I would give my best support to the Government piacing
some thousands of pounds in your hands to develop our
hidden wealth.
So Silly l - Brown evidently doesn’t consider that
what is Anti-Sosh for the goose is also Anti-Sosh
for the gander. It is horrible, according to
narrow-minded Brown, to spend public money in
Queensland, and most commendable to do it in
Indi, Victoria, provided Indi elects Anti-Sosh
Brown.
FAT AND M'LEAN, THE BACK-TO-BACK LEADERS.
Allan M’Lean —lately Reid’s equal-in-all-things—asserts that, while standing back [?] back with MR
Reid in defiance of Socialism, he is travelling in quite an opposite direction, “fiseally speaking.”
G. REID : “ That’s all very well , Mack, but at this rate we’ll never hawk these gccu.”
“ Forty-six years ago the cry was ‘ Unlock
the Land ’ and that is the cry to-day.”-—Outtrim,
M.L.A., on the jubilee of Vic. Parliament.
Two Mandarins of the second-class pale-
yellow order of the Joss invaded Maoriland
recently, and asked it to show them round its
factories and tell them how Ward ran a Govern-
ment. Also, swinging their pig-tails violently,
they pointed out that China was getting a navy
and army of its own, and “then we will see about
this poll-tax and a few other things you put on
us.” And Maoriland, quoting Ward’s assertion
that the country has seven million cartridges and
more or less of a rifle for every 50 men, stands on
a heap of scoria and says, “Let ’em all come !
There are only four hundred millions of ’em,
anyhow.”
Dr. Jimmy Graham, who is running
against J. O. Watson for South Sydney, has
made the remarkable discovery that the N.S.W.
State railways are “ Private Enterprise,” because
they are run by a Commissioner. Their great
merit, in Dr. Jimmy’s opinion, is that they are
what he calls “ Private Enterprise.” Therefore it
seems reasonable to assume that Dr. Jimmy
believes in selling the railways to a private com-
pany so as to make sure that they will remain in
the beautiful state of Private Enterprise that he
says they have got into —but which, of course,
they are liable to get out of again unless they are
sold to a private co.
An instance showing how the State fares
when it bumps up against the interests of the
land monopolist. On the Queanbeyan road
(N.S.W.) is a town named Hall, situated amidst
hundreds of acres of State land. Two
or three miles further along the same
road is another town, built on freehold
station land. At Hall (the town on State
land) there is no public school, and the
children have to walk from there to
the public school, an expensive stone
building built on the squatter’s private
property. At Hall (the town on State
land) the people asked for a police
station. The request was granted, but
the station is to be built at the town on
the squatter’s land. That the depart-
mental authorities should thus deli-
berately remove a town from State land
on to private property appears a matter
that calls for investigation. Also, since
this expenditure of public money means
increase of the value of the landlord’s
property, it calls for a graduated land-
tax so that the public may get some
at least of its own money back.
“J.R.” writes.:—-
John Bull’s appetite for the marvellous seems to be
infinite. We were fed for days on sensational stories of
the progress of what we were told was a real Boer inva-
sion of Great Bushman Land—the Kalahari Desert in
fact, a territory more arid and desolate than anything
Australia can show. People who don’t take every word
their daily paper tells them for granted wondered at the
stories of these raiders “commandeering” the popula-
tion, and shooting, or threatening to shoot, those who
didn’t want to be commandeered. And then the Cape
police took a baker’s dozen of unarmed, starving, footsore
swag-men, who seem to have been out looking for sand
and rock. And the yarns—“ A cordon of police 150 miles
long- ” ; “all the fords of the Orange River guarded,” &c. !
The principal swagman, Ferreira, seems to be some sort
of Dago. As for the alleged commandeered inhabitants,
f there were any, they “ escaped ” before the police came.
The electors of Dailey (N.S.W.) have
been given in the candidature of Howe, a
young Australian of great ability and force
of character, a chance to wipe out the Wilks
scandal from the Federal legislature. Wilks
is a scandal, a dismal insult to the intelli-
gence of the democracy. To conceal his poli-
tical ignorance he seeks support by braying
about Rome and making excited comments on a
Pope who lives thousands of miles away, and is
probably as little interested in Australia as Aus-
tralia is in him. Balmain, which is the centre of
the Dailey electorate, is a place of narrow, crooked
streets, which shelter quite an unusual number of
conventicles and little Bethels. It is really a
working-man’s suburb, and should vote Labor, but
somehow the folly of sectarianism has infected the
voters, and they have in the past voted for Wilks,
the Freetrade insectarian, whose policy would
shut up Mort’s Dock and Lever’s soap works, and
all the other Balmain industries, and give the
work to foreigners—and mostly Papist foreigners
at that.
The following is a copy of a handbill
issued by the “ Democratic ”-Tqry-Foreign-trade-
Anti-Sosh-L.O.L. party on behalf of commercial
bagman Cunningham, who is. running against
Labor member Webster for Gwydir (N.S.W.)
AUSTRALIAN DEMOCRATIC UNION.
Striking Political Events
in the Town Halt to be remembered.
Friday, November 23.
Senator Neild on the Fallacy of Socialism.
Next Week.—Mr. Tom Rose.
Why, as a Protectionist, I am an Anti-Socialist.
Dec. s.—Senator. Millen.
A Popular Speaker and Candidate for the Senate.
December 10.—Young Australians in Concert.
Admittance Free.
A Splendid Programme of Music and Singing. Miss
Cameron and others will address the Children.
Essay on Anti-Socialism v. Socialism ; limited to
500 words.
Prizes : £l, 155., and 10s. Open to All-Comers
under 20 years of age.
December 11.—Great Rally of Democrats.
Good Musical Programme, Songs, Recitations, and
BURLESQUE. Miss Cameron and others will finally
address the Electors.
Admission by Ticket Only. Obtainable FREE from
the Women League and Democratic Union, Byron
Arcade.
The Austral Band has Promised to Assist Both Nights.
If Anti-Sosh is down to such straits as this, it had
better hire a sword-swallower and a two-headed
calf to complete the show. How does all this riot
crowd inside the limit of £lOO for election
expenses ?
THE FIGHTING TEMERAIRE.
—(After Turner).
Mr. Reid will be isolated and deserted in the new Par-
liament. — AOE.
Going to be broken up.
Prime Minister Deakin puts it mildly when
he speaks of “the vague and general way so
characteristic of our opponents.” Compared
with the average Reidite, the goat hesitating
between two clothes-lines is a model of decision.
And in tangibility the amiable lunatic, who
declared that the dream of his life- was a state of
gas and gaiters, could give points to Reid every
time.
The bricklayers’ strike in Melbourne
seems a childish affair. Both sides should remem-
ber that common sense is their best friend. An
appeal to the arbitration of D.C.L. Whisky—the
Spirit of Reason—should not be neglected. With
D.C.L. presiding and inducing that warm glow of
good fellowship so favorable to wise acts, baseless
disagreement melts like the fogs of old-world
conservatism beneath a warm Australian sun.*
A Good Razor. —Can you tell a good razor
from a bad one? Very few men can. We had the privi-
leg-e of watching a clever hairdresser at Messrs. Craig and
Aitken’s business premises in George-street. It appears
that each of the celebrated “ Plum ” razors is tested in
the following fashion before leaving the shop. It must
split a hair—lengthways. It must ring like a bell. The
silver steel of which it is made must be well-tempered.
It must stand being steeped in boiling water and then
immediately immersed in icy cold water without turning
“ blue,” and so on. There is one thing certain to the
man who orders the Plum Razor—he is getting as perfect
a shaving tool as human ingenuity can provide, and at a
cost of only 10s. 6d., post free.*
THE MODERATE CANDIDATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘Notgood nor bad, not high nor low, round, square, nor
lean, nor fat,
But lagging fast and swiftly slow, just this, and also that;
A little bit of sense, more rot; I throw things all together.
Lukewarm, I’m neither cold nor hot; I favor temperate
weather.
The medium, middle way I take, ’twixt sky and sea and
land-
Behold in me an Honest Fake, as all may understand.”
Get hence, O Wobblers great and small, to some Damned
Paradise
(A place that one might fairly call a Land of Compromise) !
The time has come for stiff-backed Blokes, steel-armored
for the lists—•
Not hesitating Blobs of Hoax, nor Gradual Anarchists.
Be stout and bold or ye are lost; be swift and strong and
straight;
The Yes-No and the Boiling Frost must stay without the
Gate.
VIC.
LOUIS ESSON.


Pianos
Exchanged
If you are
not satis-
fied with
your old
Piano, winy
not ex-
change it
for a new
one from
Paling’s
Call or write to
Paling's, who will
tell you how to maKe
an exchange, and at
the same time asK
for a Catalogue.
Paling’s
338 George St.
<JS Sydney
Talking
Machines
at Paling's.
work,
Edison Phonographs.
Columbia
Graphophones.
Gramophones.
BEST QUALITY goods
at LOWEST PRICES.
Write for free catalogues.
mmsmmmmsßmsammM
Paling’s,
338 George St.,
Sydney.
89
Lipp
Pianos at
Paling’s.
One of the
most popu-
lar Pianos
in Austra-
lia. Gua-
ranteed to
stand in
any c 1 i-
mate.
Old Pianos taken
in exchange and full
value allowed.
Catalogues free
Sole Agents
Paling'* s
338 Georg'e St.
Sydney-
-62
h
The MODERN
HOSTESS. #
** I give you ‘ KOOMAH
SPA ’! Drink it. In your
whisky, in your wine, or
with milk it is delicious.
It sparkles like liquid
diamonds. It has three
great points:
1. It’s name is Koomah.
2. It is Australia's natural
mineral water.
3. It is sold by the oldest
Australian Mineral
Water firm,
E. Rowlands,
MELBOURNE,
SYDNEY,
KATOOMBA,
BALLARAT.”
•K
4
''V
C-o
Sss
PIANOLA
PiANo
9
The Piano of the Future
The New Pianola Piano is an upright piano of the highest
grade, with a Metrostyle Pianola inside its case . It is in every
particular a perfect piano, and, in addition, contains within its
case a complete Metrostyie Pianola, the only Piano-playing
device endorsed by the greatest living musicians.
It can be played by the fingers on the keyboard in the
usual way.
It can be played by means of a Pianola action within its case.
There is nothing to move up in front of the keyboard. To change the
method from hand-playing to Pianola-playing it is only necessary to slide
back a panel in the front of the case, and insert a perforated roll of music.
There is no outward indication which catches the eye to distinguish the
Pianola Piano from the heretofore type of Pianoforte.
Descriptive Booklet sent free upon request. Ask for Catalog M.
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO., 357 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
185 Collins St., MBiiEOUENB;; 311 Queen St., Brisbane ; 38 King William St., Adeiaidh..


“M OTA ” brand
Motor Car Spirits
Are the finest power spirits the world produces.
Sold by all Motor Manufacturers,
Importers, Repairers, etc., or of
The BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD.,
Agents, Adelaide, Melbourne & Sydney.
Pratt’s Motor Car Spirit,
Highest Grade
American ...
PETROL
ALWAYS UNIFORM IN QUALITY.
In stock at the Kerosene Stores of the COLONIAL OIL
COMPANY.
At all the Leading- Centres of Australia and New Zealand.
GOOD HEALTH.
Old Age Made Vigorous bt the Use of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
The first essential to good health is to keep the
stomach in a sound condition. It is not the
quantity of food we eat but what we digest and
assimilate that nourishes the body. When the
stomach and organs of digestion and nutrition are
diseased the food eaten is only imperfectly di-
gested, there is loss of nutrition, and the body
loses strength as a natural consequence. To
reach a green old age and enjoy good health can
only be attained by the care of the system, which
B
r"' . /
\ m
>Yi
l
J
3W X >J
Henry H. Joyce.
(From a photo.)
may at times
require a little
assistance.
That Dr.
Morse’s Indian
Root Pills are
a safe, sure
and reliable
rem edy is
vouched for
by Mr. Joyce
and his wife,
who are hale
and hearty in
their “ green
old a g e.”
“For some
years Dr.
Morse’s Indian
Root Pills
have been our
sole medicine,
and we have
found them to give almost instant relief in cases
of indigestion,” writes Mr. H. H. Joyce, of 56
Mitehell-street, Glebe, Sydney. ‘ ‘ I have suffered
from time to time with palpitation, and that
heavy, languid feeling after eating, but a dose or
two of your pills have always acted satisfactorily.
My wife also is a great believer in the merits of
these pills, which have relieved severe attacks of
chronic rheumatism. Speaking generally, we
both enjoy good health, which we attribute to the
occasional use of Dr. Morse’s Pills. You are at
liberty to publish this, as we are always ready to
advocate the use of your valuable remedy in all
cases of sickness.”*
RE
S SELECT STOCK ALE &
E. RESCH-, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 tJt.j fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
N.S.W. League of Wheelmen blundered badly
in allowing the Goulburn-Sydney road cycle race to clash
with the opening of the Summer Nights meeting, at
Sydney Cricket Ground, on Monday night. So of
104 acceptances in the road race only 47 faced
the starter, the majority of the others de-
clining to jeopardise their chances in the more
lucrative struggles of Monday night by toiling over 132
miles of dusty, hilly road in the face of a keen ,head
wind. As it happened, a cynical Providence opened the
windows of heaven on Monday afternoon and evening and
let fly so much rain that the meeting was postponed. So
the sacrifice was all in vain.
The race was a great struggle. It was 8.50
when Tom Larcombe started off alone to overtake the 46
starters, the limit riders having left a full hour before.
The wind was almost dead ahead, and when it wasn’t in
the teeth it came slightly from the side, which was as bad,
or a shade worse. At Marulan Larcombe had failed to
gain a minute, and the wind was growing stronger. Fifty
miles eliminated seven riders, and then a whole crop of
punctures broke things up considerably, destroying-
otherwise good chances. The field had become a succes-
sion of little groups, the members of which were practi-
cally pacing one another. Only the scratch man rode
alone and unaided. At Moss Vale, Jefferay, the Parra-
matta rider, who had left with 45 minutes start,
had caught all the riders in front of him. At
Pioton only 18 men were timed, and at Liverpool
it was evident that scratch man Larcombe was hopelessly
out of it, Jefferay and Burr had led consistently from
Oarnden, and the prize lay between them. Ten miles out
from Liverpool, after a sensational struggle, Jefferay
managed to drop his rival. Burr came again with a
mighty effort, but though he gradually drew up on the
leader, he failed to beat him. Eight thousand people
were waiting at Ashfield to see the finish, and burst into
a mighty cheer as Jefferay rode home, closely pursued by
Burr, with Slattery and Buck third and fourth. Jefferay
won £3O cash and a £2O Austral bike, and £lO for winning-
on Continental tyres. Burr appropriated £5 6s. cash
and a gold medal valued at the same amount, and for
fastest timer a Speedwell bike worth £2O. Slattery got
four guineas cash and a gold medal worth two guineas.
Duck won a trophy valued at £5 ss.
* * * »
The coining Austral Wheel Race promises to
be a most unholy frost, the nominations numbering only
half those of the previous year. The fact that the prize
money has been cut down to about half of what it was at
the last meeting seems to point a moral. Much has been
made of the fact that the distance is two miles, but, as it
was two miles previously, there doesn’t seem to be much
in that. Of course, the rider would prefer to toil, puff
and sweat only a mile for his lucre, but if he can’t get it
at the end of a mile he has always seemed quite willing
to go another mile, so long as he was sure the boodle was
there. That seems to be the secret of the trouble—he
has to plug the whole distance, and find only half the
money awaiting him.
» • * *
How the cycling prize-money goes down ! Fol-
lowing the slump in the Austral prize-money, the A.N.A.
Wheel Race, which used to be worth £5OO, has dropped
to £l5O, of which the winner receives only £4O, and the
rest is to be divided among the Ist, 2nd and 3rd class
sections of the race. The best prize of the meeting is now
the A.N.A. Gold Stakes, which is still worth £75. The
Gold Stakes is a scratch race, run over half, one and five-
mile heats, with a three-miles final.
* * * *
Although Saturday was an ideal day for cricket
around Sydney, it was an off day among the batsmen,
and the top score was G. L. Garnsey’s 83 for Burwood
against Redfern. Alphabetical White made 79 for North
Sydney against Glebe, andhis'club-mate, Hopkins, backed
him up with 61. Whitting, of Balmain, slogged Sydney
bowling for 71, and was at last run out." Oranney, of
Central Cumberland, and a player named Noble, of Pad-
dington, made 50 and 56 against Gordon and Middle
Harbor respectively. Altogether the batsmen made a poor
showing. The crack bowler of the afternoon was
M‘Cloy, who bowled only one ball, and with it ended the
innings: 1 for 1. Carty and Winning also bowled well
for Paddington, Carty securing five wickets for 35 runs,
and Winning three for 22. On the other hand, Middle
Harbor produced only one bowler of merit, Whiddon
taking six wickets of the nine that fell for 79 runs. Hill,
of Waverley, bagged five of University for 59. Garnsey
and Deane bowled splendidly for Burwood against Redfern,
the former taking five lots of timber for 19 runs, and the
latter felling five trees for 25.
* * * *
If the team as selected for N.S.W. meets
Queensland on Dec. 7, it looks (on paper) as if Banana-
land will have a hard, cold time. N.S.W. cricket
supporters brag that their team could defeat the rest of
the Commonwealth. Certainly it is a strong team,
though still not so strong as’ last year’s. Mackay is
away, O’Connor is gone, Carter is not Kelly, while Noble
and Trumper are not in such form as of old. But, on the
other hand, none of the other States have made any
progress, and the boast that the Cornstalks could beat
the balance of the Commonwealth is not mere arrogance.
*. *
So far this season, “has-been ” Syd. E. Gregory
has scored in premiership matches 15 not out, 24, 182,
and 29 not out; a total of 250 for twice out; average
125. Compare this with some others, who are not on the
has-been list: Duff, 31, 2, 15 ; total 48 ; average 16.
Hopkins : 5, 39, 0, 61; total 105 ; average 26J. The
great Trumper : 54, 9, 37, 38 ; total 138 ; average 34J.
Also the great Noble : 23, 56 not out, 32, 56 ; total 167 ;
average rather over 55. Why, compared to the “has-
been,” the other fellows are mere blokes.
* * * *
N.S.W. Cricket Association is £6OO in debt,
and is applying the pruning knife with a vengeance.
Even the umpires are now requested to pay their own
fares, and supply their services and white coats for nix.
The team that is to tour Westralia goes under an arrange-
ment by which players will be allowed a stated sum for
expenses, but nothing for loss of time, unless the tour
turns out a financial success—which, no doubt, it will. On
the other hand, the Association is trying- other speculations
with a view to raising the wind. Garnsey recently com-
piled acollection of “ Cricketana,”andthe Association has
bought it for £4O, and will publish it. It is to be hoped
that if the book turns out a success the Association
will give Mr. Garnsey a further share of the profits, £4O
being a miserable amount to pay for a really good collec-
tion of cricketing reminiscenses. In a community like
Australia such a book, if properly written, ought to go
like ripe cherries.
* * * *
The death of Canon T. B. Tress, in Victoria,
last week, removed a very old cricketing figure. Away
back in February, 1862, the late reverend gentleman,
then a youth of 18, played in the match between H. H.
Stephenson’s First English XI. and 22 of Bathurst, and
was responsible for the fall of eight English wickets,
catching and bowling three of them himself. Till Tress
did the fell deed nobody believed that a mere Australian
could bowl an All-Englander.
Cricket umpires have a much rosier time of it
in Melbourne than in Sydney just now, in spite of the
decadent state of the game in the southern capital. There
they receive 7s. 6d. for an afternoon’s work, and 15s. for
the full day. In the recent colts’ match it is said that
the-Sydney umpires received only os. for the two days.
The danger is that this sort of retrenchment may lead to
the Association getting the cheap and nasty brand of
umpiring—it all depends on the enthusiasm of the um-
pires.
* * * *
The ancient players’ trouble broke out again in
Sydney cricket last week, when M. A. Noble, “without
consulting anyone else whatever,” wrote to the Associa-
tion, suggesting that it should rescind the disqualifica-
tion that prevents any of the “ players ” holding office
for three years. In spite of some deplorable speeches,
among the worst of which was that of President Trickett,
the Association said it would see the players “ blowed ”
first. Wild rumors were flying about that the letter was
really an ultimatum, and that unless the disqualifica-
tion was lifted the players would refuse to take part in
inter-State matches. And the Association said, in effect,
“ Let ’em.” Which was a very correct and proper
attitude. The sentence was only imposed after careful
and mature consideration, and to have lifted it would
have been a confession that it was harsh and unjustifi-
able. It would have been most unfortunate had the
Association shown any signs of weakness. To have done
so would have been to invite more trouble in the near
future, and to acquire a name for much bark and no bite.
Far better to acquire a name for no bark and a large
bite. There is little danger of the players throwing
themselves out of first-class cricket; anyhow, if they do,
they are not indispensable. There is a lovely crop of
bright young players coming along.
* * -x Tt
Of 25 cars that started in the Dunlop Reli-
ability Test only nine finished, and some of them in a
most damaged state. Seven of the original 25 were De
Dions, of which four finished, and among them they won
the second prize of the competition and two class prizes.
Against this must be placed the fact that only De Dions
started in the single-cylinder class. The starting Dar-
racqs numbered four, of which only one finished, winning
the first prize ; of the other three, Allen’s ran four days,
Holmes’ three, and Stevens’ one. Two Tarrants (Aus-
tralian-made) left Melbourne. One of them ran four
days; the other made the fastest time for the competi-
tion and won the third prize in the competition and the
class prize for O division, which was a most excellent
record. Of the four Talbots only one finished, the other
three being put out during the first day. There was
only one Decauville in the struggle, and it was biffed out
at the end of the first day. There was also one Clement-
Bayard, and it, too, saw only one day of the Test.
Kellow’s 40h.p. Napier had hard luck, but got through,
and, being the only one of its division left in, carried off
the class prize. The solitary Argyll also dropped out
after the first day. Of the two Ooventry-Humbers one
ran right through, but secured no prizes, and the other
lasted only the first day, while the two Beeston-Humbers
were both outed at the end of the second day. Reads
like the record of a naval battle of the first magnitude.
The De Dions ought to have scored well. In
Glass A they had no competition ; of the seven that
started in Class B two were De Dions, two were
Talbots, one Tarrant, one Beeston-llumber, and one
Bayard. In Class 0, of 10 starters, two were De Dions,
three Darracqs, two Coventry-Humbers, one Clement-
Talbot, one Argyll, and one Tarrant. Of the unfortunate
Class D none were De Dions, and the field was made up
of one each of Napier, Talbot, Darracq, Decauville, and
Beeston-Humber. Evidently the automobile will have to
be made a lot more reliable before the man of moderate
means can go in for road-racing as an amusement. The
car built for good European roads is not nearly strong
enough for the rough tracks that are dignified by the
title of the King’s highway in Australia, and even if men
prefer foreign-made engines, this competition has proved
beyond a doubt that the wise man will get the frame of
his car and all the rest of it made here by people who
have a knowledge of the ways in the land of Bent and
Carruthers. The arranging and supervision of the Test
cost the big Dunlop Rubber Co. £4OO. Also, it cost some
of the competitors the price of practically re-building
their gimcrack importations.
* * * •
The Hog in the Car, accompanied by his
Hogess, is beginning to make periodic appearances on
the roads round Sydney, and sufficiently often to make
one of two things necessary. Either motorists must be
compelled to carry a detection number, at least 2ft. high,
on the back of the automobile, where pursuers can see it,
or the people who don’t drive cars must go armed and
ready to shoot at sight. The latter alternative had a
most salutary effect in France, where the automobilist
now goes warily. In Germany the Imperial Government
passed laws which make the Hog responsible for the
maintenance for life of anyone he cripples, and for the
support of his or her children till they are able to sup-
port themselves. A doctor and his daughter, while
cycling near Manly (Syd.), were nearly run over by a car
that came round a corner at headlong speed, taking both
sides of the road at once, and only a couple of weeks pre-
viously a man was run down from behind a carload of fat
publicans, who had to pay heavy damages. Careless
driving of motor cars should be punished by a heavy fine
and imprisonment, but the first thing is to detect your
Car Hog, hence the need for the big number.
» * * *
The recent Thousand-miles Motor Reliability
Test was a triumph for the Continental tyres. The
winning car was shod with them, and so was Grimwade’s
Tarrant, which made fastest time and won the third
prize. Nine of the competitors pinned their faith to
Continentals and found it justified, never having to
change or make repairs of any sort. The prizes
carried off by cars shod with Continentals were the
Dunlop Cup, the Garland Cup and Motor Blue Riband
for Australia, Dunlop Gold Medal, Mota Trophy and
Pratts’ Cup. The winner of the Goulburn to Sydney
cycle road race on Saturday also used Continental tyres.*
* * * *
N.S.W. Attorney-General has announced that
he will introduce a Bill to legalise trotting at betting
matches or betting at trotting matches—it is all one.
Presumably, it will be a very short measure of about
three clauses, making any place where trotting meetings
are held a licensed racecourse for the time being, or
something of that sort. But, anyhow, it will be a huge
and inglorious backdown. If trotting races are necessary
to improve the breed of trotters, and facilities for betting-
are necessary for improving the trotting races, then
betting is necessary in anything that depends upon com-
petition, and should be allowed at boxing matches,
bicycle meetings, athletic gatherings and sausage-eating
competitions ; so why not let ’em all come ?
* • • •
Universal Provider Samuel Hordern is building
a rare and lovely motor yacht to the design of the well-
known naval architect, Walter Reeks. It will be the
largest motor yacht in Australasia, and one of the world’s
front-rankers, measuring 110 ft. over all. With the ex-
ception of the engines and pianola, everything in the
yacht, and the yacht itself, will be of Australian manu-
facture. Down below, the main saloon will take up 20ft.
of the width of the hull, and the owner’s state-room will
be lift, long, joined by a 7ft. bathroom. Next to that
will be two other state-rooms, each 9ft. long. The rest of
the space is to be taken up by an after, or overflow, cabin
and state-rooms, an engine-room, and forward a kitchen
and fo’c’sle for the crew. On the deck will be a music-
room, 21ft. by Bft., a pilot or wheel-house, naphtha tank,
and sail locker. The bridge deck will be 38ft. by 16ft.,
and around it will be the, boats, consisting of a 20ft.
motor launch, a gig and dinghy. In order to utilise every
inch of space the yacht will have cruiser bow and stern.
There will be three engines of the English Thornycroft,
make, each driving a separate shaft and propeller, and
each of 100 h.p., and capable of shoving the boat 15 miles,
an hour.. The two masts are to be hinged, and can be
lowered, so that the boat can pass under any decent,
bridge. Even the beautiful Bronzewing will have to lower
its colors before this craft.
• * * •
People who had laid their reputations and
week’s pocket money that Chris. Webb would show the-
way home in the Sydney Flying Squadron’s blue ribbon
event on Saturday received a bad scare. Old man of the-
harbor George Holmes blew the Donnelly along so fast,
that it looked anybody’s race till right on the finish, when
Christian Webb managed to get a lead of 38 seconds*
which he maintained till the line was crossed.
Twenty boats turned up to the start, but Arawa and.
Young Jack, getting entangled, drifted on to Clark
Island, where the Arawa stayed for a time. Young
Jack got off and took an honorary part in the:
race. Vision, ably navigated by C. Abbot, went away
with a great rush and led the flotilla to the Lightship,
with Donnelly and Australian close behind. When the:
ballooners and ringtails flashed white against the grey-
green water Donnelly and Australian drew up very quickly..
Vision did not use a ringtail. Donnelly went to the front,,
and Vision subsided into third place. At Clark Island,
Australian had supplanted Donnelly, and Vision was.
still some 12 seconds in front of the fourth boat. In,
the latter part of the race, Crescent bowled along at a
great rate completely hidden by a huge balloon er, but,
failed to make good, for shortly afterwards the nor’-
easter died down considerably, and then Australian’s huge
sail did its deadly work, and Webb managed to shake off
his bull-doggy opponent. The race ended with Aus-
tralian first home with 38sec. to spare, Donnelly and!
Vision second and third, and Scot 22sec. behind Vision.
¥ * * *
Sydney is sending a couple of yachts to
Melbourne to take part in the races for La Carabine
and Sayonara Cups. Mr. Brockhoff will navigate his
11-ton Rawhiti from Sydney to Port Phillip himself, while
the Heather will go over on the deck of a steamer.
Norman Murray will manage the Heather in the racing.
The Sayonara is now the property of well-known man-
about-town, “Billy” Newbigin.
* » * *
A Maoriland man has just been fined £2 10s.
for catching a trout with a worm for bait. Just where
the iniquity of catching fish with a decent worm comes
in is not plain. Had he caught it with an artificial fly or
a beastly minnow made of metal or rubber, he would not
have been liable to punishment. Perhaps the law is for
the protection of the worm. It is quite obvious that it is
much kinder to the trout to catch it with a real worm
than an artificial bait; it at least gets the worm, whereas
with the artificial bait it not only loses its life but gets
done in for the bait also. So the law must be intended
as a kindness to the worm.
* * * *
When Hindu wrestler Buttan Singh lost his
championship at Melbourne Oyclorama building, the
other Monday, like a true Asiatic he played a mean
trick on the winner. It was understood and ac-
cepted as a fair thing that the brown man’s third
match with Clarence Weber would be his last appear-
ance. He would retire on his long championship,
which only Hackenschmidt had been able to inter-
rupt, unless the white boy could beat him this time, best
two out of three. He stipulated for 60 per cent, of the
gate money, win or lose, and would wrestle on no other
terms. Even this clause in the contract was accepted as
a reasonably unsportsmanlike arrangement. Buttan
Singh is a man of 50, and his age entitled him to con-
sideration, although “ his looks didn’t pity him." The
Buttan who took the floor t’other night—a picture of
muscular condition—seemed 15 years younger than his
age for wrestling purposes. Weber, bigger than ever,
showed an aggressiveness which belied his mild, anxious
countenance, but the physical strength of the Indian’s
defence was almost as notable as Weber’s superior agility
and trickiness.
Hackenschmidt had beaten the wonderful
veteran two years ago by grabbing him suddenly and
giving him a giant swing before landing his two shoulders
on the mat—a “ flying” fall. Weber was unable to get a
swing at Buttan. Probably even the great Hacky couldn’t
have worked the same point a second time on the Asiatic.
So the contest for the first 10 minutes was a succession
of “Nelsonie” efforts by Weber and clever escapes by
Buttan. Then the men got tangled together, and the
end of the bout was that Buttan pulled one of Weber’s
legs into a position favorable for “ screwing ” the knee
and foot, and Weber saved his agonised limb by giving the
fall. He just banged the boards with one hand in token of
submission, and Buttan went back to his corner a fortunate
Hindu. Nevertheless, he was palpably out of love with
his job. The unwonted combativeness of his young foe-
man had gruelled the dusky one, and as he sat waiting
for Weber, who had limped away to his dressing-room for
massage, his lips moved as though he were praying to
Buddha or Mahomet to set up complicationsin the white
man’s twisted knee and put him hors de combdt. But
Weber came back, and started to go for Buttan more than
ever. Getting him on the mat in a trussed-fowl posture
he pressed his head and shoulders down and worked at him
with vigorous persistency. They were playing for keeps,
and Buttan was getting a bad time. Presently both men
were on their feet, and Weber rushed |at the Indian and
bore him back against the ropes. Again he grabbed him,
flung him to the mat, and, pouncing upon him,
got a hold which nearly gave him a fall right
away. Buttan saved himself for the moment with the
aid of an adjacent boundary rope, but Weber retained
his hold and pulled away at the brown, greasy body until
he had it flat on its back—dead beaten. One fall to each.
Then did the cowed Buttan sacrifice the one great and last
chance of his Australian life—the chance to earn a mighty
ovation. He couldn’t hope to avoid defeat in a final bout,
except by accident, but he had made so good a fight
against the strong young man that 3000 people were pre-
pared to hail him as a 50-year-old Hero if he would only
stand up like a sport to receive his quietus. If he had
bowed to the inevitable and put himself down on the mat
without assistance from Weber, it would have been a
graceful proceeding. With 60 per cent, of the gate-money
assured to him there was but one inexcusably con-
temptible thing that Buttan could do —and he did it.
After waiting to be rubbed down he got up from his chair,
and on his own initiative, or at the suggestion of Jack
Graham, he slunk out of the ring. It was announced
that he was suffering from a sore mouth and “pains in
the head,” an excuse which might be urged for many an
unbeaten boxer at the end of the first round. So Weber
was left to win the championship through Buttan’s
default.
It is seemingly the native vanity of our colored
brethren, far exceeding the vanity of the weakest white
man, which prompts them to retire from a wrestling
match rather than stay to get beaten in a satisfactory
manner. Weber has now lowered the colors of both
Gunga Brahm and Buttan Singh, but neither of them
would give him the satisfaction of being declared the
winner in the presence of his adversary. Gunga, after
receiving one fall from Weber in Wirths’ circus ring a
while ago, was not game to continue the contest. He
simply slunk off, and caused unpleasantness. The same
disappearing trick was practised by Buttan last week.
He wouldn’t stay in e\ idenee to be declared a loser, and,
if he had been downed in che first bout, he would doubt-
less have escaped at that early stage of the proceedings.
The fact of his having fought out (and won) his first
match with Weber, after los.ng the first (flying) fall by an
unexpected cross-buttock, merely proves that he was con-
fident of his ability to pull through. For the future.it
will be advisable to ensure a proper formal ending to a
wrestling match by a clause in the articles requiring both
men to be present in the ring when the result is declared.
Why not? Even if one of them were dead the announce-
ment could do him no harm.
• • * *
One of the saddest results of the Wade Anti-
Gambling Act was the dissolution of the National Sport-
ing Club of Sydney. On its site has arisen the colossal
Brennan’s Amphitheatre, which will be devoted exclusively
to boxing and wrestling exhibitions. The cld social hall,
where the members periodically gave themselves up to
music, song and liquor, is now the vestibule of the great
emporium. The bar and the billiard tables have
* one, andso have the bathrooms where the hot, dusty
members took a refreshing dip before settling down to
enjoy themselves for the evening. The boxing hall is a
splendid place. It is tall and airy, and has
a sliding roof; and from the furthest point
m the hall the spectator can sit and get an
uninterrupoed view of the scrap. There are no galleries
in the new structure, and the enthusiastic barracker up
aiott will not be able to drop peanuts with impunity on
xT^i. Cai *™ below who roars for the other fellow.
IN either are there any pillars, and in the tiers of seats 5000
people can sit and see without interruption.
* * * 3
I\wa 8 in this new structure that Billy McCall
met Mike Williams, of Africa, and, to the everlasting-
shame of a Sydney audience, was hooted savagely be-
cause he had met a better man than himself, and was
no longer the fighting machine he once had been. It was
certainly a very brief battle, but while it lasted it was
hard, and Mike Williams’right is a filthy thing for any
man s jaw to bump. From first to last it was merely a
question of endurance. Both the big men slogged with
a v.- u 6ll i. ni, °kt, ev ery blow got home, and it was a case in
which the harder and stronger man must win. McCall is
not as strong as he used to be before he wrenched his
shoulder in that fight with Scanlan, and his blows seemed
to lack their old-time force. Possibly Michael is an
unusually hard man. Also, Michael hit faster and landed
two blows to McCall’s one. In the first round the Waler
wa,s beaten badlly on the ribs and narrowly escaped
being outed by a vicious uppercut. In the second
half of the round Williams punctuated the battering he
gave McCall’s ribs with a few bashes in the face and round
{I 1 ® P°bility generally. McCall landed blow after blow on
Williams’ head, but the South African bored in and dealt
him a smash on the ear, which made him stagger. While
he was dazed Williams whirled his right to the ribs three
times in quick order, and down rolled the Australian. In
the second round Williams attacked with the fury of a
wounded lion, and always his right landed on that one
spot of McCall’s ribs that was now covered with a red
mark. McCall smashed Williams heavily in the face, but
the African landed him on the mouth with the left, and
hooked him on the jaw. Before he could do more McCall
hit in the face with both hands, but even as Williams
reeled his left swung to McCall’s jaw, and the Australian
went down for eight seconds. Resuming, Williams left
the ribs alone and battered McCall’s head and face. Mac.
did his best to do as he was done by, but the flesh wasn’t
able, and the bell brought respite. In the third, Wil-
liams landed on McCall’s stomach, and McCall sent a
pretty left to the throat. Williams rushed in and shot
oyer McCall’s back, and as he came up McCall caught
him in the stomach, and then took a rip in the same
locality himself. With a yell of pain the African rushed
in and caught a chop on the neck, and a drive on the
jaw. He came again and got a couple home on the face
and jaw. Then McCall was beaten to the ropes, and bat-
tered on the sore spot of his ribs some more. His
strength had given out, his blows were weak, and only
the bell saved him. He went to his corner a wreck, and
after a brief consultation the towel was suddenly jerked
into the ring, and McCall—the great McCall—joined the
pathetic army of the Has-Beens and the Weres.
* * * »
With the bait of thirty thousand dollar purses
floating around his head, retired champion pug. Jim
Jeffries is seriously thinking of returning to the ring,
but is said to be worried about finding a foeman
worthy of his hash. James has no great opinion of the
rising crop of heavies, and declares that he will not take
money under false pretences. All of which is very noble.
The little town of Goldfield, in Nevada, which gave a
$30,000 purse for the Gans-Nelson affair, offers to put up
a $40,000 purse if Jeffries will fight, and it is the thought
of this huge wad of coin that is making the farm down
Los Angeles way seem mighty slow. The Gans-Nelson
affair seems to have been a shady transaction—the usual
U.S. shady transaction—right through. First, negro
Gans alleges that he was offered $25,000 to go under to
Nelson, but refused, being sure that he could win the
fight and have the pleasure of giving Nelson, whom he
hates, a real good hiding at the same time. Then, the
night before the fight, Nelson suddenly intimated that he
would not go on unless Gans agreed to take the
loser’s end of the purse, win or lose; and, rather
than let the fight fall through, Gans agreed, and so got
only $lO,OOO of the prize money for the fight he won.
The promoters are taking special precautions to prevent
anything of the sort happening again, and in all future
fights at Goldfield the articles will specify that the
winner must receive the winner’s share, and no secret
arrangement must be entered into for a division of the
prize money on any other basis. This will do an awful
lot of good—in theorv.
*"* * *
The big Dunlop Rubber Co. had no reason to
complain of its luck in the Thousand Miles Reliability
Test, as it again secured the best percentage. No less
than five of the nine cars that struggled through to a
finish were shod with Dunlops, and secured the Dunlop
Amateur Cup, the Baillieu Trophy, the first prize for
Class B, and the Proctor Trophy. Last year 13 out of the
16 cars that got through from Melbourne to Sydney were
Dunlops, and in 1904 the first five to finish used the same
trusty tyre. Dunlops were also to the front in the great
Tourist Trophy, run in the Isle of Man recently, and keep
up their reputation on both sides of the globe with
splendid percentages.*


Lord Kitchener.
\y
m
Sir Henry Irving.
1
g&IV!
*srt
Sir Edmund Barton,
TESTIMONIALS:
Loed Kitchener writes: “He much
enjoys Marsuma Cigars.”
Sir Henry Ibving writes : “They are
of very fine quality.”
Sir Edmund Barton considers quality
excellent.
SOLE AGENTS :
FELDHEIM, GOTTHELF & CO., Sydney, N.S.W.
FOTHERGILL & CO., Fremantle, W.A.
MR. DAN REDDAN, Fitzroy, Melbourne, Vic.
Mr. DUNCAN McLEAN, Creymouth, N.Z.
Messrs. AULD & SONS, Adelaide, S.A.
Messrs. WHITE & CO., Hobart, Tasmania.
Mr. P. A. 0. BYRNE, Launceston, Tas.
R. W. SWAN, Adelaide.
THE TEST OF TIME.
MIRACULUM has stood the test of time, and
many other severe tests, too, all of which have
proved conclusively, and to the satisfaction of a
multitude of users, that: —
MIRACULUM seals punctures in Cycle and Motor
Tyres as soon as they happen, permanently, and
without trouble to the rider.
MIRACULUM does not effect the resiliency of
tyres in the least.
MIRACULUM is economical and easily used. One
charge lasts an indefinite period and seals in-
numerable punctures.
MIRACULUM does not perish the rubber, but
tends to preserve.it. We guarantee against perish-
ing all inner tubes sold by us if charged with
MIRACULUM.
MIRACULUM
Charging Depot: 266 Latrobe Street (2 Doors
from Elizabeth Street).
BICYCLES, 45.; MOTOR CARS, from 30s.
All dealers, or write for Booklet.
Miraculum Corporation Ltd
395 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
VICKERY’S CHAMBERS, 82 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Barney Allen
TURF COLOSSUS
S.P.
OF AUSTRALIA.
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
m
m
m
ii
i
THE GOLDEN KING.
Sufficient address—
BARNEY ALLEN,
Melbourne.
Business Commissions
executed on the most
liberal terms.
30 years before the
public, never found
wanting.
/ guarantee clients the
highest market price
obtainable.
intending investors, send
for my quotations
before dealing with
others.
*
Standish & Bagot.
Villiers Stakes
and Summer Cup.
BanKers
Victoria, and Royal Banks.
Subscribers
are notifed that LATEST INFOR-
MATION AND QUOTATIONS will
be found In “ The King of
Sport ” newspaper, published weekly, and posted free throughout Aus-
tralia for 4s. 6d. yearly.
Address: “ King of Sport ” Office, 29 4 Collins St,, Melbourne,
RUGELMANN’iS
VH,
A.
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
“Beauty's
Aid/'
FREE
SAMPLE
sent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugfelmann's Pure Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pet
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE & 199 Clarence St„ SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
h
Dunlops
Again
Triumphant!
ĥ
ħ
Again secure the BEST Percentage in the
Dunlop Reliability Motor Contest
OUT OF
to Finish using the World-Famed
9
h
And won the Dunlop Amateur Cup; Baillieu Trophy i
First Prize Class ** B** ; and Proctor Trophy.
Similar Results were achieved in—
-1904, the Ist, 2nd, 3rd, 4th and sth Contestants to finish using DUNLOPS.
...AGAIN 1N...
1905* 13 out of the IG Contestants to complete the journey from Melbourne
to Sydney used the Reliable, Durable and Trustworthy DUNLOPS.
The DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Aust. Ltd.,
108 Flinders Street, Melbourne, and All States.
The popular anti-Sosh gag among the
farmers now is that, though the progressive land-
tax doesn’t touch them yet, it is only a beginning
—“a preliminary attack,” Sydney Telegraph
calls it. Last year, in N.S. Wales, there were
only 18,593 men who held farms of from 200 to
1000 acres. In holdings of over 1000 acres there
were 36,824,443 acres, or enough for 61,370 farms
of 600 acres each. If the big holdings were cut up
into, say, 600-acre farms, there would thus be
61,370 men ready to stand side by side with the
other 18,593 in defence of their comparatively
small holdings. The 18,593 farmers possibly may
not be over-safe now; cut up and settle the big
estates, and they will be at least four times safer.
“Star”: You affirm that capital is not
being driven out of this country. Well, it will
be. I am expecting a considerable legacy pre-
sently. I am not going to stay in a country
whose Government is not prepared to defend me,
and my family, my money, and my property.
Not much. Further, I mean to take my nine
boys and girls out of a land which encourages
yellow persons to live side by side with me, and
so expose me to the chance of one day finding
myself grandparent to a half-caste. Now tell me
of some clean land of courageous white people
where I and mine will be secure, and where there
is a good, reliable army and navy to defend my
property.
Some of these curious Tory “ ladies ” who
circulate unscrupulous falsehoods about the
alleged intention of their opponents to confiscate
all property, break up the home, violate the mar-
riage tie, &c, make pathetic allusions to their sex
when an audience becomes restive under their
coarse abuse and crude slanders, and the intima-
tion that no real gentleman would interrupt a
lady is heard quite frequently. It is hard to say
where to draw the line in such matters. This
writer once saw a shining light of anti-Sosh call
on a policeman not only to interrupt but to arrest
a lady, and yet her statements were quite as
accurate as many made by the ornaments of the
Women’s Reform League, and no more incoherent.
■The policeman called her case “disorderly con-
duct,” too.
This is the attitude of the Anti-Sosh party,
as outlined by George Reid at various meetings,
towards the graduated land-tax for bursting up the
big estates that are blocking settlement near the
centres of population : The party is wildly in favor
of closer settlement, but at the market price of the
land (that is, the price the owners ask) it admits
it would be unprofitable to buy the land for closer
settlement. And any attempt to make a man
sell, even at the market rate, is “spoliation” and
“confiscation.” So, although the party and its
leader hanker and yearn for closer settlement,
they will do nothing to encourage it. It’s “un-
British ” and “ Socialistic ” to do anything. Men
who want to go on the land and engage in the
great primary industries, please note.


HIGHEST
QUALITY I
LOWEST
PRICES I
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Black Open-face Keyless
Watches, 8s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s,
17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s. Our
“Nurses’ ” Watch, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold 2 Heart and Floral
Spray Brooch,
12s 6d.
A Neat Design.
DISTANCE IS NO DRAWBACK!
COMPARISON
INVITED.
QUALITY
PRICE.
OUR MAIL ORDER
DEPARTMENT
makes it easy to shop from any dis-
tance. We can serve you in any part
of Australasia, just as well as in our
Showrooms. The most inexperienced
buyer can deal with us in perfect
safety.
SEND FOR OUR NEW
CATALOGUE
and select the design that suits you.
Sent post free anywhere, and it’s well
worth having. A compact 304-page
Catalogue, replete with all the latest
designs and helpful suggestions.
)
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Alberts, Single or Double, £3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5 10s, £6; 15et. Gold, £5 10s, £6 10s, £7 10s,
£B, £8 10s, £lO, £l2 10s; Solid Silver, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s; Gold Filled, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s,
22s 6d, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold.
Envelope Charm,
12s 6d.
Any Name
Engraved Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Bracelet, Diamonds and Rubies or Sapphires,
£3 15s.
15ct. Gold, £5 ss; All Diamonds. £7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bog Oak Charm,
is.
Connemara
Marble, 2s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s High-grade Solid Silver
Hunting Keyless Watches, ‘>.s';,
30s, 40s, 50s; Solid Gold, £:i,
£3 10s, £4 10s, £5 10s, £6 10s,
£7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Mizpah Bar Brooch, Amethyst
Heart,
13s t>d.
With Gold Bell, 12s Cd.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold 2 Bar Brooch,
Amethyst Centre,
Ss 6d.
With Chain and Bell, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 2 Bar Spray Brooch, set
Pearls, Rubies, or Sapphires,
30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 2 Bar Brooch, set
Diamonds and Rubies or
Sapphires,
22s 6d.
!w‘-'
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 3 Bar Brooch, set Pearls
and Opal,
21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Pin, Chain,
and N.Z. Greenstone
Charm,
Ss 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 2 Bar Brooch, set Pearls and
Rubies or Sapphires,
21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18et. Gold, Pure
Double-cut Diamonds
and Rubies or Sap-
phires,
£l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et Golri “Dinna
Forget” Charm,
10s.
Smaller, 7s 6d.
/
\
SOLID
SILVER,
£5 10s.
SOLID
GOLD,
£l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Hunting Keyless Flyback Chronograph
Lever, registering 1-5 seconds, full jewelled, compen-
sation balance, £5 10s, £6 10s, £7 10s, £8 10s, £lO,
£l2 10s; Solid Gold, extra heavy, £l5, £l7 10s, £2O
£25, £27 10s, £BO, £35, £4O. Guaranteed 4, 5, :nd
6 years.
-
m a
A. SAUNDERS.
New Zealand Greenstone Bar Brooch,
9ct. Gold Mounts,
12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Go!d Seal
Pendant, Bloodstone
or Sardonyx,
lOs Gd.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Diamonds
and Rubies or
Sapphires,
£l2 lOs.
Similar, £8 10s.
£lO, £35.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Pin,
Chain, and
Wishbone Charm,
7s 6d.
Smaller, 5s 6d.
A. SAUNDEES.
9et. Gold Oval Band Bracelet, richly chased, with
Safety Chain,
255.
Other Styles, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s.
■
\ * /
V
V.
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong, reliable, Knockabout Watches 83 6d
10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s: Our
Guard,’ 15s; “Railway,” 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Heart and
Dumbbell Links,
12s 6d.
15ct. Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 2-Bar Brooch, pure double-
cut Diamond,
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Pin
and N. Z.
Greenstone Cross,
10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Oval
Links,
255.
15ct. Gold, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Floral Spray Brooch, set
Fine White Pearls,
£3 ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
Set. Gold, Pearls
and Rubies or
Sapphires,
20s.
9ct. Gold
Chain,
A. SAUNDERS.
Half-chased Bamboo Bracelet, with Safety
£3 ss; Smaller, £2 15s; Plain, 255, 30s,
355, 40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold, Pearls and
Turquoise set
Charm,
17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Bracelet, pure Diamond and Rubies or
Sapphires,
£4 10s.
8 Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Hunting Keyless Levers, £2, £2 10s,
£3, £3 10s, £4, £5; Patent Gold Cases, £4 4s,
£5 ss, £6 6s; Solid Gold, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O.
Sydney’s Leading Jeweller,
Silversmith, and Optician,
A. SAUNDERS
809, 811, 813, 815, 817
GEORGE-STREET,
opposite New
Railway Station,
SYDNEY.


Westward Ho! ” Series. No. 6.
“ When all things were made, none was made better than Tobacco; to be a Lone Man's Companion, a
Bachelor's Friend, a Hungry Man's Food, a Sad Man's Cordial, a Wakeful Man's Sleep, and a Chilly
Man's File. There's no Herb like it under the canopy of Heaven." — Kingsley’s “ Westward Ho !"
'
T?
KafcSSMWSSBWMMW
Si
IllSi I
;ft ; ft,/ft
Isa
1 Wf v
?
I‘ r ,C '■ i '-\ ‘,
* » ' ’ .-.
-mm
i#
SIP
Spiff
fflwS]
m
yj ;.
*- i
<’PP
N^gß
£1 \>!m
MM
§m
■ v ■.-!
m
P-
« >ft v
i
tmn
:■ ■ ■ •■
w
HI
i&&Mn
■:x/.
iftisll
.*!
-
Ifli
P:. :v;
■■- $
•Pii
ft'
ESE
W< ’'!> P‘
SB
P \ s pypp”T ;P\|l
ppA zim.%
im*
• .. ;
mmM
*■. ■
fmßm
m£i
■\
dfeM r*' ,“lrp ?ftP
SSIC 4|^
■w S
ip
• ■
m
m
m::m
Sm.
.a.
immm
■ >
...Aft-... ft- . •>.
•V
'
.
* ' - / #P pf^M
i' !
P
m
m
m
JftS
ft.
wBSm '•' !/&*? :
ffl& , .‘ft r %»-*-’•< p
P * IW P'Pv
•'■■!'•■ 'v ft-;.: . ft ft-
&&
mmMm
1
m
m
jSsss
J ft -i
SS§SSSSiMESiP
■ SPP
IfCiill
ft/;.;
9l
M
tip
. '*■
'rft'ftft
';'pp
i
V
VP, '>■';•'
Jj|Bj§
SisSi®
IBM
K
.
3 .. v
'.ftftp
WMimM
HAVELOCK TOBACCO


AGGREGATE BALANCE SHEET
....0F....
THE BANK OF MEW SOUTH WALES, 30th SEPTEMBER, 1906.
LIABILITIES.
Notes in Circulation £959,90S 0 0
Deposits and accrued
Interest .. .. 24,812,021 3 6
T . £25,771,929 3 6
Bills Payable and other Liabilities
(which include Reserves held for
Doubtful Debts and Amounts at
Credit of Investments Fluctuation
Account and Officers' Fidelity
Guarantee and Provident Fund) .. 3,354,026 11 6
Paid-up Capital .. 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. 1,450,000 0 0
Profit and Loss .. 100,933 17 0
£3,610,933 17 0
£32,736,889 12 0
Contingent Liabilities—
Outstanding Credits, as per Contra.. 695,614 3 6
£33,432,503 15 6
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, and
Cash Balances
Queensland Govern-
ment Notes
Notes of other Banks
Money at short call
in London
Investments —British
& Colonial Govern-
ment Securities ..
Municipal and
oth r Securities ..
Due by other Banks
Bills Receivable in
London and Remit-
tances in transit ..
£5,276,929 9 8
151,830 0 0
25,208 0 0
2,520,000 0 0
1,811,991 0 6
157,238 7 11
45,489 17 0
2,328,099 1 9
Bills Discounted, and Loans and Ad-
vances to Customers
Bank Premises
£12,316,286 17 4
19,705,603 14 8
715,000 0 0
£32,736,889 12 0
Liabilities of Customers and others on
Letters of Credit, as per Contra .. 695,614 3 6
£33,432,503 15 6
Dr.,
Cr.
PROFIT AND LOSS, 30th SEPTEMBER, 1906.
To Rebate (at current rates) on Bills Dis-
counted not due at this date .. .. £8,201 5 6
Balance proposed to be dealt
with as follows :
To Dividend at the rate of 10
per cent, per annum ..£lOO,OOO 0 0
~ Augmentation of the Re-
serve Fund 25,000 0 0
~ Balance carried forward.. 27,732 11 6
152,732 11 6
£160,933 17 0
By Amount from last Account .. .. £22,617 11 3
~ Balance of Half-year’s Profits after pro-
viding- for Bad and Doubtful Debts,
Fluctuations in the Value of Invest-
ment Securities, reducing the Valuation
of Bank Premises, and including Re-
coveries from Debts previously written
off as Bad 138,316 6 9
£160,933 17 0
Dr.
Cr.
RESERVE FUND, 30th SEPTEMBER, 1906.
To Balance £1,475,000 0 0
(Of which £750,000 is invested in
British Government Securities, and
the balance is employed in the busi-
ness of the Bank.)
£1,475,000 0 0
By Balance .. .. .. .. ..£1,450,000 0 0
~ Amount from Profit and Loss.. .. 25,000 0 0
£1,475,000 0 0
By Balance £1,475,000 0 0
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
■
—-apea
C&
\
H
*r. .
J. vfcjto*
mm
I*
*
* . > _
: -
I
i
•»
\ '
&&' '■ *
>* * •• v
«0 'v '.-•" ?** •• t \
?L m - 4v
' ,S V X
James Vavd,
501 Geo. st„
Sydney* •
DO THESE SKIRTS APPEAL TO YOU=
To see them without an obligation to buy is what we offer for buyers by post. Forward us the
amount of your intended order witb No. of the SRirt you require, and should you thinK our
advertisement bas misled you or the article be not entirely suited to your needs, it may be
returned, and your money promptly refunded. We send these g'oods, carriag'e paid, to your
nearest Post Office or Railway Station.
No. 108
Stylish Skirt of Fine White Irish
Linen Lawn, with Six Graduated
Tucks and Hem, gathered at Waist.
In all Stock Sizes.
Price 17s. Gd
No. lOB
No. 118
No. 118.
(Smart Skirt in Navy
and Black Panama
of good quality, new
design, well cut and
finished. >? In all
(Stock sizes.
Price, 12s. Gd
No. 128,
Very Pretty White Indian Linen Skirt,
trimmed Fine Swiss Insertion and
Tucks, well flared at foot and gathered
at Waist. In all Stock Sizes.
Price 225. 6d
No. 128
tM.
ms *«
■H
DAVID JONES ®. CO.,
Opp. G.P.0., SYDNEY
When Hawthorne hoped to get the Nepean
(IN.S. W.) seat he ran as a staunch Freetrader with
I lotection for the Lithgow ironworks as a side
line. Now he runs for Newcastle, and poses as
an anti-Laborite while advocating “Justice for
the Newcastle coal-miners.” A slippery person
is Hawthorne.
Some person with an extra-violent pen has
been writing, in a leaflet circulated among the
Melbourne building-trade strikers, that The
‘IS dSpXs US X’fcttS 1
ment of working conditions as regards hours and
labor.” This paper remarks briefly that it didn’t
say anything of the sort. What "it did say, and
says some more, is that Australia can’t afford to
start fooling with a six-hour day and things of
that sort (1) while its ports are so widely open to
competitors who work 10 or 12 hours a day ; (2)
while it is so deeply in pawn to a foreign Cohen ;
(3) while it has such a vast amount of Defence
and other work to do and pay for.
The three Vic. Anti-Sosh candidates for the
Senate make a rather quaint announcement: —-
They believe that the machinery of the State should be
used in such a way as will afford facilities to individuals
to help themselves.
It is wonderful—simply wonderful—how these
Private Enterprise people rely on “ the machinery
° f State,
Ex-State-Premier Twaddell is again per-
vading N.S.W. Assembly with a motion to the
•«?**» ‘!“> N.S.W. Legislature should select a
-b edeial capital on its own, and fix Lyndhurst as
the site. The Australian Constitution says
clearly (clause 125): —
The seat of Government of the Commonwealth shall be
determined by The Parliament.
and clause 1 (chapter 1) says just as clearly that
“ The Parliament ” is the Australian Parliament,
not the N.S.W. Legislature, nor Twaddle. And
the Australian Parliament has already selected
Dalgety. Also, it is none of Twaddle’s business.


On the
Trail
Of the
Trust
Powerful
Illustrations
by Hop.,
Vincent,
N. Lindsay,
and Weston.
*
Price
1/-
Post Free
from The
Bulletin
Office,
A Practical
WorK on Protection
Puts the case for National Industry
—from all points of view with
rare cogency and brightness.
Amusements.
HALL, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES EVERY WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY.
EDISON’S POPULAR PICTURES.
The Greatest Array of “ Living Pictures " ever
seen in Sydney.
Plan at Elvy’s. Day Sales, “ The White Rose.”
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction of Messrs. CLYDE MEYNELL
and JOHN GUNN.
EVERY EVENING at 8, WEDNESDAY at 2,
Walter Howard’s Great Romantic Drama,
THE MIDNIGHT WEDDING.
HARCOURT BEATTY as PAUL VALMAR.
PRICES—POPULAR. Plan, Elvy’s.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY^
Under the Direction of J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS OF THE SEASON, and
FAREWELL APPEARANCES of
CHARLES WALDRON and OLA HUMPHREY in
a Delightful Love Romance, entitled,
THE VIRGINIAN.
Supported by Mr. Williamson’s New Dramatic Company.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
H E AT R E ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Lessee .. .. .. J. O. WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING,
BLAND HOLT’S Interesting and Fascinating Story,
THE LIGHTS O’ LONDON,
Written fey George R. Sims, Esq.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. PRICES as USUAL.
ONDERLAND C I T Y
(The Coney Island of Australia).
Sole Proprietor and Director, Mr. William Anderson.
OPENING NIGHT, DECEMBER 1.
Cost £15,000 ! And it’s yours for Sixpence, and your
children’s for half that 1
TWENTY ACRES—FIFTY FEATURES.
SYDNEY’S GREAT PLAYGROUND.
Beauty, Music, Fun, and Sensation, Whirl !
AT BONDI BY THE SEA.
| V O L I THEATRE, SY D NE Y
Sole Proprietor & Manager —Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
Great Success of Mr. LARRY LEWIS, Comedian.
THE ALASKAS, Comedy Acrobatic Artists.
HARRY TATE’S COMPANY in their Screamingly
Funny Sketch, “FISHING.”
VIOLET STOCKELLE, England’s Dainty Comedienne.
Mr. POST MASON, the Popular American Baritone.
Miss CASSIE WALMER.
STEWART & LORRAINE, THE TWO COLLIERS,
Mr. IRVING SAYLES, BRIGHTIE SMITH.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
CASSELLI & JAMES, Greatest Exponents of the Banjo.
DUNCAN and GODFREY, in Coster Romance,
“ ME AND HER.”
SELBO, World’s Greatest Club Juggler.
LA MOTO GIRL, a Mystifying Novelty, a World’s Wonder.
HAMMOND and WYATT, the Sandow Girls.
THE GAUMONT CHRONOPHONE, Talking, Singing,
Musical Moving Picture Machine.
Plan at Allan’s. lt2T PRIOES—3s, 2s 6a, 2s, Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING, PHENOMENAL SUCCESS of
Mr. J. 0. Williamson’s Royal Comic Opera Co. in the
Latest London Gaiety Success,
THE SPRING CHICKEN.
For the First Time in Melbourne.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE BROUGH-FLEMMING COMEDY COMPANY,
Under the Direction of Mr. Herbert Flemming,
LAST TWO NIGHTS of DR. WAKE’S PATIENT.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 1,
First Production in Melbourne of
WHAT WOULD A GENTLEMAN DO ?
Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’, and The Grand.
EW THEATR E ROYAL, MELBO URN E.
Lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
THURSDAY, NOV. 29, FRIDAY, NOV, 30, Last Two
Nights of THE POWER AND THE GLORY.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 1,
Mr. William Anderson’s Famous Dramatic Co., in a
revival of
THE FACE AT THE WINDOW.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’& The Grand.
CIVE ACRES COVERED WITH THE
WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES
. . . AT . . .
“DREAMLAN D,”
ST KILDA.
OPEN DAILY 2 to 11 p.m. ADMISSION 6d.
E. S. SALAMBO, Managing Director.
‘TIVOLI ALBUM’
XMAS NUMBER. NOW READY.
Beautiful Illustrated Songs, Genuine,, Hits. Record
Collection. ONE SHILLING. V'.' a'Afor No. 29.
* -
N.S.W. Chief Justice Darley completes his
twentieth year of office to-day, having been
appointed in succession to James Martin on 29th
November, 1886. Previous records: Francis
Forbes, October 1828—July, 1837 (under 14
years). James Dowling, Puisne Judge, August,
1829; Acting Chief Justice, April, 1836; Chief
Justice, August, 1837 —September, 1844. Alfred
Stephen, Puisne Judge, April, 1839 ; Chief
Justice, October, 1844—November, 1873 (twenty-
nine years). James Martin, November, 1873 —
November, 1886. Julian E. Salomons, 15th
November—29th November, 1886 (not sworn in).
F. M. Darley, November 29th, 1886—. The
barristerial profession awaits the filling in of that
hiatus, and some of it is getting pretty old while
waiting.
“ Wurrym ” from Perth :
For a merchant, one Stubbs (nicknamed “ Spitty ”),
Mayor of Perth (W.A.), has original financial ideas. He
thought he saw a chance to make a profit out of a con-
tract to supply the Westralian Railway Department
with dog spikes which he proposed to import, of course,
from Germany. But a beastly Melbourne man got in
with a lower quotation, so Stubbs was left. At a Mayor’s
parlor shickerette—not a bust, you know—at which John
Forrest was present, Stubbs lamented the alleged injury
done to Westralia by Federation, and quoted this particu-
lar instance in which work is to be done in Australia in-
stead of in Germany. “Look what this State has lost
through letting the contract to an outsider. Why, if I’d
got the contract, the Government would have had to pay
duty on them spikes, and then they’d have got their
proportion of the duty back as revenue. The Melbourne
man will manufacture the spikes, so they won’t be im-
ported, and the Government won’t have to pay duty, and
therefore,” &c., &c. It is wonderful logic, but of such
things are the grievances of Secesh.
Bruce Smith, at Burwood (N.S.W.) :
Many Australian politicians and people live in a fool’s
paradise. They forget that races chat are on the crest
of the wave to-day may be in the hollows of the sea to-
morrow.
True, many politicians and people are living in a
fool’s paradise, and a lot of B. Smith’s friends are
of the number. These short-sighted people tell
Australia to look to Britain for defence, and want
to flood Australia with colored aliens, who would
be useless as fighting units. Sane Australians
realise that it is very foolish to depend so wholly
on Britain because, although on the crest of the
wave to-day (as B. Smith puts it), it may be in
the hollow next week. Then it will be no use
hollering to Britain to save us. Sane Australians
want their country to be White, and to provide
its own defences, so that, if that marine catas-
trophe should overtake the Ma Country, Australia
will have at least a chance of swimming.
Dr. Philip Muskett, of Sydney, who has
just produced another book about babies and the
way to kill them, counts up 341,578 infants who
died in Australia between 1884 and 1905.
“ Infants ” means children under two years of age,
and 341,578 works out at 42 a day for 22 years,
including Sundays and holidays. Half this num-
ber might have been saved to become citizens of
the Commonwealth had proper food and nursing
been given them. Of every 1000 infants fed on
artificial foods 252 don’t want feeding after the
second year, while only eight per 1000 of breast-
fed infants die. The doctor suggests that printed
instructions on “Howto feed the baby ” should
be sent to every mother, and that a nursing
league, with lectures and demonstrations in baby-
management, should be established. Milk depots
and an infants” sanatorium and foundling homes
would save more young Australians for Australia
than all the immigration proposals in sight could
achieve for years to come.
As soon as the Melbourne Argus had
printed a letter calling on tradespeople to refuse
credit to the Melbourne building-trade strikers,
the Civil Service Stores cut in with help to the
inen by arranging for supplies on wholesale
terms. That system was first introduced to Aus-
tralia during the four-months strike of miners at
Broken Hill (N.S.W.). Not a penny in cash was
issued all that time; strilce-pay was distributed
in “coupons,” exchangeable for goods, bought
wholesale, and distributed at the strikers’ own
depdts. The saving was so great that it took
fourmonths to starve out men who otherwise would
have gone down in three.
Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera, and Diarrhoea
Remedy is sure to be needed soon. Get it to-day.
For sale everywhere, Is. 6d.*
“ Shell ” in defence of the scow :
Re your paragraph (l/11/’O6) about the Maoriland scow.
Regarding the “ series of mishaps” and the “ troublesome
habit of turning turtle,” you are wrong in both cases.
The genuine, square-bilged Auckland-built scow is one of
the finest things that ever swam, and will stand up to
anything. During the last 10 years, not more than a
dozen scows were totally wrecked. Two were never
heard of again, and it was considered that their sails
were blown away and they drifted to the eastward of
Maoriland. The rest were lost by carelessness or
ignorance. There are Maoriland sailors who will go any-
where in them. These scows command the pick of the
men on the coast, and are never in want of crews. This,
I think, speaks for itself, or rather for the scow. All the
fuss that has been made about them has been caused by
people ashore, who know next to nothing of the subject.
Severe cramps, colic, and diarrhoea are
promptly cured by Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera,
and Diarrhoea Remedy.*
From a Yic. Parliamentary reporter :
Consider the artistry of Vic. Champion Stonewaller
Gaunson. During the present session of the Vic. State
Assembly, his speeches in Hansard occupy nearly as
many pages as those of all the other members put to-
gether—an achievement of which any waster of public
time might reasonably be proud. But Gaunson is more
than a time waster. As compared with the stonewalls of
Johnson and Wilks, his most able competitors in Aus-
tralia, his work shines like that of a practised mason
beside that of the selector who builds his own mud
hut. Johnson erects random rubble, plain, dull,
colorless, and in every respect just Mud. Wilks gives
his hearers cheap, meretricious stuff, which excites
the admiration of the people who think the jerry-built
suburban villa very fine. But Gaunson’s stonewall is;
tooled ashlar, such as the Parthenon might be built of.
Gaunson is always entertaining. He leaves not a dull
spot in a five-hours’ speech, and not a bit of it is cheap or
gaudy. He is astute enough to be studiously courteous
to the chair and to his opponents. He knows exactly how
to dodge the forms of the House, and still he is able to
touch on every subject under the sun in discussing the
amendment on clause 5 a “that the word ‘the’ be
omitted, with a view to substituting the word ‘a.’”
In advocating the word “a ” he will allude in
passing to the cuneiform inscriptions of the
Babylonians, show their influence on the tick-pest in
Queensland, argue from the basis of the regulations for
tick-prevention to the destruction of Rohzjestvensky’s
fleet, and, when somebody objects that he is digressing,
show, by the most complicated process of reasoning,
how all this is intimately connected with the running of
ponies on four-furlong courses. From the manufacture
of saddlery by the ancients, Gaunson will briefly—which
means in his case for about two hours —outline the legis-
lation of the Tudors to cope With witchcraft, and, inci-
dentally—but always in direct relation to the merits
of “a” over “the”—describe the home-life of the
residents of Padua in 1015 A.D., with Shakspearian
references to back up his contentions. After a few
remarks on Alpine climbing, the court of Versailles prior
to the French Revolution, and the progress of bacteri-
ology among the Aztecs, Gaunson will sit down, having
accentuated his points by relating 14 excellent anecdotes
and given 38 quotations from the Talmud, “Mr. Dooley
in Peace and War,” and other standard works. As a
cheerful, pleasing squanderer of the public time, which
is money, Australia has never before seen the like of
D. Gaunson.
Tasmania, it is alleged, has a pretty big
land scandal to clear up in the shape of wholesale
“dummying ”on King Island. But scandals can
smell very high and very long before they draw
attention in slow Tasmania. The Tory nose is a
very patient nose.
An impudent proposal was made in the
Anglican Synod, at Melbourne, to change the
name of the Anglican Church to that of the
“ National Church of Australia.” Australia isn’t
taking any National Church ; especially it isn’t
taking, as “National,” an imported church, full
of imported parsons, and imported bishops, who
almost invariably go to England to die, unless
they perish so suddenly that they can’t get away.
The first prize for an original poem in con-
nection with the Toowoomba (Q.) Austral Festival,
held at the beginning pf November, was won by
Mrs. M. Forrest, of Brisbane, whose poetical and
prose contributions have frequently adorned the
pages of The Bulletin. The verses which won
the blue ribbon are entitled “The Land of the
Sun.” George Essex Evans was the judge, and
G.E.E. knows a poem from an improvement lease
when he see them.
John Lewis, M.L.C., one of the hardshell
Conservatives of S. Australia, has announced that,
despite the result of the elections, he, for one, is
not going to give in over the franchise-reform
question. And The Bulletin almost hopes that
John won’t. If John’s House will only “ blow
the people ” violently enough, there seems a very
good chance of the" people finally deciding to
“ blow ” John’s House. And it can be blowed (or
blown) by the peremptory stoppage of supplies
till it passes the Bill, for its own abolition.
The aspirations of the Kelly family, of
Sydney, are various. Willie-motor Kelly’s great
ambition is to count out the House of Reps. His
little brother, T.H., is seeking re-election as a
second-rate alderman in Sydney City Council.
T.H. has the family weakness for heroics, and can
speak about a drain as if it were the battle of
Marathon. In the municipal elections T. H. tries
to carry on his back ex-gaud-mayor Hughes, one of
whose titles to fame is that whilst in office he
officially received Major Taylor, the black cyclist.
The utter hypocrisy of the so-called Pro-
testant Defence Association in Victoria, in choos-
ing three solid Tories as candidates for the
Senate, is revealed by the fact that not one of
tbe whole nine candidates in the field belongs to
tbe R.O. Church. There was no need to select
candidates against “Rome,” for “Rome’’hasn’t
a candidate running. But, seeing that the nine
were equally Protestant, the P.D.A. urges the
public to vote for the three most virulent Tories
by way of protest against “ the errors of Rome.”
The P.D.A. seems to think that progress is
“ Rome.”
Thus “ Squidge ” :
Victoria’s great T. Bent has a vast scheme for dis-
possessing the Western District squirearchy and setting
up in its place a nation of prosperous small landholders,
but the idea is moving along with the same old leaden
hoofs that most of Thomas’s decent schemes walk on.
Thomas has announced that there will be no legislation
on the question this session. He might as well have said
“ this Parliament.” It is plain that the ear of the adi-
pose Thomas has been chewed by the Western squat-
tocracy. Th * end will be that the squatters will get
their railway for nothing, and either keep the land, or
sell it to Bent at its value, plus its value as an heirloom,
plus the enhanced value caused by the railway, and plus
the artificial value created by exemption from taxes and
by artificially created land scarcity and by specially low
railway rates, likewise plus any casual swindle or side
issue that can be heaped on top of all the other plusness.
The Commonwealth’s Commission which
is inquiring into Captain Barton’s administration
in Papua was, at latest, plodding through its un-
pleasant job under circumstances that a Commis-
sion doesn’t often bump against. There isn’t any
newspaper within coo-ee to print the evidence, or
give an inkling of what allegations are made.
The Commission, however, crawls as far over that
difficulty as it can by every morning posting up,
outside its wigwam, a type-written report of the
previous day’s proceedings. When the last rare
boat left tbe possession, Chief Judge Murray—well-
known in Sydney as head of the Irish-Australian
regiment —had been giving evidence for a day and
a half; and the general impression seemed to be
that, after his vigorous remarks during that
period, British Papua would hardly be large
enough to comfortably hold both the Adminis-
trator and the Chief Judicial Officer.
The Bulletin has struck a new contributor,
who seems to mean well, but who holds the record
for bad writing. This is his most legible par as
far as it can be made out: —
One of the most amusing palls which have disarranged
to the Anti-Sosh crowd occured in Boshwick. A spirally
engaged orator arrived in that dram for the pompous of
stinking a branch of the Nectarine Oitycuss League. The
mainstay was held in Colossal Mechanics Instinct and,
there was a small but ruddy attendance that unmannerly
voted Towser to the chain. The speaker was distended
greatly while appropriated on the vales of Denili-
quin and married the disability of immediately
forming a Bashed branch of the cage. Therefore his
feelings at grinding the peroration defrauded by 20
to &e., the latter being the proprietor of the local jag
and his importer. Of course the wretched misnomer was
overdue, and all thin Italians. Towser was president of
the Aztec bunch of the Political Jubber Council whose
manhood had rolled up to gaol. In despair he boned a
swish consisting of the punter
The rest is illegible.
A SCIENTIFIC “PICK-ME-UP.”—No
better tonic and restorative for the victims of
social festivities exists than a morning draught of
Hunyadi Janos. Sure, swift, searching, yet safe,
and in every respect salutary. The best and
safest natural aperient.*
Sir, —Your journal poses as a democratic
one, yet we find, in your last issue (a considerable
Quantity of severe language is here taken as read).
>o you tbink it just that your correspondent
should seek to set the minds of your readers
against the slaughtermen without stating their
case in the slightest degree ? Was there a definite
rate fixed for these slaughtermen by the Wages
Board as stated ? Was your scribe aware that
the majority of the men were brought over from
Maori land for the new freezing works of Angliss
and Co. to slaughter lambs for export; that they
were assured of immediate work on arrival; that
they had to wait nearly two months for employ-
ment ; that they asked the extra rates until
Christmas, to make up for their lost time, and
were refused ? Seeing that they held a good
hand, and were being shown no consideration,
they resolved to demand the increase until further
notice. Now, with regard to the large wages
said to be earned. Do you not think a man earns
threepence for killing, skinning, and partially
dressing a lamb? And if he has attained that
degree of skill to be able to treat 100 lambs in one
day, don’t you think he earns 25s ? Perhaps, dear
sir, it was your printer’s fault that the article
appeared (more severe language here omitted).
Yours (rather vigorous expression taken as
read), 0.
Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera, andDiarrhoea
Remedy is equally valuable for children and
adults, For sale everywhere. Is. 6d,*
Queensland has started an Immigration
League of its own. The secretary is a man who
speaks of England as ‘ ‘ home. ’ ’ Also the concern is
backed up by the Mail, which believes a good
deal in imports to keep the Australian artisan out
of work, and is solid for the preservation of the
great estates to hinder land settlement, _ and is
anxious that the Kanaka should be retained to
keep the white immigrant out of a job.
“ Poor Hawk ” : Died at Bourke (N.S.W.)
on Saturday, 24th instant, old Mrs. Hathen, in
her 91st year. The old lady was mother of the
Stock Inspector at Bourke, and had been 52 years
on crutches, but had possession of all her faculties
till the end. Her husband had but one leg ; her
son, the Stock Inspector, has only one leg ; and
his son, an auctioneer, has the same misfortune.
Three cork legs and a pair of crutches in a straight
: line is surely a record. The horse was the cause
of the mishap in each instance.
It is indeed curious how many alleged
Single-Taxers are in Reid’s camp denouncing the
proposed graduated land-tax as confiscation.
Hirsch in Victoria, and Lonsdale, Johnson,
“Holy” Hindle, Longmuir and Joe Cook in
N.S.W., all profess to believe in heaping all the
taxation on land, even if they thereby confiscate
every penny of its value. They profess their
readiness to take 20s. in the £ from the land-
lord, and at the same time appeal for the land-
lord’s support by declaring a proposed tax varying
from nothing up to 4d. to be sheer robbery. Is
there any honesty left in the Anti-Sosh push ?
Seddon is dead. When his life came to
its sudden end, he had on the stocks a national
pensions scheme, a wholesale revision of the local
government system, a reciprocity treaty with the
Commonwealth, and a revision of the tariff on
free-breakfast-table lines. Now they have all
been abandoned. The reciprocity treaty was
rejected by all parties. The revision of the tariff
is an unmentionable subject, even the alleged
Freetrade farmers voting it dangerous. The
local government bodies will struggle along as
heretofore, and the national pensions scheme has
been declared by all parties in the House to be too
complicated for anyone but Seddon to explain and
organise. Even his system of managing the
House has been abandoned, and where Seddon
drove with the iron hand of the autocrat for 14
hours a day, Joe Ward coaxes along for about
eight—or did till Parliament closed.
“ J.C.L.” writes :
So “ F.Z.” (“ Inky Way,” B. 10/25/’O6) is of the opinion
that it is more costly to live in London than out here. I
am afraid he is getting into the luxurious habits of the
modern Londoner. I have lived on the same income in
London and in Australia, and find that I can purchase
more in London with it than I can here. The Englishmen
of to-day are so given up to luxury that they seem to
imagine themselves as so many gods, deposited on the
earth to be “buttered” and “ soft-soaped” by a set of
oily and grasping foreign hirelings. Greece and Rome in
their tottering days were as nothing compared with the
debauchery of modern London. (I am not Judding.)
While England dissipates at the altars of Bacchus and
Venus in London, astute Germany hovers around seeking
weak spots where she can throw out one of her
rapidly-extending tentacles. As the Daily Mail (one of
the few papers that is not sleeping to please the Kaiser)
recently pointed out, the escaped German clerks and
waiters in London, if formed into legions, could give the
armed populace of Smoke a very bad time of it. But
this kind 'of talk jarred on the Englishmen, and
consequently the mammoth circulation of this popu-
lar halfpenny began to waver a little, and its policy
had to be toned down to meet the wishes of the
“Hupper” and moneyed classes. Even the thirty odd
millions forming the lower class, or “no class,” are
rather tired of being told that England is going to the
dogs, which merely provfes that nothing will stop this
nation hastening dogwards. With an empire on which
the sun never sets, and the Monkey warriors of the East
as allies, the English are deluding themselves with the
idea that the earth’s surface will never change its color
except to take on a little more red. Now lulled by the
sweet Empire refrains of German bands, she, sheep-like,
awaits the day when larger bands of more warlike
Teutons will swarm over the empire. What a fine setting
Australia would make to the imperial German crown !
A cry from the gallery :—-
N.S.W. Legislative Assembly has lost much of its
attractions for the man who climbs to the gallery. The
big “ draws ” are gone. Even Harry Levien smoulders.
Ashton has taken the character of a churn, Hogue of a
coffin, and Carruthers of a Christmas present for a good
boy. Crick, Norton, Willis, and Meagher are engaged
elsewhere, and the old type of burly fire-eater, such as
Copeland and Fletcher, appears extinct. The House is
tolerably well-behaved, but the good behavior seems the
result of want of animal spirits or strong convictions.
Anyway, the Chamber in Macquarie-street seldom showed
such an uninteresting collection of mediocrities. As a
Parliament, it could go out of Australian life to-morrow
and never come back, and history would take no note of
the day it left.
One of the things that help to make up
the so-called “Federal extravagance” is the
ghastly extortion of certain States as the price of
carrying the Federal mails over State-owned rail-
ways. In several places, though there is a railway
at hand, the Australian Government sends its
mails by coach simply because it is cheaper to
do that than use the railways of a soured parochial
Government. As a side issue, Tasmania has
always clamored for, and has got, a swift mail
service across the Straits from Melbourne, but it
has taken five years to persuade Tassy to fit in its
railway service with the mail steamers. All that
time the breathless steamer, running under
Federal contract, nearly burst its boiler to get the
mails in early, and then they often lingered for
hours at Launceston before the State train con-
decended to move.
The most eminent physician cannot pre-
scribe a better preparation than Chamberlain’s
Colic, Cholera, and Diarrhoea Remedy.*
“Dux”: The thick atmosphere of Grey-
mouth (M.L.) courthouse was rendered somewhat
denser one day last week when a Chow came up
on a charge of running a pak-a-pu den. The
case was a clear one, and the interpreter—another
Chow —smiled affably as he imparted the intelli-
gence to Hoo Fan that the finding of the court
was “Guilty,” and the fine “Ten pounds, and
interpreter’s fee, 10s.” Hoo Fan spoke a spell,
and the interpreter, still smiling, informed the
P.M. that the prisoner desired time to pay the
fine. He also volunteered “Hoo Fan, he goot
fella; he pay allittee.” “Very well,” said the
beak; “the court gives Hoo Fan one month to
pay the fine and interpreter’s fee.” And then
there arose the cry of a strong translator in his
agony : “No savee, boss, no liavee, no catchee;
he owee you ten poundee, allittee; he owee me
ten shillin’, no ! Payee me now.” But the court
adhered to its decision, and the interpreter went
out and wept horribly.
Considerable interest is being shown in the
inventions of Mr. Miller Reece Hutchinson, an agency
for which has lately been opened in Sydney. Briefly
put: One instrument, called the “Massacon,” conveys
vibrations to the ear, and in so doing massages and
reinvigorates the affected parts. The remarkable results
from this hold out great hopes to all those afflicted
with deafness. The other instrument, the “ Acous-
ticon,” is undoubtedly the most powerful sound inten-
sifier hitherto invented. This is now being used in
various churches, theatres, concerts, etc., and its
installation in the Arbitration Court here, last week, was
very successful, and caused much comment. These
inventions are now on view at the offices of the “ Acoustic
Patents, Ltd.,” in the Equitable Buildings, Sydney and
Melbourne.*


ĥ
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB'S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
h
I'll Try It."
A Certain Moustache Producer!
fill nil I iHPIUC will actually and positively
UAr ILLrllllllEl produce a full grown Mous-
——i—— tache for any man who
follows the simple directions on the label.
It is nice to use and absolutely undetectable.
The Result.
PRICE lOs 6d per Pot, Post Free to any Address in the World.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY.
/V
m
H -
3 PeerlessToilef Preparations
unrivalled For the Complexion.
l SoFfening& BeauHfyini*>theSKin.
li
,
'vv£ ; :
?OKD MEDAL. PARIS. 1900.
%
AND PRIX. STLOUJS.I9CH.
i&OFALL CHEMISTS
Ik & PERFUMERS,
M
Made by
F. WOLFF & SOHN,
KARLSRUHE.
Perfumers to
H. R. H. The
Grand Duke
of Baden.
London, E.C.,
81 Hatton Garden,
Of all Chemists, Perfumers, Drapers, and
Store Keepers.
Sole Agents: LOHMANN & CO., Melbourne & Sydney.
ħ
OSTRICH PLUiTES
FROM OUR FAMOUS FARMS IN SOUTH AFRICA.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 15 inches).
This style of Ostrich Leather is very fashionable.
■f/£S POST FREE
IW/ W to any address.
The Feathers we offer you cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house. They are the Best Value in
Australia. Write to-day. Send Money Order payable to John
Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
NATURAL OSTRICH FEATHER BOAS, 21/- Length, 1| yds
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcadei
Pitt-street, Sydney.
[Mention The Bulletin.]
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Streets, MELBOURNE.
■■BH W
jmm
m
Vjft
OF
m§
An Aqreeable
Mild and
'Efficacious
Laxative.-
Gentle
tyet Prompt
m Action
is a simple, safe, and reliable laxative,
pleasant to the taste, pleasant in action,
pleasant in results.
Symptoms of constipation are not difficult to
tell. With a dose or two of California Syrup
of Figs they are as easy to dispel. Indigestion,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, depression and
loss of energy, sluggish action of the Liver,
Kidneys and Bowels, are rapidly cured by
California Syrup of Figs ; and the prime cause
—habitual constipation —is gradually overcome
by the invaluable tonic action of this ideal
household remedy. Of Chemists and Stores,
in two sizes, 1/3 and 1/11.
CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO., 32 Snow Hill, London, Eng.
15he TYRJEE,
Automatic vSPRAY
PATENTED UNDER THE INTERNATIONAL CONVENTION
IN ALL COUNTRIES OP THE WORLD.
THE man who makes two blades of grass grow where one
grew before is recognised as a Public Benefactor. The
TYREE SPRAY will do more than this; it will
enable you to grow two sheep where one grew before, as it
can be used as a rabbit destroyer. It will double the fruit
crop, as it enables anyone to keep down the insect pests. It
will double the output of poultry and eggs for the same
reason. It can be used for white-washing, painting, spray-
ing, disinfecting, fire extinguishing, cleaning windows, kalso-
mining, washing horses, traps, houses, and a number of
other uses too numerous to mention.
The TYREE SPRAY works at a cost of one
half penny per hour.
SEND FOR A TYREE PAMPHLET ON THE ABOVE SUBJECTS. IT GIVES
FULL INFORMATION; OR, BETTER STILL, SEND FOR SPRAY.
PRICES, FROM £2 lOs. EACH.
Pamphlet included. Agents wanted Everywhere.
SHOWROOMS and OFFICES:
314 Georg'e Sydney.
Pure Grape H.Y.D. BRANDY
J. B. COOK, Ltd., 82 Pitt St., Sydney, cAgents.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
h
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Works :
Birmingham, England^
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
ĥ
OTIST
AND*
MAKE
FUN-MONEY
Would you like to exert a strange and magic power over others ? Do you
desire to possess an accomplishment by which you can make both fun and
money ? If so, you should become a Hypnotist. You can now master this
wonderful, mysterious and fascinating science free of all cost at your own
home. By a few hours’ study you ca,n learn all about the secrets, methods,
uses and wonders of the hypnotic tra.nce. You can surprise and mystify all
your friends by placing any one you wish under this, weird and magic spell,
and compel them to see, think, feel, and act precisely as you wish. Yoyi
can sway the minds of others, perform the most wonderful and astounding
/ feats, and create fun and amusement for hours at a time. You can do a
thousand amazing things that other people cannot do, and make yourself famous in a week’s time. If
you want to make money, you can do so by giving entertainments, curing disease, or teaching the art to
others. These are three sure and eayv ways to win a fortune. Why be poor? Why work for others,
when you can master this money-making profession so easily ? Investigate now. It costs nothing to find
out all about it. Professor Barraden, the world-renowned Hypnotist has issued a large and elegant
FREE BOOK, entitled, “A Key to the Mysteries of Hypnotism,” and anybody can get a copy of it
merely for the asking. It is the most beautiful, interesting and valuable book ever published. It
contains beautiful pictures and is a marvel of elegance and splendor. Best of all, this charming hook tells
you just how to become a hypnotist. Even' secret and mystery is, here explained in the simplest
language. You are also shown how you may heal the sick, relieve pain, cure bad habits, give sleep to the
restless and comfort to the sorrowing. And for yourself, as this free Book shows, you can win promotion,
social and business standing, increase of trade, the influence, friendship or love you most desire, and, m
short, all that is needed to make you rich, esteemed and happy as long as life lasts. This book also treats
fully on Personal Magnetism, Magnet 1 c Healing and ldndered subjects, and how to cure yourself of
any pain, ache or disease. In. spite of its great value and precious contents, this book is free to you.
Simply write and it will be sent by next mail. Don't send any money, but send your name and
address TO-DAY.
Professor R. H. BARRADEN, 89 Pitt Street, Sydney.
In the N.S. Wales holdings of from one t°
30 acres, 263 out of every 1000 acres are under culti-
vation. In the holdings of from 30 to 400 acres
145 out of every 1000 acres are cultivated. But
in the holdings of over 1000 acres, only 28 acres
Out of every thousand are cultivated. If the big
holdings (over 1000 acres) were cultivated to the
same extent as the small holdings, 9,560,000 acres
Would be under crop, instead of 1,018,243 acres.
That is to say, if the big holdings (over 1000 acres)
in N.S. Wales Were forced by a land-tax into the
same degree of cultivation as the small hold-
ings, there would be another 8,542,000 acres
of cultivation —room for 30,000 farms of close upon
300 acres each, with over 700 acres adjoining each
farm for grazing. And still, when there is men-
tion of a half-dozen farm-immigrants arriving, the
Lands Department is thrown into consternation;
and a desperate Government hires a Commis-
sioner to fight his way into such places as the
Pillaga scrub to find out if anything more human
than a wombat could make a living there, suppos-
ing the Government were prepared to subsidise
him liberally.
In the Nineteenth Century Lionel Giles
translates a Chinese proclamation from the famous
viceroy, Chang-chi-tung, now circulating through-
out the Hunan province. Some extracts :
The military strength of the Chinese is good in quality
as it is vast in quantity. The great drawback is that
people will not give their whole minds to the subject.
For, out of regard to the common saying that “ no son
of Han will go a-soldiering,” there are a great many who
refuse to pay serious attention to military matters ; and
thus it is that the strength of China is decaying day by
day. It follows that we must now begin to occupy our-
selves with the subject in real earnest—forming volunteer
corps, practising boxing, single-sticks, musketry and
shooting with heavy artillery, entering' the standing
army to follow a soldier’s profession, joining military
colleges to study and practise the art of war. Every
citizen must have military training.
It is on the edge of that volcano that “ Defence ”
Minister Playford totters with senile chatter
about Australia being well enough defended with
its present army of 15,000 or so and its proposed
gun-barrel factory.
Had George Turner* retired from public
hfe when the Deakin Ministry went under in
1904 . h « loss , to the Political life of Australia
would have been more keenly felt than it is to-
day He was llot by any nieans an C) ld Parlia-
mentarian—he was only 13 years in active politics
when he became Treasurer of Australia—but he
early gripped the confidence of the public with a
pair of strong hands, and came to be taken as a
Parliamentary necessity. His alliance with Reid
in 1904 proved the old truism, that no man is in-
dispensable, and George to-day shuffles off the
stage without a tear.
“ Mundala ” : I heard some coves talkin’
George Reid, t’other day. Arst’em who
he Tl f ey said ’ he was ther greatest man in
Australia . A rst ’em how. They gimme some
hes ter read . « Wot ,” I S es, ‘‘is that wot
h £ B t fer _ makin > them speeches?” They
recko * ed just that . “ Well, spare me days,” I
easv . Here „ oe ’ t( ! r beat him fer his
job ’ „ L j: ferbout s a week studyin’ ther
£ hejJ ai / learn m’ some words I hadn’t struck
b £ fore . then j . goes i nter ther pub. on Saturday
night terstart mecampane. Ther was er lot er coves
there singin’ an’ kickin’ up er row; but soon’s I
said I’d like ter say er few words, they calls fer
order, an’ slings me on er barrel, an’ I speaks like
tliishyer
Blokes, the Federal elections is close handy, an’is about
ter mark an’ epock in the momentious history of the
boundless nacheral resources of this great and glorious
country. If we are goin’ter present a united front ter
ther common enemy, ’tis time ter be up an’ doin’. The
Tiger of Socialism is stalkin’ broadcast through ther land,
desolatin’ hearths, an’ breakin’ marriage ties in every
direction. He broke two this very mornin’. He is keep-
in’hatters an’potters an’ shipw'reeked sailors from our
shores, an’ driviri’ capital out of the gum-tree. I tells
yer, somethin’s got ter be did—an’now’s ther time ter do
it- Capital is yer friend, an’yer can’t afford ter lose him.
Capital is the cow what lays . her golden calf, an’
I saw somethin’ dark Ilyin’ swiftly in front er my
countenance, an’ failed ter dodge in time. Ther
impack was teribl’, an’, failin’ backward off ther
barrel, I closed me cam pane on ther floor. But it
was every bit as good as Geo. Reid’s while it
lasted.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
•Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
The Bank of Australasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital £1,600,000
Reserve Fund 1,280,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors.. 1,600,000
£4,480,000
London Office: 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
AMES HELLICAR,
Superintendent.
THE
Queensland Rational Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,245 5 0
Reserve(inGovt. 5t0ck.£43.435) .. 51,000 0 C
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnouc Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. : F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager. —W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,990,533.
Policies Issued 102,148 —Assuring £30,193,326.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,784,725.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, 0.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of |)eui Z aaland -
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS ™ Australia - Ze . a -
and Ireland, and other places.
The
(Established 1888.)
land, Fiji, Great Britain
Bank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £7 22’222
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
ydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director :
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
SOUTHERN BRANCH : PITT STREET,
lanly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Lgents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
ondon Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Bauking Business.
DALGETY & COMPANY
LIMITED.
Capital Fully Subscribed ... .£4,000,000
Capital Paid up .£1,000,000.
Reserve Fund .£165,000.
Hoad Office—96 Bishopsgato St.
Within, London, E.C.
BRANCHES:
VICTORIA — Melbourne and Geelong.
NEW SOUTH WALES— Sydney and Newcastle.
QUEENSLAND— Brisbane, Rockhampton & Townsville.
WEST AUSTRALIA— Perth, Fremantle, Kalgoorlie,
Geraldton, Albany, Carnarvon and Roeburne.
NEW ZEALAND — Dunedin, Christchurch, Wellington
and Napier.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— AdeIaide and throughout the
South East.
This Company makes Advances on, and conducts the
Sale of, Land, Stock and Station Property, and receives
for Sale in London or any of the markets of Australia or
New Zealand consignments of Wool, Skins, Hides, Tallow,
Frozen and Preserved Meats, Grain and Dairy Produce of
all descriptions, and carries on a Financial, Shipping,
Insurance, Indent, Merchandise, and General Agency
business.
Shipping.
KT. D. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
*Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Evevv Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
MANILA 20th DECEMBER.
PRINZ SICISMUND .. .. 15th JANUARY.
SANDAKAN 12th FEBRUARY.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities — Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO.. 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Royal Rank of Queensland
LIMITJCI).
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £457,613 10 0
Reserve Liability op Shareholders .. 175,737 10 0
Reserve FoND(Invested in Government Stock) 67,000 0 0
£700,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, QUEEN VICTORIA ST., LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
!Throughout the World.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetoivn, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
NINEVEH..
•MARATHON
SALAMIS
A. Robb ..
N. Allan
A. Douglas, R.N.R.
Noon, Dec. 19
Noon, Jan. 10
Noon, Feb. 2
London
Cape or Durban
•Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon.
From £52
From £3l 10s.
3rd Class.
£l6 Os to £2O Os.
£l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
ħ
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
MEDIC, to Sail from Sydney on
or about 30tli NOVEMBER,
AERIC, SUEVIC, PERSIC and
RUNIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown or Durban £l4 14 0 to £-3 2 o
London .. .. 19 0 0 to SO 0 (i
New York, &c. .. 25 26 to 36 2
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables , and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
A IVTC s.s. Co. A-. JSb A.. LIKTE (via SAN FRANCISCO).
FAST MAIL SERVICE run in conjunction with the Most Luxuriously Equipped Trains
and Steamships in the World.
SHORTEST LINE FASTEST TIME TO
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN AND EUROI E.
R.M.S, VENTURA, 6200 Tons, Sails from Sydney MONDAY, DECEMBER 17, at 1 p.m.
Some people think that “HOMEWARD THROUGH AMERICA” is an expensive way.
Enquire for fares etc., etc., and learn facts before booking elsewhere.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., managing Agents,
nORNF.R PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
# HOLIDAY
TO
N« QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (B.N.Gr.)>
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
:
*
CRUISES. %
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Srmritj ■■■»
FAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS'
WE
&
(#>
$
Free
Accident Insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
TKT.S.'W.
sontdepietej).«j.Co.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREACrH ST., 74, SYDNEY
17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE,
and 229 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-Bt., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £22,500 0 0
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Eeq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORItOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Brio-ht & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq!, J. Campbell Wood, Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jbssop, Esq. Melbourne : Hon. F. S. Grimwade,
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN GOODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
NEXT SAILINGS—
Dec. 24, Jan. 21, Feb. 18
EXCURSION TO HONOLULU,
The Paradise of the Pacific.
RATE INCLUDES HOTEL AND OTHER
EXPENSES IN HONOLULU.
Tho BEST OCEAN TRIP that can
be obtained from Australia.
4gT Send for Illustrated Pamphlets. TSli
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET ol Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter),
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond
(a food catch), One Sheen of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Hay market.
XNcw York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
IF
YOU HAD AN ACCIDENT . ..
and held an Accident Policv in the SOUTH BRITISH you could receive DOUBLE
YOUR USUAL INCOME whilst laid up, which would pay the Doctor and
Chemist. We issue Policies fiom £1 Is. per annum upwards.
ST SPECIAL TERMS FOR SPECIAL NEEDS.
SOUTH BRITISH FIRE, MARINE & ACCIDENT
CAPITAL—£I,9OO, OCO. 12 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY. George H. Moore, Manager.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDETsTEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN, W.A., Port for
Ravensthorpe Goldfields.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
S,S, Grantala, Dec. 12.
y aS Yong-ala, December 19
(from Melbourne).
j
i S.S. Coolgardie, Dec. 1.
f S.S. Marloo, December 8.
Kent (i.ui.l C/ieuj>ent Itonte to 001/l/lel tin.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY. _
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street. Sydney.
J. LOTH. Acting Princiual Agent.
Banking, Futollc Companies, &c.
Bank of Rein South Males.
Establish kb 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability of Proprietors . .
2,000,000 0 0
1.475,000 0 0
2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,475,000 0 0
Directors: '
The Hon. Charles It. MacKkllar, M.L.C., President.
Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Auditors:
Frederick W. Utiier, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office-Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the woi Id.
J .RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manasrer
Hotels.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
r| VIILi Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, 4-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
the (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
flodern Appointments. floderate Tariff.
Visitors to Melbourne
WILL FIND
THAT. . .
Neale’s Temperance Hotel
(Tankards)
LONSDALE STREET (Next Law Courts;
is the handiest place to stay at. Being close to Railway
Stations, Theatres and Wharves ; and three minutes’ walk
from G.P.O. Bedrooms on Ground Floor if desired.
Board and Residence, 4s. 6d. per day; or from £1 pa*
week. Telephone 1640.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Rai way Station and Gable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF fcr Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
VISITORS TO BRISBANE. |
Union Club, IT Brisbane* |
Select Private Establishment for Families, Ladies, I
Commercial Gentlemen. Patronised by several
leading members Commercial Travellers’ Associa-
I tion. Large garden and lawn. Excellent cuisine.
1 TERfIS MODERATE.


POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH,
Price, 6d.
nothing gut Food —
Grape-Nuts
“THERE’S A REASON.”
CHRISTMAS
GIFT. *
The Edison Phonograph makes an excellent
and much appreciated Xmas Gift. This
Phonograph Outfit is complete, and we sell
it for 65/--
It is easily understood —a child can handle
it—the machine is the Edison Gem—the
Records are assorted as shown.
It is packed in a strong case, and we will
enclose your card if you like.
The EDISON OEM PHONOGRAPH,
3 EDISON RECORDS,
3 COLUMBIA RECORDS,
3 REX RECORDS,
3 PATHE RECORDS.
Complete for 05/-.
A Complete
Phonograph
Outfit
651-
h
h
WRITE FOR CATALOQUES AND
LISTS OF RECORDS.
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd.^ek
IMPORTERS OF PHONO-
GRAPHS AND RECORDS,
393 GEORGE ST
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY,
H
m :
gaippi
■HR!!:
';§
i;"rrjk'
M
PUZZLE PXJPLSE,
The Latest and Best Puzzle Purse on the market.
Even our most industrious puzzle enthusiasts
baffled. Three entirely different moves before purse
can be opened. It is made of superior leather, with
inside pocket, and strong polished nickel frame.
Illustrated directions enclosed. Post free, any-
where, 1/9. Do not miss this chance of obtaining one
of the best and most useful puzzles ever produced.
PUZZLE POCKET KNIVES. Puzzle Pocket
Knives, best Steel Blade, Buff Horn Handles, Spring
Back. Puzzle to shut as well as to open. A
splendid Rabbiters’ Knife. Three Sizes, 1/8, 2/2,
and 2/8, post free anvwhere.
H. L HUTCHINSON,
THE DANDY** SNOVELTY
DIAMOND RING.
One of the best joke
novelties to be
found in our varied
stock. To be worn
on the finger, and
it sparkles like a
genuine Koh-I-
Noor. Always
causes roars of
laughter, and it has
a splendid effect if
worn on the stage.
Illustration the
actual size. Post
free anywhere for
1/2. Also made in
a SCARF PIN, same
size stone. Price,
post free, 1/2; or
the Ring and Pin,
post free, 2/2.
M
VMk.
m
a
u
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles
Surprise & Joke Novelties
Write for Price List B.
THE WILD .SNAKE.
Mechanical—moves in a most natural way, and the move-
ments can be varied at the will of the operator. Folds up
into a small cardboard box, which can be carried in the
coat or trousers pocket. Price, post free anywhere, for 1/9.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
BOX 3, P.O. HAYMARKET,
710 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
THE SECOND SUBDIVISION
(COOO Acres) of The
The property of Messrs.
D. C. McCONNEL & SONS
Cressbrook Estate
40,835
acres
At TOOGOOLAWAH RAILWAY STATION,
79 Miles from Brisbane, Queensland, on
the Upper Brisbane River,
36 RICH DAIRY and AGRICULTURAL
FARMS
(60 to 236 Acres) to be sold by Auction at the
Alexandra Hall, Toogoolawah, Saturday, Dec. 15,’06, at 3 o’clock
Mr. John Forrest, Managing Director of Moreheads Ltd., one of the leading Experts
in Stock and Station Business, writes after inspecting:—“l have no hesitation in saying that as
Dairying Country combined with Agricultural and Fattening, Cressbrook has no superior
in Queensland, in fact, acre for acre, I do not know where it can be equalled.”
Mr. John Cameron, M.L.A., one of the highest authorities on value, writes During the
last 3 or 4 years I have inspected and valued all the largest Freehold Estates in the Upper Brisbane
River District, and X consider the Cressbrook Estate is by far the most valuable
of them all.”
Mr. E. A. Pickering, the widely known judge of Dairy Stock, who has settled on the
Estate, writes on 2nd November, 1906 “I consider this Estate to be one of the finest freehold pro-
perties in Australia, comprising the very best agricultural, lucerne, lamb-fattening and dairying land.”
THE CRESSBROOK ESTATE
Consists of Rich Alluvial River Flats with Black and Chocolate Soil (workable under any climatic
conditions) and.easy sloping agricultural ridges, none of which, in the portion for sale, exceed 100 feet
in height. It is magnificently watered by the Upper Brisbane River and numerous creeks
and lagoons, and not a single hoof was lost in the great 1902 drought.
SPECIAL ATTRACTIONS .
The Condensed Milk Factory which
is on the Estate pays sd. to 5Jd. per gallon for
milk, and will take any quantity. (Cressbrook
Milk is the leading brand in Queensland).
Q.M.E. Butter Factory at Esk (12
miles)
Railway Station on the Estate.
Established Township with Church,
School, Bank, Public Hall, Factory, &c.
Abundant and well distributed
Rainfall, average 37.37 in. and 79J wet cays
per year for 14 years.
20 YEARS TERMS
UlOth Deposit; /Vo Payment (except interest
3%) for 24- months ; balance yearly.
No survey fees or residential conditions ; every facility for inspection; plenty of accommodation;
Free Railway Fares to Purchasers from any part of the States.
ISLES, LOVE * CO
WRITE TO DA Y
for illustrated Plans to
Auctioneers,
Queen St,, Brisbane
xims
R.
victo *>^
f DUNLOP CUP v '
WON ON
Continental
TYRES. >
c
Ist, 12 h.p. CONTINENTAL Shod
Darracq ; 3rd, 16 H.p. CONTINENTAL
Shod Tarrant. Jt
At
FASTEST TIME and WINKER OF CLASS C
ALSO ON CONTINENTAL TYPES.
AT
/F
[O/
Reliability
Proof.
3 out of 9 Finishing Cars were on
CONTINENTAL TYRES, and lost a total of
ONLY 103 POINTS.
5 out of 9 Finishing Cars on -
lost a total of
Tyres
1275 POINTS.
There were no tyre difficulties from
START TO FINISH ON ANY OF THE
CONTINENTAL SHOD CARS, thus
demonstrating the indisput-
able superiority of this
famous brand of tyres.
MELBOURNE DEPOT
46-48 Mar Ret St.
Lv
!o
HUTCHISON'S INVENTIONS FOR THE DEAF.
THE MASSACON AND THE ACOUSTICON
Which obtained the only Gold Medal awarded by the International Jury at the World’s
Fair, St. Louis (U.S.A.), to an v exhibit
FOR THE ALLEVIATION OF DEAFNESS.
and for which the Inventor has received a similar medal from Her Most Gracious Majesty
Queen Alexandra (a photograph of which may be seen at the undermentioned addresses'
MAY BE INSPECTED FREE OF CHARGE,
AT THE OFFICES OF THE “ ACOUSTIC PATENTS, LIMITED,”
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE.
Catalogue No. 2, containing all particulars, will be forwarded Free by Post on application.
O. POLLqCK, Sydney Manager.
ĥ
WHEN BUYING XMAS PRESENTS
SMStti hot water kettles.
They are Useful and Convenient. Made of White Meta! and Highly Electro-
plated, in Four Styles, complete with Spirit Stove, at 17/6, 30/-, 37/6, 45/- each.
Send for Illustrated
Lists, mailed free.
Brandt ms.,
Lamp Manufacturers and
Carbide importers,
236 PITT ST., SYDNEY, and 197, 192, 422, 424 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
0
An election leads strange creatures to put
their heads out of their holes and beckon with a
friendly claw for public support. Edward Horne
Wittenoom, who, as Westralian Minister for
Mines, issued the “ 10ft. drop” regulation, has
crawled into the light as a candidate for the
Senate. The 10ft. regulation was that which
limited sinking for alluvial on mining leases to the
depth named, and it caused the demonstration
that nearly amounted to a revolt, and which
resulted in John Forrest getting prodded in the
tail coat with his private secretary’s brolly. In
those days “ 10ft. Ned,” as Wittenoom was called,
was so fearful that the Kalgoorlie rebels would
take him out of his bed and hang him that he had a
guard of police on night duty at his house in Perth.
At Geraldton, lately, Wittenoom “ opened his
compaign” with bleatings like this : “There
ought to be a Westralian party to look after
the interests of the State, as a whole. He was
always opposed to Federation, and would help
the movement to withdraw from the Union.
Those who had time and money should come for-
ward and serve the country. He had no definite
policy, and was uncertain what course to follow,
as the Senate was only a House of Revision.” And
that is the best a man “with time and money”
can do. Wittenoom doesn’t even know that the
Senate is something different from a State Upper
House, or legislative chucker-out, and calls it a
House of Revision. And apparently he- can’t
realise that he is himself an Object of Derision.
That good andreliablecondiment, “Montserrat”
got an undeserved blow beneath the belt recently,
' v^ n e " a fr ? ni ° ld st , ock a bott ’ e containing a
minute quantity of salicylic acid preservative. When the
Australian Parliament forbade the addition of preserva-
tives to articles of food the Montserrat people made up
their sauce, the basis of which is Montserrat Lime Fruit
J ui(, e, without adding any of the forbidden substance
whatever, and experience has proved that the lime fruit
juice is quite sufficient preservative to keep the sauce
good for a very lon „ time inde ed. Previous to the passing
of this legislation the manufacturers used to add to each
bottle a very minute quantity of salicylic acid, and there
may be stiil a few of these bottles stored on grocers’
shelves. But all the sauce made since the passing of the
Act is free from preservatives of any sort.*
Thus YVobinson, of Wannon (Vic.), on
Nov. 20
He had believed in Freetrade for a number of years,
but he was willing to make such alterations in the tariff
as were proved to be necessary to save the life of any
industry.
No Protectionist will be gulled by that. Australia
needs an industrial birthrate —it doesn’t merely
need to keen life in the few industries it has.
This is the position of the party which
denounces the proposal to impose a Federal
graduated land-tax as a means towards breaking
up for closer settlement the estates of those_ great
landholders who block the increase of population: —
(1) Closer settlement is a good thing because we want
population.
(2) Therefore, anybody who blocks settlement is bad.
(3) All the same, we shouldn’t do anything to him.


Missing Friends.
PILLING-. —If this should meet the eye of
CHARLES WILLIAM PILLING, or
anybody knowing his whereabouts, please com-
municate with his brother OLIVER, Lynchford,
Mt. Lyell, Tasmania.
Business Announcements.
“ARARIO” TILE - LIKE COATING.
r\ E9IW Cools Best ! Lasts Best !
Insist that Cases be Opened on the Job.
WHITE or COTTA. Note. Spelling :
Chief Ironmongers and “ A—R—A—B —I—C,”
Color Merchants. Trade Mark.
yifANTED Manager for large Suction Dredge. Liberal
salary paid to competent man. Tin experience
preferred. Apply to “ DREDGE,” GORDON & GOTCH,
giving full particulars of qualification.
THE MISSES CLAPP will close their rooms
at Monahan’s Buildings, 231 Flinders Lane,
as usual, from December 24th till February Ist.
AUSTRALIAN DRAMA. FIRST BOOK :
“ WANTED, A HUSBAND,”
A One Act Farce. Price, One Shilling. Author, Fred.
J. Forrester, Beaudesert, Queensland. Postal Notes or
Stamps. (ESP" Special Rate to Book Trade.
“THE” 1096 XMAS NUMBER
With Handsome Colored Supplement.
. WAIT FOR .
“Aastralia To-day & New Zealand*”
Published early in December. Price, 1/6.
All Agents and Bookstalls.
GORDON & GOTCH, Wholesale Agents.
Picture Post Cards.
Of course you won’t use the everyday
Xmas and New Year Cards this year,
when everyone else will be sending
PICTURE POST CARDS
I have the finest lot ever introduced to
Australia, and can supply almost any
kind worth having. Send 2s. 6d. Postal
Note for trial parcel. Price lists post free.
W. H. ROBINSON,
LARGEST DEALER in POST CAROS in QUEENSLAND,
213=215 QUEEN ST., & 24 QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE, Q.
ħ
h
r CLE AR. & POSY
TRY IT ~
ATOUR EXPENSE..
A DAINTY SAMPLE BOX. containing Jai of Creme
Simon. Box of Powder, and Cake of Soap, sent on
receipt of 3d. in stamps to cover postage.
JCUBERT & JOUPERT. Melbourne; CLAUDE HEALY a CO.. 0 3 Pill St..
Sydney; or LOUIS JOUBERT. 519 Wellington St.. Perth. AGENTS.
Henry Skinner,
G'larendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10hS. *^C»TERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF 'I'ABLIi FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Moat
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
RABBIT SKINS.
TO FILL OUR ORDERS WE REQUIRE
6,000,000 RABBIT SKINS
this Season, and are prepared to pay EXTREME PRICES.
IMMEDIATE RETURNS, NO COMMISSION.
Consign to— JANIES FAY, MCDONALD & CO.,
276 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Every Genuine EDISON PHONOGRAPH
%
»
4
JTA& BEST
CHRISTMAS GIFT
WRITE FOR BOOKLET—
“ Home Entertainments
with the EDISON
Phonograph.”
bears the inventor’s trade mark
signature. Be sure you get the
genuine, and not an imitation.
The Edison faithfully reproduces,
with absolute fidelity, the music of
the masters —the old tunes as well
as the popular airs of the day.
Edison PHONOGRAPHS
and RECORDS
are obtainable at all Talking
Machine Dealers in Aus-
tralasia,
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO, of AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED.
340 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
FRANZ JOSEF
QUALITY and
CONDITION
PERFECT.
LAGER BEER
SUPERIOR TO
ALL OTHERS.
“TAKE RISKS”
A NEW Motto in GOOD
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
THE PERFECTED
CLARIONETTE ACCORDEON
ĥ
ONLY
9/6 each
Carriage Paid
with Book or
Popular Tunes.
-ANYONE CAN PLAY IT WITHOUT TEACHING.
'T'HE great popularity of both the Accordeon and the Mouth Organ has induced us to import the very latest combination
of these two instruments. Anyone accustomed to the Accordeon. as well as those who perform upon the Mouth Organ, will
find the Clarionette Accordeon easier to play than either, and the harmony it produces is admitted by qualified musicians to
be much more effective and sympathetic than that of any other wind instrument. The Clarionette Accordeon enables the
performer to play the air clearly and with good emphasis, while the accompaniment—alto, tenor and bass—can be effectively
introduced without drowning the tun®. Persons unable to play any other instrument will have no difficulty with the Clario-
nette Accordeon, the special Book of Popular Tunes that we present with each instrument being so clearly arranged thatno
knowledge of music is required. Anyone able to read ordinary print (not inusie) can play the tunes at sight without the aid
of a teacher. The player has merely to press the keys as indicated by the very simple system of numbers, at the same time
supplying the wind through the mouthpiece, and the music is produced—soprano, alto, tenor and bass complete—with a
volume of melody resembling a small orchestra. In order to speedily introduce this novel instrument, we have decided to
sell a limited number at the wonderfully low price ot 9/6 each, carriage paid and packed in a neat box. and with each
Clarionette Accordeon we will present the Book of Popular Tunes complete with words. Send P. 0.0, or Postal Notes to
The Union Manufacturing and Agency Company,
299 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
/"Ml
m
-J3
A DUCK POND IN EVERY HOME I
A VERY CHARMING NOVELTY FOR LADIES.
»*■ THE MOST BEAUTIFUL AND UNIQUE ORNAMENTS EVER BROUGHT OUT.
ALL LADIES will be most anxious to secure these 'HANDSOME ORNAMENTS. Nothing of the kind has ever
been brought out before. The above illustrations shew very clearly the appearance of the Ornaments when
undisturbed. On catching hold of one and rotating it slightly, the Pond becomes quite lively with the graceful
m ovements of the Swan, or Fishes, as the case may be, which continue even after the Ornament has been re-
placed on the shelf, until they gradually settle down to their former position again.
Such pretty Ornaments as these will add greatly to the attractiveness of your home. Their handsome
appearance catches the eye of visitors as soon as they enter the room, consequently are always an object of
great interest. The Globe is of fine, clear, crystal glass, very strong, and the water cannot by any means
leak. Gentlemen find them most useful as PAPER-WEIGHTS. Children will play with them for hours.
The PRICE IS ONLY 2/- EACH, which includes postage anywhere, or we will send three to any
pieii on receipt of 516,
A, J, SMITH tSL CO., Hunter Street, Sydney.
THIS RAZOR isa
ħ
TO
50 IVhLES FROM A BARBER.
Whether you’re one mile or 50 miles away from
a barber it need not worry you if you ha\ e a
trusty Plum Razor on your dressing’ table.
The plum will give no trouble—requires no
grinding, and will shave you perfectly 305
days in the year.
The Celebrated PLUM Razor, Price, 10s 6d, post free.
A FEW EXTRAS
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6.
Razoleo Lightning: Sharpener, 6d.
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d.
Single Razor in Leather Case, lor.
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 2v~
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-.
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-.
POST FREE TO ANY PART OF AUSTRALASIA.
George St., Sydney
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDNEY.
A CERTAIN WAY
TO IMPROVE
YOUR MEMORY.
'T'HB PELMAN-FOSTER Memory System
1 means to the brain what modern business
methods mean to commercial life. We show
you how to train the brain to think and
remember —we help you to make the brain a
well-ordered house of mental treasures, where
every fact is accessible—where every scrap of
knowledge comes readily to mind when you
require it.
There is no mystery about Memory training.
Write to-day for our free booklet, “ Memory,
and How to Improve It,” and learn what a
simple thing- it is to train your memory to serve
you faithfully.
Address the Secretary:
The Pelman School of Memory,
G.P.O. BOX, 402, MELBOURNE.
London: 4 Bloomsbury Street, W.C.
America : 901 Whitehall Building, New York.
Germany : Braunerstr, 13 Munich.
To Let
The newly erected premises known as
ADAMS’ BREWERY,
HOBART, TAS.,
consisting: of Four Flats with spacious
cellar, divided as under.
CELLAR-
116ft. x 60ft., 9ft. 6in. high.
GROUND FLOOR-
Three divisions, 57 x2Bft., 96 x 39ft.,
and 59ft. 6in. x 29ft.
FIRST FLOOR —
'Five divisions, 96 x 39ft., 57 x 28ft.,
96 x 26ft., 110 x 70ft., 61 x 28ft.,
61 x 28ft.
SECOND FLOOR—
Two divisions, 170 x 36ft., 170 x 28ft.
THIRD FLOOR-
Two divisions, 170 x 28ft., 170 x 36ft.
With the above there is the old Brewery
building, consisting of capacious cellars,
ground floor and first floor; also commodious
iron building, detached, containing two
divisions on ground floor, 40 x 47ft. and
39 x 47ft., and first floor, 79 x 47ft.
The premises are suitable for various
manufacturing purposes, or for cool storage.
A Very Low Rental will be accepted, but
the premises will not be let for brewing
purposes. Full particulars on application to
H. NICKOLLS,
CASCADE BREWERY,
HOBART, TAS.
I WHAT IS CATARRH?
MEDICATOR.
h
Catarrh is inflammation of
the lining- membrane of the
nose and adjoining passages.
If this inflammation is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the
sight and hearing, destroys
the sense of taste and smell,
renders the breath offensive,
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? if so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
Price,complete with 4 months’
treatment by mail, 10s.
Write for Booklet,, free, or send order direct to
Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published fcy Australians in London.
Price 6d*
POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where tiles
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Austbalasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-1 BROAD STREET PLACE, FINSBURY
CIRCUS, LONDON, E.C.
One minute’s walk from Liverpool Street Railway
Stations.
Managing: Director
J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
Old “Jarrah Jack” Forrest appears to
have gone must since his return to Westralia, and
is stampeding about the country, trampling on
friends, enemies, and what stands tor his prin-
ciples alike. In one wild and tearing speech he
formulated the doctrine that no member was of
much use to the State unless he had a big bank
account. The sort ot man that was needed was
he who had “independent means.” And Wes-
tralia at the statement, for the very
type of man Forrest was barracking for —Alec
jjatheson—had, by his absence from the Senate
(he was away getting measured for a lot of new
clothes, or something like that) caused the loss
of the Transcontinental Railway Survey Bill. If
he hadn’t so much independent means to buy new
clothes with he might have been at his post, and
his vote would have saved the Bill. What has
Deakin to say about these gambolings on the
part of his elephant ?
Wild horses can’t drag from old, fat land-
lord Gibb, Bill Lyne’s opponent at the Hume, a
statement, as to which party he belongs to. This
is how the Foreign-trade paper report always
runs
In replying to this question, Mr. Gibb aroused the
sympathy and applause of a great majority of the
audience. He said that he would not be bound to any
leader or party. He had never been elected as the
nominee of any' party', and would not be now. If the
party chose to select him, that was not his responsibility.
He had always been elected as an independent candidate,
and would continue on those lines to the end.
This is all very beautiful, but if big landlord Gibb
gets in he must sit in the vicinity of Reid, or
Deakin, or Watson, or else he must sit on the
floor. Is large, rich shuffler Gibb going to sit on
the floor ?


f
Write the Store
Nearest You . . .
Collins St., Melbourne
Queen St., Brisbane
Hay Street, Perth
George Street, Sydney
mu art ©auustm Z-. (f?,
Strmxtr Corner, Seotrge SI,
ar
Write the Store
Nearest You . . .
Queen St., Auckland
Lambton Quay,
Wellington
High St., Christchurch
Princes St., Dunedin
CALL OR WRITE FOR
OUR CHRISTMAS CATALOGUE.
CHRISTMAS PRESENT SUGGESTIONS
MONEY BACK IF WE
CANNOT PLEASE YOU.
FROM SYDNEY'S MOST ATTRACTIVE AND ECONOMICAL SHOPPING HEADQUARTERS.
We have a Perfect Mail Order System and Our Country and Interstate Customers can shop as easily hy Mail as if they did their purchasing in person. All Orders we receive are
placed in the hands of an Experienced Assistant whose sole aim is to carry out your wishes, and because of his experience and knowledge he can often do better for you that if you did
the buying yourself. Promptness and Carefulness are two features of our Mail Order System that deserve special mention. There is no unnecessary delay here. You get your goods
when you want them, and as you want them. We pay freight on all orders. Remittances can best be made by'money order or registered letter. Never send Notes in an unregistered letter.
G 7331. —Pearl Set 9ct. Gold
and Greenstone Heart,
£1 7s 6d ; Plain Greenstone
Hearts, 11s 6d, 13s 6d, 15 6d,
17s 6d.
.G 3029. —9ct. Gold
and Amethyst Pen-
dant, 10s 6d.
GB672.—Handsomely Chased 9ct. Gold and Real New Zealand
Greenstone Brooch, £1 2s 6d.
G6367.—15ct. Gold and Fine Diamond Set
Brooch, £2 10s.
G 8256. —Fine Pearl and Amethyst Set 9ct. Gold Bracelet
£2 15s.
GBB79.—Pear) and Tur'
quoise Set; Oct. Gold
Brooch, £l.
G9o79.—Heart Amethyst and 9ct. Gold Brooch
16s 6d.
G 9003. —Secret Photo. Pendant
9ct. Gold, £1 17s 6d.
G 9743.— Exquisite 15ct. Gold and Fine
Pearl Set Brooch, £6 lOe,
Fine
Diamond Marquise
Bing, £3O ;
others, £l6 10s,
£24 10s.
H 641. —18ct. Gold,
Diamond Cluster
Ring, £7 10s.
G 9249. —9ct. Gold Pearl and Amethyst Necklet, £2 2s.
G8337.—9ct. Gold and Real Amethyst Padlock Bangle, £2 15s.
(59789. —15ct. Gold Diamond and Sapphire
Set Brooch, £5 10s.
H825.—15ct. Gold and Pine Pearl Scroll
Brooch, £1 10s.
H6l3.—lBct. Gold
Diamond and Sap-
phire Ring, £2 10s.
GB9Bo.—Fine Diamond
Bing, 18ct.,
£5 ss;
if Diamonds and
Bubies, or Sapphires,
£3 10s.
H 742. —Oct. Gold Pearl and
Amethyst New Style Pendant
with Necklet, £3 10s.
G 4127. —9ct. Gold Links,
17s 6d.
Silver, 3s 6d.
■C
u
Hl6lo.—Solid Silver
Pocket Flask Bayonet
Top, 355.
H1989.—9c t.
Gold Ob arm ,
7s 6d ; with pin
H 1994. —9cfc. Gold
Charm, 6s Gd ;
with pin and
H39Bs.—Solid Silver-Mounted Real Morocco
Skin Purse, 15s 6d ; Crocodile, 18s 6d.
G 9393, —15ct. Gold and Fine Pearl
Brooch, £3 3s.
G7B6B.—Solid Silver Pin Tray,
5s 6d.
H 1993. —9et.
Gold Charm,
8s 6d ; with
pin and chain,
10s.
G9394.—Fine Pearl and 15ct. Gold Leaf
Brooch, £3 10s.
GB499.—Solid Silver “Lucky Pig
Pin Cushion, 9s 6d.
Smaller Sizes, 4s, 5s 6d, 7s 6d.
G929B.—Solid Silver
and Out-Glass Gum
Pot, 7s 6d.
G7737.—Embossed Solid
Silver and Glass Hair
Pin Bottle, 4s 6d.
G 5701.— Solid Silver and Out-
Glass Pin Box, 6s Od.
FULL SIZE
G949B.—Saw-Pierced Solid Silver Serviette
Bing, 4s 6d.
Others, 8s 6d, 12s 6d, 13s 6d.
HALFSIZE
Gs94l—Solid Silver
and Out Glass
Smelling Salts, 5/6.
Hl732—Silver-Plated Satin-lined
Stud Box, 7s 6d.
Hl7l6—Solid Silver
Hat Pin Stand,
6s 6d.
Hlo33.—Fine Paste Diamond Back Comb, stones
securely set, not glued in, 8s 6d.
Others, 14s 6d, 16s 6d, 17s 6d.
G 7430. —Silver-Mounted Shoe Lift, Boot Button Hook and
Glove Hook, in Velvet-lined Box, 6s 6d.
DRAWN SI3E
F2376.—501id Silver Saw Pierced Belt
Clasp, £1 5s ; other stvles, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 13s 6d, 16s 6d, 18s 6d,
H 1678. —New Style Silver-
Plated Honey Jar and Spoon,
17s 6d.
H2o7l.—Satin lined Silver-Plated Jewel Casket, £1 ss.
When You Visit London!
Meet Your Friends and
Fellow Australasians at
Stewapt Dawson’s,
19, 20 & 21 Hatton Garden, E.C.
ONE of the sights of London, and one you should not miss, is the magnificent six-story building just erected by STEWART DAWSON & CO.
for the better reception of the many visitors to London from Australia. It is miles ahead of any building anywhere devoted to the Jewellery
business. Fireproof throughout, it has superb Shipping Offices for the prompt despatch to our Australian and New Zealand Stores of all the new
things as they appear. There are Three Showrooms, Home Offices, Reception Rooms, Two Electric Lifts, Strong Rooms, and last, but by no means
the least, a Bureau where vou can write your letters and meet your friends in comfort, or have a glance at the Australian and New Zealand papers.
This convenience is specially provided free of charge. Any letters addressed there will be carefully preserved until called for. All information
will be cheerfully supplied, and Mr. Dawson will always be pleased to see any one personally if they so desire.


Impossible to Get Employment, as
Face and Body Were Covered With
Itching Sores—Scratched Till
Flesh Was Raw —Spent Hun-
dreds of Dollars on Doctors and
Hospitals and Grew Worse,
CURED BY CUTicURA
IN FIVE WEEKS
“Since the year 1894 I have been
troubled with a very bad case of
eczema which I have spent hundreds
h
of dollars trying
to cure, and I went
to the hospital,
but they failed to
cure me and it
was getting worse
all the time. Five
weeks ago my wife
bought a box of
Cuticura Oint-
ment and one
cake of Cuticura
Soap, and I am
pleased to say that I am now completely
cured and well.
“It was impossible for me to get
employment, as my face, head, and
body were covered with it. The
eczema first appeared on the top of
my head, and it had worked all the
way around down the back of my neck
and around to my throat, down my
body and around the hips. It itched
so I would be obliged to scratch it,
and the flesh was raw. .
“I would first wash the affected
parts with warm water and Cuticura
Soap, and then apply Cuticura Oint-
ment and let it remain on all night, and
in the morning I would use Cuticura
Soap. I am now all well, which all
my friends can testify to, and I will be
pleased to recommend the Cuticura
Remedies to any and all persons who
wish a speedy and permanent cure of
skin diseases.” Thomas M. Rossiter,
Mar. 30,1905. East Orange, N. J.
The original of the above testimonial is on file in the
office of the Potter Drug & Chemical Corporation.
Reference: R. Towns & Co., Merchants, Sydney, N. S.W.
Complete External and Internal Treatment for Every
Humour, from Pimples to Scrofula, from Infancy to Age,
consisting of Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Resolvent
Pills (Chocolate Coated, in vial of 60), may be had of all
druggists. A single set often cures. Potter Drug & Chem.
Corp., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
03“ Mailed Free, “All About the Skin, Scalp, and Hair.”
Address, R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
WEAREVER
ALUMINUM
Cooking Utensils*
The Celebrated
WEAR-EVER Brand.
Silvery, Bright, Clean. Do
not Rust nor Chip. Not
liable to burn the food.
Practically Everlasting.
Wholesale and Retail from Sole Australian Agents,
NEW YORK IMPORT 00., Block Place, Melbourne;
34 King William-st., and 150 Rundle-st., Adelaide;
MULLER & WILSON, 98 Elizabeth-st., Brisbane,
Sydney, Perth, &c,, and Leading Stores.
Li-
Up-to-date Otiiue Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
ence.
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Storekeepers.
Australian Users now num-
ber over one thousand.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH
Colonial Mutual Building’,
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Sub-Agencik.s :
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
VARLEY BROS.,
flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Bookman’s Buildings,
Adelaide.
West Australia—
MIDDOVVS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth
Of course you have System
in your office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
UNDERWOOD “VISIBLE”
BILLING TYPEWRITER.
lOHN SANDS, 374 George St,, Sydney,
a °Lß Australian Agent Wabasii Systems.
To soothe
the Skin,
smarting under the heat of a
burning sun. and to remove the
effects of perspiration,
CALVERT'S
Prickly=heat Soap
is specially adapted. Though indispensable
in cases of Prickly-heat (whence its name)
and other irritation of the skin, it is also
popular for general bath and toilet use, being
pure, antiseptic, and refreshing.
Sold by all local Chemists and Stores,
in bars and tablets.
Made by F. C. Calvebt & Co., Manchester.
England.
RODS
Edw. NORTON,.
For Locating MINES,
LOST TREASURE &c.
The Latest Improved.
Write for Booklet, 2 Stamps.
64 Huktek. Street, SYDNEY.
100,000
“THE WAYBACK SERIES.”
NO 3. RED HARRY, 1/-
MOTHER
SEIGELS
SYRUP —(
Indigestion means
torturing pain, intense
weariness, wretched days
and wakeful nights. It
means starved blood,
starved muscles, a starved
body and a starved brain ;
in short, it means shattered
health and a broken con-
stitution unless you root
it out without delay.
Mother Seigel’s Syrup has
no rival as a remedy for
indigestion. Its reputation
is based on thirty-five
years’ success in curing
Indigestion, Biliousness,
and all disorders of the
stomach,liver and kidneys
GIVES
STRENGTH
TO THE
WEAK,
ENERGY
TO THE
LANGUID,
COMFORT
TO THE
DYSPEPTIC,
_ AND
“For five years I suffer-
ed from Indigestion, which
weakened my whole system.
I could not eat for pain,
and I endured agonies
from headachealmostdaily.
There was a strange numb-
ness in my left side, and
my eyesi gh t became so dim
that I thought I was going
blind. Nothing relieved
me, and I had almost lost
hope; but Mother Seigel’s
Syrup cured me complete-
ly.”— From Mrs. Jessie
Newman, 62, Gore Street,
Fitzroy, Melbourne, Vic-
toria. April 13, 1906.
GOOD DIGESTION
TAKE IT! —Though
everything else has failed.
r© ALL
TAKE IT!
It WILL Cure You.
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
ĥ
We don’t believe any Aecordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Aecordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £t
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price JBI 7s 6d;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments,
watches, jewellery, Etc., 2io Queen St., Brisbane
PAIN.
Death is hastened by ignorance. Nature has endowed us with the sense of pain solely in order
that, by seeking relief, we may avoid playing into the hands of Death. When we feel pain we are out
of health. Pain long endured is a strain upon the system which Nature cannot withstand. Many of
us, however, go on suffering certain kinds of pain, just as if Science could not come to the help of her
sister Nature. There is, for instance, no pecessity for anyone to suffer from
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Backache
Sciatica
Indigestion
A nee mi a
Blood Disorders
Biliousness
Jaundice
Gravel
Stone
Bladder Troubles
General Debility
Sick Headache
The pains caused by this long list of disorders are but Nature’s means of letting us know that the
kidneys or liver are for some reason unable to perform their work efficiently, for all of these
disorders are produced by the retention in the system of urinary and biliary poisons, which would be
thrown off naturally if the kidneys and liver were doing their duty. Few people realise how import-
ant in the scheme of life is the healthy action of the kidneys and liver, therefore the following
description of the functions of those vital organs will be of the deepest interest to many.
The Kidneys filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine every day. In this
quantity of urine are dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains in weight of uric acid,
together with other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce.
When the kidneys are in health, all this solid matter is in solution and is invisible. Directly the
kidneys, through either weakness or disease, become unfit to do their duty properly, a proporrion
of the solid matter remains in the blood, becomes actively poisonous, and causes us to suffer from uric
disorders such as Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Gravel,
Stone, Bladder Troubles, and Bright’s Disease. A simple test to make as to the condition of
the kidneys is to place some urine, passed the first thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and let it
stand until next morning. If it is then cloudy, or there is a brick-dust like sediment, or if particles
float about in it, or it is of an unnatural color, the kidneys are not healthy and no time must be lost
in adopting remedial measures, or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some less serious but more painful
jllness will result.
The Liver. —ln the liver various substances are actually made from the blood. Two or three
pounds of bile are thus made from the blood every day. The liver takes sugar from the blood, converts
it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to again supply it to the blood gradually, as the
latter requires enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which is insoluble, into urea, which is com-
pletely soluble, and the liver also deals with blood corpuscles which have lived their life and are use-
ful no longer. When the liver is inactive or diseased we suffer from Indigestion, Biliousness,
Anaemia, Sick Headache, and Blood Disorders.
The health of the liver and of the kidneys is so closely connected that it is almost impossible for
the kidneys to be affected and the liver remain healthy, or vice versa.
It is nearly thirty years since scientific research directed specially to diseases of the kidneys and
liver was rewarded by the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as
Warner’s Safe Cure.
It was realised, at the outset of the investigation, that it was necessary to find a curative agent which
would act equally upon the kidneys and upon the liver, these organs being so immediately associated
in the work of dealing with the body’s waste material, and after many disappointments the medicine
which possessed the required action in the fullest degree was.at length discovered. Warner’s Safe
Cure cures all diseases of the kidneys and liver, and, by restoring their activity, these vital
organs are enabled to rid the body, through the natural channels, of the urinary and biliary poisons,
the presence of which, in the system, are the cause of Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lumbago,
Backache, Sciatica, Blood Disorders, Anaemia, Indigestion, Biliousness, Jaundice, Sick Headache,
Gravel, Stone, Bladder Troubles and General Debility. Warner’s-Safe Cure cures all these disorders
simply by removing the cause of the disorder. This is the reason why cures effected by Warner’s Safe
Cure are permanent cures. [7l
Business, Robbery, etc.
Charleville (Q.) is making a first venture in beef
export, to Siberia. Frozen bullocks to the number of 136
have been sent away to Vladivostok as an experiment.
M * * *
This letter to the Age marks the extreme of
genteel sweating: “I am a bank clerk, with stainless
record, age 29, salary £l2O per annum. My employers
forbid me to marry until my salary reaches £l5O. With
luck, if I behave myself, it will be eight years before that
comes to pass.”
* « » *
“Val”: Re cotton grown by Dr. Thomatis, of
North Queensland (B. 25/10/’O6), authorities do not allow
the product all the virtues claimed for it. A recent
letter from the secretary of the British Cotton-growers’
Association stated that Caravonica was “too rough.”
On the other hand, he said that a hybrid cotton, dis-
covered in a cotton field near Brisbane, was much
preferable, and was worth 12d. per lb. Latter is said to
be remarkable cotton, and great hopes have been built on
it. A correspondent of a southern paper, writing from
London about the Cairns cotton sent to England recently,
said it was of “a harsh, rough character,” valued at Bd.
to 9d.
* * * *
The present high price of copper has led to the
discovery of a rich vein of the metal in the backyards of
Sydney and Melbourne, where the careful housewife now
has to chain her boiler to the frame or otherwise glue it
to the premises, lest it disappear unaccountably in the
night. The übiquitous prospector has also turned his
attention to the telegraph and railway wires ; the other
night about a mile of signal wire, near Essendon (Vic.)
station, was calmly cut away and removed. What with
sheet-lead annexers from roofs, copper prospectors, shop-
lifters, pocket-exploiters, etc., hardly any article of value
can be trusted to remain where it is left for five minutes
unless it is chained down—and even then it is 10 to 1 the
discoverer will steal the chain.
* * ■» *
“S.R.”: Notice that some Melbourne ice-
cream contains from 10,000,000 to 40,000,000 bacteria per
cubic centimetre. In unsewered Brisbane some of the
ice-cream vended by the peripatetic Giovanni comes out
of places so dirty that I don’t believe a self-respecting
microbe would be found there dead. One Giovanni was
accused the other day of making use of the salt droppings
from the hides in certain pelt warehouses. The store-
men, it appears, were in the habit of sweeping the floor
rubbish out into the gutter ; and as a good percentage of
this consisted of salt shaken off hides, Iceacreami's salt
bill was just about as much as the numerousness of
snakes in Iceland. Iceacreami swore, etc., etc., etc. ;
but he was fined. I forget how much he was fined ; but
I think it was 3d.
•*■***
“ Remo” : I don’t know anything about Maori-
land’s pounds of butter that weigh 14foz. (B. 8/11/'O6), but
I do know something about Australia’s yards that only
measure 35in. I worked in one store for two years before
I found out that its yards measured 2ft. llin. The
sudden activity of the local inspector of weights and
measures caused new measures to be affixed to the coun-
ters. I wen. as a raw kid to the rag trade, and this was
how the corruption of my morals began : “ When mea-
suring off yards of any soft, stretching cloth, such as
flannel, etc., keep taut between the hands, but measure
off smartly, so that they won’t notice the stretching.”
In this way a competent assistant cribs many yards of
stuff per day for his boss. My first boss was a liberal
man, though. He said, “ Always give the customer an
extra inch or so over—and be sure she notices it.” A
Commerce Act! By heavens, Australia needed it badly
—worse than the drinky monk in “ Falka ” wanted the
contents of the jar.
» * * *
“Laura M.” : A couple of months in a time-
payment shcp is an experience. I found that the bulk of
the t.p. army consists of anxious-looking mothers with
big families, which, as they explain with a sigh, are
always “ wanting something.” Some of them, when asked
the Christian names of their husbands, pronounced “ Percy
Frederick” with conscious pride, while others, whose
husbands were John or Bill, deeply resented the question.
“Husband’s occupation, madam?” produced the same
varied result. A" greengrocer’s wife was invariably
ashamed, while a wharf laborer’s missus gloried in her
boss’s daily graft. The lady who must replace a lost
wedding-ring as quickly as possible, and the man who
had promised the partner of his bosom a birthday
present, but had spent the cash on a hilarious burst, both
seemed to come hot-foot to our establishment at the
critical moment. The overdressed lady, the smart shop
girl and the civil servant were instantaneously branded as
bad marks ; in fact, the t.p. tabernacle is the only place
where the poor but honest are really welcomed. We
were invited one Tuesday by a whiskered clairvoyant to
supply him with a wedding suit for the following Friday,
and when informed that we couldn’t oblige him, he
wrathfully accused us of interfering with his matrimonial
plans, as the wadding would have to be postponed.
Among our clients we mustered two clergymen, one
artificial limb maker, three actors, several policemen and
tram-guards, many boardinghouse-keepers, one monu-
mental mason, and a bejew'elled, peroxided lady, whom
all the girls regarded with the eye of dark suspicion.
The overtures of a once famous politician, who is also
connected with the Bar, were quietly but firmly declined
the day before I stepped out from the business.
READY MADES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
All day she works at the sewing machine in the factory
opposite,
Where the staring, blindless windows gape in the glow of
the summer light;
And all day long come the clang and whirr from the
dusty, sun-flecked room,
Looking on to a narrow city lane, where the tall, black
chimneys loom.
Her pale face bending above her work ; thin hands on the
fabrics laid;
From the morning bell to the closing bell she toils at the
“ ready made.”
A sparrow hopping athwart the sill glances in at the long,
bare room,
And it brings a breath from the city parks, where the
jacarandas b oom.
Up from the street, on the other side, comes the lilt of a
passing band,
But her eyes are fixed on the level seams that slide from
, beneath her hand.
In the heat of the summer days she works her treadmill
from morn till night,
Behind the blindless window-panes in the factory op-
posite.
She sees the line of the pale-blue hills and the river, like
sheeted glass,
Hears the cattle tramp to the branding yards all over the
wild-oat grass ;
And she sees the harebells about the plains and the wind-
mill on the rise,
The long, green sweep of the tasselled corn that is grate-
ful to aching eyes ;
She sees the sheep in the wool-shed pens and the myalls
about the ridge,
And she hears the swish of the brown flood-tides race
under the swinging bridge ;
And she sees the gate by the ruined yard where young
Love and Laughter met,
While the night wind scattered the honey sweets of the
fragrant mignonette ;
She sees the jasmine’s petalled stars and the white of the
ti-tree flower,
And she rocks afloat in the cedar boat for one still
delicious hour.
She sees the skies that are far and clear as the eyes of a
dreamer’s dream,
All the while her needle flies in and out over the hard,
white seam.
Her hair is faded, her face is thin, her hands are gaunt 1
and white,
And she works the treadle at “ready mades” in the
factory opposite.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


Phoenix Foundry Locomotive
. . . and . . .
Engineering Works, Ballarat
IMPORTANT SALE BY AUCTION
OP
Engineering:, Foundry, Boilermaking, Forging,
Hydraullo Rivetting and Woodworking Plants of
the Phosnlx Foundry 00., Ltd., together with an
immense quantity of Machine and other Tools and
Large Stock of New Materials,
Will be sold ON THE WORKS on
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday,
18th, 19th, 20th, and 21st December, 1906,
AT 10.30 SHARP EACH DAY.
The most extensive, complete, and up-to-date En-
gineering Plant ever offered at auction in Victoria.
The Company is in liquidation and the plant and
effects must be sold to wind up its affairs.
By Order of CAMERON & SUTHERLAND, Machinery
Merchants, Melbourne, Ballarat, Bendigo & Sydney.
Full particulars in catalogue obtainable from
CAMERON and SUTHERLAND,
or the Auctioneers,
BELL, LAMBERT & CO., Ballarat, Victoria.
. The Best
Summer Drink
oi\ Earth •
'/mm/
OR the Federal elections, read “A Policy for the Commonwealth,” by James Edmond, price 6d.
post free; and “On the Trail of the Trust,” by Bulletin writers, illustrated, Is., post free.
DR. J. GOLDS BROWNE’S
QNLOROimtE
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c. bears on the
Stamp the name of the In-
ventor
Pr. J. COLLIS BROWN€
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
PATERNOSTER’S
PILLS Hi
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
A Fortune is Certain
If only the exact opportunities and possi-
bilities of life are known and understood.
This information can only be obtained
by means of Astrology.
SEND Is. IN STAMPS FOR
A TEST HOROSCOPE,
calculated and written by R. Herschell, who has
supplied Horoscopes to the late Mr. Cecil Rhodes,
W. E. Gladstone, and thousands of others.
Money returned if Horoscope incorrect.
As this offer will not he open long, cut out, fill
up, and send the part below at once to.
ROBERT HERSCHELL (of London),
Box 3, Hawthorn, Victoria.
NAME
ADDRESS.
DATE OP BIRTH
THIS BELT WILL RESTORE
YOUR VITALITY
THE fact that “ Electricity is Life ” is beyond
dispute. Hence, if your system is weak in
Electricity it is also weak in vitality, nerve
energy, and functional ability, in fact, weak in every
tissue.
Now, there is only one way to replace something
lost; that is to put it back. . . . That you are
weak is sufficient evidence that your normal Electrical
Energy is lost. You can only recover your strength
and vigor by replacing your lost vitality.
Dr. McLaughlin’s
ELECTRIC BELT
is made to restore vitality. Worn while you sleep,
it pumps a continuous stream of new vitality into
your nerves and tissues for hours at a time. The
S 3
THE FIRST STEP ON THE ROAD TO HEALTH,
current strengthens and revives your organs, enabling them to regain their original strength.
Electricity' is also a certain cure for all complaints of the Nerves, the Circulation, and the Organic System. Our Belt
is guaranteed in every case.
PAINS IN HEAD AND BACK.
BATEMAN’S BAY, N.S.W.
Dear Sir,—Your Belt did me a wonderful amount of good, as I used to suffer
terribly with pains in the back of mv neck :and head, also in the small of my back.
Now, after having- used your Belt for a few weeks, I am entirely free from pain, and
have been so for many months. I credit your Belt with having been the means of
restoring my health, and shall always be glad to answer any enquiries from sufferers
who may be afflicted in a similar manner.
, Yours gratefully, JAMES BARCLAY.
FREE BOOK.
Send us the COUPON at the
bottom of this advertisement and
we will post you our Handsomely-
illustrated Book. It will explain our remedy to you fully, and its
pages will be of intense interest to any sufferer from Debility and
Nerve Complaints. Written Diagnosis and Advice Free. Send
for Book to-day.
Call for FREE Consultation .
Call at our offices and consult our Specialist free of fee. He
will diagnose your case and advise you free of charge.
Hours—9 a.m. to 6 p.m. daily.
I
SEND THiS COUPON FOR FREE BOOK.
THE Dr. McLAUQHLIN CO.,
100 W. Market Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs,—Please send me your Free Illustrated Book.
NAME
ADDRESS
[B. 20/11/’6.]
WILLIAM CHARLES CRAWFORD
fAULDANA WINES
In competition
against all . . .
Australia at. .
1904 CHAMPION CUP—HOCK
1905 CHAMPION CUP—CLARET
1906 CHAMPION CUP—SHERRY
And Numerous FIRST PRIZES.
ADELAIDE WINE SHOW.
HEAD OFFICE: ADELAIDE, S.A.
SYDNEY BRANCH : ANCEL PLACE, PITT ST.
The
MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair- 161 KINO ST., SYDNEY
Workers & Dermatologists, Between Elizabeth & Castlereagh Streets.
LADIES’ PREMIER HAIRDRESSING SALOON. TRANSFORMATIONS made on the latest
Parisian principle, suitable to be worn on all occasions. TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, TOILET
REQUISITES, and all accessories in stock. Ladies’ Homes visited. Combings made up.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. Telephone 2138.
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DRESSING ROOMS ON CROUND FLOOR.
ħ
WOOL, HIDES, SHEEPSKINS, TALLOW, &c.,
SOLD TO BEST ADVANTAGE BY
A. M. L. and F. Coy., Ltd.,
CAPITAL, £4,000,000.
SUBSCRIBED, £3,000,000.
SYDNEY.
nrmjir.-.
PAID-UP, £520,000.
RESERVE, £275,000.
Jtie JCaijcet describes it as—
“ Mr. Benger’s admirable
preparation.”
£7 je British Medical Journal
says—
“ Benger’s Food has by its
excellence established a
reputation of its own.”
GOLDVWEDAL AWARDED
HEALm EXHIBITION, LONDON.
h
FOOD
For INFANTS,
INVALIDS
» nd <he AGED.
Bender’s rooD is sold in Tins
by Chemists, Sac. everywhere.
Religions are pretty fairly represented on
the High Court Bench. The Chief, Congrega-
tional; Justice Barton, C.E.; O’Connor, E.C.;
Higgins, Presbyterian; Isaacs, Hebrew.
The London papers record that after re-
peated applications extending over the last 40
years, James Collyer, who went through the
Crimean War and the .Indian Mutiny, has been
granted a pension of ninepence a day. Sydney
had just such a case in another Crimean man, an
ex-captain of the Royal Engineers, retired with
over 20 years service. The poor old fellow was
finally granted what they called a “Compassionate
Allowance ” of a half-penny per day for each
year’s service, or tenpence per day in all.
“ Pro Patria ” writes :
Whenever I suffer again with insomnia I shall hie me to
hear Josiah Symon hold forth on Federal politics. His
speech in the Adelaide Town Hall last week was all
drowsy twaddle, and most lame and impotent. This
Foreign-trader is a feeble platform speaker, despite his
undoubted genius and power as a forensic orator. It was
the tamest political meeting I ever attended. The sparse
audience, mostly comprised of the legal partners and
many clerks of Sighmoan’s big law firm, was listless and
bored. If this condition were not actuated, it was
certainly aggravated, by Symon’s protracted rasp.
Jawdge Reid’s ablest lieutenant attributed all the
imaginary ills of the Commonwealth to the “ diaboli-
cal evils of High Protection." His outrageous state-
ment that the proposed Federal graduated land-tax
and the compulsory repurchase scheme were “gross rob-
bery by violence ” was worthy only of the Father of Lies
or the Mother of Ignorance. The statement shows that
the bald-headed knight—Cook and Reid are bald, too —is
a very incompetent constitutional lawyer. Symon uttered
a few patriotic sentiments—green places in a wilderness
of wail—but they were very far apart. It saddened one
to think that within actual range of the. sound of Sigh-
moan’s raucous voice there lay, sick almost unto death,
on a bed in his Eagle Chambers’ office, the greatest Aus-
tralian of his time—C. O. Kingston.


SUMMER
Cambric Costumes
TAILOR CUT, TO MEASURES.
BLOUSE or SHIRT FRONTS,
COLLAR and TIE
Ftom 32(6.
DAVID BRAHAM&CO.
Ladies’ Tailors,
94 King Street, Sydney.
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
V SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.'
PAMPA’
POCKET
KNii/ES
are the
BEST.
ĥ
Sola'
by
all first-
clue stores
in Australasia.
No. 8176 i 2-BLADB
“ PAMPA,”
Cocoa Handle 116I 1 6
Buffalo Han die- 2
Stag Handle - - -
2/6
RUPTURE
easily, quickly, mmrn
AND PERMANENTLY UUiILU
WITHOUT OPERATION.
No pain, danger, inconvenience, or loss of time.
Immediate relief, ease, comfort, and certain cure.
Thousands of testimonial let'ers from people
you know, together with TREATISE No. 12,
posted free. Call or write to day.
DR. LANGSTON’S INSTITUTE
ESTABLISHED 1887,
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
THE BALLET GIRL
ħ
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
RHEUMATISM.
ft’s
GOUT
PlliliS
Are recommended by doctors with confi
dence as one of the valuable results of
medical science, and the only remedy
ever discovered for these disorders, in
that they not only rapidly cure but pre-
vent the recurrence of the malady.
Of Oh. -mists and Stores, 1/1£ and 2/9 per box.
Proprietors—PßOUT & CO., 229, Strand,
London, England.
FAT FOLKS
REDUCE
your weight
5 lbs. a week
No inconvenience. No strict diet. Pursue
your ordinary avocation. Endorsed by Physicians.
Book and particulars tree. Address—
JAS. CRAIG & CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne.
letter from a Little Girl
FATHER
GOMES HOME DRUNK
EVERY NIGHT,
So please, Dr. Langston, send some of your
Kemedy that Mrs. S had. I have no money,
but want fattier cured of DRUNKENNESS.
Father is now cured, and the child is happy.
A.. Home Cure which Never Fails. May.be
Given Secretly. Write for Treatise No.-5.
DR. LANGSTON INSTITUTE
129 COLLINS ST„ MELBOURNE.
A POLICY Foil the COMMONWEALTH,
EdfieJidLliaaa Ina. Jßcxletin..Office.. .
h
Many of the
COMMONWEALTH’S
sturdy sons and daughters owe their
good health and splendid physique to the
strength-giving and nourishing properties 01
CADBURY’S
ABSOLUTELY
PURE
A pure liquid food which gives substantial
benefit to the muscular and nervous system,
and which can be absorbed with little
digestive effort. Invaluable for young
add old at all times Sad seasons.-
“ The Standard Of highest
- purity." —Tht Lancet.
COCOA.
By Royal
Warrant to
ĥ
His Majesty
The King.
BOVRIL
is guaranteed the product of the finest Ox Beef.
small quantity of BOVRIL added to Boups, Curries, Stews, &C>,
increases their nutritive value and improves their flavour.
EDWARDS’ m
HARLENE
sizE4e
K
m
OB
FOR
THE
HAIR
The Great Hair Producer $ Restorer
■ The Fittest Dressing.
Specially Prepared and Delicately Perfumed.
A Luxury and a Necessity to every Modern Toilet.
Restores, Strengthens, Beautifies and Promotes the Growth
of the Hair. Prevents it Falling Off and Turning Grey.
The World-renowned Cure for Baldness.
I/-, 2/6 & 4/6 per bottle, from Chemists and Stores.
95 8 96, High Holborn, London, w.c. )
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
**»:
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
> REFRESHED
IN
NOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A 2/6.
MOSQUITOES. Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Agents—Elliott Bros., Sydney; Felton, Griirwade & Go., Melbourne.
ħ
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s '
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
h
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT i
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
PESTCFES EYS LASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
INi EVER FAILS.
Asls your Chemist for the Little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
t
hi “A truly delightful Thirst Quencher.”
The Lancet writes ‘‘Lime Juice is, particularly during the
summer, afar more wholesome drink than any form of alcohol.”
m
INTSERRATI
LIME JUICE CORDIAL
“ Montserrat ” is obtained solely irom the celebrated
Lime Juice Plantations in the Island of Montserrat.
To obtain the genume, specify MONTSERRAT.”
OF ALL STORES AND CHEMISTS.-
IfYouWantTbeßest
Ask for a
Briar Pipe.
Obtainable
from all Tobacconists
WILL forward to any address our GOLD WIRE
BROOCHES on receipt of money order or
postal note. 9ct. Gold-Filled Round Wire Brooches,
3/6; with Pendant, Heart, or Cross, 5/-. In 15ct. G.F.
Twisted Wire, 6/6; with Pendant, 8/-. Illustrated Cata-
logue sent Free. R. SIMS, GOLD KING, Cole’s
Book Arcade, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
DRUNKARDS
CAN BE CURED
With or without the patient’s knowledge. For FREE
Book and References write and enclose stamps to
pay for postage. THE EUCRASY COY., 62 Hunter
Street, Sydney.
t-S?
SK. FOR
9
AND
REFUSE
Siißsmim
*3-2*
ĥ
TEN DAYS'FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
Money in full refunded without question
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
cycles, warranted six years. -» ;■
MODEM £2.10 to £6
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or Clincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Rim
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
backed and Delivered Free
',o any port in the world. We guarantee safe
deliverv.
Second-Hand Cycles
all makes, £f £2.10
good as new, 7
Great factory clearance sale at half factory prices.
FAR* A CYCLE Agents
Wan ed in each district. Large profits easily made. Write at once for
free catalogues and our spec-'l -far, using sufficient postage.
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, &c., naif prices.
MEMO GYGLE GO. Dep*. 83 3
LIVERPOOL, LONDON AND CHICAGO.
200
L
DEAFNESS
“The Electrlcon.’’
A miniature Device
fdr the EAR-—invis-
ible, easily adjusted,
and entirely com-
fortable. Makes low
sounds and whisperi
plainly heard. Over
fifty thousand sold,
giving instant relief from deafness
and head noises.
There are but few cases of deafness that
cannot be benefited. Write for booklet
and testimonials.
THE L. R. VERNON GO. t
60-64 Hunter St., Sydney.
ħ
BLOOD POISON.
FOR MORE THAN TWENTY YEARS
we have made the cure Of blood poison a
specialty, P. imary, Secondary or Tertiary
Blood Poison Permanently Cured. You can
be treated at home under same guaranty.
Capital 500,006 dols. We solicit the most
obstinate cases. If you have exhausted the-
old methods of treatment, and still have aches
and pains. Mucus Patches in • Mouth, Sorel
Throat, • Pimples, Copper-ColOred Spots, :
Ulcers on any part of the body, Hair or
Eyebrows falling out, write for proofs of
cures. 100-page Book Free.
COOK REMEDY Co.^
1102 MASONIC TEMPLE, Chicago, U SA.


TATTERSALL’S CONSULTATIONS.
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
NOW OPEN
NEWCASTLE TATTERSALL’S CUP, Newcastle, N.S.W., December 8 ... 50,000 at 51 2 each.
SUMMER CUP, Randwick, N.S.W., December 26 ... ... ... ... 50,000 at 5/2 each.
PERTH CUP, Perth, W.A., December 29 ... ... ... ... ... 50,000 at 5/2 each.
IM3POR.TA.INTT KTOTICB,
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d. on each
SS. Ticket, and 4d. on each fOs. Ticket. Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
T rnvvov T^ SMA , NlAI f GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
5 01 “ d ? ct , the . Swee P business under same management as for several years past. Parcels may be forwarded through any PARCELS
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
97 Queen St., MELBOURNE.
98 King William St., ADELAIDE.
/Booking Fee,
3d
[ per Parcel.
I!
m
:\i>
«FWW ™\HG
§Ho Hotter ahovM be mtteut ft \ sewt F ox\ revests
&&&
we d/eta/y adapted to toe grow ftp d/pest we powers
Milk Food N?l
from 6/rtA to 3/no/?Ms
Milk Food N? 2
from 3 to 6 mo/7 Ms
Malted Food N 93
from 6 mo/?Ms upward's.
Bridge & Loftus Sts., Sydney
Disinfecting
Fluid.
1/
COLORLESS,
FRA RANT,
NCM-rOISONOUS.
Pint Bottles.
Oxidants Germicide
Indispensable In all Sick Rooms.
Also 1/- Tins Powder
and 1/- & 1/3 Boxes Soap.
. Of all Chemittt and Storekeeper t. a
L The “SANITAB” Co., A
Ltd., Llmehouse,
—London.
HEARNES
The Famous Remedy for
BRONCHITIS
CURE
GOUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, <fc CONSUMPTION,
* Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World.
Those who have takep this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing power is marvellous. Suflerers from any form of Bronchitis. Cough, Difficulty of
Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it
effects a Complete Cure. It is most comforting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic nor Consumption to develop Consumption has never been known to exist where *■ Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house
should be without it, as, taken at the beginning a dose is generally sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain
Beware of Imitations ! The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, has Induced a number
of unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure," with the object of
deceiving the simple-minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact,
and to request you in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S and to see that you get I*
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 26; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable loc lly.
NOTICE.~ Hearne ’ 8 Bronchiti * Cure No 1A does NOT contain any poison within the meaning: of the Act. It is equally beneficial for
the youngest child and the most aged person.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrib
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
or Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book D.y De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, ‘ls 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s
Big Horse Book and How to Train the
Horse, Is 6d. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. Tiie Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Fiagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman
and the Confessional, Is 6d. The Art of Jui-Jitsu,
9d and Is 6d. God and My Neighbor, lOd. Britain
for the British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How
to Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
j(Nd Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
8
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc.', Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made E.ASy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
HOME cyCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1243 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. On Our New Selection, 6s 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught,
Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d
posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be Fooled into paying' more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. iW Established SO Years.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT
Write lor my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bosii Songs, Is 3d post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made East, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, is posted. 'Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievassf/s Advice to a
Mother, 3s (id posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. How to
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com.
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY!
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only)


SAVE
YOUR
The condition of the stomach bears the same relation to
one’s health that the foundation does to the house.
Without a good foundation, the house cannot stand.
Without a good stomach, the health must fail.
Digestion will make and indigestion will break the
STOMACH
walls of the stomach. Perfect digestion
will build and sustain, while poor digestion
will tear down health’s foundation. The
reason for this is that the stomach must receive and prepare all food for entrance
into the blood, and from the blood into the tissues. If the stomach is not in
perfect condition, the nourishment will be improperly prepared—imperfectly di-
gested, and, instead of the health-giving and strength-increasing properties of the
food being contributed to the tissues, stagnation ensues, the blood becomes impover-
ished and poison is forced into the system.
The weakest organ of the body gets most of this poison, because, for want of
strength, it is less able to resist it, and, as a consequence, disease begins to show
itself first in one of the weak organs, which is usually a very important one. It
may be the lungs, liver, kidneys or heart, and, in the case of women, it may be on e
of the organs peculiar to their sex. Such symptoms as shortness of breath, coated
tongue, pains in the stomach, palpitation of the heart, fullness after eating, bowel
complaint, ulcers in the mouth, sallow complexion, constipation, diarrhoea,
dysentery and sour belching are all symptoms of indigestion.
DR. SHELDON’S DIGESTIVE TABULES relieve every symptom of
indigestion and restore the stomach and digestive organs to perfect health. This
famous remedy has effected a permanent cure in thousands of cases of chronic
dyspepsia as well as ulceration of the stomach and other serious stomach diseases.
DR. SHELDON’S DIGESTIVE TABULES represent the natural juices
of digestion as they exist
in a healthy stomach
combined with tonic and
DR. SHELDON'S
reconstructive properties. They are
absolutely harmless, perfectly palatable,
never doing harm, always doing good.
DIGESTIVE
These Tabules are sold everywhere at 2/6
per tin of 80 Tabules, and are guaranteed
to give satisfaction, or money refunded.
TABULES.
Brown Brother.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IN these South Seas there dwells at ease
(Or easy dwelt at one time)
A simple man, of color tan,
Who deems his days all fun-time,
This earth is no drab vale of woe
To him, nor place of pining ;
How should it be to folk who see
A glad sun always shining ?
Prone in repose, his bootless toes
Are mostly skyward pointing ;
While, by his side, a blushless bride
His bare skin is anointing.
(As I have said, just overhead,
His ways are free and easy ;
And such a thing is comforting.
Although a trifle greasy.)
His fertile land is undermanned,
And yields him facile living,
And festive times; in tropic climes
Dame Nature is all-giving.
He need not cheat that he may eat,
Nor cringe and crawl for money ;
Right from his birth, his life is mirth,
Myrrh, frankincense and honey.
He owns his soil, he knows not toil,
Unless we white men find him ;
Is placid in his “ state of sin,”
No narrow tenets bind him.
He cannot tell the way to hell
Till kindly Christians show him.
Simple and bland I called him, and
I called him as I know him.
He pays no toll to save his soul
To bishop, priest, or deacon ;
But looks for light at death’s dark night,
To some old heathen beacon
That sheds a gleam upon the stream
Which drifts him to Bulotu —
That Promised Land, whose spirit strand
The brown departed go to.
Nor need we groan, and, mournful, moan
That such a soul must perish ;
His does not seem much more a dream
Than that we fondly cherish.
We grope in space, and vaguely place
Our heaven in some high land;
Brown brother he hunts through the sea
To raise a mirage island.
His final aim seems much the same
As ours when thus we view him ;
And ’tis our greed, and not his need,
That takes our torn faiths to him.
It gives one pain ; he thrives amain
While his own gods advise him,
But withers when our mission men
Set out to civilise him.
My umber pal, most pastoral,
Recumbent, dreamy chappie !
’Tis good to see him, pagan, free,
For, heathen, he is happy.
He lazes, laughs, his kava quaffs,
A dormant foe to bustle ;
His home a green, idyllic scene,
His lullaby palm-rustle.
Ah, lucky Jim ! And well for him
If we will only leave him
To lounge and snore, as heretofore,
Our strivings merely grieve him.
Oh, let him rest! Are they not blest
Who undisturbed can slumber ?
And let him keep his Isles of Sleep—
They are so few in number.
N.S.W.
TALAFEKAU.
The Babe of Elysium.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FIVE of us had a place out in Paradise
Road, Waverley, and we’d struck trouble
with housekeepers. We’d had three in
five weeks, and the one we had was leaving next
morning, and we’d no one to take her place. It
was a bad position. We held a meeting of the
Elvsium Bachelor Company in the smoking room
at 3 o’clock Sunday afternoon to decide whether we
should wind up the concern and go back to hash-
towers or not. The president of the company
summarised the situation, reported what efforts
he had made to secure a competent housekeeper,
and wound up with :
“ And now it remains with honorable bloques
to say what they are going to do. I’m sick of the
whole show myself, but ever so much more bilious
at the prospect of going back to the hash-towers.
If honorable bloques decide in favor of hash-
towers we had better all go together, and see if we
can’t boss the roost. When honorable bloques
have discussed the situation I will put the
question, and ”
A small, faint knock on the front door inter-
rupted him. The president glanced at his watch
with a scared expression, and then, reassured,
went to the door. We heard a woman’s voice say :
“ Egscuse me cornin’ roun’ on Sunday afternoon,
but I heard yous wanted a housekeeper, an’ I
thought I’d come round in case you wasn’t suited.
I want the work real badly ! ”.
The president paused so long, that we suggested
loudly that he should bring her in. She was, so
to speak, our absolutely last throw for retaining
Elysium. Well, in she came; tall, well-made,
with gracefully sloping shoulders ; but her dress
just shrieked poverty—poverty dire and awful.
Her face was pinched and her eyes hollow—filled
with the pathetic hunted look of a kangaroo at
bay. The president explained the duties in a
sonorous rolling voice that would have been worth
a hundred quid to the man who read the Declara-
tion of Independence. We pointed out that the
man at South Head was not interested. The
president stammered, paused, and then collapsed ;
but, recovering immediately, asked for references.
She passed over a couple of dirty envelopes
from which the president extracted a pair of very
creased references. He looked at the first and
then at the girl.
“Jeanne Loader, eh ! Were you not in service
with Mrs. Arlington?”
The girl’s face went ghastly, the hunted look
became intensified, she nodded admission.
“Hum ! Where’s your baby now? Dead?”
The girl reeled against the wall. Little Joe,
the Jew, swore softly. Rice, the jeweller, looked
up with a glance of keen, critical interest.
Morley, the draughtsman, snapped out:
“What the devil’s that got to do with us ?”
“ I think we are entitled to know ! ” snapped
the president.
“ Me baby’s at home where I board, an’ that’s
why I’m here. I want a place so that I can look
after me baby properly. I’ve bin round heaps of
places, but they all want a girl to work fer
nothing, or at most half-a-crown a week, when
she has a baby. But I must have a place with
decent wages, ’cause it’s a bottle baby, and I must
have money to buy it food.”
“ Of course you must,” said Rice.
“ What infernal wretches women are to sweat a
girl with a child ! ” snorted Morley.
“They ought to be hung by the heels till
dead,” hissed the president, in a terrible voice.
“You can start right away, this afternoon if
you like, and get an advance against wages,” said
Joe, the practical Jew.
The girl buried her face in her hands.
“We pay 15s. per week, and allow ss. per week
for outside assistance with washing and cleaning.
If you like to do the work yourself you can
have the whole pound, and the ss. will enable you
to get a little girl to nurse the baby. You’d
better have it here with you.” Then turning to
the shareholders, he remarked, “The Boss of the
Children’s Department told me they never thrived
unless they were with the mother; and it seems a
bad mother’s better than a good nurse,” he went
on, as though fearing we might think him over-
generous.
“I’ll come in the morning,” said the girl with a
sob. Joseph, the Hebrew, pursued her to the
door with some money.
♦ * * *
Next evening we all came home in the ’bus
together, speculating what the kid would be like.
We were half afraid that it was a mistake to
allow her to have it with her; but Morley said
he thought it would be best, otherwise she would
be always running out to see it.
“Suppose it yells like Hades all night?” in-
quired the president.
“We can get some stuff from the chemist to
keep it quiet,” said Joe, with a benign expression
that took halt the Jewishness off the contour of
his nose.
“Besides, they only yell when they aren’t fed
properly. We must tell her not to bustle it with
its bottle. You see, they’ve got to be kept pro-
perly upended and fed slowly, so that as you pour
the milk into ’em the air comes out; otherwise,
they bubble, and that makes ’em yell. It’s all
quite simple.”
“You’requite wrong, Rice,” said Morley. “It
isn’t that at all. The trouble is that they don’t
feed ’em properly, on the right stuff, you know.
They think they want rich food —cream almost —
whereas it should be very much diluted. Plain
cowjuice gives ’em indigestion. We must tell
her to mix plenty of barley or lime water with
the milk. Perhaps we’d better go right on to the
chemist’s and get some for her.”
Twenty minutes later we all tramped into the
chemist’s shop, and demanded a large bottle of
barley water and a bottle of stuff to quieten a
baby when it yelled.
“And some lime water, too,” interjected Joe,
the Jew, from the back.
“And what about those things it sucks when
it’s asleep, orsomething. You know—comforters,
I think they call them,’’ burst in Morley.
The chemist regarded us in a dazed sort of
manner for a moment, and then he seemed to
grasp the situation, and waded right in. It was
half-an-hour before we got out of his shop, loaded
up with the following articles —I remember it
as though it was but yesterday :
3 assorted comforters.
3 assorted teething-rings.
1 bottle of soothing syrup.
1 tin violet powder.
1 tin Fuller’s earth.
1 jar vaseline, white.
X box Oastille soap.
1 puff box and puff.
3 tins Allenbury’s food.
2 Allenbury’s feeders.
1 Allenbury’s food measure.
1 copy “ The'Baby—How to Feed It.”
3 bottles malt extract for the mother, to keep her up.
1 bottle toilet vinegar to put in the baby’s bath,
guaranteed to make it sleep well at nights if properly
fed.
1 bottle aromatic cascara, a specific for “ bubbling,”
and guaranteed to materially help the baby to sleep well
at nights.
There were several other things which the
brigand behind the counter said were indispens-
able, but which he took back when he found we
hadn’t sufficient money to pay for them. As we
passed several pubs on the way home, we began
to regret that we had listened so attentively to
the voice of the chemist and to think that perhaps
we were a little too generous to the baby we had
not yet seen.
As we got near the house the president stopped
grumbling, and asked solemnly how a man with
only 50s. per week could bring up half-a-dozen
babies if he had to get all these things every week in
addition to paying ordinary household exes. We
ruminated over the ghastly problem till the presi-
dent opened the door and let us in, and there,
propped up in the midst of cushions on the dining-
room sofa, with a little girl of about 13 cooing to
it, was a tiny black-haired baby, dressed in a
white frock of very coarse muslin. Its forehead
was half its face, its little cheeks had a faint bulge
on them, its mouth was a little pink bud near the
bottom of its face, and it looked up at us with
wide, deep eyes, as clear, serene and beautiful as
the sleeping, moonlit ocean; then it smiled
and waved tiny, russet-tinted hands and feet
at us. We stood round it in a ring, and watched
Rice open negotiations with it by saying “ Goo ! ”
and holding out a dark-brown finger, like a dead
ti-tree root. It smiled again, grabbed the finger,
and tried to cram it into its mouth. Then the
startled mother rushed in, and, snatching it up
with many apologies, hurried it out into the back
regions.
In another moment she was back, without the
baby, inquiring would she serve dinner.
The president waved a hand towards the pack-
age on the table with an imperial sort of gesture.
“We brought those few things home for the
baby. We tried to get some barley water, and
the lying dog, who happened to be out of it, said
it was made fresh every day at home. Anyhow,
we got everything he had that was useful.”
• * * *
Well, that baby was soon at home. We used to
watch it being fed, and occasionally we used to
nurse it. We observed that the mother knew all
about it being kept upright, and, after she ex-
plained barley water to us, we suddenly stopped
giving her advice about how to look after it. In
quite a little while we ceased to dread hearing it
cry, and informed the president that a peculiar
kind of sneeze with which he was afflicted was
much worse than the cry of the babe. He ignored
the remarks about the sneeze, but stretched him-
self out and delivered a short lecture on the why
and the wherefore of a baby’s yelling :
“I’ve found out,” he remarked, “that this kid
uses its yells instead of speech. When she wants
anything, or wishes to attract attention, she just
yells. She has to, being unable to speak, and she
goes on yelling till whatever is wrong is righted.
It is a most excellent, thoughtful provision of
Nature. If the kid were to ask in ordinary
speech, its requests would be ignored, or it would
be told to wait, or, worse still, it wouldn’t know
what to tell. But the yell is compulsory, and it
goes on yelling till you have found out exactly
what is wrong. The kid, you see, is only aware
that something is wrong, and leaves it to experi-
ment on the part of the attendant to locate the
trouble. Wonderful ! ”
“ That’s so,” said Rice. “Whenever she wants
to be held upright, while lam nursing her, she
just yelps, and immediately she gets changed to
the position she desires, she smiles and says
‘ goo ! ’ Cunning little devil, eh ! ”
“ The thing I can’t understand is how the deuce
she makes all that new tissue and bone and long
black hair out of thin milk and barley-water, and
at such a rate, too,” said Joe, the Jew, thought-
fully. “ You j ust pour it into her, three egg-cups
full at a time of each, and a spoonful of lime-
water, and she grows like fury. She’s doubled
her length and bulk since she has been here.
Marvellous, blanky well marvellous ! ”
But Joe himself admitted that was not nearly
so amazing as the awful lullaby she inspired Rice
to compose. We caught him humming it to her
one morning while he walked her up and down
the balcony. I can remember it quite well, for
I’ve sung it to myself all these years every time I
thought of the black-headed baby :
Oh, the baby bunting on the Austral strand !
Oh, the baby bunting, she’s got out of hand ;
And the little baby dear
Is out upon the beer.
As we go marching through Georgia.
And while we talked and frivolled, the little
black-headed baby went on growing, to Joe’s
increasing amazement, till over two years had
passed away. Then we held another meeting of
the Elysium Bachelor Co. And a sad meeting it
was, too. The end of Elysium had come. The
black-headed baby sat on a rug by the ferns in
the fireplace of the new Elysium at Woollahra
Point, playing with a doll old Rice had brought
home to her the night before. We were sadly
perplexed, for we didn’t know what to do with
her, and she had a curl round every one of our
hearts.
“I thought we might appoint a treasurer, and
send along a few bob each week for her keep and
education. She’s got no hope in the world if we
don't provide for her !” said the president, sadly,
and with a catch in his throat.
Rice bent down and caught her in his arms.
She nestled up against him as though she had all
the right in the world to do so.
“ It’s such a complete scatter,” said Joe. “All
but two going away from Sydney, and Rice going
to start a place of his own for his mother. I’m to
be married in three months also, and I’m sure my
wife would raise Cain and Beelzebub if I took her
home. I’ve a good mind not to get married,
darned if I haven’t! ”
Rice smiled.
“ Don’t worry, boys; I’m going'to adopt Effie,
and when my mother sees her she will just love
her. She lost a baby girl about the same age as
Effie. Anyhow, I’ll have her adopted before the
aged parent arrives, and the position will just
have to be accepted ”
“ What about the mother ? ”
“She’ll be all right—she can always earn a
good living, and it is better she and Effie should
lose sight of one another for a few years at any
rate. Later on—perhaps ! Who knows ? ”
And next day Elysium dissolved. Effie went
away with Rice to the new home that he had pre-
pared against his mother’s arrival. Effie’s mother,
red-eyed and broken-hearted, took up her quarters
in a city boarding-house till she could get another
place. It had been a terrible sacrifice, but she
had made it that Effie might be “ brought up as a
lady.”
* # * •
Well, about six months ago I began to think
very much about the little black-headed baby. I
had made a bit of money, and I thought I would
go back to Sydney and try and drop across the
little maid. She might not be too well off, for I
never had any idea how old Rice was fixed. He
was very close. I hunted round, but could not
get on his track. The firm he used to be with
had disappeared. 1 advertised, but never an
answer. Last night I was at the big theatre
down there, and I looked round the gallery first,
then the stalls, and then the circle, with my glass,
to see if I could see any sign of her as I pictured
her. But mostly I kept my eye open for old
Rice. He couldn’t change. Well, he wasn’t
there, so I just drifted out, and got on a boat for
a blow, and to think things over quietly. I went
round and round, getting off nowhere, just smok-
ing. Every time I came to the Sydney wharf a
deck-hand came along and said, “What’s the
game ? ”
At last I got up and wandered over the
fangway, and there, walking down to the
oat on the other side of the wharf, was
old Rice, with the loveliest young girl you
ever dreamed of on his arm. He was
browner, more gaunt and grim than ever.
But he was in evening dress, and the diamonds in
his shirt front twinkled like fragments of the
evening star. I walked up and touched him on
the shoulder:
“Put it right there, old man, and tell me
where’s the little ”
But he had gone. I saw him walk that girl
across the plank on to the boat, and disappear.
Then, all in a moment, he came back and nearly
wrung the hand off me.
“Do you know who that was with me?” he
asked.
‘ ‘ Of course, the little black-headed baby—she’s
a credit to you, old man. What took you off in
such a hurry? ”
“Well, it’s this way. I was afraid you would
ask about her mother. Just pretend you believe
her to be my daughter, and are meeting her for the
first time. Now come along home with us.”
“ Where’s your mother ? ”
“Ah, poor mother, she only lived about ten
years after she came to me. She was passionately
fond of Effie.”
“ But Effie’s mother—where is she ? ”
“Oh, of course ! O, she’s all right, curse her.
She’s our housekeeper. Effie has no domestic
problems, the housekeeper solves all of them, and
when there are no servants does all the work
herself. She is devoted to Effie, and the man
who marries Effie will get a splendid housekeeper
as well as the prettiest woman in all Australia for
a wife.”
“ And Effie —does she know ?”
“Never dreams of it—which explains my recent
conduct. I wanted to prime you. You’ll be dis-
creet, of course.”
“Dumb as an oyster. Of course, the mother
knows ? ”
“ She does—she does, worse luck ; and makes
me pay for the privilege of being thought by
Effie to be her father. If you could contrive to
take the old lady away and lose her you would
oblige me greatly. You see, she blackmails me
for keeping quiet. She blackmailed me to take
her as housekeeper when my mother died,
and she has blackmailed me ever since;
but, as she planks it all into the Savings
Bank for Effie some day, I don’t know that I
mind very much. Now, come along, and I’ll
introduce you to my daughter—put me away, and
I’ll drop you over the side.”
Well, I went across, and spent the evening
there. She’s a lovely girl, and as charming as
she is beautiful, but, somehow, she is not the
same. It doesn’t seem possible, you know. And
I feel sorry every time T look at the heart-hungry
mother who yearns to caress her daughter, the
daughter who doesn’t know her ; and I think old
Rice might have done worse than marry her. She
is much better-looking than he is, anyhow. They
want me to stay over there with them, but I
prefer to be by myself, and just go across to
dinner when I want to have another look at the
beautiful girl that the little black-headed baby’s
turned into. Somehow, I think I’ll hunt round
and see if I can’t find another little black-
headed baby girl all for myself.
C. A. JEFFRIES.


yO
PM|
BTBV
V.nf
m
m
AND
HOW
to CURE IT
A Sydney Sufferer’s Gratitude.
n ij i .-tor i v r
HEADACHE sufferers often fly to desperate remedies for ease. The
surest, safest and speediest cure for this painful complaint is Bile
Beans. Bile Beans banish headaches, as they do all other symptoms
of digestive disorder, by correcting the liver and stomach in a natural
manner and by natural means, for Bile Beans are compounded solely
from Nature’s finest vegetable remedies. Bile Beans will cure a sick
headache in a day, and a regular course will permanently remove the
cause, banishing sick headaches from your life altogether.
Mrs. S. A. Masters, of 18 Jarret-street, Leichhardt, Sydney, says :
“ I have found Bile Beans an excellent remedy for a disordered liver. My
appetite was considerably impaired, and although at nights I have felt like
having a good sleep, I could not do so, and in consequence, felt completely
done up during the day, and suffered agony with sick and nervous headaches.
I was induced to take your medicine by seeing an advertisement wherein Bile
Beans had cured a fellow-sufferer, and can now say from my own experience
that Bile Beans are a perfect remedy for sick headaches, loss of appetite,
sleeplessness, and those innumerable symptoms of a sick liver. I would now
use no other medicine, and always keep a box at hand for an emergency.”
BILE BEANS, the Purest and Most Efficacious of all Household
Medicines, are the World’s Greatest Remedy for Biliousness, Bieadache,
Indigestion, Stomach Troubles, Constipation, Files, Debility, Female
Weaknesses, Nervousness, Bad Blood, Bad Breath, Anaemia, Loss of
Appetite, Summer Fag, and ensure Sleep by toning up the Liver and Stomach,
thus purifying the blood in Nature’s own way. Of all Stores and Medicine Vendors
at or 2/9 Large Family Box (contains three times the size).
CANS
EVERY BEAN
A BOON.
Honestly worth a Guinea!
Pears’ Annual
XMAS, 1906. Ready Nov. 26th.
Published by the Proprietors, A. & F. PEARS, Ltd., 71-75, New Oxford Street,
London, W.C.
CONTAINS—
Two New & Original Xmas Tales
viz. :
‘Joyce Pleasantry, 9
By GEORGE R. SIMS.
(Illustrated by Hugh Thomson, R. 1.), and
‘Captain Silver, 9 I
By MAX PEMBERTON.
(Illustrated by Frank Dadd, R. 1.),
In HANDSOME COLOURED COVER, and accompanied by
W* THREE LARGE
Presentatian Plates
Printed in the best and most artistic style of the Chromo-Lithographic Art,
viz, :
'The Snowball/
By H. PIFFARD.
Size 28£ xl9 inches. Printed in 13 Colours.
Sweet Idleness,’
By J. W. GODWARD.
Size 23 x 174 inches. Printed in 16 Colours.
'The Cause of Many Troubles/
By E. G. HANDEL LUCAS. Size 15 xis inches. Printed in is Colours.
SOLD BY ALL BOOKSELLERS.
Wholesale Agents for Australasia, Messrs. GORDON & GOTCH.
The Young Heart.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IF I lift the corner of the blind that is
carefully arranged to shade the light from
my old eyes, I can see the girls playing
tennis on the lawn.
They put me here in a comfortable chair with a
book and some fancy work, told me I looked a
charming old lady, and went out with their
racquets. Gwen said the doctor had ordered me
perfect rest and quiet, and that if I follow his
instructions, and don’t take too active an interest
in anything, I may live for years. Now, who
wants to live for years ?
It means being set down like a doll in a corner
and told to be good, while the people who are still
young and strong of body enjoy the light and
laughter and all the dear foolishnesses without
which life is—gracious Heaven ! —only a slow
mouldering to the grave !
I was always a frivolous girl, and they called
me butterfly, and they said that I would never
grow old. But I did, you see—at least my body
did, for my face is quite a network of wrinkles,
and I wear a lace cap—a perfect granny of a cap
—over my iron-grey hair.
Last week the girls went to the Show, and I
was taken in a cab and put in the grand stand,
with several old ladies of about my age, who
talked of their servants and the merits of their
clergymen. The girls went off with the men they
are engaged to, and Gwen came and told me
afterwards that they had been very flighty and
ridden on the merry-go-round. What would they
have said if I had expressed my wish—and I did
wish it, in spite of my years—for a ride in one of
those flying boats? I can picture the satirical
lift of Beth’s eyebrows, and the way in which
Gwen would ejaculate “Moth-er!” and the
astonishment of the old ladies.
I value my daughters’ good opinion, and I
didn’t want to shame them before their fiances, so
I held my peace ; but if they had known the
rebellious thoughts that rioted behind my lined
forehead—well, perhaps the young men, who are
very eligible, might have considered that I was
not the best companion for my own daughters,
since youth can do with grace what respectable
age must eschew.
And now, while they laugh and joke in the
tennis court, for they are jolly girls in a perfectly
conventional way, how little they realise that I
want to be there too, sitting on the damp grass if
need be, and being delightfully foolish, feeling
young again in body as well as in heart, while I
listen to their careless chatter !
I was not married very young, for all my butter-
fly ways. I was engaged several times, but I
always got bored, until I met Willie.
Dear, you are very still now away on that back-
block selection, where we struggled so long, and
your grave is level with the yellow grass plain,
and at night there is no sound about your bed
but the wind in the silky oaks, and the shrill cry
of a water-hen from the lilied swamp ; and you
never thought I was old, did you, Willie? “Sweet-
heart,” you said to me on our honeymoon, “you
are not very wise. I think you will never be any-
thing but a child !”
Two years afterwards how you laughed when I
held up my baby boy for you to see. “ Here is a
new toy for you to play with,” you said. But—
my baby died. And it was nearly seven years
before Gwen, the eldest of the girls, came. When
Beth, the youngest, was a year old I left the
selection, and the old days of striving with
drought and flood, behind me, and came to live in
town. And I left you behind, too.
Perhaps if my son had lived he might not have
made me sit in corners and take care of myself.
He might have been like Willie; he might have
understood.
The girls have had every advantage, and they
are going to be married next spring, and I am to
live with Gwen. They have never given me any
anxiety; they have always been perfectly well
behaved.
Willie and I were not! We did the most out-
rageous things sometimes—went camping out in
the scrub, and got bad colds, and nearly starved,
because we meant to live on the pigeons and scrub
turkey we shot, and we never managed to hit
any 1 And if it hadn’t been for the surveyor in
the Government camp, who gave us some salt
beef, I really think we should have died! But
how we laughed, oarrying home the salt beef in
a bit of old flour bag, and how Willie used to
hold out his arms to lift me over the big moss-
grown, rotting logs (I believe he went the
loggiest way on purpose), and I was happy, dear
life—how happy and how reckless of appear-
ances ! I can never remember what I wore,
except that my hat was as often off my head as
on it, and that Willie began to scold me for risk-
ing sunstroke, but changed his mind and kissed
me instead.
Now the girls choose my bonnets, and are very
keen on something suitable “for my age,” and
everybody says what a fortunate woman I am to
have such kind, thoughtful daughters. I suppose
I am. I can’t complain any way, but is there
anyone in the world who really wants me now ?
The girls will soon have their own husbands and
homes, both of which they will no doubt manage
beautifully, with a strict regard to the eye of the
world.
I never was a good housekeeper. Willie always
ordered the dinner when he didn’t forget, and
when he did, we had sardines. The girls won’t
let me eat sardines now; they say they are indi-
gestible. Beth has attended health lectures, and
Gwen is going to marry a doctor. Between
them, I daresay they will keep me alive much
longer than I want to be kept. They will make
me walk slowly and go for short tram rides, and
will never let me get properly, thoroughly tired,
so that I can sleep and dream all night that I
am young again.
I shall never settle down into taking an interest
in Mrs. Sowerby’s cook, nor in the wickedness of
Mrs. Denby-Cross’s last housemaid, who left in a
hurry and took the silver teaspoons by mistake—
nor in the Mothers’ Meetings and Rescue Societies.
I suppose people must be rescued, and that magic
lantern entertainments for South Sea Islanders are
an excellent institution, but I always wonder why
church mission people are such gossips and find
out their neighbors’ backslidings so easily, and
seem quite disappointed if they haven’t any ! I
shall never feel a chastened pleasure in detailing
my symptoms to a select group. I shall always
forget to put my cap on straight, if one of the girls
doesn’t watch me all the time. I shall always feel
disappointed when they go into Trott’s, the con-
fectioner’s, for afternoon tea, and order for me the
usual sponge cake—stale because that is more
easily digested—and the glass of sterilised milk,
while they—because, forsooth, they are young and
hearty—indulge in those dear little cakes with the
pink icing on the top, and all sorts of nice, deadly
things inside them.
I am not really wanted here any more. The
world is for the young. The sunshine is for the
young; the moonlight on wide waters and the
sound of music floating over from the town, the
warm clasp of a man’s hand about your own, are
for the young. The budding roses in the park,
where you can lounge on the grass and see the
blue sky laughing through the oreaking, whisper-
ing bamboo shoots, are for the young ! Fancy
me lolling on the grass ! It would give me rheu-
matism, and the girls would scold. One of my
future sons-in-law, if I were so foolish as to insist
on sitting out of doors, would carry out a camp-
stool for me, and someone would put a wrap aver
my shoulders.
And they say—if lam careful —I may live for
years—many years !
M. FORREST.
The Night I Spent in Quod.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I SPENT a night in Quod last year—in plain,
unvarnished Quod;
And I shall marshal swiftly here the
myriad thoughts which trod
Across my brain that dragging night, behind the
bolts and bars—
Behind the door which hid from sight my valued
friends, the stars !
The world went by in grim review—for from that
quiet cell
Had marched a motley, nameless crew—l seemed
to know them well.
They all came back and sat with me, those
shadow-felons odd ;
And there we held grey company, the night I
spent in Quod !
With sunken eyes and shoulders bent, the pallid
legion sat;
All hopeless and impenitent—the scum of For-
tune’s vat.
They spoke no word, but on their souls the vivid
cyphers burned;
I scanned the blazing, fateful rolls, and knew
how much they spurned
The plastic lies and sophistries which wrap the
lives of men—
The paltry, pale theologies, diluted ten times
ten!
I laughed at Churchianity; how cheap the par-
son’s God
Among those wrecks appeared to be—the night
I spent in Quod.
I spoke my thoughts aloud, and one gave forth a
bitter cry;
“I was,” he said, “in days long gone, apilotto
the sky.
I guided souls across a sea which I had never
crossed —
That Gulf of Grim Adversity, where many men
are lost !
I stood upon the wharf—l waved directions from
the shore;
And I concluded all were saved, for they returned
no more.
Butonce I ventured —once I steered” the voice
oflchabod
Reverberated sad and weird, the night I spent in
Quod !
Another shadow lifted high his puny, shaking
paw;
“ And I,” he said, “ in years gone by, I made the
precious Law.
I tabulated punishments—l made a bitter code
For those who dwell in Ishmael’s tents and go the
devil’s road.
I swore that I would conquer crime—that I would
shelter pelf;
Behold the ghastly jest of Time —where am I now
myself ?
Where am I now?” he cried again. “The
chains my soul corrode ”
I saw a shoreless sea of pain that night I spent in
Quod 1
And yet another hoarsely cried—his voice was
like a scar;
“And I stood on the further side—was not as
others are;
I was the Upright Citizen—Respectability
And all the high Commandments Ten were typi-
fied in me !
The siren voice of Self-Esteem made music in my
breast—
Whene’er I crossed life’s turbid stream that voice
shut out the rest!
I only thought of Mine and Me—l patronised my
God”—
I saw a foundered Pharisee the night I spent in
Quod !
The others sat with burning eyes—the voiceless
multitude
Whose unarticulated Whys in flaming symbols
stood.
I spoke for them, and said: “Behold! What think
ye now of these
Whom ye sent forth in days of old to cross un-
charted seas?
For these ye made your bitter codes, for these ye
made the laws;
They tramp alway the evil roads of vice and crime
because
Their fathers’ blood is in their veins—their fathers’
ways they plod.”
T called the Three the Sons of Cain—that night
I spent in Quod !
“Aye, ye are Cains, ye Three,” I said. “Ye
regulated well
The great machine which surely sped these others
into Hell.
The parson and the Pharisee, the man who made
the laws;
The ushers of eternity—ye are effect and cause !
Go now and lead these brothers hence, to what
they ought to be—
God’s surplus of omnipotence is rotting use-
lessly ! ”
They rose and left me in my cell—like phantoms
grey they trod;
A slender ray of sunshine fell, and it was dawn in
Quod 1
VIO.
GRANT HERVEY,


Boils, Pimples, Rashes—all eruptions of the
skin, cured by Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. A splendid
blood-purifier and strenglh-restorer. Read Mr. J.
Sinkinson’s strong words in its praise. His photo-
graph is also given.
h
ĥ
“I suffered for years from indigestion,
and a sort of heat lumps over my body.
The medicines recommended to me did no
good and I only wasted my money on them.
Being strongly advised to try
AYER’S
Sarsaparilla
I did so, and was agreeably surprised, as it
did for me all that is claimed for it. After
taking several bottles I was cured entirely
of my complaints. This is some years ago,
but I have continued to take two or three bottles every year, as Ayer’s Sar-
saparilla builds me up and enables me to carry on my duties.”
J. Sinkinson, Unley, S. A,
Keep your blood in good condition, keep your digestion
strong, and keep your nervous system vigorous. Then
you will not suffer from the weakening effects of hot
weather. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla was made for just these
purposes. It cools the blood, tones up the digestive appa-
ratus, puts force info the nervous system. And it fortifies
against hot weather, cold weather, pr changeable weather.
It gives strength to ward off diseas^.
Don’t be deceived by trying some other Sarsapa-
rilla. Don’t experiment with imitations. Hold fast
to the tried and tested Sarsaparilla —AYER’S. A
tonic for all seasons of the year.
Prepared by DR. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Maas., IT. S. A.
Ayer’s Pills are a purely vegetable laxative for the whole family.
FR
And
POST
Artistic
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each containing @1
of our colored and high art Post Card 9 to sell for us, at 6d. per packet. When you
have sold the cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from the list of jewellery which \ye send you. By continuing- the sale
of our cards you can earn a Ladies’ or Cent’s Silver Watch and Chain. Bemember, we
want to do business with you again, and to do this we must give you full satisfaction.
ħ
We take aU the Risk. You can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with aajy oftltor firm.
We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could no# make you
this liberal offer. Be. the first in your district. Our post cards sell at once, wherever seen.
REGAL POST CARD Co., 8.K., Pitt-st., Sydney
FREE.
h
RINGS, RIFLES, PHOTO.
CAMERAS, SILVER WATCHES, MUSI-
CAL, INSTRUMENTS AND MANY
OTHER VALUABLE PRIZES.
Send us your name and address and we will send
you, Post Free, Twelve Pure Aluminium Thimbles
to sell (or us afc 6d. each. When you have sold
them send us our 6s. and your choice of presents
from the list we will forward you. We take all
i the Risk. You can return the thimbles if not sold.
We impost our prizes or we could not make you
this liberal offer. KS the first in your district.
THE ALUMINIUM CO.,
8.K., O’Connell Street, Sydney.
FREE TRIAL 11
NOT A PENNY COWN.
Simply drop u« a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
lat"s improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELEQTRIp BELT
is the most perfect and* complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney, Live .andSt machComplaints, Nervous-
ness, and all weakness of Men and Womejn.
We will give Free son writing
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in anyway
delay no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
Whe Dr Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
gj* 1 I
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALISE
BONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
themselves of all nervous troubles,
riTTTvn’ their serious consequences. A HOME
LURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
SYJDisTEItr.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
|o* mco<i
| tS s£N c£ > u> f
The only Infallible Remedy for WEARNESS & DEBILITY
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparailelet
success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord's Essence of Life restores Manhood to th(
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four Quantities in one for 3Ss ; freight, is. 4
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents—Perry A Co., 47 Queer
St Melbourne ; F. H. Faulding A Co., t 6 O’Connell St.
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, whici
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss o
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Oastlereagh
Street, Sydney.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedi
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
ĥ
ħ
h
The New Patent
(SOUND DISCS
Completely overcome Dkafnkss
and Hjead Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn month's without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Addraw-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St.. Melbourne
c H
vX
■"V.
■
o
A-
•Oft
SQX
Q
2fe
Shield yourself'
from Illness
Pills
are the best
\Shield against/
attacks^
L
'ood Uip will
not necessarily
guarantee
a GOOD PRICE unless handled
GOOD SALESMEN.
HILL CLARK & CO.,
will guarantee BEST MARKET VALUE.
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OF SELF-CURE, will
forward the same, tree o.’ charge, to any-
one interested.
Address: A;MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
r-5
V. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collection of his best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price, 4s: 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
ĥ
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cares the same
diseases In 48
hours without
incon-
venience.
Each Capsule bears the name u*“
ħ
3sf=
men
NO
WOMEN
Over 20,000 Successfully
Treated during the last 25 years.
SUCCESS UNPARALLELED IN AUSTRALIA.
DR. MARTIN, M.D., Etc.,
The only Leg-ally Qualified Author and Specialist Advertising-and
Holding his Qualifications. v
Specialist in Nervous, Skin Troubles, Rupture, Varicocele, etc.
Consulting Physician in Men’s Special Disorders.
DISEASES OF WOMEN A SPECIALITY. Moderate Charges.
Effectual Treatment, Absolute and Rapid Cures.
Acute. Disorders Cured in 48 hours. Chronic Cases, sto 10 davs
SPECIAL NOTICE. —DR. MARTIN’S Five Lectures may be had for 2s. (id., post free. >
PRESS EXTRACTS.—The Australian Press on Dr. Martin’s publications. Post Free.
“SPECIMEN PAGES.”—A glimpse of what “The Diseases of Men and Women ”is like. Thirtv
pages, fully illustrated. Posted Free for two stamps. ■
Consultation Free (personally, or by letter). Hours, 10 to 4 ; 7 to 9 daily
Dr. Martin receives a Limited-Number of RESIDENT Patients at “ ELMLEY HOUSE.”
CALL OR WRITE. NOTE ADDRESS—
DR, MARTIN, M.D., “Elmley House,” 151 Elizabeth-streei,
YD M E Y.


Use Your
Hose —Now
If you use a Gar-
den Hose now,
you’ll get more out
of your garden
later on more
pleasure, more
flowers, more veg-
etables—better ones, too.
There's no better Kose than ours.
Send for
Price Lists
There’s a lot. that's not nearly so
pood. Our llose has a reputation
behind it, and every hose we sell
will do that reputation pood.
Perdnau Rubber Co. Ltd.
Manufacturers and Importers,
270 GEORGE STREET , SYDNEY.
ASTHMA CURE
6RIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETEES
riS^ ty slL e^ eCtoration ; Asthma, NervonsConahs
WORTHINGTON PUMP CO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
AMMATT'S
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
mark.
The Beaver Brand has stood the test of time.
mar
WOLF
At the Showrooms—
Empire Chamiiers, 93 York Street,
Also at SYDNEY
" THE BLOCK,"
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
proprietors
J. & J, Maxfield, Ltd., Sheffield
h
ĥ
TINTARA
WINES. .
700 Prizes.
Sydney, Melbourne,
ħ
AUSTIN CRUSHER.
FORCED LUBRICATION.
RIGID ECCENTRIC BEARING.
DOUBLE COUNTERSHAFT BEARINGS.
THOROUGHLY DUST PROOF.
Sole Agents—
W. & J. LEMPRIERE ,
MELBOURNE; SYDNEY.
PARKE &
60 CLARENCE
LACY COY LTD.
STREET, SYDNEY, NS.W.
h
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA FOR
KNOWLES STEAM PUMPS
All Sizes and Styles Kept in Stock.
Single, and Duplex; Regular/ Brass, and iron Fitted (for Cyanide),
EVERY PUMP IS GUARANTEED.
Catalogues and Pun particulars on Application.
“There is No Better Pump than the Knowles.”
MARSHALL’S.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO. *
97 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY,
Engineers’, Ironmonger's and Machinery Merchants.
IN m STOCK SOLE AGENTS—
Marshall s Portable, Horizontal, Vortical, Dredge Engines and Boilers.
SNOW Duplex Steam Pumps & Fittings,
Pulleys— Cast, W. 1., Woqd, Shafting, Hangers, Ac, Gun Metal Fittings,
Valves, Lubricators, &c., Iron— Bar, Rod, Plate, Steel Wheels, Pipe and
Fittings, Engineers’ Tools, and Importers of all Steam Users
Requirements.
TELEPHONES
FOR PASTORALIST, STOCK AND
STATION WORK.
Write for our
PHONES.
FREE BOOK on TELE-
HOW TO INSTAL THEM.
ĥ
!OY.
279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ħ
SUPPORT HOME INDUSTRIES.
THE “ABBOTT” FILTER
Is Australian, and has
withstood the Sevei
Bacteriological Tests.
AN Sizes, Fountain or
Pressure, from 20s .
It you want to drink ABSOLUTELY PURE WATER, buy an “ABBOTT.”
THE RAPLIN
Hand Ice Machine
Will Freeze Water in 3 Minutes.
Invaluable in the Country
where Ice cannot be got.
h
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD
ĥ
