

dfgfd
thitsu rcjtiA
STIMULANT.
10*7 Kent street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, HUningL
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILAB
sgfd
3EE «3 IO T.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EV/ERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
GIBSON, BATTLES & CO., "7 Bent Street, SYDNEY
HAVE IN STOCK AND TO ARRIVE—
Centrifugal Pumps, Ram Pumps, Turbine Pumps
IRRIGATION PLANTS OF ANY CAPACITY. Illustrated Lists and Particulars sent
MEPHAN FERGUSON'S SPIRALLY RIVETED PIPES. on Application. mr
gd
back
it
Take
must
S
Pine-Apple Brand
sfg
sA r
national
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branch:
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society). jp. GIBB, Manager.
Active Agents and Canvassers Wanted.
aM,
ASH YOUR GROCER FOR
wm—mm
,':;r
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS!
wl)
to
TEA
ii
i
dfsg
fd
0
ASK
FOR
STANDARD PALE ALE
THE COCOA OF THE OLD COUNTRY.
ZT\4T /-
A&solutely Pure
It is the purest ai\d n\ost economical
cocoa iivuse. It’s nicest too.
7fl£ MNCfrsq/s is the'Stan dard of highest purity\
gdf
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
i<V *-■
The Bulletin
V01.27.—N0. 1369. ]
[Thursday, May 10, 1906.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


SECOND EDITION, REVISED AND ENLARGED.
A CUMSUCKER ON THE TRAMP.
By N. F.
Undoubtedly the best book of travel published in Australia,
vacation tour to England and the continent..
SPIELVOGEL,
postage 2d.
The author words with fine humor a
wrapper Is,
HEART’S
DESIRE,
A novel by Kmerson Hough, author of Gill at
Halfway House, &c v cloth 3s 6d, postage 6d.
DOUBLE
TROUBLE,
A novel by Herbert Quick, illustrated,
cloth 3s 6d, postage 6d.
George Robertson <& Co. Prop. Ltd.,
71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
STATIONERS,
mWA
the Great
Aatiseptic Remedy
He p/s-re,
for Influenza , Bronchitis, Asthma.,&&ll of
fhe I’bro&l’& lungs,& for prevention of Consumption
Sold in Tins, 1/6, or Post Free on receipt of stamps from, the Sole Manufacturer, C. HUDSON, Chemist,lpswich,
Queensland. SYDNEY DEPOTS and 7 Queen’s Place. Agencies in all the Australian States & New Zealand.
LONDON AGENT—W. F. Pasmore, Chemist, 3'2oRegent Street AV.
THE RED PAGE.
A writer in The North American Review, exhort-
ing his countrymen to improve their defences,
makes novel argument by tabulating 17 occasions
upon which American militia ran away. He adds
to this table another showing how, on 13 occasions
American militia mutinied, and superadds a third
to testify that on 10 occasions the States defied
the CJ.S. Government by refusing to furnish their
militia to its service, “is not the above a glorious
record for the Americans to contemplate?—Ameri-
cans are so prone to boasting of the prowess of
their citizen-soldiers.” The whole article touches
Australia. Washington is quoted: “To place
any dependence upon militia is assuredly resting
upon a broken staff.” There is something in
reply : nevertheless Washington is worth con-
sidering. And W. continues :
“ Regular troops alone are equal to the exigencies of
modern war, as well for defence as offence, and whenever
a substitute is attempted it must prove illusory and
ruinous. No militia will ever acquire the habits neces-
sary to resist a regular force.... The firmness requisite
for the real business of fighting is only to be attained by,
a constant course of discipline and service. I have never
yet been witness to a single instance that can justify a
different opinion, and it is most earnestly to be wished
that the liberties of America may no longer be trusted, in
any material degree, to so precarious a dependence.”
Brooklyn (Amur.) public library authorities,
after deep thought, have refused to issue Huck
Finn arid Tom Sawyer to children under fifteen.
This is a stroke of humour th rt eclipses Twain’s,
A. H. Adams contributes to The Nineteenth
Century a bright and telling article on “The
Insularity of the English ” —who will feel it as
much as an elephant feels a flea-bite.
LAST night I read within a ragged book,
Telling of love unquenchable as God’s;
And O, I laughed to see each letter
orook
Like sooted twigs on crackling cypress rods.
Such love could ne’er be part of man, his fate;
The bloody passions of the flesh make pain ;
A thousand thousand stars shall abdicate
Ere you or I can see such love again.
Such marble love, stone-white, and peaceable;
Enormous, huge ; it tops the very sky,
Reaching to earth and back, unceasable,
Beyond the confines of philosophy.
Bdt we of little wit, and sifted thin,
Have not the worth or stable strength to meet
So boundless grace of godly origin ;
Nay, rather seek an equal sweet for sweet.
Man’s love, uncertain, and as often base,
Is full of fire and lusty hardihood ;
And love, not kneeling, finds especial place
With stubborn hearts, and is accounted good.
We want not clovered peace : the sap of life
Yearns for the clash of glaives and play of
shields;
Our souls go, winning, through the smoke of
strife
Into the swart, sun-liidden battle-fields.
We like our boist’rous kind, the flesh tight-set
Across the muscles of a mighty arm ;
Can build for love a holy coronet,
A place of refuge safe from all alarm.
The love of God... The candle-lives of priests
Mumbling obeisance in a stained-glass tomb !
For all their dross, our drinking and our feasts
Were ours by Nature from our mother’s womb.
Live ! Let us live, and love each other thro’,
Ours is the love of lusty hardihood ;
True love can never kneel, and yet be true :
By standing ye shall prove your love is good.
But, 10, God’s love is very peaceable,
Too great for us. It tops the middle sky,
Reaching to earth and back, unceasable,
Beyond the confines of Philosophy.
H. MoC.
I ROWED upon the water,
And the tall hills silent towered ;
In the East a white moon waited,
In the West a sunset flowered,
I was minded, then, of roses
Making red a royal arbour,
Or of spilt wine, or of shed blood,
By the rich lights on the harbour.
The sunset poured its largesse
, On grey rocks and snowy beaches,
While white sea-birds touched with rose-light
.Sat serene on shining reaches.
The East was tinged and sweetened
With a tinted light of roses ;
And the moon was like a white pearl
That in velvet valve reposes.
I ceased my listless rowing,
And in time with all I drifted ;
For the hour had made me captive,
And I, too, was lit and lifted.
The splendour flamed and flooded
Skies above and water under,
And a sense of Beauty thrilled me,
And my soul grew drunk with wonder.
“God reigns, for sure,” I murmured,
Eyes alight and soul elated ;
And’ I drank and drank and wondered,
But I drank with thirst unsated.
I thought of music muted,
And of colour slowly paling,
And —unstayed by that spread splendour—
In my heart was ancient ailing.
I saw the after-shadow,
Like a lord of death firm seated
On the colour-throne of sunset,
And my high joy fell defeated.
To hold the best forever—
All of joy all time to cherish :
That we seek—alas, ’tis hopeless,
For the good gifts soonest perish.
Is love, too, like the sunset ?
“Nay !” we answer, wdd with rapture;
But, when all the honey’s eaten.
Was it worth the stings to capture ?
R. Q.
NEW GUINEA NOTIONS
IN Two Years Among New Guinea Can-
nibals (Lond. ; Geo. Bell), A. E. Pratt
gives a capital account of his wanderings
in Dutch and British New Guinea. He
hunted butterflies and birds, but picked up
orchids by whiles, and all the time was gain-
ing impressions of the natives and their
ways. The book is freshly and handsomely
illustrated from photographs.
It must be read with a reference to
the map of areas traversed. Mr. Pratt is
apt to generalise, and one cannot credit to
the whole of New Guinea his observations of
particular tribes. No one, for example, who
knows Australian aborigines, will justify
application of the epithet “debased” to
tribes that have not come into contact with
whites, or will believe that any typical
aborigine when shown a picture of Queen
Victoria said it was a ship. (Probably the
aborigine said “sheep.”)
With this reservation Mr. Pratt is a pleas-
ant companion. He sidelights New Guinea
customs—some that are familiar, and many
which are not. He refers to the New Guinea
chiefs who, when spoiling for a fight, send a
challenge to the nearest worthy antagonist.
(This has been addressed before now to Com-
monwealth magistrates.) Mr. Pratt got his
challenge from a fierce warrior named
Baw-boi :
His emissaries conveyed to me a most agreeable
message, that if we and our followers should
honour him with a visit at Mi-Mi, he would kill
my men, and have the of cooking and
eating our heads—a compliment, presumably, to
the superiority of European brains. I had fully
intended to visit him, but after this token of cor-
diality I refrained, so that the menu of the chief
Baw-boi’s regal banquet has not yet included
the tempting item, “braised brains of Pratt.”
The method of courtship in New Guinea is
very like that described by Becke in “ Long
Charley’s Good Little Wife ” :
The intending suitor generally comes to the
point during a tribal dance which has been
arranged by calling from hill to hill. If the
woman agrees to the match, the wooer does not
think it at all necessary to make to her
father, but should negotiations be required lie is
neither laggard nor bashful. He puts the price in
his bag and approaches the house of the sire,
entering boldly and sitting down unbidden. Not
infrequently the girl also comes in and sits prob-
ably in a hammock, listening to the debate on
which her destiny hangs.
The suitor at once names his price; if the old
man thinks this is a promising bargain, he shows
himself quite willing to discuss matters. If there
is tobacco, the suitor takes up his host’s “ Bau.
bau,” draws a few whiffs, passes it to the father,
scratches his head violently with both hands, and
proceeds to haggle. Should the father think the
match a stood thing he seldom con-
sent long ; but if he considers the young man is
under-bidding, he. holds out stithy till the youth
has raised the price sufficiently. As soon as the
father consents, the bride is taken away at once
and without any fuss. There is no ceremony and
no wedding feast.
Mr. Pratt concludes that Papuans are not
a long-lived race. The mountain people die
ofl about 40, and the oldest man seen may
have been 60 years of age. , As in Australia,
there is no belief in natural death, and every
decease is attributed to poison in a vague
and general way.
Belief in another world they have none, and the
most elementary ideas of religion do not seem to
exist. There is not even any definite superstition,
but only a sort of vague and particularly childish
b e hefm some kind of magic under the name of,
Fi-h. This is a sort of divination, and is prac-
tised at night by a recognised medium, usually a
girl, who is “ Fi-fi,” and yet who is, at the same
tune, believed to represent this mysterious power
of “Fi-fL”
Thus it seems that any well-accredited
white medium, with a proper paraphernalia
of masks and draperies and phosphorus,
would do extremely well in New Guinea.
J*
Mr. Pratt brings back pleasant memories
of the Papuans. He says they are jovial,
light-hearted people, and when once a
stranger has won their confidence they are
hospitable and friendly. Mr. Pratt won
their confidence so far that when he found
himself without heads (which are the journey-
money of the explorer), and was anxious to
push farther into the interior, he was able to
borrow all the beads of a friendly tribe, on a
promise to repay double the quantity when
his stock came up from the coast.
In Australia some people build houses,
making special provision for bicycles and
motor-cars. In New Guinea they make it
for dogs :
The dogs at Epa and Port Moresby were highly-
favoured animals. Not only had they the run of
the house, but each house had an entrance sacred
to'the dog. To this access was given by special
dog-ladders, 9 inches wide, with the rungs quite a
toot apart, up and down which the animals ran
like monkeys.
The chapter on trade prospects deserves
serious consideration. In sandalwood,
beche-de-mer, copra and cocoanut products’
cocoa, coffee and rubber, and especially in
tobacco, British New Guinea offers rich
opportunities. Mr. Pratt refers to Austra-
lian opposition to the development of New
Guinea by capitalists, and contrasts it with
the methods of the Germans, who have
financed a large tobacco enterprise and are
exporting the leaf in great quantities.
SOME RECENT BOOKS
IN The World’s Desires (Lond., Kegan Paul;
10s. Gd. net) Edgar A. Ashcroft attempts in
a single volume to survey the critical pro-
blems of life and ethics. Considering the
range of ideas that he must compass, his work is
singularly well done. He advocates a philosophy
of realism, and has no difficulty in showing that
human progress has arisen entirely by enlargement
of the boundaries of science upon the firm ground
of observed facts, and that human error has been
associated chiefly with reliance upon supernatural
mythology founded on fancy and incapable of
proof. The only sound method of reasoning is to
proceed from the thing that is to the thing that
may be; and a religion of guesses has become
impossible to rational men who will not make
the great refusal of feason that is faith.
Mr. Ashcroft’s book is so moderate in tone, so
lucid in style, that even his opponents may read
and admire it. His historical recital traverses
familiar ground. The novelty and chief value of
his work are in the constructive application of
realism to morals. He weighs the merits of sys-
tems and decides that the religious idea of
altruism is justified by rational philosophy, thus
achieving as he goes the theoretical union of
Religion and Science that has been dreamed
often. The argument in support of his theory
occupies the concluding section of the book, and
has high original value as a piece of exposition.
He contends that Haeckel’s “just balance be-
tween egoism and altruism ” is not only practicable
of attainment, but that it is the best status to which
any individual can attain—the status which
will best pay the individual. The Over-Man,
when he comes, will not refuse the gospel of Pity
—in the first place, because that gospel is so inex-
tricably inwoven with hereditary fibres that a
society of sublime egotists would be probably
a society of sublime criminals ; and in the second
place, because that gospel is necessary to the
highest individual development. Ashcroft's doc-
trine is therefore a doctrine of compromise: he
would love his neighbour in himself ; and, instead
of drawing a mythical city of Salvation down
from the heavens, he would build it stone by stone
toward the heavens from the earth.
The book should have been supplied with an
index of names and arguments.
In The Churches and Modern Thought (Lond.,
Watts ; 6s. net.) Philip Vivian is occupied by the
preliminary controversy with Christianity. His
book is a convenient summary of rationalistic
argument, well arranged and well written, and
adding to-day’s conclusions to the polemic of the
past. The misfortune of such books is that they
are rarely read by the people they are intended to
benefit: only here and there some inquiring
youth, some thoughtful man, fretting in the
shackles of creeds, may be illumined and con-
firmed in scepticism. If we were not such slaves
of ancestral opinion, militant rationalism of the
kind would be all unnecessary.
One elementary lesson in astronomy, properly
comprehended, is sufficient to prove the incredi-
bility of geocentric fables. It is to the; diffusion
of common education that we must look for
freedom : the boy taught to rely upon knowledge
is inevitably impelled to demur todogina. Every
schoolmaster who answers “Why?” and “How?”
witli a convincing reason makes more difficult the
task of the theologian who has no reason to give.
But there are a cloud of pseudo-reasons that can
be used to deceive the ignorant and unwary, and
it is to expose these that Philip Vivian addresses
himself. It is still a necessary office, though its
necessity be decreasing yearly ; and he has ful-
filled it well.
Metaphsgchical Phenomena, by J. Maxwell
(Loud., Duckworth ; 10s. net) is a partial account
of experiments in table-rapping, levitation, and
similar innocent or guilty games often called
spiritualistic. “ Partial,” as Sir Oliver Lodge in
a preface admits. And Lodge is a friendly wit-
ness, himself suspect of credulity ( e.g ., he reported
favourably upon the tricks of Eusapia Paljadino, a
“medium” whose frauds were subsequently ex-
posed. Professor Richet, who adds a second pre-
face, is another suspect; and recent French papers
have iminted a circumstantial account of his gross
deception by a “medium” to whom he gave the
usual enthusiastic testimonial, and who subse-
quently made a mocking confession of fraud.
Gulls of a feather flock together.
Dr. Maxwell appears to be an honest and
earnest inquirer, and he admits that “spirit-
ualistic ” phenomena offer a fine field of imposture
to many persons who crave notoriety, or are
willing to live easily at the expense of dupes.
But he contends that there lias been a residuum
of raps, etc., in his experiments to which the
hypothesis of fraud does not apply. As to that,
he gives no evidence to bring conviction. One is not
.satisfied either that he is competent to detect a
cheat, or that the possibility of cheating him was
eliminated. Consequently his book is little more
than a dainty dish for gobemouches.
The whole spiritualistic question may be
summed shortly. There are many areas* in the
field of cerebral investigation that remain obscure.
When the records of telepathy, subconscious or
unconscious mental action, involuntary nervous or
muscular motion, and so on, have beeu sifted, there
remain a number of observed facts or impressions
which have not yet been fully explained or reduced
to scientific order. There is not one of those facts
or impressions which exceeds the conceivable
capacity of the human brain and the human body,
not one which cannot be met adequately by a
purely physiological theory ; and every advance
in explanation is an advance in the physiological
domain. There is no evidence whatever that
justifies attribution of such facts or- impressions to
volitional agencies in any sphere beyond the
human sphere.
March Monthly Review presents an article by T.
A. Cook on Harold Parsons, once a Melb. Grammar
Schoolboy, whose essay on “Federation” was
printed in The Melbourne Review when he was
sixteen years old. Parsons took a degree at
Oxford, was called to the Bar, and in 1893-4 came
to Westralia, and was elected second Mayor of
Kalgoorlie. He made money and got a seat in
W.A. Upper House; married ; went to England ;
lost his money and his wife, and fought through
the African war. He died at Lagos, West
Africa, last August.
Cooke’s article is too partial: he says that
“in the present shape of the Australian Com-
monwealth Bill [? Act] he [Parsons] has left a
definite practical result behind him, such as few
man have produced who are not the accredited
statesmen of their country.” This result s
attributed to a contribution to Blackwood for Nov.,
1899. “ Clause 74 in the Commonwealth Bill reads
as it does owing to the repeated and forcible
expositions made by Harold Parsons of the
danger involved in denying to Australia the
appeal to the Privy Council. He did not wholly
succeed : but the High Court of the Empire was
practically established when he achieved the
victory of preserving the appeal for all Australian
citizens in all matters except constitutional
questions of domestic interest.”
The claim is too'large ; and the appeal in prac-
tice has been restricted—rightly. If ever a
“ High Court of the Empire ” be established, it is
not to the disputes of individuals that its atten-
tion will be advantageously or wisely given. . But
Parsons seems to have been a brave and kindly
soul.
The March number of Art and Architecture has
an article by D. H. Souter showing the effect of
“skyscraper” buildings in Sydney, ingeniously
developed with illustrations. The curious feature
of G. S. Jones’s dfeam of his “ own house” is an
insistence that “my rooms shall not be of
greater height than 9ft. 9in., for any above
that in a small house is so much wasted space, it
being as possible to thoroughly ventilate a low
room as a lofty room.” Mechanically, yes. But
without mechanical ventilation, and given his nor-
mal share of furniture, dust, and carbonic acid
gas, G, S. Jones would assuredly find that
he had decreased his living ratio of oxygen,
even if his walls were all windows. There is no
one room that will meet the Australian climate.
The ideal is a summer room like a Colombo hotel’s,
30ft. high, with a winter snuggery for retreat.
And since pockets must compromise, room-height
should try to meet both seasons.
There is a good argument that Australians
should live practically out-of-doors in summer,
reserving the house as a den for August; but Mr.
Jones does not press that. His house is almost
the usual house, with rooms 9ft. 9in. If he would
add a folding wall on one or two sides, his idea is
worthy.
The maga. gives a full set of plans of the Syd-
ney public library to be built, and reproductions
of several of Miss Joel’s pictures,
Botanists and students of science may note that
Darwin’s Movements and Habits of Climbing
Plants is added to Murray’s half-crown (net) re-
issue of the works of the greatest naturalist.
The Interpreters, by Margaretta Byrde (Lond.,
Unwin ; 2s. fid.) is the old fashioned kind of
“sensible” novel that intelligent husbands take
home to good wives, or (if you prefer) good
husbands take home to intelligent wives. Tt is a
story of common incident and uncommon character
in Cornwall, varied by romantic melodrama and
spiced with a colliery explosion. Its class and
merit are. similar to Mrs. Henry Wood’s—that old
favourite who sells still by the thousand to the
brooding sex.
A.G.S.
MEMORANDA
~Y[«CrHEN Deakin talks!
wV/ Then every word you ever heard takes
up its bed and walks ;
But he ties them all together in the
gentlest kind of tether,
And—first thing that you know of they are going
liell-for-leather !
Yet he humours them and eases them.
And butters them and greases them,
Till reminded by a stammer he has used up all his
grammar ;
So they trot back to their stable underneath the
chairman’s table,
And he has n’t shed a feather, for it’s mild and
pleasant weather
When Deakin talks !
But when Deakin talks !
Then every ghost from every coast puts on its
shroud and stalks ;
And he marches to confession at the head of the
procession,
And the other fellows’ sins you hear are simply
past expression !
But the dictionary watches them,
The cyclopedia catches them,
Till you feel the Opposition was predestined to
perdition;
So they go down to Gehenna like a double dose of
senna,
And he takes a glass of water for defeating them
with slaughter
When Deakin talks!
And when Deakin really talks !
Then you wonder why in thunder any speaker
ever balks;
For the language leaves his throttle like a blessing
from a bottle
That consoles the dying swagman as he lies
beneath the wattle:
With its glug, glug, glug—
And you wish you’d brought a jug
To collect the verbal potion dropping like a
soothing lotion
Till all the world’s a stage of pure molasses set in
motion,
And with a burst he stops.... Holy Bunyip ! but
you ’re thirsty
When Deakin TALKS !


RABBIT
WANTED
Also KANGAROO, WALLABY,
OPOSSUM, &C.
Consign to :
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Limited, Wool and Produce Salesmen, SYDNEY.
MICK SIMMONS. The Leading Sports Depot.
—c
ar
GOLF.
(Postage on one Golf Iron, 9d. N.S.W., Is. 2d. Inter-State.)
Drivers and Brassies cannot be Posted (too long).
Auchterlonie’s International Clubs
s. d.
Bulger Drivers 6 9
Cleeks, Mid Irons 6 9
Driving Irons, Mashies 6 9
Bulger Brassies 7 6
Straight or Bent Neck Patent Putters 8 0
“8.G.1.” Celebrated Clubs.
“ 8.G.1.” “ FAIRFIELD ” Drivers and Brassies .. .. 4 6
“8.G.1.” “ FAIRFIELD ” Cleeks, Jiggers, Mashies, Mid
Irons, Putters 4 6
“8.G.1.” Drivers and Brassies 8 0
“ 8.G.1.” Irons (all styles) 5 0
Spalding’s Golf Clubs.
“MORRISTOWN,” Cleeks, Mid Irons, Mashies, Putters,
Niblicks 4 6
“ MORRISTOWN,” Drivers and Brassies 4 6
“CRESCENT,” Cleeks, Putting Cleeks, Mid Irons, Lofters,
Drivers .. „ _ 6 9
Mick
Simmons
GOLF BALLS.
s. d.
“ BRAMBLE ” Floaters .. ..8 6 doz.
HENLEY’S “Ocobo” .. .. 16 0 „
HENLEY’S “ Melford” .. .. 15 0 „
s. d.
“Silvertown” 15 6 doz.
“ Haskell ” (American) .. .. 30 0 ~
Wizard ” 30 0 ~
“ Springvale Eagle ” .. .. 30 0 „
(Postage on 1 dozen, 9d. N.S.W., Is. 2d. Interstate).
CADDY BAGS.
Postage on Bag, N.S.VV. 9d., Interstate Is. 2d.
s. d.
Caddy Bags, Canvas, outside Pocket, leather bottom and sling .. ..4 0 each.
Brown Waterproof Canvas, outside pocket, leather bottom and sling ..5 0 ~
Same as above, better quality 6 0 „
Same as No. 2, superior quality 7 6 ~
Same as No. 2, extra special quality .. .. .. .. .. .. 10 6 „
Solid Hide Caddy Bags, best quality, outside pocket 15 0 „
Same as above, extra quality 25 0 ~
Young 1 America Revolvers, 22 R.F.,
7 chambered, double action, nickel,
2in. barrel, B|oz., 10s 6d (Postage 6d)
Young America Revolvers, 32 C.F.,
safety hammer, 5 chambered, 2in.
barrel, BJoz., nickel, 10s 6d. (Post-
age 6d)
S. & W. Pattern Revolvers, 320 C.F.,
nickel or blued, automatic ejector,
3Jin. barrel, vulcanite stock, 13£oz.
(Post. 9d. N.S.W. ; Is. 2d. Inter-State.), 13s 6d
S. & W. Pattern Revolvers, 380 0.F., same as above, 3Jin.
barrel, 18oz. (Post. 9d. N.S.W. ; Is. 2d. Inter-State),
153 6d ... „ ,
Hopkins’ “ Forehand ” S.&W. Pattern Automatic Revol-
vers, 32 cal. C.F., 3in. barrel, weight lib., a limited
quantity only. (Post. 9d, or Is 2d Inter-State), 17s 6d
-
Young:
America.
LAWN TENNIS .
w
3/6
gf
liANblCAt>
5/-
d
STANbAftb
7/3
I
Ascot
2/6
Postage on 1 Racquet, 9d N.S.W. ; Is 2d inter-State.
The above four lines of Racquets are absolutely the best value
in Australia, and are a new departure in the Racquet Trade.
F. H. AYRES’ RACQUETS.
Child’s .. 3s 9d, 4s 9d
Full Size .. 6s 6d, 7s 6d
Sandown .. .. 8s 9d
Handicap .. .. 12s 6d
A 1 14s 6d
Cork Handle .. 16s
Champion .. .. 19s 6d
Central Strung .. 24s
SLAZENCER’S RACQUETS.
Renshaw .. .. 13s 6d
Demon .. .. 18s
Whitehouse .. 25s
“E.G.M.” .. .. 30s
“ Doherty ” .. 35s
TENNIS BALLS. doz
Grey or Terra Cotta 4s 6d
Challenge, cov. reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s grey reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s cov. .. 16s
Ayres’ grey reg. .. 8s 6d
Ayres’ cov. reg. .. 9s 6d
Ayres’ Cyprus .. 12s 6d
Ayres’ Handicap .. 15s
Ayres’ Champion .. 16s 6d
MICK SIMMONS’ SPORTING GOODS
BOXING GLOVES.
Postage on 1 Set, Is N.S.W. ; Is 8d inter-State.
Boys’ Cloth, 5s set
Boys’ Chamois, 6s, 6s 6d set
Boys’ Tan, 6s, 7s set
Men’s Practice, Boz., 6s 6d set
Men’s Chamois, Boz., 8s set
Men’s Tan, Boz., 8s 6d set
Men’s Special Value “ C. 8.8.” Soz. Fighting
Gloves, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 14s 6d set: 6oz
12s 6d set
Men’s Superior Gold Cape or Chamois, Champion
shape, Boz., 12s 6d, 14s 6d, 16s 6d, 21s, 25s set
Bryan’s Best Champion, 4, 6 or Boz., 19s, 21s set
Bryan’s 2nd quality, 6 or Soz., 15s 6d set
MICK SIMMONS
The Great
Monte Carlo
Came.
Perfection of
Mechanical
Ingenuity.
Finest Quality Gun
Metal Case,
Superior Move-
ments (tested by
expert). Price—
10/6
POST
FREE.
Only a limited
quantity on hand.
Next shipment due
in about 6 weeks.
\
PUNCHING
BALLS.
Swinging Ball, com-
plete, with best
quality Red Rub-
ber Bladder—7s 6d,
11s 6d, 15s, 18s, 20s,
21s, 255, 27s 6d.
As diagram, with
double rubber fit-
tings, complete—
15s 6d, 16s 6d, 18s
6d, 21s, 255.
Rubber Cord for fix-
ing ball, 2s yd.
Solid Tubular Rub-
ber (best), 2/6 ft.
Punching Ball
Swivels—ls 6d, 2s,
2s 6d, 3s 6d each
gfd
The “Bullseye” Rifle, 22 Calibre,
20in. Octagon Steel Barrel, rifled, Remington action, walnut
stock, dpen sights, weight about 3flb
Postage—ls 9d N.S.W. ; 3s 2d Inter-State).
7s
Illustrated Fishing Tackle, Sports, Tobacco Lists, Anglers’ Guide and Hints on Fishing—Post Free.
The Celebrated
“ MAINE
RIFLE
"THE MAINE ”
tShaunng Pifle Apart.
fitted with Sporting* Rear Sights to 300yds., Bolt
Action, ISin. Blued Steel Barrel, Walnut Stock.
Shoots 22 Short, Long*, or Extra Long* Cartridges.
Weight, 2Jib.
PRICE 15/6
POSTAGE ON RIFLE—N.S.W., 1/3; INTER.
STATE, 2/2 EXTRA.
MICK SIMMONS.
WINCHESTER THUMB TRIGGER RIFLE.
22 cal., 20in. Blued Steel Barrel, bolt action, weight about 2Jlb
Postage : N.S.W., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d.
Winchester S.S. Rifle, 1902 Model, 22 Cal., R.F., peep or V
sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2Jlb.
. Postage : N.S.W., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d
22 Cali b«-e. R.P., 20in. barrel, weight 3Jlb. Postage-
13s 6d
18s Od
16s Od
Postage—2s 6d N.S.W. ;
4s 8d Inter-State.
w
Harrington & Richardson’s 5.8.8. L Gun,
12-gauge, top. action, automatic self-ejecting de-
carbonised steel barrel 30in., solid case hardened
breech, rebounding' locks, pistol
grip, walnut stock, weight
about 6£lb.
£1 7s 6d
MICK
SIMMONS
THE GLOBE
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 or 16 Gauge, top lever, twist barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks,left choke, patent
D. &E. fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. Postage, N.S.W., 2/9 ; Inter-State, 5/2. “frWo
£3
-
Postage on 1 Gun, 2s 9d
N.S.W.; 5s 2d Inter-State.
National Arms Co/s
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, top lever, rebounding bar locks, Greener cross bolt Siemen’s
steel barrels, left choke, pistol walnut stock ; weight, about 71b. ’
ISAAC
HOLLIS
& SONS’
D.8.8.L. Gan, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Real Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt,
Left Choke, Rebounding Loeks, Snap Pore-end,
chambered for 2fin. Cartridges. Guaranteed
for all Smokeless Powders.
Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
gfd
“The Reliable,”
£6 12s 6d
g
Mick Simmons
HOLLIS & SONS* “THE RELIABLE” D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
GUN, 12-gauge, top lever, genuine Damascus or “ Siemen’s ” steel barrels,
both choke, side lock action, automatic safety bolt, extended rib,
Deeley-Edge patent fore-end, fitted with Greener cross-bolt, neatly engraved
2fin. cartridges. GUARANTEED FOR ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, and'
finest-quality Gun in the States. Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W.; 5s 2d Inter-State.
chambered for
absolutely the
JNcoiiijNrnpiwrv
Gun Cartridges .
Cartridges can now be sent by Boat to any
Queensland Port at ordinary Goods Freight.
Pea Rifle Cartridges.
£S£ ETED No - J > 6d > 9d J No. 2, Is 3d ; No. 3, Is fld 100
SHOT No. 1, Is 3d ; No. 2, Is 9d ; No. 3,2 s 6d,. s ,
Rifle Cartridges.
WINCHESTER, 22 Conical
„ 22 Short
.) 22 Long
» 22 Long Rifle ..
» 22 Extra Long..
$lOO $lOOO
Is Od 9s 6d
Is Id 10s Od
Is 3d 12s -9d
Is 6d 13s Od
2s Od 18s Od
REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER.<3*®
MICK SIMMONS
ney


Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For pjf e Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
iwONT!Y TO T«TJ"KTTI ° n Security of Freehold or Leasehold
■ B,xxi A J - vr XJXiAI* ±J city or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand IpST- AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Oar new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ’ Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq. ; Kollo A. Cape, Esq.
General Manager and Actuary: Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S S
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&z
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c
SPIRITS.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
3
unlit
sc
.22 calibre cartridges can,
be relied upon to help
clean out the rabbit pests.,
U. M. C. -.22 short and long
cartridges, loadedwithblack
or smokeless powder,
!’ are accurate, sure of fire, and have great killing power
j Furnished with ungreased bullets, also made with hollow-
point bullets which are very effective on small game.
UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE COMPANY
Bridgeport, conn., u.s.a. .tniinmsii:umil!
Beautiful Home Decorations
Sc
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
‘•OUR FAVORITE” GOtB EVAMEU (Washable) —Rich and
durable as real gold. Withstands wear and tear, handling and washing
without tarnishing. For Furniture, Frames, Lamp and Gas Fixtures,
etc. Highest class gilding enamel. Inexpensive; easily applied.
“BAPOEIIV Esf AMBUS.” For decorating the brilliant white and
colors. A beautiful china gloss surface for Furniture, Metal Beds and
any other article.
“SAPOUII*” BATH TUB EVAIHEE. In White, Rose, Ivory
and Nile Green. Withstands hot water. Porcelain finish, which will
not come off. For sale at all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of JAPANESE GOLD PAINT, “SAPOLIN '■ FLOOR
STAINS, “ SAPOLIN ” ALUMINUM ENAMEL, Etc.
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENOS
BILIOUSNESS,
HEADACHE, ‘FRUIT
salt:
AND CONSTIPATION.
The effect of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt ’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTlON.— Capsule marked ENO’S ’FRUIT SALT;’ Without It you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Pnpand only by J. O. UNO, Ltd., * FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS. LONDON. SNO.,
by J. C. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEN, specie
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
TREATMENT 1 BY POST A SPECIALTY.
M Men ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Will Cure the Nerves, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
01 nnn r>IH3C DIB I Q Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
E3L.UUU l#UalCi ■■■**■- ® ■ Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blood
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43/6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
■HI __ », mi Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6.
WG3K WBJSIIBSII Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches: 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE;
481 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.; 111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE?
i 91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N. 2. HANS PETER RASMUB , CM .
H Good Report from Gamperdouin
THE CASE.
OF
MR. E. J. SWORDS.
(BY A SPECIAL REPORTER.)
In the course of an interview which our repre-
sentative had with Mr. Swords, of No. 150 Mis-
senden-road, Camperdown, that gentleman said :
“Yes, I can tell you all that is of importance in
connection with my illness when I was at Trangie.”
“How long were you residing there?”
“Three years. It was due to the great heat
and the sedentary nature of my employment (a
saddler) that knocked me up. When I got up in
the morning I was languid, and did not know how
I should get through the day. I could get little
or no sleep at night. My internal disorders caused
such a bitter taste to come to my mouth that on
arising I often felt inclined to retch, but I couldn’t,
and I was never prepared to sit down and eat a
breakfast, like a man should do. As soon as I sat
to the table and the food came in sight, a sickly
sensation came to my stomach, and I would have
to get up and leave everything untouched ; but
later in the day I was generally more successful in
eating a little—very little, because my appetite
was weak—but it didn’t make any difference, as
my digestion was gone altogether.”
“What were your feelings like when you had
eaten ? ”
“Dreadful. I can hardly describe them. My
chest had such a sensation in it that I don’t know
what to say ; I know I felt that if I turned round
quickly it would break in two, and the way I
sometimes had to gasp for breath would have
made you think I was asthmatical. Then I also
suffered from cramps in the stomach, caused, no
doubt, by wind that gathered there from decayed
food, and if I had to go through the same again I
would much rather die. Many a time I actually
sang out with pain, which also used to find its
way down my right side, and almost cripple me.
Heaven knows, I was a martyr.”
“ How long were you ailing like this ? ”
“For fully twelve months, and you had better
believe that during that time I did not continue
suffering for the want of taking physic; no indeed.
I took a great many bottles of medicines, only, I’m
sorry to say, to find my money had gone for no-
thing, in some instances to be made worse than I
was before. There was one lot of advertised pills
I took which made me feel that I was going
to die. I felt so ill, and, after them, thank
Heaven, I procured some Clements’ Tonic. Ah \
How I soon wished I had taken that remedy
before. What a year of torture it would have
saved me ; but it is no use regretting. _ I’m lucky
to have got off like I did, and there is no doubt
that Clements’ Tonic is entitled to all the credit,
for that was the only remedy that could do me
any good. Why, if you could form an idea of the
intensity of the headaches from which I regularly
suffered, you would say that nothing but a miracle
could have cured them ; and if that s so, then
Clements’ Tonic must be a miraculous medicine,
for it cured mine. Besides this, it also put an
end to the giddy turns I used to have. Upon my
word, at one time I could not stoop down without
feeling as if I would surely fall over, and I have
often been sitting on a chair, and expecting to
come a cropper every second, owing to the same
disagreeable sensation. My sight had been very
dim for a good while, my eyes feeling swollen,
and as if they had a scum over them ; my tongue
used to be white with fur, too; yet Clements’
Tonic set all these defects to rights, even when
all other things had been put aside as useless. ”
“ Did Clements’ Tonic cure you thoroughly ?”
“My cure couldn’t have been more complete,
and I trust my experience may be an object-
lesson to all who require treatment. In any case,
you may publish this narrative in any form you
desire.
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, EDWARD JOHN SWORDS, of No. 150
Missenden-road, Camperdown, in the State of
New South Wales, Commonwealth of Australia,
do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, and that it
contains and is a true and faithful account of my
illness and cure by Clements’ Tonic, and also con-
tains my full permission to publish in any way my
statements—which I give voluntarily without re-
ceiving any payment; and I make this solemn de-
claration conscientiously believing the same to be
true, and by virtue of the Provisions of the Oaths
Act, 1900.
(Sgd.) EDWARD J. SWORDS.
Subscribed and declared at Camperdown this
fifth day of September, one thousand nine
hundred and four, before me,
E. BARNES, J.P.
CLEMENTS’ TONIC is a guaranteed cure for loss of appetite, weakness, debility,
poorness of blood and neuralgia. Beware of spurious imitations, and see the wrapper
is unbroken.
The Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assurance Society Limited
<MD "" ) cHiEFomcilfor N.s.w.— 263 George Street, Sydney.
LIFE, ACCIDENT AND INVALIDITY ASSURANCE IN ONE POLICY.
ANNUAL PREMIUM for £lOOO, person aged 30, payable at 60 or Death, £39 19s. 4d.
SPECIAL BENEFITS : (I) £2OOO if death takes place as result of accident; (2) £lOOO for Permanent Total
Disablement; (3) £5OO for Permanent Partial Disablement; (4) £6 per week for Temporary Total Disablement;
(5) £1 10s. per week for Temporary Partial Disablement; and (6) £6 per week for incapacitation through
specified diseases. For full particulars and conditions call or write for Prospectus. V. H. BAXTER, Res. Sec.
me PLUM.
G entlemen, —This razor is superior to any other It is specially tempered,
perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell, and never requires grinding.
Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind o£ edge that
is required to ensure any easy shave, and, having had them in use for a
number of veaps, can testify to their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH
RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “ Plum ’’ Razor Stroft,specially made for this Razor, 7/6,
“Razoleo” lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. Cake, )
(Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10 '6; Pair, in beautiful
Morocco Leather Case, 21/*.
Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15*, Pair Razors, Ivory Handles,
in beautiful Case, 30/*
Registered and Sent Post Free to Any Part op tup. World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country, and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
:»0l» Aconto—CßAlC & AITKEN, 654 CEORCE STREET, STOREY..
=*
J
I •
i
Vj
There’s SECURITY in
Larters
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS.
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION. |
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
Small Pill. Small Dost. Small Price.
They TOUCH
LIVER
Be Sure they are
Cartels


While thin hair and baldness are
undesirable for men, they are vastly
more so for women. Nothing adds
more to the adornment of women
than rich, heavy, flowing tresses.
The hair is too valuable to allow it
to suffer from neglect. So just as
soon as you notice that your hair is
coming out you should uss
Mger’s
flair Vigor
PS?
m
/
*32
It checks falling of
the hair promptly.
This feature of Ayer’*
Hair Vigor is now
recognized as most
marked, and has
brought to this prep-
aration a world-wide
reputation.
You cannot possi-
bly have a splendid
head of hair when the
scalp is covered with
dandruff. We urge
upon all who are in
any way troubled
with dandruff to be-
gin the use of Ayer’s
Hair Vigor at once.
Do not be deceived
by cheap imitations which will only
disappoint you. Make sure you get
AYER’S Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Or. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
For Sunburn
nr pi/pc quick relief can be
UI obtained by the appliea-
tion of the well known remedy,
CALVERTS
Carbolic Ointment.
It has a good record of success for cure of
many skin ailments, itch, ringworm, piles,
etc. Minor mishaps such as cuts, bruises
or scalds will keep healthy and heal rapidly
with its use.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester
England.
Tlie Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages ; price, 4s. 6d.
Strength
SCOTT’S
Emulsion
for MEN
WOMEN
CHILDREN
BABIES
Strength in
SCOTT'S
Emulsion
for the THROAT
CHEST
LUNGS
BONES
Strength in
SCOTT'S
Emulsion
after ILLNESS
HEAVY COLDS
OVERWORK
FEVERS
Strength in
SCOTT'S
Emulsion
during SUCKLING
PREGNANCY
TEETHING
LOSS OF SLEEP
Newton Boyd, Grafton Road, Barney’s
Hill, N.S.W., July 21, 1905. “Some
little time ago I contracted a very severe
cold which left my chest and lungs in a
very weak state. At last I decided to
give Scott’s Emulsion a trial. From the
first dose I obtained relief, and after
continuing the treatment for a time my
cold was completely cured.”
Mrs. J. T. WIN STANLEY,
Scott’s Emulsion is purest Norwegian cod
liver oil made pleasant, digestible and trebly
nutritious by the celebrated original Scott
process, and skilfully blended with the
tonic hypophosphites of lime and soda.
If you or yours require
strength we will gladly
send you a free trial
bottle by return post
(enclose 4d.for postage
and mention this pa-
per). Scott & Bowne;
Ltd., 483 Kent Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
fdg
IRISH
©^
$
MOSS
WILL CURE THAT . . ,
Hacking Cough, &
Troublesome Cold,
Annoying Influenza
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption.
ijptg(Rr
DON’T BUY IMITATIONS
/
Sv «JSK
S3HOJLVM.
\ WVHL7VM
The best watches
that can be con-
structed.
AH guaranteed.
For sale all over
the world.
AMERICAN WALTHAM
WATCH COMPANY.
Waltham, Mass., U. S. A.
miMvLTUQoFWM
IVEL
AGRICULTURAL
MOTORS-
Nineteen Gold and Silver Medals awarded
in Great Britain, 1904-5.
Direct Haulage on Farm, Station or Plantation for
all kinds of Implements, and as a Stationary Engine
all the uses steam is now applied.
Full information from the Sole Agents—
HAM & OWEN, 17 Bridge St., SYDNEY
9
A
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Immoralitee!
An ecclesiastic recently said that a wave of immorality
was spreading over the earth.
This is no mirthless wail of things,
Evolved in deep despair;
But here you have a tale of things
As light as mountain air !
We’ve skidded from the wrangles of
The folk who’d saintly be—
And lo ! we’re in the tangles of
Sweet Immoralitee!
So sing, sing, sing !
And keep the world a-swing 1
And bide amongst your rivals and forgive ;
For you'll die, you know, some day —
And it's dead you’re going to stay !
So keep the world a-rolling while you live l
We’ve turned our backs on politics
For just ene fleeting day—
Ha ! ha ! the clock of folly ticks
The screaming hours away !
Come, let us drink and revel in
The Nights of New Romance,
And hasten to the devil in
A Bacchanalian dance !
Why should we make a weeping place
Of this old laughing earth ?
I’d rather it a keeping place
For every kind of mirth !
Get out ! you croaking pessimist!
And, optimist, rejoice;
Too long old Satan says lie’s miss’d
Your laughter-laden voice !
I’m feeling almost bad enough
To do some dreadful crime—
Heigho, I’ve more than had enough
Of virtue decked with rhyme !
So keep the music ringing down
The moss-grown haunts of woe,
And we shall join you, singing down
The joyways as we go !
Adieu to cares and bus-i-ness,
And in the lighted bar
We’ll lend a whirling dizziness
To this old rocking star !
I’m longing, rather sinful-like,
To make Creation hum
In wild disorder dinful, like
Some pandemonium !
So let your thoughts fly laugh ter wards
(They only crawled before !)
To bide thefe ever afterwards—
For aye and evermore !
We’ve said adieu to politics
(They’re not for such as we).
Hurrah ! the clock (how jolly !) ticks
For Immoralitee!
So sing, sing, sing !
Loud let your voices ring,
And banish far the Trouble and the Tear !
For you’ll leave the world at last —
Ere your dream of joy is past;
So keep the globe a-roeking while you’re here l
N.S.W.
GILROONEY.
The Poet—and Beer.
I do admit, altho’ it hurts me pride,
That there are others who *ave sung like me
An’ charmed the world with sweetest ’armony
Before they turned their glasses down ’an died.
An’ ne’er a poet that I ever knew
But looked, at times, upon the wine that’s red,
An’ sat up, w’en ’e oughter been in,bed,
Drinkin’ to women’s eyes of varied hue.
The poet ’as ’is faults like other men,
But I am not inclined to argue here
Why ’e should set afloat ’is Muse in beer
And steer ’er course with ’is erratic pen.
The Philistines may frown at all ’is ways,
And darkly hint the poet’s feet are clay,
But why do friends, w’en ’e ’as passed away.
Pull off ’is boots that all the world may gaze?
Death ’as no terror like the fiend who’d haste
To clutch ’is pen an’ rack ’is dizzy brain
To write the yarns I did not tell my Jane,
And on my scarce-cold corpse ’is copy paste.
I know my Jane thinks I’m a model toff
(That is so far as my own story goes),
An’ w’en I turn up my poetic toes
I’ll ’aunt the ghoul who takes my ’alo off.
But O ! I pray, w’en I’m no longer ’ere,
Some dear old pal who never wrote a line
For cash or fame, nor gazed upon the wine,
Will write tny epitaph—unstained by BEER.
N.S.W.
CRIPPS CLARK.
Old-time Sweethearts.
Blue eyes, brown eyes, girls of long ago,
Sweethearts of a glad time flown.
Bright eyes, soft eyes set our hearts aglow.
Ah, sorrowful has old age grown.
Red lips, soft lips (how our pulses beat),
Sweeter than the crimson flower.
Warm lips, young lips, ah ! the dreams we meet
In memories of a by-gone hour.
Swift feet, fleet feet, dancing down the years,
Lilting to a tune that is gone.
Small feet, light feet, ah ! the mirth and tears.
Following the piper on.
Soft arms, white arms, “ lilies ” of the night,
Cling—O, so close and sweet !
Fragrant and warm arms, ’neath the faint star-
light.
Easily do sin and impulse meet.
Dear heart, glad heart (could you not have stayed ?)
Faded is the after-glow.
Fond heart, sweet heart, whither have you strayed
Now summer-time has changed to snow ?
N.S.W.
CARO.


>
%
v
J. Kennon&sons
are the . . .
Largest Tanners and Exporters
of Raw vSßins in Victoria «£? £?
and therefore require a large quantity of
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
Opossum, Sheep and
Rabbit SKins, also Hides,
Tallow, Wool, Horse
Hair, besides Fox, Hare,
and Other SKins, etc,
to keep their works going.
O
Don’t hesitate to send consignments—whether large
or small, both receive equal treatment —and every-
thing will be done to merit continuance of your favors.
Consignments from N.S.W. and Queensland should be sent care of Howard Smith & Sons S.S. Co.
Price List and all information sent on application.
Account Safes sent same day Goods reach us.
No Commission or other Charges deducted.
Note Address—
J. Rennon & Sons
TANNERS (Si EXPORTERS,
Richmond, Victoria.
♦#EST“ 178 2 > Assurance Company of London
ill PITT SI«, SYDNEY (Falmouth Chambers),
LTD.
WILLIAM W. FARMER, M
fd
Have Yo(i a (aranjopbooc?
If so, what are you paying for Records ?
Columbia lOin Disc Records
are unequalled for Smoothness, Purity
of Tone, and Durability.
Price 3/6 each.
They are made of the very best Black
Composition, and will fit all Disc Talking
Machines. We Exchange Old and Worn
Records. Write for Particulars and
Latest Lists to —
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO. (Gentt
Australian
Headquarters
25 Ash St., Sydney, N.S.W.
THE-
OLDSMOBILE
A Good Investment.
7 H.P. TOURING RUNABOUT.
7 H.P. STANDARD RUNABOUT.
More healthful out-of-doors enjoyment can be had from the OLDSMOBILE
RUNABOUT than from the same money spent in any other way. All the
annoying automobile uncertainties that may have prevented you from buying
a machine have been overcome to the smallest detail in this strong, handsome,
reliable car.
Costs practically nothing for repairs with intelligent handling. It has been
strengthened and built up to the highest point of efficiency, and is as well
adapted for touring as for city use—as the successful trip of two of these cars
across the American Continent, and the 3000-mile endurance run in England,
and the 30-day Continental trip, have proven.
Send for Catalogue showing the Oldsmobile line; the lowest prices for the
highest efficiency.
H.P. Standard 7 H.P. 20 H.P. 10 H.P. 10 H.P.
Runabout, Touring: Runabout. 2-Cy!. Touring Car. Light Tonneau. Commercial Car.
OLDS MOTOR WORKS, DETROIT, MICH.
AGENTS:
SYDNEY MOTOR GARAGE, 253 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
RUBfßoicn
DAHPCOUfiSC
otnts
* ' DAMPJ
' wdlfl
tt\> e
gS
on\_
B the Safe
1 Side
, .a-'
n
m m&mflm.
♦ rj**4 l
/■
S**v
3 PLY
1
It
i >V'>
*
«£gss^
i ■
fes
These buildings roofed with RUBEROID.
The foundations laid with RUBEROID.
The builders who have laid RUBEROID.
The men who have lived, and now live, under
RUBEROID, are living witnesses to the excellence of
RUBEROID
as a Roofing, a Dampcourse, and a Floorcloth.
E. RICH & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 27.—No. 1369.
THURSDAY, MAY 10, li>o6.
Pbiob 6b.
You have here the Hospital Saturday “ collection ’’ in Sydney
And this, If you like, is Kaiser Bill about to " collect ” Austria.
King Peter of Servia takes a good look round every night
before he goe3 to bed to see if anyone is coming to *' collect"
his crown.
Here you see the Turk camped on Egyptian territory with an eye to
“collecting" a Pyramid or two and the left bank of the Red Sea.
AN EPIDEMIC OF ROBBERY.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
"Australia /or the, A nstraliansP’
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tub Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
How to Address Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin ivould oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for "copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special. Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
_ The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing, with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in lil.acle and White.
Anyone supplying to Tim Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or - wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—ivill be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained j in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs'. Gordon and
Gotcli, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, No. 1 Broad-street Place.
South Africa.— The Central Neivs Agency, Capetown;
Messrs. R. A. Thompson & Co., 38 Riebeck Street, Cape-
town; The Central Neivs Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco.— TP. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt.— The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
HongKong.— Brewer and Co., 33 Queen’s Road, Ilong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6§in. x lhin.,
ivill be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, MAY 10, 1906.
BULL’S HYSTERIA.
The recent recrudescence, in the Western Morn-
ing News (Plymouth) and the Daily Mail
(London), of the old anti-Australian slanders
represents, apparently, the tail-end of a severe
attack of English hysteria. There has been peace,
or comparative peace, in this line for some few
weeks, and these two isolated outbreaks are
chiefly interesting as showing the disadvantages
of running a big paper under cheap and incom-
petent management, and as demonstrating that
hysteria is a disease that can’t be cured in a day.
The sudden cry of the Plymouth paper mostly
concerned the alleged empty cradle of un-
Christian Australia, which was a fool of a remark
to make about a country where the natural
increase of population by excess of births over
deaths beats that of Great Britain out of sight,
and that of almost every other country on earth
as well. Also the Plymouth organ went on to
tell in vague terms of horror, but wholly without
figures or details, about an alleged cloud of crime
and immodesty which over-shadowed this country
through its lack of Scriptural education, and added
that so great was the revulsion of feeling in favor of
a return to the policy of teaching in the public
schools about Jonah’s whale and Balaam’s beast
of burden that at every referendum taken on the
subject the advocates of secular education were
beaten by three to one. This statement, con-
sidering that the Jonah’s whale crowd has been
wiped off the face of the earth whenever it came
to a vote, ranks as a really interesting lie. The
Western MoßNiNGNEWsfinished its careerof lying
and fraud by ascribing its article to an Australian
Agent-General (name not given), and the prompt
declaration signed by all the Agents-General that
they had no connection whatever with the busi-
ness left the Plymouth paper very nearly in the
position of a common forger. The tale of the
London Daily Mail was equally foolish, but a
shade less circumstantial in its foolishness. It
dealt with the alleged enormous increase of crime
in Victoria, arising from secular education, and
as crime in Victoria, as in all the other States,
has shown a steady and continuous diminution
since free, secular, and compulsory education
became the order of affairs, the Daily Mail ranks
as an ass—possibly only an incompetent ass,
possibly a malevolent ass, but not an ass with the
elaborate trimmings of its Plymouth contem-
porary. Considering, however, that a glance
at any one of half-a-dozen common English works
of reference would have shown the editor of the
Mail that the story about the great increase of
Victorian crime was pure falsehood, and that he
apparently didn’t think of consulting any one of
these works, the inference naturally arises that the
paper might do better under new control. English
journalism seems to suffer acutely from fits. For
quite a considerable time almost every English
paper accepted, without question, any slander,
however glaring, about Australia ; it might be a
slander which was refuted by every book of refer-
ence in the office library, but if it was about
Australia that was sufficient. And the community
had the same fit or convulsion as its papers. JOHN
801 l had then got one of his periodical attacks
of hysteria, and it happened to be directed
against this country ; and there is no remedy for
Bull’s hysteria except to let it wear itself out.
• * * •
There are few things on which the Englishman
prides himself more than on his cool, well-
balanced mind. Yet, as a matter of fact, he is
mostly in a state of violent and unaccountable
likes and dislikes; he is mostly either chewing
soap to make a huge froth of admiration about
somebody for no visible reason, or else he is
buying extra teeth to gnash’ furiously at some-
body for no perceptible cause. Some 60 years ago
the American was his chief objection. In those
early days the United States was to a great extent
a Freetrade country. It opened its ports largely
and liberally to British goods, and it had no immi-
gration laws to shut out the British pauper. It
hadn’t begun to complete seriously against Britain
in manufactures or in the world’s money-markets.
It still reverenced British ideas and it followed
British fashions. And John Bull replied by
grinding through his teeth a ceaseless grist of
curses at his relative Jonathan. His mental
attitude at that time can be sized up, to quote a
single example, by reading Dickens’ “ Martin
Chuzzlewit.” Dickens’ hero went to America,
and he found every human being there, save one,
either a bully, a liar, a swindler, a braggart, or a
cad, or else a mixture of the lot. Even the women
were horrors to the last woman. But, as already
mentioned, there was an exception; there had to
be one exception, for there was need for a good
American to lend that pathetic failure, Chuzzle-
wit, junior, the money with which to get home
to good old England so that he might live
on his uncle again. And the exception proved
himself a good man and a good citizen by lending
the money and telling Chuzzle WIT, junior, what
a villainous lot were his own American fellow-
countrymen. This attitude lasted almost all
through the American Civil War, in which Britain
put up much of the money for Jeff Davis’ armies
to fight with, and nearly went to war itself in
defence of slavery, and wrote some maudlin
novels about the “Southern Chivalry” and
the ruffian Federal soldiery. And then came
the inevitable revulsion of feeling. Jonathan
grew strong. He kicked John Bull hard with a
remorseless tariff. He eclipsed him hopelessly in
manufactures. He fought him in the world’s
money markets. He looted him over the Ala-
bama award and over the Alaska boundary, and
he threw dirt on John with his Immigration
Restriction laws. And John had another attack
of hysteria—the hysteria of ad miration—and
began to talk largely of the possible re-union of
the Anglo-Saxon race, and the like.
# | $ §
John Bull took the French emperor hysteri-
cally to his bosom about the time that his objec-
tion to his American relative was at its worst.
Napoleon 111., the usurper, the oath-breaker, the
butcher of innocent people in the December
massacres of Paris, became, unaccountably, a
deity to Bull the hysterical. He was known to
be a liar : he was suspected to be the son of a vile
intrigue with nothing of the blood of the Bona-
partes in him. Yet for a few years John Bull
worshipped this painted image of French
sovereignty, and did the image’s bidding with
an obedience which, even at this distance of
time, is pathetic to contemplate. England
waded in blood at Napoleon’s behest to
support the unspeakable Turk and to pre-
serve Abdul Medjid’s people as a blot on the
map of Europe. It had joined Napoleon (when
he was President of the Republic) in guaran-
teeing the integrity of Denmark, and it abandoned
Denmark at his say-so, to be torn in pieces by
Prussia. Britain worshipped Kossuth, and Gari-
baldi, and liberty generally; but when there arose
a vastly greater patriot and statesman than
Garibaldi— -when Benito Juarez, of Mexico, was
just emerging from his tremendous battle against
clerical tyranny Bull allowed the shoddy
emperor of rouge and tinsel to drag him into a com-
bined military expedition against Juarez, and to
lend his moral support and a certain amount of
military display in aid of the old Church domina-
tion. Then his hysteria on behalf of Napoleon
111. suddenly flickered out, and after years of
lunacy John Bull became a sane being again.
* * * *
The reign of the late Queen Victoria was
divided principally into two periods of popular
hysteria. Victoria came to the throne at the age
of 18, a mere girl, against whom there was not a
shred or shadow of suspicion. But there arose
against her a wave of hysterical dislike. The
fascinating Lord Melbourne was Prime Minister,
and the mob of London took to hailing the young
Queen as “Mrs. Melbourne,” and throwing at
her even coarser and less veiled innuendoes. Even
the soberest and dullest of London papers spoke of
her in unpleasant terms as “ unfit to reign.” Then
she married—she did nothing more remarkable
than marry—and her husband was a colorless
German princelet, with whom there is every
reason to believe that she lived none too happily;
and her subject Bull had a reverse attack of hys-
teria, and fell into a state of adoration that would
have been almost excessive if applied to an arch-
angel. It was merely another evidence of the
unaccountableness of the British character—with
occasional intervals of sobriety, Bull must be wor-
shipping somebody and finding in him all the
seven deadly virtues, or else he must be reviling
somebody and ascertaining to his surprise and
grief that that person hasn’t a redeeming feature
in his character.
• * * *
In some recent years Japan has been the princi-
pal object of John Bull’s frantic admiration.
Japan shuts out his goods with a bang. It declares
the Englishman is unfit to own a square yard of
land or a mine in its blessed country, and puts him
under many other disabilities. It discharges
every Englishman in its Government service
as soon as it has learned all he has to
teach—discharges him for no reason save
that he is English. It has never fired a shot or
lifted a sword in aid of Britain; at a crisis it
might do so, and again it might not. It openly
aims at seizing the naval supremacy of the Pacific,
a threat which Britain, with Canada, Australia,
Maoriland, Fiji, Hong Kong, and other smaller
possessions in, or bordering on, that ocean, could
hardly, except in an hysterical moment, regard
otherwise than as a veiled declaration of future
war. But John Bull is full of hysterical admi-
ration for Japan all the sahib. The Boer
nation allowed British subjects to own land
and mines freely, and kh'efc them with a more
moderate tariff than that of Japan, and in general
treated them With a lavish-generosity of which
the Jap person has never dreamed. But the
hysteria Was working in a reverse direction just
then, and the Boer went down with a crash under
a mountain of ignominy and a horde of Thomas
Atkins.
• • •
This country has had two sudden experiences
of British hysteria within the last few years.
It had a short spasm of wild popularity,
followed by a longer period in which it was
utterly accursed, and nothing it could do or leave
undone was right. Australia has levied far
Smaller duties on British goods than Canada; it
has contributed towards the support of the British
navy, while Canada told the old Ma country, in
effect, that it would see its parent dead first; it
has never cost the Ma land anything for defence,
while Canada has run its aged and worried parent
into a heap of expense; and it hasn’t shut out
the undesirable British person a whit more
severely than Canada has done. But the British
people and the British press have had, of late
years, a serious reverence for Canada, while Aus-
tralia has been at the bottom of the muddy pit of
unpopularity, and every liar with a ridiculous
and impossible slander about this country
could get the ear of the British fool editor
at any moment. Of course some of this
was owing to Australia’s own Stinking Fish
A good deal of it was owing to our
objection to Japanese immigrants; Japan,
which kicks England in every surreptitious way,
is the demi-god of hysterical Bull just now
and to object to him is akin to throwing clods at
the Established Church. And the rest was, and
is, just British hysteria—the melodramatic kind
which must have a hero and a villain, and must
have its hero very white and its villain as black as
possible. So we strike the curious fact that
Maoriland can do, without a word of reproach, the
things that Australia is utterly accursed for
merely proposing to do ; and yet when the Bull
hysteria takes a new turn Australia may be held
in reverence while Maoriland, without any change
in its character or policy, may strike Bull as so
nefarious that bombardment would be too good for
it. All these things are to a great extent unaccount-
able. They just happen, even as the popularity
of the United States happens in England now
when the U.S. is reaching out in every direction
for Bull’s manufacturing, commercial, financial,
and naval supremacy, and just as it happened 45
years ago that Bull was almost ready to believe
that Abraham Lincoln had murdered his mother
and buried her remains under the White House.
THE OCCASION—AND THE MAN?
The Prime Minister has arranged to make the
last of his pre-sessional speeches, in which he will
outline the policy of his Government and of his
party for the rest of this Parliament and for the
general election, at Sydney. The arrangement
will perhaps be pleasing in some quarters, as a
concession to the uneasy dignity of the commer-
cial capital of the Commonwealth; if, indeed, it
is not twisted by some means into another grievous
wrong to the sturdy brawler of the Common-
wealth family. From an Australian point of
view it is welcome as giving some hint of a fight-
ing speech. Sydney is the head-camp of the
anti-Nationalists, the city which has been led
astray by importers and draper politicians
and foolish clerics and unpatriotic newspapers, to
become a stumbling block to the feet of the
nation and an obstacle in the path of Australian
progress. A fighting leader, with a fighting
speech in his mind, would naturally choose Sydney
for his challenge to the enemy. And The
Bulletin cherishes a hope—raised by his Camper-
down speech—that Prime Minister Deakin
intends to come forward with a fighting speech
and therefore speaks from a Sydney platform.
Heaven knows a fighting is necessary.
Australia has reached that point in its history at
which a leader whcj, remains affable and incon-
sequential is guilty of something very like high
treason.
* * * •
The position of the Commonwealth as regards
foreign relations is this : The parent country,
which for generations professed ample self-
sufficiency for its own defence and the defence of
its dependencies, has lately withdrawn that pro-
fession. The British army has been buttressed
by a foreign alliance, which definitely shares the
defence of British possessions in Asia. The
British fleet has been concentrated in its home
waters. With such changes of policy Australia
has no good reason to disagree. The arrangement
by which this continent depended for its defence
on the little island group in the North Sea was
humiliating, not to Britain but to Australia.
Except in regard to the fact that Britain, in
choosing an ally, went outside the comity of
white nations, and gave the Yellow Peril a new
threat and an immediate imminence, Australia
has, therefore, no cause for complaint in
regard to the British change of policy. But
the Commonwealth must recognise that there is a
change of policy; that, without so much being
said in words, Britain has clearly intimated an
uneasiness that it will be able to defend only the
home territory and the home seas in case of a
great war. With this withdrawal of a protection,
which Australia should have been past claiming
for the last quarter of a century, there has been a
gathering cloud of threat in the North. Asia
awakes and arms. Its new ambitions and its
overcrowding immigrants, when they begin to
swarm to new hives, will encounter Australia in
the first instance. This is the lonely white out-
post in the Asian seas, the land which would natu-
rally accommodate Asiatic immigrants if the white
garrison were withdrawn or overwhelmed. As was
the position of Britain when, after its conquest by
Julius Caesar and the Romans who followed him,
the great Italian empire, attacked near the heart
by swarming; enemies, began to draw in its
garrisons, so is the position of Australia to-day.
The analogy holds further in the fact that, just as
was Britain then threatened from the North by
the Piets and Scots, so is Australia threatened
to-day from the North by the Asiatics.
* * * *
That is the position as regards foreign affairs.
In its domestic politics, Australia can find almost
as much ground for grave uneasiness. Without
adequate tariff protection, Australian markets
are at the mercy of foreign invaders. Our
clothes are woven, our machines forged, our
ships built, our arms made abroad. With
facilities unequalled in the world for manu-
facturing industries, we import most of the
implements of civilisation, and, cut off by war
from the foreigners’ marts, would have neither
weapons of defence nor means of decent life. And
as with the factories, so with the farms. The soil
is passably fertile, and there is a great deal
of it. Just now, with good seasons, it
fairly spawns gold, and where the fringes
of the generous earth have been scratched
by the husbandman, wealth is springing up as at
the wave of a magician’s hand. But for the most
part the fertile land is idle and untilled. Wher-
ever it is fattest, the monopolist sits and looks
over his boundary fences at the lean and the land-
less, clamoring for leave to toil and till and make
wealth for the land and for themselves. Finally—
the last prompting to disquiet—over all, over the
desolate spaces where farms and factories should
be, like some obscene carrion bird waiting for
the last scene, hovers the money-lender. The small
brawling men to whom the destinies of the con-
tinent have been entrusted, have in the past, and
continue in the present, to hide unthrift and
mismanagement and robbery by scattering money
raised by mortgaging the land. Thus the threat
from abroad is faced by an Australia which can
make little to defend or sustain; which lacks popu-
lation because it makes little and tills littlq; and
which at the cry of battle would find its credit
pledged almost to the last penny to sustain the
slovenly idleness of the times of peace.
* • • •
This position has, in respect to some of its
factors, been of slow growth. _ The debt, the
neglect of farms and factories, the trifling
with defence, are not of to-day merely or
of yesterday. But the imminence of threat
has only developed of late. It is, practically, only
to-day that Australia can see clearly to what near
edge of disaster the continent has drifted. Cer-
tainly it is to the Man of To-day that falls the
task of meeting the position, for there is no cer-
tain assurance that there will be a Man of To-
morrow. Will Deakin come forward as that Man
of To-day, casting away doubts and metaphysics,
and courtesies and scrupling hesitations, prompted
to strength by a crisis sufficient to move most men
to action ? Deakin has the insight and the imagi-
nation to see, the ability to lead. He but wants
the firmness to resolve.
* • *. *
Failing Deakin, The Bulletin at present can
see nothing for Australia but the doubtful pros-
pect of waiting for a Man of To-morrow, and
taking the chance of there being a to-morrow.
Reid is hopeless— Thersites, railing and clowning
among the camp sutlers whilst great issues are
fought. Watson, with splendid abilities and a
clear appreciation of the position, is hobbled by
his party. He may not fight in the fiscal battle,
though the most essential of all the national
is adequate tariff Protection. He may not
unite his forces with friendly allies to win the
citadel of safety. He is a great leader hamstrung
by his camp followers. It is thus Deakin or
nobody among the present leaders. Will the
magnitude of the work to be done and its urgency
appeal to his imagination, shake him out of
dreams and doubts and give him a zealot’s pas-
sion ? Only a zealot’s passion will carry a leader
through the task.
* * * *
. For that task, though simple to summarise, is
vast to perform, It falls under these heads
Industrial Independence, —A protective tariff which
protects, and which secures that all the essential
resources of civilisation shall be available from Australian
factories. A land system which establishes as the only
absolutely secure title to land its best use in the interests
of the Commonwealth.
Defensive Independence.— The foundation of an Aus-
tralian navy and the organisation of an Australian army,
making the violation of our shores a matter of danger,
and the continued existence of an army of invasion an
impossibility. And, as an essential part of the defence
scheme, two transcontinental railways to make the
remoter parts of the continent accessible to our defence
forces.
Financial Independence,— The unification of the
National Debts and the beginning of Repayment.
Such a platform calls for work, but none of its
planks is impossible or even markedly difficult, if
undertaken in the spirit of a high purpose. Aus-
tralian ingenuity and Australian resources can
make almost anything in an Australian factory,
if a tariff wall shuts out the foreigner. The land
monopolist can be shelled out of his entrench-
ments in a year by a progressive land-tax. With
adequate shipping laws, and by turning to
defence account the vast amount of patronage
that it could assume by undertaking the direction
of the produce export trade, the Commonwealth
might secure a reserve of naval men and the
services of convertible fast cruisers ; and the tax-
payer is equal to the demand—which the Chilian
and the Peruvian, the Dutchman and the
Greek meet—for the means to build a small
fleet. A citizen army organised on the Swiss
system could be at once effective and economical.
With a Federal assumption of the debts and the
stoppage of further borrowing, the present
surplusage of production, due to the good seasons,
offers the best of occasions to begin to lift the
national mortgage. No enormous new taxation
burdens are called for, though there should be no
shrinkage from any demand that is necessary.
Courage, and a business-like adminstration, with
faith in the Australian’s ability to be as good a
patriot as any other fellow; that is all that is
necessary—and especially Courage.
THE FEDERAL LAND TAX.
Last year the population of Victoria increased,
according to the latest official estimates, by 8267,
and Victoria is a proud State in consequence.
The natural increase, by excess of births over
deaths, was a great deal more than that, but the
excess of departures over arrivals brought down
the net expansion to 8267. Tasmania showed sn
increase of 906, and it is also inflated. It, too, lost
a large proportion of its natural increase by excess
of departures, but it is proud because things
might have been worse. The fact that Victoria’s
increase is larger than usual is partly owing to
Premier Bent, who has been buzzing round with
an aspect of impossible energy repurchasing
estates for closer settlement. What he has done
in that way is a mere fraction of what should have
been done; still it must be admitted that the
eccentric Premier isn’t wholly responsible for
that. The immovable Legislative Council is in
the way all the time, and even the hornet-like
activity of Bent is powerless against the dead
wall of the House of 35 Rich Landlords. Conse-
quently the progress of what is called land settle-
ment in Victoria has been like this :
(1) The best part of the country was jobbed away in
great estates for a mere song, and in addition to the
original great estates there has been a long-continued
process whereby the small men were bought up by the
large ones, so that the accumulation of great estates has
been going on until quite recently, and in some parts of
the State is proceeding to this day.
(2) By merciless rack-renting and other obstructions to
settlement the great landlords have so discouraged the
growth of population that in 13 out of the 24 counties
which make up Victoria’s fertile area the population,
according to last census, was on the decline. If it had
not been that its Protectionist tariff kept the city indus-
tries going, the population of all Victoria would probably
have been on the decline.
(3) Neither Premier Bent nor any one else has been
able to screw out of the Victorian House of Landlords a
law authorising the compulsory repurchase of big estates
for closer settlement. All that can be done is to repur-
chase by mutual agreement at an exorbitant price. Nor
will the House of Rich Landlords consent to any law
which imposes a graduated land-tax on big estates in


order to push on the cutting up process. Nor will
consent to any law to prevent the small farms, into which
these estates which are voluntarily repurchased at an
absurd price are cut up, being gradually acquired again
by big holders, cither by purchase from the new owners
or by foreclosure of mortgages. Therefore the present
process of sub-division is expensive and temporary, and
at the best there is hardly enough of it to be worth men-
tioning.
* • » *
Exactly the same sort of thing might be said of
Tasmania, except that Tasmania hasn't even a
Bent falling cumbrously over himself like a large
bumble-bee in the effort to do something in the
way of providing land for the people. With a
diminished tariff to retard manufactures, with no
graduated land-tax, with the House of Landlords
in the way, and with the frantically exorbitant
monopolist who has to be approached on a volun-
tary basis, it must be admitted that an addition of
8267 to the Victorian population in 1905 is about
as much as could be expected. When the Federal
graduated land-tax and a real Protectionist tariff
come along, the annual increase of population in
Victoria should be more like 80,000 a year than
8000, and on these everything depends. Why the
big landlord should hold so desperately to his
stretch of country it is hard to say ; he can’t take
it to Sheol with him when he dies, and by restrict-
ing population he generally contrives, while he is
alive, to make it a very moderate source of remune-
ration compared to what it might be. Still, he
holds on with tenacity, and meanwhile, for want
of population which the big land-monopolist keeps
away, Victoria has been steadily tumbling towards
a second or third rank among the Commonwealth
States—though to do the great land monopolist
justice there is no visible reason to believe that his
brute selfishness would be disturbed even if his
State tumbled to be a tenth-rate member of the
Commonwealth —and Bent buzzes in his motor-
car over tens of miles of empty but fertile acres,
looking for available soil on which to promote set-
tlement. The most fertile part of Victoria is so
empty that if the motor-car turned over on Bent
and his companions, while the strenuous but ill-
regulated fat man was looking for land on which to
settle somebody, his remains might lie there for
days awaiting discovery. If the Federal graduated
land-tax, as outlined by Labor leader Watson,
becomes law, it will alter all this in an amazingly
short time, and if the land-tax is accompanied by
a new and sane and vigorous Protectionist tariff
the population of Victoria, almost the most back-
ward of the States in land matters, should double
itself within a mere handful of years.
**i * *
It may be fairly anticipated that the time be-
tween this date and the passing of the Federal
graduated land-tax will be chiefly devoted by the
Tory press, to bitter and terrible remarks about
“confiscation.” Exactly how long this period of
cursing and public Billingsgate will last depends
on Watson and Deakin and their followers. If
they drive the graduated land-tax law through
this session, the wrath and denunciation will last
for about nine months. If they linger over the
matter for ten years it will last for ten years. It
will last, in fact, till the work is done.
Then the good effects of the measure will
appear; the prophesied bad effects will fail
to appear; the uselessness of arguing against
accomplished facts will dawn even on the
Tory press, and the anathema will become a faint
rumble in the distance and die away. In' this
case, as in many others, the Democratic party
requires to learn the value of haste. If it loafs on
the way there will be time for the loathsome and
unpatriotic creatures ot the Stinking Fish party
to explain to all the world how it is proposed in
Australia to confiscate every estate over 100 acres
and to hang the owner, and the world’s shriek' of
horror will scare some of the weaker-kneed among
the Democrats off the proposal. There will be
time, also, to stump the country with explanations
about imaginary clauses in the Constitution which
reserve direct taxation to the State Governments,
and to prod the spectre of State Rights into a
dance of frenzy at the December elections. It
will be a great thing—a very great thing—for the
Democratic party if it can go to the electors next
December with the graduated land-tax an accom-
plished fact, and tell the prancing ghost of State
Rights that it is a procrastinating and behind-
hand spectre which is gibbering when it is too
late. Nothing so disheartens a political spectre
as to find that it has missed the ’bus and is
gibbering uselessly after the event.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Silly “Bush Capital” Jeer.
The conference of State Premiers, if there is any
truth in the reports of its doings given to the
press by Cocky Carruthers, was foolish enough
to repeat the old, clumsy scciff about the Federal
“ Bush Capital,” and if it really did so it ought to
have known better. That conference consisted of
Carruthers from the bush capital of Sydney,
and Kidston from the bush capital of Brisbane,
and Bent from the bush capital of Melbourne,
and Price from the bush capital of Adelaide, and
Evans from the bush capital of Hobart. Also
Rason, from the bush capital of Perth, would
have been there, only something had happened to
offend his dignity, or his deficit, or some of his
other valuables. Every one of the cities these
men hail from started as a bush capital, and
if there had been such fools around in
the old days as there are now, the inference is that
not one of these cities would ever have started,
because of the objection to bush capitals. In
fact, Sydney, Adelaide, and Perth commenced as
much more bushy capitals than Dalgety will be.
They began without railways or any idea of rail-
ways, without any settled population, without
buildings, without an education system, and
without much civilisation. They simply began
under a tree. And now the State Premiers who
jeer at bush capitals profess to be proud because
these cities were rescued from the bush, and at the
same time they gibe at the proposal to rescue
another city from the bush in like manner. All
these State Premiers talk about the necessity of
settling population in the unoccupied areas of
the country, yet when it is proposed to
settle the population that must attach itself
to the Federal city in a comparatively un-
occupied area, they (if Carruthers reports
them truly) answer only by a worn-out and unwise
scoff. They have all talked about the excessive
concentration of population in the coastal cities,
and the proposal to shift some population back
from the coastal cities makes them mad and drives
them to unintelligent sarcasm. The “Bush
Capital,” as it is called, will be far cheaper than
a Federal capital tacked on to Sydney or Mel-
bourne ; places must be built for the Australian
Parliament, for its public offices (which will be
very big things as population grows big), for its
military department, its arsenal, its Governor-
General, and for other purposes; and it is cheaper
to get the ground for these buildings where land is
very little per acre than where it is very much
per foot. But an impression has arisen that
there is a foolish sort of smartness about the term
“ Bush Capital,” so it is repeated, parrot-fashion,
till it becomes a threadbare weariness—as much
of a weariness as the lunatic who made the same
remark for 18 years and then died. And yet if
anyone called Dalgety or Bombala or Tumutmere
bush, Joey Carruthers would foam at the
mouth ! In fact, when Dalgety was first proposed
as a Federal city, Joseph did foam at the mouth,
and he rose with a large piece of soap in his
jaw and went into impossible fictions about the
thousands and thousands of people that it was
proposed to take from N.S.W. by making that
allegedly densely populated region a Federal
territory. And now Joey cackles “ Bush Capi-
tal” !
♦
“Money to Burn.”
The Sydney morning papers are still talking a
great deal about Joey Carruthers’ “surplus”
that is to be next June, and their seriousness on
the subject is pathetic. A few days ago Joseph
stated proudly at Lockhart (N.S.W.) that the
Treasury was “overflowing with money,” and the
S. M. Herald headed its article on the subject
“Money to Burn,” and urged JOSEPH strongly to
reduce taxation, and not to take cash “unneces-
sarily from the pockets of the people.” In all this
outpouring of the unfortunate old penny curse
that is published in Hunter-street, Sydney, there
was not a word about the fact that N.S.W- has
£83,000,000 of debt to pay off before it begins to
talk of reducing taxation ; that it has a big
accumulated deficit on revenue account —a deficit
which has been standing for nearly 20 years ; that
even if it has next June the surplus that it expects,
every penny of that surplus will have been raised by
selling the public assets in the shape of land and
using the proceeds as revenue, and that there is
consequently no real surplus at all; and that the
State is still borrowing at the rate of about
£1,500,000 a year, so that, even if the surplus
equals the land-sale money, there will still be a
deficit of about £1,500,000. When an influential
paper like the S.M. Herald begins to call fora
reduction of taxes under such conditions as these,
it is as clearly and absolutely a public enemy and
a public danger as the foreigner who bombards
our cities —it is a corrupter of political morals and
a wilful disseminator of political poison. Here
are a few of the things which any honest financier
would regard as necessary before he began to talk
of reducing taxation in N.S.W. :
(1) Undo the fake or political swindle by which Reid
made his one great surplus. That notable device con-
sisted in charging a half-year’s interest on a large part of
the public debt forward to next year. The financial year
ends on June 30. A large amount of interest on public
securities, which is incurred during the second half of
the year, is payable to the public creditors on July 1.
That money has to be handed over to the bank as trustee
for the public creditors about June 16, therefore not only
is it due when the financial j-ear closes, but it is
paid away before the financial year closes. Nevertheless,
Reid charged that amount to next year, and made a sur-
plus by reckoning cash which he had parted with about
June 16 as cash which he had on hand on June 30. If
Carruthers has a paper surplus of £1,000,000 it will really
mean a cash surplus of £400,000 or £600,000. The first
thing to do with the surplus is to put this political
swindle straight. After that there won’t be much surplus.
(2) Leave off treating moneys received from the sale of
State assets as revenue, and set them apart for public
works. That will knock about £1,000,000 off the surplus.
(3) Pay off the deficit. This should assuredly be done
before there is any talk of reducing taxation. The
deficit still amounts to between £1,000,000 and £1,500,000.
It is absurd to talk of tjhere being a surplus when the de-
ficit is bigger than the surplus.
(4) Leave off borrowing. A surplus of £1,000,000 or so
which is made in a year of extraordinary prosperity by
borrowing £l,soo,oooand selling £1,000,000 worth of the
public assets is no surplus ; it is a gigantic deficiency.
(5) Start to make some provision for the £5,450,000 of
loans that are repayable next year ; and the £3,215,500
repayable in 1908 ; and the £1,201,000 repayable in 1909 ;
and the £3,266,000 repayable in 1910 ; and the £9,378,000
repayable in 1912. Unless N.S.W. saves up money to
meet part of these loans it will be wholly dependent on
the London money market for their renewal ; and if
London has struck a snag about that time, and is hard
up, and can’t lend the cash to pay off any one of these
old loans, there is nothing ahead save the unutterable
disgrace of public bankruptcy.
These are the things that N.S.W. has to do before
it struggles back to a condition of even partial
solvency and moderate safety. Meanwhile it
must be remembered that the great surplus isn’t
realised yet. When State Premier Carruthers
said the Treasury was “overflowing,” and the
S.M. Herald published its whoop about “Money
to Burn” and demanded a reduction of taxation,
revenue was only ahead of expenditure by
£191,000. For a State which had—in Reid’s
time—as much as £607,000 deficit in one year,
£191,000 surplus isn’t much to brag about.
Further, it must be remembered, before taxation
is taken off, that, though the present sources of
revenue mail yield £1,000,000 surplus (after bor-
rowing £1,500,000 and raising £1,000,000 by the
sale of public assets) in a year of splendid rains
like the present, the first drought year may show
a deficit (even after borrowing £1,500,000 and
raising £1,000,000 by the sale of public assets). A
paper like the S.M. Herald which demands a
reduction of taxes the instant a small surplus is
created (by heavy borrowing and huge land sales
and by the extraordinary luck of three record
seasons)—well, the Prodigal Son wasn’t a circum-
stance to it, and the South Sea Bubble was almost
respectable by comparison.
An Impartial Jury’s Verdict.
It is now “ up to” the Sydney Morning Herald
to support a progressive land-tax, compulsory
resumption of large estates, and a State bank to
finance agricultural settlers. The verdict returned
by its own j ury of agricultural experts, and printed
in its “On the Land” columns (30/4/’O6), forces it
to that. The jury was composed as follows:
W. S. Campbell, State Director of Agriculture;
H. M. Somer, Secretary of the Royal Agricultural
Society (erstwhile agricultural editor of the
S.M.H.); T. S. Campbell, Secretary of the Far-
mers’ and Settlers’ Association; and F. A. Bad-
gery, a well-known stock, station, farm, dairy and
produce expert. These were appointed by the S.M.
Herald proprietary to adjudicate on the farms en-
tered for prizes in a competition that was intended
to accelerate the pumpkin and make the spud blos-
som like the rose. The jury met to arrange points
in the competition. Incidentally other things
cropped up. One matter was an appeal from cer-
tain tenant farmers, asking that “they should
either receive an allowance of points from free-
holders in the competition for the best farm ; or
that they should be kept in a special class.” The
j ur y_the Herald reports—was sympathetic,
but decided that the proposal of the tenant
farmers was impracticable. Then the members of
the jury fell to discussing tenant farmers
Members referred to the fact that tenant farmers in
this State had such wretched rights in the way of im-
provements that it was extremely difficult for them to
compete. Landlords were not disposed to he generous
in the matter of improvements, nor willing to compen-
sate tenants. “ Until the State further protects the
tenant farmer, it appears a profitless venture to encourage
advanced farming by competition or otherwise among
tenant farmers.”
It is a notable verdict, and one which, under the
circumstances, the Herald must accept. The
jury was of its own appointing. Now, what does
the Hunter-street organ propose to do? Will it
go on yelling “ anti-Socialism,” and denouncing
the people who are endeavoring to pass measures
in State and Commonwealth to abolish tenant
farming by abolishing the big landlords ? Or will
the daily throw its weight on the side of the
people who want to make it possible for every
settler on the land to profitably and pleasurably
pursue advanced farming ?
A Poor Apologist.
Mr. G. S. Beeby writes :
It appears that the Labor party of this State, owing to
its refusal to worship The Bulletin’s one and only poli-
tical god, “ High Protection,” is to be deprived of The
Bulletin’s benevolent patronage. We are hopeful that
the next Federal election will prove that the party can
struggle on in spite of this disaster. In the meantime,
however, might I be allowed to state that there are some
men in the Labor movement who know something of
modern history, and for “good and sufficient reasons”
believe that the party remains non-fiscal until such time
as it controls the Government of the Commonwealth?
When a party is in power which , will pass all necessary
industrial legislation, and see that it is honestly adminis-
tered, the clamor for a means of creating and fostering
Australian industries will be readily responded to.
Whether this will be by High Protection or national
initiative is, I submit, still open to question. But, the
main essential is that the Labor party is national; it does
attach full importance to the development of manufac-
turing industries, and if The Bulletin will help to put it
in power, will do more honest work in this direction in
three years than Deakin will do in tw’enty.
You are fond of quoting Germany to iis, and would
lead iis to believe that its fiscal policy, without industrial
legislation, has been of great benefit to its workers. Who
are the best judges of this? Germans themselves, or an
editor who looks on from afar? The agitation which led
up to Germany’s present policy was inaugurated in 1876.
The Social Democratic party, at its Congress held in that
year, adopted the same attitude (fiscal sinking) as our
Labor party.
Acting on this resolution the party was not bound
either way, and its individual members were free to vote
according to their fiscal predilections. After a quarter
of a century’s experience of High Protection, the same
party, then enormously increased in numbers, carried
resolutions in IS9B at the Stuttgart Congress land
re-affirmed them at a later date) declaring against
Protection as unnecessary, as tending to encourage
Trusts and to increase the price of food.
Your answer to this will, of course, be that the -wage-
earner can, by industrial legislation, secure his share of
the benefits of increased manufacturing. The only
trouble is, the New South Wales Labor party will not
take a post-dated draft. They want absolute pow’er to
■make and administer industrial laws before settling on
any schemes for developing industries. A few years
experience has shown that the industrial law, obtained
“ in return for concessions,” is easily rendered valueless
by the Government which trades on concessions.
'Hence the now fixed policy of Australian Labor parties
to aim at one thing only—the direct control of Australian
Governments; hence the persistent refusal to allow
fiscalism to prevent achievement of this central aim.
It would save some time to Mr. Beeby —and to
others —if they could get to understand that The
Bulletin owes no allegiance to the Labor party,
or any other party. It represents ideas, and not
party aspirations. So long, and only so long, as
the Labor party helps those ideas, is it worth
supporting. As regards the N.S.W. State Labor
party, of which Mr. Beeby is a part, it has no
control over the fiscal question, which has gone
out of State politics, and out of its jurisdiction.
The chief cause of the complaint against the
N.S.W. State Labor party has been its consistent
support of the pawnshop policy. It has stood
sturdily behind every dishonest financier and
wholesale borrower—G. H. Reid, John See,
and E. W. O’Sullivan. It has trodden
its own alleged principles in the mud to sup-
port the borrowing frenzy ; the party is pledged
to oppose all loans except for undertakings
which will pay full interest on their cost, and pro-
vide a 1 per cent, sinking fund as well, and it has
not only made no serious effort to carry out those
principles but it has allowed a prominent member
of the party to throw dirt at them and deride them,
and hasn’t made a move to censure him, much
less to expel him, for his treason and dishonesty.
When the fiscal issue was under the control of
the State Parliament the N.S.W. Labor party
wouldn’t commit itself to the policy of finding work
for the people by establishing industries under a
Protectionist tariff lest the manufacturer should
prove a sweater and a monopolist. But it didn’t
in the least mind selling posterity body and soul
to the money-lending monopolist so that this
generation might find employment on loan works.
It didn’t seem to object to the importing monopo-
list—sweater as he is. It made no serious effort
to disturb the land monopolist by a graduated
land-tax—at least it supported George Reid long
after it found that he would do nothing in that
direction. Its one fear, apparently, was lest
Australian manufactures should arise. There is
no sorcery in the shibboleth “ Labor party ” to
transmute into right the wrong of binding Aus-
tralia in chains of debt to foreign money-lenders.
But it is against the Australian Labor party (with
which on most of its policy The Bulletin agrees),
not Mr. Beeby’s State Labor party, that this
paper makes the complaint that it fails as a party
to be Protectionist. And, with all respect to
Mr. Beeby, the fact that the German Labor
party, or any other Labor party, or the Reid
party, or any other Tory party, is also alleged to
sink the fiscal issue, makes absolutely no differ-
ence to the logic of the position. The number of
fools who believe in a fallacy, however vast,
doesn’t bring that fallacy nearer to truth. The
yarn that the Labor party is waiting to secure
administrative power throughout Australia before
it will help to develop Australian industries is
surely not put forward in a responsible way by
Mr. Beeby? In effect it amounts to this: That
the Labor party aims at a full party victory
primarily, and it is not willing to help to do wjiat
it recognises to be necessary for Australia until it
has won to office. Whilst it is fighting for office,
Australian industries can go to the Devil; the
first essential to the Labor party is office. If this
cynical and unprincipled programme is the Labor
party’s (The Bulletin hesitates to believe it,
in spite of the recent perfidy of the Victorian
Labor League Conference), patriotic Austra-
lians will make every effort to end the Labor
party. This paper repeats: There is nothing
sacrosanct in the words “ Labor party.” A
wrong done by a Labor party is just as much a
wrong as if done by an Anti-Socialist party.
The Monkey in Manchuria.
From Tientsin :
The war in Manchuria is at an end, as far as the two
immediately interested belligerents are concerned, but ’
Japan seems determined to continue it, as long as pos-
sible, against the traders of other nationalities.
Japan still holds the important towns of Hsinmintun and
Fakumen, and rigorously refuses permission to all except
Chinese and Japanese subjects to travel over Manchuria’s
main trade routes, which pass through those districts.
Its own traders meanwhile are flooding the country, and
are picking up monopolies in every branch of trade which
shows any prospect of profit. Japanese are everywhere
staking out mining claims, and are obtaining certificates
for them on the easiest terms. For eighteen months from
the ratification of the peace treaty this is likely to con-
tinue. Then foreigners will be allowed to enter the
country and take the leavings. This is Japan’s idea of
the much talked-of “open door.”
The Monkey is playing “ Old Harry ” with the currency
in Manchuria. Presumably having no cash wherewith to
pay the troops, the Japanese Treasury issued paper bills
known as War Notes. These the natives had to accept in
payment for their goods. The result is that the country
is flooded with some £40,000,000 worth of this paper, and
Mr. Monkey is too confoundedly artful to make any
arrangements for the redemption of his paper in metallic
equivalent. A branch of the Yokohama Specie Bank at
Yinkow (Newchwang) exchanges moderate quantities for
its own dollar notes, at a big d scount, and now the
Japanese Government has graciously permitted this bank
to make a special issue of notes to redeem the practically
worthless War Notes. This new issue will probably be a
“payable after five years” sort of document, and with
discounts, loss of interest, and losses by fire and flood,
the Monkey will reap a rich profit at the expense of the
poor devils of Chinese coolies. This is on a par with the
usual Japanese “commercial morality.”
American goods have suffered somewhat severely from
the boycott which the Chinese have manoeuvred
under the excuse that America’s immigration laws are
unsatisfactory. There is, however, a large and influential
secret society, engineered by Japanese, at vvoilv in the
country, and, though convincing proof is hard to obtain,
many who know China well are certain that Japan, .
jealous of American trade and wanting the China market
for its own produce, is at the bottom of the movement.
The other day, in Tientsin, Viceroy Yuan Shui Kai
fancied that a policeman, in the erpploy of the British
Municipal Council of that town, had insulted his dignity
by waving his baton to direct his cavalcade to the proper
side of the roadway, and asked for his arrest. The coun-
cillors and the British Consul proved themselves cowards,
and, instead of backing the man up for obeying their
orders, handed the poor wretch over to the Viceroy’s
tender mercies. He has been sentenced to 1000 blows and
three years’ imprisonment, but as yet the flogging has not
been inflicted, and a petition requesting that the police-
man may be pardoned, signed by a very large number of
the foreign residents of the port, has been sent to the
Viceroy, All white Tientsin is indignant with the Viceroy
in question, and disgusted with its councillors and its
British Consul.
The Chinese are very restless, and there are signs of an
anti-foreign outbreak in the near future. As before the
Boxer outbreak of 1900, the village folk in many parts of
the country are busy drilling. The next uprising will not
be similar to the half-hearted outbreak of 1900. Many
more of the natives are well-armed, the war in Manchuria
having provided them with thousands of rifles and quanti-
ties of ammunition. Yuan Shiii Kai’s foreign-drilled
troops are far more likely to prove a danger to Europeans
than a protection, and yet the Powers have de-
cided to withdraw their troops from North China and
leave us to his tender mercies. The Empress Dowager is
getting very old and feeble, and has been of late far from
well.
Who says that the Japanese are not original ? A para-
graph in the Pekin and Tientsin Times runs :
“ About the beginning of this month a Japanese im-
ported some 3000 widows, whom he offered for sale, either
as domestic servants or secondary wives, at 60 cents per
cattie. Photographs are shown to intending purchasers,
who make their selection, and the woman is weighed and
her value calculated on the basis of 60 cents a cattie.”
Great Britain’s ally thus tries the slave trade on a
new plan. •
The Court Around the Corner.
Victoria’s Solicitor-General, J. M. Davies, is at
piesent explaining the why and wherefore of a
certain action of his. On Feb. 17th a dairyman
was charged at Camberwell with watering the
milk he sold—a miserable and despicable offence
which not only amounted to obtaining money by
false pretences, but which might easily have
amounted to the murder of some infants who
depended on the debased fluid for their susten-
nce. A public analyst proved the adulteration.
The Aryans.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was said in the ancient ages—it is law on the
earth to-day—
The heavy hand shall possess the land, and the
strong on the weak shall prey.
They strove for a bone in the age of Stone —for a
joint from the mammoth carved.
Some feasted high ’neath the heedless sky, and
as for the rest, they starved.
At the back of the year’s horizon, o’er the rim of
the sea of time,
A race arose, so the story goes, in the mists of an
Eastern clime,
And they lived and died, and multiplied like the
sparks from a burning bush.
Our tale began when Aryan Man swept down
from the Hindu-Koosh.
He spreads o’er the Russian plains like fire—
through the forests of Germany,
His way made clear by the bow and spear, from
the hills to the far off sea.
His war cry rang, through the battle’s clang, like
the crash when a tree is felled.
His hands were red when the day had sped, and
that which he took he held.
This is an age that is civilised—the beginning of
Arcadie.
Our creed is love, and the hawk and dove, and the
wolf and the lamb agree.
We seek no prize when we colonize, but the boon
of Aryan rule,
We freely give to the folks who live in the shade
of the Mission school.
Our warships go unto heathen shores, but all for
the heathen’s good.
Our hearts are shocked when our creed is mocked
and our motives misunderstood.
We spread our trade when a way is made that the
merchant may safely tread—
When some are enrolled within our fold, and
when those who object are dead.
Where the lazy lift of the blue swell swings
through the gates of the lone lagoon,
The brown men toil at the thirsty soil to the
drone of a Sankey tune.
The bearers tramp through the forests damp, like
the beasts that are bought and sold
By the Congo’s flood. Their work is good in the
eyes of King Leopold.
The arid breast of the veldt is pierced by many
an Aryan mine.
The red flag floats from the trading boats in the
harbors beneath the Line.
Where the Amur runs, the Russian guns are
trained towards the rising sun.
We claim as our own the outpost lone, where the.
East and the West are one.
Oh, the White Man’s heart is pure and clean, and
no longer therein intrudes,-
The lust of pelf, or the thought of self, or the wish
for his neighbor’s goods.
’Tis his constant prayer that all may share the
Heaven he may justly claim ;
He makes no demand for his neighbor’s land, but
—he gets there all the same.
MAORILAND.
TAIWA.


■ w
Gaf&Kcr
to
no Trust or
Combi rve
/« BELfA^T
“ Sure, it takes
an Irishman to
fight the Tobacco
Trust, after all!"
which was not disputed by the defendant,
and six “honorariums,” suffering a temporary
attack of common sense, fined the culprit £lO and
costs, in default distress. At about this point
the defendant “spoke to” the member for his
district, and the member for the district “spoke
to” Davies, who spoke to himself and stopped
the issue of the distress warrant, and invited the
magistrates to report on the episode. They
replied, explaining their unanimous action, and
justifying their decision ; whereupon Davies sat
still and apparently did nothing. And presum-
ably the whole business would have been forgotten
and the offence would have gone unpunished, had
the Age not got hold of it, and forced Davies on
a career of explanation, He dragged in a belated
report from the Director of Agriculture, Dr.
Cherry, to the effect that the milk might not have
been very much adulterated after all; he
explained that it was his custom to deal with all
“appeals for clemency” on their merits; also,
that he disliked hanging a man first and
trying him afterwards. All of which is very
pretty piffle, but has nothing to do with the
case. Nobody proposed to hang anybody first and,
try him afterwards; in this case the man was
tried first and not hanged at all. The milk-
adulteration was proved to the satisfaction of all
six beaks; the defendant did not dispute the
adulteration ; also he declined to avail himself of
his right to appeal—as provided by the Pure Food
Act—and have the matter threshed out in open
court. Instead, he went up the backstairs to the
Minister, who suspended action for over two
months—only reporting to the Cabinet his deci-
sion to remit the fine, when the matter had been
made public. Davies claims that it is his
duty to listen to such appeals. If so, then
the sooner that duty is taken from him the
better. In such cases there is abundant provision
for appeal to a court which Australia firmly be-
lieves to be honest, capable and above suspicion—
a court which can’t be approached by a member
who is possibly afraid that if he doesn’t get
the swindler off, the swindler won’t vote for
him at next election ; and which doesn’t re-
quire the support of the swindler’s member to
keep it in office, as an Attorney-General
or Solicitor-General may do; and which
does its business openly instead of having
its ear breathed into secretly by interested
parties. A secret appeal to a politician—especially
by a convicted person who apparently doesn’t
think it worth while to appeal openly to the
Supreme Court —is a disgrace. If it is to con-
tinue some of the Judges should be retrenched
and the whole right of appeal from the decisions
of Petty Sessions Courts handed over to the
Solicitor-General. There is no sense in keeping
three or four expensive Judges to weigh evidence
carefully and decide he issues on that evidence,
when an aged Fat Landlord can sum the matter
up in five minutes on the mere say-so of the mem-
ber for the district.
♦
A cry from the sunset: —
Westralian Government, yielding at last to the force of
public opinion, has shunted Oct. Burt from his fat billet
as Chief Electoral Officer for the whole of Groperland.
His name is Octavius, but he is commonly called Octo-
pus, by reason of the many lucrative positions he holds
in the public service. Among other billets left him is
that of Sheriff at £550, also that of Comptroller of Prisons
at £250, so Oct. will not be reduced to beggary all at
once. His brother Septimus was Attorney-General in
Bigjohn’s first Ministry, and is partner with a brother of
the late Chief Justice in a legal business in Perth.
For years past the electoral arrangements of the great
Sand State have been diabolical, every possible obstacle
being placed in the way of men desirous to exercise the
franchise. When the Coolgardie rush broke out, and
thousands of t’othersiders were pouring into the State,
it was stipulated that a residence of 12 months in
Westralia was the primary qualification before a man
could scale the precipice of the electoral roll. Then the
applicant had to prove not only that he had been 12
months in the State, but that he had resided six months
in one locality. After those conditions had been com-
plied with he was summoned to appear before a revision
court, at which anyone could object to the applicant’s
name being added. The result was that not a man in
19 bothered about the matter, and Bigjohn’s crowd swept
the board for several years. Then the term of residence
was lowered to six months, and a lot of tinkering with the
Act took place, and matters got into a frightfully muddled
state. One of the most successful devices for preventing
people voting was a stipulation that absence from a dis-
trict for three months would disqualify, so entire families,
some of them with seven or eight votes apiece, were dis-
franchised. On the goldfields, where miners and their
families are constantly changing their places of residence,
hundreds of names were struck off the rolls at the revision
courts just held, and the Supreme Court at Perth has de-
clared that no less than three members returned at last
general election have forfeited their seats because some
of the voters had left the district for which their names
appeared. A new Electoral Act is promised during the
coming session, but as it is to consist of 300 or 400
clauses it would appear that the plain, simple process of
recording a vote at a Parliamentary election is to be
hedged round with greater entanglements than ever.
Meanwhile the process of becoming a taxpayer is quite
simple, and doesn’t require even three days residence.
Lieutenant Carlyon Bellairs, M.P., inter-
viewed re the idea of establishing an Australian
navy, “ considers that Captain C reswell greatly
under-estimates the cost of furnishing an efficient
squadron for Australia. The present Imperial
Australian squadron,” he says, “would be quite
inefficient in case of war, the vessels being un-
arinored. ” Lieutenant Carlyon Bellairs, M.P.,
is plainly of opinion that the proposal to start an
Australian navy is uncalled for, and to con-
vince us points out that the squadron for
which we pay a large annual rent to Britain
is absolutely useless for purposes of defence.
Since we are paying so much for nothing,
even the dullest must admit that if we really wish
to be s defended we had better pay a little more for
something, however small. In plain words the
Imperial Squadron agreement is a cold-blooded
swindle, although Australian statesmen don’t say
so plainly because it would be considered disloyal,
yet many of them are still of the opinion that
Australia must not get good, effective ships of its
own, as it is its dut ■ to hire the antiquated and
useless tubs of the dear old Ma country.
A “Statement of receipts and expenditure of the
Pastures Protection Board for the district of
Wentworth (N.S.W.) for 1905” drops into The
Bulletin office and invites a sniff. The revenue
of this board, which is one of 30 or so in the State,
was £673; the expenditure £560. Of that £560,
contributed by squatters and selectors on a stock-
capitation basis, £l6 was.spent in scalp-bonuses;
the other £544 went in administration. It cost, in
short, £544 to spend £l6. The greater part of that
£544 was to maintain a Stock Inspector’s office ;
and that might be money very well spent if the
Stock Inspector had any power to deal with
the pest that does 100 times more harm to
Western pastures than any other —the rabbits.
But he has no power. He cannot compel destruc-
tion. So stock inspection there is a farce for the
most part, and the money spent upon it is wasted.
And Heaven knows the Western squatter and
selector have little enough to waste. Possibly in
other districts the Pastures Protection Boards
have some better justification for their existence :
yet, in view of the figures quoted, one can’t wonder
at the frequent call to either end or mend them.
™"" ❖ •
“Squidge” sends this yarn, which is printed in
the hope that it isn’t true :
There is a State experimental farm at Wyuna (Yic.)
Estate. Wyuna—regarded as the estate that was going
to reflect a glory of several thousand candle-power on the
Closer Settlement Board and Bent —is seething with dis-
content, and is the laughing-stock of every practical man
who goes there. Of course, the backbone of the country
is always ready to seethe with discontent, no matter how
he is treated ; but this time he has some justification for
doing so.
To begin with, Wyuna was a sheep farm of 23,000
acres. Now it is cut up by irrigation channels and
divided amongst about 300 practical men. That is good.
Also the State has reserved a 500-acre experimental block,
and somebody is using up the State’s good red gold in an
attempt to teach the settlers who have been farming all
their lives how they ought to farm —with this block as an
example. The overseer of this farm is a good man, but
he is bound by chains of red tape about the feet, and
daren’t hoe a turnip without orders from Melbourne.
It was decided to show the farmers that Wyuna
land, irrigated and scientifically tended, would carry
a cow to the acre. As there are 500 acres
in the experimental block, the Melbourne authority set
to work to plump 500 cows on to the land. It didn’t
occur to the authority that 10 cows on 10 acres would
give the same result. Two trucks of cows in milk were
bought and sent up to Wyuna. There were no cow-bails,
no cow-sheds, no milking appliances, no dairy, no cream
separators, and no carts to carry away the cream. Then,
in order to assist the construction of irrigation channels,
the authority in Melbourne had ordered panels of wire-
fencing to be removed. Perhaps it didn’t occur to him that
the cows would stray. He probably thought they would be
chained up at night, like dogs. The overseer has a man and
a boy under him. All three had to herd the cows day
and night to prevent them straying off the block. Then
they had to milk them in the open and let the milk go to
irrigate the earth. Probably, after several official letters
have been exchanged between the farm and the authority
which pursues agriculture in a Melbourne office, in-
structions will be given that bails, separators, cream-
cans, and carts should be obtained ; but it is much more
probable that, before anything of that sort is done, the
theoretical boss at the metropolis will buy another
couple of trucks of milch cows and forward them to
Wyuna to add to the troubles of the place and the cor-
respondence of the overseer.
Although traction engines have been tried over and
over again as plough-pullers in the Wyuna district, no
one has ever been successful. This didn't deter the re-
sponsible person in Melbourne from sending up a 12-ton
traction engine and two four-furrow ploughs. The
ploughs were ridiculously light for the hard iron ground
of Wyuna, and after repeated trials engine and ploughs
were hauled into a yard and the ploughing postponed
sine die. The sum of £l6O is being spent on another
idea. A 5000 yd. tank with spoil banks Bft. high is being
excavated. This is not being done for water, because
within a few hundred yards of it are three big tanks
full of water. The fact is that the Melbourne authority
wants to show the farmers what can be done in the way
of water conservation. If this experiment were being
made in a district where there was no gravitation scheme
it would be understandable, but at Wyuna, where the
country is everywhere seamed with irrigation channels,
why waste money in such imbecile experiments ? If the
State block is to teach us anything it must be run as a
proper farm, in an up-to-date manner. Then it will pay
and be of use. At present it seems merely to provide re-
creation for some wild citizens in Melbourne.
' ♦
Missionary-man John G. Paton, who should
know all there is to know about the Kanaka,
throws (in Melb. Argus) a bomb at the beautiful
lie that has been built up about Tommy Tanna’s
dread of returning home :
Once on the lower deck of a steamer in which I was a pas-
senger from one town to another, were a number of
Kanakas from Tanna lying about, a sad, disheartened-
looking lot. The captain and the planter in charge of the
men came to me. The planter said, “ You say these
Kanakas are ill-used and wrought like slaves in Queens-
land ; just come and hear and see how happy they are.”
I went, and, in broken English he asked them many
questions like the following, and got the answer he ex-
pected, into which they appeared to be well drilled :
“Are you men happy in Queensland?” “Yes.” “Do
you get plenty kaikai (food)?” “Yes.” “You like work
on cane plantation?” “Yes.” “You get too much
work?” “No.” “You want go back to the islands?”
“No.” Then, with a triumphant smile, he said, “Now
you see how contented and happy they are,” and, seem-
ingly much pleased, went aft.
I took a stroll round the deck, and on returning spoke
to the Kanakas in their own language. In a moment they
were up, shouting, “ He knows our language.” So in
their own language I put the planter’s questions to them
again, and where they answered him “ yes ” they replied
“no” to me, and where he got “no” they gave me
“yes.” And they implored me to try and get them re-
turned to their island from Queensland, and its constant
plantation work, and they were much afraid their master
would be told their replies to me. For fear of displeasing
their masters or of punishment, they can be led to do and
say anything...
The cruelty is in the planters bringing them from the
islands and getting all the work possible out of them at
exceedingly small wages, and then refusing to pay for
them being returned t • their islands and friends, and
casting them adrift in Queensland, to beg food or die of
starvation. But this inhuman treatment is quite in keep-
ing with the past history of this blood-stained traffic.
The only reply so far received is a vehement letter
from a commercial traveller, declaring that he is
quite sure that Paton is wrong.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “The Prodigal Son.”
Criterion “ The Man from Mexico."
Her Majesty’s “Florodora.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Palace Theatre “ Bill Adams” and “The Dandy
Doctor.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Dorothy Vernon."
Theatre Royal “ For the Sake of a Woman.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Town Hall “Living London” and the
Meistersingers.
Hall West’s Pictures & the Brescians.
♦
Hall Caine, beginning as a novelist of
some tragic power and forceful directness, with a
fondness for a warm sex subject to give a touch of
color to his religiosity, degenerated later into the
man of vast circulations and vast sloppy works—
half novels, half treatises, such as “The Eternal
City.” He still had an eye for a dramatic situa-
tion, still an instinct for sex served up with con-
venticle sauce, but had acquired the habit of
stopping his story to preach, or to drag in masses
of poor descriptive matter (to satisfy a vast circu-
lation wanting much Caine or Correlli for
its money). “The Prodigal Son,” now on
view at Sydney Royal as a drama, represents the
second period of Hall Caine. It has a strong
story ; the human wickedness which it pourtrays
is unusual, and is told with a fidelity to the
arcana of social life that doesn’t stop at the
obstetrical; the situations are always vivid. For
two acts “The Prodigal Son” is admirable; a
little overloaded, perhaps, with detail, but still
running a strong current of story between well-
marked banks. Then Hall Caine, with the
pathetic wish of the holy man to show that he,
too, has seen wicked things in his time, stops
the story to picture impossible revels at a
Riviera casino, where the ladies gambol and
gamble in tights, and roulette is interspersed
with tableaux of Venus. Mr. Caine, good
decent man, does not know that these things are
not; cannot be. The gambler with a big stake on
the table wouldn’t give twopence to see all the
Venuses in the world ; and the roulette proprietor
who was so foolish as to interrupt his clients with
the antics of ladies in tights would soon get to the
poor-house. “The Prodigal Son” recovers in the
last act and ends powerfully—though the last
scene is not at all original. Taking it all in all,
“ The Prodigal Son ” is a great deal superior to the
melodrama usually associated with Bland Holt
management; and a good distance ahead also
of such Caine dramas as “ The Christian ”
and “ The Eternal City.” The mounting
(needless to say in a Holt theatre) is
excellent, ’ and some bright ballets will give a
piquancy for the clergy to the moral lessons of the
drama. There are signs that the clergy will
haunt “ The Prodigal Son.”
WILLIAM COLLIER, the popular American
comedian, who will shortly appear in “ The
Dictator ” under Williamsonian auspices.
Photo by Sarony, New York.
The acting (which at the Melbourne pro-
duction was not counted impressive) has since
improved, for at Saturday’s production it was
always adequate and sometimes distinctly good.
Miss Harrie Ireland and Miss Ross (as
the bad and good girls respectively) are
well in the picture throughout, Miss Ross in
the first act showing special charm. Mrs. Bland
Holt as a sententious old maid of much
worldly knowledge, gives a much-needed air of
gaiety here and there to a play which mostly
wears a solemn face. As the rugged hero of self-
renunciation, Magnus Stephensson, Walter Baker
shows sometimes powerfully, sometimes with a
tendency to be over-melodramatic. Albert
Norman has a father impossible part which gives
him little chance until the last act. The other
characters do not show out in any relief, the action
being mostly confined to the principals—the
wicked brother who marries the good sister and
then takes up with her wicked sister, and
the very good brother who stays at home
and nurses the mortgage. Judging by the
interest aroused on Saturday and Monday nights
“ The Prodigal Son ” is due for a long run.
** * #
Two more nights of “The Orchid,” and
then “Florodora” will be revived (Saturday
night) at Her Majesty’s, Sydney. “ The Orchid ”
as it used to be isn’t too much like “The Orchid”
as it is now; but the changes don’t call for any more
remark than the other changes do at the hall
around the corner, in Oastlereagh-street. In fact,
musical comedy has got to this—that it parodies
and burlesques the music-hall. Once it used to
be the ’AH that burlesqued the other place ; but it
is different now. And the theatre doesn’t worry; in
fact, when Lauri knocks off being a gardener
for a few minutes to stroll in as a gentleman down
from Boggabri, and drags out “The Old Bull and
Bush ” from its grave, the theatre isn’t shocked—
it just compels Lauri to churn out three extra
verses before he gets back to the character that
has some remote connection with the spidery thing
that J. Chamberlain wears in his coat.
: . V'V
There have been very few more popular
people in Australia than Miss Grace Palotta and
Mr. Hugh Ward ; the one set the standard for
feminine grace, the other for light agile humor.
The return of both in the one company, with a
farce which is said to be good, and a cast which,
besides them, includes the valuable George Wil-
loughby and others, should make Australia feel
cheerful. The Willoughby and Ward co. opens
on Saturday, at the Criterion (Sydney). The
merry piece is “ The Man from Mexico,” and
there are indications that it is well to be smart
about booking seats.
* * * *
That bright opera made in Australasia,
“ The Moorish Maid,” slid off the stage at Sydney
Palace last Saturday night to make room for a, re-
surrection of the farcical “Skirt Dancer.” This is
themasterpiece in which Ed ward Lauri as Benjamin
Mapleton falls backwards into a barrow and is
wheeled off kicking. The barrow act may not
be quite equal to the highest efforts of Shak-
speare, but it raises a laugh—of a kind.
May Beatty as Flo Carruthers, the fleshy dancer
who has a platonic love affair with Captain Bunt-
ing, has a part that suits her. Roland Watts-
Phillips as the aristocratic hyena, Lady Parkton,
is so laughter-compelling that she’s better
than a box of digestive tabloids. _ The music,
after that of “ The Moorish Maid,” is paltry—but
it will have to do; there is no time to alter it,
and in any case it’s not worth while, because
“The Skirt Dancer” only leaps in the atmosphere
of revelry for a few nights. On Wednesday “Bill
Adams” will once again march on, and on Saturday
a musical cocktail, “The Dandy Doctor,” will fizz
(Do cocktails fizz ? This writer is a total abstainer)
on the Palace stage.
* * * *
The Brescians and West’s Pictures faded
away to Goulburn on Sunday. Henceforth we shall
here of them from various spots of the Common-
wealth. Unlike the leopard the company is able
to change its spots. Melbourne and other hamlets
are waiting for it.
* * * #
Except that the Carmos have arrived, and
have started to carry themselves and the furni-
ture around, balanced on their eyelashes and
other places where furniture was never intended
to grow, Sydney Tivoli is much the same Tivoli as
it was a week ago. And a week ago, what with
Miss Raymond, Slade Murray, Larola, and the
American farce, which consists chiefly of a humor-
ous musical burglar, it was a very entertaining
Tivoli indeed.
* # * *
The Princess’s is being washed and
brushed-up in anticipation of the return of the
Brough-Flemming Co., next Saturday or a week
later. “Dr. Wake’s Patient” will be the play,
and Mrs. Brough is to resume her place in the
cast —a very potent reason why Melbourne should
give the show a warm greeting. The co. will con-
tinue under its present title until the end of the
Princess’s season, when the term of partnership
expires.
* # * #■
This is to certify that ‘ ‘ Dorothy Vernon ”
is going strong in its fourth week at Her Majesty’s
(Melb.). The usual bursts of applause burst with
unfailing vigor, also the revelation of petticoats
incidental to Miss Brune’s escape from Haddon
Hall excites uproarious merriment as before.
Melbourne seemingly had been looking for a
picturesque drama to take the place of “Sweet
Nell,” and “ Dorothy Vernon ” is the article re-
quired. One of these Saturdays the strong-
minded young woman, who talks so frankly of
love, marriage, and the children she intends to
have, will be retired in favor of William Collier and
co. The doubt about Collier is now said to have
been finally dispelled by a cablegram. The be-
lated comedian has escaped from the ruins of S.
Francisco, and is to start business in Melbourne
on the 26th.
* * m *•
Frank T. Bullen put in four appearances
at Melb. Athenaeum Hall, last week, with crowded
results. Therefore, out of consideration for the
money he was turning from the doors, R. S.
Smythe went to Bullen (with tears in his eyes)
protesting that he wouldn’t willingly hurt the
feelings of even a florin by turning it away. On
behalf of the disappointed coins he begged
Bullen to repeat three of his lectures
on the first three nights this week, and
Bullen yielded to the business manager’s request.
Bullen is a lecturer who talks of what he has
written about. The matter of his sea yarns is
interesting, the delivery rapid, earnest and dis-
tinct, and the manner of the man remarkable for
its Bullenness. He has no platform tricks; he
allows his “points” to make themselves; he
scorns dramatic pauses. A fluent, unaffected
talker, often humorous, never tedious, always
impressing one with the idea that he is, in the
words of the advertisement, an original man.
Bullen captured his first-night audience by
stating right away that he was not to blame for
coming 10 minutes late to the platform. He had
been ready for half an hour, he said. And in
saying it he seemed to express profound dis-
respect for the local Governor, or somebody, who
hadn’t come up to time.
# * * *
At Melbourne Town Hall the Taits are
biographing on a more extensive scale than before.
In addition to the “London ” pictures, there are
Switzerland scenes, and the Romance of a Rail-
way, and numerous other sheeted attractions,
including the Launching of the Dreadnought, in
the course of which King Edward appears as a
monarch standing about 9ft. high in his royal
boots. Between picture times a quartet of
Meistersingers warble popular ballads, with indi-
vidual and collective success ; also, the show has
been improved in its orchestral department, and
the takings at the doors last Saturday were a
great flood of silver music.
* * * *
Anderson’s bill at Melbourne Royal is to
be changed this week. “The Midnight Mail”
comes off in order that “ For the Sake of a
Woman ” may come on. The title of the outgoing
shocker cast a shadow of its narrative before it, so
to speak, but there is no knowing what may
happen in Andersonian fiction for a Woman’s
Sake, especially if the lady turns out to be Miss
Duggan.
* * * *
The Brescians and West’s Pictures, having
lately boomed at Sydney Town Hall, should do
something more than likewise at the Mel-
bourne Athenaeum Hall, where there is less
room to boom in, and the boom gets concentrated.
This long-expected combination of music, song
and biograph (plain and colored) falls due on
Saturday next (12th), and the box-plan has been
opened with suitable pomp and circumstance at
Glen’s.
* * * *
At the Melbourne Town Hall next Wednes-
day (16th) a complimentary concert to Leila


A Btight
New Thing.
KOLfl-
CUP
GET IT.
All Hotels,
6d. Per Glass.
Ail Chemists,
4s. 6l'. Per Bottle
w
r\\
oo
mm
A
RL
KOLA-CUP.
THE MUSICIANS’ TONIC.
TRY IT!
• •
Doubleday will give the public in general an
opportunity to recognise the talent of that in-
teresting 3 T oung violiniste and pianiste. Some
well-known singers, also the Melbourne String
Quartet, will add their services, and the aforesaid
public in general is advised to hustle for tickets
as soon as possible.
** * *
The A.W.N.L. threatens an Empire Day-
Demonstration at Melb. Town Hall on May 22.
Miss Nellie Veitch is to utter an address by
Fitchett on “ The Empire: WFat It Stands
For,” and Mr. John H. Hopkins, a young man in
the elocution line, will also deliver an oration.
The Australian Women’s National League evi-
dently intends to smash up Socialism and lay the
Labor party low. Mrs. Hoadley, vice-president,
will take the chair at the scene of destruction.
#* * *
A new feature of the Opera House pro-
gramme since the Carmos and the Kilted Meisters
dropped out is a little comedy entitled “The
Order of the Bath;” Miss Lilieth Leyton and
Mr. Harry Kendal get shut up in a highly im-
probable-looking bathroom at an alleged hotel,
and as there is no chance for the spinster lady
to save her reputation unless the innocent
bachelor person falls from the window
and breaks his neck, they agree to end
the difficulty by a marriage next morning.
The farce, moderately bright in dialogue, is said
to have sent His Majesty Edward VII. into con-
vulsions (of laughter), but a Rickards audience
can endure such scenes with comparative com-
posure. “ The Order of the Bath ”is just an
acceptable sketch in its turn. Miss Lilieth Leyton
is an uneasy sort of “ leading society artiste,” and
her voice has a tone of soreness in it, but the
Kendal who supports her gives a subdued imita-
tion of George Huntley’s genuine British idiot,
and in his capacity of “support” he almost
amounts to a buttress.
* -* * *
The Knight-Jeffries co. has faded from t h
shores of this continent after giving a heavy blow
in the eye to history in “ A Royal Divorce,” and
to probability in “The Lady of Lyons.” Both
encounters occurred at Adelaide Royal, which
was also treated to one performance of “Every-
man.” The little Morality play was listened to
in silence by a crowded and reverent audi-
ence. It tells a simple lesson, and rubs it in
very hard; incidentally, it is about the most
expensive dramatic show on local record,
working out at nearly a penny a minute
for a good seat. An era of cheapness
has now set in, with Leslie Harris’s draw-
ing-room entertainment. Harris is a small
man to fill a full-sized theatre, but the opulent
charms of the Yeamans-Titus half of the partner-
ship preserve a balance. The Broncho horses
have bucked away to Broken Hill, after giving a
special open-air performance for the benefit of the
State Governor; but the real ice rink has broken
out afresh in fancy costumes, and a compli-
mentary concert has been given to the very latest
young woman vocalist who hears Europe a-calling.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Said that a well-known actor left suddenly last week,
for London, via South African ports, travelling incognito’.
“Zenobia,” who says that she and Thomas Kingston
were children together, writes from Kew (Melb.) to state
that a recent Bulletin writer made a very bad guess at
Kingston’s age when he set down Thomas at 52. She is
still “ a few years under 40,” and Kingston is two years
younger (say about 35). The Bulletin believes that in
this case the Queen of Palmyra is more or less of a joke
A Melbourne paper, talking of the banks that had been
disturbed by the San Francisco earthquake, mentioned
the “Bank of America,” and stated that Miss Tittell
Brune’s husband was “ President ” of the mysterious in-
stitution.
William Collier, whose departure for Australia was de-
layed by an earthquake, has the appearance (in some of
his photos) of being the most naturally humorous of all
the Yankee comedians introduced to this country by
J.C.W. Nat Goodwin’s facial expressions were comic by
design, but Collier’s countenance is funny in repose.
“ Hamer ” : Edwin Geach’s explanation (8.,19 4/’O6)
which, of course, is correct—might have been interest-
ingly extended to an outline of the traffic in the printing
matter that is daubed over most country towns, regard-
ing the forthcoming performance of “ The Bloodstained
Carpet Bag,” or “ The Wind-pipe at the Window Pane.”
With nearly every imported production comes a mass
of superfluous printing and pictorial matter, which, on
account of the high duty on such matter in the land it
came from, it is unprofitable to take back again ; so
certain dealers get it for a song, and pass it on to’the
touring manager, who doesn’t care for the irrelevancy of
the subject, as long as fie has pictures. Meantime
through this indirect form of “ dumping,” the Australian
printer and lithographer continue to live on a meal and a
quarter a day or thereabouts.
The noble forests of our land
Beneath man s devastating iiand
Soon will have vanished, leaving there
This country lying, gaunt and bare.
No wooded clothing, now she’s old
To save her from her death of cold,’
But lo ! new Woods arise with healing sure
All hail then Moods’ Great Peppermint Cure 1*
“ Ah, my Beloved fill the Cup.” You may
just as well nil it with the purest spirit available.
volfe s Schnapps is the liveliest and best tonie
known for nnnd or body. If your back aches it
may be your kidneys—Wolfe’s Schnapps cures
kidney diseases.*
It is many a day since Sydney Herald swished its
matronly birch over a young singer with the vigor and
intention to score exhibited in dealing with Miss Florette
Murray-Prior. “It is not possible to make any hopeful
prediction as to her future,” walloped the Herald, and
then: “The solemn warnings so constantly sent to this
country by Australian artists on the other side, notably
by Miss Ada Crossley, have often perplexed readers in
Sydney, but the fact is that they are not directed at the
many well-equipped young artists who have left us, but
at singers like Miss Murray-Prior.”
“ 0.K.”: Of the late Robert Brough it was commonly
said by unthinking people that he seemed “always the
same,” yet he had a better record for versatility than any
other leading actor this country has known for the past
20 years. He started here as a comic opera artist, open-
ing in Sydney—if I remember rightly—as the bluff Tam-
bour Major, a character he was quite unsuited to. His
success as the Lord Chancellor in “lolanthe” followed
the Tambour Major—or preceded it. At any rate, the
Lord Chancellor was his first part with the Williamson,
Garner and Musgrove co. when he came to Melbourne in
May, 1885, and in Melbourne he became a popular favorite
from the outset. The fact that he subsequently dimmed
his reputation by appearing as the Tambour Major
(Mrs. Brough played the Abbess) is hardly remem-
bered. Melbourne talked only of Brough as the
Lord Chancellor until he came back in November of
that year and made another hit as the Magistrate
in Pinero’s comedy. This time he was associated with
Titheradge, the Boucicaults (Dot and Nina), Herbert
Flemming, Mrs. Brough and Miss Temple in the W.G.
and M. Comedy co., and the season lasted many weeks.
“The Glass of Fashion” and “Betsy” were produced ;
then G. W. Anson joined the co. in place of Titheradge,
and they played “ Forbidden Fruit ” and “ Hazel Kirke,”
a heavy domestic drama wherein Brough was the comic-
relief young man. He was then hatching the scheme of
partnership with Boucicault that eventuated the follow-
ing year. Brough’s engagement to the Triumvirate Firm
was for 12 months, seemingly. In April, ’B6, prior to
returning to England to fix up matters for the forthcom-
ing Broug-h-Boucicault business, he appeared in the Gil-
bertian opera, “ PrincessToto,”atMelbourne Opera House,
under the management of a Mr. S. Moore. The opera
(owing to the feebleness of Frederick Clay’s music) was
not a great success, but Brough scored a hit as a riotous
dancer and humorist in the principal part, and he jour-
neyed to London with the reputation of a remarkably
clever all-round performer. In October ’B6 the Brough-
Boucicault firm (Henry Harwood being “associate
manager”) inaugurated its long Australian career at
Melbourne Opera House. The opening piece was “Turned
Up,” a farcical comedy, and Brough was a lugubrious
undertaker by the name of Bones. On Boxing- Night they
staged “Jack Sheppard,’’theGaiety burlesque, and Brough
was the not-yet-forgotten Jonathan Wild. B. and B.
closed the burlesque department of their business when
their lease of the Opera House expired in ’B7. Then
began the famous series of high-class productions at the
Bijou in Melbourne and the Criterion in Sydney—new
comedies by Pinero, Buchanan, and H. A. Jones, revivals
of old comedies, and Robertson comedies, with an occa-
sional lapse into farce. And what was Brough doing all
the time ? He played Sir Peter Teazle, Mr. Graves in
“ Money,” Sam Gerridge in “ Caste,” Parson Adams in
“ Joseph’s Sweetheart,” the stupid policeman in
“Dandy Dick,” the dignified Leonato in “Much
Ado About Nothing,” Angus M'Alister in “ Engaged,” the
hard psalm-smiting M.P. in “The Bauble Shop,” and a
variety of farcipal character parts. Better than all he
played Jean Torquenie in “The Village Priest.” Who
that remembers the interview between Torquenie and
the young lawyer, when the convict points to the picture
on the wall and cries “The unjust judge!”—
who that remembers the actor’s make-up and the
ring of passion in his voice will say that Brough
was “ always the same ” ? The Lord Chancel-
lor (“lolanthe”), the Magistrate, Jonathan Wild,
Leonato and Torquenie were five different Broughs. In
later years, when he played leading man parts of the
romantically interesting kind, he proved to be a more
breezy debonnair Brough than his best friends had
expected. Immaculately tailored, and wigged in imita-
tion of George Alexander, he played “ The Man of Forty ”
with more than a little grace of manner. As a manager,
Brough was a benefactor to a public that wants intel-
lectual entertainment at the theatre, and as an actor he
achieved several notable successes in a wide range of
characters during 21 years of unfailing popularity.
Adelaide Advertiser announced, the other day that
“Everyman” was to be “ presented in the Elizabethan
style by Julius Knight anu Co. “ Everyman,’’ wherein
the Almighty has a monk and a nun for his immediate
(and only) attendants, is known to be at least 150 years
older than anything Shakspearian—viz., Elizabethan—in
stage-plays. Probably it was prohibited under the
Protestant rule of the red-headed Queen. Anyhow', the
present production has women in the cast, and there
were no women players at the time of Elizabeth.
Edmund. Gwenn (who said before leaving Australia that
he was not going to hurry, about getting into harness
again in London, but could afford to wait for something
worth having) is doing good work in various casual per-
formances. Last month he was with Ellen Terry in a
matinee of Bernard Shaw’s “Captain Brassbound’s Con-
version.” The youthful Mrs. Gwenn is a niece of the
famous Ellen,
“ Melb.”: Tom Mann is hurt because the Board of
Health has denied him the use of the Queen’s Hall till
structural alterations are made. I insist that this is the
safest hall in Melbourne. Look at the old wooden stair-
cases in Wesley Church, crowded every Sunday- afternoon.
Look at the death-trap of the porch in St. Francis"’
Church. It is shuddery to notice how slowly the crowds
come opt of those churches ; also the Athenaium Hall and
the Masonic Hall. Sauce for the goose is saude for the
gander. Let propagandists of all sorts be treated alike.
Lilian Meyers, who yvas playing second to Tittell Brune
for a while, was at latest leading lady with her own com-
pany at Albury, yvhere they astonished the natives with
“ The Worst Woman in Wodonga,” or something like
that.
Announced in the London papers that Miss Maud
Jeffries, through her solicitor, is protesting against a
London monumental mason using her face as a model for
a tombstone angel. The lady of the melancholy beauty
objects to this association with weep and wings.
Madame Fremstad, a ’Murkan prima-donna, told an
interviewer that she had discarded her iiiaid in favor of a
valet. The valet is a great comfort and support to his
mistress, it seems. He never suffers from a headache
when his services are most urgently needed. If the lady
herself be nervous and “upset,” she finds the valet,
soothingly placid. His opinion on clothing matters is at
all times accepted as final. “He is really an expert' on
women’s garments ” where Madame is concerned. As to
how far his services are requisitioned for actual toilet
purposes the lady didn’t enlighten the interviewer. Pre-
sumably he is called upon to do a little buttonino- ’at the
back.
Some of the unco guid in this country will be peculiarly
shocked to learn that Watkin Mills sings in Sunday
afternoon concerts at the Albert Hall, London, and the
concerts are not even “sacred.” One of the items in a
recent Sabbath programme was Strauss’s “Don Juan”
Sunday afternoon with Don Juan! What time Watkin
sang operatic music at the Albert Hall, Amy Castles was
warbling in a Grand Irish Concert for the National Sunday
League at the Queen’s Hall.
“Stargazer”: With what little wisdom is the stage
world governed I Witnessed “ The Midnight Mail ” at
Melbourne Royal the other night. The gigantic hair-
raising- sensation of this play is a fight to the death be-
tween driver and stoker on a running locomotive No
ingenuity has been spared to get a satisfactory reprodue-
tinof a working engine on the stage ; the wheels whirl
the smoke rolls in clouds, the sparks fly, the rails dash
under, the ground and the fences and telegraph poles
waltz by, and yet that locomotive stands stock still and
the attempt to suggest that it is tearing through the
atmosphere is absolutely thrown away because just in
front of it all the time stands a great stone brid»e or the
entrance to a tunnel, towards which the load never moves
an inch. Why all the rest of the country should dash
past the fiery machine and that bridge remain stationary
is a problem the programme should elucidate.
Touching Carrie Moore’s appearance at the Palace
music hall, a trustworthy notice said that “ Miss Moore’s ‘
vocalism was quite delightful, and full of a ‘ repose ’ un
common in the halls.” Which means, probably that she
sang without making a violent effort of her voice produc
tion, as the common run of vivacious serio-comics do
But Carrie’s engagement at the Palace was for two or
three weeks only. She is back in musical comedy—“ The
Dairymaid’’—under Courtneidge’s management at the
Apollo Theatre. The three scenes in this new Piece
represent a dairy farm, a mess-room, and the gymnasium
Of a girls’ school, and the plot is said to be borrowed from
“ Much Ado About Nothing” and “Charleys Aunt.”
HUGH WARD , as “ the Man from Mexico.”
Photo, by Talma, Sydney.
The late Leon Caron’s will has been proved for just over
£5OOO, so that he left behind him more of this world’s
goods than is generally the case with the better-paid
artists on the other side of the footlights. The bulk of
his little fortune is left to his wife and daughter (now in
Europe) and to relatives living in France. ,
“B.” : A long-deceased gentleman named Aristophanes
was brought into great disrespect in Melbourne during
the Jubiversity shows. The contumely heaped on his
memory consisted in the distressful performance, at
Ormond College; by a body of students, Of “ The Wasps,”
a farce whifch the ancient unbeliever wrote some 2300
years ago. The melancholy production was such as to
expose the pagan author to scorn, and the marvel was
that Zeus, and other self-respecting Greek deities,
refrained from hitting the college with the heavy end of
a thunderbolt. In consequence of this sacrilege over the
aforetime heathen’s tomb, the reputation which he
previously enjoyed as an honest purveyor of
drama lias been badly shaken. Persons previously
acquainted with him by hearsay only had accepted an
assurance that he was “ the world’s master of comedy,”
but after the exposure engineered by the University
authorities aforesaid many of his old admirers have pon-
dered deeply and dubiously. As a humorist the moul-
dered Greek would appear (from the slanderous show
alluded to) to have a successful rival in that classic giant,
Billophanes ’Ollowa.v, and to have been only fitted to
occupy the cellar of London Punch. Probably the ancient
Athenian does not deserve the contumely which the
professors threw on him, in which case these remarks
are written in the hope that they may draw forth an
early apology from those who have cast mud on the
old man’s memory. Otherwise the ghost of the crumbling
Aristophanes will mutter horrible Greek curses over them
all their lives.
“On the Trail of the Trust ” is an im-
portant book to Australian Nationalists. Taking
as a text the revelations in regard to the Yankee
Harvester Trust raid on Australia, it puts the case
for Protection from all standpoints brightly, suc-
cinctly, forcibly. No Australian should be with-
out it. Price Is. 2d. post free from this office.*
A yarn from Melbourne :
Individualism and Private Enterprise and all that sort
of thing are ail right—when the other man has to pay. It
was that way with the Melbourne builders, who, like most
builders, have always been great Private Enterprise
people. They used to buy their bricks from Private
Enterprise brick-kilns, which, of course, was the proper
thing to do. The stupid Socialistic person certainly says
that you pay more that way, because you are squeezed to
provide Private Enterprise with profits. The builders
know better —you get effective supervision in return for
your money ; and so you get cheaper bricks and better
bricks. At least, if these fine anti-Socialistic theories
squared with practice, that is how the builders would
argue, and that is how the thing would work out. But in
their own business the builders have found that the fine
theories that they talk about at their meetings won’t
come out square. Instead of getting a fair profit, Private
Enterprise watches its chance to squeeze extortionate
profits. Then, also, when all the robbers in the one line
find that they can make more by adopting one uniform
scheme of robbery, the bottom falls out of the yarn about
“ effective supervision,” &c. There isn’t, any effective
supervision—except in the nioney-colleoting.department.
These Private Enterprise builders, therefore, find their
fetish of Private Enterprise such a howling- failure that a
good many of them have decided to give it best, and
establish co-operative brickworks. But their troubles
are 1 not over yet. The longer and the more you feed
Private Enterprise the stronger it gets, and the harder it
will kick when its position is challenged. In that respect
it is like the drug habit. Melbourne builders propose to
piilFup £12,000, and think that will see their scheme
through. The Bulletin hopes it will. But if it won’t
they will know who to blame—themselves ; for they have
fed the beast too long and too well. Also, after-this may we
expect that they won’t rant about the blessings of Private
Enterprise, as somehow builders and contractors have
hitherto had a habit of doing at their meetings and con-
ferences ?
G. R. Sims exults over the fact that a lot
of color-printing' business which was captured from
poor old England by the Germans has been re-
covered by an enterprising London firm. The
name of the recoverer is Carl Heutschel. Eine
old English name is Heutschel!
“S. Remo”: For the encouragement of
Melbourne shopkeepers who don’t know what to
do about the frenzied protest against early closing,
there is the Brisbane as well as the Sydney ex-
perience. When Frank MtDonnell drove the
Early Closing Bill through Queensland Parliament,
the Saturday half-holiday was made compulsory
in Brisbane ; though provincial towns might take
a poll and choose their day. At first, Brisbane
whined as one grocer, “We are ruined ; all our
country trade will drift away.” The one-man
shop yarn and the lone-widow shop yarn were
dragged in. But instead of being ruined, trade
generally has improved, and the number of small
shops has increased. In this most sensible of half-
holiday Acts Brisbane is ahead of other capitals.
It is the only State capital with a compulsory
Saturday half-day off.
John Sinclair, who was Mayor of Bris-
bane when the great splash was made about the
visit of the two Princes, as boys, on a pilgrimage
to Australia, snuffed out last week. There was a
sort of rivalry between Premier Arthur Palmer
and Mayor Sinclair in lavishing hospitality
when the princelets were about. The waste was
scandalous, but Palmer and Sinclair were 1 resolved
that Brisbane should not be eclipsed by either
Sydney or Melbourne. The rnostof this riotingwas,
of course, at the cost of the ratepayers'and the
country—it came to a great extent out of
loan funds in the end, and the people are paying
interest on it till this day. In spite of all the
flourish, no handle flew the Mayor’sjway. Sinclair,
however, had many good points. Energy was one
of them. He was engineer on the steamer Boo-
merang, which brought to Brisbane the news of the
fall of Sebastopol, and the Eureka Stockade affair.
He became manager of Smellie’s works in 1808,
and four years later he was admitted as a partner.
In his time the firm inaugurated the iron shipbuild-
ing industry in Brisbane by constructing the cargo
boat Louisa. Two or three times Sinclair tried
to gain admission to the Assembly, but the elec-
tors were unfavorable every time.
The S.M. Herald perpetrated its master-
piece of aged and grandmotherly indefiniteness on
May 4, in an article on “Tramway Policy.” It
said that the streets of Sydney were alleged to be
over-crowded by tram-cars, and that “sugges-
tions had been offered, many of them worth con-
sidering.” It didn’t either support or oppose any
of the suggestions. It stated that there were
demands for more suburban tramways, but that
there were so many of these demands that it was
difficult to decide among them. It didn’t commit
itself in the least here. Then the Herald said
that the tramway problem “opens up the whole
problem of city railway extension.” It didn’t say
whether it was for or against extension. It men-
tioned “ the issue of a definite tramway policy, ”
but it didn’t suggest or define a definite tramway
policy. Finally, it said firmly that the matter
must be dealt with in a Broad Spirit, and left it
there. That good old Broad Spirit ! How many
papers would have to close up if they hadn’t it to
fall back upon !
The N.S.W. Land Appeal Court has
decided another of those extraordinary cases which
seem to dog the victims of land selecting. Down
Wagga way a would-be selector applied fora block
of land for which applications were to close
on Oct. 4, 1905. This person posted his applica-
tion by registered letter at Finley, and ordinarily
speaking it should have reached Wagga on the 3rd;
but the post-office was tired, and his letter did
not arrive until the sth. The State lands agent,
however, admitted the application to the ballot,
and notwithstanding that there were 400 appli-
cants, the belated one had the bad luck to win.
It was bad luck, because the disappointed
400 demanded blood and justice and ven-
geance, on account of the winner’s applica-
tion having arrived a day late, and the
said winner spent his good money in vain
in appealing to the Land Court. A fresh ballot is
ordered, and it seems outside a 400 to 1 chance
that he will win again. Incidentally the fact that
there are 400 people clamoring for one block of
land, while in that same district there are vast
areas locked up in private hands, and almost
unused, should call some more attention to that
Federal graduated land-tax.
Again re that statement by Mrs. S. T.
Staughton, of the Women’s National League, to
the Vic. “Farmers’, Property-owners’ and Pro-
ducers’ Association ” that —
The league had not lost sight of the attack that had
been made by the Labor-Socialistic party on religion and
the marriage tie, and it trusted that every woman and
man supporting anti-Socialism would attend the polling
booth at the election in December next.
This country is still waiting to hear from Mrs.
Staughton the name of any known or recognised
member of any Australian Labor party—not some-
body in Iquique or Nova Zembla—who attacked
religion and the marriage tie. Mrs. Staughton
talks of a whole Labor party, but the country
doesn’t ask for a whole Labor party; if the lady
can give one name—the name of one known Labor
man—it will be regarded as something of an ex-
cuse for her wild language. If she can even give
the name of one Labor politician who has put up
such a notable record of immorality as some male
members of the Victorian squatting class, it will
be some kind of faint apology for all this gabble
about the marriage tie. And if the lady can’t do
that—well, she is respectfully referred to the ruins
of the broken ninth commandment and left to the
wrath of an offended Deity.
THE LEGS OF MARCUS SUPERBUS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Julius Knight lately assured an Adelaide interviewer
that he is a bachelor, measuring 15£in. round the calf.
Now Julius is a bachelor—
He states it as a fact.
His manly form the girls adore
Who go to see him act.
His face and arms are rich in charms,
His smile is O ! so bright;
What eyes ! What hair ! And what a pair
Of legs has Julius Knight!
(The measurement around the calf
Is fifteen inches and a half.)
One leading part most actors crave,
With “ fat ” attached thereto —
A part heroic, strong and brave,
Our gallant Knight has two.
We like them best when briefly drest,
For then their matchless shape .■
Is made quite plain to girls who fain
Would test them with a tape,
And coyly pinch each fatted calf
That measures fifteen and a half.
Twin subjects for ecstatic praise,
Unquestioned as to girth,
These are the parts dear Julius plays
For all that they are worth ;
And though ’tis said he’ll “lose his head”
Through drinking to the dregs
His cup of joy ; the darling “ boy ”
Will never lose his legs.
(The measurement around the calf
Is fifteen inches and a half.)
E. F.


"POLICY-HOLDERS in the AUSTRA-
*- LIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT Society
should vote for ARTHUR GRAHAM WALD,
the South Australian Candidate, who has
had 18 years of practical experience of Life
Assurance in Australasia, and favors: —The
Election of Local Boards by each State; an In-
dependent State Audit of the Accounts; a Reduc-
tion in Interest on Overdue Premiums from 8 per
cent, to 5 per.. cent. The Interest on Loans on
Policies to be Reduced to a Uniform Rate of 5 per
cent, per annum; the Status of the Canvassing
Staff to be Greatly Improved, and whilst favoring
the Extension of the Society to the United King-
dom and-British South A.frican Colonies, would
stronglyoppo.se any further extension.
, §SSS&r. Post Ca*s& f
fM
(y-ctAxLc-J
*j\
4%jr •P'.
JjA(rTis*-izS.
/*&£^Z
JtX&C
“HOME STUDY" sent on receipt of Postcard.. [6
Furred tSkins
Rabbit tSKins
FORWARD YOUR CONSIGNfIENTS TO—
HILL CLARK & CO.,
Wool and Produce Salesmen , SYDNEY .
Society
PENFOLD'S
WINES
THE SPREAD OF EDUCATION.
THE BRIDE (married after brief acquaintance):
"But I’m not going to call you Jose h, you
know. It's a ridiculous name. Haven’t you
another name?"
THE BRIDEGROOM : "Oh, yes. Anthony."
THE BRIDE: “ Joseph! Anthony!! Good Heavens,
haven't you another—the name of somebody
who did not resist temptation?”
Rockhampton, Central Queensland’s city
of sin, sweat and sonow, once did a brilliant
thing which you still hear whispered about when
certain influential people are not in the neighbor-
hood. Its water supply is in a pretty chronic
state of awfulness, drawn from lagoons infested
with wild-fowl and other things; and these
swamps got so low a few years back that it was
decided to go to “the river” and pump in water
and fill up the reservoir again. So large quanti-
ties of pipes and things were got in, and when all
was ready Rockhampton turned out to see the
first water come through. And then there was a
splutter—the water was salt! The council had
quite forgotten to inquire about that; at least it
forgot to inquire what the water was like when
the creek was low, which was the only time it
mattered much to the council what the water was
like.
The humor-
less loyal press
of Britain has
been parading an-
other instance of
royal generosity.
During the In-
dian tour of the
Prince of Wales a
turbaned poten-
tate bestowed on
him a whole zoo
—hyenas, jaguars,
snakes, lizards, a
tiger or two, and
other hungry,
smellsome beasts.
The staggered
Wales couldn’t
hand these pre-
sents to his aides
—no aide was
taking any croco-
diles just then.
He didn’t want
to drag them
about with him
and feed them.
So he presented
the whole heap
to the London
Zoo presented
them right there
in India, and just
dropped his re-
sponsibility by
the roadside. The
Zoo found it
would cost a for-
tune to send for
the present, but a
rich baronet offer-
ed to pay the
freight and other
charges if Wales
would besoaffable
as to let him.
Wales was suffici-
ently affable, and
the baronet took
up the white
man’s burden of
angry live meat.
Now the beasts
are labelled as his
Royal Highness’s
generous donation. The Indian potentate who
supplied them and the man who brought them to
England get no credit; it all goes to the Prince
who did nothing but pour out three tons of in-
convenient beast just anywhere.
* * * •
Maoriland has struck some more of the
beauties of private enterprise. A few years ago,
when population began to pour
into the country, speculative
builders ran up terraces of
jerry-built structures in the
suburbs of the four cities.
At first it was intended
simply to throw these
structures together and
sell them, but land went
bounding up in value, and
Jeremiah, the builder, was
tempted to hold on. Prices
kept going up, and Jere-
miah, the builder, kept
holding on. Often he held
on too long. Now, though
land values are still rising,
the houses are falling
down, for Jeremiah did no
repairs (he was only wait-
ing to sell), and new
suburbs which are barely
three or four years old are
dropping to ruins, and it is
hard to find in any of the new
parts of the four cities a domicile
that is really fit for habitation.
So general a falling down has made
the people rise, and King Dick is
being urged to rebuild the tenements
at the owners’ expense.
“ Snell ” : There has been a remarkable
improvement in the condition of Melbourne
toughs "during the last twelve months or so.
Anybody who goes about at scraps in small halls,
at pony races, and at two-up schools cannot fail
to notice that the hangers-on have a well-fed and
well-tended appearance that was foreign to them
a year or so ago. The half-pint pugilists from the
pushes, the gadabouts at the training-rooms, and
all the riff-raff who can do a bit of belting, are out
of their rags and their grime, and wearing good
store clothes and umbrellas (strange is the third-
class pug’s affection for an umbrella), and looking
as if in the full enjoyment of four meals a day
and frequent beer. I ascribe the material
reformation to the success of the two-up schools,
and the many and various gambling clubs,
societies and associations. All these have need
of lads who can do a turn at battering in an hour
of need, and the toughs are in constant employ-
ment. I know three amiables of the class who
are drawing retainers from one city “school.”
COME INTO MONEY.
MRS. TOMMLE : "So you don't think you’ll ever
go back to him?”
MRS. JACKLE : "Not me! The court ordered
him to pay me a pound a week, so Pm quite
independent of him."
The jubiversity spree in Melbourne has
caused a mild outbreak of impudence among
parsons, who (headed by Anglican Archbishop
Clarke) cry out for the awarding of degrees in
the science of theology, broadly based upon the
eternal verities of the Christian faith.” By the
time the parsons decide among themselves which
of the verities are eternal and which are mere
temporary verities, the Archdeacon’s tombstone
will be dust blowing over the place that used to be
Melbourne.
* * * •
Victoria has a Health Act largely adminis-
tered by local municipal bodies. There is in
Melbourne a Board of Public Health, composed of
the verbose but active Dr. Norris and some
weird representatives from city and subur-
ban councils ; but even this board—largely
a gathering of Bumbles and Dogberries—
has only half of its cloudy eye on its
work, for its whole staff consists of 16
members, including engineers and medi-
cal officers. The 280 municipalities of
Victoria each appoint a so-called “health
officer,” at a salary which averages about
7s. 6d. a week. The health officer is a
local medico, and if he per-
forms his duties he must ob-
ject to the dirty drains of
Councillor Jones, or .the
smellful premises of the old
and respected John Smith,
J.P., who, with his virtuous spouse
and the virtuous spouses of his sons,
and their ailing infants, can put £5O
or £6O a year into, or keep the same
amount out of, the health officer’s
pocket. Consequently, apart from
the amount of work which a man may
be expected to do for 7s. 6d. a week,
the local health officer keeps his eyes
and nose shut where Jones, or Smith,
or their special friends are concerned.
If he refuses to believe that they
smell like Araby, then his practice
soon dwindles away until he is forced
to capitulate or leave the town.
Ministries have been asked to pro-
vide, money enough to pay the
salaries of medical health inspectors for the
whole State, but, being largely under the influence
of Smith, J.P., and Councillor Jones, they have
refused. Yet, even as it is, the municipalities dole
out, at the rate of 7s. Gd. a week, more than £5OOO
a year to men who either dare not, or will not, or
cannot give the community any return in the
proper protection of its health.
* * * *
When the Law really means business it
can stretch itself out into wonderful inventions.
To wilfully set fire to an unoccupied house is
serious enough in Victoria; but to fire a house
when human beings are inside is a hanging matter.
Ihe other day two men burgled a temporarily
vacant house in South Melbourne, and, to cover
their tracks, fired it. The Law promptly rose to
the occasion and charged ithe two—Jackson and
Richards—with “ setting fire to a dwelling house
. . . certain persons being therein.” When the
Law was asked who the inmates were—“ Why,
Jackson and Richards themselves,” it replied in
triumph.
Thorold Dalrymple writes from England:—
I think I have the right, even after an unavoidable
i lapse of time, to hit back at “Broadman” (B. 25/l/’O6),
who contradicts some statements I made in Tub
Bulletin anent the uncleanliness which is next to godli-
ness in Londonderry (Ireland). His comparison of the
streets and shops of Londonderry simply outrages truth.
The (comparatively) clean portion of Derry consists of
just a few acres inside the city walls, and even there there
is not a thoroughfare that will outbid Sussex-street,
Sydney, for cleanliness. To wander down from the
vicinity of the old battlements is an object lesson in filth
. and squalor that even Wexford-street would have a hard
job to beat, so far as externals are concerned. (Presswork
has taken me inside some of the Wexford-street dens, but
I had no wish to venture into the Derry hovels —the sight of
pigs in parlors, which “ Broadman” didn’t notice because he
was too busy, was quite enough for me.) “ Broadman’s”
statement that the streets are “ wide, well paved and
clean” is sure of mental contradiction by everyone who
knows precisely what an old city is when it hasn’t under-
gone reconstruction. The streets of Derry are just as
wide as people used to make their thoroughfares in the
years from 1610 to 1620, when modern Derry was built.
That the town is beautifully situated there is no denying.
The River Foyle and its lough are lovely stretches of
water. Derry has scarred the river on one side with
wharves and ugly squat buildings, and on the other with
its two inconsequential railway stations and piers for dis-
charging coal for the trains. “ Broadman ” says that
Auckland reminds him of it —Auckland with its beautiful
North Shore, and its expanse of harbor many times as
wide as the River Foyle. Ye gods 1
• • • •
“Hamer”: There is a restaurant in
Sydney where I go when I want to feel that others
are getting as much excitement out of life as I am.
Something is always happening there besides
dinner, which is nothing to speak of. Once it was
a Chinaman waiting for his money ; another time
the electric light was cut off while I was pursuing
a tough cutlet, and candles had to be brought in ;
next time the cook was on strike and defying the
waitresses to serve the customers ; twice a bailiff
sat reckoning up the takings. There are usually
urgent callers, wanting to see a proprietress whose
day it isn’t for seeing callers; and occasionally
the waitresses demand their wages before serving
customers. If my restaurant doesn’t give much
dinner, it gives plenty of incident for its money ;
likewise it gives a hint of the sort of struggle it is
to provide the “ best meal in Sydney ” for 4£d. or
thereabouts.
• * # •
“ Lil ” : The value to Australia of the ab-
surd St. George’s Society was accurately shown in
the toast list of the Melbourne branch’s recent
banquet. “The Land we Live In ” was an insig-
nificant last, given when nearly everybody was
too tired or too agitated to take any notice. Even
“The Immortal Memory” of a frequently tire-
some Elizabethan playwright, who deserved to be
prosecuted for plagiarism, came before poor Aus-
tralia. Apparently the St. Georgeites esteem
this country merely as enabling them to make
money to take ’Ome and spend. As for studying
the immortal Shakspeare—well, it takes a good
many of his adorers all their reading time to get
through the Aiigus. Still, they must pretend.
* * * *
Again, the logic of the Jay Pee ! Arthur
Laughton was charged at North Melbourne with
pounding his wife’s face with his fists, and pulling
her hair. It turned out that he hadn’t yet paid
a £2 fine previously inflicted for doing the same
sort of thing. “ Under these circumstances,” said
Dr., Lloyd, J.P., “ the accused will get off with
10s.” If Arthur perseveres he will soon be able
to batter his wife at 3d. a time, and owe the 3d.
“Under these circumstances” was a beautiful
remark. The law let Arthur off easily : (1) Be-
cause he was a hardened offender; (2) because he
had insulted the law by not paying the previous
fine.
“ AND THE VILLAIN STILL
PURSUED HER."
Advt. from a Westralian daily :
A SIATIO, aged 38, no relatives, owning property
valued £2OOO to £3OOO, wishes to meet respect-
able young lady with view to matrimony, genuine,
references exchanged. L. 8., care this office.
In some parts of the U.S.A. to publish such an
advt. would be an offence against the law, and so
it should be here. What sort of a conscience has
the newspaper proprietary which is prepared, for
eighteenpence or so, to assist this Asiatic to find
a white mate and adulterate the Anglo-Saxon race?
• * « •
Prisoners’ Aid Society in N.S. Wales has
arranged with the .gaol authorities a series of
lectures to the prisoners. And Professor Ander-
son Stuart—pawky humorist—is to lead off with a
lecture to the gaol-birds on—of all subjects—
“ Tobacco ” !
TO THE HIGHEST BIDDERI
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Advertiser will give £lO for a constant job. Anything.
Apply “Desperate,” this office. —Advertisement from
recent issue of daily paper.
Has anyone got a job to sell ?
Where can I buy some work ?
Ditches I’ll dig, or trees I’ll fell,
For Gentile, for Jew or for infidel,
For Chow or for Jap or Turk.
Of sinew I’m strong and my appetite’s small,
I’m wiry though somewhat gaunt,
And into the market amongst you all
Come I with my hoarded capital
To pay for the thing I want.
And work is the thing I’m needing most I
Some people think it’s food !
A potato or two and a slice of roast,
\ saucer of tea and a round of toast,
Or comestibles equally crude !
Why should they think such things of me,
I have ten pounds to spare,
To squander away on the luxury
Of buying a job ? If I like I’m free
To PURCHASE A PINT OP AIR !
There was a time when work was classed
As a thing to be given away 1
Charity, mind you, from first to last!
Thank God those barbarous days are past 1
I’ve money and I can pay !
Has anyone got a job to sell ?
Where can I buy some work i
Give me a chance and I’ll toil like—well—
Like the clergyman toils for the infidel,
For the Chow or the Jap or Turk !
M.L.
SINC. S. GLARR.
A condensed romance by “ H.L.” :
Yes, she’d clear out. What was the good of trying to
keep straight when everyone had decided that “ of course
it was a pity, but she would be sure to go the same way
as her sisters”—when at her every action they shrugged
their shoulders and said “ What can you expect ? It’s in
the blood, you know.” This last row settled everything ;
the sordidness of living with relations where there were
three girls to din it into her head that she was there on
sufferance, was nearly driving her mad. She promised
Clarke she’d tell him the day she put her hair up whether
she would cut the whole business and go to the West with
him.
She was just a little thing, and everyone said having
her hair on top made her look taller, and improved her,
although they wondered at her putting it up so suddenly.’
She was doing everything wrong in the office—hysteri-
cally anxious for the night when she would see Clarke.
The telephone went—she was wanted. The manager
glared, but what did she care for 50 managers : there'd
be no more key-banging for a while, after to-morrow !
“ Hello, is that you, Eva? Just got time to ring up
and say good-bye. Catching the 4.40 to Adelaide and
picking up the mail-boat to England. Sudden ? Yes, the
doctors say the wife’s only chance is a long sea voyage.
Sorry I couldn’t see you. Suppose you’ll be married and
settled down when I see you again. Bye-bye. Be good.”
They told her she had better go home, but that really
it was most unsatisfactory to have a typiste who was
addicted to fainting. Also her hair had fallen down.


fdg
I can strongly recommend my New
DINNER SUITS
as being of tbe best possible
material, silK-lined.
ww
R. C. HAGON,
Merchant
Tailor,
129 KING ST„ SYDNEY
Yic. Education Director Tait reckons he’s
struck a brilliant idea. Employers requiring
something extra brilliant in the 2s. 6d. per week
clerk line will state their needs to a new “ school
employment bureau.” The bureau will sort out
the especially brilliant pupils, “and the clever boy
or girl without influence will get a start by merit,
and the employer will gain an employee above the
average.” Which reminds. Some years ago the
authorities of a big Sydney school used to show
their parental interest in the extra-specially
brilliant boys by getting them billets with two or
three big local shipping co.’s. The quantity of
extra-specially brilliant boy (according to the
head) in that school was astonishing, but
it wasn’t a patch on the extra-special-
brilliant-boy-absorbing-capacity of those cos.
What first struck the extra-special-brilliant on
entering the office was the blank absence of the
large number of other extra-specials he had
expected to meet. He started at nothing weekly
for three months to sort of exercise him ; the
weekly 2s. 6d. promised at the quarter end was
merely to encourage him to let himself go a bit
before the half-year. At the half-year his excep-
tional powers were expected to fully bloom for a
whole 20s. every seven days. Middle of the fifth
month boss desired an interview. He was sorry,
but the brilliance of the 20s. clerk hadn’t risen to
specifications. It pained him deeply, but duty
was duty, and the office’s strict rule was to employ
only exceptionally brilliant boys, and “don’t
trouble to attend further after tbe Ist.” The
extra’s last duty was generally to carry a note up
to the schoolmaster. The drawback- to Tait's
scheme is that “ private enterprise ” chronically
suffers from the belief (generally when a “rise ” is
about due) that the boy he has isn’t half so
especially brilliant as the one he hasn’t.
* * * *
The Victorian detective force is still going
strong. One of it was lately rusticated for passing
unseemly remarks about the rest of it; another is
charged with plotting with criminals to procure
the conviction of a receiver; a third was lately
ordered to repay some £2O borrowed in small
sums from a publican’s wife. This officer
denied'the evidence of the lady aforesaid and of a
lawyer’s clerk, but. the adjudicating P.M. seem-
ingly declined to believe him.
JULIET’S LOVER.
"Just my luck! Julius Buskin too ill to play
Romeo, and me with a black eye!”
Melb. Argus lately printed a paragraph
calling attention to the fact that cottage-holders
in the Government workmen’s, settlement at
Brunswick were spending th'eir Sundays in
carpentering and gardening.’ One settler, instead
of apologising, wrote to the Argus saying that on
the previous Sunday he had “dug a hole deep
enough to bury two Sabbatarians in,” and he
invited them to come on. Thereafter the news-
paper field was left to the Pagan.
* * * *
A pub. of ancient lineage. On the North
Shore-rcfad (Sydney), between Pymble' and
Gordon, is a quaint inn, known as “The Green
Gate,” established in the year 1833.' Doubtful if
there is another as old in the Commonwealth.
.** . * *
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
nay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
i* under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from-George or King-street.*
“Ed.”: The last Melbourne Eight-Hours
procession included representatives of the Marine
Store Gatherers, who are none ether " than the
common or dust-heap variety of bottle-oh ! On
the Marine Store Gatherers’ lorry was one
returned contingenter. Thisswaddy stood on the
vehicle in a faded South African lcharkee uniform
waving a beer bottle land yelling monotonously ;
“I’m a returned soldier and now I’m a bottle-
oh”! Whether he meant that he had at last
fallen to his proper level, or whether he meant to
represent himself as a horrible example of popular
ingratitude and undue and neglected sinkage I
know not.
* * ¥ *
A further effort is to be made to induce
the Bulli Disaster Fund committee to hand over the
remnant of the cash to a common N.S.W. disaster
fund. It is about 18 years since the fund was
initiated, and at various periods efforts were made
to wind it up and turn the cash balance over to
Government as the nucleus of a fund for general
relief purposes, but there was always a secretary
Or some other official in the way. It is easier to
drag a tiger off its steak than to tear a committee
6ff the scrag-end of a dead and gone fund.
* % *.
u It is understood that Sydney’s new, re-
mote, unfinished, mortgaged railway station will
open in July. There will be the great stone sub-
structure worth half-a-million or so, and on top of
it about two penn’orth of temporary dog box
awning and tin shed, so that the whole affair will'
look like the British crown with some shavings on
it. The old worn-out station, of course, isn’t paid
for ; even when it is abandoned it will still stand
nominally as representing all the “ permanent and
reproductive money that was borrowed to cover
its original cost. The new station isn’t paid for,
either. And now, having got thus far, the best
thing the department pan do is to pull the new
structure down, and rebuild it at Wynyard-
square, and carry the railway into the city. The
fact that Owe’Sullivan’s blastiferous suburban
foolishness is half-finished is a misfortune; to
finish it will be a worse misfortune.
* * * *
The George Lansell memorial committee
in Bendigo (old George is to have his statue) ap-
plied to the Bendigo A.M. A. for a subscription.
The members of the A.M.A. were the men who
worked to make Lansell’s millions, yet such was
their base ingratitude that they “ took no action.’'
And at the same meeting a deputation of wealthy
winch-drivers asked to be assisted in the endeavor
to obtain 365. a week for their labor. What a
mean, grasping body !
* * *
Liverpool (N.S.W.) Asylum is again to the
front. The newly-appointed Inspector-General of
Charities has reported that the ramshackle old
place is overcrowded, and the State Government,
with the air of having heard of the idea for the
first time, promises to do something. A temporary
makeshift in the bush some five miles out of Liver-"
pool is vaguely suggested—something in the
bagging, grass, and kerosene-tin line.
Some Melbourne people don’t seem at all
particular about the condition of the parties who
get into the holy estate of matrimony. A woman
was charged with bigamy in Melbourne City
Court last week. She had married a Chow in
1894, and; thinking the Chow was dead, or in
China, or in'-gaol, or having ■ forgotten all about
him, she married a sewerage navvy in 1905. The
following dialogue occurred between the sewerage
navvy and the Court
Sub-inspector Sincock (handing up a paper)—What is
that document ?
Witness. —Marriage certificate, ain’t it ?—(Laughter.)
Yes, marriage lines.
Is your signature there?—No; we had a row, and I
burnt my marriage, lines.
Oan’t you remember how many certificates you signed ?
—No ; you see I was too blind drunk when I got married.
(Laughter.)
Mr. Panton.—lf you are too drunk novv not to know
how to conduct yourself you will go to the cells until you
are sober.
Witness. —I was blind drunk. I know I burnt my mar-
riage lines. I didn’t know you had to sign two when you
get married.
Mr. Panton. —How long did you know this woman
before you married her ?—Three or four inonths. a
What.name did she use? —Mrs. White.
Did you know whether she was married or single ?—No ;
I never considered the matter.
, Is the clergyman who married you present in court?—
I don’t know who married us. I was so drunk.
And the clergyman who married them said he
married so many people that he couldn’t recollect
particular cases. Apparently even the tremen-
dous drunkness of the bridegroom was not so
unusual or so remarkable as to fix the event in his
memory.
Extract from the report of a Sydney
woman’s hospital:—
The youngs girl .who has had hep interrial organs
injured by .working a foot-machine for 48 hours a week
is a frequent patieht. “ ’ \ •
The N.S.,W- Birth-rate Commission was, too busy
trying to make out a case against trades-unionism
to investigate the effects of greedy capitalism—
employing; female labor, because it is cheaper, at
heavy sewing-machines—on population possi-
bilities. ! ; ' im
CUBAP EXCURSION.
To Hraven —Si leer Coin .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Salvation Army lately advertised per leaflet that
huge tent meetings, at which fiery addresses would be
given, were to be conducted by Commissioner M‘Kie, and
that the entrance-fee was a silver coin.
All you folks of scant resources, heaven-seeking, hither
hie !
There’s a cheap excursion managed by Commissioner
M‘Kie.
Rouse and take advantage of it, ere it has become too
late ;
For a “tray-bit” will ensure you being landed at the
Gate
Of the amethystine country, where the healing river
flows,
By the banks of which the Life-tree in its constant ver-
dure grows ;
Where the spotless hordes for ever wander thro’ the
Jasper Halls,
Where ’tis pleasant daytime always, and no shadow ever
falls;
Where the dulcet tones of angels float upon the scented
breeze,
And their golden lutes for ever make the sweetest
melodies.
Nothing smaller than a “ thruppence," you will please to
bear in mind,
And the blokes who haven’t got it, they will have to stay
behind.
There is room for every person, from the palace or the
slum,
And of every creed and color, who can raise the nimble
“thrum.”
For the outcast, and the beggar, and the starving we’ve
no time—
Not for such as they the glories of this Heavenly Land
sublime.
But, you people with the “tray-bit,” do not miss this
bargain rare—
Do not fail to take advantage of this cheap excursion
fare.
N.S.W.
DAVID H. RICHARDS.
The Lodger
As a demon, when dejected.
Sick and lone, might be expected
To recount, with screams and
sobbing,
All the evil it hath worked,
Even so the cornet muttered,
Raved and whimpered, howled
and spluttered,
Till my tortured brain was
throbbing,
And I sought him where he
lurked —
Where that lone musician lurked.
[For The Bulletin.!
f\NGE, when I was sick and sorry,
a M Muffled moans of “ Annie Laurie ”
On the midnight air came floating,
Raising visions of the past,
Till I cried in anguish, “ Player 1
Why, oh why not choose a gay r
Tune l ” But, like a demon gloating
O’er a bomb, there came a blasts
Such a wild unearthly blast!
“ Playerl hear, me,” I entreated
From my window. He repeated
In a mournful wail the ballad
On the cornet he had found'.
Snorts and gurgles interspersing.
Like a ghost insanely cursing.
“ Why,” I groaned, “ do lodgers pallid
Always make this sort of sound i ,
Yes, ” I said, “ this sort of sound ! ”
vie. V
Still the lodger, lacking science,
With the cornet shrieked defiance
At the stars, offending Heaven,
Filling me with bitterness ;
So as I upon him lightly.
With an Argus folded tightly,
Bounded up the long, long seven
Flights, I hissed : “ A lodger less !
What’s a lodger more or less ? ”
No one loved and no one knew him,
So I guessed, and so I slew him.
And his ghost it haunts me, ever
Signing vengeance with its hands ;
But that phantom, most unsightly,
Flies when, with an Argus tightly
Folded, I advance—it never
Fails to go ; it understands.
Yes, I think it understands.
KODAK.
Fits of Heart Failure.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
“ For four long years I never had one day of
good health,” said Mrs. Louisa Player, Georgina
Terrace, 49 Wolfe St., Newcastle. “For days
together I was too weak to put one foot before
the other. Everyone said my days were numbered.
The doctors could do nothing for me. But Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills saved me from the grave.
They made me strong and healthy when the best
doctors in New South Wales gave me up. My
cure is a downright miracle.
“Yes, Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills worked a miracle
when they cured me,” added Mrs. Player. “ All
Newcastle knows how hopelessly ill I was, for I
have lived here nearly thirty years. I always had
excellent health till three or four years ago.
Then, just after my little girl was born, I caught
a severe cold. It clung to me, and soon wrecked
my whole health. The nerves in my face and
head seemed all on fire. Neuralgia pierced me
through and through with sharp spasms of agony.
Then Rheumatism settled in my joints and spifie,
paralysing every movement. Dreadful darting
pains started in the back of my neck, and ran
like lightning all over my head. Even when
they easfed ups they left behind a dull, heavy
pain that nearly drove me mad. I used to press
my head against the iroh bed-post to get relief.
My neck was so stiff that I could not look round
without turning my whole body. My right arm
swelled arid had strange pains like Paralysis, as if
there were a thousand pins being dug into it. I
dared not move it, even to do a bit of sewing. I
could never sleep soundly, and even when I dozed
the pain woke me with a start and almost made
me scream. I had no appetite, no heart, no hope,
no happiness in life.
“Every day I grew weaker. The doctors did
their best for me, and I had every care at home—
but, in spite of everything, I grew worse and
worse. I tried every remedy I heard of, but they
were all useless. Nothing eased my splitting
headaches, nothing seemed able to give me a drop
of good red blood. Death would have come to
me then only as a glad release. I generally man-
aged to get up in the morning, but I was afraid to
go out. One day, when shopping, I was seized by
a strange fit of paralysing weakness, and nearly
fell through the plate-glass window of Robb’s
drapery shop in Hunter-street. I had to stagger
home, doubled-up with pain. My heart was
jumping and thumping. After that, these fits
came often, like strokes of Paralysis. Each one
was worse than the last. I sank down in a swoon
wherever I stood. More than once my husband
eame home to find me lying death-like on the
floor.
“I was just giving up hope,” Mrs.. Player went
on, “ when I .read about a woman who was cured
by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills after she suffered
just the same way. I bought at once three boxes
of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills from Hart and
Firkin, the local chemists. After taking them
for a few days, they brought down a great clot of
blood through my nostrils. It must have been
pressing on my brain, for it relieved me wonder-
fully. I picked up heart at once. I know now
that Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills touched just the
right spot—my blood. Every dose seemed to put
new life into me. .My nerves grew strong arid
steady, and I suffered no more from the darting,
burning, piercing pains of Neuralgia. Gradually
the dull ache left my head, and my joints got free of
Rheumatism. Then my spine became strong—
and after that I had no more fainting fits. My
eyes grew bright, and my face got a healthy color.
Now I am as strong and well as any woman in the
neighborhood.”
In order to add force to her words, Mrs. Player
then swore to the facts of her illness and cure
before the Mayor of Newcastle, Mr. William
Cann, J.P. Her case is a miracle. It baffled
doctor after doctor. In the end Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills cured her just as they cure all diseases
that are caused by bad blood. In fact, they
actually make new blood. They do just that one
thing—but they do it well. They don’t act on the
bowels. They don’t bother with mere symptoms.
They won’t cure any disease that isn’t caused
originally by bad blood. But that is the. cause of
all common ailments such as anaemia, decline,
general weakness, backaches, headaches, indi-
gestion, rheumatism, neuralgia,' sciatica, partial
paralysis, and locomotor ataxia. If offered a
substitute, send for the genuine to the Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Co., Sydney—2s. 9d. a ho*,*
six boxes 15s. 3d., post free. Letters asking for
medical advice will be answered free.
“ Two babies are better than a thousand
trees,” said Premier Gartuthers, at Lockhart
(N.S.W.) the other day :—
Will Carruthers stand to his brave belief, -
And, despising, the talk of sins,
Give the ruined girl a timber yard
Who presents the State with twins ?


CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY
64 Pitt St., SYDNEY
APPLIANCES PROP
-LTD. 504 Little Collins St., MELBOURNE
Stocks STEEL RAILS, TIPPING TRUCKS, TRAMWAY MATERIAL.
PORFY Portable Engines, Vertical & Horizontal Engines, High Speed Engines
rkNSBb ■ for electric Light, &c., &c.
EXPLOSIVES and MINING REQUISITES generally. CONCENTRATING MACHINERY.
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER j Managing Director.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
So far this financial year the six States of Aus-
tralia have got in £1,383,082 more revenue than they re-
ceived in the same 10 months of the previous year, and
that was a year prosperous above the average. For nine
months in S. Australia and for 10 months in the other
States the total revenue has been £25,147,058, as against
£23,673,400 in the corresponding part of 1903, when Wes-
tralia was doing a great deal more to make revenue
figures look good than it can manage to-day. N.S. Wales
in 10 months has got in £10,079,879 ; and, being already
no less than £852,172 to the good on the previous year’s
figures, will probably finish this year about a million
ahead. Its so-called surplus now amounts to £191,046;
last year at this time there was a deficit of £637,035,
so the total improvement amounts to £828,082. There
are a few items in suspense to affect these figures in the
final reckoning ; but they are of no great consequence.
It looks, therefore, as though this year N.S. Wales will
have a so-called surplus so large that it will amount to
about as much as the proceeds of land sales, which the
Government will have improperly used as revenue. Last
year, according to the Auditor-General’s report, the pro-
ceeds of land sales were £937,815 ; the year before that
the total was £1,030,138. Assuming, therefore, a
“ surplus ” of about a million this year, the truth will be
that, for. once, the State’s finances (except for the
borrowing of about £1,500,000, much of it used for unpro-
ductive purposes) will come out about square without
the misappropriation of assets. Certainly, that is giving
the State credit for providing for wear-and-tear of works,
&e., which is a piece of ordinary commercial honesty that
no State has so far begun to practise.
But, as this list shows, N.S.W. isn’t the only
State that is in temporary affluence :
State Revenues for April.
April, 1905. April, 1906.
N.S. Wales £984,576 £1,072,517 Inc. £87,941
Victoria .. 596,167 599,867 Inc. 3,700
Queensland. 315,190 418,787 Inc. 103,597
Westralia .. 266,270 296,277 Inc. 30,007
Tasmania.. 75,086 83,885 Inc. 8,799
And for the longer period, which is a much truer guide :
State Revenues for Year so far.
1905. 1906.
N.S.W. (lOffios.).. £9,227,707 £10,079,879 Inc. £852,172
Victoria (10 mos.).. 6,119,635 6,338,660 Inc. 219,025
Queensl’d (10 mos.) 2,832,109 3,108,274 Inc. 276,165
Westralia (10 mos.) 2,900,712 2,884,505 Dec. 16,207
S. Aus. (9 mos.) .. 1,966,621 1,990,001 Inc. 23,380
Tasmania (10 mos.) 717,192 745,739 Inc. 28,547
Of the N.S.W. gain £435,881 is to be credited to railways ;
and the same department in every State shows an increase.
There is also an increase in all the States, except Wes-
tralia and Tasmania, in Customs collections and Com-
monwealth refunds. The Customs receipts for the year
so far (10 months) have been :
1904-5. 1905-6.
N.S. Wales .. £2,628,262 £2,824,600
Victoria .. .. 2,366,390 2,419,272
Queensland .. 769,981 815,159
S. Australia .. 533,003 545,741
Westralia.. .. 878,049 739,231
Tasmania.. .. 195,723 183,872
Totals .. £7,371,408 £7,527,875
Commonwealth Treasurer Forrest’s estimate for the 12
months was £8,683,000 ; so that the estimate will prob-
ably be exceeded by about a quarter of a million.
Only in irregular patches do the States show
what they are doing with all the money.
, ■ State Expenditure for Year so far.
' . ' T 905. 1906.
N.S. Wales ftO mos.). .£9,864,742 £9,888,833 Inc. £24,091
Queensland (10 mos.).. 2,467,126 2,563,180 Inc. 96,054
Westralia (10 mos.).. 2,979,621 2,856,644 Dec. 122.977
Victoria (6 mos.).. 3,801,235 3,725,805 Dec. 75,430
S., Australia ( 9 mos.).. 1,930,164 1,972,059 Inc. 41,895
It isn’t extra hard work to make an Australian,State
surplus—or at any rate to get the credit for one. For
Australia doesn’t take into account what a Treasurer
borrows; if he simply fakes his accounts, and charges
works to loan account instead of revenue account, there
. is practically nothing to prevent him standing for years
in the limelight and posing as a Financial Genius. Trea-
surer Carruthers, who came in on the Reform racket, has in
10 months spent £1,229,225 of loan money. That is to say,
using the expected million surplus as a set-off to the
million of land assets which have been turned into cash
and grabbed as revenue, Carruthers this year will have
allowed N.S. Wales to drift behind to the extent of
£1,400,000 or £1,500,000.
There is only one way of stopping fictitious re-
formers posing as geniuses who have accomplished
surpluses; use- the surpluses to pay off debt. If a surplus
is used for works, the bogus reformer will merely defer
works, thus make a surplus, and after having got his little
personal advt. out of the bogus surplus he will use up the
money on the things it should have been used for long
before. Queensland has a long-forgotten Act providing
for this disposal of surpluses ; the result is that, now that
Queensland’s revenue is coming in a bit more freely, the
expenditure answers promptly to the improvement in
revenue. Up there a Premier, with works waiting to be
done, dare not fake a big surplus by postponing those
works, because if the money isn’t used up by the end of
the year it must go, not to do the works, but to wipe out
old debts.
* * * *
When everybody was saying how sorry he was
for San Francisco, and pouring his sympathy over the
heaving, dislocated city, and even going to the expense
of an extra penny paper to read more about it, it was
announced that the British fire offices had decided not to
remember that the disaster was caused by earthquake,
but to pay up the £5,000,000 for which the destroyed
property was said to be insured with them, and raise no
technical objections under the terms of the policies.
And everybody, being then very sympathetic, said,
“ Quite right! ” Later on, however, when the time came
to back up the sympathy with cash, it was announced in
a few plain words that, under the terms of their policies,
the British offices would not recognise any liability for
damage caused by earthquake. And they probably won’t.
That is one danger of dealing with any foreign insurance
office. There is no contract so liable to be vitiated by
some merely technical breach as an insurance policy;
there is no contract which so clearly requires to
be' governed, not by legal quibbles, but by equity.
But the foreign office, put in a hole, doesn’t care—its
San Francisco business isn’t a matter of concern. It
doesn’t seriously trouble whether it has ii good name there
or not; what is said about it there won’t affect its
principal business. Therefore, rather than pay up, it will
in many cases let equity go to the dust-heap and rely on
narrow technical rights. But what is said about it
locally matters everything to the local office; wherefore
for its own sake the local office is disposed to be not only
more generous but more equitable than the average
foreign office with no local ties beyond its brass-plate and
its door-mat.
*. * * *
Prahran, one of the slices of Greater Mel-
bourne, decided the other night on a glorious financial
jag—such a jag that even Tom Luxton, of Melbourne
Stock Exchange, and a seasoned old bird in such mat-
ters, shivered at the probable results. The future
citizens of Prahran are already saddled with a debt of
£lOO,OOO ; yet, in this one evening, its councillors decided
to shove another £55,000 on to the load. Of this
£12,000 was for a rgfuse destructor, which is wanted
badly enough, but when Luxton said that an extra two-
penny rate would raise the amount in four years, and
proposed to that effect, he was scorned. Next £14,160 —
of loan money—was voted fpr “making and paving road-
ways and footways.” City auditor Densham wanted
£30,000 voted to do the job thoroughly, the rates to be
raised sufficiently to provide a sinking fund to wipe the
debt out in 30 years. He was outvoted also. Then
£15,000 was demanded to buy a park at Toorak. Luxton
kicked, but the £15,000 was shoved on to posterity with
the rest. Another £lO,OOO was also put down for en-
larging the city’s drains ; and it will need all the enlarge-
ment that £lO,OOO can buy to carry off the remarks that
the next generation is likely to make about the present
selfish, cowardly crowd a crowd that loafs on its
children even for its culverts.
• * * *
Clyde Engineering Co. (N.S.W.), which lately
secured a contract to build 60 locomotives for the N.S.W.
railways, is asking the public to put up £24,521. Co. has
75,479 issued shares; new issue will carry a 6 per cent,
preference. This co.’s last statement of accounts is to
Sept., 1905. Liabilities at that time were to the bank,
£27,290 ; on other accounts, £2711; total, £30,001. Assets
totalled, £117,618, of which land and buildings stood for
£15,099 ; plant, etc., £36,995 ; stock, £38,656 ; and the
balance of £26,867 consisted of book debts, contracts in
hand, and apparently an interest (£5500) in Westralia
Ironworks, Ltd. The profit and loss account, which
shows no details, states the year’s profits at £2997 ; but
there is nothing to show how much (if anything) was
written off for wear and tear, etc. It is stated that the
dividends for the past seven years average 8£ per cent.;
but it seems that no dividend was paid for last year.
Assuming that 5£ per cent, interest was paid on the
overdraft (which the new issue will go some of the way
towards wiping out, though much of it will be absorbed
in new plant), the bank last year called for £l5OO, while
the new shares will only call for a preference div. (at 6 per
cent.) of £1470. And if the co. has averaged 8J per cent.
(£6290) for the past seven years, last year was much below
the average in prosperity.
* * * *
Perth Electric Tramways, Ltd., a purely Eng-
lish concern, has paid its first div. (2J per cent.) on ordi-
nary shares. Ordinary shares, however, represent only
£lOO,OOO in the concern ; and all the rest of the capital
has been doing very nicely out of Perth for the past six
years. The bald announcement that the co. has just
paid its first div. of 2£ per cent, on ordinary shares is
calculated, no doubt, to make Perth feel well satisfied
with itself, and to think that it has the best of this deal
with a Private Enterprise tramway ; but, as a matter of
fact, this is what Perth has been doing for the co. : It has
paid 6 per cent, cumulative dividend on £lOO,OOO preferred
capital; it has provided large unknown amounts of
revenue, to write down the cost of the undertaking, so
that in the event of a slump in Perth the co. will still be
able to see its 6 per cent, reasonably safe ; it has paid 5
per cent, on about £200,000 of debenture stock;
and it has provided annual contributions to a sink-
ing fund which will wipe out the debenture debt
in 30 years. In short, Perth, which is inclined
to think that it is doing first-rate out of Pri-
vate Enterprise, has paid, even without this 2£ per
cent. div. on ordinary shares, 4 per cent, on the
whole capital put into the undertaking, and, moreover, is
gradually buying up half the whole undertaking, not to
have itself, but to make a present of to the absentee
tramway co. Even when the ordinary shareholders got
nothing, and Perth was chuckling to itself, it was paying
more interest on the whole capital than it would,ewer have
to pay with State ownership; also, in addition, it has
been gradually paying for the lines, and not getting
them.
* * * •
The Australian Mutual Fire Insurance
Society (Sydney):—
Dividends on
Capital (£6250) Bonus Added Total
actually paid to to Capital
Profits. by Share- Policy- Funds, and Re-
Mar., holders. holders. serves.
1896. .£15,087 92 p.c. =£6728 £3728 £5,631 £118,923
1897.. 15,851 90 „ „ 5651 3651 6,549 125,472
1898.. 17,647 91J „ „ 5720 3720 8,207 133,679
1899.. 17,530 97 6055 4055 7,420 141,099
1900.. 17,213 113£„ „ 7087 4087 6,039 147,138
1901.. 19,963 112 j „ „ 7036 4036 8,891 156,029
1902.. 17,952 13l|„ „ 8224 4224 5,504 161,533
1903.. 17,184 132 „ „ 8248 424 S 4,688 166,221
1904.. 23,313 132|,„ „ 8290 4290 10,733 176,954
1905.. 21,447 149 „ „ 9312 4312 7,823 184,777
1906.. 20,403 148 „ „ 9262 4262 6,879 191,656
Of course, there is another way of putting the case
Instead of rushing up its dividends outrageously, the
society paid a very moderate interest on capital, and laid
by a very large proportion of profits. Later on, these
profits, thus accumulated, were capitalised—which, any-
how, was one way of fixing them in the business, and
making them available to insurers. So the original capi-
tal of £6250 has been built up to £191,656 ; and though a
return of 148 per cent, is shown on the original capital, a
net profit of under 8J per cent, is shown on the capital
and accumulated profits. Nominally the capital is now
£62,500 ; on that, by the articles, 8* per cent, interest is
paid ; and, after reserving what is regarded as a safe
amount, the balance is equally divided between insurers
(in the form of the usual rebate on premiums) and the
shareholders. The year’s experience, though much above
the average of, say, 10 years, is not quite up to that of
1903 and 1904. The movement may to some extent be
followed in this way:—
Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1896 .. £28,555 £6949 £13,088 24’4 45’8
1900 .. 33,888 8131 13,765 24-0 40-7
1904 .. 35,856 4293 15,287 12’0 42-7
1905 .. 36,088 7149 15,009 19-8 41-6
1906 .. 36,137 8535 15,420 23’6 42’7
But if the bonus or rebate first comes off the premiums
(and most offices show their premiums net), the loss rate
is 26‘8 per cent, of premiums and the expense rate 48‘4
per cent. For last year one Australasian office showed a
higher expense rate than this ; and only the same office—
the Mercantile Mutual—showed a lower loss rate. The
South British, whose figures represent about a fair
average, showed a loss rate of 60’4 per cent, and expenses
27’7. The Australian Mutual spends a heap of money
selecting and watching its risks ; but it seems to pay—
though it would be a cold world for the property-owner
and shopkeeper if all insurance co.’s followed the same
policy. The co.’s investments (nature unspecified, except
that £150,454 are freeholds and mortgages and £47,312
deposits) for last year returned, on their average amount,
£4 4s. lOd. per cent.—which may be reckoned highly
satisfactory. The interest on investments has for several
years past paid all losses, and left something solid over.
* * * *
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., shipowners, mer-
chants, Island traders, &c. :
Written To Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1897 £36,187 8 p.c. = £21,400 £lO,OOO £4,787 £110,849
1898 48,289 8 „ „ 21,400 5,000 21,889 132,738
1899 42,212 8 „ „ 21,400 8,550 12,262 145,000
1900 53,072 8 ~ „ 22,000 31,072 176,072
New Share Premiums added to Reserves 598 176,670
1901 46,410 8 p.c. = 22,000 24,410 201,080
1902 55,219 8 „ „ 22,000 33,219 234,299
1903 52,629 8 „ „ 22,000 30,629 264,928
1904 44,917 8 „ „ 24,000 12,372 8,545 273,473
1905 42,740 8 „ „ 24,000 18,740 292,213
1906 43,452 8 „ „ 24,000 19,452 311,665
The reserves have now passed the paid capital, which
stands at £300,000. But, in addition to the reserves shown
above, there is another item, “ Sundry reserves at
branches,” £27,6l2—apparently a contingency account.
This item, which during the previous year showed
a growth of £1846, in the past year shrank
£175. Possibly the former amount should be
added to the profits for 1905, and the £175
should be deducted from the profits for 1906, in
which case the totals would stand—l9os, £44,586 ; 1906,
£43,277. There are several “ depreciation ” items charged
to profit and loss, which vary from year to year ; and it
is at least possible that these entries are used* more or less
to equalise the disclosed profits. These items in 1904
totalled £42,830 ; in 1905 they were £53,606 ; in 1906 they
are £53,076. Depreciation proper is made a charge on
revenue to the extent of £15,595, which amounts to 5 per
cent, on premises, wharves, &c. (£182,000), and shipping
(£117,920). Standing alone, this would not be an excessive
annual writing-down. But “ sundry losses ” are provided
for to the extent of £22,722 ; and there is also the branch
contingency account previously mentioned. These pre.
sumably cover depreciation of merchandise stock, valued
at £163,721. Exclusive of provision for bad debts, the
total writings-off for the year (£38,493) look large,
and it is possible (as appears to be generally believed)
that they are liberal enough to furnish something in the
nature of an internal reserve ; but still the total amounts
to only 8 per cent, on the shipping, merchandise, and
wharf and other fixed property of the co. ; and much of
that property is in the Islands, where things depreciate
with a rush. There is no visible sign, anyhow, that the
assets are being written down so fast that they are now
much undervalued. In 1900 the co.’s assets were valued
at £710,640, and there were liabilities £222,293. The
gross profits showed 27 percent, on the assets. This year,
on assets valued at £814,862, of which only £151,585 is
represented by liabilities to the public, the gross profits
showed 24 per cent. only. With such a business as this,
such figures are not conclusive ; but they seem to indi-
cate that profits are not being earned and stuffed away in
undervalued assets.
* • * *
The Trustees, Executors and Agency Go. op
Maoriland (Dunedin): —
To Re- Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1901 £4,710
1902 .. £1370 9 per cent. = £9OO £470 5,180
1903 .. 1365 10 „ „ ~ 1000 365 5,545
1904 .. 2234 12 „ „ „ 1200 1034 6,579
1905 .. 4138 15 „ „ „ 1500 2638 9,217
1906 .. 2881 15 „ „ „ 1500 1381 10,598
Twelve months ago the directors said that it wasn’t likely
that such a large profit as £4138 would again be made ;
so the fall to £2BBl won’t come as a shock. It means £l5
os. Id. per cent, on shareholders’ funds, anyway ; and
shareholders who are shocked when they don’t earn more
than that deserve to be. Last year, The Bulletin
said it didn’t know how the co. made the
money ; this year, the directors issue a statement
showing the extent of the co’s trustee business; and a
very good business it is. Estate balances in trust amount
to £1,290,047 ; agency and commission revenue was
£5033. Assuming that the whole of this commission was
from trust estates, it equalled 7s. lid. per cent, of their
capital value as at the close of the year ; and that, if a
trifle higher than most trustee co.’s can gather in, is not
so much higher as to attract notice. The investments in
which the co. keeps its own funds are lumped together ;
including the item “ balances due to c 0.,” they return an
average of about £3 11s. per cent., which is very poor for
Maoriland. Under ordinary circumstances it would mean
over-valuation somewhere. The expenses of manage-
ment, &c., run to 4s. 9d. percent, of trust balances; this
compares with 4s. Bd. per cent, in the S. Australian office
of about the same size.
It was shown in the foregoing/ that the Dunedin
Trustee Co.’s charges amounted to about 7s. lid. per cent,
of the capital value of trust estates. On this point of the
total cost to the clients of trustee co.’s there is a large
difference of opinion. The amount is, however, so vari-
able that it is not worth quoting; an average figure. In
the S. Australian Executor, Trustee, and Agency Co.
the commission, etc., received last year on estates total-
ling £1,413,954 at the end of the term was £5023, equal to
7s. Id. of the capital value. The Perpetual of Sydney
does not furnish data to allow of the precise figures
being given; but apparently the average cost in
its case was last year a trifle over 6s. per
cent.—the lower average being probably due to
the larger proportion of big estates; these yield the
smallest rate of commission. The estates in the hands of
that co. are Set down at £5,758,323. But the T., E., & A.,
of Melbourne, with estates valued at £8,219,991, showed
“ commissions and miscellaneous receipts, after providing
for contingencies,” of £10,359, which means only 2s. 6d.
per cent.—a remarkably low cost, or else the T., E., &A.
set aside a very fine amount for contingencies. The size
of a trustee co.’s income depends to an extent upon the
character of the dead man’s assets ; the Melbourne office,
for instance, has a very large proportion of unproductive
land in its trust books ; and except when a buyer happens
along, such land is as ashes in the mouth of the trustee
co. But it seems that, reckoning in all sorts of commis-
sions and agency charges, the trustee co. does not get
more than an annual Bs. per cent, out of the capital value
of an estate for managing it, and may get as little as half-
a-crown.
* * * *
The Federal Building, Land and Investment
Society, Ltd. (Brisbane), from the year when £68,272 of
capital w r as forfeited and applied to"cover losses:—
Forfeited
Capital Nomi-
Carried nal
Loss on Loss on Total to Re- . Re-
Mar., Business. Property. Loss. serves. serves.
1897 ..£1450 £604 £2054 _
1898 .. 1289 1520 2809 £250
1899 .. 1481 867 2298 366
1900 .. 897 540 1437 456 £14,453
1901 .. 649 153 802 1830 15,481
1902 .. 196 565 761 484 15,204
1903 .. 256 59 315 62 14,951
Profit.
1904 .. 243 35 208 245 14,988
Loss.
1905 .. 73 1279 1352 1152 14,788
1906 .. 56 348 404 339 14,723
It is a gloomy table of figures, with the tattered ghost of
the old boom wailing dismally down the columns. The
capital used to be £300,000 ; but by writings-down and
forfeitures, the total is now reduced to £45,230. There
is still 2s. 6d. callable on 89,251 shares ; in 1900, when ss.
was outstanding, there had been (after the reduction of
capital) 48,977 shares out of 148,398 forfeited. The calls,
since made, of half-a-crown, have brought up the number
of forfeited shares to 59,147. Meantime, however, debts
to the public have been reduced from £51,553 to £37,313 ;
a disappearance of £14,240 in six years. Against this
£37,313 of debts due to the public there are £40,835 of
advances, etc. (book value), £53,217, of foreclosed pro-
perties, etc. (again book value), and a few smaller items
totalling £3212-r-total nominal assets of £97,265. How
much of this will be left to the shareholders after the
_£37,313 has been paid off no man can say. Large slices of
the assets are vacant lands and other properties, which
won’t shift till Queensland goes much further on the road
to prosperity. Still, after paying for rates and repairs,
the assets earn just on to 3 per cent, on their book value,
out of which expenses and interest have to be paid ; and
that isn’t so bad as to destroy hope for the shareholders
who have been able to hang on. But, in view of the
severe writings down, the best that can happen to even
those who are left in is only a pretty poor middling.
* * * *
The Tasmanian Loan, Guarantee and
Finance Co. (Hobart) :
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
Mar., 1900 .. £351 4 p.c. = £315 £36 £2669
Sept., 1900 .. 344 4 „ „ 315 29 2698
Mar., 1901 .. 376 5 „ „ 394 2680
Sept., 1901 .. 400 5 „ „ 394 6 2686
Mar., 1902 .. 419 5 „ „ 394 25 2711
Sept., J. 902 .. 398 5 „ „ 394 4 2715
Mar., 1903 .. { 4 Written off, £B72 4 } “ 1873
Sept., 1903 .. 490 5 „ „ 394 96 1969
Mar.. 1904 .. 530 5 „ „ 397 133 2102
Sept., 1904 .. 541 5 „ „ 399 142 2244
Mar., 1905 ... 529 5 „ „ 399 130 2374
Sept., 1905 ... - .557, 5; „ „ 399 158 2532
Mar., 1906 ... . 564 5 „ „ 399 165 2697-
The reserves are partly under suspicion ; £l4OO is “de-
preciation account,” which may be-provided against depre
ciation that has actually occurred. The whole of the
assets are lumped in one item and the whole of the
receipts in another, so np test of the quality of the
securities can be applied. The loans, &c., total £30,045,
of which the shareholders own £17,897 ; the other £12,148
is nearly all money received on deposit. This particular
co. seems to be a soberly-conducted concern (certainly it
is a very cheaply-run concern ; its whole expenses amount
to well under £2OO a year) ; but it is, all the same, a fool
of a law which allows any co. to open its doors for
deposits and then doesn’t compel it to furnish some par-
ticulars of its assets.
The Hobart Gas Co. (Tasmania): —
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Proflts. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
June, 1900 .. £4542 £8 17 9p.c.=£4620 £3500
Dec., 1900 .. 4901 817 9„ ~ 4620 £2Bl 3781
June, 1901 .. 4627 817 9„ ~ 4620 7 3788
Dec., 1901 .. 5171 817 9„ ~ 4620 551 4339
June, 1902 .. 5062 817 9„ ~ 4620 442 4781
Dec., 1902 .. 5081 817 9„ „ 4620 461 5242
June, 1903 .. 5133 817 9„ „ 4620 513 5755
Dec., 1903 .. 5132 8179,, ~ 4620 512 6267
June, 1904.. 5032 8179 „ „ 4620 412 6679
Dec., 1904 .. 5192 817 9„ „ 4620 572 7251
June, 1905 .. 5075 817 9„ ~ 4620 455 7706
Dec., 1905 .. 5138 817 9„ „ 4620 518 8224
This co. supplies both gas and electric light; and on the
latter a loss of £597 is shown to have been made. This,
however, is only arrived at by charging “ interest, depreci-
ation and wear and tear ” with £1325, which is considerably
more than all the other expenses put together. The electric
light plant is in the balance-sheet for £16,000 ; and appa-
rently the Gas Co. charges the electric light department 5
per cent, on this amount. Therefore the co. doesn’t lose
£597 ; it only “ loses ” £597 by paying £4OO of the amount
to itself. As for the balance, apparently 10 per cent, per
annum is charged for depreciation, in addition to cost of
repairs; all this is charged to profit and loss. But,
though the electric light plant thus provides £l6OO a year
to extinguish its own cost, “ electric light plant, £16,000”
remains an immovable item in the general balance-sheet;
and the electric branch is still charged with interest on the
same old £16,000 though that capital cost is being wiped
out at the rate of £l6OO a year without reckoning interest
on all the sums of £l6OO that have been so far provided.
Altogether it is a most innocent-looking arrangement;
but one can’t forget the habit that municipal
councils have nowadays of running electric light
undertakings—Launceston, for instance, does it; and the
Launceston Gas Co. pays in consequence only 4 p.c.
And one wonders whether the innocent-looking little
financial plan of the Hobart Gas Co. has anything to do
with showing how financially impossible a thing electric-
lighting is in Hobart, lest the municipality should take
to supplying it, and the Hobart Gas Co. should also,
through the loss of this allegedly unprofitable branch of
its business, see its dividend come down to 4 per cent.
* • * *
Wickham and Bullock Island Coal Co.
(N.S.W.):—
Profits. Dividends. Deficit.
Mar., 1901 .. £2404 -] V $ P ;°* = \ £BB3
Re-
serves.
Sept., 1901 .. 6511 12 6 * ” » 24921 1886
Loss.
Mar., 1902 .. 1661 . Nil 225
Sept., 1902 .. 25 Nil 200
Deficit.
Mar., 1903 .. 525 Nil 325
Sept., 1903 .. 1163 Nil 1488
Mar., 1904 .. 1214 Nil 2702
Profit.
Sept., 1904 .. 353 Nil 2349
Mar., 1905 .. 106 Nil 2244
Sept., 1906 .. 68 { writfcen N o £ f fi1856 \ 4032
Loss.
Mar., 1906 .. 174 Nil 4206
The expenses during the half-year include £751 spent
on the development of the new property at Cessnock,
hereafter to be known as the Neath colliery. The
paid capital is £104,945; and the deficit, though
stated at only £4206, is actually vastly more, because
the worked-out Wickham and Bullock Island mine is
still in the balance-sheet at £Bl,OOO. “ Satisfactory pro-
gress has been made toward dismantling the old property
and the removal of the plant to the new property,” says
the directors’ report. While they are cleaning up the old
mine they might also clean up the accounts ; at present,
as published, they are a farce. The public debts, grouped
as “ sundry creditors,” total £7659 ; and for the develop-
ment of the new mine, &c., a loan of £lO,OOO at 7 per
cent, has been arranged ; but how much of tins will be
absorbed in wiping out existing loans there is no way of
telling. As far as can be arrived at, mostly by guessing,
£l5OO is owing on loan account, £6OOO to the vendors of
Cessnock, and the small balance for plant recently got
in ; and the liquid assets amount to £589. The co.’s posi-
tion is something like this: It has £Bl,OOO in a worked-
out mine now being dismantled ; £7435 (besides probably
£lOOO spent on development) in a new property that may
be a mine, against which £6OOO is owing ; £18,833 in plant
on the old mine, against which an advance of £l5OO was
made, and whose real value is not disclosed (but the wear
and tear on most coal-mine plant is very heavy); and its
other assets total £1125, against which £159 (sundry
creditors) is to be set. Also it has a name ; but after
some years of absence from the coal-market, that is not
worth a great deal.
• * « *
Permewan, Wright and Co. Ltd., carriers,
&c., of Melbourne and elsewhere :
Added
Net Written to Re- Re-
Jan., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1897.. £4844 10 p.c. =£3750 £1094 £20,384
1898.. 4514 10 „ „ 3750 764 21,148
1899.. 3769 10 „ ~ 3750 19 21,167
1900 .. 4036 9 „ „ 4062 21,141
1901 .. 4552 8 „ „ 4479 £7500 13,714
1902 .. 5150 8 „ „ 5000 7500 6,364
1903.. 6630 8 „ „ 5000 1630 7,994
Loss. Deficit.
1904 .. . 594 3 „ „ 1875 9662 4,137
1905 .. 4225 Nil 136 8,498
1906 .. 1566 Nil 1022 11,086
Of the deficit £5820 is represented by shortage on plant
valuation, which seems to mean that in past years not
enough was written off for depreciation, wherefore the
declared profits at that time were more or less fictitious.
The other £5266 is profit and loss debit. But a division
of the deficit like this means very little ; for if not enough
was hitherto written off for wear and tear, then the
whole lot of the deficit is a profit and loss debit. For the
past year it is reported that ordinary working showed a
profit of £997, but there were “ special charges ” amount-
ing to £2563 —partly bad debts, partly repairs to plant.
But plant repairs and bad debts ought to be provided for
every year; it is just because they haven’t been suffi-
ciently provided for that the co. finds itself in the posi-
tion of having lost (or paid in dividends) just upon one-
fifth of its capital. The history of the co. carries one
valuable lesson—it illustrates the danger of accepting the
annual statements of any trading co. whose assets are
liable to severe wear and tear. The real position of such
co.’s isn’t to be arrived at at once by hard, cold figures ;
a great deal depends upon the mere judgment of the
management. And the matter of judging depreciation is
largely a question of temperament and liver.
* * * *
Lake View Consols Co., which made a fortune
at Kalgoorlie, is putting some of its money into things
that look like wild cats. Latest is a plunge of £50,000
into 5 percent, debentures of the Burmah Mines, Railway
and Smelting Co., Ltd. This co. has a capital of £260,000,
with £150,000 worth of 5 per cent debentures. Latter
are convertible into scrip on or after November 30, and
capital will be increased to £410,000. Co. is to acquire a
long abandoned lead-zinc mine, said to have been worked
by the Chinese for 1060 years. Slags left by the Chinese
are said to amount to 110,000 tons, and to contain 47,300
tons of lead, 18,300 tons of zinc, and 275,0000 z. of silver !
By treating these slags a net profit of £425,700 is pre-
dicted. Lake Views lately put up £73,500 for 100,000
shares in Broken Hill South Blocks, £5OOO each in Sibe-
rian Gold Dredging Co. and the Inca Gold Development
Co. of Peru, besides the £50,000 in Burmah—a total of
£133,500. It is utterly impossible for anyone to gauge
the value of scrip on its present holdings. Apparently
all the money outstanding—£6B,629—on December 31 on
the 91,503 partly paid shares is being called up, as ss.
were payable in January, and the third call of 5s on Feb-
ruary 16. Australian shareholders have never been noti-
fied of these calls. The date of the final call of ss. is also
not known locally.
* * * «
South Kalgurli (W.A.) has passed through the
Lake View lode at 700 ft., where it is 20ft. wide, and
worth 18dwt. The lode has been driven on 12ft. north,
and has improved to 25dwt. for full width of drive (7ft.).
This is the mine’s best development for a long time. The
same lode was, however, penetrated at No. 9 level so long
ago as February, 1904, and was said to be worth 20dwt.
for 19ft. wide. Further operations did not confirm this.
The main shaft is down 1300 ft., and the 1500 ft. level
should be started by the end of June. A bore hole put
down two years ago passed through the lode at a depth
of 1500 ft., and the core assayed 4oz. for a width of 14ft.
Should this be confirmed, it will materially improve the
prospects of the field, as most of the mines have so far


become poorer in depth. Co, is now earning a profit of
about £5OOO a month on ore yielding about 365. a ton, so
any improvement in grade would enhance profits.
Associated, Kalgoorlie, was taken over by
Manager G. M. Roberts on March 1, 05, when both mine
and plant were in a muddle. The ore reserves were esti-
mated at 109,200 tons, worth 515., but researches knocked
out much of these alleged reserves. By December 31,
however, the reserves were estimated at 263,700, but tne
value was only 48s. sd. In the interval, 75,000 tons had
been treated. Of course money has been spent lavishly
on development; but, as there is now 31 months ore in
sight, expenditure can be curtailed. Reserves are esti-
mated exclusive of the Oroya shoot, which is very delu-
sive, and nothing is taken below 1400 ft. Expenditure on
alteration of plant is still going on, as the furnaces have
to be rebuilt. Owing to this, monthly profits will con-
tinue to appear small for some time longer. There are
still the possibilities of the Oroya shoot, though they
don’t look particularly rosy at present.
Hainault, Kalgoorlie, has fair chances of be-
coming a big low-grade mine. At 650 ft. level the pay
shoot started at 115 ft. south of shaft, and continued for
about 250 ft. The lens of ore ranged up to 50ft. in width,
and averaged about Bdwt. per ton. At the /50ft. level
the pa\ T shoot has been met at 110 ft. south of shaft, and is
sft. wide and worth Bdwt. At 21.0 ft. south the lens has
widened out to 50ft. ; of this, 20ft. is worth lOdwt. and 4ft.
is worth 30z., the remaining 26ft. being practically worth-
less. Three winzes have been sunk below the 650 ft. level at
170 ft., 240 ft., and 340 ft. south of shaft, and have proved
that the pay ore continues down. A year ago there were
four years’ reserves in sight, and recent developments
have fully maintained this tonnage. The talk of increas-
ing the treatment plant has been renewed, and it is quite
possible that, before long, it will be enlarged to 50 or 60
head of stamps, and that the profits will range between
£4OOO and £5OOO, instead of £l5OO and £l6OO.
« * * *
Great Boulder Perseverance, Kalgoorlie, has
cut the Lake View lode at 1300 ft., where it is 9ft. wide
and worth 14dwt. This is the best development for a long
time back. At least one previous manager stated there
was no pay ore below 700 ft. Since Klug took charge
pay ore has been found at 900 ft., 1100 ft., and 1300 ft., and
exploration is now going on at 1450 ft. On Dec. 31 there
was quite two years’ supply of ore in sight, against only
18 months’ supply three months previously. The treat-
ment plant is being rapidly overhauled, and the furnaces
remodelled, and when this work is completed, co. should
be able to work much more cheaply.
Great Boulder Prop, was in March a very bad
second to Oroya in the matter of W.A. profits, the figures
being Oroya £39,400, and Boulder £25,440. Of the two
the Boulder is much the sounder proposition, the Oroya
depending for its returns on the gradually disappearing
Oroya shoot. The Boulder, on the other hand, has a
practically new mine on its north block, w'here ore vary-
ing from 20 to 22dwt. has been proved to exist at 800 ft.,
1000 ft., and 1200 ft. It may also exist at shallower levels
in this block, but that remains to be proved. Hamilton
;shaft on this north block is now being carried below 1200 ft.
Edwards shaft on the south is down 1750 ft., and is to be
continued to 1900 ft., while the main shaft is to be sunk
almost immediately to 2050 ft. A new slimes plant, to
■replace filter presses, is shortly to be installed, as the test
.machine, designed by George Ridgway, engineer of the
imine, has indicated that an extra 4s. to ss. per ton profit
can be realised. Ten of these machines, capable of treat-
ing 500 to 600 tons daily, will shortly be installed. There
are nearly 600,090 tons of old residues, which will be
treated by this process at an estimated profit of Bs. per
tton, or say £240,000.
* * * *
Ore reserves of Sons of Gwalia, Leonora (W. A.),
:as at December 31st, are officially given in a belated report
as 358,500 tons, worth 40s. 6d. per ton. as against 386,100
■tons, worth 40s. lOd. per ton on September 30th. During
ithe quarter 32,000 tons were treated ; so that, during
'that time, only 4400 tons were developed, at a cost Of
£7500. The true explanation probably is that the figures
;as at September were exaggerated, as developments of
.late have been better than usual. The recent drop in the
shares was due to the temporary decrease in profits,
•owing to capital expenditure on repairs and renewals ;
(for the last three months of 1905 this expenditure ranged
between £5OOO and £BOOO, instead of the normal £lOOO.
March profits were over £lO,OOO owing to capital expendi-
ture being again at normal.
The “new development,” mentioned as having
occurred in the B.H. Prop, at 1200 ft., is, of course, no new
development at all, but simply the lode which has been
w'orked in the southern end of the mine at every level
from the surface downwards ; and in the natural course
of things the body has been found at 1200 ft.—size as yet
unknown ; value, same as at 1100 ft., which is rather
better than the mine’s average ; character, hard, and a
good mill recovery at present costs is doubtful. But it
isn’t what is in the south end of the mine that the
public is most anxious to hear about. It is as to the
northern (Block 14) end, where at a much shallower level
a promising strike was made lately, that good news is
needed; and about that end no official information is
even whispered. Hitherto, until this recent prospect
W’as got, work below the shallow levels had been ex-
tremely disappointing —so disappointing, in fact,
that it looked as if that end of the mine
were a blank at depth. There is a theory, popular
with a large section of Barrier mining men, that some-
where in Block 13 (B.H. Prop.) or Block 14 is the apex of
the lode, and that the ore-body dips away north and
south from that point, getting deeper but poorer in silver
as you go farther from the apex. The discovery of ore
at a depth in the northern (Block 13) end of the B.H.
Prop, would knock out the apex theory, which at present
has a heavy array of facts behind it, and would make
things much more comfortable for the shareholders in
Block 14. That mine up to now has done nothing what-
ever under its new control to justify the price to which
the strong syndicate-backing has forced shares.
First result of the Sydney meeting of the B.H.
Junction North shareholders to “protest against any
amalgamation ” with other properties came promptly.
Within a week of the meeting Manager T. H. Palmer
had wired his resignation, and asked to be relieved
promptly; and assayer Johns was put in charge. Palmer,
after doing good work at Block 10, mostly at the mill,
joined the Junction North only about six months ago ;
and a lot of people felt sorry for the young man, not long
through his engineering course. For it is a rather awk-
ward mine to handle, with a metallurgical problem that
may or may not have been solved (anyway, the mine has
paid no divs. yet out of the class of ore now available).
A large part of Broken Hill believes that a bear move
is in progress, and that the trouble about the shaft was
magnified—not bv manager Palmer, however. But
Broken Hill isn’t necessarily right concerning such things,
it certainly has dropped a lot of money backing this
claim.
* * * *
Mt. Boppy, now easily first among N.S.W.
•gold mines, presented some interesting history to its
Bull holders on April 2. Ore treated for 1905 was 51,878
ttons, an increase of 16,500 tons over previous year’s effort.
’Tailings showed an increase of 10,071 tons, and 5169 tons
more slimes went into the pits. All of which shows that
the 60-head mill pounded for all it was worth. Fine gold
production (£116,433) is £24,973 better than in 3904;
but as expenditure was £11,046 more, the increased
profit pans out at £13,927, or £65,172 for the year.
Out of this a final dividend of 3s. 6d. per share was de-
clared, making 47£ P-C. for the year, with £6OO left to
open the books for 1906 with. Mine’s early efforts—real
efforts—date from the middle of 1900. At first they were
marred through water shortage ; but, notwithstanding
this, by Dec. 31, 1901 (five months), 60920 z. were re-
corded • to Dec. 31, 1902 (seven months’ actual work),
7 8150z.’; 1903,18,8010 z. ; 1904, 21,8000 z. ; 3905, 27,8850 z.;
total, 82,3930 z. for four years’ work. The whole out-
put ’ realised £330,610. Of this amount £150,357
has been returned to shareholders. The ore reserves are
estimated (Dec. 31st, 1905) at 182,000 tons, as against
170,000 tons at Dec. 31st, 1904. That shows an increase,
in spite of the year’s output, of 12,000 tons. Neverthe-
less, mine development since Jan., 1905, hasn’t thrown
much light on the vagaries of the lode at either north or
south end, in No.’s 1, 2 and 3 levels ; and No. 4 hasn’t
gone far yet. The sulphides are now accountable for
77,000 tons of the 180,000 tons which are described as
“reserve.”
* » * *
Outside Mt. Boppy, in that district, no show
has been discovered that looks for certain like a stayer.
Boppy North, which is officially “ the Royal Oak of
Hauraki,” certainly has pretensions, and is also equipped
in a business-like way. Present work is crosscutting
from the 360 ft. level to catch the lode which dipped west
at the 200 ft. level. Lode there was 14ft., carrying a little
gold ; and lower down the country is heavily charged with
mineral and galena. North deserves success, for a lot
money has gone in hunting for it.
•K * *
Birthday, south-east of Mt. Boppy, hasn t
bustled at all since it was secured by a no-liability co.
Some work has been done at lower level, in search of tne
shoot that was met at the 70ft., but to date it hasn t been
found. Bulk sample (Cockle Creek) from aforesaid /Oft.
level gave 23dwt., which is encouraging.
# * * fa'
That prettiest of Melbourne holiday resorts,
Warrandyte or Anderson’s Creek, is still in the throes of
its gold-boom. Since the Caledonia struck gold, two
months back, these pups have been floated: —Caledonia
North, C. South, C. Consols, C. Extended, C. Blocks, C.
Fifth Hill, C. Central, C. Great Southern, C. and Devon-
shire, not to mention the Victory pups, V. North and
New Victory. There is pegging pretty well all the way to
Queenstown. After Schlichting had unwatered the
Caledonia he had to sink only 3ft. to strike the rich
stone. The remarks of the local miners who quit some
nine months before are unprintable. C. South is also an
abandoned show. Previous holders had got fair stone,
hut would not sink. Between the South and the Cale-
donia lies a deep gully with a billahong of the Yarra at
the bottom ; while between Caledonia andC. North lies
the Yarra itself. Other pups are out towards the old
Victory, now working once more. Meanwhile between
200 and 300 men are employed sinking, board is unobtain-
able in the township, and tents pervade the scrub and the
Yarra bank. Motors, bikes and other conveyances trans-
pire hourly, while the water-driven 10-head battery on
the Yarra (none of the mines have got their own going
yet) belts steadily away from Sunday midnight to Satur-
day. Also, two pubs are crushing beer for rich yields.
* * m *
When the reports by the two Melbourne dailies
on Warrandyte are examined, there is nothing significant
about them—save their similarity. The Argus left
a day before the Ages and had its report out
in advance, so it scores. As a matter of fact,
there is plenty of scope for speculation, both geo-
logically and on the market, over the Warrandyte
formations. The old phrase, “ true fissure ” vein, is
trotted out because the formation cuts across the slates.
Geologists nowadays quarrel very much over what is
meant by the term. It is a pity, therefore, that
something more than a generality was not employed.
Taken as “fissure veins.” the first thing to
be noted about them is their small size. This
means that sinking will have to be the order of the
day to keep ahead of the battery, even though the shoot
of gold may be long. Then the reefs have been thrust
about a good deal, and the question is whether this makes
for permanence. Settled country is said to be showing
at 200 ft. in the Caledonia ; but will the gold carry into
it any more than it has done in any other of the
old mines near Melbourne ? Then the yields
are not big enough to provoke excitement ;
1860 tons for 24510 z. from the Caledonia reads well, but
that is all shallow stone, and the average of the crushings
is dropping. On its old records, Warrandyte was never
very much, and any attempt to lead the public into
imagining that the side reefs or the main Caledonia reef
are likely to be bonanzas is not justified by present work
or past history. It was a good “party” field, and local
people will be astonished if it is ever anything else. The
public is, anyhow, not helping those who want to unload
shares, and that is good—it is wisest for the public to
look on.
c * * *
North Cross Reef Extended, Stawell (Vic.), is
the hope of the district now that Sloane and Scotchman’s
and Amalgamated Scotchman’s have joined the Magdala-
cwm-Moonlight in looking blue. The North Cross Reef
Extended, like all other Stawell co.’s, has to deal with
very low-grade dirt, 1172 tons only yielding 281 oz. Last
700 tons went about sdwt. This is about the average
raised by the dividend-payers at Berringa ; but
there they have bigger lodes and bigger bat-
teries, and' so work more cheaply. The Stawell mine,
however, will have to be worked on the Berringa lines.
There must be no waste anywhere, and a big tonnage
must be treated, and underhand stoping must be tried
only as a last resort. North Cross Reef Ex. at the 254 ft.
level is now going for the reef from Patrick’s shaft. Pay
dirt is wanted, as the co. got on the wrong side of the
ledger while putting up its battery. Show is run cheaply.
Directors get £l3 10s. a half-year among them—enough
for drinks as long as they stick to the front bar —and the
legal manager works on a bare living wage without
seeing much chance ahead of a change for the better
until the worth of the stone at 400 ft. is shown.
* * *
Sam Slick, the Yankee clock-maker, always had
the grace to admit when he got the worst of the encoun-
ter ; but the Ballarat crowd that owned the SamSliek lease,
Raglan (Vic.), hasn’t the same sense. The co. took up
a big alluvial claim at Raglan, and lived by farming out
parts of it. The All Nations took a third, and the All
Nations Consols another third, on a 2J- per cent, royalty.
This was not so bad, but the co. sub-let other blocks on a
10 per cent, royalty to working parties. Someone put
his thumb on the little game, and Minister M‘Leod said
the sweaters would have to bundle out. He didn’t even
give them a chance to repeg the ground, as he means the 10-
per-centers to have that right. The co. pointed to a shaft
it had been sinking as proof of bona-fides. M‘Leod smiled,
turned up his thumb, and the happy despatch was executed.
The co.’s retort, when outside the door, was to snarl out
that M‘Leod favored a certain class. Why shouldn’t he ?
It will certainly do the industry good. Ballarat has so
long been the home of the lazy royalty-hunter that its
mining men have got stout and stodgy. They hate to be
told to put up their cash. To ask them to work save in
Stock Exchange deals is to their mind rank injustice.
The awful threat is made that Ballarat cash won’t go into
Raglan shows any more. Raglan will not weep over
that. If Raglan has any decent alluvial dirt, it need not
be afraid that coin will be wanting to prove it, or that
Ballarat will think twice about furnishing the cash. It is
a joke, though, to see the biter bit—Ballarat starting the
anti-tribute crusade and finding the agitation turning on
itself.
* • * •
There are always suggestions of a coming smash
in the Tasmanian tin division, though the indications are
mostly neglected bv dealers, who go on taking risks.
The crumpling-up of Weldbrook values on Friday evening
ought, however, to have sounded a bass note to the
gentle punter that something was amiss. Bob Turner’s
explanation to the Melbourne Stock Exchange on Satur-
day morning, when he read Paul Northey’s telegram rt
his brother’s (J. W. Northey’s) estimated yield, was
plainly genuine. So Turner got a cheer where others
would have had a groan. Whatever the yield
might be, the market was deadly sick of the
Briseis Extended-Weldbrook-errm-Mutual Hills racket.
Some dealers have been badly bit, but most of
them think the price cheap. As it turns out, the sudden
scare was not justified. With the two warnings
prpvided at the Briseis Extended (Bandry’s and
Williamson’s) it was inconceivable that J. W.
Northey would fall into the same muddle. Why
should'he send incorrect yields? Therefore his ex-
planation, received after his brother’s telegram had
knocked the market kite-high, deserved better recogni-
tion than it got. “I reported what I considered to be
equal to streamed tin,” is what he said. His clean-up
still had to talk, and it has done so. Why there was all
this scare was because with Briseis Extended, Weldbrook,
Mutual Hills, and that crowd, it has been punting all
through. Of course this isn’t saying that the tin division
is to be trusted. Far from it. Briseis Extended balance-
sheet shows the co. far away on the wrong side of the
ledger ; Weldbrook, with all its initial expense, has drifted
badly ;’and Mutual Hills never did have much coin to play
with. Taken generally, there really is not a bright spot
in North-east tin in Tasmania ; the one moderately bright
spot is the Pioneer.
* * * ;•
Wire from O.K. copper mine (N.Q.): “ Struck
main ore-body bottom-level; 9 per cent, ore.” At the
same time, wires came through to the Exchanges
reporting that transport difficulties were over, that the
converter would start in three weeks, and in fact every-
thing in the garden was lovely. But reflect that
bottom level is at 160 ft. only ; and even allowing for the
fact that ore has been exposed higher up the hill than
where the shaft'is, it’s still only a shallow mine as yet.
There was, this time, no spring in the shares to speak of.
Nevertheless, there is some buying on northern account.
But if they go to 30s. or thereabouts, there will be whole-
sale unloading in the north as well as in the south.
* * * *
Half-yearly report of Brilliant Central, Char-
ters Towers, contains no information regarding the mine
that is likely to gladden the hearts of shareholders. The
output for the six months was 14,200 tons, worth £38,638,
equal to about £2 14s. per ton ; and dividends and tax
(£625) amounting to £13,125 have been paid. Previous
term saw 16,000 tons milled, of the same value per ton,
and the same amount was paid in dividends. Costs for
the past term work out at £1 17s. Bjd. Management
below is careful enough. In fact, in some respects, it is
mean. Development has not disclosed any regular bodies
of stone: consequently ventilation has been neglected in
the struggle to bring expenditure down to £26,750. The
report sheds no light upon details. It is clear, however,
that divs. were not fully earned. Expenditure, £26,750;
add dividends, and the total is £39,875, while receipts
were only £38,638. Divs. must be irregular, too, in the
near future, although the payment of the welcome
6d. is not likely to come to an abrupt end until
the £19,397 in hand is spent. Since the co. started some
12 years ago it has turned out 181,100 tons of stone, all
of which has been crushed at public batteries, whose
owners have raked in £81,445. Co. has not got a battery
yet, and it wants one badly, in order to treat the low-
grade stone that can’t afford to pay the battery owners’
9s. a ton. As to the underground workings, No. 3 hanging
wall stopes, 40ft. long, have 20in. of stone ; No. 4 stopes,
where 15in. of stone used to be, are nearly exhausted ;
No. 5, no stone, and the boundary is only 260 ft. away.
On the footwall the reef from No. 7 up to No. 5 is worked
out. The only hope that the co. has got, as far as the
public can see, is in the opening out at 1318 ft. in the
straight shaft. Report says that there is 2ft. of stone
there, supposed to be a continuation of Kelly’s hanging-
wall reef. But the development that has been done on it
is absurd—lsft. for three months’ work does not look as
though the co. has any hopes of great things there.
* * * »
New Queen, Charters Towers, one of the slip-
pery customers and the joy of footpath punters, is near
bedrock. It is no trouble for this mine’s stock to climb
from 2s. to 9s. in three months, and slip back again in
half that time. In December the co. turned out 1042
tons for 1003 oz. ; then scrip was worth 9s. 3d. January
saw 1008 tons mined for 6160 z.; February, 508 tons for
3060 z. ; March, 698 tons for 401 oz. ; last crushing was 456
tons for 2270 z., and you can buy now at 3s. This is the
co. that was going to turn out 1000 tons a month. But
that was when the punters wanted their plaything to
move up.
* * * *
The manager of Queensland Silver Lead Mines
has, apparently, no difficulty in protecting the co.’s
metal shows from the covetous, but he recently had his
kitchen garden jumped. Naturally he now fights hard
for possession of the bit of ground, upon which at least
some genuine development work has been done.
* • *
Brisbane is struggling hard to find the money
with which to hold an inquest on the old Peak Downs
copper property. A good mouthful is being made of the
copper contents of the slag dump and of the present price
of copper. Promoters in this case, as in many other cases,
make their beginning at the finish. Copper is up, and
money goes into the show. By the time the money is
at work, copper is down, and that’s the finish that should
have been the commencement.
* * * *
At Gym pie (Q.), during April, 18,150 tons were
crushed for 10,8930 z.— 56 tons and 3600 z. less than in
April, 1905. Dividends amounted to £6804, and calls to
£5533. Dividends this April are £3996 short of dividends
for April, 1905. Chief returns Scottish Gympie, 7850
tons for 4000 oz. ; No. 2 South Great Eastern, 5220 tons
for 19120 z. ; No. 1 S. Oriental and Glanmire, 397 tons
for 7920 z.; No. 2 North Columbia Smithfield, 171
tons for 6150 z. ; South Glanmire and Monkland,
1344 tons for 5990 z. ; No. 1 North Oriental and Glan-
mire, 755 tons for 488 oz. No. 2 S. Great Eastern’s average
of 7dwt. 7gr. per ton is very low, and the 6d. dividend
means at least £lOOO drawn from the bank. Prospecting
has been started in this mine for the bed of slate which
the S. Glanmire and Monkland and No. 1 S. Great
Eastern are testing. If the floors are black when found,
it will be a big thing for the No. 2 South, with its five
reefs to operate in the new bed. South Glanmire and
Monkland shows up a shade better for the month, with
Bdwt. 21gr. per ton. No. 1 S. Oriental and Glanmire’s
average of a shade under 2oz. per ton is a
pleasing feature of the month, for the gold
was got from a depth of 2000 ft., and this
makes things look brighter for the deeper eastern ground.
No. 2 North Columbia and Smithfield, with 3oz. lldwt.
per ton, has caused a spurt on the Columbia and Smith-
field line. The New Dawn crushing will be watched with
interest; but stuff is very low grade, and there will be
nothing startling. The Two-Mile end of the field is at
last receiving deserved attention. A co. in 48,000 shares
at 2s. 6d. is to be floated to prospect the 50 acres lately
taken up. # # „
“Vigilans ” : Horse Shoe Creek, 30 miles from
Pine Creek (N.T.), will some day be a tinfield. Geologist
H. Y. L. Brown and others have reported favorably upon
it. The outcrops are large, can be seen from one end to
the other, and carry tin freely. Under awful difficulties
some 30 Europeans, assisted by 50 Chinamen, are
struggling on the field. A 5-stamp battery endeavors to
cope with the output. In 1905, 400 tons were crushed
for 20 tons black tin ; so far this year 519 tons have been
put through for 55 tons. The Venture Syndicate has put
through 64 tons for eight tons ; Keenan, 85 tons for 15
tons ; Worth, 60 tons for five tons. The white miner’s
lot is anything but a happy one ; mostly he delves on
“johnnie” and “tinned dog.” There are two stores,
both run by Chows. Celestials drive and feed the
battery, cart the ore, have tributes, and are general
providers. This was one of the fields the heathen
was to be kept out of; but he gets there just
the same. There is no permanent water supply, and
the Government will not sink a well or do anything else.
A 10-stamp Government battery is badly needed, too.
Mount Todd, three miles from the Creek, is practically a
continuation of the same belt of country. The lqdes here
have some rich patches. At the Evening Star they pick
and bag, and send direct to Sydney; dollying is also done.
A parcel of 200 tons averaging 18 per cent, tin is now
(April 2) on the way to the battery. Water is again the
trouble, and the want of machines. Negotiations are
pending between the owner of the Star and a Melbourne
syndicate for a float; but negotiations take time when
one end of the animal is in Melbourne and the'other in
the heart of Australia, where nothing in the
shape of a regular mail has yet been seem If this
field can get a start it Will open the eyes of tin men, or
appearances lie. I have dollied what was considered
mullock, which turned out 12 per cent, black tin. Yet Mt.
Todd is practically a wilderness for the want of assistance.
Port Darwin isn’t interested, mainly because the China-
man hasn’t the run of the place; and Port Darwin
hasn’t much use for a field where the Chinese
“dummy” isn’t allowed freely. It has decided in its
tired, perverted way that it can get more out of mining
by squeezing the Chinese (who can’t hold a lease in his
own name) than by any other method.
* * * *
C.R.M. : Prefer the Perth B. Society
Miner: Weekly boat, train and coach ; cost (single) about
£7. Climate,"mild to hot; labor, plentiful Terapin:
(1) Adelaide Steamship for choice. (2) Neither.
* * * *
Re Brisbane City and Surburban Permanent
Building and Investment Society (noticed 8., 3/5/’O6), and
the remark that “ the immediate result of this piece of
honesty (the writing down of assets) was, as might have
been expected, a considerable withdrawal of deposits—
from £73,700 in 1903 they went to £57,903 in 1905.” It
appears that, owing to a decision of the Equity Court of
N.S.W., the trustees of the Thomas Walker estate with-
drew all investments outside N.S.W. ; and that accounts
for the reduced figures. The explanation is satisfactory ;
for, as previously inferred, the society’s honesty should
have meant strengthened and not weakened confidence.
The trouble is that depositors won’t always look at things
n that logical fashion.
• * *
*
Aerial tramways or conveyors undoubtedly
afford the cheapest means of transport, especially when
they are worked under a system which is entirely
automatic. The largest manufacturers in the world in
this particular line are Adolf Bleichert and Co., of London,
represented in Australia by W. and J. Lempriere, of Mel-
bourne. Delivering ore autoinatically from the mine to
the mill over almost any distance at a cost of about one
penny per ton, is far ahead of all other means of transport.
Automatic systems are in vogue for the cheap discharge
of tailings. Automatic weighing and counting of loaded
cars is also assured under Bleichert’s system, thereby
nothing is left to assumption or imagination.*
* * # *
Cobak. —For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1594.
•* * * *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents ob-
tained. Collison and Co., 483 Collins-street,
Melbourne (and Adelaide.) Twenty-six years
practice. Write us for Inventors’ Guide.*
One of the problems which faces most men once
at least in life lies in the choice of an Executor and
Trustee, and it is strange to see with what blind or very
short sighted confidence many men —and men, too, who
have made their marks in the world of trade or finance —
entrust the assets they leave behind them to incapable
individuals, apparently careless of the fact that the well-
being of widow and children depend upon the careful
handling of those assets.
It is hard to understand that a man who, in his lifetime
insists on lodging his money with the strongest bank and
insuring his life with the soundest life assurance society
because of the security offered by these institutions,
should, after his death, when so much more depends upon
it, be satisfied to entrust his moneys and assets of every
description to the hands of someone who is not required
to put up a single penny by way of security. The practice
cannot be too strongly deprecated.
It may be laid down as an axiom that assets so carefully
safeguarded during a testator’s life should not be left in
the hands of incompetent and weak individuals after his
death, and it is disregard of this that has led to a plentiful
crop of litigation, and made defaulting trustees and
ruined widows and orphans such familiar figures in our
midst. And it is also unnecessary. It is possible,
nay, easy, to get an executor with security
amply adequate for the largest estate, such security
totalling in fact, some £1,027,000: an executor which
has acted in this capacity in hundreds of estates,
and against which a claim for breach of trust, or restitu-
tion of lost funds, has never been made; but, this
executor is not an individual, but a strong company com-
parable with the bank and assurance society of which
mention has already been made. We refer to the
Perpetual Trustee Company, (Limited) of 2, 4 and 6
Spring-street, Sydney, which claims with justice, many
advantages over private trustees—in safety, economy, and
good management. They are now managing nearly
£6,000,000 worth of estates and are looking for more.
They issue a booklet setting out in attractive form their
many advantages, and we recommend the man who wants
an executor or trustee to call and get one.*
\ * * *
The electric plant of the Federal Palace Hotel,
corner Collins and King Streets, Melbourne, furnishes a
good example of a thoroughly successful electric installa-
tion, in technical as well as in commercial respects. This
plant generates all electric current required for the hotel
lighting ; it consists of a 20 horse-power gas engine belted
to a “ Ganz ” 12 kilowatts dynamo, a “ Ganz ” switch-
board containing all the controlling and measuring instru-
ments, and a storage battery with 62 cells. The generating
machinery runs continually during the day time at its
full capacity and highest efficiency ; the surplus current
being stored into the battery ; the latter supplies all
necessary electricity required during the night; the
battery forms also a substantial reserve in case of acci-
dents. Compared with the previous method of working a
saving of £4OO per annum has been effected by this plant.
The contractors for this plant were The Austral Otis
Engineering Company, Ltd., corner Hanah and Kavanagh
Streets, South Melbourne, as sole agents for Ganz and
Company, Budapest, Hungary.* [3.]
The Curtin Davis Proprietary Company, No
Liability, is prepared to consider offers of approved
mining properties under working option of purchase for
cash. Full particulars to R. E. Tweddell, Manager, 31
Queen-street, Melbourne.*
L » * * *
Two sets of improved plunger pumps, Cornish
type, are at present being constructed for the “ keystone ”
shaft of the Loddon Valley Goldfields (Victoria) to the
order of Bewick, Moreing and Co. Each set will consist
of two lifts of 250 feet, the total lift being 500 feet. The
plungers are 26in. in diameter and 10ft. stroke and the
discharge from the two sets will be 6,000,000 gallons per
day. The valve boxes are made in separate pieces instead
of forming part of one H piece, and the valves are of the
compound flap type. The total weight of the two sets of
pumps is 150 tons. The Austral Otis Engineering
Company has this work in hand. This company has
constructed and erected most of the big volume deep
alluvial pumping plants now working in Victoria.*
Joint Stock Co.’s Journal, (London) July 20,
1.904, writes :—“ One of the offices which are in the happy
position that they can look back upon a distinct advance
in the year of leanness—l9o3—is the Colonial Mutual,
which, as the title states, is an office whose profits are
shared to the last farthing by participating policy-
holders.”*
* * * *
From advices to hand we learn that the Mount
Morgan Gold Mining Co. who lately installed five Hornsby
“Upright” Water Tube Boilers representing 2500 h.p.
have their new plant under steam and a phenomenal
saving is confidently expected in their coal bill and cost of
maintenance. It *is gratifying to note that the
“Hornsby” boilers are fulfilling all that the maker’s
claimed, and with the excellent results obtained, com-
petent engineers have no hesitation in recommending
their general adoption. The firm have already created
one engineering record with their well-known patent
safety oil engine, carrying, as it has, everything before it
in all parts of the world, and we have no doubt they are
on the eve of creating a second record with their
~ Upright” boiler. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd., Hay-
market, Sydney: Spencer-street, Melbourne.**
* * # *
Another factor in reducing the mining costs,
especially in large mines, is the extensive use of “ Wonder ”
Hand Hammer and “ One Man ” Compressed Air Drills.
Broken Hill mines are using them extensively. The
managers favor these drills for their economy in air
consumption, as they require only about 25ft., and do
faster work than the ordinary piston drill. The miners
prefer them, as work is made much easier ; and for tribu-
tors, “ Wonder ” drills are the means of bringing in larger
returns. Messrs. W. and J. Lempriere, of Melbourne and
Sydney, have fine descriptive catalogues for those in-
terested, and attention is drawn to an exceedingly simple
and ingenious patent water attachment for allaying dust.
* * * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99a Queen-
street. Melbourne. Commission business only.
Agents
The Zinc Corporation has taken careful advice
in connection with the large plant required at Broken
Hill, and has ordered Babcock and Wilcox water-tube
boilers with superheaters and mechanical stokers. This
order has been followed by the great firm of mining
engineers, Messrs. Bewick, Moreing and Co., placing
orders with the same boiler company, in connection with
the South Blocks, also at the Hill. These instances
further prove the assertion that, wherever economy in
fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed.* This company stock boilers at “ Haymarket,”
Sydney.* , * ,
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke*
street, Melbourne.*
* # * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont dePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect, coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discrintion of cast or wrought iron work.*
•* * ♦ *
Golden Bendigo.— The safest .and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
* * » »
Charters Towers. —Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the, latest informa-
tion on the field.* ■


Excuse Insufficient! If you deny yourself the
opportunity we are gladly offering you to choose what you
will, and most desire in the way of possessing* a handsome
solid gold hall marked albert, or a reliable ever gold
watch, or a good signet or diamond ring - , or a gem-set
dress or engagement ring, or a choice chain or cable
bangle, or a diamond, pendant, brooch, or any other
trinket, gem or jewel of treasure and value. 'Excuse
insufficient! when you can now obtain any one of these
or other articles on the simple and popular plan adopted
by the (London Times) plan of easv monthly payments
Write or call for illustrated catalogue and terms. British
Imperial Goldsmiths, 65 l s itt-street, (corner of Bridge-
street), Sydney.*
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resells Waverley Brewery, Agents.
FISHING NETS,
FISHING TACKLE.
Send for our Superb Tackle Catalogue—lT'S FREE.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
409 & 411 George St.,
SYDNEY.
Aboriginalities.
“Quandong”: Used to flatter myself
that I knew a tiling or two about the variously-
named lace lizard, goanna, go., or iguana—
according to Worcester’s Dictionary the Ameri-
can variety of it is also called the guana—until
I made a study of the pars, contributed by nume-
rous aboriginals. From them I have gathered
that it is a hideously-beautiful reptile, that it is
an honest thief, that its maximum length is sft.
but that it often reaches 9ft., and never exceeds
3ft. except when it is 4ft. ; that a 9ft.
goanna is exactly tiie length of an Bft.
panel of fencing; that its edible portions
are not fit for food except when they are
boiled in cold water, which makes them worse ;
that its delicious eggs are so nauseous as to pro-
duce vomiting ; that its sharp eyes are so blind
that it occasionally climbs a human being in mis-
take for a tree; and that although it breathes
atmospheric air it can stay under water for an
hour, or a week or something. All I am per-
sonally certain of is tint its correct mime is
goananias—the male that is. The female, I
believe, is properly named gophira.
“ F.W.0.” : Said the man on the flute :
“No, I don t know much about stock, though I
did once judge at a country show. Happened to be
in the district, and the expert who was to have
settled all arguments sent word he couldn’t come,
or had died or something. Being the only stranger
handy I was asked to officiate, an 1 being in a
sympathetic mood, I consented. Next morning,
when the mood had evaporated with the
grog, I wished I hadn’t. However, rnv host had
the previous year’s catalogue with the winning
names and numbers ticked off, and I rose to the
occasion. ‘Been any new horse blood imported
since last show?’ I inquired casually. ‘None.’
It was a one-horse sort of place. ‘ How about
cattle and pigs?’ ‘Well, old Wheat j ar has
a new bull that could give any other in
the district tuberculosis in one act And
Straxvstack has a new male swine, which he
bought cheap from a famous breeder.’ That was
the tally as far as he could remember. Next day
1 showed the natives bow a judge ought to con-
duct his business, and (with a first to the new
bull ‘and a second to the cheap hog to break the
monotony) gave the prizes to the previous year's
takers, as per the marked catalogue. It worked
all right. The winning owners treated me hand-
somely (here the flutist sighed), and even the
losers, when they took my agreement with my
predecessor into consideration, began to think
1 must be right.
MORE OR LESS ANCIENT.
KING BULLY: “ Mine think it white pheller plurry
fool ! that no keepit out kangaroo.”
“F.B.”: I send this for the proposed (B.
22/3/’O6) children’s column:-
My dear Uncle B., —
I take for my subjeck “The Swaggie.” He’s mostly
found under trees an’ bridges. He’s quite tame ’cent,
when he wants food an’ can’t get it. When he’s old, he’s
by himself; when he’s young, there are three of him
Dorgs don’t like him, ’cept at harvest time, when Dad
calls ’em off.—Your afecknate nephew, aged 9 yrs 2
mths.,
P.S.—Please may I write again?
‘ Hexham”; The Australian emu (see
, Eiram,” B. 12'4/Of!) is not “the prize idiot of
t i» universe ’ though theb'dtis held in thcfamily.
Jiis undompsticated N’African cousin won’t, so it
,s s iid there, cross an artificial d itch a foot deep, and
when one as’:s how it is that the Cape Parliament
ra pines all b rds to he kept in paddocks, wir •-
fenced t) a he gilt r»f Oft., the answer is that these
ostriches, having been bred in captivity, are s uni-
civilised and know a thing or two. Have seen
tame ostriches halt at and go round a rope
stretched on the ground. Perhaps they mistook it
for a snake, but then again no snake—except a
c instrictor—can do anything with them. He
might as well try to bite armor plates as attack
their bone and muscle legs, and would be kicked
to death in half a minute. Years ago ] was
herding ostriches—£3 a. month and “ skoff ’’ —in
British Kaffraria, under instructions of a boss
who had just exchanged sheep for ostriches and
was as green as myself. I got the Kaffir “boys”
to gather all the rubbish near the house into little
heaps which were set fire to at sun-down. In the
night there was a slight frost and next morning I
discovered to mv horror that everyone of the
blessed thirty-seven ostriches had stuck his hind-
quarters into a fire for warmth. Result, for them,
all tail feathers burnt off and for me the em-
broidered order of the sack.
* • • •
“Janor”: T’m full up of the intelligence
of the emu as alleged by “ Eiram ” (B. 12/4/’of>).
Jhe emu is about as good at flying as it is at
thinking. But it is an inquisitive fowl and takes
a great interest in any bright glistening object, so
much so that it will get outside of the same if not
too big. Small nuggets, quartz specimens, coins.
&c., have been found in the emu’s gizzard. J had
a mate once who wore a showy brass-belt buckle.
One day crossing a plain he had all his knowledge
and intellect frightened out of him by a bird that
charged straight for his chest, bowled him over,
and tried to wrench off the buckle with the front
part of its face. I also knew a man who was
shaving outs de his tent one morning with
a pocket-mirror hung on a sapling. Suddenly
a feathered head shot over his shoulder, there
sounded a sharp click, and the looking-glass
vanished. lie turned round suddenly, open-
mouthed with surprise and curses. The sun
flashed on the open razor in his hand, and that too
disapoeared. and a partly shaved lunatic danced
round and hurled anathemas after a pair of emus
that were streaking over the plain as if they had
an appointment with Beelzebub. It was the lady
emu who annexed the mirror. Again the vanity
of woman.
* * * *
“Nulla” : Re emus disentangling one
another from wire fences, as told bv “Eiram.”
My experience is that, though they dread a wire
fence—l have had a mob come within 20yds. of
me sooner than tackle one—emus will occasionally
blunder through, but more often they come to
grief. They seem to land feet first about the
middle wire, which is forced down by their weight
to a level with the lower one. Then, as they
scramble through, their legs act as a twitch or
tourniquet, and the fowl makes a sorrowful end of
itself. I have come across many s > triced up, but
perhaps they are better educated now than in my
time. That champion fence negotiator, the wild
pig, occasionally comes to" grief in a wire
fence. The ordinary pit rabbit-trap accounts for
many young emus. Six were recently taken
from one trap near Hay. Enms are blamed for
damage to wire netting, so the six were killed.
Probably a herd of angels would have been
treated the same way. In the bitter rabbit-
squatter war, anything—even Gabriel and the
four Evangelists—would be shot if they were
found grazing near a fence, and were suspected of
being liable to break it and let bunny through
* * * *
“The Prooshan ” : The subject was
“ porkypines,” as Jimmy the Splitter called them.
‘'l remember a
rum codger I had
in me garden
once,” said Jim.
“ I got ’irn out in
the bush w’en he
was a young ’un.
It took all I knoo
to turn ’irn over
’n’ get ’im into a
sugar bag. Tarybil
grip they’ve got er
thegroun’. Ef the
groun’s a bit rough
or cut up at all
yer can’t budge
’em. Well, I
brung ’im ’ome, ’n’
put ’im in the gar-
den, ’n’ w’en I gets
up lie wuz in the
orchid. S 6 L leaves
’im there. The
codlin morth wuz
bad, y’ know, ’n’
the apples wuz
lyin’ in dozens
under the trees. Wei],
one mornin’ I gets up erly,
’n’ I’m goin’ up the orchid ’n’
I spots the bloomin’ pin-cushion
rollin’ on the apples. Fresen’ly, wen he
got about nine apples on ’is spikes, lie" scoots orf
past the apple ’ouse to ’is camp, ’n’ I wofches ’im
screwin’ like a bloke w’en he’s got a ’orii(;t nippin’
bm behind the shoulder ’n’ he can’t get at it. At
last he screws orl the apples orf, ’n’ goes back fer
more. 1 reckon he could do most anythin’ but tork
that porkypine.”
* * • *
“ X.X.” : Re “Mark B.’s” alleged total
absence of bird life in the Blue Mountains of
N.S. W . Jib 12/4/ 06). The constant crowd of visi-
tors to Katoomba and the places he mentions may
be responsible, or perhaps it is the barrenness, or
possibly the whiz and smell of motor cars
Further up, between Tarana and .Tenolan, there
are parrots in great variety, cockatoos, crows
magpies, plover, quail, &c. So the bottom falls
out of the suggestion that the climate is too try-
ing, for the district I speak of is quite as cold as
■l-Vci too 111 1 )fl»
* * * *
Householders will find that for universa.
use Little’s Phenyle Disinfeetantsareunsurpassedi
Ihe holuble 1 henyle m a powerful insecticide it
kills bugs, cockroaches, fleas, &e., and is one of the
best washes for all domestic animals. Sold by all
chemists, grocers, storekeepers, through Aus
traha. °
“ ONCE BIT," de.
C. 24 (indignantly): “I ain't a-goin' to take no
more parson's udnce. That's wot brought me
’ere.”
PARSON: "My good man!”
C. 24: “Selp me, I were cornin' out of a pub ,
where I'd been ’avin' a few leers, when I
spots a trap, an' backs inter the bar agen,
an' a bloomin' parson cornin' by sings out,
‘ Don t yield! Resist!' So when the trap
lags his 'and on me I lags 'im out. That's
wot comes of talcin' a parson’s tip.”
“ Elmore ” : Strange how many people
think bunny a starvation diet. I know a man
who fattened 3(i pigs on rabbits, with the addition
of a little pollard, during last winter. He reckoned
it paid better than trapping for market, as he had
the skins to the good. Hogs get poor on rabbits
eaten raw, because the rabbits are infested by in-
testinal worms, which live just as well on dog as
on bunny. (Jnok your rabbit and it will fatten
anything.
“Tot’ : Have just read “Nunomin’s”
yarn (B. 4/1/Oil) about the cats m
the -New Hebrides, and the natives
partaking thereof as a table delicacy,
and I would like to mention some-
thing re the mongoose, that foolish
importation to this country (Fiji).
Snakes used to be rather plentiful a
few years ago, and were somewhat of
a nuisance in the cane-fields, but they
were soon wiped out by the mongoose,
which some ass imported for that
purpose. Wince then the mongoose
has prospered, and now this island
fairly buzzes with the sneaking brutes.
It’s a hard job to raise poultry, and
young pigs are collared the moment
they are born, for the pest is ever on
the watch when a sow goes into the
bush to litter. It’s a rare thing to
see a snake nowadays, but the Fijian
snake is not venomous, so it wasn’t
worth while dragging in the mongoose
to kill a thing that never did much
harm save that it scared unwise
strangers and occasionally crawled
over you at night. Still the mon-
goose has points—as an article of
native diet. The fashion of eating
man is out of date in these islands,
but you should just see how the
niggers relish mongoose, also cat and
dog.
“ Yyvyene” : Yet another curseful plant
from the Cold Country is causing anguish in Tas-
mania. Tentacle-like, the blackberry bush is
spreading rapidly, and promises to be such a
nuisance as to necessitate a law being made for its
eradication. Twenty years ago the north-east
corner of the State did not know it, but some fool
of a man arrived with a few plants, which, when
they grew, he reckoned would act better than anv
four-railed fence. But he did not take the fertility
of the soil into consideration ; nor the birds when
the berries arrived. Both sides of the roads in
that district now are ornamented with a hedge
anything between six and twelve feet high,
lioads have to be kept clear of it, and
town boards get wrathful at the expense in-
curred. It shoots up amongst the crops, and the
farmer curses it vigorously. Burn it, and the
ashes strengthen the roots, which send along a
fresh instalment of shoots. Attempt to dislodge
the roots, and you play the very devil with your
horses, your plough, and your affability. Speak
to it and it answers you back.
‘ ‘ Hermes ”: This is the story of an ant—had
the ant been a man. it had been material for an epic.
He was travelling at top speed across the kitchen
table, holding a particle of flour over his head. I
slew him as he ran, and his dead body lay in a
huddled heap in the centre of a great plain of
deal. Another ant appeared over the edge of the
table, and. appropriating a particle of flour also,
was returning the way he came when I blocked
his road with water. He held the flour a trifle
higher, and, standing still, apparently made a
calculation. While he figured it out, I piled a
seething ocean around him with one god-like
sweep of the dishcloth, leaving only an open
track that led
to where the
> crushed body
of the other
explorer lay
huddled up.
He saw the
danger, and
galloped for
the opening
at top speed
till he nearly
fell over the
dead ex-
plorer in his
headlong
flight. Then
he took
anot h e r
glance at the
rolling
waters, and
dropping the
flourgrabbed
the dead ant,
and whirling
him aloft fled
to the edge of
the table.
Just as he
dived under
the ledge, the
sea broke over
it. He rushed
down the leg of
the table to the
floor and rested a
mome n t, bewil-
dered. Great masses
of water fell around him with roar and splash, and,
gripping his burden, he once more fled. I followed
him. He ran in circles till be seemed to strike
something he knew, when he beaded for the back
door. Out into the yard he went, away down the
path, avoiding masses of pebbles, and with about
two rests arrived at the outskirts of the great red
ant patch. At first he ran on regardless of the
other ants till, apparently meeting someone he
knew, he placed the corpse on a flat rock
about the size of a halfpenny, and told his friend
all about it. I felt absolutely certain that he was
pointing at me with mixed feelings. The con-
versation over, be resumed his burden, and,
travelling very slowly, disappeared down one of
the innumerable shafts of the ant patch.. It was
a deed of wondrous daring. Ho had carried off the
dead body of his fellow-creature amidst what must
have been to him gathering oceans. The dangers
surrounding him were such as would have
driven a man similarly placed to despair, and that
body would have been abandoned in very short
order. He had stuck to bis burden to the end.
But what was it for? Was it to bury his mate
decently and read the ant burial serv.ee over him ?
Or was it to eat him ?
PROSPECTIVE ITEM.
OLD HAND : “ What induced you to cone out
here?”
NEW CHUM : “My gov nor thought the prospects
would he favorable , don't yer know.”
O.H.: “My gov'nor never considered my pros-
pects.”
N.C.: “ Nor mine. He meant his own, when I
was out of his way.”
“Lantana” : I can’t say anything about
the feelings of the male Jap. when mistaken for a
Chow (‘ Moodier,” 8/3/’OG), but I do know of a
little Mimosa San—needlewoman and decorator
to a toffy ” family—who was one day saluted
most politely by their vegetable John. The scorn
and indignation of the little brown she were very
lofty indeed. ‘‘How dar’ common cabbage-man
spoke me ! Me no know he—me no want know
he. Dairt!” And the little woman’s almond eyes
shone like the light in front of a tram-car.
COOK-A-DOODLE-DOO!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
J. Contacting deputy-a»sistant loader of the Federal
Opposition, opened a poultry show at Parramatta on
May 5, and made a speech on the value of egg-raising as
an industry, the speech being- frequently interrupted"by
the crowing- and cackling- of the poultry.
‘‘lnm perfectly sincere when I tell you I am here
As a
“ Cock-a-doodh ! Cock-a-doodle-doo "
“ As a person who would counsel you to always persevere
With a ”
“ Coclc-a-doodle ! Cock-a-doodle-doo ! ”
“ With a policy of thoroughness essential to the art
Of a Parramatta poultry-man ; who plays a leading part
In the great commercial drama; and 1 hope to make a
start
As a ”
“ Cock-a-doodle ! Cock-a-doodle-doo ! ”
*' Cock-a-doodle-doo /" screamed roosters ] and 2;
' “Cock-a-doodle! Cock-a-doodle-duo ! ”
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.


WOLFE’S Schnapps
MEANS BUSINESS WHEN IT TACKLES
YOUR KIDNEY TROUBLES!
We
make
in our
Hunter
Street
Work-
shops.
NECKLETS.
15ct. Gold, set with Choice Pearls and Turquoise,
or all Pearls, several designs, £4.
M
m
OJ)4
4
•>
m
Plain Gold, with Solid Links, from 15/- Plain Gold, with Pearls at intervals. Gold, with Turquoise and
Pearls. Gold, set with Peridots and Tourmalines, and all the fashionable jewels.
Then all those charming Combination Necklets and Pendants in many Gems—we make and set them
on the premises.
What we want to emphasise is— WE MAKE THEM.
Our Prices are Makers’Prices. They are lower than Wholesalers’Prices. WE MAKE THEM.
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street,
“ Ylenod ” : Be the joys of cockying in the
out-back. Last year about 60,000 acres of wheat
were sown in this district (Maranoa, Q.). The
yield averaged between one and two bushels an
acre. This year rain commenced to fall about the
end of January, and on cultivated ground weeds
sprang up, and grew, and grew, like the soul of
the citizen who gazed on Holman Hunt’s picture,
until they ai'e as high as the fences. Some are
using mowing machines to cut them down ; others
are worrying through them with disc ploughs. I
, got 4000 sheep on my patch, and barely succeeded
in getting it fed down. An average of about two
feet of rain fell in two months. During this time
farmers got in about 10 days’ work. The weather
will clear one of these days and keep fine for 10
years, more or less. An abnormal crop of grass
will be future fuel for “ boshter ” bush fires; yet
it is quite possible that in a couple of years hay
will be worth between £5 and £lO a ton.
* « * *
“W.P.8.” : Before you close entries for
the Strong Smell Stakes, please allow me a word
Or two. “San Remo” said something about a
whale. I shall now back him up. At Newcastle
(N.S.W.) a couple of years back a whale got
washed up on to Stockton beach. It there re-
mained to be gazed upon by the curious. I was
curious, too, and took the bride over to have a
gaze. She looked nice in a white gown and a
shivery sort of a hat with ferns and grass in it.
I looked nice also in a three-and-sixpenny boxer.
While we were looking nicely at the monster, it
burst without any warning, scattering pieces of
itself over those anyway handy. We were handy.
We fled. I enclose entry fees for one burr) whale
two years old.
A REASONABLE OBJECTIVE.
HOOLET : “ Begorra it's the Day of Judgment, Mike — it's the Day of Judg-
ment, fer sure."
HEELY : "Howld yer row, ye ignoramus. How kin the Day of Judgment
come in the night? ”
“ Yarrum ” on geraniums and snakes :
Geraniums don’t keep snakes back a little, though, like
“ TheProoshan,” I was led to believe they did. Talking
to a man from Belmont, Lake Macquarie, he said his
house was infested with snakes to such an extent that he
would be obliged to leave it to them. I said “Grow
geraniums round the humpy, and you’ll have no snakes.”
He laughed. “Why,” said he, “there is nothing else
growing but geraniums at the place, and they climb all
over it.” His, too, was the only house in Belmont, where
the reptiles congregated ; and it is the only place where
the geranium is grown to any extent. I’m satisfied.
From this The. Bulletin infers that geraniums
arc good for snakes. You accumulate ail the
geraniums, and consequently all the snakes,
round one house, and that leaves the other houses
free. Then you secretly put up a barbed-wire
fence round the house, and burn it, and throw
kerosene into the geraniums, and burn them, and
next day you go round and gather up the fried
snakes, which are doubtless good as fertiliser.
“ Snell ” : There were two sawmills at
Tinbilly within a mile of each other, and a great
rivalry existed between the hands. Hogger
Tommy worked for Inglis, and was a reputed
pugilist of vast ability and great staying power.
Tommy’s reputation rested solely upon his own
sworn testimony, and Tommy kept his own
records. The impression conveyed by his recital
of them was that, as a destructive force, he had
no human rival, either at Tinbilly or elsewhere.
Conversation Olliver worked for Brown, and
was announced and recommended by himself as a
wonderfully expert puncher, and middle-weight
champion of nine shires. Inglis’s people talked
about Hogger Tommy, and Brown’s people talked
about Conversation Olliver—especially Olliver,
whose powers of speech were on a par with those
of five Parliaments in active eruption. Suddenly
it occurred to one bright spirit to bring Tommy
and Olliver together. I was the bright spirit.
It seemed to me that there was a danger of Tin-
billy becoming uninhabitable in consequence of
the escape of natural gas, and since both men
were miraculous fighters, and both were unhappy
till they could get it, and the mill hands would
love nothing better than to look on, why not loose
the champions at each other? Everybodj was
surprised it hadn’t been thought of before. Three
men from Brown’s mill met three men from
Inglis’s, and the match was arranged for the 12th
of the month. Then the agreement was sprung
upon Hogger Tommy and Conversation Olliver as
a glad surprise. Both were delighted. Each
declared it was the thing of all things that his soul
yearned for. The coaeh left the little one-horse
township of Tinbilly, four miles off, at four
o’clock in the morning, to connect with the eight
o’clock train at the railway town. In the darkness
of the undawned day on the 12th, a muffled figure
rushed to claim the last seat —the one next the
driver. As he was mounting, a second muffled
figure arrived hurriedly, and hauled him back.
No. 2 said he had bespoken the seat. No. 1 said
No. 2 was a liar, and started to climb again.
Again No. 2 yanked him back. In his frenzy,
No. 1 struck out in the gloom, and smote No. 2,
and, in an agony of anxiety. No. 2 smote back.
They fought in the darkness one of those wild,
woolly mills, all kick, gouge and splutter, and,
before lights could be shed upon the struggle, No.
1 had outed No. 2 and rushed the seat. And now
the former recognised the latter as Hogger
Tommy. Tommy was running away from his
fight, and coveted No. l's seat solely on that
account. No. 1 was Conversation Olliver.
“F.H.R.” :
I was travelling
from Wallialia to
Moe (Yic.) by
coach. When we
ran on the bridge
at the Half Way
Hou s e (T h e
Tyers) we were
blocked by a
bullock team.
This didn’t seem
much of an ob-
struction, but we
reckoned witl • it
the driver, who
was absent, and
the poorness of
the bullocks,
which was pre-
sent. Our driver
yelled out for
someone to shift
“ ther cows,”
whereupon the
barman of the
pub. undertook
his biggest job.
He grabbed the
whip, swung it
proudly, and
carefully coiled
it round his
neck. He was
more careful for
a while after
that, and I’ll
swe.ar he moved
the leaders dur-
ing the next five
minutes. When
be looked back
to see if the
others were
coming, two off-
siders were lying
down. That got
him quite vexed.
He forgot him-
self. He swung
for all he was
worth. Next
moment he was
doing the High-
land Fling with
one hand in the
air, the other
grabbing thetail-
board of his
pants. I took the
reins. Our driver
took the whip.
He started on
the leaders, and then flogged consecutively to the
polers, like a tea canvasser doing a street. Then
we got a drink and some dinner. By the way,
dinner there was always roast beef and rice pud-
ding.
* * * *
“Kaffir Spruit”: Whilst fishing off the
coast in Maoriland, during the Easter holidays,
along with a party of Maoris, we spoke of the
best kind of fish for food. A fat chief, who spends
most of his time in the town playing poker, was
lazily sitting on a rock watching his wahine (wife)
hauling in a great schnapper, and, on his being
questioned as to his likes and dislikes, he gave his
opinion thus : “Te schnapper he te good one, ony
he too dry. Te kawhai he not-a-much better. Te
tuna (eel) he te pretty tweet. I rike him easy.
Te shark ! He te plurry peauty ! When you eat
him you tase him two days ! ”
INCONSECUENTIAL.
INDIGNANT OLD GENT (catching sneak thief in the act): “ You infernal scoundrel , you're
picking my pocket!"
THE CRIMIAL (hoarsely): “ Speak up, please; I'm very deaf.”
Some mixed remarks from a man who
dropped them into the post-bag at Katherine
River (N.T.): —
Travelling between Brock's Creek and Katherine River,
I met the following : Two drays driven by Ah Cat and
Ah Sin ; Ah Loo on foot, carrying a bamboo from which
was suspended a dish, oil drum, and billies, swag, tucker
bag, shovel and spade ; Bunga Boom and Booma Bung,
with pack-horses ; Sin Fat driving a buggy ; Fan Tod
driving a team of bullocks. White Australia, hiyah !
The country from Port Darwin to the Katherine is prac-
tically worthless for stock under present conditions.
Grass is now (March 30th) 10ft. and 12ft. high, sour and
without any fattening properties. Stock this country,
and it becomes sweet, other grasses and herbage replac-
ing the coarse N.T. grass. This is plainly visible at the
camping places along the road. What is wanted here
is to cut the country up into 100,000-acre sections, culti-
vate the agricultural patches, and stock the rest.
lie the killing of Bradshaw and party. Recently met an
old stockman on Arafura, who had lived unharmed for the
past two years there solus except for a small black boy.
This right in the centre of the worst kind of nigger in the
north. The East African and Cold Storage Co. has left
Arafura, shifting the head station to Hodgson Downs.
They are mustering a mob of three or four thousand
beasts for Queensland. Gold storage in this part of the
world is a myth. Buffaloes and Brahma cattle are ruth-
lessly killed up north merely for their hides. Yet buffalo
flesh is A 1; also that of the little Brahma. Recently I
counted 300 buffaloes wallowing in a swamp at Lake
Finniss—enough to make even Paddy Cahill’s mouth
water. Ninety brumbies were recently run in not 40
miles from Palmerston (N.T.). Taken to Westralia, a
ready market was found soon after crossing the border.
There are still 400 there awaiting a brand,
* * * •
“ Huffin-guffin ” : In Spielvogel’s most
enjoyable “ A Gumsucker on the Tramp,” came
across a reference to “aQ.R. of beer.” This is
Dimboola slang for the biggest for the money.
Years ago Tim Bresnahan, a railway loco, fire-
man, finding the work too heavy, left it and took
the Commercial Hotel at Dim. The hotel was
handy to the railway station, and Tim’s old mates
patronised his beer liberally. About that time a
new type of railway goods truck came in. Its
load was 26 tons, the heaviest weight-carrier then
in use. Its class letters were Q.R. Hence a
Q.B. of beer was as much of that liquor as
would fill the largest drinking utensil available.
The term remains even unto this day.
* • * *
It isn’t so very many years since Batman
pitched his tent on the spot where the Melbourne
railway offices now stand, in Spencer-street; but a
Gippsland swaggie, who unrolled Matilda and
proceeded to follow Batman’s example the other
night was promptly run in for insulting behavior.
A good deal of Civilisation seems to be about the
most easily insulted thing in the world.
* * * *
This is the affidavit of a Rhodesian (South
African) nigger, and the man who sends it along
says it is a common story and that he has no
doubt of its truthfulness :
lam a Chinde native. About a year ago I was bathing
in the Zambesi River when a crocodile caught hold of me
and took me with him underneath the water to a depth
of about 30ft. He then placed me in a cave so constructed
that the water did not enter. During the struggle with
him on the surface he broke my right arm and caused
several wounds in my left side, and all over my body. I
now produce the marks that are left. I remained in the
underground cave for three days, suffering the most in-
tense pain, but the crocodile was most attentive, and re-
peatedly brought me small fish, which he deposited close
to me.' About 5 p.m. on the third day a crocodile,
measuring about 20ft., approached and dashed a large
quantity of water into the cave with such force that I was
brought out by it, and I then swam to the surface with-
out being further molested. I was afterwards taken to
the hospital, but have completely lost the use of my right
arm.
The statement is backed up by a photo of a nigger
with a withered right arm. Still the attentive
crocodile takes some believing.
* * * *
Where some of the subsidy granted to
N.S.W. Agricultural societies goes:—
Vegetables.
Judges : Messrs. A. Lansdowneand W. Smith. Steward :
Mr. W. Spiers.
Collection vegetables (with special of 10s. by Messrs.
Yates and Co.), J. Wong Sing 1.
Vegetable marrows, J. Wong Sing 1.
Cucumbers, J. Wong Sing 1.
Preserving melons, J. Wong Sing 1.
Collection beans, J. Wong Sing 1.
Peas, J. Wong Sing 1.
Carrots, J. Wong Sing 1.
Parsnips, J. Wong Sing 1.
Lettuce, J. Wong Sing 1.
Several other prizes were raked in by Mr. Wong
Sing, but particulars are held over until the comp,
has “dissed” the above.
AN EARLY RISING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was tiie Resurrection morn,
And Gabriel had blown his horn.
’Twas dark upon the world below,
The cocks had not begun to crow ;
No glimmer in the eastern sky
Gave token that the day was nigh ;
But from their beds and dosses then
Uprose the sleepy race of men,
And groping for their bits of dress
They cursed aloud for weariness.
All but the cookie. Cheerfully—
“ Ah, now, that’s something like ! ” cried he.
VIC.
SNELL.
CITY LIFE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sorry ter leave Sydney ? Great Scot,
I bin here three weeks, an’ I’ve got
Dawg-sick uv everything ; even beer
’As lost its charm — That’s queer !
Back uv Bourke, when yer burst yer cheque,
Yer walk inside an’ oil yer neck
Like a bloomin’ lord ; an’ the people smile,
An’ yer feel like a gawd—fer a while !
But it’s different here. What’s the fun
In drinkin’? Some son uv a gun
’Ull take yer down. Then the perleece
Run yer in. Yer git no peace.
Then yer can’t talk. Wotter they know
Uv sheep erdawgs? They skite and blow,
But don’t know nuthin’. They talk uv plays
An’ songs, an’ things. Oh spare-me-days !
So I’m off ter night frum the rafHe an’ roar,
Frum the salty stink uv the ocean shore ;
An’ in future I’ll oil me blessed neck
At the back uv Bourke, when I git my cheque.
N.S.W.
A. P. ROGERS.


A JUBILEE
The Jubilee of Responsible Government In New South Wales falls duo this month. The half century divides itse l f quit e naturally into five periods.


Defence Def>T
Y/Ijil* W * B V $ orj, J' ornr J % e 'f
hju<T be " 7... *\
° ( )
gfd
Ife j?roJessior7 of
Wonder} Kj !7oT~ -yjoyt
1 !
Hel!> Cpnservsdoriowj
Mu^icj
''ol,! Prof I <i
So .
i -l*®
•f . /"/wfi/. I"
vV> I n]*Ke Yri& yfio / **)p\\m'lT~rjoW trjum ,
1 Tije of English SfocK
Who could fliinK old fond
Wiifjouif" his blood /Sfc. ll|
Wynj |§3 v \v
dejerye d to SSL
belong to A (
"beAce. cJd*>>
Society r <
(Bleeds I
Air foo*falbol~
■■M'P (?-*)#-%<. o h '-UM
wl jo now It»i<i
s. Vie. strings , *meV£
af
wSSm 1?e. Crow toe 4 / / />
a „.//
///
says
farina.
H itftoHift tvxls
•foreiyiors ."
"^T-4^y!
l L oo^
Rcpoie old boy 1 -for <-;>>■/« fa \
dorps Keej> it over \
Wre S° lono - jk be done \
it!' s _..ojA\
kWxs>
ftn's fisn Aj>osV<2. Bleed 5 ■
G«f"~of Ifc —ye facef : ul~
tywnjAne —ye ,
*5 C>°d of W^!"
§£ 4o 4oW on
C +p , % wfmwlt,
3 Fa'tc .
discarded iron re*dy yet, \
Vic j)iVorce C*>«rt 7
bi^Vf
" P/€A3« one
SbAnt~ ||Ve to
estate, if I lre If, itc.
. “ A dz\£ "
Arctlfalj°}> invited
pA' r s°fa CSco"i\ Cljo fHe |ljoelf<F)
do rea,«l *n u ls on £m|> ir« I
lijotiolt c^MCmc^^\V
IS yet in itS Cradle 'tte. . \l|]kV
Which if Would eyertTt >s sj|l|mTtKf
if §rew to is only feo
MOSTLY IN BENT’S STATE.


I D e ntifri ce
Odoß keeps the teeth
white and bright and
the mouth delightfully
fresh and fragrant.
Pries 2/0 a bottle of Odol , lusting fu?
several months (the half-size bottle lib).
Of ail Chew.ists.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Kingston is now able to get to his Ade-
laide office each week, but he still looks very
feeble and ill. He is never seen in the street
without his wife. He is not yet 56, and under
ordinary conditions should have many more years
of life, for he was a great athlete in his youth.
“ Oby ” : James Hugh Palmer, a resident
of Burwood, and now 88 years of age, was short-
hand writer in the N.S.W. Parliament of 1844,
thus beating by a long way Calvert and other
much-advertised ancients of the first Responsible
Legislature about which the Jubilee is being held.
Allan M‘Lean, M.H.R., once half-Premier,
renews his statement that when the Victorian
Government refused to buy for settlement the
Heyfield estate in Gippsland, he and a shindykit
bought it, and, after paying all expenses of sub-
division, made a profit of £28,000. Will Allan
never realise that he is boasting of having squeezed
£28,000 out of the pockets of the people whose
welfare is supposed to be nearest to his Scotch
heart ?
Mr. Charles Sanderson, ex-Police Superin-
tendent of Bathurst (N.S.W.), who was men-
tioned in last week’s issue as having gone on a
pleasure trip to England by the Orotava, wishes
to explain that he has had no such luck, but hopes
that he will find time for that sort of expedition
before he dies. At present it can only be inferred
that it was a case of mistaken identity, and that
some much less deserving person is enjoying that
trip in Mr. Sanderson’s place.
Arthur Hardy, an ex-S.A. legislator, who
completed his 89th year on May 3. is the oldest
Freemason, the oldest solicitor, and the oldest
politician in Adelaide. Also, he was the first man
to export compressed chaff from the State, and he
boasts of having fired the biggest “ blast ” ever
exploded in a quarry in Australia. He still comes
to the city every day from Glenelg, travelling to
the train on a tricycle, and he frisks up two flights
of stairs to his office in quite a cheerful spirit.
Dowie has got back to Zion, has raised his
standard, and, backed by his wife and unkissed
son, faces Voliva, who has the support of most of
the Zionists. The cussing matches between the
two —Dowie is an artist at ground and lofty
swearing and general commination, whilst Voliva
is as voluble and vituperative as a drunken fish-
hag—should be memorable. If people of that sort
really go to heaven, they must surely leave their
vocabulary at the door, just as a mere mortal has
his gamp taken from him at the entrance to an
art gallery, lest he should prod the Old Masters.
The Sydney Mint site, which the N.S.W.
Government says has never been alienated, was
originally a grant to one of the first Blaxlands,
who intended the acre as a site for a city man-
sion. While Blaxland was in England giving
eyidence re the Bligh mutiny, Macquarie thought
the spot an admirable one for a hospital (the
original disease-infected ramshackle buildings
were in Lower George-street), and prevailed upon
Mrs. Blaxland to part with the land, the Governor
promising in return any land Mr. Blaxland might
select, “even the whole of Miller’s Point.” When
Blaxland returned he sought for the ground offered,
but didn’t find it. He bitterly complained that
all he got was a paltry £4oo—and a very good
price at the time.
AN FOR INSTANCE.
In my opinion too much value is attached to mere big-
ness in a policeman. The big man may do sensational
things, but the medium-sized constable will be found
most effective in the long run. —Melbourne Testimony.
N.S.W. Minister for Justice is being urged
to cancel the appointment of a couple of wayback
J’sP., who, it is alleged, can neither read nor
write. While he is about it the Minister might
shunt another J.P., who reads and writes a trifle
too much, as a Sydney printer can tell. That
honorary person has put into doggerel verse all
the remarkable and undressed cases that have
come before him, and is anxious to have the com-
position published as an Australian epic.
N.S.W. has been celebrating the anni-
versary of Cook’s landing at Botany Bay, and
various folk have praised the great navigator.
But no one mentioned that Cook was not really a
captain, but a lieutenant, and he could never have
risen any higher if he had lived and stayed in the
navy for 50 years; for he was a “ ranker.” When
lie made that sensational survey in the St.
Lawrence (Quebec) under the enemy’s guns, Cook
was only a master’s mate, and Smollett, in
“Roderick Random,” tells us something of the
conditions under which surgeons’ mates and
masters’ mates lived in those days. Cook was the
most scientific officer of his own or the next gene-
ration, mentally and morally superior
but he “ never got the tar off his clothes.
HE MIXED HIS DRINKS.
SHE ( witheringly) : “ You care for Toothing in the world hut ruin."
H E: “ Don't talk so loud, mg dearsh, you’ll make the whisky jealish.”
One of the strangest cases of suicide (if it
was suicide) on local record is reported from
Auckland (M.L.). James Fenwick, son of a well-
known citizen, had been missing for a week. He
was found at last still living, but on the point of
death, in a shed attached to an empty house, with
the door locked on the inside, and he died a few
hours after the discovery without offering any
explanations. There was a revolver beside
him with one barrel discharged, and he had
two slight wounds. Also he was horribly emaci-
ated, and gangrene had attacked him in several
places. There are two theories—one that he
attempted suicide by shooting but gave it up after
the first attempt and settled down to die. of star-
vation. The other theory is that he attempted
starvation first, and tried afterwards to accele-
rate things with the pistol. Also there are all
manner of side issues and possibilities.
“ O’F.” : Th e
Countess of War-
wick, whom the Vic-
torian Political La-
bor Council is invit-
ing to Australia to
help in its election
campaign, became
prominent in another
way before she took
a fancy to attach her-
self to Socialism. In
1899 she and her hus-
band handed over the
patrimonies of both
(including the an-
cient W arwick
Castle, which figures
so often in English
history) to the War-
wick Estates Com-
pany. De b e ntures
were issued to the
public to the amount
of £210,000, redeem-
able at a consider-
able premium within
a few years, or in any
case on the death of
the blue - blooded
pair. The noble
spouters of their
household gods re-
ceived from the com-
pany £215.000 in cash
and £BO,OOO in paid-
up shares, so that
they retained about
a-third interest in
the rent that Hog-
genheimer, the pork-
packing millionaire,
may pay for the
privilege of camping
in their ancestral
humpy. Hoggen-
heimer also retains
for his term of residence a choice collection of
painted forefathers, which he can claim as his
own for as long as he has the rent ready every
Monday morning. Probably even the dazzling
inducement of ancestors by Rubens and Van
Dyck has failed to tempt Hoggy lately, for the
Countess (Limited) remarked in a speech the other
day that she always had an overdrawn banking
account.
.Tonkin Coles, of S. Australia, is the
father of eleven children, all of them living.
Jenkin is a Sydney native, born in St. Patrick’s
Inn, George-street (west side, near Bathurst-
street). It is pleasing to meet a politician who
has done his duty by the birth-rate as Jenkin has
done. But, then, he was a policeman first.
It is seriously alleged, in a Sydney morning
paper that there is in Liverpool (N.S.W.) asylum
a centenarian with something to spare—John
Brown, aged 117. The journal adds
That he has reached the age attributed to him is said
to be beyond question, for the asylum officials have his
birth certificate and other credentials.
Unfortunately a long course of melodrama has
made The Bulletin doubtful about birth certifi-
cates. It has happened so very often in the first
act that the certificate has proved beyond a doubt
that the heroine was really the daughter of the
villain, and it always proved in the last act that
it was someone else’s certificate. The present
writer, by the way, has documentary evidence
that he is about 102. True it is liis grandfather’s
document, but the name is the same, and the
name is the only thing ever considered in the
melodrama.
Australian artists exhibiting this year at
British Royal Academy include Fox, Longstaff,
Mackennal, Burgess, Streeton, Fullwood, Hall
Thorpe, George Lambert, Hawley Lever, David
Davies, Parker, Tucker, and Edith Lumley.
Acceptance of a picture by the Academy means,
to the British mind at any rate, acknowledgment
as a first-class artist. And that, list doesn’t
exhaust the roll of Australian painters doing big
things abroad. What other population of under
5,000,000 can show such a good record ?
The English gibes at John Burns for
making some concession to the stupid Court dress
regulations recall the ex-
periences of Premier Tom
Price, of S. Aus. When
Tom came to Adelaide he
bought a little block of land
at Mitcham, near the inter-
state railway line, and put
up a modest cottage thereon
—the best he could afford
without going into debt.
When he was sent into
Parliament passengers used
to point the house out to
each other. “ A member
of Parliament living in that
place ! What sort of a stake
in the country has he got! ”
So Tom, still not too flush
of cash, spent his spare
time in recess building an-
other room or two (he is a
stonemason), until he had
made the place a credit to
the neighborhood. Then in
the train you heard : “See
that place? That’s Tom
Price’s. Galls himself a Labor member. Labor ?
Huh! huh 1 ”
Swinburne, Victorian Minister for Agri-
culture, seems to be, like Bent, a man with a
Past. Bent’s Past consists mostly of reminiscences
about cabbages and the stage. Bent’s long col-
league —the man who looks like a boa-constrictor
standing on its tail —admits that he was once a
city missionary in the by-ways of London, a
thing of which this paper never suspected him.
The counting of votes in the Labor plebis-
cite for 14 candidates to be run in S.A. at the
Pederal elections began on May 3, and has
just concluded. There were 61 aspirants for
selection, inclusive of the sitting members. It is
probable that the party will try to capture every
seat —that is, seven for the Representatiyes and
three for the Senate. It is certain that Symon,
Playford, and Baker will be opposed. The non-
Labor seats for the other House are held by
Kingston, Holder, Glynn, and Bonython, and of
these Kingston and Bonython don’t deserve oppo-
sition.
Editor Reay, of Melbourne ’Erald, has
been seeking a remedy for nervous breakdown by
rushing all over the European capitals at frantic
speed. Reay is not the type of man who could
take what the medicos call absolute rest. He
must always be in a whirl. When Reay combined
the duties of editing with those of an active mili-
taire, he was regarded with positive wonderment
by his fellow scribes, but he added to the list of jobs
by becoming a member of Parliament, in which
capacity he was j ust as thorough and painstaking
as in everything else. Indeed, thoroughness has
been editor Reay’s besetting fault. Had he been
a little more superficial, and let imagination take
the place of detail, he would probably have shone
with more glitter in all three spheres than he
does now.
The suggested suicide was fished out of
very deep water at Stawell (Vic.) on a recent Sun-
day. Charles Pike, aged 42 years, an inoffensive,
suicidal old bachelor, had once before in his ex-
istence been dredged out of a waterhole in which
he had tried to drown himself. On Friday, April
27, a boy (Janies Gilchrist, aged nine years) was
lost, and at midnight on Saturday his body
was found 600 ft. down a deserted mine. The
finding was a weird story of men clambering
with torches through deserted drives and tunnels.
They finally had to pass the body from hand to
hand for a' depth of 180 ft. down a shaft. On
the Sunday all Stawell talked only of young
Gilchrist’s tragedy. Quiet old Charles Pike said
nothing, but just before the dinner-hour he slipped
away, and was no more seen. In the afternoon
someone roaming among the old claims found liis
clothes beside an open shaft, and marks showing
where he had slid down its broken mouth. He
fell 300 ft., and broke his neck.
A curious tale from tlie West:
Over in Fremantle (W.A.) recently a working engineer
dropped into the saloon bar of a pub. and waa charged
6d. for his drink. All the money he had on him at the
moment was 5Jd., and the barmaid made cold, superior
remarks about “ fellows” who came into her bar, “ as if
threepenny beers were not good enough for them.” On
arriving home, he found the doorstep occupied by a
policeman, who asked him to go along and see the in-
spector on something urgent. Considerably mystified,
and half-inclined to think he was being arrested for the
missing halfpenny, the engineer went, and learnt that
inquiries had been made for him through the Com-
monwealth authorities. It transpired that under the
will of the late Robert Whitehead, inventor of the tor-
pedo, he was entitled to about £90,000, and some of it
could be got immediately by cabling. Next day he paid
up the id. that was owing to the scornful Miss Beer.
William H. Greenhalgh, the legatee, lived for nearly SO
years in N.S. Wales, w here he had many Government con-
tracts. He was one of the Broken Hill strike committee,
half-a-dozen of the members of which were, 10 years ago,
gaoled for “ conspiracy.” He went West three years ago.
He is a nephew of the torpedo inventor, whose estate
will pan out something like £900,000, and goes to England
next Orient boat. One of his cousins is the wife of Prince
Herbert Bismarck.
The late Adye Douglas, of Tasmania, was
married three times. His first wife was a widow,
and kept an hotel when he married her. His
second was daughter of a Launceston undertaker,
and his third (who survives him) was a sister of
his second. Douglas professed to be quite annoyed
when he was made a “Sir,” and when people
congratulated him in the street he used to say,
“ I don’t want it; you can have it if you like.
But nobody took it. He was 91 when he died,
and was nearly 90 when he was defeated for the
Leg. Council at Launceston. The old man felt
the rebuff badly, particularly as he was President
of the Councii, and the salary was a matter of
importance to him.
About a prominent anti-Socialist: —
Joseph Cook entered N.S.W. Assembly as a miners’
representative ; he represented Hartley, polling 1028
votes to the 685 scored by his sitting colleague fpr the
same constituency. He remained a fiery Laborite till
George H. Reid snared him into the drawing-room of the
late Mr. Burdekin and offered him a portfolio—a very
little one. But it was enough ; the rat sprang for the
cheese, and Joseph left his party to serve under the
Globular One. Then he began to feel something solid
under his feet. For the Ministry lasted, by the grace of
the Labor party, for some years, and Joseph, by dint of
rigorous economy, managed to save most of his Minis-
terial screw, and laid the foundation of his pre-
sent affluence. How great his present affluence is
writer doesn’t know —but it is evidently sufficient
to make Joseph feel tolerably sure there is no danger
of having to go back to work at the pit-mouth. Cook
made his first rise when his fellow-miners elected him to
be a checker, and his second they elected him a
member. Now these men, to whom he owes everything,
their political representatives, and all appertaining to
them, are as dirt beneath his fashionablv-shod feet. This
ex-coal hewer, or trucker, or whatever he was, recently
lifted up his voice to remark that if he changed his
opinion it was as the result of his own thinking. No
doubt when G. H. Reid offered him a portfolio Joe started
to think tremendously. He did not require “to put his
thinking out for other people to do for him,” he said ;
and doubtless his mind was dwelling on the occasion when
he sat uncomfortably on Burdekin’s velvet settee, and
thought for himself which would pay best. No. Joseph
does not want to put his thinking out—it would tie hard
to find another man to think quite the way that Joseph
did.
OUR LOW AND HOLY TARIFF.
Pr [?]tectionists are firmly determined to mend the holes
in the Tariff fence without delay.— Age.
It is suggested that if N.S.W. Chief Rail-
way Commissioner Oliver will spontaneously
retire, the Government will, as a solatium,
appoint him to a seat in the Legislative Council
—the same disaster that happened to Goodehap.
But there is very little solatium in being ap-
pointed an honorary fossil in a Chamber of Aged
and Useless Foolishness. Anyhow, on the evi-
dence, it is Kirkcaldie and Fehon and their
remarkable coal contract which should be sent to
the Upper House.


H
«*•
">
4?
ffl
I
■R!
THE FASHION IN FURS
Usually an Expensive one, but in tbis instance allied to
ANTHONY HORDERN’S
Famous Low Prices.
No. 607—Muffs to match Stoles, Black, Brown, Sable and
Chinchilla Hair, 8s (id, 10s (id, 12s Gd
Black, White, Grey, Smoked Foxaline—lo/6, 12/6, 15/6.
Brown or Russian Marmot—l2s 6d, 15s Gd, 19s 6d 21s
255, 30s, 355, 425.
Stone Martin—6os, 755, 84s, 90s, 955, £5 ss.
Sable—63s, 70s, 755, S4s, 90s, 97s 6d, £5 ssl
Fox, Black, Black Pointed, White, Smoke—sos, 635, 755.
Brown Opossum, 8s Gd. Grey and White Squirrel, 15/6
Brown Skunk —2Es, 30s. Brown Bear, 2£s, 30s.
No. 340—Black Pointed Foxaline
Stole, 15s 6d, 18s 6d, 21s.
White, Grey, Blue, Black and
Smoked Foxaline, 12s 6d,
15s 6d, 18s 6d, Is.
Brown or Sable Hair, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s 6d, 17s 6d.
Brown or Sable Marmot, 30s,
355, 425.
No. 307 Blaok Caracul Sac Coat —
30s, 355, 425, 455, 47s t)d, 555, 635,
755, b4s, 90s, 95s 6tl.
Ascot. The New Fur Cravat—
Black, White or Smoke Fox,
755, Sis, 97s 6d, £o ss.
No. 70:5— Black Caracul Russian Jacket—
With Short Basque—2ls, 255, 30s, 355,
425, 455. 555, 655, 73s 6d.
With Lons? Basque-—3ss, 30s 6d, 455,
50s, 03s, 755, 84s, 03s Oil.
No. 576 —Russian Marmot Stole
—6os, 635, 755.
Stone Martin —£8 15s 6d, £9 17a
6d, £lO 10s. £l2 12s.
Saltle —£8 17s Od, £9 19s 6d,
£lO 15s Od, £l2 12s, £l5.
Anthony Hordern’s,
No. 754—Black, Drown, Sable, Chin-
chilla, or Martin Hair Stoles —
a oil, 10s Oil, 12s 6(1, 15s Od, 17/5.
White or Smoked Foxaline—17s 0d,
21s, 25s.
Drown or Sable Marmot—18s Gd, 21s,
25s, 80s, 35s, 45s, 50s.
Drown Opossum, 21s. Red Fox, 30s.
Clrey and White Squirrel, 21s, 25s.
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS
PALACE EMPORIUM,
SYDNEY.
2*
or*
-PigS/Ziix
Brown.
Hide •
\k JF*
m
Sem/Jhr
BUCKEEY& MUI®
g
Public IVotice.
The Clyde Engineering
Company, Limited
(Incorporated under the Companies Act).
INCREASE OF CAPITAL.
CURTHER Capital being required to purchase addi-
-1 tional plant, machinery, tools, and material in con-
nection with the contract for building <5O Locomotives for
the Government, the Directors hav e decided to offer to
the public the balance of the unalloted shares at 20/-
each, payable 10/- per share on application and 10/- on
allotment.
Shares already issued and on which 20/-
per share has been paid in cash .. 75,479
Shares now offered to the public at 20/- 24521
Making Total Capital .. .. £lOO,OOO
The 24,521 Shares will carry a Preferential Dividend at
the rate of 6 per cent, per annum.
The Assets, as per Balance-sheet for
1905, amount to .. .. .. <£117,617 19 5
The Liabilities, as per Balance-sheet for
1905, amount to 30,000 15 9
The Land and Buildings have been
valued by Richardson and Wrench,
Ltd. ; and the Plant, Machinery, and
Tools by Norman Selt'e, M.1.C.E.,
M.I.M.E. The valuations show a
sum in excess of book \ alucs of .. £43,662 17 6
Total Assets in excess of Liabilities .. £131,280 1 2
The New Capital would further increase
the Assets by 24,521 0 0
£155,801 1 2
The amount of Profit available for future
dividends is .. £12,138 3 8
The Dividends paid during the past 7 years average
per cent.
Although the business is well established, and the pros-
pects of extension most promising, no premium is asked
for goodwill.
The Contracts, amounting to about £380,000 at prest nt
m hand, should keep the works profitably employed for
some years.
Further particulars may be obtained at the Company's
Office, Mutual Life of New York Building, (2nd Floor)
Martin-place, Sydney. '
Applications for Shares addressed to the Secretary till
May 31 will be dealt with in the order received. J
JOHN J. WOOD, Secretary.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
An notice (excu/it of a hostile character) will be taken o,
communications ui.sniHcieii.tli/ slammed. .Same ami
. address must appear on MS. So liability i.s under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will'be
, , , . , , ' ... / ,
letui ned unless stamps (uj any State) accompany.
———
“MnlW Dnclrifi ” • He-ivon miUr Umru
IVlallee OOCKie . Ueaven only knows what
you are driving at L. Crade: “After” declined,
“Heart of the Sunset” declined. Considering “Sun
and Rain.” On second thoughts, “ Sun and Rain” also
... . r a wt a i « ...
declined.. ..J.A.W.: Gospel of Brotherhood very
benevolent, but ordinary....“ Tongatera”: Not up to
standard. . ...R.J.J. : “Two on a Tandem” has six
good lines, and six that are as ordinary as mud
r. .. u v , . . , J
D. Murphy: Yes, but when you draw comparisons be-
tween Kidston and Lesina, you must remember there is a
great difference between the position of the man who
has to find the money to pay about the biggest interest
. .., . , .U . '“ccce.c
bill per head on earth and the man who lias only
to stand by and criticise. Lesina, you say, can “keep
his signed pledge.” Quite so T.F. : “Legend
of Trotting Cob” is a very loose- jointed affair
Ycleptos: Situation too artificial.. Clancy :
realistic, thank you Clancy.... D.S.M. : Life is too short
to pass opinions on half-finished yarns ; besides even we
cannot judge a yarn till it is told Florence, M.A. :
Your idea of autograph verses is a terrible one. Say
straight out how many thousands you want to bury the
idea darkly, and in quicklime?... .Nemo : Well written,
Dut too melodramatic. Also, too improbable, and stories
of real life should always be probable... .A.D.K. : Good
material badly used.. O.T.J.L. : So-ry, still not up. Its
style isall against it, although the incident is quite good
enough for print. Read up good modern short stories,
and see the way writers use their material. You have
ideas, but do not know how to put them into words
(Parkvilie) : Another chestnut G.T.H. :If we
published a picture of a horse shaped like that the bush
population would come down and slay the office in cold
blood. .. .Tom Puggins : Hoffy’s Beast ”is ragged verse
with the loose tail of the metre flying anyhow, and the
broken horn of the rhyme goring the British language...
Lulu: Prayers of the \\ Kilted” too impossible. Even
an insane parson wouldnt do that sorb of thing
Oswald P.P. : Declined. Why these wild cries at the
ends of the verses, such as ‘ Beams, beams, beams,”
atK J y e& ’ >' es - „ anc *, Tower, tower, tower,”
11 and Bells, bells, bells,” and
(finally) Shout, shout, shout ? R.G. : We’ve no use
for graves cremation is our hobby ; so send us no
more grave poetry Some of you must be iden-
tical with those ghouls who used to live in the vaults
at Devonshire-street cemetery before the exhumation....
Brother Harry : Yon are one of the most hopeful novices
we ve struck ; keep on .R.Y. (Hobart): Damned
accordingly. Can t see any tun making love to spirit
girls , prefei em plump ourselves D. Bolos : Your
steep but delightful yarn shocked the morals of all who
read it, and was surreptitiously placed on the editor’s
desk so that lie would 1,-j struck by it jigt after dinner....
t.L,; Don t like murder yarns—especially murders done
»•>■■■•« liltle yirls in fits of hysteria. Please send address
for return of the “Shame Child” and letttr If the
p trty who sent m the tanyh'dscreed about the Lord beii.£
cln ffis
(Napier): Too conventional ...Gyp: Well, if the end is
not yet, you'd better invent one; yarn quite useless
without it.... A. St. L. : You are too fresh. (1) Ton
‘d' l ,'.' 1 , 6 if a ,s V? te (P l ' esu, " al,l .V free
from debt to start with) borrows £1,000,000a year for 50
years at 3£ per cent, and puts away £-380,000 each year
to accumulate at 3J per cent, compound interest,” it'wi 1
be out of debt .at the end of 50 years is quite obvious to
anyone who looks intelligently at a compound interest
table. Perhaps you never saw one. (2) Tiik Bulletin
didn’t say that if the debts were transferred from fhe
it would mean the national-
isinj, or *i2o(),(j()U.OOO of woiiltli his vou seem to
but if the debts were paid. And that statement k/truw
The .15230,000,000 of securities and the £5,000,000
? r so . of annual interest would be nationalised
nbvu.H!!’ ol if,’ . i, ) °/, being the property
of Cohen they would belong to the people at large
The Squeaker: Smells discussion is becoming
aj >d is being dropped... .Gine : Promising, but hardly
enough stuff in it E..J.M. : Not sufficient interest
.^ 110t dgrapher : Sorry coo trivial.. ..A.J.8.W.: Fails, but
it made a slight show of getting (here at one coint
Kalian : Too laborious... Youforeeastedwith
accuracy the fate of your lines.... Raki: And the plump
shepherd who talked of the Word all the voyage was
found in the naughty music-hall! Well The'Bulletin
gel.^
...-B.L. : Not enough sand. There’s an epidemic this
week of rather neat little sketches with just too little
backbone to stand up for baptism and acceptance into the
fold C.M. : What do you mean when vou sav vou
have to choose between the Federal Labor party and the
men who were “ once allied to Reid’s calico wantr”? When
did Isaacs, Lvne, Chanter, Mauger, Groom and others
the best men among the Protectionists, ever attach
themselves to Reid? Even Dealfin and his friends
though they combined with Reid for awhile left hini
when he started his anti-Socialist campaign.’ And. as
for the Labor men, most of those from N.S.W. were allied
with Reid’s calico gang in State politics for five years
Even Deakiii didn’t stick to Reid and'Calico a quarter of
that time T.T. : But almost anything can be abused
sufficiently to make out some sort of a case for its prohi-
bition. Have you ever met a “ coffee drunkarda man
enslaved to the coffee berry? You’d find him in a far
more pitiable plight than’ the alcoholic man Pelwvn •
“Sigh of the Wind” is potted commonplace with trite*
sauce. “Mountain—fountain; farewell—dell • eternal
—supernal,” and so on ; all the old phrases and rvhmes
B.T. : N0....Nu11a: You miss this point-that with
judges and other officials who should be retired com-
pulsorily whilst they still reckon themselves fit for work
a pension system is really essential Bosthoon • “In
Session ” is laborious fun of a hod-carrviriir order
Quizzo: (1) The statement you quote that the 140*666
Belgian illiterates alluded to form “over 13 per cent of’the
population”should itself have shown you the foolishness
of the paper. The population is now 7 000 000 so the
figures work out at 2 per cunt. of illiterates—not 13 per
cent. Try to think for yourself instead of taking little
pare from Scraps and Bits as gospel (2) The state-
went that The Bulletin hokte up Russia audGer-
niany as “the lands of the free” is a ridiculous
lie. That Germany is a land of great industrial
progress is true enough, but that is another matter


HEERING'S
Cherry
Brandy
The VERY Best*
PIVERS
PERFUME
DELICATE & PERSISTENT
wholesale only
MIDDOWS BROTHERS. SYDNEY
MELBOURNE BRISBANE PERTH «. WELUNGTONnz
HIGH-CLASS COMFORTS.
BUCHANAN # OTARD-DUPUY
WHISKY BRANDY
QUALITY and AGE.
* “gravenettes’
lish Are the Ideal Rubrics
RAINCOATS.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, May 8. 1906.
My Dear Arini,—
Premier Seddon, of M.L., and his daughter
Mary, arrive to-morrow to spend a Maytime
playtime in Sydney. I am not so sure about the
playtime for him. He has things of moment to
whisper into the ears of other political heavy-
weights before the Australian Parliament meets.
Miss Seddou will stay with Miss Bonsor (who re-
turned from Wellington with the Maorilanders)
at “ Avoca,” Mr. Owen Cox’s place.
Talking of Maorilanders. Mr. T. E. Donne
(he is an acquired Maorilander, though, having
been raised in Toorak, Yic.) is in Brisbane, but
before he went the interviewers nearly scratched
him to death with sharp pencils. He unpacks his
dry information so that it shall be as much as
possible like dates and figs. In a talk about
“America at Work” he mentioned that he found a
girl of 22 who was managing-director of a whole-
sale hardware business. She had grasped, and
bossed, every section of the business. When he
left Rotorua a few weeks ago there were still 3000
tourists there, including one from Argentina, a
mighty hunter of big game, who had come
to risk his life slaying deer and rainbow trout.
Mr. Donne says he would like to have the M.L.
Tourist Bureaux that he is planting in the cities of
the Commonwealth managed by women. The
qualifications for the posts are somewhat special,
but he reckons the American hardware type of
lassie will develop here in time. In November
the International Exhibition will be opened in
Christchurch. Executive Commissioners from this
State are Premier Carruthers, Mr. Owen Cox of
the Eederal-Houlder line, and Mr. F. W. Jackson
of the Union S.S. Co.
The death from typhoid of Colonel Goodwyn,
of the Indian service, whilst on his honeymoon
tour, was one of the saddest events of last week.
He was 44 years of age, a strong, handsome man,
and was wedded two months ago to Mrs. Willie
Mitchell, a well-known Sydney society woman,
who gave up a considerable portion of her income
to marry him.
The presence of Cuyler Hastings at Mrs.
Robertson’s dance, on Monday night, at the
Australia, caused a great Thrill. The
Robertsons consist of a widowed mother, three
daughters and a son, and are from Hay, where
their swell station, Togomain, lies on the burnt
k plains of summer, and faces the copious blasts of
winter.
Mr. Hugh Ward, who, in conjunction with Mr’
George Willoughby, makes his first essay as a
manager in Australia this week, has been, since his
last visit to Sydney with the Royal Comic Opera
Co., starring in such villages as London, Paris
and New York. “But,” he says, with an artful
gleam in his eye which may be really sincere,
“give me Sydney!” This mild request was
made from the terrace of a beautiful Mosman
home, where the real estate in sight was worth
millions in the auction room and a whole gallery
of Whistler nocturnes in the aesthetic mind. Syd-
ney certainly did look a most desirable possession
from that viewpoint. But when Mr. Ward went
on'to remark that if he could get enough of
Sydney to be able to settle down in quiet comfort—
just a small patch, so to speak—that sounded
like business, and I changed the subject.
Grace Palotta has an essentially “smart” part
in “The Man from Mexico,” to be staged on
Saturday—a part in which she both says and
wears smart things, a double bill the lady knows
how to fill. Her hats, to come up to expectations,
will have to rake the painting gallery or sprout
through the sliding roof, so much have they been
trumpeted.
There’s a “ Littler boy at Manly.” Young
Laurence (of the firm of Laurence and Laurence,
solicitors), the original boy at Manly, has a son
who has reached the doddering age of six weeks.
Apropos of sons and grandsons, Prime Minister
Deakin attained grandfatherhood last month—
and he won’t be 50 till August.
Miss Aggie Thorne, the pretty little soprano of
Williamson’s Gilbert and Sullivan Co., is receiving
the congratulations of her friends on her engage-
ment to Mr. Arthur Deery, a Sydney solicitor.
Miss Thorne is a Ballarat Loretto Abbey girl.
Miss Yinia Deloitte now announces being
married to Howard Vernon, and Miss Margaret
Thomas is stated in a morning daily to be
engaged to Mr. A. Gordon, K.C. So the little
Welsh singer will come back to settle in Sydney.
Or, maybe, she won’t go away at all. Gordon is
not a quite young man, but he is about leader of
the Equity bar, and must be making close on
£6OOO a year.
I write you, from life, this example of a
Cultured Conversation.
Scene, a drawing room in a Darling Point mansion.
Hostess fair, fat and tbirty-five, seated behind an after-
noon tea-table. Maid announces “ Captain Snooker.” A
heavy young man in grim brown tweeds comes in.
Hostess says: “This is so good of you. You go to-morrow
don’t you, and I know you must have a million places to
call at this afternoon.” They do a wiggle-waggle shake-
hands, unsmiling. He has the air of an insolvent debtor ;
she that of a resigned creditor.
Captain S. : “No; no tea, thanks. No, nothing, I
assure you. How pretty those roses are,Mrs. Cosmo ! Do
you arrange your flowers yourself?”
Mrs. C. (with the air of having invented roses):
“ Always, Captain Snooker. I may be eccentric in
these little artistic matters (smiles), but I think it takes
the hand of—of—a —well, not the hand of a servant to
arrange flowers so that they shall look like —well, flower-
like. Don’t you think so ? ”
Captain S. (with conviction) : “ You are quite right.
You want brains for quite a lot of things besides—O, I
say, Mrs. Cosmo, you are not having your own tea. Have
I spoilt your—your —tee-atite?” (They laugh merrily at
this exuberant pleasantry.)
Mrs. C. : “ Not at all. I’m glad I’m not drinking any
this afternoon. If I had you’d not have said that —
‘ tee-atite.’ ” (They laugh some more.)
Captain S. : “ Usually, I’m not a bit of good in a draw-
ing-room on a lady’s at-home day. I haven’t any small
talk. You ladies are awfully good at it, though, aren’t
you? I suppose it’s all a matter of practice?”
Mrs. C. (trying to look like Mrs. Humphry Ward):
“ Practice and many other things. You must have some-
thing inner to base your practice on. That’s why so
much of the conversation you hear around you is mere
chatter. Very few Sydney women are deeper than the
surface, and I suppose I know the best in Sydney. They
don’t read or think for themselves. I try to do both, but
I know I am taking it out of myself. Realty lam more
overworked than my maids, and the sight of my engage-
ment book for months to come will prostrate me. Did
you go to the Mac Emu’s dance at the Australia, Captain
Snooker?”
Captain S. (who has been trying to look intent, sympa-
thetic and understanding all at once): “No. I had a
card, you know—but I was dining with the O’Possums.
at Mosman that night, and when I got back the guests
were leaving the hotel. I’m awfully sorry, though, for
the men who were at dinner, and had the dance after-
wards. The Mac Emus gave a dinner to fifty, you know,
and there were seventeen courses. Fancy dancing after
seventeen courses 1 Josie Parnell told me. Now there’s
a smart small-talker for you, if you like. Bai Jove, she’s
nearly as good as you, Mrs. Cosmo, and that’s saying a
lot.” (Mrs. C.’s first-Thursday-in-the-month expression
of imbecile sweetness hardens into that which her hus-
band and the registry-offices know by heart. The Cap-
tain proceeds hurriedly.) “ Josie told me that there was
every kind of known sandwich at the ball supper, and
everything was ‘absolutely hurrah.’ You saw ‘Dr.
Wake’s Patient,’didn’t you? Isn’t ‘absolutely hurrah’
a jolly expression ? At the O’Possums, the other night,
everyone used it about twenty times in the evening.”
Mrs. C. : “It is full of meaning. And aren’t you
always glad when you meet people who can see the
meaning of a phrase with you?”
Captain S. (with an air of having a piercing light sud-
denly let into the dark place of his intellect): “Yes,
indeed. Those kind of people are—are —‘ absolutely
hurrah ’! ” (Both laugh.)
Mrs. C. : “ That’s one of the great wants I find in Aus-
tralians. They are not perceptive. lam not an Aus-
tralian, Captain Snooker.”
He says with an expression of intense conviction that
“ he thought not.”
Mrs. C. : “ No; they are superficial. _ Now, that
charming new violinist—would you believe it ? —none of
the Sydney people could see the tonal arabesque quality
of his playing.”
Captain S. (with interest): “ Couldn’t they really ?
Was he very good? I’ve heard Kubelik, you know, but
I wouldn’t know he was a tip-top chap if heaps of news-
paper fellows hadn’t said so.”
Mrs. C.: “O, you mustn’t under-value yourself. You
would know. Anyone who can assimilate my thoughts
as you do isn’t quite the average. No. ‘ Good ’is not
the word to apply to the new violinist. He plays to the
intellect —to the soul, more than to the ears, and you
want a much finer word than ‘ good ’ for that, don’t you ? ”
Captain S. (impressively): “ I should say so (rising).
Well, Mrs. Cosmo... Yes, not goodbye, but au revoir ...
I only hope the voyage home will be as entertaining.”
A man of the citrus family writes that he wants
to prick that annual blister, the Hospital Satur-
day Collection. He says that “ only vanity and
hussyness bring women into the streets to accost
for coppers every male thing that walks or
lurches or crawls. Last week half per cent, of the
population of Sydney was engaged in box-rattling.
If each of these women collectors would put by
ninepence a week saved from finery, they could
save themselves that day of humiliation and
cheapening, and benefit the hospitals more.”
That is all very well from the citrus point of view,
but for the majority of the girl-collectors that one
day’s box-rattling is the day of their lives. It is
their Grand Jag, a yearly sowing of wild, mild
oats, and if they don’t find it humiliating
or cheapening, why it is their festival and
not anyone’s funeral. And besides there were
some of them who couldn’t spare 395. a year out
of their dress-money. In any case, if the men
they collected from had started a few years ago to
donate to the hospitals 9d. per week out of their
whisky and cigar money, and had kept the hos-
pitals out of debt, Hospital Saturday would
never have started.
The Matthew Henry Stephens intend to sit
under their own vine and fig tree at Belle Yue
Hill in a house built by the James Fairfaxes.
Miss Florette Murray-Prior had the most cloth-
of-gold crowd to her farewell warble that I’ve
ever seen at a no-account concert. As the Yanks
say, “It is a shame to string these jay amateurs.”
But she is a very nice and good-looking girl, and
when she left by the Omrah on Saturday several
brass-bound officers were already cruising around
in respectful admiration.
This letter reaches me from London :
Sabbath just passed was the artists’ “ Show Sunday" in
this Exceeding Fog. On the first Monday of April every
picture destined (so far as its maker is concerned) for the
Academy walls, must be sent along to see whether the
Higher Powers of British Art concur in the maker’s esti-
mate. Most of the painter men forward the full three
canvases to which they are limited. Then they wait for
three weeks, cultivating a better knowledge of the ex-
tremities of British speech, to use in the event of their
receiving a very polite note from the Academy conclave,
thanking them profusely for the opportunity which has
been afforded of inspecting their interesting productions,
but regretting, &c., &e. If the polite note.covers all
three paintings, they use up all the language they have
been acquiring, and the business is done. If it doesn’t
they maintain fond hopes with regard to the remaining
one or two until a day or so before the exhibition opens,
and save up some language. Then the brush-wielder
either prances madly round his studio and goes out
and spends sixpence on himself because he has got
a varnishing ticket, or uses up his remaining language
because the committee has again been most politely re-
gretful to say that, owing to space exigencies, his valuable
work has been crowded out, and will he kindly come
round and get it off the premises quicker than immedi-
ately.
“Show Sunday” has been instituted these many years
to enable an artist’s friends to judge what fools the
Academy people are if they don’t accept his work. A
man who is in the way of meeting artists gets dozens of
bits of pasteboard inviting him to call round and see pic-
tures or sculpture some time that afternoon. As London
art is spread-eagled over Chelsea, Kensington, St. John’s
Wood, and Hampstead, not to mention other districts, so
it is a physical impossibility to get over half the ground
that the invitations cover. T’other Sabbath I
had to make a judicious selection and confine
operations to St. John’s Wood and Hampstead,
where several of the big Australians have con-
gregated. First of all, Macltennal. It was my first
visit to his studio, one of the most ornate in London.
Judging by some of the work that he was about to send
off to the Academy, Mackennal is entering a new phase
of his artistry. He has got to the stage of moulding a
“ Madonna and Child,” but by no means on conventional
lines. The figure of the woman gives all the idea of
motherliness that one expects, and is beautifully done.
Not quite so much can be said for the child, who, after
all, seems to be just an ordinary large infant with a
scampish desire to break away from control and splash
about in the gutters of Jerusalem with the other young-
sters. Still, as a development of Mackennal, this bit of
sculptor’s work is very interesting. Excellent was a
small group of female figures, which still required some
chiselling, and Mackennal has also done a fine strong bust
of heroic proportions, besides one or two other things.
Jack Longstaff has again been spending most of his
time at portraits, the most ambitious of these being a life-
size figure of a lady, who has to thank the Victorian for
showing off her dress materials and laces so realistically.
The portrait is excellent work. Another large canvas de-
picts two sturdy children, nicely dressed, apparently for
an infantile party. A smaller one—an unconventional
study of a red-headed girl—commands attention, for it
really represents some of Longstaff’s best moments. But
all these portraits set one longing for more pictures like
“ The Sirens."
Round the corner from Longstaff’s is another Austra-
lian, young Burgess from Sydney. He does marine
pictures chiefly, and this time a couple of his canvasses
show the British fleet carefully painted in review order,
with plenty of good bright sunshine flashing upon the
bunting and streamers. One fairly large canvas, how-
ever, is devoted to a shipwreck, with men clambering up
the liiasts from the waves. It is very boldly conceived.
Wolinski, one of whose paintings caused a stir in Sydney-
some years back, has spent a lot of his time on a canvas,
which should find a place in the Academy, even though
he has altered some of his original good ideas in regard to
it. He has also made one or two studies of Ghetto life
down in the East End.
And Minns —well, Minns has an “ At Home on show-
Sunday, too, but he hadn’t Academy pictures to show.
Being a water-colorist, he had sent his works in, accord-
ing to the rule, three or four days before. Minn’s, old:
friend King Billy will be glad to hear that he figures in a
very-Australian little sketch that the Academy people
will have to judge.
I met Tom Roberts at Mackennal’s, and in all the
studios scores of Australians with claims, more or less,,
to celebrity. Roberts is sending in a couple of paintings,
but prided himself on being about the only artist in
London who was not holding a show on the appointed
Sunday. As for Streeton and Lambert, and perhaps a,
dozen others, they live in Chelsea and other places that,
would need an airship to reach in one afternoon. I can’t,
afford an airship.
Violet Eliza, aged 18 and good-looking, had
just arrived from the bush, but she felt fairly
hopeful of disguising the fact that this was her
first visit to any town larger than Binalong. The
glance of the stately damsel behind the
glove counter caused her to blench slightly,
but she managed to make audible her
long-cherished desire for a pair of long*
expensive gloves. The glove-princess placed
a small cushion on the counter, and, murmuring
something, retired to wash her hands. ’ ‘ How
thoughtful of her ! ” mused the grateful Violet.
Eliza, as she transferred the cushion to a high
chair and sat on it. The glove-princess returned.
She missed the cushion, then realised its where-
abouts, but managed to refrain from returning
the quarter-smile of Violet’s accompanying, city
cousin. Violet’s elbows were successively
dumped on the hard counter as the tactful
princess fitted the gloves on to her customer’s
pretty hands. The tragedy might never have
been -revealed to its principal had not Violet
Eliza chanced to look along the counter to where
another customer was being fitted by another
glove-princess. Then she realised that the sweet
little cushion was designed for the elbow. She
did not weep. Hers was one of the sorrows that
lie too deep for tears.
There’s an epidemic of fur toques amongst the
ladies —chorus and principals —of the Royal
Comic Opera. The principals have little and in-
expensive ones, the chorus chicks big and pricey
ones—at least that’s usually the way. All who.
had ermine or sable necklets have had them cut
into head wear. Margaret Thomas bought two
ermine necklets for conversion into a toque. Rose
Musgrove wears one with a “just so” tilt, but
Florence Young seems to stick to her Omar
Khayyamish hats—all grapes and roses and
unconvention.
One of the sins of my youth was that of putting
five shillings’ worth of the late Queen’s image into
Tatts. sweeps. It was the reading of a Chinese
poem, “The Garden of See-ma-kowang,” that
drove me to gambling. I wanted £lO,OOO to make
me a garden like that designed and enjoyed by
the statesman who wrote the poem. He was
the first Minister of the Chinese Empire towards
the end of the eleventh century, and his poem on
his 20 acres of flower, forest, fruit, and landscape-
garden (everything, presumably Chinese, and
microscopic), all rivered, laked, cataracted, and
rivuleted, with philosophic and sentimental reflec-
tions included, could not be excelled to-day. I
recall my gambling and the poem on hearing that
Miss Byron Moore and her father’s ward, Miss
Robertson, saw this garden, which is still in ex-
istence after 800 years. The girls went 1600
miles up the Kiang gorges, travelling up the
rapids in their own personal j unk. The cultured
old Mandarin’s description of his paradise may be
recommended to Colonel Antill and the Oswald
Watts and others going on the land, in case they
want a garden pattern. Moral and sentimental
maxims are not extras.
Rose Bay is shedding petals—l mean tears—
over the departure for Europe of Lassetter, senior.
He was a great bridge player, and an authority
on music, drama and beauty. As he has a home
on Lake Como —a sort of Claude Melnotte’s
dream-humpy—and another in London the dear
old gentleman won’t have to go looking for
lodgings. Talking of bridge, one of its maniacs
has told me that in a year, after playing on an
average five nights a week and always for money,
she is only Is. 6d. in pocket. Another good
player is only 9d. out. On the other hand, a man
in this office tells me that he was a slave to bridge
for three months, and lost 3s. 6d., a hat, an um-
brella, his temper, two friends, and his faith in
the honesty of his fellow-creatures. Against that
he gained a powerful Burmese cheroot and the
acquaintance of a brown Mahommedan magistrate
from Upper India.
Chieftainess Darley has been advertising (with
pauses) for the last six months for a maid who can
dressmake, dress hair, and pack. Worst of it is
(for the advertiser), when a girl can make‘dresses
even badly, or do hair well, she puts up a plate
with her name on it and works for herself. The
expert packing qualification alone would not be
sufficient, probably. Women hairdressers in
Sydney are doing well this year. Many of them
have already booked appointments for dressing
hair for balls that won’t occur till July. If men
had to make arrangements for being shaved as
far ahead as that they would be fearsome and
scrubby spectacles. Men, I believe, have no fore-
sight about their hair.
I hear that the doctors of Sydney have started
lecturing to the prisoners in gaol, the first lecture
being on “ Tobacco,” which they can’t get; and
the second on “Fresh Air,” which they only get
in the yard. What wild humorists these doctors
are ! I am thinking of lecturing to the totally
bald on “ The Death of Absolom.”
The girl who doesn’t want to go into long
dresses and be a grown-up with put-up hair is a
curious departure from the rule of sixteen or
saventeen-year-old damselhood. Scores of Aus-
tralian women of 20 or over still go about skirted
and haired like 15. In the dress-circle audience ■<
at “ The Fatal Wedding ” I saw pig-tailed head -■
carrying thirty-year-old faces, The d.c. audito: *
at that masterpiece were strangers to the regular
theatre-goer, and I missed two murders and a
precipice while looking at them. In a deserted
wife case, the other day before the courts, the
woman had been married at seventeen, away bat-!;
some ten years in the last century, and she told
his Honor that she had her hair down and wore
three-quarter dresses for long after her marriage.
His Honor asked her when she assumed long
dresses, and her answer left the impression that
she hadn’t elongated ’em yet. Lately a charming
charwoman of my acquaintance showed me a
photograph of her daughter who had been mar-
ried in her “going away frock,” and had then
gone straight to be photographed. The bride was
a short girl of over ten stone weight, and she was
posed seated on an upturned boat, whilst the.
groom broke the view of a seascape behind her.
Her skirt was as short as that worn by children of
ten, and showed very stout calves and reliable
feet laced in long Balmoral boots. Her hair fell
in a shower around her. “Nineteen last birthday,”
said a proud mother. “Yes, 7think now she’s
got a ’ome and ’usband all to ’erself she ought to
wear more important- like skirts. But she won't;
and the last gentleman she was ingaged to—he
broke it off because she wouldn’t.” The short
skirt is cleanly if inartistic; but the cataract of
hair falling over the stewpans is neither.
From Maoriland: —
Down on the wild Wet Coast of Maoriland lives a young
Anglican parson, named Newton, who is a refreshing
change from the tame little “ sky-pilots ”of the towns.
His “ cure of souls ” extends over a district about 20 miles
wide and 200 miles long—the torrent-seamed littoral of
Westland, reminding one of Euclid’s definition of a straight
line. The Wet Coasters don’t, as a rule, take
much stock in preachers, sky-pilots, sin-shifters,
and the like, but every man for that 200
miles of Coast is an admirer of manly arnd plucky
young Newton. He is a sadly unconventional parson.
The other day Newton heard that an Alpine climber, a
young Scotchman named Lowe, was missing in the moun-
tains above the Franz Josef Glacier. Lowe was a friend
of Newton’s, and the parson, being an expert Alpist,
decided to join the search-parties. There was no clergy-
man on hand at that week’s service in the Ross church ;
the flock was there, but the shepherd was off on his bike,
alone, for the glacier-foot, seventy miles away. He
forded the swift, ice-fed “ Big Wanganui ” river at mid-
night, carrying his machine on his shoulders, and
just reached the glacier in time to join the searchers.
Lowe was found alive, but badly knocked about. Newton
has done a great deal of climbing and solitary travelling
in the Alps, and he has an adventurous time of it with
the treacherous snow-rivers by the coast. Amongst the
old diggers of the Wet Coast you’ll hear but one opinion
of him : “ Real white man, and far too d—d good to be
a parson.”
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
British House of Commons caterer finds
that things have changed this session. The 10s.
6d. dinner is in less demand, and the request for.
the shilling meaWa cut off the joint (with a right
to a second), potatoes, vegetables, cheese and
butter—is more general. This meal doesn’t pay.
Also, the average of appetites is larger, and of
drinkytites smaller.
There is a growing idea that the Australian
Government should have something to say in the
introduction and setting-up in business of Dr.
Danysz, the rabbit disease!. If the disease is not
strong enough to spread over the State of N.S.W.,
it will fail in its object; but if it does spread over
N.S.W., it must inevitably spread over all the
States, and it is on this latter ground the
Commonwealth Government should have a say.
Are all the States prepared to accept the disease ?
If not, those that object should claim Federal
protection.
They don’t leave much meat on the bones
in S. Australia. Once a popular officer in a de-
partment was ordered north to replace one who
had just died suddenly; and the word was passed
round the office that after work all hands might
meet the Minister and the officer at a neighboring
bar. That seemed like cutting it pretty fine ;
still the thing was hurried, and, after all, a stand-
up drink was as good a way as any of wishing
“good luck.” They toasted the departer; then,
as in duty bound, the Minister —wasn’t he shout-
ing ? They thought so, anyway, till Monday
morning (the drink was on Saturday), when a tin
was sent round for contributions to pay for the
“spree”—the wild “spree” that ran to two beers
a-piece.
BE BEAUTIFUL!
Imitation may be the sincerest form of flattery,
but at times it must be very annoying, as in the case of
“ Valaze,” the wonderful Russian skin-food. Three years
ago it was introduced to the public of Australia by Mdlle.
Helena Rubinstein, and so speedily were its good qualities
recognised that quite a big demand sprang up almost
immediately. Instantly dozens of imitations of “ Valaze ”
appeared, got up to closely resemble the Russian skiri-
food. Often the food bore a name so nearly resembling
“ Valaze ” that it deceived buyers. All this was very
flattering, but at the same time decidely aggravating, for
often not only worthless, but positively harmful so called
skin-foods were trading on the reputation of “Valaze.”
The nourishing, restoring, soothing and healing qualities
of the genuine “ Valaze ” are widely recognised. Price,
3s. 6d. and 65., posted 6d. extra. Comtesse Potocka’s
“Voskpasta,” (3s. jar) “Valaze” Herbal Soap, (2s. cake).
Comtesse Potocka’s “ Creme Promenade,” for outdoor
entertainments, 3s. 6d. jar. “Valaze” special “ Black-
head and Open Pores Cure” guaranteed, 3s. 6d. jar.
“Valaze” Massage Rollers, for use in your home from
Bs. 6d. Washington H. Soul, and Civil Service, Sydney,
leading chemists, or Mdlle. H. Rubinstein and Co., 274
Collins-street, Melbourne. Guide to Beauty Free.*
It is generally thought that there is no
cure for stoutness, because the usual treatments
only confine themselves to combating single
symptoms instead of attacking the root of the
disease. Pyrolene Pellets remove not only the
superfluous fat, but also the internal deposits of
fat which hinder the action of the heart and lungs.
We advise a trial. Pyrolene Pellets improve the
breathing, give the heart freedom, and enable the
lungs to expand naturally. Sent free by post to
any part of the States on receipt of Postal Note
for 3s. 9d. or 135., according to size required.
Arnold’s Balsam Co., 3G4a Little Collins-street,
Melbourne.*


Superfluous Hairs Effectually and Per-
manently Destroyed. A lady self cured of this
distressing affliction has a wonderful remedy which com-
pletely destroys the roots of the hairs. After trying
depilatories, electrolysis and every so-called cure, she
discovered this simple home remedy, which succeeded
when all else had failed. This treatment does not burn
off, it kills the roots, and the most disheartened may
safely and successfully try it. It leaves no scar or mark.
Send Id. stamp for testimonials and booklet on treatment.
Remedy posted, Victoria, 4s. 6d., other States, ss.
“ Tonic,” Central Chambers, 77 Swanston St., Melbourne.*
ill!
11l
fdg
fd
OUR White Rubber Spread
Lady’s and Gent.’s Water*
proofs will set the fashion
for the coming Winter.
They bear the Stamp of
Quality, and being both
Stylishly Cut and Well
Made will appeal to every*
one who likes to be well
dressed. Easily cleaned.
Made in various designs,
and to order if desired.
Obtainable all leading
Stores. Specify "Hercules”
brand, and if any difficulty
in obtaining same, send to
us direct for design plates,
prices, etc. Correspon-
dence from Trade invited.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
Melbourne, Sydney,
Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, *
Christchurch, N.Z.
,v
puejfl sainsJHi'iijH'vP^S
lll|IIIU*T7»*l'l |i't)MU il lllllil|jjj||lll||
|t>l|
I|MU
1111 l lilllllH
I'lll!
mi
gfd
i
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, May 8, 1906.
My Dear Yarrie,—
The cussedness of the sex was instanced elo-
quently during a recent sensational bolt. (Moral
bolt, that is.) The heroine, at the eleventh hour,
rushed to a theatrical friend—a fine, staunch]
sensible mummer—and asked her tragically should
she fly or not. The aforesaid pal looked into the
garish future with a pair of smoked glasses, and
said— “ Don't.” The Miss accordingly did, of
course. What else would you expect ? Had that
intelligent mummer been only a slice or two more
intelligent, and considered the cussedness of her
own kind, she’d have said, with a wild glare of
enthusiasm in her eye, “Do,” and then there
might have been added one to the list of things
that didn’t occur. Oppose femininity and you
come out the winner.
An engagement has been smashed up all along
of a sea-voyage, showing that husbands may be
lost as well as gained on the sea. A secretly pro-
mised pair managed to get away on the same
liner for the Cold Country. The girl was under
the wing of the family, who were all aboard. The
Johnnie concerned made it his business, don’t
you know, to book by the same steamer. He did.
The arrangement pleased everyone. It was so
innocent. The pair gloated in private. Well,
they gloated for a day and a half, then the sea
brought along its revenges. Outside the heads,
the Miss lost count of everything. For days she
was a victim to that feeling beside which all other
calamities appear jolly and brilliant. When
the fiance saw her again he was seized
with a paralysis of tongue and feature.
The flower-like beauty that had warmed
his heart every time his glad gaze fell on Angelina
had faded from view. In its place, a terrible
parchment skin wrinkled about her dull eyes and
sad little mouth. The shock made Edwin retire
to his cabin, where he wept salt tears (one sup-
poses) for the love that was no more. When he
re-appeared next day Angelina was found looking
like a green cheese, and the miserable dabs of
lively-rose bloom but added a grotesque note to
the plain little face. “You look ill,” gasped
Edwin. “ Why not stop below ? ” She gave him
a reproachful glance. Then jealousy rose* in her
sick heart. “There is Someone Else ,” she cried.
Edwin gratefully clutched the chance. “ There
is—there is. Alas ! there is.” Then the
maiden fainted, and the engagement fell over-
board and was lost, and there is no tombstone
over its grave.
Miss Alison Fairbairn has been starring at a
large crop of afternoon-teas in girly farewell ere
the knot-tying. This kind of party is always
interesting as a demonstration of the way of the
sex. The smile of congratulation is an immense
study. The old girl is so brave. The plain faded
Miss so socially game. The smile is all there.
Only covertly in the eye does Green Envy lurk.
After all it takes a religious, stained-window
mind to look upon beauty and wealth marrying
position without some suspicion of envy.,
The Stonington Exes, have been giving Admiral
Fawkes and his wife a wildly hilarious time.
The Talbottle himself takes the sea-dog out on a
motor to look at a foundation-stone, and the grey
dame trots Mrs. Admiral round the hospital
wards.
Toorak now engages Rickards’ artists for its
“At Homes.” Mrs. L. C. M’Kinnon had the
Miles-Stavordale quintet out one recent April
noon, and they were a success. They all looked
the sort the ordinary fashionable She would like
to pat affectionately. The leader himself is a
beauty-man of great length, but he folds
up neatly when strumming, and doesn’t ap-»
pear an awkward out-size. While theatrical
artists of this class are booked to make
a Toorak holiday, and the tinned song is
turned on to vary the bill, the local warbler
grows suicidal—but the Yarra is an unbeautiful
brown stream these May mornings. So the
warbler retains his or her miserable existence and
prays that the tinned song of the earth may develop
the ptomaine taint, and that there may be Pro-
tection against imported singers.
The National League gets up a patriotic pro-
gramme for Empire Day. It’s going to show how
it can roll on the grass when it wishes to forget
the horrors of Socialism. Miss Nellie Veitch is
billed to elocute some. Miss Veitch is the re-
citress who backs up elocution by physical cul-
ture. When last m the Gold Country she learnt
a thing or two about Women’s Rights (which are
so often, incidentally, Men’s Lefts), and was
initiated into the way of striking a Sandow
attitude, or anything else that deserved a blow,
with scientific correctness. At present she
spreads her knowledge among the sex that
hasn’t always defended itself with a strong
right arm. (A flat-iron was cheaper, and effec-
tive enough even with a weak arm behind it.)
There’s an amusing idea in the fact of the elocu-
tress who poetically delivers the “Ode to a
Skylark,” or a Tennysonian classic, using a well-
developed arm to semaphore to the passing senti-
ment, and drawing a tender sigh from a muscular
chest, measuring a record number of inches.
All the parsons have been busy with a heavy
crop of small suburban marriages. They have
been putting one couple through the oath that
binds till death or divorce, while another pair
have been waiting on the. mat. A typewriter
from the Chancery-lane quarter starred at the one
showy knot-tying of the week. The ceremony
was the sequel to a most romantic wooing.
Serenader Nap Boffard is going to raise his
piping tones in a holy matrimonial anthem at the
marriage of Miss Armytage and Captain Fitz-
patrick. I don’t see how Gounod’s “Holy
Temple ” is going to help things along, but there
it is.
Mr. and Mrs. Sep. Miller are off on a leisurely
gad. They gave their friends a chance to say
“Au revoir” at a daylight corroboree. “Can-
tala,” the Millers’ domicile, isn t opened often to
a mixed swarm, but it’s one of the few interest-
ingly-furnished mansions among the Blest. Mrs.
Miller is an Art enthusiast —a rare thing for a
fashionable to be. She has many charming ways,
but a settled prim pensiveness rather spoils her
looks. If she were more cheerful she’d be a
blonde beauty.
The ’Varsity flag flew fervently the day of
degree-conferring. The whole establishment
broke into riotous color. Even the G.-G. sported
a red-plum hood with a black mantle. The
Talbottle Ex. alone stuck to his brass and braid.
He fled early from the rainbowed scene. The
top Governor stood the whole business bravely.
Dons and Doctors flaunted scarlet, gold, purple,
and even one beauteous bone-setter (Dr. Fred Bird)
went into blush-pink, with white trimmings. The
star of the day was Miss Eleanor Edelsten —a small,
shy shiner, who trotted up for her medicine and
surgery degrees with the air of an abashed miss
summoned to the presence of a reproachful parent.
Yet they say there has never been one more deft
and skilful among all the she-students of this
’Varsity.
An old girl—the jolly sort you couldn’t term a
fixed and stationary spinster—has written to me
from the Cold Country with a shockful bit of
news. “Address me no longer as plain Miss.
I’ve adopted a new label—l’m Mrs. .
Having no husband, I’m to be a widow. I found
several women who appointed themselves widows
for the mere reason that they got more attention
(not necessarily of the coquettish order), and
aroused far more regard and .interest. So I’ve
labelled myself one, and find it’s a capital notion
for a cheerful, unmated She. Try it.” I have
decided that I will. Henceforth lam going to be
Mrs. Tryphena Jones.
During her brief day in this vast metropolis
Miss Grace Palotta informed a dressy pal that
“ hips had gone out.” Of course, she meant they
had gone in, and the full curves of one’s middle
storey, so often aided by the pneumatic tyre or
the horsehair bolster-pad, are to be wiped clean
out. One must have no curves below the waist.
There’s great comfort in this for the lean variety,
who always were troubled as to the way the hip
pads were behaving. I have seen a fair She with
a natural figure like an attenuated note of ex-
clamation sit down, and the hips of her adoption
rise and gather up about the waist-line. At
another time one beautifully-rounded hip has
arisen and gone astray utterly, while t’other re-
mained in its position stolidly. Sometimes
the hip-hip-hurrah sort of charmer has
had all her figure displaced by sitting down to
tea too suddenly, or rising with any impetuosity.
As she walks subsequently, she’s all out of draw-
ing. Now is her time. She can go in her own
original narrow lines and be true to fashion. It’s
the plump person’s funeral.
The she-golfer is a poor mathematician. Under
the circumstances the he-golfer of a certain club
reckons something has got to be done in the
matter of scoring. Scrutineers and actuaries on
the links would not be altogether welcomed, but a
few bona-fide arithmeticians among the non-
players recommend cards as the safest course and
most inoffensive means of getting absolutely
honest scoring. The sex cannot count correctly,
as a rule, at any game. The golf caddy knows
the weakness and contributes to it. “That’s my
fourth stroke, James, isn’t it ?” says the bunkered
player. “Yes, Miss ! ” replies the tattered, dilapi-
dated young kid yclept James. It might be her
fourteenth, but that’s none of his business. James
is a diplomatist. Of course, all mistakes are bona-
fide honest ones—like the importers’.
Mr. Alister Clarke, poloist, golfer, huntsman,
top sport, is still growing the choicest roses in the
State. At the recent show, 150 varieties were
exhibited by him. The lot were arranged in
cunning pyramidal order. All these radiant
blooms were grown on the Clarke Bulla estate,
where the sport grows prize kine as well as roses.
The marriage of ex-Speaker Mason’s daughter
Rose and Mr. J. Hoban went to a deluge of rain,
last Wednesday, but the midday torrents took
nothing from the rather fetching bridal effect.
The fair one with the flowery name has agate-hued
eyes of much lustre and a thatch owning a bright-
copper gleam.
The marriage of Captain Fitzpatrick and Miss
Armvtage is billed for this week. The invitation
list has been a highly judicial matter. Some
Toorakites of much fashionable tonnage have been
dropped out boldly. I imagine how the cats are
clawing.
Cables have been received to the effect that
Mrs. Lawson and a new hubbie escaped the earth-
quake by an eyelash, or less. They were close to
the blown-up area, and are chanting litanies of
thanks that the gods left them to honeymoon a
little longer.
The news of Cuyler Hastings’ pleasure trip to
Australia causes a thrill down the spinal column
of the local girleen. One little Western heiress
has hastened to this city to be right here on the
spot when the man of the padlocked-expression
and glooiny brow arrives. A pleasure-trip opens
up vistas to'the feminine mind. In the Harbor
city they fastened the name of Cuyler to that of
its plumpest Society blonde, but hereabouts there
were several who had a look in, so to speak, and,
the excitement being more freely distributed, in-
terested the more. The managers sit back and
say nothing, but they must sort of wonder, in a
quizzical way, what game the chap is up to.
An interesting and bright letter from Miss
Alexia Bassian —the opera star who was troubled
with a severely bad throat and a severely sick
husband while in this gum country—relates how
the said hubbie (Charles Danby) has made a
marvellous recovery. For five months the sick
man lay shockingly ill, and had his tongue
operated upon in a way that would have killed
most men. But he recovered. “He is quite
himself and strong,” writes the handsome wife,
“and even able to smoke; but of course his
speech is very defective, and his face sadly altered.
You would never recognise him. He lives
entirely on liquids,, but is so happy and cheerful.
I have nursed him all through, and am so glad of
his splendid recovery.” Cheerfully Miss Bassian
alludes to his recovery—speech defective, living
on liquids, face disfigured ! And the pair are sing-
ing hallelujahs. People of that cheerfulness are
Great.
By the way, Miss Bassian has managed to meet
or to hear from several well-known Australian
mummers on the London boards. The tale is al-
ways the same. The Big Smoke is well enough ;
salaries are all right; but Australia calls. It is
the Actors’ Paradise.
Miss Doris Madden recalls herself to public
notice. She has the bulk of a recital programme
next week, a daughter of Parson Sugden (the
Argus critic) adding her quota of play to the bill.
The Madden chick is on her own. She has had
very little support from her Chief-Judicial rela-
tives. Their enthusiasm leads them to a front
concert chair where their baclc-hair may be re-
viewed and admired by the audience, and the in-
terest ends there. The strummer is a plump
young person, and her fingers are dexterous but
—well, there’s a considerable but. She is not
emotional. Techique is not all.
The chorus chicks who, as Souls in the vapory
Spookland of “The Darling of the Gods,” had to
groan and moan across the misty purgatorial way,
caught many a cold in the white, cloudy r6le of
the Earthless. Sneezing hard, a Soul would
apply next day for leave of absence from this
moral and moist Pentridge, where the thousand-
year sentences had to be worked out in tears and
groans. Released from the great stage drift, the
chick would recover from her chill and thank her
stars to be let off the groan. But one of the num-
ber who remained true to her damp-spook
rdle suffers from the effects of the chill to
this day. She never recovered from the
moist season of the undressed Soul (a chest
protector or a red flannel petticoat would have
entirely spoilt the Purgatorial effect). The
managers held that anything of the kind would
have brought the Souls into dire ridicule. But
they’d have saved one or two doctor’s bills.
The Masonic Hall was full, t’other evening,
when Clarence Weber and pupils submitted
samples of physical culture and athleticism.
Weber himself, wearing evening clothes and a cold,
correct society demeanor, tacitly testified that
physical power and social polish are not incom-
patible. In this guise he gave a lecturette on
will-power and muscular control. But one hopes
the fad for suddenly setting the teeth and clinch-
ing the muscles will be confined to the He sex.
As it is, inoffensive women, conversing with would-
be Herculean youths, are apt to be startled
when the lads, without warning, compress
their jaws, snore strangely, swell themselves
out and glare into vacancy. When the ex-
perience becomes familiar, one realises that the
spasm is merely a joint rehearsal of mind and
muscle. Later, the strong man got into feat-
costume and had bar-bells, men and boys, a ton
weight in all, piled on his anatomy. He did
other muscular deeds, and the many petticoat-
wearers present professed themselves in deadly
fear for his life and limb, though they were cool
enough to comment audibly on the smallness of
his hands and feet, and the slim grace of his shins.
Boys whose calves and chests had increased mar-
vellously since they joined the “ Health and
Strength College,” were also on view, and showed
what they could do with a weight of 1201bs.
Archbishop Murphy (R.C.), of Hobart, who is
a young prelate of 91, has been touring Northern
Tasmania lately, and spent a week at the
Deanery, Launceston, where he filled in spare
time by playing bezique with an Anglican parson
of 80 and a young French cleric from Sydney.
The Archbishop is a serious card-player, and
doesn’t lose gracefully. He always wants his
“revenge,” and if he doesn’t get it he sulks, and
goes to bed. The Anglican parson is as great at
bowls as at cards, and is a sort of champion on the
Launceston greens.
Melbourne Public Library trustees missed the
most effective way of celebrating the institution's
jubilee. In my opinion they should have got the
Government to put through a Bill to provide
something like a penn’orth of oil and a feather for
the svving door of the main hall, which has had a
chronic squeak for years past. The jubilee is
over, but, alas ! the door still squeaks about four
times per minute.
A long Westralian, with a rich Hibernian
name, is working havoc on the affections of some
of the smartest. He is the pet of several dames,
and the secret love of many sweet young things.
His charm consists largely in an unstudied air of
indolence, which somehow suits his length and
style of languorous thatch. The little fat man
who is indolent only looks barrelly and over-fed ;
he has to rush about to disarm criticism. But the
thin six-footer can laze about, and stack up his
limbs in picturesque confusion, and be wor-
shipped.
Ordinarily the visiting niece in this State is a
person under grave suspicion. Some frisky old
parties have brought the term into disrepute. In
one or two responsible hostelries the management
calls a board to inquire into the identity of a
“niece” before uncle is allowed to take her
upstairs with the luggage. In one recent instance
an alleged niece was conducted into the board
room, like a jug of milk that needed.sterilising or
a germ that had to be shut up in a watch-case for
examination, and there she was retained until her
credentials were unearthed or run down. But
uncle became vexed at the proceedings, and bore
her off in a rage—or rather a cab. The manage-
ment said—“A clear case of imposition.” But
was it ? Didn’t it rather look like righteous Indig-
nation—lnjured Truth—Highly-moral Annoy-
ance ?
The Melbourne worships break into their first
large spree on Monday next, all on account of the
visiting Japanese ships. The spree is to be a night
one. The hosts desire the bare shoulder and spur
and starch-front effect for the gratification of the
brown squad. The M‘Eacharns will be on the
spot for the wassail, Malcolm having hurried from
Brisbane to clasp the to his Japs loving chest.
Music as an aid to food consumption is a strong
point with the local cafe owners. Menzies’ went
one further by introducing fresh song to help the
tea and toasted crumpet go down. The idea has
caught on. Folk wander into the Winter Lounge
twice a week to drink the respectable beverage
and to listen. It’s droll to see the look of mixed
ecstatic joy and scalded pain on the face of the
sentimental sex, when it endeavors to drink its
tea on the boil and listen to a Serenata of stirring
tenderness at the same time.
Yours Affectionately,
TRYPHENA.
“ Ku-Klux,” from Victoria :
I used to consider Australia the home of Unionism, and
believe the tales I heard of the man who came here to
invest £l6 2s. 7Jd., but decided not to on account of
Labor legislation. But I have got a shock and feel upset.
Met a painter, who landed in Melbourne a fortnight ago.
His first inquiry was for the headquarters of the Painters'
Union, as he was under the impression that to look for a
job under any other patronage was useless. He was con-
siderably surprised when informed that there was no
restriction in Melbourne. “ Why,” he said, in disgust,
you’re not a society man, you could look for a billet
in London till the millennium comes and you wouldn’t get
it at least, not a billet worth having. All the best shops
are strict society shops.” His opinion of Australia has
fallen considerably, and I am wondering if the present
rotten state of the painting and decorating trade in Mel-
bourne can be ascribed to other pauses than “Labor
legislation.” Anyhow, it is a rotten state.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent |len.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
g
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/- Fine
assortments, JO/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, 89C Martin, Paris, France.
fd
gfd
GrO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Nagso? Ltd.
FOREIGN - STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS
f *Vi
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, &c.
Write for List.
mmu BROTHERS S G Srr;
and at cor. Lonsdale & Swangton Sts., Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
SA M MAUGER, M.H.R. for Melbourne Ports.
In view of the Jubilee, due this month, of
Responsible Government in N.S.W., how would
it be to establish a Chair of Borrowing at Sydney
University ?
Sometimes the great Australian daily is
fairly definite and truly loyal. The Age, for in-
stance (2/5/’O6)’
Australia, indeed, is determined to have a navy, and to
exclusively control it, and it does not \ ery much matter
whether England favors the plan or not.
Premier and Captain Jack Evans of
Tasmania has reconstructed his Ministry, taking
in his predecessor and opponent Propsting as
second in command. This readiness to be absorbed
by the enemy when there is a portfolio going
should about end William Bispham Propsting's
brief and ineffective career as some kind of a
Liberal.
As The Bulletin imagined would be the
case, the appointment of Captain Collins as
Commonwealth Agent” in London is to be
taken as an excuse for not appointing a High
Commissioner during the life of this Parliament.
The gilded position is still to be kept as “bait”
to dangle before doubtful supporters and as a sort
of reserve or place of escape for some Minister
who may care to retire. The paltering with this
appointment is one of the grave scandals of Aus-
tralian politics.
Yes, Philp and Leahy are fast finding
their proper level in Queensland. The brilliant
pair visited Toowoomba the other day to address
a public meeting. No one met them on the plat-
form but the local porter; so the party shouldered
its portmanteau and wended its way sadly to its
hotel. What memories of the halcyon days of
office passed through its alleged mind. But if
Toowoomba treated it coldly in the daytime-,
it made amends at the meeting at night. ’ Sheol
was the only thing that was hotter than that
meeting.
A daily paper on the proposed Insurance
Bill
Advantage may be taken of the opportunity to deal
with foreign insurance companies, so as to compel those
companies to retain in Australia a proportion of their
assets proportionate to the number of Australian policy
holders. The Cabinet has come to no decision on the
subject, hut it is known that this aspect of insurance
company reform is before Ministers.
There is a grievous monotony about that state-
ment “ the Cabinet has come to no decision on the
ma er.” If Alfred Deakin would only hire a
bulldog to make up his mind for him—or a gorilla,
or any animal with a fierce under jaw and a set of
teeth that look like tombstones !
At last a specific instance has arrived of
capital being driven out of the country. The first
rumblings of the exodus began when Vie. Lands
Minister Murray received a scornful epistle from
a farmer who had for years been using gratis a
six-acre paddock of Crown land for grazing. The
Department asked 7s. Gd. a year rent—-actually
Is. 3d. per acre; whereupon the landed person
rebuked Murray and his department in great
anger, and promised, if the demand were not
withdrawn forthwith, to betake himself and all
his belongings, including the 7s. Gd., to Rio
Grande, “ where he would be treated like a white
man.” Murray merely remarked that if the
capitalist took away his seven-and-six he hoped
he would at least leave the six acres.
At the late general election in Tasmania,
two of the four Launceston seats were grabbed by
Laborites, much to the discomfiture of the local
National A.ss. The Ass. had mighty little luck.
In Hobart the president was also chairman of the
Cascade Brewery, which has an interest in a huge
number of grog-shops by the Derwent. So the
Local Optionists and Teetotallers who didn’t like
the Labor man, and who fought shy of the Ass.
and the brewery, struck out in eccentric and
unlooked-for directions. Furthermore the presi-
dent-chairman has a huge “rag shop,” and has
the importing disease in an incurable form, and
the Protectionists wouldn’t touch him with a tele-
graph post. The weight of beer and Freetrade
made the National Ass. sag down horribly in the
middle, and it assumed all mariner of shapes of
deformity.
The Deform crowd in the Brisbane
Council commenced the serious work of the year
by practically landing the city further in debt to
the tune of £6OOO. The new assessment reduced
the nominal capital value Of the city by £200,000,
and then the Deformers proceeded to strike the
same rate as last year, which meant a £6OOO
shortage. A rate of on the lower valuation
would have raised the necessary wind and taken
no more from the ratepayers than the previous
year’s rate of 2d. on the higher valuation. But
the Deformers’ method of making up the deficit
is to sell £lO,OOO worth of lately-purchased land,
at a time when values are low. If they cannot
get rid of the land the deficit will be passed on to
posterity.
The issue before the N.S.W. Arbitration
Court as to the right of the Wharf Laborers’
Union to refuse membership to a man, who in the
past had worked against the Union, is of great
importance. The contention on one side is that,
as the price of registration as an industrial union,
a trade-union must admit to membership any man
applying who is able to work at the trade. It may
not refuse “blacklegs”; and may exercise no
check on the growth of its members" to a total in
excess of what is required to carry on the industry.
If that is good law, without a doubt many trades-
unions will reconsider the question of remaining
on the register of industrial unions. The game
won’t be worth the candle. As a matter of common-
sense, the law should encourage trade-unions to
keep out undesirables and to keep down their
numbers to the level of the work available, with
a small margin to meet sudden extra demands.
There is no sense in having 1500 men with pre-
ference on 1000 men’s work.
Professor J. W. Gregory to the Royal
Geographical Society (London): —
I went to Australia with the natural prejudices of a
British Conservative against the Labor party. I under-
stood that the advanced Labor legislation was ruining
Australian industries by its selfish and short-sighted
policy, but after five years in Australia I learned to
realise how much that party is misjudged. The indus-
trial legislation is intensely Democratic, hut it is not
wildly Socialistic. The fundamental plank in the Demo-
cratic programme of Australia is the belief that a high
average of national character is the most important of
national assets. The Australian points to the dangers in
Europe from its submerged tenth, and the extremes of
wealth and poverty. He urges that in America un-
restrained individualism is leading to the same evils, and
engendering a spirit of national selfishness. So he believes
that Australia will be the happier in the end if the country
be so governed as to secure a high average of comfort and
character, rather than a few millionaires and a multitude
of paupers.
THE JUBILEE OF RESPONSIBLE GOVERNMENT IN N.S.W.
The first Ministry, Premier Donaldson in the centre.
The Australian Parliament meets on June
7, and already there is a loud cry to Deakin —
from his enemies—that it should rise early in
September, thus allowing but three months for
work. Deakin should measure the session by its
acts, not its days, laying down so much work to
be done, and seeing that it is done if the House
of Reps, has to sit until the last hour of its legal
existence.
N.S.W. Government has decided to be
very severe with the Albury municipality, which,
having borrowed money to build waterworks,
refuses to impose sufficient taxation to meet
interest and sinking-fund charges; diverts some
of the water-works profits into general revenue ;
and charges the water-works receipts with expen-
diture which should be met out of taxation.
Albury borrowed its money from the N.S.W.
Government, which explains that Government’s
indignation when a municipality copies so
exactly its own methods of finance.
S.A. Premier Price has done a sensible
thing in appointing a Commission to collect evi-
dence as to the best way of dealing with chronic
drunkards. The Commission is a representative
one, and, doubtless, will make some practical sug-
gestions, in which case, if he follows Australian
precedent, Price will drop the subject. Should
he strike out a new track and do something, as
well as inquire about something, Price will show
himself a remarkably original man. Almost every
State has talked about doing something for the
victims of alcoholic mania, and stopped at that.
N.S.W. even passed an Act, and (The Bulletin
thinks) floated an Incurable Drunkards’ Loan, hut
nothing more.
“ Stony ” from Adelaide :
An “ anti-Socialist ” Misrepresentative from N.S.W.
recently reared a talkative head at the Adelaide 00-op.
Hall—surely not an appropriate temple—and beat the air
with' a wild pair of hands, emitting a strong odor of
sanctity the while. The hundivd-or-so audience was*
made up chiefly of old, old men
with curly white hair round their
ears, and of be-spectaeled not-young
women. The person responsible for
tlie “address” was a" rather old
specimen also, with a beautiful white
—fairly white —beard. This vener-
able body made some quite interest-
ing remarks. For one thing be said
that Capital was a dashed fine thing,
notably in the Australian dredging
industry. “Look,” be said, “at ail
the men employed in an industry
like that who would otherwise
be out o’ work!” Later, when lie
had forgotten his previous argu-
ments, be said that it would be a
dashed fine thing if all the Protec-
tion-fostered industries of the ( T .S.
were to be smashed up by Freetriide.
“Look,” he said, “ at all the men
who, though thrown out o’ work,
would be better employed elsewhere
than in building'up monopolies!”
Further, he bated the holders of
Progressive Land Tax ideas, and
said so in an elevated voice. He also
stampr-d a loud foot and said “How
dare they ! ” By-and-by there was a
collection, and “questions” were
invited. One man in the audience got up and asked if he
might speak a few words from the platform. The chair-
man hesitated, and said it was not necessary, but—er if
he preferred. So the stranger made a break for the lime-
light. Just as he reached the platform, the chairman
and the Misrep. rushed at him and said, “ Shoo ! vou can’t
make a speech ; you can only ask questihns. ‘No criti-
cism allowed.” Then a polite person got up and said
several nice things, among them being the statement
that he was a supporter of the Labor party and a Free-
trader. Then another Labor man, who had large boots
on, got up and left the hall with noise. Altogether an
incoherent, amusing meeting, although there was no
laughter—not a gurgle.
According to the Foreign-Trade Sydney
Telegraph the average wages of the factory
operatives in the highly protected United States
were £5l per annum in 1850 ; £6O in 1860 ; £63 in
£lB7O ; £72 in 1880; £lOl in 1890, and £lO6 in
1900. In the same period the number of opera-
tives increased from nearly 600,000 to nearly
6,000,000. Can any Foreign-trade country show
such a record ?
An Australian girl writes from Centreburg,
Ohio (U.S.A.): —
The Americans protect their country by keeping out
foreign labor, and if you are in bad health or have weak
eyes you are not allowed to land. At San Francisco three
doctors and the immigration officer board the ship. A
family of eight came from Cairns (Q.), and the youngest
child had weak eyes. The whole crew of them were sent
back at the shipping company's expense. There was a
young Canadian who had been out in Australia for about
two years and was returning home. Two days before
landing on this side he got some cigar-ash in his eye. He
was not allowed to come ashore. The authorities vowed
that he had disease of the eyes. If you come to America
under contract to anyone to fill a position you are sent
back, and unless you can show 50 dollars you are not
allowed to land unless you are going to relatives.
And this is the place which, according to Bruce
Smith, welcomes all comers with open arms and
clasps them to its bosom. Apparently there is a
pretty large spike on the bosom.
“ Whatever Mr. Watson says will be done.
Whatever Mr. Deakin says will not be done,
unless it suits Mr. Watson.” So says Mr. G.
Reid. And Mr. Reid will be done when all’s
said and done.
The “political situation” in Westralia
just now is suggestive of half-a-dozen office boys
scrambling for a vacancy. When Rason, who was
unfit to be Premier and is more unfit to be Agent-
General, decided to drop the uncertain Premier-
ship and collar the stiddier job of A.-G., he offered
the billet he didn’t want to Wilson. Gregory
(what mere names, shadows of names, these State
politicians, from Carruthers upwards, become !),
who was Mines Minister, was wanted by Wilson
as a colleague, and Wilson waited for the
train which was to bring Gregory to Perth
to meet him. But Gregory didn’t turn up.
He had been met, higher up the line, by
Newton Moore (another shadow of a name !), who
is Minister for Lands. He took Gregory, off the
train and with Hicks (when is Smith coming into the
story ?) who is Minister for Commerce, collogued
with him—presumably to see if they couldn’t
work points on Wilson. Wilson waited wearily—
accompanied by Gordon (ho, for Jones, next
development!), who is Government whip—for
Gregory, then went to bed. Gregory, Moore and
Hicks came on t > Perth by the midnight train,
and roused Wilson out of bed (not known whether
Gordon was there at the time of this develop-
ment, and Brown and Robinson aren't men-
tioned). Wilson, Gregory, Moore, Hicks and
Smith (no, there was no Smith) talked until 2
a.m., and no agreement was arrived at. Now ’tis
said that, anyhow, Wilson won't he Premier.
Who will be isn’t clear, though Newton Moore is
trying his hand at the business. But it may lie
Jones will get there. (There is a Jones m the
story somewhere, ish‘i there?)
ANXIOUS ABOUT HIS SOUL.
All sound reform must begin with the would-be re-
former. He must first acquire spiritual liberty for him-
self.”—ARGUS.
THE NEW ELECTIVE FORCE: “ Here! I’m going
to have Reform?”
FAT DITTO: But, my dear brother, are you
ripe for it? What of your spiritual condi-
tion? Let us see into that first.”
Sydney Telegraph, whenever it . allows
itself to get away from polities and to be sensible,
is quite Socialistic. On the question of irrigation,
for instance (4/5/’0(J) : —
The ideal irrigation settlement starts with one owner
for both land and water. The Stale ow ns the water, and
before it begins its development, at any rate, if intense
culture is intended, it should also own the land, and in
fiximr its price for both, the cost of establishing what-
ever communication is necessary could be included.
Hear, hear !
We may now say good-bye
To the long doctor's bills,
To the coughs and th® colds
And the various cl
For the high and the . ,w,
The rich and the poor
Have found all they need —
Woods’ Peppermint Cure.*
THE VIEWS OF CHOWDER CHARLIE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The blanks in the following- verses may be filled in with
any two.syllable adjective selected by the reader, ac-
cording to his own taste and fancy.
“ This Mister G. H. Reid
And Mister Deakin
Are not too slow ; indeed
They’re good at speakin’.
They’re talkin’ every night
At various places.
I’d sooner see a fight
Out at the races !
“ 1 This G. H. Reid,’ says D.,
‘ Is far too reckless !
He’s got no policy,
But just a ■ necklace 1
A necklace made of noes,
Or noes and yesses,
And whoppers, I suppose !
And doubtful guesses ! ’
“ Then George, he makes a start 1
His style is rummy,
Although he’s pretty smart.
Says Alf’s a dummy !
A kind of dancing-doll,
The sort of smarty
Whose dodge is to control
The Labor Party ;
But really all the time
The Labor Caucus
Still runs the pantomime
With tricks to baulk us !
This ancient weary tale
And dismal story,
Although it’s growing stale,
Will please some Tory !
“ Says Mister Deakin : ‘ Look !
I’ll beat this pack all;
Including Mister Cook,
Who’s George’s jackal ! ’
He doesn't call them hounds ;
He’s much too gentle !
The phrase be uses sounds
More ornamental!
“Then George, he gives a stare,
And says with laughter :
‘ Alf. Deakin is the hare
The hounds are after ! ’
These metaphors, if not
Too extra ■ civil,
To coves like us are rot ;
Just rot and drivel! ”
N.S.W.
W. T. COODGE.


Any Lady who wants to be well dressed must wear Boots
or fehoes which retain their shape and poise under any strain.
gfd
BOOK'S ,ufr
and SHOES
are made from the most modern lasts, and every Boot or Shoe
we sell bears the Callaghan brand, as a guarantee of its
sterling value.
/> TWR
w *
\
This Stylish BOOT we
send to any part of the
Commonwealth, includ-
ing Iciest Australia,
POST FREE
for
g
Ladies’ All Patent Kid Button Boots, light
soles, Wurtemburg heels, smart toes
35/""
A FEW OTHER
HIGH-GRADE
BOOTS & SHOES.
Postage, 9d Extra -
ine Glace Kid Hutton Hoots, patent toecups good
elastic walking soles .. .. .. 22s 6d
All Patent Kid Button Shoes, light soles, Wurtemburg
heels, smart toes
Fine Glace Kid Lace Shoes, patent caps, dress soles,
pointed toes, fancy patent leather collarette XSs !)<]
All Patent lvid Lace Shoes, light soles, stylish heels
smart toes 23s (id
The same Shoe to button .. “ “ 24s 6d
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 George St.
SYDNEY.
WE o SpH r 4W?^nm S ’ iu our STYLE-BOOK. Send for it j
WE EA-OHANGrE WOODS. WE KEEUND MONEY.
mm
Photography
Without a
Darß Room!
r->
i
T^\
( ) HERE is a general idea that photography can be
| practised only by those possessing considerable
knowledge of its technical aspects; that it is a
difficult, messy and costly pastime
How erroneous is this idea, so far as the Kodak
method is concerned, is conclusively shown in the at-
tractive Brownie Booklet, which should be read by all
in search of a pleasing and profitable pastime.
Ihe Kodak method is synonymous with light and
elegant apparatus, daylight loading and changing, day-
light developing and printing, and simple operations
which can be mastered by anybody in a few minutes.
your address if you %ould like to have the 'Booklet.
XER & ROUSE PROPY. LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaid
0
Refiners and
Sole Manufacturers of
ESTABLISHED 1834.
SAN FRANCISCO, and 117 Pitt St.. Sydney
MALTHOID DAMPCOURSE.
THERE IS NO
doubt that- au effective (lampcourse
is a necessity in any building. Alal-
tboiil h is I een proved so effective that
other makes are being sold as
JUST AS GOOD
as Hallhoid. Insist o.i setting ihe
real article with the a Love signature
on the label. Made irom a t u e
mineral. Absolutely Irani - rooi.
"I.it is not seemly, uo it not; ii it is not true, speak it not.” —March- ai ki" >
WILLIAM BALDWIN
W. S, FRIER U & CO.,
JA-MES W. JACK,
NOR .JAN &
E. T. HARRIS.
HEDLEY BUTTON,
BRISCOE & CO., LTD.,
Aust. Rep.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Wellington, N.Z.
Adelaide, S.a.
Townsville, Q.
Launceston, Tas.
Melbourne, Vie.
JAIIES McEWAN & CO., LTD., Melb., Vic.
JAMES SANDY & CO., Sydney, N.S.W.
JOHN BURNS & CO., BID., Auckland, N.Z.
G. L. DENNISTON, Dunedin, N.Z.
WILL AM SANDOVER & CO., Perth, W.A.
EDWARD REECE & SONS, Cheh., N.Z.
E. L. YENCKEN & CO. Piy., Ltd.,Me.b., Vic.
THOMSON, BRIDGER & CO., LTD.. luvercarfrill, N.Z.
THE N.Z. LOAN AND MERCANTILE AGENCY CO., LTD., Brisbane, Q.
FINNEY, ISLES & GO., LIMITED.
For Men’s Winter Wear.
We have an admirable
. . . range of
OVERCOATS
all iii Good Materials, Well-Made, and
Newest Styles. They comprise :
CAPE-A JTB-SI.EE'V E in Tweed, lined throughout. Sizes 3to 8.
22/6, 25/6, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-, 42/-, 45/- each.
CHESTEEFIELD OVEECOATS, in Fox’s Pure-Wool Serges, in Brown, Black,
and Pure-Indigo. Sizes 3 to 7. 22/6 each.
CHESTER OVEFi COATF, Rainproof Material, Yoke Shoulders, in Fawn and Grey.
Sizes 38 to 44in. Breast. 25/-, 27/6, 30/-, 35/-, 42/-, 50/- each.
Carriage Paid to 5 per cent, of value.
Fcr Smart Overcoats you can’t beat FINNEY'S.
THE . . .
BIG BLOCK,
Edward & Adelaide Sts., BRISBANE.
fdg
BELLEVUE HOTEL,
George and Alice Sts*, BRISBANE
(adjoining Parliament House, Queensland Club, and the
Botanical Uanleus).
HOTEL OK THE HIGHEST GLASS.
Porter awaits arrival of all Boats and Trains.
MOBEIIATE TAHIKE. ALL AIODELt.V OON VENIENCES.
w. PETERMANN,
(late of Lennon’s', Puui’j;ih'i'on.
Also at Toowoomba.
WELvSBACff
MANTLES d
Made in Australia by Australians for Australians.
ft
«s
3k
- "tS
3S
; jcM! - •: z % r\: *
-v/V'^r
SKfl
?WSB
The House that
Jack built.”
v —No. So
This Is the mouse that oft for ffem 9
Would up the stout, strong
sncntSe run—
And this shews how the cat was
done.
Inside the house that inch built. 5 '
Look for the Trade flark on every article.
WELSBACH Mantles and Fittings can
be had of all Ironmongers & Plumbers.
The UJelsbaeh pgfil Qompann
Have Suowkoo-us at . . .
<a\iy
MAjy
S
W
>
441 Kent Street, Sydney
230 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
Harrold Colton & Co„ Adelaide
Perry Bros,, Brisbane
Levi Green, Perth, W.A.


Pratt’s Motor Car Spirit.
Highest Grade
American . . .
n CT T O A |
* G B fIVU
ALWAYS UNIFORM IN QUALITY.
In stock at the Kerosene Stores of the COLONIAL OIL
COMPANY.
At all the Leading Centres of Australia and New Zealand.
“M OTA ” brand
Motor Car Spirits
Are the finest power spirits the world produces.
Sold by all Motor Manufacturers,
Importers, Repairers, etc., or of
The BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD.,
Agents, Adelaide, Melbourne & Sydney.
At Randwick, on Anniversary day, the seventh
horse in the book won three different events. 777 is
the number of Tattersalls’ golden pen. Try your luck
with one when you order your sweep ticket. Box ot
ei ••hteen for sixpence anywhere, or send eightpence in
stamps to 777, Box 98, G.P.0., Sydney.’
SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
.to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian A&ents-.Vlessra. E. H. FOTHERGILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS-
Melbourne Cricket Club having thrown off
the mask and admittedly started out to smash
the Victorian Cricket Association and Board of
Control, there is no reason for using the rosewater of
polite reserve any longer. The Melbourne Club is in
active negotiation with a number of inter-State and
international players to create a sort of Australian
XI. Limited Liability Co., the shares of which
would not be open to the public, and which would,
no doubt, run cricket to pay. Take the history
of the dispute. It was the rampant suspicion that
test matches in England were thrown away in the
interests of “gate ” that brought about the establishment
of the Board of Control. When the Board was first estab-
lished, the Melbourne Club said, in October last, that it
would be satisfied with representation on it. In November
it took up a fresh attitude, and became wildly concerned
about the position of the South Australian Association.
In January it fixed up a secret agreement with the bulk
of the inter-State and international players that they
would play for the Melbourne Club when and where
required. And to their shame be it said that most
of the N.S.W. players—some of whom had been
secured billets by the N.S.W. Association, and helped
financially and otherwise on account of their skill as
cricketers—signed that agreement. Meanwhile the Mel-
bourne Club intrigued with the Marylebone Club, but
without much satisfaction. Earl Jersey was on the com-
mittee of the English body, and the Earl knew something,
so the Marylebone absolutely declined to deal with any body
which did not represent all the Australian cricket interests.
Beaten in that quarter, the Melbourne Cricket Club set
to work to wipe out the Victorian Cricket Association.
Hitherto the Melbourne Club has been the chief money-
making body in Victoria, and it had loaned large sums to
impecunious clubs. This was the opportunity to
turn those advances to account. It apparently
put on the screw, and the clubs found themselves
in the position of having to pay up or go over. The
Melbourne Club proposed to form a new Association, in
which it would have full control of local, State, and inter-
national cricket. At the same time it tried to come to
an arrangement with Westralia, by which the Western
State was to play against any semi-private team that the
club could induce to come out from England. The screwing
of the impecunious Melbourne clubs was a howling success,
but it disgusted the strong independent clubs, and the
fact that the Collingwood and University clubs decided to
stick to the present Association and the Board of Control
was a heavy blow. The position in Victoria now is that
the Melbourne Club has seceded from the Cricket Associ-
ation, and is practically an outlaw. It has tried to
form a new Association, and succeeded in saddling
itself mostly with the stone - broke bodies which
owe it money, while the seven strong clubs have
remained loyal to the Vic. Association and the Board of
Control. As Tub Bullhtin goes to press the N.S.W.
Association is dealing with those players who have agreed
to play for the Melbourne Club; they are to renounce
their agreement and give guarantees for their loyalty,
or be fired out of their clubs and disqualified.
The Melbourne Club had fondly hoped that Sydney
Cricket Ground Trustees would allow it to have the
ground when it was required, but the Trustees have just
discovered that, in the face of Justice Simpson’s decree
in Equity', thev cannot let the ground in defiance of the
Cricket Association, or if they give the use of it they
cannot charge for admission. Further, if after Judge
Simpson’s decree they have to fight another action at law
for trying to get round that decree in Equity, the whole
of the law expenses must be borne by the trustees indivi-
dually and personally, and cannot be paid out of Ground
revenues or moneys. Which is quite enough for the pre-
sent trustees—they are the wrong men to take such risks
as that. So it looks as though the Melbourne Club’s
house of cards is already tumbling to pieces.
• * * *
Glebe and Burwood, having decided to play off
for the Premiership of Sydney metropolitan cricket, met
on No. 2 Sydney Cricket Ground on Saturday in the pre-
sence of about 2000 people. Glebe won the toss and de-
cided to go to the wickets, in spite of the fervent heat.
If it goes down, as it is almost sure to do, Cotter, Bubb
and Gorry ought to be ashamed to show their faces in the
Glebe district again. At present these three precious
citizens are away in Queensland with Trumper, leaving
their club to do the best it can in a critical position.
Glebe was still further handicapped by the absence of
Grounds, who wrenched his knee the previous Saturday.
Bardsley and Brisbane faced Garnsey and O’Connor,
and the best team Burwood could put up was fielding.
The batsmen felt the weight of the responsibility, and
played cautiously. At 43 Garnsey succeeded in running
Brisbane out. After the second wicket, which fell at 93,
trouble came fairly fast, four falling for 40. Then 35 were
added for one, three more fell for 15, and finally the side
disappeared for 183. O’Connor and Garnsey took the
bowling honors, taking four for 74 and three for 75
respectively. Burwood did not shake the universe when
it got to the wickets, and the day closed with no wickets
down for four. Only three overs were sent down, of
which Howell’s was a maiden. But for the absence of
the three above-mentioned players in Queensland, Glebe
would now have a good chance of winning the premier-
ship.
* * * *
S.A. Cricket Association’s attempt to import a
ground bowler has fallen fiat. It was understood that
Darling had secured an offer from Mead, the Essex
howler, to come if wanted ; but when S.A. cabled to him
he replied that he could not give up English engagements.
Then he was asked to come out for the Australian sum-
mer only, and go back for the English (Jim Phillips
played for Victoria and Middlesex in this way for some
years) ; but finally he declined to come at all.
% * * *
Winter, as far as pastimes are concerned, com-
menced in Sy'dney on Saturday, but the heat was that of
a midsummer day, so footballers and hurlers suffered
severely, while the laerossers showed signs of melting
away. The opening of the Rugby season attracted enor-
mous crowds, no less than 7000 rolling up at University
ground to see the struggle between University Club and
Glebe, which was the best game of the day. University,
by hard practice and steady training, had its team in ex-
cellent condition, and, better than all, had attained to an
unexpected degree of combination. It was badly out-
weighted and up against the best forward pack in Sydney,
but the Uni. backs played the game for all it was worth,
and by a series of splendid passing charges, which
were repeatedly blocked only to be started again, kept
the end of the log up in spite of the ravening efforts of
the Glebe forwards. As a rule the Uni. men show up in
charges, and make a fine spectacular game by carrying
the leather from one end of the field to the other. On
Saturday this was impossible ; the head of even' combin-
ation was swept away by those rushing red forwards,
who, with heads down, dribbled the ball back towards
the Uni. goal line. The trouble with Glebe was the
weakness of its backs ; once the Uni. men got past the
red forwards it was all up. Glebe, on the other hand,
could make no impression against the Uni. backs, and the
red team’s scores were obtained by field goals and penalty
kicks. Glebe forwards dribbled finely, but, somehow,
there was always a daring man in blue and gold who
would pick it up off the toe and punt it out of danger. A
strenuous game ended in favor of Uni. by II to seven.
• * * *
The newly admitted Manly Football Club struck
disaster on its initial appearance, haying the misfortune
to be drawn against a tough crowd like Newtown. Ihe
match was played at Manly, and about 2000 villagers
rolled up to see what the end would be. The new' men
started well, holding their own against a very grim
attack by the Newtown forwards, but a penalty kick was
{riven against them for offside play, and Newtown scored.
Then disaster fell on the Villagers, and the sun went
down on a wrecked team, beaten by 14 to nil. The other
debutante club, St. George, had better luck. It found
itself pitted against the comparatively weak Western
Suburbs, and played the aggressive part right through,
but the superior combination of the Suburbs nullified
its brilliant individual efforts. The first half saw
neither side score, but early in the second St. George
struggled over the line and scored a try. Western
Suburbs began to feel anxious, and came away with a
series of passing rushes, one of which was successful al-
though the kick failed. Both teams wiped the perspira-
tion out of their eyes and hurled themselves into the
struggle. Amidst wild excitement, St. George got a great
rush on, and swept through Western Suburbs like fire
through grass, and by means of a splendid four hand pass
scored. The shot at goal failed, and Western Suburbs
came away fast. St. George defended stubbornly, but
the Westerners juggled with the leather, and left them
guessing while Keen ran in by the corner and scored,
making the points equal. When captain Judd gets his
machine finished St. George will be a formidable crowd.
The question is whether he can get it built in time to
make things hum this season.
* * * •
The Rugby surprise of Saturday was the up-
heaval of Eastern Suburbs, which beat Sydney District
by 10 to eight. Last season Eastern Suburbs, having just
been dismembered to make Sydney District, had not re-
covered from the operation, and although it played with
determination, invariably suffered defeat. Now it looks
as though its courage is to be rewarded, and Saturday
found it a strong, active team, showing signs of careful
preparation. South Sydney, needless to say, crushed Bal-
main, the tattered suburb being beaten by 22 to nil.
North Sydney scored two points on its bye. The position
in the competition is that South Sydney, University,
Newtown, Eastern Suburbs, and North Sydney have each
scored two points. Western Suburbs and St. George
have one each. Tha other four are still at zero.
Sydney footballers have got boxed, to use a pas-
toral expression. The Rugby kickers will trample on one
another at the Sports Ground, the new reserve on the
nvrth side of Sydney Cricket Ground. The Australian
players will collect the bobs in the Sydney Cricket
Ground itself, and the Soccers collect their gate at the
Agricultural Ground, just on the other side of the Cricket
Ground. It is certainly handy to the trams, but the ques-
tion is whether it will prove a game of cut-throat.
* * * *
The Australian footballers also opened their
winter on Saturday, and, in spite of the heat, made a
good showing. Last year premiers (Sydney), at Sydney
Cricket Ground, completely romped over Balmain,
winning by 75 to 14 points ; and, over on Moore Park, the
Y.M.C.A. ground Paddington small as in a mill, winning
by 75 to 15 points. On the other side of the park, East
Sydney and Newtown were putting up a wonderfully
even struggle, running neck and neck to the very close,
when East Sydney got three points ahead, and won with
a score of 38. There are disadvantages, besides the
absence of gate, in playing on Moore Park. When the
Rugby spectators came trooping out of the Sports Ground,
a great torrent of humanity flowed right across Moore
Park, and nearly swamped the Australian ’bailers. It is
whispered that some of the Y.M.C.A. young men said
“ Damn ! ” quite loudly.
4 * * *
The annual uproar among barrackers, followers
and supporters of football started last Saturday on the
different grounds round Melbourne. By reason of having
had an extra couple of practice matches the various
players were less wooden in their movements and more
supple in their joints than is usual at the season’s com-
mencement. The best game was that between the
evenly-matched “ South ” and Essendon, the latter being
defeated, on its own ground, by 67 points to 60. ’Roy
ran round “Saints,” ’Wood played the deuce with Gee-
long, and Carlton amused itself with Melbourne. Nothing
sudden transpired to the ten Association clubs, the
stronger clubs of last season doing much as they liked
with the weaker. Attendances were good, but not heavy.
New players from Metropolitan and Junior Associations
were tried freely, some half-dozen proving themselves
almost as good as, and often a good deal more willing than
the veterans. The most notable recruit was Powell, who,
after putting in one season in Westralia and another in
idleness (as regards hoofball), returned to his old club,
Collingwood, with the permission of the League, which
had disqualified him for being too susceptible to the
attractions proffered by a rival club. Nobody used in-
sulting language the whole afternoon, nor was any blood
shed, the barrackers being as affable as Deakin and as
non-committal as Yes-No.
X TV *
Sydney Metropolitan Referees’ Association is
making trouble with the Rugby Union, and demands re-
presentation on the Union Council, the Appointment
Board, and the Protest and Appeal Committees. The
Association has 41 financial members, and supplies re-
ferees for all important matches. Hitherto the Union
has received these requests with a snort, and dropped
them into the w.p.b. Now it is talking back, and .says if
it grants all these things it must have a say in the appoint-
ment of the referees, and a right to veto the admission of
any member on the grounds of incompetence. Consider-
ing that the Referees’ Association is merely another
name for a Referees’ Union, the object of which is to
see that the referees get a decent screw for their after-
noon’s work, their demand is just plain, unmitigated im-
pudence.
* * * *
The vigorous language of the just-returned
Maoriland All Black team on English referees and rules
has had a damping effect on the N.S.W. Rugby Union’s
wild endeavor to get the English Union to create an Im-
perial Council, or Board, or Court of Appeal, or some
such foolishness. It is all right to have Great Thoughts,
but this great imperial idea isn’t so good as it looks.
» * * *
The British Soccer authorities have had to legis-
late against the intrusion of an unauthorised person on
the football field. A foolish custom has sprung up of
getting a Mayor, or M.P., or more probably a Parliamen-
tary candidate who was popularity-hunting, to kick off
at the start of a match. On the comparatively small
English grounds a prompt return of the ball generally
meant that it fouled the stranger, and the opposing for-
wards charged into him, and the umpire fell over him
before he could escape to the touch-line. So he has been
forbidden to appear at all.
* * * *
N.S.W.’s tony eight-oar crew, which carefully
chucked the working man out of the boat, could do no
better on the Swan River than finish a bad third behind
Victoria and Tasmania. The course was a straightaway
one of three miles. From the start, which is said to have
been ideal, the Victorians went off with a rush, followed
by South Australia, Westralia, N.S.W. and Tasmania, in
that order. At the end of the first mile Tasmania had
moved up to third place, and was closing on Westralia
very fast. Within another hundred yards, both
Westralia and Victoria .were passed. At the mile
and a half N.S. Wales felt that it must vindicate
the honor of the lily-white brigade, and made an
effort, but someone caught a crab, and the boat
dropped back to the tail of the procession. But the
South Australians and Westralians were exhausted, and,
with a rally, the Cornstalk boat swept past them and
went after the leaders. Victoria was making a strenuous
effort to overtake the Tassies, but Apple Land put on
pound for pound and maintained an aggravating lead of
one and a half lengths. Then, with 300yds. to go, it
put on an extra ounce, and increased the lead so as to
guard against any extra-special spurt on the part of the
Victorians, and won easily in 16min. lsec.
Since and including 1878 there have been 29
inter-State races, and 87 crews have competed. Twelve
times there were only two competitors ; nine times there
were three ; four times there were four ; and four times
there were five. Victoria scored 23 wins, five seconds,
and one third. N.S.W. has four wins, 17 seconds, three
thirds, one fourth and one fifth ; hut nine times when
N.S.W. was second there were only two competitors, and
second was as far back as it could get. Queensland has
one win, three seconds, nine thirds, and three fourths.
Tasmania has one win, one second, and one third.
S. Australia shows a record of two seconds, three thirds,
one fourth, and two* fifths. Westralia has one second,
three fourths and one fifth.
■» * * *
However, Victoria had her revenge in the Inter-
State Championship Sculls, which P. C. Ivens won for her
for the first time. Curious that the State which has won
the Eight-oar Championship so often should not have
produced a premier sculler. P. C. Ivens must have been
vastly superior to either Robinson, of Tasmania, or
Stephenson, of Westralia, for during the race he went on
the wrong course and had to retrace his journey, then
he made a bad stroke, which nearly upset him and lost
a lot of time ; and in spite of these delays he beat Tas-
mania’s representative by 25 lengths, while the Westralian
was 30 lengths away behind the second. The three
previous races were won by T. H. Bourke, of Tasmania.
N.S.W. has held the honor three seasons, Queensland has
done likewise, and Westralia has been there once.
* » * *
Maoriland cyclist Dick Arnst intends to give
his grit a trial at rowing, with the hope of taking the
championship of the world to his State. The Sydney
Thousand winner is a good oarsman, and an athlete of
exceptional strength. There’s money and enthusiasm
behind the project to give him a trial as a possible
aquatic champion.
* * * *
The hurling match on Saturday, so far as
Sydney was concerned, was that between the City and
Redfern clubs. Redfern team was decimated by the ill-
ness of members, and seamen from the British
warship Prometheus came in to fill the gaps, but,
nevertheless, ths side played a man short. It played
with extra vigor to make up for the loss, and from the
puck-off came roaring into Sydney’s territory and scored
a single in sharp order. City retaliated with a desperate
charge and forced the ball on to the Redfern line, but the
hurleys fell like rain, and it was sent flying hack. The
repulse became a rout, and the Redferns triumphantly
charged home, scoring a second point. Another
wild rush and Redfern had scored a goal. But the
City was not demoralised, only bustled ; and it pulled
itself together in a marvellous manner. Redfern was
overwhelmed. It put up a struggling resistance, but its
team was not combined, and combination won every
time. Half time found the City leading by 14 points to
nine. In the second half the Redfern men managed to
level the scores, but exhausted themselves in doing it,
and then City danced all over them, till a lead of five was
obtained, when it settled down to a defensive game. The
tactics were excellent, and Redfern, dashed itself to
pieces in that last quarter against a defence that seemed
impregnable. Twice Redfern managed by good luck and
despera.e play to score a point, but it played with the
depressing knowledge that City was likely to break away
to its goal line at any moment. Up to the very last,
however, it made great efforts to score, but they were
fruitless. The game ended —City 14 points, Redfern nine.
Proposed to spend the £2£jl 15s. Id. collected
by the Kieran memorial committee in placing a heavy
mass of stone on top of the dead swimmer, and extra
ground for the purpose has been secured in the Gore Hill
cemetery. This is a most atrocious blunder. After
providing for an ordinary headstone, the balance of the
fund should be invested, the annual earnings to
purchase a suitable Cup, or other trophy, to be called
after the most wonderful swimmer the world has ever
known. A ton of marble brings the great athlete down
to the level of an ordinary capitalist, and Kieran never
did anything to deserve that.
* * * *
After all Nigel Barker did not win the final of
that 400 kilometers race in Greece, and with his defeat
vanished Australia’s last hope of carrying off any prizes,
the bulk of which went to the Yankees. No less than i 5
of the trophies will g-o to the land of the Trust; the
British get away with 39, and the Swedes and Greeks
with 28 each. On a population basis the Greeks and
Swedes are the better athletes, and Britain is ahead of
the U.S.A. The cable is silent as to whether the Canadian
competitor who won the Marathon race was counted as a
Briton or an American. The absence of any mention of
the French, German, Austrian, and Hungarian athletes
indicates that the representatives of those countries wi re
in the dirt all the time. Also, what happened to tl e
Turk who wanted to enter for the Marathon race, but was
told that he must also throw the discus and wrestle, and
who expressed his willingness to do anything but eat
pork and drink wine? Writer was interested in that Turk
and his fortunes. Chances are that a revised list of prize
winners will be published later on.
* * * *
Efforts are being made to bring about the visit
of a Yankee baseball team to show the Australians how
to play. Baseball has not caught the public fancy in any
way, although no less than 12 clubs will battle for the
supremacy of Sydnev during the coming winter. The
game draws no crowds. That floating hive of sports, the
U.S. warship Baltimore, sports a “crack ” baseball team
but in the first of a series of matches with N.S.W. players
last week it was soundly walloped. There is a suspicion
abroad in Sydney that the Baltimore lads are not the
cream of th n States.
***■*•
Sydney Cricket Ground was fairly busy on
Saturday, ticket-holders being treated to a hurling
match, an Australian football scrimmage, and a motor
cycle race. The motor cycle fixture was under the
League of Wheelmen, over a distance of two miles. The
two"heats and final produced some interesting racing.
It was the only sport that was seasonable. Sitting on a
machine and rushing through the air at the rate of 43
miles an hour was an ideal pastime under that sky of blue
enamel with its puffs of fervent heat. The first heat was
won by Powell, on a 4 h.p., off the 200yds. The second
went to Forest Finlay, on a 2J h.p., from the 525yds.
mark. In the final Finlay had the same handicap, and
won by 20yds. from Powell, who was on the 200yds., with
Edwards, the scratch man, third, half a lap behind the
second. The handicapper evidently based his calculations
on the power of the machine, but it seems that the
highest-powered machine is not always the fastest. The
League of Wheelmen, now surrounded by a seething mass
of theatened secession, and with a rival organisation
Already in the field, is beginning to look pleasantly at the
motor bike men and ask them to give it a name. Mean-
while the motor bike men are not too friendly in the mass,
though they do give it a name.
* * • *
Some months ago there were whispers around
Sydney that a couple of local young men had stumbled on
to what looked like a freak in hydraulics. The freak
being investigated, experimented with, and tickled by
various devices, disclosed that it was not a freak, but a
principle as sound as that of gravity, or the attraction of
pretty girls for rich old men. More experiments fol-
lowed, till the thing was thoroughly developed, and it is
now claimed that the inventors have discovered howto
propel anything between a city runabout and a 2000.
ton train by hydraulic pressure. It is said that the
invention replaces all the complicated transmission
mechanism, such as clutches, shafts, and change speed
geirs, with a hvdraulic piston gear of childlike sim-
plicity. If about 50 per cent, of the things claimed for
the invention are true, petrol cars will be obsolete in
about two years. Steps have been taken to protect
patent all over the world, and a company with LIO.OUO
capital is being floated to exploit the idea. As in the case
of the writer’s flying machine, which won t fly, all that is
necessary is to build a working model and run it to
Man y and back, and then sit down and let the wor d
know what address to send the money to. Unfortunately
that hasn’t been done yet.
The motorist who wants to get real excitement
out of speed travelling- should go to Canada, where the
sportsmen of Toronto are racing their motor cars against
ice boats over the frozen surface of Lake J e * f
race between the fastest ice boat and a Dariacq car o
3-2 h.p. resulted in a decisive victory for the vato. There
are thrills about skimming over the thimce that not even
a wild rush on the sand of Daytona beach can
and it is said that the dipping and undulatin of the ice
as the car rushes over it gives the most
tion vet experienced. Talking of Daytona 'leachremnds
that Clifford Earp, he who drove the Napier car to victory
in the 100 miles race, says that rubber tyres at e i mistake
on the wet sand, and that the machine he drives next
year (if he doesn’t break every bone in hls >xly the
meantime) will be fitted with light wooden nmB. He also
said that he believed a hard macadamised road v ould be
at least five miles an hour faster than the wet sand,
which, in spite of the speed, does give somewhat.
N.S.W. League of Wheelmen has suddenly
found itself face to face with a formidable rebel 1 ion All
the dissatisfied members and clubs, and th CLe seems
be a considerable crowd of them, have come together and
formed a rival association, which threatens todiagha f
the kingdom with it. The new body scorns the unputa-
tion that it is the creation of men who h a ye b een fhs-
qualified for crooked riding, and points to quite a crowd
of dissatisfied clubs and riders of the best repute as syni-
pathisers and adherents. That the League
fairly stark is admitted, and that it has been prone to
disqualify men for giving back talk is alleg , ,
the other hand, any governing body that, attc ™P ts ui
keep the professional rider in order has to be severe, and
ready at all times to argue with an axe. They re
mighty unruly crowd, professional cyclists. *
The most humorous feature of the meeting
which led to the formation of the , N -SiW. Cyclists
Association was the proposal of the W.dow O Brien that
an embassy should wait on the League of N.S. .
men and, after courteously informing the it
was dead, request it to hand over the control of the sport
to the new body. But “the Widow” was always a
humorous cuss, and probably no one is more amused than
he at the spectacle of himself and Brother Brannigan woi -
ing together for the downfall of the League. The Associ-
ation would have been somewhat more likely to command
public svmpathy (it just craves for sympathy, and its
chief grievance is that the Leagues not in sjmpathj
with riders who have to live on the game) had
some of its officials not actually been under disquali-
fication for dubious practices on the track. The only
active participator in that meeting who cannot be said t
have personal reasons for hating the League was a mem-
ber of the Sports Ground Trust; and. probably, as the
League conducts its meetings at the Cricket Ground, he
was there for the benefit of his ground.
Sydnev Evening News badly wants a course of
history. When the sailor O’Neill, of H.M.S Powerful,
knocked out sailor English of Teddy Roosevelt s ship Bal-
timore (called after the town that was attacked by a
British army in revenge for the killing of General Ros.)
the News arose and solemnly declared that Bunker Hill
was forgiven. The News is apparently under the impres-
sion that Bunker Dill was a Yankee victory, which it
was not. The Yankees fought stubbornly, and the British
loss exceeded that of the Americans, but, all the same,
the Yankees were rooted out. They always claimed it as
a great moral victory, which is a thing that Woplls Kut-
ledge does when he is badly bowled out, but that is onlv
Yankee bluff, and it is deplorable to see a patriotic British
paper like the Snooze taken in by that bluff. But then
history was always a weak spot in the News office. It is
sobadlv informed that it realty believes that it was Free-
trade which gave England its mercantile supremacy in
the early years of the 19th century, and it is apparently
quite unaware of the fact that England had oyer 300 years
of Protection, which lasted down to the middle of the
19th century.
(Continued on pape 29.)
A Woman’s Allments.
Terrible State of Suffering Relieved and
Permanently Overcome by Dr. Morses
Indian Root Pills.
Women who suffer frequently lose heart wh< n
doctors and medicine fail to give them relief.
Without health what is a woman’s life? She
loses her good looks, her rounded form, and liie
becomes a burden. “For many yeirs, writes
Mrs. Rose Drury, of 194 Crown-street, “I was
MRS. BOSE DRURY.
(From a photo.)
subject to periodical
weakness, and suffer-
ed most acutely from
constipation, liver and
kidney trou 1) 1e s.
What I went through
no one but myself can
have any conception
of. As I had children to
look after and my work
to do, I was naturally
kept going from morn-
ing to night. When
night came I could
not sleep, and I got
up in the morning a
ghost of myself.
Headaches racked my
brain, and gave the
thought that I should
go mad. I tried
many doctors, and
any kind of medicine
that I had an idea would do me good, but of
no avail, and so the days and weeks went
on, and I resigned myself to what I thought w'as
the inevitable. When talking to a neighbor one
day, she asked me if I had tried Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills, and I replied 1 No.’ It was on
her recommendation—they had cured her—that I
began to take them, and from that day (about
eighteen months ago) I have not suffered in the
least. My work is no longer a trouble, and my
life, which formerly was a misery, is a pleasure.
I seem to see my everyday life and work in a
different light, and what at one time was a
nuisance and a worry is now a source of delight,
and I can confidently say that I put it down to
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. That they are a
wonderful medicine I can confidently affirm, as I
have proved them, and this testimonial should be,
to any sceptic as to their reliability, a perfect
proof of their curative powers. 1 recommend them
always, and if it was in my power I would re-
commend them to all the world. I have no trouble
with my liver, and am regular in every way. I
think it is only right that I should let everyone
know what Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills have
done for me, and I do not see, as they have cured
me, why they should not do so to everyone
similarly affected. Tiy them, at all events, if so
suffering, and the result will be, I am sure,
perfectly satisfactory.’ *


Ill 1
bmii
mliiii
rmC*
MIC*;:
BRITISH OFFICERS
LORD KITCHENER
GEM. S>R E. MARKHAM,
Nazeing Park, Waltham Cross,
LBEUT.-CQL. FRED HOLE,
Babbacombe, Devon,
ftfIAJOR-GEM. ALEX. P. CLAY,
Sherborne, Dorset,
LSEBiT. W. m. MACLEOD,
31st D.S.O. Lancers, Mamaluin, Elgin, N. 8.:
wrote that he much enjoyed
smoking Marsumas.
sends order, and writes: —
“ Colonel Chamberlin re-
commended me to smoke
Marsumas.”
writes : —“ I spent 20 years of
my life in India and never
knew it could produce such
good Tobacco as yours.”
“ Marsumas are far superior to
the cigars I have been smok-
ing in India for the past 50
years.”
“ I consider Marsumas most
excellent value, and those I
have smoked so, for every
one has fulfilled all you say
of them in your advertise-
ment, and that is saying a
good deal.”
SOLE -A-G-lEEnTTS
FELDHEIM, COTTHELF & CO., Sydney, N.S.W.
FOTHERCILL & CO., Fremantle, W.A.
Mr. DAN REDDAN, Fitzroy, Melbourne, Victoria.
Messrs. AULD & SONS, Adelaide, S.A.
Messrs. WHITE & CO., Hobart, Tasmania.
Mr. P. A. 0. BYRNE, Launceston, Tasmania.
[4
Mr. DUNCAN McLSAN, Greymouth, N.Z.
Thus Allan Mcßean, once half-
Premier along with Reid
He could remember when there was no question of
capital and labor, and employer and employed went to
the poll together to vote for the man who would work for
the interest of the whole country, and not for their
particular interests.
Writer can also remember these things, and he is
. not nearly so old as McLean. Before the ballot
was devised, not only did the employers and em-
ployed go to the poll together, but the employer
kept the employed mighty close under his eye
until he had voted. And at small polling booths,
where the votes for each candidate were recorded
separately, if the employers’ candidate did not get
pretty well all the support there was, a big change
of employees used to happen thereabouts.
The round hole that would exactly fit that
remarkably round peg, Thomas Bent, is that of
sole Closer Settlement Commissioner, with full
power to deal in land as he darned well chooses.
A land-owners’ deputation asked him lately for
£5OOO or so to complete some works on the Goul-
butrn, saying that a vast area of Crown land would
thereby be immeasurably enhanced in value.
Quoth Thomas : “ Jusso, jusso ! How many acres
are there?” The “vast area” presently boiled
down to 1200 acres. Then: “What increase in
value would this work give to the land?” One
said £3 per acre, another thought £4. and another
was quite sure£s. “ Ah,” replied Thomas, “the
landowners have 50,000 acres, which have had the
same benefits already, and four or five notes an acre
has been put on to their land. So what should they
give?” Theflabbergasted deputation thereupon fell
overitself explaining things. But, as usual, Thomas
didn’t 1 finish up as well as he promised to do, for
he yielded so far as to say he would give £1 for
every £1 contributed privately. If only Thomas
cohld bite as well as he can bellow !
Our Hats
ARE PROUD OF THEMSELVES.
A TJSTRALIA is only just beginning 1 to appreciate
itself. For so long we’ve made a fetish of “ made
abroad,” “made in Germany”—made anywhere, in
fact, out of our own sunny Australia —that manufac-
turers have been timid to launch out with a purely
Australian article and let the world know it such.
But we’re sure Australia has grown beyond its infant
stage. We’re staking our hard cash on this belief—
have big vested interests of the “ Calico Jimmy ”
type to contend with—but if you help us we can win.
Our Hats are made wholly of the choicest pure
Australian Furs, worked up by Australian workmen
—paid full union wages and working 48 hours a week
—with every latest appliance to help them. They
come in both Hard and Soft Felts—in every shape,
for City and Country wear. They are very light and
durable—the colors fast dyed—and will give you
better satisfaction than any hat on the market. They
are sold throughout the Commonwealth by Drapers,
Tailors, Mercers and Storekeepers at Half-a-Guinea
and Twelve-and-Sixpence.
The Governor-General, Lord Northcote ; Sir
nald Talbot, the Governor of Victoria; Sir Samuel
Griffiths, the Chief Justice of the High Court of Aus-
tralia ; Sir John Madden, Chief Justice of Victoria—
are wearing them, and admit them to equal the
world’s finest headwear.
Every one of our Hats has our full name, “ Austral
Hat Mills Pty., Ltd.,” stamped on the inside
leather ; without this stamp none are genuine. Look
for it when you buy. Ask your dealer for a hat with
our full name on the leather. If he can’t supply you
write to us, giving his name and address. We’ll
arrange for his doing so, and refund your postage.
AUSTRAL HAT MILLS PROP. Ltd., Abbotsford, Vic.
Legal Notice.
/"i RACE COULSTOCK, Deceased. —Pursuant to im Order
of the Chancery Division of the High Court of
Justice, dated 12th day of Febmarv, 1906, and made in
the matter of the ESTATE of GRACE COULSTOCK,
Deceased, Sarah Annie Springett (Spinster), and Wilson
Stuckey plaintiffs, Thomas Coulstock defendant (1906,
O 267)," whereby the following enquiry is directed : An
enquiry who were the persons entitled by virtue of or
according to the Statute of Distribution of Intestates’
Estates to the estate of the above named testatrix, Grace
Coulstock, living at the time of her death, and whether
any of them are since dead, and, if so, who are their
respective legal personal representatives. Notice is
Hereby Given, that any person or persons claiming to be
next-of-kin of the said Grace Coulstock, or the legal per-
sonal representatives of next-of-kin, are, by their solici-
tors, on or before the 24th day of October, i. 906, to come
in and prove their claims at the Chamber of Mr. Justice
Kekewich and Mr. Justice Joyce, at the Royal Courts of
Justice, Strand, London, England ; or in default thereof
they will be peremptorily excluded from the benefit of the
said order. Friday, the 26th day of October, 1906, at
twelve o’clock at noon, at the said Chamber (Room-No.
267), is appointed for hearing and adjudicating upon the
claims.
Dated this 3rd day of April, 1906.
WILLIAM BINNS SMITH,
Master of the Supreme Court.
Note. —The said testatrix, Grace Coulstock, died a
spinster, on the 10th March, 1905, and was late of
Brighton, in the county of Sussex.
NASH, FIELD, and CO., 12 Queen-street, London, E.C.,
England, Solicitors for Plaintiffs.
Kangaroo Island (S.A.) is taking steps to
protect “ Frenchman’s Rock,” which bears an in-
scription carved by the crew of the French ex-
ploring ship Geographe in 1802. (Mossoo was
just too late to annex a large slice of the southern
put of this continent.) S.A. Government subsi-
dises the islanders’ contributions up to a modest
£5O. and a sort of permanent gamp is to be put
up over the inscription.
Amusement?.
H
ER MAJESTY’S TH EA Die, itfl £ _rf JJ rl lY E.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
GREAT SUCCESS EVERY EVENING of
MISS TITTE L BRUNc in
DOROTHY VERNON, OF HADOON HALL.
Remember, the LAST NIGHTS in Melbourne.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
HALL, MELBOURNE.
Under Direction of EDWIN GEACH.
WEST’S PICTURES,
THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.
THE BRESCIANS,
ORCHESTRA AND SINGERS.
STARTING SATURDAY, MAY 12.
Music, Songs,
Phonographs,
Violins, Etc.
o
Packing: Free to any address.
Terms extended to Householders only. Send for
GASH CATALOGUES.
EDISON GOLD-MOULDED RECORDS
(Gash only), price i/9 each. Trade Supplied.
ALBERT & SO3\T,
Largest, Best and Cheapest Music Stores in Australia
137 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of the famous
BOOMERANG MOUTH ORGANS.
G
EM SONG BOOK.
600 Songs, Words and Music for 2/6.
A Gigantic Collection of War, Patriotic, Comic, Coon*
Nigger, Sacred. Pathetic, and Lov« Songs of England,
Ireland, Scotland, Wales, America, Germany, etc.
New and old time favorites and ballads not to be found else-
where. Most marvellous collection ever bound together
between the covers of one book. Price only 2/6, posted 2/10,
If stamps only are enclosed add Bd. extra. List of Songs for stamn
Xante this paver-
A. J. SMITH & CO., Mocre-street, Sydney.
The World's Favorite
Briar Pipe.
The Leading Pipe in Australasia
and all the World
For over 50 Years
Obtainable
from all Tobacconists.
E. T. WALSH
Practical Tailor,
Expert Ctitter,
NEW FOUR-GUINEA SUITINGS.
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS. —Send your name and I will send my illustrated Style Catalogue,
also Samples and Measurement Chart and Outfit for measurements.
If you don’t like the Suit when you get it—YOUB. MONEY BACK.
Experienced Cutter from Bond Street,
London, employed.
NO FACTORY WORK .
359 <SE0R<5E STREET, SYDNEY
Cures While
You Sleep
ESTABLISHED 1879.
A Vaporized Medicine having Extraordinary
Curative Powers over
Whooping Cough, Croup,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza,
AND DISTRESSING COUGHS IN YOUNG AND OLD.
IT PROTECTS YOUR HOME AGAINST CONTAGIOUS DISEASE.
Yapo-Cresolene complete 7-6; Cresolene, 160 z., 7-6; 4 oz. 5 2-8; 2 ©z., 1-8,
VAPO-CRESOLENE COMPANY, NEW YORK, U. S. A.
Trade Supplied by THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG COMPANY, LTD.
Amusements.
“T|- M E A T R E ROYAL, SYDNEY.
■ Lessee J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING, EVERY EVENING,
BLAND HOLT and his
FAVORITE COMPANY OF DRAMATIC ARTISTS
in Drurv-Lane’s Greatest Success,
THE PRODIGAL SON.
Written and Dramatised by HALL CAINE.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s and Is.
Iri .WAJ-ofVS SVDN EY.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVENINGS, at 8. WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON, at 2.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
—in
THE ORCHID.
The Brightest of all the Gaiety Successes.
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT, MAY 12, FLORODORA.
Box Plan at Paling’s. CW PRICES AS USUAL.
QR ITER I O IM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction of EDWIN GEACH.
SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 12, First Appearance in
WILLOUGHBY ANWARD^NE COMEDY
COMPANY, including
MISS GRACE PALOTTA,
the Famous Society and Beauty Actress, in
THE MAN FROM MEXICO.
Plan at Elvy’s.
THEATRE,
SYDNEY.
pALACE
FAREWELL NIGHTS of
Mr. GEORGE STEPHENSON’S
ENGLISH MUSICAL COMEDY COMPANY,
THURSDAY and FRIDAY, MAY 10 and 11,
BILL ADAMS.
SATURDAY, MONDAY, & TUESDAY, MAY 32, 14 & 15,
THE DANDY DOCTOR.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. PRICES —4s, 2s 6d, and Is.
COUNTRY TOUR of the
FISK JUBILEE SINGERS
AND THEIR GREAT
THAUMATURCIC PICTURE DISPLAY.
The finest in Australasia.
The most beautiful picture production put before
the public.
All subjects instructive and entertaining 1 .
TWO GRAND ENTERTAINMENTS IN ONE.
Each entertainment a treat. Each artist a star.
Collectively acknowledged par excellent for harmony
and finish.
NYNCAN, FRIDAY, MAY 11.
WARREN, SATURDAY, MAY 12.
TRANGIE, MONDAY, MAY 14.
CEURIE, TUESDAY, MAY 15.
ORANGE, WEDNESDAY, MAY 16.
BATHURST, THURSDAY and FRIDAY, MAY 17 and 18.
WALLERAWANC, SATURDAY, MAY 19.
MUDGEE, MONDAY and TUESDAY, MAY 21 and 22.
R. H. COLLINS, Manager.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager —Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
Great Success of THE CARMOS, Sensational Jugglers.
Emphatic Success of HOMER B. MASON and
MARGUERITE KEELER CO.
LAROLA, the Funny Man with the Funny Ways.
Enthusiastic Reception of Mr. SLADE MURRAY.
TAMBO & TAMBO, Original Tambourine Spinners.
Miss ALICE RAYMOND and Mr. JOHN KURKAMP.
THE THREE LEES. THE GILBERT SISTERS.
HARRY SADLER. BABY WATSON, FRED. BLUETT.
PEKA H O U S «£, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
LILIETH LEYTON and Mr. HARRY KENDAL in
Comedy Sketch, THE ORDER OF THE BATH.
DANCING GILBERTS, Terpsichorean Artist.
MR. HARRY CLARK’S RADIUM GIRLS in the
Sensational RADIUM DANCE.
MARTINETTI and GROSSI, Novelty Act.
O’NAXIS TROUPE, Algerian Jugglers.
MILES-STAVORDALE MUSICAL LjUINTET.
Plan at Allan’s. £3T PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
theatre royal, Melbourne!
Lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
THURSDAY, MAY 10, FRIDAY, MAY 11, LAST TWO
NIGHTS of THE MIDNIGHT MAIL.
SATURDAY, MAY 12,
Mr. .WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
y, ORGANISATION in
FOR THE SAKE OF A WOMAN.
Reappearance of Miss EUGENIE DUGGAN.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Mi nzies’ & The Grand.
On the Trail
Of the Trust
By “Bulletin ” Writers.
The Book is adorned . . .
By “Bulletin” Artists.
IT CONTAINS A DOZEN GOOD YARNS—ALL
POINTING to the NECESSITY of PROTECTION.
It’s Worth 1/2
Which is the price Post Free from this Office.
Vi* VYv® ' Ocv® * <
to Qt t.O l -p.^*
"ft®*' o*"--»iC& v
e< ' «.f' c "!.
rp
e?
fISSS
0
\e9»
VvOV®
»•
c °t« ooO*^
tH e
FAIRY FICURESfor FAT FOLKS
Dr. be Sclendre’s Famous Discovery “Obecura”
CURES CORPULENCY.
Send at once for treatise on How to Reduce
your Weight 5 lbs. per day. Posted FREE.
JAS. CRAIG &. CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE
ents
of tho
PIPE
are many, and its principle is the
most successful ever invented
for the benefit of smokers.
Nicotine is absolutely pre-
vented from entering
either mouth or pipe
bowl. Every pipe is
guaranteed.
d
A
“MASTA”
smokes cool
and dry and to
the end of the
tobacco. The
bowls are made
from flawless briar-
wood , well - seasoned.
To be had in three
qualities from all tobac-
conists throughout the Aus-
tralian Commonwealth. Whole-
sale only from FELDHEJM,
GOTTH k.LL & CO., Sydney.
BEAUTIFUL FRENCH POST CARDS,
SIMPLY CHARMING. The. very best hand-
painted Bromide Cards imported, including’
Actresses, STUDIES (some lovely sets of 5), &c., &c.
Order now ; you’ll be delighted with them. Prices—
Single Card, sd; set of 5, 1/10, or 4/1 per doz. post
free. Also in stock—
Magnificent Aluminium Post Cards, the very latest,
views of Britain, 9d each.
Australian Stamp Series, facsimile of the stamps of
the different States and N.Z., 1/7 per packet, post free.
WONDERFUL MAGIC POST CARDS, 1/6 per doz.,
posted. Most unique.
FRENCH BOOKLETS—Life-size photo production
on each page, 1/3, post free.
HANDY POCKET POST CARD ALBUMS—HoId
6 Poit Cards. Fold up and can be addressed and sent
through the post like an envelope for Id. 2d each.
A. J. SMITH & CO., 6 Moore St., Sydney.
MOTHERS FRIEND.
PEDIC POMADE for the Head,
Strikes infesting vermin dead;
On all hands it is confessed,
Surest, finest, foremost, best.
Destroys vermin; kills nits ; heals sores,
By post—Small 1/2, large 2/3, extra large 3/6.
Manufacturer—P. KLEESATTEL,
Traralgon. Victoria.


A. SAUNDERS
THAT’S THE
a. svrxnr.RS.
Solid Silver MANICURE SET,
comprising 6 pieces.
Other Styles.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver SHOE DIET and HOOK,
in Silk-lined Case, 7s 6d.
Ollier Styles, 8s 6d, ]os (Id, l'2s 6d, ]ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
CARRIAGE CLOCK,
Sterling Silver mounted.
First-class Timekeeper, 15s.
Extra Quality, 2(>s.
> a >-
m
m
o
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid English Oak INK STAND, Nickel Mounts,
Cut Glass Bottles. l- r >s 6d.
Other Styles, 5s 6d, 7s Gd, 30s Od, 32s Gd v to £o.
A. SAUNDERS. „
SEWING COMPANION,
lolid Silver, compnsir-
articles, 15s 6d.
Larger Size, 18s <>o.
V
Lj£*
anSG&i
m-:
m
m
<*3
<~s
A. SAUNDERS.
.TRAVEL CASKET, Pure Silver Plated,
Handsomely Embossed, Silk-lined, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, Id's Gd, 12s Gd, 17s Gd, 20s, 22s Gd, 255.
33
m
ft
yv
S!Sr
wstft
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver HAllt BRUSH,
Riclil.v Embossed, l ine Wliite Bristles, 10s Gd.
Other Styles, 7s Gd, 8s Gd, 12s Gd, los, lis Gd, 20s, 255.
Save by Mail.
Personal service in
our Mail Order
Department
enables
us to
serve you by Mail
anywhere,
as perfectly as if
you visited our
Showrooms.
All Goods sent
Post Free to any
address.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Mounted
J’IN CUSHIONS,
Heart Shaped, Us hd.
Darger, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver SAFETY VESTAS BOX
HOLDER,
Richly Embossed, 7s 6d.
Cherub Design, 8s 6d.
Free to All.
No matter
where you live,
if you have a copy
of our Illustrated
Catalogue,
you can obtain the
latest goods delivered
to your own home,
at City Prices.
Write for our
Catalogue
to-day. We send
it Post Free
to any address.
fmmm
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH and COMB, Solid Silver,
In Velvet-Dined Case. 15s Od.
Other Styles, 17s Cd, 20s, 255, 30s, £2.
A. SAT'Knr.RS.
Solid Silver EAU-i
DE-COLOGNE BOTTLE.
Cover and Stopper.
Larger eo
A. SAUNLELS.
Morocco l-eauier
CIIATLLAIKE BAG.
Sterling Silver Mounts
and Lock, Los (3d.
Other Styles, 8s (id. 103 6d,
J2s Cd. ]ss.
&
a-'U
' r O
A'~
§gPflPl§j|i
gjiMl
,t--i'T'.^
A. SAUNDERS.
Fine Hobnail Cut Glass
TOILET BOTTI.ES.
Ficlily Embossed. S>l id Silver Tops, in 3 sizes,
7s 6d, 8s 6<i, IDs fid.
• V
M
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Morocco Leather
LETTER CASE,
Pure Silver Mounts, 32s 6d.
Without Shield, 30s Gd.
Other Styles, 5s Gd, 7s Gd, 355, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
SHAVING BRUSH,
Ture t -ver-1 aited, Real
Badger Hair, 5s Gd.
Solid Silver, 7s 6d, 30s Gd, 35s Gd.
<&
'
Sags
i u
A. SAUNDERS.
Self Rollins RAZOR STROP,
Puro Silver-Plated, Hand-
somely Embossed, 20s.
Other Stvl 'S. 10s Od. 13s fid,
17s Od, 255.
iiiniiiiiiiiiiiiii'f
a
fniaiiSSßßi
Sea
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver TOILET SET,
Comprisinsr 2 Richly Embossed IIAIR BRUSHES and
COMB, in Silk-lined Morocco Case, £3.
Other Styles, £1 10s, £5, £6.
A. SAUAHEBS.
Gent.’s MILITARY HAIR BRUSH
Solid Silver,
Long White Bristles, 15s.
Other Styles, 7s fid, 8s fid, 10s fid,
J2s fid, 20s.
■- *l:...i‘.Jr ih**^s r '-? • ••-; • ** f
sysmm
WWgWI&WM
•*-,",J. m \,-A ... »'V~ -x ■■•
A. SAUNDERS.
Crocodile LEATHER PURSE and CARD CASE
Combined, 15s Od.
Oilier Styles, 10s 6d, 12s Od, 15s, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver SERVIETTE CLIP,
2s 6d, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Leather Wallet
POGivET BOOK,
Sillc-lined, fitted with
every convenience, 5s fid.
Other Styles, 7s fid, 8s 6d, lOs fid,
12s 6d, 15s.
KV,'£V3/;
2bS
*SR'S
sswr
sags
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR PIN POX, Solid Silver Top,
Fine Hobnail Cut Glass, Size 6in. x l£m.,
30s 6d.
Other Styles, 12s 6d, l',s. its 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Mounted Head
SALTS BOTTLE, 3s 6d.
Other Stvles,
10s Cd, 12s Od, 15s 6d.
Mi
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Ilolmail Cut Glass Head
SALTS BOTTLE,
Dure Silver Top, 10s 6d.
wwmm
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver CLOTH or HAT URUSH,
Fine Long White Bristles. 6s 6d.
Other Styles, 7s Gd, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
IE
a^vi
U&jK§jgj||i3
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Si lid Silver CARD .CASE,
Handsomely Engraved, 1.3 s 6d.
Without Lid, 12s 6d.
Other Styles, 255, 30s.
Gc-nt.’s Gold-Mounted Amber CIGARETTE HOLDER,
in Solid Silver or Plain Cases, 12s 6d. Chased, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
CIGAR Size, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s.
&
pm
iHG!
tlsMZk
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver TOILET SET.
in Silk-lined Morocco Case.
Fine Hobnail Cut Glass TOILET BOTTLES,
Richly Embossed, Solid Silver Tops, £2 ss.
Larger, £3 10s, £4 4s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Morocco Leather PURSE,
Extra Heavy Solid Silver Mounts and Lock, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s Cd,
12s 6d„ 17s Cd, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent’s Solid Silver SHAVING SET,
Comprising Shaving P.rush, Soap Holder, and
Powder Jar, in Silk-lined Leather Case, £3.
gdf
j SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER,)
\ SILVERSMITH, and OPTICIAN, 1
809, 81 I, 813, 315, 817
GEORGE-STREET,
/ Opp.
l Railway
I Station,
\ Sydney.


ur dispute with the Federal Postal authorities having
now ended, patients may write to us as formerly.
GRAND VITAL POWER
Weak, Puny Men! We can give you the Power that makes Men happy, the strength
n<. mitWh adneSS ' n *o joy, misery into mirth. We can make you strong, sturdy Men,
is FVee* wirin' d ° Wn v,ta,,y you may be - Call or write to us. Our Advice
s Free. We do not patch Men up. All Australia knows us as Reliable Specialists in Men’s Diseases
Our Methods are to Cure Men to
Stay Cured.
They become our Best Proof of Skill.
No SVian but a Specialist should treat
a Genito-Urinary Disease ,
We excel in this Speciality ,
* '■ ' -
5
3$
A
Get Treated in your own Homes.
We give you evidence daily and the greatest of proofs
that we excel as Men’s Specialists, and can you any
longer doubt our ability or sincerity to cure you ?
If you have the slightest doubt in your mind we will
further prove the efficacy of our treatment.
Patients who take our home treatment receive the same
expert attention as if we saw them in person. When we
receive our Question Chart filled out correctly, our
Specialists are able to diagnose your case as accurately as
if you were personally present. Our Diagnosis
Charts are seriously studied by our Specialists, and care-
ful records made of each so that we understand your ease
as well as if you had given us a personal call.
Our Enormous Medical Practice.
We are treating- thousands of cases annually, and is it
aot reasonable to suppose that we understand such cases
better than those who are treating- only a few hundred ?
Practice makes perfect. Order your treatment at
once, and let us add your name to our long- list of cures.
If the slightest doubt exists in your mind that our
treatment will not cure you, it is a duty you owe to your-
S<? f , to . Wnfce fc ° SOme of tile references we continuously
publish, and send an addressed envelope for reply. Ask
any of those who have given testimonies if we can benefit
you. We court the closest investigation. Our Parcel
Post System has saved thousands of men who would now
be in their graves had we not" reached and treated them
by this most excellent of mail systems.
THE FREEMAN & WALLACE INSTITUTE
Of PHYSICIANS, SURGEONS, and SPECIALISTS.
Young*, Middle-ag*ed, and Old 3VCen, what ar© your troubles* « 4-u. *
?WirS m h °l m® ValU6 ° f y ° Ur health ’- 0r what ifc mea »s to be without S’ can te°U°voS
that it is the best blessing a man can receive. Therefore do not loqo it , ca n tell you
Medical treatment will cure your troubles. Remember’ patients treated if correct
into thousands. We have thousands at present upon 'ou?l by
System. We receive grateful letters daily' P ° kS treated by our Parcel Fosb
These people have read our advertisements, and been recommended hr? f ■ j
Tiling is Certain we treat end cure them °”
phenomena of diseased condition, we effect a cure provided patient obed** &nd
remedies and obeys the physical laws and weenie ° our
gatlL^
Urinary tract embracing the most important Organs of Man BladderandKidL-T lto "
plete study of this tract alone demands all a doctor’s time. ’ d dK d ys ‘ A com '
~ Perfection in the treatment of disease is as necessary as in the building l of a
the painting of a picture. A concentrative study is absolutely necessary ?f»d™f d * 1 or
excel m the treatment of one particular form of disease. 7 J f doctor desires to
monies? SonVprovTng we Sre'mento stay “ this statemenfc b 7 our testi-
Messrs. Freeman and Wallace,— y reu '
Debility. For yea° s d rhrve r noT a b^n n stron^ he After be' & Ge "f ral Weakened condition allied te
the Vital Weakness which afflicted T< * .MU c™Z“.l" tCsS*,"“d»eSS d
Crook well, N.S.W., October 12th, ’O5. Yours faithfully,
and sturdy. Readerfwiuit Ails You eyond all doubt - °nce a physical wreck, now strong
Specialist? in attendance,Either' may * Quali [‘? 1 (1 Medical
of testimonies will be mailed free. sjully and tampered with by Medical men. Pamphlets
Pfde. Remember, the Australfsia?^ Dr ‘ icbard Wallace, no charge is
Medical Boards of New South Wales, Victoria So?,th A 11 6? he is registered by the
. Here are some figures as to the distribution E , n f]? n< ? and Ar . ne F lca -
riences, 670 pages, 31 chapters, 150 Medical rjlafpq edlca Work, “ Clinical Expe-
Smce the year 1901 two editions of 50 000 have b?en dff ‘T ° U \ free *° ai *y addresss.
another edition of 25,000 volumes is in the Press B At present
with your address written plainly, you will get it'hvlJ u thl o bo ? dro P us a post-card
upon which you require to be enlightened we wilfonlv ‘ l lf tbere is any trouble
We do this m the interests of humanity 11 ly b to ° glad to send Y ou information.
Women’s Diseases.
The department for the treatment of
B-t the Institute is under the super-
• * i , , , . vision of Or. Elizabeth White, a famous
lady doctor and expert diagnostician, who is registered by the Medical Boards of
New South Wales, Victoria, New Zealand, and America. Dr. White is possessed
of valuable experience gained at the most famous American and Indian col Wes
and has travelled extensively in India, China, Japan, Australia, and America
Any suffering woman can consult her at her elegant rooms, 225 Elizabeth street'
SKCC* Br - ' Th,te h * s - SffflSSf
,i A re T^ y weaknesses from which women suffer which are far better
understood by a lady physician than by a man, who cannot personally experience
them. For this reason a woman can confidently expect fuller infofmarion and
perhaps a keener diagnosis of her condition from the hands of a doctor of her sex
Sufferers are invited to call, as all consultations are free.
The FREEMAN & WALLACE
Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute,
Cor. Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Svdnev
yard Freeman, Director of Institutes : Dr. Richard iv,n— «t> x „ ™ *
Howard
Institutes ; Dr. Richard Wallace, M.D., LROP V r«o „
Dr. Elizabeth White, M.D., Specialise in Diseases of Wm^S^^ 3 **”* I*- 1 *-* 31 ** 5
AND AT
MELBOURNE


ALBION RUGS
MaKe
JZ?
Travelling!
THEY’RE WARM
and WOOLLY!
Me:
*?*f
-
waesKas
* *
m
»i<
m
Mi
111
**•- r V'-
*w%
£3&Pi
< J®V5
M'S
i
*»
V- '’
3
The Albion Woollen Mills, of Geelong, have
specialised in the manufacture of pure Wool
Rugs. At all the Exhibitions during the past
ten years their Rugs have carried everything
before them. The Albion Rugs are sold by the
leading retail houses throughout Australasia.
Should any difficulty be found in obtaining
them, kindly send a Post Card to the &
Melbourne Office, viz: —
V.
km
Bhe ALBION
FLINDERS
WOOLLEN MILLS
LANE, MELBOURNE.


GOOD GOQU GOOD GQOU 6000
GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD
GOOD j 1 GOOD
COOL
LAUNDRY SOAP
NONE
BETTER
321
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
600 D
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD GOOD
GOOD GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD GOOD
GOOD GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
HEAVY,
LIKE LEAD,
Is the way Mrs. Leigh’s food lay
on her stomach, all due to
INDIGESTION.
SHE WAS CURED BY
MOTHER
SEIGEL’S SYRUP
“ I was long subject to severe'
attacks of indigestion, preceded by
dreadful headaches, and followed
by languor and depression of
spirits. The little food I was able
to eat would lie heavy like lead on
jny stomach. My system was so
run down that I became wasted and
too weak to do my work. Fifteen
months back I first used Mother
Seigel’s Syrup and from the outset
got great relief. By the time I had
used three bottles I was quite |
cured ; all my pains had gone and f
I have been well ever
■ Mrs. M. Leigh, 25, Ross Street,*?
Forest Lodge, Sydney; letter of
July 25, 1905.
IT CURES ALL
STOMACH TROUBLES.
Melbourne motorist 0. J. Kellow will shortly
make an attempt to establish an Australasian record
day’s run. He will use a 10-12 h.p. Humber, shod with
Dunlop types, over the road from Melbourne to Hamilton
and back, with a run down from Mortlake to Cressy and
back on the up journey. He intends to get as close to
500 miles as possible, and as 12 hours out of his 24 will
be travelled in the darkness, anything near 400 miles will
be a highlv creditable performance.
* * ■* *
One named Morgan has offered to match Deme-
geot (which ought to be demned goat) and his 200h.p.
Darracq motor against any locomotive in North America
on any railroad for any distance, from one to 1000 miles,
for the supreme speed championship of the world. Deme-
geot is the driver who hurled his Darracq over the Day-
tona Beach at the rate of 120 miles an hour. Morgan pro-
poses that his machine should have flanged wheels fitted
to it, and travel on a parallel set of rails to those the
engine whizzes over; or, if that is not convenient to the
railroad co., he offers to start the car (with Demegeot in
it) either ahead of or behind the engine, and make a pursuit
race of it. Morgan wants the race to happen either this
or next month, the loser to pay for a £lOO Cup, em-
blematic of the speed championship of the world. It
would be an interesting race, but the question is how to
keep locomotive and car on the rails while travelling at
such a speed. Engineers are divided in opinion as to the
safety of such a race, and the dubiousness of it ought to
give the men on board heaps of thrills. World wanderer
Glidden travelled over the Canadian Pacific on his Napier,
which had flanged wheels fitted to it for the occasion, and
several times overtook fast express trains which had a
long start of him. Of course Glidden hadn’t to stop to
pick up and set down passengers, and the expresses did.
The Vic. Rifle Association lately advertised
for a secretary, and out of 182 applications for the snug
little billet, the choice fell upon P. Farglier, one of the
crack Victorian rifle shots. If the 182 competitors had
been required to prove their qualifications by firing at a
target, Fargher would have got there just the same.
* * * *
To show what fools they are, punters are al-
ready taking the double —Melbourne Cup and Derby'—
despite the fact that entries for the big handicap, let
alone the weights, have not yet been declared.
* * * *
Something like half-a-million passes through
Westralian totes yearly, and, until recently, the clubs
running them deducted 10 per cent, and kept the lot.
Last session Parliament imposed a tax of 5 per cent, on
tote receipts, and now the clubs are tearing their hair
and throwing things about. The Westralian Turf Club,
the wealthiest of the lot, formerly sent an annual dona-
tion of £2OO to Perth Hospital, but this year it only con-
tributed a curt letter stating that owing to the imposi-
tion of the tax the club found it impossible to give any-
thing to charity. The W.A.T.C., by the way, wants a
new secretary' in the place of Keyser, whose sudden
resignation caused a lot of surprise. He was a strong,
firm man, with plenty of tact. Billet, which is worth
£6OO a year, is said to be a soft thing for a member of the
present committee.
* * * *
The winning high jump at the Oxford and
Ca nbridge (England) sports on March 24, was sft. 7jin.,
or ljin. less than Lawton, of Melbourne, and Moyes, of
Adelaide, did in their inter-’Varsity sports on April 25.
And it was an American—a Rhodes scholar—who did
that, no Englishman being within two inches of him.
The same American won the long jump, and another
Yank was Oxford’s best miler. A satirical Cantab has
publicly given thanks that “only Oxford and Cambridge
are in the boat-race.”
*'* * •
Clarence Weber’s Physical Culture College gave
its annual demonstration at the Masonic Hall (Melb.) the
other day. Weber delivered an effective address on the
benefits derived from systematic exercise under strong
mental control, after which he called upon several
youthful pupils to show what he had done with them.
One lad of 17 “ slow pressed” 1201bs. weight from
s iculder to arm’s length with one hand (about the best
performance in Australia of its kind). Another lad,
after six months tuition, showed a chest expansion from
filin’! contracted, to 40in. expanded, which speaks well for
deep breathing. Weber raised a man weighing 13st. 71b.
from shoulder to arm’s length above his head, spun a
1601 b. bar bell on his feet whilst lying on his back, and
concluded a strenuous programme of 13 feats by sup-
porting a ton weight on the “ bridsre of Hercules.”
* * *“ *
Re some pars (“Suss,” B. 15/3/’OG, and “The
Mussel,” B. S/51’06) re Hackenschmidt and his ability to
down Gus Rennert. During the Russian’s visit to these
shores the public was treated to only one display' of his
powers—when he downed Hindu Gunga Brabm, at the
Exhibition Building (Melb.) in 38sec. Later in the even-
ing he played with ahd defeated Buttan Singh, in some-
thing under lOmin. Hackenschinidt’s preparation for
the Hindu match consisted of alternate bouts in the
catch-hold style with Gus. Rennert and Clarence Weber.
The bouts were held in private, and witnessed by a friend
of Weber’s, who held a watch, and the actual time occu-
pied on an average for six alternate bouts in placing
“Gus” and “Clarry” on the mat was 30sec. Hackey
could have beaten with ease any twelve wrestlers in
Australia (in rotation) in as many minutes, and his asser-
tion in court about beating any man in three minutes
allowed a good margin.
* * * •
If it’s sport to sit round and smoke and spit
and swear while two other men stoush, Australia is a
sporting country all right! Neither Squires nor Murphy
is a world’s champion yet; but 14,748 persons paid to see
them fight in Melbourne on the same night that two
undoubted topnotchers, Hackenschmidt and Madrali,
wrestled in the alleged centre of the globe, London.
Their prices may have been higher, though, considering
the relative value of the stakes, that is doubtful; yet
wealthy' London could onlv furnish 4000 spectators.
* * * »
Every Sydney paper that reports boxing has
arisen to make a few severe remarks about the Peter
Felix-Mally Jackson scrap at Sydney' National Sporting
Club last week. As a matter of fact, it was one of the
most genuine “ goes ” ever seen in Sydney, and the audi-
ence appreciated it. It was fighting with its clothes off,
and the ring-siders were glad to see what the beast was
really like. Felix had the advantage of height and
longer reach ; Jackson had width and greater strength.
The yellow fellow tried to curl himself into a boulder-
shaped mass, which he hurled at Peter’s commissariat.
Peter dodged for his life, but the wild fighter from Tas-
mania kept bouncing at him so fast that Felix could not
escape him always. The long elegant left that Felix
uses so beautifully was seldom seen—it never had
a chance, and when he did let it go, it was met half-way
by' the rushing Jackson. Knocked down again and again,
bashed with straight lefts, chopped with heavy rights,
Jackson came on like a fighting automaton, and would
THE TWO ELIJAHS OF ZION.
The old Prophet of the Purple Wings gets the worst of the encownter.
make impact with all his body against Felix with
the sound of a bullock carcase falling out of
a dray. He rushed Felix on to the ropes and
tried to sledgehammer him ; he pulled Felix down on top
of himself ; and he rushed over him and fell upon him,
bashing and jabbing all the time. He hung on and
lashed simultaneously, and he gripped Felix by the face
and tried to screw it off, and bump his nose on the floor.
Oh, yes, it was a FIGHT. The referee howled himself
hoarse, and put his head into the ring and whispered
fierce warnings to Jackson while the latter was being
fanned. But as soon as Jackson got going again he for-
got all about the warnings, and grabbing Felix by the
throat forced him into a sitting posture where he banged
him heavily in the body. Peter drove his own right and
left home with a “ szee ! szee ! ” and knocked Jackson on
to the ropes. When he came up again he caught an
awful swipe on the ear, and went down once more. He
rose again to smash Peter on the jaw, and again went
down from a wild swing. Up some more and into Felix’s
solar plexus, rushing Felix across the ring on to the
ropes, where the black fellow made a desperate effort and
once more knocked his foe down. When he came up
again they just wrestled, and went down together with a
smash as the bell clanged. In the next, Felix began to
poke his left into Jackson’s face, but the yellow fellow
dodged, and, coming in close, smote Peter on the grinders
with the right. Felix squealed with rage, and, making a
wild rush with both fists sent Jackson half-way over the
ropes, where both seemed likely to fall out among the
audience. They were pushed back, and a wrestling
match ensued, in which Felix came down on his hip. As
they struggled up, Jackson seized Felix bodily and swung
him off his feet ; and referee Beckett howled and shouted
that Jackson was disqualified, and Felix had won on a
foul. The verdict was much to the disgust of the on-
lookers. They didn’t care about the rules; a scrap like
this was not seen every day, and here was the
referee cutting it short on account of some ridiculous
ideas of an old Marquis of Queensbery. And they rose
en masse and hooted the moon.
■* * * *
Thursday last week was a naval night at Sydney
National Sporting Club, when two of the sailors off the
Britannic warship Powerful met two of the Baltimore’s
complement. Dyer (Powerful) and Graff (Baltimore) were
to provide the preliminary, but the event of the evening
was to be the struggle between O’Neill and English.
O’Neill was the English bulldog, and English the Yankee
eagle. In the preliminary the Yankee showed the foot-
work, avoiding the heavy British charges till in the sixth
round the referee declared the Amurkan the winner.
Whoops, roars, and another awful noise supposed to re-
present the scream of the eagle. Then the big fight began.
It was not a delirious spectacle. Both men crouched and
walked round, putting on frills, and O’Neill would sud-
denly spring in and land a couple of heavy bashes on the
upper works of the enemy. The American’s conning
tower received considerable damage, his guns were out-
ranged, and one of his searchlights was temporarily dis-
abled. The Briton did not come off altogether scathe-
less, but was miles ahead of the champion of the Yankee
ship, and in the fifth round the Yankee was sinking fast.
To prevent loss of life and unnecessary bloodshed, the
referee declared Bull the winner, and the Englishman
named O’Neill was nearly torn to pieces by his enthusi-
astic shipmates in their frenzied desire to kiss him, or
something of the sort. The stolid Britishers one hears and
reads about were not present at that fight.
*-» » «
“ Snell ” : Squires v. Murphy provides another
nail for the coffin of professional pugilism, and was quite
as bad from the point of view of the man who looks for a
scientific mill as Felix versus Jackson was in Sydney. It
wasn’t a fight at all, and refninded me of nothing so
much as an angry bullock I once saw tossing a bag
of straw about a stockyard. Murphy was the bag of
straw. So far as I could see, only about half-a-dozen dis-
criminating hits were exchanged, and mere wallowing
won the fight for Willie. For this seven minutes of
hustling (deducting Murphy’s intervals for rest and
refreshment) 14,000 Melbournians paid £2OOO. And tern
der and timid people are bewailing the “ shocking dis-
play,” the “ disgrace to humanity,” “ the shambles,” etc.,
in Melbourne dailies. For my part, I have seen the latest
half-dozen big-man fights in Bentville, and I have also
seen Wesleyan, Presbyterian, and Anglican bun-worries
and tea-fights, and I know which were most dangerous to
the combatants. Not the glove-fights, by a long chalk.
“H.G.”: Melbourne is vibrating like’Frisco
before the earthquake through the loud, sustained howl
now being raised against the Squires-Murphy fight, and,
incidentally, the use of the Exhibition Building for the
contest. The major part of the music is coming
from the religious party, most of which never
saw a boxing match and knows nothing about it.
The Argus, of course, waves its holy brolly in the front of
the skirmish. In a “ scholarly leader ”it remarked that
the trustees were at fault for letting the building for
purposes which “ shock the sensibilities of a large number
of persons in the community.” But the theatres do the
same. Catholic churches shock the Protestants, Pro-
testant churches shock the Catholics. Both of them
shock Dowie and Voliva, and Jos. Symes is shocked at
every one of them indiscriminately. Freetrade gather-
ings shock at least nine-tenths of the population of Vic-
toria, and the Argus itself shocks a number of people.
This is no justification for a strong administrative
act suppressing Catholicism, Protestantism, Dowieism,
Josh Symes, Freetrade, and the Argus, all in one lump.
There is scarcely any act performed that does not shock
the susceptibilities of somebody. The arrest of a capable
burglar throws his comrades into a state of collapse, and
the arrival of G. H. Reid fills many people with a thrill of
horror. As regards the brutality of the fight, such a
plea is mere pappycock. It was a rough fight, but the
punishment was light, and, five minutes after he
left the ring, Murphy was pulling on his clothes
and criticising Squires’ methods as coolly as a
Judge summing up a ease about a disputed bill. The
Argus is old enough to know that boxing is a compara-
tively humane sport. Alongside horse-racing, in which
probably 100 men are killed to every one killed in the ring,
it is as harmless as the breeding’of white rabbits. It is
a bagatelle as compared with wrestling, which means, in
half the number of square matches, that one man will be
injured, and it is less brutal than football when the
pursuit of the blown sphere is fairly played.
The whole outcry against boxing arises out of the
fact that occasionally blood is spilt, and the man who
has had his eighteen months infant kick him on the nose
realises that it doesn’t require a ver3' heavy blow to draw
blood. When it has time, the Argus might enter into a
comparison between the brutality of prize-fighting and
that in the white working trade of Victoria before the
passing of the Factories Act it so hotly opposed ; or that
of the flogging of Ohows in S’Africa, which it tacitly sup-
ports ; or that of burning the farms of men fighting for
their liberty, which it whooped for with the frenzy of a
dancing dervish. To those who can remember the Argus
Office five years ago, tricked out with flags and maps and
other evidences of blood frenzy, the present exhibition of
hysteria because Bill Squires hit Timothy Murphy, who
had gone there for the purpose, seems strange.
SHAKESPEARIAN THERAPEUTICS.—If
anything can “ minister unto a mind diseased ” it
is assuredly Hunyadi Janos, which will “ cleanse
the stuff’d bosom of the perilous stuff which weighs
upon the heart.” It is an arsenal of therapeutics,
being speedy, sure, and gentle.*
“D.H.R.”: After much reading of The
Bulletin I began to think I was a Socialist, and
after burning the midnight gas over “A Policy
for the Commonwealth” and one or two other
publications I began to feel pretty certain that
every sane person must be Socialistic. Then, in
the midst of my convictions, I fell upon a paper
which says it is a Socialist, and the only true
Socialist, and calls itself The People. It rages
because “as soon as a bell dongs, or a whistle
shrieks, men, women, and children hurry-scurry
to their located places, at which they are fastened
as with a vyce, until the welcome sound of gong
or siren releases them. ” Now, what in thunder
does the rag want ? I never yet heard an honest
man or woman complain about working between
gong and gong, if gongs are not too far apart ;
and even if we employed ourselves we couldn’t
afford to let us rob ourselves by letting ourselves
knock off an hour before time ; but would expect
ourselves to give ourselves full value for our
money. Also, the publication rages against the
Labor party. And I am not so sure now that I
am a Socialist.
In the rebuilding of ’Frisco it is to be
hoped quake resisting methods of architecture
will be considered at least as much as gorgeousness
of effect. The wisdom of man need not be knocked
out by the violence of nature; at least not when
the said wisdom is judiciously fortified and en-
livened by D.C.L. whisky. D.C.L. and wisdom
are twin souls. The reconstruction of ’Frisco
must be animated by the spirit of D.C.L.*
A Yankee on Australians :—
Though they’ve no end of iron ore deposits, they
haven’t the horse-sense to make any use of them, and in-
stead of employin’ their coal for manufactures they only
ship it away. I tell you we haven’t got any opposition
to consider. The only opposition I saw there was what
the suckers are dealing out to their own folks, decryin’
the natural industries and fightin’ down the few men that
have some vim an’ enterprise. That’s one thing Australia
is solid on—a grand harmony of cross-purposes, all
workin’ in the glorious cause of pimpin’ for foreign
manufactures. Besides the willin’ and paid pimps, there’s
a fine assorted collection of unconscious pimps. They
don’t know where they’re at, but they’re the most valu-
able pimps of all.
From “ On the Trail of the Trust,” now on sale at
The Bulletin office.
Consider the N. S. W. Public Service
Board and its “independence.” When Reid was
Premier of N.S.W., he cut down Customs revenue
till he couldn’t afford to pay the public servants
decent salaries. So he appointed an independent
Public Service Board. The Board showed its
independence by cutting down salaries. This led
to an exodus of the smarter men (especially in the
Education Department) to the other States.
Wise and Perry, members of a new Govern-
ment, thought the State would be better served if
the civil servants were paid a living wage, and
the Board showed more independence by raising
some salaries. Then came the great Reform
statesman, J. H. Carruthers, and the Public
Service Board had another fit of independence
this time, and proceeded to cut down the salaries
once more. At present one-third of the Board is
old-age pensioner, and ought to be retired by the
Cabinet. That, of course, helps to make it inde-
pendent when the Cabinet is anxious to screw a
few pounds more for a surplus from the civil
service.
To those who cough, and those who need
Too frequently to blow their noses
At church or public meetings, heed
; v The secret that my pen discloses.
No need to be a nuisance now,
To man or child or maid demure,
gmv can you stop ? I’ll tell you how,
’ Bose up with Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
The Federal Post Office has, after a full
investigation, removed its embargo on the E ree-
man and Wallace Medical Institute correspond-
ence. With all deference to the prejudice that
exists against medical people who break through
the etiquette of the profession and advertise, the
latest action of the Post Office was right. It is
no part of its business to act as general censor.
Sydney Morning Herald (25/4/06) went
to considerable trouble to inform its readers that
Freemasonry, as it exists throughout the British
Empire, is not the bloodthirsty and impious Free-
masonry of other countries, which is allegedly
bent upon the destruction of constitutions and
religions. Upon its own bare word —not too
reliable, but in this instance possibly correct —
and without a declaration to that effect by a
prominent or any other variety of Mason, the
Herald assures its readers that British Masonry
is a tame and charitable animal, and is not search-
ing for kings and bishops to devour. Yet when
Labor politicians living in the said British
Empire assert most emphatically that their
Socialism is not of the type that prevails in some
foreign countries, where the allegedly ferocious
brand of Freemasonry and the allegedly ferocious
brand of Socialism flourish side by side, the
Herald and the gang of political place-hunters
for whom it barracks decline absolutely to believe
that there can be two or more varieties of
Socialism. If there can only be one variety of
Socialism it is just as fair to assume that there
can only be one variety of Freemasonry. There-
fore if Socialism should be put down Freemasonry
should be hung up—high.
Richard Jebb, the London Morning Post
man, who recently visited Australia,- heaves a big
scoff at the fable that British immigrants coming
here are bludgeoned, or drowned, or something
(vide Stinking Fish literature). “With a crowd
of other passengers,” said Jebb, “ I left the wharf
at Sydney, baggage and all, with less trouble than
I ever experienced at any other port in the world.”
Also he describes his experience in the United
States —which, according to Bruce Smith, is so
paternal to the stranger, and welcomes everybody
with open arms. He could not get a ticket to
leave Victoria (British Columbia) for ’Frisco with-
out grovelling to the U.S. Immigration officials,
and planking down two dollars. Then he got a
certificate describing his personal appearance, and
setting forth that he was “an alien
in transit,” who “claimed” to be going
to Australia. Also the certificate remarked that
if he did scoot out of the U.S. he could get his
two dols. by applying to the ship’s purser, who
would recover from the U.S. Government. Jebb
left San Francisco in an American ship, and
hunted up the purser for his two dollars, but that
functionary looked astonished, and asked whose
leg Jebb was trying to pull, or something like
that. So the genial Uncle Sam still hangs on to
Jebb’s two dollars which Uncle acquired by
false pretences.
Vic. Premier Bent’s proposal to put able-
bodied male prisoners to some profitable use at
roadmaking raised Labor-leader Prendergast to a
frantic prophecy about the time when cheap
prison labor would be employed “in the mines of
Bendigo and Ballarat.” This seems like a great
deal of needless agony over a trifle. • There are
usually about 1000 prisoners serving sentences in
Victoria. The women wouldn’t be sent out to do
pick and shovel work. Nor probably w’ould the
great crowd who were putting in sentences of
seven days or thereabouts; it would hardly be
worth while. And the idea of manning the mines
of Bendigo and Ballarat with the 200 or so long-
sentence men is a joke. Besides no one proposed
putting them to mine work.
Jack Knight, the new editor of Brisbane
Courier, has had about 20 years connection with
that Tory concern. He began life as a compositor
in a Maoriland office. Then he spent a little
time type-snatching in London, but afterwards
drifted to Bananaland. Five years ago he became
editor of the Observer, which is mostly a muni-
cipal sheet and given to cartooning local aldermen.
Knight at one time embraced the Democratic
gospel, and it was said that he wielded an unseen
hand in the formation of the Dawson Ministry,
which lasted about seven days in 1899, and which
deserved better fortune. Curiously enough, when
Knight abandoned the type-snatching job in
London he was succeeded by Albert Hinchcliffe,
now a prominent Labor M.L.C. in Queensland.


L-
■sS
N?
/./I
<3^
'vvv 3
- !* hk '
m*k
c
■ ;#
?®3I
% :
't
Vv4'-
; -
rt
;
ss®
4
!.Vl
y* Itlfe
■
:
PS:
KS
»sS
ss
Mis
>VJ
p
iBC
§&
%
> .
-:-
ses
ggpil
:
STS
Is
■"^wUni
*V>
&
Hi
-
HAVELOCK Tobacco soothes the hours of
waiting', and makes any time a good time.


■ -
'a
' I -
.
SSI
■ ■
■, . ■ .;. . ' ,'»«-*-* '' ■*
■ uv ‘ ' >'** •: • \ *..
;■ .
f’X ' A ■ . . ' ■ . '
i y
»«fpi
S:K
***s< '*.l " ' * «H*
! 1 j.
" ■ -* *- »..
>: jßp’
*s**r • r * . .
■w* B ■
1
i-.:
"‘-V. ...;
-
.
/: *k£: ■
-; ”>.■
.
if :
M : >* ■•*;?
<*%
MS*
Mi
.
4T>
/I
mm.
f..: . /
% l-gm
M# 1
.
p t
SK*
1
’
. < ..K : ,1
iSi
iY4
c«M si
»«****#
V
*
« I '
!§§ :
H
,v*
S 4* • <" ’
~ . _
a si ■
* .•
mmm
V* ‘ - ■
‘£hti
.
Don’t Mis
owns.
To miss the Darling Downs on the Queensland Tour —which
is the ideal Winter Trip in Australasia —is like going to Egypt
without seeing the Pyramids* The Downs is the most mag-
nificent stretch of country in Australasia, and the views
going down the Range are unparalleled* & Write to the
Queensland Railway Department, Brisbane, for full particulars*
"Including Saloon Fare by Turbine Steamer from Gladstone to Townsville.
0000000


Extract from pages 43 and 44 of “ A
Manual of School Drill and Physical Training ”
the text book in drill used in N.S.W. State
schools —compiled by a military officah person
named Paul, who is styled Lieutenant-Colonel,
Superintendent of Drill, and Chief Staff Officer,
Public Schools Cadet Force :
Saluting' should be taught rather as a school custom or
habit than as a drill. It is the outward sign of that
respect which is due to every teacher, and which should
be shown by every self-respecting pupil... In the play-
ground a pupil should salute before addressing a teacher...
VVhen passing a teacher a pupil should salute.
This sort of thing, if insisted upon, is calculated
to make a touch-your-hat-to-the-squire crawler of
every N.S.W. State school boy. Fortunately,
most teachers—the country teacher, as a rule, is a
democrat—ignore Paul’s book in this matter. If
N.S. W. Director of Education Board is unable or
unwilling to squelch Paul and other crawler-
builders, can’t we get the loan of Director of
Education Williams, who fell like a broken steeple
on the salute business in S. A. ?
Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £13 13s. to £31 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £115.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street..
Banking.
national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £800,000 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,240 15 0
Reserve(inGovt. Stock, £43,435) .. 48,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors.— Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager. —W. V. RALSTON.
TIhe trustees, executors
and
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £20,000 0 0
Directors: F. U. Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., O.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.';
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
Zthe—
CITY MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
(Established 1879.)
Head Office— HUNTER & BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY
The M ;st Liberal and Progressive Life Office
in Australia.
Agents Wanted. GEO. CROWLEY, Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney : llou. A. VV. Mbkks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John Sbk, Lt.-Ool. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jkssop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clynk ; Adelaide. W. N.
M'Farlank ; Brisbane, A. Hamilton Hart ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J.ALLEN General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
_____ -
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
419 & 421 COLLIN13 VtREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,920,210.
Policies Issued 98,401 —Assuring- £29,270,925.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,503,272.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
Legal Notices.
TO HERBERT WATSON BROWNRIGG of
Sydney in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that on the Nineteenth Day of
April 1906 a writ of summons was issued out of
the Supreme Court of Queensland at Townsville
in the action of St. Ledger and Unmack of Char-
ters Towers Solicitors v. Herbert Watson Brown-
rigg of Sydney Medical Practitioner and numbered
32 of 1906 which claimed Two Hundred and Six
Pounds and Seven Pence (£206 0s. 7d.) for pro-
fessional services rendered and money paid at
Charters Towers by the Plaintiffs on behalf of the
Defendant and at his request. And take notice
that by an Order dated the Twentieth Day of
April 1906 it was ordered that the service of the
said writ of summons by sending a copy of the
said writ and a copy of the said order in a regis-
tered letter addressed to you to the General Post
Office Sydney in the State of New South Wales
and to the Post Office Eidsvold in the State of
Queensland and by publication of this notice once
in the Sydney Bulletin and once in the Sydney
Daily Telegraph newspapers should be deemed
good service of the said writ of summons upon
you. And take, notice that in default of your
causing an appearance to be entered for you in the
Supreme Court of Queensland at Townsville
within thirty days after the last of such advertise-
ments the Plaintiffs may proceed in the said action
-and judgment may be given in your absence.
Dated the Twentieth Day of April 1906.
V. L. MORISSET
Associate (l.s.) C. E. CHUBB J.
20/4/'06.
Shipping.
KT. ID. m,.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
*Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via NEW BRITAIN,
NEW GUINEA and MANILA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
*PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons.. 12th MAY.
♦PRINZ SICISMUnD. 3300 tons.. 9th JUNE.
♦WILLEHAD, 4761 tons .. .. 7th JULY.
*Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent-
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
THE ONLY CERTAIN
MOUBTACHE PRODUCER.
CAPILLARINE
Posted (Under cover) to any part (
of Australasia or New Zealand.
Solb Agents— PRICE 10/6
CRAIG and AITKEN,
N. 8. W. Barber'a Supply House,
68* Qoorge Btreet, SYDNEY
g
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIH€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
♦Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
fd
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
PERSIC, to Sail on or about
12th MAY,
RUNIC, MEDIC, AFRIC,
and SUEVIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown .. .. £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalfjety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
O CEAKTIC S.S. Co. A. & A.. LIKTB ( via SAN FRANCISCO).
THREE-WEEKLY FAST MAIL SERVICE run in conjunction with the Most Luxuriously Equipped Trains
and Atlantic Steamships in the World.
SHORTEST MIME FASTEST TIIVJE TO
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN AND EUROPE.
PARES TO ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-CLASS LINE.
R.M S. VENTURA, 6200 TONS. SAILS MONDAY, JUNE 11.
For Full Particulars and Illustrated Matter, send or apply to —
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., Managing Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
WINTER
BOOKING PLANS for the
“Moresby’s” three Winter
Cruises, on May 7, July 7,
and September 7, are now
open. On each trip she will
be away about 53 days, and
will visit the Solomon
Islands and S.E. New
gfd
CRUISING.
Guinea, calling at Brisbane
both ways. This cruise will
cost you £2s—there are no
extras; your home on the
ship the whole time. Will
you send us your address,
so that we can post
“ Holiday Hints ” ?
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—-
FAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
&
BILLS
discounted.
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
ZKT-S.'W.
ffiont depete D.«I.C°
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre), -
74 CASTLEBEAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
and 17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The Royal Rank of Queensland
Ll.ll IT 1C1). "
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £457,538 10 0
Reserve Liability op Shareholders .. 175,812 10 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 66,000 0 0
£699,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
17 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL .. .. .. £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
NEXT SAILINGS—
May 14, June 11, July 9.
To England *
via
Canada.
An Attractive Journey
all the way.
43T Send for Illustrated Pamphlets Furnished Free.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF M.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT. General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. Y
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber .Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter),
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Kish (gives
the definition of your character — very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Sheet of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s King or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P.O., Hay market.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
FIRE HAS NO TERRORS!
CAPITAL, £1,900,000.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £500,000.
ANNUAL REVENUE, £300,000.
Fire has NO terrors that Fire
insurance cannot quell.
Put the South British on guard!
T 5® South British
FIRE and MARINE INSURANCE CO.,
GEO. 11. MOORE, Manager.
CHAS. T. METCALFE, Assistant Manager.
12 Bridge St, Sydney\
Snipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Austral!an,
Viotorian and Queensland Ports.
FOE MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANOE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Yongala, May 16.
S.S. Wollowra, May 18.
BRISBANE, I
MACKAY, |
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Cairns. I
S. S. Marloo, May 12.
S.S. Gabo, May 19.
Best uu<l ('heiijiest Haute ta (iahliiehls.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Mari times
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 0500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, Sl/EZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street. Sydney.
R. BRASIF.R DE'THUY, Principal Agent.
Hotels.
PETTY’S HOTEL,
SYDNEY
decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will be
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed,
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding: Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET
C. W. CUPIT, Manager.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every omior and convenience at —
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, a to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
81’. HILDA.
’JjMIE Largest and jje.-u-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower thanlicensed hotels. Citv, J-hour
hy tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
the (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con*
venient and Healthy Locality,
ilodern Appointments. Hoderate Tariff.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Rai way Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Olarendou-st.. South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10/,3.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
file Bank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner Ceorge & Bridge Streets.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
CAPlTAL—Authorised .. .. £700,000
Paid-up .. £lOO,OOO
Uncalled .. .. 250,000
Reserved Fund .. 1 20,000
(Invested in Government Stock) / £370,000


Visitors to Melbourne Z l t .T
Neale’s Temperance Hotel
(Tankards)
LONSDALE STREET (Next Law Courts;
is the handiest place to stay at. Being close to Railway
Stations, Theatres and Wharves ; and three minutes’ walk
from G.P.O. Bedrooms on Ground Floor if desired.
Board and Residence, 4s. 6d. per day; or from £1 per
week. Telephone 1640.
gfd
g
T
fdg
X
fdg
IV
V
*
A.
®o
£
£>
Cq
*v
Sr
$S
S?
V
;-sr-w Th£
WttCOCK
Table
IS THE
r • • or •
Billiard
Tables.
/ /
df
FITS CURED
From the first rlose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanent!' t lie ver.v worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has fialed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11,-.
Thousands if Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
VI. lesale Agents :
SAY! KS, ALLPOUT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. \v. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
26 High rtreet, Belfast, Ireland.
the high-class washing material
‘Viyella’
(Regd.)
gfd
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
The Ideal
Material
for
Children’s
Frocks,
& c.
From the
Leading
Drapers.
SEE THE LABEL ON THE SELVEDGE.
a Murdoch
OV6RCOAT
30s.
If you’d rather pay 635. to a merchant
tailor for a garment no better in fabrics
or fit, all right—but it’s YOUR loss.
MONEY BACK IF YOU SAY SO.
MURDOCH’S
. . . IN . . .
PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
“WHERE THE OOD HATS ARE.”
A few ready-to-wear Suits left
at 25s.—usually 30s. and 355.
gfd
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
‘PASVSPfI’
POCKET
KN/VES
are the
X BEST.
Sold'
by
all first-
cla is stores
in Australasia.
No. 8176 i 2-BLADE
“ PAMPA,”
Cocoa Handle 1/t
Buffalo Handle - 21-
Stag Handle - - - 2/6
Clean White
Teeth mean sound teeth, fit for their
work, the condition they are kept
in by the use of
CALVERTS
Carbolic Tooth Powder .
It is made for cleaning the Teeth, and
does it, too, pleasantly, thoroughly and
gently, without scratching or injuring
the enamel. That is why it is in such
constant demand all over the world.
Sold by local Chemists and, Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvfrt & Co., Manchester,
England.
Si Briti$b=jl»!$trala$ian
1 BROAD STREET PLACE, LONDON, E.C.
Price 6d
POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Managing: Olreotor- ■ Mr. J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
Australian Representative, Mr. SAMUEL A. MILLS.
The British-Australasian is the journalistic
principle of connection between Great Britain
and Australasia.
It is the NEW SCHOOL in the develop-
ment of Australian thought. It gives Austra-
lian writers not only the benefit of Australian
circulation, but introduces them first-hand;
through its British circulation, to the teeming
millions of Great Britain.
The British-Australasian is the Organ
of Appreciation; THE AUSTRALIAN
LITERARY CITADEL in London.
Original Australian articles dealing with the
growth, development and resources of Aus-
tralia are particularly suitable; also Australian
stories, sketches, verse, &c., <fcc.
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring 1 this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following lines
at greatly reduced prices to clear
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine*
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip. Usual price, £6.
Sale Price .. . .. £3 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale. Price.. £5 0 0
3 Hammerless Double-Barrel Breech-loading
Guns, special high-grade trap gun, fitted with
treble wedge fast cross-bolt, left full choke,
right modified, and latest improvements, safety
indicator. Usual Price, £lB. Sale Price, £lO 0 0 I
6 Single-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, top action,
be->t quality barrels, choke bore, pistol grip,
walnut stock. Usual Price, £3. Sale Price .. £1 12 6
The Baden-Powell Rifle, fires 8.8. Cartridge to
kill at 100yds. Usual Price, 17s. 6d. Sale Price £0 8 9 i
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders, top action, wal-
nut stock, choke bore, with cartridge machine
and cleaners complete. Usual Price, £5.
Sale Price ... .. £2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridge. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price £0 13 9 i
6 Single-Barrel Muzzle-loading Guns, walnut
stock, twist barrel. Usual Price, 255. Sale
Price £0 15 0
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge 6s. per 100
Smokeless Cartridges, 7s. 6d. per 100
8.8. Caps, 9d. per 100
Shot, 2d. per lb. Caps, 2d. box.
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
WHY ?
AERTEX CELLULAR
OPINIONS OF THE BRITISH MEDICAL PRESS:—
The Lancet. —The idea embodied in the Aertex
Cellular moth is that of providing' ready means
of escape from perspiration as vapor.
British Medical Journal. —Aertex Cellular
cloth affords a free escape to the skin exhala-
tions.
The Hospital. —Aertex Cellular cloth is light,
remarkably warm, and is manufactured on
scientific, principles.
The Bn ad Arrow. —We regard Aertex Cellular
goods as a special boon to officers of both ser-
vices.
The Queen.— Aertex Cellular cloth is porous, so
that all that, ought to be eliminated from the
skin is allowed to escape.
The Era.— Aertex Cellular garments promote the
cleanliness of the skin by their non-absorbent
qualities.
Cycling.—\u our opinion there is nothing like the
well-known Aertex Cellular clothing to ward
of? K ng Winter’s chill breath and searching
sting.
60/f.-da tex Cellular cloth is not only lighter, but
better ventilated than ordinary fabrics, and is
easier to wash.
The Gentlewoman.— It combines lightness
with warmth in a satisfactory manner not
attained by any other material for underwear.
Sole Agents in N.S.W.
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.
94 King Street. Sydney.
SJ
HEED
NCREASED
By the New “ Clease-Extensor ”
. Method a Rational and Scientific
; System of increasing height from 1 iiv h to
: inches with added Strength,Health
and Bodily Beauty. The Invention of
Mr. F. Meredith Clease, Ph. L.D., late
Director of Exercises toHaileybnry Coll-
ege, and the outcome of 17 years of con-
tinuous study of the Physical side of Life.
It vastly improves awkward and ungainly
m"n and gives to Ladies a Beauty of
Figure and Natural Grace of Move-
ment unattainable by other methods. Mr.
Clease’s System has no connection or
similarly whatever with any other form of
bodily exercises whether it be for health or
increasing the height that is being adver-
tised. If you are Too Short, or have
Round Shoulders. Flat Chest,
Narrow Chest, Weak Back,Weak
Chest, Stomach Trouble, Lung
Trouble, Curvature of Spine, Un-
gainly Walk, Prominent Hips,
Superfluous Flesh or are Too Thin,
wri e and indicate your physical require-
_ , ments, and Mr. Cease will send FKE K
Explanatory Booklet and Personal Advice. All correspon-
dence strictly confidential. (Mention Paper).
F. Meredith dense , Ph. L.D.,
74, New Bond Street, London, Eng.
10 W
SPIRO
Toilet
Powder
SPIRO
A BOON FOR HOT WEATHER
KILLS ALL ODOR OF PERSPIRATION.
NO MORE SORE AND ACHING FEET.
DOES NOT STAIN ANYTHING. EASILY APPLIED.
1/3 per box to any part of the State.
Grand Views of Niagara Fairs Given
Away to Purchasers.
Australasian Agents AMERICAN HYGIENIC
AGENCY Ltd., 177 Liverpool St., Hyde Park, Sydney.
Distributing Agents for Victoria— Grant, Bradley &
Co., Fulham Place, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Distributing Agent for Queensland— Alfred Moon,
37 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Distributing Agents for West Australia— P. Falk <fc
Co., Ltd., Henry Street, Fremantle.
FREE SAMPLES, ALL STATES, ON APPLICATION.
Don't
waste time in
experimenting.
Thirty Years 9
unbeaten and increas-
ing Success is the
best proof of the claim of
(Mjridge
v £ung"Tonfc
to be the WORLD'S CURE
for Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
and other Throat and
Lung Troubles.
It c&nba obtained from
any Chemist or Store,
and Saves Many
Lives.
<*/Ask fok
BOSISTO’S
“PARROT
BRAND
EUCALYPTUS OIL
and REFUSE
, SUBSTITUTES, j
g
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
ia allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
Uoney in full refunded without question
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
evcles. warranted six vears.
LATEST
MODELS
£2.10 to £6
200
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or t lincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Kim
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
Packed and Delivered Free
lo any port in the world. We guarantee safe
delivery.
Second-Hand Cycles
all makes, £2.10
good as new, " * 10 *** “ v
Great factory clearance sale at half factory price*.
Pan I! A hVM C taking orders from sample
tfln“ H UluLt machine. Active Agents
wanted in each district. Large profits easily made. Write at once for
free catalogues and our special offer, using sufficient postage.
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, &c... hal t price*.
MEAD CYCLE CO. Dept. **39
LIVERPOOL. LONDON AND CHICAGO.
IfHEI
DEAF
By twin g the Wilson Cow.
mon Sense Ear Drums*
Perfectly invisible and
comfortable. If you are
deaf or suffer from dis-
| tressing head noises writ*
i for full particulars. Thou-
sands have found this the
first step to relief after 30
or 40 years'suffering. Ad-
dress—Star Novelty Co_
229-231 Oollini-st., lttX\
Scruffles.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MIDNIGHT had just struck, and I
had written —
“A poppy nodded in the noontide
heat ” when a shrill howl of rage, followed by
two spits and a scream, shattered the peace of
the night.
I dashed to the window and looked out.
Ah, there he was ! I could just make out the
white blur of his coat in the shadow, directly be-
low my window, where I could drop something
heavy on him that would fracture his serenading
gear, and send his feline soul to—wherever those
sort of things are kept.
“ Something heavy,” I muttered, as I ran round
the room in my stockinged feet, “ something big
and—ah ! ” I seized the kerosene tin half-filled
with coal, and crept softly to the window, where I
rested it on the ledge while I gave one glance be-
low to make sure of my aim. Yes ! there he
was
“Good-night, Smith.”
Great heavens! It was Scruffles, the bald-
headed boarder, smoking his last pipe in the yard,
and I had
“Scruffles,” I said, hoarsely, as soon as I could
speak, “have you —got—any whisky?”
“No,” he said, briskly. “ Have you ?”
“No, no!” I leant limply on the sill, and
wiped the sweat from my brow.
“ Because,” persisted the fiend, “if you’ve got
a shilling about you, I know a pub where I can
get some. ”
“No,” I groaned ; “ no !”
I heard him grunt like a disappointed pig as I
gulped down some of the stale water in the jusr.
Then, weak as I felt, I forced myself, by a
strong effort of will, to perform what I con-
sidered my duty. At whatever cost, I must
warn him of the danger he ran.
<( I went to the window and called down to him.
“Scruffles,” I murmured. “Are you there,
Scruffles ? ”
“ Yes, what is it ? ” As he spoke the moon slid
from behind a cloud, and I could see his bald head
quite plainly.
“Scruffles,” I murmured again very earnestly,
“ I—l want to speak to you.”
I took a deep breath and rushed it.
“ Scruffles, old chap, I hope you won’t mind me
mentioning it, but you know you really ought to
take something for your hair.”
“ By th’ ”
“ Perhaps if you wore a cap ”
“ By the Lord,” he hissed, “if you try to make
any of your disgusting jokes about my baldness
111 come up and throttle you—l will, by hokey ! ”
“But, Scruffles, old chap”
“ Shut up, curse you, or I’ll do it now ! ”
Stung to madness by his blasphemy and ingrati-
tude, I turned on him. “How dare you !” I
cried. “ How dare you speak to me like that! ”
“ If ever,” he retorted, “ you so much as dare to
mention my baldness. I’ll kill you where you
stand—l will, by the Lord ! ”
I pulled down the window with a crash.
Now the man avoids—positively avoids me ;
and I—l have not the heart to tell him how near
death he was.
KODAK.
From an article on “Manners” in T. P.
O’Connor’s weekly :
The Pytchley hounds must, be prondunced Pietchley.
By the way, a laughable incident once took place in the
House of Commons, when an uneducated member spoke
of them as the Pitch-ley !
And of such slush is British polities !
“P.”: How is it that we hear so fre-
quently of the Chinese prohibited one falling
down over the language test, but not of the
Japanese doing it ? Is the Monkey man staying
away from Australia, or does he always pass the
test, or does the Commonwealth wink the other
ear?


Especially
Mothers
The Sanative, Antiseptic,Cleans-
ing, Purifying, and Beauti-
fying Properties of
futicura
♦
i
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment, the
Preat Skin Cure, are invaluable.
or preserving, purifying, and
beautifying the skin, for cleansing
the scalp of crusts, scales, and
dandruff, and the stopping of fall-
ing hair, for softening, whitening,
and soothing red, rough, and sore
hands, for baby rashes and chaf-
ings, for annoying irritations,
ulcerations, and inflammations of
women, and many sanative, anti-
septic purposes which readily
suggest themselves, as well as for
all purposes of the toilet, bath, and
nursery, Cuticura Soap and Cuti-
cura Ointment are priceless.
Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Pills are sold throughout
the world. Depots: London, 27 Charterhouse Sq.; Paris,
6 Rue de la Paix; Australia, R. Towns & Co., Sydney;
Boston, Potter 1 rug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props.
«B“Senafor “ How to Preserve, Puri.y. ami Beautify.’
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
fd
His Majesty
The King- and
Koyal Family.
MOIR’S
New Season’s Genuiue
“SCOTCH” OATMEAL
This Meal contains special fattening and
nourishing powers not obtainable in any
other. Scotch Oats are world celebrated.
In hermetically sealed packages. TRY
IT, and you will never use any other.
moTr’s
WORCESTER SAUCE.
EXTRA SUPERIOR QUALITY
IS PURE AND GENUINE.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, Limited
HERBERT J. SOLOMON, Agent,
47 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
[1
1 •'
QUEENSLAND BRANCH
Colonial Mutual Building',
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Victoria, S.A. and Tas. —
NORMAN BROS.
58 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth.
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing:.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Everything.
Australian Users now num-
bered by the hundreds.
\ Of course you have System
in your office BUT IS IX
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER 1
IT COSTS NOTHING TP
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Write for Catalogue.
JOHN SANDS, 374 George St,, Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS.
Q. I have been feeling very poorly lately, and have just been told by my doctor that I am
suffering from uric poisoning. I shall be glad if you will tell me just what uric poisoning means.
Is it a serious matter ?
A. Uric poisoning is caused by the retention in the blood of various substances which should
leave the body in solution. The retention of these substances is due to a diseased or inactive condi-
tion of the kidneys. When the kidneys are working perfectly they filter and extract from the blood
of the average individual about three pints of urine every day. In this quantity of urine should be
dissolved various waste material produced by the wear and tear of the tissues of the body. This is
dead matter, and its presence in the blood is poisonous. The three pints of normal urine should
contain about ten grains in weight of uric acid, an ounce of urea, together with other animal and
mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce.
Q. Then lam to understand that the substances you mention, when not eliminated from the
body in the natural manner, constitute what is known as uric poisoning. What are the usual symp-
toms by which the presence of these poisons is manifested ?
A. Now you are asking a rather large question. Many complaints which are commonly called
diseases are not actually diseases in themselves. For instance, Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lum-
bago, Sciatica, Gravel, Stone and Bladder Troubles are all caused by uric poisons. Indigestion,
Anasmia, Persistent Headache, and General Debility are often solely due to the same cause. In fact,
if the kidneys are doing their work freely and thoroughly, none of the complaints mentioned could
trouble us, as the causative poisons would be absent.
Q. I had no idea that so much depended upon the efficient action of the kidneys. I suppose
that when anyone is suffering from Rheumatism, Gout, Ne.uralgia, Lumbago, Sciatica, Gravel, Stone,
Bladder Troubles, Anaemia, Debility, Persistent Headache, or Indigestion the scientific method of
effecting a cure would be to directly treat the patient for the kidneys?
A. Exactly. In fact, that is the only way in which a radical and permanent cure can be effected.
The kidneys must be restored to health and activity, so that they may be enabled to remove the daily
production of poisons in the body, or the patient must continue to suffer.
Q. I have always been under the impression that the liver had a great deal to do with the main-
tenance of our general health, but it seems that the kidneys are the chief cause of most of the
disorders from which we suffer.
A. The work done by the liver is of the utmost importance, and it is closely associated with the
work done by the kidneys. Indeed, when anything is the matter with the liver the kidneys are
almost always directly affected, and the contrary is likewise true. In the liver various substances are
actually made from the blood. Two or three pounds of bile are thus made every day. The liver
takes sugar from the blood, converts it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able again to
supply it to the blood, gradually, as the latter requires enrichment. The liver changes uric acid,
which is insoluble, into urea, which is completely soluble, and the liver also deals with the blood
corpuscles which have lived their life and are useful no longer.
Q. As the functions of the kidneys and liver are so intimately related, I gather that if there is
reason to suspect that either organ is not doing its work efficiently, a curative agent should be
employed which would act equally upon the kidneys and liver ?
A. Yes, that is the case, and it was the realisation of this important fact which led to the dis-
covery of that invaluable medicine Warner’s Safe Cure. About thirty years ago, certain medical
men, knowing that if they could find a medicine which would beneficially affect alike the kidneys
and liver, they could control most of the common disorders, devoted themselves to the search for
such a remedy. After many disappointments, their efforts were rewarded, and a medicine now
known as Warner’s Safe Cure was proved to possess the required properties in the fullest degree.
Warner’s Safe Cure has a marvellously stimulating and healing effect upon both the kidneys and
liver, and by restoring those vital organs to health and activity, it necessarily cures all disorders due
to the retention in the blood of urinary and biliary poisons, such as Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia,
Lumbago, Sciatica, Blood Disorders, Anaemia, Indigestion, Biliousness, Jaundice, Gravel, Stone,
Bladder Troubles, General Debility, and Sick Headache. Even Bright’s Disease, probably the
most fatal of all diseases, yields to treatment by Warner’s Safe Cure. Cures effected by Warner’s
Safe Cure are permament simply because they are natural. [4]
Better tl>ap ai>
ELECTRIC BELT!
A Genuine MEDICAL
BATTERY that IS a battery
and not a toy. It will do all that
is claimed for it. It is a cure
for Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Nervous Disorders,
etc., and is highly recom-
mended by the medical pro-
fession. It can be made very
weak or very strong, as
preferred. Costs little to main-
tain, and is easily operated.
Price -35 s
Post Fbee Anywhebe.
HOME
NEW
MEDICAL APPARATUS
WITH DRY BATTER*
mb
sjl*
sagss
r
I
■
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd
‘MY OPTICIANS
Opticians and Electricians,
393 GEORGE STREET (facing Royal Hotel), SYDNEY.
HH Visitors to The Old Country -
Gloucester P^o&d, South Kervsirvgton., Londorv, S.W!
THE MOST COMFORTABLE HOTEL IN LONDON
INCLUSIVE TERMS
FROM
! 2/6 PER DA Y.
£°val
pW
SELF-CONTAINED
SUITES. PLEASANT
PRIVATE GARDEN.
gfd
g
OSTRICH PLUMES
From our Famous Farms in South Africa.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 10J inches).
This style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
BLACK
3 for 10
POST FREE
to any address.
We make this Special Offer to advertise our Ostrich Plumes. Write To-day. Send Posta
Notes or Money Order payable to John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
BLACK or NATURAL FEATHER BOAS, 12/6. Length, /J yds.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
[Mention The Bulletin.]
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swans ton Sts., Melbourne.
SORE
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTM ENT (
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYF LASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
NEVER FAILS.
Ask youp Chemist fop the Little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
The Inky Way.
Some wag pulled the leg of the N.Z. Herald, the other
day, and led it to publish in a shipping manifest these
items : —“ 7 cases beesknees, 3 bags treacle, quantity of
post holes.”
* » * *
Toowoomba Chronicle, the only Federal newspaper of
any importance in South Queensland, is now a daily, having
developed from a tri-weekly. The paper was founded by
the late W. H. Groom, and his son, Federal Minister
Groom, has still a voice in its control.
* * * *
Another Victorian attempt to establish a halfpenny
paper was ended recently when the price of Every YVeki;
(Bairnsdale) was raised to a penny. Melbourne Argus
long ago published a little ha’penny sheet called the
Evening Mail, but it did not flourish, and was eventually
swallowed by the Herald. Australians are not yet driven
to rush fractional prices, like the needy inhabitants of
Freetrade Britain, where even wood and coal can be
bought by the ha’porth.
* * * *
Adelaide is at last the proud possessor of a weekly
paper that does not devote two or three columns in each
issue to “ Social Notes,” which tell how Mrs. Brown has
gone to Timbuctoo, and Mrs. Jones is in town buying
socks for her baby. Piie Gadfly devotes exactly'one
inch to “ Social Notes,” comprising the heading and an
intimation that “ contributions to this column will be
paid for at the rate of a guinea a line.” The Gadfly has
a woman’s letter, run by one “Aunt Tabitha,” whose
identity is a dark and deadly secret ; wherefore she can
gang her own gait and recount, if she feels so inclined,
anecdotes which would cost her her back hair and much
of her clothes if she were known. She hasn’t made use
of her immunity to say anything very dreadful yet; but
Adelaide has not lost hope.
* * * *
“Dr.” Hackett’s stodgy West Australian slavishly
follows the big dailies of Melbourne and Sydney in
padding up Saturday’s issues with special articles more
or less original and of doubtful literary merit. Some
shocking twaddle is now inflicted on unfortunate readers
of Hackett’s paper, by alleged poets and would-be
smart writers. Here’s a specimen from the West
Australian (U/4/’O6) :
And “ Dr.” Hackett aspires to be considered the leader
of the literary forces in Groperland.
* * » *
“They are Rockefellers who run the bush press now,”
observed the bald man with the hard face, laying- down
the paper after reading about the burning out of the
Croydon Mining News. “ The insurances totalled £BOO.
Great Beer! What had they in the place, anyway? In
my time at Croydon—going on 30 years—our second-hand
hand press—dear old mangle ! —and half a cwt. of type,
blocks, chases, and fittings were worth just £l5, and two
pubs, had a lien of £7 each on the property. Ned and I
built the premises out of gin cases and kerosene tins.
And now they have a printery there carrying insurances
of £BOO. Leastways, they had till that fire laid it out.
Can’t say I’m sorry. These Rockefellers are the curse of
bush journalism.”
» * • *
Characters based on the most prominent figure in
London journalism bob up from time to time in current
fiction. In “ A Napoleon of the Press,” Marie Connor
Leighton (whose serials used to be a feature of Harms-
worth papers) calls her hero Alfred Chantrey. The
fictional Alfred, like the real one, has numerous colorless
brothers, and founds his fortunes on a snippety weekly,
followed by a half-penny daily. At the end of the book
he is Secretary for War. In “ The Third Floor.” by Mrs.
Henry Dudeney (also a former Harmsworth writer) the
methods of “the new journalism’s” chief exponent are
freely discussed. Similar references are fairly frequent
in many other novels, mostly by ex-employees of Harms-
worth.
* # * •
“D. Harum”: Re “T.D.” on London Press-Cutting
Agencies. A few years ago I attempted to run one my-
self in Australia, but it didn’t catch on at all. I went to
the expense of having letter-heads, envelopes, cards,
circulars, etc., printed, and called my establishment “ The
Australian Press-Cutting Agency,” with myself as manager
-—between us, I may add, I was office boy, chief clipper,
and everything. I sent out scores of typewritten letters,
chiefly to politicians and lawyers. I sent but few to
actors ; I knew ’em ! To the letters I sent out I got but
two replies, and they were both refusals. One was from
a Premier, t’other from a Chief Justice who said he didn’t
care a tinker’s curse what the papers said about him, but
if they said anything nice he hoped he’d deserve it. Then
mv Press-Outline- Agency, with a subscribers’ list of 0,
-died a sudden death !
INSPIRATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
[“ Nemo : You do not strike very interesting subjects
somehow.”— Bulletin, 18/l/’o6.]
O that I had the gift to write with rhythm of machinery’
And Inspiration came at call, to point me out the way,
I d spread the canvas straightaway for bits of glowing
scenery,
For rippling streams and fern-clad glens, in brightest
spring array.
And love songs I would warble, warm, melodious and
Byron-like,
The bull-oak’s harp would wail aloud from land of black
dismay,
The mad mirage would lure me on with beck’ning finger,
siren-like,
O’er sun-baked, God-forsaken lands, till close of fainting
day.
The crime, the vice and poverty that live within the city
gates
Would stand exposed in dread array in words of living
fire;
The burning thirst the topers know, and but a long beer
mitigates,
Bohemian nights, regretful days, and times of wild de*
sire.
With gall-steeped, freely-flowing pen I scathingly would
satirise
Life’s follies, pomps and vanities, hypocrisy, and such,
Luxurious extravagance, where gilded homes of Fat
arise—
These but a sample of the themes my fertile pen would
touch.
Spring poems, wreathed in wattle bloom, I’d cleverly
manipulate,
The swagman with Matilda, round the camp-fire burning
bright,
And such the rush of publishers, ’twere mine the task to
stipulate
For terms that famous singers get for carolling each
night.
Then poesy’ would tingle in each vein of my anatomy’,
Ooze ever from my finger-tips, my only form of speech,
My name be hailed in distant lands, the world would lift
its hat to me,
If only Inspiration were within convenient reach.
vie.
NEMO.
I am a shark, ha, ha !
In waters dark, ha, ha 1
I calmly float;
The passing boat
Is my sure mark, ha, ha!
My teeth are keen,
My fin is dorsal,
Man’s flesh, I ween,
A dainty morsel.
Lord of the wave
I boldly brave
The denizen of the earth ;
Cottesloe Beach
I sometimes reach,
But I’ve never been up to Perth.
Mr. K.B.
He says, says he,
I’m an innocent sort of stranger.


r
THE NEWEST IN ...
GOLF JEWELLERY
—lsct. Gold and Platinum-tipped Golf
Brooch, 355.
No. G9443.—15ct. Gold Golfing Brooch, 655.
No. G9444.—15cfc. Gld and Pearl Golfing- Brooch, £3.
No. G9441.—15ct. Gold and Platinum-tipped
Golfing- Brooch, 30s.
No. G9440.—15ct. Gold Golfing Brooch,
325. 6a.
No. G9452.—15cfc. Gold Golf
Ball Scald Pin, 9s. 6d.
No. G9453.—15ct. Gold, Pearl
Ball and Platinum-tipped Scarf
Pin, 20s.
Send your Order Early as we do not stock these designs
in big enough quantities to make them commonplace*
NOVELTIES IN
No. G 9455. —
15ct. Gold
No. G9451.—15ct. Gold Yachting Brooch, 325. 6d.
No. G9445.—15ct. Gold
Rope and Sculls Brooch,
425.
No. G9446.—15ct. Gold
Rope and Anchor Brooch,
£2 2s.
No. G 9454.—
15ct. Gold
Scarf Pin,
13s. 6d.
No. G9449.—15ct. Gold Knot and Sculls
Brooch, 425.
No. G:i47.— 15et. Gold Knot and Scull
Brooch, 30s.
No. G 9456.— 15ct. Gold Scarf Pin, 11s. 6d.
No. 'G9448.— 15ct. Gold and Pine Pearl Set
Brooch, £4.
No. G9450.—15ct. Gold Buoy and Sculls
Brooch, 455.
We post them Free on receipt of remittance. Be sore you do
not delay your Order too long. Illustrated Price Lists Free.
KIDNEY DISEA
, STONE, 4c.
Pertinent Points.
POINT I. —You are more concerned in the
prevention of Kidney disease than in its dis-
covery ; where you discover it, the outlook is
very gloomy, the mere knowledge is enough
to appall the strongest.
POINT 2.—We are particularly concerned in
the prevention and palliation of Kidney
disease, and you can enjoy the benefit of
Kutnow’s Powder or reject it. You are a
perfectly free agent.
POINT 3.—The existence of Kidney disease in
the early stages is very difficult to determine,
and can only be successfully diagnosed i.by
means of microscopical and chemical examina-
tion of the urine.
POINT 4. —Simple derangement of the urinary
secretion is not evidence of Kidney disease,
but is clear evidence that the Kidneys and-
bladder require to be flushed and antisepti-
cally cleansed.
POINT s. —Further evidence is indicated in
deposits or sediment, white or milky fluid,
pain in the region of the bladder, extending
into the back, thighs, <fcc., with execretory
scalding sensation.
POINT 6. —The systematic use of Kutnow’s
Powder will increase the efficiency of the
kidneys, keep the bladder clean, and prevent
gravel and stone.
POINT 7 .—The main advantage of Kutnow’s
Powder is its entire freedom from sugar, an
essential point where Kidneys are concerned,
especially in Diabetes mellitus which is
characterised by the presence of sugar in the
urine.
POINT 8. —The last point is the best point. It
is a recognised fact in medical circles that
Kutnow’s Powder is the most efficient of all
uric acid Solvents and Eliminators, and in
this respect is a boon to suffering humanity;
it never fails to do good. Try it.
Important Questions
Do you value the health you possess, and do vou wish to preserve it
m tuJi manly strength and vigor ?
If you are unfortunately stricken with Kidney disease, are vou
willing to try a comforting palliative ?
Would you, if suffering from derangement of the Liver, care to test a
certain remedy for it ?
Are you willing to try something which will improve your general
health and by no possibility do you harm ?
Is it your wish to eat well, digest well, feel well, work well, and
sleep well ?
Then get the grandest remedy in the world for Kidney trouble and
all Uric Acid diseases—which is undoubtedly Kutnow’s Powder.
The leading physicians of London, Paris, Berlin and New York have
tested the power of Kutnow’s Powder as a natural solvent and
eliminant of Uric Acid.
The result has been a veritable triumph for Kutnow’s Powder. They
not only prescribe it -in their private and hospital practice, but
use it personally as a guard against serious disease.
IMPORTANT WARNING!
Kutnow’s Powder can be obtained at all respectable Chemists
Medicine Vendors and Stores throughout the world. It is necessarv’
however, that you discriminate between fraudulent imitations, which
are absolutely worthless, and the genuine Kutnow’s Powder. Do
not be deceived, therefore, by the general appearance of a bottle but
bear in mind that to be genuine every bottle must have the fac-simile
signature, S. Kutnow and Co., Ld.,” and the registered trade-mark
Hirschensprung, or Deer Leap,” on the carton and label on the
bottle. I his signature and trade-mark should be seen in order to
obtain the
Genuine KUTNOW’S POWDER
Positive Proofs.
“113, Gower-street, London, W.C.
“Dear Sirs, —I consider it only fair to apprise
you of the remarkable beneficial results obtained
by the use of Kutnow’s Powder. I purchased a
bottle, and continued with a dose for several
mornings before breakfast. For a long time past
I suffered with severe mental depression, due to
an inactive liver and kidney trouble, with exces-
sive uric acid. Thanks to your efficient remedy,
I no longer fear these distressing attacks, as I find
a single dose corrects any mistakes in diet, and
removes the injurious poisons. In the hope that
my letter may lead others to try what has proved
an invaluable boon to me.—Yours truly,
“11. A. G. BOEDER.”
Nurse Cross writes —
“2, Percy-road, Wrexham, July 6, 1904.
“Sirs, —Thank you for Kutnow’s Powder, re-
ceived to-day. Some five years ago I had an acute
attack of nephritis (inflammation of the kidney),
and my doctor advised Harrogate waters. After
trying them for some time, with very little result,
the doctor suggested giving your Powder a trial,
with such excellent result that in a short time I
felt very much better. I continued taking it
regularly every other day for two years, and con-
sider it worked an entire cure. I still take it at
intervals whenever I feel a touch of the complaint,
and never go to a patient without a bottle in my
possession. Many of my patients have tried it,
with excellent results. I think the wonderful
good done in such cases should be widely known
for the benefit of other sufferers.
“ Yours sincerely,
“ MARGARET CROSS (Nurse).”
YS WITH
Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO., Ltd., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C. p-whc.™ , K „™„ w „ros., l«.. s«
[6-12]


YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
HOULDER BROTHERS & CO., Ltd.
Passengers Booked to STEAMSHIP OWNERS, FREIGHT CONTRACTORS,
All Parts of the World. SHIP, INSURANCE & CHARTERING BROKERS.
THE HOULDER LINE STEAMERS.
for Conveyance of
Passengers, General Cargo, Frozen Produce, &c>
To and from AUSTRALASIA, AFRICA, LONDON, LIVERPOOL, GLASGOW, &c.
Steamer.
HORNBY GRANGE
OVINGDEAN GRANGE
URMSTON GRANGE
LANGTON GRANGE..
DRAYTON GRANGE (Twin Screw)
ELSTREE GRANGE
ROYSTON GRANGE
Tons.
3,750
3,700
5,600
9,200
10,000
6,000
6 330
Steamer. Tons
BEACON ORANGE 6,300
RIPPINGHAM GRANGE 9,200
OSWESTRY GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10,000
THORPE GRANGE 6,350
HAVERSHAM GRANGE 11,200
EVERTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 11,000
SOUTHERN CROSS 7,300
First, Second and Third Saloon Cabins situated Amidships. Excellent Cuisine. Electric Light.
M ,5 a !', tlo i larB ’ apply at the OFFICES OF THE COMPANY, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
12 Pall Mall, S.W., London. 14 Water-street, Liverpool. 30 Gordon-street, Glasgow. 337 Calle Cuyo, Buenos
Aires. 446 Calle San Martin, Rosario, Gran Dock, Ensenada, La Plata. Capetown and Durban, South Africa.
Head Office: 146 Leadenhall-street, London, E.C.
By Royal
Warrant to
AM
His Majesty
The Kins.
BOVRIL
is guaranteed the product of the finest Ox Beef.
A small quantity of BOVRIL added to Soups, Curries, Stews, &c.,
increases their nutritive value and improves their flavour.
SOME BOOKS
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
fdg
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Ohromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will he posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Boos op Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, new 1905 edition,
2s 6d posted. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, 'ls 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s
Big Horse Book and How to Train the
Horse, is *6d. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Stolen Sweets, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love, Business,
Futurity, &c., with full directions, Is posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, ! Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. On Our New Selection, 6s 6d. A Life
of Pleasure, Is 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be tooled into paying- more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. U* - H&tablixhetl %') Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT
«
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappiio, genuine,
Is. Odd Busii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6a.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry, Exposed 1906 Edition, Is posted.
Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology,
7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Ingersoll’s
Complete Works, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. How to
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 i'.lus., leather
bound, my price, 16s post paid. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016, pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood,
os. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s Od each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. New Tricks with
Coins, Is posted. A Modern Siren, Is 6d.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
r
L
I "Is superior even to meat and of
Inestimable value as a food."
—Virchow.
PLASMON
Dr. Robert Hutchison says:—
“ A diet rich jn proteid MAKES PHYSICAL *
MENTAL ENERGY. To growing children a
deficiency of proteid is especially dangerous,'’
DUNKLING’S
WATCHES
Ate Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee Is given with
every Watch sold .
Racing Chronographs
No. I—Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Guaranteed 2 Years,
&2 lOs, post free. With Silver Case, £,3 IBs .
No. 2—Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, with Minute Re-
corder (as illustration), Guaranteed 3 Years, £3 t
post free, Silver Case, £4 I Os.
No. 3—Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
25 Jewels, Split Seconds, with Minute Recorder,
Guaranteed 3 years, £7 10s, post free. Silver
Case, £lO, Open-face or Hunting.
Warranted to be the Best and Most Serviceable
Racing' Watches made.
Sent Post Free and Duty Paid to any Address In
Australia. 1
W. DUNKLING,
315-317 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
THE BALLET GIRL
fd
gfd
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and \ovelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
3
¥ TRIED every known treatment and device vvituout
1 help. Finally I cured myself by GalvafhuElectricity.
If you are deaf, or nave head noises, don’t waste time and
money as I did. Write me, mentioning' this paper, and I
will send you full information FREE. Address —
MR. LEWIS VERNON, 64 Hunter St:, Sydney.
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OF BELF-CURB, Will
forward the same, free ol charge, to any-
one interested.
Address: A.MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
gfd
ANTI-
BILIOUS
g
“I do not hesitate to say it is the best made pill in the kingdom.*’— Dr. G. F. Collier, in the Pharmacopoeia of the Royal College of Physicians of London.
A FAMED AS A FAMILY MEDICINE FOR A CENTURY. Inva.lua.ble to every Mother of a family, a
J'tie Xatjcet describes it as—
“ Mr. Benger’s admirable
preparation.”
Zlje British Jfiedical Journal
says—
“ Benger’s Food has by its
excellence established a
reputation of its own.”
GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
%
FOOD
For INFANTS,
INVALIDS
and <Ke AGED.
Benoer’s r'ooD is sold in Tins
by Chemists, Btc. everywhere.
Reynolds publishes a list of recent clerical
wills in Britain showing that 125 preachers of “the
Word left a total of £15,626,300 —not mentioning
freeholds—an average of over £lOO,OOO. Of these,
21 left over a quarter of a million, and three over
half a million. Carnegie used to say, “ The ma n
who dies rich dies damned.”
During Prof. Spencer’s visit to Centralia,
he one day come across a meeting of the nude
medical faculty of a local tribe. The dusky medi-
cine men were having a consultation over a patient.
One brilliant and rising young physician vigor-
ously affirmed that the sufferings of the man were
due to his having a bone in his head ! The older
medicos, burning with professional jealousy, re-
luctantly agreed that the illness was partly due to
this; but proudly diagnosed .that the sickness
arose mainly through the prostrate nigger having
a wooden stomach ! The remedy unanimously
agreed upon was to pommel the stomach until it
became normal again. Here Spencer intervened,
and noticing that the sick man was suffering from
dysentery, gave a bottle of medicine to one of the
faculty and instructed him how to use it. Later
on, Spencer heard that the sick native had died
through the infallible wooden-stomach treatment.
As for the bottle of remedy, the medical faculty
had passed it round till it was empty.
“ Lil ” writes :
I witnessed a leave-taking scene at a big Victorian rail-
way station the other day in which the Europeanising in-
fluence of the Chinese Empire Reform Association was
apparent. A prosperous-looking Chinese father was leav-
ing for Melbourne with two daughters and three sons,
and a contingent of Ah Sins turned up to see them off.
All were dressed in European fashion, and did their best
to imitate whites as to hat-raising, manner of carrying
Walking-stick or umbrella, and so on. Most of them had
their hair cut short, but two or three who had not been
'dblfe to tear themselves away from the pigtail wore that
appendage poked down behind a high starched collar to
be as far as possible out of sight. The departing Chinese
girls Were arrayed in the height of Collins-street fashion,
and rejoiced in the ancient Mongolian names of Phyllis
and Daphne. Their young brothers were Eric, Lionel'and
Bertie Ah Something-or-other. A Sunday-schoolish white
man and two ditto girls joined the Celestialsin mftkihgmild
jokes, and there was a continual simmer of merriment.
While the white man was helping some of the Chows to
ogle the Chinese girls, other Mongolians were making
rapid headway with the white damsels. Two other
White girls had come to bid farewell to Phyllis and
Daphne, but they seemed to be rather ashamed of them-
selves. They lingered in the entrance-hall until the
Warning-bell rang, and then dashed over to the train and
said good-bye, requesting Daphne to “give my love to
Maisie” (Maisie Ah Chook, probably). They took no
notice of the Chows on the platform, which caused much
disgust. One dressy Chinese Johnny was especially
aggrieved at being cut, but the other two white girls
managed to soothe his harrowed feelings.
The chief offence against the laws in Nor-
folk Island, the new territory to be taken over by
the Commonwealth, is thievery. Norfolk Island
thieves are wholly devoid of respect for persons.
They will rifle a policeman’s hut and the Govern-
ment Resident’s bedroom just-as frankly as they
will carry off a pair of boots from a neighbor’s
doormat. They sometimes steal things they have
no use for and no means of selling or exchanging.
In these cases they lav the things down in a
public place and admire them, and wonder how
they got there, till the policeman comes along.
The Norfolk Islanders are governed by an elective
council, and are, above all things, loyal to the
King. Three cheers for the King is an almost
daily event. And they are particularly partial to
onions.


?e£ed
front ah
Granp
BRAS
fie- etc-
Sjgnor&RLObANl
PIT,
ns
Talking
NICOLE,
UNIVERSAL RECORPS
Of the World’s Greatest Artists, Bands and
Orchestras. lOin. and 7in. Records, will fit
any and every Disc Talking Machine.
ABSOLUTELY UNBREAKABLE.
NICOLEPHONES
TWO SPECIAL « The Colonial,
INSTRUMENTS * The New Standard.
ILLUSTRATED- CATALOGUE EREE on application.
W. G. KING,
SOLE
AGENT,
316 George St.,
SYDNEY.
A CARD.
OLD DOCTOR LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
Begs to inform his patients and the ailing public
generally that HE and HIS STAFF OF EXPERT SPECI-
ALISTS may still be consulted as in years past, either
personally or BY LETTER, FREE OF CHARGE.
IF YOU ARE IN NEED OF MEDICAL ADVICE,
WRITE FOR QUESTION CHART AT ONCE.
POST FREE, Doctor Langston’s
Popular Medical Work, latest edition
(Must) cited):
MENS SANA IN CORPORE SANO.
It tells you what you want to know,
and what you ought to know.
WRITE FOR IT NOW.
™ E DR. LANGSTON INSTITUTE
129 COLLINS ST, MELBOURNE
ESTABLISHED 1887.
All Communications Sacredly Confidential.
Mention this paper when writing.
ANDRADE
BOOKS
FOR
AND
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition, Is ; post Is
3d. BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Marri-
age Guide by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition, hard covers, im-
proved. Magic Up-To-Date, Is. Horse and Cattle
Doctor, 6d. Donelly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, Is. Maria Monk, Is
6d. How to Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter., Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Little Folks’Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous
Dialogue Book, 6d each. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat Gould’s Novels, 6d each,
posted Bd. Devil in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads,
etc., Is. House Painting and Papering, 1/3. How
to Play Billiards, Is. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d.
The Cuckold, Is ; post, Is 3d. Britain for the
British, 6d. Freemasonry Exposed and Ex-
plained, 1905. edition, with key to all degrees, Is.
Cycle Building and Repairing, new edition, 190
illustrations, Is 3d. Maofadoen’s Physical Train-
ing. Is. Virile Powers of Superb' Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron. and many
others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the First
Night, 1/3. : How to Write Signs, Tickets ’and
Posters, Is 3d. Staining, Varnishing and Polish-
ing Wood, Is 3d. Electric Bells, 1/3. Boot-
making and-Repairing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise:
Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal
Gustave, Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is
PrANO Tuning and Repairing. Is 3d. How to Make
Love, Is. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card
Games, Is. Picture Frame Making, Is 3d
Poultry Keeping, Is. Dream Book, is. Every
Man His Own Builder, Is and Is 3d,
NOVELTIES.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, Rea / Photos, 200
Kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s.
ZINCARA GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS, LOVE, BUSI-
NESS, FUTURITY, &c>, with full directions, 1s; posted 1/3.
I
i!
t£Ss
Free Catalogues:
No. I—Plays, Reciters,
Make-up, etc.
No. 2—Conjuring: Apparatus
and Books.
No. 3 —French Novels In
English.
No. 4—Books for Presents.
No. s—Useful & Mechanloa
Books.
No. 6 —3ooks for the
Married.
No. 7—Advanced
Literature.
Confessions of a Melbourne Barmaid, illus., Is 3d.
Gay Life in Melbourne, illus., Is 3d. Hoffman’s
New Conjuring Entertainment, Is 3d. How to Bet
and Gamble, Is 2d. Kropotkin’s Fields, Factories
and Workshops, Is 3d. A Midnight Mystery, Is. A
Left-Handed Murder, Is. God and My Neighbor, 9d,
p. Is. Engineer’s Practical Test: engines, boilers, gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6. How to Make Up, lilustrated
Guide to the Stage, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is.
Sandow, 3s. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 124 S pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Midwives’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is. Building Model
Boats, Is 3d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phrenology,
Is. Blacksmith’s Work, 1/3. Lover’s Letter Writer,
Is. Photography, Is. Monster Song Books, 3d,
6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 16s post. Age of
Reason, is 3d. Ingersoll’s Works, 9d. Irish
Song Book, Is. Lightning Calculator, Is. Min-
strel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is 2d.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to anv address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
GLEASON’S GREAT HORSE BOOK
EVERYTHING WORTH KNOWING ABOUT THE HORSE. Fully Illustrated. Deals with breeding
training, sheltering;, buying, selling, telling age, racing, etc. Diseases—their causes, how to know
how to cure them. Worth £.lO for its information, but offered for 7/6.
breaking,
them and
508 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE
VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE ST.,
MELBOURNE.
fdg
<§*
<,y
' v V>
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as “run-down" or “out of sorts." Females
of every age find Holloway’s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness)
Holloway’s Ointment affords mo** welcome relief
in a very short time.
v oV v
AND
HINT
V
AIDS DIGESTION.
BRACES THE NERVES
PLASMON
T , „ COCOA
19 non-heating. Ono cup contains
more nourishment than 10 cups of
any ordinary cocoa.
2
FREE TRIAL!
NOT A PENNY DOWN «
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved high grade ELECTKIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back, Kid-
ney, Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous- I
ness, and all Weakness of Men and Women.
Ule will glue free
to each per-
son writing
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
men and women. If you are weak in any way
delay no longer, but write to-day for our
splendid Book and Belt Free. Write to-day,
Tho Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, Via
Please mention this paper.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing-sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUbLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Gastlereagh St.,
STDInTEY.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
MEDICATOR.
Catarrh is inflammation of
the lining membrane of the
nose and adjoining passages. |
If this inflammation is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the
sight and hearing, destroys
the sense of taste and smell,
renders the breath offensive,
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Bo you want
relief and cure? If so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache,Neuralgia,Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
Price,complete with 4 months’
treatment by mail, 10s.
Write for Booklet, free, or send order direct to
Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
THOUSANDS OF
RUPTURED
PEOPLE have been and are being I
PSIDCn kyD l Langston’s Perfect |
llUnCll Combined Tbeatment.
No Pain, Operation, or Detention from
Work. Immediate Relief, and Certain
Cure. Convincing Testimony and Refer-
ences from nearly every town in Australia
sent with my Valuable Book—
| “RUPTURE, ITS HISTORY & CURE” |
FREE.
Posted 2 Stamps.
I THE LANGSTON INSTITUTE |
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
RHEUMATISM.
GOUT
PILLS
Are recommended by doctors with confi-
dence as one of the valuable results of
medical science, and the only remedy
ever discovered for these disorders, in
that they not only rapidly cure but pro-
ven! the recurrence of the malady.
Of Chemists and Stores, 1/1 J and 2/9 per box.
Proprietors— PßOUT & CO., 229, Strand
London, England.
Thus President McLennan, of the Produ-
cers’ and Property Owners’ League, to the ’Pootra
chicks, assembled in Melbourne lately :
They had the Arbitration Act, which was ostensibly
framed to prevent strife. They found, on examination,
that the Act was of no use legally, because there were no
strifes and no strikes.
On the same principle, of course, that a watch-
dog is no use if he keeps the thief away from the
wood-heap, because the thief being kept away by
the dog there is no thief for the dog to keep away,
and that makes the dog quite superfluous.
Although most N.S.W. Governors have,
like Governor Rawson, held positions in one or
another Masonic Lodge, yet the first man who
tried to establish a lodge in N.S.W. was hustled
out of Botany Bay and sentenced to a term of
hard gaol in Tasmania. Henry Brown Hayes,
who stood high in the order in Ireland, thought it
would lighten his captivity if he could carry on
the ceremonies in Sydney, and started a lodge in
1803. The Excellency of the day, however, was a
suspicious man; he broke up the meeting on
general principles, and sentenced Hayes for
insubordination, or some other of the handy and
frequent offences of ■ that day. It was not till
about a dozen years later that Masonry got a
footing in N.S.W.
“Viator ” writes on a remote sort of sub-
ject
New York is Jerusalem, the Hebrew capital, with over
673,000 Jews. London is only as a Jewish Boston to it.
A few words on the New York Jewish institutions. The
Progress Club, Central Park West, is important. The
Jewish Educational Alliance has a mammoth building on
the corner of East Broadway and Jefferson. The Alliance
has a daily attendance of 7000 pupils. Annual cost
£17,500. The fine Hebrew Technical Institute, Stuyvesant
Place, costs annually £6OOO. The Young Men’s Hebrew
Association has a grand four-storey edifice on a corner
of Lexington Avenue. In the same Avenue is the
newly-established Young Women’s Hebrew Associa-
tion. The Clara de Hirsch Home for Working Girls,
East 63rd-street, is a monster live-storeyed place, which
you might take for Pierpont Morgan’s city house. The
Working Girls’ Vacation Society has two summer houses
away from the city in charming surroundings. The
Hebrew charities building l is on a Second Avenue corner.
Annual cost £45,000. Connected with this is the Federa-
tion of Sisterhoods, of which there are 15 organisations.
The Hebrew Orphan Asylum, Amsterdam Avenue, has 1000
inmates. Annual; cost £40,000, of which the State gives
£19,000. Emanuel Lehman invested £20,000 for teaching
trades and professions here. Another big place is the
orphan asylum, Ralph Avenue, Brooklyn. It accommodates
400. The Hebrew Infant Asylum, Eagle Avenue, in the
suburb of Bronx, has 150 children, under five years of age.
Annual cost £6OOO, of which ;tlie city pays half. The
Hebrew Sheltering Guardian Society, corner of Grand
Boulevard and 150th street, has 650 children. Annual
cost £21,000, of which the city pays £14,000. The Mount
Sinai Jewish Hospital, Madison Avenue, occupies a block.
Only opened in 1904, cost first year was £30,400, of which
the city gave £6OOO. Other considerable Jewish Hospitals
are Beth Israel and Lebanon. The superb Montefiore
Home for Chronic Invalids, Broadway, costs, annually
£28,000, including £lO,OOO for a Country Sanatorium
The Sanatorium for Jewish children maintains a summer
home at Rockaway Park. Annual cost £4OOO, including
sea-shore picnics for mothers and children.


TATTERSALL’S CONSULTATIONS.
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
NOW OPEN
PRINCE OF WALES STAKES, Randwick, N.S.W., Prince of Wales Birthday...
BRIGHTON PLATE, Brighton, Tasmania, June 4
GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE RACE, Flemington, Vic., July 7 •••
MELBOURNE CUP, Flemington, Victoria, November 6
50,000 at 5/2 each.
50,000 at 5 2 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
IMPORTANT NOTICE,
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d. on each
ss. Ticket, and 4d. on each 10s. Ticket. Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. Parcels may be forwarded through any PARCELS
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
MELBA ACCORDEONS
fd
Produce the
most . .
delightful
music.
They are
easily learnt
N o know-
ledge of
music being
required to
become a
skilled
performer.
NEW 1906
MODELS
With 1,2, 3, or 4 sets of reeds, six, eight or ten 9
fold double and triple Bellows with metal bound
corners, and all latC3t improvements.
Prices from 7/6 to 26/9.
Packed and delivered free to any Post Office or
Railway Station in Australasia.
Ask for our 1906 Illustrated Catalogue. We
will send it Post Free.
ALLAN & CO. Propy. Ltd.
276-378 Collins Street, Melbourne.
gdf
Black Powder Shotgun Cartridges
The most successful hunters shoot Winchester “New
Rival” Factory Loaded Shotgun Cartridges, blue in
color, because they can kill more game with them. Try
them and you will find that they are sure fire, give good
pattern and penetration and are satisfactory in every
way. Be sure and get Winchester Factory Loaded
“New Rival” Cartridges. Don’t accept any substitute.
ALL DEALERS SELL THEM
DRUG HABIT
LIQUOR HABIT
HAVE YOU FAILEI/ THKOUGH
nmiNif enness
UIIUII IriDON’T DESPAIR.
DR. LANGSTON’S VEGETABLE CURE-
A Home Cure which never fails.
It is safe, sure, absolutely certain, and
inexpensive. A few doses produce a won-
derful change. The craving for all
intoxicants will be destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for food will
return, refreshing sleep ensues. This cure
will surprise and delight you. May be
GIVEN SECRETLY.
Thousands of Cures ; here is one :
Ravensthorpe, W.A., 23-9-04.
Have finished the half course, which has
effected a cure. I have no desire for drink,
in fact , have a repugnance to the very idea
of it. Yours faithfully,
Write for Treatise No. 5. Posted Free.
The Dr. Langston institute,
129 a COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
TOBACCO HABIT
’s Bronchitis Cure.
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs" have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be Avithout it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
TERRIBLE COUGH CAUSED BY MEASLES.
IMPROVED IMMEDIATELY AND QUICKLY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send me by return post
one large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, for which please
find payment enclosed. I had a terrible cough caused by
measles. It was tearing me to pieces. I chanced to have
a small quantity of your Bronchitis Cure, took one dose,
and improved immediately. I like to always have some
on hand. It is well worth a testimonial on account of
what it has done for me, and you are at liberty to make
use of what I have written. This is not the first time it
has done me good.—Yours truly,
G. R. HOOK,
“ Hilslea,” Clyde, Victoria.
ASTHMA.
TWO CHILDREN IN ONE FAMILY CURED TWO
YEARS AGO BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
IN THE BEST OF HEALTH NOW.
HAVE NEVER HAD A SIGN OF THE ASTHMA SINCE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir,—lt is with pleasure I can say
that my two children, whom you treated two years ago
with your medicine for Asthma, are keeping in the best of
health. They have never had a sign of the Asthma since.
I always keep a bottle of your invaluable Bronchitis Cure
in the house now.
(Mrs.) L. EDGELL,
Smeaton, Victoria.
BRONCHITIS.
A SUFFERER 73 YEARS OF AGE
THOROUGHLY CURED BY TWO BOTTLES OF
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
IMMEDIATE RELIEF—EFFECT WONDERFUL.
Mr. Hearne. Sir, —I have been very ill with Influenza
and Bronchitis. A friend of mine persuaded me to try
your Bronchitis Cure. The first dose gave me immediate
relief, and after taking the second bottle I am thoroughly
cured. Its effect on me has been most wonderful. lam
73 years of age. I trust you will make use of this state-
ment by publishing it for the benefit of humanity
generally. Yours most respectfully,
THOMAS R. TREZISE,
Reedy Creek, Victoria.
DRY, HACKING COUGH FOR TWELVE MONTHS.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED BY
liEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
OTHER TREATMENT TOOK NO EFFECT.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —For twelve months or more I had a dry, hack-
ing- cough on my chest that used to trouble me terribly
at night-time. I was told it was a touch of Bronchitis. I
tried different sorts of medicine, which took no effect, so
I tried your Bronchitis Cure, which, I have much pleasure
in informing you, relieved me at once. It has completely
cured my cough. lam sure anyone can depend on your
medicine for a thorough and immediate cure. —I remain,
yours truly, DAVID MATTHEWS,
Modewarre, Victoria.
INFLUENZA AND BRONCHITIS.
TEN YEARS SUFFERING WITH A TERRIBLE COUGH,
AND WASTING AWAY.
COMPLETELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —Twelve years ago I had a severe attack of
Influenza and Bronchitis, and for ten years was suffering
with a terrible cough and was w’asting away. I had
medical attendance, and tried various medicines recom-
mended, but without success, until, on my daughter’s
recommendation, I used Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, with
the result that it completely cured me, and I am per-
fectly free from any cough now.
E. ASTALL,
116 Shields-street, Flemington,
Melbourne
BRONCHITIS.
A SUFFERER FOR YEARS CURED BY ONE BOTTLE
OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
NO OTHER TREATMENT DID ANY GOOD.
Mr. Hearne. Sir, —My daughter, 12 years of age, had a
very bad cough that had been a trouble to her for years.
I tried every cough remedy I could get, but not one of
them seemed to do her any good. Then I tried one bottle
of your Bronchitis Cure, and she has never coughed since
she finished it. lam glad to say the effect has been won-
derful. —Yours, etc.,
J. BATSEN,
Homebush, Sydney, N.S.W.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CUKE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —I am writing to tell you about the wonderful
cure your medicine has effected in my case. About three
years ago I began to cough. At first the cough was not
severe, but it gradually got worse, and I became very
weak and troubled with night sweats, pain in my chest,
and great quantities of phlegm. On several occasions
there was blood in the expectorated matter. I had been
treated by a doctor, who pronounced my case to be
consumption, and various other treatments had been
tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage that I
heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for a
course of the medicine. When it arrived, I was' too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
for which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR,
Westminster-bridge Road, S.E., London.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH FOR
TWELVE YEARS.
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
Sir,—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from a most
distressing, suffocating, dry cough, that could not be
removed or even eased by any remedy, doctor’s prescrip-
tions, and patent medicines having been tried ; but I am
happy to state that the cough, pain in the chest, and
difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by the
fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure. I remain, sir, yours
most respectfully,
WILLIAM CROCKETT,
Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, N.S.W.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE CURED BY ONE SMALL
BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. I am more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without
it. —I remain yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
SEVERE BRONCHITIS.
COMPLETELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE.
IT ACTED LIKE MAGIC.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —It affords me very much
pleasure to give you an unsolicited testimonial as to the
great merits of your wonderful Bronchitis Cure. I can
say without hesitation that as a chest medicine it has no
equal. Having had Bronchitis in a severe form it com-
pletely cured me, and now in the Winter months if I at
all contract a cold on the chest it gives me instant relief.
I have also proved its efficacy with members of my
family, whom it has always cured of coughs, colds on the
chest, also sore throats. It has acted like magic. Sir,
you are deserving of the best thanks of the community
for introducing to suffering humanity such a valuable
medicine.
I remain, gratefullv yours,
W. DUNCAN,
23 Normanby Street, Windsor, Victoria.
ASTHMA.
RELIEVED BY TWO DOSES OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Having been a sufferer
from Asthma, I have much pleasure in stating that your
Bronchitis Cure afforded me great relief after taking
two doses only. I have since proved its efficiency in
quickly curing a bad cold, and altogether my chest feels
stronger. I can strongly recommend it as the best medi-
cine for chest complaints and coughs, as I have tried them
all. Thanking you for the benefit that I have received. —
I am, Dear Sir, your faithfully, D. BEATTY,
Hume’s Buildings, 65 Willis Street,
Wellington, New Zealand.
COUGH.
DISTRESSING AND HACKING COUGH COMPLETELY
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Last winter my youngest
son, Herbert, who is rather weak on the chest, had a dry,
distressing, hacking cough which troubled the poor little
fellow very badly at night time. I tried many so-called
panaceas, without any appreciable effect. But after
using less than a bottle of your Bronchitis Cure I am
pleased to say that the child was cured and is now quite
well, all symptoms of the cough having entirely dis-
appeared. I have had much pleasure in recommending
your magical medicine to my friends.—Believe me to be,
yours very gratefully, R. SHERIDAN KNOWLES,
“Lillieslea,” Union Street,
Windsor, Victoria
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Large Size, 4s. 6d.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA
FORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.


:o
Town
VO. e.“° *° “ e,CRY °™“ ™""-
D * SHELDOHS/ouchs
_ NEW OLDS AND
HistovunS""
WHEREVER MEDICINES ARE SOU).
Nature’s Own Lung Tonic Makes Sore Lungs Well.
ACCEPT NO SUBSTITUTE.
Price 1/6 and 3/-
GUARANTEED.
Q>
SOLD
EVERYWHERE.
o
RHEUMATISM.
ZAM-BUK forms an excellent embrocation for muscular rheumatism,
lumbago, sciatica, and other affections of the fibrous tissues of the body!
These excruciating pains usually occur about the joints of the lumbar
region, and may be caused through cold or damp. Zam-Buk should be
freely and vigorously rubbed in for several minutes each night and morning, and
the balm will be found to reduce any swelling which may be present, soothe the
4#
pain, and finally so stimulate the muscles
that in future they will be better capable
of resisting cold and damp. Warm clothing
should, however, be always worn about the
joints of persons subject to rheumatism,
flannel being frequently recommended.
Rub Zam-Buk in well and often.
The following is a case in point:—“For
about seven years,” says Mrs. Mary Ayton,
of 65 Newman-street, Newtown, Sydney,
“ I have suffered with rheumatism all over
my body, being especially severe in my
ankles and knees, and had great difficulty
in getting about. In fact, at times I have
been laid up altogether, and unable to
attend to my household duties. As you may
believe, I tried many professed cures for
rheumatism, both internal and external,
but could get no relief whatever. I was
laid up in bed with a bad attack, when I
happened to see Zam-Buk advertised as a
cure for my complaint, and I straightway
sent for a pot, and rubbed the balm well in
to the parts affected. In a short time I felt great relief, and, thus encouraged, I
persevered with the treatment, with the result that I was thoroughly cured. ' I
am now able to do my own housework, washing included—a duty I have not
ventured on for some considerable time.”
QnT^4 M ™I R £YIP CURE for PILES - ECZEMA, BOILS, RUNNING
earcoo, rash, ringworm, rheumatism, lum-
%{ *s4’®*?- 4 s ; V 1 EMBROCATION for STRAINED MUSCLES and
ra^) * 3 «d well into the parts affected, is UNEQUALLED. As a
HOUSEHOLD BALM for CUTS, BRUISES, BURNS, PIMPLES, BLACKHEADS
SORE THROAT, SORE CHEST, and SORE FEET, ZAM-
BUK is INVALUABLE. From all Medicine Vendors at 1/6,
or 3/6 FAMILY
SIZE (contain-
ing nearly four
times the quan-
tity).
8
SAW
itmT/
RUB
The Nor’-Easter.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
TIS ever good and gentle,
’Tis always cool and kind,
When Hell lies on the tropics,
And men go mad and blind.
The silken, soft Nor’-Easter,
The languid lady breeze
That God sends down from China, —
A dove across the seas.
A-swinging in my hammock,
Beneath a singing pine,
I hear the glad white horses
Race homeward all a-line ;
The sea spray drifting forward,
Across a dreamy reach
Of yellow sands that circle
The misty moonlit beach.
And yonder, on the sea wall,
The good fat oysters cling;
And yonder up the river
The glutted black ducks wing.
And when the tide comes surging
Across and round the shoals,
They’ll hook the hungry black bream
And spear the drifting soles.
Oh, let me clasp, Juanita,
Your loveliness again,
You wond’rous flower of Ireland,
You wond’rous fruit of Spain !
While all the stars, in splendid,
Still majesty on high,
Slow wheel and circle Westward
Across a Queensland sky.
’Twas but last night I kissed you
Along yon harbor wall;
And you, dear heart, resisted,
Resisted not at all.
And lo ! those gates of Heaven,
I don’t expect to see,
With sudden crash of music,
Burst open unto me.
Wild gypsy of the Beaches,
Wild daughter of the Sun,
What rovers’ hearts before me
Have you not coaxed and won ?
For ships, ere mine, cast anchor
Below yon shallow quay,
And shipmen, too, have dallied,
My dark-eyed dream, with thee.
For Spain and Ireland’s flotsam,
If Rumor whispers true,
Were sinful sire and mother,
Carissima, to you ;
And in your veins makes riot
The red, transmitted fire
That wastes the souls of wooers
On altars of Desire.
But out to-night, beloved,
With warnings dull and sour !
Whatever is is right, Love,
I’ll live my fervent hour;
And you shall be Sultana
And Queen of All the Girls,
And I shall rule, a Sultan,
This coast of Palm and Pearls.
Dark daughter of the Beaches,
Whose eyes are arched by night,
Whose red mouth madly beckons
A lover to delight;
My throbbing song of Passion,
Though this a “ love of shame ”
Be held by pious purists—
The climate’s most to blame.
For, let the pious purist
Just even so recline,
A heart beside him throbbing
Beneath a scented pine,
And let him drink the glamor
The glory of it all—
God help your gentle purist,
God guard him —lest he fall!
Across the moonlit waters
A scent of tuberose
And mangrove and magnolia
The cool Nor’-Easter blows ;
Oh, all the way from China,
From merry Kobe town,
Past Java and the Indies
This poppied wind comes down.
They bless it at Port Darwin,
And round the Gulf they hail
The precious wind that bellies
The pearling lugger’s sail.
Now, south from Thursday Island,
Among the coral isles,
’Tis singing, like an anthem,
For twice a thousand miles.
While lovers down the Clarence,
And lovers on the Tweed,
Drink in its virgin coolness
"Ana on its freshness feed,
The laughing, lush Nor’-Easter,
The languid, lady breeze,
The Lord sends down from China
To glad His glowing seas.
Juanita ! Oh, Juanita !
The sky is white with stars ;
The surf is making music
Across the river bars.
Juanita ! Oh, Juanita !
Your arms and bosom white
Would lure the proud archangels
To earth again to-night.
To-morrow, love, to-morrow
You’ll hear the capstan bring
Our anchor from the coral,
And hear the chantey ring;
Then, feeling for the channel,
Her tops’ls swinging low,
And bowsprit pointing seaward,
My ship, alas ! must go.
But when the light Nor’-Easter
Your face will cool and kiss,
In other nights of glory,
In other nights of bliss,
When on a cloth of velvet
The silver stars are sown,
I’ll dream of you, Juanita,
Of you—-of you alone.
From Townsville unto Timor,
From Sydney round to Perth,
And round again to London,
And round and round the earth,
Beneath the cross star-crowded,
Beneath the great North Bear
Wherever ship shall bear me—
Your mem’ry will be there.
The walls of Honolulu,
The quays of Callao,
Wherever cargoes carry,
Wherever sailors go ;
And on the lone, wide waters,
Beneath the lone, wide sky,
’Twill grieve me and ’twill glad me,
Beloved, ’till I die.
’Tis always good and gentle,
’Tis ever fond and kind—
The little soft Nor-Easter
The little lover’s wind ;
The silken soft Nor-Easter,
The languid lady breeze,
That God sends down from China
To cool His summer seas.
n.s.w.
E. J. BRADY.
In Darkness.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I WAS engine-driving at the time,
driving the mill and dynamo engines on
the Empire mine. It wasn’t at all bad
only for the shifts. They’re rotten, and calcu-
lated to give an ostrich dyspepsia all the way
down the feathered part of him inside. Your
meal hours and sleep time change each week as
you go round day, night, and afternoon shifts,
until you begin to think you’re one of the blessed
movable feasts of the Anglican Church, and your
temper gets as tearable as wet paper. I’m
speaking principally of the men in hot engine-
rooms, but they tell me underground work is
much the same. Shift work is an invention of
the devil, and he had a bad toothache in his tail
the day he invented it.
I had two good mates, though, and we worked
together well enough. My relief called himself
Percy Howard, and I knew nothing to the con-
trary ; but he looked more like Bill Smith. It is
only in books that the man j ustifies the name. He
had a wife, who was as pretty as his name, and
why she ever married such a ready-made kind of
chap as Percy is one of those things that no man
expects to find out, unless he has retired from
business and has nothing to do in his old age
but wear beautiful long hair and think out
conundrums.
I think Percy’s jealousy interested her, and
she wanted to have it handy to amuse herself
with. Women are like that, and it’s no use tell-
ing them that they’re dragging a loaded pea-rifle
behind them, and that it’s liable to go off some
day while they crawl through the fence.
I am a man of the world, and when I went on
shift one afternoon and Percy told me the story I
wasn’t so surprised as Percy thought I was. It
isn’t complimentary to a man to say “Just so”
when he tells you things about his wife, so I had
to be paralysed with astonishment, and sit down
heavily with a dazed look when I heard Percy’s
narrative.
“I’ll kill him,” said the Howard who looked so
like Smith, gritting his teeth, and gripping the
handrail of the engine.
“ Do you know him ? ” I said.
“Not yet. When I do” and then he flew
off the handle and promised all known modes of
destruction to the man who had wrecked his
home. It was an impossible situation, for no man
could have lived long enough to die all the horrible
deaths that Percy was going to kill that man with.
When the atmosphere had cleared a bit, and there
weren’t more than ten horrible deaths lingering
around, he explained how it was he didn’t know
the man. He had neither seen nor heard him,
but his mother had called at his home and listened
to a man’s voice talking sweet things, when no
man’s voice ought to have been there. I sympa-
thised with him of course and felt sorry too, for
Percy was a good mate as I said before.
“Never trust a, woman,” he finally wound
up, kicking off his overalls and throwing them
into his locker; and with that he left to do his
deeds of horror.
An engine-driver is trained to meet surprises
like old acquaintances, and to analyse them
promptly. If he loses his head, a small click
which he can barely hear may blossom inside five
minutes into a smash that’ll cost as much as a
brick villa residence with verandahs and a hen-
house. Yet I certainly wasn’t prepared for a
visit from Percy about 8 o’clock—Percy accom-
panied by his wife and a stranger.
Percy was in great form and introduced his
friend as his wife’s cousin. “ Walked in this
morning after I’d come to work,” he beamed.
“Been in the Hill since last Tuesday, and couldn’t
find us out! If the fool had only written, Mary
would have met him at the station.” And he
playfully feinted at the lady’s ribs. Mrs. Howard
laughed at her husband’s humorous mood, and
beat him hard with her muff. She was one of
those women with an inexhaustible laugh.
I looked at the cousin as he sauntered round
with Percy’s wife and glanced at the machinery.
He was a showy-looking fellow, all over good
clothes, and his diamond ring was like a sparkling
dynamo brush. Percy came up to me looking con-
fidential.
“ Look here,” he said, “ I made a sort of an ass
of myself this afternoon. You see, it was mother
heard the man’s voice in the room ; and who do
you think it turned out to be ? ”
I shook my head, and watched the cousin
pointing out mechanical marvels to his companion,
who laughed and stretched out her hand as if to
touch a crank, and then winced prettily and
shrank back. This cousin was making me tired,
but not so tired as Percy was.
“ Guess,” said Percy, and doubled up with glee.
“ Give it up ? Why, it was Barnaby, the butcher’s
cockatoo. The missus saw that something was up
when I went home, and she got it all out of me.
and then, of course, it was easy for her to explain.”
“ Nothing simpler,” I murmured in agreement,
while I held on to the rail to avoid falling down
with sheer amazement.
“Yes,” he went on, “the blamed old bird got
off his chain and climbed in through the window.
Ha, ha, ha ! What an ass you must think me ! ”
“ I think you’re a great Australian humorist,”
I said, and congratulated him on the comic ending
to his tragedy. Then he began to tell me about
the cousin, of whom he seemed to be mighty
proud.
“Arthur’s just back from South Africa,” he
said. “Fought through the war, and kept a
barber’s shop afterwards in Johannesburg. Got
whips of money. Used to sweetheart the wife
down below before I knew her. Make a fine pair,
wouldn’t they ? Let’s have a bit of a game with
them. I’ll go up to them and be explaining
things, and you switch the light out.”
This is a common and primitive form of foolery
to entertain visitors, and as Percy joined the others
where they stood watching the tail-rod, I switched
off the light. Waiting a moment for the humor
of the situation to soak in, I was about to turn on
the current again when —what was that? _
A slight jar, unnoticeable to an untrained ear,
then a rhythmic beat like a leisurely steam-
hammer. I flashed on the lights with a curse,
while a long, thin shriek blent with the roar of a
big steam leak, and I sped through scalding clouds
to the engine and turned off steam. Do you know
much about engines ? No ! Well, in big hori-
zontal engines there is usually a tail-rod to the
piston. It s necessary to support the weight of
the piston-head, and prevent undue bearing of
the lower side of the cylinder. This tail-rod
moves backward and forward the length of the
stroke, through a gland in the cylinder-cover,
There is usually a guard-rail round its “travel,”
and it moves up to within, say, two or four inches
of this rail. Now if anything of greater bulk than
these few inches should get in there —when the
tail rod reaches out, something’s got to go.
It was the cousin’s head ! He was crouched
on his knees and elbows under the rail when I
looked round after stopping the engine, and
Howard was trying to drag his wife away from the
body. The tail rod was slightly bent, and the
engine had heaved loose on its bed, while the steam
joints were gone all over the shop.
I got the sack for my little share in the
matter, and the coroner reckoned it served me
right, or words to that effect. And I agreed with
him. Engine-drivers have no business to act the
happy ox even to amuse a mate’s wife and her
tailored relative from Johannesburg.
How did it happen ? Ask me something easy.
Percy s theory at the inquest was that cousin
Arthur had heart-disease and fainted when the
lights went out. Possibly so—Percy doesn’t
theorize too badly at times. And it’s absurd to
suppose he would shove a cousin’s head in there
merely because Barnaby, the cockatoo, had been
in his wife’s room.
FITFUL.


PROOF
POSITIVE
“ The Testimony of Your
Neighbour is Conclusive
1
i
o
1
FROM
SYDNEY.
Permanent Cures of Urinary Disorders,
Bladder Weakness, Gravel, and Other
Kidney and Bladder Diseases.
Proof again from Sydney —proof which you
can put to the test .
Mr. Alfred Hairsine, of “Farnley Cot-
tage,” Cowles-road, Mosman, retired engine-
driver, says:—-“I wish you to publish the
following statement about Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, for the benefit of people suffer-
ing from kidney and bladder trouble. For
many years my wife was a sufferer with the
kidneys and bladder. The symptoms were,
striking, aching pains in the back.
Ten years ago, when in England, she
consulted a doctor in Leeds; he failed to
do her any good, and remarked to her, ‘ There
is something about your case that I cannot
understand.’ (I mention this fact because
kidney trouble is often misunderstood.) On
our return to Sydney, she went to one of the
leading doctors; he said she was suffering
from catarrh of the bladder (commonly called
inflammation of the bladder.) On exam-
ining the urine, he said it contained uric
acid, and the difficulty would be to get this
out of the system. He prescribed for her,
but his medicine did her no good ; in fact,
it made her worse. She had several other
prescriptions made up, and used various
remedies, but she was getting worse all the
time. She was scarcely able to get about,
and would be confined to her bed for days
at a time. On one occasion she fell down
on the verandah, when the pain struck her
suddenly. A book about Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills had been left at our cottage.
I carefully read the testimony of people
who had been cured by Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills of kidney and bladder trouble,
and advised her to use this remedy. She
commenced to use them in January, 1904.
She was very bad at the time, but Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills soon began to make
an improvement in her health, by driving
out the sediment and other impurities
through the secretions in a natural way
(the doctor’s medicine had stopped this
sediment). Before long she was able to
walk about, ‘the backache’ was cured,
and the secretions regulated ; thus she was
not disturbed at night. Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills have done her a wonderful
power of good; in fact, made liar a new
woman.
“Seeing how Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills had benefitted my wife, and not feel-
ing quite right myself, having painful
symptoms of urinary trouble, and difficulty
in passing the urine, I commenced to take
them. They proved just as good in my ca,se,
by regulating the secretions, and expelling
the sediment and other impurities. I have
kept the sediment passed with the urine
while my wife and I were using the pills,
and it has become solidified, and weighs over
20 ounces. Everyone knows that if this
were left in the body it would form a stone
in the bladder, which would necessitate an
operation, and probably mean death. There
is no doubt that if we had not taken the pills
when we did there would have been serious
trouble later on. We both feel better now
than we have felt for ten years. My wife
and I between us have used 100 boxes of
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills; then, of
course, her case was severe, and of long
standing. After reading this statement, if
any sufferer would like to see me personally,
I shall be pleased to give them full particu-
lars if they call at ‘ Farnley.’ I have proved
that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills contain
the healing properties they are represented
to have, and know that if taken according
to directions, they will cure kidney and
bladder troubles.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are for sale hy all Chemists and Store-
keepers at 2s 9d per box (six boxes 15s 3d), or will be posted on receipt
of price by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
\
1
SERIOUS CHANCES
ARB TAKEN OF NEGLECTING A
SIMPLE CASE OF PILES.
Any person takes serious chances in neg-
lecting an attack of piles. This ailment has
a tendency to become chronic, and there is
also a further tendency to ulceration and
forming of fistula, which we know are most
difficult to cure.
The safest remedy for any form of piles,
whether itching or protruding, is Doan’s
Ointment. In using it, there is no detention
from daily occupation, and the many cures
made by it have made it famous in every
corner of the world. It enjoys a greater
demand and more enthusiastic popularity
than any other pile remedy ever placed upon
the market.
Mrs. James Mahony, 11 Healy-street,
Paddington, this city, states: “Mr. Mahony
has been a dreadful sufferer with piles. The
ailment started fourteen years ago, through
sitting on a hot anvil. First it was itching
piles, but gradually it developed into pro-
trading and bleeding piles also. I think
that he had this ailment in its worst form.
He suffered terribly at times. He was
ready to use any remedy he could hear of as
good for this complaint, but though he used
a great many, got no relief until he used
Doan’s Ointment. We had seen this oint-
ment advertised, but he did not try it until
a friend (who had been cured by it) told him
it was ‘the Only cure.’ I am very pleased
to inform you that the first application gave
relief, and a further treatment gave him a
complete cure. lam sorry that he is not at
home to give you fuller particulars, but I
need scarcely tell you that he is very enthusi-
astic about this preparation.”
It cannot be repeated too often that
Doan’s Ointment will cure Itching Piles.
It will cure them absolutely. But do not
take the manufacturer’s word for this—ask
Mr. Mahony. He knows, for it cured him,
and he lives here in Sydney. Is not that
the best possible kind of proof? Could
there be better ?
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all chemists
and storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per pot, or will
be posted on receipt of price by F.oster-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Remember the Name—DOAN’S.
In “Our Avenue.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I LIVED in a narrow street once-—out of
respect for my pocket. The women called it
*‘ Our Avenue,” because that sounded genteel.
I was told it was a quiet place, and that I would
find life very dull there. However, I found it quite
exciting. The first night, three gentlemen called
(at intervals, after 11 p.m.), and each one, when I
put my head out, said, “ Oh, I beg your pardon,”
and left hurriedly. They had evidently mislaid
their addresses. Others called at late hours during
the week, and left apologies—all but one. He
was a walking shriek of rum, and persisted in
hanging around, and knocking every half-hour or
so. When I thrust my head out for the third
time to order him elsewhere, he demanded, “ Are
you goin’ to stop there all night ? ”
The front doors open directly off the footpath,
and the backyards are about the area covered by
a whaler’s tent. There is generally a dilapidated
paling fence between (when a previous tenant
hasn’t used it for firewood), over the top of which
the gossip of the neighborhood is ventilated—
pours in a steady stream. If you have ever seen
847 dogs rushing over a log you can imagine the
stream I allude to. Dirty, ill-built places they
are, damp and mouldy, rat-haunted and mouse-
haunted, and clothed with cockroaches as with a
garment. Beside them, the average bush hut,
which the town person sneers at, is almost
luxurious in its comforts. When there’s not much
room inside there’s plenty outside—miles of it;
but in the narrow street of Sydney there’s little
room inside and none outside. And winter nights
call back the ghosts of big bush fireplaces and
blazing logs, the circle of healthy, sun-browned
faces, the chatter and the yarning ; while washing
day brings visions of lone: wire lines stretched be-
tween trees, where the sheets flap in the wind like
thunder claps. Then there was the hunting and
shooting and sugar-bagging—Ah, well! We can’t
expect to find those things in “ Our Avenue.”
In the mornings the women sweep the footpaths,
and do battle with the short-frocked sisterhood
that chalks out hop-scotch grounds there. The
short-frocked sisters do it often for devilment. In
the case of an extra irascible female, or one with
whom they are “not friends,” they chalk her
door also, and smear her window—after watching
her clean it; and now and again they knock and
run round the corner. At night they tie cotton
to the knocker, and seated on the opposite side,
rap-tap gently every few minutes. They look
little dreams of innocence when Mother Fire-
lighter comes out and glances up and down with
murder in her eye. Perhaps she will open the
door three or four times before she discovers the
ruse. Then there’s a shriek and a stampede,
followed by much vituperative language and fist-
shaking on the woman’s part, and hilarious
laughter from the miscreants.
Between 9 and 10 o’clock in the morning, when
bed-making is in progress, a row of heads pro-
trude from upstairs windows on each side, and
the owners talk in loud voices to their opposite
neighbors. The smallest items at any time bring
those heads into view—a tin whistle, a dog-fight,
the arrival of a piece of furniture, and the re-
moval of a tenant are matters of special interest.
They discuss one another and one another’s busi-
ness freely ; quiz comers and goers and passers-
by, and pass remarks about them ; and personal
and sensational bits and scandal items are caught
up quickly and bandied from mouth to mouth to
the end of “Our Avenue.” Each one knows
what the other has in her house, and how she
keeps it, without going in. They watch the rent-
man on Monday mornings, and note who pays
regularly, and who is short; heads pop out when
a cart stops at anyone’s door, and the purchase is
noted and commented upon, if it is only a
penn’orth of apples or a mouldy banana; they
know the carts from the time-payment shops, and
likewise the men who call from those places. The
fact that Mrs. Smith gets her furniture in this
way is a relishable item to Mrs. Jones, who pays
cash, and the information is enthusiastically
circulated to Mrs. Smith’s disparagement. When
one buys a new hat or a new blouse it is known
almost immediately by the street, and all inspect
and criticise it (caustically) when the owner sports
it for the first time, while everyone endeavors to
find out what it cost. If they can discover the
shop where it was bought, several of them will go
there for no other reason than to price the hats or
the blouses, and if the lines are cheap the sneers
of some of them would trip up an elephant.
The street is divided into cliques, and when a
new tenant arrives there is a keen competition
for the favor of her smiles. If she is wise she
lies low until she knows the ropes. She soon
learns everybody’s pedigree over the back fences
from the women on each side of her. When she
has become recognised as belonging to any one
set, she at once becomes taboo with all the others.
Friendships are quickly formed, and as quickly
turned to hatred. One’s neighbor may be a bor-
rowing sort, who never has anything; and if
Next-door makes an excuse when asked for the
washing-board or a scuttle of coals or a saucepan,
she is described behind her back in language
which would be an exaggeration if applied to C.
Borgia. The pair leave off speaking, and pass
each other in the street in silent scorn. The feud
is shared by the whole family down to the baby,
which pokes its tongue out at the other baby.
“ Our Avenue ” could not be more eloquent if
steam trams rushed through it, and the Salvarmy
and the blue-metal roller lived there. The baby
learns to crawl in its gutters, the youth makes
love there, and. day and night, betweens of both
sexes are in noisy evidence, racing and howling,
playing marbles and rounders, ringy-rosey and
kiss-in-the-ring ; cricket, with somebody’s rubbish
tin for wicket, and often a lump of road metal for
a ball. Football is beloved by the adolescent and
the small boy, so the blown leather booms delight-
fully morning and evening, on moonlight nights,
and all day on Sunday. They follow the Bear-
cum-Monkey war, too. They build forts in mid-
street with cases and tins, and bombard each other
with stones, meat-cans, and decayed boots, charge
with brooms and gridirons, and tear wildly round
with flags made of dungarees, red shirts, and the
dishcloth.
The thoroughfare is the common playground.
The children pretty well live there, and keep the
v- women at daggers drawn with each other. One
youngster hits another, or tears its hat or its
pinny; then the mothers interfere, and embellish
each other’s names an assortment of choice
adjectives; and occasionally the males are drawn
in, and the Avenue brings its collective baby out
to see the fun. Generally the tired head of the
family is only seen after tea, when he sits and
smokes on the doorstep—barefooted.
Saturday night sees “ Our Avenue ” at its, best.
Pushes gather here and there with “constant
screamers, ” and mouth-organs, and tin Whistles,
and jubilate till midnight. Late hawkers, who
“want to sell out cheap and get home,” go
rapping and bawling from door to door; and
after bedtime, when the community wants to
sleep, a couple of drunks, staggering home from
the corner pub., will stop under the window and
argue about Rozhdestvensky and Togo, or the
merits of the best teams, until something wet
drops down and drowns the barney. Then a
woman’s shrieks break out suddenly, mingled with
cries of “ Murder ! ” There is breaking of glass
and furniture, had language, and a banging and
thumping like a lost earthquake going down
stairs. A crowd gathers, and as a white-robed
female gets on to the roof through the back win-
dow, they smash more glass and break the door in.
Then the police appear, and Summary Justice is
tripped up on the threshold. But the street is
never very quiet, and it breaks out violently when
leastexpected. Towardsdawn, whenthebushman’s
environment is blissfully still, “Our Avenue’s”
cats fight in wild spasms about the premises, the
pup next door wakes up and howls with renewed
vigor, cocks crow enthusiastically in all directions,
and the man who has to go to work early starts
chopping wood, falling over tubs and tins, bang-
ing things at large, and cursing on general prin-
ciples. Then three or four different milkmen
begin “knocking the doors down,” and bawling
out “Milk-o”; and ere long the endless string of
hawkers, including German Charlie in search of
last night’s broken umbrellas, begin their noisy
round again.
On New Year’s Eve the whole population turns
out into the street, the youths light bonfires in
the roadway, and around it the crowd sees the old
year out and the new year in, to the tooting and
screeching of trumpets, bugles, whistles, mouth-
organs, and other instruments of torture. The
police scatter the fire, and the crowd hoots them ;
when they depart the fire is made up again. Some-
times the police make a dart after a ringleader, and
the crowd pretends to help by rushing in front to
point him out, and gets so tangled up around the
arm of the law that the culprit escapes. So they
can only look on until “ Our Avenue ” exhausts its
enthusiasm around the dying embers of its annual
blaze. And I have looked on too— for only a dead
man could sleep—and thought of my lost camp-
fires in the great and glorious bush.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.
Charity.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
President took her seat with an air
of great deliberation and much rustling of
silk skirts. She surveyed the meeting,
through her lorgnette, and arranged her papers
methodically.
“We have now to discuss the case of the
Cliffs,” she said. “ A very annoying one, indeed !
They are in absolute want —by the way, why isn’t
Jessie here? Oh, of course, the poor girl had to
go to Grimley’s. The wretched people sent home
her new gown, and the fit was too shocking for
words. And she wanted it for the Ridgeways’
to-night. Now she’ll have to go in her old blue
or stay at home. It’s too bad, really. I
always say the best is the cheapest—it’s no good
going to these suburban milliners. Adeline
always makes for me. Expensive—yes ; but one
must look decent, really.
“ But I was telling you about the Cliffs —before
I was interrupted. They are in want, it’s true ;
but I really do not think they are deserving. Let
me see—they had 3s. last week, 2s. Gd. the fort-
night before that, and fully 6s. tiie month pre-
vious. That makes 17s. in less than nine weeks—
no, of course I’m wrong, 16s. 6d.
“Well, you know, it’s too bad ; we can’t go on
like that. Our funds won’t stand it. (By the
way, dear, we’re getting low in tea.)
“Now, you’d think that that amount would
make them quite comfortable. There’s only the
two of them and six children —oh, yes, and the
twins, but they’re quite small and don’t want much.
By the way, why do people like that always have
twins ? So improvident! I drove down there
yesterday (I was trying the new car that Harold
gave me) and, would you believe it, the wretched
woman had actually pawned the bedstead ! Yes,
indeed ! Dishonest, I call it! I gave her a piece
of my mind. She answered that the children had
to have food.
“ And that great, hulking husband of hers still
out of work. Disgraceful! Why doesn’t the
man get something to do ?
“Oh, and the children looked so ragged and
dirty ! It makes one tired of trying to do good.
This class of people is utterly lacking in all sense
of gratitude. I took her my cream satin evening
gown—the one I had for Mabel’s wedding. I
heard from the dear girl only last week ; she’s in
Switzerland, at a watering-place I believe, having
a simply ripping time. She met the Yancourts at
Brix or somewhere; that odious Horace Craig
was with them, of course. Too disgraceful—
cannot understand how Vancourt does' not see
what’s going on. Oh, the things she wrote me
about them—in confidence, of course. I shall
read you her letter when we are not so busy.
My ! but it will surprise you.
“But I was saying, wasn’t I, about the cream
satin ?—One lump, thank you, dear, not too much
milk. Thanks. Oh, about the cream gown ! It
never did suit me—very decollete. Ten guineas
I paid for it. Well, I gave it to the woman you
know, and when I called a month later the
creature had actually pawned it for 4s. 6d. Just
fancy! Said it was unsuitable, and they were be-
hind with the rent.
“ One cannot have any patience with persons
like that, can one? Oh, they do weary me so. I
shall wash my hands of them. No more tea,
thank you, dear.
‘ ‘ Gracious me ! is that the time ? I must fly.
Well, we have got through some work to-day.
It’s wonderful how much one can do when one sets
one’s mind to it. It cuts into one’s time dreadfully,
but one must not live for oneself now-a-days.
See most of you to-night at the Ridgeways’.
Bridge, I suppose ? Really my luck has been too
dreadful of late—just too dreadful. I must have
lost £2O last month.
“Well, good-bye, dears.
“Charles! the Club.”
ALE. BRASCH.
Melb. Herald (21/4/’O6) reports that it
has found in the Wimmera district a gentleman
who is a hairdresser and tobacconist, fruiterer,
fancy goods dealer, jeweller and watch-maker,
bicycle agent and repairer, wine salesman, aerated
water manufacturer, breeder and judge of prize
poultry, livery stable keeper, fishmonger, tea
agent, milk vendor, stationer, saddler, insurance
agent, newsagent, seller of sporting goods, and
agent for clothing. In addition to this he is
secretary of the local agricultural society, sexton
of the local cemetery, and he makes out income-
tax schedules for district farmers. Also he finds
time to be a German in between whiles.


Impure blood is the cause of very many of the ills to which
flesh is heir. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla purifies, vitalizes and n-
richesthe blood, as testified to by Mr. W. J. Pickering, Store-
keeper, Breeza, N. S. W., who sends his portrait and tells the
following interesting story:
gfd
gfdg
“In the year 1890 my ankle
broke out, and I went to a
doctor, who told me 1 was
suffering from blood poison-
ing. He prescribed for me,
but did me no good, and I
tried several other physicians
without benefit. I went into
St. Vincent’s Hospital, Syd-
ney, and, after a few months’
treatment there, came out
worse than ever, feeling
greatly discouraged. I suf-
fered terribly for four years,
until my wife, hearing of
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
got me a bottle. She persuaded me to give it a thorough trial. Soon
I noticed that the sore on my ankle began to heal, then the pain dimin-
ished, and after a course of six bottles I became as well as ever I was
in my life, and I remain in the best of health.
“Everybody for miles around here knows what tribulation I went
through. I now recommend Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to all who suffer from
impure blood, and I am glad to say that it has done good to all who
have tried it.”
Be sure you get the original AYER'S Sarsaparilla. See
that the name-AYER’S SARSAPARILLA-is on the wrapper,
and blown in the glass of each bottle.
Prepared by DB. J. C. AYEB & CO., Lowed, Mass., O'. S. A.
UP TO DATE SHOPPING BY POST.
strides in the business world of late years
houses doint M 6 *!, ha ': e been made b .V different
their k order business. So excellently have
to ee B i bee " arra ' l! t ed that how many people send
to 3 e in preference to buying locally.
nl Jce t b o S thn BS W 7 d ’ however, must really take second
learn P fofess,onal sphere. We have as yet to
i? ar " u° lawyers conducting their cases by post,
of PossihTlitv P . U H t "7 that this course is within the range
nofbei'S^off^awingly^' 1 ** Pri^Council
absolute 2? w ![ ld treating by post has become an
an in terna He 1 Thei ' e : u ' e several institutions that bear
reputation, having patients wherever
the globe is inhabited. In this respect Australia is not
behind any other country, the institutions that conduct
the great majority of their business by post being re-
nowned for their huge successes.
Yearly they successfully treat and cure thousands of
patients whom they never see, their success being solely
due to their excellent system of diagnosis whereby they
become minutely acquainted with every symptom of then-
patient; even probably better so than when the patient
is able to consult personally, for the simple reason that a
sufferer frequently forg-ets or fails to mention some con-
dition he has noted, and which he remembers when
quietly sitting down to write. The system is perfect and
gives the greatest satisfaction.
* A fuller description will appear at a later date, ex-
plaining how the many mail order frauds are perpetrated
and how they injure legitimate methods.
IN YOUR HOME!
PEOPLE living at a distance fail to realise how readily they can be
cured in their own homes. It is almost folly to go to the expense of
~ a to the „ c , it L» and to Put up with the consequent inconvenience
title off-chance of being cured when you can remain at home, go about
your daily avocation, obtain the advice of our expert specialists free .of all
charge, be successfully treated and permanently cured without an hour’s
detention from your work.
~ system of curing by post is absolutely perfect, and of the
thousands of patients we treat yearly, we see only about fifteen per cent. •
e balance are all treated by post, and the reports of
cures are about in the same proportion. Eighty-five
per cent, of our thousands of testimonials come through
the post from persons whom we have never seen, but
who have unfalteringly followed our advice, and have
regained their health. You cannot want better
evidence of the advantage of our treatment than thes
carefully-prepared figures give you. By this you wil
readdy see the advisability of sending for our Fre
Book. It explains how
Or. McLaughlin’s Electric Bell
cures the ailments set down in the coupon. Make
double X mark against any of the symptoms from which
you suffer, describe any ailment that does not appear,
send the coupon to us, and if Electricity will cure you’
we will outline a treatment that will make you well and
strong in three months. Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric
Belt is guaranteed in every case undertaken. The
cure effected is permanent and lasting.
READ THESE LETTERS.
T t ANGEL TERRACE, COOLGARDIE, W.A.
after an 1 "?V'°y r ,, Belt aft L er all the doctors here had given me up—
that T onnhf r l as h , ad paBSed me as incurable. I had Sciatica so bad
* could neither work nor walk. I wore the Belt two nights and the
pain stopped. In a week I had no pain and began to mend. In a month T
1 WOU , , i d like t 0 meet man more grateful to you
than I am , I don’t think I ever will. Yours sincerely,
P. W. KELLY.
Lumbago and Weak Nervous System.
<■ 1 ‘‘ Retreat,” Woodsreef, BARRABA, N.S.W-
from vou ntm \ to L 6t yOU know fchaUhe High-Grade Belt I got
Wr? X > months ago has done me a wonderful lot of good. I can do a
since Igbt i t° T h.,ve a e Ve i ”° fc bee s trou . bled u with a "’eak back and sciatica
sLv weann S Belt two nights, and I must
htl/s r$? bl £ d Wlth c the sa ™ e ccmpiaint as I had should get one
Th»fnd- irtk fJ^ m X 0n % Ot yourßlectnc Belts is just what they require.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.
toow. Market St., Sydney .
30 William Street, Perth. m
Make a mark thus : X X
after the ailments that
trouble you the most.
Weak Back
Rheumatism
Sciatica
Lumbago
Indigestion
Dyspepsia
Liver Trouble
Nervousness
Head Noises
Debility
insomnia
Other Complaints.
Please Send me your Free Book.
Name ..,
Address.
Cut Out ana
Post us this Coupon
10/5/-6
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Ws
F°f^?i- K ’ nS a " d Nervo "s Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headaches
. Giddiness, 1 uiness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills Flush-
ings of Heat, 'Oss of Appetite Shortness of Breath. Cos iveness, Blotches on the Skin Dis-
w X M e r nivw SXJYito r| Vein lx in l- Sense thms. &c. THU FIRST DOSE
! ? I? 1 l ' V * N *Y MINHTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
rrlrwv s'l °" e <>x of tiese 1 ,Ils - an<i sFey will he acknowledged to be " WORTH A
uUliMXfii A JjUa.
BEECH AM S I TLLS, taken as directed, w euickly restore females to complete health. Thev
promptly lemove any obstruction or irregularity of tae system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; re-tormg the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosmun Ob' Hkat/th the Whom Physical Enjckgt of'the human frame. These
are facts admitted by thousands, m all classes of society, and one of the best; guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beerham s Pills have the Laratxt Sale oj any Patent Medieinein
he world. JMvil directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
IEOMAS BEECEAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, EESLAND
Sohl Everywhere, in Boxes, Is lid, and *-!s Od each.
H«
fe''‘
i, and Vigror Restored
Four Weeks toy the use or
fdgfdg
The only infallible Reti ed/ for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY,
Used for over a (Quarter ot a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricorci’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shat tered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all t lie important elements of the human frame.
Price tSs., or four quantities* in one for 38s : freight Is. k
Is (id. Pamphlets Free. Agents)—Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Fauldingr & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
' - a nil at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
fdg
INSTRUCTION FREE!!
You can become a Hypnotist in a few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
away the minus of others, control friendship
ai d affectum, cure disease and bud habits,
gratify your ambitions and produce amuse-
ment by the hour. My mammoth Illustrated
i ess>ll or Ivey to Hypnotism which I send
iree c i charge and postage paid, will tell you
a. 1 about thi • marvelous science. It contains
be ut.ful and artistic engravings, and shows
you just what Hypnotism is and
what it will accomplish. Send for
it and learn to Hypnotize. Remember, this wonder-
ful book costs you noth ng. If you men-
tion this pap r, I will also include a large
package of oth°r valuable, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. ,-\ chance of a lifer!•.«'•.
W. ite to-day. Address—
fdg
?rof. R. H. BARRADEN, w) Pitt St., Sydney^
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street. Sydney.
fd
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the .same
diseases in 4.3
hours without
incon-
venience.
Each Capsule bears the name D^r*
(MW)
ASTH MA CURE
EMITS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GKIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAB-
ETTBS. Bold by all Chemists.
' DR. J. COLLIS BROWUt'S
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, etc. bears on the
Government .Stamp the name of
the Inventor
Pr.J. COLLIS BROWN 6
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“If I were asked which single medicine Ishould
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, 1 should say Chlokodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
AH IHTERESTINO
HOOK Foil YoUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this hook.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Ad< ,s, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria o. .ambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
BLOOD POISOII.
FOR MORE THAN TWENTY YEARS
v/e have made the cure of blood poison a
specialty, Primary, Secondary or Tertiary
Blood Poison Permanently Cured. You can
be treated at home under same guaranty.
Capital 500,000 dols. We solicit the most
obstinate cases. If you have exhausted the
old methods of treatment, and still have aches
and pains, Mucus Patches in Mouth, Sore
Ihroat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spots,
Ulcers on any part of the body, Hair or
Eyebrows falling out, write for proofs of
t cures, ioo-page Book Free.
COOK REMEDY Co.,
1102 MASONIC TEMPLE, Chicago, U.S A.
Beat
The New Patent
.SOUND DISCS
1 Completely overcome Deafness
■and Heai> Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St.. Melbourne
DR. MARTIN, M.D.,
The Only Medical Author and Doctor of Medicine Practising as a Specialist
in Australasia, and holding the Highest Qualifications Conferred by British
Universities.
MEN AND WOMEN SUFFERERS,
If you have failed to find relief elsewhere, if you are despondent, and despair of ever being cured, CONSULT
DR. MARTIN. He is the Best Authority on all Diseases of Men and Women. His successes in Chronic and so-
called Incurable Cases have gained for him the LARGEST CONSULTING PRACTICE in the Commonwealth.
DR. MARTIN’S long experience as a CLINICAL SPECIALIST in the Hospitals of Europe has made his judge-
ment infallible on Private, Nervous, Blood and Skin Diseases. He has NEVER FAILED to permanently Cure
any Case he has undertaken.
Sir T. GRAINGER STEWART, M.D., F.R.C.F.E., Physician-iu-Ordinary to
Her Majesty the late Queen Victoria, says:—
“ DR - MARTIN, Bachelor of Medicine and Master in Surgerv, is well-known to me as an able and intelligent
Practitioner. He was a Distinguished Student in the classrooms and in the Wards of the Hospital, and must
take his place as a LEADING PRACTITIONER wherever he may settle.”
Dr. MARTIN’S NEW BOOH: “THE DISEASES OF MEN AND WOMEN
AND THEIR HOME CURE.”
Specimen pages of DR. MARTIN’S Famous Medical Work POSTED FREE to all on application. The Book
contains 700 pages, over 500 prescriptions, 193 illustrations, and colored plates. A Medical Handbook for general
use, and is invaluable for those living in the country. It is entirely different to the many so-called Medical
Books that are advertised FREE to the public. Price to Patients, 3s. Write for this Valuable Book to-day or
send for specimen copy—FREE.
“ELMLEY HOUSE," 151 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
— ■ ■ ■


Asbestos . . .
Boiler Covering
Has Proved its Economy times without number.
PACKED WET, ready for use, in 3cwt. casks,
75., Bs., 9s. cwt.
PACKED DRY, in Bags, each lcwt., 145., 165.,
18s. cwt.
IT SAVES 25 PER CENT. IN FUEL.
Perdriau Rubber Co.“ d ;
270 George St., Sydney.
Estimates given for Covering Boilers & Steam Pipes.
WORTHINGTON PUMP GO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
A Policy for the Commonwealth:
Price 6d.
Posted Bd.
HARDY’S
w
Tl NTARA
WINES. .
700 Prizes*
Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide.
it
LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hamper Rock for
Mines or Quarries. Weight about 181 b . Operated by compressed air, consuming about 25 cubic feet of air
H per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Strictly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
cel e apenta* in Oil CIUIDDICDC 506 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
SOLE. ACENTS E!¥l Pfi 11K t, And at 64 PITT ST, SYDNEY.
Every Pump Guaranteed.
-.-7.
“There is No Better Pump
than the ‘KNOWLES.’”
KNOWLES PUMPS for every kind of service
kept in stock. SINGLE and DUPLEX., X ERTICAL
and HORIZONTAL.
r/er Feed or Pressure Pumps, Double Acting Plunger Pumps,
Tank or Light Service Pumps, Vertical Sinking Pumps,
Air Pumps, Circulating Pumps, etc. ,
PARKE & LACY CO.,
60 CLARENCE ST., SIDNEY.
Melbourne Selling Agents: Revan Edwards Propy., Ltd., Latrobe Street.
PATERNOSTER^
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
iWillillltllTlli
*g £ Q-Bgat w»B
m
m
Isaacs
Fred Metiers & Co.
RANGES
and STOVES
Manufacturers in N.S. Wales,
South Australia and West
Australia,
All influential storekeepers act as
our agents and stock our Stoves.
HEAD OFFICES'.
558 George St., Sydney.
142 Rundle St., Adelaide.
William St., Perth.
A NOVEL PRESENT.
AN'Seceiptof P.O O.
U forward to anv
of our HANDSOME
round wire
or M.O. for 5/ - we will
address in Australia one
9ct. COLD-FILLED
BROOCHES, with any
Name or Three Initials, Bell, Heart, Anchor or Gross
Pendant, guaranteed the same quality as brooch,; and
without pendant, 3/6. In 15ct. G.F. Twisted Wire,
8/6 ; without Pendant, 6/6. Illustrated Catalogues
sent Free- All letters carefully addressed to R. SIMS, Cold
Wire King, Cole’s Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
sXDnxrßir.
KEMP’S PATENT SHEEP BRANDING LIQUID
IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED FOR IT.
IT WILL STAY ON THE SHEEP’S BACK AS LONG AS REQUIRED.
IT WILL NOT INJURE THE WOOL and can he SCOURED FROM IT.
< ■ ’ *.*'-*. 't " /O" ' ' ' * .V.* W ' V VV> / V '' •• “ ‘j* 1 : V* If’ 5 ' _ •• ’J * v 4 J .
ďg
',. . I
.
Manufacturers and Sole Agents :
as
FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO., MELBOURNE
IT. GUTHRIDGE Ltd
263 GEORGE ST , SYDNEY
Collins St,, Melbourne
-.AuGKEJILTTJ
POE-
Card Concentrator.
Sperry Slimer. Rapid-Economy Stamp Mill.
Slugger and Little Giant Rock Drills.
Rand Air Compressors. Pulsometer Company’s English Pumps of All Kinds.
Lister Motors and Dynamos. Electrical Machinery.
Panklast Dry Crusher.
Rackarock. Rend rock.
BiUett’s Pat. Hot Air Tuyere.
it
Cam Brand Forged Steel Shoes and Dies.
Nevermiss Fuse. Electric Fuses. Batteries.
Guthridge” Gold Saving Canvas. Abbott Water Filter.
