

»
ill
R. <3k WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers 5 and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS AMO GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW AMD SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
B
HOBART,
X&X
s Orient fiotel.
sf
ROTHWELL’S
ONLY ADDRESS—
Edward St., Brisbane.
Send for Samples of our
SPECIAL STATION SHIRTS
27/6 the halT-doxen,
to order, post paid. [1
t OF -KIRCHNER & CO.’S
Planing & Moulding Machines, Circular Saw Mills, General Woodworkers,
Deal & Flitch Frames, Band Mills, Vertical Boring Machines, Log Frames.
For Illustrated Lists
apply to Sole Agents,
GIBSON, BATTLE & C0 V 7 BENT ST., SYDNEY
\
back
Take
it
have
must
s
f sfa
HAMS a
BACON.
s sfa
THE ROYAL
EDI SWAN LAMP.
ill
f
Economy in Current.
Equality of Light.
THE
ESiSQN l im
United Electric
Light Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
16 Carrington Street
Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY.
Queensland Depot:
Commonwealth
Buildings,
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE.
a s
sf
Bathurst to Sydney, Creat Wallace Continental, Hoad Race.
2nd,
Rode Continental
127 /Wiles without
fa
Ask for these Famous Tyres \
for Motor Car or Cycle .
At,t, Cycle Agents and Continental Tyre Depot, 225 Clarence St., Sydney.
saf
YOUR GROCER FOR M C IN‘
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS!
m
9
m
TEA!
ASK
STANDARD PALE ALE
M
OILl^
ENGINES
No Other in
the World .
EQUALS
‘SIMPLEX’
IRRIGATING PLANTS SUPPLIED
ABSOLUTE
in
Reliability
Simplicity
Efficiency
Durability
Economy.
Mo Worry or Trouble
NO LIGHT wanted.
IGNITION is
AUTOMATIC.
No Carbonization
whatever.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Ail Sizes.
Stationary & Portable.
Send for Illustrated
Catalogue.
E. Coulson
116 a’Beckett St,
MELBOURNE.
sf
“VESUVIO” MACARONI
VERMICELLI
SEMOLINA
79-81 COPPBN ST.,
RICHMOND,
VICTORIA.
■
Co., Agents.
The Bulletin
Yol. 27.—N0. 1358.]
[Thursday, February 22, 1906.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NOW READY mm
JOHNS’S NOTABLE AUSTRALIANS.
WHO THEY ARE AND WHAT THEY DO.—Clothj 6s, postage 4d.
Parrish, A Sword of the Old Frontier, author of My
Lady of the North, cloth, illus., 3s (id, post 6d.
The Process Year Book, li)05-t>, 7s Cd, postage Is.
Ballard, Haeckel’s Monism False, Os, post 6d.
Colquhoun, The Africander Land, IDs, post lOd
Henry Moore, R.A., Makers of British Art, 3s
FRENZIED FINANCE, by Thos* W ♦ Lawson j oioth, soo pages, 6s, post 9d.
Includes also 148 pages of “ Lawson and his Critics,” and his charge of corruption in the Three Insurance
Companies and matters pertaining thereto.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP. LTD., 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR THE LUNGS, THE THROAT, THE VOICE.
The Great . •
ANTISEPTIC
REMEDY
For the Core of
Bronchitis !
and Influenza !
and the Prevention
Of Consumption.
saf
A. The Larynx, or organ of voice.
B. The Trachea, or windpipe.
0. The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
THE “AUSTRALASIAN
MEDICAL GAZETTE”
says:—
“ Of great service in
affections of the
voice and throat.”
BBT HUDSON’S EUIVIENTHOL JUJUBES
fRuoiSTFREri CONTAINS NO COCAINE OR OTHER POISONOUS DRUG. Sold by all Chemists, in tins,' l/6, or
from the Manufacturer, G. HUDSON, Chemist Ipswich Queensland, p° s , l StreeT'w' London
Depot: 5& 7 Queen’s Plaoe. Agencies in all Australian States and N.Z., and at 320 Regent Street W., Rendon.
THE RED PAGE.
A MAKER OF HISTORY
JAMES BONWICK, who died at London
recently, in his 89th year, was a shrewd
and decent schoolmaster, unimaginative,
uninspired, but indefatigable in the study
and compilation of Australian history. Much of
his valuable lanour could not now be imitated,
since many of the people from whom he gathered
information have passed out of sight and memory.
He himself wrote that in three different ways he
had been engaged in the pursuit of history :
I have read, and weighed what men have written on the
subject. I have searched for its facts in official docu-
ments, especially original letters. I have made history
by collecting facts on the spot from actors in the scenes
I wished to describe.
And he added a confession :
Having published historical sketches of the Colonial
Past, 1 find, by more extensive search, that 1 have been
occasionally misled by accepting accounts, which I since
discovered were sometimes influenced bv party feeling, or
private sympathy. It is often difficult to be just, or to
tell the whole truth in a narrative. . . . After much
reading and experience through a long life, I am, with
increased scepticism, more disposed to charity when I
realise the difficulties of writing history, and especially
where documents of reference are few or doubtful.
The character and extent of Bonwick’s work
could scarcely be better described than he himself
described them in an address given some ten years
ago before the Colonial Institute. He Told his
hearers that Australian history is not without its
myths and exaggerations. As partisanship gave
Richard 111 a hump and made Henry VIII noth-
ing less than a Blue Beard, so we have monster
or gentleman in Governor Bligh ; the tyrant or
prisoners’ friend in Governor Macquarie; bigot
or saint in Chaplain Marsden ; or the founder
of Victoria in Faulkner, not Batman.
“In the pursuit of ‘ colonial intelligence' I have
, occasionally found myself in strange company.
Once in 1852, benighted in the Black Forest, then
of very bad repute, I sought shelter in a rough
shanty, or sly-grog shop. Shown into a small
curtained recess, I saw the clothes upon the
stretcher fairly soaked in blood. Besides, the
drunken digge; s and teamsters gave small pros-
pect of peaceful repose. -I retired, therefore,
into the dark forest, and sought a night’s rest at
the foot of a gum tree. Yet in the early morning
I found in one of the shanty occupants a man who
had gone through some of the most stirring scenes
of old colonial days. And in the back slums of
Little Bourke-street, Melbourne, I got interesting
tales from an ex-bushranger, then a preacher.
“ Convicts and clergymen, assigned servants and
officials, wild bushmen and newspaper editors,
have helped me in my investigations. I
had the story of Wesleyanism, beginning
in Adelaide, from the Rev. W. Longbottom
and the brave and good Rev. Daniel Draper; and
of Port Arthur from the Rev. Win. Butters. The
Rev. Dr. Lang showed me in Sydney the scene of
his early Presbyterian career; and there also I
gained stories from the Rev. W. B. Clarke, of
geological fame. In Parramatta I talked with the
widow of Chief-Constable Oakes, who knew the
first chaplain and first Methodist, and also with
the sister of John Batman. I knew Father
Therry, the first authorised priest of New South
Wales; Father Geoghegan, first priest in Mel-
bourne ; the Rev. N. Turner, the early mission-
ary ; the Rev. Dr. Brain, the historian of Sydney;
George Washington Walker, founder of Australian
Friends’ meetings; the Rev. Wm. Ridley, mission-
ary to the blacks ; as well as the aborigines’ pro-
tectors, Parker of Victoria, and Moorhouse of S. A.
“ Early exploration yarns came from Bunce, the
naturalist, out with Leichhardt; from Hamilton
Hume, of Murray fame ; from the worthy Hentys,
of Portland ; from Mr. McMillan, of Gippsland ;
from Surveyor-General Gregory; and from the
gentle but brave Captain Sturt. Mr. William
Giles, Mr. John Barton Hack, and Dr. Barry
Cotter gave me primitive Adelaide news. In
Brisbane and Rockhampton men spoke to me of
early Moreton Bay life. The old New South
Wales corps was represented to me in the person
of Anthony Fenn Kemp. For years I lived near
William Buckley, the wild white man. Tales of
1803 and 1804 in Hobart Town were told me by
two ladies, by the servant of Chaplain Knopwood,
by Governor Collins’ servant, by Johnson, of
Greenponds, &c. I knew Simon, son of Jagga
Jagga: Mrs. Hodgson, of Norfolk Island ; Mr.
Strode, the first authorised printer of Melbourne.
A t Picton I met an old soldier who knew Sydney in
Biigh’s time, and in Melbourne old Goslyn, then
85, who had a written record of very ancient date.
Se veral out in the Black War with Robinson and
Batman, Dr. Milligan and Dr. Jeanneret, of Flin-
ders Island, King Walton and Lai la Rookh and
other Tasmanian natives, were known to med’
When it was resolved to publish an “Official
History of New South Wales,” Bon wick was
engaged as archivist, and in directing the
copying of Australian records in London
his latter years were spent. Often he had
occasion for grief at the carelessness with
which public documents were preserved. “ Above
thirty years ago, when in Sydney, I made
inquiry of the Colonial Secretary for any ancient
official records. As he was at a loss how to direct
my search, an attendant suggested that I might
find what I wanted in ‘ the old room.’ There lay
on the floor, well covered by many a ‘ brick-
fielder,’ a neglected collection like that of White-
hall. Rummaging in the tangled, dirty mass, I
brought up a military Order Book of most primi-
tive Sydney times. Searching once for Tasmanian
archives in Hobart, I discovered with much con-
cern the total absence of long periods of official
matter. It was a popular tradition in my early
Hobart Town days that when Governor Collins
suddenly expired in his chair in 1810 two armed
marines were stationed outside at the room door
while certain gentlemen were busily engaged in
the destruction of documents—possibly for private
reasons. There was, many years ago, a similar
destruction of records in Sydney ; but that order
of Government proceeded from a desire of saving
pain to the descendants of unfortunate persons.
It is, however, to be feared that some very valu-
able documents were lost to history.”
And there are some who will read this and say,
“ Yes, thank Heaven ! ”
FAME! FAME AT EAST!
first volume of Johns’s Notable .4ms-
I tralians —compiled by Fred Johns, and
JL published by the George Robertson Pro-
prietary—can be welcomed heartily. It
tells who these “notable Australians” are and
what they do —giving, in the words of the title-
page, “brief biographies of men and women of the
Commonwealth.” Modelled on the Eng. publica-
tion Who’s Who, it is as brief and isn’t as bulky
—but there's room and verge enough for it to
grow. Cavils may be set aside in favour of a
debutante : generally speaking, the biographies
are sound and good ; and personally speaking, the
book will be uncommonly useful.
What interests one is the notability of these
notable Australians ! —there are so many, and they
are so notable it; so many ways. Fancy ! we liave(?)
fifteen Poets of the Commonwealth !—fifteen
who put Poet in the professional head and front
of their autobiographies. Watch them climb the
sacred mount !
Bayldou, Arthur Albert Dawson, poet, novelist, critic ;
born 1835. Brady, Edwin James, poet ; 1869. Brennan,
Christopher John, poet ami writer: 1870. Brereton,
John Le Gay, poet : 1872. Church, Hubert, poet; 1857.
Evans, George Essex, poet; 1563. Hawthorne, Ernest H.
(William Henry Dawson), poet and writer ; 1857. Heb-
blethwaite, Rev. James, poet; 1857. Jephcott, Sydney
Wheeler, poet, ; 1864. McCrae, George Gordon, poet and
dramatist; 1533. O’Dowd, Bernard Patrick, poet and
barrister-at-law ; 1866. Ogilvie, William Henry, poet and
journalist, “ now fills the first known chair of agricul-
tural journalism in America”; 1860. O’Hara, John
Bernard, poet; 1564. Paterson, Andrew Barton, poet
and journalist; 1884. Quinn, Roderie Joseph, poet and
journalist; 1869.
Proxime accessit one (only) “ poetical writer ” :
—O’Reilly, Dowell Philip ; 1865.
Of poetesses there are but two ;—Gilmore,
Mary, writer and poetess ; 1865, Mack, Marie
Louise, poetess and novelist; 1874. But Foott,
Mary Hannay, is “ writer of stories and verses ” ;
1846.
Eight “novelists” claim us for kindred :
Becke, George Louis; 1857. Browne, Thomas Alex-
ander ; 1826. Cross, Mrs. G. F. ; 1844. Dyson, Edward,
novelist and journalist; 1865. Hales, Alfred Arthur
Greenwood, novelist, lecturer, and special correspondent
to bond. Daily News ; 1850. Martin, Mrs. Frederick,
novelist (author of An Australian Girl and The Silent
Sea). Praed, Rosa Caroline ; 1851. Turner, Ethel; 1872.
Four “dramatists”:—
Chambers, Charles Had lon ; 1860. Darrell, George,
“author-actor-manager”—” be has produced these ori-
ginal dramas from His own pen : Transported for Life !!
Toe Trump Card ! The Forlorn Hope ! ! The Struggle for
Freedo?;,! Back from the Grave !! ! The Squatter! The
Sundowue; ! Hearts of Oak ! The Crimson Thread !!
Life for Life! ! From Scotland Yard ! The Pakeha !
The New Rush ! ” f’S death I—but where is Dan Barry?]
Dampier, Alfred, actor and dramatist; 1847. Walch,
Garnet, author and dramatist, ; 1843.
Ten “authors” and “authoresses”—a much-
mixed lot :
Bedford, Randolph ; IS6B. Franklin, Miles (Stella M. S.
Miles L uupa Franklin); 1883. Hogan, James Francis ;
1855. Jacobs, .Joseph ; 1854. Sladen, Douglas (Brooke
Whaelton) ; 1858. [Now, he is author of the celebrated
poem for “Mrs. Watson ; a Queensland heroine,” con-
taining the celebrated lines :
No drain left to drink—yet she would not he fearful,
But in painful and feeble handwriting had writ
That her baby “ was better and more cheerful,
And condensed milk appeared to agree 'with it.”
He ought to go higher up, among the other Poets.]
Smith, James ; 1820. Spence, Catherine Helen ; 1825.
Sutherland, George ; 1855. Ward, Mrs. Humphry ; 1851.
White, Charles.
Daley, Victor James, and Lawson, Henry Archi-
bald, are described simply as “literary writer.”
There is one “ writer of sketches of bush and abo-
riginal life ” —Parker, G. Langloh. One “ humour-
ous writer”—Davis. Arthur Hoey ; 1868. One
“journalist and historian, formerly explorer”—
Favenc, Ernest ; 1846. One “ financial authority
and litterateur”—Turner, Henry Gyles ; 1831.
Some of the notable Australians are “artists” ;
some are only “ painters.”
Ashton, Julian Rossi, artist and teacher of art; 1851.
Bunny, Rupert Charles Wuisten, artist; 1864. Conder,
Charles, artist. Fuilwood, Albert Henry, artist; 1564.
Heysen, Hans, artist; 1876. Lambert, George W.,
artist. Lindsay, Norman Alfred Williams, artist ; 1879.
Lister, William Lister, artist; 1859. Long, Sydney,
artist; 1872. Longstaif, John, artist. Mahony, Francis
Prout, artist and animal-painter ; 1862. Piguenit,
William Charles, artist; 1836. Spence, Percy Frederick.
Seaton, artist ; 1868. Streeton, Arthur Ernest, artist ■
1567. Vincent, Alf., artist ; 1874. Nuttall, Charles’
black and white artist ; 1872. Souter, David Henry,
black and white artist and hook illustrator ; 186 g.
At the end of the procession comes one humble
“caricaturist”—Hopkins, Livingston ; 1846.
Only four painters :
McCubhin, Frederick, landscape and portrait painter;
1855. Menpes, Mortimer, painter ; 1859. Roberts, Tom,
painter ; 1856. Withers, Walter Herbert, painter ; 1857.
Two “ sculptors ” :
McKennal, E. Bertram ; 1865. White, James.
Three “sopranos” :
Sherwin, Amy ; Castles, Amv ; (1882); Melba, Mme. ;
(1865).
One “ contralto ” :
Stirling, Maggie.
Newspaper editors :
Barton, Edmund J.T. ; The Brisbane Courier, 1854;
Buzacott, Charles Hardie, The Daily Mail, Brisbane ;
1835. Coombes, Richard, The Referee, Sydney; 1858.
Edmond, James, The Bulletin, 1859. Fricker, Edward
T., The Australasian; 1858. Heney, Thomas Wiliiam,
The Sydney Morning Herald; 1862. Hume, Alexander
Williamson, The Tasmanian News; 1850. Jeffery,
Walter J. , The Town and Country Journal; 1861. Knight,
John James, The Evening Observer, Brisbane; 1863.
Bonython, John Langdon, The Advertiser, Adelaide;
1848. Paterson, Andrew Barton, The Evening News,
Sydney. Prichard, Frederick John, The Examiner,
Launceston ; 1851. Reay, William Thomas, The Herald,
Melbourne ; 1858. Sanders, John Milton, The Australian
Star, Sydney ; 1868. Schuler, Gottlieb Frederick Henry,
The Age; 1853. Sowden, William John, The Register,
Adelaide ; 185 S. Twopeny, Richard Ernest Nowell, The
Pastoralists’ Review: 1857. Ward, Frederick William,
The Daily Telegraph, Sydney ; 1849. Watterston, David,
The Argus ; 1845.
Possibly others are buried in the heap.
Incidentally one sees that Kidman, Sydney, is
known as “ The Australian Cattle-King ’’—but
George Lansell is “ The Australian Quartz-King.”
Farnell, Frank, has saved 7 lives from drown-
ing, and hunted with the hounds for 12 years.
Foy, Mark, of Oxford-street, has “one of the
largest emporiums in Australasia ; ” but Hordern,
Samuel, merchant, is of Anthony Hordern and
Sons, “ whose emporium in Sydney is the largest
of the kind in the Commonwealth.’
“ I DECLARE THE BANNN..."
BY mail and accident The Irrational Knot
and Six Women come together, and Ber-
nard Shaw lies above Victoria Cross in
a pile of two. Lucky mail ! happy acci-
dent !...But all life’s boons are inadvertences : the
best things befall.
The Irrational Knot is published by Constable
at Os. Six Women is published by T. \Y r . Laurie at
2s. 6 d. Only 3s. 6d. for a marriage license, with the
symbolic wedding-ring given on Shaw’s cover, and
six symbolic brides on Victoria Cross’s. The brides
have found the ring magnetically : the covers
cling, reluctant to be drawn asunder. It is a
union of “skin-hearts” that might excite Woods
Hutchinson anew to anatomical hyperbole. Why,
it excites u s !
0 meat-fed Victoria ! martyr of passion, proud
mother of perfect Pathaus moving arrogantly
through the imaginations of maidens, canst thou
then vanquish a perfect Wagnerite? O grain-
devouring Bernard ! victim of self-conscious cere-
bration, ascetic foe of instinct, hath the girdle of
vehement Venus noosed thee defying nuptials,
noosed, and indignantly dragged to hang Hainan-
high with an irrational knot beneath thy love-tone-
deaf ear ?...
These hymeneal flights are exhausting, and one
cannot be expected to remain at such a height for
more than a paragraph ; but it is persisted that
Victoria is Bernard’s true mate and complement,
and it is suggested that—as doubtingly and cer-
tainly as the analogous Lydia knew the scarcely
less heroic Cashel Byron—Bernard knows it.
“ What would I give for a heart of flesh to warm me
through,
Instead of this heart of stone ice-cold whatever I do !
Hard and cold and small, of all hearts the worst of
all ’’ —
quoted Lydia Shaw pointedly. No one can doubt
that Victoria’s heart of flesh is warm’s no
name for it : it pants, it burns, it leaps and
flames, cor cordium carnis. He preaches Mind,
Mind, Mind ! She preaches Body, Body, Body !
We, sitting comfortably aloof from the eternal
conflict, preach Hitch ’em! Splice ’em! Jine
those flats ! There is precedent . . . mens and
things have married before.
Nothing upon earth is single :
All things, by a law divined.
In one another’s being mingle —
Why not body with mind 4
Why not Victoria Cross with Barnard Shaw?
J*
The Irrational Knot is Shaw’s dullest book :
he proses ad tsedium. But he does not pose,
except in a preface : and plain prose is a change
as unexpected as agreeable (for a change). The
book is a sermon against marriage law and
custom ; and Shaw takes two arbitrary pairs and
leads them to the desired end of disaster. That
is unimportant: the thing really interesting is to
read Shaw in his youth with all his ideals
and . dogmas complete—Nietzschean before the
English advent of Nietzsche, and “be-ing
hard” less deliberately, one thinks, than
characteristically from defect of passion ?
tyranny of intellect ? The earlier Shaw was a very
serious person : the later Shaw has grown tired
of being serious in a community that will not
take him seriously; and the preface contrasts
gaily with the book. Doubtless he is a prophet
manque, for want of the essentials that Droz’s
bride’s aunc desiderated in a bridegroom—the
Look and the Leg.
For Victoria Cross there is little to say. Her
book has half-a-dozen stories of woman's sensual
devotion—true enough, and necessary as the other
side of Shaw’s medal. One can read them, but
they lack the piquancy that was Victoria’s
prerogative; the ginger-bread is still hot i’ the
mouth, but has lost its gilding. Ungilt ginger-
bread is not a bad image of brown women
unabashed.
Mrs. Kennard, talking of Lafcadio Hearn in
The Nineteenth Century, relates that in Japan the writ-
ing of poems is recommended as a moral duty rather than
as a literary art. “ Are you angry [Mr. Reid] ? (says the
teacher), do not say anything unkind, but compose a
poem. Is your most beloved dead ? Do not .yield to use-
less grief, but try to calm your mind by making a poem.
Whatever injustice or misfortune disturbs you [Mr.
Deakin], put aside your resentment or your sorrow as
soon as possible, and write a few lines of sober and elegant
verse for a moral exercise.” And after declaring war
upon Russia, Japanese Ministers repaired to a well-known
“ scenery,” sat down, and indited poems to the beauties
of Nature !
George Gordon McCrae, to whom Daley was
indebted for a useful stanza and an ornamental idea, has
been paying Sydney a visit and telling stories of early
Victorian writers. Possibly, he avows, R, H. Horne bad
some touches of conceit that would not fit in the cate-
gory of proper pride. “I was walking with him one
evening in Melbourne,” says McCrae, “ and we talked of
his poem ‘Orion,’ then recently published. The e<n-
steliation was clear in the sky, so I pointed up to it and
said, ‘Look here, old man ! You ’ll never want a monu-
ment to your work while that remains 1 ’.. .You see I
have my right hand still, hut I thought at the time that
Horne would have wrung it oft 1 ”
In comparison with W. Sharp’s denials of his
Fiona, Peter’s are three drops in a bucket. And he
carried ingenuity to a pitch ! There is, it appears,
another embodiment of the Celtic spirit called John
Maeleav. Fiona sent him a postcard, and addressed it to
“ John Mackay.” “Now, at the same time,” says this
other avatar, “ Mr. Sharp was writing me about the
same matter to the same address under my right name.
Tite incident was happily rounded off a few days later by
an apology from Fiona, in which she regretted not having
identified me as the writer of a sketch in The Evergreen
—which Mr. Sharp had actually accepted ! ”
One sees English newspapers dropping the
“with’’after “condoled”—“Mr. Chamberlain condoled
him on his resignation.” ; Approved. It is always easy to
put in little words when one wants them, but the little
words that can’t be put out are a nuisance.
“I find them charming,” writes a Spaniard
concerning English women, “ and I proclaim them as my
ideal of the representatives of their sex on our planet;
but I must also state that I have never met anywhere
else more of the kind of women that make you wish that
the rib of Adam had been used for something different.”
MEMORANDA
The last Contemporary Review contains two
uncommonly good articles. One is for Chopin,
by A. E. Keeton, well-dreamed and well-written.
The other, by Jean Finot, on “The Will as a
Means of Prolonging Life,” exhibits that brilliant
union of imagination with knowledge for which
one looks to the French of all races. Finot
preaches the old gospel that is also the new gospel
of science : Resist evil and it will flee from you ;
deny mortality and you may put on a comparative
immortality.
ISeginning, he reiterates that many miracles are facts.
St. Francis of Assisi, or St. Catherine of Siena, may well
have felt the pains of the Passion. Their prolonged
attention, fixed on the points where legend says the nails
and the sword-blade pierced the body of Jesus, caused
wounds. Why deny this palpable auto-suggestion, whilst
so many others much more strange discover themselves
to our own eyes? Richet and Barthdlemy tell how a
nervous mother saw a heavy curtain-rod threatening
to become detached and fall on her child. Her neck
became inflamed at the very place where the child might
have been struck.
Ancient and modern shrines doubtless have healed
thousands of diseases, actual or imaginary. Faith can re-
move mountains of woe: it can also create them.
Arrived at a certain age we poison ourselves with the idea
of our approaching end. We lose faith in our strength,
and our strength leaves us. Why should we not.’
endeavour to live by auto-suggestion instead of dying of
it ? One should store up in one’s brain beneficent, serene,
and comforting suggestions. “Christian science” may
continue in folly, but it sprang from truth.
When we think over the cases of men who have lived
heartily till ninety or one hundred, we realise that it
was the suggestion of force, the innate conviction that
resistance is possible, together with the absence of
depressing idgas, which chiefly contributed to the pre-
servation of their health, and their prolonged life. So
that we see how important it is to shut the door of one’s
heart, or rather of one’s brain, to all injurious ideas as to
stingy limits of life. Nature, who created poisons, has
created also their antidotes. Rational economy in the
use of our organs may preserve them for their work far
beyond a century.
And so on—all truly. But that is n’t to say that
elderly gentlemen can run to catch trains if they
suggest to themselves that their hearts are rubber
and elastic.
It seems that Sydney Brooks lias come to the
same conclusion. “ I believe,” he writes, “ 1 have now
read the whole of Mr. Roosevelt’s Message.... Mr.
Roosevelt’s style is, I will not say stodg-y, but amply
satisfying. He is an unoriginal man, with a very pro-
nounced character and personality. Walter Bagehot
used to argue that -such a man—a second-rate man of
first-rate powers—is the ideal statesman for a democratic
country ; but Bagehot lived before the days of 25,000-
word Messages. .. . Mr. Roosevelt’s prose has the wrong
sort of inevitableness ; one sees the end of every sentence
after the first few words. ... Trenchant commonplaces,
with which no fault can be found except that they are
superfluous, bulk inordinately in Mr. Roosevelt’s Message.
He seems to think that the best way of restoring morality
to American politics is for the President to turn
preacher.”
Thus the critic. Yet the Message is oratorical,
and the audience elects the orator for a second
term. Haven’t we here another illustration of
the truism that bad art is good business ?
The Australian Case Against John Bull and Co.,
by G. N. Rogers (Syd. :F. Clark ; 6 d.) is a recent pam-
phlet full of pith and not without mettle. The writer
deals with the financial relations between Australia and
Britain ; he thinks solidly and argues vigorously. Fit
minds will find him well worth grappling.
George Meredith was inspired by the British
elections to political action, and wrote as fol-
lows regarding Chamberlain :
Mr. Joseph Chamberlain was once a light of the Radical
ranks. He is now enrolled among the Tories. He was a
Freetrader; he’has become a Protectionist, and he has
been thoughtlessly called a renegade. He is merely the
man of a tremendous energy acting upon one idea.
Formerly it was the Radical and Freetrade, now it is the
Tory and Protectionist idea.
You see it in his lean, long head and adventurous nose.
Men of such a kind are dangerous to their country.
They are usually, as he is, adroit debaters, persuasive
speakers, energised, as be is, by petrol within to drive
swift and defiant of opposition to a mark in view. Mr.
Chamberlain is one of the motonnen occasionally let
loose upon us to stir convulsion.
L. writes ;
Montaigne gives this version of one of The Vrouw
Grobelaar’s Leading Cases (reported by Perceval Gibbon,
and here quoted 25 1/6): —■“ He that was met beating of
his father answered, ‘ It was the custome of his house ;
that his father had so beaten his grandfather, and he his
great grandfather’; and pointing to his sonne, said,
‘ This child shall also beat mee when he shall come to my
age.’ And the father whom the sonne haled and dragged
through thicke and thinne in the street commanded him
to stay at a certaine doore ; for himself had dragged his
father no further ; which were the bounds of the heredi-
taire and injurious demeanours the children of that
family were wont to show their fathers.” —Florio’s trans-
lation : I, xxii, “ Of Custome, and how a received law
should not easily be changed.” Montaigne seems to have
taken the story from an ancient source.
W. P. Reeves prints, in Dec. National Review,
sixteen stanzas of verse that are apparently descriptive
and possibly symbolic. The title is “ The Gate of Fate,”
at which one understands that Agents-General knock
more or less decisively. Reeves seems to have knocked
indecisively :
God ! ’T is the goal. But from those silent walls
No warder challenges, no ivelcorne calls.
What greets the toiler l lo ! Ambit ion's .fate, '
—A dumb and doubtful gate /
This it is to be at heart a student and half a dreamer.
Seddon, man of action and faction, greets you with a gait
both noisy and assured.
The Foundations of National Greatness, by
Arthur Woodhouse, is published by Tytherleigh and
Bayne, Melb., in a shabby form that might have been
excused in the Melbourne of fifty years ago. [Melbourne
printing is usually good, and better than Sydney’s,
which is usually not good. But Melbourne binding
seems, as a rule, inferior to that one can get-
in Sydney. Sydney, of course, is the chief seat
of Australian publishing; and Sydney binders have had
a chance to improve their work in finishing the many
thousands of cloth hooks that have been made from The
Bulletin columns. Maoriland printing is fully equal to
Australian, and process-engraving there seems generally
better than here : it is difficult to say why. Certainly,
in point of typographical and engraving excellence, the
special issues of Australian weekly papers, as a rule, fall
short of those produced in Maoriland.] The book under
notice is a series of essays on national questions concern-
ing Australia ; but the writer encumbers himself with too
many tedious quotations, and his book lacks inspiration
and impulsive force.
A.G.S.


RABBIT SKINS
Have a Very Strong Market.
gflp Write to us for Particulars .
Winchcombe, Carson & Co., Limited
WOOL and PRODUCE
SA LESMEN —-
SYDNEY.
s
And all Kinds of BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Absolutely the Best Salesmen. v^SYDNEY.
MICK SIMMONS for Sporting Material.
MICK
SIMMONS
sf
THE GLOBE
■■ ■■ i up -
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 or 16 Gauge, top lever, twist barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks,left choke, patent
D. &E. fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. Postage, N.S.W., 2/9 ; Inter-State, 5/2.
Leston
Daly
Coy.
D. 8.8.1.
Gun
sa
MICK SIMMONS
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.8.8.L, GUN, 12 gauge, top lever, steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding locks, left choke, weight about 71b. Postage —N.S.W., 2s 9d ; Inter-State, o
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.8.8.L. GUN, same as above, but with Greener Cross Bolt.
Postage—N.S.W., 2s 9d ; Inter-State, 5s 2d
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.8.8.L. GUN, 12 gauge, top lever, steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding bar locks, left choke, weight about 71b
Postage—N.S.W., 2s 9d ; Inter-State, 5s 2d
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.8.8.L. GUN, same as above, but with Greener Cross noil.
Postage—N.S.W.,2s9d; Inter-State, 5s 2d
35s
45s
40s
50s
£3
]
Postage on 1 Gun, 2s 9d
N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
National Arms Co/s
i.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, top lever, rebounding bar locks, Greener cross bolt, Siemen’s
steel barrels, left choke, pistol walnut stock ; weight, about 71b.
ISAAC
HOLLIS
& SONS
D b B L. Gun, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Real Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt,
Left Choke, Rebounding Locks, Snap Fore-end,
chambered for 2jin. Cartridges. Guaranteed
for all Smokeless Powders.
Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State,
sfa
“The Reliable
£6 12s 6d
PRICE
sa
Mick Simmons
HOLLIS & SONS’ "THE RELIABLE” D.8.8.L. HAIWIIWIERLESS
GUN, 12- gauge, top lever, genuine Damascus or “ Siemen’s” steel barrels,
both choke, side lock action, automatic safety bolt, extended rib,
Deelev-Edge patent fore-end, fitted with Greener cross-bolt, neatly engraved, chambered for
2|in. cartridges. GUARANTEED FOR ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, and absolutely the 0-1 A -I Ag
finest-quality Gun in the States. Postage, 2s9dN.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
The Celebrated
“MAINE’’
RIFLE
fitted with Sporting l Rear Sights to 300yds., Bolt
Action, 18in. Blued Steel Barrel, Walnut Stock.
Shoots 22 Short, Long, or Extra Long Cartridges.
Weight, 2flb.
"THE MAINE”
PiFle
Shetumj) Pi/le fiparT
PRICE
15/6
"postage ON RIFLE-N.S.W., 1/3; INTER-
STATE, 2/2 EXTRA.
MICK SIMMONS-
àsf
WINCHESTER THUMB TRIGGER RIFLE.
22 cal., 20in. Blued Steel Barrel, bolt action, weight about 31b.
Postage : N.S.W., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d
Winchester S.S. Rifle,l9o2 Model, 22 Cal., R.F.,peep orV
sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2|lb.
Postage : N.S.W., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d
Remington S.S. Rifle, New Model, 22 Calibre, R.F., 20in. barrel, weight 3£lb. Postage—
N.S.W., Is 6d : Interstate, 2s
13s 6d
18s Od
16s 6d
Illustrated Fishing- Tackle, Sports, Tobacco Lists, Anglers’ Guide and Hints on Fishing—Post Free.
sf
Stevens’
Little
Kra.gr-
Stevens’ B.S. “Little Kragr,” bolt action, blued steel round barrel,
20in. long-, walnut stock, steel scroll trigger guard peep sight, but
may be had with V sight if required at 6d extra, length over all
3Cin., w'eight about 3£lb. (Postage, Is 6d N.S.W. ;2s Bdlnter-State)
21s
sf
The “Bullseye” Rifle, 22 Calibre,
20in. Octagon Steel Barrel, rifled, Remington action, walnut
stock, open sights, weight about Sflb. .. •• ••
Postage—ls 9d N.S.W. ;3s 2d Inter-State).
mm
CONICAL BALI
A. 3VE MXJKTITIO 3XT,
Gun Cartridges.
UNIVERSAL CARTRIDGES .. 12g.
UNIVERSAL „ •• log-.
NEW RIVAL „ •• 12g--
NEW CLUB „ ••
“E. 8.” SMOKELESS,, .. 12g.
AMBERITE „ }%£•
ELEY’S “ E.C.” „ •• 12K-
BALLISTITE „ •• &S-
-per 100
6s Od
6s 6d
6s 6d
6s 6d
8s 6d
10s 6d
11s 9d
lls Od
Cartridges can now be sent by Boat to any
Queensland Port at ordinary Goods Freight.
Pea Rifle Cartridges.
BULLETED No. 1,6 d, 9d ; No. 2, Is 3d ; No. 3, Is 9d 100
SHOT No. 1, Is 3d ; No. 2, Is 9d ; No. 3,2 s 6d, 4s „
Rifle Cartridges.
WINCHESTER, 22 Conical
~ 22 Short
„ 22 Long
~ 22 Long Rifle ..
„ 22 Extra Long..
$lOO $lOOO
. Is Od 9s 6d
. Is Id 10s Od
. Is 3d 12s Od
. Is 6d 13s Od
. 2s Od 18s Od
LAWN TENNIS.
ƒ
s
be&KY Handicap Standarci Ascot
3/6 5/- 7/3 2/6
Postage on 1 Racquet, 9d N.S.W. ; Is 2d imer-State.
The above four lines of Racquets are absolutely the best value
in Australia, and are a new departure in the Racquet Trade.
F. H. AYRES’ RACQUETS.
Child’s .. 3s 9d, 4s 9d
Full Size .. 6s 6d, 7s 6d
Sandown .. .. Ss 9d
Handicap .. .. 12s 6d
A 1 14s 6d
Cork Handle .. 16s
Champion .. .. 19s 6d
Central Strung .. 24s
BLAZENGER’S RACQUETS.
Renshaw .. .. 13s 6d
Demon .. .. 18s
Whitehouse .. 25s
“E.G.M.” .. .. 30s
“Doherty” .. 35s
TENNIS BALLS. doz
Grey or Terra Gotta 4s 6<l
Challenge, cov. reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s grey reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s cov. .. 16s
Ayres’ grey reg. .. 8s 6d
Ayres’ cov. reg. .. 9s 6d
Ayres’ Cyprus .. 12s 6d
Ayres’ Handicap .. 15s
Ayres’ Champion .. 16s 6d
MICK SIMMONS’ SPORTING GOODB
sf
BOXING GLOVES.
Postage on 1 Set, Is N.S.W. ; Is 8d inter-State.
Boys’ Cloth, 5s set
Boys’ Chamois, 6s, 6s Cd set
Boys’ Tan, 6s, 7s set
Men’s Practice, Boz., 6s 6d set
Men’s Chamois, Boz., 8s set
Men’s Tan, Boz., 8s 6d set
Men’s Special Value “ C. 8.8.” Boz. Fighting
Gloves, XOs 6d, 12s 6d, 14s 6d set; 60z.,
12s 6d set
Men’s Superior Gold Cape or Chamois, Champion
shape, Boz., 12s 6d, 14s 6d, 16s 6d, 21s, 25s set
Bryan’s Best Champion, 4, 6 or Boz., 19s, 21s set
Bryan’s 2nd quality, 6 or Boz., 15s 6d set
MICK SIMMONS
HD
The “ ARMY,” 18s 6d
PUNCHING BALLS
(Postage on ordinary ball, 9d. N.S.W., Is 2d Interstate).
Complete. Each.
' ARMY,” Round Shape, soft tan leather, cover, 1 piece top, and welted
seams. These balls are very light, suitable for fast work 7s 6d, 10s 6d, 15s
‘ ARMY,” Regulation Style, finest selected calf-skin, double stitched, welted
seams, reinforced throughout, very fast 16s 6d, 21s, 255, 30s
‘ ARMY,” Pear Shape, else similar to above 27s 6d, 35s
‘ ARMY,” Round Shape, made from heavy selected cow-hide, very strong,
suitable for club use 11s 6d, 15s, 18s, 18s 6d, 20s, 25s
■ EXPERT,” Medium Size, with rubber cord for floor, and rope for
ceiling attachment, made with fine grain leather, 1 piece top,
reinforced 8s 6d, H s > 21s
‘EXPERT,” Regulation Size, with rubber cord for floor, and rope for ceiling
attachment, made with solid cow hide 16s 6d, 20s, 21s
THE
ASCOT
Mick Simmons
ASCOT, No. 1, Pol. Wood Box, 4 horses, 5s ; post 9d N.S.W., la 2d Inter-State.
ASCOT, No. 2, Pol. Wood Box, 6 horses, 7s 9d ; post Is N.S.W., Is 8d Inter-State.
ASCOT, No. 3, Pol. Mahogany Case, 6 horses, 11s ; post Is N.S.W., lsBd Inter-State
ASCOT, No. 4, Pol. Mahogany Case, 6 horses, larger, 13s 6d ; post Is 3d N.S.W.,
2s 2d Inter-State.
ASCOT, No. 6, Pol. Mahogany Case, 6 horses, lined tray, 18s 6d; post Is 9d
N.S.W., 3s 2d Inter-State.
ASCOT, No. 6, Pol. Mahogany Case, 8 horses, sup., 27s 6d ; post 2s N.S.W.
Remittance and Freight must accompany Order.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.


Australian Mutual Provident Society.
KsT.uiLisiiKinm For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO I>END
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
or Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand SMB - * AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Beniamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape, Esq.
General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMFETITIOKT.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&c
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Zi
'w:
I
“NEW RIVAL”
LOADED SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES
The “New Rival” is a grand good cartridge ;
good in construction, good because it is
primed with a quick and sure primer, and
good because carefully and accurately
loaded with the best brands of powder
and shot. It is a favorite among hunters
and other users of black powder cartridges
on account of its uniform shooting, evenness
of pattern and strength to withstand
reloading. A trial will prove its excellence.
ALL DEALERS SELL THEM
ś s
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach. Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DlNNffi>E?Sf
magnesia
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and Most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
ŝaśfs
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE,
UST
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
The effect of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.—Sh Capsule marked ENO’S 'FRUIT 8 ALL’ Without It you bare a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. O. ENO, Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, ENGL,
by J. O. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c„ everywhere.
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEN,specif
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
... . TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Weak m ALF ALINE VITALITY PILLS
'Will Cure time? Nerves, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
Bl non PIIQC nil I C Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
DL.QJUBJ uUnE ■ I L. 8.0. Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blood
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43/6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
UUnmnn Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6.
“B3K hhObIIEBI Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and-SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches : 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE ; 15 PULTENEV ST., ADELAIDE ;
481 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.; 111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE ?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N. 2. HANS PETER RASMUBBCN .
.’•» G&W nimt*
Se/cdiaA ■ Ttr
from «//SR n
GmpTßeras TV.
hcludinsf H**
SidnortoolkNl
FIT
NICOLE^—
UNIVERSAL RECORDS
Of the World’s Greatest Artists, Bands and
Orchestras. lOin. and 7in. Records, will fit
any and every Disc Talking Machine.
ABSOLUTELY UNBREAKABLE.
NKOLEPNONES
TWO SPECIM.
INSTRUMENTS
«
ThL Colonial,
The New Standard,
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE EREE on application.
W. G. KING,
SOLE
AGENT,
316 George St.,
SYDNEY,
A CASE at MARRICKVILLE
A Very Convincing Narrative.
THE CASE OF MRS. C. COOPER.
(BY A SPECIAL REPORTER.)
In an interview with a representative, Mrs. Caroline Cooper, of No. 3 Fitzroy-street, Marrickville, gives
some information to the afflicted, which should help them considerably. Her statement runs as follows :
“ My health is altogether different now to what it was some years ago, as there was a time when I was nothing
but a total wreck, and now people are always telling me how well and strong I look. Yes, lam not like the same
person at all, for now lam always contented and happy, instead of being intensely miserable like I used to be. But,
heaven knows, I had enough to make me so, for the pains in my head were so great that for many a day l hardly
knew what I was doing. In each temple there was a nasty beating sensation, which caused me so much agony that
often I thought I would surely go mad.”
“You would welcome the arrival of bedtime, so that you could sleep and forget your afflictions for a while?”
suggested the writer.
“ One would naturally think so, but I didn’t, for the simple reason that I could seldom get any sleep ; and, oh,
how those hours of wakefulness used to wear me out. Truly, when I got up of a morning, I felt worse than if I had
not been in bed at all, and I always had a bitter taste to make me feel sick for the rest of the day'. Sometimes I got
so thoroughly exhausted that it would have been impossible to walk had I tried to, but knowing how weak I was I
used to stay indoors to be on the safe side, for when one is like that it is such an easy thing to meet with a serious
accident. And, another thing, I was accustomed to taking fits of giddiness, and often I went right off, and did not
know anything that was going on, so you see I had to be careful. And wasn’t I nervous ! Goodness, I only had to
hear a little shout or a whistle and I’d actually jump again, and it would be a long time afterwards before my nerves
would steady down a bit. Why, my mind was so unhinged through excessive nervousness that I was afraid to be
left alone, and would not have stayed in the dark for a fortune ; besides, if I closed my eyes for a few seconds all sorts
of ugly faces could be seen, and those were the kinds of hideous sights I usually witnessed in my dreams.”
“ Have you any idea what caused your head pains and other ailments ? ”
“ I think it was all through receiving a sunstroke when a girl at my home in Goulburn. I can say with truth,
up to the period when I purchased some Clements Tonic through a friend’s advice, and then, for the first time during
my long illness, I learned what it was to get some substantial ease from my torments. At first I thought the relief
would be only short-lived. It seemed too much to expect anything else after the disappointments of the past; but
Clements Tonic soon put an end to that pessimistic idea by making me feel better and stronger every day, and when
I realised that my improvement was making such regular strides, my heart was overflowing with gratitude. Con-
tinuing with Clements Tonic I lost the burdensome feelings that affected me after taking food, and soon the windy
spasms that had often doubled me up were quite cured. My eyes had always felt dull and swollen, and I used to be
irritable and anxious from morning to night, fearing that something was going to happen ; but, strange as it may
seem, after using a few bottles of Clements Tonic, my mind became as free from anxious thoughts as a babe’s. lam
glad to say that Clements Tonic left nothing undone, for it gave me a digestion that has remained sound for many
years past, and, in regard to nervousness, well, I hardly know how to express myself. At all events, I can say that
my nervousness was soon overcome, and if anybody suffers from sleeplessness there’s nothing in this world they need
take but Clements Tonic, to make their nights peaceful and refreshing. That remedy succeeded in giving me perfect
health, and I would rather have a bottle of Clements Tonic in the house than anything else. Well, I hope others in
need will read my story ; so you may publish it as you feel disposed.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Caroline Cooper, of 3 Fitzroy-street, Marrickville, in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth of Aus-
tralia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully read the annexed document, and that it contains and
is a true and faithful account of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full permission to pub-
lish in any way my statements, which I give voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and I make this solemn
declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
(Sgd.) CAROLINE COOPER.
Subscribed and declared at Enmore this seventeeth day of
before me.
November, one thousand nine hundred and four,
F. A. DRURY, J.P.
IT
27
PRIZE
JVIEDAIS
sf
ndr 1$ YOUR Cue”
When ordering billiard
„ REQUISITES OR
Athletic goods
OF ANY DESCRIPTION
Fop ovop fifty years the name “ Alcock"
has been closely associated with Sporting
Requisites in every part of Australasia,
until to-day its appearance on Athletio
Goods has precisely the same meaning
as the halt mark on silver. Our Stocks
represent the very highest standard of
excellence, and our facilities for manufac-
turing High-grade Goods at reasonable
prices are unequalled.
Melbourne,Sydney. Perth.
Wellington, n.z.&lpndon.


PECTOI
it
YERS
sxr
•»>
For coughs and colds.
“ A friend in need is a friend in-
deed. ” Ay er ’ sCh erry Pectoral is j ust
such a friend. Never be without it.
tt will prove a good friend when you
have a fresh cold, bringing immedi-
ate relief. You will find it equally
true in old colds, bronchitis, whoop-
ing-cough, asthma.
If you will use
Mger’s
'Chcm{ 9eeUrai
for an irritable throat or weak lungs, l
you will find it “the best friend in
the world.” It acts as a strong tonic,
clearing up the throat, giving tone
to the relaxed tissues, and greatly
strengthening the lungs.
There are many substitutes and,
imitations. Beware of them and of
so-called “ Genuine Cherry Pectoral.”
Be sure you get AYER’S Cherry
Pectoral.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell. Mass.. U. S. A.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
sf
His Majesty The
King and
Royal Family.
M Olft’S
“New Season’s”
HERRINGS.
SUPERIOR QUALITY GUARANTEED.
TRY THEIR . .
“ Herrings in Anchovy Sauce,”
“Findon Haddocks,”
“Herrings a ia Sardines.” j
ASK FOR and SEE THAT YOU GET
MO IRS
Pure Pickles.
THEY ARE A TREAT.
JOHN MOIK. AND SON, Limited,
London, Aberdeen, Seville.
BYDNEY AGENCY: 47 MACQUARIE STREET,
CIRCULAR QUAY. [2
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
(Regd.j
□
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
The Ideal Material
for
Shirts, Pyjamas,
&c.
Economical
because
Durable.
From
Leading Hosiers,
Outfitters, &c.
SEE THE LABEL ON THE SELVEDGE.
C A UTION.-’VAT 3 ?!;
ASK FOR THE “No. 4” EAU DE COLOGNE,
which is known in all parts of the world under
the lawfully registered label here shown
c:
The Public are warned against many spu-
rious imitations under the name of Johann
Maria Farina of my genuine Eau de Cologne
labels. Every bottle of my original Eau de
Cologne is labelled Johann Maria Farina,
Julioh’s Platz No. 4. The addition of the
address JULICH’S PLATZ No. 4 alone war-
rants genuineness of my Eau de Cologne.
JOHANIN MARIA FARINA,
JULICHS PLATZ No. 4, COLOGNE O/RH
SURVEYOR TO H.M. the KING EDWARD VIL
iTpuni
ifilVK
in
p-
n
r«
l A
A
a#
A HOME TOPIC.
* * *
The Marvellous..
Curative Properties
0f...
Bonnington s
IRISH MOSS
For AFFECTIONS OF THE
LUNGS. BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA, COUGHS,
and COLDS. 3
BEST,
IP*?
PEVer
"S 5
ENGLISH
MANUFACTURE.
m-
IN BLACK & IVORY HANDLES. (EACH RAZOR IN A CASE).
11
s
fà
Refuse
Imitations
I Wholesale:
See that the label on the Razor Case is exactly as above.
OSBORNE, GARRETT & Co., London, England.
GO
SB.
fff
TABLE SALT
WHICH JS SALT
With Vegetable Virtues.
DOES HOT BLACKER SILVER.
Does not Cake.
USE IT WHEN COOKING
VEGETABLES instead of
OBJECTIONABLE SODA.
Wholesale Agenta-
WEST AUSTRALIA—
WATSON BROS., Fremantle,
w I qtO R IA
ROBERT NELSON & CO., Melbourne,
NEW SOUTH WALES—
w. H. ARIELL & CO., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND-
J. J. VERNEY & Co., Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND—ELLIS & MANTON, Wellington.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—JAMES ROBIN & CO.. Adelaide.
MAKES tha SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
ot
MOSQUITOES.
0
&
V
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
T*n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A 2/6.
Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Agents—Elliott Bros., Sydney; Felton* Qrimwade *
Sea Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Sisters.
South, where the waves on the lone Chathams
gleam,
Scattered and strewn
By the breeze,
The grey Sisters drowse in the ocean and dream,
Lulled by the croon
Of the seas.
Wooers come galloping out of the west
Riding brave chargers with steel-studded crest
From the south and the east: but lhe bisters
know best,
And they dream to the tune,
To the rhythmical tune
That is sung to the moon
By the seas.
Fame of The Sisters had travelled afar
Over the seas
To the west,
Stories that told of each one as a star
Lover might seize
To his breast.
And the knights mounted horses and spurred them
away,
All bit-less, with manes that were white as the
spray,
To search for bright damsels. The Sisters were
grey
And bent on their knees —•
So low on their knees
They laughed at the seas
From the west.
Out of the south when the winter is king
Come the white knights
Of the dark,
And all the stars throb to the sagas they sing
As they leap at the lights
Of a barque.
The grey Sisters crouch as the leaders ride past
With rude pennant borne on a broken ship’s mast—
Riding so fiercely and grimly and fast
The stars guide the knights
From the Sisters in white,
For the maids fear the knights
And the dark.
South, when the Summer sets ocean agleam,
Come the warm seas
Of Noon,
Moving the Sisters who slumber and dream,
Lulled by the breeze
And its tune.
“ Grey Sisters, waken ! ” they cry o’er the foam,
And the grey Sisters welcome their warriors home—
Brave golden knights who a-wooing have come.
And so on their knees —
They woo on their knees—
Bend the gay, sunny seas
Of the Noon.
There, when the blue about Chatham is deep,
Scattered and strewn
By the breeze,
The grey Sisters lie with their lovers, asleep,
Lulled by the croon
Of the seas.
Wooers come galloping in from the west,
Searching for princesses, jewelled and drest
As the glorious stars; but the Sisters know best.
And they dream to the tune —
To the slow,, drowsy tune
That is sighed in the moon
By the seas.
M.L.
WILL LAWSON.
The Ancient Fight.
Night is lord of the coast,
No star comes palely forward,
And, ghost on the shroud of ghost,
The great waves shudder shoreward.
No sound on the waste of night
But a desolate late bird calling ;
No sight but a topmast light,
A heaving light and a falling !
Then, raging as lions roar,
The great waves break from their prison;
The sea is a slave no more,
The sea as a god hath risen.
His hands have a god’s sure grip,
His mien is a god’s affronted ;
His foe is a flying ship
That speeds like a hare hound-hunted.
He follows her, swell on swell,
Her decks by his wrath are battered ;
He breaks her sides, as a shell
In the hand of a man is shattered.
And out of the night they run—
The waves with a story shouted,
That tells of a battle won
And a foe in the darkness routed.
Yet, still man builds in his pride,
And ever he builds to master
The might of the seaways wide,
But the might of the sea is vaster.
He hears the shout of the foam,
His ships to the fight go forward ;
And what of his worlccomes home ?
A tangle of wreck thrown shoreward.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
“Moreal”: Be unrepealed laws (B. 25/1/06).
A man can still be hanged in England for appear-
ing in the street in disguise. In Edward VI. s
refgn, it was —and still is—illegal to induce
anyone to abstain from “ certain food and drinks.”
So any temperance advocate is liable to prosecu-
tion. Another Act passed in 1602 makes football
illegal, because it is “ unlawful exercise.” Also, it
is still an offence for any undergraduate “ to play
marbles on college steps” in Oxford.


<*» <
wm
.1
mm
3S&
for co r n a
cmehpnes:?
in eve
i- ? :'V '• '•
e & mansion,,
sPURABIbITY.
\ —V **
\;y ffgffe, z, /leeu Zeal.
Art-AUSTRALIAM-inDUJTRY
m
BEFORE YOU CONSULT A DOCTOR,
THINK OVER WHAT WE SAY OF
LAXATINE.
Ihe LAXATINE LOZENGE TABEETS act l.keach " 'l in stimulating
the intestinal organs. They give absolutely new life and \v .. .ng power to the
Eiver and Bowels—and neither strain nor gripe. Remem'ier I. .t half the dull-
ness, want of energy, fits of depression, and the “blues” that you experience are
a result of “ waste ” and other poisonous matters accumulating in the system
.throw them off. Feel Bright, Happy and Gay. TAKE LAXATINE.
Is per Box of 25 Tablets. All Chemists & Storekeepers.
A CERTAIN CURE for PILES or CONSTIPATION.
BOVRIL
Supplies Energy.
Bovril gives Strength to Resist
Disease and greatly aids
recovery from exhausting
illness.
EXPERIENCE TEACHES
—" THAT
NESTLE S MILK FOOD
IS A COMPLETE AND EASILY DIGESTED DIET FOR
INFANTS and INVALIDS.
sfsas
HOTEL
METROFOLE
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
m' cR &
Sold bv
All Jewellers
WHO CAN SHOW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES.
FIRST THROUGHOUT THE EMPIRE.
MEDALS WHEN-EVER EXHIBITED.
7\ Certificate Given With Each Watch.
l6 69
'sa a
ONO
'B6
1892
s*
HAMS
m
Estab-
-1750.
p
mm
34
1
CL A
\
3 PLY
Qver a Thousand
Square Feet
of RUBEROID FLOORCLOTH is laid on the
floors of the Sydney
GENERAL POST OFFICE.
RUBEROID was chosen because of its durability.
The best of ordinary floorcloths soon become worn
and shabby, but . . .
RUBEROID FLOORCLOTH
LASTS INDEFINITELY. It is warm to the
feet in Winter and cool in Summer.
E. RICH & Co + , Limited, Sydney and Brisbane*
TO BE HAD FROM
Holdsworth, Macpherson & Co.
F. Lassetter & Co., Ltd.
Grace Bros.
Anthony Hordern & Sons
Marcus Clark, Ltd.
C. G-. Hatte, Ltd.
And all Furnishing Houses.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Voij. 27.—N0. 1358.
THU RSDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1006.
Price 6d.
THE DAILY TELEGI
A sensible innovation Is to be Introduced la the new
Anglican church to be built at Murrumbeena. The com-
mittee has decided that up-to-date punkahs, worked by
water-power, will be fitted up in the building. It is Intended
that these will be worked on all hot days on which meetings
and are held in the church.
/Vo / - 7
śaf
JOURNALISM UP TO DATE.
(Trusting to a rather bad memory, our artist transcribes this “feature” from
the N.S.W. daily press.)
Two views of a house where a gentle kanaka, employed as a servant, closed
his engagement by strangling the entire family. The cross (X* see No. 1)
marks the look-out on the roof where the miscreant used to retire to mature
the plans for his Intended crime over a pipe. The two chimneys (see No. 2),
Indicated by two crosses (XX)» were stuffed with sofa-pillows, left-off clothing
and things, to prevent the shrieks of his victims from being heard outside.
You see the triangle (&) marked on the end of the wing of the building, don't
you ? Well, that Isn’t where the crime was committed, but in the cellar Just
beneath. (Keep this In mind, It’s Important.) A littlf to the right of tho
picture Is seen a policeman, who was telephoned for and called a few days
after the funeral of the victims. Seeing the sign up, “TO LET”, he fired a
few shots at the house (for revolver practice) and left. (It will be observed
there are no crosses on the bouse marking bullet-holes.)
Do hJOT
Strike MATCH-
ED -pURIMfj
Various other Innovations to mitigate the asperities i)f
religious observance will occur to the fertile .mind of the
• seasoned worshipper.
For Instance, the traditional style
of church furniture calls loudly for
-reform. Especially as regards
\ sleeping accommodation.
This journal is happy In-
being able to present its
readers with a fine portrait
of the murderer (II %3T)
taken but a short while be-
fore his lamented death by
hari-kari, which took place
in that part of the house
(see No. 1) marked with a
dagger (f). The bloody foot- J
prints seen leading from the '
house were those of a re-
porter. They were traced
to the door of the pub.
across the way (not shown-
in the illustration).
(if I were not “ Hop” I
would be a reporter I)
[A |E 5 '
Domt, Vote
For WM
Soshus i S.
TH^y
IPS >
c-H-jy
From the very inception
of the adult franchise the
Labor party has recognised
the value of the women’s
vote, and has taken vigor-
ous measures to ensure
that all the women whose
sympathies ore with the
party are put in a position
to use their voting power.
l COMl* OK , /iIK/T
r *t !r 5L17E5 P>3MC,e^'
The vexatious custom of; “passing
the plate’’ should be abolished unless '
such plates be presented weil-garnished
with oysters on the shell and slices of
lemon.
And U the antl-Soclalist vote at the next elec-
>tlons is to be anything like a fairly representative
one, no time must be lost In placing upon the
rolls the names of all the women entitled to vote.-
Women have an equal voting power with men, but they
are unaccustomed to the exercise of that power, and re-
quire some prompting and assistance In the preliminary
stages.—Sydney D. T.
PJ?/YWF D /3y
SfO pDv
THE INEFFECTIVE POLICE WEAPON.
Mrs. Hennessey : “ Molchael Hinnlssey, d’ye mane to ;
tell me you do be letting yer only son, Patrick
Moran Hinnessey, cut his tayth on yer
r-r-rayvr.lvyer ? ”
Policeman Hinnessey (off duty) : ‘‘Oi am, and it makes
i him as happy as Larry.”
Mrs. H.: ” Moichael Hinnessey 1 If it do be loaded,
niver shpake to nie agin 1 ”
Hinnessey : “Be alsy, Kitty I it’s only charged wld,the
polaice rigulaltlon powther an’ ball I V
Enterprising • Proprietor of
Hades:
“ My word! wouldn't It
popularise my little place
down here If I Introduced
punkahs 1 What?”
CRIME, RELIGION, POLITICS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
** A astral in /or the A nstralians."
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(fn Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Thu Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have. Thk Bulletin posted
regularly to you every weelc for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc. , and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
How to Address Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be ref used.
_ The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor tv ill carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs , Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood, that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those .sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that, it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amn tears in. Itlacfe and. White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event.,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-draivn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and.
Qotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, No. 1 Broad-street Place.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Messrs. R. A. Thompson <b Co., 38 Bie'beck Street, Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco.— W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and Neivs Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., 33 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai.— Brewer and Co.
A (/ents 9 Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6g£n. x lldn.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
TRe
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1906.
THE HEBREW FLEET AND OTHER
MATTERS.
Now that the old Hebrew Kingdom is no longer
a going concern, the Jew seems to mostly hang
out in Russia and Poland. How he drifted to
those inhospitable lands is a long story and a very
ancient one, and need not be touched upon here.
But nowadays the Jew’s chief desire is to get
away from Russia, and out of that desire has
grown up a problem of international dimensions.
The Russian or Polish Jew is, as a rule, very
poor; even the race which, above all others,
seems fitted to graze profitably on the most un-
profitable pastures can hardly scratch a living out
of the cold lands by the Dnieper and the
Don under the conditions imposed upon him.
As a natural consequence, this J ew leaves Russia
(when lie can get away) as an undesirable emi-
grant. He is undesirable in his departure and
likewise in his arrival. Germany and Austria do
not yearn after him much. France gives him a
very perfunctory welcome. The United States,
once his favorite place of refuge, closes the door
against him with a louder slam each succeeding year.
And now even Great Britain has taken down the
immemorial signboard that used to stand on its
chalky cliffs, “ All Manner of: Things may be Shot
in Here,” and has passed an Immigration Restric-
tion Act of a drastic character—one which makes
the Six Hatters joke seem as nothing, and the
Petriana myth a mere wraith of fog. And the
Jew has no headquarters which can remonstrate
against these things. There is no Hebrew em-
peror, like Herod the Great, who can speak
severely to foreign Powers which shut the Jew
out or use him despitefully when he is in. There
is no office with the glad inscription, “ Moses,
Consul for Palestine,” to which the Hebrew sailor,
who has been defrauded by his captain, can carry
the tale of his woes and a sample of the nefarious
ship-biscuit which has weevils in it. The Hebrew
fleet doesn’t demonstrate, for there is none, and
the Hebrew army isn't mobilised for the same
reason. The Jew is treated in many countries as
an alien and an outlander, and he hasn’t even the
advantages of the alien from Nicaragua, which
would at least send a cablegram and call
out two men and a horse if its subjects were syste-
matically oppressed in a foreign country. There
isn’t any authorised individual to send a cable-
gram on behalf of Israel. The need for some
country, however small, which shall be the home
and headquarters of Hebrewdom, and which
shall speak firmly through its Government
to hostile foreigners, even as Venezuela and
Belgium do, is always before the eyes of the unlucky
and persecuted section of Judah. This, almost as
much perhaps as the Zionist sentiment, helps to
keep alive the desire to buy back Palestine, so
that the Tribes may resume business at the old
stand, and once more have a local habitation and
a name—as well as a nose and a pawnbroker’s
sign.
* * * *
There is something magnificently picturesque
in the idea of resurrecting almost the oldest State
on earth —the one which was extinguished over
1800 years ago in the midst of the greatest tragedy
in all history. Of course, nobody could get the
old Twelve Tribes together again. Simeon
flickered away off the stage almost as soon as
Joshua’s Commonwealth started, and the tail end
of it disappeared into the desert without com-
ment. Reuben seems to have had an appoint-
ment—possibly with a girl—and left early. There
is a suspicion that Dan evaporated. The rest of
the so-called Ten Tribes fell through a hole and
disappeared past recovery in the time of the
incompetent gentleman who succeeded Pkkaii,
the infuriated son of Remaliah. Then the black
Jew of Cochin China and the alleged Chow
Israelite from China are not wanted in any
scheme of Zionism, and they couldn’t be got if they
were wanted. But with all deductions there is a
very numerous and growing Hebrew left. And
he is a Hebrew with an immense record. His
kingdom was one of the world’s Great Powers —
in fact, it was the world’s Great Power—in the
latter days of David, and during the beginnings
of Solomon, the Rich and Weary ; and for a few
brief glorious years practically all the commerce
of the earth went through its territories and paid
toll to it. Some of that old glory might come
back if Palestine were recovered—a new Pales-
tine with the Euphrates valley railway (when it
is built) on one side and the Suez Canal on the
other, and the world’s commerce again flowing its
way. And some Abdul or other of Turkey may
yet be induced to sell out, if the rich ,lew will
put up the money in a cause which will mainly
benefit the poor Jew and the sentimental Jew.
4 * * *
Then the world might perhaps see quite a
considerable section of the Chosen People go
back to agriculture, and Judah might sit
again under his own vine and fig-tree as he
did of old. It might see him again in
pursuit of horned cattle like his ancestor Amos,
the herdsman of Tekoa. It would have the satis-
faction of discovering whether the Hebrew has
quite lost the fighting capacity which once made
him the boss swordsman of the globe ; the evidence
is that, peaceful as he may look, he has not. The
Hebrew ironclad would appear in the Mediter-
ranean (when the harbor of Sidon was dredged)
and make a new factor in international politics
(which are troubled enough already), and the
Hebrew army would be put on a war footing when
the next persecution broke out. There would be
the beginnings of a new Asiatic Power, which
might one day grow large enough to partially
counter-balance blatant Japan, now crowing virul-
ently at the other end of the continent, and also to
take the unspeakable Turk in the rear and hurry
on his extinction. The Temple might be
rebuilt, and a cleaner Jerusalem might arise than
Solomon ever dreamt of. The new State would,
of course, be an anomaly at first, inasmuch as 99
per cent, of its subjects would be abroad, but
that would be merely so much the more reason for
keeping the Hebrew consulates up to date till the
anomaly repaired itself—it it ever did repair
itself. At all events, there would almost certainly
be unlimited financial support for the resurrected
kingdom if it showed any sign of being a success-
ful going concern ; and if the Jew revealed even a
fraction of the capacity for organisation and
government in his own country which he has often
shown in other people’s countries, the new Pale-
stine would be a successful going concern. If the
Hebrew admiral wasn’t too seasick, a resuscitated
empire in Canaan might make history. And—
despite the almost inevitable tendency to drop
into persiflage when the Zionist theory crops up—
it is almost certain that it would make history—
a good deal of history—if Britain didn’t annex it
before it was fairly on its feet.
» # * •
This world feels at times a little tired and a
good deal in need of a new sensation. The
restoration of Israel can be cordially recom-
mended as a new sensation, provided Israel
really wants to be personally restored in any
appreciable quantity, or even if an appreciable
quantity of Israel wants to be restored by deputy
and sends the other fellow to the Holy Land
instead of going there himself. There would be a
strange stirring of the dry bones when Jericho
and Ramoth-Gilead returned their members at
the Hebrew general election, and the meeting of
the first Jewish Parliament would seem like Adam
getting out of his grave and buying a top
hat. But, apart from all frivolous jesting, Pales-
tine has a stupendous history—a history which,
from Abraham down to the final extinction of the
Latin kingdom, was one long epoch of heroism,
romance, great glory, incredible disaster, bound-
less patriotism and monumental folly. Every-
thing was writ large in Palestine except the area
of the country itself. The unspeakable Turk is in
the old historic land now, and the Turk is so
unspeakable that he shouldn’t be anywhere.
Somebody else should be there in his stead, for no
country is so bad that it deserves to have the Turk
in it, and no one seems to have a better right to
Palestine when the Turk goes than the Jew—
except, perhaps, Goliath, whose prior claim is
weakened by the fact that he seems to be dead.
And if the Jew wants Palestine the Great Powers
might do worse than spend a little money in
getting it for him. The historical associations of
the land count for something. The incredible
tenacity of the Jewish race arouses interest and
admiration. The experiment would be one of
intense interest; to the thinking section of the
community it would be far better amusement —
regarded merely as an amusement—than the Mel-
bourne Cup. And the comic papers would turn
an honest but vulgar copper by drawing pictures
of the Hebrew admiral incapacitated on the high
seas and urging the steward to throw him over-
board and end his misery, so that even the great
aggregate ’Arry of Europe would get some value
for the expenditure.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Another Petriana Outrage.
As though one Petriana horror were not enough,
here is another :—■ .
A curious difficulty arose yesterday when the destitute
shipwrecked crew of the American barque Edward 0.
Mayberry were forbidden to land until the United States
Consul had entered into a bond holding himself per-
sonally responsible for them until they were transhipped
to the United States.
How can Deakin and his friends, the Labor party,
hope to successfully fight the anti-Socialists with
things like this happening ? Consider the handle
it gives a campaigner like G. H. Reid. We
shall have him weeping buckets of tears over this
newest and most heartless outrage committed
upon the destitute shipwrecked seamen of a
friendly nation; and the Argus and the D.T.
will draw harrowing pictures of Customs
Minister Bill Lyne standing on a rock
with a boat-hook in his hand bashing at
the mariners; and the Brisbane Courier will dis-
cover another person who was just going to
invest £865,327 in Australia, but won’t now
because of this further evidence that Socialism is
driving the country to the dogs. At least all
these things would happen if this repetition
of the Petriana incident had occurred in Aus-
tralia. As a matter of fact, however, it occurred
at Southampton. England ; and the law under
which the destitute shipwrecked sailors were
refused a landing until the American Consul
had entered into a bond to see them out of the
country was passed by a Conservative Govern-
ment headed by a Cecil ; and the paper in which
the paragraph appeared, without any fuss, and
with no flaring headlines, was the London Daily
Express of Jan. 3. Not much above a year ago
the stupid Tory papers and politicians were filling
Australia to the neck with the yarn that this was
the only “so-called civilised” country in the world
that could be guilty of such a thing as to keep
shipwrecked mariners waiting on the doorstep
while it made inquiries about their means. And
now it’s Mother who does it—dear old Mother,
whom those very Tory papers and politicians told
us was breaking her heart over our behavior.
Tory Sydney University.
An appeal is being made to the N.S.W. Govern-
ment to interfere and veto the decision of the
University Senate barring Dr. Jessie Aspinall
from carrying on the duties at Prince Alfred
Hospital which the committee of that institution
entrusted to her. Thus history repeats itself. A
few years ago an appeal was being made to the
Government to stand in the way of the Senate dis-
missing Professor Wood for daring to think, the
Senators holding that his duty as a professor was not
to think for himself but to blindly follow in their
intellectual footsteps. It was put to the Govern-
ment then, that if the Senate had its way, the
Liberals in Parliament would “block” the Uni-
versity estimates. The argument had its effect and
the amiable potato merchant then at the head of
N.S. Wales Government was converted to Liberal
ideas of University management, and the Professor
stayed. Now comes the Aspinall case. In the
future will come many other cases in which the
Government will be called upon to interfere to
veto some particularly crass bit of Toryism on the
part of the little clique of Scotch business men
whom a whim of Fate has put in charge of the
State’s educational centre, until some Govern-
ment has the courage to tackle the problem
at its roots and sweep away the system which
makes these recurring scandals possible. • By
land endowment, by special aids for building, by
statutory and casual cash endowment, the State has
provided by far the largest share of the money
which has been spent on Sydney University. But
the State, as a State, has no share in its manage-
ment. That rests with the Senate, and the
senators are elected for life by “Convocation.”
Roughly speaking, every graduate of the Univer-
sity of three years’ standing has a vote for Con-
vocation, but meetings for the election of senators
are held only in Sydney, and members of Convo-
cation wishing to vote must attend personally.
In effect that means that Sydney University is
governed by its Sydney graduates, and in
practice the Sydney graduates work down to
a little ring of Scotch doctors—to Dr.
MacLaurin and Dr. Anderson Stuart to bring
the sum down to the lowest factor. Those two
gentlemen and their satellites are Sydney Uni-
versity. Being a Scotch doctor is not anything
against a man’s character, nor against his skill—
as a doctor. If The Bulletin had a leg to be cut
off, it knows dozens of Scotch doctors whom it
would gladly employ. But as bosses of a Univer-
sity two Scotch doctors, whose knowledge of
literature—outside that of their profession, of
philosophy and of art, is probably below the ordi-
nary public level, are misplaced. I or the matter of
that, so would two Irish doctors, or two Austra-
lian doctors, or a clique of any sort. A Univer-
sity must have breadth of thought and
a generous tolerance. It must have a
warm welcome always waiting for the New
which claims to be discussed, whilst ready
to defend the Old until, as is not always the case,
it is clearly shown that the Old must give way to
the New. Not the most admirable clique imagin-
able could with success “run” an institution,
which must of all things have univorsitality. At
present Sydney University is a barren fig-tree. It
produces graduates, but no intellectual fruit.
Change is impossible until its system of govern-
ment is broadened and liberalised and. its control
wrested from the hands of the ruling clique. The
N.S.W. Cabinet might recognise this at once and
take the opportunity offered by the latest exhibi-
tion of Toryism to put the institution in the
way of making some real return to the State
for the vast sums of money it has cost.
♦
Another Anti-Federal Grievance.
Many a paper is better known by the letters it
publishes, or the letters that are written to it, or
the letters it writes to itself (which is often much
the same thing) than by the matter in its leading
columns. Therefore, it is not surprising to find
that Sydney Telegraph has unearthed a corres-
pondent who finds a new and horrible grievance
against the Australian Government, because it
declines to use public money, and thereby
diminish the surplus returnable to the States, in
order to relieve the famine in Japan. Some ex-
tracts from the letter are interesting reading
Like many others, I have been greatly surprised and
disgusted to hear of the behaviour of the Federal Govern-
ment over the Japanese famine. ... Is it another instance
of truckling to the Labor Party?. ..Is it not'-to put it on
a purely selfish ground—to our own interest, for com-
mercial and other reasons, to cultivate the friendship of
our little ally? What more calculated to this end than
the free and spontaneous assistance that we can so well
afford, and that it is our right before all to give, being, as
we are, the nearest neighbors to our suffering fellow-
creatures ? And, on the other hand, in what a mean and
contemptible light will this country appear to the world,
when the decision of the Federal Government is made
known!
Japan is poor in all but patriotism. We, in spite of all
pessimists, are rich in worldly advantages. Are we then
so poor in humanity, in generosity, in all kindly virtues,
as to refuse through our Government the little aid asked
of us in the cause of an ally and a friend ?
The Japanese famine conspiracy was another of
the mean little traps which are always being laid
for the Australian Government by the parish-
pump politician who runs N.S.W., and whose
capacity for finding grievances against the Com-
monwealth is in inverse ratio to his success in
finding Willis, or even his success in finding
out in good time that when Willis left Australia
he also left his power of attorney in Carruthers’
firm’s law office. The N. S. W. State Premier, who
blares considerably about “ Federal extrava-
gance,” proposed that the Australian Government
should assist Japan and add the cost of this
charity to its expenditure, whereby J oe Car-
ruthers would be able to point to the increasing
total of Commonwealth expenditure as one more
evidence of “Federal extravagance.” Though
Carruthers says he will have £500,000 surplus
this year, he didn’t propose to charge N.S.W.’s
share of the Jap famine expenditure to his own
State accounts, so that the increased outlay would
be his own extravagance ; he wanted it to be
Deakin’s extravagance. He proposed to leave
the Deakin Government to face by itself the anger
of the other States, some of which are very hard
up just now, when their share of the proposed Jap
relief expenditure was deducted from their sur-
pluses. He didn’t offer any guarantee
that it was legal to divert part of the
Federal surplus to foreign charity ; if the
other States objected, and the High Court de-
cided that the proceeding was unlawful, Deakin
was to be left to. meet the trouble as best he could.
Of course, it was to be expected that the Sydney
Telegraph, which would probably have said
terrible things if Deakin had “ blewed ” the
public cash on foreign charity, should let loose this
correspondent to denounce him for not doing so.
And it is equally in keeping with the fitness of
things that the correspondent should be a liar of
the most virulent order. We are not Japan’s
“nearest neighbor.” Japan is not our “little
ally at least it poses as one, and by no means
the least, of the world’s eight Great Powers.
Japan professes to be so rich, in this alleged famine
year, that it can start paying off its public debt—
it has just commenced at a rate which is to wipe
off its war debt, and its public works debt, and all
its other debts in 36 years, while constructing
all its new works out of revenue—and
Australia professes to be so poor that it has to
borrow practically every penny of its public works
money even in a time of profound peace, and is
unable to pay off anything. It hasn’t even begun
to wipe anything off the loans it incurred for
works which were practically relief works in its
own awful famine year of 1902, when N.S.W, and
Victoria averaged Ij: bushels of wheat to the acre,
and when no one outside offered us any assistance,
except at 3Jj or 4 per cent. If Japan has a famine
on hand, it might at least suspend the repayment
of its public debt for a year—it might even float
a loan—instead of appealing for victuals to the
white races, whom it declares are unfit to own land
in Japan, to enter the Jap public service, to con-
duct retail trade, or to own shares in almost any
kind of Jap joint-stock company, and whose goods
it shuts out with a remorseless tariff. At all
events, Australia, in refusing to interfere, only
stands in the same position as every other Govern-
ment, and Prime Minister Deakin is on the same
footing as State Premier J oey Carruthers, and
probably both rank with the Sydney Telegraph’s
correspondent, who doesn’t seem to have enclosed
his mite along with his frenzied communication.
: 4,
American National Ideals.
The feverish anxiety of leading men in the
United States to make concessions to China in
response to a trade boycott, does not speak well
for American nationalism. There are —or should
be—higher things in national life than dollars.
As good old Whitman chanted :
A great city is that which has the greatest men and
women,
If it be a few ragged huts it is still the greatest city in the
world.
But the worship of wealth so rife among its
private individuals seems to have infected the
Government of America. Because a Chinese
boycott threatens the loss of a few dollars’ worth
of trade, the American President proposes, by re-
laxing the restriction on Chinese immigration, to
allow a second race-stain to be impressed upon
his nation, already deeply scarred by the negro
strain, which an earlier greed inflicted. The
same tendency to consider the dollar first and
national honor second was shown by the United
States in the incident by which it hustled the
sister Republic of Colombia out of the isthmus of
Panama by fomenting a revolutionary secession on
the part of the Panama State and then taking that
State under its “protection.” Uncle Sam wanted
Panama for his canal, and he stole it with a
mixture of hypocrisy and violence which put even
John Bull’s raid on Naboth’s vineyard in
S’Africa to the blush. The successive steps in
regard to Panama are worth recording :
(1) By a treaty entered into in 1846 the United States
guaranteed to Colombia both the neutrality of the
Isthmus of Panama and “ the rights of sovereignty and
property which Colombia has and possesses over the said
territory.”
(2) By the abrogation of the Clayton-Bulwer Treaty
the United States obtained a free hand with regard to
the construction of an inter-oceanic canal —a project
which they were extremely anxious to carry into effect.
(3) The Spooner Act (which authorised the United
States Executive to construct the canal) expressly stipu-
lated that “ should the President be unable to obtain for
the United States . . . the control of the necessary terri-
tory of the Republic of Colombia . . . within a reason-
able time and upon reasonable terms” steps should be
taken to utilise the Nicaragua route.
On a Prime Minister’s Advice.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What, “ hitch our waggon to a star ! ” Not we !
An old slow-dragging bullock team’s the thing ;
We only ask the world to let us be,
And do not crave to make the welkin ring.
Our road is long ; its ruts are old and deep ;
Our bullocks toil along with dusty heels ;
They know the track, though we may fall asleep,
Or trudge, uncaring, by the laggard wheels.
Our waggon’s new, ’twas built to travel far—
To climb the rough-hewn way, the hill-top high—
To race with flying wheels behind some star
That runs a glorious course across the sky.
But we are le.zy drivers, liking best
The unambitious road across the plain,
With no desire to climb the hills or test
Our waggon’s strength and speed in sun and rain.
Upon Time’s roadside, hid in glass and flowers,
Lie tyres and wheels and broken axle-trees ;
And these, one day, were waggons stout as ours,
And ours, one day, shall be a wreck like these.
One purpose, one high goal, one noble star
Had saved them, but they loved the easeful plain,
And lost themselves, and perished, while afar
The uplands shone and signalled them in vain.
One star, one purpose, one resplendent goal,
To draw, to spur, to urge us night and day,
Would save us, make us, fill our nation’s soul
With fadeless life that could not pass away.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


(4) Shortly alter the Treaty negotiated by the United
States Executive with the Government of Colombia had
been rejected by the Colombia Senate, an insurrection
took place in Panama, and the United States Government
recognised the new Republic within 48 hours of its out-
break, and, 14 days afterwards, signed a treaty with its
representative for the transfer of the Canal concession
and zone.
(5) The attempts of the Colombia Government to sup-
press the insurrection were frustrated by themresence of
United States warships, which, acting under orders,
prevented the landing of Colombian troops.
The Panama Isthmus theft is one which involved
no great world issue. But the present prostration
of America in humble koo-too at the feet of
the Chinaman is a serious incident in the
approaching great conflict between Europe and
Asia. It ranges the United States with England
as a “ bad European.” The growing arrogance of
Asia will find in the humility of America fresh
food.
♦—
A Fly in the Butter.
A shadow dropped out of the daily papers’ com-
mercial columns the other day, and fell across the
“ Back to the Land ” boomlet; so that the syndi-
cate which bought land at £5, and has been selling
it at £lO, has begun to think whether it hadn’t
better lower its figure and get in out of the wet.
No branch of on-the-land business has been
flourishing quite so gaily as dairy farming. To
grow the cow and milk the animal is a monotonous
job, no doubt; but while the wheat-farmer has
only one harvest, and a hot blast at a critical time
may sweep away the total result of 12 months’
labor, the dairy-farmer gets a harvest every
time he pulls a teat, and it has to be some-
thing extra in the way of disaster that
flattens him out, though a very ordinary dis-
aster will flatten out the other sort of farmer. In
spite therefore of the tremendous increase in
butter-production which has occurred during the
previous ten years, perhaps the greater number —
certainly a very large proportion—of those who
have gone on the land since the present run of
good seasons started, have had their eye on that
form of industry ; and almost every time an old
estate has been offered for subdivision the bait
has been held out, either that it was “splendid
lucerne country ” or that there was a butter-factory
just down the road. In Queensland, the move-
ment that way has amounted almost to a rush ;
and the Northerners have been talking butter just
as once they talked gold. But now the papers
report “another fall in butter,” another ha’penny
icss for the producer, and add the gloomy promise
of still further falls. Even at the present reduced
prices the exporter alleges that he can’t export at
a profit; and as the co-operative factories are say-
ing the same thing, the butter exporter is proba-
bly telling the truth for a change. Moreover—
A cable received by one of the principal exporters from
his London representative stated that the outlook is very
black for export, and that the market is quiet, while
heavy arrivals are expected shortly. The cable also
stated that prices will have to go lower, and that the
season is too far advanced for any but the very best
brands.
London has a large stomach ; but it is possible
to surfeit even London’s stomach with cow-fat;
and if it shows signs of getting into that state
now, what will it be later on when Russian Siberia
once more begins to pour in its increasing
supplies ? When it comes to a fight for a market,
and the rule of the survival of the fittest, Aus-
tralia (which, in the absence of manufactures, has
hardly any market of its own) will be handicapped
by distance in the first place ; in the second place,
most of it will be handicapped by having to pay
interest on the ridiculously high capital values to
which, in the absence of a land tax, suit-
able acreage has been forced. Those values
have been based, moreover, upon high prices
for butter, wool, and other products; and
it is almost impossible foi those prices to last.
When they slump, the men who have been
inveigled into paying or promising to pay recent
high rates will be in just the same position as the
Western N.S.W. and Queenland squatters who
went into holdings when seasons were good
and prices high 15 or 18 years ago, and who, in
most cases, have since walked out, worn, wearied
men, with nothing but a portmanteau and a crop
of wrinkles and grey hairs.
+
Benefactor Bent.
Last week Vic. Premier Bent was surprised
in the act of offering a vacant Victorian
judgeship to his Ministerial colleague, J. M.
Davies, possibly with a view to ensuring a
pension of £1250 a year to that aged gentle-
man in the near future. Mr. Bent’s life-long
love of looking after his friends seems to be
maturing into positive madness. This selection
of Mr. J. M. Davies for a place on the Bench
may be called an insane act, for the reason that
nothing save contempt for Mr. Bent could pos-
sibly come of it. Had the nominee been ten
years younger the appointment might have passed,
on the ground that it was not more unpardonable
than the appointment of politician Kerferd to a
judgeship some years ago. For that matter, Mr.
Davies is a less unpractised lawyer than Mr.
Kerferd was. He is given credit for being “ a
lawyer and solicitor who stands fairly well in
his profession as far as he is known to
it." But in his legal capacity he has no real
pretensions to be dumped upon the judgment seat
in preference to a score of brighter and more
expert practitioners who have no personal friend-
ship with Mr. Bent, and are still in the prime of
life. The practical result of putting a Judges
wig on the 70-year-old Mr. Davies would be to
inflict another pensioner upon the State. By
holding the judicial position for a short time he
could secure a fat old-age allowance to which his
services had not entitled him. A Judge is ex-
pected to prove capable of earning his pension by
a career of usefulness in a responsible position.
Mr. Davies, if he accepted the billet, must shortly
have abandoned it for his health’s sake, and would
then have drawn £1250 per annum from the
Treasury. Mr. Bent is putting up an astounding
record for political patronage.
♦
The Jap Famine.
The United States President, who seems to be
filled with fear of the Mikado, comes forward
with an appeal to Americans to help the famine-
stricken Japanese. In Australia a similar appeal,
less authoritatively backed, has been made, and
has evoked some response. At a risk of being
charged with a graceless cruelty, The Bulletin
would like to ask if it is quite reasonable to
ask for charftable help for the Japanese
under the circumstances? Japan has just
emerged from a war which makes its posi-
tion as a nation absolutely secure. That
security is further buttressed by an alliance with
the greatest naval power in the world. No coun-
try on earth is more free at the present moment
from all fear of attack. Yet the Japanese Govern-
ment has decided to make its war taxes perma-
nent and to push on with naval construction with
such speed as to rapidly raise this Asiatic power
to the third position among sea-fighters. The
purpose of this huge naval increase is clearly not
defence, but aggression. For purposes of defence
Japan has an ample fleet to protect its coasts
against anv power but Britain, and Britain is
Japan’s ally for the next 10 years. Why not let
the charity to the starving Japanese begin in
Japan ? Some of those huge war appropriations
might surely be devoted to the relief of the famine
for one year. It is difficult always to argue
rationally when people are starving. But, sup-
posing John Smith has ample means to support
his family but lets them starve whilst he buys
guns a fid knives and cultivates a bloodthirsty
gleam iu his eye, can the neighbors be expected to
keep John Smith’s family in food?
-*
Yale, Mr. Willis.
The failure, the very convenient failure, of the
N.S.W. Government to secure the return of Mr.
W. N. Willis practically closes the inquiry into
the Lands Scandals. That inquiry was begun
reluctantly, was never intended to be serious, and
a farcical end to its labors is quite appropriate.
Sydney Daily Telegraph (which deserves some
credit for having, in the first instauce, agitated
for the inquiry) professes now to be sad and
shocked at its futile end. But to that end the
Telegraph worked as strenuously as did Mr.
Willis friends, in and out of the Cabinet, for it
resisted with all its might a change of Government
which was obviously, from the first, an essential
preliminary to an honest probing of the scandals.
True, the present Government—in response to
hard flogging—has taken step after step towards
making" "this futile inquiry, but each step
happened to be (or was managed to be) too late.
The commission of inquiry opened with scanty
powers. When those powers were extended, the evi-
dence which they might have elicited had vanished.
From the first there were clearly indicated several
principals in the Lands transactions which were the
subject of investigation. An earnest Government
would promptly have secured those principals
books and papers. No effort was made to do that
whilst it was still possible. But this N.S.W.
Government has never been in earnest. How
could it be with several of its own members mixed
up—we hope in all cases innocently mixed up -in
some of the very transactions which were to be
probed ? The alternative was always plain, ‘‘ The
Carruthers Government or a full inquiry. lhe
two could not go together. And they didn t.
♦ -
The Victorian Coal Mines.
The commission enquiring into the conditions of
the Vic. Coal Mining industry took another step on
its gradual course the other day and learnt from
the Government Metallurgical Chemist and a
Board of Health medical inspector that m the
Coal Creek mine the air was generally bad, the
percentage of carbonic acid gas varying from 2
to -44, the accepted standard for pure air being 'O3
per cent. (In one particular drive the percentage
was as high as ‘68 —23 times as dense as it ought
to be.) In the Outtrim mine the carbonic acid gas
varied from ‘2l to ‘66, and in the Jumbunna from
•23 to ‘9. At all the mines the inspectors found
that neither sanitary conveniences nor change
houses were what they ought to be. A Government
mining inspector also told the Commission he had
“ never had instructions to test the escape of gas,
but had spoken to the managers about it. They
had assured him there was no gas.” I his amiable
gentleman further stated that he had reported
two months ago that there were no safety ladders
down the Macitay shaft at the Coal Creek mine,
as the cage needed all the room ; also he had
given notice to the manager to extend the brattice
work to carry the air on to the men. Presumably
the manager had taken notice of this “notice,”
but nobody seemed to know much about it.
Taking it by and large, Government inspection of
Victorian coal mines doesn’t seem of much use.
In workings carrying ‘9 per cent, of carbonic acid
gas, where it takes’two months to ponfier over
the provision of safety-ladders and as long to
carry air to the workings, the miner isn’t likely
to worry much about inspectors. He is more
likely to be thinking how his widow and orphans
will live when he is in the cemetery.
Confidence.
N.S. Wales has managed to borrow £2,000,000 in
London, and the fact that the money asked for
was all forthcoming has aroused great enthusiasm
in many foolish and ill-informed quarters. The
circumstance, it is said, shows that confidence
in the securities of the State has been re-
established,” which is a curious way to look
at the matter, though, unfortunately, it is
the way Australia generally looks. This country
is so anxious to find out how confidence
is getting on that it has to borrow something
every few months to make quite sure that
the miserable thing is still there. If it left off
borrowing for even 13 weeks, it would have no
completely up-to-date evidence that the dreadful
old confidence hadn’t dropped through a hole and
been lost, so, on the theory that confidence is the
most blessed of all our possessions, the country
keeps on borrowing. If it borrows easily it says
that the confidence is looking splendid; if it
borrows with difficulty it sticks out its chest
and says that confidence will return later on,
and that no one need despair. Years ago a very
rich man died in Victoria and left his immense
pile to his two sons, both of whom are now also
dead. One of them pursued a giddy career of
mirth, horse, woman, and public-house, and every
time he borrowed another £lO,OOO on his estate he
proved to himself, just as Australia does, that
confidencedn his securities was going strong. The
confidence just lasted his lifetime ; he died bank-
rupt. If he had lived a little longer he might
have died in the Benevolent Asylum. The older
son never borrowed anything, and in all his life
he never had the satisfaction of proving that any
money-lender, pawnbroker, usurer, bank, bum-
bailiff, or other financial institution had confidence
in him. He died very rich in cash, but without
any visible evidence of the confidence of anybody.
Australia mostly said that the younger son was a
fool, but Australia itself is just the same kind of
fool. There are two varieties of confidence : one
is the other fellow’s confidence that you will pay
your debts ; the other is your own confidence that
you will never have any to pay. It has always
seemed to this paper that the second variety of
confidence is much the more valuable of the two.
♦
The Railways and the Exporter.
The Commonwealth Commission, which is trying
to find out whether it would pay Australia to
have its own line of English mail and freight
carriers, has been incidentally digging into the
question of the powers of various Railway Com-
missioners. In Germany, it found out. a man
running, say, a factory in the interior can put his
goods on the railways, consigned not to a German
port, the terminus of the line, but to Australia,
China, London, or Timbuctoo. The railways
arrange things with a shipping co., and generally,
being a wholesale customer, they can make far
better arrangements than any comparatively small
exporter could. In Canada something of the
same sort can be done ; likewise some of the
U.S. railroad co.’s cater for this through business.
In Queensland, mainly on the recommendation of
Commissioner Thallon, similar powers were given
to the State railways ; but they appear never to
have been exercised —at least, practically never ,
only one or two cases are remembered, and the
way-back public doesn’t seem to have known that
the powers existed. Everybody appears to have
had the idea that, in order to ship anything, even
from Brisbane to another port along the coiist, or
the other way round, it was necessary to hire an
agent to take delivery and re-consign. One
pastoral man found out that he had paid £5OO in a
single year for what simply amounted to a little
clerical work—which work, as it turns out, was
quite unnecessary. That £5OO would pity for the
actual shearing of 50,000 sheep ; yet, while no end
of fuss is made about the rates for shearing, some
entirely unnecessary city middleman shore the
squatter in this case of £5OO and nobody made
any fuss at all. In N.S.W. traffic-manager
Harper has said he was against having any-
thing to do with the traffic beyond the rail-
way terminus. But that view hasn t a leg
to stand upon. The N.S.W. railways are
not concerned merely about the N.S.W. railways.
They were built, many of them, to develop
“ our great natural resources,” and to assist settle-
ment and the settler ; and if settlement and the
settler can be advanced by cutting out some un-
necessary middleman, and getting a fraction
cheaper ocean freight, and the railway can do this
work the most conveniently, then it is proper
work for the railway to do—just as it is proper
work for the post-office to do money-order business,
though money-order business isn’t primarily
postal business. Victorian Commissioner I ait,
who has had personal experience of through
consignments, has undertaken to give the com-
mission his ideas, and they ought to be worth
something. Meantime, as Australia must export
largely in order to pay interest on its debts, and
as many of the exporters are little men scattered
all over the face of the continent, the idea seems
one well worth looking into, anyhow. And possi-
bly it would work even more serviceably in the
matter of inter-State trade ; for that ought to be
to a very great extent the small producer s trade;
and it is the small producer who is most at the
middleman’s mercy.
♦
How Westralia Greases its Fat Pigs.
The annual report of the Westralian Goldfields
Water Supply (to June 30, 1905) has been issued.
When Bigjoiin Forrest carried the scheme
through, he provided for a 3 per cent, sinking
fund : he knew that the best gold mine in the
world to-day must be a mere hole in the ground
to-morrow, therefore the only sane plan was to
make the mine wipe out the capital cost of its
water scheme before it became a mere unprofit-
able hole in the ground. On that basis the price
of water was fixed. But no sooner had the State
begun supplying water than the mostly-foreign
people who owned the mines started a plot in order
to get it cheaper. They played on the usual strings;
capital was being robbed of its fair return,
money was being driven out of the country,
industry was being hampered, and so on. And
because almost every Government of Westralia
has been in mortal terror of the foreign capitalist
(who in reality has done very little for Westralia
except draw dividends from mines which the
Australian prospector has found and proved)
the price of water was cut down. The result this
report shows. In a year in which the foreign
mining co.’s made £2,000,000 in dividends out of
Westralian mines, besides writing as much as 20
per cent, off the cost of their own plants, the
State goldfields water scheme provided only £3OO
of the £Bl,lOO required for the sinking fund. I lie
report puts it very pleasantly :
The sinking fund on the main capital account, which is
at the rate of 3 per cent., amounted to £Bl,lOO ; and this,
less the sum of £3OO referred to above, devolved upon the
general revenue of the State.
“ Devolved upon the revenue of the State” is a
soft, pink-rose way of describing a scandalous
piece of Treasury-looting. The cold fact is that
by far the most profitable business in the State,
owned mostly by foreigners—a business that has
paid just upon £0,000,000 in dividends in three
years—was subsidised to the extent of £BO, l OO last
year out of the taxes of the people. More
scandalous still, the people, who put up with this
sort of thing, paid that £80,700 with an 1.0. U.
drawn upon their children. If the people of
Westralia choose to grease their fattest pigs with
their own fat, well and good ; we may think them
fools, but still it’s their own fat. But when they
grease their most adipose swine with their
children’s fat; when, having paid subsidies, they
let their finances drift into deficits, and pass the
deficits on for the next generation to wrestle with,
then it is time to made violent remarks.
♦
The Red Tape Maze.
A Public Servant writes dolefully
Some months ago a Bulletin writer likened dealing
with a Govt, department to the efforts of a man trying to
grasp the substance cf a cloud—the further you thrust
your arm, the more your arm is enveloped by the cloud
without reaching anything tangible, forcibly re-
minded myself of this when I was recently sent by my
office to our Ministerial Department as a special embassy.
The matters entmsted to me had in one case been four
years, and in the other three, lying forgotten up there,
and our clients were becoming foolishly impatient. With
a big bundle of papers under each arm I marched de-
terminedly on the Department. I eventually found my
quarry, tlie Head of the branch. He was at the top of a
large room filled with clerks. Their coats were off, and
they were as busy as disturbed ants, mainly occupied with
thrusting heaps of papers on to each other s desks- I pro-
duced the discolored heap from under my left arm. The
Head fell on it, likean old acquaintance. I remember this.
P,logos settled this long ago. Jones ’’—turning to a refer-
ence-” get me ’95G1067253.” Jones toiled perspiringly up
a huge ladder and smothered us in dust with his trophy.
“ Here we are (reading): ‘ I am of the same opinion as
Mr Surveyor X who concurs in Mr. \ s report, that Mr.
Z recommended that the pig was probably killed.
Damn it Jones, I said C 1057253.” Jones wrathfully
toils up another ladder, only to find that CIOGU2B3 was
already in the bundle of papers I liad brought up. We
then dived into the case. Distractions were frequent. A
contractor disconsolately asked why he had not been paid
“ Jones, get me 04G97976.” An M.L.A. wanted some of
the <?reat natural resources of his constituency developed.
His matter was urgent (as he was an M.HA.) and
had slept since November only. Jones snapped out with-
out waiting to be asked, that the papers hml gone town to
“Correspondence” three weeks ago, and if they hadn t
written he wasn’t going to be blamed tor it. Next the
Under secretary's messenger rushed in for some papers.
These were not forthcoming instantly, and Jones and the
Head indulged in unseemly recriminations, and, before the
messenger departed with the papers, the ants had been
driven frantic. There were also minor diversions. Jones
and one of the ants had an argument on the weights for
the Newmarket, to which we all listened. Cue of the
Head’s creditors paid a formal call, and Jones girl rang
up on the telephone. Finally the cobwebs were cleared
away, and the Head gave his decision. We must send
to Grafton fora report then we’ll call for tenders. Get
the Minister’s approval and Gazette the thing. Then
we’ll soon start.” “How long will it take? 1 asked.
“Oh we ought to get going in six months. I thanked
the Head and departed. I didn’t bother him with
bundle under my right arm.
♦ :
The Australian Star did a cruel thing last
week. It republished a tremendous diatribe
against Freetrade which Joseph Cook, now
virtual leader of the Foreign-trade and anti-Labor
party in the House of Reps., wrote in the days
when he was a plain, honest Labor man, and
believed in a far more Socialistic platform than
the one he now denounces with such fury, -tiere
are some extracts from the old honest Joseph :
The unemployed in England at this moment are con-
siderably over 1,000,000. But, sir, the number of unem-
ployed is not the only index of Freetrade V ‘
A large firm of iron manufacturers in :
just ceased operations, the sole reason assng ne d being
their inability to compete with Belgian e '"
ployees of this firm had their wages reduced by'Mper
cent., and for the last 12 months there have been able-
bodied men employed in and round the b ast |mnaces
working 10 to 12 hours per day foi a small pittance
of 12s. 6d. These men have submitted to reduc
tion after reduction rather than take the risk
of finding employment in a country where it was
so scarce, and now they are compelled todoit.for u th
those reduced rates they are not able to compete with
the foreign maker. This is not hearsay ,it a hard fact,
and it is one among many. The above county is notec
for its production of iron, and I know from Personal ex-
perience that the mills of the whole country do not run
more than six months of the year. nr e
Nearly the whole industrial population of England are
at this moment living lives bordering on verge of
starvation. They would rather starve than be dubbed
paupers. I have seen with my own eyes men with pretty
constant work die like rats from sheer exhaustion, and all
because of the decline of the export trade, and the
increase of the imported article. .
This is how Freetrade is constantly paying for imports.
She sells her flesh and blood, and pulls off the last
pound ” for imports she can herself produce. How are
we paying for our imports at the present bme? Simply
by selling-our credit at an enormous sacrifice, as wdl as
our raw materials at a dead loss .. ,We clo { ie v I .’ ,n . <lc ®
We sell at the lowest analysis our flesh and blood, our
independence, our credit, and persistence in this kind of
barter will lead to ruinous results. The Herald writer
alludes to “ the degeneracy/’ “ loss of independence of
the British workmen. Here is a tacit admission of the
baneful effects of the fiscal policy on the. mora e of the
nation. There is a loss of independence. And ■ why . Ihe
soul of the worker is ground completely out of him by
the competition to which he is subjected. _
When, later, George Reid offered Cook a highly-
paid job in his Freetrade Ministry, Cook saw
things in a different light. And now his sour
contempt for the people who think as he used to
think before it was more profitable to think
differently is like unto the contempt of an arch-
angel for an inferior description of black beetle.
-
Postmaster-General W ard, of Maoriland, during
his recent call-in at Sydney, expressed himself as
very anxious “to establish trade reciprocity
between the Commonwealth and his combustible
islands. Whereupon the S.M. Herald, which
calls itself “the Federal daily,” snatched with
both hands at the opportunity to lie about the
Commonwealth in a leading article :
Unfortunately, we are bound by the acts and policy of
the Federal Parliament, which has chosen in its wisdom
to erect a tariff wall between all Australia and Maou-
land. Naturally the island colony retaliates, although
this representative of its interests has no hesitation in
declaring, like ourselves, that there are plenty of articles
which we could mutually agree to interchange without
duties of any kind. But there is the deadlock. Out
hands are tied, because a few influential manufacturers
have succeeded in persuading the Federal Parliament to
have it so.
Maoriland imposed its present tariff against Aus-
tralia before there was any Federal Parliament or
any Federal tariff. Maoriland didn t 1 naturally
retaliate ” against an unfriendly Commonwealth ;
it got there first. It was asked to come inside the
Federal tariff, and it preferred to remain outside.
The point isn’t of much importance, but it
shows how impossible it seems for a Sydney
Foreign-trade paper to leave off lying in
small things and large things, directly and
indirectly—against the Australian Government,
simply because that Government puts the interests
of the Australian workman before those of the
British and German importer, and because the
Australian party isn’t wholly elected by the im-
porters of Sydney. The Sydney Foreign-trade
press has become so anti-Australian that it would
rather lie on behalf of socialistic and highly-Pro-
tectionist Maoriland than not be against the
Commonwealth.
>
The Argus has been busy lately discrediting the
contract entered into by the Victorian Govern-
ment for the carriage of butter and other foods to
England. This contract is with the Aberdeen
and other lines, outside the big P. and O. and
Orient co.’s, and the latter are suffering severely
in their big refrigerating holds. The Argus
method is to print slabs from its English corres-
pondent, in which the time taken on the voyage
by the contract steamers is contrasted With the
shorter trips of the mail boats, and the farmer is
told that this is playing the devil with the price
he gets for his butter. As there are numerous
cool-storage depots in London, where the butter
can be kept and the supply regulated, the state-
ment is rubbish ; but it is being told so often that
it has a chance of being believed. Fortunately,
the chairman of one of the mail co/s showed the
farmers what sort of cat there was in the bag at
the recent annual meeting. He complained
bitterly of the loss of the frozen produce .trade,
railed against the present low rates (for which the
Governmentsteamersare responsible), and finished
up bv hoping that there would soon be a return to
the old order of things. Which is a straight tip
to the farmers : Knock out the competing lines
by getting the Government to cancel the contract,
and we’ll soon make you pay again at the good
old rates.
Is Mr. Thomas Bent now Prime Minister of
the Commonwealth ? It would seem so, for
a characteristic Bent sort of job is the appoint-
ment of Mr. Collins to a little sinecure in
London at £lOOO a year, as “inspector of
defence material.” If an mspecter of defence
material is needed, which isn’t proved, he should
certainly be a man qualified for the post, ihere
is nothing in Mr. Collins’ past career, his present
position, or his known qualifications to lead one
to believe that he is an expert m ordnance or
other war material. But there are such experts in
the Commonwealth Service. As to the need of
a post of this sort, Mr. Collins’ report in its
favor seems to be the only proof ; the Govern-
ment, to remove all suspicion, should have
referred the matter to the Public Service Com-
mission. To make the appointment as a matter
of Cabinet favor was a “ job” pure and simple.
Australia was solemnly warned last week
bv*Samuel Wong that, unless it admitted the
Chinese curse freely, Samuel’s native land would
yet gird up its pigtail and mal.e trouble, tins
was at a social gathering of the Church of Christ
and the Sydney Chinese .Mission, and Wong,
instead of being metaphorically kicked, appears
to have evoked the applause of those morbid in-
stitutions.


D
0
sf
rr-rjß^
SjSCr. 1
.A-,
*‘ s *M....
sfa
Gallahen# Belfast- belong to noTrust or Combine
Prize Scheme for 1906.
in Cash Prizes
RANGING FROM £5 DOWN TO 5/-
to Collectors of Outsi de Wrappers
FROM CAILLERS CHOCOLATES.
J062.10.0. EACH QUARTER
McH3i^JuNE3OTg t SEl»'3o^.DEcls^
ALL SIZES,I?INCLUDED,ARE VALID. .
y^P OST your Wrappers to
\cii££&r'MX i P.0.80x/36, Sydney.
The Old Murray Border Duties.
The Bulletin has lately been publishing some
statements about the early border duties between
N.S.W. and Vic. Mr. James Mirams now sends
along the correct history :
In 1855, on Sept. 12th, the Acting Premier of N.S.W.
wrote to Sir Charles Hotiiam, the Governor of Victoria,
asking that Preetrade across the border should be estab-
lished. The Government of Victoria at once agreed to
this proposal, although it was to the manifest and serious
injury of its revenue.
June Bth, 1864, the Premier of N.S.W. wrote to Mr.
James McCulloch, then Premier of Victoria, requesting
him to join with the Government of N.S.W. in making
arrangements for resuming the collection of the duties.
In this letter N.S.W. claimed the control of the Murray.
In his reply to this letter Mr. McCulloch declined to
discuss the question of the border duties until the larger
and more important question of the control of the river
“shall have been finally set at rest.” The answer of
N.S.W. to this was an extract from its Government
Gazette, notifying the establishment of Customs Houses
at various points along the Murray ; the appointment of
Customs officers in charge thereof, and fixing the date
for the commencement of the collection of duties for the
19th of the following month, September.
A change of Government having taken place, the new
Premier of N.S.W., Mr. Charles Cowper, re-opened the
question with Mr. James M'Culloch on the 31st March
iri the following year, 1865. He suggested a conference
to be held at Sydney as early as possible. Victoria’s
answer to this was cordial and prompt. Mr. James
M’Culloch, Mr. Miciiie (Minister of Justice) and Mr.
Verdon (the Treasurer) were in Sydney by the
15th of April, on which date, and two following
days, the conference was held. Twelve articles
were unanimously adopted, which were to
form the basis of an agreement between the two States.
Subsequently, Victoria was asked to prepare this agree-
ment, which it did, sending two copies of it signed to
N.S.W. for signature there. The first of the 12 articles
reads as follows : “ The Government of N.S.W. does not
contend for exclusive jurisdiction over the waters of the
Murray.” As arranged by the articles, Victoria com-
menced on the Ist of May to carry out the plan agreed
upon, but an insuperable difficulty arose over the question
of what d uties were to be collected upon goods coming up
the river from South Australia for delivery in N.S.W.
The latter State insisted that its tariff should operate in
such cases. Victoria insisted that to protect its revenue
it was essential that its tariff should be enforced ; other-
wise large quantities of goods, dutiable in Victoria, would
be landed in N.S.W. free, and then sent across to the Vic-
torian side of the river free, under the terms of the treaty,
to the manifest injury of Victorian trade and revenue.
The result was that the treaty was abandoned, and the
original conditions of collecting duties were reverted to
on the 20th June. The balance of duties due to N.S.W.
for the time during which the treaty was provisionally
carried out was £6BOO. This amount Victoria subse-
quently paid to N.S.W.
Nothing further was done in the matter until early in
January, 1867. On the 12th of that month an agreement
was come to in Melbourne, which was to continue for five
years from the Ist of February, and by which N.S.W.
undertook to accept £60,000 a year from Victoria as com-
pensation for the abandonment of the duties which it
otherwise collected.
In September, 1871, an intercolonial conference was
held in Melbourne, Mr. Gavan Duffy and Mr. Berry
representing Victoria. The border duties were discussed,
and N.S.W. claimed £lOO,OOO as the annual consideration
for the renewal of the treaty, which had only four
months then to run. The delegates from that State
enforced the claim in a long memorandum, to which the
Victorian delegates replied in a counter memorandum.
On the 15th December following the Government of
N.S.W. wrote to the Government of Victoria offering to
accept £60,000 a year and as much more as an accurate
computation, made during a whole year, should show to
be due. To this Mr. Gavan Duffy replied that Victoria
would continue the existing agreement for another year,
or make a new contract under which N.S.W. would
receive exactly what she was proved to be entitled to, be
it more or less than the £60,000. To neither of these
proposals would N.S.W. agree, the result being that it
recommenced the collection of the duties on February
Ist, 1872.
The next attempt to come to a settlement was initiated
by Victoria, Mr. Francis being Premier. On June 24th,
1872, he proposed to re-enact the old treaty of 1867, by
which the annual payment by Victoria was fixed at
£60,000. Mr. Henry Parkes, on July 25th, agreed to
accept £75,000 for one or, at most, two years. Mr.
Francis renewed the offer made by Mr. Gavan Duffy ;
and so it went on till the 11th of November, without any-
thing being accomplished.
Another intercolonial conference was held in Sydney
in January and February, 1873, at which certain terms
were agreed upon between Mr. Francis (for Victoria) and
Mr. Henry Parkes (for N.S.W.), as the basis of a new
treaty. The sum to be paid by Victoria was fixed at
£54,500, and the time for which it was to continue was
extended to three years. This treaty was finally signed
on May the 23rd, and came into force on the Ist of June
following ; and continued in force until 31st of May, 1876.
In 1879, Mr. Peter Lalor, the then Minister of Customs,
visited Sydney to confer with Mr. Henry Parkes concern-
ing a renewal of the treaty, when the best terms he could
secure were a two years agreement upon the payment of
£lOO,OOO a year by Victoria, which Victoria declined, the
result being that the collection of the obnoxious duties
went on until the establishment of Federation.
The Freetrade party in Victoria has never failed to
throw all the blame for the inconvenience and annoyance
arising from the collection of these border duties upon
Victoria, and more especially upon the dominant Protec-
tionist party. A very cursory examination of these facts
completely refutes that notion, and puts the blame where
t rightly belongs, upon the broad back of the ill-used
‘Mother State.”
$
“Caber”: About the prickly pear trouble in
Queensland. I was clerk of one of the principal
Darling Downs divisions in 1881, and the pear
was commencing to give trouble even then. It
was suggested that it be included in the noxious
weeds category on condition that the Government
subsidised the sum spent on its extinction to the
extent of two to one. At that time it would have
cost the Grovernment £50,000 at the outside to
wipe the pear off the map ; now there’s not tucker
wages in clearing the State for £5,000,000. Al-
though under the Noxious Weeds Destruction
Act almost unlimited powers were given to local
authorities to compel private individuals to keep
their lands clear, the chance was let slip; the
Downs squatters considering that the burr and
thistles were worse nuisances. They have a pro-
pensity for bungling m the Northern State, any-
way, but this one mistake was of the first water.
The history of what is now Queensland’s worst
nightmare "is interesting. It was in 1845 that
Gore, of Yandilla, had what he called a Mexican
cactus in the station garden. Ted Hewitt, the
gardener, got the sack —though good gardeners
were as scarce in those days as honest politicians
are in ours—for forgetting to water that cactus one
evening. But it flourished, and several neighbor-
ing squatters got cuttings of it as a special favor.
Fitz grew it at Bilton, Douglas at Salgai, and
Butler Tooth at Clifton. And it spread, and
keeps on spreading. Easton, of Billa Billa,
started to use it as a hedge to fence in the home-
paddock. Now there is no Billa Billa—merely
pear. Foxton, when Minister for Lands, thought
he had a straight body-hold of the trouble when
he offered fifty years’ occupation free of charge on
pear-infested ground, but as the prospective selec-
tors wanted to be bonused to the extent of from
£3 to £6 an acre, the scrub clauses of the Land
Act remained simply ornamental. Philp’s crowd
would have granted a bonus for pear destruction,
but Cohen wouldn’t honor any more I O U’s just
at the time, and the idea of doing something with
the. dreadful Mexican cactus except out of loans
never occurred to Philp, The number of things
that never occurred to Philp is amazing,
♦
A CORRESPONDENT on a naval matter :
When the British Admiralty recalled the Euryalus and
replaced that fine ship with the Powerful, our Defence
Minister, prompted thereto by Senator Matheson,
came to the conclusion that Australia was taken
down on the deal; so, to be quite sure, Captain
Creswell was appointed to inspect the Powerful and
report. And he reports that the Powerful is, as a fighting
ship, not in it with the Euryalus. The Powerful is a pro-
tected cruiser; the Euryalus an armored cruiser.
Modern naval warfare has proved the uselessness of the
former class, and the utility of the latter. So the British
Admiralty packs oft' its rubbish to the Australian station.
When Australia kicks, the Admiralty first asserts that the
Powerful is a superior ship to the other; th en offers to replace
the Powerful with a second-class armored cruiser, 23 knots.
It is a better ship than the Powerful, but rather weaker in
weight of armament, 7£in. being its heaviest gun when
first commissioned. Now either the Admiralty deceived
Australia, thinking Australia didn’t know better, or else
in its woeful ignorance it really thinks the Powerful a
better vessel. Either way, it is an argument why Aus-
tralia should discontinue that Naval Subsidy.
With the Euryalus I’d undertake to chase the Powerful
all round the continent, and two Powerfuls wouldn’t
make me alter my course a point. The Powerful and
Terrible class of ships represent one of Britain’s many
naval blunders—the building of huge unarmored vessels
with too light armaments. And the same mistake of light
batteries was made with battleships and armored cruisers.
The Germans are leading England in the matter of naval
armaments, and everything points to the maintenance
of that lead. Prior to the Russo-Jap war first standard
German battleship armament was 4 llin. guns, 10 B'2in.
guns. Against this England put 4 12in. guns and 12
6in. Since the war England makes her standard
8 12in. and 4 0"2 guns. Now Germany is building battle-
ships (see cable, Feb. 11) carrying 14 12in. guns. Long
before the war closed, in a letter-to Tiie Bulletin, I pre-
dicted that Germany’s next battleships would carry
heavier armaments than England. I estimated 20 12in.
gun ships. Well, Germany is g'etting close to it, and
Britain is toiling in the rear.
In Winston Churchill’s life of his father
there is a silhouette of ex-Premier Balfour as he
was a quarter of a century ago, in the days of the
famous Fourth party. He was then described as
an affable and rather idle young gentleman, who had
delicately toyed with philosophy and diplomacy, was
earnest in the cause of popular concerts, and brought to
the House of Commons something of Lord Melbourne’s
air of languid and well-bred indifference. . . . Lord Ran-
dolph . . . used to call him “ Postlewaite,” and made him
the subject of much harmless and friendly chaff.
Papuan Industries Ltd., promoted by an
ex-officer of the London Missionary Society as “an
industrial and trading corporation under Christian
auspices.” has acquired, by auction, from the Q.
Government, 406 acres on Badu Island, Torres
Straits, at 10s. an acre. This recalls the fact that,
where it is necessary for strategic purposes,
squatters can still easily arrange to forfeit their
holdings and purchase the freehold at auction.
There is never any competition, and only the
minimum price fixed by statute prevents the land
going for a song. Writer has seen 70,000 or 80,000
acres sold without a single opposition bid.
“ Squidge ” on a wood subject:—
Tasmania is timbered up to the eyes with valuable
woods. Yet no move of any sort is made by the Tassy
misgovernment or anybody else to conserve the forests or
provide in any but the most haphazard fashion against
the destruction of the island’s great asset. Imagine fry-
ing bacon on a fire made of cedar, mahogany, or rosewood
logs ! Yet in Tasmania the kitchen fires are built of woods
far superior to those. The king of Tasmanian timbers is
the Huon pine. It is a soft, clean-grained, easily-worked
wood, virtually indestructible, and worth in Australia
from Is. to 2s. a foot. A variety of it is figured—studded
all over with knots and cross-grains—handsomer than the
best maple and a better, sounder timber into the bargain.
This timber is protected in the usual half-cooked Tassy
fashion. Only trees above a certain diameter can be cut,
and the “ piner ” has to pay for a license. The licensing
business works out this way. A party of men—six or
seven with horses—select a patch of white pine (Huon).
One of them takes out a license. They cut the strip of
pine right out with the exception of the young trees, and
affix the brand of the man with the license. The
timber is floated down to the nearest port, and sold
for 4d. to 7d. a foot. No one in Tassy thinks it worth
while to even try to protect any other timber. Myrtle,
celery-top, leatherwood, King Billy pine, blackwood
(Tasmania is full of beautiful blackwood), and rosewood
are all splendid cabinet timbers. But they are not cut
for such purposes. It is no one’s business to make a
market for them or to start a big furniture factory in
Tassy. Zeehan has cleared hundreds of square miles, and
its furnaces have swallowed up the timber. The Lyell
furnaces have eaten bare a similar extent, and the
destruction is still going on. Some years ago the Tassy
misgovernment used a few thousand feet of Tasmanian
timber to build some railway carriages ; but there has
been no determined effort to introduce the wood to the
big markets. Still, the value of Tasmanian timbers for
cabinet work has not passed altogether unnoticed. The
Japanese have got on to it, and every year thousands of
feet of blackwood, rosewood, and the various pines, are
quietly shipped off to Japan. Surely it is the business
of somebody in Tasmania to take note of these things,
and to do something to stop the turning into smoke of
what ought to be the most cherished asset of a people—a
natural harvest of valuable wood.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOll COM INO WEEK.
Palace “ David Garrick.”
Her Majesty’s “ Ver mique.”
Theatre Koval “La’ Filledu Tambour Major.”
Criterion “The Passport.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her. Majesty's “LaTosca.”
Theatre Royal “The Prodigal Son.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Princes Court Variety.
To organise an entirely new opera com-
pany in Australia, and make its opening produc-
tion, not one of the nonsensical “musical
comedies ” which a good clown, a smart soubrette,
and bright costumes will carry through, but an
Offenbach opera, was a task which, to undertake,
showed daring. That William Anderson has
scored something a good deal more than
“a success of esteem” is matter for con-
gratulation. A perfect production was, of
course, out of the question for the
matter of that, comic opera, as produced in
Australia these times, doesn’t affect to aim at that
something near to perfection of the early Royal
Comic Opera Co.—but the strong points are
many, and the whole performance is bright and
interesting. The management makes its first
score with the mounting, manning, and dressing.
This shows a generosity which tells. There is no
skimping of the orchestra ; it is of full operatic
strength ; and the chorus fills even the huge Royal
stage. Moreover it is eminently capable and
comely, singing well, dancing well, and “shaping”
well. On Saturday and Monday the conductor, Mr.
George Gardner, was a little over-anxious and con-
sequently allowed his forces to get out of hand now
and again, but that his work on the whole was
good was shown by the general even balance of
the choruses —that towards the end of Act 11.
being so well done as to be encored again and
again.
* * * *
Miss Addie Campbell, a recruit
from that remarkable Australian
aviary Bendigo, in the name part
has an especially heavy role, which
she undertakes with cheerful confi-
dence and industry, never shirking
her share of the chorus work. A
dainty little lady, as yet lacking
something of the skill of the trained
actress, but showing a natural apti-
tude for stage-work, she has a clear,
light soprano, which seems to be
quite untiring, but has a tendency
to shrillness, which she should guard
against. Miss Maud Thornton gave
quite a suggestion of Miss IS'ellie
Stewart in that queen of comic
opera’s old part, Griolet. Miss Ivy
Scott, as the vivandiere Claudine,
was another bright feature. The
male principals did not do quite so
well. Achille Rebottaro is rather
light in voice and stiff in manner for
the part of Captain Robert, and
Harry Quealey somewhat overdoes
Bambini. But Edward Farley is an
impressive Tambour Major, and
Edwin Lester as the Duke, with
Miss Madge Hope as the Duchess,
act their parts well. Still, the un-
doubted success of the piece is due
mainly to the fine work of the chorus
and the brilliant spectacles. But
as the season proceeds the principals
will probably better fit their parts.
* * * *-
Sincere sympathy will be felt
for Robert Brough in his present run
of hard luck. Australia owes a great
deal to “the Broughs.” Probably no
theatrical combination has done so
much for dramatic art in the Com-
monwealth. They have at different
times presented a brilliant galaxy of actors;
they have made us acquainted with the very
best work in modern comedy; and, through-
out, their triumphs have always been won by
art, not reclame. “The sales of your poems
are falling off,” said a Paris publisher to
a versifier. “Can you not try a little reclame ?
Suppose now, you get run over by a ’bus ? ” There
was never anything of that sort about “the
Broughs.” They appealed neither to sects nor to
sets, tried to win box-office fame neither by scan-
dals nor eccentricities, relied solely on good plays
and good acting for their success. That, following
this policy, they did not make fortunes is natural
enough. Probably they never expected to, but
counted as compensation the fact that they could
claim to be genuine “professionals,” following
with dignity an occupation which is very fre-
quently nowadays irremediably vulgar. Now,
returning to Australia with a budget of new plays
and a company of new players, “the Broughs”
find the road made heavy for them by the
recurring illnesses of Robert Brough. All Aus-
tralians genuinely interested in the theatre will
wish him a quick and permanent recovery.
» * * *
Robert Brough’s illness is inconvenient
but not disastrous to the Brough-Flemming Co.
On Saturday Barrie’s new play, “Little Mary,”
could not be staged, and “ The Walls of Jericho,”
in which Mr. Brough’s part is comparatively
slight and he is consequently easily replaced, was
revived. “Jericho,” which is strong and original
enough to stand many revivals, will be continued
until Saturday, when “The Passport,” a farcical
comedy which has not been produced in Sydney
for some years, will be staged.
** * *
The advt. begins to whisper that the end
of “Veronique” is near; towards the close of
next week M. Coquenard Lauri will take out of
the window the bill calling for two more assis-
tants to make themselves generally ornamental in
his amazing flower-shop; and after to-morrow
(Friday) week, Haigh Jackson won’t have to go to
the daily expense of buying up Lauri’s premises
so that he may take the whole lot of the flower-
girls for a final giddy picnic. What will happen
after that is already hinted at in a mysterious
way by the splashing of the three words, “ The
Shop Girl,” in places where the eye of the way-
farer is most likely to run against them.
** * *
Florence Challis has sailed away with the
Bull and the Bush, but for the rest the Tivoli
bill is the same extra-good bill that it was last
week—with Lotto, Lilo, and Otto, and the Jack-
sons, and the Meisters, and H. Rickards himself
in the largest type. But most of these are getting
their carpet-bags ready, and the Tivoli programme
will be so changed next week that you probably
won’t know it.
* * sfc *
Thurston, who has just completed a suc-
successful tour throughout Australasia, is about to
set out for Asia, with Mr. H. P. Lyons “ahead.”
Mr. Lyons contemplates a tour embracing Manila,
China, Japan, the Malay States, and India.
***-*■
Miss Maud Jeffries and Mr. Julius Knight
open at the Sydney Palace on Saturday in
“David Garrick,” with “ Comedy and Tragedy”
as a curtain-raiser. So far as recollection goes,
these talented members have not played the sen-
timental “Davey” play before in Sydney.
Within the brief space of three weeks the co. will
crowd in productions of “ David Garrick,” “The
Sign of the Cross,” “Monsieur Beaucaire,” “Pyg-
malion aud Galatea,” “The Silver King,” and
“ The Lady of Lyons.”
“The Prodigal Son,” produced at Mel-
bourne Royal last Saturday, contains more family
trouble to the square yard than any other drama
the present writer can remember at the moment.
The characters, as a rule, talk too much (Hall
Caine created them with loose tongues), and when
any of their conversation is overheard by an inter-
loper the fat is in the fire. Listeners never hear
anything that pleases them in Hall Caine’s
drama. For that matter, the leading man—
the Prodigal’s elder brother —lives in a chronic
MISS ADDIE CAMPBELL, leading soprano in Mr.
William Anderson's Opera Company.
Photo, by W. Vincent Kelly, Bendigo (Vic.).
state of displeasure. The moment he arrives
upon the stage he learns that his fiancee
prefers his brother, so he makes a great
parade of magnanimity in promising to break off
the engagement, which he presently does in the
worst possible way. The unpleasant man seems
bent on making unpleasantness all round. His
brother Oscar proves an unstable husband to the
feeble Tbora Neil sen, on account of her evil
sister having accompanied them on the honeymoon
tour. Gloomy Magnus, posing as faithful adorer
of his brother’s wife, brings the matrimonial situa-
tion to a crisis and indirectly causes the poor
woman’s death—after which he denounces
the giddy pair, practically compels them to
go away together, sets the two families at
loggerheads, and heroically thanks God that he
didn’t commit fratricide. In the next scene, laid
in a gambling saloon on the Riviera, the Prodigal
Son rises superior to his swindling sister-in-law,
and leaves her to bestow her favors elsewhere.
And in the long last act (which needs a lot of
pruning) the Prodigal returns in a lamentable
white wig—a towzled Silver King—to the old
home in Iceland, and gives his daughter Cissy
(aged 15) enough money to save the family
from a voracious landlord, and keep them happy
ever afterwards. Gloomy brother Magnus had
fully intended to kill the unknown stranger for
his money, but when he entered his bedroom he
found him gone. In the meantime the aged
mother (the father had died 10 years previously)
has learned the identity of the Silver King, and
she is much relieved when her respectable eldest
son tells her in a whisper that the murder didn’t
come off.
» * * *
The story is interesting, nothwithstanding
its heavy load of dull dialogue and its lack of
power to attract much sympathy to even one of
the characters. A weak performance makes this
weakness very apparent. Probably the name
part would be likeable enough if Albert Norman
were equal to it. He made it ludicrous at times
on Saturday night. Walter Baker, as the elder
brother, was consistently unreal and depressing ;
Miss Ross was maturely simple and lackadaisical as
the weak-minded wife ; and Miss Ireland depicted
“ The Prodigal Son ” is a drama grim,
A terrible tale of woe :
The Prodigal follows his fleshly whim,
Much family trouble is brewed by him
In the course of a Blandolt show, you know.
(We sing of a Blandolt show.)
But where is the man who is chaste as ice,
Whose character shows no flaw ?
Admitting the Prod, has a turn for vice,
Which angers the Gallery once or twice,
He is mainly a Juggins who pays the price
For the sin of his sister-in-law.
And there’s many a husband, kind and nice,
Blythe and gay
On his wedding-day,
When he rode away midst showers of rice,
Who went astray and has paid the price
For the sin of his sister-in-law.


theunvirtuous younger sister—a girl in her teens—a s
an ordinary melodrama adventuress. Miss Maggie
Knight was more at home as the troubled mother
of the two old-looking boys. Styan played the
heavy father in his best manner ; Brown wore a
convincing disguise ; and Mrs. Bland Holt, in a
genial old spinster character, rattled off a number
of ‘ 1 broad ’ ’ remarks. There is no place for Bland
Holt in the piece. The people are all natives of
Iceland, a place where Bland couldn’t possibly be
accepted as indigenous to the soil.
* * *- *
Melbourne’s dramatic stage is just now
plunged in horror and remorse, and cries of human
agony are frequent thereabouts. Sardou’s “La
Tosca” promises to do good business at Her
Majesty’s for two or three weeks. “La Tosca”
is a whole-souled tragedy. The story is confined
to one woman and three men, and when they are
all dead the curtain falls for want of visible means
of support. The name part asks something more
of personal charm and magnetism than Miss
Tittell Brune can give it; nevertheless that
clever, determined little actress scores a popular
success. Her strength and her shortcomings are
most noticeable in the famous scene where Baron
Scarpia meets his doom. Miss Brune’s act of
assassination is convincing because it is associated
with a yell of maddened rage. In the loud ex-
pression of mental excitement and all other utter-
ances of emotion the artist is often as realistic
as you please. But in the ensuing scene
of silence, in which the corpse is only a
passive factor, Miss Brune fails to be thrilling.
She doesn’t control the situation —she merely per-
forms her dumb show part in it with due attention
to dramatic technique. Roy Redgrave, on the
other hand, never gets inside the character of
Scarpia until he drops dead. Miss Brune’s
burst of savagery has given the Baron’s corpse a
genuine appearance, although Roy Redgrave in
life had nothing of the political autocrat about
him. Made up quite boyishly, he bore himself
more like a foppish imp than a grave satyr,
walking about when he should have been
sitting down. Douglas Gerrard is a heavy Mario,
and the Court of Naples is regally presided over
by Miss Vaughan. One doesn’t think of La
Tosca as deserving much of its effect from the cos-
tume department, but the costumes lend valuable
scenic relief all the same.
«* * *
At the Opera House the programme is the
same attractive document as it was last week.
The lady cornet-player, the Primrose girls and the
Marionettes are the _ brightest items, but the
Marionettes are about to be replaced by some-
thing newer.
*# # *
Princes Court announces a further out-
break of novelties, and the sun of the Australian
Goods Exhibition in Spring-street is going down
in a blaze of crimson glory, so to speak. Also the
Princess’s promises to re-open next week for a
short season of Anders onian panto.
A Matter of Anatomy
y" y E was studying to pass his first
K ■ S degree ;
M JSL He was young, and he was hand-
some. So was she.
Said the budding medico:
“-Does my dearest darling know
That the seat of the affections is the liver 1 ”
(Here the modest maiden gave a sort of start.)
“It is rubbish all this talk about the heart!
When you hear your heart go thump,
Please remember it's a pump 1 ”
(Here the blushing damsel gave a sudden
shiver.)
N.S.W.
“It is just a pump, the heart —a duplex
pump ! ”
(Here his sweetheart very nearly gave a jump.)
''‘lt’s a pump to flush the drains,
Sending blood through all the veins,
And”—(just here the smelling-salts he had
to give her)
Then she murmured: “ Tell me, darling, must
we part ?
Oh, I love you from the bottom of my heart!
But I could not, could NOT say,
Though you bade me go away.
That I loved you from the bottom of my liver!”
W.T. GOODGE.
AT POVERTY POINT.
A showman writing from India, the other week, stated
that the three Australian girls engaged in the co. were
about to leave it in order to open “ a school of painting ”
in Calcutta. The versatility of these Australian girls !
Percy Grainger, of the barmaid locks, chatting lately
to a London reporter, represented himself as hoarding his
gains to return to Australia. He is also composing at
express rate, but none of his works are to see the light in
London. “ They are to be published,” says the composer,
“in Australia or nowhere. It is written for Australia,
no#for personal fame or profit, and to Australia it shall
be given, as the best that is in me to give her.”
“Lil” : Part of Fitzroy (Melb.) is a great recruiting
ground for stage dancers. One can hardly walk 50 yards,
at certain hours, without seeing some small girls prac-
tising the steps of “ the latest ” on the asphalt. The
average house thereabouts has no spare room for prac-
tice, but will the pavement do when the “ legs in the
air ” craze fairly grips the suburb ?
Some idea of Young Australia’s desire to shine in at
least one song' or one “ piece ” may be gathered from the
fact that 180 musical professors of either sex are giving
lessons in the teaching-rooms at Allan’s, on the Melbourne
Block. The professors are mostly men who teach singing,
the pupils being mostly girls ; and these 180 names are to
to some extent a selected lot. Many other “ teachers ”
have applied for accommodation on the same premises,
but have been rejected for want of reasonable credentials.
And they all have a following of pupils.
“Sweet Nell’s”’Frisco campaign follows close on the
heels of two native stars, who are making a stir in their
mother city—Alice Neilson, of “Fortune Teller” fame,
who is appearing there for the first time in grand opera
(as Norina in “Don Pasquale ”), and Nance O’Neil, now
billed as “America’s greatest tragedienne.” Nance has
made an impression in “ The Fires of St. John.” Maeter-
linck’s “ Monna Vanna” (which was prohibited in London
by the censor) was not so generally praised, though Mario
Majeroni got credit for his picture of the aged Colonna.
The great scene in which Giovanna goes to the tent of
Prinzivalle “till the first shaft of dawn,” to save the city
of Pisa, hung fire, on account of the staginess of Andrew
Robson.
Hall Caine says he has lost £lOOO over the Drury Lane
production of “ The Prodigal Son.” But Hall would per-
sist in making a deadhead of any parson who cared to see
his great moral drama. The Australian producer will
probably not follow that example.
“ Hamer ” : Actor worshippers are in two divisions—
the guileless girls (and sometimes women) who
admire the actor for the characters he repre-
sents, and imagines he must partake of their
virtues; and the tribe of women, often merging into
middle-age, mostly married, and deservedly neglected by
their husbands, and afflicted with hysterical sex-emotions,
who like the actor because his atmosphere is vagabondish,
and his morals not stern. And about the man whose
morals are shaky, and whose general conduct is queer,
there is that fatal attraction that renders a brigand or
any other gallant outlaw irresistible to certain of the sex.
Actor-worship does not fasten on stars alone ; it is the
property of the whole “ profesh,” in some degree. Even
the property boy shares in it.
“0.K.”: A “Poverty Point” statement that Claude
Hall, the Melbourne amateur, was about to take to the
professional stage, under Williamson’s management, must
have been surmised from the fact of his having acted as
judge at some amateur competitions in Sydney. Claude
Hall doesn’t intend to join the profession. Why should he ?
As an amateur actor, who is also a singer of some repute,
he stands in a class by himself. He would lose, rather
than gain, reputation by joining even a first-class dramatic
co. in a second-class capacity, and the change would
necessitate his touring away from his liver-pill business,
which is worth more than the salary of a “star.” He
would then cease to be his own master, whereas under
present conditions he runs all of his own shows, and can
give a personal guarantee of purity in the patent liver-pill.
Ballarat has set a worthy precedent by fining a hyp-
notic subject for furious driving. The cataleptic person
was put “under the influence,” and bidden to find a knife
that had been hidden at the other end of the town. If
he had fled to the spot on foot all might have been well,
but he got into a drag with the Mayor and some coun-
cillors, and drove furiously to the spot, wearing' a far-off
expression in his eye, and thus seriously endangered the
peace and decorum of Ballarat. He was levied on to the
extent of 205., though it ought to have been more. The
Mayor and councillors weren’t fined, but they should
have been.
Mr. William Anderson has very generously given the
use of Sydney Royal for g matinee in March in aid of the
Victor Daley fund. It is likely that other theatrical
managers will co-operate to make the matinee a profit-
able one.
Died of cancer in the stomach, at Sydney Prince Alfred
Hospital, last week, Josef Hajek, wrestler and strongman.
Ilajek was at one time with Fitzgerald’s Circus, and one
of the most successful hits of his turn was the placing of
an anvil on his naked stomach, and inviting three men to
whack their worst on the iron with sledge hammers. This
turn brought about the disease which killed him. His
death should be a hint to the Government to stop all such
dangerous circus and theatre sensations. Poverty will
drive many a man to risk —and more than risk—his life
for bread ; and the latent savagery of human nature
makes profitable, exhibitions of which the attraction is
their danger. But the authorities shouldn’t allow the
gratification of that savagery.
An imported actor man, whose large boast of his manly
attributes has been provocative of much humor in one
company now operating in the Commonwealth, created
consternation in the managerial breast the other day by
coming late to rehearsal, looking pale and bedraggled,
and hobbling painfully on two sticks after the manner of
decrepit old persons in plays. The company gathered
about, and plied the shattered actor man with questions.
Had he butted into a tram, been pitched out of a cab,
or played heavy lead in a railway smash ? It was none of
these things. “ I’m dashed if I think I’ll be able to go on
to-night, old fellow,” said the imported hero, in a faint
voice. “It’s these devilish Australian mosquitoes, you
know. They got at me last night, and bit me all round
the ankles.” However, with great care and medical
attention the splendid fellow was sufficiently recovered
to make at effort at 8 o’clock, but his pathetic limp
throughout the performance made the gallery gusty with
sighs of sympathy.
Another Melbourne singer, with a trip to Europe in
view, is Hal Cohen, the tall tenor, who always
looks as though his ladies-in-waiting had just been pinch-
ing his cheeks to make them tender. Mr. Cohen gives
one the idea that his sweet but foggy chest notes are
capable of great improvement, and that something might
be done with his thin falsetto head notes, and that twelve
months of athletic training would convert the soft
young man into a well set-up stage figure. He has all the
material—mental, musical and physical—for a grand-
opera tenor, but he needs to change his social policy, and
unlearn a lot of things.
Died, the other day, “ Billy” Morrison, an old theatri-
cal identity. He was not eminent in his profession, but
few were better known. He first dabbled in amateur
nigger minstrelsy, then had charge of the sale of the
books in Lyster’s opera co., and from that became
prompter. Then he had charge of the Wardrobe and
played small parts, his favorite role being that of the
“ Marquee,” as he termed it, in “ Maritana.” Latterly he
was mostly engaged “ on the doors ” in various theatres,
and also " hired out a somewhat defective theatrical
wardrobe.
“The Prodigal Son,” like most of Hall Caine’s other
plays, labors under the disadvantage of having started
life as a novel. Caine did make an attempt at a straight-
out play some years ago, when he was commissioned by
Irving to write a drama with Mohammed as the central
figure. Caine saw great stage possibilities in the career
of the Prophet. He had written three acts when the
British press started to ask in shocked tones what Muley
Din, and other “Mohammedan fellow-subjects” would
think of their Prophet being represented on the stage.
Irving was alarmed, and asked Caine to drop the play,
offering a substantial recompense for his wasted work.
Caine refused the money and finished the play. It was
accepted by E. S. Willard, but it is still in his cool-
storage chamber, and seems no nearer the footlights now
than 17 years ago.
“E.F.C.”: Surely Her Majesty’s ..(Theatre (Sydney)
management cannot be aware of the "nuisance of the
juvenile vendors of rubbish up in the gallery'. Between
each act these youths forge along in front of you, making
you perform acrobatic feats to let them pass. No sooner
has a lemon-squash vendor squeezed past, and you have
cursed him and settled down again, than No. 2 comes
along with sweets, then No. 3 with souvenir fans, then
No. 4 with souvenir post-cards, then No. 5 with souvenir
illustrated books.
“L.E.”: Now that Agnes Jansen has been appointed
chief teacher of singing at the Melbourne University Con-
servatorium, the Australian Voice, which is good and
plentiful, may be able to receive its final coat of varnish
without having to depart to Germany, Italy, or France.
Agnes, who was undoubtedly the best artist in Mus-
grove’s English Opera Company, is more than a vocalist:
she is a musician ; and besides being a splendid actress,
is a woman of the highest intelligence. The Marshall-
Hall Conservatorium so far has produced better players
than singers. The Swedish Agnes, if she gets a fair show (
may bump the University Conservatorium into the lead,
A book on London Garrick Club and its remarkable
collection of portraits of actors has been written by
Percy Fitzgerald. The Garrick was founded in 1831, as a
club in which “ actors and men of education and refine-
ment might meet on equal terms.” The actor was sup-
posed to be on a much lower plane than the snobbish
clubman of the period, and was barred as a member of
most clubs. Charles Mathews was excluded by the Beef-
steak Club because he appeared on the stage ; if he had
been a non-acting manager the priggish Beefsteaks would
have admitted him. Since its foundation most leading
British actors and literary men have been members of the
Garrick. Fitzgerald notes that the brilliant jesters who
were a feature of the Garrick in its early days are not
heard in this commercial age. They mostly reserve their
sparklings for press copy.
“Lil”: Glad to learn from a Melbourne paper that
“ Mr. Gerald Coventry, who arrived recently as an addi-
tion to Mr. J. C. Williamson’s stage-management staff,
has seen all the up-to-date productions in America and
England,” and affirms that “in scenery and stage
accessories the plays presented by Mr. J. C. Williamson’s
companies in Australia are not in any point less elaborate
or expensive than in the other centres of theatrical enter-
prise.” True enough, probably, but somebody else should
say it.
Isaac Bickerstaffe’s comic opera, “ Lionel and Clarissa,”
shows that exact prototypes of the modern cure-all quack
were seeking whom they might devour even in 1768.
Lady Mary Oldboy is undergoing a course of a “ new-
invented medicine,” and gives a recital of its merits that
can be matched in the advertisement of any “new”
twentieth-century nostrum. For instance :“ It brought
Sir Barnaby Drugg from death’s door. It is good for
several things—in many, sovereign—as in colds and con-
sumptions, and lowness of spirits. It corrects the humors,
rectifies the juices, regulates the nervous system, creates
an appetite, prevents flushings and sickness after meals,
as also vain fears and headaches. It is the finest thing in
the world for an asthma, and nobody that takes it is ever
troubled with hysterics.” In other words, it was good
for the young woman who didn’t feel well, and doubtless
one guinea was enough to send.
“ S.W.” : Strolling through Melbqurne Aquarium, the
other day, I dropped across a relic of the good old times
—a discarded Cobb and Co.’s coach, with the title, “From
Never-Never to Boggy Creek.”
Mildred Stroller, an American burlesque actress, is
suing the New York Tramway Co. for £lOOO damages for
injury to a dimple. The lady alleges that she was struck
on the cheek by a conductor, and thereby lost the use of
her dimple, which was of considerable stage value.
“ Theorbo ” : The newest book of musical interest is
Florence May’s diffusive but pretty good “Memoir of
Brahms,” two vols. Pleasant touch of actuality through
her friendship with him. Madame Schumann introduced
her to Brahms in 1871, and she became his pupil for piano,
meeting him at various times in after life. Brahms was
variable as an executant and conductor. In his mood he
would be a rival of Liszt, or rather of Chopin, on the
piano, and, when properly seized with afflatus, no con-
ductor could better gather his orchestra into one soul.
There was naught of clique about his Shakspearian mind.
He was born at Hamburg in poverty, his mother being
43 years old, while his father, a musician, was only 27.
Brahms began as a boy phenomenon on the piano. At 20
he was brought forward prominently as a composer, by
a eulogy from Schumann. The most potent influence
that moulded him was Nature, in forests, mountains,
rivers. Romantic literature also influenced him strongly,
and a passionate love for Homer, Tasso, Goethe, Schiller,
and the noble poets, and those fictions the most abstract
in imagination, such as Hoffmann’s. He advanced
throughout life with a steady growth in culture, achieve-
ment, and influence. His culmination was in Vienna,
where he ruled absolutely. He won his way gradually to
the conquest of Germany, America, England—and
Australia.
Comedian Will Whitburn, whose off-stage hours are
largely spent among trotting horses,' recently acquired a
lump of land at Oakleigh (Melb.), which he is converting
into a training track.
“ L.” : Is there any possibility of seeing again soon the
stage version of the Poi dances ? In Melbourne, a year or
two ago, J. 0. Williamson found room for it in the same
bill as “ The Mikado.” Is it vain to hope to see it, from
time to time, after a Gilbert and Sullivan opera, or in the
variety portion of a musical comedy ?
“ Hiphen ” : In the matter of open-air amusements for
summer months the French are ahead of us by several
lengths. The Parisian will not patronise an enclosed
music-hall in summer. Such places as the Fdlies Berg^re
are closed in the worm weather, and open-air gardens, off
the Champs Elysees, provide the necessary (or unneces-
sary) vaudeville entertainment. There is no charge Iqt
admission to the brilliantly-lighted gardens. You walk
in and out under a large roofed-in space, which has a
stage and orchestra at one end. The prices are marked
on the seats, and range from 6 francs to 1 franc (ll)d.) 'A
garcon collects your money and gives you a “ bier ” or a
“ cafe ” thrown in. A variety entertainment (of rich blue
complexion) is turned on from 8.30 till 11, and again from
12 midnight till 2 a.m. In the interval you may have an
excellent supper while listening to the band. Or you may
watch gaily-dressed ladies in weird and exciting dances
on a platform round the band-stand. Among the other
amusements are side-shows of all kinds (mostly can-can
displays and living pictures such as no artist can paint),
rifle galleries, chutes, merry-go-rounds and ladies. The
general tone of the performances (to say nothing of the
posters and programmes) is—well, French —very French.
The French idea of wit hardly appeals to an Australian.
We are not educated down to it.
“ E.” : Melbourne will buzz with music this season.
Eight large concerts will be perpetrated by Marshall-Hall.
Besides classic compositions, ancient and modern, he will
present two works of his own, an “ Orchestral Idyll ” and
a “Fantasy” for horn and orchestra, little Ruhr to play
the horn. Only 70 rehearsals will be required. There’s,
no doubt Marshall-Hall has moved Melbourne ahead in
music ; and Sugden writing from London reckons Hall’s
concerts almost equal to anything that can be heard in
the wide world of music. Hall is a busy man;. He not
only agitates, and conducts, and hurls curses at conven-
tion, and lectures yards of undigested Teutonic
philosophy on the Joy-Life, and writes bad verses, and
shakes things up in general, but he actually makes music
—and it’s good music, say the experts.
Evangelist Varley gave a sorrowful advt. to the “ Prim-
roses ” turn at Melb. Opera House by protesting against
the wickedness of the poster picture. Not content with
a public announcement of his horror, Virtuous Varley
lodged a formal information with the local Vigilance
Society, and the vigilants, being sworn to protect Public
Morals, went in a body to the Opera House to see whether
the Dance of Legs in the Air was a matter for an appeal to
the Government. They couldn’t reasonably implore Bent
to suppress the awful spectacle until they had sampled
its effect upon themselves. Apparently the effect didn’t
come up to their expectations, for nothing more has been
heard of Varley’s complaint. Rickards, by the way, is
now in a position to talk libel actions, as he has practi-
cally been charged with the production of an immoral
show, or the publication of an indecent poster—which it
certainly isn’t. The morbid imaginings of a social purist
are privileged only for as long as he keeps them to
himself.
Charles Kenningham was summoned to Melb. County
Court last week by a comic-opera librettist whose grie-
vance is that the vocalist (and musician) has failed to
complete the score for “ Kismet, or the Cade’s Daugh-
ter ” within a certain period. Kenningham asked for an
extension of time, stating that he had practically finished
the first act and was at work on the second. The librettist
seemingly gave him the “ book ” two years ago, with the
idea that he would shorty be hailed by a delighted audi-
ence as the new Gilbert. But if Kenningham has the
ambition to rival Arthur Sullivan, the sides of his intent
need a lot of spurring.
“The Fatal Wedding,” the drama which Meynell and
Gunn will produce at Melbourne Royal next month (with
some new people in the cast), has not more than nine or
ten grown-up characters in it, and about four times as
many kiddies. Which probably explains why William
Anderson, who would have liked to get the Royal for the
period that M. and G. had bespoken it, is going to stage
the panto. “Sinbad” at Melbourne Princess’s for two
weeks, whilst “The Fatal Wedding” is proceeding.
On February 17th, “ Harrow,” one of the
show places of the Darling Downs, Queensland,
was thrown open for sale by the original owners,
in sub-division. Buyers will thus have an oppor-
tunity of securing a home on one of the finest
estates in Australia. “Harrow” is situated on
the main railway line between Sydney and Bris-
bane, while the Pittsworth railway line traverses
the western boundary. It is within eight miles of
the large town of Toowoomba, from which town
inspecting parties should start.
“0.K.” writes :
Judging from some of the indignant snorts re the
“ unfair ” trading of the Civil Service Co-operative Society
of Vic., one would suppose that the first duty of man
was to provide trade for shopkeepers. But it isn’t. His
first duty to himself is to obtain food and luxuries on the
lowest possible terms consistent with fairplay to the pro-
ducer, and in this endeavor the middleman is the natural
enemy of both parties. Any form of co-operation against
the middleman admits of strong argument in its favor.
There may, for instance, be three respective vendors of
each kind of food —bread, meat, fish, vegetables—supplying
the population of a certain district. Where would be the
unfairness in a combination of all the customers to
cheapen their food by arranging with one shop in each
trade to supply the whole district at lower rates than those
charged by the three competing shops? It would mean
smaller profits on a larger turnover. And this is what the
railed-against system of co.-operative society agency
trading really amounts to. It seeks to enlist all
the district purchasers as members of the so-
ciety, and to convert certain shops into so
many branches of the business, each under private
control. The selected shopkeepers would thus live, and
fatten, on the co-operative principle, whilst the neglected
ones would have to find useful employment in other
ways. Under present conditions the retail purveying of
any necessary of life is a sinfully profitable business.
Bakers, fishmongers, butchers—especially the butchers—
make more money than 90 per cent, of their customers in
the poorer districts, and the other 10 per cent, are mostly
shopkeepers in other lines of business. It is by co-opera-
tion among middlemen—wholesale and retail—that the
outside public is victimised. The public is powerless
against these market conspiracies. Co-operative supply
societies offer the public a means of defence.
“Z. ”: Had some light recently on the brother-
hood of man as part of the English creed. Crossed
the Atlantic in mid-winter, and travelled steerage,
trusting for an empty ship. On the tender at
Liverpool found 300 Eastern Europeans, mostly
Polish Jews ; wilted a bit (the ship being small),
but reckoned to chew what I had bitten, and hung
close to a large Oriental party that I might not be
mistaken for second-class. Below was a horrid
welter of humanity ; mostly women with two
babies in one hand and a teapot in the other. So
I sat down and tried to think it was funny, and
waited to let them settle. They didn’t settle ;
after two hours they remained a con-
gested mass of babies and teapots, except
that now the teapots miraculously dribbled tea ;
moreover, the air got thick, for they answered the
calls of nature with disconcerting simplicity. So
I set off to hunt a berth ; was directed to the other
end of the ship ; half-an-hour’s struggle got me on
deck, and for’ard I found a new and palatial
steerage, two classes better than the other,
sparsely tenanted by my lordly countrymen. It
seemed there was no question of mixing with the
Oriental. Presently a man came up who had
been put by mistake with the wrong lot. He was
furious, demanding to be put “ with his own
people ” ; and the stewards, generally inclined
to be bumptious, fairly cowered before him.
In Canada the same story. The Anglo-Saxons on
landing had to be inspected and passed by them-
selves before the rest; through several changes,
we must have separate railway carriages,; and
officials stood at the doors to separate the sheep
from the goats. Once in a hurry there was a mix-
ture, and a misguided railway-man protested in de-
fence that we all paid the same. Most of us were
speechless with amazed indignation, but a few
kept enough breath to wipe the platform with him.
It is a pretty contrast. Taken singly, these people
are apparently not fit for a Britisher to travel
with for twenty-four hours; numbered in thou-
sands, the Canadians give thanks for an “en-
lightened immigration policy” and hail them as
fellow-countrymen to all generations. God help
Canada.


m
tm.
m^p.-i
mi
m
m&.
a$S
SIIM
eKiUß&bbifs
iera & Every WWc
All Round
Write US.
ING, SMITHS
SU; ;--cv, MANUrACTURERS >
or manures
profcssiooal Photographers !
IS BUSINESS SLOW ? or—
s
Are your clients growing tired of
looking at that old Studio Camera,
the old Backgrounds and the same
old conventional Mounts ?
HARRINGTON’S
“Excelsior”
is unquestionably the Best
Value ever offered in Studio
CAMERAS.
10 x 8 in. .
12 x 10 in..
15 x 12 in..
. £9
. £ll
. £l4
Provided with Every Necessary Movement for All Kinds of Work.
By the way—we would just remind you that the public
are in love with CORALYTE Paper. Have you tried it ?
Then about Mounts We manufacture Mounts Any design, any color.
The Quality is good Prices are right Let us quote a line?
386 GEORGE ST., So. SYDNEY, A * D 93 Q UEEN ST -» BRISBANE.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
The folly of not making a will was illus-
trated in the case of Portus, deceased, just heard
in the N.S.W. Law Courts. Portus, a well-
known public servant, knowing himself to be
dying, signed two cheques in favor of two female
relatives, who had nursed him while ill, thinking
that this would save the worry of will-making.
His estate is a small one, and there are over 30
next-of-kin to divide it among : consequently the
sh vres of the two beneficiares outside their cheques
would be trifling. On the 30 next-of-kin de-
manding that the Law Courts should decide, the
two cheques were declared to be valueless owing
to some technical objection to their attestation.
All costs come out of the small estate. So the
charges of the lawyers come first, and the shares
of the 30 next-of-kin, more infinitesimal than ever,
come afterwards.
THE WISDOM OF THE WIDOW.
“ Do you think the contain has lost his heart to yon?"
" I couldn’t say. TU he quite satisfied if he has lust his head.”
“T. O’F.” : I fancy some of the ritualistic
trouble that arises from time to time in Anglican
, , . j u i j r • j r xi 4. i.
churches is caused by lady friends of the vestment-
wearers presenting them with gorgeous chasubles,
dalmatics, and so on, which the ladies have
stitched with their own fair hands. The clerics
have to wear them, not to seem unappreciative,
and then the trouble begins. A somewhat similar
case occurred when I was “comping” on the Daily
Poleaxe. I was presented by a lady friend with
a pair of elaborately-embroidered braces. It
was a hot night the first time I wore
them, so I dispensed with all superfluous
clothing before commencing the solemn rite of
setting up a Freetrade leading article. There was
a yell of protest as the sweet rainbow tints of the
braces dazzled the eyes of the other comps,
(evidently strong anti-ritualists). lam almost
ashamed to confess that, after _ two or three
attempts to expound to those benighted ones the
hidden beauty and meaning of brightly-broidered
suspenders, I abandoned the bracements for an
old pair.
The usual royal marriage is from a point
of view of natural morality disgusting; it is
carried out on the rules governing the mating of
prize cattle—except that no prize-cattle owner
would so inter-breed. When, as is the case with the
union of the King of Spain to the English-German
Battenberg Princess, a difficulty of “religion”
has to be smoothed over, the negotiations are more
than usually squalid. One of the parties has to be
“converted,” has to suddenly change his or her
views on matters which, according to convention,
affect something more important than this earthly
life. And the “conversion” never fails to be
genuine, just as love of the truest kind never fails
to come when the dynastic considerations are
served. In the case of the Battenberg princess it is
strenuously insisted that the lady’s ’version to
Roman Catholicism must be strictly sincere or the
match is off. Reminds of Jowett’s remark to the
priggish undergrad., who expressed his failure to
find any proof of the existence of a God. “You
must find a proof in two hours,” said Jowett, “ or
leave the college. The undergrad, found it. What
is the betting on the Princess reporting, a month
or so hence, that she finds the tenets of Roman
Catholicism impossible of acceptance ?
The Bulletin looks forward to the time when a
British or German Princess will be conscientiously
and sincerely converted to Shintoism to seal an
alliance with a Mikadoling.
• * • •
A new British battleship has been
launched. She was christened the Dreadnought,
and Australian wine was used at the christening.
The compliment in vain we’ve sought,
We only see the insult fine.
The Dreadnought she, and hence the thought
To christen her with Austral wine !
Our Chow is getting a long tail. At a
Thursday Island concei t recently, a little girl sang
“ Chin-Chin-Chinaman,” from “The Geisha.”
Whereupon, to quote the local paper :
We have received a protest from the Chinese of Thurs-
day Island against the ridicule to which they contend
they have been exposed by the singing of a certain song
at the entertainment on Boxing Night. The Chinese are
very much angered at being made the butt of so much
questionable humor, and resent it to such a degree that
the support of the leading Chinese in matters of public
interest may be withdrawn. They argue that even if
such songs make people laugh, it is questionable taste
that leads to inflicting what they regard as unnecessary
insults.
On what meat has the Mongolian been fed lately
that he has grown so proud '!
* * • »
Stated in evidence by a Melbourne con-
stable on licensing duty that, as a rule, hotel-
keepers give their threepen’orth-in-a-bottle cus-
tomers a little less on Sunday. Presumably Bung
saves enough on the little less to pay an occa-
sional fine for Sunday trading, and to salve his
conscience for his wickedness.
Victorian Police Commission has been
Rifled by its own fumes. After spending nearly
£lOOO of public money; after ralang up every
tt scaH g al and personal grievance to be found
j n (} le force, the Commission has discovered
nothing. The three men who were going to
expose the corruption and rottenness of the force
have all recanted and publicly eaten their words,
The closing scene of the Commission was when
Maemananiny, whom all the charge-mongers
have tried to present as the arch-fiend of the
force, and Fryer, the man who was going to lay
hare the rottenness of the detective office, fell on
one another’s necks and made it up again,
* • * *
A laborer was fined £5 in a Sydney court
last week for stealing by finding. After genera-
tions of legal penalties, the average man, woman,
and child is still in doubt as to the position of
finders. The finder considers lie has a claim on
some or all of the property. But, legally, finding
j s no ( keeping. The duty of a citizen finding pro-
perty which does not belong to him is to give it
into the custody of the police.
The capsizing of a boat in Hob-
son’s Bay, the other day, resulted in
the drowning of one of its occupants,
and the gallant rescue by a lady of the
other. The episode happened late in
the afternoon, but next morning’s
papers gave a full account of it, and
the little ’Ekald sent down an impres-
sionable reporter, who interviewed the
heroine—an 18-year-old married lady—
and got her photo. The boat upset
100 yards from the shore, and one occu-
pant promptly sank and stayed sunk.
The other, a first-class swimmer, made
for land. He had got within a few
yards, when the young heroine, who
had been lying on the sand playing
with her baby, rushed in, clothes and
all, to the depth of her shoulders,
grabbed him just as he touched ground,
and rescued him. At least, that was
the way she and her mother put it to
the reporter, the old lady adding the
additional information that that was
the fourth life saved by her family, her
husband having already rescued a boy,
and her brother two others. It was a
gallant rescue, but not without its
humor.
* * *
The recent drowning of so many
people in Victoria is moving some of
Melbourne’s outer suburbanites to at
least get acquainted with the water.
Despairing of getting its council to
build a cheap swimming bath, Surry
Hills (Melbourne) Swimming Club
lately got the loan of the council’s dis-
used quarry hole, at £1 a year rental,
on condition that it relieved the coun-
cil of all responsibility for drowning
accidents. This precious quarry hole
is the place where a boy was lately
drowned, his body being detained at
the bottom for a fortnight by reason
of an accumulation of old tins, cart
wheels, snags, dead dogs and other
rubbish. It contains a 40ft. depth of
water, which, there being no outlet, has
remained unchanged for several years.
But the lease of this waterhole saves
the council from building decent baths.
•tt m *
“ S. Remo ” : Bulletin (l/2/’O6)
mentions that the German mail steamer
lying at Circular Quay was the only
big merchantman in port that didn’t
decorate for Anniversary Day—-Aus-
tralia’s national holiday. All I can
say is, the German probably took his
cue from Australia itself. Australia’s
national holiday bosh ! Australia
makes 50-times more fuss over a King’s
or Prince’s birthday. I arrived in Syd-
ney on the morning of 13th Nov. (King’s
Birthday observed). Only two ships,
one German, t’other French, were decor-
ated. Several large British boats lay in
port without a rag of bunting showing.
But ashore ! Fuss and flags everywhere. I
was once in London on the late Queen’s birth-
day, and bar a few guns in salute, it might
have been plain Bill Brown’s birthday. Appar-
ently the foreigners consider us great snobs, and
act accordingly.
« * * *
In all there are 800 ferry-boat passings in
and out of Sydney Cove every day. The little
patch of water which fronts Circular Quay is thus
crowded because the Quay is the fiercely desired
terminus of all ferry boats, as practically all the
city tram lines converge there. In addition it
must shelter the big mail boats —P. and 0.
Orient, German, French, Yankee, Japanese—
because the Quay was originally built for those
lines (perhaps that, on examination, won’t
be found a sufficient reason, but it serves
as good now). Across this crowded bit
of water press daily hundreds of big steamers,
for all the intercolonial liners, all the Dar-
ling Harbor, Parramatta, Long Cove and Lane
Cove over-sea traffic must cut past Sydney
Cove to get to its destinations ; the traffic which
does not pass the Cove is, in fact, but an insig.
nificant fraction of Port Jackson’s total. The
chairman of the Sydney Harbor Trust, under
these circumstances, confesses that “he sometimes
spends many miserable hours expecting accidents
at Circular Quay.” That is as strong a confession
of the danger of the present situation as could be
extorted. And, if a catastrophe happens, the
Harbor Trust will be held blameworthy. It has
power to remove some of this congested traffic,
and weakly neglects to do so.
* * * #
Bent’s latest is to give the Melbourne
Cricket Club a kind of side wink that it may
possibly get an added slice off Richmond Park.
Pressmen behind the political scenes know that,
just as the Y.R.C. has been working for years to
get the privilege of charging to the Flemington
Flat, so the M.C.C. has been intriguing to get
that little hill in Richmond Park which it
wants. That was Fitz Gibbon’s one democratic
virtue, stubborn insistence on the integrity of the
parks.
TO GIRLS!
Beware of white dresses on moonlight nights.
Pleasing advt from Melbourne Age .• —
JAPANESE Language taught by Mr. H. Furusawa,
« the Chancellor of the Japanese Consulate ; the
pronunciation of Tokio dialect, evening 6.30 to 9 ; tui-
tion, 2s. 6d. week. No. 3, Block-arcade, Collins-,st.
Fancy the joys of being coached by a Chancellor
of a Consulate at a paltry half-crown a week !
* » * *
Victorian Full Court has refused a new
trial in the Smith v. Tyson Estate case.
How much of the Tyson money has gone to
lawyers, barmaids, actresses, and bookmakers,
so far ?
THE CONFIDENCE GIRL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Melbourne has been suffering from the depredations of
a “ confidence girl.” She lolls on the deck of an outgoing
steamer, gets into conversation with some male pas-
senger, and, telling a tale of wealthy relatives, borrows
£5 or £lO and disappears. —Daily papers.
Her eyes are blue harbors, awaiting
To comfort us, safe from the storm ;
Her figure, full, firm, palpitating,
Is made in a goddess’s form.
Her lips are incarnadine, luscious—
Wide portals of glittering pearl—
And seemingly hungry to rush us
With love is the confidence girl.
Her converse is clever and pretty.
We don’t miss one musical word,
Till we miss her and find, in the city,
She’s plucked us as clean as a bird.
The cash we relied upon wholly
Is gone, and our head’s in a whirl
As we wait and we realise slowly
We’re rooked by the confidence girl.
vie.
M.
VISITANTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The summers that turned her hair to gold
Would carry her dolls away,
For soon would the strenuous years enfold
The dear little maid at play.
But Youth and Pleasure came to her door,
Ere the boon of the child had fled—
Youth and Pleasure came to her door
And, “ Here is my hand,” she said.
The summers that turned her hair to brown
Had ripened her form apace,
And now was her thought for a dainty gown
To lend to her grace a grace ;
Then Love came tremblingly past her door ;
He looked at her, faltering, red ;
Love, tremulous, halted beside the door
And, “ Here is my hand,” she said.
The winters that turned her hair to grey
Had brought her a-many sighs ;
They had taken her treasured babes away
And wrinkled her failing eyes.
And Death came silently to her door—
She almost welcomed his tread—
Death silently came and opened the door,
And, “ Here is my hand,” she said.
VIC.
A.B.C.


w
s«
%
Character Clothes
SUITS OF ABSOLUTE RELIABILITY
BUILT FOR MEN WHO WANT THE
BEST—FULLY GUARANTEED
£3 3s.
Patterns, Plates and Measurement Forms—Post Free.
R. C. HAGON,
fIERCHANT
TAILOR - -
129 King St.- 9 Sydney.
“LE.”: Holman Hunt’s large, upright
picture, “The Light of the World,’’ which,
through the good intentions of Charles Booth, is
at present “ exposed ” at Melb. National Gallei y,
is an example of that religiosity in art that maketh
glad the parson’s Philistine soul. Holman Hunt
is a kind of Hall Caine of painting ; every picture
tells a story ; clamors for a sermon to be written
round it; is supposed to do a lot of good ; and
makes money. Pie has never been taken seriously
by painters, and is only the shovel hat of pre-
Raphaelitism, of which Rossetti was the m i ml.
Present work shows Christ holding a lantern (Con-
science) or Peace) in his left hand, and knocking at
the door of human souls. The figure is life size,
sft. 10in., of a somewhat commonplace-looking
Saviour, his red robes lit up theatrically by the
lantern. Melodramatic moonlight streams down
on the water and bending trees in the back-
ground ; and the foreground is choked with elabo-
rate and unnecessary details. Like most didactic
painters, Hunt ‘ has a crude sense of
color ; his moonlight is too blue, the
candle light too glowing, and he has no idea
of the relationship of tones. He paints in little
sections, as though engaged in map-making, to
show his regard for nature ; and he selects halos
for subjects to show his idealism. Watts, who
also painted allegories, had the saving graces of
good painting, a large and serene handling, and
fine quality of color. Though less vulgar than
Hall Caine, Wilson Barrett or Herbert Schwaltz,
Hunt is a “ purveyor” of sacred subjects ; and the
great heart of the liymn-bleating public regards
any Christian myth, however crudely told, as, with
the rights of property, sacred. If Hunt’s common
mind were not sheltered under the ornamental
rubric of religiosity, and he had dared tO' paint
unhallowed i /cures, he would have been known
as a dull real'ist; for it takes a finer mind to pamt
a landscape with cows, or a policeman on his beat,
with dignity, than todabblein angels, andhalos, and
choirs, and jasper sidewalks, that are convention-
ally sacred. Thus, after "The Light of the World ’
grows dim, it is good to turn to Pissarro’s “ Boule-
H yard Montmartre,” which is by no means a sacred
subject, and has to meet the modern man on
ground he knows. Hunt succeeds by the inherent
awesomeness of the subject he appropriates, and
however badly he paints, can do no wrong. His
fibad art is sheltered under the wings of Moral
But Pissarro makes way solely
\by directness of purpose, and by the moral
righteousness of fine accomplishment.
• * * *
“ 0.K.” : Holman Hunt’s painting, “The
Light of the World ” (a replica is now on exhibi-
tion at Melbourne National Gallery), impresses me
no more than his “Shadow of the Cross ” did.
As a work of decorative art it is very pleasing,
and the face of the Saviour, with its ruddy lights
and blue shadows, has a fine effect of sorrowful
gentleness in the expression, but the “plot” is,
to my mind, clap-traptious. The symbolical
lantern suggests the stage trick with which Mercia
knocked the gallery in “The Sign of the
Cross.” There’s too much of Wilson Barrett m
Holman Hunt’s method of appealing to the public,
you see it most cheaply displayed in his “ The
TEtireling Shepherd,” which is just an odd-
picture of a lusty fellow spooning a
'red-haired wench, the title of the suggestive
•..subject having a Scriptural application.
* * * *
Disclosed by the Newtown (Sydney)
(tragedy that N.S.W. police firearms are so defec-
tive that a police revolver bullet won’t even pene-
ttrafce the shin of a nigger—notoriously his most vul-
nerable spot. Two police shots hit the kanaka
murderer, and inflicted merely superficial wounds ;
jit was only when the kanaka used his own gun on
himself that he was hurt. If the police are to have
revolvers—The Bujaetin, on the whole, believes
that the waddy is a better constabulary weapon—
they should be of the best quality. A pistol that
won’t shoot effectively is the worst of weapons,
for it is no real protection and it invites the man
who has a good gun to use it.
A DEATH BLOW.
JACOB: "I peliere Ilcenstcin ’card this morning
his peesness place was burnt down last night,
und no insurance on id.”
IKET MO (feelingly): “Poor Ikensiein! Yen is
his funeral to pe ?”
Henry V&rley, wholesale evangelist—fami-
lies and the (trade supplied—always signalises his
reappearance with a sensational discovery of
something detrimental to public morality. His
objection to the Eight Primroses at Melb. Opera
House, on the ground that the flourishing of 16
!t:igh£-<cjad feminine legs in the atmosphere is cal-
culated to play the deuce with the virtuous repose
,of man’s soul, is very characteristic of Henry. His
intention is not to draw public attention to the
.demoralising legs, but to the moralising Varley.
lie wants to be observed after years of neglect,
.■and knows he cannot chase notoriety better than
nn the 16 Primrose legs in question. Really 16
jlegs have never been put on the stage at one time
avith so little suggestion of villainy as in this
.alleged dance of .the Primroses. It isn’t a dance
ait all and the .eight pairs of extremities waving in
the wind suggest lily-stalks or bullrushes, and are
.something of a failure because of their lamentable
lack of wickedness.
♦
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
tpay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
(first class artists are engaged. The establishment
‘is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
if rota George or King-street.*
NOT UP TO DATE.
ANGEL : “ What’s coming over you of late, Billy?
Why so continually doleful?”
GHOST OF SHAKSPEAKE : “I’m thinking.”
ANGEL : “ Don’t do that. Your old friend, Bacon,
used to do that for you, you know.”
GHOST OF SHAKSPEARE : “ Don’t joke, Angel,
don’t joke. The time ain't seasonable like.
I was thinking how much nobler a name I
might have left if I’d used a typewriter.”
Yic. Attorney-General Davies talks very
disingenuously about what he calls the misrepre-
sentations of his position re the offer of a .Judge-
ship. The question of a Judge’s claim to a
retiring pension had never troubled him, he says,
until lie was reminded of it by newspaper
comments on his own case. Then he “ looked
into it,” and found that under the Vic. Constitu-
tion Act not more than £4OOO can be payable at one
time to retired Justices of the Supreme Court.
After the retirement of Justice Holroyd m
a few months time, he and ex-Judge Williams
will be absorbing £3OOO, leaving -only another
£lOOO for any other Judge who might possibly
retire before the aged Davies, if he were appointed.
In which case poor Davies would be in the position
of the poor dog who went to the cupboard and
found it bare. Also Mr. Davies asks, in a jocular
tone of voice, whether the public really think that
a Justice would be entitled, under the Constitution
Act, to draw a pension, if he were compelled
to retire from the bench within a few months
of his appointment. All this is nonsense.
Justice Holroyd is an older man, and Davies
naturally hopes to outlive him. Moreover, the
remaining Justices are all of them younger than
Davies, and therefore unlikely to want to retire
earlier than he —if he got the bi llet. The Constitu-
tion Act, also, would not stand between Mr. Davies
and a pension. Mr. Davies, as an old politician,
knows that if he were to put in a very few years as
a Justice, his friends would see that he didn’ t want
for a pension. The £4OOO limit is artificial, not
real. Supposing all the Victorian Justices were
incapacitated next week, the present Act, as
regards pensions, would not amount to a row of
pins.
* * * t.
At the forthcoming railway accident
inquiry, in Melbourne, some interesting light will
be shed on the Vic. Commissioners’ alleged policy
of authorising a medical man to act as compen-
sation agent between the Department and injured
parties.
In a Vic. country town, t’other day, two
giddy old sparks, each over 80 years, entered into
“ wedded bliss.” One of the brides, confronted
with the usual questions, was somewhat hurt when
asked if she were over 21!
* » * *
Clause Y. of Sydney University Act, 1900,
declares :
The benefits and advantages of the University, and the
provisions of this and any other Act relating thereto
sball be deemed to extend iii ctll VBSjpGcts to women
equally with men.
Under that clause the sex boycott declared by
the Senate against Dr. Jessie Aspinall seenis to
be clearly illegal.
“ Q u i da m ”
discusses the
weather, with an
eye on the white-
man - can’t - li ve-in-
the-North heresy :
Being a Banana-
lander pure and to a
certain extent simple,
I have most of my
life heard the glories
of the Victorian cli-
mate extolled by ex-
cited natives of the
Cabbage Garden.
When adorning that
part of the conti-
nent North of the
Tropic of Capri-
corn, I oft en
wished I could be
privileged to drift
into such a bliss-
ful land as Vic-
toria. Well, I
have drifted into
it—have had 12
months of it, and
am disgusted. It
may be warm in
Rockhampton or
Charters Towers,
it may be wet in
Geraldton, it may
be that Southern-
ers are right in
wondering how
white people can
live in North
Queensland. Still,
I am convinced
that for patches
of any kind of
weather experi-
enced anywhere,
happening along
casually and in
defiance of weath-
er forecasts, Vic-
toria can hold its
own in any com-
pany. Last win-
ter it rained for
months, with
small patches of
dry cold weather
and dry warm
weather todelnde
one into going
out without mac-
intosh, sea boots,
etc. At present,
after about four
days at upwards
of 100 deg., with
nights that would not reflect discredit on Rockhampton
at° its sultriest, there is a storm somewhere in
the vicinity of the South Pole, and the weather
changes vigorously at midnight. So you put on three
shirts-and an extra pair of trousers next day ; whereupon
a hot wind swoops down, and the glorious Victorian
roads, ankle deep in beautiful white dust (when it isn’t
red) rise up and make you realise that there are, after all,
worse things than working on a Charters Towers tailings
heap on a windy day. Just as you are becoming acclima-
tised, and have'shed most of your wearing apparel except
your hat, a cold snap comes along and alters everything
except the dust. So far I have struck many patches
nearly as bad as the Queensland summer, and none so
good as the Queensland winter, and, without undue
patriotism, would like to point out that there are at least
advantages in a place where you can safely foretell
whether you will go forth on the morrow on a bicycle or
in a boat.
» * * *
Victorian Railway Commissioner Tait is
an expert of the first water in the coinage of
names' for things. The Victorian railways are
provided with the finest set of names and
titles in the world. Engineers of ways and
works, work-masters, yard-masters and freight-
agents are all nominations of the Tait regime. The
most high-sounding title in the service is “the
general superintendent of transportation.” Also
an ordinary goods truck with a tarpaulin stretched
over it on iron bars, and a few ordinary forms put
inside it for seats, is seriously labelled a “ canopy
car.” The train that ran to smash at Gemhrook
©assisted of ten “canopy cars” and two carriages.
* » * •
St. Peter’s College, Adelaide, is about the
most richly endowed school in the Common-
wealth. Each year it- awards scholarships worth
£BOO. A Hebrew, Benjamin Mendes da Costa,
left the school £lOO,OOO, and in addition it has
received over £36,000 in cash and 375 acres of land
for special scholarship gifts.
» * * *
Victoria’s new Inspector-General of Insane
lately happened to come across another of the
State’s pleasing little ways of looking after the
incipient lunatic. This was to board him (or her)
out to a “private family,” theoretically to be
looked after and nursed back to sanity—in prac-
tice to be used as a cheap servant. The little
game was promptly stopped.
“0.P.” : Visited one of Sydney’s largest
State schools last week, and was introduced to the
work of a class of boys aged from 13 to 15. Mental
nimbleness shown was astonishing. I do not know
a man outside the teaching profession who could
answer the questions those boys glibly dealt with.
The heights of mountains in Asia, the lengths of
rivers in America, the distances of stars and
planets, and the depths of seas and lakes were
fluently given. The reflection which forced itself
was: Is this thing education at all ? Is it not
mere lumber which the boy will jettison as soon
as he sets out on the sea of life ? Reference to a
few manuals or guide-books would give as many
of these facts-as he will want to know. A man
would not think of burdening his mind with such
facts and figures. Why then are they forced on a
boy?
TIME’S SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
While we idly plan and dream
Time is passing- by,
And he hears us plot and scheme,
Scoffing, lip and eye !
“ Work and act while it is light ;
Swiftly, surely, comes the nig Jit.’”
“ We will work and laugh, and play
When To-morrow comes.”
“ Pools ! Your one hour is To-day,"
Time replies, and hums :
“ Work and act while it is light ;
Surely, swiftly comes the night.”
Kings the laughter of the sage
Through our fairy land :
“Writers of unwritten page !
Houses built on sand !
Work and act xohile it is tight
Swiftly, surely comes the night.”
VIC.
DOROTHY FRANCES M'CRAE.
UTTERLY RUN DOWN.
Dr, Williams’ Pink Pills.
“At twenty-seven I was so utterly run down
that some days I simply could not walk. I had
to keep to my bed, for I was as weak and helpless
as a baby,” said Mrs. Mary Hickey, of Lane-st.,
North Broken Hill. “I never knew when I was
going to faint. Two and three times a week I
would go off, and there I would lie for hours
stretched out like one dead. My heart gave me the
greatest anxiety. Often it felt as if it was bursting
through my ribs. Mr. Hickey was terribly worried
about me. At last he sent me down to the sea-side
for a change to visit mother in Yankalilia, South
Australia. When she saw what'a state I was in,
she made me take Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale
People there and then. Inside of three weeks
everyone was telling me how much better I was
looking. Before I had finished six boxes I was three
times the woman I was before. Ever since I left
them off I have been just splendid. To-day, my
good health is plain to everyone who sees me.
“For months I had been doing my best to
throw off that don’t-care feeling,” said Mrs.
Hickev. “In spite of everything, I went down
till I was as weak as a kitten. My appetite went,
and it was very rarely that I touched a bite of
breakfast. At last, it was hard work getting me
to eat anything. Even the smell of the cooking
turned me sick. Every scrap of food I forced
down seemed to turn to wind. Hot bitter
water kept coming up my throat, and left a vile
taste in my mouth. My breath was sour, and my
tongue was coated a dirty white. My bowels
were always irregular, and my whole health was
simply wretched. The least thing upset me, and
I know that I was cross and irritable. If anyone
spoke to me, it was all I could do to answer them
civilly. My head was as heavy as lead, and I was
dull and drowsy ail day long. Sometimes I could
not shake off a sleepy feeling—yet, when I went
to bed, I was so restless that 1 hardly ever closed
my eyes for hours. Morning after morning I
woke feeling as if I hadn’t been to bed at all. My
legs and feet ached something cruel. Every time
I moved my eyes it sent a sharp pain through my
temples and straight across my forehead. Often
I was afraid to move. My head felt as if it would
split. .
“ Everv day my blood got weaker, till it was
little better than water. My face lost every scrap
of color. Even my lips turned blue, and heavy
black rings came under my eyes. I hadn’t enough
blood to keep me warm. There was always a
clammy sweat on my hands, and my feet were cold
as stones. Sometimes I felt so helpless that I
thought I would never get better. It was agony
trying to stuggle through my housework. If I
stooped to brush the hearth, my head started to
swim, and everything in the room was blurred.
Hundreds of white stars seemed to be floating
before my eyes. I always had to lie down till this
dizziness passed off.
“At last I grew so weak that I couldn’t do a
hand’s turn,” Mrs. Hickey added, “Some days
I wasn’t able to walk from one end of the room to
the other. My legs used to tremble, and my
heart felt as if it would break loose. If I tried
to set the table, a cold sweat broke out all over
me. Horrible buzzing noises came in my ears.
Often I felt as if I was in a saw-mill, and could
hear thousands of saws whirring round. I used
to turn cold all over, and every bit of power
started to leave me. I knew everything that was
going on around me, yet I could not move a
muscle. For nearly twenty minutes I would lie
like one dead.
“When I came out of these bad turns, I was
too down-hearted for words. I just felt that I
would not be sorry if the next faint put an end to
me. I was a burden to myself and everyone
around me. When I went down to Yankalilia,
mother said she never saw such a change in
anyone. I was as thin as a whipping-post,
and looked as if I couldn’t live another
six weeks. Mother went straight to Clayton’s
store, and brought me back some Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills for Pale People. I took them
regularly after every meal—and in a few days
I started to mend. The second box made me
as hungry as a wolf. I wanted to be eating all
the time. After I had been taking Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills a week, I was stronger than I had
been for months. I soon lost that tired feeling,
and the aching pains all went out of my legs.
My face filled out, and a good healthy color came
in my cheeks. Before long, my headaches eased up,
and my sight grew clear again. Little by little,
my heart got sound and strong once more. In less
than two months, my blood was built up until I
looked and felt the picture of health. lam just
brimful of life and energy now. From the day I
left off Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, I have never
fainted once. That’s going on four years now—so
no one can say that my cure isn’t a lasting one. I
tell everyone that I owe my life to Dr. Williams
Pink Pills for Pale People.”
' And Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills can do just as much for
every weak ailing nervous pale-faced young woman who
is slipping from anaemia into a deadly decline. Remember
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills don’t act on the bowels. They
don’t bother with mere symptoms. They do only one
thing, but they do it well—they actually make new blood.
In that way they strike straight at the root of all common
blood diseases like anaemia, indigestion, biliousness, head-
aches, backaches, rheumatism, neuralgia, nervousness,
palpitation of the heart, and the special secret ailments
and irregularities of girls and women. But, of course,
vou must get the genuine Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills—sold
by all chemists and storekeepers, and by the Dr. Williams’
Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney, at 2s. 9d. a box, six
boxes 15s. 3d., post free. Write to that address, describ-
ing your case, and you will receive the most careful
medical advice—free.


fas
Post Car
fasfa
<■»«-
IV
0A .
«# y.y&u*^
Jfj/p-xsf-eV.
Jfy .ftbC
HOME STUDY" sent on receipt of Postcard.
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY
64 Pitt St., SYDNEY appliances p-'OP |_fp 504 Little Collins St., MELBOURNE
Stocks STEEL RAILS, TIPPING TRUCKS, TRAMWAY MATERIAL.
ROBEY Portab,e Engines, Vertical & Horizontal Engines, High Bpeed Engines
for Electric Light, &c., &c.
EXPLOSIVES and MINING REQUISITES generally. CONCENTRATING MACHINERY.
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER, Managing Director.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Citizens’ Life Assurance Co., Ltd. :
Ordinary Life Department.
Expenses Writ- Added
(including: ten to
Dec., Income. Claims. Dividends), off. Funds.
1895 .. £44,089 £11,049 £6,613 £26,427
1890 ... 55,483 16,101 8,822 31,060
1897 .. 70,012 14,630 10,502 £173 44,707
1898 .. 98,262 18,012 14,373 7,000 58,877
1899 .. 124,841 22,276 18,726 375 83,464
1900 .. 145,531 41,252 17,891 86,388
1901 .. 168,520 34,282 26,584 107,654
1902 .. 197,424 34,492 27,533 245 135,154
1903 .. 217,062 39,472 29,766 147 824
1904 .. 239,820 68,450 31,894 1,531 147,945
1905 .„ 255,130 64,962 33,545 20,572 136,051
Twelve months ago the management undertook to
reduce the Industrial Department’s expense rate to 38 p.c.
of premium income by 1906, and then to bring the
Ordinary Department’s rate down to IQ p.c. The former
would make the rate lower than even the great Pru-
dential’s, of England ; the latter would establish an Aus-
tralasian record—and, by the way, would provide a
curious commentary on the recent contention qf another
office that the cost of doing life-assurance business in
Australia'is increasing. To make this double tinder-
taking of any real value it was, however, necessary to add
that new business would be maintained ; for obviously any
doddering old society could do business at a very small
cost if it merely sat down in its office nursing its gout
with one hand while with the other it accepted re-
newal premiums and paid out claims. But the Citizens’,
which can produce its report inside of six weeks from the
end of the year, doesn’t look like a gouty office. There
has been no great increase in the amount of new business
accepted, certainly, yet there has been an increase ; in
1904 7005 policies (ordinary) assuring £1,033,163 were
issued, and in 1905 6615 policies assuring £1,036,500. The
idea of the Citizens’ appears to be to write just over
£1,000,000 of new business annually, and every year it is a
slightly easier matter to do it. There are two courses
open to an insurance office. The longer it lives the
better known it is or should be ; and a society may use
that fact either to rake in an ever-increasing amount of
business at the old cost, or to get in about the same
amount of business at a reduced cost, to the advantage of
bonuses. The American offices tried the former plan ; the
Citizens’ is trying the latter. There is no wizardry or
juggling about it. The office is, in short, putting- into its
management-policy a protest against becoming bloated at
no matter what cost; and the protest doesn’t come any
too soon. Moreover, when the bonus results begin to
talk, any office that adopts this policy will begin to
reap its harvest—or if it doesn’t it ought to.
As to the other branch of the business :
Industrial Life Department.
Expenses Added
(Including Written to
Dec., Income. Claims. Dividends). off. Funds.
1895.. £133,404 £51,135 £71,766 £lO 503
1896.. 146,647 60,362 74,630 11055
1897.. 156,144 72,022 83,955 ’lO7
1898.. 156,493 51,557 78,710 £194 26,032
1899.. 165,514 53,125 92,968 143 19 278
1900.. 176,406 49,398 98,681 228 28*099
1901.. 184,112 43,649 99,756 42 40 665
1902.. 188,688 41,707 110,234 36 747
1903.. 192,491 53,543 103,860 35 088
1904.. 201,166 58,169 89,596 53 401
1905.. 199,426 51,095 84,039 8577 55’715
Something considerable has been written off in both de-
partments during the past year. Included in the £8577
in the Industrial Department is a doubtful item “Pay-
ments in consideration of cancellation of contracts
£1650.” Nature of contracts is unspecified. It is pos-
sible that the amount ought to be reckoned among the
claims ; possibly aniong the expenses. In view of the doubt
the amount is thrown into the convenient sink, “written
off ; for it may as rightly belong there as anywhere.
The £20,572 written off in the Ordinary branch is
described as coining off freeholds. The balance-sheet
shows that the item “ Furniture and fittings, £5098” in
the 1904 balance-sheet has disappeared. Whether this
amount has been charged to expenses or is included in
the amount shown as written off freeholds is not clear
The former is, however, hardly likely. But if it has been
done, then the expense rate might easily have been made
to look even better than it does, by simply charging
expenses with a small percentage of this item. The dis-
appearance of the unproductive item is another step for-
ward in any case.
The expense rate has moved in this way
Expenses per Cent, of Total Income.
Ordinary. Industrial. Ordinary. Industrial
1894 £l5 0 0 £6l 7 0 1900 £l2 511 £55 18 9
1895 15 0 0 53 16 0 1901 15 15 6 54 3 8
1896 15 0 0 50 17 10 1902 13 18 11 58 8 5
1897 15 0 0 53 15 4 1903 13 14 3 53 19 1
1898 14 12 6 50 511 1904 13 511 44 10 9
1899 15 0 0 56 3 5 1905 13 3 0 42 211
On the basis of premium income alone, the Ordinary busir
ness rate was £l5 16s. 9d. per cent.; in the Industrial
(reckoning the £2OOO dividend on capital among the
expenses), the rate was £46 15s. lOd. per cent. According
to this method of reckoning, the co., in order to carry
out its previously-mentioned undertaking, will have to
bring its Industrial rate down to about £4O 15s.
per cent, (or a further 6 per cent.) this year and
its Ordinary rate down to about £9 15s. per cent
(or a reduction of £3 Bs. per cent.) within two
years. It is a sensational task that the management
has set itself. (To account for the difference between
The Bulletin’s figures and the co.’s: the co. doesn’t
reckon dividends as expenses ; The Bulletin does. And
the co. doesn’t include consideration for annuities with
premiums; The Bulletin does.) What an insurance
office is paying to get its new business is of the utmost
consequence : but, since the expenses of renewal and of
new business are inseparable, it is impossible to tell
accurately what the cost is. One method is to charge 5
per cent, on renewal premiums, 3 per cent, on annuities,
and represent the remaining expenses as charge-
able to new business. By that method the Citi-
zens’ new Ordinary business last year cost it 79
per cent, of the first year’s premiums. This is a
remarkably fine showing.-' For 1904 the A.M.P.’s
rate (on the same basis) was 112 per cent., the National
Mutual’s, 121 per cent. ; the Widows’ Fund’s, 209 per
cent. Though the division is arbitrary, the figures are
very striking. Yet one could talk with more confidence
about them if the Citizens’ itemised its Ordinary expenses
instead of putting them :in one line, “Nat expenses
£33,545.” Why “ net,” anyway ?
Partly as the result of writing down its free-
holds and clearing out the Furniture item, the earnings
show a further improvement:— s
Interest Earnings on Average Funds
" £ ? ™ *P ercent - 1903 ..£4 3 6 per cent.
1901 .. 4 0 2 ~ 1904 .. 461
1902 .. 4 1 0 „ 1905 ..474 ”
The A.M.P. rate is £4 9s. per cent., the National Mutual’s
£4 13s. 7d. per cent. The A.M.P.’s rate is substantially
benefited by the large amount represented by loans on
policies and overdue premiums, which bring in £sl2s. 2d.
per cent. ; while the National Mutual has but a small
holding of public securities, which, though particularly
safe, bring in but a poor return. The Citizens’ assets
are distributed in the following proportions :
Public Cash,
Securi- Mort- Other Free- Sun-
ties. gages. Loans. holds. dries.
1895 .. 7-3 38’6 2T 27’4 24’6
1903 .. 25-9 40-6 6'4 22'2 4'9
1904 .. 28-7 40-7 6‘5 18’9 5 '2
1905 .. 33-3 38-0 6-5 16'1 61
The increase in the holding of public securities—
which means safety—is notable. No other Australian
office of first or second rank has so large a proportion.
The Citizens’ valuation, on the stringent 3 per
cent, net premium basis, shows a surplus of £50,645, includ-
ing £16,372 brought forward. Of this, £45,019 is to be
divided “in accordance with the articles of association.”
Four-fifths belong to the policy-holders and one-fifth to
the shareholders—and that is the one fly in the ointment.
In return for this one-fifth no doubt the policy-holders
get something: they are guaranteed that the Ordinary
business shall not cost them more than 15 per cent. But
the fly remains, even though it be reduced to a very small
insect by the fact just mentioned, coupled with the other
fact that there possibly wouldn’t be such heroic efforts to
reduce the expense rate if the proprietary had no direct
incentive to reduce it. It isn’t certain either whether the
shareholders take their fifth. They haven’t always done
it hitherto, though there is nothing to show that they are
not taking it now, as they have the right to do.
* * * *
The New Zealand Insurance Co.
Written To Re- R«-
Nov., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1895.. £32,954 13f p.c. =£27,500 £13,524 £249,550
1896.. 29,097 13J „ „ 27,500 £1,597 251,147
1897.. 11,074 lIJ „ „ 22,500 239,721
Loss.
1898.. 14,262 10 „ „ 20,000 205,459
Profits.
1899.. 51,409 10 „ „ 20,000 31,409 236,868
1900.. 69,617 12£ „ „ 25,000 44,617 281,485
1901.. 55,119 13§ „ „ 27,500 13,937 13,682 295,167
1902.. 55,526 15 „ „ 30,000 25,526 320,693
1903.. 73,443 15 ~ „ 30,000 4,354 30,089 359,782
1904.. 71,829 15 „ „ 30,000 41,829 401,611
1905.. 69,375 15 ~ „ 30,000 39,375 440,986
Taking the last three years, the first had an unusually
favorable experience in the way of losses, the second had
a windfall in the shape of £9973 of profit on the sale of
Argentine paper bonds, while in the past year nothing
very unusual of any sort occurred. The gradual reduc-
tion of profit from 1903 onwards hasn’t therefore any
significance. That the business has been well maintained
these further figures show':—
_ . Loss . Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate
1895 £267,917 £172,137 £79,203 64’2 p.c. 29'6 p c
1900 342,036 195,804 95,651 57‘2 „ 271)
1903 400,707 245,868' 105,358 61’3 „ 26’3 ”
1904 420,312 273,621 109,611 65T „ 20'1 ”
1905 425,991 273,698 111,677 64’2 „ 26‘2 ’’
In 1903 the underwrite ng profit was 8 "8 p. c. of the premiums •
last year it was 9’6 p.c. The loss rate is the steadiest’
Or thereabouts, among all Australasian offices, the result
of a wide diffusion of risks and big business. In a small
office the law of averages hasn’t room to prove itself in the
course of a single year ; it is different in a big office.
There, when the loss average moves up, it is time to look
round and see what is wrong with the staff. As the
loss rate in 1905 was precisely what it was in
1895, while meantime the premium income has been
increased by 60 per cent., at a cost of 26‘2 per cent, of
premiums as against 29-6 per cent., there pretty clearly
isn’t anything the matter with the management and staff
of this fine, progressive concern. The reduction in the
expense rate provides very nearly half the dividend ; that
is to say, the difference between the 29 '6 per cent, of 10
years ago and .the 26‘2 per cent, of to day means over
£14,000 on the present premium income. Yet in one
respect the co. has made more progress than any of the
foregoing figures show, good as they are. Ten years ago
the investments, taking the mean for the year, returned
£3 14s. 4d. per cent.; by 1900 they had reached
£4 Is. Bd. per cent. ; last year they showed no less
than £4 ss. 6d. per cent. High interest earnings certainly
are not the only thing to consider, especially where
large sums may be at any moment called for under con-
tract of prompt payment. But, so far as this office goes,
add to the high interest-earnings the fact that, of the
£642,595 of investments, no less than £299,000 is in public
securities and another £47,668 is on fixed deposit
(apart from £124,000 in agency balances and on current
account, and not reckoned among the investments), and
put the sum to the credit of the co. And then remember
that Maoriland is the company’s home, and let that coun-
try’s progressive legislation share in the credit of this
great financial success.
♦ * * *
On Dec. Ist the N.Z. Insurance Co. absorbed
the business of the N.Z. Accident. Insurance Co., and a
statement is published showing how the amalgamated
concern stood at that date. The paid capital of the N Z
Insurance Co. was £200,000 ; of the new amalgamated co!
it is £250,000. After taking over the assets of the Acci-
dent Co., the new concern looks -even stronger so far as
the holding of public securities goes than the old one did
no less than £459,264 of the assets (£985,300) being public
stocks. As against that, however, the N.Z. Accident Go
stands as a creditor for £115,000. It also received £50,000
(or one-fifth) of the capital of the amalgamated co The
new co. shows a book profit of £17,695 on the transaction
so that its reserves on December Ist, when it began busi-
ness, were £458,681.
* * * *
McCracken’s City Brewery Ltd. (Melb.)
v Applied to
Dec., Losses. Reserves. Written Off. Deficit
1895 .. £21,263 £54 083
1896 36,149 £159,768 250,000
£250,000 (one-half the capital) written off.
Profit. Reserves
1897 .. 1,002 £lOO2 _
Losses. Deficit,
1898 .. 9,158 _ gis«
1899 .. 23,904 _ oTonn
1900 .. 9,679 _ _ 4 i73Q
1901 .. 3,960 £115,453 161’152
£175,226 of capital written off ..
1902 .. 6,716 _ 14,0741 DefiClt '
£3957 forfeited capital applied l 2 759
to reserves. / ’
1903 .. 11,010 <
£260 forfeited capital applied V 13,509
to reserves. I ’
Profit.
1904 .. 547 547 12 902
Loss. ’
1905 .. 8,095 21 057
The profit and loss account discloses a loss of £7878 • but
a semi-reserve account, the product of forfeited capital
has been reduced £217, it may be by restoring forfeited
shares, though this cannot be traced. Twelve months
ago shareholders were offered a speck of hope to go on
with ; now even that much isn’t visible in the table
printed above. And further dissection doesn’t improve
matters much :
~ , 1897. 1903. 1904. 1905.
Capital £250,000 £287,446.£287,760£287 820
Debentures .. .. 500,000 500,000 500,000 500 000
Mortgages .. .. 99,996 Nil Nil Nil
Other liabilities .. 61,720 19,344 16,472 15 760
Freeholds, &c. .. 794,343 680,000 680,000 68o!oOO
Sundry debtors .. 69,443 53,388 52,974 46 141
Stock, &c. .. .. 49,084 59,774 58,167 56380
Profit (working a/C).. 26,102 15,339 27,915 19 584
Management .. .. 2,601 3,849 4,867 4,’962
The second line accounts for the persistent loss shown*
for these debentures carry 4J per cent., and call for a
steady £22,500 a year. Driven on by this charge, thin«s
go from bad to worse, which, so far as the shareholders
are concerned, means from them to the debenture-holders.
In the past five years the business has only been able to
earn £3 7s. per cent, per annum, as an average, on the
debenture capital. The other £1 3s. per cent,., repre-
senting in all £29,017, has had to come out of capital.
Whether, even then, current revenue has been charged
with sufficient to cover current wear and tear is doubtful ■
at any rate, nothing has been written off freehold brewery
properties and buildings and hotels and other properties.
It has been a most disastrous business altogether Ori-
ginally the paid capital was £500,000, of which £250 OCO
was written off as lost in 1896. Then calls were made
and in 1901 the paid capital had been increased to £389,385!
a further £139,385 having thus been got in in five years ;
and the whole of this and more was at once written off as
also lost. And seeing- that in the past five years only
£3 7s. per cent, per annum has been earned on the deben-
ture capital alone, whereas that capital carries 4£ per
cent., what has become of the remaining shareholders’
capital is beooming painfully plain. Shareholders’ one
consolation is that they can’t be stuck for any more calls ;
all that now remains unpaid is £lB7B. And so, since they
can’t be any worse off, they will very sensibly hang on in
the faint hope that some other property boom may come
along, on the top of which they may be able to float out
with a trifle.
* * * *
The Shamrock Brewing and Malting Co.
(Melbourne): —
Net To Re- Re-
Nov., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1900 .. £9209 8 per cent. = £3612 £5597 £11,528
1901 .. 7251 8 „ „ 3612 3639 15,167
1902 ... 6644 8 „ „ 3612 3032 18,199
1903 .. 4377 8 „ „ 3612 765 18,964
1904 .. 5008 8 „ „ 3612 1396 20,360
1905 .. 4628 8 „ „ 3612 1016 21,376
To which add these further particulars :
1900. 1903. 1904. 1905.
Overdrafts, &c. .. £11,957 £17,256 £14,174 £10,862
Balance from Manu-
facturing Account 29,630 27,343 15,336 14,310
General Expenses.. 19,281 21,176 9,152 8,332
Written off .. .. 1,140 1,062 1,035 1,199
Premises, stock, &c. 62,877 67,568 66,019 65,214
Sundry debtors .. 7,566 15,743 15,531 13,982
Included in the premises are freehold hotels £4735 ; and
this very modest item, over which most brewery co.’s
came to grief, is not being added to. As a result of this
conservative policy, the co.’s financial position is stronger
than it was ; though the mortgage (£15,000) remains
undisturbed, the undivided profits are being accumu-
lated against it. In the foregoing table a heavy
reduction both in manufacturing account profit and
in general expenses is shown: apparently, however,
this is the result of a change in book-keeping methods,
some items charged formerly to “ General expenses ”
being now charged direct to manufacturing account.
Advances (included in “sundry debtors” above) total
only £7742, and that item also remains practically sta-
tionary. Altogether, in fact, the co. appears to try to be
a brewing and not a pub.-finance co. ; so if it isn’t likely
to show dazzling profits (on paper), it isn’t likely either
to fall deep into the soup. Just now, in consequence of
keen competion, legitimate brewing profits are cut low in
Melbourne ; yet even under those circumstances share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves) show earnings at the
rate of £7 Is. per cent., after writing off £1199. As,
however, the latter has to cover bad debts as well as de-
preciation, the allowance for wear and tear doesn’t appear
to be over-liberal.
N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice Co. (Sydney)
Added Nomi-
Written to Re- nal Re-
Profits. Dividends. off. serves.' serves.
Dec., 1899 £7227 8 p.c. =£6120 £l4OO £32,533
June, 1900 5465 6 „ „ 4693 1500 31,805
Dec., 1900 2587 Nil .2000 £587 32,392
June, 1901 4510 Nil 4510 36,902
Dec., 1901 4541 Nil 4541 41,443
June, 1902. 5340 Nil 5340 46,783
Dec., 1902 727 Nil 2500 45,010
June, 1903 5906 Nil 2000 3906 48,916
Dec., 1903 6609 Nil 500 6109 55,025
June, 1904 6311 Nil 6311 61,336
Capital written down, £73,384 ; and £44,909
written off reserves .. 16,427
Dec., 1904 6011 6 p.c. =£5503 508 16,935
June, 1905 3977 Nil 1308 2669 19,604
Dec., 1905 7127 8 „ „ 3669 3458 23,062
But much of what is shown in the last line as profit may
not be real profit, because it may have to be written off
for depreciation or applied to renewals, which amounts
to the same thing. The profit and loss account states the
net profit at £6546, “after providing for renewals, &c.”
But £2OOO of that is appropriated for the depreciation
fund and another £lOOO for the redemption fund. If the
depreciation fund has to cover current wear and tear, then,
by that much at least, the alleged net profits have to be
reduced to arrive at the true profits. What the redemp-
tion fund may be is not clear ; if it is for the redemption
of capital it is a real enough reserve. Six months ago the
renewal fund amounted to £5332. From the. half-year’s
profit £3OOO was appropriated for that fund, making it
£8332. It now, however, appears as £8864, so that £532
has dropped into it from somewhere —apparently charged
direct to profit and loss account. The company doesn’t
claim that amount as profit, and yet shows it as a re-
serve ; wherefore grave doubt is thrown upon the whole
of that reserve. The plant, property, &c., is kept in the
balance-sheet at the price at which'it stood previously,
and apparently cost of renewals is being added to the
total; so before long there will be a heavy writing off,
and once more the reserves will disappear—which means
that a good deal of the profits shown above will also dis-
appear. Notwithstanding all this, however, the financial
position has certainly improved in the six months. Partly
out of trading profit, partly by reducing stocks, over-
drafts of £3639 have been converted into net credit
balances of £5246. But that can’t count for as much as it
looks if presently a good deal of it will be mopped up in
renewing plant, &c., very little of which has been done
lately.
• • • *
Standard Mutual Building Society (Melb.):
Profit on
Property Dividends. Written Re-
Profits. Sold. Off. serves.
July, 1900.. £1269 Nil £660 £13,732
£49,600 (being one-half the capital) written off.
Jan., 1901.. 1451 £l2OB Nil 6942 9 449
July, 1901.. 1541 609 lOp.c. =£2401 474 5’724
Jan., 1902.. 1952 1277 6„ „ 1434 10’519
July, 1902.. 1803 793 6„ „ 1434 485 11*196
Jan., 1903.. 2072 412 6„ „ 1434 12*246
July, 1903.. 2041 339 6„ „ 1434 200 12*992
Jan., 1904.. 2230 612 6„ „ 1434 14 400
July, 1904.. 1986 534 6,, „ 1434 338 15*148
Jan., 1905.. 2076 221 6„ „ 1434 16 011
July, 1905.. 1880 170 6„ „ 1434 258 16*369
Jan., 1906.. 1869 441 6„ ~ 1434 17,245
The “profit” on property sold means, of course, that
things aren’t turning out quite as badly as the society
provided for when it wrote off half the capital, and cut
down values to correspond, in 1900. And that is not the
only respect in which the society is doing satisfactorily :
Jan., ’Ol. Jan., ’O5. Jan., ’O6
Deposits.. .. .. ..£36,899 £29,339 £22,162
Foreclosed properties .. 72,305 60,985 59 041
Advances 19,997 26,282 27,898
Cash, &c 2,777 7,361 1,855
Net rents, &c., p.c. of capital
value £5/4/ £5/17/3 £5/16/9
The average rate realised on the advances is apparently
£7 13s. 6d. p.c. p.a.— and a lot more people would like to
be getting it. Yet the rate isn’t quite what it was before
money became more plentiful; hence the slight shrinkage
in the profits. The society isn’t, however, rushing matters
as it might be tempted to do just now ; instead of
taking deposits, and then going out with an axe and com-
manding people to borrow the money, like some concerns
did in the old boom days, deposits have been actually re-
duced. This society evidently isn’t going to seize the
chance to make a splash in the present and a probable
smash in the future, and it is congratulated accordingly.
* * * *
The South Brisbane Gas and Light Co.
Div. and Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Div. Tax. Off. serves, serves.
June, 1902.. £2566 6 p.c. =£1621 £iqo £945 £8 597
£2500 Reserves added to Capital 6*097
Dec., 1902.. 3200 6 p.c. = 1597 359 1244 7*341
£1713 Premiums on new shares used as profit ’
to reduce Debenture Debt
June, 1903.. 2852 6p.c.= 1654 203 995 8 336
Dec., 1903.. 3329 6,, ~ 1654 600 1075 9 411
June, 1904.. 3110 6„ „ 1654 100 1356 10*767
Dec., 1904.. 3342 7„ „ 1929 100 1313 123)80
June, 1905.. 3011 7„ ~ 1929 3 1079 13*159
Dec., 1905.. 3327 7„ ~ 1929 433 965 14*124
Something more perhaps than £433 was written off. It is
supposed to have been, anyway. But the co. doesn’t
furnish the accounts that it used to; nowadays it
bundles up its depreciation charge with all its other
expenses, which is the way of gas co.’s. How much
they write off for current depreciation they rarely tell •
and unless you know that, the accounts may be the hob
lowest sort of a fake. By simply assuming that its plant
mains, &c., will never wear out, and will never need re!
newing, a gas co. can go on gaily paying out its net re-
ceipts up to the last penny ; and when there is a whole-
sale call for new machinery, new mains, new everything
the shareholders find that, instead of getting dividends
out of profits, they have been really getting them out of
their capital—they have been using up their assets, in
short, and not providing for their replacement. When a
gas co. won t say what it is putting aside out of revenue
to pay for current wear and tear, the only thing
to do is to look hard at the assets. If they
show a satisfactory accumulation of liquid items
(or, of course, a reduction of liabilities), and a
steady reduction of fixed assets, then there is evidence
that depreciation is being attended to. If you can’t see
anything of that sort, then there are only two things to
do—make friends with the directors or secretary or
somebody, or leave the thing alone. And that’s about
the position with regard to the South Brisbane. The £433
shown as written off comes from the reserve for the
renewal of retorts; how much else is written off is
unspecified. And there are no movements in the balance-
sheet to definitely suggest anything. Besides its share
capital, the co. has £15.000 of 4 per cent, debentures.
* * * *
The Sydney Meat Preserving Co. (Sydney)
Pastor-
Loss alists’ Added
on .Subsidy Written to Re- Re-
Business. Received. Off. serves, serves.
June, 1900 ..£5526 £4074 £66,244
Dec., 1900 .. 8011 6514 ' 64,747
June, 1901 .. 7660 5518 62,605
Dec., 1901 .. 3544 4749 £1205 63,810
Profit.
June, 1902 .. 280 4827 6107 68,917
Loss.
Dee., 1902 .. 3732 3222 £5OOO 63,407
June, 1903 .. 4366 3718 5000 57,759
Dec., 1903 .. 9494 5581 63,846
June, 1904 .. 7824 4028 50,050
Dec., 1904 .. 4367 4549 182 50,232
June, 1905 .. 6315 3619 47,536
Dec., 1905 .. 4390 4529 139 47,675
This co. was formed and is maintained by N.S.W.
pastoralists for the purpose of “stiffening” the
live-stock market and maintaining prices by buying
for export when the buyer for local consumption
isn’t bidding-up with sufficient energy. In other words,
it prevents the local consumer (or the local butcher)
getting the full advantage of a good season and the
plentiful supply of meat. The co.’s figures show with
what a rush N.S.W. has recovered after the big drought.
For the July-Dee. half of 1902 the supply was so short
and . the price so high that it didn’t pay to pack meat,
and only £27,723 was spent in purchases. In the past
half-year £215,595 was spent; in fact, nearly as much was
paid in the past half-year for tin-plates, casks, cases and
labels (£21,504) as was spent in the 1902 half-year for
stock. The co. pays no dividends ; the capital is only
£20,315; and the people who put up that amount get
their return in the higher prices which the presence of a
subsidised buyer in the market compels the carcase-
butchers to pay for the public’s steak and mutton chop.
* * * ■*
The Farmers’ and Dairymen’s Milk Co.
(Sydney) ;
Unex-
plained
addi- Total
tions added
Trading to Re- to Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves. serves.
1899 £390 Nil £3054
1900 667 Nil £516 £llB3 4237
1901 874 Nil 656 1530 5767
1902 396 Nil 800 1196 6963
1903 1038 10 p.c. = £163 403 1278 8241
1904 1025 10 „ „ 146 612 1491 9732
Taken
from
1905 312 10 „ „ 145 90 77 9809
The nature of the reserves, which jump about in this re-
markable manner, is not disclosed, and under the cir-
cumstances they fall under suspicion. They may be
reserves against bad debts, and against wear and tear
which has actually occurred. Net trading revenue was
£6932, against £8594 in 1904 : but the co, has the lumping
habit badly, and whether this fall is due, or partly due,
to larger writing-off for depreciation can’t be said. Capi-
tal is £1454, in addition to £1737 forfeited (the latter is
something of a reserve, but is not included in those men-
tioned in the table) : debts to the public, including over-
draft, total £B43B—a slight improvement compared with
the previous year. Considering the size of the debt in
proportion to shareholders’ funds, and also the erratic
nature of the business, a 10 per cent, dividend looks ex-
cessive, although, as more than half the capital has been
forfeited, it isn’t as excessive as it looks.
* * * *
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co.’s recent
history, or as much of it as you can get into five columns
of figures;—
Ore Silver Lead Gross Divi-
tons. oz. tons. Profits, dends.
£ £
May, 1899 .. 202,693 2,218,234 17,823 142,180 144,000
Nov., 1899 .. 206,193 2,502,463 17,831 144,492 96,000
May, 1900 .. 232,487 2,175,422 15,472 129,576 96,000
Nov., 1900 .. 293,451 2,780,937 21,855 167,795 120,000
May, 1901 .. 296,389 3,009,164 27,869 102,505 120,000
Nov., 1901 .. 305,628 2,683,946 30,457 56,293 48,000
May, 1902 .. 308,878 2,554,169 32,289 68,236 48,000
Nov., 1902 .. 334,709 2,798,020 33,522 73,459 48,000
May, 1903 .. 289,263 2,419,367 32,029 77,963 48,000
Nov., 1903 .. 283,282 2,462,776 30,808 91,999 48,000
May, 1904 .. 305,512 2,525,576 34,280 126,874 120,000,
Nov., 1904 .. 324,535 2,564,342 35,552 158,274 96,000
May, 1905 .. 297,827 2,705,929 34,747 170,149 144,000
Nov., 1905 .. 309,971 2,896,585 34,479 227,300 144,000
These gross profits are independent of additions made to
the insurance fund (£5OO during the past half-year). In
the past half-year also what is called a “Zinc Concen-
trates Suspense Account ” of £60,000 has been established.
The co. gets an advance on zinc at current rates, but an
adjustment has to be made every 12 months, when the
average price for the year is taken as the basis of the final
accounts. Recent zinc prices have been abnormally high;
so the co. puts £60,000 by in order to provide for the
refund which it may have to make at the end of the 12
months to the zinc buyers. This provision seems very
liberal. The metal sold on these terms amounts to about
8000 tons ;so £7los. per ton has been put to suspense. The
half-year’s average was probably about £25 10s. The
pi-ice might fall to £lB ; but in order to bring the average
down to £lB, the minimum would have to reach
a much lower figure than that. If the fall were regular,
the minimum for the next half-year would have to be as
much below £lB .as £25 10s. is above that figure. And
that is taking too gloomy a view of the situation. Ten
years ago the market touched £l4 155., but that is the
lowest it has got in modern times. All the same, the
people who have been booming Barrier stocks lately on
the strength of what the co.’s are going to do with their
zinc (at £2B per ton) might paste that quotation of £l4
15s. per ton in their hats. Previous to last year there
was only one year in the past 13 when at sometime or
other in the 12 months zinc didn’t get below £2O.
Reckoning in that £60,000 as profit, the B.H.
Prop, made £287,299 last half-year ; and of that it wrote
off £30,340 for depreciation. Its total reserves are
£806,470—n0t, however, that such figures are worth
much, because mining co.’s rarely off anything for
depreciation of what is supposed to be their chief asset,
the mine.
The recent Barrier boom has been engineered
on zinc ; and the thing of most interest is what this co.
made out of that metal. For that purpose the £60,000


ESS
Friends
sfa
The Best
Tobacco
on
£arthi
* *
376 George St., Sydney
28 Hunter St* Sydney
177 Oxford St., Sydney
sfa
A. A. MAKES, Sole Agent.
must be taken as profit—it would have been profit but for
the special provision as to averaging prices on a year’s run.
To find out what the zinc alone was worth, the only way
is to go back to a term just before the co. began to turn
out this metal. Compare the figures for May-Nov., 1903,
(given above) with those for the past half-year. In the
former term, on a lead and silver output the size of last
half-year’s, the profit -would have been £106,000 instead
of £91,999. Then compare the prices netted for silver
and lead in the two terms :
Silver. Lead.
May-Nov., 1903 2s. 3 27-32 d. •£919 10
May-Nov., 1905 2s. 6 5-64 d. 12 10 6
Increase 215-64 d. £2 10 8
On an output of 2,896,585 oz. silver and 34,479 tons lead
that rise represents over £111,750. Add that and £106,000
(making together £217,750), and you have what the .past
half-year’s silver and lead output would have been worth
in 1903 at present prices.’ That means that the difference
between £217,750 and £287,299,0r £69,549, is the amount
which, on the half-year’s output,-the B.H. Prop, has
gained by the developments of the past two years—
developments, that is, outside the metal markets. In-
cluded in those developments are a slight improvement in
the average value of ore treated, improvements
in concentrating and in smelting, and the zinc-treat-
ment. If, however, the whole of the gain were
put to the credit of zinc, it would amount to only 14s. Bd.
per ton of the 94,767 tons-of zinciferous stuff treated
during the half-year. If the directors are right, and
£60,000 can’t be regarded as profit, then the profit was
only about 2s. 2d. per ton. Admittedly this isn’t a
satisfactory way of getting- at the worth of the zinc to
Broken Hill; but it seems to be the best offering.
A yarn has been most industriously circulated
in London, Melbourne, and elsewhere that the B.H. Prop,
was making £1 3s. per ton out of its zinc tailing's. Test
that yarn by these figures. 94,767 tons of zinc tailings at
£1 3s. per ton = £108,982. Add what the two years’rise
in silver and lead has been worth, as shown above, viz.,
£111,750. So the zinc and the market rise together would
be worth £220,732. N,ow, even reckoning as profit the
£60,000 Which the directors put by, the gross profit was
£287,299 ; this would leave £66,567 as the gross profit
which the co. would have made without zinc and without
the market rise. But we have seen that on a much
smaller silver and lead output the co. made £91,999 profit
before the rise and Without touching zinc. So the yarn
about the profit of £1 3s. per ton is an obvious tara-
dddle.
**’ # #
The people who have been sailing gaily into
Barrier stocks at top prices, without an eye for anything
but the high metal markets and the magnified zinc profits,
have had a reminder tfiat they are not all sixes in that
dice-box. Last Thursday there was word of a fire in the
Junction ; Saturday night brought word of another in
Block 11, the business end of the B. H, Prop. The first
shook the market; thd second brought it down smash.
The Prop, fire couldn’t harm Junction North (which is
half a-mile from Block 11), yet from 21s. 3d. on
Saturday Junction Norths slumped to 16s. 6d. on Mon-
day. If the B.H. Prop, trouble affected the other mine
at all, it might be to help it a bit—by reducing for a while
the competition of the biggest metal-producer. Appa-
rently, however, the idea was “ Fire! Oh, we hadn’t
thought of that risk.” While they are about it, people
might consider whether there are not a few other risks
that they haven’t noticed. If they look they will find
some bigger ones.
As a matter of fact, such fires as these are not
desperately serious—not serious enough, anyway, to
knock one-fourth off a mine’s value. In these days they
don’t use any forests of timber underground; outside
drives and other permanent ways, they only use timber
till they can pack-in mullock ; so the most a fire can do is
to smoulder. The worst danger is that it will slowly
burn away supports and cause a creep, and a creep
is about nine times worse than the average under-
ground fire itself is. You can stop a fire, even if you
have to wall in it, as they did with the old Block 12 fire
(which has been smouldering for about 12 years); but let
a creep start and you don’t know where it will end. In
fact, do what you will it never ends. Yet mention “Fire”
and the average person pictures flames rolling up out of a
shaft, with clouds of smoke to keep them company. But
the man on the spot doesn’t see either, because they are
not there. The chances of a fire causing a creep are now
small, however, because hardly anywhere at B. H. is tim-
ber relied upon to support the mine. A mine fire (unless,
of course, in a shaft) is therefore a much over-rated
affair.
s * * *
The Junction is a rieketty mine ; it called for
the most skilful handling on the Barrier, and has had least
of it, and a fire or any other accident may cause a deal of
trouble there. Beaumont, formerly of the Pinnacles, who
has only been managing it for a few months, seemed
to be getting his awkward charge a bit more ship-shape.;
and this outbreak is hard luck for him, especially as the
co. has no funds to throwaway. The stock is a gamble
all the time ; present outbreak adds a trifle to the risk.
But as to the Broken Hill Proprietary outbreak-
well, on present appearances, if it had knocked a shilling
off the share market, that would have been ample. That
would mean £48,000, and that will cover all the damage
that a fire in that quarter is likely to do. A slump of
65., knocking £240,000 off the mine’s value, was madness.
■****
Yerranderie (N.S.W.) mine owners are in
trouble because none of the Australian smelters will give
them good enough terms for their low-lead high-silver
ore. Generally speaking, the product can be regarded as
a dry silicious silver ore ; the lead contents, ranging
from 15 per cent, down to 4 per cent., being a mere
circumstance to the smelter. In most ’ instances
smelters at present pay a premium for iron contents,
and therefore the very acid gangue of the Yerranderie
is penalised. Transport trouble and varying lode values
are probably bigger drawbacks than the silicious nature of
the ore, for there is at least one works which likes a little
silicious ore occasionally—Aldershot (Q.). But for a time
these works will not buy from the public. J. Y. Bartlett,
the “ King” of Yerranderie, sent a considerable tonnage
of his ore to Aldershot, but just now he is pretty quiet.
True, he does not scatter much information concerning
the'field, though there are some who consider Bartlett is
more concerned in hiding what he has not got rather
than in obscuring what he has.
* * * *
Bulletin was not far out in estimating that
i£4.00,000 would be required for the Bureketown-Lilydale
Railway job which the Queensland Silver Lead Mines, Ltd.,
has in hand, as £425,000 is now sought by the promoters.
Railway proposed is to be 123 miles in length ; and
’Murrikan Surveyor Ludwig claims to have effected a
preliminary -survey of the route in 38 days. Worth
' mentioning casually that Surveyor McDonald had
•previously gone over the track. If the scheme matures,
• substantial bridges will be required at Oakey Creek and
, Gregory River. *
This scheme for building the Burketown-Lily-
dale railway and exploiting- Lawn Hill mines, is breaking-
out in several places, and showing new features each
time. Worst of it is, figures lack cohesion ; but the game
goes on all the same. Surveyor Ludwig, representing an
American interest in the concern, told the Townsville
people that the survey was completed, and he woula
deposit it in New York in March. In the letter part of
April the New- York Board would deal with the plans,
then transmit them to London. The work would then
proceed without delay. Next a representative of the co.
tells the Brisbane press—“ There does not seem
much likelihood of operations being commenced
till after the next rainy season, say_ about the
end of March or beginning of April, 190i.’ It looks
as if Treasurer Kidston already haS a mortgage on
that deposit. Meanwhile, London financial press advises
that a co. has been formed, named the North-west Queens-
land B. and M. Co., Ltd., to construct, the railway and
develop the mines of the Q- S. Lead Mines, Ltd. Nominal
capital £700,000, in 700,000 shares: 500,000 ordinary
fully paid-up (170,000 to be allotted to original co.); and
200,000 7 per cent, accumulative preference shares of £l,
to the public. A further £225,000 required capital is to
be raised by debentures. If the foregoing accurately out-
lines the intentions of the co. (and there seems little
doubt that it does), it seems to be one of the ‘purest
floats on record. Half-a-million of nominal capital is
being charged for the right of taking over some unde-
veloped mines, and of providing less than half-a-million of
money to develop them and give them rail connection.
The only satisfactory feature is that the halt-a-
million ordinary fully-paid shares may never be
worth much, but the possibility is, if the show
gets a start, they will be traded off on the unsuspecting
public at a few shillings per share. The public had better
stand off the grass at once. The new co. had until the
31st of last month to close the deal; but there is no
advice yet as to whether it has been completed. Mean-
while before the survey plans are prepared, before the
financial arrangements even are complete, Mr. Jno. For-
syth, the mill owner of Croydon, on his return fropi
London, says that freight arrangements had been made
there with the British India Co. for the carriage of the
whole of the material for the line. The co., Mr. 1- orsyth
says, “is largely composed of Americans, keen business
men, who do hot do things by halves.” It certainly
looks like it. There are no halves in this busi-
ness. Somebody is going (per medium of the
500,000 fully paid ordinaries) for the lot. With
a little market engineering of these shares, the public
may find that, in effect, they have subscribed—for the
benefit of others—a big proportion of the £425,000 actual
capital. Then be the mines good, bad, or indifferent, it
matters not to the promoters; neither will it matter
much to the public, for the holders of “ the real capital
shares ” and debentures will sit so tight that nothing
short of a Broken Hill will shift them. And Lawn Hill is
bv no means a Broken Hill.
J * * * *
Up at Charters Towers the other night Manager
McLeod, of Brilliant Extended, discoursed in the
Presbyterian church on the evils of gambling, and went
bald-headed for the Gaslight carnivals, where a number of
local youths, he urged, endeavored to get a living other-
wise than by work. When McLeod took the management
of Brilliant Extended shares were at 13s. ; now they are
at 24s , with heaps of business done at both prices, and
McLeod has been the main factor in the rise—more power
to him 1 But up to date he hasn’t expressed his opinion
of the people who have taken so much profi t out of . the
spring in his shares and done no work for it. It’s a
remarkable thing that if you back a mine manager
you can be quite a respectable member of the Stock
Exchange, and vou can puff out your chest as you
come out of church and talk of doing something for the
“ great mining industry ” ; but if you back a pedestrian—
well, you’re a spieler.
* * * •
During 1905 the W.A. State mills treated
85,018 tons for 78,3500 z. fine, and, after allowing for
renewals and upkeep, left a margin of £2400, or barely
7d. per ton. This is cutting things very fine, especially
as nothing is allowed for interest on outlay. However,
it put in circulation £333,000, which is not to be despised.
During 1904 71,616 tons were treated for 67,8300 z. fine,
worth £288,300. Since State batteries were inaugurated
314,176 tons have been treated for 316,3500 z. fine, worth
£1,344,600. So recently as 1897 privately-owned mills
were charging £3 a ton for treatment, and even then
were hanging on to the tailings, while, in 1899, after State
mills had started, the rate was reduced to 205., and now
averages about 7s. Without State mills the bulk of the
gold "won through them would have remained in the
ground. *
Great Boulder has penetrated the Ivanhoe East
lode from the 800 ft. and 1000 ft. levels of Hamilton Shaft
on the North block, and, at both points, it is being driven
on. At 800 ft. the lode, where struck, was 13ft. wide, and
high grade, while at 1000 ft. it was Bft. wide, and worth
lOdwt. This practically constitutes a new mine for the
Boulder. Edwards shaft at the south end of property is
to be carried from 1600 ft. to 1900 ft., the same depth as
the main shaft. The latter has been at a standstill since
March, 1904, or nearly two years ; since then all energies
have been diverted to Hamilton shaft. Co. is at present
erecting an auxiliary winding engine at the main shaft,
and will then be able to cope with a bigger tonnage.
This engine was built at Ealgoorlie by Silverthorne and
Adair, and weighs 40 tons.
**. • .
Boulder Perseverance has increased its ore
reserves from 463,000 tons, estimated at 365. on October
Ist, to 476,700 tons, estimated at 405., on January Ist.
In the interval 50,000 tons, worth 485., have been treated.
Thus either the mine is still being gutted, or the value of
the ore is 33 per cent, higher than the manager’s esti-
mate of reserves. But estimates of this sort are practi-
cally worthless, in any case. The east crosscuts at both
1100 ft. and 1300 ft. have been driven to the boundary, and
cut the lode, which was found originally by the Asso-
ciated, but proved to be in Perseverance ground. At
both points the lode is 30ft. wide, but low-grade. The
Associated penetrated it at 1200 ft., or between these
points, and it there carried a seam of telluride, and was
worth nearly 2oz. for a width of 20ft. When the Perse-
verance gets on to this it will be interesting to follow
developments. - * ,
Ivanhoe Junction, Kalgoorlie, has crushed' 100
tons at Boulder No. 1 mill, and the 50 per cent, drop in
shares foreshadows the result. It was recently reported
that they had enough pay ore in sight to keep a mill
going for years. As practically no development has been
done since Tom Hewitson put through two disastrohs
crushings of about 2dwt. apiece, no fresh ore has been
opened up, so the mine is a 2dwt. proposition still. Co.’s
funds and assessments are about exhausted, and it will
have to be reconstructed, if it is to carry on. As the mine
has never produced any pay ore, it looks hopeless ; if
anything more is to be done a few drill holes should be
put down to see if it is worth while sinking any more
money in such a waterhole.
* * * *
Kalgurli (W.A.) still opens up satisfactorily.
The lode came into the main shaft at 1080 ft., and is still
in it at 1170 ft. For the first 50ft. it was poor, but at
1130 ft. it began to improve, and from 1142 to 1158 ft.
averaged 14dwt., and from 1159 to 1170 ft., 15dwt. A
level is now being opened up at 1150 ft., and the result
should be worth watching. Co. has five years’ reserves in
sight above 1050 ft., and is earning a monthly profit of
nearly £17,000, or, say, 345. per share yearly. The profit
in sight is therefore equal to £8 10s. a share. As a mining
investment Kalgurli is one of the best offering.
• ♦ * *
North Kalgurli treatment plant, after being idle
for seven months, has made a fresh start on oxidised ore
from shallow ground at the north end. A month’s, run
will be made as a test, and, if the ore is found payable,
the plant may be kept going for some months. When
plant closed down in June costs were 255. 6d. a ton, or,
say, 6dwt. fine gold. Exploration is still going on at
1000 ft., both to east and west of shaft, hut nothing very
encouraging has been met. Co. is still well in funds.
* * •* *
North End, Kalgoorlie, has at last published
figures of January returns—lloo tons for 2630 z., as against
420 tons for 148 oz. in December. During December 10
head of stamps were stated to have crushed four days
six hours, or 10 tons per stamp daily, while, during
January, 15 head crushed for 25 days, or less than three
tons per stamp daily. Further, during December, while the
stuff was being treated more than three times as quickly as
during Jauuar.y, the residues contained only 7dwt., while
they are said to contain 15dwt. in January. The cyanide
plant started on February 2, so that February return
should give actual results. Perhaps, though, we shall
then be told that the gold is in the slimes. The main
shaft is now being sunk by contract from 180 ft. to 280 ft., a
work that should have been completed before the mill
started.
Hidden Secret, Kalgoorlie, of which very little
has been heard lately, is breaking out a parcel above
200 ft. Meantime, the main shaft is bemg pushed dow
to 300 ft. Mine is now better equipped to break out ana
raise ore. But whether a continuation of the phenomen-
ally rich shoot will be got remains to be proved very
few of the other shows in the vicinity have been se ~
tional, though most of them are still being worked .while
Manager C. M. Harris, of Hannans Prop., who abandoned
the Hidden Secret along with a number of others, hasjust
re-pegged and applied for a lot of ground he formerly dis-
carded.
* * • *
Burbanks Main Lode (W.A.), a third recon
struction of a wild-cat floated in 1896, is looking as it it
might yet become a mine. Estimated there is two yearn
supply of payable ore in sight, and, on the strength ot
this, the surface equipment is being brought up to date.
Co. is in 150,000 shares of 4s. each, of which only 90,/»4
are issued, fully paid. Last reconstruction took place in
June, 1904, when the assessment of Is. 6d. per share
realised £7258. Co. must be short of funds, although the
mine has been producing from £l5OO to £2OOO monthly
from treating 600 to 650 tons ; but the bad arrangement
of its out-of-date plant made costs high and left barely
any margin. The remodelled plant will start work
shortly, and placing of reserve shares may save the
situation.
* * * *
The find near Hampton Plains (W. A.) consists of
a quartz blow carrying a good deal of visible gold, but no
reef can be traced on the surface. Until the prospectors
have opened up the find, and proved it to be permanent,
ho one else is likely to start, as it is impossible to judge in
which direction to peg - . The find is near Mt. Monger,
where similar outcrops have been found for years none
of them permanent.
* * * *
Phillips River (W. A.), 150 miles east of Albany,
will be the scene of the next Westralian flutter. About
200 men are working there at present, and more are still
leaving Kalgoorlie and other centres for the field. Govt,
has given a fillip to it by erecting a small smelter, and
buying the ore (copper and gold) on assay ; and a 60-ton-
a-day plant is now being erected, and should start in
March. A local syndicate has offered to build a railway
from Ravensthorpe to Hopetoun, on the coast, a distance
of 30 miles, and so cheapen cost of carriage. As already
reported, Charlie Raufmann, who bought up and floated
the Lake View Consols and Ivanhoe in London, in con-
junction with the late Whitaker Wright, has bought the
Mt. Benson, Marion Martin, and Mt. Cattlin leases on
behalf of a London syndicate. The most advanced mine
so far is the Elverdton, owned by the Phillips River Syn-
dicate (Melbourne). From this mine 757 tons of picked
ore have yielded, at Wallaroo, 18,060 units of copper, or
the high average of 23*8 units, and 3dwt. of gold per ton
of ore. Locally 2243 tons have been sold to Govt, for the
price of 320 tons of copper, or nearly 15 per cent. The
lode has been sampled for nearly half-a-mile, and is .4ft.
wide. A parallel lode, also 4ft. wide, is tested to
and is estimated to be w'orth 12 per cent, copper. ■> Lots
of wild-cats will come from this district, but, spite of that,
the field has come to stay.
* ♦ * *
Northern Blocks Syndicate, Southern Cross
(W A.), has cleaned up its first 1100 tons f0r4950z., an
average of 9dwt. This is fair, as the plates are new,, and
the residues have still to be treated. The stone came
from above 130 ft. Next level— at 230 ft.—will shortly be
started, and will give a large amount of backs. Manager
Roberts still has confidence that he can make a success
of it on a small scale.
* » » *
Labor men M'Grath, Solly, and Hannah make
out a good case against the Yic. Mines Minister and his
Department. They wanted some facts about the Berry
Co., and the Department said it would see them hanged
first, because it was the rule in' such cases only to supply
information to the memberin -whose electorate the mine
is situated. The door this opens to abuse is large enough
to accommodate any log that cos. may care to roll. As
McGrath points out, the rule appears to have been
created so that cos. may have only one man to “ square.
There is no hint of squaring in the Berry case, but that
doesn’t make the Departmental attitude any the less
foolish.
* • * *
The way of the alluvial mines is full of toil.
West Berry Consols, Creswick (Yic.), after long years of
w’aiting, has got on to the div. list. Co. has 30,000 shaies,
and the calls have been as steady and as regular as the
flow of water into the under level. £52,000 had to be
subscribed. The bulk of it was paid in 3d. dribs, with
an occasional 6d. drab, so the time the mine has been
at work can be . pretty . well computed. More
than that, over £90,000 worth of gold has been
won.' This accounts for £142,000 ; and to-day the
first div. (6d.) is hailed with a beating qf tomtoms and a
chorus of praise, amid which the ha-ha of A. J. Peacock
can be distinguished. Roberts, the chairman, is pro-
perly lauded for devotion to the ca ; but , how about
D. J. Gilchrist, whose aid was invaluable when the co.
wanted a slab of ground from the Berry West, just as
much as that co. needed a block from the Berry Consols ?
After all this weary wait, the temptation to pay a div.
when got is irresistible ; but the co. needs a new shaft
even more than shareholders need divs.
* . *
Catherine Uniteds, Bendigo,'are not in favor
with the local brokers. At about 60s. shares are being
dealt out, and the public will directly have a chance of
seeing whether the mine can beat a determined band of
spec.-sellers. Shares started to shrink as the water was
got under, and the selling could only be ‘read
to mean that the market doesn’t agree that
there is the gold in the formation that the inanager
believes. If the block of quartz opened up is measured,
it doesn’t represent anything like 60s. a share even on
an ounce basis ; and the failure of the winze to pick up
gold in the top of the formation reduced the old estimate.
Still; the manager is as cocksure as ever. He has been
long enough in the mine to be able to tell gold when he
sees it, and to know the peculiarity of the formation ; so he
ought to know. A born fighter, and full of pluck, he can
be looked to to keep his end up, even though the odds
are against him. He is helped by the fact that Adelaide,
Sydney, and Melbourne have all been picking-up the
shares as offered from Bendigo. It cannot be forgotten,
too, that Catherine Reef had big formations and paid big
divs. from them ; and, in Bendigo, history has a knack
of repeating’ itself. t
A sanguine soul is H. R. Croydon, manager of
the Lady Nelson Extended, St; Arnaud (Vic.). Listen :
“ I believe'that you possess a first class property, and a
little development work will fully repay any capital
expended. Your mine is in a good position, and on a
good line of country. You have an excellent
site for machinery, - with every facility for economic
working, and I feel convinced the gold will come along m
the near future.” This concludes Croydon’s report to the
shareholders. Yet it doesn’t fit in with the paragraph
above, where he records that the 300 ft. level shows a high
percentage of pyrites and a little gold throughout, but
“ nothing payable in sight.” This tale is told about all
three lines of reef. “ Sink,” then, is the watchword. That
means that the gold won’t “ come along ” quite so quickly,
because out of the St. Arnaud poor zone the Lord Nelson
was the only mine to emerge with anything worth more
than a call, and it had to go to 600 ft to find gold. The
Extended is a has-been. There is no more significant
feature of Victorian mining than this procession
of 30-year-old shows across the horizon. Maldon,
with its Mt. Tarrangower and North of England,
opened the ball; then came the Eliza Hill; and
in their wake move' a long list of derelicts which
ought never to have been got off the rocky shore on
which they stranded when gold pinched out. The way
the Lady Nelson Extended Co. has been financed shows
the stress of the times. Balance-sheet of Jan. 27th states
£9OO placed to credit, £1305 spent, calls paid £440, calls
not paid to Jan. 27th £634, shares in hand 13,700 out of a
total of 32,000. Certainly, manager Croydon should go
ahead and get the gold “in the near future ; for the
appearance is that it will be needed.
John Addis, an old Ballarat pioneer, turned
up in Melbourne the other day from the Malay Peninsula,
with a sparkling ring (beating in size and brilliancy the one
with which Johnny Coleman used to dazzle the young
Raiah in “ The French Maid ”)and a tin property. It may
have been the diamond ring given by the Chinese landlord
of Perak, or it may have been Addis’ venerable strength ;
anyhow r , the Melbourne public now owns the Sungie
Raiva tin mine, with Addis as the holder of a third
interest on a paid-up basis. The float is rather better
than some of the late Tassy tin shows. Addis only wants
£l5OO to equip the block, and he works it out that he will
make a little matter of £l7OO a month, or equal to
lls. 4d. per share, with one machine. He reports on the
claim himself, and is taken entirely on trust. He is
a lucky man in a doubting' age to get the cash with such
ease : but his frankness did the trick.
* • » *
From a Tas. correspondent who looks reliable :
—“’Ware Transit! The mine, or what is left of it, is
about 10 miles from St. Helens, and was originally known
as the De’il-ma-Care, and latterly as Constable’s Creek.
The old co. wound up with a big loss ; its only ton of tin
cost nearly £3000 to get. Ground has been rooted over
unsuccessfully in the wet seasons ; the last one to try it,
Tom Dwyer, dropped £120 of hard-earned cash in pros-
pecting.' Dwyer and party worked in one paddock
396yd., and cleaned up for q uarter of a bag. I prefer these
practical tests to all the sampling-for-flotation purposes
that has since been done.”
« * • *
The Tasmania Co., Beaconsfield, has had
another profitable return for last year producing 36,579oz.
valued at £153,626. This Co.’s reduction plant is most
complete. The Luhrig system of concentration
(hydraulic classifiers, Jigs and Vanners) was introduced
nearly 10 years ago, while about 4 years ago the plant
was further increased on the same system. Full par-
ticulars of Luhrig Machinery may be obtained from the
general agents, W. and J. Lempriere, Melbourne. Luhrig
Yanners are specially adapted for the successful treat-
ment of slimes and are doing great work on the leading
gold, tin, copper, and galena mines of Australia and
Tasmania.’'
* * * *
It is interesting to note that the “Hornsby”
patertt safety oil engine has sustained its world-wide
reputation for reliability and economy. During the past
year hundreds of squatters, recognising their adaptability,
have been using them for their shearing and general
motive power, and as they are specially suitable for
mining, electric lighting, pumping, etc., mine managers
have shown their appreciation by installing them on some
of the leading mines. The latest type of engine will run
at a cost of less than a f arthing per brake horse power per
hour, and are manufactured by the well-known
“ Upright ” Water Tube Boiler firm R. Hornsby and Sons,
Ltd., Hay-street, Sydney and Spencer-street, Melbourne.*
* » » *
The Cathcart Proprietary Gold Mine, Ararat,
was the first mine in Victoria to adopt electricity as motive
power for pumping, hoisting and puddling. This plant
commenced work in September, 1904, and has been in
constant and successful operation ever since. It consists
of two return tube boilers, 160 horse-power engine, 110
kilowatt dynamo, switchboard, an electric hoist capable
of lifting 800 tons in 24 hours, an electric three-throw
pump-raising 26,000 gallons of water per hour and a 35
horse power motor driving the puddlers. The dynamo
also provides electricity for 40 lights by means of which
the surface and underground workings are lighted.
Experience, obtained on this mine during one years
service proves that: (1) electricity makes an actual saving
in fuel amounting to about £350 per annum ; (2) the
dynamo and motors cost practically nothing to maintain ;
(3) the cost of lubrication is reduced to a' minimum r(4)
electric motors require much less attention than
steam engines; and finally (5) electricity is much
more flexible than steam power, permitting ready exten-
sion or change as mining conditions frequently require.
The contractors for this installation were the Austral Otis
Engineering* Company Limited, corner of Hanna and
Kavanagh-streets, South Melbourne, Sole Agents for Ganz
and Company, Budapest, Hungarj T .* [1
* * * *
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write arid we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances arid supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne. *
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
The British Broken Hill Silver Mining Co.,
after careful consideration of all types of boilers, have
placed an order with Babcock and Wilcox for three laige
boilers, each of 500 h.p. Superheaters, chain grate
mechanical stokers and economiser have also been
ordered from the same firm. This now makes 40 boilers
of the Babcock and Wilcox type supplied to the various
mines and industries at Broken Hill. Wherever economy
in fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed.. Hence the recent unanimous decision of the
Expert Admiralty Committee to install Babcock boilers as
the standard for the British Nav'\*
* f *
■ The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivi ted pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. .This pipe possesses Enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with-a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fiuming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discretion of cast or wrought iron work.*
Golden Bendigo. —The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange)." 5 # *
Send us your address and we will post you a
pamphlet gratis how to purify acetylene gas. Brandt
Bros?, Pitt-street, Sydney, and Elizabeth-street, Mel-
bourne.* _ ' ,
■* • *. * ‘
Charters Towers.— Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred. Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest infornia-
tion on the field.*
* * * *
The Queensland Smelting Company, Limited,
beo-s to notify its clients that it has ceased purchasing ore
from the public for the time being. A resumption of
purchasing operations will be advised in due course.*
Cobar —For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894. „ *
* * * *
A 12 inch Suction Dredging Plant is being built
for the Weldbrook Tin Mines Co. The plant will be
similar-in design-to those erected at the Pioneer and
Briseis Extended Tin Mines (Tasmania). The engines will
be of the vertical compound condensing type of about
300h p fitted with an Edwards type of air pump and
large surface condenser. The boilers will be two in
number, of the marine type, and will work at a - pressure
of 1501b to the square inch. The nozzle pump will be
centrifugal and directly connected to a vertical compound
steam engine. The barge will be 45ft. square. The
Austral Otis Engineering Co'., of South Melbourne, which
is constructing this dredge, has been particularly success-
ful in building these large type of suction dredges and
owing to their reputation have just concluded a contract
for the erection of a plant in the Federated Malay States
which promises to be the fore-runner of many more of the
like.*’ [A '
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Grim-
wade and Co., Melbourne. Fourth edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Post free on application.*.
* * * *
The Sunday Times (Sydney) of 4th June, 1905,
wrote as follows with regard to The Colonial Mutual
Assurance Society Limited This fine company whose
income has so largely increased during recent years
occupies one of the largest positions in life assurance
circles.” „ , „ _ 1
* * * *
The Curtin Davis Proprietary Company, No
Liability, is prepared to consider offers of approved
minin"-properties under working option of purchase for
cash. Full particulars to R. E. Tweddell, Manager, 31
Queen-street, Melbourne.* # f
Commonwealth and Foreign patents ob-
tained. Collison and Co., 483 Collins-street,
Melbourne (and Adelaide.) Twenty-six years
practice. Write us for Inventors’ Guide.*


Hotel
A Ufttrniin
RATES:
12s. 6d. per Day
AND UPWARDS.
The Largest, Coolest, and
Best Appointed Summer
Hotel in Australasia.
SPACIOUS, COOL
DINING HALL
LOUNGE BAR.
sfa
During Summer
Months the Winter
Garden is the Coolest
I’lace in Sydney for
Afternoon Tea, &c.
A Balcony Dining Room has been
added to main Dining Hall.
Guesi Night Every Thursday.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
WIRE CLOTH WEAVERS
MAKERS OF ALL
KINDS OF WOVE
WIRE In Steel, Iron, Gal-
vanised, Copper, & Brass.
àf
WE MAKE A SPECIALITY OF HEAVY WIRE CLOTH.
We would be pleased to get in communication with those interested in WIRE CLOTH.
We mill be bound Quick, Civil, Obliging and Cheap.
EASTWAY BROTHERS, 409 & 411 George St., Sydney
Factories: 533 A George St., and Albion Lane. P.O. Box 85S. Telephone 2075.
WATSON’S WHISKY,
Resell’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
Aboriginalities.
1 “Stony”: The man with the purple eye
leaned heavily against the bar, slowly lapping up
a 4rge beer. He did it with difficulty, for he had
already drunk almost an impossible number of
long-’uns. As he finished the last drop, a second
bibulous party entered, and invited the bloated
one to partake once more. “Ri-to! Mine’s
a—a long bee’. A long ’un ! ” lie gasped, and
eased himself by pushing the bar away from him
with a laborious hand. I spoke to him. “Why
don’t you drink a pony?” I asked. “You’ll
burst, y’ know, if you keep on drinking long ’uns.”
He surveyed me with a bewildered stare.
44 Ponies !” he said. “ Po-nies ! I ain’t goin’ t’
let the bloomin’ publican beat me ! Po-nies I ”
And he grasped the long-’un firmly round its
waist and regarded it with the stern gaze of a man
who intends to do his duty or die.
CONVERTIBLE TERMS.
TOMMY: "See that girl behind. That's cockie
Cocoran’s daughter what run away from
home. Wonder if it's true she’s gone to the
bad altogether.”
J OHN: “ Must be; never saw such an improve-
ment in a girl in me life.”
“8.H.R.”; “Did you ever see a rifle-
bullet on its journey ? ” asked my mate. I was
sceptical. “ This is the right time—about twi-
light, he said; “111 show you.” He made me
stand to windward about a foot to the rear and on
one side of him, and then fired his '44 Winchester
at a stump. I distinctly saw a thin, flame-like
streak zip across from the muzzle of the rifle to
the stump, in a graceful arch, rising from the
muzzle and descending to the mark. You must
have twilight and either smokeless powder or a
light wind to clear the smoke.
‘ ‘ Dandalup ” : He blacks’ insensibility to
pain (B. 25/l/’O6). At a W.A. back-block town-
ship, I saw a blackfellow thrown by a buck-
jumper, landing with great violence on the hard
metal road fair on his head. We all rushed for-
ward to pick up a very dead nigger. But Charlie
sat up, rubbed his skull, and opined that it was a
blanky blanker of a blanky horse. Saw Charlie
soon after playing euchre as if nothing had ever
happened. Have seen a black cut off his leg with
a blunt “tommy” when bitten by a venomous
snake. After the application of a good mud-
plaster, he got away in the bush for about 10
days, and came back as fit as a fiddle. During
the marriage ceremony in some tribes the bride
stoops down while everyone of the husband’s
family gives her a good whack on the head with a
waddy. A white’s cranium would be a jelly after
such treatment.
* # * *
“ C.X.G.” : The bush township goat is like
the ant in laying up provender for a dry time.
When rain has fallen and feed is good lie scorns
the township dust-heap and the scrap-bucket at
the back doors. These things he knows well will
keep, but the grass and herbage out on the reserve
have but a short time here to dwell, and he accord-
ingly makes hay of them while he can. When the
grass has gone, though, it is a hard matter to
keep him out of the backyard. You may chase
him a hundred yards with all the available road
metal, but before you have finished quenching
your thirst after so much hard running, you’ll
hear him scraping the paper off the jam tins
again. (It’s a libel to say he eats the tins.) He
is pretty hard to kill. I put a rifle bullet clean
through the neck of one in my stables. He
dropped like a stone. I waited cautiously until
no one was in sight, then went across and grabbed
him to heave him over the fence, when he arose
suddenly, butted lfie hard in the commissariat,
and disappeared in a cloud of dust. Saw him
next day apparently as well as ever. In our
township a grass widow reported to the local
constable that a man had entered her bedroom by
the window on the previous night, had broken some
of the bedroom furniture, and departed again
without taking anything but her boots. A search-
ing investigation by the black tracker sheeted the
crime home to an enterprising William-goat.
• * * *
“ Snell ”: “ Dimmy Dones ” was a charac-
ter about in my time. His name was
jimmy Jones, but “Dim-
my ”, had an impediment
in his speech, and that was
the way he pronounced his
own name. “ Dimmy ” was
also slightly deaf, and he
was very small, but he was
thorough. He had a con-
tract with Kay to clear
about 10acres of the latter’s
land. According to “Dim-
my’s” idea of the agree-
ment, the stacks of wood
in sft. lengths—easily sale-
able at the mines—which
resulted from the work of
r clearing the land were his
property. Kay denied this,
claimed all the wood, and
successfully resisted “Dim-
my’s ” efforts to remove it.
In this extremity, 4 4 Dimmy
Dones” went along, on the
first dark night, and set fire
to the stacks of wood.
While he was about it, he
set fire to Kay’s barn, his
haystack, and his home-
stead. Efforts to trace the
crime to “Dimmy” failed
utterly, but, some years
after, he admitted his guilt.
Asked why he had set fire
to the house, he answered,
“I tought de cove’d be
so busy savin’ his own
family, he wouldn’t tink
of my wood.” Once, “ Dim-
ruy’s” mongrel dog was
drowning in Cadden’s dam,
and “ Dimmy,” to save iQ
cut down the bank and
flooded the township. The
dog was never seen again.
* •
“ Teddy ” : lie Tommy Bent’s pig-headed
persistence with a joke (recently noted in Bulle-
tin). It is an Australian trait. Five other wool-
lifters and myself were having breakfast with the
cocky for whom we were shearing, when the
latter noticed that the bread-plate was empty.
“Say, Tilly,” he bellowed to Ins daughter, “did
yer ’ear that the baker wus dead ? ” This was the
beginning of a curse to Tilly’s existence. At
every meal after that, the moment the plate was
empty, six hoarse voices would chorus the news of
the baker’s decease. This pearl of all witticisms
was kept up till one night Tilly arose in her wrath
and informed us that the d—d baker might
remain dead till we asked for bread in a proper
manner. Luckily we never hit on another joke,
but used to observe to each other, in a subdued
tone, that Tilly was “ a dead nark.”
* * * #
“ Balder ” : lie brer rabbit and the Danysz
scheme. What will become of bunny’s collective
carcase if the plan succeeds? Bury him, and sow
the soil for all time with imported anthrax ? Burn
him ? Where the rabbits are thickest it is a job to
get enough timber to boil a billy. Then, if killed
in winter, he will lie round in heaps to putrefy
slowly and infect animals and birds that eat him.
The harmlessness of a disease working in a dif-
ferent country and under different conditions can-
not be guaranteed. In summer the blowflies will
attend to him, and then proceed to blow sheep
and humans. On the whole, there appears to be a
fine chance for a new sort of Black Death to assert
itself. The solution of the problem certainly lies
in closer settlement, with its adjuncts, wire-netting
and sub-division.
* * * *
“Balder”: .Rewomen-shearers (B. l/2/’O6).
Haven’t struck any of them yet, but in the Big
Scrub, a few years ago, I remember two girls,
sisters of a cocky, who used to chop scrub with
him. They were strapping lassies, and wore
scrub-choppers’ costume, breeks and all. To see
them climb up on the spring-boards was a caution.
Also the way they could swing an axe boded ill
to their future spouses if they made trouble.
I also remember a fencer’s wife at Berrima who
vvas a Don at mortising post-holes. She was a
little, bony, wiry creature, like a Scottish terrier,
and when excited she would use the mortising-axe
as a weapon.
«
Householders will find that for uni versa,
use Little’s Phenyle Disinfectants are unsurpassedl
The Soluble Pheuyle is a powerful insecticide, it
kills bugs, cockroaches, fleas, &c., and is one of the
best washes for all domestic animals. Sold by all
chemists, grocers, storekeepers, through Aus-
tralia.*
THE FILIAL AUSTRALIAN.
SMALL BOY (highly amused): “It’s dad, yer
know. Dead shickered, ain’t he? They won't
let him him into the station like that, an' he'll
have to walk home.”
“ Gip,” who is a girl : Went to a shearers’
ball on the Monaro (N.S.W.) t’other night.
Entered the barn arrayed in a jaunty bush air,
a neckerchief and accompaniments. Left it
humbled. Expected to see large pieces of corned
junk, “praties” in their jackets, and possibly
pickles, provided for the midnight feed. But for
a slap-up supper commend me to the shearer’s
cook. The bill, word for word : “ Creamed oysters,
salmon in aspic, fish patties. Turkey mayonnaise,
chicken moulds, pigeon pies. Quail grilled.
Salted almonds, cheese aigrettes. Sardine toast,
maccaroni cheese, fruit salads. Strawberry
creams, cocoanut meringues, chocolate tarts.
Easter eggs, and walnut cakes.” Ye gods ! I
suffer yet. And the shearers, epicures to a man,
mostly patronised us. Also they wore boiled
collars, and some of them had patent-leathers.
But the local “rousies” are gluttons. How. the
latter ever go back to brownies and suet, after
living for a month or two in a shearers’ hut, with
a cook like that, beats me.
* * * *
“ Jimmie Pannikin ” : Noticed often during
my stay on the Barrier that some S. Australian
hams had a peculiarly agreeable flavor.
Made inquiries, and was told that in South
Oss (as its people love to call the beautiful
State) cedar saw-dust is used for smoking
hams, because it imparts the said peculiar
but agreeable flavor. Mention of cedar
reminds me that, at one time, mer-
chantable cedar grew within 30 miles
of Sydney on the Illawarra line ;
and also that, about 100 years
ago, cedar was plentiful on the
Hawkesbury. Now even the once
magnificent cedar forests of the
Tweed and Richmond rivers are
almost memories of the past. What 1
a grand commercial asset could have ‘
been preserved to us by the exercise
of common sense Government control
over the cedar groves of the Big Scrub !
“ Yalgoo”: Let anybody troubled
with any kind of ants, or other insects,
sprinkle sheepdip about the infested places
and they will be gone in less than 12 hours.
“C.X.G.”: What’s the longest “bolt”
you know of ? I think I know one pretty good.
Horses, on first acquaintance, are terrified of
camels. Was one year driving teams of the
hump-backed beasts on the Innamincka track
(S.A.). The season was good up there, but lower
down, in the farming areas, it was droughty ; so
the cookies brought their horses up to the good
country to keep them alive. One day, driving
the camels loose to a dam for water, as we topped
the embankment there was a babel of shouts and
screams and stampeding horses. The cookies had
been watering their horses. Some of those horses
bolted over-200 miles—back to their homes. The
balance it took us the rest of that day to haul out
of the bog.
“The Prooshan”:
He was an old ex-
coachman, and spoke
“coaehese.” More-
over, he mended horse-
rugs skilfully and
spent about six fur
longs of his time in-
say mg, “That so-and-
so’s a tarybil pretty
’orse, don’t yer think?”
Ho looked 10 years
younger when reading
of the Rand wick or
Flemington battles,
and he varnished horse
illustrations cut out of
weekly prints, and
hung them round his
hut, and considered
they made “tarybil
nice pictures ” done
that way. I spoke of
the coachman’s chance
of getting through
from Batlow to
Tumberumba in
the snow
one
night.
“The
Wlist
trip I
V ever
> had
wuz
between
Worga
(Wagga) V Urana in
’72,” he said. “The
floods was tarybil. V
there wuz me, goin’
through water near
Bluegong (Brookong)
as ’igh as the top
wire er the fence, pitch
dark n’ rainin’ and
blowin’ like anythin’.
I couldn’t tell wot side
er the fence I wuz on,
’n’ the water wuz
gettin’ deeper, and I
thinks, ‘Becripes, I’ll
drop into the Urange-
line Crick presen’ly. I
better stop till mornin'.’ Soon after, one er tliorses
begins reefin’ ’n’ I gets out an’ un’arnesses ’em all
in over four foot er water and cold ! .... by ’ell
it wuz cold. I could ’ardly get back in th’ coach,
’n’ me rug wet, ’n’ me wet to the skin, ’n’ me
lights blode out, ’n’ me matches wet, ’n’ there I
sat from eight o’clock till daylight. I couldn’t
smoke any road if me matches wuz right, coz me
teeth shook so 1 couldn’t ’old the pipe. Nex’ day
when I gets to the pub I has three hot brandies
neat—’bout a pint; ’n’ last I goes t’ sleep ’n’
wakes ’bout four that evenin’ all of a sweat, ’n’
I’m blode if I ever katched a cold. But it was a
tarybil night I ’ad ! ”
* * * *
“Homo”: “The ’Ole - in-the-Wall,”
Wynyard Lane, mentioned among quaint names
of pubs (B. 18/l/’O6), derives its picturesque title,
no doubt, from a type of “shebeen” (sly-grog
shop) once common in Ireland. Thirsty souls
would enter what was ostensibly an innocent lolly
shop, or something equally modest, in one front
of a double-barrelled tenement, or terrace row.
A moveable piece of the wall, sometimes merely
a loosened brick, skilfully concealed, perhaps by a
picture, a draping, or piece of furniture of some
kind, placed customers in communication with
the tire-water stored on the next-door premises,
occupied by confederates.
ON THE LAND.
POSSIBLE BUYER: “Now, look here; how comes
it, if this land is so good, that you've only
cultivated one acre out of 200?”
IMPOSSIBLE SELLER : “ The land's too good, boss.
By the time I've finished sowing that acre, it
takes me all my time to double back and
gather in the crop.”
“8.W.C.”: “Prooshan” (B. 8/2/’O6) is
right about the destruction of lyre-birds by foxes.
Eor years the birds had a secure retreat in
the dense forest country north of Bairnsdale (Vic.),
but the whole region is now infested with foxes
and deserted by the birds.
A SNAPSHOT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A magpie, a hut in the dead gum-trees,
A half-burnt stump and an axe—
This is the picture the traveller sees
In the maze of the Gippsland tracks.
A ealf and a couple of lean gee-gees,
With under-lip drooped and with broken knees—
This is the picture a traveller sees
In the labyrinth Gippsland tracks.
A hard-faced woman with tousled hair—
She scrubs at an iron pot;
A bovine babe, with a stony stare,
That gurgles an eerie glot;
In a candle-box cot it takes the air,
With a yellow mongrel that, in the glare
Of the noonday sun, returns the stare
Of the babe in the wooden cot.
There’s a kind of fence along the track,
With broken rails and a wire ;
Some draggle-tailed hens pass out and back,
And you smell the reek of a fire.
There’s an old horse eyeing a pigmy stack,
A boy with a battered gun, and a rack
For the lean scrub cattle beside the track—
And the mark of eternal fire.
vie.
A.B.O.


By
Royal
sfa
Warrant
to
H.M. KING EDWARD VII.
TABLE SALT.
Every grain of food is made more
nourishing by using it in the
kitchen and at table.
Wholesale Agents: —Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
Eleven
Reasons
Why we sell
so many Rings.
Fx and ll’'
Diamond
Ilalf-Hoop
Ring,
A Marvel
of Value,
£5 ss.
Pink Tourmaline
and Golden Sapphire,
and 2 Diamonds,
£5 ss.
Fine Diamonds
and Whole Pearl,
£l3 13s.
Special
Diamonds,
Our Own
Make,
£lB 18»
1. We are the actual makers.
2. We make them in our own workshops.
3’. We buy the gems in the rough.
4. We cut the gems.
5. We save all intermediate profits.
6. We are ring-setters.
7. We make only 18et. sold gem rings.
8. We are gem experts.
9. We carry a large stock of unset stones.
10. We receive them direct Iroiii the mines,
ll'. We sell at London i'rices.
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
‘ ‘ Edyson ” : Burr was a thin, anxious
man with a large swag and an atmosphere of
weariness. He approached the homestead, limp-
ing, with a lively eye cocked for dogs. He dis-
covered Binstead patching an old collar m the
shadow of the stable, and dropped Matilda with a
great sigh of relief. “’Ot day, boss,’ he said,
mopping his brow with a handkerchief that had
recently been the lining of his hat. “ Purty ot,
answered Binstead. “ S’pose a bloke am t got no
chanst of a job hereabouts? I’m a putty andy
feller, ’n’ a dead willin’ worker. Can do anythin
about a farm.’’ Seeing no relenting in Binstead s
face he added almost hopelessly: “ hi’ scussley
require any sleep worth mentionin’.” Binsteaa
looked up with a spark of interest, and Burr s
heart gave a big bound. Binstead’s eye went all
over the traveller, with a fading interest. Ihe
interest quite subsided at Burr’s boots. ‘‘Navy,
he said, returning to the patch on the collar. 1
am wantin’ a man, but” “Well,” ejaculated
Burr, “s’elp me, boss, you couldn’t get a better .
I’m on t’ anythin’.” ‘ I want a chap t
plough.” “There yer are!” cried Burr
with a ring of triumph in his voice. ‘lm, a
boshter after a plough. Gi’ me a trial spin, n
see fer yerself.” “ He’d have t be able t doa bit
o’ fencin’,” added Binstead, thoughtfully. “Right
you are. I’ve done miles iv it,” cried Burr.
“Mus’ be a hexpert milker,” said Binstead.
“That's me,” said Burr. “ I was born n bred
on a dairy farm.” “ Seventeen-’n -six a week n
keep,” said Binstead. “Right-o! Good e-e-enuf.
shouted Burr, slapping liis leg. “ N’ he s got ter
be a married couple,” said Binstead, conclusively.
“ Er, what?” groaned Burr. “ He’s got ter be a
married couple,” repeated Binstead. “Seventeen-
’n’-six a week ’n’ keep fer man ’n’ wife, Burr
sighed heavily, took up his swag, faltered, and
moved off, paused a moment, and came back
again. “ Say, boss,” he said, “ I s’pose you don t
know a likely woman about ’ere what nd marry a
bloke, do yer?” “Naw,” said Binstead, after
due thought. Burr sighed again and went his
way. He was a willing man, but circumstances
were too many for him.
• * * *
“Janor”: “Narrow escapes!” said the
old alluvial battler. “ We’re just the blokes wot
’as ’em ! See that road across the erik ? Me and
a mate was sinkin’ a shaft right along side er it,
30 years ago. We was down 18 foot. I was doin
my turn below, and when I ’as some dirt broke
I sings out for the bucket. We was usin a new
oil-drum to pull the stuff. Jim was pitchin to a
bit er skirt who’d bin a-passing along ther road,
and when ’e made to hook the bucket on the rope
’e misses ther hook, and down the shaft flops the
bucket. The top of me ’ead knocks the bottom
of ther bucket clean out, and I gets me figger-ead
jammed right inside. I bled tremenjous ; in tact
the blood Hew right up to ther mouth of ther
shaft and blinded Jim who was a-peenn down ter
find the corpse. ’E wipes the claret out of is
peepers and hauls me up, and when the litt.e
‘ tom ’ sees me in me iron run, blowed if she
don’t faint right off. However, Jim gets the
bucket off me ’ead, and then I puts a ead on im,
the cow! Doctor? Rats! I cured me napper
with beer, one week’s special treatment, dim
recovered on same lines, and we goes back to
work, and bottoms the blanker on an ounce to the
dish. But mind yer it’s a risky game.
FORBIDDEN FRUIT.
OLD GENT: “I see they forbid tipping here .”
WAITER: "Yes, sir. But I broke my mothers
heart through disobedience .”
“ Sac* ” : I’m going to advise my friends
to take “P.J.J.’s” word (B. 8/2/’O6) about
lizards’eggs being “delicious.” Tried goannas
eggs years ago, and have been content to let the
matter rest just there ever since. Was clean out
of tucker and the “ go.” was the first thing that
happened along. Would have had its tail only
my dog made the usual mess of it in trying to
drag it out of a hole in the bank of a creek. In
exploring its anatomy for an edible portion came
across five eggs. I tried to boil ’em hard ; but
after 20 minutes gave it up and tackled them soft.
? —Well, as near as I can get to it, they were
like thick flour and water and custard-powder
that had suddenly developed a meaty taste and
then gene bad. I discharged more cargo than I
took aboard, and, even after belting the dog for Ins
clumsiness, didn’t seem nearly square with its
profit and loss account.
“ S.S.” : Ed-
house, in my town-
ship, had a fine
draught entire, of
which he was enor-
mously proud.
The beast was cer •
tainly a beauty,
and as docile as a
pet lamb. Ed-
house was so proud
of his horse that
he spent an hour
or so every day
grooming and
polishing him for
pure vanity. It
dawned upon the
proud proprietor
one morning that
Bigßen wasiosing
his dash ; he was
no longer the
splendid animal
he had been, and
Edliouse was very
much perturbed
over the loss of
spirits and sheen
and equine splen-
dor in his favorite.
After some time
the suspicions of
his neighbor
Cotely were
aroused, and he
determined to set
up a night watch.
On the third night
the rouseabout
called Edhouse to
come and see for
himself the cause
of the worry. He
was led to Cotely’s
back paddock,
where Cotely, in-
dustrious man,
was hard at it,
toiling by moon-
light, carting
stones off the land,
and the horse in
the shafts of the
dray was Edhouse’s horse. Edhouse burst
into raving and threatening language. Whats
yer trouble?” asked Cotely, like the rnrld
Scotchman he was. “ I rouble, trouble . ycHwl
Edhouse; “why, you scamp,, thats
my horse you're working. What. cried
Cotely in great surprise, staring at the
horse “Eh, mon, so it is your bonnie
horse, and I was thinkin’ it was my am animal;
but what can ye expeckit from a man sair short-
sightit as lam ? ” The point of the excuse lay m
the fact that Cotely had no horse of his own, and
the dray he was using he had borrowed surrep-
titiously from Hogan on the other side.^
“Falder”: -Re “Hamer ”011 new-chumsleep-
ing in hat rack of railway-carriage (B. 30/11/’O5).
Remember a similar instance when travelling from
Newcastle to Sydney years ago, only this trouble
was about chocks. Aunt was taking us to the
metropolis for a change. We got into the express
after much running about (train full), the guard
finally jamming us into a first class occupied >y a
statelv dowager and two daughters. Bach of us
kids was armed with a big bunch of Christmas
bush and a pair of fowls in a sugar bag We stuck
the fowls in line along the hat-rack above the
stranger’s head, Aunt’s gear filling the other rack.
The dowager and suite sat in haughty silence, in
spite of Aunt’s repeated.offers of cold steak sand-
wich and tea across the Xmas bush, which pretty
well filled up the carriage itself. Ihe atmosphere
was getting oppressive till, rounding a turn, a pair
of brahmas jerked out of the rack, and re-bounde 1
off the dowager’s hat and on to her lap. Aunt
made a dive to replace the bag of shrieking fowl,
and nearly knocked one daughter s eyes out with
the Christmas bush. The other girl then hurried y
put the fowls back. The old lady s face expressed
a horror of the hens the rest of the trip. At every
lurch her eyes involuntarily peered up at the
scared fowls above her head. The daughters eyes
were fixed stonily on Aunt, who chewed the steak
sandwiches and drank tea out of the black bottle
with cheerful indifference. As we changed at
Strathfield there was surely no occasion for the
old lady to call the guard there, and make an ex-
hibition of herself as she did.
EASILY RECTIFIED.
BILLIAM : “ Hello! you’ve got up wrong leg first. Try again.”
JOHNNIE : “ Oh, th-that’s all wight. Tut-turn the horse wound.”
Dr. Kenny furnishes Austral Light with an
account of his recent visit to New Norma, the
Aboriginal Mission and Spanish Benedictine
Monastery of Westralia :
The mission was founded in 1845, by Dom Salvado. It
is 82 miles north of Perth, near Moore River, where the
Dom was guided by Bob, an aborigine, who 3'et survives.
The mission is technically called an Abbey, and the pnn
cipal ecclesiastical stations served by its clergy include
Marah, Wyening, Berkersliire, Walley, Welbing, Danda-
raga, Moore, Gillingara, Wanamal, Gingin Bmdoon,
Goomaling, and Southern Cross. The Government re-
serve conceded to the mission, renewable every 10 j ears, is
10 000 acres, but it has some kind of title to lease two
other areas of 13,000 and 25 000 acres The mission hasi a
freehold of 25,000 acres, and a leasehold of 300,000 acre.,
in addition to all the foregoing. „ , ..
Access is over the private Midland Railwaj Co. s line
from Perth to Megumber station, 79 miles, en route
for Geraldton. Megumber, as the line runs, is 15 miles
off the mission, and there is a coach twice a week. Ihe
mission conveyance, however, waits for authorised visi-
tors. Dom Salvado usgd personally to drive his own
bullock team to and fro in trips from Perth. While visit-
ing Rome, he died there in December, 1900, aged 8 . The
present mission head is Abbot Bishop Torres. In 1904 he
brought from Spain seven sisters of St. Teresa, who have
charge of the aboriginal girls. In the New Norcia Abbey
jurisdiction there are also now 15 priests and 41 lay
The aborigines number over 300, of all ages and both
sexes. They are housed in two-roomed bnck-and-plaster
cottages, oiie family to each cottage. Water is laid on to
every one. The furniture is pretty good. Kenny noticed
everywhere also rifles, guns, saddles and bridles. As a
doctor, he obtained an intimate acquaintance with the
surroundings, being, of course, in request. The blacks
are all well and comfortably clad, and speak good English.
There is a large general store, where provisions, clothing,
boots, tobacco, firearms, ammunition, &c., are sold at cost
price. The Government allows the Mission £250 a year ,
it is nearly self-supporting, and, considering its vast area
of land and its cheap labor, it certainly should be.
The week before Kenny’s arrival two of the prizes at a
ploughing match against white farmers with two-furrow
ploughs, were won by the Mission blacks. Thej aie
variously adept at boot-making, gardening, attending to
horses, assisting in Hour nulls, or as wheelwrights, black-
smiths, butchers, bakers, &c. In the carpenters shop,
vineyard, and orchard some extra white labor is hired,
but the main work is by the lay brothers (nearly all
elderly men) and the blacks. An aborigine has
even been post and telegraph clerk at the Govern-
ment office on the station. There is a stone
flour-mill, with a steam-engine of English make.
Waggons and sulkies are built, horses shod, cattle, sheep,
and pigs slaughtered and dressed, olive oil made, grapes
grown and wine made. Vast number of pigs are raised
and sold or turned into sausages, hams and bacon. The
most modern types of strippers, reapers and bmders,
cultivators, ploughs, sowers, &c., are worked by the
aborigines. Every kind of fruit and vegetable thrives.
There is a solid wool-shed, with first-class press. The
last clip topped the Westralian market at Is per lb. tor
greasy. Horse-breeding has been a great feature. Ihe
station has shipped 46 horses at once to Calcutta.
* * * *
“ Wilbea ” : The Bulletin’s red cover
is considered by the black brother of Papua far
superior to turkey-red for personal adornment.
“The Prooshan”: Out west, along the
Lachlan, sand flies prove very troublesome to
horses. Of course, the wetter the season, the
worse the pest is. Sometimes, near sunset, they
appear like a cloud between the eye and the sun.
They settle in plenty along the under part of a
horse’s neck, and jab their little spikes in till the
poor beasts are nearly maddened If the hand is
wiped quickly along the neck it will be covered
with blood. The leaves of the sandalwood, or
rosewood, as it is sometimes called, are mostly
burnt when camp is pitched, and there is no need
to run the horses up or halter them. I hey all de-
liberately walk into the smoke to be rid of the
flies. If you once catch a troublesome horse while
the flies are on him, and relieve him of them,
vou’ll have no trouble to look for or catch him the
next day. He’ll come up and look for you.
WANDER-LUST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Oh ! the wander-lust has clutched me, I must be up and
going l > iv
•Tis the voice of my lone Mother calling where the big
gums grow.
I must tramp along her bye-ways till the sunset s glint is
glowing,
For the wilderness is heaven when the wander lust you
know.
Where the black swans croon at twilight; where the
plover shrill are calling ;
Where the shy cranes wheel at dawnlight round the wan-
dering river’s bend; , . ~
Where the mopokes mope the night through and the
manna sweet is falling,
With the wander-lust upon us, there our steps must ever
trend.
And the silence of our Mother, her deep, unfathomed
brooding, , ,
With her shadows and her night-cries, and the darkness
over all; .
With her dawn-hours weird and mystic, her phantasies
deluding—
Ah ! how her wander-lustful children hearken to her call!
VIC.
RITA SUYASEE.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
A'o notice ( except of a hostile character) unil be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped, mine amt
address must appear on MS. So liability is under •
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
J. F. Yon P. : Well, Protection may not
«• solve the whole problem,” but it is quite certain that it
is a necessary foundation for all labor legislation. It is
no good legislating for fair wages and hours and condi-
tions in industries without taking care that there are
industries.... 0.15.: The Neild incident was, after all,
only a pretext. N.S.W. Labor party had decided to ‘ get
from under” Reid long before that, finding him to be an
incurable shuffler... .G.T. : Sorry, but the B. can’t find
room for a long yarn half-contradicting what is a matter
of common knowledge, that the French do
affect to despise the French Republic. The d'lleience .it
issue is really only a point of v,e ";. • C Y °" Ue
French Royalist—the writers sympathies are Re
publican. That some French Royalists aie loyal
citizens of the Republic we take ycur w° rd . and
we take our contributor’s word that some are n0t....
Itan : That Herr gentleman should find somotViiMK beUer
to do with his patience than writing vast numbers of
words on a threepenny bit. Who w . ant f F" fc o nfe T hose
“ thrill?” F.O. : What's the use of carping t those
British labor men will be, if they come, most y b ind
Freetraders, and the Australian Labor leader is rig t
in hoping that they will keep off the fiscal question .
F.R.K.O. : As a horse poet you don’t shine. A sample .
... .Australian Abroad (Aachen): Can’t tell till the stuff
ernnes • but there ought to be somethin'!; interesting to
sav about the condition of protected .German factory
workers W.O’D. : Too obviously modelled on Kipling.
The lines you refer to are, we think, William V\ atson a .
Hard-up : Too conventionally sentimental for 15.....
Matana : Versification clumsy and erratic. ...J.J.G..i00
formal and pretentious... .Diver : Dived-into the basket I
W. Brenta: Too straggly and unequal. . . .Falder .
“ Yoshiwara ” remarks more true than P^able.
pps. : Very laborious humor... .W.M.S. . your pnysi
oiogv is at fault. The poison of viperine snakes certainly
does not have on the blood the effect you describe
BIID • Yes, on sending the cuttings to Bullet
accountant... .Teddy : You have humor. youeouU
strike the right subjects J. Whitely. Miseramy
illegible.... Horace H. : Regulation bush-hero poem, With
all the usual “properties” worked in. ..Wang. None
any good but the crowd-story, and that is well stricken
fn years Truly Rural: Good material, rather unsk.l-
-uIU treated.. Cup : Absolute rubbish !... .Morris :
“ Failure,” duli and prosy. Other, feeble and llr ‘ lt * ter ‘
estiii'.- Nulla : “ Maloney ” has too many weak spots....
Samarang : You have apparently plenty of troops, but you
can t mobilise them... M.G.H.S.: Glib, but superficial and
unconvincing... .Dan W. : Just a glimmer of sense in t.
AS.: Hopeless Commie : Sound sentiment, but
poor verse.. Ruffy: Humor too watery.... H. McPY j
There’s a good story m the incident but yon
it too dully....Granna: Well, we’re not more than
ordinarily stupid, but what was at the window No
use writing yarns which few will understand ..
Mirv • Yarns too long and too thin... .H.G. . tlaia y
good enough; such light verse calls for a very n.mb e
hand Weeroona : Unrelievedly ghastly... .Tom tree
man ' Promising, but that is a 11... -L.P.N. : Far too long
for tlie interest There’s matter for a good par and jou
write about two cols AJW :As far as you know,
yes - but vain has been told before in 8.. . .The Hack .
Prettv album verse of the sort we don t publish....
Microbe • Your good sentiment and your bad verse are
now fighting with one another in the abyss .. .Juvenis.
Palnablv • but you’ll grow older and better, as jou
havesome skill .f. .Hamer : “Effect ’’ basone good touch,
at the end : otherwise it is not brightly told. ■ ■ E. • • • •
Not enough story for the space.... Morris. A Family
herald story so “genteel ’’as to be positively vulgar -^ •_
Reveille: You haven’t the verse faculty ... .Phoenix .
Didn’t rise.... Troubadour: Hardly original enough in
thought. .. .P. Heath : Pretty bit of pastoral verse, but
'L AT, nnr line L R.S. : Unreal Beit M. .
Toocrudely melodramatic... .M. O’M.: Not in our line
thanks.. ..G W. W. : Well, our opinion of any poMmal
varn told bv Senator Drake is p00r....H. . The Sea,
mvenious but orvptic Roma: You state some unfor-
tunate and familiar facts without suggesting any reined 3.
A G.R. : Rather flabby and ill-finished... .A.M.8.R..
Fairly good, but the sentimentally reminiscent vein palls
f little .Juvenis: “Finis” has a good idea, indif-
ferently handled “Nemesis” is pithy, but too con-
ventional of treatment Shandy : Logic bad, ' O' - ®®
worse R- Mcß. : There’s stuff in you, but your method
is faulty Cultivate simplicity of statement and direct-
nf evnression.. .. W.R.A. : Dunedin, roughly speak-
jn<>- • hut the exact antipodal point to Greenwich lies 700
miles to S.E M.O.G. : Sample ®ent not pronnsing -
Pan : A lamentable production 1.. -.G.0. - Ye® »nprov_
ing * hut you’ve a long way to travel j et. ■.. • ... ~ .
' Steve H„ C.T A., Cadette, Ben Isaf, W.E.L.,
Fla via, F.T.8., A.C.L., Elmore, P.0.P., N.P.T.S., E.8.M.,
G.A.P., 8.M., Arthur C., Jack Wilmott.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Fox: Drawings quite hopeless... .Allis : Just fails....
SS‘No it has not sufficient merit—not nearly enough.
B. Pop : Quite hopeless. You’d better draw wood
** * V for a 5ne11.... Bundy : Sketches should be
drawn a little larger than the intended size of the repro-
duction A.B. : Both chestnuts D.L.L. . Witn
more practice you ought to turn out some good
your sense of humor is g00d.... W.E.J. • Your national
debt” sketch shows promise ; but still
HA. : Sketch better than the gag.. ..L.C. . Neither tne
telephone sketch nor gag good enough...
Sketches are being returned to you.oppose
there is some humor in your drunken sketch, but it
would take a microscope to see it... .C.D. . ooirj not up.
If the jokes you speak about had been accepted you
would have received a cheque for them.... Unsuitable .
J P D H C.H., A. Dee, Lockwood, J.A.I.
Balfour’s leadership of the Preferentialists
is likely to hefluidir. Bi tso long as it is inspired
by the right brand of ilmd—D.O.L. whisky
much may be achieved. It is well that IJ.C.L.—
the Whisky of the Wisest—should be Balfour s
favorite spirit, lie started a year ago to drink it
in preference to other brands and m another five
years it may have converted him to Protection.
Both Flan and Bat Rowan excited
wor watcliin the race ivery inch ;
Flan a piece from he’s top lip had bited,
and Rowan he’s neighbour did'pinch
But the chisnut though bravely he fighted
now the Bay full a lingth of him led,
till Rowan Rale hot and excited
cried out to the Jock are ye dead.
Those words seem’d to bring back the smses
of horse and roider just thin,
for, rale mad, byes, he rushed oer the hnces
and brought him up livil agin.
But, by remembering God, say some,
We keep our high Imperial lot.
Fortune, I fear, hath oftenest come
When we forgot —when we forgot 1




]\eid
Thrift Commissions report,
if is,, m«s't ' l>* ignored .
A S‘ "
I /
3r / / says "f?e
/ / be a hrjewberof
/ / ife G^stt/icKe^
''perfect - .
Y7<2 ' * Hk]
iv s I6M
(W l
*7^K|
decked J X
ftt-t
r ser»'T says
Army »S
SWe C^orc^
A u S *.—-•* olt! no <W£e! y°* Ao^‘
•= T, , -fe-t-KUKee is'h le -MsM’
.-t S oP « e oW Uniforms in
6'fftro
dons of , lot>Hy jn^e
lollie S V
| o ro{ S Weet s
View f oir
Qe*»T % s°° WT a
M |
- W
A^^npf, • |j
(o„i,j Wk ft V-s »«f i '" r
i||fer>''--:'-.\V
is"fo
L^sH ed °f V %
i o j. . W\
ifilK [P*ly }>*}>J|
mm irt i
FlwteStjgjr*
o o? '
Pe^~'y
IT w^
gfV&s«i •forwfo.a swu
fP give ** £*hibru&»i »h V»d °f
[jiuHlVe's 'f “* **k*
.V* scoaled .
We don^"”"Scoirf^~Vt’"-**■ * gdod
"Ke WorKed irdo Corners
Screen would $MVfe
CfV'ViW i\h iblcru^iov^CbV^r.
— l^ow
H| dallied J dov>t~
r - £o v>' see v/U'f'y
'To%* riddle H. $4
BENT AND OTHER STOUT SUBJECTS.


m
as
■
-
m
A
glfli
Price 2G ci bottle of Odol, lasting for several months (the half-size bottle 1/6). Of All Chemists.
Sole Representatives for Australasia: ROBERT H. BARBER & CO., LTD., GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
When the news of the suicide of a man
supposed to be De Rougemont came through, the
comment of one Melbourne paper man : “If the
report originates with Rougemont himself, I
attach no credence to it whatever.”
E.'J. Brady, who is acting as secretary to
the Victor Daley Fund, is that rare bird, a poetic
writer with a business instinct. Brady writes
editorials as well as verses, but his sheet anchor in
life is looking after the business side of a paper,
the advertisements.
Justice Chubb has openly stated that if
Attorney-General Blair is elevated to the Q.
Supreme Court Bench he will go out. The main
charge against Blair is that he is a young man and
lacks experience. If his qualifications are good,
youth should be no objection. A few young
Judges are wanted in Australia.
Governor Le Hunte, during the recent
voyage of the official S. Aus. steamer Governor
Musgrave round Kangaroo Island, took spells at
navigating the vessel. One of his predecessors
(Lord Kintore) used to drive the engines of special
trains by which he travelled. He had learned
engineering in the workshops of one of the big
English railway companies. They try hard to be
useful, these Governors.
Joseph Carrutliers, when informed that
Willis was not to be extradited, smugly remarked
to Sydney D.T. reporter :
He was very much surprised. He had not the least
idea that it would be in the direction given. It might,
however, he mentioned that Willis himself offered to
come hack.
Yes, it might be mentioned—with a finger to the
nose. Having spent all that money in staying
away, Willis is very likely to return !
The decision of Coglilan to accept the
Agent-Generalship, leaves his billet of State
Statistician vacant. Mr. Hall, who has been
acting as locum tenens, and turning out
excellent work, lias a lien on the post, but he is
the man about whom parson Rutledge kicked
up a sectarian row, and the Yellow Pup has
already started to demand that he be not per-
manently appointed. Tomato Jessop has darkly
hinted at tremendous things should Premier Car-
ruthers dare to appoint Hall to the position.
Rather a noble game—State politics !
BILLY WATT, M.L.A., VICTORIA.
One Smith, who committed suicide a few
weeks ago, at Oodnadatta, in Central Australia,
is alleged to have been, by his own statements,
the famous Louis, de Rougemont, who rode on
t irtles in Torres Straits, and associated with
niggers who used pots and pans of pure gold. The
difficulty is that Rougemont was most unreliable,
and .Smith, if he was Rougemont, must have been
quite unreliable also, and therefore his statement
that he was Rougemont goes for nothing. On the
other hand, if he wasn’t Rougemont, his assertion
that he was shows him equally unreliable. Any-
how, he was called Smith, and he is dead.
Vicar E. S. Hughes, of Sfc. Peter’s, Melb.,
is now the rage. He was doing shocking
bad business towards the close of December,
when a Society paper reporter dropped in
and wrote an account of his Ritualistic
proceedings. Press correspondence followed,
and now the house is crowded out, with silver
trickling into the pla.tes. Rev. Hughes is a
Cobram native. Educated at Melbourne Church
of England Grammar School. Was seven years
in the Mint. Studied for the Church under
Leeper, who has also turned out Bishop Green
and Bishop Armstrong. He is a little over 40,
very tall, strikingly good-looking. Vowed he
would never marry, but married money and
beauty.
Leslie J. Park, recently dead at Mel-
bourne, aged 63 years, was all his life an insur-
ance man. At the age of 18 he joined the A.M.P.
and remained for 22 years, when he was appointed
(1882) secretary to the Colonial Mutual. After-
wards he was general secretary, and then general
manager.
New Anglican Bishop of Adelaide (Dr.
Thomas) has a father and mother both ardent
Methodists.
Health of S.A. R.C. Archbishop O’Reily
has been very unsatisfactory since his return from
Rome, and he is seldom seen in Adelaide now.
Dean Russell fell down stairs in Adelaide
20 years ago and died from the injuries ; his
daughter, aged 53, fell down stairs in Adelaide
last week and died from the injuries also.
A bright and remarkably youthful-looking
mother of 22 children lately voyaged from Maori-
land to Melbourne. Her 10 sons and their father
form a fairly strong cricket team down in Seddon’s
land.
Working Men’s College, Melbourne, takes
Sid. Bellemey as lecturer in electricity and allied
subjects. Mr. Bellemey is a brilliant student of
Sydney University, and won the P. N. Russell
scholarship.
Bishop Marsden, a grandson of historic
Sam Marsden, has been appointed Canon of
Bristol (England) Cathedral. He was born in
Sydney and was for some years Bishop of
Bathurst. It is more than 20 years since he left
Australia.
Recently-deceased ex-County Court Judge
Rogers, when retiring from the Bench, offered to
accept £lO,OOO in full settlement of his pension
rights. The offer was refused by the Vic. Govern-
ment, and as he lived for nearly 30 years a pen-
sioner, he drew close on £20,000.
“ Nap ” : Tried to remember, the other
day, the Australian Premiers who had committed
poetry. Got as far as Duffy, Parkes, Dailey
(acting Premier), M‘Lean, Shiels, Kidston,
Bent, Reid, and then arrived at the con-
clusion that they had all been guilty of the
offence. The faculty of saying things having more
than one meaning with an element of obscurity is
an essential part of the equipment of both poet
and politician.
Still alive and flourishing in Westralia are
an old couple, Mr. and Mrs. George Bell, whose
marriage is recorded on Folio 3, Volume 1, of the
State’s register. Mrs. Bell’s father is supposed to
have been the first discoverer of gold in Westralia ;
but he was obliged to keep the find secret for
fear of provoking trouble among the convicts.
Yet the old lady remembers that for a long while
—it was about 1849—her father maintained the
family as a “digger,” he and one servant working
a claim secretly.
Mr. J. C. Davis, Under-Secretary for
Works (N.S.W.), whose salary and allowances
make his billet one of the best in the service, has
dropped in for another good thing. He applied
for long leave, and, in addition to granting
it, the Government has undertaken to pay all his
travelling expenses in consideration of his making
a report on irrigation in Europe. He is one of
the few public servants in N.S.W. who can make
things worth while.
When George Chaffey finally left Mildura for
America, his son Ben stayed on, and took up many
ventures which had the knack of turning out well.
Having married into the squatting family of
Crozier, he has now gone into the grazing line and
is feeling his way with two stations, Moorara and
Burtundy, on the Darling. His uncle, W. B.
Chaffey sticks to Mildura, and is “ the last of his
tribe” there.
J. H. Maiden, as hon. secretary of the
Joseph Banks Memorial Fund, appeals to Aus-
tralians to help in erecting the proposed statue,
on the ground, among others, that Banks was a
“white” man. He was a good-natured, liberally-
disposed, and scientifically-trained man, no doubt,
but the word “white” doesn’t suit Banks. His
leading idea was to make Botany Bay a sort of
colored settlement, and he argued for importing
cheap labor from China, and black women from
Otaheite and other islands.
Baker Russell, who has just received fur-
ther army promotion, has still many schoolfellow
admirers in N.S.W. He was raised on the
Hunter River, and had the rudiments pounded
into him at the King’s School, Parramatta. The
Indian Mutiny gave him his first show. He was
only 22 at the time, but had command of a Hussar
troop, and he chased the enemy through central
India. There, and afterwards at Kumasi and
Ashanti, he was appointed to the tracking
department—his reputation for being able to
track Australian aboriginals having a great hold
on the English War Office. He is now 69.
Dr. Nicholas Senn, a Swiss, the eminent
Surgery Professor at Chicago University, visited
Auckland, Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide last
year, inspecting all the hospitals and making
numerous professional friends. His volume
“ A Tour Round the World,” from articles con-
tributed to the journal of the American Medical
Association, is just to hand, with plenty about
Australasia. He is surprisingly kind to the
Sydney and Melbourne hospitals. States that
wallaby tendon has become a very popular sub-
stitute for catgut in the practice of many Ameri-
can surgeons. “The English accentis worse in Mel-
bourne than in London, and makes the language
sometimes unintelligible to an American.” He
writes of the eucalypt as “an intolerant, jealous,
selfish, anarchistic tree, its greatest virtue being
its unconquerable patriotic sentiments.”
Sainsbury, the new detective boss of Vic-
toria, made his first mark 16 years ago when he
was a plain but astute and courageous D. He was
doing duty up Bendigo way, and got charge of an
unsavory case where a farmer and his daughter
were concerned. It was a delicate affair to touch ;
it was hard to get evidence, and the man was a
dangerous character to tackle. Sainsbury lived
under the hedges and fences of the farm for some
days and nights. When he saw a baby buried
in the farm he thought his work was done,
so he came from his hiding place, covered the first
grave-digger with his revolver at many paces,
threw him a pair of handcuffs, and commanded
him to put them on. The offender got 10 years.
WILLIS DISCHARGED.
And Premier Carrutliers, of course, very
disgusted.
N.S.W. Agents-general since Responsible
Government: —Edward Hamilton, Mayne, Cow-
per, Forster, Stewart, Samuel, Copeland, and
Coglilan. There were several stop-gaps, such as
Cooper, Jersey and Salomons. Stewart was ap-
pointed in November, 1870, but resigned in April,
1880, without formally taking over the office.
President Roosevelt, in permitting his
daughter to accept wedding presents from ruling
sovereigns, is not following the example of prede-
cessor Cleveland. When Cleveland celebrated
his presidential occasion by getting married, he
refused a gorgeous gift from the Sultan of Turkey,
stating that it would be contrary to the spirit, if
not the letter, of the American Constitution for
a President to let himself be treated as a member
of the monarchical circle.
Judgeships appear to be at a discount in
Australia at present. Irvine, the Iceberg, has
just refused the offer of one, preferring appa-
rently to seek distinction in the lists of Federal
politics ; and perhaps reckoning himself a Prime
Minister of the Commonwealth in posse. In
Westralia, Mr. Moss, honorary Minister, wilt-
ing before a cloud of public disapproval evoked
by the proposed appointment, including even
remonstrances by the Barristers’ Board, has also
declined the proffered honor. Rumor has it
that Walter James, now Agent-General, will don
the vacant horsehair, and so facilitate the removal
of Mr. Moss to a more distant sphere of useful-
ness.
Mrs. Benjamin Baxter, who died at
Frankston (Vic.) last month, was widow of Capt.
Baxter, late of the 50th ’ Regiment. He was
appointed clerk of petty sessions and Melbourne’s
first postmaster in ’37, and his wife did most of
the postal work. The G.P.O. was then a small
wooden building in Flinders-street, opposite the
present fish markets. One day in ’39 the barque
Thomas Laurie, 300 tons, being notified to sail for
London, Mrs. Baxter had the temerity to make
up a mail and send it by the vessel direct to
London, instead of as usual shipping it round to
Sydney and thence on. That was the first mail
from Melbourne to London. If the Sydney
officials thought anything of this gross flouting of
the Ma State they kept it to themselves. There
was no Joseph in Sydney then.
Yic. Premier Bent’s offer of a judgeship to
Attorney-General Davies reminds that the Irvine
Cabinet —of which Bent’s is a continuation—has
been very good to itself all through the piece.
First, Kirton, hon. Minister, was appointed chair-
man of Ballarat Water Commission; then
Taverner, Lands Minister, was made Agent-
General ; Mackey, hon. Minister, was offered (and
declined) a County Court judgeship ; Murray and
Mackey were appointed trustees of the Melb.
Cricket Ground; Swinburne was mentioned as
Chairman of the Water Supply Commission, and
that may still happen ; Langdon was dittoed for
Geelong Harbor Commission and still has a chance
for Water Commissioner ; Irvine was offered a
Supreme Court judgeship and declined, and now
Davies gets the option.
Late James Bon wick had a marked animus
against John Pascoe Fawkner, the original Grand
Old Man of Melbourne. It appears in his book,
“John Batman, the Founder of Victoria,” pub-
lished in 1867, and again in “ Port Phillip Settle-
ment,” published 15 years later. Bonwick gave
Batman all the credit he deserved for being pro-
bably the actual pioneer of white settlement on
the Yarra banks, whilst Fawkner got less credit
than he deserved for being, if not the first settler,
the undoubted first man of affairs in the new com-
munity. Bonwick seems to have set himself the
task of belittling Fawkner’s real claim to im-
portance, by always harping on the alle-
gation that the old in an claimed more
than his due. Yet he couldn’t shift the main
truths. Batman and Fawkner were competing
pioneers at the outset, and which of them got a
little ahead of the other is a question of minor
importance. Batman was the reckless fellow who
died within five years of his first trip down the
Yarra. Fawkner was the busy citizen who sur-
vived. Drink had a lot to do with Batman’s
decease, and Fawkner was the early pub.-keeper
who sold the poison, and the early printer who
published his rival’s obituary notice. Bonwick
arrived in Melbourne at about the time when
Batman died. It seems more than likely that
Fawkner snubbed the young man, and continued
to snub him without regard to the fact that he
was writing books.
According to the Age’s London corres-
pondent, Henniker Heaton was particularly im-
pressed, during bis recent hasty visit, by “the
affectionate regard and esteem displayed towards
Mr. Chamberlain in Australia. In many parts of
the country he found that he was almost idolised.”
And still Henniker didn’t get his baronetcy.
Charles Booth, the Liverpool man who is
responsible for the free exhibition in various
countries of Holman Hunt’s painting, “The Light
of the World” (now on view in Melbourne), has
done good work as editor and chief writer of the
17 volumes of “Life and Labor of the People in
London.” He has impartially set forth facts that
must be invaluable to those who attempt to raise
the “submerged” masses of the big city. Booth
has not confined himself to writing about London
distress. In a quiet way he has done a great deal
for its amelioration. It is his misfortune to be
sometimes confounded with the Salv’army sweater.
But he is not even related to that personage.
A surprise was sprung upon the editor of
The Bulletin on the eve of his departure from
Wellington (last Saturday week) after a vacation
spent in M.L. Mr. Edmond was invited to lunch
as the guest of past and present contributors resi-
dent in Wellington. Gresley Lukin, an ex-
Australian who edits the Evening Post, presided,
and others present were : Arthur H. Adams
(author of “Maoriland” and other verses and
“ Tussockland,” who is associate editor of the
M.L. Times), Will Lawson (author of the
“Red Road” and other verses), A. E. Currie,
of Christchurch (who was runner-up this
month for M.L.’s Rhodes scholarship), James
Cowan (Tourist Department), Tom L. Mills
(an old-time contributor, on Evening Post
staff, and general-secretary M.L. Journalists’
Institute), George Powick Brown (also of Post
staff), P. J. O’Regan (“Kiwi,” lawyer, and ex-
member of M.L. Parliament), Harcus Plimmer
(M.L. Times), M. L. Reading (M.L. Times),
Claude L. Jewell (associate editor Free Lance),
and W. Francis Chambers. Apologies for un-
avoidable absence were read from M. Cormac
Keane (“ M. Cormac”), John Barr (whois joining
the Sydney Daily Telegraph staff), Hubert
Church, and J. Liddell Kelly (editor M. L.
Times).
WOULD HE?
Mr. Reid reiterates his intention of “stamping out”
Socialism, but it would be more interesting to know just
where his ideas of Socialism begin and end.—J. Cuius.
Watson.
G. H. REID: “Pm waiting for Socialism, I am.”
LATTLE BOY : “ Would you know him if you
saw him, George?”
The Philippine Islands have 10,000 lepers.
That’s part of the white man’s burden that
America assumed.
Dear Bulletin, —“Bronson Elliot” and
the other fellow are both right and both wrong
about Windermere (Vic.) railway station. It is
worked by a man. It is run by a woman. It is
interlocked. The woman does not have to work
the interlocking gear. In the slack months Win-
dermere is a woman-in-cliarge station, but the
guard works the signals and points when any
shunting has to be done. The normal position of
the signals is at “ all right.” In the busy season
(as at present) a man is in charge, and Winder-
mere is switched in as an electric staff and block
station. Hope this settles about Windermere.—
Yours, &c., The Traveller.
The story of Spieler, by “ F.S.”
“ Blimey if it ain’t old Spieler,” said the hard-faced
battler, as he turned over with his foot the carcase of a
dog lying half in and half out of a broken kerosene case.
“ Well, he oughter had more sense than ter stop here and
throw out,” replied his mate ; “ but what’s ther odds—
he wusn’c wuth more'n a dollar. Pitch ’im in ther
river.” Spieler was a big mongrel picked up on the road-
side, as a pup, about 12 months before his death,
by a couple of the battlers who follow country
shows from district to district working sweat
tables, the three - card trick, rifle galleries, &c.
The men had driven an old leg - weary screw
into the town, on their way to the show, to be held three
days later, at Goroke, some 35 miles distant. Pulling up
at an ancient deserted mill, they prepared to spend the
night. Spieler, tired with following under the waggon
all day, gladly stretched his weary legs in front of the
newly-lighted fire. Making an early departure on
the following morning, they either overlooked the
old kerosene case, used as a tucker box, or discarded
it as useless and left it behind ; nor did they notice
the absence of Spieler, away foraging for breakfast
for himself. When the dog returned and found
the camp deserted, he at once recognised the old box
and, under the impression that that was his charge, went
on guard. Day and night he never left it for an instant.
Did any of the township children attempt to make friends
with him, a growl warned them that he would stand no
interference with his trust. Spieler’s frame gradually
grew thinner. On the morning of the ninth day, with his
head turned in the direction of the still faintly-outlined
wheel tracks, Spieler’s vigil ended. “He wusn’t wuth
more’n a dollar. Pitch ’im in the river.” That was his
burial service when his owners came back that way three
days after his death.


AS A PLEASANT PROMENADE
Where people may, as the OLD SONG has it,
“WALK AND TALK AS THEY PLEASE,”
and where, on every side, are CHARMING DISPLAYS ol the WORLD'S COMMODITIES,
15he NEW
Palace Emporium
Left their Dollars.
stands UNRIVALLED. No EXHIBITION held in
Australia ever made such a show, and few of
the SPLENDID TRADE PALACES of EUROPE and
AriERICA can beat it. This is THE VERDICT of
people who have TOURED THE WORLD, who have
LEFT THEIR DOLLARS in famous CHICAGO
stores, and tasted the DELIGHTS of SHOPPING in
LONDON AND PARIS.
ITS WAYS are NOT THE WAYS of other Stores; they are PECULIAR
Expects Cash Down.
to ITSELF. IT EXPECTS CASH DOWN from its
PATRONS, but in return it GIVES GREATER
VALUE than ANY OTHER STORE does or can. It
plays THE PART of BENEFACTOR to THE PUBLIC
in these parts, and all who are WISE ENOUGH to
ACCEPT THE BENEFITS it confers are NEVER
TIRED of SINGING ITS PRAISES.
V
- - .1. r : :
am
S*|:»
mm
X3he New Palace Emporium.
Then it may be interesting to know that THE GOOD
Never tired of singing
its praises.
FAIRY who watches OVER the fortunes
of THIS WONDERFUL STORE LIVES IN
THE FORM OF
Aijtbooy Nordero’S
Fan>o(iS Low Prices-
AntHony Hordern <SL Sons,
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS £>
PALACE EMPORIUM, SYDNEY
AvSR YOUR GROCER
For a 21b. Package of H.O. Self-Raising'
BUCK WHEAT
flakes DELICIOUS PANCAKES. H.O. BUCKWHEAT is used in all good American Homes
Use neither Salt, Yeast, nor Baking Powder. If your Grocer has not got it, send to
Fresh Stock received by each Boat.
437 KENT STREET, SYDNEY
-For
Beaut i/ul
Hair at alt
Ages,. - u
—-Coixyjlt
- Hair -f
Specialist
191 Collins St
MELB2URNE
£ IIP#
V'
/ t
S 1
L
PQOL-E. i? Bt ACK OtS ,flNC "S
HOLLAND’S MARVELLOUS HAIR RESTORER
Has gained a world-wide reputation foi-arrestingAhe Premature Decay
and giving Lustre to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is Ihin, IKX 11.
Price, 3s, 4s, ss, Postage 9d and Is extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE
For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for
MAKING HAIR GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, ss, Postage Is 2d extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALENE
For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and
Effectively. Price, 5s 6d, Postage Is 2d extra. All Colors. Mention Color when ordering.
A lidv writintr from Denmark, says : “ Your Naturalene for the color of the Hair is all that you claim for it.
Anotherlady 1 wants to buy the formula of his Plytoline, as it has done her hair more good
Another U.TviS >• «- *•» «■»
of Eczema ana Scalp Troubles she has used.
Save us from the Drought
Is the cry of every person. Give us
plenty of rain and sunshine, and our
barns will be filled with plenty, and
our physical wants will be met, and we
shall rejoice oyer the good things of the earth, What a painful sight it is to see nature shrivelled up, and HEAD OF HAIR ? It withers
Eden becomes a wilderness, alllor the want of the germinating showers. Is .t not the Coliins Street,
and decays for the want of suitable nourishment. That is now bemg supplied by Mr. whatever your trouble may be—whether it is a
Melbourne. He has given a life’s study to the Capillary Diseases of tne Hair, and is in a posi ly of pi gme nt and lubricating oil necessary for its
diseased scalp, causing the hair to fall out and becoming grey prematurely, or a dry, hard scalp, cutting oH tne supply p „
growth and Slor. If there is anything wrong with your hair and scalp drop him a line, or use one or more of lus prepaiations t 0”
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 195 Collins St., Melbourne.


King:
b
//
82
S*
&
<S
&
C?
&
>sS>
«
v
#
gft
tf
o
flora*™
DELICATE. & PERSISTENT
WHOLESALE ONLY
MIDDOWS BROTHERS. SYDNEY
MELBOURNE BRISBANE PERTH & WELLINGTON**
HIGH-CLASS COMFORTS.
BUCHANAN « OTARD-DUPUY
WHISKY BRANDY
QUALITY and AGE.
.The New C^orsets
For Distinction of
SHAPE, DESIGN,
and STYLE. . • .
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, February 20, 1906.
My Dear Arini,—
This poor but deserving State, which has been
as dull and quiet as a monument dressed in black,
will welcome the Northcotes’ return about the
end of next month. All the musical people know
this by a kind of instinct. Probably the Lady
Northcote's first touch to set the social fan whirr-
ing will be in connection with the Leschetzsky
School of Music that Miss Leverrier is working
at. This gifted pupiL of the gifted old Viennese
will run her school as closely as possible on the
same lines and methods as that of her Master.
Madame Christian will grapple with the vocal
aspect of the enterprise.
Talking of music (“the first of the Seven
Deadly Arts transformed by the mercy of God
into a saving instrument of grace.”) Last week
that white orchid Association known as the
Amateur Orchestral Society held its annual meet-
ing at the Australia Hotel dressed in its evening
clothes. It put Mr. Lachlan Beaton, its vice-
president, in the chair, and straightway that
usually austere Scot set a subtle chord of
musicianly humor vibrating. It’s a most
uncommon quality that of being witty (and
yet intensely respectful) on the subject of
musical instruments, musicians, and the finances
of a musical society. You’d think that years of
sitting in a large square way in the Harbor Trust
and saying “No” to deputations would make
a man’s music mute. Not in this case.
And when the Soc.’s gold badge had been
presented to two of its members, and Signor
Hazon’s work acknowledged in a thanks-
symphony, the meeting broke into a perfect
orchestration of applause. Another speaker
hoped that others, appreciative of first-class
music given in a first-rate manner, would follow
Lady Northcote’s example and present the scores
of masterpieces to the society’s library.
Miss Elsie Moore, who went hence to New
York some months since companioned by a pretty
Melbourne girl, has got an engagement with
Schubert’s co. According to the little chum, who
has returned, wearing with her steamer frock a
straw hat like an overblown mushroom, with a
velvet crown and a ring of big pink roses,
Elsie has the part of Veronique (rdle that Margaret
Thomas is piping in here) in the opera of that
name. And she is getting £3O a week ! Returners
from America always speak of the high salaries
received by artists, but they don’t mention the
awful cost of living and dressing. That joke in
“ The Belle of New York ” —“ I have left you the
whole of my fortune. You are an heiress. You
will be able to live for a week at the Waldorf
Astoria ” —does not seem so much of a joke when
one is asked, as was Florence Young, £2O for a
pretty, stylish frock of not by any means costly
material or dazzling design. There’s a New York
hat of Valenciennes and pink ostrich feathers, a
simple enough if stylish thing, at present pervading
a Sydney hostel. Its wearer paid eight guineas
for it. She wouldn’t be “ robbed ” like that by
any Sydney house. Mrs. Knowles, wife of enter-
tainer Knowles, now monologuing at the
Palace, is a smart American, who is wearing a mag-
nificent frock of pale lace over primrose silk. This
gown, which was on exhibition at the St. Louis
Exposition, is of the sheath skirt cut that defines
the figure, and gives serpentine curves, and makes
one think of Lilith.
Nearly a thousand passengers will be accumu-
lated by the Moldavia on her outward voyage.
The sumptuous vessel left on Saturday carry-
ing manj interesting people, and people who
carry titles, and others who just carry maids
and valets. The Joseph Wards, of Maori-
land, and their daughter, who arrived the day
previous, left by the liner en route to the postal
conference at Rome. These political folk
are very diplomatic even about our weather. Yet
the dense damp heat withered their presentation
flowers, and the sun was like a moonstone
button in the sky the day the P.M.-G. of
M.L. was under the fountain pens of the inter-
viewer. In the evening, he and his party met a
number of Sydneysiders at a dinner given by Mr.
E. Owen Cox, at the Australia Hotel; then they
were haled from the neighborhood of massed pink
roses, electric fans, and elaborate cookery to wit-
ness “Veronique.”
The Wigram Allen widow, for so many years a
local Somebody, was also a departer by the Mol-
davia. She was one of three fluffy daughters of a
Methodist parson who came here in the fifties, and
three leading men married the fluffy trio, and their
descendants inherit (after the manner of the meek)
a lot of the earth.
Austin Chapman, our P.M.-G., his wife and
sec., also off to the Postal Congress, were fare-
welled by a crowd of friends, that stuck closer
than postage-stamps, let alone brothers. They
left by express on Sunday night to catch the liner.
The Chapmans are young people, and the lady is
a native of the neighborhood of Federal capital
site. Her father, the owner of many stations and
the name of O’Brien, is reputed to be worth half
a million. It’s always interesting to be fairly
well-educated in the matter of other folks’ bank
balances.
Mrs. Macaulay, of Mosman, another passenger,
will bring back with her Miss Fiaschi, daughter
of the local surgeon. You may remember the
smart Fiaschi girl went hence to marry one of the
Mumm (wine) family, but bridegroom-elect was in
THE WORM WILL TURN.
HOSTESS (who has chattered a'l through the performance): “Oh, thank you so much! How I
dote on those Songs Without Words.’”
GREAT ARTIST : “ Yes, madam, and what a peety we cannot have conversation wizout worts too !”
such poor health that the event never came off,
and his father, dying about the time of the
fiancee’s arrival, left her, report says, £40,000.
Since then Miss biaschi has been staying with her
grandmother in Rome.
Nigel Barker’s send-off was a Society-ish func-
tion, and as for the coin he got—well, it was the
most rapid collection we ever heard of. £3OO sub-
scribed in a week or so. At the ‘ organised au
revoir was the captain of the Moldavia, Gordon
by name, and with a face like a searchlight.
Looks a superfine boy of the bulldog breed. He
was once the champion amateur boxer of all
England. Nigel Barker is a wispy-looking
youth. Sixty young men from the different
American Universities will represent their terri-
tories at the coming Olympiad at Athens, but only
one (Barker) goes from Sydney ! Judge Back-
house’s remark, “ I don’t know how Mr. Barker
had time for the studies he has confessedly
accomplished, for he seems to have been always
making or breaking records,” was neat and
rounded.
Mr. T. H. Kelly will probably gaud-Mayor it
over Sydney in the near by-and-bye. He is now
an alderman. When a man marries an American
wife, that man’s possibilities, political or civic,
are not allowed to remain in a trance. They are
exploited and directed by a smart mate.
Mr. Kelly married Miss A. Knight Mollison,
who, as everybody knows, is vibrant with energy
and ambition.
A handsome barmaid from a local swell hotel
has married a Melbourne merchant —the flour and
biscuit line—and gone for the grand earth girdle.
Same merchant’s daughter (he is a widower) is
announced as engaged to an operatic artist now
playing in Sydney.
Chorus pullets may preen themselves—because
gilded “ Willie ” Lawson is coming back with such
a motor-car, built for —24.
Short waists, high busts, and flowing skirts will
be hall-marks of the coming fashions, a local dress-
designer tells me. Empire frocks and princess
robes in velvet of quality as light as chiffon. If
you are going to continue to call yourself a lady
you must be dressed in chiffon velvet. But,
query—Will women ever again take to being high-
busted in figure ? The colors to be worn will be
Burgundy, all shades of purple, watercress,
bronze-green, and policeman-blue.
All the San Francisco critics chorus in perfect
tune on the theme of our Nellie Stewart’s success.
One paper calls her “great,” several liken her to
Sara Bernhardt, and compare her, to her advan-
tage, with Mrs. Fiske. Another says she’s “a
dream of beauty.” A third speaks of her fascin-
ating “English brogue.” Nellie told an inter-
viewer of how she soaped a sulky geyser in M.L.,
and it immediately rose towering at once and
hasn’t stopped since. She was in a fearful state
of nerves about her opening night in San Fran.,
feared that people would just chew gum and read
newspapers. The outburst of coo-ees on her
appearance must have heartened her. All the
company are praised as finished artists, and the
only surprising thing to us here is the mention
that Slapoffski is conducting.
Tatt. moves in a very curly-tailed way its
wonders to perform. The result of putting some-
thing on this or that Cup may make you one of
the two principals under a wedding bell or put
you behind the spikes of a criminal court. Son
of a Maoriland Judge was married lately in his
windy city to the girl of his heart. Proposal
and marriage rendered possible by the gentleman
winning £6OOO in a Tatt. sweep. About the time
he was putting up a Te Deum after getting news
of his luck, another young man was (probably)
muttering De profundis, for the bridegroom-elect’s
father was lecturing him severely on the evils of
race-sweeps and gambling ere sentencing him to
so many years hard.
Two very old Sydney families were united in
wedlock at All Saints’, Woollahra, early in the
month, by the representative of another old
Sydney family. N. S. P., son of Abram Orpen
Moriarty, wedded Isabella Lockhart Joan,
daughter of the late Boyd Dunlop Morehead.
Rev. Wallace Mort was the officiating clergyman.
The Moreheads, Moriartys, and Morts were all big
people in Sydney seventy years ago.
One can get some minor distraction these days
when walking abroad by studying the diversity of
belt buckles. Conventional and unconventional
designs, designs of birds, beasts and fishes. The
head of a great Dane in oxydized silver, worn at
the back by a local girl, always caused the sportive
block ornament to say “bow-wow” when she
passed. Now she wears her dog in front, and they
are too courteous to say it to her face.
At a meeting of ladies called by the vicar of an
Anglican church (not in this State) the parson
suggested that to raise funds urgently needed,
they should organise a bazaar, and he was very keen
on having it within a fortnight of the date of the
meeting. The ladies gasped at the short notice,
and bewailed the utter impossibility of raising the
necessary fancy work, etc., in so short a time.
The leading lady rose and protested thusly :
“ How would you like to see us standing behind
the stalls with nothing on?” Before the poor
man could say how he would like it, the shaky
grammar and extreme immorality of the proposi-
tion dawned on the meeting, and it tried to cover
its confusion by headlong conversation, hum-
ming like a hive of bees at swarming time.
The British Australasian tells of the marriage
of George Adams, an old Q. identity, but now
residing in the Cold Country, to his cousin, Miss
Ellen Adams, both past the allotted span. The
special feature of interest is that they courted as
boy and girl, then were divided, and remained
single, until now.
A Dressmaking College is about to be started in
Sydney ; course of six lessons for seven-and-six.
Intending starter says that from this school she
hopes to send out competent workers-by-the-day.
At present such a person is so rare that employers
fawn to her and have to engage her months ahead,
and they won’t give her address to their dearest
friend for fear the latter might want her to make
Paris frocks for the next races just when they
require their own Paris gowns made —in the house
at 4s. a day and fares.
It does seem unjust that married men can stalk
abroad (like the noonday Devil in Scripture) with
never a sign about them to betray their wedded
state. Even if we could compel the bold things
to wear a ring significant of their being noozed
they would surely wear it in their deepest pocket
most of the time, and so try to give the impression,
to the “ pretty bit of pastry ’’ sitting opposite dur-
ing the railway journey that they still live in single
wickedness. It was Bret Harte, I think, who
wrote a bright cynical set of verses about a pretty
woman with unringed fingers, and with whom a
man fell deeply in love, and with whom she flirted
monstrously. He tells his chum of the love affair
as the latter is going to the train to meet his wife.
Wife and flirt turn out to be one and the same
hussy. So, of course, two can play at the ringless
game, only the woman, nine times out of 10, has a
harried married look that betrays the fact that
she’s got a husband to worry her. An American
authority on society wants a law passed com-
pelling men to use the prefix Misterette, unmar-
ried ones to be known as plain Mister. Significant
suggestion ; “ette” is a diminutive, and it would
show plainly the way a man’s importance
diminishes among women when he marries.
In “ The Shop Girl,” to be produced on Satur-
day week, there is a lovely (if minor) part of a
society leader serving at a charity bazaar. “ Mark
that tea-cloth thirty shillings,” she says, to her
daughter, of a costly article ; “ and mark it sold.
It’s just the thing I want.” Report says that one
of Philip Lytton’s amateurs will have the part.
“ Shop Girl ” is of the same school as “ The Girl
from Kay’s” and “ The Circus Girl,” only people
who have seen it in London say it is much funnier
than the Hoggenheimer piece. Several of the
orchestra scores were lost for weeks, but yesterday
they turned up in the Melbourne G.P.0., a fact
that saves the management from reviving “The
Orchid ” while duplicates were being brought from
London.
Two more peers have married actresses—or
chorus girls. Lord de Clifford has taken Miss
Eva Carrington for better or for the other thing,
and Lord Ashburton, Miss Frances Belmont.
Why won’t some actor vary the monotony by
marrying a peeress ! Notice that a month or more
ago May Yohe was seeking in the Berlin Courts
for a divorce against Major Strong, the man on
whose account her former husband, Lord Francis
Hope, divorced her. Co-respondent hints that
there is someone else with a coroneted brow wait-
ing to make May his more or less blushing bride.
Many of us saw her whilst she was here at a
Sydney hotel. Pale face, dark eyes, black hair, a
good figure, and a quiet, bored aspect. Her Lord
Francis was a handsome, healthy-looking, very
fair young man.
Professor MacCallum, of Sydney University,
has contributed to the Daley memorial fund, and
written to the committee a sympathetic letter, ap-
preciative of the deceased poet.
Mr. J. B. Dailey, second son of the late W. B.
Dailey, has gone to Bathurst as editor of the
Bathurst National Advocate. It is a daily with
already a big country circulation, and one that
ought "to quicken with the new man, who is a
polished and witty writer.
Commissioners for the forthcoming M.L. Inter-
national Exhibition are making arrangements
with a view to engaging Madame Dolores for a
series of concerts in the Ex. hall.
The poetically-titled Yicountess Cantelupe, a
sister-in-law of the Tasmanian Governess, is to be
here this week. “ Cantelupe ”is a courtesy frill.
The lady is a comely creature in the middle
thirties, and Captain Jeffreys, her present hus-
band—the first was drowned whilst he and she
were on their honeymoon—is said to be a genial
sort of Grenadier guardsman.
Among engagements announced this week is
that of Mr. W. H. Drew, a Sydney solicitor, to
Miss Ethel Macfarlane. Bride-elect is a visiting
Canadian brunette and smart. She. is step-
daughter of Mr. Stitt, a representative in Sydney
of the All Red line of steamers.
Don’t the advertisers of bargain sales keep a
needle-point eye on each other’s sensational
advts. ? Few weeks ago a firm advertised a boy
as lost in the crush around its bargain counters.
Next day a rival firm intimated that the boy was
found in the sale rush on its premises.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
The beauty of Valaze is that its use is
such a very simple matter. Just before retiring
it should be rubbed well into the skin and allowed
to remain on during the night. “It works its
wonders while you sleep.” It is a pure natural
herbal food, goes straight into the skin, feeding
and nurturing the delicate tissues. It eradicates
freckles, wrinkles, pimples, tan, sunburn, and
leaves the face fair and soft and beautiful. Its
purity is assured. It is the best skin-food known
to medical science to-day, and the only genuine
imported complexion preparation in Australia.
Try a jar; prove its worth. 3s. 6d. and 65.,
posted 6d. extra. New preparations—Blackheads
and Open Pores Cure, guaranteed to cure the most
obstinate cases, 2s. 6d. box; posted 35.; Valaze
Herbal Complexion Soap, one cake lasts six
months, 2s. cake, postage 2d. Valaze Face
Powder, absolutely pure and hygenic, 2s. box,
three tints, postage 2d. Washington H. Soul,
160 Pitt-street, and Civil Service, Pitt-street,
Sydney. All leading chemists, or direct from
Mile. H. Rubinstein and Co., 274 Collins-street,
Melbourne. “ Guide to Beauty ” free.*
It is generally thought that there is no
cure for stoutness, because the usual treatments
only confine themselves to combating single
symptoms instead of attacking the root of the
disease. Pyrolene Pellets remove not only the
superfluous fat, but also the internal deposits of
fat which hinder the action of the heart and lungs.
We advise a trial. Pyrolene Pellets improve the
breathing, give the heart freedom, and enable the
lungs to expand naturally. Sent free by post to
any part of the States on receipt of Postal Note
for 3s. 9d. or 135., according to size required.
Arnold’s Balsam Co., 364 a Little Collins-street,
Melbourne.*
One of the Sydney business colleges has
for some time past made a specialty of teaching
the Japanese language.
E. Wilson Dobbs writes :—•
John Ruskin’s early pen-name was not, as given by
“Elmore” (B. 15/2/’O6), a feminine name at all, but two
Greek words—viz., “Kata Phusin ” (“According to
Nature ”). I happen to possess copies of the five vols. of
the Architectural Magazine in which his juvenile essays
appear over that pen-name.
“Hexham”: “San Remo” (B. 8/2/’O6)
tells of a kiddie wire-winding a toy cannon “in
the eighties; long before England’s Armstrong
had exploited his principle of wire-wound guns.”
Be it known to “S.R.” that Armstrong’s first gun,
made by coiling an iron bar round a tube, was
produced in 1856, and that two years later, in
conjunction with Brunei (the “Great Eastern”
designer) he started the manufacture of wire-
wound guns, but desisted on discovering that the
idea had been patented long before. Later on,
he resumed the work. The method is only a
development of the iron-hooping of wooden guns,
practised soon after the invention of gunpowder.
“Cor”: In the Maoriland bush one
comes across men with queer life-stories. Canoe-
ing up the Mokau River, West Coast of the North
Island, I foregathered, not long ago, with an old
“ pakeha Maori,” who had been a soldier in the
colonial forces during the Taranaki war, but who
deserted to the Hauhaus, and was held by them as
a slave for several years. He was an unwilling
witness of the White Cliffs massacre in 1869, when
he was forced to drive some pigs up to the place
for ostensible barter, while the Maniapoto war
party enticed the whites out and tomahawked
them. This old fellow is not the only pakeha
deserter who was enslaved by the Maoris in the
war-days. On the same river there is an old
hand whose experiences of the Californian gold-
diggings date back nearly to “forty-nine.” He
was one of a party who trekked across the Ameri-
can continent to the land of gold from the Eastern
States in the beginning of the fifties—the days
of the “prairie schooners.” The gold-hunters
had many fights with the Indians, who were
armed with bows and arrows ; and on more than
one occasion they came across piles of skeletons,
the remains of previous expeditions wiped out
by the red men. In the Waikato the cook in a
survey camp where I once stayed had been a
major in the British army. Other survey-camp
cooks, whose stews I have survived, were men of
high and haughty antecedents in old England—
University graduates, a divinity student, and a
baronet. And the worst cook of all was the
baronet.


POST
FIiEE
03
sEAirr
■ *,
SARAMA
THE IDEAL FAQE CM:AM SHIN FOOD.
Every pot contains Public Analyst’s certificate.
Procurable at Sadler’s Pharmacy, 148 Pitt St., and their
suburban branches, for 3s. ; or trial jar by post from
Gordon & Nicholls, 3 Queen’s Place, Sydney, for 3s. 3d.
<•
Dress faßßies
Are Stocked by the
Leading Drapers.
TrademaVkTHC VARNISHED BOARD
Amusements.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY
* Lessee J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S COMIC OPERA SEASON.
EVERY EVENING, GREAT SUCCESS of
Offenbach’s Celebrated Grand Military Spectacular
Comic Opera,
LA FILLE DU TAMBOUR MAJOR.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s and Is.
CRITER|ON THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction of Messrs. Brough and Flemming.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
The Brough-Flemming Comedy Company
in an Original Play in Four Acts,
THE WALLS OF JERICHO.
SATURDAY NEXT, FE B. 24, THE PASSPORT.
Prices as Usual. Box Office at Elvy’s. Matinees every
Wednesday.
EJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ 1 Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVENINGS, at 8. WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON, at 2.
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS of Mr. Williamson’s
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY in the
Dainty, Tuneful Comic Opera,
VERONIQUE.
Box Plan at Paling’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
DALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Direction of J. C. Williamson.
Beginning SATURDAY NEXT, FEB. 24,
FAREWELL SEASON, for THREE WEEKS ONLY,
of
MISS MAUD JEFFRIES
and
MR. JULIUS KNIGHT.
Box Plan at Paling’s. E* r “ PRICES AS USUAL.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
LOTTO, LILO, and OTTO, Comedy and Trick Cyclists.
MDLE. ADA CERITO. THE SISTERS WARNER.
THE SCOTTISH MEISTERS, Highland Comedy Quartette
and Corned v Glee Singers.
LAST 2 NIGHTS of HARRY RICKARDS.
LAST 2 NIGHTS in Sydney of the JACKSON FAMILY.
LEONARD NELSON. BABY WATSON, HILDA LANE
ROCHFORT and HART, ETHEL PRESTON
ALF LAWTON, OLIVE LENTON, LEEDS and LEMAR.
PERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
SISTERS GILBERT, Serio Comics and Dancers.
EIGHT ENGLISH PRIMROSES.
TWO BELLS, Vocalists, Dancers.
CRIMMONS and GORE, Eccentric Comedy Artists.
BARNARD’S PICCANINNY MARIONETTES.
PERCY DENTON, Character Comedian.
ALICE RAYMOND, Cornetist and Bugler.
JOHN KURKAMP, Conductor.
BERT DAWSON, Descriptive Vocalist.
Plan at Allan’s. &3T PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
NEW THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee BLAND HOLT.
EVERY EVENING,
BLAND HOLT and his Popular
Combination of Commonwealth Dramatic Favorites in
Hall Caine’s Dramatisation of his own Great Work,
THE PRODIGAL SON.
For the First Time in Australasia.
e@r PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Business Manager, Mr. C. SIMONSENS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
GREAT SUCCESS EVERY EVENING,
Australia’s Favorite Dramatic Star, MISS TITTELL BRUNE,
in Victorien Sardou’s Great Play,
LA TOSCA.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
“PRINCES COURT,” MELBOURNE.
■ General Manager .. .. A. L. BAIRD.
nr ADMISSION 6d. ; CHILDREN 3d.—2.30 to 11 p.m.
THE HEADQUARTERS OF OUTDOOR PLEASURE!!
Helter Skelter—Toboggan—Chute—Katzenjammer Castle
—Fun Factory—and a Host of Other Novel Attractions.
Cafe Chantant Entertainments—3.45 ; 8 ; 10.15.
At 3.40,8.30 and 9.45, HIGH DIVING EXTRAORDINARY.
Professor CORMACK—Trick and Fancy Diver.
Professor CORMACK —London Champion.
Music, m %
Phonographs,
Violins, Etc,
o
Weekly
Edison Gold"Moulded Records
(Cash only), price 1/9 each. Catalogues Free.
ALBERT^& SON,
137 King Street, Sydney.
Manufacturers of the famous
BOOMERANG MOUTH ORGANS.
Royal Agricultural Society of N.S.W.
ROYAL
EASTER
SYDNEY
SHOW
Hth to 19th APRIL, 1906.
PRIZE SCHEDULES and ENTRY FORMS ON APPLICATION.
H. M. SOMER, .Secretary.
Royal Chambers, 3 Castlereagh Stree", Sydney,
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, February 20, 1906.
My Dear Yarrie, —
How can the children of the “ select” grow up
anything but snobs and grovellers ? A governess in
an elevated family relates how the kids are taught
to pray for all their swell relatives and friends in
the strict order of their social grading. A titled
godmother or aunt in the Cold Country heads the
list. One or two titled acquaintances, met by
mamma abroad, come next. The fittest of the
relatives follow; and so on down to “and bless
my dollie.” Fancy some Lady Montmorency, of
uncertain morals and unholy views, being prayed
for by a baby snob all - the way out in Australia !
And imagine the upset of the whole family’s hope
of Heaven were the lisper to pray for any of the
classified in wrong order of precedence. How
horrible if the poor governess (who is on the list)
were mentioned in the nightly petition out of
place—say before the far-off Viscountess!
A great swell who imposed upon the stylish
Victorians in Slowbart a season or two ago, and
was arrested in the very act of promenading with
a Melb. charmer, is once more at large. He has
a fine air certainly, and is so careful not to exag-
gerate his princely style that the most astute
might be taken in. On the Tasmanian
occasion, a merchant’s cheery dame had in-
troduced him to a flock of hopeful damsels
from this side. The flock fell into ecstasies,
alluding to him as the “lovely English officer.”
I recollect being informed by a St. Hilda
dazzler in a gushing letter of the gorgeous oasis in
the Slowbart desert. When the love was arrested
there were heavy slabs of silence blocking the
mail-bags via Bass Straits.
Madame Jansen sails for Melbourne immedi-
ately. The Musgrove opera contralto of five years
ago had her eye to business when she played
“ Carmen ”to this appreciative community. She
was a countrywoman of Mrs. Dunbar-Hooper and
Mrs. Peterson. From the former she derived
much useful information on matters musical, poli-
tical and social. She told the press that it was a
country of great vocal richness. She hinted at
Conservatorium needs, and she has kept her fine,
dramatic eye on this country ever since. Prof.
Peterson fixed the matter up. Madame is to be
the main thing the University needs. She should
have good results if her teaching has any of the
thoroughness and magnetism that marked the
Jansen dramatic art.
A certain imported star who has no love (it is
alleged) of mankind, but an exaggerated regard
for her own sex, is followed everywhere by one
mild youth of tender years and wealthy kin. He
boasts of seeing the star’s performance every night
and speaking to her at least once a day. And the
star gives him the same half-pitying, half-tender
glance the ordinary She bestows on a pretty circus
poodle. The knickerbocker lover is a sad trial,
because of his patience. He’ll suffer anything
and everything with a deserving look. He
moons and sighs away the days, content to be
banished to a distance by the charmer, who
whistles him up again out of pity before lie has
settled down properly to his short sorrow. But
the sight of the ordinary Eve encouraging little
Adam—a beardless, foolish young Adam—is an-
other matter There’s nothing more unpleasant
to a healthy-minded She observer. Several Mel-
bourne dames are guilty of this sort of thing, and
it makes them the worst type of social sinner in
the State.
The M'Eacharns’ “Goathlands” domicile at
Kew is being aired for the family, which arrives
herein March. “Fashionables who pitied the
M‘Eacharn dame during the Mayoral run, for her
excessive nervousness, will review with surprise a
perfectly self-possessed, unexcitable, slightly
bored person,” comments a correspondent at pre-
sent in London. The Big Smoke and the shoot-
ing box, and the Goathland tenantry all must have
put starch into the dame’s limp manner. Nothing
is mentioned of the daughter who preferred (a
year or two ago) a book to a Toorakite any day.
Papa didn’t like that! He’s such a social
hustler.
Passengers by the Mongolia (which carried
some Princesses and people of that sort part of
the way from England) seem to have been struck
by one titled artiste’s youthful manner of clean-
ing her paint brushes what time she was
making water-color sketches on the quarter-deck.
The lovely vision didn’t bother to dip the
brush into anything wetter than her mouth when
she wanted to clean it or moisten it anew. She
just sucked the camel hair, and as she never
appeared to expectorate on the nice clean deck,
her ladyship presumably could put a lot of color
into her affections, if she chose.
“To be divorced once is often a tragedy: to
repeat the experience is a farce.” —Ella Wheeler
Wilcox.
Why doesn’t the woman who uses powder, to
hide her freckles or tone down the roughness of
her skin, employ a hand mirror to view the rear
of her head? These hot, perspiring days, one
may see, on the Block, ten out of a dozen Too-
rakiennes or South Yarraites —S. Yarra is where
.the city-man mostly plants his unofficial wife—
with faces, throats and ears carefully dusted over.
At the back of the neck is a gaunt stretch of
natural brown or yellow skin, guiltless of powder
just where it is most needed.
The Rev. E. Sugden fattened to such an extent
on his recent tour that the dear dimple that in-
dented his chin is nearly lost to sight. The ’Var-
sity cleric went round the Fog Country preaching
the official doctrine of a White Australia as a
Workers’ Paradise on the Taverner ticket of re-
commendation. He will, very likely, resume his
post as musical critic for the Argus, having
hearkened to the best orchestras and artists in the
Cold Country, and thus added unto his knowledge
of sweet sounds.
They’re wearing colored dream-garbs of soft silk
in Paris. Even black is quoted as a bed color.
Fancy Euphrosyne climbing to her virgin couch in
a black drape ! Wouldn’t it suggest the mounting
of a funeral pyre ? Dawn-pink or cerulean blue is
surely the shade for the dream hour if one must
break away from the snowy habits of our fore-
mothers.
Commandant Finn’s daughter broke into wild
dissipation last week. She treated a batch of
girleens to an afternoon muffin and iced peach by
way of farewell, after which she set sail for Tas-
mania with her military dad, who shakes the Mel-
bourne dust off his spurs for some time.
The yachting She made her debut in the Bay,
the other Saturday. It was an event that caused
some fashionable flutterings, and the race turned
out a small but shining success. Mrs. G. G.
Garard, a young good-looking girly matron, mani-
pulated the helm and sailing gear of the queen
boat of the Bay, Sayonara, and carried off the
laurels. Miss Parker, a charmer of more length
but less sailing skill, ran up second. The event
trailed off into a tea-drinking party, when the new
St. Kilda Club House opened its doors to skirts
for the first time. The yachting She is a novelty
here, but is not likely to last according to the
local opinion in Hobson’s Bay. A charmer looks
infinitely more decorative and at home in a boat
pulled by a willing oarsman. She’s not in her
niche on board a small craft where her frillies get
tangled in the gear.
In a feeble attempt to fan the lagging hot-
weather attention of the public, the Argus the
other day recorded with a full heading the fact of
a wee girl riding astride her steed on the St.
Kilda Esplanade. Why, every suburban sport
wears split skirts and flings a light leg over the
saddle, masculine fashion ! The idea of this
comfortable perch had seized on the local horse-
woman long before motors raised the dust of the
rural road. A Yank Diana had thrown a free
limb across the saddle in the first place and the
whole race of equestriennes caught on gladly.
The Bland Holt Cos. recently went on diet to
reduce girth-measurements. The result was
ludicrous. Mrs. B. Holt rapidly increased in
ounces and inches, and arch-villain Styan put on
weight even more promptly. Now all anti-fat
and fasting prescriptions are sniffed at incredu-
lously, and the mummers once again enjoy their
food and have cold lager for supper. In the
Williamson co. half the members are complaining
of leanness, and are searching everywhere for a
Jolly Jane tonic or a Merry Mary food that will
create the curve seductive. Miss Margaret
Thomas, when in this capital, was consuming
malted oil and other fatty stuff in copious quan-
tities to lead on to plumpness, without avail. The
Fate that dispenses the fat seems to play queer
tricks with the dissatisfied sex.
The hair-frame is likely to become a drug on
the market. A story floats along hither of an
inquiry at the inquest of a man in the Cold Coun-
try who died of anthrax. He had been in a
factory engaged at wool-combing, and the evi-
dence of the inquiry revealed the fact that most of
the human hair that passed through the factory
came from China in pig-tail lots, and was gleaned
from dead bodies ! Nice, cheering, fragrant tid-
ings ! Fancy patting a hair-frame made up from
the plagued combings of a diseased Celestial, and
stretching one’s own carefully tilled and garnished
tresses over a defunct’s pigtail!
The Rev. George Robinson, the booming cleric,
has a young sister who is becoming quite a charac-
ter in the land, as a dog fancier.
The Bendigo Sternbergs, including pater
familias, are off to Japan in gusty March. The
trip is to be short, so that he may get back
to the State Parliament for the opening of the
Session.
The Herbert Sargoods have come back from a
long tour, reminding the short-memoried public
that the family once held a foremost place here.
It’s only a year or two since merchant Sargood’s
death shocked the whole community, and already
Rippon Lea, once the most hospitable mansion in
the whole State, is a vague tradition, and the
widow completely forgotten. The return of son
Herbert with his pretty wife may jog the public
memory.
At the final hour of the Stewart-Musgrove Co’s,
sailing for Uncle Sam’s land, Albert Gran (the
original Judge Jeffreys) went on board minus his
wife—that dame, who was one of Melbourne’s
most interesting widows, having decided, in about
the time it takes to have a tooth drawn, not to
venture across the Atlantic till the co.’s fortunes
were decided. Both Mrs. Gran and Mrs. Har-
court Beatty are waiting anxiously for private
tidings before making any move. Another mem-
ber of the original Sweet Nell Cos. left behind is
the King Charles spaniel. That silky-coated
darling of the gods spends his days curled up by
the side of Mrs. Beatty at the Grand. She
brought him from the Big Smoke in the first
instance, and has combed his wool and kept his
health in order ever since. The ex-mummer finds
the little dog recognised all over Australia.
A brunette dasher of much notoriety is about
town again, and has for chief cavalier a young
doctor with a pronounced taste for showy beauties.
This time, rumor has it, his intentions are matri-
monial. As the girl’s papa is in evidence, it looks
a reasonable story.
The beach and the mountains have given back
their revellers. At the.La Tosca performance on
Saturday all the frilliest were sandwiched in th.e
stalls, the most vivid of all being a gay trio —Miss
Alison Fairbairn, Miss R. Kiddle, and Miss Jean
Langtree. The most casual of the circle overflow
were a Madden party, in afternoon garb, Colonel
Achates Campbell and brewer Fitzgerald’s son
being of the impromptu batch.
Strange how girls worship Tittell Brune ! Looked
at calmly, off the stage, Miss Brune is badly dressed
as a rule and lacks an intangible something in
manner and deportment. Perhaps it’s “repose”;
anyhow, its lack prevents her from being quite
charming.
Some women make a success of the “paying-
guest” industry. A widowed connection of the
Osbornes, Maddens, O’Haras, &c., does well in
that line in a gardened mansion in a fashionable
suburb. A permanent inmate of her establish-
ment is a Melbourne dowager, a widow of over 70,
always dressed in pure-white chiffons, to match
the tint of her hair and skin. - This lady spends
most of her life taking the open-air complexion
“cure” on the lawn, attended by a maid, who
smoothes her mistress’ cushions of snowy silk, puts
her creamy parasol up or down, as required, and
runs to the house for white-fur wraps when the
breeze turns cool.
Another paying boarding-house is located in a
typical old bush home at Macedon and is kept by
the widow of an important Melbourne banking-
official. This lady’s brother, a leading Melbourne
barrister, has for many years owned a summer
residence at Macedon, and it was he who saw that
there was an opening on the Mount for something
superior in the way of board and lodging.
Miss Kitty Bell, who is the leader of Eight
English Primroses, and tutoress of the legs that
shocked Evangelist Varley, off the stage is a
simple, freckled, meek little soul. Yet she
dominates the octave, and keeps the girls together.
The Eight,. so highly disciplined, are green in
years, as well as in limb. Miss Kitty selected
them from her sister’s big Pirouette Academy
carefully. She took the steady eye, the firm lip,
the clean hand into account, and from a whole
regiment of saucy kickers, counted out seven,
with herself to make the eighth. Her
choice seems to have been sound. The
team has its affections chained up for the
tour, and doesn’t engage in any frivolities.
“They’re real good girls, all of them nice and
jolly,” says Miss Kitty. “One of them put her
arm out of joint in the pick-a-back march-off bn
Tuesday, and that upset the lot of them. They
were deeply concerned and all in a sympathetic
ache, a sad little seven. However, the dislocated
Primrose mended quickly, and they are a glad
octave again.” The pair of Bells doing the
separate turn are not sisters. Elossie Bell let her
affections off the chain at the end of the last Aus-
tralian tour, and a Londoner was at once ready
with an engagement ring. He spoilt the Bell plans,
for as soon as he heard of the second projected
tour he suggested prompt matrimony. The little
brunette who is billed as the second Bell was
Flossie Bell’s under-study. She’s a mite, but„&
piquant one.
Brother Yarley, who looked upon the Primroses
with horror, ought to join the grinning throng at
the foot of the Helter-skelter Princes Court, where
fat and slender femininity slides down from a height
with a comic display of leg and linen (the latter
mostly unlovely). Crowds gather for the sight. • I
saw one heavy specimen of girl roll down with her
heels aloft in the air and protesting arms shaking
their helplessness to the sky, while men, women
and children yelled and roared out their enjoy-
ment of the sight. And the “frillies” were not
artistic. They were the kind you see battling on
the suburban clothes-line any Monday. Besides,
the view was altogether too full. Now, the Prim-
roses are pretty sights, anyhow. The suggestion
of the golden bloom is perfect, and the legs are
such comically exaggerated stems that the human
element is quite out of the picture. But the
Helter-skelter holds a real shock for pious old
parties of the Varley type, if they want to be
shocked.
The Holy City is without its Conservatorium
mistress, Miss Guli Hack, for a while. She is
trying spiced India for a spell, and the city of
(empty) churches is one dazzler the less. And it
can’t afford to lose even one.
The John Cooks, of frozen lamb fame, are off
on another trip. This time, it is to extend over a
long term. Miss Kathleen Cook —the one girl of
the flock—is saying farewell to her Toorak chums,
of whom there are a few left. Soon there’ll be
none, for nearly all Toorak seems to be “ To Let.”
There’s anew motor device. It’s a wind-proof,
weather-insured thatch, nailed or glued to the
hat. You get all your top rigging adjusted in one
act, and one or two skewers hold the lot secure.
I have watched a motoriste get her own thatch
ready for the whirl. The hair is dressed in a cer-
tain style—guaranteed not to come off or get lost
or stolen en route. Then the millinery has to be
coaxed on. It takes half an hour to make the hat
and the head good friends. The first corner turn-
ing and a blast of west wind sets the two tearing,
straining; and the end is often a falling-off or
a falling-out.
Toorak is twitting a silver-haired medico over
the return of a stage charmer to these shores.
The Adonis broke out into worship of the star
when she last twinkled here, and has not swerved
in devotion to her memory since. Now his
friends are in a flutter as to the re-union.
Mrs. Fred Thonemann, wife of the financier
who inspired and prompted Premier Bent to raise
his loan locally, has just stepped from an Orient
liner with her sons. The family went gadding
for its health, and the tall, thin Croesus went golf-
ing to fill the blank interval. He’s one of the
pleasantest sports frequenting the Sandringham
Links.
Mrs. Holdsworth (who sometimes uses her first
married name, Goldie, fronting the second) has
taken herself to India for a change of scene and
to give a treat to the Anglo-Indians in the form
of a great show of jewels. The elderly dame isn’t
going to give up her taste in clothes with the
greying years. She has a large dress allowance
from the Goldie estate and two devoted Goldie
sons, who give of their income liberally. At
Menzies, the lady of the occasional hyphen used to
cut a dash—not a youthful, debonair dash, but a
gay, dressy one.
In one of the States the most photographed
personage of the Commonwealth has his being.
Every fresh suit or new cravat or change
of socks is considered worth another visit to the
camera. When the operation is complete, a
Private Secretary is despatched at intervals to
ascertain if the proofs are ready. When they are
and satisfaction is expressed, the camera-man is
invited to reduce the ordinary charges on the
strength of the personage being such a frequent
poser.
During recent hot weather, boarded-out babies
in Melbourne have been dying like flies. It’s
never an easy matter to keep “ bottle-fed babies”'
well in warm weather, and, of course, boarded-out-
children are all consumers of artificial-food. One
glance at the hard-worked women who look after
these infants in poor little cottages, is enough to-
tell an observer that time and money alike are too-
scarce with the average “registered nurse” for
her to be extra faddy about sterilising milk or
cleansing feeding-bottles. And the pity of it is
that*just a suspicion of fermentation in the milk
may _ start a healthy child on a long, weary
wasting illness, only to be ended by death. Some
of these poor little martyrs are so emaciated and
reduced by starvation, due to digestive trouble,
that their sides are actually bleeding where the
ribs cut through.
Yours Affectionately,
TRYPHENA.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
—————— and 3 fine cabinets or
itereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/- Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, 89C. FBG St. Martin, Paris, France.
PtS
GO TO XXSX.Xj-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Frgd. Hageo, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
shirtsT"
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
This Elastic Truss
iiiiPi
Elastic |
Truss-
Single, 15/-
Double, 20/-
is the acme of comfort, made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (opp. Hunter St.).
And at Cor. Swanston and Lonsdale Sts., Melbourne
POLITICAL
POINTS
At Yarrum, Vic., Premier Bent told the.
usual debating and musical society the other night
that it is his intention “to ask Parliament next
session to vote a sum for the special advancement
of music and elocution.” Tommy loves these
elocutionary shivoos because they afford him
opportunities of reciting disjointed and unmeaning
scraps from the two Williams—Shakspeare and
Purtell—and his proposed bonus for the cultivation
of young elocutionists is an expression of gratitude.
The Bulletin easily foresees the time when
Tommy’s successor will be offering bonuses for the
scalps of young elocutionists, and inviting foreign
experts to devise diseases for the extirpation of
reciters.
“Final campaign speeches. Vigorous
and telling. Twenty years successful record.”
Advt. in the London Times during the recent
British elections.
“ In the opinion of a section of the Labor
party the road to Reform is identical with the
track to the Three Balls.”— Q. Home Sec. Air eg
re the proposed new plunge into the borrowing
industry.
Forecasted that the next time the Hospital
Bill is introduced to Q. Parliament it will propose
nationalising all the hospitals of the State, and so
end the reign of the weary money-scratching com-
mittees.
Another bogey destroyed ! Reported
from the French New Hebrides that there is a
great dearth of labor there, and that the kanakas
repatriated from Queensland will be eagerly wel-
comed —not for the cooking-pot, but for the plan-
tations.
Federal Defence Department is consider-
ing the question of breeding horses for military
purposes, and is stated to be wavering between
taking it up as a Government concern outright
or subsidising private breeding under Govern-
ment supervision.
Seems that N.S.W. Government is at last
about to enforce the Shearers’ Accommodation
Act, which was due to come into force in January,
1902. It has circularised the squatters that they
really must do something by 31st March, 1906.
Joseph Cook last Thursday gave his daily
shriek to the Sydney papers about Socialism.
Sydney D.T. printed the shriek as Cook’s. But
Sydney Herald ascribed it to G. H. Reid.
Between the two “ leaders,” the Freetrade press
doesn’t quite know where it is.
Asia is enforcing the move-on clause
against Europe. Latest is that Britain is to eva-
cuate Wei-hai-wei “at the request of China.”
Chinese requests have a different fate nowa-
days to the time when a murdered European mis-
sionary was worth the cession of a Celestial pro-
vince.
The other day a party of gunners went on
a fishing excursion down Port Phillip Bay from
Queenscliff. They returned, fishless and dis-
gusted, intimating that they intended to at once
see their member (Mr. Crouch) about the matter.
He will probably “ move the adjournment ” when
the House meets.
There is little doubt that Bananaland’s
Labor Premier has the confidence of the people.
O’Sullivan seemed to have little show against
Barnes for the Warwick electorate till Kidston
appeared on the scene. Warwick is an electorate
of farmers, and the way the Premier converted
them to his way of thinking was wonderful.
Numbers of kanakas have already left
Queensland for their islands, thus anticipating
what they would have to do at the end of 1906.
But it will not be surprising if, at the end of the
vear, a number be found who will decline to go.
This will be the case if the instigations of certain
cliques have the expected effect. The kanakas
are being told that the law which orders them
out is not final. White-chokerdom and slave-
driving capitalism hang up the prospect of a
repeal of the measure. But that is utterly im-
possible.
* in mil IWIII IT* —m'LMWwiniiMi l .uwiMaM—iHßM
A bright idea has struck Q. Agricultural
Minister Denham. Much watered milk is being
sold in Brisbane, and £lO fines don’t appear to
have much effect. Denham proposes to make
regulations under the Dairy Act by which a
milk vendor’s customers may be notified when
analysis shows that his supply is below the legal
standard.
How ingenuous are the excellent pietists
who run Orange Lodges in the interests of G. H.
Reid and brotherly love ! The question they pur-
pose putting to candidates at next Federal elec-
tions :
Is the candidate in favor of the principle of Socialism,
which denies God and means disloyalty to the King and
the Throne?
Minister for Works O’Sullivan having won
the Warwick seat in Q. Assembly, further changes
in the Cabinet are expected. More than probable
that Attorney-General Blair will slip into the
vacant Judgeship, and O’Sullivan will become the
Attorney-General. Later on it is likely that
Digby Denham will be appointed successor to
Horace Tozer in London.
Trouble with the blacks in S’Africa sug-
gests that the Ethiopian is preparing to march
step by step with the Asiatic in disputing the
white man’s long-held dominance The recent
war between British and Boers not only armed
the Kaffirs but weakened the white popula-
tion considerably, and a black rising now would
be a very serious matter.
In Queensland, the other day, the Electoral
Revision Court was composed of the local doctor
and the undertaker. There was on the roll the
name of a man whom they had the best of reasons
to know had just died. But they had not power
to strike off his name, because the Act was clear
that a notice must first be sent addressed to the
dead man at his last known place of abode.
Trouble in the Britisli Unionist Party has
been patched up. Balfour has gone close enough
to Chamberlain’s fiscal views to declare a willing-
ness to accept “ a moderate general tariff on manu-
factures and a small duty on foreign corn.” And
Chamberlain, following that concession to his
views, agrees to follow Balfour loyally. But it
will be what the lawyers call a leonine partnership.
The dilettante Bvlfour will have no chance of
retaining the leadership when Chamberlain thinks
the time is ripe to seize it for himself.
N.S.W. Government, having put an end
to Waddell’s State fire insurance fund and
handed the business over to private enter-
prise, decides now to insure State property,
which the Govt, did not bother before to
cover. Further, instead of the tired Depart-
mental officials doing the work, the aid of brokers
is called in to treat with the insurance companies.
This is a handy way to oblige a friend now and
then.
THE DOG IN THE MANGER.
Deakin and Watson seem to have an idea that that dog will have to be shifted,
for the moke's sake.
The S. M. Herald broke out last Monday
with a mildly reproachful leading article against
the Australian Government because it has
declined to spend, without Parliamentary autho-
rity, a portion of the surplus for which it is
responsible to the States, on sending cargoes
of wheat and flour as a present to Japan. This
paper can only hope that the S. M. Herald s
cashier will take the hint, and send, say, £IOO of
the money for which he is responsible to the
Herald proprietary, to relieve the Japanese
famine. If “Mr. James” has a ghost of an idea
of living up to his creed he would warmly com-
mend such a cashier.
A. REAL PICK-ME-UP.—“Talkabout cham-
pagne,” said Byron, “there is nothing,which
cheers your spirits up like a dose of salts. But
had he known Hunyadi Janos he would certainly
have preferred this, the best and safest natural
aperient.*
“Itan”: Recent speeches by the more
Liberal members of the Queensland P.L.P. indi-
cate that there will be only two parties of import-
ance before Bananaland next general election—
Kidstonians and Philpites. It is believed that
the extremist wing of the Labor party will recog-
nise that its support would be better directed to
helping the democratic Kidston than to aiding
Philp.
Latest name mentioned in connection with
present vacant chairmanship of Melbourne Metro-
politan Board of Works is that of Swinburne,
Minister of Water Supply. If Swinburne left
the Cabinet, Bent would secure a complete im-
munity from opposition in its ranks. Stated that
Swinburne, about whose ability there is no ques-
tion, is the one fly in the ointment of perfect bliss
to T. Bent.
Trouble over the N.S.W. Railway Com-
mission calls to mind that Bananaland once ran
the three-men system. Matheson and Gray could
not agree with Johnson over certain questions,
and at last the burst came. Parliament tried the
single system with Matheson, which succeeded.
This commissioner was subsequently tempted to
go to Victoria, and thence to England, where he
now has control of the Great Midland system.
Sydney Daily Telegraph made a bad
“break” when, one day last week, it horrified
its Fat readers by assuring them that any
person giving or receiving secret commissions or
tips was liable under the new Commonwealth
Act to heavy penalties. The D.T. didn’t know
that the new Act, owing to the limitations of the
Constitution, could only refer to inter-State and
foreign transactions, and that it left N.S.W. busi-
ness men, whilst doing business among themselves,
free to be as dishonest as they liked in the matter
of secret commissions. Why doesn’t the D. I.
read a little, and thus avoid giving its patrons
such shocks?
Noticeable that in every interview and
speech by Mr. G. H. Reid lately “the Cardinal
or the Roman Catholic Church is dragged in some-
how. Whether he discusses the Federal capital,
or the tariff, or the Labor caucus. Mr.
manages to have a word to fling at “ the Cardi-
nal ” ; and “the Cardinal” (who would have made
a strenuous politician, judging by his eagerness for
political fray) takes good care to give Yes-No a
number of pegs on which to hang his insectarian
proclamations. When anti-Socialism strips at
the post next elections, it will be to be
Sectarianism, pure and simple. The “Great
Freetrade Party,” when in a hole in N.S.W., has
always raised the same dirty banner, and, in the
name of God, appealed to Christians of different
brands to fight one another. Thus the Walls of
Derry have delayed the building of proper tariff
walls, and the Battle of the Boyne has made the
battle of life harder for many a N.S.W. citizen.
Premier Bent lias been begging to the
Imperial authorities, and has been ordered off the
mat. The Brighton Pet asked for any old, used-
up warship the Admiralty might have knocking
round, to use as a training ship for boys. The
Admiralty replied that it hadn’t anything of the
kind to spare. Tommy might have known. If
the Imperial authorities give away useless battle-
ships like that, how will they be able to keep up
the strength of the Australian Squadron ?
THE IMPERIAL LITTER.
The mother country loves all her daughter States with
equal love, and firmly trusts, &c —London Times.
From December 15 to February 12 all the
jurisdictions of N.S.W. Supreme Court were “in
vacation.” Numbers of cases stood part heard on
December 15, and numbers stood ready for hear-
ing, but every court shut up with a click, and the
only convenience studied was that of the Judges.
Judges ave entitled to holidays, of course, but
nothing but a bad old custom warrants them all
going off on their holidays together.
“We want another boom,” interjected a
Philp-Leahy politician while Queensland Premier
Kidston was speaking the other day. “ You will
get it,” replied Kidston. “Yes, but we want
a £10,000,000 boom,” wailed the misguided one.
“Then it is a very foolish wish,” said Kidston;
“and you will never get it while I am Premier.
Queensland is well aide to stand on her own feet,
and the boom that is coming will be an honest one
brought about by honest legislation.” The crowd
applauded, and the Borrow-Boom-Burst politician
collapsed.
The Victorian Land Purchase Board has
come to terms with the Chirnsides; and those
three estimable gentlemen—Andrew, George, and
Percy—will receive from the Victorian Govern-
ment £312,000. About 13 years ago they received
£96,000 from the Metropolitan Boar 1 of Works.
And still they have the family mansion left,
with a couple of thousand acres of pas-
turage, a hundred odd of park land, and
frontage rights on the Werribee station.
Since the passing of the Land Purchase Act big
estates in Victoria have gone up from 50 to 150
per cent, in value. And still the settlers are
getting precious little, if any, of the best. There
are acres, tens of thousands of them, about Cain-
perdown, Oasterton, Coleraine, Harrow, one of
which is worth five on the Werribee. When rail-
ways have been constructed right into them, the
owners will be ready to sell, and the Board to
purchase, and Bent to pay. And such is, and
will continue to be, the working out of a non-
compulsory Land Purchase Act.
The most disappointing feature about the
evidence given before the Tariff Commission is
the reiterated request of manufacturers for the
removal of the duties on their “ raw material.” If
everybody is going to get in what he calls his
“ raw material ” free, there will soon be no duties
at all. For instance, the man who makes a motor
engine wants certain taps, bearings, copper articles
and other things admitted free, because they are
his “raw material.” Then the man who builds
the motor-boat wants the whole engine brought in
free, because the engine is part of the “raw
material.” The “raw material” game wants
knocking on the head by a scientific overhauling
of the tariff. For instance, the makers of the
marine motor engines get 12jper cent, ad valorem
protection, but have to pay 20 per cent, on some
of the brass parts. Under a scientific tariff any
machine made of parts dutiable to the extent of
20 per cent, would receive 40 per cent, protection.
This is the direction that tariff reform should take.
An exhibit at the Australian manufac-
turers’ exhibition, in Melbourne, which shows
what might be done with Australia’s wasted pro-
vince, is that from the N.T. Rubber is there,
indigenous to the country. The rubber trees grow
and die untouched. The Indian buffaloes left by
the Portuguese now roam in plenty. They have a
heavy hide which, rubberised, will, it is said,
revolutionise the motor and bike tyre industry.
Tobacco grown there was made into cigars at the
exhibition, and pronounced of fine quality.
Timber, copper, tin, silver, lead and wolfram—all
are shown. Other products are cotton, kapok,
rice, logwood, arrowroot, coca leaves (cocaine),
nuts of many sorts, manioca roots (tapioca), ginger,
hemp (enough, of excellent fibre, could be grown
to supply all Australia with reaper and binder
twine, and it grows in the poorest soil), senna
pods, moringa seeds, &c., &c. All the province
wants, to be as productive as Queensland, is
development—and the first essential to such
development is a railway. The commissioner to
the exhibition, H. J. Scott, says he feels sure
South Australia would hand over the Territory to
the Commonwealth conditionally on building the
line. And within a very few years the Territory
could be erected into a distinct State.
»
Tired in the morning ? There are times
when the night’s rest doesn’t fit you for the day’s
work. Those are the times for a stimulant that
will brace you up and stay by you. The best of
all tonics is Wolfe’s Schnapps.*
BALLAD OF SECESSIONISTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We’ve the rage that the new-born baby feels
When he fails in his first demand,
As he squirms in his little cot and squeals
For the toy in his brother’s hand ;
But we, who bicker and fume and fret
E’er our life is scarce begun,
Should shut our ears to each childish threat
And know that we all are one.
Ringed by the surf that the wile world mocks
Is the land of our choice or birth ;
What though we live on the Sydney rocks
Or the gleaming sands of Perth ?
Though we earn our bread in the Melbourne mi Is,
Or the Northern canefields work,
Or delve in the distant opal hills
That lie at the ba k o’ Bcurlte?
But we raise the rattle, we waved of yore
In our cradles, once a a n ;
And sulk if we haven't a k“rbst ne mor;
Than the man in the n'Xt back an .
It’s time that our wh ne and our baby boast
And our squabbling all were done,
And we close our ranks to the Asian host
To show that we all are one.
VIC.
C.N.


A
a
iSiaii
>•/' -•
> *
■
■ v
■v.
>; •
Newcastle
Be
f
Old Pianos taKen in Exchange
Send for Catalog*ties—Post Free.
Easy Terms if you wisli.
W. H. PALING (Si CO., LTD.. 338 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
sfa
Just by way of introducing to “ The Bulletin ”
Readers a few Old Friends —
THE GRAMOPHONES and GRAMOPHONE RECORDS.
Improved by Age ! Perfect in every way!!
Willing to ENTERTAIN, INSTRUCT and AMUSE YOU !!
None Genuine
Unfess Bearing This
MARK
TRADE
No. 3.
flonarch Junior,
Monarch Senior.
Baby Monarch.
No* 3a.
SUPERB RECORDS by Mme. Melba, Cav. Enrico Caruso, Sig. Francisco, Mme. Estey,
Miss Fiorrie Ford, Mr. Harry Lauder, Mr. John Harrison, H.M. Coldstream Guards,
H.M. Scots Guards, and hosts of others. EVERY ONE A GEM.
APPLY TO THE AGENT IN YOUR TOWN, or FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
MR. A. P. SYKES, 272 LITTLE COLLINS ST.
MESSRS. HEINDORFF BROS., 210 QUEEN S r .
MR. IT. A. GRAINGER, PIRIE CHAMBERS,
M. HEDSTROM & CO., LEVURA, FIJI.
MR. E. H MITCHELL, HAABAI, SAMOA.
, MELBOURNE, YIC.
L, BRISBANE, Q.
ADELAIDE, S.A.
NICHOLSON & CO., BARRACK ST., PERTH, W.A,
DENNES BROS., AUCKLAND, N.Z.
THE TALKERIES. WELLINGTON, N.Z.
W. MACLEAN & CO., DUNEDIN, N.Z.
H. GITTOS, GISBORNE, N.Z.
OR
THE GRAMOPHONE CO., Ltd., 163 Pitt Street, Sydney.


“MOTA” BRAND
Motor Car Spirits
Are the finest power spirits the world produces.
Sold by all Motor Manufacturers,
Importers, Repairers, etc., or of
The BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD.,
Agents, Adelaide, Melbourne & Sydney.
Cable Address—
PASTIME, SYDNEY.
M- J. MOLONEY,
Tattersail's Club >
SYDNEY.
COMMISSIONS Executed.
LONGEST riARKET RATES
GUARANTEED.
TEL. 1542 or 251.
Write or wire for Quotations .
Price Lists forwarded on Application .
«
Telegraphic Address—
MOLONEY, Tattersairs,
SYDNEY .
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY*
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The big surprise at Caulfield last Saturday was
the victory of Wandin in the Oakleigh Plate. The light-
weighted 4-year-old went out at 20 to 1, and did the
trick in rather brilliant style, the time being lsec. faster
tbau last year, when Abington squeezed home in front of
Medallist. It goes without saying that Wandin’s win is'a
strong tip for the Newmarket chance of stable companion
.Lachlan. The gelding evidently was not fancied by the
stable on its form with Lachlan, and the latter now pro-
mises to be Victoria’s main hope in the six-furlong
nutter at Flemington. A success for Leslie Mac-
nonald s colors would be popular, because they are so
rarely seen in public unless business is meant.
All the same, there is a local feeling that the N.S.W.
horses will scoop the principal stakes at the V.R.C. meet-
ing. Istria and Sir Ronald, winners at Sandown Park a
week earlier, put their backers in the hole last Saturday ;
but, presuming that their later form was correct, it only
disposed of two fancied chances among the visitors.
There are others. The Caulfield Futurity Stakes, this
week-end, will probably bring the English-bred Pompous
into action, and the followers of Tom Pay ten swear that
Pompous is another Sir Foote—equal to winning the
r utunty and Newmarket double. But the weather must
be watched. Up to time of writing the Sydney horses
“ a Y® a Sydney climate in their new quarters, and a
sudden change to ordinary Melbourne weather might put
them out of sorts just when they should have been
acclimatised.
■* * #
Kaffirpan broke his “duck” by winning the
Bond Cup at Caulfield from a moderate field, and the
Sydney division had another sweetener when Lady Wal-
lace beat Gladsome by a head for the St. George Stakes.
This was the old mare’s second defeat in the same race,
and each time her backers have kicked themselves for
laying odds on. Last year the uncertain Billingsgate beat
her by a length. This year the time was better, and the
difference between the two game mares was only a head.
A great race and an apparently great performance on the
part of Lady Wallace, who made her effort at the distance
post and gradually wore the leader down. But there is
no getting away from the fact that the Maoriland three-
year-olds made a holy show of Lady Wallace at Randwick
five months back.
* ■* * *
Citizen John Wren’s offer to Premier Bent to
lease the Flemington racecourse must be regarded as a
skilful advertisement only. To pay £25,000 a year rent,
and increase stakes of all big races (including raising of
the Cup to £10,000) doesn’t recommend itself as a busi-
ness proposition.
* * * *
Acrasia, the good game mare who won Mel-
bourne Cup, is to be mated next season (in Maoriland)
with St. Ambrose, the sour St. Simon horse that won the
Williamstown Cup three days after Acrasia scored her
triumph. The result of the combination will be inter-
esting.
* * * *
Even in conservative England there is already a
faint outcry—which will be louder presently—for the
totalisator on racecourses. And in England, as in N.S.W.
and Victoria, the proposal is violently combated by the
people who know absolutely nothing about the “ evil ”
influences of the tote and the bookmaker, and are only'
the more anxious to prevent the one because they can’t
suppress the other.
* * *
The woes of a Melbourne horse-owner have been
ventilated. Having received the “ straight griffin,” he
instructed a racing friend to back a “ trying” gee-gee for
£l5O. It so happened that the horse-owner had a prad of
his own in the same race, and the ingenuous racing friend
put all the dollars on it. The agonised owner, whose
horse never had a chance of winning and was only out for
an airing, was in time to get another £lOO on the right
moke, and the good thing came off. But, of course, the
speculative owner was out the £l5O, and in addition the
investing genius was a loser by £45, being his own good
money that he had put on the wrong horse on the
strength of the owner’s fancied tip. The aggrieved owner
had the nerve to propose that, in addition, he should part
up £75, being half of the investment on the owner’s
animal. They referred the dispute to arbitration, and
the owner lost. The Victorian Turf Club committee,
which was umpire, was apparently so used to the idea of
an owner backing someone else’s horse, leaving the gene-
ral public to back his if they felt so disposed, that it
did not comment on the incident.
* » * •
An English solicitor, who admitted that he car-
ried on the business of a bookmaker, has been struck off
the rolls by the King’s Bench. It was intimated that if
he could show’ that he had given up bookmaking he would
be re-admitted. The Court held that the business of a
bookmaker was such as to cast discredit on the legal pro-
fession.
• • • •
Mr. S. J. Jacobs, who had been chairman of
Tattersall’s Club, Adelaide, for years, has resigned in de-
ference to the opinion of colleagues on the council of
the Adelaide University, to which he was elected as rep-
resentative of the local Chamber of Commerce.
* * * *
Jerome Hart, in the JArgonaut, gives a pictur-
esque word cinematograph of a sorrel colt bucking :
“ Floating around and fillingthe atmosphere of the pad-
dock, was a large, shapeless, dun-colored cloud. Where
a few seconds before the air seemed to be full of sorrel
colt, there was now a large, formless cloud-mass, the
nucleus of which was a sorrei-colored saddle, around which
was an aureola of saddle-colored sorrel. Through this
lurid cloud-mass there flashed, like lightning out of a
thunder-cloud, rapidly moving white streaks, which at
last I identified as the colt’s white stockings. In the
outer or aureolic periphery of this equine meteoric body
there was a dark girdle or band—a whirring, throbbing,
spectral zone —like the indistinct optical waves one sees
about a rapidly revolving dynamo. At first I could not
imagine what this was, as it differed from the sorrel-
colored parts of the cloud, as the nucleus of a comet
differs from its train. But my heart suddenly sank as I
guessed what it was—it W’as my poor friend the rider, in
an atomic or molecular condition, revolving rapidly
around the colt’s orbit, held there by centripetal attrac-
tion, or by his stirrup leathers. But as the colt spheroid
at last ceased to revolve with such rapidity, I saw that
my fears were exaggerated, for descending rapidly from
the south pole of the whirling spheroid, I saw the amateur
centaur.”
• • • •
At time of writing Floyd MacFarland’s name
does not appear among the acceptors for Sydney
Thousand. Over 100 remain in, and among the missing
is the name of Jack Arnst, and Maoriland will depend on
big Dick alone. Dick will have to swing his head to some
purpose. At time of writing N.S.W. has 70 acceptors,
Victoria 20 (all but one behind the 145yds. mark).
Beyond that, right up to the 200yds. limit, with the excep-
tion of Lotto from the Tivoli, they are all Walers. Ger-
many has two representatives, and Samuelson alone
upholds the Amurkan burrd o’ freedom. South Australia
sends Scheps. Queensland has A. Franks on the 120yds.,
and far away Westralia sends along S. E. Mills on 115yds.,
and H. E. James, who is on the 120yds. mark.
* * * *
Walter Butt ought to put up a great fight for
the Thousand ; he won Adelaide Wheel Race, a two-mile
fixture, from scratch, in 2min. 4sec., which is not calcu-
lated to cause barnacles to grow on his tyres.
* * * *
Telegraphed that the S. Australian League of
Wheelmen has lost £BO by its last carnival, and as it was
understood to be gambling with the devil for its head, it
will be interesting to see exactly what it will do next.
Judging by all accounts the racing was good, and the
League deserved better luck.
* * * *
O. H. Brook, the N.S.W. crack cyclist, is han-
kering after a match with any of the foreign riders before
the Australian season closes. It is also proposed to send
the N.S.W. rider to the Continent and America next
season, and could he take assisting brains in the form of
an experienced trainer, some success would await him.
The Australian has heaps of pluck—too much of it, in
fact. If it were more mixed with wisdom he would meet
with greater success. In cycling, more races are won by
craft than leg-power.
-< * » *
Bert Dingley, a steam-car driver of credit and
renown, has announced chat the steam automobile is the
machine of the future. He claims that the strength of
the boiler is the only thing that limits the speed of the
steam car, while that of the explosive machine is approxi-
mately that of its registered horsepower. So far there is
no word of the petrol cars having recovered the record at
Florida beach speedway.
* * * *
Just now there is a drug of motor bikes on the
market, and a man can pick up a second-hand machine at
a very reasonable figure. The English and foreign makers
are growling that sales are not what were anticipated.
The makers have only themselves to thank. All the re-
cent makes of motor-bikes are high-powered machines,
which shake a man to pieces immediately he gets off a
paved track. As forriding them through crowded streets—
well, it is just folly. It is hard to make them move slowly.
What many men who ride bikes would like is a light
auxiliary motor, which could be switched on when the
wind changed or a sprint was desired. Rider has risked
his life on several motor-bikes lately, and they all give
the idea of having boarded a railway engine which is
bumping along the sleepers. Men who buy motor-bikes
do not want high speeds, excepting for track purposes,
but for coming to and from work the heart yearns for the
light auxiliary engine that can be used when required,
and turned oft when it isn’t, and the machine propelled
with the feet. There are a number of detachable con-
trivances, but, so far, none of them seems to have hit the
mark. There is a big opening for the genius who can
invent a light engine, weighing not more than six pounds
and of Jh.p., or Ih.p. at most, which can be switched on
and off without detaching the whole contrivance or
requiring the services of a fitter.
* * • *
The Gordon-Bennett Cup race was killed by the
English and French. The British Automobile Club
decided to abandon the event in the interests of its own
Tourist Trophy race, a speed contest held in the British
Isles open only to touring cars under touring conditions.
The French club withdrew because it felt that France was
not treated fairly, considering her position as the boss
nation of the motor world. Meanwhile the valuable
Gordon-Bennett Cup, presented by and called after the
proprietor of the New York Herald, is held by the Auto-
mobile Club of France, having been won by the reckless
Thery in 1904 and 1905. France has won it four times,
England and Germany once each. The French club will
replace the lost race by another over the Fontainebleau
circuit, in which there will be no restriction as to the
number of representatives any nation may have. That
was the rock which wrecked the Gordon-Bennett race.
* * * *
Sydney Motor Boat Club last week formed up
en echelon, or double-gridiron, or some other naval
formation, and proceeded towards Watson’s Bay. Heavy
weather was met, and many of the smaller boats had to
return. The remnant of the fleet arrived at Watson’s
Bay, and proceeded to land. The evolution was sternly
repulsed by the caretaker of the estate, and the fleet bore
away for Sydney. Then a school of sharks came along
and scared the ladies on board badly, and they ran into a
rain squall which penetrated even the covered-in boats,
and nearly swamped those that had no awnings. But
barring those few trifles, “ the outing was a most enjoy-
able one.”
* * * *
In 1886 Colonel Gascoigne presented the Royal
Sydney Yacht Squadron with a trophy which had to be won
three times in succession to ensure individual ownership.
The Gascoigne Cup is still making the sport interesting,
and looks likely to be passed on to the Sydney Aerostat
Club in 2006. The nearest approach to winning the
trophy was T. W. Bremner’s dual victory of 1904 and -5.
But on Saturday his chances were knocked kite high by
W. M. Marks’ Culwulla, which beat Bona and Magic over
a course from Neutral Bay, in Port Jackson, to Long Reef,
outside the Heads, and back. Scotia was the verv last
boat on the list.
* « * *
Sydney open boatmen had a Consolation handi-
cap on Saturday, when the 18-footers which have mostly
fought good rear-guard actions through the season were
handicapped so as to give them a show. My. Leache’s
Carballa took first money, and Alert was second.
* * * *
The municipal baths, Lavender Bay, Sydney,
attracted quite a crowd on Saturday last to see who
would take dead Kieran’s place as champion mile
swimmer of N.S.W. The result proved that, although
Reg. Healy is far and away better than the next best in
the State, and faster than either the English professional
or amateur men, J. Nuttall and Jarvis, he is not yet
equal to Kieran. He covered the distance in 24min 46sec.,
lmin. 29 l-ssec. slower than Kieran did it. The second man
was over 90 yards behind, and Healy evidently stands
alone in his class. Judging by the way he swam, com-
petent judges believe that it is only a question of time
till the East Sydney boy equals the record of the Sobraon
wonder.
* » * *
Whispered that a syndicate is going to take up
A. B. Postle, the Australian runner, train him properly,
and run him against the world’s best over any distance
between 100yds. and 130yds. The syndicate is a Kalgoor-
lie one, and has already announced that it is willing to
allow “ liberal” expenses to any English or Yankee flier,
and put up purses to the value of £lOOO.
* * * *
Victoria’s Bent reminisced over his cricketing
days lately, saying he was a “ perfect devil at it” when a
youngster. In ’5B he was captain of the Coast Club,
which once beat the M.C.C. Thomas boasted a bowling
record of 425 balls, 150 runs, 27 wickets, av. 5T5;
batting—l 3 innings, 127 runs, 47 highest score, av. 9‘7.
Among his club mates were Sam Costick, Tommy Wills
and Jimmy Bryant, and he once played a single-wicket
match against George Marshall, of South Melbourne, the
game ending in a tie. Later he joined the army, but
still kept up his cricket, on a pitch near Elwood swamp.
“ As a left-hand fast bowler he used to cut the seams oft
their trousers.” When he went into Parliament he was a
slim Adonis of lOst. 41b., and “one of the best mile
runners of the day.” Between times he was a great
orthographist, and once won a spelling-bee by spelling
Woolloomooloo. Then he wound up with a verse of an
alleged comic song, “ The Night Before Larry was
Stretched.” Evidently Bent has been a devil of a fellow.
* * * *
That nothing but electorate cricket will revive
interest in the game, in Melbourne, the attendance at
various matches proves. T’other Saturday, the first-class
players of Fitzroyand Melbourne attracted about 50 spec-
tators, while Malvern and East Melbourne casually inte-
rested a hundred or so—all free. Same afternoon, the
“Junior” teams of Northern District and Brunswick
brought a good 1500 to cheer and barrack the genuine
representatives of those districts, and there were no seats
or shady trees ; they just stood in the sun and watched
keenly.
, » * * *
S.A. cricketers back from Westralia say that
the chief improvement in the West is the all-round
batting, Parker—who learned his cricket at school in
Adelaide—being the star. Selk, who bowled so well, is of
the M‘Kibbin type, breaking both ways, with an occa-
sional fast ball. In a club match, on Feb. 10th, he took
all 10 wickets for 51. Unfortunatelv, his age is 35.
Munro, who also did much damage, is a fastish lefthander.
The wickets are very slow, and the Adelaide men only
got used to the pace of them just before leaving, when
Gehrs put up a double century.
MISS ANNETTE KELLERMANN, the Aus-
tralian water-nymph. An up-to-date photo.
F.H.R. : Bowling for Orange (N.S.W.) Dis-
trict club against the local Reserves recently, young
Dowd took all 10 wickets for 67 runs—all clean bowled,
and the last four with successive balls. Bowling once
against St. Stanislaus College, Bathurst, same bowler took
seven wickets with seven successive balls. What about
getting him down to Sydney—the world’s cricket head-
quarters ?;
'** * *
Sydney Grammar School, winner of last year’s
Great Public Schools cricket premiership, has made a
good start in the new competition by wiping out the
Scots College by the paralysing margin of an innings and
602 runs. Winners ran up a monster total of 658, every bats-
man reaching double figures, and sundries adding 63.
Chief compilers were M'Kinlay (188), Hunt (85), and
Storey (71). The performance was the more notable inas-
much as, at Christmas, the school lost Keele, Fox, and
two or three others, and it was feared that there would
be a falling off from the high standard of the last few
seasons. On the same day the North Shore Grammar
School, whose team includes a promising son of old
slogger Hugh Massie, heat Newington College hand-
somely.
* * * *
Jim Kelly’s benefit match has brought in a
return of £1393 ; and, seeing that the wicket-keeper has
had four trips to England at the rate of £7OO or £BOO a
time, he has done pretty well out of the game. He has,
too, always been thrifty and saving, with the further advan-
tage of owning a managing wife, and he will now be able to
look forward to old age with equanimity. He is anxious
that proceeds of recent benefit match should be handed
over to Messrs. Philip Sheridan and John Portus as
trustees, in order that they may invest the money to
advantage. Which is another example of Itellv’s charac-
teristic canniness. It was Messrs. Sheridan and Portus
who brought Kelly over from Melbourne to Sydney some
ten or eleven years ago.
* * * *
Sydney grade cricket produced three centuries
on Saturday. Gregory made 113 for Waverley against
Uni. (his third century for the season), C. G. Macartney
smacked 114 for Gordon against the Glebe, and A. B. S.
White, after a toilsome innings, made 114 also. This
makes White top scorer for the season with a total of 717.
* * * *
Charlie Gregory’s 113, for Waverley against the
University on Saturday, is his third century in club
cricket this season. In view of this success, his failure in
“ big ” cricket becomes the more remarkable. Probably
it is a matter of nerves. There was a time when many
good judges thought that he was going to turn out a
better batsman than brother Syd. ever was at his best, but
that time has gone past. Inter-State selection committees
are getting tired of giving unaccepted opportunities to
Charles.
* * * *
During its 50 years of existence, the Melbourne
Cricket Club has spent £109,000 on the equipment of its
ground, and £83,000 in other ways. £136,000 of this
£192,000 has been provided by members’ subscriptions
and entrance fees, and part of the balance is made up
from profits gathered in from visiting English teams.
N.S.W. National Coursing Association has
prohibited the butchering of hares in country Plumptons
with no escapes. That the hare must have a chance for his
life is the new rule in the matter. But the chances are
that the new regulation will only prolong the hare’s
agony, as the escapes will lead to a paddock where it
can be secured to be hunted another day, and another
one after that, till caught at last. Coursing' is a loathsome
sport.
* * * *
Nigel Barker left on Saturday to battle for the
laurel leaf of honor at Athens. The boat will pick up
G. A. Wheatley at Melbourne, and possibly George Blake,
if sufficient funds are collected to stand the strain, which,
however, seems unlikely.
* » * *
“B.”: N.S.W. Golf Association is the title of
a new body formed by some well-meaning persons, who
think that their game will be “elevated” by the exist-
ence of a central authority, which will control the game,
settle all disputes, and run the championships and other
tourneys. The association has been launched into
life, but stands a moderate chance of being frost-
bitten by the chilly hauteur with which its existence has
been ignored by the Royal Sydney Golf Club. The
R.S.G.C. is the loftiest of golf clubs, which picks and
chooses among suppliants for admission before allowing
them the privilege of paying £6 6s. a year and extras for
membership. A Golf Association without it is like the
Lands Inquiry without Willis. The It. Sydneys can con-
duct their own game, thank you, and if any unroyal
Sydney golfer has a dispute with them, they may require
him to efface himself from off the planet, but in their
wildest golf delirium they would never dream of referring
the dispute to the association.
* * * •
N.S.W. National Rifle Association has decided
to take evidence to prove the allegations of unfair mark-
ing at the Victorian Rifle Association meeting, which
statements have been vigorously denied by riflemen in the
Bent State
* * * *
People who delight in taking the lives of
animals who can’t hit back are always proudly calling
themselves sportsmen, and a very considerable number
of such persons spend hours weekly catching fish they
don’t want themselves, simply for the joy of haulin'*-
them out. Why don’t more of these people make them-
selves useful by fishing for sharks? It would be twice
the sport to catch ten-foot brutes with sandpaper hides
than to dangle an overgrown microbe before a phthisical
whitebait for 20 minutes. Shark catching only wants a
good start and a couple of catchers bitten in the act of
hauling big game aboard, and it would thrive like tiger
shooting- in India, and the mailboats would soon be gun-
wale down bringing out languid persons with long, fair
moustaches seeking for shark skins to hang in their
clubs.
» * * *
Tennis-players in Adelaide are very sore over
the altered date of N.S.W. tournament. S.A. fixture has
been in March for years past, an inter-State match with
Vic. being lately a leading feature. This year’s dates are
March 17 to 24, and it is feared that the new Sydney
arrangements will go far to spoil the chance of the crack
Victorians going to Adelaide.
* * * *
“0.”: Re N.S.W. Government’s guide to
anglers (8., 10/2/’O6). Why shouldn’t Vic. have a Fisheries
Department? Croajingalong is streaked all over with
creeks and rivers, nearly all suitable to trout acclima-
tisation, but only one or two contain trout. Plenty of
money has been spent privately in the purchase of fry
and yearlings, but the distance is too great, and the fish
seldom survive the railway journey. Oineo anglers paid
£4O recently for a batch of trout yearlings, but the last
fish died a few miles east of the railway terminus. Vic-
toria should have a hatchery at Bairnsdale. But N.S.W.
has a Department of Fisheries, and Vic. has only one
officer to administer all the fishery and game laws and
regulations.
* * * *
According to a New York wire to London,
Fitzsimmons has become reconciled to his wife in dra-
matic fashion. He outwitted her lawyer, saw her alone,
and the pair made it up. To celebrate the reconciliation
Fitzsimmons went to a neighboring blacksmith’s forge to
make souvenir horseshoes, and ,he worked off his joy with
such energy that under his mighty blows the floor
collapsed.
* * * *
The opening rounds of the fight at the Sydney
National between Lyn Truscott and R. Whitelaw showed
that the latter was more than a match for his opponent.
Truscott realised the fact almost immediately, and began
to fight for a sudden decision. For six savage rounds
they banged one another unmercifully, and all the time
Truscott invited a decision against him by hanging on
and punching simultaneously. In the sixth round he
obtained the relief he sought, and Whitelaw was declared
winner. It was very brief but cheerfully willing, and the
breaches of the rules certainly did not make it any less
interesting.
* » * *
The Turner-Mitchie contest, at Sydney Gaiety
Club, ended in a draw. And when two strong, vigorous
men like Turner and Mitchie make a draw at the end of
20 rounds, the public can bet that someone’s heart was
not in the scrap.
* * * *
The new crop of champion American bruisers
is unusually good-looking. Jack O’Brien is a beauty man ;
while George Gardiner, the New England middleweight
who is after his scalp, is quite an Apollo. Modern day
bruising doesn’t spoil one’s beauty as prize-fighting did
in the long ago.
» * * *
Tom Fennessey (13st. 51b.) met Tasmanian Mal-
ley Jackson (13st. 61b.) in a 20 round go for the heavy-
weight supremacy, at the Cyelorama (Melbourne), Feb.
12th, before a very fair attendance. Fennessey was in
four rounds overwhelmed by a mass of muscle that
hurled itself into the fray in a warlike manner. Long
Tom occupied the floor in a restful attitude several times
during each round. Malley kept such a hurricane of
blows going, using both hands with equal aptitude, that
at round four he had his man baked, and Referee Stokes-
bury awarded the contest to the dusky Tasmanian,
stating that his opponent’s hands were completely gone.
Jackson looked none the worse for his short and sharp
job. Wasting no thought on “ science,” the two-handed
puncher is strikingly effective in his own way.
An English clergyman has suddenly
realised that the ordinary pulpit voice is “across
between the wail of a dervish and the crooning of
a negro, plus the affectation bred by a conscious-
ness of aloofness from the rest of men.”
The death of Samuel Cunliffe-Lister, Lord
Masham, was recorded per cable the other day.
Lister was patentee of many inventions, including
a compressed-air brake for railways, and a wool-
combing machine; but in flunkeyised England
his invention of the modern species of plush was
regarded as his greatest achievement. Plush, the
staple feature of the harmless, unnecessary bell-
topper, of gaudy upholstery, and especially of
Jeames the footman’s inexpressibles, was formerly
manufactured from the hair of the fiery, untamed
goat. When Lister discovered a way of working
up silk waste into the material of Jeames’s pants,
and thus obviated the necessity of the intrepid
hunter tracking the ferocious William-goat to his
jam-tinny lair, a grateful Queen summoned him to
her Jeames-surrounded presence and be-lorded
him by the sweet title of Masham.


THE MADAME DEAN CORSET
sfa
Health-preserving, Spinal
supporting, Closed back,
open on each side, Shoulder
Braces. So many inquiries
for this Old Popular Cor-
set are met with that we
will supply same to order.
It can be made lighter and
with Suspenders attached.
Send for descriptive circu-
lars and self-measurement
forms to
Madame Dean,
Box 143, MELBOURNE,
... AND ...
BOX 335, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
MOTHER’S FRIEND.
PEDIC POMADE for the Head,
Strikes infesting vermin dead ;
On all hands it is confessed,
Surest, finest, foremost, best.
Destroys vermin; kills nits; heals sores,
By post—Small 1/2, large 2/3, extra large 3/6.
Manufacturer —P. KLEESA.TTEL,
Traralgon, Victoria.
To be Obtained from —
SAML. McCARDLE, 407 Collins St., Melbourne.
J. R. BROWN. Box 494, Wellington, N.Z.
GILLETTE RAZOR
o>U
SHAV£
CALL
SHAVf
S *At/,
Sh Av
?o
o
TM£
o
****
Send for Descriptive Circular. 80 Days’ Trial given.
Money refunded if not satisfactory.
52 Margaret Street, Sydney .
p.o. Box 148* Melbourne Box 494. Wellington, N.Z.
W. MOONEY, Queen Street, Brisbane.
HEAD OFFICE:
FRANK COFFEE, 52 Margaret Street, Sydney.
The first
Essential
for the preservation of the
teeth is to keep them clean by
constant attention at least every morning
and evening.
CALVERT'S
Carbolic Tooth Powder
makes the work of your toothbrush so much
more complete and satisfactory, because it
perfects the cleansing and also supplies the
necessary antiseptic properties.
It is also delightfully flavoured and
refreshing to use.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
J4jflP§£Pj|bgi ,
' \ ..
7 S'”
m
ÜBBe*
n •
% ~%%i Me
mmrn
Australia’s Rubber House.
THE DUNLOP RUBBER CO.’S Exhibit of Rubber Goods at the Australian Manufacturers’ Exhibitien The output
JSsiTL exceeds £300.000 per annom-800 hands being employed with an an„«abwage.sh»trf nearly £lOO,OOO. Thrnk of tin.
when you next require high-class Rubber Goods. Ask for and accept only DU
A Town Mouse.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ TT’S all just lovely, Bob,” said the girl
in the spring-cart, who’d been married
that morning.
“ Wait until we get home. Why, you haven’t
seen anything yet,” laughed the man. “ And
now you’ve got to get out and walk the rest of the
way up the mountain.”
Bess, the smart-looking brown mare, knew her
way, and stolidly climbed on ahead, and Bob and
Nan followed the winding red rough road slowly
and haltingly. It was all so new to the eyes of
the little Richmond girl, whose knowledge of
mountains, so far, had been distant glimpses of
irregular blue-looking humps. She looked down
the deep mountain sides and exclaimed at the tall
tree-ferns in profusion, and was awed into silence
at the boundless panorama stretching around her.
At the first mountain spring they came to, Bob
went aside to get some icy sparkling water,
and baptised her a full-fledged mountain dame,
By this time people Bob knew were being met
all along the road, particular friends were intro-
duced to the blushing little “missus,” who, to her
embarrassment, was taken stock of and shared in
the fusillade of chaff which greeted Bob. At the
tiny township, with its general store, post-office,
little wooden church, Mechanics’ Institute, and
two or three summer boarding-houses, Bob left
the cart. The rest of the way was along a wind-
ing packhorse track. So they set out on the last
miles, Bob leading Bess, and Nan riding.
“Here’s the last glimpse you’ll have of Mel-
bourne,” he said, turning her around to look, just
before they took the track leading around the
other side of the mountain.
The spot was a cleared halting place, with a
boundless view of the country to the sea. Close
by stood the remains of an old forest giant known
as Big Ben, which stood beacon-wise against the
sky and flung out a huge decayed arm as if bless-
ing the distant city which lay muffled in the after-
noon’s murk and liaze. Nan, to her wonder and
delight, could pick out the Exhibition dome and
a few well-known landmarks.
“So that’s the last of dear old Melbourne,” she
said dreamily, looking over the distance. “I
wonder, Bob, will I ever be sorry I came away.
Just now I don’t care if I never see it again.”
Bob suitably acknowledged this, and then drew
her attention to Big Ben. “I nearly got killed
once, coming home from a dance, by that old fellow.
It was an awful bleak, stormy night. My word,
you’ve no idea how it blows round here, Nan. I’d
just ridden under it, when that other bough came
crashing down. You can see the place where it
came from.”
She shuddered and grew, pale, inwardly resolv-
ing that he never would ride out on wild nights
alone again if she could help it. But the rosy
color soon came back, for they were nearing
home at last, so Bob said ; and soon Nan saw her
future home, set in the most beautiful spot in the
Dandenongs, a hidden valley undiscovered as yet
by excursionists. There were not a dozen farms
altogether nestling on its steep sides, and a luxu-
riant gully, watered by a hundred mountain rills,
wound through it, overgrown with tall palms,
mountain ash, hazel, ironbark, and feathery
gums, waving over a vast natural fernery. Dark-
ness was rapidly closing in on the valley, shutting
out that golden evening. A delightful fresh fra-
grance perfumed the air.
“Here we are,” said Bob, proudly, when they
came to a sliprailed track leading to a cottage,
whose dim outlines she could just make out.
In spite of herself and her great happiness, an
unaccountable sadness came over her, and she
shivered when Bob lifted her off the horse. It all
seemed so dark and inhospitable, with the great
dark masses looming all around, almost blocking
out the starry sky, while only a few lights dotted
about the valley showed there was any life there
at all. Only for a moment she felt the sensation
of loneliness, for Bob. beaming with welcome, soon
had a lamp lit and a bright fire burning, and the
door was shut fast on their home-coming.
* * * *
It was early spring when Nance Anderson came
to Fern Valley as a bride. At first her days
were too full of the newness and strangeness of it
all to miss anything of the bustle of her old life.
Bob was a big, good-looking, stolid, ox-like pro-
duct of the land, with no nerves or imagination
in his composition. He’d grafted through his life
with not more than half-a-dozen neighbors,
delving his holding out of the primeval forest,
working it night and day. Now, in spite of the
absence of roads and its distance from the railway
and city, it was a promising farm. As a crowning
touch, on one of his rare trips to town, he’d fallen
in love with a pretty, delicate little shop-girl,
thoroughly ignorant of farming and country
life —and married her, late in life for a farmer, for
he was about 30 but looked full 40 through hard,
strenuous graft. Now he was settled, with not an
interest or concern, save of the vaguest, outside his
150-acre boundary. It was into this narrow groove
Nan stepped beside him, fresh from a bustling
town life in a big family with its thousand and
one different interests. For the present every-
thing was perfect to her —she’d so much to learn
and so much to do, she never had time to think.
Weeks passed before the first novelty wore off.
It was companionship she missed first. Bob was
out at work all day, and she soon found out the
womenkind at her nearest neighbors, the Bruces,
bore her a grudge for having married Bob at all,
and disappointing' Maimie Bruce’s chances that
way. So she seldom went there, and, as walking
up and down the steep hillsides tired her quickly,
seldom also to the more distant neighbors. And
Bob didn’t see the good of going to dances now.
“We can leave all that to the youngsters,"
he said to her one day with a hearty laugh and a
hug. “ We’re done for—what’s the use of old
married folk turning out to go to dances?’’ She
laughed too as she released herself, but for the
second time she looked on the high wall of moun-
tains that completely surrounded them with a
shudder of dread. They seemed to oppress and
crush her. Was she locked up for ever ?
Later she had the idea of asking two or three of
her sisters up for a holiday. Bob didn’t alto
gether like the idea. “ Girls are a bit of a bother ;
they’ll be wanting to go about all over the
country,” he said; “but of course if you re
lonely —— ”
She protested tremulously that it wasn’t because
she was lonely ; but the girls settled the matter
by not coming. When asked, they had other
ideas of amusement just then.
The little wife gulped down her bitter disap-
pointment bravely, and crushed the letter and
threw it into the fire, telling Bob, as lightly as
she could, they were not coming.
Bob, touched perhaps by a wistfulness in her.
eyes, had a generous fit. “I’ll tell you what, old
girl, if everything goes on as well as they’re going
at present, we’ll have a week down town ourselves
at the end of the season, eh ! ”
She said she didn’t want him to do anything
like that j ust for her sake, but her heart beat with
wild delight at the bare thought. It was some-
thing to live for and look forward to. Already
the mountains seemed to have receded and to be
giving her more breathing room, and she worked
with joyousness and energy.
But Bob came home one day worried and
anxious ; the fruit crops that year were going to
be so prolific all over the country that it would be
hardly worth his trouble to send to the market, and
although this didn’t spell ruin or even disaster, it
put all thoughts of a trip to town away until after
the winter.
Nan, who had her back to him when he told
her, was deadly still for a few moments, but after
a bit she said in a quiet, even voice that it was
just as well perhaps they couldn’t get away, She
didn’t want to stay at any strange place, and
they’d filled up her place at home, as Aunt Mary
was stopping there. Bob, with a relieved mind,
decided he’d been mistaken in thinking she was
fretting, and that she’d settled down at last,
perfectly contented, and hadn’t any hanker-
ings after going away. And he soon forgot to
think about it at all, busy in preparations for the
long coming winter, when they would be practi-
cally weather-bound, cut off from the outer world
by snow and water and impassable roads.
The thoughts of the rapidly approaching, lonely,
rigorous winter appalled Nan—a long white
winter, hemmed in by the eternal mountains,
which crushed and suffocated her. The hills had
begun to get on her nerves and haunt her with
their constant, vast, looming immensity. r Io her
fevered imagination the tall gaunt straight gums,
with their silver grey trunks that covered the
sides, seemed great tentacles flung out to imprison
her. But it was at night her terror came over her
most acutely, and she was always feverishly
anxious to light up and draw the blinds close and
shut out the sight of the other lights on the
hill sides, which seemed to her morbid fancy
sentinel eyes, watching she didn’t slip away and
escape in the darkness.
A taste for long walks suddenly came over her
in these autumn days, from which she came back
wearied and worn out.
Bob began dimly to realise that a big mis-
take had been made somehow. Nan’s sad-look-
ing eyes began to worry him; things were
going wrong, he was dissatisfied; there were
so many loose ends left lying around the farm,
through his wife’s ignorance, that could be gathered
up and turned to his profit in capable hands —those
of Maimie Bruce for instance. Somehow he got
into the habit of calling in at the Bruces’ again, as
he used to do in the days before he married, and
talking over things on his road home from market,
and they let him see how much they sympathised
with him. .
One day Mrs. Bruce told him that she thought
it her duty to warn him to look after his wife.
How could a farmer’s wife, with her work to do,
go out every day like she did ? Did he know
where she went, or whom she went to see so
mysteriously ? Was it likely now that she just went
to get a sight of Melbourne from Big Ben spur, as
she gave out ? .
Bob laughed, and pooh-poohed the notion, and
said what a lot of interfering meddlers there were
around ; but he rode home up the horse-track to
his house with a flush on his cheek, and in Ins
heart a dull rage, which had been gradually work-
ing up for weeks. It was nearly dusk, and a chill
autumn evening gave promise of a wild,
stormy night. (Suddenly he saw Nan coming up
behind him, weary and dusty-looking, and he
waited for her, bursting with his grieyance.
“Where have you been?” he said, roughly,
when she got up to him.
“Along the township track,” she said. ‘ lin
sorry, Bob, I wasn’t here to have your tea ready,
I was so tired to-day somehow. But come on, you
shan’t have to wait ten minutes, it’s all ready ” —■
“ No stay, I’ve had enough of your goings on,”
he said, laying a detaining hand on her arm.
“Stay and tell me the name of the man you’ve
been going to see—tell me and, my God ! I’ll
kill him.”
She looked at him in alarm and shook her head
helplessly. “Bob, you don’t think ” —she began,
a dull red flushing her face.
“ Don’t think ! What is one to think ? I tell
you, everybody else is doing more than thinking,
they’re talking, and I won’t have it.” He swung
himself off his horse and came close to her. ‘ ‘ Tell
me this instant or ” .
She shrunk back to the big logs that lay along
the track, her mouth opened to speak, but uttering
no syllable, her eyes fixed on him in a stare of
stricken despair.
“ Can’t you speak ? ” he said roughly.
“ Qh Bob !” she choked, “ Oh Bob ! ” and then,
to his horror, she suddenly burst into wild laughter.
“ Nan, Nan,” he said, shaking her arm, his rage
turning to alarm. This laugh was so unexpected
and terrible. But the maniac laugh went on
until, at length, it ended in a long sobbing, a con-
tinuous wailing. In terror and perplexity he
raised her, and half carried her to the house.
Then, seeing she was really ill, helplessly and
ignorantly he tried to relieve her, and, finding all
his efforts unavailing, was hurrying away to get
assistance when she caught at his hand.
“Bob, Bob!” she said, passionately, a wild-
ness in her eyes, “don’t leave me alone oh ! you
can’t believe ’’—then she started laughing harshly
again. “ It’s too ridiculous —you don’t believe
it ? ”
“No, no!” he said, soothingly. “I dont
believe anything except that you’re ill, and I m
just going to bring Mrs. Bruce ; you’ll be all right
until I come?”
iShe nodded her head, which was buried on her
arm. and he went out on his errand. Making all
the haste he could, he wasn’t long returning with
Mrs. Bruce. But Nan had vanished when they
got there.
The young wife had slipped out of the
house impelled by an ungovernable spirit of
madness, which overcame her natural horror
of the lonely and mysterious mountains,
swathed in the impenetrable blackness. The
night even now was cold and bleak, and
sudden gusts of wild wind swept over the hill
sides that she had to wrestle with as she rushed
along the well-known track—shrinking back
and almost shrieking with terror as, every now
and then, a tall fern tree, a monster crouching
log, or some forest giant loomed indistinctly and
suddenly beside her on the path. Nearly ex-
hausted, but numb and feelingiess, she struggled
along the road she’d travelled once before that
day, before Bob had got his ridiculous notions.
She laughed again as she thought of it, a harsh
bitter laugh that ended in tears, and went on
wearily and painfully until she came to Big Ben,
the old sentinel tree. She sank on a log at the
foot of it, dazed and stupified, but with a feeling
that her long journey was finished, and tried,
with straining eyes, to pierce the gloom in front
of her.
“Let me see it once again,” she broke out m
pitiful wailing, “ and then let me die. I’ve noth-
ing now —Bob doesn’t want me. They don’t want
me at home; I’m just a miserable failure, but I
couldn’t help it all. Only let me see it once again
—I don’t want anything else.”
For a time she crouched on the log, brooding
and muttering the words over and over again,
almost insensible with cold and exposure, until, in
a sudden lull of the tempest, a distant cry of
“ Nan, Nan,” came to her ears. With a start she
aroused herself feebly, as a heavier blast of wind
than usual caused old Ben to creak and groan
again, and made her clutch at the log for safety.
Suddenly through an opening in the wild, wind-
tossed clouds came a brief glimpse of distant Mel-
bourne, lying in a soft, luminous glow, far away in
peace and security from this wild mountain storm.
“At last,” she cried with delight, and arose
and gazed on the scene, her clothes blowing
about her and long, loose strands of her hair
whipping her face in the wind —her arms stretched
out in passionate longing as she mumbled unin-
telligible sounds of gladness.
A burst of wind struck the mountain side with
full, thunderous force, snapping off like match-
wood old Ben’s remaining outflung arm, which as
it fell pinioned the helpless figure beneath.
“Coo-ee ! Nan, Nan ! Where are you’” called
the approaching voices.
R.A.K.
Definitely-announced, retirements from
Federal politics are those of Senator Zeal and ex-
Treasurer George Turner.
In one of its quaint attempts at art criti-
cism the Argus gravely announces that the com-
monly-accepted title of Velasquez’ “Venus with
the Mirror” is “misleading, as it is a kneeling
Cupid that holds the mirror to his mother’s face.”
Probably the sagacious critic would amend the
title of Longstaff’s “Sirens” to read—“A wave
breaking over a deluded mariner as he throws up
his arms in despair on realising that the sweet
singers to whom he has swum are acting as decoys
for man-devouring monsters.” Longstaff’s brief
title is so misleading.
Sydney D.T., playing the Reid game for
all it is worth, throws out this hint, 15/2/’O6 :
For legislative purposes, the present Federal Parlia-
ment has passed the serious stage of its existence, and
most of the session that has to intervene between now
and the dissolution will probably be devoted to stump-
speech making. As the House of Representatives must
dissolve not later than December, and may do so at any
time before then, members may be expected to apply the
closing months of the year to the business of making
their peace with their constituents.
That’s what G. H. Reid wants—an idle session,
and it’s what Deakin should, at all cost of affa-
bility, see that he doesn’t get.


A. SAUNDERS.
SHAVING MUG,
Pure Silver-Plated, 20s.
Other Styles,
13s 6d, 15s Cd, 17s 6d, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Pearls and
Rubies or Sapphires, 12s 6d.
Diamonds and Rubies or
Sapphires, 255.
Si®
m
s/i
Hi
New Zealand Greenstone Pearl Sat BAR BROOCH,
CHAIN, and BELT, 17s (id.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold TUSK BROOCH,
CHAIN and HEART, 15s.
Without Heart and Chain, 10s 6d.
V. SAUNDERS.
loct. Gold WISHBONE BROOCH,
Pearl or I’urquoise, 15s.
OUR ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
We send it to any
address Postage Paid
if you ask for it.
Its perusal will help
you, and give you a
very good idea of the
enormous stock we
carry.
A. SAUNDERS.
OUR HANDSOME
CATALOGUE.
A Post Card will bring
you a Copy.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Double Orescent BROOCH,
Set I’ure White Pearls, £2 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Fancy CURB PADLOCK BRACELET,
Safety Cham attached, 40s.
Larger, £2 10s. Smaller 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Bird and New Zealand
Greenstone HEART BROOCH,
12s 6d.
SAUNDERS.
15c-t. Gold Two-Bar BROOCH,
Diamond and Ruby or Sapphire, 355.
OUR MAIL ORDER
DEPARTMENT.
To Country Customers,
our Up-to-Date Mail
Order system assures
you prompt and
satisfactory service
withoui leaving your
own home.
A. SAUNDERS.
Crocodile or Seal Leather PURSE
and CARD CASE,
Pure Silver Mounts and Lock, 15s 6d.
Other Styles,
4s 6d, 5s Od, (is 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d.
sx i
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold DRESS
RING,
Ruby and Pearls,
12s (Id.
15ct. Gold, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Two-Bar BROOCH,
Diamond and Rubies or Sapphires, 22s 6d.
LADY’S,
15s.
LADY’S,
20s
N
S=4
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Black Open Face
KEYLESS WATCHES,
10s Od, 12s 6d, 15s,
20s, 255, 30s, £2.
Our “Nurses’ ” Watch, 255.
Specially Recommended.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold SPRAY BROOCH,
Set Fine Pure White Pearls, £2 ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Solid Gold
SIGNET RING, 20s.
15ct. Gold, £2.
ISct. Gold, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold SPRAY BROOCH,
Set Pearls and Turquoise, £2 10s.
Diamonds and Rubies and Sapphires,
£S 10s. ■
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver CLOTH or HAT BRUSH,
Long White Bristles, 5s (id.
Other Styles, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold CLUSTER BROOCH,
Pure Diamonds and Ruby
or Sapphire Centre, £lO.
All Diamonds, £l2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver TIE CLIP,
23 6d, 3s 6d.
Solid Gold, 12s 6d.
Chased, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct.. Gold Amethyst
or Garnet, 255.
15ct. Gold £2 ss.
SILVER,
30s.
GOLD
£3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s High Grade Solid Silver
KEYLESS WATCHES,
255, 30s, £2, £2 10s.
Solid Gold, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £4 4s, £4 10s,
£5 10s, £6 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Diamond and Rubies
or Sapphires, £2 10s.
Three Diamonds, £3 lCs.
A. SAUNDERS,
loct. Gold Diamond
and Rubies
or Sapphires, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
XSct. Gold
half Hoop RING,
DiaP’onfls and
Rubies
or Sapphires, £2.
Solid Silver SOVEREIGN
PURSE, 8s 6d.
Silver Filled, os 6d.
Gold Filled, 22s 6d.
Solid Gold, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Fancy Curb Pearl and Opal or Turquoise
PADLOCK BRACELET, £3 ss.
loot. Gold. £5.
New Zealand Greenstone Heart,
Gold Mounted, 8s tid.
Smaller, 4s (id, 6s (3d, ds (id, 7s 6d.
Larger, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Four Heart Opals
and Pearls, 355.
15ct. Gold, £2 10s.
A. SAUJN DDRS.
18ct. Gold Half Hoop
BING, Diamonds
and Rubies
or Sapphires, £3.
Larger Stones,
£3 ids, £4 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
ISct. Gold RING,
Pure Double Cut
Diamond and
Rubies
or Sappnires £7 10a
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Combination SHAVING BRUSH
and SOAP HOLDER, 15s 6d.
Soap fits in Handle.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold BRACELET, Diamond and Rubies,
or Sapphire, £4 10s. Three Diamonds, £5 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver MANICURE SET,
Comprising Three Pieces, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 20s, 255, 30s, 355,
40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Shield and
Dumbbell LINKS, 12s 6d.
Silver, 2s 6d.
A. u HINDERS.
9ct. Gold PIN
CHAIN and N.Z.
Greenstone Heart,
8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Doeskin TOBACCO POUCH,
Beat Rubber Lining,
Pure Silver Shield, 4s 6d.
Other Styles,
4s, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s-6d,
8s 6d, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Oval I,INKS, 255.
15ct. Gold, £2.
Extra Heavy, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold BRACELET, Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires, £3 15s. 15ct. Gold, £5 ss.
All Diamonds, £7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Cherub Design HAIR BRUSH,
Extra Long White Bristles, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
NICKEL,
NICKEL,
15s
20s.
/
N
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Gunmetal or Nickel Open Face
Keyless WATCHES, Is 6d, 8s 6d, 10s, 12s Gd,
15s. Our “Unrivalled” "20s London Lever,
255. All Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
Crocodile Leather
CIGARETTE CASE,
Pure Silver Mounts, 20s.
Others, Gs 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Crocodile Leather PURSE, Extra Heavy
Solid Silver Mounts and Locks, 27s 6d. ,
Other Styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Love Bird BROOCH, 12s 6d.
15ct. Gold.
A. SAUinDERS.
9et. Gold Mounted
Bloodstone or Sardonyx
'SEAL PENDANT, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
COLLAR BUTTON BOX,
Pure Silver-Plated, 5s 6d.
Other Styles, 4s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s.
■
mbss
m
IBS
ii
~.._ .;••• •■'• ''
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent..’s... POCKET-BOOK, Crocodile
Leather, Pure Silver Mounts and Locks 20s
Other Styles, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s ’
12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 255.
SOLID
SILVER,
£2/10
A. SAUNDERS.
Gcnt.’s Silver Hunting Keyless WATCHES,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4, £5, £6, £7.
Gold Filled, £3 3s, £1 4s, £5 ss,
£6 10s. Solid Gold, £7 10s, £8 10s,
£lO, £l2 10s, to £4O.
GOLD
CASED,
A. SAUNDERS
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER
SILVERSMITH, and OPTICIAN,
809, 81 I, 813, 815, 817
GEORGE-STREET,
Opp.
Railway-
Station,
Sydney.


id!
■ ■ -
,
-•v"
mm.
m
m
£S, •
■ v :
': ' :
«*3R
*«S
ssv
#
r±.
EM
'
: -
Mai
m
m
m
B
v
l&l
V
"V
■ .
■
%
.^asa^ 1 :
£&.
**s
: ;
: ■
*4»5
■
1
E »
•-> v --
'KI
%
-
flp
m
H;%
#
r#
JT
s
wm.
✓
ie
:
■B
M
v
#1
\
'V
i
m
■
m
, s
*
«
&
-
W*'-
p
*” X§*
m
• •
if %%i r
* n ♦
ere
• #* *
Pills.
» «
P®lb *


m
"
i >
r '
I
*1
’V
. e
1
# V. f
1 ■-
\
VO
%
:
✓
1181
111 :
;
: :
V
t
ms
mm-m
. I
j
■a
i
I
i
SB
■lll*
b’
Si
Hr , ■ ■
* i
. :
.•. . :
‘
' B -1 B ' ■ > BB? •• .• ; B;
m '* >- ' 'm/' -
■Si
WWi
B : :
m
; ' ■ .
IIIISS
.
: b -v - '
r ;
m-
wmmm
til
i
■
. •
MMMMM
iiils n
ilSBBiBlISSliiiSIliiilllll!
:■
If B : ■ B ; : :
rsc
« .
EM
' - v .
I®
.V.v;
SR
mm
m
ft
mm


y
mm
o «
"v,
I, W 1
t wr
r
m
x
%
/' />
1
| jSSII
v^.r
/■'
, 5.1
iislli
£ *,#
it
tiMI
'-!
I
-JM
/
/ 7
.; '-L m ; '' ■
St
sS*
T
w
■ * '""'“S
t.- • ,
'.' .f »” ■ •->'. '•-*•
’• • • < • " : '\
i % m z ®p|
n T.yteito*"' ■
'" ”, 'Vt; r • • -
111
1
' t **;
7 .
- * ' ft-
. 77 #V
V spgfc -j
,
• *
.m
■■
siaTis
'Or ‘- r - xtS
.. , v JA.
'
> I
.
?/v
iMi
% r#
0
§ .
-At
A*
t -
'■ « X - % '’?■ "'"W* ,%.
t. ; • ••••* •- •' * p) c,*-* ft A-7'V tff?-
. , .
,7^
m. v&*
sWsTS
.ft
v,; ; , * ? ■’ *- :,y ,
fill
wtm
'oi
y>
.
r f * ' • . /
ssU is® wjssafcsa *a
a
&
11
/ vt i« .i ; ,; * * ■ - • s* - •
.;. - -is %*•*• v ‘- & fsi^
< ' , V v
-
•■ ' ,
MSS i
7?7
‘ .-'• ” K--
■
"'.jS'-
®gi
SS
77
“ An* whoy not ? Shure, *tis the best baccy I
shmoKes —HAVELOCK. DARK..
99


According to statistics, astronomers are
the longest livers, followed by priests, parsons,
Quakers and Judges. B.it get a civil servant and
retire him on a fat pension, and lie’ll be living
long after the astronomer his departed to his
stars.
Shipping.
LUND’S BLUEANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
And Regularly every Four Week thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON ' & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
'—Til IC—n
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities wltb>
out Mutual Liability.
Offices . . 105 Pitt Street. Sydney.
Directors:
The lion. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The lion. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M. L.O
'J'lie lion. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Aicumnlatcd Funds, .€2,920,210.
Policies issued 93,401-assuring £29,270,925
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,503,272.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses -eauitably distributed.
Head Offloe:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
national Bank,
limited.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, IS6S.
Rankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,240 15 0
R jserve(inGovt. Stock, £43,435) .. 48,000 0 C
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors.—Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Calian, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.—W. V. RALSTON.
file Qank nf |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
CA PlTAL—Authorised .. .. .. £700,000
Paid-up .. £lOO,OOO
Uncalled . .. 250,000
Reserved Fund .. ( 20,000
(Invested in Government Stock) f £370,000
The trustees, executors
and
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Coliins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £20,000 0 0
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : It. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Qrioe, Esq. :
Jlon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BOItROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
—THE— ~
CITY MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
(Established 1579.)
Head Office— HUNTER & BLICH STREETS, SYDNEY
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life Office
in Australia.
Auents Wanted. GEO. CROWLEY, Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hou. A. VV. M hicks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John Skis, Lt..-Col. Burns (Burns,
I‘liilp & 00., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jbssof, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, ]). Clynk ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Faklank ; Brisbane, A. Hamilton Hart ; Berth, A. W.
Bakohii Alt. J, J. ALLEN General Manager lor Australia
Write for Prospectus 131 l’itt St., SYDNEY.
Hunk of New South Wales .
ESTAIiLISIIKD 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital 2,000,000 0 o
Reserve Fund 1,425,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Broprietors ~ ~ 2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,425,000 0 0
Directors:
The Hon. Charles K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Hon. Sir Normaxd MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
Auditors :
Harrington Palmer, Esq. Frederick W. Uther, Esq.
London Office -Old Broad Street.
With Branches in ail the Australian States, New Zea-
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through-
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks ; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the wo Id.
J .RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manager.
NEW ZEALAND INSURANCE
COMPANY.
SHAREHOLDERS ill the above Company are
hereby notified that a Dividend of 3s. per
share for half-year ended 30th November last is
now payable at the Company’s Office, 81 Pitt-street.
J. A. MINNETT, Manager.
Shipping.
hnr. 33. l.
(NOIID-DHUTSCIIER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Ma.il Service
PASSENGERS HOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY liyev.v Four Weeks, via BRISBANE, NEW
BRITAIN and NEW GUINEA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
*FRINZ SICISMU.MD, 3300 tons.. 17th MARCH.
•WILLEHAD, 4761 tons .. .. 14th APRIL.
*PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons.. 12th MAY.
♦Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
THE ONLY CERTAIN
MOUSTACHE PRODUCER.
CAPILLARINE
Posted (under cover) to any part
of Australasia or New Zealand. 1
Sole Agents— PRICE 10/6
CRAIQ and AITKEN,
N. S. W. Barber's Supply House,
684 George Street, BYDN2Y
saf
TH€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, amt
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
•Twin Screw. Calling- at Hobart.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
saf
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
MEDIC, to Sail on or about
23rd FEBRUARY,
AFRTC, SUEVIC, PERSIC,
and RUNIC to follow.
FAKES—Capetown .. .. £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dahjehi and < ’ompanu, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
O C E A.KTIC S.S3. 00. A.. ancl A. LIKT B,
NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS—EVERY THREE WEEKS.
R.M.S. SIERRA. 6200 TONS, SAILS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 26.
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, SAN FRANCISCO, &c., &c.
FAST PASSENGER SERVICE to AMERICA. CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN,
EUROPE and ROUND THE WORLD.
CHEAP THROUGH FARES TO ENGLAND.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
SOUTH SEA
CRUISES
ISLAND
Do you know what charming
trips can be made among the
Islands of the Western Pacific? Are you aware that
our steamers will carry you comfortably round the most
interesting of the Island Groups, with your home always on board, at an average
cost of about len Shillings a Day —that is less than your hotel expenses alone
would be on your usual holiday. May we have the pleasure of mailing you our
new illustrated descriptive matter?
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
ƒa
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security
FAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
fa
<0
<s>
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
nxr.s.'w.
fflont de pete D.«M.C°-,Ctd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
and 17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The Royal Rank of Queensland
hi MITICIK ”
Capital Paid-up . , .. .. .. £457,538 10 0
Reserve Liaeility of Shareholders .. 175,812 10 0
Reserve FUND(lnvested in Government Stock) 66,000 0 0
£699,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE; 25 A3CHURCH LANE.
17 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
.Throughout the. World.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable iSUxlclnigs, George Street.
Four per cent.. Stock guaranteed by New
ZealiSKPQoYernment .. .. 1,000,000
Preference Shares issued to the Crown in
terms of Bank of New Zealand Act
(N.Z.), 1908 .. 500,000
Amount of Capital pay able by Shareholders 600,000
fetal Capital «. ..£2,000,000
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
NEXT SAILINGS-
March 19, April 16, May 14.
The New Triple Screw Turbine Steamer.
MAHENO,
SAILS, APRIL 16, 1906.
Absolutely
the
Finest Vessel
yet
Seen
on the Pacific .
KST Send for Illustrated Pamphlets Furnished Free.
■ ♦
UNION BTEAM SHIP CO.VIPAMY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. Y
WJ'iOtiiFUL ValUI:.
A PACKET of Kiylit Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (ean be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter,,
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Shee; of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Ilaymarket.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
FIRE HAS NO TERRORS!
Fire has NO terrors that Fire
Insurance cannot quell.
Put the South British on guard !
GEO. 11. MOORE, Manager.
CHAS. T. METCALFE, Assistant Manager.
CAPITAL, £1,900,900.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £500,030.
ANNUAL REVENUE, £300,000.
T £ e South British
FIRE and MARINE INSURANCE CO.,
12 Bridge St, Sydney.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(LIMITED).-
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT Pi It IE
An 1 GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Wollowra, Feb. 23.
S.S. Gran tala, March 7.
S.S. March 21.
BRISBANE, 'l f
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE, ('
And Ports North to Cairns. I I
S.S. Bunniyonjj-, Feb. 24.
S.S. Wollowra, March 3.
S.S. Grantala, March 28.
nest and Cheapest limits to <1 old Helds.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
lust 1 ort of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 0500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
WlßTfi^ E^, N SUEZ, and
Steamer
AUSTRALIEN
V. de la CIOTAT
yarra
DUMBEA
Batavia, and Japan,
including table wines.
ed to Bombay, India, China,
PASSAGE MONEYj £25 to £75,
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them even-assistance
Ending and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
lor further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen s Corner, Pitt Street. Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE TIIUY, Principal Agent.
Hotels.
PETTYS HOTEL,
SYDNEY
N EWLY decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will be
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed,
Central, and away from the noise of trains.
Private Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET
C. W. CUPIT, Manager.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
the (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con.
venient and Healthy Locality,
flodern Appointments. noderate Tariff.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every omtor and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS.
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beacon afield Parade
Sl'. HILDA.
r I 1 ill* Largest and Best-Appointed -Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
Hi
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
miMPOUE'S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St
ww Kilda Rai way Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Vifi
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day or from
2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Olareiidon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 101,3.
Mr. Skinner lists a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FUItNJSiILNUS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public anti g^ 10 * Banquets and
Private Balls £“ ble dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
STAR EYE O.tiTMENT, the Golden Remedy for In-
flammation, Sandy Blight and Weak Eyes. Price
only 2/- Post Free to any address in Australia, Tas. or
N.Z. Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne


DR MCLAUGHLIN
ROCKEFELLERS MILLION
THEMILNONDOLLARS
DONE D ROCKEFELLER
ORDERS ROD A .
HEALTRY STOMACH
The man who proved that he was five years ahead ot Pro*. Loeb in dis-
covering that “Electricity Is life" now says that he can cure Jno.
D.Rockefeller, and agrees to §5,000 to charity it he tails.
MEDHODBY WHICH DR M
LAUGHLIN PROPOSESTO
EARN THE MILLION
DOLLARS.
(By John Francis Byrnes.)
Atlantic City, N. J.—Jno. D. Rockefeller offers
a million dollars to the man who will give him a
healthy stomach. He made that offer to a doctor
who called upon him, saying that it would he
worth a million to him if he could fix his stomach
up so that it would digest his food.
“ A million dollars for a healthy stomach!”
John D. Rockefeller.
“ I accept the offer, and will forfeit 25,000
dollars if I fail to effect the cure.”—Dr.
McLaughlin.
This looked to me like material for an interest-
ing story, which led me to Dr. McLaughlin’s
offices for more particular details.
The first greeting from the doctor convinced me
that I had met a man of convictions, and strong
ones. The doctor was enthusiastic over what he
terms a long-sought opportunity, and entered
gleefully into a discussion of the subject.
“What is my method? The restoration of
vitality—nothing more. To appreciate what I
am going to say, you will have to understand that
it is now generally conceded by medical men that
the motive energy of the human organs —the force
which keeps the heart pulsating, the stomach
■digesting, and the brain scheming—is Electricity.
“ Over a year ago Professor Loeb, recognised as
■a high authority, and who has recently been en-
gaged by the University of California, stated that
the had discovered, after ten years of studious
.research, that electricity is the basis of human
'vitality. . . ,
“Just glance at this book of mine, written in
1896, and read what I say in the introduction.”
I took the opened book from the doctor s hand
and read : “ I anticipate still greater results from
my efforts towards demonstrating the truth of rny
lifelong claim, that ‘ Electricity | is the basis of
all animal vitality, and without it we could not
live.”
“That indicates that my discovery was years
ahead of Professor Loeb’s,” continued the doctor,
“but I claim no credit for that. I did not dis-
cover it at all. It was my belief twenty years ago,
as it is the belief of every thinking man to-day,
and I have simply developed the theory until now
it is a proven fact.
“I quote Professor Loeb simply to clinch my
right to say that if Mr. Rockefeller’s stomach is
unable to digest his food, it is because he has not
sufficient vitality, and we have already shown
that ‘vitality’ means ‘Electricity.’ Just under-
stand one point clearly. His food does not digest
because certain functions related to digestion are
powerless to act. They are weak, incapable or
doing what nature intended. You see that. Now,
you can see that to set him right you must revive
the strength in the parts which are weak. That is
plain. Drugs will not do that. They never did
and they never will, and every doctor on earth
knows it.
“ What will do it, then ? ”
“Electricity.”
Now here is where Dr. McLaughlin passes be-
yond the period covered by Professor Loeb, and
shows how this vital electricity, which is the basis
of life, may be replaced in the body when lost by
the causes producing debility.
He says : “ When the stomach is not able to
generate sufficient of this energy to supply the
demands of the vital organs, the natural result is
a lowering of nerve, organic and muscular power
—a general debility. Then an artificial agent
must be used to assist the stomach. That agent
is Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt.
“ This is the remedy for Mr. Rockefeller. To
prove my faith in it, I would be willing to put up
25,000 dollars, to be given to any public charity
which he may select, if I fail to cure his stomach
in four months, he to wear my appliance for six
hours each day or night during that time. And
lie may be the sole judge as to the results obtained. ”
“ How about Mr. Rockefeller’s offer of a million
dollars, doctor?”
“That is a secondary matter. I want it, of
course, but not for my own use, as I don’t need it,
and a million dollars wouldn’t increase my happi-
ness one quiver. I would much rather have the
satisfaction of seeing my invention successful in
curing a case where so many noted physicians have
failed. When a man has devoted the greater part
of his life to the development of an idea which he
thinks will benefit humanity, he is passionately
fond of his idea, and money holds little fascination
for him.”
“ Then you leave the matter entirely in his
hands ?”
“ Entirely. lam willing to trust to his decision.”
“A great many wealthy men are suffering
tortures and dosing themselves with drugs without
relief who never try a remedy like mine because
they impose entire confidence in their family
physician, who believes that ‘ electricity is a
remedy of the future, not of to-day,’ and so advises
his patient.
“ I tell you that Electricity is a remedj of to-
day. It has been a grand remedy for the past ten
years. I have studied this subject more carefully
than any physician ever studied his text-books,
and I can show results. I am curing men every
day who were never able to get benefit from drugs.”
“My treatment is a success in any case where
strength is lacking, whether in the nerves, stomach,
heart, kidneys, liver, or any other part. My
appliance gives a soothing, constant electric glow,
which is taken by the body just as a sponge takes
up water. It cures rheumatism in any guise, as
well as every other form of pain.
“lam an enthusiast, you say ! Why should I
not be ? I have the gratitude of thousands of
people who have been cured by my Electric Belts
after the failure of the best physicians. lam
enthusiastic because I know that I offer suffering
humanity the surest cure for the least expenditure
of money that is known to-day.
“ I have gained my success by learning how to
treat my patients and then curing them. I know
how, others do not. I charge nothing for my
knowledge, knowing that it helps my business to
do all I can for every patient. My patients are
my friends. They are building my success.
Then I questioned Dr. McLaughlin m regard
to his Electric Belt, and asked him wherein was it
so much better than other similar contrivances.
“That is very simple,” replied the doctor.
“Having spent twenty-two years m study and
experiment, I have found means of perfecting my
appliance, of removing defects as fast as they
appeared in actual use, and of supplying features,
such as the regulating device, non-burnable elec-
trodes, reversible battery, and of increasing the
power of my appliance until it is five times as
strong as that of any other electric body appliance
on the market. My appliance is conceded to be
the only one of the kind which is constructed
upon truly scientific lines. Compared with it all
other so-called electric belts are the inventions of
the blacksmith’s hammer. . .
“It is not upon that point, however, that my
success has been founded. My immense business
is due to my knowledge of the effect of electricity
upon the ailments treated, and the best way to
obtain that effect. I take every case that comes
to me as an individual, and direct the application
of my belt to suit the demands of each particular
case. When you consider the fact that the elec-
tricity which I supply is life to the organs into
which I send it, you can see how I get my results.
My success comes from my cures. If I did not
cure, my business would have worn out long ago,
as has the business of every other maker of elec-
tric belts. A great many schemers and frauds
have gone into the electric-belt business because
they fancied it was an easy way to make money,
and have resorted to very question-
able methods at times, but the old
adage, ‘You can’t fool all the
people all the time,’ was active in
their cases, and they did not last
long.” . .
“Tell me, doctor, why is it that
you seem to get better results than
a physician derives from using a
battery on his patient ? ”
“Because the nervous system,
which receives the electric current,
is so sensitive that the current
from a battery shocks it, but leaves
no additional power to the nerves
or vitals. That is why a doctor’s
battery does no good. Now, my
system is different. I pour the
current into the body for six or
eight hours every day or night,
usually while the patient sleeps.
The delicate nerves are not shocked
or jarred by this current, as it
goes into them just like a
drizzling rain saturates a newly-
ploughed field. They absorb it,
drink it in, and as it is their life,
they grow strong with it.
“I think, perhaps, that is the
reason that doc tors think so little
of electricity as a remedy. Of
course, they think they know all
there is to know about applying
it, and as that is a failure, they
conclude that electricity is no
good.
“Some doctors even believe that
my appliances do not generate a
current. I will pay 1000 dollars
for one of them that fails to
give a powerful current as soon
as it touches the body. In days
gone by electric belts used to burn the skin. I
guarantee my patients against that. My appli-
ances have soft cushion electrodes which give a
glowing heat, but no sting or burn. They have
also a regulator to control the current.
“Now, doctor,” I said, “your theory sounds
very good ; but can you give me any bona-fide evi-
dence of cures to back up your statements ? You
know that there are a great many advertised
remedies, and this case of Mr. Roeltefeller, who
has been in the hands of the best physicians
for years, is very good proof that few of the
remedies are successful.” ;
“That is my strongest argument,” said the
doctor. “ Here are letters from prominent people
given me without solicitation. You can see these
patients and secure from them verification of what
is contained in their letters.”
Thereupon Dr. jVlcLciughlin showed me <i file
containing letters from many of the best-known
people in the city, and many from other countries.
At random I picked out several, and reproduce
some of them here. The doctor told me that
many of his best testimonials could not be pub-
lished, as the patients, though recommending his
treatment privately, objected to publicity.
Mr. T. KEEYS, of Ashhurst. N.Z., writing, says:—
“The Belt I must say has worked wonders. I used to
suffer agony with Indigestion and Pains in the Back. I
wore your Belt for about two months and then left it, off,
and have not worn it now for about three months, and do
not feel the need of it in any way whatever. My old
ailments have been completely cured by its great curative
powers.”
E. H. HERTRAMPF, of Drake, via Tenterfield, N.S.W.
writes“ Dear Sirs,—l have much pleasure in informing
you that your Belt has given great satisfaction. Before I
o-ot it I was very bad w'ith Sciatica, Rheumatism, and
Lame Back, was unable to walk, and could not stoop to
lace my boots. I could not fie on my back without losing
the power of my arms and legs, and could not get to sleep
for the pain. But since wearing your Belt I am a
different man altogether, and when people ask me what
has made the change, I tell them that the Dr. M‘Laughlili
Electric Belt did it all.”
Mr. T. DAVIES, 62 Bell-street, Fitzroy, writes
“Dear Sirs, —You will remember that I consulted you
some two years ago about my troubles. I had been
suffering greatly for fifteen years from nervous prostra-
tion, the result of overwork, and had tried every remedy
known, and they all failed. When I obtained one of your
Electric Belts I experienced almost instant relief, and .
would not be without my Belt (or any consideration,
am well known here, and can conscientiously advis eany
one troubled like I was to place themselves in your hands.
I will give anyone my experience who likes to inquire.
These letters illustrate how well I follow up each
case closely after the Belt is sold. I require a
patient to report every thirty days. If he does
not do so, I write asking after his condition. In
this way I am able to keep closely in touch with
his complaint until he is cured.
Mr. J. H. BEARD, Sylvester-street, Coolgardie, W.A.,
writes: —“Sirs, —I honestly believe that I have secured
full value for my money, as I feel completely cured of my
old troubles, and have felt nothing of them for the past
month. I have worn the Belt at night and worked
constantly every day, sometimes being in damp clothes
and having wet feet nearly all day, and I had no nursing
of any kind. I consider myself permanently cured now,
and the Belt is as good as new. I would willingly recom-
mend it to anyone suffering from similar troubles.
Mr. JESSE HARFORD, Senr., Reno, via Gundagai,
N.S.W., writes “I am pleased to tell you that I feel
GRAND in every respect. I never felt better in my
whole life than I do at the present time, and I must give
vour High-Grade Electric Belt the credit for making this
wonderful change in my general condition. The com-
plaints that I was troubled with were not a few in fact 1
was what most people would call ‘ A General Broken-
Down Man.’ I had black specks floating before my eyes ;
a thumping noise continually in my head as though I
were working near heavy machinery; Biliousness
(requiring medicine); then there was the Urinary
Troubles, Sciatica, and last, but not least, AoIriMA.
This complaint I had been troubled with for over thirty
years during which time I have spent a lot of money
trying to get clear of it', but the money was spent in vain
until I got your valuable Belt, and now I am pleased to
tell vou again that I feel perfectly free from that and
all the other com ilaints stated above.
“ I can confidently recommend any man or woman, if
troubled with the diseases I have had, to get one of your
High-Grade Belts, they will never regret their invest-
ment, it will be the best money they ever spent. 1 must
sing your praise for bringing* such a valuable invention
into "and for, public use, for when a treatment will do
what your Belt has done for me—a man verging on 77
years of age, what will it not do for younger people?
There were dozens of letters from prominent
men, whose names, if Dr. McLaughlin was per-
mitted to publish them, would be sufficient guar-
antee of the genuineness of his cure. Among
them were several prominent physicians, who
spoke highly of the treatment from personal
tests.
Mr. S. DOAK, Bonnie Doon, Vic., writes Dear
e; rs Ait is with great pleasure that lam able to inform
you’ that your High-Grade Electric Belt has entirely
cured me of my many troubles. I had Insomnia very
badly; also Lumbago, Weak Back, Indigestion, and
Kidney Troubles. I felt very low and miserable, and my
nerve had left me. Now I am fit and well. I am enjoying
o-ood health, and again find a pleasure in my work. lam
fairly well known throughout Victoria, as I hold the
Royal Humane Society’s Merit Certificate for rescuing
two men from drowning in the Delitite River.
Lack of space only prevents me giving dozens,
or even hundreds, of such good reports and testi-
monials of complete cures. Many cases had been
considered absolutely incurable.
“You can take a man who is thin, puny, and
unnourished in appearance and pour this electric
life into his body every night for a few months,
with the proper exercise to draw it into the
muscles and tissues, and you can add twenty-five
pounds to his weight, double his strengtn and
vitality, and transform him into a giant in
strength, as I have often done. Look at the men
who have worn my belt, and you will see men of
force, men of power and confidence ; men who
respect themselves and are respected and admired
by their fellow-men. .
“ The human body is just like that engine. It
breaks down when the physical energy is over-
taxed. That energy is electricity. I have here a
means of replenishing the electricity of the body,
and that is the basis of my treatment. .
“ Decay in old men is similar to general debility
in younger men. Years have nothing to do with
it In each case it is the failure of the stomach to
generate sufficient energy to supply the demands
made by the vital organs. , ..
“ How quickly we fail when the stomach tails
to digest the food. That shuts off the supply of
energy.
“ I have on record hundreds of instances where
men of 75 to 90 have returned to the hard labor of
their youth with a vim after having worn my ap-
pliance three months.
“ One decrepit old man of 75 had in youth been
a blacksmith. After using my appliance he took
up his tools, and says he can work as hard as he
did at 35. He says he is an old man made young.
“ Another man of 72 said he had been crippled
with rheumatism for 45 years. He pronounces
himself cured and as vigorous as he ever was in
youth.
“Oh, yes! My Belt is as good for Women as
for Men. ”
Mrs. J. HOGAN, S’r., Powlett Plains, via Hurting, Vic.,
writes -—Dear Sirs,—l am pleased to say that your Belt
is a wonder, and it is worth its weight in gold. I was
almost powerless from the effect of Rheumatic Sever,
and since using your Belt I am able to attend to my
household duties. My neighbors are astonished to see me
so well. You can make what use you like of this state-
ment for the benefit of other poor sufferers.
Miss A. LEECH, Mitchell, Q’land, writes i: “Dear Sirs,
I am writing to let you know what good the Belt has
done me. The dragging has left my chest, and I have
not felt my backache since the third day I wore it. lam
happy to say that my hip appears to be quite well; m
fact I never felt so well in my life as I do now, and no
one knows what I have gone through but myself.”
Mrs E OLSEN, Haitaitai, Kilbirnie North, N.Z.,
writes Dear Sirs, -Seeing what a wonderful change
vour Belt has made in my husband, I thought I would
try it myself for Kidney and Liver Trouble of 26 years
standing. I wore it for two or three hours every morning
for about two months, and I am happy to tell you that I
am now quite cured. I cannot express my delight in
writing to you.
Mrs E. ARMSTRONG, Daisy Hill, Longanlea, Queens-
land writes: “ Dear Sirs,—lt is now some considerable
time’since I purchased one of your Belts for my back. I
wore it for about five weeks, and have not felt any of the
old pain since. It is now six months since I left off wear-
ing it, and would have written sooner, only I wished to
make sure that the cure was permanent. Thanking you,
and wishing you further success.”
“X could cite thousands of similar incidents.
When you see that I have over 100,000 voluntary
testimonials, and that there is not a hamlet in any
civilised country without one or more cures by my
appliances, you will understand that my experi-
ence has been broad.
“Poor digestion, inactive liver, constipation,
sluggish heart, slow thinking, dormant energy and
laziness are all due to the lack of electricity.
Understand that electricity is the motive power
of the human machine, the power that keeps the
organs active, and you will see what I meau. In
such cases you can see how my Electric Belt will
pump action into the body. It renews the electric
life, and transforms the sluggard into a bundle of
vigorous energy.
“ So many people suffer from pains and aches,
called Rheumatism, or Lumbago, or Neuralgia,
due to impoverished nerves crying for aid. Ihe
life of these nerves is electricity, and nothing else
will cure them. I can send a gentle current from
my Electric Belt so that it will convey the life
direct to the ailing part, and relief is often felt in
an hour. I frequently cure such cases within 10
days.”
“ Well, doctor, what about these other Belts
that are advertised ? The latest one, I see, claims
to be always charged, and requires no attention.’
“ Such Belts as you mention are classed with
those I spoke of a few minutes ago—‘ made to sell
only.’ They are made by using an ordinary small
battery with the electrodes attached to a girdle.
They can be only used while the patient is lying
down, and when they are not beneficial, for the
same reason as stated when we discussed the
physician’s house battery. They are simply made
to sell, sold generally by an alleged company from
a post office box—absolute irresponsibles, who
have no place of business that a visitor or caller
can find. We have actually located the alleged
offices of such companies in the rear of an attic in
a large warehouse, not in reputable doctors’ suites,
where they should be. People only waste their
money by buying such contrivances. Why, do
you know these people get as much as thirty and
fortv dollors (£6 and £8) for these ordinary bat-
teries, that can be bought at any dealer’s for
three and a half to five dollars (15s. to £1).
“If it were not for the prejudice, due to the
great number of fakes in the land, I would not be
able to handle the business that would come to me.
The ‘Free Belt’ fraud and the ‘Free Drug
scheme, which are not free at all, have made every
one sceptical, but I know that I have a good thing,
and I’ll hammer away till every one knows it.
“ Suppose we take a man who has in one way or
another overtaxed his system until it is in a state
of abject debility, the brain sluggish, all ambition
gone, and an ever-present feeling of despondency,
a disposition to give up the fight.
“ In that case the electric force has been reduced,
and there we have the cause of the debility. Now,
replace that force, and you have a rejuvenated
man, as good as ever.”
Before leaving, the doctor informed me that he
had been a student of this subject for twenty-two
vears, and had never seen a case where his Electric?
Belt was properly applied without grand results.
He said that he had offices now in every
civilised country in the world; offices for the re-
ception of information-seekers and patients, and
where every sick man or woman was welcome to
free advice and consulation.
I was very pleased at receiving an autographed
copy of his book, and am sure that any sufferer
cannot fail to appreciate its worth. He told me
that he had already given away over ten million
copies, over 800,000 of them in Australasia.
You can get one posted free and prepaid if you
write to THE DR. McLAUGHLIN CO.,
IOOW. MARKET STREET, SYDNEY,
or IG7E. Swanston-street, Melbourne ; 54 Willis-
street, Wellington, New Zealand ; 90 William-
street, Pei tli, W est Australia.


A PANAMA . .
OPPORTUNITY
It’s not often that you can buy a
High-Grade Panama at the price
of the very ordinary kind. But
you can NOW —if you’re quick.
?•
THIS GENUINE PANAMA is our
usual 25/6 quality—to quit our stock
inside summer weather we have cut
our profits down to the minimum.
Usual 25/6 Panama 217-
Usual 15/6 Panama 10/6
POST FREE ANYWHERE.
MURDOCHS
, . . IN . . .
PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
“WHERE THE GOOD HATS ARE.”
If you haven’t had our Catalogue and Special Map,
write for one to-day—they’re FREE.
THE ZOBO.
. .. ANYONE CAN PLAY IT.
The Zobo is a new invention, made on the same
principle as the Kazoo. It has a rawhide disc on the
inside, and by singing in and against this disc won-
derful music is produced. Anyone can play any tune
upon it ; imitates fowls, bagpipes, animals, etc. Very
popular with singing clubs and societies.
ZOBO BRASS CORNETTO
A Baby with the Voice of a Giant.
Is. 6d. Each (is. Bd. post free); 2 for 3f.
A more unique merry-making- and fascinating little noveltv
would be exceedingly, hard to find. It possesses real merit. It
is an intensely amusing article for adults as well as for children.
It is nor- a mere .toy. as many might suppose, being substanti-
ally constructed and easily operated. The sweet and varied
tones possible to be produced with this little device are incred-
ible. No tune ever composed that cannot be accurately pro-
duced. It is just the thing for duets, quartettes, chorus,
carnivals, masquerades, serenades, parades, etc. It may be
accompanied with-various other instruments with very pleasing
effects, and never fails to make a hit. Remember, that if you
do not obtain satisfactory results the first minute, it is no fault
of the instrument. Read over the directions, and persist a
little, when you will be delighted with the results. Best article
to be had for the money.
DIRECTIONS.
Place the stem against the lips, or hold between the teeth as in
the act of smoking. Simply HU M the air of Anv Time into the
stem. DO NOl BLOW. The notes are produced by vibra-
tion, the voice alone causing the vibratory diaphragm to act,
reproducing and modifying any sound emitted against it. The
tones thus produced resemble those of various instruments, such
as the Cornet, Clarionet, Saxophone, Bagpipes, and many others#
Very little practice is required by even a child to master the
instrument; there is a little “knack” to it, that’s all.
STAR NOVELTY CO..
229-231 Collins St., Melbourne.
(Mention this paper.)
Best on Record!
WE keep some of the Best TALKING
MACHINES on record. You know
what you are getting when you buy from
our store.
We keep no tinny, screechy instruments
—each one in good condition, tested before
leaving the premises, and guaranteed to
reproduce perfectly.
The LARGEST STOCK in the city to
select from.
The Edison Gem Phonograph, £2 lOs
The Edison Standard Phonograph, £5
The Edison Home Phonograph, £7 I Os:
TRASS VklfhV
.
CATALOGUES FREE.
RECORDS. II; 1/3 and 1/9 each. Send for List' of New Records.
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd
“MY OPTICIANS,”
Importers of Phonographs and Records,
393 GEORGE ST. (fac ing Royal Hotel), SYDNEY.
Dear Bulletin, —Mr. Albert Dorrington
complains in your columns that someone in a
Maoriland publication has “ stolen ” his name and
appended it to a sketch. On the contrary, I have
to complain that someone has “ stolen ” mv sketch
and tagged Dorrington’s name to it.— George
Black.
THE LAU6NIN6 CAMERA.
SEE the passing
show. Your
friends grotesque-
ly photographed;
stout people look
thin, thin people
look stout. By
getting a focus on
passing pedes-
trians, horses, wag-
gons, cars, etc., the
most grotesque and
ludicrous pictures
are witnessed. The
passer-by takes on
f
the swing and stride of the daddy long-legs, horses
look like giraffes, and altogether there is more
genuine hearty fun crowded into the four cubic
inches of this little instrument than theatres could
show in centuries. Price, 1/2, 3 for 3/3, post
free. Send Postal Note or Stamps to STAR
NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins Street
MELBOURNE. (Box 4G6, G.P.O ).
MEMORY.
A COURSE OP
THE PELMAN-FOSTER SYSTEM
OP
MEMORY TRAINING
will increase your power of thcught-concentration and
cure the habit of mind wandering'. The best positions in
every business and profession are filled by those with the
best memories: therefore, if you wish to'succeed, TRAIN
your memory.
The Pelman-Foster System
Scientifically trains the natural memory, and enables
anyone to remember names, faces, facts, figures, business
details : to speak without notes, to follow lectures and
conversation.
It is easy and interesting-, and the oldest and youngest
can learn it. No matter what your life work may be
THE PELMAN-FOSTER SYSTEM will make you more
successful.
WRITE for a FREE explanatory booklet,
AND HOW TO IMPROVE IT.”
MEMORY,
The Secretary, The Pelman-Foster
School of Memory Training,
Box 402, G.P.0., Melbourne.
ENGLAND : 4 Bloomsbury St., London, W.O. FRANCE •
109 Avenue de Neuilly, Paris. SOUTH AFRICA : Lynn
Buildings, Durban. AMERICA : 901 Whitehall Building
New York. GERMANY : Prannerstr 13, Munich.
Brains Rule
This World--
Not muscle, but brains governing muscle.
The quality of brain can be changed by
certain selection of food.
A food expert perfected a brain-building
food by preparing certain elements in wheat
and barley in a way that Nature would make
use of. That food is
Or ape-N uts
In it the Phosphate of Potash, obtained from
Nature s grains (not from the drug shop), is re-
tained in minute particles. This has an affinity
for Albumen, and together they make the soft
gray matter in the brain and nerve centres.
A solid fact you can demonstrate by the
use of Grape-Nuts.
In lO Days
you can see the difference in yourself.
Read “The Road to Wellville ” found in pkgs. of Grape-Nuts.
HARROW ESTATE
(Adjoining
Eton Vale)
Cambooya, Queensland.
NOW OPEN FOR SALE in Farms ranging from
20 to 500 ACRES, all ready for the Plough.
•>
The very pick of the Darling Downs, and right on the main railway
line from Sydney to Brisbane, and close to Toowoomba.
The best of Wheat, Lucerne, and Dairying country.
factories on the Estate. Well watered by permanent Rivers.
Rainfall over 30 inches per annum. Climate cool and bracing.
Prices range from £4 to £5. Terms exceptionally easy.
Purchasers will receive return of steamer fare and cost of Queensland
rail ticket on payment of first deposit. Survey free.
Cvei £150,000 distributed last month by Dairy Pactories within
a radius of 20 miles. Write for Priced Lithographs
The Manager, Harrow Estate,
Cambooya, Queensland.
The Operation.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ a deep breath. Another —an-
other—so-o-o ! ”
The voice buzzed into distance. Jame-
son’s eyes closed, and his limbs relaxed. He feft
deliciously drowsy and warm. A sound of sub-
dued roaring; sang in his ears. He fought for
breath, and suddenly lay still.
Sunshine ! Beautiful, blinding sunshine. Blue
sea, blue sky, the vibrating song of the blind man.
Girls in light dresses, men in flannels and
straw hats. The advancing ferry-boat, the bub-
bling foam like champagne, the clanging bell, the
crash of the gangway—all these he saw ere a
strong hand thrust him back into the darkness.
Hovv dark ! The gloom enveloped him like a
cloud, a pall, beneath which he madly struggled
whilst a flight of brightly-colored stars ascended
and broke bouquet-wise through the darkness.
Jameson seized the hand, and wrestled with it in
vain. It closed on his throat like a vice, whilst
he writhed and sickened and moaned with in-
tolerable pain.
It was as though a collar of fire encircled his
neck—searing, burning. Again and again he
endeavored to tear it away, only to feel it cling
faster yet. All at once it relaxed and the torture
ceased, leaving him faint and sick with that
horrible roaring still in his ears.
What is this ? A face bends over him! A
lovely, innocent face, with passionate, grieving
eyes.
It is Aileen in a white gown, with a bunch of
purple pansies on her girlish breast. Aileen, who
waited for him in vain so many summer nights,
wasting her sweetness on the lonely garden, with
its ghostly trees and swaying moon-washed holly-
hocks.
How strangely she smiles. And though her
lips move he cannot hear her speak. Jameson
has a sudden desire for her voice, and calls
“Aileen! Aileen !” but even as he cries she
vanishes, her face fading slowly into the darkness.
“ Is this hell 1 ” he shouts a moment later, torn
with infinite pain, dazzled by a thousand con-
nictmg lights . . . Ah, this excruciating anguish !
Will it never cease? will it continue for ever?
For ever , and ever, and ever ? (Awful thought')
For eternity ? Moaning, he twists his head from
side to side, calling vainly on his Maker. After a
while the agony subsides; then, as before,
vanishes.
Now he is flying round and round the room
after the Doctor’s face, which grins as he whirls
in that giddy circle.
What a cruel face it is with its glittering eyes
and fierce aquiline features. Jameson is drawn
to it as the moth to the lamp. God ! the air is
alive with moths with fluttering, ghastly wings.
Scarlet poppies, white daisies, yellow sun-
flowers, pansies. A tangle of sweet peas, honey-
suckle, an arch of pink and scarlet roses.
How sweet the garden breathes, and there is
his mother, her black skirts brushing softly
against the trim box borders. Tim, the cat,
follows her, arching his back and waving his tail
m the sunlight. Good old Tim—Jameson stoops
to stroke him and sinks back groaning. Then
Ethel comes and takes his hand m her cool, calm
clasp (so unlike Aileen’s, whose fingers are warm
and clinging), and he flings her from him with
oaths and bitter words. He wants none of her or
her cursed money. He only wants Aileen,
Aileen, who is so cruel and has forsaken him. His
sobs drive Ethel away, and once more he is alone
m the darkness.
Bound and round he flies, round and round and
round. Then voices speak to him, tease him with,
a repetition of his name—hands come down and
touch him.
He gropes after them feebly; catches a finger
and lets it drop. With a supreme effort he opens
his eyes and sees the doctor whispering to the
nurse, the fluttering window-curtains and the dove
upon the sill.
The smell of drugs, the pain, and the bandages
round his throat tell him the dreaded operation is
over.
DOROTHY M'CRAE.
Trouble in the boot trade stimulates
Sydney Boot Trades Union to threaten to start a
co-operative factory, with attached shops in the
different centres, unless its members receive more
equitable treatment. Properly managed, there’s
no reason why such a scheme shouldn’t succeed in
conjunction with the union label. A similar fac-
tory has been in successful operation in Queens-
land for some time.


W. Watson & Sons
ARE AGENTS FOR . . .
PAUL’S—
ANIMATOSRAPH-
af
The
Best
Living'
Picture
Machine
Extant.
J*
Large
Stock of
Newest
Films
Always
on
Hand.
PRICE LIST GRATIS.
IV. WATSON & SONS,
78 Swanston Street,
~ MELBOURNE .
MELBA ACCORDEONS
ƒ
Produce the
most . .
delightful
music.
They are
easily learnt
No know-
ledge of
music being
required to
become a
skilled
performer.
NEW 1906
MODELS
With 1,2, 3, or 4 sets of reeds, six, eight or ten
fold double and triple Bellows with metal bound
corners, and all latest improvements.
Prices from 7/6 to 26/9.
Packed and delivered free to any Post Office or
Railway Station in Australasia.
Ask for our 1906 Illustrated Catalogue. We
will send it Post Free.
ALLAN & CO. Propy. Ltd.
376-378 Collins Street, Melbourne.
A
POLICY foe the COMMONWEALTH,
Price, 6d.; Posted, 8d
INVIGORATING %
!M>9.
'H
4Jjr
W
Absolutely
Pure
f
The remarkable Strength-glving, Stimulating
properties and perfect Digestibility of
CADBURY’S COCOA
make it an invaluable Food-Drink.
u Absolutely Pure.” —The Analyst . .
« The Standard of Highest Purity.”— The Lancet. .
CADBURY’S COCOA is therefore the BEST Food-Beverage obtainable.
75he PLUM.
G entlf.men, —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered,
perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell, and never requires grinding.
Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of. edge that
is reauired to ensure any easy shave, and, having had them in use for a
number of vears, can testify to their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH
RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
Tho “ Plum ” Razor BtrOPb, specially made for this Razor, 7/6.
"Razoleo” lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. Cake.
Price-
(Single Razor, in strong Leather Case. 10'6; Pair, in beautiful
Morocco Leather Case, 21/«*
Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15 •, Pair Razors, Ivory Bandies,
in beautiful Case, 30/*
Registered and Sent Post Free to Any Part of the World.
Pleue add 6d. exchange on Country, and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
8ol« Agents—CßAlC & AITKEM, 654 CEOBCE STREET^SYDMtY^
aft
J
FINNEY, ISLES & CO., Limited.
Our Great SUMMER CLEARANCE SALE is Now On.
D
■ URING the Sale ALL SUMMER GOODS, without exception, a,re being: CLOSED OUT at Plainly-Figured
Prices showing VERY SUBSTANTIAL REDUCTIONS on Ordinary Rates, and there is from end to end
of our warehouse, £n even more irresistible array of Bargains than we ever before
The HOUSE that has the Best Goods, the most of them, and the greatest variety AT REGULAR 1 RICES
must it stands to reason, be the HOUSE that can offer the Best Bargains, the largest number of them, and the
greatest variety WHEN PRICES ARE REDUCED. By comparing Goods and Prices, purchasers will have
proof that the above description
FITS NONE BUT FINNEY S.
TUF <taLE OF THE SEASON in Quantity, Variety, Excellence, Up-to-dateness, Freshness, and Low Price
nf all floods offered is Our Summer Sale, which will not, we venture to predict, be a Sale of the dragging
°ort that “lags superfluous on the stage,” but of the lively-footed kind that dances quickly across in a kaleido-
scopic whirl of Bargains. Send for Samples of our Household Drapery Goods, clearing at Sale Prices (mentioning
those you wish to see particularly), and for our Sale Price Lists of Ribbons, Laces, Embroideries, Gloves
Hosiery &c &c. Kindly mention, when ordering Goods during Sale, whether, m the event of anything ordered
beimr sold out, we are empowered to substitute another article, stating price limit. Goods cut out so rapidly
during Sale that this provision is strongly recommended. Where it is necessary to substitute the best judgment
will be exercised in sending the nearest goods of similar or better quality to those selected. Remittances should
be sent to cover cost of orders, and made payable to
Finney, Isles & Co., Limited, The Big Block, Brisbane.
Beautiful Home Decorations
ƒ
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
“SAPOGIN” FTiOOK STAINS stain and varnish with one operation.
Brilliant, rich, permanent hardwood colors produced on Floors, Borders,
Woodwork and Furniture where extreme durability is desired.
“SAPOIiISf” AIAJMINPM EJIAJIEI/ gives unsightly Pipes, Boilers,
or anything made of metal, wood, etc., a durable, untarnishable silver finish,
in or outdoors. Simply brush i t on.
JAPANESE GOI.B PAINT (Ready Mixed). Unequalled in lustre and
ease of application. Adheres to any surface. For all decorative purposes,
economical and satisfactory.
For sale by all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of “OUR FAVORITE” GOLD ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” BATH
TUB ENAMEL, Etc.
WILL ANDRADE... BOOKS
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition, Is ; post Is
3d. BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Marri-
age Guide by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition, hard covers, im-
proved. Magic Up-to-Date, Is. Horse and Cattle
Doctor, 6d. DOnelly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, Is. Maria Monk, Is
6d. How to Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous
Dialogue Book, 6d each. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is ; post, Is Bd. All Nat Gould’s Novels, 6d each,
posted Bd. Devil in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads,
etc., Is. House Painting and Papering, 1/3. How
to Play Billiards, Is. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d.
The Cuckold, Is ; post, Is 3d. Britain for the
British, 6d. Freemasonry Exposed and Ex-
plained, 1905 edition, with key to all degrees, Is.
Cycle Building and Repairing, new edition, 190
illustrations, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Train-
ing, Is. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the First
Night, 1/3. How to Write Signs, Tickets and
Posters, Is 3d. Staining. Varnishing and Polish-
ing Wood, Is 3d. Electric Bells, 1/3. Boot-
making and Repairing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise :
Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal
Gustave, Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
Piano Tuning and Repairing. Is 3d. How to Make
Love, Is. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card
Games, Is. Picture Frame Making, Is 3d.
Poultry Keeping, Is. Dream Book, Is. Every
Man His Own Builder, Is and Is 3d.
NOVELTIES.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, Real Photos, 200
Kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s.
ZINCARA CIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS, LOVE, BUSI-
NESS, FUTURITY, &C-, with full directions, 1s; posted 1/3.
%
Free Catalogues:
No. I—Plays, Reciters,
Make-up, etc.
No. 2—Conjuring Apparatus
and Books.
No. 3—French Novels in
English.
No. 4—Books for Presents.
No. s—Useful & Mechanical
Books.
No. 6—Books for the
Married.
No. 7—Advanced
Literature.
Confessions of a Melbourne Barmaid, illus., Is 3d.
Gay Life in Melbourne, illus., Is 3d. Hoffman’s
New Conjuring Entertainment, Is 3d. How to Bet
and Gamble, Is 2d. Kropotkin’s Fields, Factories
and Workshops, Is 3d. A Midnight Mystery, Is. A
Left-Handed Murder, Is. God and My Neighbor, 9d,
p. Is. Engineer’s Practical Test: engines, boilers, gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6. How to Make Up, Illustrated
Guide to the Stage, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is.
Sandow, 3s. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 124 S pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Midwives’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is. Building Model
Boats, Is 3d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phrenology,
Is. Blacksmith’s Work, 1/3. Lover's Letter Writer,
Is. Photography, Is. Monster Song Books, 3d,
6d, and Is. Tocology for. Mothers, 7s 6d.
Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post. Age of
Reason, Is 3d. Ingersoll’s Works, 9d. Irish
Song Book, Is. Lightning Calculator, Is. Min-
strel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by. Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is 2d.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
GLEASON’S GREAT HORSE BOOK
EVERYTHING WORTH KNOWING ABOUT THE HORSE. Fully Illustrated. Deals with breeding, breaking,
trainin''' sheltering buying, selling, telling age, racing, etc. Diseases —their causes, how to know them and
how to cure" them. Worth £lO Tor its information, but offered for 7/6.
508 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE
VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE ST
MELBOURNE.
FEATHERS
GIVEN AWAY
2000 Ostrich Tips,
nine inches long,
will be given away
this month tc
advertise our
Feathers fro n*
South Africa.
Write For
Coupons.
vV
m
7/f/T
Miller’s Feather Shop.
Corner STRAND ARCADE, PITT STREET,
SYDNEY. (Mention The Bulletin).
The WONDER PHONOGRAPH
Complete with Talk-
ing Record, only 4/6
carriage paid.
Additional Records
| 6d each.
Talks Clearly and
Distinctly.
4/6
Carriage
Paid
Union Mfg & Agency Co,,
/ T'HE Wonder Phonograph, thongh
designed as a toy, is really an
effective Talking Machine, that will
arouse a roomful of people. It is
the only cheap Talking Machine
that has ever been made. The price
is only 4s. 6d., including one record and
printed directions, carefully packed in
a hoi and carriage paid to
any address. Send for our
Catalogue of Novelties, we
will post it without charge.
Mention this paper, and we
will forward a cl ever puzzle.
299 ELIZABETH STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Visitors to Melbourne ™ A t.T
Neale’s Temperance Hotel
(Tankards)
LONSDALE STREET (Next Law Courts;
is the handiest place to stay at. Being close to Railway
Stations, Theatres and Wharves ; and three minutes’ walk
from G.P.O. Bedrooms on Ground Floor if desired.
Board and Residence, 4s. 6d. per day; or from £1 per
week. Telephone 1640.
s
I
BLOOD POISON.
FOR MORE THAN TWENTY YEARS
we have made the cure of blood poison a
specialty, Primary, Secondary or Tertiary
Blood Poison Permanently Cured. You can
be treated at home under same guaranty.
Capital 500,000 dols. We solicit the most
obstinate cases. If you have exhausted the
old methods of treatment, and still have aches
and pains, Mucus Patches in Mouth, Sore
Throat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spots,
Ulcers on any part of the body, Hair or
Eyebrows falling out, write for proofs of
cures. 100-page Book Free.
COOK REMEDY Co.,
1102 MASONIC TEMPLE, Chicago, U.S.A.
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OP SELF-CURB, Will
forward the same, free of charge, to any-
one interested.
Address: A. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
To soothe
the Skin,
smarting under the heat o i a
burning sun. and to remove the
effects of perspiration,
CALVERTS
Prickly=heat Soap
is specially adapted. Though indispensable
in eases of Priekly-heat (whence its name)
and other irritation of the skin, it is also
popular for general bath and toilet use, being
pure, antiseptic, and refreshing.
Sold by all local Chemists and Stores,
in bars and tablets.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
England.
w
For Racing,
Polo, etc.
BREEDING STOCK
THOROUGHBRED PONIES
FOR SALE.
Registered in the General Stud Book and
Polo and Riding Pony Stud Book.
Col. E. N. HENRIQUES
Invites correspondence and inspection at
Mursley Stud, Winslow,
Bucks, England.
4
%
<4>
muihg
4
'rt
The “Glen Deep,” one of the Johannes-
burg mines which employed unskilled white labor
after the Boer war, reports that the importation
of Chinese has resulted in a deplorable increase of
costs. If this turns out to be the case all round,
the chances are that Cohen will suddenly dis-
cover that his yellow pets are unfit to disgrace
the face of Africa any longer, and will tell a cynical
world that he is shocked to find what degraded
wretches they are. Incidentally he will probably
ask the British Government to pay the cost of
repatriating them.
A closer supervision by N.S.W. Fisheries
Board and a more rigid administration
of the Health Act would do much towards
the better conservation of fish in inland
rivers, particularly the salmon and trout,
which the Government has been at great pains
to acclimatise. Numbers of stations on the
Monaro have their dipping yards on the banks of
the rivers for convenience. After shearing, the
“dip poison” is allowed to flow into the river,
polluting the water and poisoning the fish. Last
summer scores upon scores of dead trout —not
minnows, but fine, large fish—were taken from
one hole, and probably there wasn’t a live fish left
in the vicinity of the dip ; and this destruction is
repeated annually. Some of the fish were eaten,
with almost fatal results. The Department should
compel the squatters to build their dips on other
sites than the banks of rivers.
“ Itan ” : The present summer, though so
hot in the southern States, especially in S. A. and
Victoria, has not been exceptional in Bananaland,
ridiculously maligned in regard to its climate.
Thermometer readings show Brisbane to possess a
more equable climate than other Australian capi-
tals. This year it has had lower temperatures
than Adelaide and Melbourne. The dry western
districts and the. southern States have suffered
under readings higher than towns inland in
Q., which are generally bracketted with Gehenna.
Even centres in the Far North, clear of the
humid belt, have not yet recorded this year
Adelaide’s recent blast of 112. Last season Bris-
bane had one day at 102, but this season has sel-
dom seen 95 reached. Always a breeze cools tne
afternoon and makes sleep at night possible.
In Woolloomooloo and Darlinghurst are a
number of titled thoroughfares—Duke-st., Earl-
st Princes-st., Lord-st., all appropriately deca-
dent. You couldn’t, in fact, find in Sydney a
more ignoble group of streets.
“Roma”: A bush woman I know, way
back of Nowhere, miles from any neighbors, has
given birth to 10 children, and never spent a day
in bed with one of them. She said she had no
one to do a hand’s turn for her, so had to depend
on herself. Her husband sometimes acted as
doctor at the critical moment, but as a rule the
unfortunate woman had to help herself. She is
well over 60 now, and is washing for a living.
“She never felt a bit the worse for the 10
children.”


SPEED! CURE
Torturing Haw and Scaly Eczema
Grew Worse Under Two Doctors*
Treatment for Three Months—Face
in Terrible Condition.
ANOTHER MARVELLOUS
CURE BY CUTICURA
“ My baby was afflicted with a loathsome
running eczema. Two doctors treated him
for three months, but he grew worse and
his face was a sickening sight. We then
started to use the Cuticura Remedies, and
noticed an improvement at once. Within
a fortnight the running had ceased and
the scabs were nearly all dried off, and in
a month his face was perfectly clear. You
are at liberty to use this statement, as I
should like all to know of the value of
Cuticura.—William Herbert Quirk, No. i
West End Cottages, Ruywood Road,
N. Southampton.”
STILL ANOTHER CURE
Baby Raw With Humour Suffered
Agony, Mother Discouraged.
"A terrible sore and humour broke out
on my baby, looking like raw flesh, and
causing the child untold agony. My
physician could not help him, and I was
discouraged. Then I tried Cuticura Soap
and Cuticura Ointment with almost im-
mediate success. Before the second week
the soreness was gone, not leaving a trace
of anything.—Mrs. J. H. Block, 281 Rose-
dale St., Rochester, N. Y.”
AND STILL ANOTHER
“At four months old my baby’s face
and body were so covered with sores and
large scales you could not tell what she
looked like. At last we got Cuticura
Soap and Ointment. The sores began to
heal at once, and she could sleep at
night, and in one month she had not one
sore on her face or body.—Mrs. Mary San-
ders, 709 Spring St., Camden, N. J.”
Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Pill, are Bold throughout the
world. Depots: London, 27 Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 5 Rue de
la Paix; Australia, R. Towns & Co., Sydney. Potter Drug &
Chcm. Corp., Boston, U. S. A., Sole Props. 6
Mailed fi !e, “ How to Cure Baby Humours.”
SUhlicHT
LAUNDRY SOAP *
“ Good ”
is your
watchword
V Good " is the
watchword, of
Sunlight Soap
from the good
raw material
used to the
good work
done by good
Sunlight Soap
for the good
woman who
uses it.
When you have proved the value of Sunlight Soap
you will be equally satisfied if you will try
Monkey Brand for scouring metal and woodwork.
e L£.KSe
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
ence.
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing-.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Everything.
Australian Users now num-
bered by the hundreds.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH
Colonial Mutual Building-,
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
NORMAN BROS.
68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building-, Perth.
Of course you have System
in your office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER 1
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Write -for Catalogue.
[OHN SANDS, 374 George St*, Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent
fsf
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS rnd
INJECTIONS.
Cures the iatiio
diseases in <5.3
hours without
incon-
venience.
Each Capsule bears the name
m)
ifO'
8\
i
m
mi
V?
{ *///
wm
.its*
:V.- :
NS*
\,W i
i
/ !
California
Svrup of Figs,
the most perfect laxative of
the century, is the preferred
medicine among physicians
and in millions of families.
It acts mildly yet thoroughly
on the kidneys, liver, bowels
and stomach, and does not
weaken them. It is palatable
to take; and its beneficial
effects are permanent.
California Syrup of Figsj
“NATURES PLEASANT LAXATIVE”
!
To obtain its beneficial effects, buy
the genuine, which bears the
name and trade mark of the
manufacturers.
Of all Chemists, 1/3 and 1/11.
CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO.,
32 Snow Hill, London.
Australian Branch:
7 Barrack Street, Sydney. N.S.W.
a
A
2
scr
o
S'
o
&
h
&0E
swv
sf
ƒs
ill
-
: :
m
,
Hi
Hi.
:■
illllll
r
More Than
% the Shave
depends upon the lather,
and the lather depends
upon getting Williams’
Shaving Soap. Most
used because it has
never been equaled in
ability to soften the
beard, keep a rich,
moist, creamy lather,
allay irritation, and make
shaving easy and safe.
It’s dangerous econ-
omy to experiment on
your face with other
makes.
Sold by Chemists , Hairdressers and
Perfumers , all over the world; or
mailed to any address on receipt of
price in stamps.
Shaving Sticks, Is.
Williams’ Luxury Tablets, Is.
Williams’ American Shaving Tablets, 6d.
(Trial Size) of Williams’ Shaving
Stick, 2d. Trial Tablet Williams’ Shav-
ing Soap for id. stamp by addressing
THE J. B. WILLIAMS CO.
65 Gt. Russell St., London, W. C.
161 Clarence St., Sydney
Main Office and Factories,
GLASTONBURY, CONN., U. S. A.
REVOLUTION IN TALKING MACHINES.
THE MARVELLOUS SOUND-MAGNIFYING
COLUMBIA GRAPHOPHONE
Reproduces the Ordinary Gold-Moulded Record
SIXTEEN TIMES LOUDER than any Phono-
graph. MARVELLOUS IN ITS VOLUME
and DISTINCTNESS.
The Very Latest Invention, embodying absolutely New Principles never before
made public. Write for full particulars to—
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO.,
Australian
Headquarters s
25 Ash St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“D.”: Curious the popular fallacy that obtains re
drug store’s big profits. Actual fact is, unless the chemist
is possessed of the cunning of a Machiavelli and the per-
suasive powers of a book canvasser, he has about as poor
a calling as any man could well get hold of. To start with,
in what are commercially known as “ fine cut lines,” i.e.,
the “ patents,” there is practically nothing at all. They
are advertised and therefore must be stocked, but bring
scant profit to the retailer. They include scents, soaps,
ointments, tooth-powders, tonics, blood-mixtures, pills
and so on, and, in addition, all those widely advertised
nostrums which are supposed to dash straight at the
source of trouble and have the offending: germ or microbe
down within the time occupied by the consumption of
about two bottles. There are some patent articles sold on
P.A. T.A. (that is under a private agreement entered into
between the manufacturer, wholesale and retailer) which
though few in number are certainly an exception to
the above rule. Put these on one side and so little profit
lies in the rest that many chemists actually sell them at
a loss as a method of luring the customer into the shop.
The chemist finds that the Australian woman mostly
avoids, like the plague, anything in the way of soaps or
scents remotely suspected of being “ home made,” the
French label being first favorite, and the American a close
second. The word “label” is used advisedly, that being
about the only foreign article the lady gets for her money,
as, since Federation, a good three-fourths of the “French,"
and half the “ American” articles are both manufactured
and labelled within the Commonwealth. The much-
boomed “ patent ” having landed the customer before the
counter, the chemist must sell something different, or
something in addition thereto, or not do much good for
himself. This is where the man with brains comes in.
Mrs. A. (say) has arrived, bent on securing a cake of soap.
In the course of conversation, she has confided the fact
that her husband is suffering from an abrasion of the neck,
due to his habit of wearing celluloid collars. If the
chemist is “ smart ” and magnetic, a somewhat bewildered
woman departs ten minutes later with a box of ointment
for application to the afflicted spot (Is.), a cooling medi-
cine for the blood (Is. 6d.), and some valuable antiseptic
soap (Is.), murmuring a promise, as she goes, to produce
the sufferer later on, that he may be both further treated
and reasoned with by the expert on the subject of his
pernicious neckwear. Of course, the chemist’s most
advantageous line is in the dispensing. But it is not easy
to get much of that. Taking it all in all, it’s a poor call-
ing at which to make a living.
* * * *
“Mel”: Re the wails of “F.C.” and “San
Remo ” anent the out-classing of Barabbas by the chemist
fiend. Lately heard of a man suffering from a weird
malady, requiring drastic treatment by a certain rare
drug. The doctor gave him a prescription, which he
carried off to the nearest sleek dispenser person. The
patient surrounded in the fulness of time five or six
quarts of the fluid dispensed, and steadily got no better,
whereupon he one day took a small quantity of the cure
that failed, together with a large quantity of his candid
opinion, round to the doctor. On analysis, the glycerine,
Epsom salts, rose water and all the other odds and ends
which fill up a prescription and look well spread round in
Latin for the purpose of impressing the sick, were found
to be there. The rare drug which was to do the trick
was completely and scathingly absent. When two very
firm gentlemen waited on "the pill distributor with an
unalterable determination to learn things, they were
informed that the drug of contention was “off,” and
that, drawing on his own vast knowledge, he had substi-
tuted “ the nearest thing t.o it.” During the next half-
hour that dispenser was heard clamorously requesting
the presence of the nearest thing to a policeman.
* * * »
“ L.” : Somebody wonders (B. 4/l/’O6) how the
numerous drunks seen at Melbourne Christmas market at
4 a.m. manage it, after (presumably) being fired out by a
sleepy landlord not later than 1 a.m. Well, four pubs in
the neighborhood of the market have the right to open
each market morning at three o’clock.
Queensland pineapple trade is forging ahead
sinoe canning was taken up. The export estimate for
1906 is 60,000 cases. Half-a-dozen years ago the export
in case was hardly quotable.
* * * *
Melbourne leather manufacturers estimate that
the careless branding of cattle destroys leather to the
value of £260,000 a year.
* * ■* *
“ Quidam What is the world going to do
when the oil wells run dry ? What with crude oil, kero-
sene, naphtha, benzine, gasoline, vaseline, lubricating
oils, candles, etc., together with the innumerable engines
and motors dependent on petroleum products for their
power, it looks as if science will have to put in some
vigorous brain work when the world’s petroleum supply
runs out.
* * * *
“ The Hack ” : Suburban poultry-farming can
be carried to excess. Within a stone’s throw of my place,
which is situated in a street of tightly-packed' shcps,
there are three professional raisers, each with a backyard
about 20 feet square. One of them, who rears no' less
than seven distinct brands of chook in this narrow space,
stopped me in the street recently to inform me de-
lightedly that he had got out nine clutches of chickens
successfully during the past week, and was expecting a
couple more in a day or two. The smell from his yard
would make a bone-mill ill. Two of his next door neigh-
bor’s children have just been taken away in an ambulance,
diphtheria-stricken.
* * * *
“Milliner”: I’m a milliner, and I know bow
some of the big English wholesale houses trading in this
country pay part of their fat divs. on a capital of half-a-
million or so—mostly water. Straw is a large item in
my business, and is sold in bundles alleged to contain one
dozen yards. Finding that a given quantity, as per
invoice, did not turn out the number of hats expected, I
measured half-a-dozen bundles. Result: 7f, 81, 7 7-8, 11,
9|, and Uj yards respectively—a total of less than 56
yards, and I paid for 72 yards ! Once made a similar dis-
covery with regard to wire, and was shown a label, in
microscopic figures, “ 12 x B’’—that, is to say, 12 bundles
containing eight yards. This symbol, the manager said,
relieved him of any responsibility. But my invoice
showed that I was charged for 12 yards every time.
These things were sold me by a very “churchy” firm.
I’ve an idea that its bosses will only get five-sevenths of
the way in through the gate, when Peter will bang it
hard to. You’ll find the gateway often blocked by im-
porters who have been jambed like that.
* * * *
Victoria’s first export. In 1804, the Calcutta,
one of Lieut.-Colonel Collins’ vessels took away, on the
abandonment of his newly-formed settlement at the
present site of Sorrento, 150 pieces of timber to be used
for knees and bends in shipbuilding. Apparently this
timber was the coast ti-tree which is remarkably tough,
and.qn account of the many.apd curious natural bends in
the limbs and trunk is still greatly used by fishermen and
boat-builders in building and repairing boats.
* * * *
“ J.L.”: A clever swindler has just got off scot-
free in Thistown. Going to all the chief townspeople, he
told them (pledging each one to secrecy) that one of the
Government officers had embezzled £5O, but his friends
were sorry for such a good all-round fellow, and agreed
to collect the amount privately, and pay it in before the
deficiency was discovered. As Jones was a firm favorite,
most contributed willingly, each feeling a bit huffed that
Jones seemed so unconcerned about the whole affair.
Not till the swindler had decamped did a suspicion cross
their minds, and when they appointed a man to investi-
gate, he came back with a very swollen-looking face,
inflicted by the indignant but innocent Jones.
* * * *
“One time,’’said he of the hoarse voice, “yer
could get ’arf a cart-load of bottles for nix, simply by
pitchin’ a tale that they was no good, but as yer was
passin’ ther ‘ tip ’ yer’d oblige by cartin’ ’em away.
But now yer pay for everything and say ‘please’arid
‘ thank yer ’ inter ther bargain. We scoop a bit with old
iron. Sometimes we get enough pieces to fix up a
bedstead, ’n’ with a dab er paint it goes ; ’n’ now ’n’ then
you will find axes and sich mixed up with yer haul.
Axidents will ’appen, y’ know. An’ I’ve ’eard of fellers
makin’ a bit ringin’ the changes where people are a bit
flush. It’s this way. S’posin’ they’ve got a sprat’s worth
o’ bottles, well just show ’em a deener ’n’ ask for a sprat
change. Sometimes they ’aven’t got one, but yer’ll see a
’arf-dollar and yer’ll say, quick ’n’ lively, ‘give us that
an’ I’ll give yer two bob,’ and though it looks simple, yer
wouldn’t believe how often it conies orf. Most of ’em are
so used to buy in’ things that for once they forget that
they’re sellin’. Any’ow, if yer only work it once in ten,
yer in pocket, ’n’ there’s no risk.”


Hautbaway> & &
Peerless
Gloss
puts a permanent gloss on boots and
shoes —a shine that outshines all other
shines; a brightness that is not dulled
by a little damp, but remains as long as
actual dirt and mud can be warded off.
It is this great and special quality that
that makes it worthy of its name —
“ Peerless ” ; that is, absolutely without
an equal. Famed for forty years, it is still
pre-eminently the best shoe polish that
has ever been invented. It adds to the
life of a shoe by its preservative qualities,
moreover, and is so easy to use that it
is but the work of a moment to apply it.
Sold by all Boot & Shoe Dealers & at all General Stores
IMPARTS A SPLENDID BRILLIANCE.
C. L. HAUTHA WAY & SONS , 346, Congress St.,
Boston , Mass. , U.S.A .
sf
im
iim
M
IS
©
i
Pat: “ Bedad, O'ive been using Eodox, and the place
is aloive wid dead ra 1 bits 1 ”
The Safest and
by far the most
deadly . . .
Rabbit
Destroyer.
LARGE
TINS
Per
Tin
INTER-STATE
DISTRIBUTORS.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Messrs. C. Markell & Co.,
O’Connell St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND :
Messrs. Webster & Co.,
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Mr. L. P. Lawrence,
King William St., Adelaide
VICTORIA :
Rocke, Tompsitt & Co.,
Melbourne.
s
i
CIGAR SMOKERS I Try
KING of All K. & B.
HIGH LIFE CIGARS
Mild, Medium and Full Strength, 17 6 per box 000); poetasra
Sd. extra. Send for Is. worth as sample—poated free.
Agent*—CßAlG & AtTKEN, 6S« GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
fsf
Tl)€Se TER POTS njak? a
SPLENPIP CUP OF TER!
BUY one for home use or as a Wedding Gift. Nowadays there is
such a demand for Novelties to give at a wedding that the
Everyday Useful Article is quite left out hi the cold, and now.
instead of getting half-a-dozen Tea Pots, the probability is the Bride
does not get one. Think of these when next you want a Wedding
Present. They are good value—every one of them. We post them
Free anywhere, on receipt of remittance. Write for our Catalogue.
Jo. F 1285. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, 16s 6d
No. Fll6l. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot,
£1 15s
39k
•StfeS
No. i;;;703. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, £’2
Kft
No. F 5099. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, £2 10s.
No. E 5792. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, £2 2s.
No FGI36. Heavy Solid Silver Tea Pofc, Full size,
Handsome Design* £l5 10s. In Best Plate, £l los.
No. F 6135. Massive Solid Silver Full-size Tea I'ot,
Richly Ornamented, £l3 10s.
Sh
No. G 879. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, 17s 6di
No. E 7104. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot,
32s Cd
No. 367.
Full-size Silver-plateJ Tea Pot,
£2 5s
No. F 4387. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, £2 10s.
No. 363. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, £3 3s.
m
No. E 7690. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot,
£4 10s.
No. P 6137. “Louis Quatorze” Tea Pot, Verj
Massive Solid Silver, £22 10s.
Address all
Your Orders
to . . .
'ament
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Auckland, Wellington ,
Christchurch, Dunedin, London.
“Two Seas ” : Last, week I saw an adver-
tisement of a N.S.W. selection for sale, for which
the owner is asking £2 10s. per acre for c.p. and
c. 1., which means that for 1920 acres of it the
owner expects to get £2 10s. on account of the low
rental, and for the mere right to purchase it from
the State at £1 per acre. Of course there are the
fencing and improvements to reckon ; but what
do they generally amount to on a lease ! Cer-
tainly not 10s. per acre. What is it, then, that
makes the lease worth £2 10s. ? Again, if the
State gets a fair rental for the land, why are men
so eao-er to give thousands of pounds to get a
lease from the State ? My reply to “ Jemand s
query (8., 25/l/’OG) as to where the 4s. per acre
private land is, and how I make it pay, is briefly :
—ln a drought-cursed district, and I don t make
it pay. That’s why I want some Government
l anc j—even at Bd. per acre ; and that’s why I advise
the men who appeal against Bd. to sing low and be
satisfied with a good thing. We want land, but
not the syndicate’s land, at £5 to £7 per acre, but
just the old Government land, on the old terms,
without frills, at £1 per acre, and with a conditional
lease attached, at anything up to Is. per acre per
annum. Now that I have answered “demand s in-
quiries, will he answer me one question. Is lie a
land syndicate? His horror of Government land
sets me thinking hard.
“F.C. ” : Had the experience of consum-
ing a superior Chinese dinner the other day, when
the Chinese Reform Association invited a dozen
or so white men to meet as many aliens from the
Flowery Land in the rooms of the Chinese limes
and gorge. The whites were mostly advertisers,
or had business relations with the yellows, and
were received with an elaborate courtesy that
would have put to the blush even a Frenchman.
Dinner started at 7 p.m., at a well decorated table,
on soup of edible birds’nests. This resembles a
rather thick jelly, has small squares of chopped
crab wandering through it, and is eaten with soy
—a Chinese sauce resembling plum-juice—also
with chopsticks, of ivory. But the whites were
also supplied with a feathery china teaspoon, they
being deemed unable to properly handle
chop-sticks. Chinese men-servants removed
the basins and brought the second course, sharks
fin soup; a mess of long, jelly-like worms, but
very tasty. Then followed isinglass soup, pigeons
fried in butter, fried eggs on mushrooms (looking
and tasting much like oysters), pork pies (small
items of chopped meat enclosed m a jelly-like shell
where we usually put the paste), and the pi&cede
resistance, a stew of chopped fowl and duck. By
this time we were mostly too full to more than
sample, but the stew was not unpleasant, though a
trifle dry. The'chop-stick is a weapon that does
not lend itself to liquid foods, consequently John s
bill of fare is mostly chopped and dry. But there
was a fair choice of liquors—hock, chablis, claret,
and soft drinks of sorts. Adorning the table were
dishes of nuts, dried oranges, preserved ginger,
and cherries, which are eaten between the courses
as digestives. After the fowl stew, waiters
brought each diner a little dish of rice, boiled a la
Ghinois, dry, segregated, yet so gelatinous as to
melt in the mouth. This it is etiquette to eat
with the chopsticks, whether you can manage
them or not. Also, you must not empty your
bowl After that, coffee and cigars ; also songs
and an exhibition of what in China corresponds to
the Jap jiu-jitsu. Neither salt nor pepper was on
the table, nor any water.


Ko fibri Arc Lamp.
THE BEST ELECTRIC LAMP
for Dwellings, Shops, Show-
windows, etc., etc., is the
Kolibri Arc Lamp
MADE FOR DIRECT AND
ALTERNATING CURRENT.
It gives 160 candle power, and consumes less than
half of the current required by the best incan-
descent lamps.
Sole Australian Agents—
The Austral Otis Engineering Co.,
Telephone
No. 331.
Cr. HANNA and KAVANAGH STS., SOUTH MELBOURNE.
[2
iICCCI l; f C *WT£*' 3 tHiAND;
W'tsJP Warn mm lam For Infant Feeding'
UNSWEETENED m'mmw
It does not m m ilm
thicken. It B▼ B H Bn W*m
is absolutely pure. It is Sterilized.
Supplied to H.B.M.
Navy & Army.
FUtiSELL & CO.. LTD.,
I ii) n •B" London, England. __ , F/
Sole Agents for New South Wates B—BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd i.
SOME BOOKS
SOLD
BY
sf
I
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young' and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning' mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, new 1904 edition,
2s6dposted. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted. Marie
Corelli’s God’s Good Man, 2s 9d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s How
to Train the Horse, ls6d. Passion’s Paradise, Is 6d.
Stolen Sweets, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Ciiiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
That Pascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille-, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, Ss 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Datf., Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Purlic
Speaking Made Eas.v, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Gd.
Inquirer’s Oracle ; Wiiat to. do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training,
Is. Elements of Social Science, 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection, 6s 6d. A Life of pleasure, Is 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash, iJiC - Established 20 Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT
♦
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur,lllustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Garbs, Is. Sappho; genuine,
is. Advice to Women, Is post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s {id.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, 3d.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams,
All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s Freemasonry,
is 2d post. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d posted.
Toxology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s .Romances, 2s.
Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, &c., with
full directions, Is posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s (id posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s (id. , The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. The
Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. N ervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, KSOOillus., leather
bound, m3' price, 15s post paid. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s (id posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, b y Paine,
posted, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s (id posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood,
ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s (id each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. French
Art Studies, 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen. New Tricks
with Coins, Is posted. A Modern Siren, Is (id.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney
Business Announcements.
BEST PRESENT FOR
THE BOYS!
rrHE New Wizard Gy-rotary Top.
-L Spins in any position, upside-down,
sideways, on the pedestal, or runs along
a wire. Complete with pedestal, string-,
and full directions ; only 1/- carriage
paid. Send stamps of any State.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
229-231 Gollins-st., Melbourne.
SIZE
NESTLE’S
SWISS
MILK
CHOCOLATE
SEE THAT
YOU
GET IT.
Sold' 1
by
all first-
class stores
in Australasia.
No. 8176 J 2-BLADE \
“ BAM PA,”
Cocoa Handle 7/6 \
Buffalo Handle - 2/- \
Stag Handle - - - 2/6
sf
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
‘PflMPfl'
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BEST.
This
Trade
Mark
London
on
every
Garment.
AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR
Shirts, Pyjamas, &.C., &c.
Shirts made to measure from 5/6.
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
UNDERWEAR and other garments in stock and
made to measure, in Cottons, Lisles, Wools, Merinos
and Unions.
FABRICS BY THE YARD.
PAMPHLETS AND PRICE LISTS POST FREE.
Sole Agents in N.S. W.:
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.
75 King Street, Sydney.
AIDS DIGESTION.
BRACES THE NERVES
PLASMON
COCOA
Is non-heating. One cnp contains
more nourishment, ihaa 10 cups at
jr l uuy ordinary cocoa.
FRANZ JOSEF Laces
to
All Others ,
Jl\e Xaijcet describes it as—
“ Mr. Benger’s admirable
preparation.”
V/js British jyiedical Journal
says—
“ Benger’s Food has by its
excellence established a
reputation of its own.”
GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
*
s
FOO
f
For INFANTS
INVALIDS
and <he AGED.
Bender's tood is sold in Tins
by Chemists, &c. everywhere.
j
“ t)’Harum ” : My artist friend and I were
out sketching. As we tramped along the country
road a cart overtook us, and the driver, pulling
the horse in, said, “Have a lift?" We jumped
up. Present! yhe stopped at a little house, almost
hidden in a clump of gums. “ This is where I
live ; you’d better come in and have a cup of tea.”
We went in, and as we sat I remarked, “ It’s very
kind of you to invite us here.” “It’s nothing-
nothing,” he answered; “matter o’ habit with
me. I come from the North. People up in
Northern S.A. are as different from Southern and
Sou’-Eastern people as peas are from beans. No
need to go hungry up North. People there won’t
let yer, but down South, where they’re better off,
they’re as mean as Scotch Jews. I drove through
the South-Eastern district, a little time back, and
only once in four weeks was I asked to have a
meal, and that was at a farm-house, where there
lived a man from the North.”
“Dogspike” gives some kanaka experi-
ences :
Rows between overseers and boys in the field are not
very common, but the overseer usually comes off second
best. There is Usually a “ cheeky ” one in the gang, who
starts the row by wantirig to fight the overseer, well
knowing that his mates will see fair-play—from his point
of view, I was weak enough to “pink” one, one day;
for wanting to fight me ; in about two seconds I was tied
hp and nearly smothered with a pile of dead cane leaves,
Which the reliable boys tried to light, and so cremate me.
The timely arrival of the head overseer on horseback
Baved me. Another day, they tried to drown me in
the Burnett River, but, the water being too shallow, their
benevolent intentions failed.
I was on the “ Palms ’’ plantation when a white man
was stabbed by kanakas in over 50 places. Three years
ago there were over 50 murders by kanakas unaccounted
for in the Mackay district alone, and the number is
steadily mounting.
As to their working powers, they are only middling,
though now and again there is an exception. On the
whole, an average white worker is equal to three average
niggers in any climate. On Bingera plantation in ’95, five
White men and myself cut 50 tons of cane per day on an
average from July until Xmas. There were 25 “ boys ”
loading the cane we cut; on the other hand, I have seen
two white men in the Mackay district loading cane from
six black cutters.
Some of the old-chum kanakas affect religion a bit, but
they are not encouraged in it by their bosses. It is agreed
that these “ missionary boys ” are nearly always loafers
and pretty well always hypocrites. There is a tale in
Mackay about one of these good boys “swamping”
all the wine instead of taking a sip, when having Com-
munion, with the remark, “ Fillem up again, me plenty
love big fellow Master.”
Inter-island fights are common amongst them, but it is
not often that many are hurt, One side usually jaws
away for a piece, and then rushes at the enemy, who
usually run, then stand, do some more jaw, arid charg'O
back, and so On. It is only when one falls or is overtaken
in the running away business that any damage is done ;
then the mob puts in some pretty khife arid club work as
a rule. This sort of killing, however, is abdve-board and
open. The white man is always done for by treachery, the
black skunks lying in wait in quiet places and in
mobs, unless children Or Women are the victims, when
Tommy’s bravery is great,
Ballina (N.S.W., North Coast) doesn’t take
water with its whisky now. The town has, or
thought it had, a fine water supply from springs
in the ranges ; but a local resident who visited the
spot the other day found three Hindus bathing just
above the dam. Then he wrote to the local paper,
and the consumption of water from the mains
slumped nearly to zero. Yet the North Coast
still, to a great extent, loves its nigger.
“Helen”; Much of the loss by bush-
fires could be avoided by a few days’ work
ploughing round buildings, crops, etc., early in
the season. Last month I had a GOO-acre wheat
paddock (partly stripped ; wheat and machinery
still on the spot) surrounded on three sides by a
bush-fire ; glass 112 in the shade; yet was able
to save it, owing to having a good fire-break
ploughed round it previously. In the same way
my homestead, outbuildings and haystacks were
saved ; otherwise I should have lost my all. There
were willing hands to assist,' but the fire was so
fast and furious that all the men on the Lachlan
would not have counted had. it not been for the
precautions taken beforehand. Surely there ought
to be legislation to compel people to at least make
their homesteads safe before the summer com-
mences, by making breaks, etc.
Chief-Justice Darley(N.S.W.) was jubilant
last week. From the Bench he said that in
the last 12 cases in which an appeal was made to
the Privy Council from the Full Court the deci-
sions in eleven had been upheld, and only one
over-ruled, and in that one the decision of the
P:C. was given on a point not argued before the
Full Court.


the name
WOOD-MINE
moulded on the face of 3 r our
rubber heels.
These splendid rubber heels re-
duce fatigue and jar in walk-
ing, prevent worn-down heels,
and make a pair of boots last
twice as long Smart and
economical.
WOOD-MILNE SHO-ESHINES KEEP
BOOTS POLISHED FOE DAYS.
On sale at all Shoe and
Rubber Stores.
c
Sole Wholesale Agents for Australia—
D. and. W. MURRAY, Ltd., Adelaide,
South Australia; Perth, Western Aus-
tralia; Kalgcorlie, Western Australia;
Melbourne, Victoria; Launceston, Tas-
mania; Brisbane, Queensland; Towns-
ville, Queensland; Rroken-hill, New
fjouth Wales.
)
WOOD-
MI LNE
RUBBER
HE/ELS
WATCHES
Are Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee Is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronograph
/
mjuukluu*
MCLBQUBNE
V
G unmetal&Open Face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Minute Re-
corder, and all the newest improvements.
Guaranteed for 3 Years. Post Free to any
part of Australia.
Warranted equal to any £lO 10s.
Chronograph made.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE
Australian Depot for ZEISS and
GOERZ FIELD GLASSES.
W. DUNKLING,
315-317 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
LINOLO
CLEANS, SHINES, POLISHES
Linoleums, Wood Floors,
Furniture, Harness,
Boots and Shoes, &c.
THE FINEST AMERICAN POLISH
YET PRODUCED.
All Grocers, Ironmongers, &c.
Australasian Agents—
AMERICAN HYGIENIC AGENCY, Ltd., 177 Liver-
pool Street, Hyde Park, SYDNEY.
Sole Victorian Distributing Agents—
J. J. MADDEN & CO., 58 Queen St., MELBOURNE.
Sole Queensland Distributing Agent—
ALFRED MOON, 37 Adelaide St., BRISBANE.
FREE SAMPLES any State on application.
Change of
Agency
Makes
Golden
Opportunity
for
Buyers
We have given Up
the Agency for the
well-known...
Superior Grain
Drills , of which we
have sold over 3,000.
<®> <®>
w w?
New Agents have
been appointed, and
will carry large stocks
of extra parts.
We have a considerable quantity of these
Drills on hand.
# <sJ2>
viw w
We must sell them quickly and are
prepared with prices and terms that will do it
Those who buy any Grain Drill without
first finding out our prices and terms on
“Superiors” are simply throwing away their
money.
DON’T MISS THIS CHANCE
But WRITE TO-DAY for Prices and Terms
International Harvester Company of America
AGENTS THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALASIA
Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide, Launceston,
and Christchurch
V
Vi
C ( There’s SECURITY in
ARTER'S
Absolutely Cure
I BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
I TORPID LIVER.
TONGUE,
jf INDIGESTION.
W CONSTIPATION. |
dizziness.
SALLOW SKIN.
NTTLE
IVER
PI LLS
They
touch LIVER
Be Sure they are
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
Carter’s
SSpOBFJ
m iiwderwriters* Tire extinguisher
...COMBINING...
SIMPLICITY, QUICK ACTION, HANDY SIZE.
Highly Concentrated Extinguishing Power.
Long Distance Throw and Certainty of Action.
The most Efficient and Reliable Hand Fire Ex -
tinguisher ever produced.
Single Machine - £3 10s.
Agent—P. A. HOWARD, 90 Pitt Street, Sydney.
c. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed.
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals,
Works :
Birmingham, England.
ƒs
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
I paper with the ease
I of a soft lead peni.il.
Attention ’S also
drawn to their patent
Anti-B.otting Sei es.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
m
wm
ś
AKD
REFUSE
SilsTmJ
Himself Cured.
■pvEAR SIR,— I have been cured of Weakness anti
-L' Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and
will be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers.
I do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr ROBERT E. PARKHORBT,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CUREby that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they inay CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A UUMC.
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
s-vTrNr'FVY'.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
MEDICATOR.
Catarrh is inflammation ot
;he lining membrane of the
lose and adjoining passages.
[f this inflariiniation is not-
irrested it invades the pas-
jages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
xnd lungs. It injures the
sight and hearing, destroys
■he sense of taste and smell,
renders'the breath offensive,
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nadal car-
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? If so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia,Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe,, etc.
Price, complete with4months’
treatment by mail,'los.
Write for Booklet, free, or send order direct to
Stgr Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
ir THOUSANDS OF ■
RUPTURED
PEOPLE have been and are being
Alintn by Dr Langston’s Perfect
ilUnCll Combined Treatment.
No Pain, Operation, or Detention from
Work. Immediate Belief, and Certain
Cure. Convincing Testimony and Il ®[® r '
ences from nearly every town in Australia
sent with my Valuable Book—
“RUPTURE, ITS HISTORY A CURE
FREE.
Posted 2 Stamps.
the LANGSTON INSTITUTE
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
RHEUMATISM.
GOUT
PILLS
Are recommended by doctors with confi-
dence as one of the valuable results of
medical science, and the only remedy
ever discovered for these disorders, in
that they not only rapidly cure but pre-
vent the recurrence of the malady.
Of Chemists and Stores, 1/1 J and 2/9 per box.
Proprietors— K.OUT & CO., 229, Strand,
London, England.
THE LAST OF SIX
(Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co.*
Price 6d. Post Fbee.


TATTERSALL’S
(George Adams,
CONSULTATIONS
Hobart, Tasmania.)
NOW OPEN
NEWMARKET HANDICAP, Flemington, Vic., March 3
AUSTRALIAN CUP, Flemington, Vic., March 6
NEWCASTLE CUP, Newcastle, N.S.W., March 31
DONCASTER HANDICAP, Randwick, N.S.W., April 14
100,000 at 10/4 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
50,000 at 5/2 each.
£O,OOO at 5 2 each.
will be 2dm on each
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax
ssm Ticket, and 4cf. on each 10s. Ticket . Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to cany on the
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. Parcels may be oiwar ec nou 0 i any
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
Wolfeet sWj\iVi\)S 'Niftvoufc vV \ ot\ Tec~.
V*
fprogress/ve d/eta/y adapted to t/?e prow/ftp d/pest/Ve powers
Milk Food N°l I Milk Food N? 2 I Malted Food 1N93
from t/rtA to 3/non ds I from 3to 6 mootts | from 6 monttis upwards
Bridge & Loftus Sts., Sydney
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
EARS
THAT
n
WILL
HEAR
SCIENTIFIC INVENTIONS
FOR THE DEAF.
DEAFNESS, total or partial, is no longer a hope-
less affliction. The MASSACON treatment
for the cure of Deafness has won the approval of
scientists and physicians in all parts of the world ;
and the ACOUSTIOON, as an artificial aid to
hearing, will give “ EARS THAT WILL HEAR "
to even the most stubborn case of deafness. We
want an opportunity of PROVING and DEMON-
STRATING to you the great value of these instru-
ments. As a preliminary step we invite you to
write for FREE BOOKLET A. TO-DAY.
ACOUSTIC PATENTS, LIMITED,
Equitable Building, Melbourne,
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
THCE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
TTAS THE largest sale of any chest medicine in the world.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difliculty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption (o develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
BRONCHITIS AND PLEURISY.
A SEVERE CASE CURED BY T 70 BO7~LES OF
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
AFTER OTHER TREATMENT HAD FAILED.
Mr. Hearne, Chemist, Geelong;.
Dear Sir, —Some months ago, in Sydney, I suffered from
a severe attack of influenza, and was confined to my room
for about a week, at the end of which time, feeling some-
what better, I "ot up and tried to transact my business
as usual. But I got up too soon, for the very next day I
had a relapse, and suffered tortures from what the doctor
told me was pleurisy and bronchitis. The pain from the
former in my chest and shoulders was frightful, and for
four long weeks I was confined to my bed, under the care
of a well-known Sydney doctor, and all the time his medi-
cine gave me but temporary relief. The landlady of the
hotel (the Cleveland) where I resided told me of a medi-
cine—Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure—from Victoria, which had
cured her of a bad attack of bronchitis and pains in the
chest, and begged of me to try it. I did so, and, in thanks
and gratitude to you, tell you that, after the second bottle,
my cough had ceased ; but, what is more astonishing, the
pains from pleurisy entirely left me, and, in about a week,
I was able to attend to mv duties as usual.—Yours faith-
fully, ' J. BRAHAM,
Melbourne Punch Office, Melbourne.
BRONCHITIS.
CHILD’S LIFE SAVED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE.
AFTER THE CASE HAD BEEN “GIVEN UP.”
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —We have to thank your bronchitis
cure that we have one little boy spared to us, as we
nearly lost him. After doctors had given him up, we
Baw the advertisement for your Bronchitis Cure, and
gave it a trial, with the result above mentioned.—Yours
faithfully,
(Mrs.) E. GRANT,
c/o Mr. Harvey, Baker,
Chiltern, Victoria.
QUEENSLAND TESTIMONY.
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
/ gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
oil his with most remarkable results, the child being quite
cured in three doses.—We are, faithfully yours,
THOMASON, CIIATER and CO.,
69 Queen-street, Brisbane.
BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA.
A TWELVE YEARS’ CASE WITH DISTRESSING
COUGH.
CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS AND
ASTHMA CURE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Please send by post to Cop-
manhurst a complete course of your valuable medicine,
for obstinate asthma. The last medicine you sent to me
cured ona man that had a distressing 1 cough for twelve
years. Please find post-office order enclosed for pay-
ment.—Yours thankfully, WILLIAM OANHAM,
Upper Copmanburst, via Grafton, N.S.W.
BRONCHITIS.
A CAMBERWELL RESIDENT EXPRESSES
GRATITUDE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Your Bronchitis Cure has
relieved my wife of a cough which followed on an attack
of influenza. While I acknowledge that all good comes
from only one source, ordinary gratitude bids me to
offer my earnest thanks to you, through whom this parti-
cular blessing has come.—l remain, dear sir, yours very
truly, GEO. S. CALDWELL,
Camberwell, Victoria.
CHRONIC BRONCHITIS.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE THE MOST EFFEC-
TIVE REMEDY.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l have used a number of bottles
of your medicine for bronchitis, which was a chronic com-
plaint of mine, and I must say that of all the medicines I
have token (including those from Drs.), none have proved
so effectual as your Bronchitis Cure. I have recommended
it to many others.—Yours faithfully,
THOS. OLIVER,
Proprietor of The Lilydai.e Express,
Lilydale, Victoria.
SEVERE COUGH.
COMPLETELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE AFTER OTHER TREATMENTS HAD FAILED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Having used your
Bronchitis Cure with very speedy and good results for
severe cough and cold on the chest, I am sending you
this testimonial to make any use of it you wish. I have
used many cough medicines and can unhesitatingly say
that yours gave me the quickest relief, and I have not
been troubled with the cough since. I have also given it
to my little boy, aged two years, with equally good
results, and now recommend it to my friends. Wishing you
every success.—l am yours truly, J. ERSKINE,
Kilbirnie, New Zealand.
ASTHMA.
TWO OBSTINATE OASES CURED BY HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA CURE.
AFTER OTHER TREATMENT HAD FAILED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —It is with much thank-
fulness I write to let you know that I have taken three
bottles of your Bronchitis and Asthma Cure. I had pre-
viously suffered terribly from asthma for about three
years, and had tried everything, and had advice, but
without avail. I had been for a fortnight at a time with-
out moving day or night out of my chair. If I went to
bed I was not able to lie down. We came to New Zealand
about three years ago from Tasmania. One of my uncles
there suffered with asthma for a number of years till he
took your cure about five years ago, and has never had
the asthma since. I knew this, but it had passed out of
my mind until reading your advertisement in some Tas-
manian papers brought it to my memory. I told my
husband, and he got your cure for me, which I have taken
with completely satisfactory result. —Yours respectfully,
W. McCOMBE,
Mosgiel, New Zealand.
BRONCHITIS*.
A SYDNEY GENTLEMAN IS SO SATISFIED WITH
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE THAT HE SENDS
A SUPPLY TO LONDON.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I am in receipt of your
favor of the 27th instant, in which you acknowledge my
order for Bronchitis Cure to be sent to my parents in
London from your Liverpool Depot. I am sure their
annual bronchial attacks will be greatly relieved, if not
cured or prevented, by your valuable preparation. My
own experience, and that in connection with my two-
year-old son, has been pre-eminently satisfactory, and I
shall continue to highly recommend it for both old and
young, and I offer you the use of this letter should you
deem it worth the using.—Yours trulv,
HERBERT E. WHITE,
“ Holmsdale,” Bowral-street,
Kensington, Sydney, N.S.W.
ACUTE BRONCHITIS.
LIFE SAVED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure
in stating that I have derived great benefit from taking
Hearne’s Bronchitis cure. Can confidently say it has
saved my life. I was a martyr to Acute Bronchitis before
taking it. I trust this letter will induce others to try
it, —Yours truly,
E. F. BROTHERTON,
223 Chapel-street, Prahran, Victoria.
A CHILD SEVEN MONTHS OLD— A SUFFERER
FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF LIEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
as I cannot speak above a whisper, owing' to a cold. I
bad a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is three years old,
and has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid
medicine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.—l remain
yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE,
Violet Town, Victoria.
A SEVEN YEARS’ CASE.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I had suffered for upwards of
seven years, during which period I was scarcely ever free
from coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing
was so distressing that for nights in succession I had to
sit up. I write you this acknowledgment from a sense
of duty, as in my case every other treatment had failed.
For a year previous I had been getting very much worse,
and at the time I obtained your medicine I was confined
to bed, suffering from a most violent cough, expec-
torating blood and matter, and apparently beyond hope
of recovery. The first dose of the medicine gave me
welcome relief, and I steadily improved as I continued
the treatment, until I became as I am now, quite well.—
Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.
BRONCHITIS.
A VERY OBSTINATE CASE.
CURED THROUGH PERSEVERING IN THE TREAT
MENT BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Having been a sufferer
from Bronchitis for a number of years, and not being able
to get relief from Doctors, I started taking your Bron-
chitis Cure about two years ago, and have been taking it
on and off ever since. I am happy to tell you that I now
feel thoroughly cured, and I can bear testimony to its
worth.—l am yours truly,
W. J. CLARKE,
Redbank, via Avoca, Victoria.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Large Size, 4s. 6d.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA
FORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
branch depot- q jg ce . No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.


f
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’S—AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
ƒ
Rheumatic and Gouty Affections.
(By “Okigin.”)
The unnatural retention of uric acid and other urinary and biliary poisons in the blood produce a
group of complaints which inflict upon humanity long continued suffering and intense P a | L •
most common of these complaints are rheumatism, gout, lumbago, sciatica, and neuralgia. JLUe K -
neys and liver are the organs upon which Nature has imposed the task of extracting from the
certain matter which is being continuously manufactured in the body, owing to the wasting of the
tissues. It is as necessary to life that the wasting of the tissues must proceed uninterrupted ly as it is
that the substance of the body must be regularly renewed by the food we eat, the water we drink, and
the air we breathe. It is equally necessary to health that the waste matter should be expelled from
the body continuously, for its presence in the blood entails disease or death. . . .
The treatment of rheumatic and gouty affections by the outward application of oint-
ments and embrocations is seldom productive of much lasting benefit. I hey may afford temporary
relief in some cases, but they do not reach the seat of the disorder. The only way in which health can
be permanently restored, and pain permanently removed, is to .take measures to ensure th® regul r
action of the kidneys and the liver. When these organs are performing their allotted task naturally
and freely, the uric acid, and other urinary and biliary poisons, pass from the system through the
ordinary channels, and any suffering caused by the presence of such poisons in the blood is at an end.
Owing to its specific action, Warner’s Safe Cure, every moment during the past twenty-five years,
has been demonstrating its remarkable power of restoring the kidneys and liver to health and activity.
Warner’s Safe Cure not onlv cures Bright’s Disease and other specific diseases of those vital °Fg an s.
but rheumatism, gout, gravel, stone, bladder troubles, indigestion, biliousness, anaemia, impcrebiood
and all disorders caused by .the retention in the system of urinary and biliary poisons, speedily yield
to the influence of the medicine, simply because of its healing and stimulating influence upon the
kidneys and liver. Cures thus effected are permanent, simply because they are natural.
A simple test to make as to whether the kidneys are healthy is to place some urine, passed the
first thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and let it stand until next morning. If it is then
cloudy, shows a sediment like brick-dust, is of an unnatural color, or has particles floating about in i,t
the kidneys are weak or diseased, and steps must immediately be taken to restore their vigor, or
Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some of the many manifestations of uric poisoning will result. LA
THE HAND THAT ROCKS THE CRADLE BUYS THE SOAP. |
LET IT BE
WRIGHT’S COAL TAR SOAP
For it has THREE UNRIVALLED MERITS*
It is delightful in use. It is absolutely pure.
It protects from all infection.
The Current Coin.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
this is Dick Mallory’s
story, for Barbie’s name has been scored
off the register by those who knew her.
Truly, in the white truth of the Judgment Day,
it is Barbie’s sto.y only, for it was never more
than an episode to the man.
Barbie was waitress in Dordrecht’s hotel in a
squalid little mining township up near the Gulf,
at the same time that Dick Mallory was assayer
there. The stagnation of the township and the
North Queensland summer did the rest. It sent
Dick Mallory daily from his w'ork to find comfort
in Dordrecht’s warm beer and insipid bitters, and
in the stray mouthfuls of speech from men who
had been “ down South.” For Mallory was tailor-
made and town-bred, with the clean step of one
who walks pavements and club steps; and two
years of Queensland sun had not smudged the
water-mark beyond recognition.
It was when Dick Mallory had been in the
township six months that men began to talk. No
one had talked of Barbie before, although she
mended the clothes of half Dordrecht’s customers,
and had written letters for them to their wives and
sweethearts, and flayed them in virile out-back
speech when they were drunk more than three
days in the week.
But even Pat Carney saw that she did not treat
Mallory as one of the ruck, and it was he who
gave Mallory the clue. This was on a red-hot
night, with the haunting memory of cool drink*
at the Brisbane Club and slow boating down the
Brisbane River to trouble Mallory. He got up
and went out, incidentally calling Carney a liar,
found Barbie in the kitchen, and brought her
out to the moonlight over the pig-tubs and ash-
bins in the backyard, and the eternal, click of
billiard-balls sounding through the thin walls.
Then he reddened, standing before her clear eyes.
For his training had made him a gentleman, and his
life had not made him a sinner beyond any other
man. And it was not too easy to say that which
lie had come to say to Barbie. She was big and
clumsy and stupid, as only an absolutely good
woman can be stupid, and her hands were rough-
ened by coarse work and the sewing of many
harsh clothes.
“What was you wantin’, Dick?” she asked.
Mallory remembered how she had halted and
flushed over the first use of his name. She could
not know that he had taught it to her just for the
hunger that was in him' to hear it on a woman’s
tongue again, as he had heard it once in days
unforgot. But it came to him now, in swift
shame, that he had been something of a brute to
allow that thrill to come into it because of the
sweet pain of memory.
“That’s my sock you’re darning, isn’t it?” he
said.
She looked down at the cotton thing drawn
over her hand.
“Yes; you ain’t wantin’ it, are you? I did
three pair yest’day.”
“No; I don’t want them. I —don’t want you
to mend any more socks for me, thank you,
Barbie.”
She drew in her breath quickly. Then her
uncovered hand shut on his arm.
“ What hev they bin sayin’ to you in the bar,
Dick ? ”
“ Oh, nothing. Don’t be a fool, Barbie. It’s
“I know what they was sayin’,” said Barbie,
deliberately. “ They was sayin’ as I was try in’
to catch you. As I was goin’ all ways roun’ to
rope you in, an’ git the brand on you. That’s
what they was sayin’.”
“Good Lord,” said Mallory. Then words for-
sook him. Without doubt, Barbie had been
listening at the door.
She whipped off the sock, and caught his coat-
lapels in both hands.
“ An’ what was you sayin’ Dick ? Dick, was
you believin’ ’em ? ”
“No, no, of course not. But —but it will make
things jolly uncomfortable for—for you, you see.”
A clever woman might have caught the hesita-
tion, and so understood. Barbie’s broad face
flushed darkly.
“That don’t matter —so long as you doesn’t
think it, Dick. You —you ain’t got nob’dy else to
talk to,, like, an’—an’ you says yourself as you
likes to hev a woman to talk to sometimes, an’—
an’ it keeps you away from the bar ”
“Don’t you be such a little fool, Barbie. Of
course, I like you to yarn to, and all that sort of
thing. But, don’t you see, a fellow can’t be such
a cad as to let a woman get talked about when he
doesn’t mean ”
“That’s my business,” said Barbie, in slow
decision. “ They mus’ go talkin’ ’bout sumthin’
like a lot o’ laughin’-jackasses. It doesn’t fret
me. So we jest won’t make no difference, Dick ;
an’ I guess I’d better be gettin’ on wi’ them socks.
There’s a basketful yet.”
Mallory looked at her. Being a man, he did
not understand. Being a not.-quite-sober man, he
was very sure that he did understand. He
shrugged his shoulders.
“Well, if you like to put it that way,” he said.
“Of course, it doesn’t hurt me at all, if you like
to stand the racket. Barbie, the moonlight suits
you. It makes your eyes look so deep and dark.
Give me a kiss before you go in.”
She drew away half-frightened from his hot
quick hands.
“You —you never ast me that afore, Dick,” she
whispered.
“That doesn’t follow that I won’t again,” said
Mallory, and laughed. “Everything has its
beginnings, you know.”
And then she suffered his kiss in simple grate-
fulness, not knowing that it was the kiss of con-
tempt.
It was after this that the days and nights grew
merciless beyond speech and beyond conception.
Work on the lodes and the scoria-naked hills was
hell with sunshine added. And this is more than
any man should be expected to bear. Because the
good is sweated from men more swiftly than the
evil, the township was not a nice place to live in
that summer ; and because the desire for drink will
stay, though hopes and ideals and all fear melt
out in the furnace, Dordrecht and the six other
publicans of the township made much money, and,
incidentally, many graves.
Really Mallory was not to blame for the fight
in Dordrecht’s bar that began the end of things.
He had been out since sun-up, nosing a lost out-
crop over six hills and a dried river, in company
with a town director who tried to trip him after-
wards in the street. Mallory did not hit the
director, for private reasons; but he hit all the
men who remarked on the circumstance in Dor-
drecht’s bar, and someone carried the word to
Barbie. It was 11 of the clock; but there had
been a big crowd in that day, and Barbie was still
washing-up. With her red arms greasy and bare,
and the mark of pots on her apron, she came
straightway into the bar. The men were, one
and all, her lads, whom she worked for, and cared
for and prayed for. Her high voice cut the raffle
of sound against which Dordrecht strove helplessly.
“ Stop that off, Lum Wilson ! Stop it off, I
tell you, or you won’t get no more outer me ’bout
them covers an’ things fur your house ; an’ what
will your gel say when she comes up after all
you’ve bin tellin’ her ? Come out of it, Kit! ” (she
took the skinny little whirlwind of fury by the
scruff) “ I ain’t finished that letter to your mother
yet, an’ you’d best sing small if you wants it to be
so as she’ll like to read it. Now—who’s hurt of it
ah?” , , .
Barbie having broken the neck of the business,
Dordrecht gave verdict by unequivocal words,
and the threat of a fist with heavy-weight brawn
behind it. There had been smell of blood in the
air, and the taint of the savage on more faces than
one ; but, by use of prayers and curses and judi-
cious humoring, he cleared the bar, uncaring
though six—including Pat Carney—went instantly
to sleep in the empty horse trough outside the
door.
Mallory’s way led up the one street, and across
a hill riddled with shafts, to his two-roomed
shanty, by the Gloria mine. He was bodily and
mentally exhausted, and he had lived too much on
drink this week past. The night air, drifting
about his bare head and neck, made him despe-
rately sleepy, and he stumbled forward with feet
that strayed all ways. A strong hand came under
his arm, steadying, guiding, and a strong voice
came low in his ear.
“ It’s all right, Dick. Jes’ put your money on
me. ’Taint safe on this hill ’nless you got your
eyes skinned.”
Here Mallory came down, and skinned his knee
instead. This made him so angry that he would
have cast Barbie off, but for the inexplicable dis-
covery that he could not walk without her. So
together they crossed the hill under the cold far
stars, through the tired feverish breath of the
night, and came to the shanty, where Mallory
pitched headlong on the bed and slept.
At some black hour of the night pain brought
him back to wakefulness. The pain of dried
tongue and skin, and of red-hot irons laid along
his leg. He sat up to swear, and the light from
the other room brightened, came close, and a gentle
hand touched his bandaged leg.
“ I’ll wet them there cloths agin,” said Barbie.
“ An’ I got a lemon drink here, Dick. Like
some ? ” .
Mallory gasped, and some conception of things
came in great agony-throbs across his forehead.
“ What are you doing here ? ” he said, roughly.
“You—haven’t you any sense, Barbie? Now
you light out of this quick. Do you hear ? ”
“ I hear,” said Barbie, and iaughed, low and
light. “Lie still a minute . . . there ... is that
better?-” .
There was all of cool peace and love m the
tender hands and the wet deftly-laid cloths.
Mallory shied from her impatiently.
“How did you come here?” he demanded.
“What under Heaven made you come? Does
anyone know you’re here ? ”
“ I brought you,” said Barbie, simply. “ Don’t
you remember? No, you wouldn’t. You were
drunk, Dick.”
Mallory pressed his hands against his forehead.
It ached as though it would split. But it was
necessary that he should force understanding from
somewhere.
“See that little frame over there?” he said,
dropping his hands. “The one with its face
turned to the wall. Go and turn it round, Barbie.”
Barbie did it in wordless obedience, and the
candle-flicker fell on a girl’s laughing face, with
down-bent head, and sheen of bright eyes under
long lashes. Some filmy stuff left the throat and
one shoulder bare, and there was the whole intoxi-
cation of witchery in the curved cheek and mock-
ing mouth.
Mallory’s eyes were under his hand. He knew
what Barbie was seeing—knew it in the very core
of his soul. But he was not brave enough to
look, as he had not been brave enough these many
months.
“You see it ? ” he said, at length.
“ Yes.” Barbie’s voice told nothing.
“ Turn it round again, then, and come here.”
Barbie came. In the shade of the candle
Mallory could not see her face. He was not look-
ing for it. The wound had been torn open, and
it shook the manhood that he was trying to make
firm for her sake and for Barbie’s.
“That is the only woman I shall ever marry,”
he said, slowly. “She sent me away from her
two years ago. I may never see her again. But
I shall never marry anyone else, Barbie. Do you
understand ? ”
“Yes,” said Barbie.
Mallory’s head was spinning, and pains untold
gripped his limbs.
“She may send for me some day,” he said.
“If ever she is free she will send. And I will go.
If I am above ground I will go. This place
would sear the good out of any man. But I try.
I try more than you will ever know. For her
sake, Barbie.”
“ I’ve helped you try,” said Barbie, slowly.
“Yes, I know. And she is the one woman—
the only one woman in the world to me. If I
were dead I think I would hear her if she called
me.”
His voice broke on the last words with pam
and the intolerable helpless sickness that belongs
to sunstroke, so that he did not speak any more
sense for many hours. When he lay still, breath-
ing heavily, Barbie took the candle, crossed the
room, and turned the girl’s face put from the
wall. She looked at it long, with intense desire
to make those drooped lids flash open that she
might see into the soul behind. Then she brought
the candle-light across the little glass on the side
wall, and looked at herself.
“It’s me to help him to be fit fur her,” she
said. “Ain’t that queer? She’ll git him when
the makin’s done, an’ she’ll never know . . . but
he’d go out this summer right ’nuff if I wasn’t
pullin’ on the slack.” She glanced round on the
utter comfortlessness of a room that had never
known a woman’s touch. “You choosed one of
your own mob, dear,” she said, softly ; “ an’ that’s
right. But she’d not take you back to her the
way you’s goin’ now.” Her breath came quickly.
She went over and looked down on him as he lay.
“ Then you’d come back to me,” she said.
Two months earlier some one had found the
local doctor with his head in a half-dried dam.
The township buried him, and thereafter man-
aged its own ailments as individual wisdom sug-
gested. This explains why Barbie tended
Mallory through the days of his sickness by the
Gloria mine, discouraging men who came with
curiosity to ask questions, and women who offered
advice at arm’s length. Then Mallory woke to a
clear understanding of the surroundings. Dust
sifted in from the 18-inch ventilation space
between wall-top and roof ; but a curtain, swaying
punkah-wise, was rigged to guard him against it.
Out of sight was the clink, as of ice in a tumbler,
and Mallory strove to get at it, falling across the
bed, and tearing at the curtain.
“Where’s that drink? Damnation! Will
nobody give me that drink?”
Someone gave it, raising him with a strong arm
under his shoulders. Then Mallory looked up
into Barbie’s face. A sudden anger and sus-
pieion caught him, and swung him into weak,
uncaring laughter. ,
“You’ve made your choice, have you. ne
said. “ Was there no one else you could get to
look after me ? ” ~ „ . . ,
“ I wouldn’t let anyone else do it, explained
Barbie, simply. mi , ,
Mallory twisted to see her eyes, ihen lie mut-
tered something under his breath that she aid not
hear. Nor would she have understood if she had
heard it. „ , . , ~
It has been said before that Barbie was a stupid
woman. This is why she did not notice the new
manner that Mallory used to her when he began
to crawl from his bed, and sit out on the grass
after sun-down talking with mine-managers and
others of his craft. But he didn t tell her again
to go away, and she was content.
One evening came a man up from the township
through the raw red of afterglow. Mallory, spread
on the grass, saw him amongst the black tangle of
windlasses and scaffoldings. He was a drover, by
the walk and the suggestion of muscle in the
shoulder-swing. He halted opposite Mallory, and
spoke straightly.
“You’re the man as has gone off wi my sister.
Git up till I tell you what I think o’ ye.”
Mallory came to his feet uncertainly. He was
still weak. Moreover, he was more angry than
he had been before in his life.
“ If you and she think to get hold of me by
that dodge you’re mistaken,” he said. “ I’ve told
her to clear, and she won’t. If she thinks to force
me into marrying her she’s mistaken. I never
will. It’s her business, not mine. I pay her as
housekeeper ; and if she’s foolish enough to stay
when she knows that people talk, I don t care. It
doesn’t hurt me.”
The drover called him several names without
hesitation. He added that Mallory ought to be
ashamed of himself.
“Probably,” said Mallory. “But Im not.
She nursed me, and I’m grateful to her. I pay
her well. I’ve tried to cut loose from her half-a-
dozen times—not because I wanted to, but because
it was better for her. It has worried me a lot ;
but if this is the game she’s been working for, I’m
damned if I care any longer. She can go or stay
as she will—that’s ali.”
“I’m goin’ in ter tell her,” said the drover,
thickly.
“ As you like,” said Mallory, indifferently, and
lay down again.
He was asleep when the drover came out and
went downhill without looking back. It was
Barbie who roused him later. Her broad face was
red-blotched in patches, and her eyelid-skin was
puckered like a washerwoman’s fingers.
But Mallory did not notice.
“ He’s gone, then ?” he said.
“Yes,” said Barbie.
“ And you are going to stay ?”
“Yes.”
Mallory shrugged his shoulders, laughing a
little.
“ All right,” he said. “ Give us a kiss, Barbie.
We may as well make the most of this while it
lasts.”
But Barbie broke away, and went in. Mallory,
following, saw the face of the girl smiling at him
from the wall. He stumbled forward with an
oath ; but Barbie’s hand gripped his arm.
“ When that’s turned roun’ agin I’m goin , she
said composedly. “ Come an’ git your supper.
Mallory looked at her. Then he flushed, and
sat down without speaking. But he did not
understand. For a man’s love is not like the love
of a woman.
Through the many, many months that followed,
the hideous dead-level sin of the township taunted
Mallory, and tormented him, and tempted him.
In his weakness he longed to give up the nght,
and to sink all things that troubled him, in the
bars with other men. There was soul-sickness
that brought the drink-yearning mightier and
more often. There was body-ache, and bad
temper, and the lameness of the leg that would
not heal to fret the manhood in him ; and, above
all, there were the nights when a man from
“ down South” told of Brisbane, sending Mallory
mad with desire to go back and to take away the
woman from whom honor parted him.
Barbie knew all this, for she had paid nearly all
that a woman may give for the knowledge. And
it was a full year later that her reward came, after
the manner of rewards this side the stars. Mal-
lory came up to the shanty one night, and his
eyes were shining and his step free.
“He is dead, Barbie,” he said. “He is dead
and lam going back to her. lam going back.
Barbie came to her feet in the gloom, and Mal-
lory did not see that her hands were gripped
together. She looked from Mallory to the girl on
the wall.
Then she said simply : “ I’m so glad, Dick.
Mallory fidgetted, looking away from her.
“ I—l told you it would be so. It’s not my
fault that you have spoilt your life, Barbie. You
knew ” _ ,
“’Course I knew,” she said promptly. ‘ An
I’m all right, Dick. I kin easy
else. I got money—you seed to that.”
Again Mallory did not understand. For what
had Barbie been waiting, then ?
“ I—l can’t see you again after Igo South, you
know,” he said hesitatingly. “This must be the
end, Barbie. And yet...l rather wish ”
“ You won’t tell her o’ me ? ” asked Barbie.
“Of you ? Good Lord, no ! ” Then he laughed
awkwardly. “ She mightn’t understand, Barbie,
he said.
And he would not have believed if another had
told him that he too did not understand.
M.L.
G. B. LANCASTER.
“Flag L.” discourses about flags: I
always think the United States ensign is appro-
priately symbolical of the American character.
The gaudy barber’s-pole arrangement of stripes
reflects the Yank’s blatant self-assertiveness.
Also, notice the difference between the British
mail flag and that of the U.S. Former, a modest
white pennant with the words “Royal Mail” in
red, divided by a crown; latter, a huge red con-
cern with a blue edge, and a boss Bird of Freedom
splashed over the centre, with the words “United
States Mail,” in letters 2ft. long. And, by the
way, as U.S. steamers at Sydney fly the British
red ensign at the fore when leaving or entering
the port, it is a pity they don’t get a correct flag
for tne purpose. The thing they fly has the white
stripes all of the same width, and the St. Pat s
cross joined on at the centre to the St. George’s.


f
TWELVE YEARS A SUFFERER.
INDIGESTION comprises many ailments, has many varied symptoms. Pain after
food, relieved slightly when wind is rifted ; a feeling of sickness if awakened
suddenly ; headache ; a bad taste in the mouth ; the recurrence of food ; heartburn ;
sleeplessness ; all these, or any of them, may be present. They all mean that the
digestive organs are out of order, and need a little help to get them equal to their work.
Bile Beans give that help and tone up the
digestive organs, so that they can do their
work properly. “About 19 years ago,”
says Mr. Henry Speer, a blacksmith, of
Lynch-street, Young, N.S.W., “I first
felt the symptoms of Indigestion. The
pains I experienced were terrible, and
would completely double me up. I con-
sulted doctors. They all agreed that it
was an aggravated form of Indigestion,
and one told me that I would not live four
hours unless I got ease from the pain.
Another doctor advised operating, but this
I would not agree to. All the doctors
could do for me was to administer morphia
and opium to deaden the pain. I was
under the doctor’s hands for many years,
attending them regularly until my patience
was exhausted. About seven years ago,
hearing that Bile Beans had cured many
cases of Indigestion, I decided to give them
a fair trial. After having taken them regularly for a month or six weeks, I
noticed a great improvement in mv condition. Thus encouraged, I persevered with
the Beans, and was effectively and thoroughly cured. It is now five years since
I had an attack of Indigestion, which I think can be taken as a guarantee that
the cure is permanent. Where life was once a burden it is now a pleasure, and alto-
gether I feel a different man. I have now been a resident of Young for seven years, and
am consequently well-known.”
v;
63
7 1
“ The pains would completely double me up,
BILE BEANS are a SAFE and SPEEDY CURE for BILIOUSNESS, HEAD-
ACHE, INDIGESTION, STOMACH TROUBLES, CONSTIPATION, PILES,
DEBILITY. FEMALE WEAKNESSES, NERVOUSNESS, BAD BLOOD,
• m- .
w.i
r,
■
slIS&iiM
o
a
\n;
? ;&'|§£s
BAD BREATH,
ANiEMIA, DIS-
TURBED SLEEP,
LOSS OE APPE-
TITE, SUMMER
FAG, and, in fact,
all ailments thatowe
their origin to defec-
tive Bile Flow, As-
similation or Diges-
tion. Obtainable
generally at Is. l|d.,
or 2s. 9d. LARGE
BOX (contains three
times the Is.
size).
A. ®> F.
*
By Royal Warrants SO APMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Notice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
Limited.
Dogma.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
IN ancient cerements decayed,
She walks the world in masquerade ;
Pedantic, hect’ring, stern, unkind,
An ossifying power on Mind.
With “ shalt ” and “ shalt not ” in rebuke,
Translating Daniel, warping Luke;
With old Commandments killing trut'-i.
And generous impulses of youth ;
Denunciatory hands in air
In malediction or in prayer.
She claims a charter from above,
And threatens in the name of Love.
She whips when sycophants rebel
And mutters of a sulphurous Hell.
Till harassed spirits all afraid,
Obey Religion’s masquerade.
Through lean lips of fanatic priest
She curses Pleasure’s happy feast
(Though by the mouth of thievish monk
The wine forbid is slyly drunk',
While trembling slaves for shriving crawl
And kiss the hands that hold in thrall;
No piety in their penitence
And worship shorn of reverence.
She took the smiling infant Faith,
And crushed its loveliness to death,
Long, long ago, and from that hour
Gives man the curdled milk and sour ;
Taught him to babble “ credo,” made
Him cheat his soul with masquerade,
Fling his sore heart of want and grief
On the cold pillar of Belief;
Gave his starved lips her own dry breast,
And stones of Law for couch of rest.
She fights, she whips, she threats, she raves.
To generations of her slaves.
And martyrs have endured, and bLd,
For bitter wine and mouldy bread.
Men fires have made of other men,
To keep the creed, and will again,
For she, the thing in masquerade,
Has grown a tyrant; long obeyed,
The oracle of many a race,
Of many an age, and many a place ;
For feeble man, once used to serve,
Will rather die the death than swerve.
And real Religion, far away
In secret, reverent hearts will say,
“ Pass on, the Perfect,is not yet;
The pale sun of to-day will set,
Leave ancient grave clothes in the dark;
And follow the evolving spark.
Let thy heart whisper, rise above
The law of Law to law of Love. ”
The true God is outside the creeds,
The God our generation needs.
The love in some agnostic heart,
Does more to make the dayspring start,
The selfless action, yours or mine,
Than pale priest mutt’ring at the shrine.
Throw off the cerements outworn,
Let undogmatic faith be born,
And love where you have been afraid —•
Religion out of masquerade.
VIC.
M.E.F.
Papua.
“ Wilbea,” from Papua:—
Practically all the best agricultural land on our part of
the coast hasbeeu granted to the London Missionary Society
for “ religious purposes,” at a reduced rental, and with
the tacit right to break the Native Labor Ordinance.
Surely the mission business can be worked quite as
effectively on otherthan the very best eocoanut land ! But
the mission is so powerful, and generally has the Govern-
ment so much under its thumb, that the highest officials
grovel when the smallest mission dog barks. A horde of
native “evangelists” are granted ,gun permits and
licenses that the Government refuse's even to its most
trusted village chiefs, arid it is no secret that native lads
are taken (often against their will) to the mission stations
to be “ educated.” “Religious education ” stands 'for a
lot of things in Papua..
By the way, strongly characteristic of N.G. mission-
reports is the spirit of cadge. It rather turns the gorge
of the Australian in Papua who has to work, and work
hard, for his daily bully and biscuit, to read that the
Mission promises its prayers to those who will make it
gifts of anything from a steam-launch to a pot of jam,
arrd that the members of it are generally occupied in
patting each other on the back, and telling themselves
what fine fellows they are.
The Papuan bride is sometimes a flighty person. A
poor but honest villager once took unto himself a wife,
and, as the custom is, paid down hard cash for her in the
shape of pigs and feathers. But the lady, attracted by
the superior social standing of a neighboring village
policeman, fled by night to his house and made overtures
to him that would certainly have been accepted but that
he stood in too much awe of the Government. So the
fair sinner wandered out into the wilds until she met a
third man she loved, and murmured “Ply with me,” and
he fled. But Fate is hard ; the lovers are working in a
Government institution without payment, while the
village policeman paid compensation—two tomahawks
and a necklace—to the injured husband, presumably as a
punishment for being such a fatally fascinating bobby.
Randolph Bedford, on the strength of a fortnight’s
sojourn in Papua, accuses the Papuan Government of
having (for purposes of amusement, I suppose), invented
two new crimes, sorcery and adultery. But nothing is a
greater curse in native life than sorcery. It rules every
thought and action, and is practically the source of every
crime. And it is only by its gradual suppression that the
tribes can be brought to a proper state of control. As to
adultery, surely it is better that the aggrieved one should
appeal to a white magistrate for redress than seize upon
club and spear and proceed to demolish the co-respondent
in the old-fashioned way.
The Papuan native is sometimes very casual. Chief
Justice Murray, recently passing sentence of death, found
the colored gentleman he was dealing with had lost all
interest in the proceedings, and had quietly gone to
sleep.
Some distance up the Fly River is a tribe that wears,
built into its curly hair, a conical hat of the shape worn
by Chinese coolies, but much smaller, constructed of
some variety of fibre. This headgear is never removed.
Between the Flv and the Dutch boundary there exists a
people with light, straight hair—a curious divergence
from the usual fuzzy black mop of the Papuan.
C.H.G. : S.A. is pushing on vigorously
with artesian boring. At Patchawarra, 35 miles
north of Innamincka, Johnston is down 3140 ft.,
and expects to go another 1000 ft. or 1500 ft. before
he strikes water. He has put down many
deep bores in S.A., notably Koppermanna 3000 ft.,
Meria Mitta 3500 ft., and Mt. Gason 4420 ft., all
on the Hergott-Birdsville road, and having a flow
of from 500,000ga1. to 1,000,000ga1. daily. This
track is the principal stock-route in S'.A., and
was formerly one of the driest stretches in the
State during a bad season,
Myrtle.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ MM/ - HAT a noise they are making 1 ”
\ \ “ Yes !—Myrtle is with them ! ”
That was always explanation enough.
If there were just a few childish voices up and
down the road, it was the children; but if there
was the bawl and shout and crash of a street
accident, Myrtle was with them.
She was always getting into some scrape or
other, drinking people’s milk, finding other
people’s eggs, getting over into the Chinaman’s
garden and taking tomatoes, or getting blamed if
a fowl died anywhere.
A great dark-haired thing, not above 14 perhaps,
but looking ridiculous as the playmate of all the
youngsters around her, and with big limbs, handsand
feet. Of a truth, whatever the neighbors thought,
the children never enjoyed themselves quite
thoroughly unless Myrtle was with them. They
might be quiet and all that—that meant that the
cohesive force for great things was absent, had
gone to the grocer’s, or was cleaning the knives or
something ; which again meant little bickering
quarrels among themselves about who should go
“he” and so on, and failure and impotence
everywhere.
But let word go round among them, “Myrtle’s
out ! ” Then they’d got their leader again, and
things hummed. The loose threads of aimless
purposes were gathered up with a master hand
into organised Pun, with a big F, and behold (also
Great Heavens, hear !) the screaming, chattering,
scampering crew cover the ground with the
Amazon at their head, shouting in her riot like
a man, and sprinting like a high-stepping nag,
all arms and legs and flying hair and skirts.
We live in a comparatively out-of-the-way
neighborhood on a hilly road scarcely ever fre-
quented by heavy or noisy traffic. But one after-
noon, just as I was trying to decide whether I
was in working humor, or whether I would stretch
out somewhere and commence a novel, I thought
I heard a lorry load of bar iron coming along. It
came gradually, was awful when passing, and
went gradually away again, and we were thankful.
Presently it came back again and then once
more passed away, and we were again thankful.
Then it returned, and we misgave. Was it
merely a load of bar iron? or a foundry on
the move ? On going to the door our worst fears
were realised—it was indeed Myrtle.
There had been the ruins of an old galvanised
iron tank —one of those round ones—lying at the
bottom of the paddock for years, simply because it
was beyond half-a-dozen children’s strength to
move it. But this Nehemiah had gathered her
forces together and harnessed them to this thing,
with a clothes-line.
What an administrative genius ! What a mind
for effect! She, no doubt, had looked from the
old hollow tank to the newly-metalled road and
back again to the old tank, and had lifted a finger
to the rest and said “Come !” And the thing
was done.
There she was now—boss horse, straining and
shouting, her dark mane floating grandly and
wildly in the wind, screaming at the rest and
keeping them pulling, they screaming back, and
the old iron shell scraping away horribly over the
stones. A magnificent noise !
Just as we looked out they got to the top with
it and slewed it round, when it slipped the rope
and escaped, rolling down the hill on its own, to
the hosannas of the throng.
It gathered a fearful impetus, and as it caught
a ridge anywhere, would go off bounding down in
bumps, just missing little children and other
disasters in the way by a series of miracles, and
bringing up at a fence at the bottom with a crash.
She was great as a horse—cart-horse for prefer-
ence. How she would back and shy, and bite the
bit, and bolt, and kick—not kick forward, but
backward like a real horse ! Little Jimmy Bates
had a bad shin for a fortnight, where Myrtle
kicked him —so near he got to that awful hoof.
One day they had her stabled up close outside
my room. I did not know for a long time what
on earth the noise was—a terrific stamping and
snorting going on. With the usual “ don’t
bother” feeling I went on writing, but presently,
hearing a paling of the fence smashed off, I put
my head out and, my room being high off the
ground, was looking down on the whole thing.
There was Myrtle champing at her bit. As a
horse she had run amok and was supposed to be
kicking her stable down. My fence was the back
of it, and her long leg and big boot were through
the hole where she’d kicked the paling off.
I didn’t storm at her at all. She looked so big
and foolish and ashamed when she saw me look-
ing at her that I was glad to draw back and hear
her scooting away.
We left that neighborhood shortly after, and
Myrtle went out of our life.
Next time I saw her I was going down Nichol-
son-street in a tram. It was full, mostly of that
class of people whose faces suggest extensive and
varied experiences rather than good looks, good
health or enjoyment.
One poor woman especially I felt for. Fat
enough herself to make life barely sufferable, one
would think in that weather, she had a baby in
arms, and a still more troublesome child to look
after and her face had formed itself into
a settled illustration to Longfellow’s “O !
give me rest and peace!” Yet with it all
you could see she was the stamp of woman,
palpably, that would go on carting those kids
(and others), as long as she had breath, to as
many far-off journeys in trains and trams as she
had money for.
It was pitiful to see her look of latent envy
furtively cast at the natty young lady near the
door—the only “real lady” in the tram—at her
magnificent hat and the whole Collins-street get-
up of her.
Fresh, young, and springy this young one was,
and if any one thing was more noticeable than
another about her it was her daintiness.
A pleasure to turn from the others and contem-
plate her % Like a good report, it fattened the
bones. While I thought all this, the young lady’s
eye caught mine, and I thought she blushed a
little.
It was Myrtle ! And the last time I had seen
her she was a restive carthorse, with half a yard
of leg through a hole she’d just kicked in my fence
at Toronga.
VIC.
R.A.K.
“ Nulla ” : N'.S.W. poison-sale regulations
present some queer anomalies. T’other day came
across maimed cat and asked a chemist for a dose
of prussic acid. “ Daren’t sell it, ”he said ; and I
was forced to watch pussy gasp her life out in a
tub of water. Afterwards, when I mentioned the
matter to a friend, he said, “Prussic acid be
hanged! Why didn’t you get a pound or two of
potassium-cyanide from one of the mining men in
Clarence-street? It’s just as deadly and a lot
cheaper.”


Bolls, Pimples, Rashes-all eruptions of the
skin, cured by Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. A splendid
blood-purifier and strength-restorer. Read Mr. J.
Sinkinson’3 strong words in its praise. His photo-
graph is also given. :
J*
“I suffered for years from indigestion,
and a sort of heat lumps over my body.
The medicines recommended to me did no
good and I only wasted my money on them.
Being strongly advised to try
AYER’S
Sarsaparilla
I did so, and was agreeably surprised, as it
did for me all that is claimed for it. After
taking several bottles I was cured entirely
of my complaints. This is some years ago,
Dut I have continued to take two or three bottles every year, as Ayer s Sar
saparilla builds me up and enables me to carry on my duties.
J. SiNKiNSOit, Unley, S. A
Keep your blood in good condition, keep your digestion
strong, and keep your nervous system vigorous. Then
yon will not suffer from the weakening effects of hot
weather. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla was made for just these
purposes. It cools the blood, tones up the digestive appa-
ratus, puts force into the nervous system. And it fortifies
against hot weather, cold weather, or changeable weather..
It gives strength to ward off disease.
Don’t be deceived by trying some other Sarsapa* 5
rilla. Don’t experiment with imitations. Hold fast
to the tried and tested Sarsaparilla AYER’S, A
tonic for all seasons of the year.
Prepared by DR. J. C. AYER & CO., Dowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Ayer’s Pills area purely vegetable laxative for the whole family.
/
i
m
y-"v
v.
FREE TRIAL!
NOT A PENNY DOWN
Simply drop us a post card with y ?ur name
and we wilt a r mge to forward one of our
latest impr >?ed high grade El ECI nIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and com >lete ever invented.
It will cure al* cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lurnbag », Weak Bark, Kid-
ney, Liver, and St mach Complaints, Nervous-
-1 ess, and all Wea ness of Men and Women.
Ule will glue 1 ret riS
to us one copy r our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
men and women, if you are weak in any way
delay no longer, but write to-day for our
aplendid Book and Belt Free. Wr.te to-day.
The Dr* Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE. VIC.
Please mention this paper.
LIQTJOR HABIT
DRUG HABIT
HAVE YOU FAILED THROUGH
DRUNK
ENNESS
DON’T DESPAIR.
DR. LANGSTON’S VEGETABLE CURE.
A Home Cure which never fails.
It is safe, sure, absolutely certain, and
inexpensive. A few doses produce a won-
derful change. The craving for all
intoxicants will be destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for food will
return, refreshing sleep ensues. This cure
will surprise and delight you. May be
GIVEN SECRETLY.
Thousands of Cures ; here is one :
Ravensthorpe, W.A., 23-9 04.
Rave finished the half course, which has
effected a cure. 1 have no desire for drink,
in fact, have a repugnance to the very idea
of it. Yours faithfully,
Write for Treatise No. 5. Posted Free.
The Dr. Langston institute,
129 a COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
TOBACCO HABIT
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
RX CORD’S
ess^ cE ° f \\* **'
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord's Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St., Melbourne ; F. H. Faulding & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
OR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
£ H LORO D y NE
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS.
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c. bears on the
Government Stamp the name of
the Inventor
Pr. J. COLLIS BROWN€
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS cf
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
THE BALLET GIRL
f
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
ree, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913 , G.P.0., SYDNEY.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength,
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for tbs
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter ol
Ihow long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible, Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Addresß-A. U. HAST, 145 Collins St... Melbourne
A BOON TO THE BILIOUS.
Are you compelled to deny yourself many
wholesome foods because you think they make
you bilious ? Do you know that your condition
is more to blame than the food ?
Your liver and stomach need attention
more than the diet. When you find yourself
suffering from a bilious attack, take
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
and all annoying symptoms will soon disappear.
They settle the stomach, regulate the liver and
exercise the bowels. Tlieir good effects are felt
immediately.
Beecham’s Pills mingle with the
contents of the stomach, and make easy work
of digestion. The nourishing properties of the
food are then readily assimilated, and the
residue carried off without irritating the
intestines or clogging the bowels.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
should be taken whenever there is sick headache,
furred tongue, constipation sallow skin, or any
symptoms that indicate an inactive liver.
Sold Everywhere in Boxes.
Price 1/11 (56 Pills) and 2 9 (168 Pills).
THE LAST OF SIX
Price 6d.,
Post Free
o
GO
IBRIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES I
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Cough*,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GKIMATJLT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAB.
ETTES. Bold fry all Chemists.
TO
ƒ
INSTRUCTION FREE!!
You can become a Hypnotist in a few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
sway the minus of others, control friendship
and affection, cure disease and bad habits,
gratify your ambitions and produce amuse-
ment by the hour. My mammoth Illustrated
Lesson. <>r Key to Hypnotism which I send
free of charge and postage paid, will tell you
all about thi - marvelous science. It contains
be- utiful and artistic engravings, i'"'* _ ' u “
ydu just what Hypnotism is and
sa
it ami learn to Hypnotize. Itemember, this wonder-
ful book costs you noth lig. H you men-
tion this pap-r, I will also iliclude a large
package of other valuable, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance of a hiet.i...e.
W: ite to-day. Address—
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN, aa Pitt St., Sydney.
POLICY FOB THE
Price, 6d ; Posted, 8d
YOU OUGHT TO
WRITE at once for my new book (illus-
trated), “ Mens Sana in Corpora
Sano.” Valuable information PREL for
EVERY MAN. The following subjects are
dealt witk and thoroughly explained—Marriage,
False Modesty, Culpability of Parents, Blood
Poison, Loss of Vitality, Varicocele, General
Debility, Rupture, etc., etc. s
The book is written for sufferers to under-
stand, and points out the way to a permanent
cure. It tells you what you want to know,
and what you ought to know. Neurasthenia
and various other Nervous Disturbances arising
from neglected Varicocele are fully explained.
Posted FREE.
My Electro-Regenerator
(Patent Secured)
is the result of the Latest Scientific Achieve-
ments in Electro-Medical Therapeutics. It
builds up the Nervous System and sends a
Curative Wave of Electricity throughout the
entire organisation
WRITE TO-DAY.
SURGEON LANGSTON, M E "4: B
129
COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED \\e charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Dr. MARTIN
M.D.,
Gold Medallist, Formerly Medical Superintendent
and Visiting Surgeon to Four of Australasia’s
Leading Hospitals ; Government Medical Officer ;
Medical Officer in Charge of Troops, South
African War.
M. 8., C.M., L.R.C.P., E., L.R.0.3., E.,
L.F.P.S.G.
A Serious Question.
Where can I obtain relief ? After so many failures,
whom can I trust? Who is the most thoroughly
experienced and reliable physician and surgeon in
Australasia? ... ~ ...
The above qualifications, gained irom the World s
Most Famous Universities, should be an all-sufficient
answer to the question. Therefore, if you are ill, or
suspect the existence of some latent disease, why
not sit down quietly at home, and drop a few lines in
plain, simple language to Dr. Martin, describing as
thoroughly as possible the symptoms you experience.
He will, on receiving such an account, write you
plainly, telling you exactly what is the matter, and
the remedy to obtain to effect a thorough cure.
Always bear in mind : Dr. Martin has cured thousands
who have been duped and drugged by so-called
specialists by advice alone
AND WITHOUT CHARGING
A FEE.
Dr. Martin’s New Book, “ Diseases of Men and
Women ” 700 pages, 500 Prescriptions, 193 Illustra-
tions and Colored Plates. All Booksellers. FREE :
A 50-Page Specimen Copy, showing what the great
Book is like
SENT FREE TO ALL.
Remember, should you decide to correspond with
Dr. Martin, you will be writing to one who will prove
your friend. Be you rich or poor, do not hesitate to
write to the Doctor, who will give your case personal,
careful attention.
Address all Communications—
Dr. Martin,
ELMLEY HOUSE,
151 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
(Please mention this paper when writing.)


Your Garden
Wants a Hose.
That is, i'f it has n't got one
already. It ought to have
a Garden Hose if you want
good crops. You can’t better
the best. You’ll get it at . .
Perdriau Rubber Co.!£
270 George St., Sydney.
" Is superior even to meat and of
inestimable value as a food. ’
Virchow.
PLASMON
Dr. Robert Hutchison says:—
“ Adiet rich in pro teid MAKES PHYSICAL A
MENTAL ENERGY. To growing children a
deficiency of proteid is especially dangerous,"
V. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and f)usk,” a
collection of his best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait ; price, 4s. 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, 3s.
WORTHINGTON PUMP CO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
Catalogues free on
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
s
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
mark.
Co
IE
Abb
WOLF
J. & J. MAXFIELD, Proprs., SHEFFIELD
At the Showrooms—
EMPIRE CHAMBERS, 93 YORK-ST.,
SYDNEY
AISO At—
“TEEH BLOCK,"
Collins-St., MELBOURNE
Showrooms re-arranged with additional cases and entrance fitted with Electric Elevator.
TO YOU FREE! A Solid Silver Watch.
/
r l 'O introduce our Catalogue into as many liomes as
" possible, we have decided to give away 1000 Solid
Silver Watches to persons of either sex who send in the
correct solution of the following puzzle
OXR WXXCXXS AXE TXE BXXT.
The only condition is that, if your answer is correct,
you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains to
wear with the watch. We make this condition because
we want our Catalogue to get into the bawls of reputable
persons only. These watches are not toys, but Solid
Sliver, and Fully Guaranteed. Early application is neces-
sary. Forward your letter, and enclose a self-addressed
envelope and 2 penny stamps for reply, so that we may
inform you if-you have won the watch.
Address: Puzzle Competition,
ffsas
Wholesale &. Retail
Jewe.iers, Etc.,
A.F.
N.S. W.
HARDY’S
f fs
TINTARA
WINES. .
700 Prizes.
and Adelaide.
it
is no Better Pump
than
the .
‘KNOWLES.’”
Every Pump Guaranteed.
*<(TSBg\
KNOWLES’ PUMPS for every kind
of service kept in stock. Single and Duplex,
Vertical and Horizontal.
Bo Her Feed or Pressure Pumps, Double Acting
Plunger Pumps, Tank or Light Service Pumps,
Vertical Sinking Pumps, Air Pumps, Circulating
Pumps, etc -
PARKE & LACY CO. Ltd
60 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
NOTICE
Tosufferersfrom Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
Tho Old Rallablo English Ramadjf.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdestkk <fc Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
TBUMANSNURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
SOLD in two sizes, 9d. it is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstke <fe Tkuman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all 1
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDISTBY.
mm %
i
.
i
n
Sr!
Fred Metiers & Co.
RANGES
and STOVES
Manufacturers in N.S. Wales,
South Australia and West
Australia.
All influential storekeepers act as
our agents and stock our Stoves.
HEAD OFFICES :
558 George St., Sydney.
142 Rund/e St., Adelaide.
William St., Perth.
fś
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
r~ V fl ALL EYE TROUBLES.
t Y tO NEVER F-AIL.S.
Ask youp Chemist fop the Little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
R
NOVEL PRESENT.
A
P. 0.0.
or M. O. for 5/- we will
address i n Australia one
9ct. GOLD-FILLED
BROOCHES, with any
forward to any
of our HANDSOME
ROUND WIRE
Name or Three Initials, Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross
Pendant, guaranteed the same quality as brooch ; and
without pendant, 3/6. In 15ct. G.F Twisted Wire,
86 : without Pendant, 6/6. Illustrated Catalogues
sent Free. All letters carefully addressed to R. SIMS, Cold
Wire King, Cole’s Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vio.
vcfs fś
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
'a allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
Honey in fall refunded w ithout question
If not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
cycles, warranted sir years.
model's £2.10 to £6
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or Clincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Him
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
Packed and Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee safe
delivery.
QfM Second-Hand Cycles
fflf*'* **■«>
Great factory clearance sale at half factory price*.
s nun I C taking orders from sample
, H OTULE machine. Active Agents
wan'ed in each district. Large profits easily made. Write at once for
free catalogues and our special offer, üßing sufficient postage.
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, &c.. half price*.
IYJEAD CYCLE CO. Dept. **39
LIVERPOOL. LONDON AND CHICAGO.
h “A truly delightful Thirst Quencher.” •
The Lancet writes :—“ Lime Juice is, particularly during 1 the
summer, a far more wholesome drink than any form of alcohol.”
0!
B LIME JUICE CORDIAL
‘‘ Montserrat ” is obtained solely irom the celebrated
Lime Juice Plantations in the Island of Montserrat.
To obtain the genuine, specify “MONTSERRAT.”
OF ALL STOREB AND CHEMISTS.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
SYDKTKY,
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
o™ a C ° nBl * nmenta of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL
SMNS are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered
promptly, ■
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers tor free storage of
theur grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
