

ATS J C£
«JT\#
SIXTY YEARS’
REPUTATION.
"WHISKY.
107 Kent
Sydney,
Street,
-HTOB—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery,
Mining
Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS AMD GENERAL IRONMONGERY
NSW AND
SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
HOBART.
»
PIONEER
3
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydflej
Ruston, Proctor
and Co.’s
PORTABLESTEAM ENGINES
Are Fitted with the
Mowing Improvements:
Engine Parts mounted on Machined Steel Seatings riveted on the boiler,
cr priming. Patent Steam Stay preventing vibration and * ,*‘l o r runn jna P
expansion eccentric for economising steam and reversing the di action of running.
For Particulars
Apply to
SOLE AGENTS—
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 7 Bent St., Sydney h-s.w.
df
back
it
have
must
s
TON
PincApplc Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBBS
STRONG ROOM
DOORS
TlaticnaL
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital - * - £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New Bouth Wales Branch:
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society). w A Ginn. Htonager.
Active Age ts and Canvassers Wanted.
qM ,
u
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR M C INTYRE BROS
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS!
n 5
$
m
es
£3
*?•
gd
fg
1
l:
dfg
ASK
FOR
STANDARD
tJssrß.iVAi-i-x.Eri in quality
PALE ALE
'fflpEr I3XT BOTTLER
,
tevPH 1
f-jas
Fall
6*
FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makebs — SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
Also largest makers in Australia of Refrigerating and Ice-Making Machinery.
HELI DON SPA.
Absolutely the BEST TABLE WATER.
GtOLXjXJNT & CO., ikgezxts.
The Bulletin
Vo). 27'.-—No. 1383.]
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
[Thursday, August 16, 1906.


RATTLING GOOD STORIES^
In handsome cloth, each b_>ok 4s , post free. The eight post free for 30s
Going- from start to finish. The
pick of hundreds issued recently,
anywhere in Australasia.
LiHiehridge, Ben Blair, The Story of a
Plainsman.
r/!ichels :n, A Veil aw Journalist.
Daniel Graham Phillips, The Deluge.
Lynde, The Quickening.
Nicholson, The House of 1000 Candles.
Merwin, The Road Builders.
Oppenheim, Mr. Wingrave, Millionaire.
MacGrath, The Man on the Box.
It may happen that sonie of these novels have already been seen by Bklletix Readers ; in
which case/if eight aje sent for, we inay be relied upon to substitute a late novel just as tine.
GEORGE ROBERTSON £ £O. PROPRIETARY LTD,, 71 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
cy cy ex cy cy ,
PS
m,
the Great
O r
yvTSTiSEPTic Remedy
*<j p
jfll for Influenza , Bronchitis, Asthma,s&li affections o
§ the throat & lungs,& for prevention of Consump.
df
• nld in Tins 1/6, or Post Free on receipt of stamps from the Sole Manufacturer, C. HUDSON* Chemist,lpswich,
nueensland SYDNEY DEPOT —fi and 7 Queen’s Place. Agencies in all the Australian States & New Zealand.
W ' LONDON AO ENT—\V. F. Pasmore, Chemist, 320 Regent Street W
THE RED PAGE.
JOHANNES BRAHMS
t j YDNEY musicians recently have been
devoting attention to the work of
Brahms, and during last month several
-of his compositions have been given in
public. Those interested, and music-lovers
generally, will appreciate the newly-issued
Life of Brahms, by Florence May (Lend.,
Arnold ; 21s. net). Miss May is a competent
musician who was a pupil of Brahms on the
piano, and her labour is of love. She writes as
friend rather than as critic ; but many criti-
cal passages occur in the work, which gives a
complete account of the musical life of
Brahms. The author lias spared no pains to
reach accuracy in detail, and her volumes
may be accepted as an authoritative record
of fact.' The appendices include a clear ex-
planation of Brahms’ method and a chrono-
logical list of compositions, and there are
several good portraits and illustrations.
J*
Johannes Brahms was born at Hamburg
7th May, 1833. He died at Vienna 3rd
April, 1897. His parents came from Saxony;
their name is equivalent to Eng. broom, or
to “ bram” in bramble. Their condition was
humble, and Brahms was brought up in
poverty. Early hardship confirmed a shy,
solitary, brooding disposition. In later
years of success he gained a reputation
for roughness and arrogance—an autocratic
old bachelor. Yet lie was essentially
kindly, however impatient of contradiction.
Apparently his temperament was too cold for
marriage : he was not warmly attracted by
women, though he liked to philander ;
but partly his celibacy was due to devotion
to his art. He had made up his mind that,
to succeed as a musician, he must contract
no social responsibilities.
A penetrating young Jewess gives this
account of Brahms at the age of 20 :
He sat down opposite me, this young hero of
the day, this young messiah of Schumann's, fair,
delicate-looking, who at twenty has clearly-cut
features free from all passion. Purity, innocence,
naturalness, power, and depth—this indicates his
being....He is generally extremely quiet and
dreamy. ... And with all this independent strength,
a thin boy’s voice that has not yet changed ! and
a child's countenance that any gill might kiss
without blushing....
The reference to Schumann applies to S’s
rhapsodical article in the Neue Zeitschrift fur
Musik in 1853, when he praised the un-
known lad as the musical genius Germany
was awaiting. Schumann wrote :
I have thought, watching the path of those
chosen ones with the gieatest sympathy; that
after such a preparation someone must and would
suddenly appear, destined to give ideal present-
ment to the highest expression of the time, who
would bring us his mastership, not in process of
development, but would spring forth like Minerva
fully armed from the head of Jove. And lie is
come, a young blood by whose cradle graces and
heroes kept watch. He is called Johaunes
Brahms.
Despite Schumann’s authority, this an-
nouncement was received by the German
musical world wibli doubt and derision.
Brahms at that time was scarcely known as
a composer : his greatness lay all in the
future. Sehumaiiu imposed on him the
hard task of justifying premature praise, and
he succeeded ; thou'gn even to-day his place
and value in music are debated.
Miss May gives 'an interesting account of
Brahms as pianist and teacher. It was his
habit to rise very early, and to do most of
his day s work before eleven. He was
ciiaraoteristically German in his devotion to
conee and tobacco. He was a little man—in
youth linn and frail, in age corpulent : a
blonde Saxon with fair, straight hair, worn
-long. “ His most stiiicing physical charac-
teristic was the grand head with its
magnificent intellectual forehead, but the
blue eyes were also remarkable from their
expression of intense mental concentration.”
A great walker, ho had a passionate love of
nature. ‘‘ How can I most quickly improve ?”
his pupil asked him. “ You must walk con-
stantly in the forest,” replied Brahms ; 'and
he meant iiis prescription literally. Methodi-
cally he sought inspiration in nature and in
books : he was an ardent reader of poetry
and German fiction, simple or mystic.
Brahms had certainly formed the clearest con-
ception nut only of Jhis purpose in life, but of the
means by which, he felt lie could best pursue and
achieve it, and. from first to last lie inflexibly
adhered to the conclusions lie liad come to on.
these points, if his aim was to give the most
complete possible expression in ins musical crea-
tions to tnt: very best that was in him,-Ins method,
while it satisfied an inner craving of his being, was
yet, as i believe, deliberately adopted ; and it was
to lay himself open to every kind of influence
which could healthily foster the ideal side of his
nature, and more or less completely to eschew all
others.
It would be ridiculous, at the present time, to
the completeness of his technical
musical equipment, to dilate on his easy grasp of
all the resources;of counterpoint, on his mastery
of form, of harmonic and rhythmic combinations,
and the like. These things are matter of course.
But Brahms knew that not alone his intellect, but
hjs mind and Spirit anil fancy, must be constantly
fi'urtured.if fliey were to bring forth the highest
of which they were capable ; and be so arranged
his life that they should be fed ever -and always
by poetry and literature atld art, by solitary
musing, by participation in so much of life as
seemed to him to be real and true, ami above all
and in the highest degree, by the.companionship
of Nature.
J*
As teacher of the piano, Miss May says
Brahms was absolutely ideal.
He not only showed me how to practise : he
made me, at first, practise to him during a good
part of my lessons, whilst lie sat watching my
fingers ; telling me what was wrong in my way of
moving them, indicating, by a movement of his
his own hand, a better position for mine, absorbing
himself entirely, for the time being, in the object
of helping me. . . ;
may seem incredible, but it is none the less
true, that after a very' few weeks of work with
him the appearance of my hands had completely
changed.
As pianist, Brahms needed particularly to
be en rapport with his audience ; and the
effect of his playing was always*subject to
his own mood. Some days he played bril-
liantly ; other days he “could not play at
all.’'
It was not the playing of a virtuoso, though he
had a large amount of virtuosity (to put it moder-
ately) at his command. He never aimed at mere
effect, but seemed to plunge into the inner-
most meaning of whatever music he happened to
be interpreting, exhibiting all its details and
expressing its very depths.
“ There is in Brahms’ playing,” said the
violinist Itemenyi, “ that concentrated fire,
what I may call the fatalistic energy and
precision of rhythm, which prophesy the
artist...”
But Brahms, according to Miss May, was
essentially composer.
The mistress of his absorbing passion was from
first to last his creative art, to which all else
remained secondary. He never swerved by a
hair’s-breadth from his devotion, but accepted
poverty, disappointment, loneliness, and failure
in the eyes of tne world, with all the strong faith
that was in him, for the sake of this, his true
love. He was never drawn by inclination to his
virtuoso career, to which he submitted only as a
necessity, discarding it as soon as circumstances
allowed
And of Joachim :
Whatever Joachim’s natural creative faculty
may have been, his boundless success as an inter-
preter was fatal to its development... Joachim fol-
lowed his destiny. His career is unparalleled in
the history of musical executive art. It began
when he was eight; it is not closed now that he
is seventy-four. All possibility of his achieving
greatness as a composer—notwithstanding that he
has produced one or two great works—was ex-
cluded by the time he had reached the age of
fourteen.
Creatively, according to Miss May,
Johannes Brahms is the lineal successor of
Bach, and descends from Haydn, Mozart,
and Beethoven, from Schubert, Mendels-
sohn, and Schumann. With tlie methods of
Berlioz arid Wagner his have no affinity.
His existence as an artist was staked on the
vitality of Absolute music. Berlioz con-
ceived the development of music as an illus-
tration, an exposition, of something apart
from music—a poem, a scene, a picture, a
series of emotions. Wagner strove to com-
bine music, with poetry and action in a new
art of drama. But Brahms remained wedded
to pure musical ideas —“ideas, that is to
say, which act upon the nerves, emotions,
intellect of the listener, directly through the
sense of sound, and are not dependent for
their effect upon intermediate mental trans-
lation into images perceptible to the mind’s
eye, the vision of imagination.”
This does not mean that a composer of pure
music never is and never may be pictorial; but
the cases in which he is so are, as it were, acoi- .
dental, and the- pictorial element in a given work
is not of the essence of his art, but is something
added to it—something, moreover, which does
not affect the value of the composition as. a
work of art. A composer of Absolute music may
indeed, and often does, stimulate his''imagination
by recalling a poem, a legend, a scene of nature
or life ; and either of these may leave a more or
less definite impress on his music; whilst a title
or a motto placed above a short pianoforte piece,
au orchestral overture, or, in very few cases, a.
symphony, may sometimes stimulate the hearer’s
appreciation ; but the music is not in such a case
to fie taken as meaning ” this or that in detail.
The composer aims at making his movement a
work of art complete in itself, and relies for his
effects upon his musical thoughts And their treat-
ment as such, though lie.may be willing to let his
hearers know that his fancy was encouraged by
extraneous aid.
Tiie listener may, on the other hand, jf it assist
his enjoyment, attach his own “ meaning” to what
lie hears, but lie must understand that this is rela-
tive to himself only. No one can assure him that
his “ meaning” is right or wrong. The music as
such should stand high above such interpretations,
and, if it is to fulfil its supreme destiny, must
speak directly to the soul in its own infinite lan-
guage of sound, infinite just because it is capable
of transcending the defined objects of sight.
Here a difficult subject is treated lucidly.
One may infer then, that the Pure Music of
Brahms is designed as a sound-pattern analo-
gous to the colour-pattern which we have
learned to dissociate from a picture. But it
is clear from other passages that Brahms
paid no less attention to the subjective con-
tent of Ins music than to the objective form :
it may be argued that he united the school of
Schumann with the school of Mendelssohn.
But always he sought expression in terms of
sheer music—limnixed with baser matter or
other The process is intelligible and the
method just. So we reach a conception of
each art attaining in its own way a common
goal of emotion.
THE WALLUN.
IT is bv the road of excess',’’ said William
Blake, “that we enter the palace of
wisdom ’’—or words to that effect. On
this balmy August afternoon it do&s not
seem to matter if quotation is inexact, -Flake
said other things too. He said the afternoon
is so bland and blue-eyed that they do not seem
to matter either. Possibly Mr. Swinburne will
remember when he comes to make his division of
respectable English reason and imagination from
furious Celtic fever and fancy. It is the finer art
of life to have other people remember things for
you, and yourself to keep on forgetting.. keep on
forgetting...
But wallow. Possibly once a month is medicinal.
We have just emerged. Quite unpbilosophically,
it appears; and actuated merely by a desire to do
business in the common shop-keeping way, Our
Respected Advertiser ( vide m/m)-sent round what
seemed to be a couple, of dozen American novels.
When the package was opened several of the
novels began to sing out that they were not
“ recent ” according to the circulating-library
standard, which decides that yesterday’s book is
decidedly not to-day’s, and that last month’s may
as well be last century’s when the ladies, with
eager eyes and unlimited time, come flocking.
Not applying the circulating-library standard
too rigorously, we have picked from the wallow
eight books, which have each something vital to
recommend them, and winch accordingly are
passed on for enchantment ofthe baekblaeks. For
the competition-flction-wallow there is nothing
like a good detective story ; but good detective
stories are rara nantes in the vast whirlpool of
printed paper. Next best and kindred are good
sensational stories—stories of realistic adventure
that read with a rattle and shut with a bang.
America does provide these occasionally ; and
America has developed lately a specialty which
shows how American pluck overcomes industrial
obstacles, with or without sentimental help.
Merwin’s The Road-Builders is that kind of book
—a book which realises industry in literature, and
yields at second-hand the thrilling excitement of
battle.- It tells how an American railroad was
built to beat competition, under what difficulties,
with what ingenious devices, amid what contend-
ing forces of capital. It holds the American
spirit, ambitious, enterprising, persistent, yet
good-natured in the middle battle, and valuing
the battle rather than victory : a book stimulat-
ing, encouraging, and absorbing.
A Yellow Journalist, hy Miriam Michelson, is
another yarn of struggle in the field of Pulitzer
and Hearst, where “ beats ” are all important,
and an Australian daily would be the laughing-
stock of Newspaper How. Miss Michelson is one
of the most energetic writers now in the field.
She .pulses vitality, and her speed in the multi-
plication of breathless incidents is scarcely sur-
passed by Arthur Trait). Her ethics for the
purposes of the story are those of her craft in her
environment, and appal; but there is no doubt
of her power to convey excitement, which is the
other thing needful for the wallow’s purpose.
Mr. Wjngrare , Millionaire , is by E. P. Oppen-
heitn, who has a talent and an audience of his
own. Sometimes his facts are too flat and his
sentiment too flaccid to be bothered with; but
generally speaking he is a little below Richard
Marsh, and a little above Max Pemberton. In
the new story he translates Monte Cristo to
London society—with another revenge to work out,
other millions to spend, and another hard heart
to be softened by the divine lubricant of woman.
He begins better than he- ends, but his ending is
set for him by conventional taste : a Hero must
Hug.
The House of a Thmsrmd Candles, by Mere"
Nicholson, owes partly to its title and its .
pre-eminence as one of the “ best-selling books, ’
and the interest is fainter than in some of the
others upon our little list. Still, it has an interest
of curiosity about buried treasure and under-
ground passages, and about the way in which these
are handled or footled ; and one may wallow with
it sedately.
Ben Blair is touched with the melodramatic;
and since it is not comic the epithet conveys in-
feriority, for comic melodrama, like E. W.
O’Sullivan’s, is a high and grateful form of art.
And in its melodrama there is an odour of falsity,
a touch of artificiality, a suspicion of fake : which
is a word that Bm Blair suggests as a contraction
oifactorti, the devil of the machine, as compared
with honest hand-made, man-made: though
A. C. Haddon doubtinglv links it with fetish,
from Portuguese feitico, Lat. faetitius. Bey Blair
is a trifle factitious, made for the market ; though
the fibre of the material is sound enough—Dakota
plains, an indomitable cowboy, an effete cityman,
and a wavering girl. There is so much material,
well used, that the story comes in the first class
of factory products : one gains inspiration from
its manhood, though the man wears a buskin.
Then The Delude, by l). G. Phillips.- In most
ways, this is the best of Phillips's books : it has
the best shape, the strongest personality : it is
independent of Norris, and in aphoristic ways
suggestive of Lorimer. A quick sketch of that
Amor, high finance which is so low, with an
original picture of an imaginary controller break-
ing the ring of magnates. Love and Wall-street
anew. In a sensational book-buyer’s eye there
is n’ t enough of it for the money : you run through
quickly. But every page counts, and so can be
read twice over.
The Man on the Box , by Harold MacGrath, is a
last year’s book ; but it remains one of the best of
the new Araer. novels—with just enough excite-
ment to season it, just enough love to sauce it,
and a basis of gaiety throughout.
J*
Here then, in response to a demand for “fiction
that will please a tired man on Sunday, or
brighten a woman’s monotonous task,” is a choice
of books that “ once you start you can’t stop.”
MEMORANDA
Literary Eccentrics , by John Fyvie (Lond.,
Constable ; 12s.- (id. net), is written agreeably
It tabes the old accounts of fantastic figures like
Beokford and Thomas Pay—the latter almost for-
gotten ; but, oticp known, unforgettable—and
reduces them to chapters in a history' of Eleven.
The others are Thos. Aniory, Landor, Hazlitt,
Crabb Robinson, Chas. Babbage, Jerrold, George
Wither, Mandeville, and James I—a quaint
tribe. Necessarily Mr. Fy vie omits much, but he
tells much that is diverting to read, and preserves
a good deal of the savour of his subjects. His
own attitude is non-committal; his book would
have been better if a dash of sympathetic enthu-
siasm had replaced his tone of mild superiority.
Hazlitt’s “Well, I’ve had a happy life” is perfectly
intelligible, and Mr. Fyvie. shows his limitations
when he adds that “A perusal of his biography
does not altogether give that impression.” For,
you see, it is Hazlitt’s notion of happiness that is
in question ; not Fyvie’s. Occasionally the com-
mentator’s information is deficient, as, for example,
in his doubtful reference to Rogers’s publish-
ing enterprises, which repaid him surprisingly
well. Sometimes his phrase is inexact: "he had
built for himself, like Coleridge’s Kubla Khan, a
succession of lordly pleasure-houses.” The book
will please elderly lawyers and literary doctors,
and. will provide moral lessons for an earnest
clergy. The publishers have helped it with a
cunning form and portraits well printed, and the
title is fortunate.
Big sales in American fiction will presently
mean reduced prices for readers. The Idol. 50c.
American book is sold in Australia for 3s. 6d.,
sometimes with the omission of a gilt top, some-
times precisely similar. And not all of the
books are surplus stock, to be explained on the
dumping theory. The Mayhew Publishing Co.,
having acquired a new book by C. F. Pidgin
(author of Quincy Adams Sawyer, which sold nearly
500,000 copies), is reducing the price to 50c. for
the same class of book, in anticipation or in hope
of another half-million sale.
Dr. Roth issues his last report as Q. Protector
of Aborigines, thus completing ten years’ valuable
labour. Q. Govt, will continue to issue his ethno-
graphical bulletins.
Frederick Wedmore, for nearly thirty years art
critic of Lond. Standard, collects in Whistler and
Others (Lond., Pitman ; Gs. net) impressions and
judgments of two-score artists and more. The
essay on Whistler occupies some thirty pages:
the remainder of the book prints or reprints
gleanings from the whole field of art. Wedmore
is an independent critic,'careful in style, measured
in phrase, and his opinions are worth pondering.
In nearly every case they leave a great deal to be
be said : many of the articles are sketches merely.
Yet we do not find one in which there is not
something said that was worth saying—not one
which does not make some addition, whether
little or less, to the fund of artistic thought.
Of Whistler, Wedmore is whole-hearted
admirer. He asks what reasons prompted W.
to the exercise of mediums so numerous, and
to the acquisition of the various technical skill
those mediums demanded; and he finds two
reasons: one Whistler’s extraordinarily deep
artistic sense of the appropriate % -Jhe other, his
enjoyment of change.
It was not for nothing that his emblem was the butter-
fly. The “ soul of things,” if you like ; but at least asoul
inconstant, transitory; flitting here, flitting there ; and
so alive.
In the preface, Wedmore talks scandal of his
English audience, and this fragment is an example
of his thoughtful writing-;
It would v-~ a satisfaction to suppose that as Time
, ortunities increased, there was amongst
English public some appreciable progress in
uFtSful perception and in sincere and personal enjoy-
ment of the things of Art. Honestly, I cannot a’“r that
this satisfaction is mine. There is something in our race
that makes it a difficulty to extract either from the
admitted bourgeois or the “ cultivated ” person vtho ha-
rushed to Siena or the Lombard plains, any judgment
upon Art comparable irf sagacity or clearness with that
of the first artisan you may collar in the first French
provincial Museum.
Little can those of us to whom Art is a part of Being
welcome the parrot-like repetition of admiration scholas-
tically gained for some performance whose appeal may be
of History or Antiquity, hut is not of Beamy at A-
Enjoyment, were it genuine, would be displayed much
oftener in face of the Art that records something of the
full and varied Life we know. It would be given ill more
generous measure to the fresh and individual vision oi
the common land and every-day skies, of country and of
town, of hill and Coast—to the pourtrayal, with the
resources of the newer technique, of the characters, the
charms, the pleasant faults even, of the people who move
us to-day.
But I do not .discern in- average English folk any
encouraging growth of sensitiveness to the vision of
these things. Have they their eyes on the real object?
Have they their fingers—l sometimes ask myself—on the
real pulse ?
This is the demaud of the Superior Person, yet
even the demand of-the Superior Person should
be met occasionally.
N. Y. Bookmm refers to a remarkable book
on “The Unity of Origin of Language,"
written by Troinbetti —an Italian student and
almost universal linguist', who comes to the con-
clusion that “The languages of Europe, Asa.
Africa and Oceania are related and haveayeom-
mon origin. Moreover, since I have recognised
evident connections between the different Ameri-
can languages which I have been able to study up
to now, and since these same languages offer
distant relations with those of Eastern Asia, I d»
not believe that I can hesitate to proclaim that
there is one unique origin of all languages.’ In
the Oceanic tongues of Australia and Polynesia
Trombetti finds relation with the Semitic
tongues. “Thus, all the languages of the so-
called Ancient World form two groups, the Euro
pe;m-Asia-Oceanic group and the African group:
and these, as said above, are not. irreducible-
The link between them is to be found, according
to Trombetti, in the Caucasian and the 'Biscayan
dialects.”
A.C.S.


RABBIT SKINS
Also KANGAROO, WALLABY,
OPOSSUM, &c.
Consign to :
MICK SIMMONS. The Sydney Sports Depot.
FOOTBALLS.
RUGBY OR ASSOCIATION.
O\O L 3O/y
p.OYAU v
007
y-j
,$Am
m
m
WU
mi
IS WmmmM
miw
)
W*
All Balls Fitted with best quality imported Red Rubber Bladders.
Postage on Men’s Football—N.S.W., 6d ; Inter-State, Bd.
No. I—Nicholson’s “Royal" Match 11., Hand-sewn 9s 6d
No. 2—Nicholson's “Royal Special” (Rugby only) 11s 6d
No. 3—Nicholson’s “Royal” Match II 7s 6d
No. 3 is an exceptionally strong, useful Ball, not so good as the hand-sewn, but suitable for practice.
The “ Nicholson ” Royal Special Match Ball is guaranteed the best value on the market, made from Selected
Crome Leather, Hand-sewn, in accordance with the N.S.W. Rugby Union’s specifications, and fitted with
best quality Imported Red Rubber Bladders.
GILBERT’S Best Match 11., Hand-sewn 12s 6d
BRYAN’S “Grasshopper” Match 11., Hand-sewn 13s 6d
“ A.N.A.” Special Match 11., Rugby only 14s 6d
SYKES’ Match 11., Special Value 7s 6d
“ALBION ’’ Match 11., Association only, Buttonless 11s 6d
“RIVAL” Match 11., Association only, Buttonless lOs Od
“DIADEM” Match 11., Association only, Buttonless 13s 6d
A Splendid Ball—will always keep its shape.
“LEAGUE” Match 11., Association only, Buttonless 15s Od
BOYS’ SPECIAL VALUE.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Limited, Wool and Produce Salesmen, SYDNEY.
RUGBY each.
Solid Hide, No. 1 (Postage 4d.) 2s 3d
Solid Hide, No. 2 (Postage 4d.) 2s 9d
Solid Hide, No. 3 (Postage 5d.) .. .. .. 3s 6d
Solid Hide, No. 4 (Postage 6d.) 4s 3d
Solid Hide, Match 11. (Postage 6d.) .. .. 5s Od
ASSOCIATION each.
Solid Hide, No. 1 (Postage 4d.) 2s 6d
Solid Hide, No. 2 (Postage 4d.) .. .. .. 3s 3d
Solid Hide, No. 3 (Postage 5d.) 3s 9d
Solid Hide, No. 4 (Postage 6d.) 4s 6d
Solid Hide, Match 111. (Postage 6d.) .. .. 5s Od
BOYS’ RUGBY, Extra. Special Value (Postage 3d).
No. 1, Is 9d each. No. 2,2 s 3d each. No. 3,2 s 9d each.
Football Bladders (imngrted)—Red Rubber (Rugby or Association)
No. 1 (Postage 2d.)
No. 2 (Postage 2d.)
N«* 3 (Postage 3d.)
Each.
.. Is lOd
.. 2s 3d, 3s 3d
.. 2s 9d, 3s 3d
4 (Postage 3dj).
5 (Postage 3d.).
6 (Postage 3d.),
We can Supply COLONIAL Bladders at Cheaper Prices if required.
SHIN GUARDS.
Stout Twill, with tapes (Postage 3d.) .. ..
Stout Twill, straps and buckles (Postage 3d.)
Basil, leather straps and buckles (Postage 3d.)
Brown Basil, extra large, continuous leather straps (Postage 3d.)
Gold Cape, straps and buckles (Postage 3d.)
Cape Leather, Shin and Ankle Pads, leather straps (Postage 4d.)
Best Quality Gold Cape, extra padded, continuous straps, with or without Ankle
Pads (Postage 4d.) .. .. .. ..
Same as above, larger size (Postage 4d.)
Is Od pair
Is 3d pair
Is 6d pair
2s Od pair
2s 9d pair
3s Od pair
4s Od pair
5s Od pair
FOOTBALL BOOTS.
Postage on pair, N.S.W., Is; Inter-State, Is Bd.
Best Quality English-made Hide Boot, blocked toe-cap, very light, a
splendid boot for Rugby 10s 6d
Extra Quality English-made Buck Skin Boot (white), blocked toe and
ankle pads, guard over instep, very special quality, per pair .. 14s 6d
Best Quality English-made Hide Boots, blocked toe-caps, with and
without ankle pads, per pair .. .. .. 11s 6d, 12s 6d, 13s 6d
FOOTBALL SUNDRIES.
UMPIRE’S WHISTLES, 9d, Is, Is 6d each.
LACING AWLS (Post. 2d), 6d each.
LEATHER BOOT STUDS, 6d packet.
STOUT WEB BELTS, Double Straps and Pocket (Post. 2d),
Is 3d, 2s 6d each.
N.S.W. RUGBY ANNUAL (Post. 2d), 6d.
BOOK ON FOOTBALL (Post. 2d), 6d each.
EAR CAPS, Duck, open top (Post. 2d), 3s each.
EAR CAPS, Chamois, netted top (Post. 2d), 3s 9d.
EAR CAPS, Gold Cape, netted top (Post. 2d), 5s each.
■
..-V}
Brass Inflators.
BRASS INFLATORS (Postage—Small, 6d ; Large, 9d) ..
gd
The “Bullseye” Rifle f 22 Calibre,
20in. Octagon Steel Barrel, rifled, Remington action, walnut
stock, open sights, weight about 3flb
Postage—ls 9d JST.S.W. ;3s 2d Inter-State).
7s
fg
Mick
Simmons
Marlin Repeating: Rifle.
1892 Model, 24in. octagon barrel, 22 Calibre, Rim Fire (magazine takes 25 short,
20 long, or 18 long Rifle Cartridges), weight sjlb.
£3
897 Model, 24in. octagon barrel, 22 Calibre, take-down action, case-bardened receivers, fitted with
sliding rear sights, weight s Jib. (Postage—N.S.W., 2s 3d ; Inter-State, 4s 2d) .. .. .. ..
£4
Stevens’
"Little Krag. 1
df
Stevens’ B.S. “ Little Kragr,” 22 Calibre, bolt action, blued steel round
barrel, 20in. long, walnut stock, steel scroll trigger guard, peep
sight, with V sight if required, 6d extra ; length over all 36in.,
weight about 3Jlb. (Postage, Is 6d N.S.W. ; 2s 8d Inter-State)..
21s
The Celebrated
MAINE’
RIFLE
fitted with Sporting 1 Bear Sights to 300yds., Bolt
Action, ISin. Blued Steel Barrel, Walnut Stock.
Shoots 22 Short, Long, or Extra Long Cartridges.
Weight, 2flb.
gdf
aula
„ 3NIVUI3HI"
g
■jjedtf own 6u* troyS*
dfg
PRICE
POSTAGE ON RIFLE —N.S.W.,
STATE, 2/2 EXTRA.
15/6
1/3; INTER-
MICK SIMMONS.
df
WINCHESTER THUMB TRIGGER RIFLE.
22 cal., 20in. Blued Steel Barrel, bolt action, weight about 2|lb
Postage : N.S.W., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d
13s
Winchester S.S. Rifle, 1902 Model, 22 Cal., R.P., peep or V
sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2flb.
Postage: N.S.W., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d
18s Od
S V Rifle > New Model > 22 Calibre, R.F., 20in. barrel, weight 3Jlb.
N.S.W., Is Od ; Interstate, 2s 8d .. . .
Postage—
16s Od
Winchester
1904
Model.
gd
21in. heavy
adjustable ri
sight with
tarnish, we
N.S.W. ; 3s
“Winchester” Single Shot Rifle, 1904
Model, for 22’ short or long rim fire cartridges,
round steel barrel, plain trigger, bolt action,
ear sight, length of rifle over all 37Jin., bead front
patent alloyed tip, which will not
light about 41b. (Postage, Is 9d
2d Inter-State).
24s
r d,
mh
Vs
Stevens’ 11 Favorite.”
Stevens’ S.S. “Favorite,” 22, 22 W.R.F., 25, or 32 cal., rim
fire, half octagon 22in. barrel, case-hardened frame, solid breech block,
under lever action, open front and rear sights, weight 4Jlb. (Postage, Is 9d N.S.W.;
3s 2d Inter-State)
£1 10s
Stevens’ S.S. “ Favorite,” 22 or 32 cal. E.F., fitted with beach combination, front sight, open
rear and vernier, else same description as above (Post., N.S. W. Is 9d ; Inter-State, 3s 2d
£2
Lest on
Daly
Coy.
D.8.8.L,
Gun
gd
MICK SIMMONS
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.B.B.L. GUN, 12 gauge, top lever, steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding locks, left choke, pistol stock, weight about 71b. Postage—N.S.W., 2s 9d;
Inter-State, 6s 2d
35s
LESTON, DALY CO.
Postage—N. S. W.,
,'S D.B.B.L. GUN, same as above, but with Greener Cross Bolt
2s 9d ; Inter-State, 5s 2d
45s
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.B.B.L. GUN, 12 gauge, top lever, steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding bar locks, left choke, weight about 71b
Postage—N.S.W., 2s 9d ; Inter-State, 5s 2d
40s
LESTON, DALY CO.
Postage—N.S. W.,
’S D.B.B. L. GUN, same as above, but with Greener Cross Bolt.
2s 9d ; Inter-State, 5s 2d
50s
MICK
SIMMONS
g
THE GLOBE
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 or 16 Gauge, top lever, twist barrels, extension rib, rebounding- locks,left choke, patent
D. &E. fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. Postage, N.S.W., 2/9 ; Inter-State, 5/2.
40s
ISAAC
HOLLIS
& SONS’
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Beal Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt,
Left Choke, Rebounding Locks, Snap Fore-end,
chambered for 2fin. Cartridges. Guaranteed
for all Smokeless Powders.
Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
sdf
“The Reliable,
£6 12s 6d
PRICE
gs
Mick Simmons
HOLLIS & SONS’ “THE RELIABLE” D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
GUN, 12-gauge, top lever, genuine Damascus or “ Siemen’s ” steel barrels,
both choice, side lock action, automatic safety bolt, extended rib,
Deeley-Edge patent fore-end, fitted with Greener cross-bolt, neatly engraved,
2Jin. cartridges. GUARANTEED FOR ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, and
finest-quality Gun in the States. Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
chambered for
absolutely the
£l2 12s
Illustrated Fishing: Tackle, Sports, Tobacco Lists, Anglers’ Guide and Hints on Fishing—Post Free.
REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.


Towns’ Great Victory.
A TRIUMPH for The FREEMAN and WALLACE
Electro-Medical Curative Treatment.
GEORGE TOWNS, Champion Sculler of the World.
WE publish here the testimony and photograph of GEORGE
TOWNS, the great Champion Sculler of the World, who,
from a small beginning, by dauntless effort and determination,
attained the fame he holds to-day. The world rings with his praise,
but what would his position be were it not for the splendid health
he possesses? Without health a man’s effort is nullified.
It is only recently that Towns profited by the advice tendered him,
when in a doubtful state of health, run down by arduous training, fatigued
by the great sculling tasks imposed upon him. Having a knowledge of
the wonderful skill of the FREEMAN and WALLACE MEDICAL
SPECIALISTS, he visited them, and took a course of their Electro-
Medical Treatment, and in a few weeks felt a new man in health and
strength. Here is his testimony, added to many others given by brilliant
exponents of the athletic art who have passed through the hands of the
FREEMAN AND WALLACE SPECIALISTS.
Dear Sirs,—
/ have from time to time noticed
that you have successfully treated
many athletes in the athletic world,
and have often heard your Electro-
Medical methods of treatment eulo-
gised by men of note as being most
effective. Having need of medical ad-
vice, I, upon recommendation, under-
went a course of your Electro-Medical
treatment. / soon felt better and
strong, and perfectly confident that /
could stand any strain hard and con-
tinuous training might impose. / used
your Medical Battery. It is the Best
Electrical Appliance / have used.
(Signed) GEORGE TOWNS.
FOUR LEGALLY QUALIFIED PHYSICIANS.
We Specialise Men’s Diseases.
The Specialists of the Freeman and Wallace Institute are known throughout
Australasia as Medical Experts in the treatment and cure of Diseases of the Male
Sex.
They have made a special study of this class of disease, and have concentrated
all their energies in observing and acquiring the latest scientific methods of treating
rapidly and curing radically systems run down by over-exhaustion, heavy training
(as in athletes), lack of nerve and muscular force, and degeneration of tissue.
Men have been cured by them of weak, nerveless conditions and strengthless-
ness when they thought themselves incurable. They have been rescued from pre-
mature decline, and have been made
Strong and Heatthy Men for Good .
The Specialists have received thousands of Testimonies from men in Australia
who have been cured, and are now filling positions where mental acumen and bodily
health are essential.
CALL ON US TO-DAY OR WRITE.
We advise you to call on us to-day, or write us if you wish our opinion upon
your case. You may not be as strong as you would like to be. We can cure you.
Our Electro-Medical Methods are unequalled for the regeneration of strength in
Men. The Electro-Magnetic Batteries used by us are of the best scientific manu-
facture, and of the highest scientific value. It was one of these famous batteries
which was used by the great sculler, Towns, and attested to in his testimony. They
are unexcelled in RESTORING LOST NERYE-FORCE IN MEN, and, in com-
bination with correct medical treatment, will cure Rundown, Strengthless Men,
rapidly and effectively. If you are in doubt as to your condition, write or call on us.
Our Staff of FOUR Qualified Physicians
will advise you Free of Charge. In all matters pertaining to the health and
strength of Men they give Advice FREE.
By reference to any of the leading banks or commercial houses in Sydney,
patients can convince themselves as to the professional bona-fides of the above
Medical Institute. It is scientific in every detail. Its cost has been enormous. It
is known far and wide by reason of the great cures effected by its Specialists. Its
Medical Staff comprises many of the greatest medical minds in the Commonwealth.
A patient suffering from Varicocele, Rupture, Loss of Vital Power, Weak or
Shrunken Organs, General Debility, Heart Disease, Cancer, Sciatica, Rheumatism,
Insomnia, Kidney Disorder, Dropsy, or Diabetes, Spinal Affections, Diseases of the
Stomach, Nerves or Blood, are all treated by Specialists who have studied the class
of disease thoroughly. Patients may depend upon it the treatment they require is
the treatment they will receive, and will be such as no other medical institution in
Australia can afford them.
OUR FR€€ BOOK.
We give away Thousands of Copies yearly of
our 700-page Free Medical Work, which contains
31 Chapters of Useful Literature and other
articles. It is compiled by Dr. R. WALLACE,
the Pliysician-in-Chief, who is registered by Aus-
tralian, English, and American Medical Boards.
He is one of a Staff of FOUR Legally-qualified
Medical Specialists, including Dr. Bell, Lecturer
to the Institutes. All Letters are treated privately,
and replied to punctually. Do not delay if you
need honest medical treatment. Valuable lives
are lost yearly through delay.
-fIH
FREEMAN & WALLACE
Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute,
Cor. Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director and Principal of the Institutes
DR. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.S., E., Physician-in-Chief
DR. ELIZABETH WHITE, M.D., Specialiste in Diseases of Women and Children
DR. F. BELL, Lecturer to the Institutes.
And at MELBOURNE
IMPORTANT.—Our dispute with the Federal Postal authorities having been amicably-settled, Patients
may- diredt their letters to the above address without fear of delay-.


Do not envy
the beautiful
hair of others,
but possess it
yourself. Some
are born with
beautiful hair,
others acquire
it, but none
have it thrust
upon them.
Those who ac-
quire it do so,
for the most
part, by the
discovery that
A'
m
is
there is a remedy for locks thinned
by disease, or which may have be-
come prematurely gray; and that
remedy is
Mger's
%air Vigor
Have you lost your hair? It will
restore it. Has your hair faded or
turned gray? It will bring back the
color and gloss of youth. In brief,
there is no condition, short of abso-
lute destruction of the roots, in
which Ayer’s Hair Vigor will not
produce luxuriant hair.
. Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure you get AYER’S Hair
Vigor.
Prepared by Or. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
For Sunburn
or Sore Eyes
quick relief can be
obtained by the appliea-
tion of the well known remedy,
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Ointment.
It has a good record of success for cure of
many skin ailments, itch, ringworm, piles,
etc. Minor mishaps such as cuts, bruises
or scalds will keep healthy and heal rapidly
with its use.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,
England.
Sire you
Afraid
tor your baby, mother ? Do
you fear the day when the
tiny teeth will begin to come?
j U ,. . n °k Scott s Emulsion of
cod liver oil and hypophosphites of
lime and soda has finished that trouble
once and for all. Use it at the first
sign of discomfort. You will soon have
your little chap so strong and bonny
that teething won t bother him one little
bit, and you yourself will get the J-J-
you badly need at night.
Mow W u tle Street ’ Chippendale,
N.S.W., Nov. 3rd, 1905. “When
first I gave my William John Scott’s
Emulsion he was very ill from teething,
and 1 was afraid he would get convul-
sions. Before he had finished taking
one bottle I noticed a great improve-
ment in his health, and also two teeth
through, and now he has six teeth and
is well and strong.” (Mrs.) A. Black.
The lime in SCOTT’S EMULSION
makes the
ffeeth
come white, straight and strong. Scrtt*
is so pure and so digestible, thanks tc
die perfection of the original, uniqrn
ocott process, that there is never am
trouble in giving it. Always haw
Always get the Emul-
sion with this jnark—the
Fishman— the mark of
Ui6 “Scott ” process!
Scott s for babies.
We will gladly send
you a free sample
bottle by return of
post. Send 4d. for
postage and mention
this paper. Scott &
Bowne, Ltd., 483,
Kent Street, Sydney,
N.S.W. ——
dfg
sh
$
(&\
/Q)
segsd
IRISH
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
IRISH MOSS
MOSS
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
Sy waltham! mam-
AC_icr^r\r—ir-snrVf^3 t CL)ncjr _ ?nr\':
Waltham
Watches
Henry Skinner,
OJareudou-Bt., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10!,3.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
12,000,000 of these
watches now in use.
All Waltham
watches are guaran-
teed by American
Walth am Watch
Co., the largest
watch movement
manufacturi n g
concern in the world.
mm
fg
mm
WILLIAM fLEHiNO# EQUITABLE BW, GEORGE S!,SYDfIEy.
fa) tfmcfatuw vazo
Ju/t/iticd rmtiattid for uJ
ntwc came, foMu u/is to uowr
toiimcde for economy yJcUco ■
faction : tin/a>
loe/iancL %m<n
'tffomt.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
sdf
His Majesty The
King’ and
Royal Family.
MOIR’S
“New Season's"
herrings.
SUPERIOR QUALITY GUARANTEED.
TRY THEIR . .
“Herrings in Anchovy Sauce,”
“Findon Haddocks,”
“Herrings a ia Sardines.”
ASK FOR and SEE THAT YOU CET
MO IRS
Pure Pickles.
THEY ARE A TREAT.
JOHN .MOIR AND SON, Limited,
London, Aberdeen, Seville.
SYDNEY AGENCY : 47 MACQUARIE STREET,
CIRCULAR QUAY. [2
the high-class washing material
‘Viyeiia’
(Regd.;
□
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
The Ideal Material
for
Shirts, Pyjamas,
&c.
Economical
because
Durable.
From
Leading Hosiers,
Outfitters, &c.
SEt THE LABEL ON THE SELVEDGE.
Gloomy Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Pagan Dirge.
Sweet Love, that yearned and art so early dead !
Dear Youth, that joyed and art so swiftly fled !
Fair Hope, that sang and art so surely sped !
Hail and farewell!
Our hearts throb faintly, like a distant bell
That tolls through mist and sleet the funeral
knell
Of Love that fed on Faith, and starved and fell,
And sobbed and died.
Youth passes. There is naught on earth beside
To bring us joy while yet a space we bide,
Chained to this clay. Gloom heaped on gloom.
Outside
The long, dark night!
Fond Hope, that came in spring-time, star-be-
dight,
Giopes now, all crippled, in this fading light;
So haggard-eyed, whoso eyes were once so bright,
Shaming the sun !
Our friends fade into shadows, one by one ;
All mired and drabbled are the dreams we spun ;
We are sore spent, our day yet barely done,
And scant of breath !
We pray thee seek us, soft and silent Death,
Thou strong deliverer of the stained and sad !
O, haste thy pace that thus long loitereth,
Lest this slow-crawling misery make us mad 1
MAOEILAND.
FRANK MORTON.
Sad Memories.
I can remember still, and still without one drop
Of weakness in mine eye,
The brown bark farm-house on the hill, the wind-
mill top
Slow girding at the sky.
The six-foot water dam, its sides thick packed
with hoofs •
Of many thirsty sheep,
The clover and the pinlc-lipp’d brides, the strutted
roofs
Of other farms asleep.
The stack of rain-stained hay, the stack of hay
yet sweet,
The double milking shed,
Its arch sunk inwards, pierced and black with all
the heat
Of fifty summers fled.
And I remember, plainly too, the she-oak tall,
Whose fingers in the night,
Whenever sudden zephyrs blew, took hold the
wall,
And shook my heart with fright;
For I was but an infant then, and full of fear
And weird imaginings,
Long routed since, past human ken, to leave me
clear
For manhood’s greater things.
And there it was my father died (as good a soul
As ever trod life’s path);
Death took him, in his chair, beside the burning
bole
Of wood upon the hearth.
And there my mother heard him speak, one ev’n-
ing-end—
Long after he was dead—
Whereat she kissed me on the cheek; then,
reverend.
Lay silent in her bed.
I hate the farm-house on the hill, its wind-mill top
Slow girding at the sky ;
I think, and think upon it still, without one drop
Of weakness in mine eye.
N.S.W.
HUGH McCRAE.
The Outcast.
He walked the street from end to end
With hollow, listless, leaden tread ;
Without a home, without a friend,
And nought whereon to lay his head.
And yet there cheered him as he trod
The pavements dark and drear and dumb—
A faith in man, a trust in God,
A buoyant hope of good to come.
Door after door he tried in vain
With wounded knuckles beating low;
The sleepers woke and slept again,
Or named him fool and bade him go.
No friendly fingers turned the lock,
He heard no cheerful voices hail;
It seemed his doom to knock and knock,
And fail, and fail, and always fail.
A late moon silvered land and sea,
And made on ; street lie ghostly white;
Two homeless things—a wind and he—
Went seeking shelter through the night.
Yet this he felt in spite of all—
Behind some door as yet untried
In humble cot, or house, or hall,
There dwelt a friend who would not chide.
A friend with goodly wine to greet,
And words more warm than wine to pour ;
Yet, in that long and friendless street,
Where should he find the willing door ?
“ Knock on and on, thou wanderer wan ! ”
The voice within his bosom cried—
*' Thy trust in God, thy faith in man—
They shall not fail nor be denied.”
n.s.w,
RODEBIG QUINN.
“ George,” from a remote corner -
At Port Hedland (W.A.) the Afghans with their camels
have completely annexed the carrying trade. On the
Port Hedland to Marble Bar road they cut rates until
they forced the white man right’out of the business, and
as soon as Dost Mahommed had the monopoly, up Went
the rates. Storekeepers are now at the mercy of the
Afghan. There arh other alien evils. Hedland Advocate
(2/6/’O6), in advocating that the Chinese and Japanese
should be segregated in a special quarter, says
“To some people hereabouts (P.H.), a cleanly-dressed
Chinaman is as good a neighbor as any white man, but
there is no gainsaying the fact that the majority of the
present occupants of Japtown would do any health-
loving community a service by dying immediately,
and such a dirty set of buildings as there exists constitutes
a menace to the public health and progress of that part
of the town.”
A bakery in the town, conducted by a Chinaman, was
recently inspected, and the Chinese baker was found to
be “ suffering from chronic eczema.” The health officer
also condemned the premises, which were found to be in
a filthy and disgusting state. The assertion is freely
made Port Hedland way that Chinese and Japanese are
smuggled in anywhere from Broome down to Perth off
the boats (worked by Chinese and Malays) trading be-
tween Perth and Singapore.
“ Gip ” : Interesting, here, to watch the
march of the animals to the slaughtering yards
when a beast is about to be killed. (Why is a
bullock always called a beast, by the way ? Some-
body says to one, “Killed to-day?” and one says
to somebody “ Yes.” “Sheep?” “No, a beast.”
And a bullock isn’t half so beasty as s’m’other
things.) From the moment the bullock is run in
the dogs, &c., are on the watch, and directly the
butcher goes for his knives and cleaver the pro-
cession starts. ' the lead, a dignified black dog,
accompanied by i lumpishly playful yellow pup
that bites inanely at the black dog’s mouth.
Next, a stumpy-tailed terrier of aristocratic ap-
pearance. After him, three black cattle dogs—
black-and-tan mother, with two waddling pups.
One very hairy and aged dog walking painfully.
A three-legged cat. Lastly, two ordinary cats,
one sow, seven suckers, and four large pigs. Not
of the procesh, but coming from another direc-
tion, 25 or so magpies. The dogs sit round and
watch the proceedings with interest. The cats
wait on the fence. The pigs grunt expectantly at
a civil distance from the dogs. The magpies "are
right there on the spot. They all get their share
of the offal. It is gruesome how they seem to
know in advance. If ever, in a future state, lam
reincarnated as a bullock, and I see approach me
a procession of a black dog, a pup, a terrier, three
cattle dogs, hairy dog, tripod cat, two cats with a
leg at each corner, medium pig, seven small
pigs, four bloated pigs, and 25 magpies—when I
see that ghoulish gathering coming my way I shall
charge the fence, and either break through or
commit suicide. And if I break through I will
trample on the four bloated pigs and the tripod
cat, anyhow.
“Gip”: It is said that foxes have nearly
wiped out the rock wallaby on Monaro. I know
they have practically done for the turkeys.
Noticed, the other afternoon, a beautiful flock of
turkeys on the wrong side of the creek. There
had been a smart downfall, and the creek was up.
The turkeys, unable to cross, camped on the bank
for the night. Result, next morning, 18 dead
turkeys, flesh almost untouched, but blood sucked.
Only four escaped. Foxes must climb well. They
have been known here to enter securely closed
yards and almost noiselessly kill a dozen fowls.
Unable to sleep one moonlight night,' lately, I
peeped out and saw a fox prowling round the trees
in which the fowls roost. He had accounted for
two hens, yet the dogs slumbered peacefully
under the humpy, and they are said to be good
watch dogs, too.


Australian Mutual Provident Society*
Established 1549. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of* Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Oar new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape, Esq.
General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ' ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMIFETITIOW.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
>
\u
«v
Black Powder Shotgun Cartridges
The most successful hunters shoot Winchester “New
Rival” Factory Loaded Shotgun Cartridges, blue in
color, because they can kill more game with them. Try
them and you will find that they are sure fire, give good
pattern and penetration and are satisfactory in every
way. Be sure and get "Winchester Factory Loaded
“New Rival” Cartridges. Don’t accept any substitute.
all dealers sell them
for weather extremes.
CADBURY'S
Absolutely Pure
An invaluable food-
drink foryounjgf & old,
at all times & seasons.
“The Standard of Highest Purity ’’•The Lancet.
‘A Perfect food'“-Health.
Cures While f
You Sleep
, ESTABLISHED 1879.
A Vaporized. Medicine having Extraordinary
Curative Powers over
Whooping Cough, Croup,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza,
AMD DISTRESSING COURHS IN YOUNG AND OLD.
IT PROTECTS YOUR HOME AGAINST CONTAGIOUS DISEASE.
Yapo-Cresolene complete 7-6$ Cresolene, 16 oz„, 7-6$ 4 oz, 5 2-8$ 2 oz. 9 l-o*
VAPO-CRESOLENE COMPANY, NEW YORK, U. S. A,
Trade Supplied by THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG COMPANY, LTD.
gs
MAKE
your
own
AERATED WATERS
WITH AN
AUSTRAL AERATED
WATER MACHINE.
AERATED WATERS cost less than
FOURPENCE PER DOZEN pro-
duced by these machines.
Prices from £lB and upwards.
Catalogues and full particulars from—
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
214 Queen Street,
Melbourne, Vic.
New Zealand Loan * Mercantile Agency Co]
Ltd. |
S YDKTE Y,
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW and MARSUPIAL
SKINS are cSefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERIS who pay special,
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered
Pr °‘Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage o!
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
WILL CRIMINALS ESCAPE DETECTION
BY REMARKABLE DISCOVERY OF
ROCHESTER SCIENTIST}
Man Increases Height and Cheats Bertillon System,
HOW ANYONE MAY GROW TALL.
United States Government Official Offers Himself as
Proof that the Height can be Increased.
SEVERAL INCHES MAY EASILY BE ADDED BY
MR. MINGES’ NEW SYSTEM.—HOW
IT IS DONE.
(Special Correspondence.)
Brighton, N.Y., February 4.—At last, after
years of study and endless scientific experiments
for increasing the height of those who are so un-
fortunate as to be short in stature, a Rochester
scientist has solved the problem, and given to the
world a greater gift than Edison’s electric light;
Marconi’s wireless telegraphy; or the Bell tele-
phone ; for what can be more inconvenient or pro-
ductive of more discomfort, than to be short ? The
short man or woman is always at a disad-
vantage; in business, society, on the stage or
rostrum. The great orators, statesmen, gene-
rals, presidents, have rarely been short men.
l
'/A
//A
1
Mr. K. Leo Minges, a Rochester
Scientist, who Makes Short
People Grow Tall.
Not that the short men are not just as brainy, but
their stature is against them. The great society
leaders are not short women. It seems there is no
longer any excuse for anyone being short, if you will
just follow out Mr. K. Leo Minges’ discovery for
increasing the height. Mr. Minges himself once
knew the disadvantages, the trials and tribulations
that beset the path of the short man. He deter-
mined to grow tall. He tried everything he could
think of, and everything anybody could suggest.
He delved deep into the study of anatomy and
physiology. Finally, when he was almost
ready to give up in despair, he discovered one
of Nature’s marvellous secret laws a law
by which the human body can actually be made
to grow. Mr. Minges tried his new discovery on
himself; it worked like a charm, and to-day Mr.
Minges is 6ft. 2in. tall, and as straight as an arrow.
He next solicited others to try the system, and
behold their height was also increased. He adver-
tised far and wide"to get persons extremely short
in stature to try his system and put it to the most
severe tests possible. The results were simply
astounding. The following extract from the New
York Herald shows what can be done: —
“Post Office Inspector Williams says the
Bertillon system of identifying criminals is
a failure; and he offers his own person as
proof of his assertion. Mr. Williams was
measured by the Bertillon system, and went
to work to prove how little use it was in
detecting felons. He was weighed at the time of
his measurement, and tipped the scales close to
one hundred and ninety pounds ; his height was
recorded at five feet two inches. Now his weight
is one hundred and fifty pounds, and he is five feet
four inches in height. The change was brought
about by training he undertook. The ability to
increase his height was the one thing that broke
down the certainty of the Bertillon .system. It
was known that a stooping thief might learn to
walk erect; one with cross eyes have his optics
made straight; or a man with birthmarks be freed
from these signs of identity ; but when it was dis-
covered that several inches could be added to the
height of a suspected man, the detectives who
relied upon the Bertillon system were thrown into
confusion.”
Mr. Minges has written a remarkable book,
which fully explains the secrets and the science of
increasing the height. It tells how he himself
grew tall; and how many of his friends have done
so. He sold the copyright of his book, to the
Cartilage Company, of Brighton, and. thi3 com-
pany proposes to give away 5000 copies simply
for advertising purposes. But there is little
doubt but that the returns which will eventually
come from this substantial kind of advertising
will in the end prove very profitable, as nearly
every short person who sees the book will want
a copy, and there will be a perpetual demand for
it. Until the 5000 copies are exhausted, any
person who wishes to increase his or her height
may get a copy absolutely free, simply by
addressing the Cartilage Company, Dept, 52 u
Brighton, N.Y., U.B.A. Please do not write
through mere idle curiosity, as the book is an
expensive production, and is offered tree only to
those who wish to make practical application ot
the information contained therein. _
ENO’S FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
‘FRUIT
BILIOUSNESS,
HEADACHE,
AND CONSTIPATION.
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.— £•* Capsule marked ENO’S 'FRUIT BALTi' Without It you bare a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prap&rad only bj J. O. ENO, Ltd.. ’ FRUIT SALT' WORKS, LONDON, ENG.,
by J. C. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.


' LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The ‘ Stockport Remedy*
:or Coughs and Colds. Ot 40 years’ proven efficacy.
LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The‘Stockport Remedy
t -, r Couffhs and Colds. Gives immediate relief.
'LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The‘Stockportßemedy*
; or Coughs and Colds. Gives, immediate relief.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Coiighs and Colds,
Gives instant relief to Asthma and Bronchitis.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ of 40 years’ proven efficacy
for Coughs, Colds, Asthma and Bronchitis, &c.
COAGULINE.
Transparent Cement
for broken articles.
‘LINUM CARTH ART [CUM PILLS’ of Mountain
Flax. Agreeably Aperient. Worthy of trial.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.’ Trade Mark of Kay’s
Compound Essence of Linseed, for Coughs and Colds.
THE BALLET GIRL
dfg
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Pr6e, 16,
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY,
RHEUMATISM.
GOUT
Finns
Are recommended by doctors With confix
dence as one of the valuable results of
medical science, and the only remedy
ever discovered for these disorders, in
that they not only rapidly cure but pre-
vent the recurrence of the malady.
Of Chemists and Stores, 1/1| and 2/9 per box.
Proprietors— PßOUT & CO., 229, Strand,
London, England.
FAT FOLKS
REDUC E
your weight
5 lbs. a week
No inconvenience. No strict diet. Pursue
your ordinary avocation. Endorsed by Physicians.
Book and particulars free. Address —
J AS. CRAIG &. CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne.
HOULDER BROTHERS & CO., Ltd.
Passengers Booked to
All Parts of the World.
STEAMSHIP OWNERS, FREIGHT CONTRACTORS,
SHIP, INSURANCE & CHARTERING BROKERS.
THE HOULDER LINE STEAMERS. for Conveyance of
Passengers, General Cargo, Frozen Produce, &c.
To and from AUSTRALASIA, AFRICA, LONDON, LIVERPOOL, GLASGOW, &c.
Steamer.
HORNBY GRANGE
OVINGDEAN GRANGE
URMSTON GRANGE..
LANGTON GRANGE
DRAYTON GRANGE (Twin Screw)
EI.STREE GRANGE
ROYSTON GRANGE
Tons.
3,750
3,700
5,600
9,200
10,000
6,000
6 330
Steamer.
BEACON GRANGE
RIPPINGHAM GRANGE
OSWESTRY GRANGE (Twin Screw) ..
THORPE GRANGE
HAVERSHAM GRANGE
EVERTON GRANGE (Twin Screw)
SOUTHERN CROSS
Tons
6.300
9,200
10,000
6,350
11,200
11,000
7.300
First, Second and Third Saloon Cabins situated Amidships, Excellent Cuisine. Electric Light.
For full particulars, apply at the OFFICES OF THE COMPANY, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
12 Pall Mall, S.W., London. 14 Water-street, Liverpool. 30 Gordon-street, Glasgow. 837 Calle Cujo
Aires 446 Calle San Martin, Rosario,’ Gran Dock, Ensenada, La Plata. Capetown and Durban, South
Head Office: 146 Leadenhall-street, London, E.C.
Buenos
Africa.
wmm
&
PRIZES value £l5OO
IN THE
EIGHT-HOUR ART UNION
(Under sanction of the Hon. the Attorney-General.)
Drawn 27th OCTOBER* 1906*
First Prize, value £5OO.
Second Prize, value £lOO. Third Prize, value £63.
And 197 OTHER VALUABLE PRIZES.
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. Grace (towderjs Waterloo,
Sydney, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on 2nd
November, 1906. Tickets may be had from Agents in all Country
Towns, or direct from
ALLAN McDOUGALL, Secretary,
Trades Hall, Sydney. Eight-Hour Committee.
NEW CLUB CARTRIDGES
The great popularity of New Club Cartridges has tempted other
makers to place on the market inferior cartridges of the same
brown dolor and general appearance. Accept no substitute.
New Club Cartridges are for sale by all dealers.
Union Metallic Cartridge Company
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U.S.A.
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT v
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES'
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES. •
|\J EVER RAILS.
Ask your Chemist fop the Little Book:
‘HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES
CURED
m
mpm
; o p>
ESW
msSSni;
<£?.'& <2i
l'C4zy*
Ifl
o
*rs
wm#
sM|
*!esf
sss
1
.
£2*£
Si*?
m
%sm
;; v*'j(
4.
r-I v;
IN a me
TVP
s«Rs»Ssfej£fc?i
V* .y* ’
Address... j&’SS
GET THIS BOOK!-
It is worth its weight in gold to WEAK
MEN and Sufferers from Debility.
It is the weak man’s guide and friend, and if you suffer and have not read it, you have missed
the best of all opportunities to inform yourself on your condition. . . . It describes
the ailments that do the most to make a man miserable— those ailments that UNMAN
him and make him unfit for; the every-day battles of life. It is profusely illustrated, showing how
we apply Electricity to cure this complaint.
You will notice on the left of this paragraph a COUPON; write in your name and address,
tear the Coupon and Book out of this advertisement and post it to us to-day. We will send the Book
by return post—closely sealed and postage paid. ... It describes in careful detail
DR. McLAUGHUN’S Electric Belt
the most famous of all patented remedies. Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt is guaranteed in
every case undertaken. It never fails to cure when recommended. ... To the men who have defied
the revenging power of Nature and overstepped the bounds of prudence ; men who, from the result
of wear and tear upon the machinery that creates the Vital Force of the body, have become weak,
puny, nervous, and dyspeptic j men who are lacking in confidence and ambition, and those who are
suffering frotn’Pains in the Back, Shoulders, or Chest, Weak Kidneys, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lum-
bago, Varicocele, Rupture, and the many other evidences of decay of the vital force, WE OFFER
AID. We can cure you with Nature’s great power—ELECTRICITY, and make you feel well and
strong again. A means of restoring youthful vigor is priceless. Nothing in this world is worth
more to a man who lacks this element, and here is THE remedy within the reach of all sufferers.
CURES ARE THE REAL PROOF!
Mr. PETER H. PETERSEN, of Princess Street, CLEVELAND, Q., writes.' “Before wearing your Belt I had
been suffering for over eight years with pains in my back and hips ; I had been to many doctors,, rubbed in gallons of liniment, used poul-
tices and plasters and everything else I heard of, but could not get relief, and gradually grew worse. I had been uraed by my wife to try
vm,r Relr but I did not believe it would do wliat you claimed it would, so would not try it. My wife, however, unbeknown to me, secured
your Belt’, and I was“nduced to iryit Many a time have I blessed the day that I did. for in ten days I could feel myself improving, and
in less than three months I was curkd ! That was over eighteen months ago, and have not been troubled since.
iw- n HDiRHcrH nf CAN MAIN. N.S.W., writess “Dear Sirs,—When I first got your Belt I became dissatisfied
mr. U. n/U.DEIOI.n, T " ' A. J .. „ fi,„p cn T uhf.pinprt some medicine and left f.he Kelt-. cff Thp
after usin'
medicine,
ago, and I
If you are near one of our offices, CALL FOR FREE ADVICE and Personal Consultation. IF YOU
CANNOT CALL, tell us where you live, and we will send you testimonials from cured patients in
your Vicinity. . . . Now that you have read this advertisement, do not fail to send for our
Book. . . . The Book and a Free Diagnosis cost you absolutely nothing. . . . WRITE OR CALL
TO-DAY.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co., 100 W. Market-street, Sydney
90 WILLIAM STREET, PERTH.
1
Don't
waste time in
experimen ti ng.
Thirty Years 9
unbeaten and increase
ing Success is the
1 best proof of the claim of
Oxbridge
V £ung7bnfc
1 to be the WOKLD'S CURE\
for Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
and other Throat and
Lung Troubles.
It can ba obtained from
any Chemist or £ tor e,
and Saves Many
Lives.
BOSISTOS
“PARROT »
BRAND
EUCALYPTUS OIL
and REFUSE
\ SUBSTITUTES^
\ \
i VI \
10
mu
SPIRO
Toilet
Powder
SPIRO
A BOON FOR HOT WEATHER
KILLS ALL ODOR OF PERSPIRATION.
NO MORE SORE AND ACHING FEET.
DOES NOT STAIN ANYTHING. EASILY APPLIED.
1/3 per box to any part of the State,
Grand Views of Niagara Falls Given
Away to Purchasers.
Australasian Agents AMERICAN H\ GIENIC
AGENCY Ltd. , 177 Liverpool St., Hyde Park, Sydney.
Distributing’ Agents for Victoria— Grant, Bradley &
Co., Fulham Place, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Distributing Agent for Queensland— Alfred Moon,
37 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Distributing Agents for West Australia— P. Falk &
Co., Ltd. , Henry Street, Fremantle.
FREE SAMPLES, ALL STATES, ON APPLICATION.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
FREE TO THE
DEAF
If you suffer from Deafness, Head-noises Dis-
charging Ears or any aural complications and
desire a complete and permanent cure, write at
once to The “EAROSCOPE” CO., 90 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W., for a FREE pamphlet, fully
describing an entirely new, self applied method
which will be sent to you gratis and post free on
mentioning this paper.


■>
%
M
J. Rennon&sons
are the ...
Largest Tanners and Exporters
°L Raw Skins in Victoria
and therefore require a large quantity of
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
Opossum, Sheep and
Rabbit SRins, also Hides,
Tallow, Wool, Horse
Hair, besides Fox, Hare,
and Other SKins, etc.
to keep their works going.
' -
Don’t hesitate to send consignments—whether large
or small, both receive equal treatment—and every-
thing will be done to merit continuanbe.of your favors.
Consignments from N.S.W. and Queensland should be sent care of Howard Smith & Sons S.S. Co
Price List and all information sent on application.
Account Safes sent same day Goods reach us.
No Commission or other Charges deducted.
Note Address—
J. Kennon & Sons
TANNERS (Si EXPORTERS,
Richmond, Victoria.
THE LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
An Ideal Fabric for Outdoor and “At Home” Wear.
As rich in appearance as Lyons Silk Velvet costing a Guinea a yard, and wears longer.
the NEW “LOUIS GHIFFON VEL DUVET
is one of the most fashionable PILE FABRICS for entire Costumes manufactured
for the present Season. Nothing else has such lustre of finish, such sheen and
softness of texture, and no other fabric yet produced shows such varying play of
light and shade.,
Every yard of the “Louis” Velveteen, and the .“Louis” Chiffon Yel Duvet, is
scamped with the name spelled L-O-U-l-S and guarantee of wear, and Ladies
should insist on seeing this and thus avoid the substitution of inferior imitations.
From Drapers & Silk Mercers throughout the Colonies.
THE
OLDSMOBILE
A Good Investment.
Ji
7 H.P. TOURING RUNABOUT.
■m
7 H.P. STANDARD RUNABOUT.
tjttxt°* t l}ea-lfcl»ful out-of-doors enjoyment can be had from the OLDSMOBILE
JIUNABOUT than from the same money spent in any other way. All the
annoying automobile uncertainties that may have prevented you from buying
a machine have been overcome to the smallest detail in this strong, handsome
reliable car. ’
Costs practically nothing for repairs with intelligent handling. It has been
strengthened and built up to the highest point of efficiency, and is as well
adapted for touring as for city use—as the successful trip of two of these cars
across the American Continent, and the 3000-mile endurance run in England
and the 30-day Continental trip, have proven. '
Send for Catalogue showing the Oldsmobile line; the lowest prices for the
highest efficiency.
7 H.P. Standard 7 H.P. 20 H.P. 10 H.P. 10 H.P.
Runabout. Touring Runabout. 2-Cyl. Touring Oar. Light Tonneau. Commercial Car.
OLDS MOTOR WORKS, Lansing, Mich.
Motor Garage of Sydney, Ltd., 253 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
sdf
Send Your WOOL to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., LTD.,
The Leading Sydney Salesmen.
The best Ad-
vertisements
for RUBEROID
are the houses
on which it
has been used.
To be obtained from
all builders'
L.. v -
ironmongers.
JHE
Specified by
%
3
m
#
#
&
c>
Ste
•• 4*
4
-
3*
Pb
W
* -:■
fortme
THE Mansion or
The first house
roofed with
RUBEROID
has been the re=
commendation
for all others.
Wholesale Agents —
E. RICH & CO., Ltd.,
SYDNEY & BRISBANE


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Otiice, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Vol. 27.—N0. 1383.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 16, 1906.
Pbiob 6d.
SACKING A CIVIL SERVANT (IN N.S.W.).
Uriah Heep Carruthers: “You see, Mr. Oliver, you should have been 'umble. You shouldn’t have quarrelled. ‘They were acting against
the public interest,’ you say. Well, you shouldn’t have quarrelled. I never quarrel. Be 'umble like me. Swallow
anything. Be meek and ’umble, my dear sir.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
•* A iistriiflit /or the A list ml in os.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(Tn Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tun Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling yon can have Tine Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
Ilow to Address I.attars.
Correspondents to Tin: Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
in rite inattent ion.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
ojlicials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special 'Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper arc copyright by the pub-
lishers. 'The rigid, to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submided, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other A Hides, Verse, Short 'Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with A nstralian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 8000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tun Bulletin will return a.U unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and, stamps are enclosed But. no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded ■without stamps
tor return it will be understood, that, the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tills Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand, that it is not, responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To A mateii.rx in. Mack a nil White.
Anyone supplying to Tun Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
■merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid'for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and,
dutch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, No. 1 Broad-street Place.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Messrs.lt. A. Thompson Jk Co., 28 liiebeck Street, Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco. — W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and Neivs Stores, Port Said.
HongKong. —Brewer and Co., 22 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
A gents’ S/iecial Notice.
The Bulletin metal ad vertising plates, size 6%in. x Hrin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
Z&xzZldfai.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 16, 1906.
THE DEBT PROBLEM-FEDERAL, STATE,
LOCAL AND MISCELLANEOUS.
In delivering his Budget speech, a week or two
ago, Bigjohn Forrest said little that was really
satisfactory so far as concerned the most important
part of his subject. He doubtless did his best,
but it wasn’t a very brilliant best; it might have
been worse, yet it shouldn’t have been so bad.
The question which rises most conspicuously now
on the horizon of Australian finance is—what is
to happen after 1910, when the first ten years of
Federation, the ten years for which the Braddon
clause was fixed in the Constitution, expire ? For
that period of ten years the Australian Govern-
ment is required by the Constitution to return to
the States three-fourthsof the Customs and Excise
revenue in order to euable them to pay the in-
terest on their monumental public debts, or else
—if the Commonwealth takes over those State
debts before the ten years expire—it must
set aside three-fourths of the tariff revenue
to provide for the said debts. The Braddon
clause was originally intended to be a permanent
feature of the Constitution, but, at the instance of
George Reid, it was reduced to a mere casual and
fleeting obligation, which has now less than five
years to run. When it runs out—unless arrange-
ments are made in the interim for the transfer of
the State debts to the Commonwealth, or some
other agreement is arrived at to keep the States
out of the poor-house—certain really amazing
things may happen. The Australian Parliament,
if it feels so inclined, may retain all the Customs
and Excise revenue, and have a good time with
it, and leave the State Governments to repudiate
their debts, or to attempt the impossible task of
raising another £7,000,000 or so by direct taxa-
tion. This would be a sufficiently amazing situa-
tion for anybody. And, so far, nothing has been
done in the way of an arrangement. The early
attempts in that direction found most of the State
Governments loud and bumptious, full of jealousy
of the Federal authority, full of suspicion that
“Our State ” might lose in the deal, and inclined to
hang on to the dignity of having each its separate
debt, and to the pomp of each holding separate
communication through its separate Agent-
General with its separate Cohen. The expira-
tion of the Braddon clause looked then more
remote than it really was, and civility seemed
uncalled for. Now the expiration of the Braddon
clause looks nearer than it really is. and the State
Governments, though still uncivil, are feverishly
anxious.
* * * •
About half-a-dozen schemes have been put
forward by the parochial crowd for meeting the
difficulty on true parochial principles—that is to
say, without consolidating the liabilities and
abolishing the separate State debts and the
separate State Cohens. They all revolve round
some device or another whereby the Common-
wealth is to return to the States a sum about
equal to what they now receive—say £7,000,000
per annum—but there the resemblance ceases.
No two States have the same idea as to how the
£7,000,000 should be divided, and a cat-fight is
harmony compared with the dissensions on this
point. Some of the suggestions are as follows :
(1) That the £7,000,000 should be allotted according to
the amount which each State contributes to the Federal
revenue— i.e., that a State which supplies one-seventh of
the Federal revenue should receive £1,000,000, being one-
seventh of the Federal subsidy. This idea is dismissed
without a hearing. It means the eternal labor of keeping
vastly-complicated and expensive accounts between the
States, and despite all the labor and all the square miles
of paper used, the accounts can’t be kept accurately.
Moreover, this method only gives each State its share,
and the air is full of schemes whereby every State is to
get more than its share.
(2) That the £7,000,000 should be divided according
to population. This idea is received with applause by
Tasmania and S.A., is regarded coldly by N.S. W., Victoria,
and Queensland, and is hailed in YVestralia with language
such as is commonly used when oxen are going uphill.
The reason is shown in the following table, which ex-
plains how much Customs and Excise revenue per inha-
bitant each State is expected to contribute to the
Commonwealth this year, and, roughly, how much each
would get back per inhabitant if a £7,000,000 Federal
subsidy were divided according to population (population
estimated at 4,100,000) :
Estimated Net Tariff
Customs and Proposed Contribution
Excise Federal to Federal
Revenue Subsidy Government
per Head. per Head. per Head.
1900-7.
YVestralia .. £3 12 5 £1 14 2 £1 18 3
N.S. YVales .. 2 4 6 1 14 2 10 4
Queensland .. 2 3 0 1 14 2 8 10
Victoria .. 218 1 14 2 76
Tasmania .. 1 17 1 1 14 2 2 11
S. Australia .. 1 16 3 1 14 2 2 1
Average ..£2 4 2 £1 14 2 10 0
YVestralia denounces such a division as a matter of course.
Though its revenue is still abnormal, it is dropping fast
to the N.S.YV. and Queensland level, but YVestralia fails
to realise this, and reckons it will remain an abnormal
State for ever. The next three States also reckon that
they would lose by this method ; when YVestralia gets
down to their revenue level, they consider that the
tour States at the head of the list would be plundered for
the benefit of Tasmania and S. Australia. The two
last-named States approve cordially, but that fact doesn’t
help in the least to popularise the scheme.
* * « *
Then there are other suggestions fur dividing
the proposed £7,000,000 Federal subsidy as fol-
lows :
(3) That there should be fixed, in perpetuity, an allow-
ance of so much to each State, the division to be made
upon some rule-of-thumb method, partly on the basis of
present population, partly on the basis of present contribu-
tions to the Federal revenue, partly on general principles,
whatever these may be. The answer conies in the shape
of bitter objurgations from Queensland, N.S.YV., and
YY’estralia, which declare that, though they only repre-
sent a little more than half the population of the Com-
monwealth to-day, a time must come when, bytt-eason of
their great size and resources, they will represent five-
sixths of it, and no division, made on the basis of things
as they are now, could be accepted as a permanent
arrangement.
(4) That the surplus should be divided on a sort of
sliding scale, altering from year to year as conditions
change. That is to say, that there should be two
impossibilities instead of one: (a) the impossibility of
getting the State Governments to agree on a scale to
begin with, and (b) the impossibility of getting them to
agree on the principle according to which it shall slide.
And amid all this chaos Bigjohn Forrest,
Treasurer of the Commonwealth, trying to follow
the line of least resistance, comes in with his
proposal, which is as follows :
(5) That after 19X0 any new tariff duties imposed shall
be the property of the Commonwealth.
(6) That for another ten years (1910 to 1920) the State
Governments shall be credited with three-fourths of the
proceeds of the existing duties on this basis : An account
to be kept of the average amount which each State con-
tributes yearly in Customs and Excise between now and
1910, and each State to receive three-fourths of that
amount each year until 1920, if the total sum to be
divided will run to it.
(7) The Australian Government to set about taking
over the State debts ; to keep a separate debt accoun t
for each State, and to pay each State’s interest out of its
subsidy. If the subsidy, in any case, isn’t enough to
cover a State’s interest bill, the State to be requested to
make good the deficit.
(8) After 1920 the whole row about the division of the
subsidy to begin again, this scheme being only a post-
ponement of the trouble after all.
* * * *
Among these various propositions, the one pro-
Eounded by Treasurer Forrest is probably the
est. But all of them are mere makeshfts, or
temporary evasions, and not one really solves the
problem. Said problem is to find a means whereby
the whole of the State debts will be at once taken
over by the Commonwealth with a view to their
consolidation and gradual repayment, and all
Federal subsidies to the States, and all keeping
of separate accounts between States, be abolished.
And here the Australian Government comes in
severe concussion with these other problems :
(1) Under the Constitution the Commonwealth can
only take over the State debts as they existed on Ist
January, 1901, and that proviso is old and dead, and out
of date ; the debts of 1901 are so overlaid by new trans-
actions that many of them are now as hard to find as
Ludwig Leichhardt’s bones. Therefore, the first essen-
tial is an amendment of the Constitution, which should
be passed this session and submitted to the popular vote
at the coming election, giving the Australian Govern-
ment power to take over the whole State debts by pro-
clamation, as they exist at the date of the proclamation,
and to control all future State borrowings.
(2) The State debts ranged, when Hali/s N.S.YV.
statistics were last published, from £42 per inhabitant
in Victoria to £79 per inhabitant in Queensland. If these
liabilities were taken over bodily and lumped together
heroically, the average debt would be about £5B per
head, whereby Victoria would lose £l6 per head, Tas-
mania about £5 per head, N.S.YV. about £2, and the
other three States would gain by passing a portion of
their debt on to Victoria, Tasmania, and N.S.YV. There-
fore Victoria and Tasmania object bitterly, and N.S.YV.
objects a good deal.
(3) If the State and Local Government debts Were taken
over by the Commonwealth there would still be a dis-
crepancy, though not so large a one. These combined
debts range from £56 per head in Victoria and Tasmania
to £BO per head in Queensland and S. Australia. If the
Commonwealth assumed them in one huge transaction
the average debt per head all over Australia would be
about £64. That is to say, Victoria and Tasmania would
find their liabilities increased by about £8 per inhabitant,
and N.S.YV. by about £4 ; while the other three States
would be gainers.
(4) Clause 51 of the Federal Constitution lays it down
that all States must be taxed alike, and unless this clause
is also altered, it is impossible for the Commonwealth to
lay any special imposts on the States that are relieved of
a specially large debt, so as to make them carry at least
part of their own extra burden, instead of shuffling the
surplus on to the States which only transfer a small debt.
(5) By way of further confusion, it must be remembered
that the existing debts don’t, and won’t, represent a
fixed amount per head. If the population of one State
increases rapidly, a debt which is now £BO per inhabitant,
may soon be only £5O, while in the same time the popu-
lation of another State may grow so slowly that its debt
of £56 per head may onlj- drop to £52. Also, the dis-
crepaneies in the amount of revenue per head which the
States yield to the Federal Treasury would, in some
cases, help to counterbalance the discrepancies in the
debts, and in other cases they would make things worse.
And this is also an unfixable discrepancy, which shifts
round as the circumstances of the States alter.
* » » *
There is a vast difficulty in finding a reason-
ably fair method of debt consolidation
all these conflicting problems to consider. Yet it
is essential that the consolidation should be done.
By way of slightly simplifying the problem, this
paper would suggest that power should be
acquired, by an amendment of the Constitution,
to take over, not only the State, but also the Local
Government debts—the debts of municipalities,
shires, divisional boards, water and sewerage and
road and harbor boards, irrigation trusts, cemetery
trusts, and all local bodies in one sweeping act.
By this widely inclusive policy the debts of the
different States would be brought much more
nearly to a level, and they could be taken over in
a lump with much less apparent injustice. Also
the idea would rouse enthusiasm in all manner of
embarrassed quarters; it would ensure the warm
support of aldermen and other dubious characters,
and would make it much more easy to carry an
amendment whereby not only would all debts be
transferred to the Commonwealth, but the Com-
monwealth would also acquire the right to insist
that future borrowings, State and local, should
be made through it and with its permission. The
inclusion of the debts of local bodies would only
increase the total of the Federal burden by
about £20,000,000, and that isn’t much in a trans-
action which, in any case, would run to
£240,000,000. And by taking over the local
debts, which in some cases carry as much as 8 per-
cent. interest, and converting them gradually into
Commomvealth securities at 3 or 3£ percent., a
memorable saving would be effected.
There would still remain the discrepancy
between Victoria’s transferred debt of £56 per
inhabitant and the £BO per inhabitant of Queens-
land and S. Australia, and the smaller discre-
pancies in between, to say nothing of the fact
that there are at present equally bad dif-
ferences in the amount of revenue per head
which the different States furnish to the
Federal Treasury. There are three possible ways
of dealing with this matter. One is the heroic
method of lumping things, and taking no notice
of the discrepancies. This is the method which
The Bulletin would like to see adopted, but it
seems to be too heroic for general acceptance.
Another idea is to figure out on an average of a
certain number of years the amount of revenue
per inhabitant which each Statu is likely to con-
tribute to the Federal treasury ; to ascertain how
much interest per inhabitant cite Federal treasury
will have to pay on behalf of each State, and thus-
estimate as closely as possible which States will
gain, and how much they will ga.n, at the expense
of their neighbors through the general lumping
of the debts. Then it might be demanded that
these States should assign, for, say, ten
years, a certain amount of their State revenues to
the Commonwealth to reduce the discrepancy, or
by another amendment of the Constitution, the
Australian Parliament might be authorised to
specially tax these States to a similar extent for
ten years. (S. Australia, about the most hopeless
ease of all, could be required to hand over the
Northern Territory to make up part of its deficit.)
After ten years the subject of the discrepancies
might fairly be dropped. In that time many
things would happen. The population centres
would probably shift. The balance of wealth
would shift. The amount per head which each
State contributed to the Federal revenue would
change. A steady process of conversion of the
debts into a uniform Federal stock would some-
what alter the incidence of the burden, for there
is a great difference in the relief to be acquired
through converting the Westralian debt (interest,
say. £3 Bs. 7d. per cent.) and the S. Australian
debt (interest, say, £3 15s. Id. per cent.). This
method, like that proposed by John Forrest, has
the drawback that it has a ten-years term attached
to it, but there is this difference—it proposes to
end the question in ten years; the Forrest idea
is to reopen the problem in ten years and begin
the whole trouble afresh.
* * * *
Then the Federal Treasurer, having taken over
£9,500,000 of new annual liabilities in the shape :,f
interest, and having only saved £7,000,000 in the
shape of State subsidy, would have to do a
demoniac hustle for new sources of revenue. It
would be necessary then for many State taxes to
become .Federal taxes, also the Federal Treasurer
—some one quite different from easy-going
Big John Forrest— would learn economy in a
hard school. And it would be good for him to
learn economy, also it would be good for him to
hustle. And if there had to be a very great exten-
sion of the sphere of Federal influence in the
process of finding the necessary new revenue that
would be good also—in fact, it would be the best
thing of all.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Penny Post Proposal.
The Australian Government will surely abandon,
or indefinitely postpone, its penny postage pro-
posal when it is Closely studied in the clear light
thrown upon the financial position by the Budget
debate. Nothing is plainer than that the Com-
monwealth has no superfluous money to spend on
sentimental extravagances. On all sides are
demands for reforms which will cost money. If
the Northern Territory is taken over—and the
Northern Territory should be taken over at
once —the extra cost of Commonwealth adminis-
tration will be at least £lOO,OOO a year.
To make a beginning in naval defence —
and a beginning should be made NOW —will
involve at the least another £lOO,OOO a year. To
fouud a small-arms factory—and the latest possible
date, consistent with a proper regard for Aus-
tralian interests, for doing that is August 16,
1906 —will make a big dip into the Treasury. The
Westralian continental railway is promised. It
will cost money. As the Kanakas are deported,
the loss of sugar revenue derived from the sur-
charge on “ black ” sugar will be great. Meteor-
ology, lighthouses and quarantine shortly come
under Federal control, and all mean expenditure.
Old age pensions—the Government is pledged
to an Australian scheme—will call for some
assistance from the general revenue, even
if special sources are tapped to supply the
bulk of the money. At every point the call is to
spend, spend, spend. Meanwhile, the Common-
wealth has reached perilously close to the limit of
three-fourths of the Tariff revenue which it
can constitutionally spend, and is within measure-
able sight of facing a deficit or new taxation. If
new taxes are asked for to supply old age pen-
sions, to help the military defences, to colonise
the Northern Territory, to build either of the
necessary trans-continental railways, no patriot
will grumble. But to provide the commercial
classes with the luxury of a penny postal system—
that is another matter ! The £300,000 which a
reduction of the postal rates would cost could,
properly applied, settle the problem of the
Northern Territory, or, as an additional vote, put
on a fairly secure basis the defence system. Can
any sensible, practical man say that either of
those two things should give precedence to a
penny post ?
♦
The Defences.
W. M. Hughes, who has been the champion in
Parliament, as Colonel Campbell has been out of
Parliament, of a self-respecting defence system,
moves again in the House of Representatives for
universal compulsory training. The debate has
not yet come to an end, but it is already manifest
that it will proceed on the old familiar lines.
Ministers and members will agree that the Swiss
Militia System “should be adopted,” and will
plead for the acceptance for the present
of some tiny instalment of reform—as “ too
great a change just now would be impracticable.”
And on these grounds the matter will be shelved.
That will happen again and again until a Ministry
is in power which has the courage to effect whole-
hog reform ; and all will then be surprised to find
how easy and popular the task was. It is not
possible to judge the popular view of an effective
reform of the defence system by the popular
opposition which generally greets the piecemeal
and expensive attempts at change put forward
from time to time in the name of military re-
organisation. The country is impatient of a
policy that adds another £lOO,OOO or £200,000
to tiie military vote when all that is pro-
mised in return is some almost invisible altera-
tion of the wretched old system. If, however, a
thorough scheme were put forward—a plan which
guaranteed security so far as human certainty
goes—the public would rise to it, and not grumble
over the extra cost involved. The position can
be illustrated by the difference between paying
3Jd. to insure your house against an outbreak of
fire by a lamp explosion only, and paying fid. to
insure it absolutely against any form of fire. The
31 d. proposition wouldn’t appeal to many. Nor
would a proposal to make it 3|d. and extend the
risk to kerosene stoves. To stretch to fid. might
mean an effort; but if it would represent real
security the effort would be worth while. That
is the essential objection to all the piecemeal
military reforms brought forward to placate the
demand for effective reorganisation ; they are not
worth while.
♦
Protection Advances.
Prime Minister Deakin shows both strength and
sincerity in regard to the fiscal issue. With the
opening of this session he announced that the
“fiscal truce” was ended, and since then good
progress has been made. Regulations have been
framed under the Commerce Act which will
protect the Australian manufacturer against
shoddy importations and thus give him most
valuable assistance in finding a local market
for his honest goods; the Anti-Trust Bill,
which can put a stop to dumping, and to
injurious competition by foreign Combines, has
been industriously pushed on ; the Protection to
the Australian distilling industry has been in-
creased by 200 per cent., and the Protection to
some Australian machinery manufacturers by 100
per cent. That is a good record. It has been sug-
gested that if Deakin pushed on with Protection
this session he would leave himself without a cry
for the general elections, and would help G. 11.
Reid’s “anti-Sosh” absurdity. But, apart
from the fact that Deakin is not the sort
to postpone for party purposes the accomplish-
ment of what he strongly believes in (his main
fault is the difficulty he has in strongly believing
in anything—Protection is an exception) there is
very little in that suggestion. Presuming the
greatest industry and a certain amount of good
luck this session, there will still remain many items
of Protection for next Par liament toattend to —quite
enough Protection to form an issue ; for the Prime
Minister’s idea of Protection, as he explained in
public recently, embraces not only an effective
tariff, but encouragement by bonuses of new
industries and the guardianship of the workers’
interests in all occupations. With that pro-
gramme, the work of Protection will not come
very quickly to an end. There is satisfaction
now in the thought that it has been well begun.
The Blight of the Land Monopolist.
At a Bathurst (N.S.W.) meeting, last week, the
position of the tenant famer was canvassed, and
one speaker declared
the tenant farmers were the worst-conditioned men in
the district. They had not a shilling, and lived in
“humpies” that were a disgrace to the district, while
close by were magnificent mansions belonging to the
landlords. In Bathurst, one man had 30,000 acres ex-
tending right into the town, He did not pay any taxes
to support the town, and the tenants were unfortunate
“ working-bullocks.” This landlord went to England,
Scotland, Ireland, and other places to spend his money.
Which was the truth, and something under the
truth. Bathurst, where men decay and wealth
has forgotten how to accumulate, is a city perish-
ing under the blight of land monopoly. All the
good land of the Bathurst Plains was monopolised
in the early days by the ancestors of the “big
families.” They got it more or less—mostly
less—honestly. In many cases it was
cleared and improved by convict slave-
laboi. The descendants of those first robbers now
pose as a haughty aristocracy, and their sweating,
rack-renting system of dealing with their tenantry
has been carried to such a degree that the district
is being depopulated, the area under cultivation
is dwindling, and an increasing quantity of land
is passing into the care of the Chinese—the only
beings who can pay the rack-rents and live. If the
Australian Parliament could only be sent on a
trip to Bathurst not with the purpose of
finding a Federal capital site, but to in-
vestigate the effects of land monopoly a
progressive land-tax would be almost a cer-
tainty next session. For the big-landlord
system at Bathurst has no good results. The
tenants are either whites who know they are
miserable, or Chinese who don’t know it, but
are miserable. The city, which was once a
flourishing centre, has the dry rot, and can neither
attract new population nor keep the locally-born
younger generation. Even the landlords begin
now' to feel the pinch. Their greedy and suicidal
policy has resulted in much of the land being
over-cropped to the point of exhaustion, the rack-
rented tenant having to take out of it all he could
in order to live. The end will be the iibandon-
mentof the district. Bathurst, the N.S. Wales
South Coast, the Western district of "V ictoria,
the rich Central district in Tasmania, the Queens-
land Darling Downs —they all cry out eloquently
for a tax which will give its quietus to land
monopoly.


A Small Holdings Bill.
VICTORIA is at present doing something with an
Improved Small Holdings Bill. This has nothing
3 . a ii to do with any scheme for breaking up Un-
improved Large Holdings. Rather, it seems to
be a semi-charitable or pauper device, whereby
a small number of men will get very small bits of
land under very mean conditions, while the
Government will comfort its soul, and the House
of Rich Landlords will comfort its stomach—not
having a soul—with the thought that something
is really being done in the way of closer settle-
ment. The Age lately described the leading
features of the Bill thus :
Each allotment is to contain land not exceeding- £l5O
in value, and each holder may be provided with build-
ings, fencing and implements to the amount of another
£l5O. Applicants must be 21 years old, natural born or
naturalised British subjects; unable, by their personal
means, to become possessed of land ; during the previous
six years they must not have been imprisoned for six
months or upwards ; if so required, they will transfer to
the Crown all their property, authorising the Minister to
*ell it to such an extent as he thinks fit, and deduct from
the proceeds the total sum advanced, and pay the balance
to the tenant.
In the first place, tenants must seive six months’ pro-
bation and, under the direction of the foreman, do the
necessary improvement work. The tenant will receive
weekly payments, if he satisfies the foreman, as follows :
For the first six months, 20s. a week ; for the second six
months, 15s. a week; for the third six months, 10s. a
week. From this, however, there will be a deduction, as
rent, of 5 percent, of the capital value of the land.
At the end of six, twelve or eighteen months, if the
tenant’s conduct has been satisfactory, he may, on pay-
ment of registration fees, obtain a conditional purchase
lease giving him 31J years in which to pay the Crown for
the land and make the property his own. The value of
the stock is to be repaid in three years by six half-yearly
instalments, while the sums advanced for buildings and
fences must he repaid in 32 half-yearly instalments
Five per cent, interest has to be paid on all the advances,
&c., &c.
It has been said (this may seem a digression, but
it isn’t one) that man has invented two kinds of
Deity. One variety is conceived to hat e built the
universe on a system which is so well devised
that, once started, the great machine runs itself.
The other kind, believed in by the more ignorant
races, is an imaginary Personage who built a jolt-
ing universe that is only kept from daily wreck
by His violent personal interference. In the same
way, there are two methods of running a country.
One is by so devising the laws that not only will
the country be prosperous and rich, but the wealth
will be widely diffused, and great fortunes and
great estates will be severely discouraged. If a
great fortune does occur, it will break up auto-
matically on the death of the mighty grabber who
got it together. As for the occurrence of great
estates, that will be made impossible by graduated
land taxes and strict limitation of the area which
one individual can hold. Under such a system
land is abundant, and its price is based on its pro-
ductive capacity—not on its artificial scarcity.
Also, under such a system, the man who
want 3 land and hasn’t the money where-
with to buy it, is able to find work at good
wages, and save up in a very reasonable
time enough to give him a start on his own
account. The system provides for no charity
except as regards the sick, the aged, or the young
orphan, and it doesn’t provide for much even as
regards them, for little is needed. And it
includes no condescending fat millionaires reach-
ing down from a great height to lend two-
penn’orth of aid to the poor. Another method is
somewhat akin to the ignorant idea of a violently
interfering Deity who always finds the axle of His
ungreased universe running hot, and always just
saves it from smash by miracles and personal
struggles. It is a policy which does nothing to
prevent a few people monopolising the land while
the landless multitude looks on outside—a policy
of great estates and great fortunes; and
its great evils are violently alleviated in a
small way at long intervals by the action
of some fat and strugglesome politician,
who seizes a few individuals out of the
mass of poverty that the system lias made, and,
with much patronage and charity, gives them a
speck of land apiece—provided they can fulfil 72
conditions, and live up to 22 rules and 116 regula-
tions, and are respectful, and don't expectorate on
the globe. Meanwhile the system remains, and
the heap of trouble remains, and the handful of
people who can be cumbrously and laboriously
relieved on the 31J years instalment plan by a
Small Holdings Act, or the like, makes no appre-
ciable difference. But the wealthy Ton’ person
prefers this method. It represents Charity,
which is a curse of his special invention. The
great land-grabber would much rather give ten
acres, or the value thereof, with much pomp and
condescension, in the name of benevolence, than
have a cold inquiry held as to the illegal methods
by which he acquired the other 100,000 acres, and
be found out. Also, he much prefers to give away
out of his great fortune an occasional copper to the
poor, whom the making of that fortune has caused
to be poor, than to live under a system in which
there would be no poor, no great fortunes, and no
charitable person handing down a farthing or a
brass button from a huge social elevation. All
which reflections tend to the idea that it isn’t an
Improved Small Holdings Act but a Neglected
Large Holdings Act that Victoria really needs,
and in that respect'Victoria doesn’t stand alone
by any means.
♦
Some Impudence from the North.
At the Queensland “conference of local authori-
ties,” Mayor Crase, of Brisbane, is to move that
“ the longer continuance of Queensland as a State
of the Commonwealth of Australia will not be
conducive to the progress of the said State, nor
to the welfare of its industries and finance” ; and
he asks the conference to “pledge itself to use its
best endeavors ” to burst the union. What busi-
ness this is of the “ local authorities” isn’t clear ;
their work is to look after the local drains and
rubbish-tips, and they have no more call to
meddle with the Commonwealth than with the
Athanasian Creed. But, in any case, the gall
of Queensland “ local authorities ” passing severe
remarks about other people’s finance would be
superb. Craze himself is Mayor of about the
most financially muddled body in Australia;
it estimated a deficit of £12,500 eight
months ago, and hasn’t yet done one practical
thing to dodge the disaster. Some years ago it
let a contract for two miles of wood-blocking ;
price £35,000. Then muddling began, and the
final cost was £BO,OOO. South Brisbane, over the
river, was so utterly neglected by its local
authority that the Government Health Depart-
ment had to step in and clean the place up ; and
Premier Kidston subsequently had to collect the
cost with a club. Balmoral local authority sold a
£250 property for about £1 for alleged overdue
rates, and then had to pay £BOO in law costs, &c.,
over the unspeakably foolish business. Subse-
quently. when it found that it couldn’t manage
its own drain and dust-heap, it asked the Govern-
ment to take over the contract. Yet this is the
sort of local authority that Crazy invites to
manage the affairs of Australia ! Presumably,
also, the Ayr Tramway Board, as a “local
authority,” will be invited to express its opinion
concerning Commonwealth finance. Its ow a
ideas of finance are shown by this newspaper
cutting:—
At a meeting of the Ayr Tramway Board yesterday it
was decided to divide the £l2OO in hand between the
guaranteeing local bodies —the City Council and Thurin-
gowa Shire to have £4BO each, and Ayr Shire Council
£240. The chairman stated that he hoped by the end of
next year to pay up the arrears of interest which had
accumulated when the line was being constructed.
Having £l2OO available, the Board cuts it up
among the three “ local authorities ” —and hopes
to pay off the arrears of interest (owing to the
State) some day. No doubt the Board knows its
“local authority,” and hasn’t any fear of being
told to pay up its back debts before cutting up its
alleged profits. On the whole, judging by these
samples, it would be a nasty reflection on the
Commonwealth Government if its financial
management did commend itself to the Queens-
land “local authority.”
The Lyndhurst Federal Capital Joke.
The pilgrimage of Federal politicians that N.S. W.
State Premier Carruthers induced to go out and
look at some more proposed capital sites seems to
take no interest, or very little interest, in the
much-advertised .Lyndhurst. At all events, an
invitation to include that spot in the itinerary ot
the party only brought the reply that, so far, no
member had expressed the slightest desire to see
Lyndhurst again. If Lyndhurst is dead and
buried as a possible Federal capital, it is exactly
what it deserves, and, even if it had possessed
far more merits than it does,.its death and burial
are only what might be expected considering the
proceedings of its advocates. Lyndhurst was
boomed with a ferocious want of tact of which a
rhinoceros might have been ashamed, and with a
coarse arrogance that made many people
loathe the place and everybody connected
with it. The “claims” of Lyndhurst were
said to be many, but the loudest and most brutally
overbearing one was based on the statement that
the people of N.S.W. had refused to accept the
Federal Constitution until there was a guarantee
that the capital would be in N.S.W. (which was a
glaring lie); and on the other statement that the
Federal Constitution, as it now stands, provides
for the capital being as nearly as possible on the
100-mile limit from Sydney (which was such a
gross and impudent lie that it created a feeling of
nausea). The Lyndhurst push also represented a
crowd which talked largely of the special right
of N.S.W. to select the capital, of the special
claim of Sydney to all the trade of the capital,
and of the special compensations due to N.S.W.
for the “sacrifices” it had made in federating
with the other States an attitude that
was bitterly aggravating to States which
only joined the union at N.S.W.’s special
invitation, and which had no idea that they
would be jeered at afterwards as if they had
approached N.S.W. on their knees to ask assist-
ance from the lofty Ma State. Then, when there
was talk of a possible Federal capital on the
Murrumbidgee, near the proposed Barren Jack
reservoir, some of the Lyndhurst push set about
trying to prevent the building of that reservoir—
on which so much dry country has pinned its
hopes—and the boss bungler of the Lyndhurst
crowd demanded that if the reservoir was built at
all, it should be on the impossible condition of
Victoria finding the money—Victoria paying,
that is, to irrigate N.S.W. To all intents
and purposes, the Lyndhurst crowd put itself
forward as the enemy, not only of the other
States, but also of all N.S.W. except the 100-
mile radius around Sydney. It advertised itself
and its site as representing all the meanest
elements in human nature —parochial jealousy,
greed, lving, and narrow-minded anti-Australian
sentiment. When the acceptance of Lyndhurst
came to imply the acceptance of the astounding
falsehood that the Constitution ordered the capital
to be not more than 100 miles from Sydney ; and
the acceptance, also, of the theory that the other
States had in some way received large benefits or
concessions or alms from N.S.W., and must com-
pensate that State by fixing the Federal city
where Sydney would secure all the benefit; and
the acknowledgment of the right of a mere State
Legislature to dictate to the Parliament of Aus-
tralia—when it came to mean all these things,
Lyndhurst would have probably gone overboard
if "it had been Paradise. And it isn’t Paradise,
but—according to the declaration of a trusted
N.S.W. official who was specially appointed by
the N.S.W. State Government to report on
possible sites—a mere second or third or fourth-
rate spot, quite inferior to Monaro in almost every
respect. Its natural drawbacks ought to have
killed it dead in any case, but the bullying and
tactlessness of the little knot of parochialists
who advocated its selection gave it an extra dead-
ness which was something quite beyond the
average.
—♦
A Lesson to Labor.
At a very happy juncture for educational pur-
poses comes a crisis to the Labor Ministry in fe.
Australia. Premier Prick, in his effort to put into
effect his progressive programme, finds himself
confronted by a hostile Upper House, elected on
a narrow property franchise, and alien to the
sentiments of the majority of the voters. His
task is clearly to grapple with that Upper House,
and either make it mend its ways or bring it to an
end. He recognises his responsibility, and, as a
step in the campaign, contemplates the possibility
of having to dissolve the Assembly. Whether
that is the procedure proper to the circumstances
is neither here nor there ; the important fact is that
circumstances may arise—in fact, are on the point
of arising—which make that the only possible
step forward, in his opinion. But he finds the way
blocked. He holds office with a direct Labor fol-
lowing and the assistance of a band of Liberals.
The Liberals give him loyal support now. They
are prepared to continue that support and follow
him in bringing this Parliament to an end. One
condition only they make, that if they sacrifice
their seats in the cause of a Labor Government,
they shall not have to face Labor opposition in
their constituencies. Immunity from such op-
position is the price of their support. The con-
dition is absolutely reasonable. But, according to
the “new” spirit in the Labor leagues, it cannot be
granted. The Liberals must support Labor and
thus cut themselves off from all support from
outside the Labor ranks, and then be satisfied to
rave Labor’s knife at their throats in the consti-
tuencies. It is precisely the same situation as
that which has arisen in Federal politics with
regard to such men as Lyne, Isaacs and Bony-
THON. They, and others of the Protectionists who
went over to the Watson side at a crisis, stipu-
lated, very naturally, for Labor sympathy at the
rolls, and obtained a pledge to that effect ; and
i hat pledge it is now proposed—at least by the
V k torian Labor leagues —to shamelessly break.
In S. Australia, Labor politics have, so far, been
marked by a sweet reasonableness, and it seems
probable that if the present crisis develops on
the lines that are likely, Premier Price’s Liberal
supporters will obtain the immunity pledge they
ask, and that it will be faithfully observed. In
that case the lesson to the Victorian leagues will
surely be too obvious to be ignored, and the
treacherous proposal to turn hostile arms on
friendly allies in camp will, even at this late
stage, be abandoned.
♦
The Divine Eight of Clubs.
The Victorian clubs are up in arms and on their
hind legs shouting fierce anathema at Bent’s
Licensing Bill, and all because Bent proposes to
abolish the divine right of clubs, and reduce
these places—often mere drinking and gambling
places—to the same compliance with the law
that is required of ordinary pubs, and ordi-
nary unclubbed citizens. Nominally, what
the clubs take exception to is the provision
in the Bill that gives the police the right of access
to the premises; this is an insult to their dignity,
and makes them feel hurt. But the two points
that really trouble them are those which
require all bars to be closed at half-past 11 o clock,
and which prohibit gaming in a club just as in a
hotel. That is to say, they would like the proviso
against gambling and late drinking struck out,
but they don’t care much what legislation is
passed on these subjects, provided the police are
not allowed access; it doesn’t really matter what
the law says if no policeman may come in to see
the law being broken. The only reason that the
clubs advance why they should be exempt
from regulation is that they have always been
exempt. This is true. In Victoria, at any rate,
the provisions relating to hotels and their manage-
ment have never been applied to clubs, pranci-
pally—in recent years—because it was mani-
festly absurd to order a club to comply with
the law when the police were prohibited from
entering even if they had reason to believe
the order was not obeyed. _ But the origi-
nal reason for the exemption was a typi-
cal one. At first, clubs were aggregations
of wealthy and arrogant men who wanted to
dine and drink and win one another s money in
the society of people of their own calibre.
Accordingly, since wealthy men at one time made
and unmade the law, legislation was manu-
factured to fit their special requirements. At the
same time, however, an opportunity was afforded
to all sorts and conditions of men to band together
to defeat the provisions of the Licensing Act.
The consequence was that after a time clubs, quite
different from the first lot, sprang up like
mushrooms, and the legitimate hotels which paid
bio- license fees, and were amenable to the law
under heavy penalties, suffered. Some of these clubs
are large and partially drunk, and some are small
and not quite sober. The pretence of being
residential establishments is too holllow for
words. All alike depend for the profits that
keep them going mostly on their bars, and
the bar profits are large mainly because a
man can drink in his club at hours when else-
where, he would have to remain dry. lhe club is
a sanctuary against the licensing and gaming laws
of the State, and Bent proposes to do away with
all this, because the idea of sanctuary is mediaeval
and barbaric. Altogether, Tommy Bent will be
doing one of the best things he has yet done tor
Victoria if he insists on passing the club provisions
of his Licensing Bill as they stand. But the club
people are influential folk. They are expert
ear-biters, and are already chewing hard at
the wing on the side of Lhomass head.
They recognise that it is good business, when
chewing, to concentra-te their teeth on oiig ques-
tion, so what thev ask most intensely is that they
may not be subject to even nominal police
supervision. They say that policemen are large
and coarse, and have mud on their boots. And if
no policeman has a right to come in and see if the
bar is closed at 11.30 p.m., it doesn’t matter much
whether the law says it should close then or at
4.30 a.m.
♦
A Meeting of Fat.
There was a notable gathering of Bure Merinoes
at Melbourne, the other day, “the room being
crowded,” according to the newspaper report,
“with pastoralists, farmers, and managing
directors of the large mortgage companies.” And
the meeting, which was presided over by one ot
the purest of the Merinoes— George Fairbairn—
spent a very pleasant time cursing both Prender-
gast’s proposed land-tax, and Watson’s. As a
cheerful variation from the usual run of these meet-
ings, no mention was made of the well-known
desire of the Labor party to “confiscate” the whole
of the land and either eat it or export it to Norway.
One Bostock went into figures, and, though he
admitted that Prendergast’s tax would exempt
18,000 farmers, and Watson’s 28,000. more,
making 46,000 untaxed altogether if the
Feberal Labor party’s scheme goes through
—he refused to be comforted. Misrepresentation
seems to be bred in the bone of theFatman. lhe
Labor party has repeated, ad nauseam, that its
tax is designed expressly to encourage the settle-
menfc of the farmers on the land ; but all Bostock
could see in it was “ a clever piece of strategy to
catch the farmers’ votes. Also, it was “only a
temporary expedient,” and something unspecified
but appalling was to follow. So the meeting,
after it had recovered from Bostock, decided to
oppose the tax because—
(l) It is contrary to British precedent.
(2) The taxes are not needed. , ' .
(3) The plausible reason, that of finding* land for immi-
grants, is fallacious.
(4) It will destroy the confidence of British investois.
This paper had a pathetic hope that “contrary to
British precedent ” was dead, or at least fatally
injured ; and that “destroying the confidence of
British investors” was also in very weak health ;
but this hope has, apparently, been a delusion
and a snare. All that was wanted to complete a
happy party was “liberty of the subject, who
was most unaccountably overlooked. Probably
he was there, but neither Bostock nor r air-
bairn noticed him. At any rate, this rattling of
ancient and dry bones isn’t likely to frighten even
Prendergast s land-tax, let alone Watsons,
which is a much sturdier youngster.
The simple-minded Melbourne Argus has pub-
lished ‘ ‘ a copy of a letter recently sent by a lead-
ing firm of Australian warehousemen to its
London branch” re the provisions of the new
Commerce Act. The Argus describes the letter
as “interesting,” which it certainly is in a variety
of ways. For example, it shows conclusively the
necessity for the Commerce Act, which the Argus
described as “harassing,” “meddlesome,” and
“ uncalled-for.” The letter points out that “false
description” includes the following :
(6) Goods marked at so many yards or so much weight,
if such goods are not as actually stated (for example,
50yd. reels when not actually so). .
(e) Goods marked “rain-proof,” silk, jute, flax, linen,
cotton, &c., when not actually so.
(e) Cotton goods marked with the number of laps or
folds by a figure, which is commonly taken by the unini-
tiated as meaning the number of yards in the piece, the
actual length being less. .
(/) Indications of width, dimensions, weight per unit
of length, when not actually so.
(<j) Goods described as hand-made, when wholly or par-
tially machine-made.
To put it shortly, there has grown up by degrees
a multitude of “trade customs” almost every
one of which is a swindle on the consumer,
and the “harassing” Commerce Act compels
importers to write in haste to their London
agents and tell them that it is necessary to be
honest. And the Argus is so much shocked at
the idea of honesty in commerce that it publishes
letters like this as a dreadful example of what
things have come to.
Melbourne is moving slowly in the direction of
unifying its many bickering municipalities. The
city lias already absorbed several outside districts,
and now Melbourne, South Melbourne and Port
Melbourne councils have agreed to a scheme of
amalgamation that will carry Greater Melbourne
right along the river district to the port. South
and Port Melbourne have still to submit the pro-
posal to a referendum. The scheme will reduce
rating in the -suburbs ; will raise one big central
authority to tight the tramway octopus when that
grasping creature reaches out its greedy tentacles
for an extension of its lease; will give a wide
field to the city’s fine electric undertaking;
and will yield a host of other advantages.
A bad feature is the long extension that is to be
The Martyr.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dear Bulletin. —The next electoral reform will
have to make any reference to the religion of a
candidate for a public position a criminal offence.
Here in Victoria the Dowieites of all kinds are
beginning already. McKie, of the Salv’army,
says that dancing provides at least 50 per cent, of
fallen women ; Everard Digges de la Touche,
B.A. (My Grief! What a name!), is doing the
dirty work of the Anti-Sosh party by blackguard-
ing Higgins ; Wm. Knox is apparently anxious to
represent Horry, and not an Australian constitu-
ency ; Simo'-' Eraser, the dreariest public ass on
earth, is to be re-elected to the Senate by the
efforts of the Anti-Sosh sectarian gang ; Judkins
and Worrall are using the Lord to secure
notoriety, and the familiar way they treat the
Almighty makes a decent Pagan feel tired. Give
such a crowd a. year or two of the balance of
power, and ! I hereunder look forward a bit:
By Brunswick, on the Sydney-road,
I met a martyr pale.
“Glory,” said he, “to whip and goad !
Glory to ginger ale !
And to the self-advertisement
That shall us never fail!”
By Brunswick, on the city’s rim,
We passed a heap of bones ;
And, at the sight, mine eyes were dim
’Twould move the hearts of stones—
I seemed to oversee their death ;
I seemed to hear their groans.
“ And who were these? ” I asked, in grief,
“ Whose bones beneath the sun
Whiten and bleach ? In what belief
Was this foul mui der done ? ”
“That’s where we killed the Oartherlicks,’
Said he, and bit his bun.
Down by the Carlton Oemetree
I and the martyr went,
And there were skulls by two and three—
“ That tat one’s Tommy Bent,”
Said he. ‘‘ And that’s Gtllott— we slew
All of the Parliament.
“Except McCutcheon and his kind,
Who with us crowns had won ;
We prayed the Lord to send a wind
To kill each mother’s son.”
(The martyr wagged his monkey beard,
And wildly waved his bun.)
“We purged the Fed’rak Parliament
Of all Home Rulers there;
We treated Higgins like Tom Bent—
We smote and did not spare ;
But Wilks rnd Lonsdale and Joe Cook
And Fraser knew no care.
“ We love the breakers of the law,
On bookmakers we dote ;
And so, by stress of tooth and claw,
We murdered with our vote
Those worldly men who had proposed
To legalise the tote.
“We killed the High Protectionists,
With screams and mouthing foam ;
We gave the tariff many twists
With statements about Rome ;
And, now they’re dead, we do import
With joy our buns from ’Ome.
“ Berruther Woggle did it all,
I see him, calm and grand,
In the Assembly’s windy hall
By the mace-bearer stand ;
I see him shoot his haughty cuffs—
His bun is in his hand !
“ I hear the lions roar for him :
The Coliseum rab-
Ble cry for blood, though Madden grim
Did deal the final stab !
And then—they led him to the dornr,
And put him in a cab.
“ Marching to a celestial hymn,
He suffered all his pain !
Calm as the holy seraphim,
He smiled as he was slain !
And angels led him from the cab,
And chased him to the train ! ”
“And what results are there?” said h
The martyr answered, “ Sure
Are Anti-Sosh, Freetrade, and Si-
Mon Fraser (Simon Pure) ;
And not a Roman in the land
Doth dare can-di-da-ture.
“ And all our goods come out from ’Ome,
And land taxation’s done ;
The Democrats will stay in Rome,
While shines the Orange sun.”
(The martyr wagged his monkey bear'd
And wildly waved his bun.)
VIC.
RANDOLPH B.


ft
J
V.
Galla&r^
GOLD
PLATE
Tobacco 1
and
Cigarettes
Him : “ I’ll lay you two to
one on the Gold Plate."
Hee : “ I’ll take you if
you make it Gallaher’s
Cigarettes.”
given to the lax building regulations of the two
suburbs. In both of them, there are streets full
of nouses from which it is a shocking scandal that
rent should be drawn —Port Melbourne notori-
ously is a suburb full of huts, sheds, and hovels.
South Melbourne is to be free from thecity’s stricter
building regulations for 10 years; Port Melbourne
for 10 years, and thereafter as the unified council
may determine (in conference South and Port Mel-
bourne fought for 20 years more dirt, neglect and
dishevelment). This concession is nominally in
the interests of the working classes of the suburbs
—more likely it is in the interests of the landlords
who squeeze rent from them. However, reform
is promised after 10 years, whereas, if the suburban
councils were left alone, it would probably be 50
years before the same amount of improvement
arrived. The referendum is likely to result in a
vote for unification in each of the suburbs, though
not by a very large majority in the seaside muni-
cipality.
• ♦"
Last week the S. M. Herald solemnly and de-
finitely repudiated N.B.W. State Premier Car-
ruthers, and decided that even if Labor leader
M'Gowen is the alternative, it is better to have
M'Gowen. That was a long way for the Herald
to go, and by the length of its going Carruthers
can estimate the depth of his fall. Joseph Car-
ruthers is now, so far as the press goes, the
Friendless Premier of Australia. Kipston has
warm friends and bitter enemies. Bent is re-
garded with a quaint mixture of hatred, contempt,
and admiration—just when he seems to have
fallen to the lowest depth with his buffoonery and
comic songs, he arises, grunting heavily, and does
some large, strong, democratic deed which makes
him look for the moment the biggest man in
Australia. Price is much disliked and deeply
loved. “Jack” Evans has many friends in the
press and elsewhere, who say that, even if he
isn’t much of a Premier, he used to be a pretty
good sea-captain; and there are some who say
that Newton Moore might be a lot worse. But
Carruthers is the Man Who Has Evaporated.
He has done nothing large to earn public hatred ;
his press supporters have fallen away because of
his smallness and indefiniteness. He has just
dropped through a hole. Even Deform has turned
on him. He has cotne to be regarded as a man
who can be pushed about anyhow. And when
one considers how many indefinite Premiers have
kept afloat for quite a while in Australia, there
must be an amazing indefiniteness about the man
who can lose so much support in so short a time
as Joseph Carruthers has done. Even if he
went and found out a new lot of imaginary injuries
done by the Commonwealth to Ma State he would
no longer raise a pennyworth of enthusiasm.
. +
The “ Victorian Year Book ’* mournfully remarks
that 93 per cent, of the land of the Western Dis-
trict ot Victoria is in exactly the same non-
cultivated condition to-day as it was 70 years
ago. The “ Year Book ” does not explain the
immediate causes of this stagnation, because it is
a purely non-partisan document. It simply
dumps down the statement that Western
Victoria is mostly an empty wilderness, and
leaves it at that. The explanation lies in the
huge masses of land that are held by a few
persons, and used solely for pastoral purposes.
In the Western district 181 pastoral estates
cover 2,885,786 acres, an average of 15,943 acres
apiece. This explains the stagnation. The soil
is among the best in Australia, seaports are close
at hand, and the rainfall is excellently adapted
for agricultural purposes. Cut up into 100-acre
blocks, these 181 sheep - walks would provide
28,857 farms, and might easily give em-
ployment, directly and indirectly, to a million
people. lor want of the cutting-up process,
population has remained stationary for 30 years.
The earnings of the railways are insignificant, and
scarcely pay for axle-grease. Coastal shipping is
almost extinct, and Bent’s dredges are busy
deepening harbors that will silt up again, practi-
cally unused. A heavy, graduated Federal land-
tax, pitched high enough to burst the whole
squattocracy, is the only thing that can save the
district. It is ridiculous to talk of “ resuming”
the estates—the Government hasn’t got the cash.
The land-hogs hold out for famine prices, although
land-values are at present inflated far beyond
their natural figure. A land-tax, based not Upon
the sheep-carrving, but upon the man-carrying
capacity of the soil, would paralyse the Manif'old-
Chirnside push. Moral, vote for such a tax—the
bigger the better.
——♦
Some cheerful statements just now being related
about Melbourne as a reason why the people there
want a better tariff: —
In moving among the poor I find children going to bed
cold and hungry. Children are turned out into the street
in the morning to look after themselves. —Methodist
Mission Parson Tregeak.
In the whole place there was only one chair. The only
other article of furniture visible beside the pots, and a
ricketty old bed with thin, tattered coverings, was an old
perambulator that served as a cot for the babies. In the
corner of a room was a bundle of rags on the damp and
dirty floor, used as a bed by the two eldest girls. The
eldest daughter walked four miles to her work without
breakfast The grocer said : “ Why don’t they pay me
my Is. 7d. ? ” — Age report.
Out of 1430 persons employed in the millinery trade
1001 received an average wage of ss. Bd. per week
Factory Inspector Ord.
In 140 homes in Collingwood, 26 men were out of work ;
in 314 homes in Carlton, 73 ; fn 34 homes in Pitzroy, 18.’
Of the men registered by the unemployed committee in
one week, 63 had been ejected from their homes for non-
payment of rent. In North Melbourne there was one
man unemployed in every four houses.— Labor member
Elmslib.
I found two families without food from Saturday till
Monday.— Watt, M.L.A.
These are some of the results of that famous re-
duction in the tariff which M‘Billion and his
friends engineered five years ago.
British hostility to the. establishment of an
Australian navy is now cloaked, but it is none the
less bitter. The report of the Imperial Defence
Committee, received a few weeks ago, is supposed
to recommend a complete system of harbor and
coastal defence for the Commonwealth. It cer-
tainly contains no distinct condemnation of a
submarine and torpedo squadron, which it was
hoped would be the nucleus of an Australian
navy, but the committee has sought to squelch
the idea by merely not mentioning it.
I hen Captain Cresswell, the naval director,
who has just returned from a tour in
Great Britain in search of the latest in-
formation regarding naval developments, seems
to have been _ successfully blocked. The in-
formation relating to the best means of starting
an Australian navy was significantly unobtain-
able. Wherever he went among the Admiralty
docks, yards, and depots there was a smiling wel-
come, but it was invariably followed by protesta-
tions of regret that the facts he most required
were unfortunately at the time unavailable. The
way in which the official doors he most desired to
pass through slammed in his face was too consis-
tent to be accidental, and if he left the shores of
the dear old Ma Land convinced that every
department had been secretly instructed to
thwart the object of his visit, no one could blame
him.
«.
Melbourne Argus, in a futile attempt to show
that a progressive land-tax is not needed to break
up big estates, states that, during the last three
years, 448,241 acres have been subdivided and sold
in the Cabbage Garden, of which 110,2GG acres
were taken under Bent’s Closer Settlement
scheme. The inconsequential journal fails to
discern that the great demand for land, the
increased values created in part by the Closer
Settlement Board’s purchases, and (chief cause of
all) the manifest proximity of the land-
tax, have urged land-grabbers to seize the
chance before it is too late. Nevertheless,
in spite of these half-million acres cut up, the
land-tax register shows that, on February 28th,
1906, there were 1262 large estates on the register,
of the taxable value of £7,654,484, while on
August 28th, 1906, there will be 1299, of the value
of £7,310,639 ; so that, almost as fast as some
grabbers cut up and sell, others acquire and hold
for a rise ; and, of course, the grabbing of land for
that purpose is likely to be much more rapid
when a lull comes in the property market. What
a gaudy farce the present Victorian land-tax is,
and what a scandal the assessments amount to,
may be judged from the fact that, though the
register shows 1299 estates still locked up, of the
taxable value of £7,310,639, those 448,241 acres
that were cut up comprised only 63 estates, yet
they actually sold for £3,126,000 !
♦
“Quan,” from the North
The unspeakable Brisbane Courier recently published
a cry from Cairns (Q.) stating that a farmer in that dis-
trict had paid white labor 10s. a ton for cutting his cane,
and as there were, of course, other small expenses, the
13s. per ton which he received when he sold it to the
Colonial Sugar Refining monopoly left him at a dead loss.
The moral, of course, was that cane-growing by white
labor was impossible. Then Labor-member Mann— in no
way related to T. Mann, once of the Beer-and-Water
public house—sent a reply that was simply staggering as
showing the methods of the great sugar monopoly.
At Cairns it takes only eight tons of cane to produce a
ton of sugar. Where there are State-owned central mills
to crush the cane, the monopoly is willing to buy the raw
sugar from the mills at £l2 per ton, which, after allowing
a liberal margin for expenses, is as good as £1 6s'.
or so per ton to the farmer. Where there is no State-
owned central mill the farmer has to sell his cane to the
Sugar Co., and it gives him just about half what he gets
where there is competition. Therefore, it appears that
the abolition of the Colonial Sugar Refining Co.’s
monopoly is urgently needed, and that there is nothing
wrong with white labor. It really looks as if, with a suf-
ficient number of State-owned sugar mills and a great
State-owned sugar refinery— with a system, in short,
which would make sugar a Government monopoly—the
grower might get a lot more for his cane than even the
present central mills can pay him, for raw sugar at £l2 a
ton appears still to leave a big profit to the refinery. It
sells refined sugar at £24.
j ♦
Concluding his “ Keport on the Federated Malay
States and Java,” Senator Staniforth Smith
gives, as the fruit of his inquiries, some hints as
to the control of Australian Papua—a country
with much the same natural conditions. The
most important are his conclusions as to what is
wanted:—
Reform of the land laws to, give prompt possession,
without undue red tape, to settlers. Improvement of
the roads. Appointment of a Director of Agriculture,
with a view to encouraging culture of industrial plants.
Establishment of State nurseries, with the same object.
Planting by the Government of rubber and cocoanut
trees. Exploitation of the valuable teak and ebony
forests. Engagement of an expert from the Malav States
to report on Papuan plantation possibilities. Establish-
ment of Government medical stations on the Papuan
goldfields. Sale of the extravagant Government steamer
Merrie England. (It costs £7317 a year to keep up.)
Senator Smith seems to have observed the East
Indies with intelligence and industry ; and his
conclusions in regard to Papua, formed from a
study of neighboring (and flourishing) territories
under foreign control, are certainly valuable.
To those who cough, and those who need
Too frequently to blow their noses
At church or public meetings, heed
The secret that my pen discloses.
No need to be a nuisance now,
To man or child or maid demure.
How can yoii stop ? I’ll tell you how—
Dose up with Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal. “ Riding- to Win.”
Her Majesty’s “ Dorothy Vernon.”
Criterion “ Bleak House.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Town Hall Madame Dolores.
•Queen’s Hall Fisk Jubilee Singers.
Hippodrome Bohemian Dramatic Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Little Michus.”
Princess’s Blanche Arral.
Theatre Royal “ Man’s Enemy.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
♦
Miss Tittell Brune continues to be a re-
bellious daughter of the old nobility at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney. They seem to have had
some curious ways, this old nobility of Elizabethan
times. The head of the Vernon house not ap-
proving of his one spoiled chick’s choice of a hus-
band—though, being the heroine, the chick has,
of course, made the best choice—he calls up the
butcher from the slaughter-yard to give her a
thrashing, and the butcher goes about the job as
though be had been brought up to it. The
deformed jester is another Elizabethan property
which the American author of “ Dorothy
Vernon ” works for all he is worth ; a
privileged imp, he moves in and out of the
plot, making wise suggestions, and generally
proving that, by lights, he ought to have Bur-
leigh’s job. Maurice Dudley is the wise fool of
this performance ; and probably out of'considera-
tion for his obvious Scotch ancestry, he doesn’t
make any jokes, in spite of his cap and bells.
The picturesque melodrama will run for another
week, sure ; in the last week of this brief Tittell
Brune season other things may happen.
** * *
Miss Beatrice Holloway undertook, at
Sydney Criterion, on Saturday night, a difficult
task in pourtraying “Jo,” of the Dickens’ drama,
“Bleak House.” Success must be won by the
strength and fidelity of the character sketch of
the street waif. The play itself lends no help.
With three acts and 11 scenes it fails entirely to
give any coherent idea of Dickens’ story, and
if it succeeded it would gain little, for the
strength of Dickens didn’t lie in plot or in
the carrying through of an idea to a logical
end, but in the irrelevant sketches of curious
types that he scattered through his works.
Boiled down to its story, a Dickens novel
represents the commonest and tritest melodrama;
it is the humorous pictures of humanity that make
his works live, and these pictures can’t be com-
pressed into the limits of a stage performance.
Therefore, Dickens’ works have, as plays, been
failures—mostly very bad and unwieldy failures.
“Bleak House” is no exception ; it doesn’t fail
as, say, “ Our Mutual Friend ” would do, for that
would probably be the last possibility in the way
of failure, but it is a work of very limited stage
possibilities. It gained some popular favor by
Jennie Lee’s pathetic delineation of “Jo,” the
street waif, who was always moved on; and it is
Miss Holloway’s ambition to revive that popularity
by the same means. When she is credited with a
fair amount of success—she certainly won the sym-
pathy of a packed audience on Saturday night—
a great deal has been said in praise. Probably,
too, her performance will improve with the run
of the piece. At present it is hardly consistent-
good in places, but falling off now and again.
* * * *
In the strictly subordinate parts of “ Bleak
House” the Holloway Co. shows well. Such
minor characters as Inspector Bucket (Mr. John
Hesford) and the Coroner (Mr. J. P. West) are
very well played, but most of the others pitch
their reading in far too high a key. There
is nothing unctuous about Chadband —he
is just a roarer; and Guppy is a tra-
vesty. Miss Rosa Conroy, as Lady Dedlock,
acts well in the pathetic scenes, but her
haughty pride is overdone to a cinder; and Miss
Ethel Appleton as Hortense is also far too melo-
dramatic. The production of “Bleak House” is
excellently illustrated, the stage pictures being of
the best. But it needs throughout to be played in
a lower key. That will give the star a better
chance to get to the right note of plaintive misery.
** * *
“In London Town” retires from Sydney
Royal stage after Friday, and the Australian
melodrama, “Riding to Win,” takes its place.
Though the name doesn’t suggest it, “ Riding to
Win” deals with cycle racing, and the wheelmen
are triers, and will be personated on the stage by
“ well-known local riders.”
** * *
After an interlude of three years, Mdlle.
Dolores, her Voice, and a repertory of
400 songs are again reducing Sydney to
a mush of admiration. Two concerts given
at time of writing filled the Town Hall
tb a tight squeeze. This is Mdlle’s. fourth visit,
and if her popularity goes on working up in the
yeast-like way it has done, she will have to hire a
park next time of calling, or give up all hope of
accommodating her audiences. Since the soprano’s
last visit she has learnt to sing German songs, and
all the Hochderkaisers of musical standing in
Sydney assert she sings them as exquisitely
as she does those of her own French
land. English, French, German, Italian songs,
airs from operas, ballads, old Elizabethan airs,
rustic gems and classic excerpts—the singer soared
over the vast musical field with the vocal ease
and grace of Shelley’s skylark in the opal
sky. Her voice range is from a fine D to
upper 0, and its management is such as
to place the soprano above criticism. The
Tait brothers, who are piloting Dolores, will pro-
bably induce her to give a matinee on Monday,
but her last advertised concert is for next Thurs-
day. The pianist, Franz Wells, is a player of
skill and refinement, and his hair is a cross be-
tween Paderewski’s and Percy Grainger’s; so he
has much for which to be thankful.
* #
The most notable thing at the Tivoli these
cold nights is the hop of Seymour. The hopper is
said to be 46, but that isn’t mentioned in the bills
by way of advt. Bills and the world are cruel to
the aged. If a youngster of seven can wreck the
Hesperus in a stormier sea than other youngsters
of seven, the bills print in large type that the
cheild is nearly six, and the world is expected to
come early to avoid the crush. But it wouldn’t
matter how violently a person of 94 could wreck
the schooner; no bill would ever mention that the
wrecker was 96£. If it did, it would simply be to
appeal to the world, of its charity, to turn up, and
not be too hard on the old chap. Yet, as an
oldster of 94, he might be more remarkable than
the other is as a youngster of seven. So Seymour
has to battle through on his merits, and, in double
harness with Dupre, he can still do it. Little
Cliff (observe how they “star” the “little”) is
removing his nimble legs from the premises at the
end of the week, and it seems likely that his patter
and his other properties will leave at the same
time; wherefore, this week is a very good week
to go to the house of Rickards.
** * #
“ The Little Michus,” like “Yeronique”
from the same source, is another reminder that
French comic operas are not very humorous, as
this country understands the meaning of the word.
They have brightness, gaiety and bustle, but no
humor or satire to speak of. Leaving Gilbert and
Sullivan’s classical works out of the question, an
average Australian audience can get more enter-
tainment from the story of “The Orchid,” which
is cynical, farcical comedy, than from the
libretto of “The Little Michus” in its Eng-
lish translation. The clumsy wording of
the Anglicised lyrics, which may have been
neat enough in the French original, is an-
other noticeable weakness. The music of the
songs seems wanting in sweet melody, as a rule,
owing to the fact that the lines don’t lilt. This
defect is even more marked than it was in “ Vero-
nique,” where several of the numbers had a charm
in the vocal rendering, apart from the daintiness
of the orchestration. The present opera contains
nothing so fetching as the “Apple Tree’ song
and chorus, the “Swing” song, and the talking
song for the postillion and girls in Messager’s pre-
vious work. Neither is the narrative so spicy in
its love interest. It is the mildest of French
opera yarns. It might pass the censorship of
Judkins.
« * » *.
On the other hand, “ The Little Michus ”
gives opportunity for more grotesque fooling than
is common in modern comic operas, and Mel-
bourne dearly loves a flavor of panto, with its
musical entertainment. The action, moreover,
is very diversified in character; each of the three
scenes has its own individuality, and none of the
principal performers are allowed to behave like
irresponsible persons. They come along as occa-
sion requires. Lauri, for instance, doesn’t appear
at all in the Ist act, or take a prominent position
in the 3rd. He has a very good part, but it is not
pushed forward out of its proper place. If he
creates a more important effect than anybody else
it is because he is Lauri, and his manner is large,
and his sham red nose stands out boldly in profile
—a remarkable feature of the proceedings. He
offers no explanation of his nose. It is just a
gratuitous absurdity, and he has to spread himself
all he knows to keep it in countenance, so to
speak.
* * * *
It can’t be said that “ The Little Michus ”
displays any members of the Williamson Co. to
special advantage. In the name parts, Miss
Florence Young is associated with Miss Alma
Barber, neither of them being “little” or light
enough for her character. Miss Young is the un-
roniantic real Michu, who takes a healthy interest
in her parents’ cheesemongery, and desires to
marry the shop assistant, whilst Miss Barber is
the unreal Michu, in whose veins runs the blue
blood of General Lauri’s nose, and who sighs for
the tender passion of Reg. Roberts, the hero of
her romance. As a sentimental lover, the new
lady is at least more convincing than the re-
turned tenor, for Roberts has improved in
his vocalism only during his two years’
absence. His attempts at emotional utterance
are worse than before. He has the loud, soulless
tremolo of a Salvation Harmy preacher. Claude
Bantock is a colorless papa Michu. Mis 3 Clifton,
as Madame Michu, diffuses her customary air of
good temper, and there are important parts for
Fred Leslie and W. S. Percy. Leslie’s rasping
voice and nigger-minstrel, methods are not too
aggressive in this case ; but Percy, for his part,
frivols unintelligently instead of putting in a
quaint original character sketch. The honors of
the production fall to the well-dressed chorus, and
Andrew McCunn’s orchestra, and the general
management of the show. A great audience
crowded Her Majesty’s (Melb. ) on Saturday night.
Probably it was not, in a great measure, a disap-
pointed audience. Its ear had not been tickled by
the music, but its appetite had been liberally
catered for. “ The Little Michus ”is a satisfac-
tory thing to look back upon.
# % sfc *•
Within the past seven days this scribe has
reminded himself, after personal inquiry into the
matter, that “ Honor Thy Father,” at Melbourne
Royal, is an old melodrama revived, and one of
the most amusing in Anderson’s collection. A
couple of sorrow-stricken parents and many other
people wander into the trouble, and walk out of
it, and wander back again for the sole purpose of
making “situations.” “Honor Thy Father” is
a drama in which everybody hovers around, wait-
ing for chances to score some public sympathy at
the villain’s expense. Incidentally, the villain
loses his eyesight through being pushed into a
lunatic’s armchair, and from that time forward
his enemies merely defeat his wicked ends with-
out jeering at his discomfiture. But they never,
by any chance, drop a penny into his tall silk
hat. “Man’s Enemy” is the melodrama ap-
pointed for Saturday.
* * *
Madame Blanche Arral, a prima donna
from the Opera Comique, Paris, and an artist
whose reputation, seemingly, ought to have
reached Australia long ago, but didn t, announces
a forthcoming appearance at Melbourne Princess’s.
The advt. concerning Blanche Arral has the
charm of mystery. She will represent a pro-
grame of “song, recital, and scenes from operas,”
on Saturday next (18th), but the inevitable
full particulars had not come to light at time of
writing. Madame Arral, however, came to light
at a Marshall Hall concert last Saturday, when
her warbling of the Polacca from “Mignon ” and
Michaela’s aria from “Carmen” was a pleasant
surprise to a critical audience. No artist of her
high quality has ever previously come to Mel-
bourne unheralded by a flourish of trumpets.
** * *
The most muscular of the new people at
Melbourne Opera House is Brinn, who lately
sought the bubble reputation under the cannon’s
weight in Sydney. Brinn’s heavy juggling with
shot and shell and cannon has an impressive
appearance of dangerousness, but it is not a grace-
ful work of art, anyhow. He might as well
devote his strength to hoisting a brewer’s dray
laden , with many hogsheads of beer. Thusfar
strong men have not juggled with hogsheads of
beer. Miss Cassie Walmer, an octoroon danseuse,
is a welcome stranger at Rickards’s, and a sweetly
original jumping entertainment is supplied by
Agustin and Hartley. The lady partner in this
turn does a fair half of the work. When both
partners are blindfolded, and they finally arrive
together at the interior of one empty barrel in the
middle of a table a tired journalist feels grateful
to Agustin and Hartley. They have revealed
quaint novelties in gymnastic exercise, and the
revelation has been quick and lively.


Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES.
Lowest Bates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
%
THE GREATEST APPETISER AND PICK
ME UP IN THE WORLD.
MIGHTY
ALOR
“ Bitter** or “Sweet.**
SCIENTIFICALLY AND FRESHLY PREPARED FROM
THE
FAMOUS KOLA NUT
(Oola Acuminata).
MADAME ALB AN I,
The Queen of Song- and friend of Her Majesty Queen
Victoria, constantly drank ALOK, especially
after fatiguing: work.
All Hotels and Clubs, with Soda Water, 6d.
ALL CHEMISTS, 2/6 and 3/S per Bottle
Sole Maxufact treks, *
FISHER & CO, Chemists,
337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ALWAYS ASK FOR “ALOK."
Melbourne City Council can take credit
for good showmanship in its engagement of
Edwin Lemare, from England, to take first strike
at the reconstructed municipal organ. Lemare’s
recitals have proved an amazing success, con-
sidering the lack of frivolity in the entertainment.
He opened the series to a merely large audience,
and all the subsequent audiences have been larger,
which means that the Council, after paying the
organist his fee of £45 for each performance, and
charging rent and working exes, against the
receipts, will make a handsome profit on the
speculation. The series of 12 recitals has been
extended to 16, and the last of these extras
will probably fall due on Saturday next
week. Meanwhile, Lemare is giving four
lectures, at the Athenaeum Hall, to the disciples
of Wagner. He has invaded the domain of
Marshall Hall and is receiving the homage of the
Elect, with Lady Northcote at their head.
*# * *
“The Australian Dramatic School” had
one night out at Melb. Athenaeum Hall last week,
for the awful purpose of presenting two pieces of
puerility, written by one Arthur Clarke, the young
man who runs the “school.” Regarded as a
“ star ” actor in ofce of his pieces—a tlirefi act farce
containing six characters only—Arthur Clarke
was merelyatall, unobjectionable amateur, of good
stage appearance, shining by comparison with an
undersized youth clothed in a tailor's misfit. But
in his other capacities of author and dramatic
schoolmaster, the aspiring Arthur deserved hauling
over the coals when they are hot. His comedies,
and many of the raw amateurs who walked and
talked in them, were shocking things to put upon
any sta; 3 at popular prices. An advt. on the
programme stated that more plays will be staged
at regular i: »rvals, ladies and gentlemen being
“guaranteed public appearances as they attain
proficiency.” If the principal offenders in last
week’s display were specimens of proficiency, a
performance by an unproficient lot of scholars
would probably, be rather better.
** * *
The Man who wasn’t really from Mexico
has rioted through his appointed week at Adelaide
Royal with great success. It is a foolish play ;
not in the same street with—to take a fair subject
for comparison—“What Happened to Jones.”
Also the author’s ideas of stagecraft are primitive ;
and some of the minor characters overact a good
deal. But the piece has about 300 laughs in it,
and for their sake an audience will accept any-
thing. “ The Talk of the Town” is winding up
the brief season.' Boxing-gloves play almost the
leading part in it. Palotta gets into them first,
and after that Hugh Ward is stoushed frequently
and freely. The “Palace” Co. at the Tivoli has
put on a new Strong Man—pocket edition.
He is called (for no apparent reason) Ben Hur,
and on some evenings—but not all—he allows a
701 b. stone to be dropped on to his abdomen from
a height of 3ft. Robert Scott is a rather clever
“sketch” actor in this co. G. H. Reid has
starred for one evening to a crowded house at the
Exhibition, the Gornck family continues tuneful
on the sackbut and psaltery and various other
instruments at the Town Hall, and the ice-rink
works hard to vary its attractions. There is
something extra-amusing in watching a perfect
stranger fall down flat if he is costumed as a
policeman, or as Someone’s whisky.
AT POVERTY POINT.
On the last night of R. G. Knowles at Melb. Princess’s,
he had Premier Bent among his audience. Bent sat in
the front row' of the d.c., and listened gloomily to
Knowles’ stories until he fell a-slumbering. Later on he
recovered consciousness, and resumed his smileless state
of attention. Evidently he was bored to death by the
entertainment, which is a pretty good testimonial to
Knowles’ humor. A more labored funny-man, with a
number of puerile jokes, would have kept Bent in roars
of laughter. Mark Twain, in his younger days, stated as
a fact, that he made a practice of reading portions of his
manuscript to a rather woolly-headed man-servant, who
knew him only as Mr. Clemens. The man sometimes
laughed heartily at the cheap surface wheezes, but
never moved a muscle at a dryly humorous story. He
was the infallible test of their merit (as humor went at
the time) until a great change came over him. He
smiled the moment he entered the boss’s room, and
laughed at everything the boss read to hint. He had
learned that Clemens was Twain, and his usefulness as a
test was exhausted. Previously he had been an unbiassed
critic, like Bent, incapable of understanding a non-
aggressive joke.
“ Hamer ” : “ Skull’s ” anecdote about the boy engaged
to represent guileless enthusiasm in the audience (B.
5/7/’O6) would be all right if “ Skull ” didn’t make the boy
come for his wages. It W'ould be a poor show’ that
couldn’t get an army of boys for such purposes merely by
-passing them in free. In towns where the people were
jad vised on the bills to ‘ ‘ come early to avoid the crush,” but
stayed away to avoid it, I have frequently let little boys
Pfo in at half-price to make a house, to attract guileless
passers by with the idea that the hall was pretty full, and
-something attractive must be on to bring it to that un-
usual condition. In city or country the average boy can
be relied upon to do any amount of hard work connected
with a show for the sake of a pass.
The Manly (Sydney) Chute has.shot its bolt, and a scene
■of demolition, tumbling architecture, collapsing planks
and falling stanchions now marks the place where it used
to chute.
Queenie Cadden, an Australian girl, recently back from
London, has just joined Williamson’s Royal Comic Opera
•Co. She was a member of the original Female Quartette
in England. The other members were Kate Rooney,
-Constance Evelyn and Kate Traill.
Melbourne City Council, after spending a huge lump of
money on its organ, now inflates its chest and proudly
declares that it has the finest organ in the world. If the
finest organ means the one with the most complicated
mechanism, then the Melbourne City Council has got the
article. Lemare, the star performer who is supplying
recitals at 45 guineas a time, has managed to drag out
some grand music from the instrument ; but then it is an
open secret that before he started serious work on it he
made the workmen unhitch a whole lot of the electric
fakements so that the machine might be easier to handle.
He considered that an organist needed sometimes to
think about the piece he was playing and not turn him-
self into an electrical engineer and devote his whole
thoughts to the complicated contraptions set in front of
him. The Council knows that its instrument is as intri-
cate as the Athanasian creed, and it consequently argues
that there is no local organist of sufficient ability to grind
a tune out of it. So a doctor of music from Belfast (Ire-
land) has been engaged to come out and take the billet
of city organist. Since the Belfast man is acknowledged
to be inferior to Lemare, he will probably unhitch a few
dozen more of the electrical combinations hung on the
organ, and possibly it may occur to the Council then that
a local organist could have filled the bill with equal credit.
But everybody on the Council just now seems to have the
“ imported ” mania badly. In their yearning for foreign
talent, the councillors didn’t even select their own
organist, but got a man in Edinburgh and a man in
London to do it for them. And, just to show that they
had no bias in the matter, these two selected the man
in Ireland, Dr. William George Price.
“ Melb.” : Miss Gena Coppin replaces her lamented
father as one of the directors of Melbourne Theatre Royal
Proprietary Company. That is the way the ladies are
coining on. Miss Coppin was familiar in the city, driving
her father about in the buggy. She was the last of a
succession of daughters in that duty. I don’t know
whether her name is Iphigenia, or something like that,
or only Gena, as she is called. She inherits a good deal
of her father’s talent, not only in finance, but in theatrical
business, though she doesn’t attempt to act. She staged
and managed the Christmas pantomime of “ Santa
Claus.” In the last Melbourne season of the Bland Holts,
Miss Coppin was intimately associated with them. The
present George Coppin has not come under my notice
for some time. He appeared on the stage a number of
years ago as George Selth, his father’s name being George
Selth Coppin. Afterwards he acted in the suburbs under
his own name. Seeing him take a character in the
“ Private Secretary," I was much interested, because it
seemed that he must be exactly like what his father was
when he first arrived in Melbourne in 1845.
Melbourne Sporting and Dramatic News reports that
“ Mr. Basil Gill was at latest appearing as Clive in
‘Colonel Newcome,’ a play founded upon Thackeray’s
‘ Pendennis.’” Ye gods! Presently we’ll be told that the
young man is about to take the part of Nicholas Nickleby
in “ Bleak House,” a play founded on “ David Copper-
field.”
The Johnny adorers of stage divinities are rather more
pronounced in New Caledonia than in this country.
When the State Fair—a Vic. show —was located at
Noumea, the girl members of the co. were haunted on
their homeward way, after the performance, by a number
of youthful Frenchmen, breathing fervent invitations to
supper. Every night the ardent followers grew more
pressing, until at last “Jim” Miller, the business
manager, expostulated with one or two of them. Miller’s
expostulation had the desired effect, it seems. Probably
his French accent broke them up. During the rest of the
season they merely sat persistently in the front seats and
looked unutterable love.
Irene Ainsley, the young Maoriland contralto who has
lately been nestling under Melba’s wing, becomes “ Irene
Zelanda ” (she might have made it “ Maorilanda”). The
advent of Ernestine Boomerang or Eustacia Waddy
Coo-ee draws closer every day. Also, the figure of Ruby
Paddymelon Australis looms mistily in the middle dis-
tance of the future.
According to the Chicago (U.S.A.) Tribune (Chicago is
the Beef Trust city), “Nance O’Neil took the poor
debtor’s oath at the" Pemberton square court in Boston
on May 22. She lost heavily in the San Francisco fire,
nearly everything she owned in scenery, costumes, and
stage effects being destroyed. Her step was unavoidable,
she says. She has postponed the production of her new
play, ‘ The Story of the Golden Fleece,’until next season.”
The exact meaning of the “ poor debtors oath ” isn’t
clearly understood on this side, but it sounds as if poor,
stormy, red-headed Queen Elizabeth was so hard up that
she had to go broke on credit.
The old theatrical phrase of “ under the management ”
of Mr. So-and-So is being superseded in America and
England by the announcement that one or other of the Jew
magnates “ presents ” the star performers of the co. in
his latest production. For instance “Mr. Frohman
presents Mr. Seymour Hicks and Miss Ellaline Terriss ”
whilst “ Mr. Gaston Mayer presents Mr. Harry Fragson
and Miss May de Sousa.” The minor members of a
company are not presented at all. They merely appear
as supporters of the principals whom the Jew manager
presents. Observe the attitude of the modern autocrats
of the theatre ! They take the popular actor and actress
by the hand and patronisingly present them to their old
friends, the public. In the ceremony of introduction the
Jew gentleman is a magnificent figure. He represents
the Theatrical Trust. He pulls the strings of Art. He is
the bloated capitalist who owns the stage.
Dear Bulletin,— l am now fearlessly organising a
monster crusade against the letting of the Exhibition,
Melbourne, for the holding of dog and poultry shows.
Even as I write one of those disgusting spectacles is in
progress. I may be a pioneer thinker, but my intellect
tells me that the tenants of the adjacent houses are quite
possibly incited by the barking, etc., to language that is
less sacred than profane. With the Rev. J. Umbuck I
dauntlessly counted 337 persons passing the building
!in a comparatively short space of time. Some
of the women were actually striding like navvies.
There were also two (2) females who entered the
institution swinging their parasols as a bricklayer
might his hod. Their language (the females’) showed the
shocking prevalence of a word that rhymes with
“sham.” I drew the attention of a policeman to this
fact, but he impudently asserted that they were only dis-
cussing pedigrees, and that the word I shall not men-
tion signified a lady dog who had become a mother.
Upon this I took his number without a moment’s hesita-
tion, though the man looked at me. But there was one
to apply the balm of merited praise. “ Mr. Hudkins,”
said the Rev. J. Umbuck, “ may I say that you are a
brave and noble man?” “Sir,” I replied, “you dome
proud! ’’—Yours pluckily, W. J. Hudkiks. P.S.—I
enclose my photograph for reproduction.—W.J.H.
“Cliff”: The advance agent of a third-class travelling
co. has the most thankless job on earth. The opening
night depends on him. If the business turns out bad, it
was his fault. If good, the managersays, “ Oh, it was the
printing that did it.” In the “smalls" agents have to
paste the printing on the walls and fences, “ work ” the
papers, arrange the hotels for the company, fix the
carrier, and keep their wits about them to circumvent
any opposition, or to disappear from the town if a circus
happens along. Meantime, they have to pretend to shout
for everybody, but gracefully allow other people to pay
when they insist on it. When the inevitable frost happens,
the company disbands, the manager vanishes, and the local
people get up a benefit for the stranded pros. But the
agent—where is he ? In a town, perhaps several hun-
dred miles away, ignorant of everything. He has spent
his last penny in wiring, he has to wait for the travelling
mailman to tell him the facts. If the agent has no trade
he is often found next as a rouseabout in the yard of the
pub., living on the thought that one day he’ll be J. C.
Williamson, or Anderson, or Edwin Geaeh. His one solid
advantage is that he is usually too far ahead of his co. to
see it wrestle with “East Lynne,” or “The Liver on the
Door-knob.”
“ Melb.” : I hear that “ The Two Orphans ” was selected
by Clement Scott as one of the 20 best plays. Let me try
to fling down an apple of discord by giving my 20 of the
best English acting plays, alphabetically, only one by
each author: —“Caste,” “Camille,” “Colleen Bawn,”
“ Corsican Brothers,” “ Crichton,” “ David Garrick,”
“Fedora,” “Hamlet,” “ Ingomar,” “Lady of Lyons,”
“ Lights o’ London,” “ Magda,” “ Rob Rov,” “ School for
Scandal,” “Second Mrs. Taiiqueray,” “She Stoops to
Conquer,” “Silver King,” “Still Waters Run Deep,”
“ Sunday,” “ Two Little Vagabonds.”
“ Nym ”: Met the evergreen Dan Barry at Codville
(North-eastern Victoria), looking prosperous. Dan has
jilted his old love pro tern., and is running a biograph
show to crowded houses. The crowd just tumbles over
its collective self to hear Dan orate over the scenes, and
the flickergraph is quite a secondary adjunct when Daniel
is raging in full blast.
“ C.N.” : Many years ago, I was running a small show
at Newcastle, and played to good audiences until opposi-
tion came along with a wax figure of Louisa Collins, the
Botany poisoner, as its star item. My show was deserted.
We didn’t take sufficient to pay for the gas, and the only
people who would come near the doors were women, who
would step up and ask me. “ Is this where Louisa Collins
is?” I was new to the business then, and said “ No,”
on which they would depart for my hated rival. The
exchequer was running low, and 1 saw that things could
not go on very long that way, so I wrote down to Sydney
for the wax effigy of a middle-aged woman. The people I
sent to wrote back saying that they had nothing to suit
me except a figure of Queen Victoria in her coronation
robes. I thought for a minute, then I wired back, “ Send
Victoria along.” I borrowed an old blouse and skirt from
one of my song and dance artists, substituted these for
the red velvet robes on the figure, and put out a big
board with the legend: “Just added. Louisa Collins,
the Botany Poisoner. Modelled from life before execu-
tion.” The crowds rolled up in thousands and used to
stand in front of the figure saying what an awful face it
had. In three weeks I had taken all the show money in
the town, and my rival had been driven to a tent at
Maitland, where he only got a precarious living by
including a man who tied live snakes round his neck.
Don’t talk to me about Empire Day being a ridiculous
function.
Portly Charles Saunders, who toured Australia years
back as a concert tenor, goes about twenty stone in the
balance nowadays. This is against him" when singing
pretty tenor ditties about girls, but he is thought a lot of
when his clarion voice defies Philistine giants and others
in Oratorio.
“F.”: .Apropos Mrs. Elizabeth Winstanley, the first Aus-
tralian actress to appear in London, as mentioned in a re-
cent Bulletin. The following obituary notice appeared in
The Australasian (Melb.), 22/6/’67 Winstanley— On
the 10th instant, at her residence, No. 2 Webb-street,
Fitzroy, Mrs, Elizabeth Winstanley, mother of Mrs.
O’Flaherty aud Mrs. Xiinines, of London, aged 72 years.”
The Winstanleys were in Sydney in the mid-thirties. We
find two of the name—William Winstanley; sign painter,
and Mrs. Winstanley, straw bonnet-maker, both in
Hunter street in 1835. In 1844 Mrs. Elizabeth Win-
stanley kept a tobacco shop at 296 Pitt-street, five doors
North of the Clown Tavern, then kept by George Coppin.
In 1847 Mrs. Winstanley sold tobacco and snuff at 112
King-street, and in 1850 the versatile lady kept the Nag’s
Head, at 193 Pitt-street, a few doors south of the School
of Arts. This is the lady whose death is recorded above.
Her daughter, Miss Eliza Winstanley, was the actress who
took to the stage in the thirties, and played the Desde-
mona to the Othello of Arabin on the opening night of
the old Victoria Theatre, Pitt-street, Sydney, March 26,
1868. In the orchestra of the theatre was Mr. H.
O’Flaherty (musician) who resided at Mrs. Winstanley’s,
at 296 Pitt-street. Miss Winstanley became Mrs.
O’Flaherty, and played for a time under that name. She,
however, appears to have renounced the name, possibly
on O’Flaherty’s death, and reappeared as Mrs. Winstanley,
under which name she played in England and Australia.
In private life, however, she seems to have retained the
O’Flaherty, as shown in the obituary notice. The Mrs.
Ximines mentioned above vm connected, with the Vic-
toria Theatre in 1847! This scribe has a picture of Mrs.
Winstanley as “Mistress Quickly.” At the death of the
mother Mrs. O’Flaherty and Mrs. Ximines were in Lon-
don. It is understood that the former died about 20 years
ago, at Woollahra.
A recent biographer records a quaint death-bed remark
of English tragedienne, Isabelle Dallas Glyn. A kind
lady, who was overflowing with commiseration regarding
Miss Glyn’s approaching end, received the stately reply:
“ Madam, my greatest successes in life have been death
scenes.”
Alfred Sutro, author of “ The Walls of Jericho,” has
written a French playlet—“Mme. la Marquise’’—which
was produced in Pans lately. It is said to be almost too
morbidly improper for the Parisians. The Marquise is a
morphia-maniac of the giddiest character. Strangely
enough her amour with a young doctor is the only one in
which her husband bowls her out, although, in the ordi-
nary way of social life, the medical man enjoys immunity
from danger. His opportunities with the lady patient
are so private and particular. When this careless prac-
titioner gets caught, the outraged hubby poisons his wife
and desires her lover (the doc.) to fix up the mat f er plea-
santly with a certificate of death from natural causes.
The doc., however, is in favor of administering an emetic
or something, to save Madame’s life, but the husband
catches him round the throat, and, whilst they are strug-
gling on the floor, the lady breathes her last. The doctor
signs the certificate.
“ F.”: Towns in North Queensland at present should
be booked for short seasons only. Rockhampton two
nights, Mt. Morgan two nights, Townsville not more
than three nights, Charters Towers r.ot more than four,
Cairns two, Mackay two. One thing that should be kept
in mind is that the Townsville people are mad on music,
and love opera, but abhor drama. Charters Towers, on
the other hand, gloats over melodrama, and isn’t keen on
music.
“ Hamer ” : Occasionally, when some prominent city
actor is ill, or dead, or something, or wants to make
people feel his loss—which they generally don’t feel as
much as he expects—an understudy is announced to pre-
sent his part, at some remarkably short notice. But, as
a rule, that alleged makeshift has studied that part
about as long as his principal, and the remarkably short
notice is mere flam. The really wonderful performer is the
useful provincial actor, who is liable to be shovelled, at
practically no notice at all, into a part he has never seen be-
fore. He is a marvel. He reads the lines off the documents
that represent the forged will, or the warrant, or the pass-
port ; or has them pasted on the paper that contains the
news of the death of the hero’s rich relative. I once knew
an actor who undertook to play a heavy part almost on the
instant. In addition to the devices I have mentioned, he
had some lines on his cuffs, which he found handy in the
places where he wept bitterly ; some more on his mother’s
portrait, which he gazed at fondly and addressed patheti-
cally ; and he had pi< ces of paper pinned to all the scenes
with more lines. But his real triumph lay in having the
remarks he had to make when he was reconciled to his
heavy father, pencilled on that weighty parent’s shirt-
front. Never shall I forget the wrath of the weighty
parent when the news was broken to him that his biled
rag was to be made a convenience of in this way.
Beerbohm Tree is said to use as his sole stage stimulant
the stodgy penny bun. Strange how diet affects acting.
The story told by the husband and his
witnesses in the Mulholland divorce case, recently
heard in Sydney, differs in some particulars from
the evidence usually tendered in similar proceed-
ings. The wife, it said, was addicted to drink,
drugs, spirit-rapping, and three co-respondents
(which would be sufficient to keepa lady busy). He
claims to have been a fairly indulgent husband.
He sent her on a trip to Maoriland at a
time when, he alleges, she was beginning to
consider herself a cut above him, and to
stick out her chest —or her bust. On the
voyage—so his story goes—she met the first
“ c 0.,” who was the manager of a variety show.
After she returned she corresponded with him,
and when the servant interfered, as Merely
Mary Ann is so fond of doing, and told
the husband of the alleged proceedings, the
husband sent her away on- two more trips.
The accused parties in the case don t appear
to have frequented the “certain house” so often
mentioned in happenings of the kind, but pre-
ferred, the allegations allege, to linger longingly in a
graveyard, where, on one occasion, thelady received
a message from her husband to be careful and not
sit on her hat. (It is a considerate husband that
will look after his wife’s hat what time she is
mooning round with another man in a cemetery.)
As to whether, on any occasion, the respondent
went to the cemetery on a damp, cold day to re-
cover from the effects of drugs, and there met the
alleged co-respondent who was suffering from
neuralgia, and whether they spent the time in
copying epitaphs, the evidence doesn’t reveal.
Also, the verdict upset a good many of the hus-
band’s allegations. But it was a curious case.
The discovery in the Torrens River (Ade-
laide) of the mutilated and bagged remains of
Mrs. Habibulla may possibly tend, for a time, to
discourage the white woman with the lamentable
tendency to marry our Asiatic brudder. Mr.
Habibulla was 40, and his wife, a comely white
woman, was much younger. Habibulla was
wealthy and lived up a lane, which is a
way the rich Asiatic has ; and he seems,
also, to have been morose and grumpy. The
trouble began on Sunday night or early on
Monday morning, when Habibulla’s horse brought
Habibulla’s blood-stained cart to the house of
Habibulla’s mother-in-law. The rest was a mere
matter of investigation. The police theory is that
when Habibulla, with the horse and cart and
the deceased bagged wife, reached the river, he
forgot to tie up his horse, and while he was getting
the remains put of the cart the animal bolted. This
(again according to the police theory) left Habi-
bulla with two alternatives—either to leave his
wife on the river bank, where she might be dis-
covered, and run like all perdition after the horse,
or to submerge the wife and then run like Gehenna
after the horse. The police reckon that he decided
to get rid of the wife first, and when he did run
like the very devil after the horse he couldn’t
recover it, that contrary animal having rushed,
with the evidence behind it, to the wrong house,
and delivered the cart into the hands of the
Philistines. After that Habibulla didn’t even
take the trouble to burn the dead woman’s blood-
stained clothes, which were found in a heap under
the bed.
Bent seems to have struck one of his lucid
intervals in his Bill to help the unemployed obtain
small holdings. Prosperity is based on employ-
ment, just as reason is based on the employment
of good sense, which can be greatly assisted by
D.C.L. Whisky. In fact, every interval is lucid
to the man who regularly, but not too often,
lubricates his intellect with the Whisky of the
Wise.*
The Australian National Defence League
(N.S.W. division) has begun the publication of a
magazine, The Call, with the excellent purpose
“to awaken Australians to realise that the
defence of our country is the duty of all.” The
first number of the publication is bright and
interesting. Norman Lindsay contributes an
excellent cover design, and there are articles by
.T. C. Watson, Colonel Campbell, the Bishop of
Queensland, Professor MacCallum, A. W. Jose,
and others.
A prompt and rigorous gas extinguisher is
needed in the House of Peps, if anything useful
is to be done before the dissolution. Some Budget
records that sopped up precious time : Treasurer
Forrest, financial statement, three hours; Harper,
harping, two hours; Joe Cook, mostly snarls,
three hours; Johnson, mainly anti-bonus wails
and Bill’s-dirt-money weeps, two hours and a
half; and the misguided King O’Malley, of the
Hat (who used to be sensible in this connection),
three and three-quarter hours.
Quinine that does not affect the head,
Laxative Bromo Quinine Tablets represent
Quinine, combined with other ingredients, in the
most acceptable and efficacious form for colds,
influenza, grip, or any catarrhal disorders. Head-
ache and feverish, or malarious conditions. At
all chemists, Is. l|d.*
Extract from a letter received by Dr.
Arthur, president of the Australian Immigration
League, from a Scotch farmer in S’Africa, who
wants to come to Australia -
I have been in this country 24 years, and every year
seetns to get worse. It was much better before the Boer
war. It has been bad ever since.
The attempt to regenerate a country by filling it
with Chinamen seems to fail every time.
THE CIRCUS LION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The spoil of cunning human hands
The tawny lion lies,
Dreaming, perchance, of desert sands
And far-off Lybian skies.
He sees the tombs of kings rise dark,
The moonlight on the plain . . .
While a pale, narrow-shouldered clerk
Makes comments on his mane !
He rises, snarling at the hands
That point their feeble fun,
And longs, upon those midnight sands
To see the red blood run.
He beats the rougii boards with his tail,
His great jaws gnash their rage,
But what can royal strength avail
Against a bar-set cage?
His muscles strain, his eyes grow dark,
He crouches for a spring. . . .
Secure, the flaccid, weakling clerk
Baughs at the Captive King !
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


Furred vSßlras
Rabbit vSKins
FORWARD YOUR CONSIGNMENTS TO—
HILL CLARK ®. CO.,
Wool and Produce Salesmen, SYDNEY.
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
THE VOICE THAT BREATHED O’ER
EDEN.-" EVEI ”
King Edward is said to have given strict
, \ , D • .„ i r
•instructions that, in future, no subaltern is to be
appointed to the Brigade of Guards until his
testimonials, and a memorandum dealing with
his school life, past career family connections,
&c„ have, been submitted to him persona ly for
his approval How humorless is a King ! The
royal Edward sees nothing droll in this demand
as coming from one who got his appointment to
the Throne without having submitted any test.-
monials to anybody.
Ewing, M.H.R., having been Acting
Postmaster-General, speaks as an expert
when he complains that the delivery of
mails is much retarded by attractive
girls. The trouble arises from the
fact that nice-looking maidens rush
to the door to take in the letter
when they hear the familiar
rat-tat, and then detain
the susceptible young
postman with frivo-
lous conversation.
There is a sad
side to this
situation which
even the ex-
pert has not
grasped. The
sorrowfulness
is best ex-
pressed in the
love-story of a
young Syd-
neyite (s a y /
John Jones) f
whose boss
h ear tless ly
shifted him out
to a branch in
the wilderness
just as he had
won the virgin
affections of the
sweet young thing
who was most
necessary to his
felicity here below.
However, Matilda
promised to cories-
pond freely, and .John wrote twice a week.
Presently the dear girl urged him to write
oftener, so he made it three a week.
Matilda was not yet satisfied; she con-
tinued to urge him to write more and
more, and John was so delighted with
this manifestation of her pure young
affections that he wrote daily for quite a
while. Then, just as lie was starting to
write twice a day, Matilda informed him
coldly that he needn’t write at all, for
she was engaged to the postman. Her
desire for letters from the old mash was
only a base conspiracy to bring the new
mash to the door. A more honorable
Matilda, who was mashed on another post-
man, used to enclose bits of newspaper to her-
self in envelopes in order to bring the object of
her silent adoration to her doorstep. She got
8p used to taking the letter from him and throw-
ing it carelessly in the fire that she burned, un-
read, an offer of marriage from a young farmer
with over 300 acres of freehold, unencumbered.
• • • •
The widening of Camp bell-street, Sydney,
begins another discussion about the improvement
of that city. The present policy seems to be to
leave plenty of room for improvement. For
instance, months or years ago, an unsightly old
hotel was pulled down at Circular Quay, and the
triangular block of land on which it used to linger
was reserved to make a little garden at the front
sea-gate of Australia. That block of land has
remained a waste ever since—a patch of dust in
summer, and of mud in winter.* Sydney City
Council, which was understood to have taken
over the block temporarily from the Harbor
Trust, hasn’t even thrown a bit of grass-seed at it.
The frowsy, unkempt, dirty spirit still rules that
body, which has the government of a city blessed
by Nature above almost every other city on earth ;
and though it dreams now and then about doing
something, the amount actually accomplished is
infinitesimal.
*** . *
“Pinky,” that cheap S. Australian wine
which is sold at about gd. per bucket, has got
another bad advertisement. - Ada Hassett, the
pale, thin little woman who says she struck her
husband on the head with an axe—and he looks
like it—bought three bottles of the fluid shortly
before the unfortunate circumstance happened to
Mr. Hassett.
* * » *
“ S.S,” : Archbishop Carr (R.C.) refuses to
follow the Melbourne Anglican Archbishop’s cue,
and shut down on church
bazaar lotteries. The church
raffle, he says, is not . a
gamble; it is “a pleasant
game of chance.” How any-
thing can be a game of chance
without being a gamble the
eminent one doesn’t say.
Personally, I don’t think the
church raffle is either a
gamble or a game of chance.
It is more like plain rob-
bery. I’ve known the same
article to be raffled three
times in one night at a church
bazaar, the winner on each
occasion being persuaded by
the prettiest girls available
to give up the prize “for
the good of the cause.” I
don’t know what would
happen to him if he didn’t
give it up ; that uncertainty
supplies the only element
of chance or speculation in
the business. Personally, I
think he would be Lost.
Judkins was badly flattened out at a
Methodist rant at Brighton (Melb.) the other
night. Brighton is the place where Bent foams
and tl f o Council ac { jourued to hear the Rev.
Judk ’ im t The un ! llev , Bent theu rol i ed
heavily on the pl a tform , and orated, and by the
; had declaimed a lot of the ancient nigger-
minstrel business that he caUs poetry) an /£ ad
o{ his illulish song th £ heart of
Bn | hton Methodism was touched, and it cheered
h f Bremi while Judkins glared balefully
f a c ' rner of tbe platform,
THE ETERNAL DISH.
“ I don't think much of Jones as a lawyer; he
seems to make a hash of everything he gets.”
“ It's hereditary. His mother kept a boarding-
house.”
This is a hash-house lady’s wail :—•
Some weeks ago I saw an advertisement from a lodger.
He was looking for a landlady who “ had not seen better
days.” Some people thought it an excellent joke, like
the clown’s ancient string of sausages. Probably Elijah
made that remark to the widow whose cruse of oil and
barrel of meal never diminished. But I humbly ask : “Do
you think a woman could have worse days than the evil
struggling ones when she becomes Mrs. Todgers?”
Dickens faithfully portrayed the troubles of that lady,
simply on the question of gravy. The landlord gets the
lion’s share of the money, and the unfortunate widow
has usually to feed several rapacious, lean, hungry, half-
paid mortals at about Is. a day each to make her profit.
Consequently, after some months of being Todgers, she
is sold up and goes out scrubbing. The wife of a navvy
is a queen compared to the lone woman who takes in
boarders. I’m not quite sure that shovelling coals for
Lucifer Would not be a pleasant pastime in comparison.
HOW WE CONTRIBUTE.
MRS. QUIDS: “ Now, about that charity ball we're going to ? Give me a cheque for £25?
MR. QUIDS: “ But, my dear girl, isn't that rather a big contribution to charity.”
MRS. QUIDS: “ Don't be an ass, George. It’s for the frock I’m going to wear at it.”
Two volumes of Queen Victoria’s poor but
honest letters, carefully edited by Ned VII. and
his satellites, are about to fall with a sickening
thud at the feet of an unappreciative public,
Now that our health laws have become so stringent
as to the US9 of unprinted paper for food parcels,
it really seems superfluous to forward any copies
to Australia.
* * * *
“Martyr” Worrall, interviewed in Sydney
(he is not going to Fiji, but is touring Australia,
where the limelight is), was still sore in the head
because, when he was "admitted into the fellow-
ship of Thy suffering,” the railway carriages on
the road to the Cross were not of the best quality.
\lso it transpires that he took a cab to Parlia-
ment House from the railway-station (the ordinary
citizen, who isn’t on his way to martyrdom, takes
a tram). Mr. Worrall would have been safe as a
martyr even in Nero’s days; no lion could have
got its teeth through his hide, to say nothing of
the fact that a swift cab could easily keep ahead
of a lion. * » *
, , . iii
If your muscles ache it may be your blood
— Wolfe’s Schnapps cures’rheumatism. If you
need a bracing tonic for general exhaustion,
Wolfe’s ScliN'.U'FS is the best in the world.*
The really irresistible lady-killers, the
wholesale bigamists who pick up moneyed brides
as they travel around, and take a new name every
time they get married, are all of the on) Claude
Melnotte type, and well-seasoned Claudes at
that. Their stock-in-trade is “style” and fashion-
able intelligence. They are never accused of pre-
tending to be persons of strong noble character
such as women reverence—in novels. They
merely pretend to be baronets, or lords, and they
go to America for their dupes. The fellow who
called himself Lord Sholto Douglas, &c., seems to
have brought off two successful marriages per
annum, on an average, up to the time when one
of his deserted wives took the trouble to get on
the track of his Past. He talked about his
brother’s castles in Scotland, and his aunt s
palaces by the Lake of Como, and he said
“haw!” in a tone that no maiden’s heart could
withstand. Even now that they have found him
out the women don’t disguise their admiration for
his “style.” He might return to all of them and
be forgiven in every instance. He was a man
after their own taste. The charm of him is
beautifully expressed by one wife who paid 0000
dollars for the joy of calling him husband. “He
was a most likeable wretch, and could tell such
entrancing stories of the British peerage that you
could almost feel yourself being presented at
Court.” And she an American ! Any country
may have a republican form of government, but
no country thusfar has achieved a republican form
of woman. Woman doesn t reason ; she only
feels. And she likes to feel herself being pre-
sented at Court.
* * *
“Gyp’s” narrative :
That story (8., 2/S/’OG) about the humorous Sydney
rag-man who once invited a shop-lifting lady to swallow
a box of medicine in his office reminds me indirectly of
something. When the soft, good-natured young man
gets hopelessly “gone” on the bar-girl, he’s a very hard
thing to shake off. Knew one of his kind once in Sydney.
His "name wasn’t Percy, but it should have been. He
said he wrote what he called poetry, hut there was only
his word for that. His love-making, and his statements
about his poetry, drove a bar-girl of my acquaintance
nearly crazy. Finding persuasion of no avail he used
threats. One day he was going to shoot her. The next
he was going to shoot himself, but he never did—that
was the worst of it. One morning he announced solemnly
that he intended to poison himself in the girl’s presence.
She hardly hoped for so much. However, he marched
tragically into the bar in the afternoon, seized a
glass and emptied a white powder into it. Adding water,
he drank the contents, then, with a fearsome yell, he
fell back against the wall, quite livid. The girl
had been bearing up strongly against the prospective
loss of Percy, but she didn’t expect him to bellow close
to her ear in that fearful fashion. The dying shout of
Percy unnerved her and nearly blew the roof of her head
off. She shrieked for the proprietor, and just managed
to pant out that there was a perpendicular corpse on the
premises before she fainted. The proprietor was tall, and
swift, and gaunt. He whirled Percy round on his axis,
seized him by the back of his garments, and rushed him
to the nearest chemist. The distance was 100yds., and
Percy’s feet only touched the ground once on the way.
The publican hurled Percy through the door, and ordered
him to be pumped out. The chemist only laughed.
Percy had gone there for the poison, and had got himself
up so carefully as the prospective suicide—with disor-
dered hair, and a wild eye, and a slouch hat, and a hollow
voice, and a manuscript clutched bitterly in his paw—
that the chemist reckoned on taking no chances, and
charged him 3s. 6d. for a penn’orth of something with
flour in it.
Love’s young dream cut short in the S.M.
Herald to save the extra sixpence :
QELECTOR, ab. 30, £2OO (all prop, inch), wd. mar.
LJ Girl ab. 21-25, not afr. lon. backblock and rough
begin, to make, lov. modest home and help each other
through life. Lov., trustw. wife main wish. Will be
Sydney fr. Aug. 3to 8. Like meet then.
Write Mr. S. CHARLES,
Havmarket P.O.
A Hindu hawker, taking the oath at a
Vic. up-country police-court, the other day, was
asked whether he knew what would happen nun
in the future if.be didn’t tell the truth, i |ie
lean and dusky citizen replied, “Me get a pen-
sion.” All the same, his evidence for the prose-
cution was accepted, and he got the other teiiov
sent up for 14 days.
* * * *
Last Monday the news was telegraphy
from Adelaide that the Melville Island—tie
ship with the litigious Bluenose captain ana tne
starved crew, which made so much excitement m
Melbourne—was ashore on bhoalwater roint.
The Bluenose captain spent so many weeks in
Melbourne trying to do small, mean breakages oi
the law that he only got away in time to meet
the father of a head wind which converted »
vessel into a sort of I lying Dutchman.
latest trouble is on a piece with the rest ot ms
luck. # ,
* We niay now ; gay „ ood .b ve
To the long doctor’s bills,"
To the coughs and the colds
And the various chills.
F The^iclfanTthe^oor' ’
Have found all they need —-
Woods’ Peppermint Cure.*
THE DISSIPATIONS OF THE DESTITUTE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The destitute and unemployed were more often than
not to blame themselves for the position they were in,
because they wasted their wages in drink and other dissi-
pations. . . . Gambling was rife, also, amongst the
poorer classes, who very rarely attended church, and did
not heed the warnings of the church. . . . He had
noticed lately that the collection receipts were falling
off.— Excerpts from recent sermon by the Bishop of Man-
chester.
Sons of Belial! sons of Satan ! wicked squanderers of
wages,
Dead to every voice of warning ; though the righteous
parson rages
’Gainst your terrible libations you refuse to hear his
bawling,
Though for your sakes (it’s his business) he is ever, ever
calling,
Asking you to stop your gambling, check your wicked
lust for beer,
And your awful dissipation
Which will earn your soul’s damnation —
Talking thus is his vocation —
Yet like stubborn mules you heed not, and refuse his
voice to hear.
Dead to virtue ! Dead to honor ! Dead to every pious
feeling,
You won’t notice his implorings, nor attend his words of
healing ;
But you spend your weekly substance in the liquor that's
got froth on,
And give heed not to the wailings of the gent with
sombre cloth on ;
Though he points out where you’ll go to when you leave
this earthly sphere
You refuse to heed his warning,
And, his lamentations scorning,
Pawn your watch-chain in the morning
Just to spend what you raise on it in imbibing pints of
beer.
Prodigals and dissipators ! Do you know where you are
going ?
Won’t you take the path so narrow that the godly par-
son’s showing ?
Will you still invest a sixpence in that awful vice called
betting,
Though you know each time you do it nearer hell you’re
swiftly getting ?
Now’s the time to turn a new leaf, now’s the day and
now’s the year,
From such vice your soul dissever,
Listen to the parson clever,
Or you’ll go Below for ever,
If you spend your “ nothing weekly ” in the awful stuff
called beer.
Do not mind if you are hungry; just attend Unto the
churches;
Listen to the mellow voices of the parsons on their
perches ;
Do not jeopardise your only soul immortal by not going,
;Show the Lord your earthly duty—as per preacher—you
are doing;
You can die then as you should do ; aye, without a
trace of fear,
If you leave off dissipation,
Help to swell a congregation,
And with naught of hesitation,
Place spare silver in collections that you’d rather
spend in beer.
N.S.W.
T. A. NICCODES.


gsd
■GOOD POSITIONS FOR
GRADUATES.
“Home Study” post free.
STOTT & HCARE’S
Business College, Sydney.
La
'^^2-
p\
'f Hpt
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, 89C. FBG St. Martin, Paris, Prance
Correct SPRING Clothes.
3
Guineas
. Every known art will be employed in
fashioning and finishing my Spring Suits
in the best possible manner.
Designers of acknowledged skill.
Expert cutters make perfect fitting a
certainty.
Experienced tailors assemble, make and
finish the work accurately in every
particular.
Patterns, Fashion Ptates and Self-Measurement Forms POST FREE.
R. C. HAGON, Merchant Tailor, 12 9 King St., Sydney.
“Ropata”: A novel and economical de-
parture was, not long ago, witnessed at a burial
business in a Bay of Plenty (Maoriland) township.
The doctor died, and his friends, either from a
desire to keep down expenses or to give a familiar
look to the future residence, instead of the eus.
tomarv inscription, screwed the doctor’s door,
plate on his coffin. The last glimpse stated that
the corpse’s hours were from 10 to 12 and 4 to 6.
THERE'S BALM IN GILEAD.
WIFE : “ Oh, Charley, I’m so
ashamed. Do you know the
time? It’s exactly one o’clock.”
HUBBY : “ All rightsh, me dearsh, let'sh thanksh
Lordsh we’ve lived so longsh. Many a good
muin'sh died before twelvesh.”
The Dookie (Vic.) college liquor inquiry
was a curious affair. Dookie is an agricultural
college where youths of 17 to 24 learn how to rear
calves and lure wheat from the ground, and some-
body or other (whose name is being kept dark)
/poured into Bent’s ear a dreadful tale of booze
' regarding the students. The darksome Somebody
told a similar tale to Coldwater-Minister
Swinburne, and, under pressure from the Ministers,
a Board of Inquiry was appointed—probabl y costing
some money. Bent said that his informant was
Gurr, an ancient, very bald person who once sat
in Parliament, and whose son was at Dookie
10 years ago, but Gurr smote his hairless brow
and denied that he had ever said a word. The
Board of Inquiry went round Dookie, questioning
and cross-questioning, for some days, and dis-
covered that once, at a football match, one student
had half-a-mug of beer out of a demijohn brought
by the visiting team. Outside that half-mus not
a smell of beer could he obtained, and the Board
decided _ that the hidden Somebody was a false,
unjust, injurious libeller. So the Somebody now
hides deeper in the dark than ever.
The case of Henry White, of Sydney, is a
whole volume of essays on the folly of not know-
ing when to leave bad alone. White was a
solicitor, and in that capacity he made some
foolish mistake about a title, and let a profitable
client fall in. That was bad, and calculated to
aggravate the profitable client, but still it left
White a solicitor—a Gentleman One. Not know-
ing when to leave bad alone, he surreptitiously
removed from the Registrar-General’s office cer-
tain documents—the ones which showed that lie
had made the blunder about the title as already
mentioned. The result was two years in gaol,
and White ceased to be a gentleman by Act of
Parliament, and became a mere bloke. Then,
having failed to realise where to leave bad alone
before he went into gaol, he failed, when
he came out, to know when to let worse
remain where it was. He invented one
Albert Morris Morson—-at least, so the
courts have decided —and A. M. Morson returned
the lost documents by letter, and declared in
writing that it was he and not White who had
taken them, and that White had been wrongfully
imprisoned and erroneously struck off the rolls.
The result is that White has gone to gaol again
for three years on a charge of attempting to per-
vert the ends of justice, &c.—in fact, he was
hardly out before he was in again. And all this
arose through failure, to realise the point at which
the subject had better be dropped.
At the instance of his “ wife,” aged 60, a
Melbourne man, aged 70, applied, last week, for
a formal nullification of their unlawful marriage,
and the Court had no option but to grant it. The
parties were supposed to have got bonded nine years
ago, but owing to an absurd shortcoming in the
Victorian Marriage Law, the contract was not
valid. The woman is the daughter of the man’s
deceased wife’s sister. Had she been her own
mother, the marriage with her mother’s deceased
sister’s husband would have been binding, but
because she is not so closely related to the man’s
first wife, the Law forbids her to become his
second wife. The droll fact that a man who can
marry his sister-in-law must not marry her daugh-
ter came to light some two years ago, since when
the daughters of the male petitioner in this case
had been “ throwing-off ” at their cousin, who
was living with them as their step-mother. Had
she been their aunt, they would not have been
entitled to “throw off,” but as it was too late to
alter the relationship, the 60-year-old lady took
advantage of the.slop-made law to get respectably
disunited from her mother’s deceased sister’s
widower. This case opens up the question
whether a man may marry his sister-in-law’s
grand-daughter, who might happen to be of
the same age as himself, and a peculiarly
suitable family match. And, if not, why not?
A woman of 40, married to a man of 30, may have
a sister aged 70, whose eldest grand-daughter
was born at the same moment as her grand-aunt’s
husband.
* * * »
Bernard Macfadden, a Yankee physical
culturist, has sent the district of Spotswood (New
Jersey) into a condition bordering on revolu-
tion. Macfadden is a crank who denounces
the wearing of clothes as a filthy habit,
and holds that man—and woman-
should live by nuts alone. He has a
following of about 200 permanent dis-
ciples, and another hundred of float-
ing population are undergoing his
physical culture processes. In order
to carry out his principles. Macfad-
den looked around the United States
for a suitable location, and finally
fixed on Spotswood, where, for the
past three months, he has had a
camp of youths and maidens who
eat raw tree-products,
sleep in the open air, and
spend laborious days
toying with masses of
iron. Their spare time
they devote to basking
in the sun or swim-
niing in the streams.
Thelocal population
of Spots wood con-
sistsof descendants
of hard old Puri-
tans, and, as
everybody—male
and female in
the Macfadden
colony goes about
in the altogether,
the local Judkinses
have raged bitterly
until their voices have
given out. Efforts have
been made to have the law
on Macfadden, but without
avail. He keeps his naked
followers on private property, and
the conduct of all his students is
D| reported by the police to be irre-
■ proachable—barring their absence
W of clothes. A blushing police cap-
’ tain, who was despatched to make in-
quiries, was met by the chief lady
instructress —a muscular damsel, who
wore her only garment (a smile) with such
nonchalance that the officer beat a flabbergasted
retreat. The arrival of winter will probably
hurst up the new creed. A nude open-air religion
has no chance in a New Jersey winter.
* * * *
America is so proud of its antiquities that,
when two Adelaide journalists were recently in
New York, an electric-car conductor pointed
to a horse-tram in one of the suburbs, and told
them it was the only thing of its kind left in the
world. The travellers were modest, and did not
boast that in their native Snailville no other sort
of tram exists yet.
v * * *
Among the voluntary instructors of their
species who held forth in Sydney Domain, Sunday
before last, was one who taught how to make
infernal machines. He had a good grip of his
subject, and minutely and in clear business style
showed how materials costing a shilling or two
could be combined in a bomb warranted to slay a
score. With ss. worth of material and a shilling
wherewith to buy, as a conveyance for his bomb,
the father of all carpet-bags at a Johnny-all-sorts’
shop, he reckoned to demolish 100 of his species.
And, despite the thrill of liis subject, a mere
sprinkling of people listened to him with a sad,
indifferent yawn.
THE PROBLEMS OF MARRIED LIFE.
YOUNG ELUDE : “ Cook , I thought I’d ask if you
had any objection to children. Would you—
er—leave us if we had a baby?”
“ W.P.8.” joins issue with “ Gip ”
J 1
“Gip ” (B. 2/8/’O6) writes in a cold voice, that the
man who goes in for a drink is a bore to the bar-lady—in
capital letters, and without exception. Now, the general
average man adapts himself to the lady’s attitude, and
if he talks bosh it is because she talks the same way. As
a rule, the lady with a high complexion and a correspond-
ing voice has a terrible lot to say, and says it darn badly,
and she wouldn’t understand sense if she saw it. Cer-
tainly there are some men in straw hats and other signs
of inanity who would bore anyone, but “Gip” makes no
exception at all. It’s rot to say that the bar woman gets
tired of the men. She doesn’t. She revels in their com-
pany. Also, “Gip” says that midnight still sees the
Johnnies leaning over the counter and making sheep’s
eyes at the lady. Midnight doesn’t, because the Johnnie,
his hat and all belonging to him, are emptied out of the
hotel at 11 o’clock, or a few' minutes after.
“ W.P.8.” overlooks the fact that it is only since
1-iat lannarv lliatthere wns nnv niinefnnlitv flhnnf
last .January that there was any punctuality ADout
emptying the dude out of the bar ; and if he was
a boarder in the hotel, his straw hat used, last
year, to blight the beer premises till much later
than midnight. For the rest, the verdict goes to
Git),” on the ground that the girl behind the
1 i‘ , nw , bnvv slip feels toward the dude in front
hai knows hoW she feels towaid the dude 111 tiont
—though she might lose her billet if she explained
ber feelings—while the dude in front only knows
how he thinks she feels.
* * * *
™-,•* , • , ,
The Factories Act inspectors have some
queer experiences. Shop-hands, anxious to retain
their billets, are slow to complain, but it hap-
pened lately that a talkative young saleswoman,
travelling by tram, told a chum that she was
used to standing, as there were no seats in the
shop. She was overheard and 111 consequence,
an inspector visited the shop to inquire. The
official first satisfied himself that seats were
acking, and then proceeded to question the staff.
-Ye,
Yes. i see no seats. We sit on the floor
the counter, abox, or anything that comes handy.
fihe inspector, sadly shaking his head over
fern,nine duplicity, next accosted a hoary patn-
arch m the men’s department.. How long have
you been in the employ of this firm ? he asked
Thirty years.” “Do you ever sit down { Of
course I do.” “On what ? Well-er-um-
f. me see-ph the window-sill, of course. At
this point, that holy pietist, the proprietor, was
informed that an inspector was downstairs asking
about the absence of seats for the hands. He
bustled to the zone of danger. “Where are the
chairs “> What has become of the chairshe de-
chairs . wnat nas oecome or tne cnairs . tie ae
nianded vociferously of a flustered shopwalker,
feigning meanwhile to be unaware of the in-
spector’s presence. The shopwalker hesitated.
“ What have you done with the employees’
chairs?” passionately reiterated the boss. “They
have all gone to be repaired,” fibbed the goaded
underling, while his master, raising his voice to
pulpit-pitch, impugned the poor innocent scath-
ingly on the text of “ neglecting the well-being of
our workers.”
“Roma”: Victoria is over-
run at present with State
school exhibitions. Each
district, or each inspector,
is trying to go one better.
Kids are kept busy
throughout the year
gathering cockchafer
beetles, birds, insects,
snakes, flies, etc., and
fossicking under bark
and in old trees for
caterpillars and dreary
vermin. Bits of stone,
old nests, scraps of
wood, and frogs—any-
thing is acceptable at
an exhibition. The de-
mand for snakes is
terrible. About a
month or six weeks
before the date fixed
for the show the
struggle begins in earn-
est. The books, etc.,
shown are supposed to
be those in ordinary
use, but in most cases
I have doubts. The
exhibition books of
many schools are
simply cop i e d
from smart pu-
pils’ work or
from the
teacher’s
books.
Science
and Nature
notes and
drawings
are often
the work
of the
teacher
also. Ordin-
ary school
work “slides”'
pro tem. The
youngsters one
academy are boasting;
that they haven’t done a.
sum or a bit of grammar for
three weeks —they spend their time
writing up fresh books for exhibition
and doing home exercises in school under the
teacher’s supervision. A teacher who doesn t
make a big show is not supposed to have caught
the “spirit of the new programme, and it is
better, under the present order of tilings, tor a
teacher to have caught the plague than not to
have caught the spirit of the new programme.
And the more toads you catch the more you have
caught the spirit of the new programme.
* * * *
“ Roma ” complains from Victoria : -
I quite agree with “ Lambda ” (Bulletin, 26/7/’O6) as to
State-school work. Taking one consideration with an-
other, there are not many points in it. It all sounds so
nice and easy when Mr. Director Tates mandates go
forth —swimming, calisthenics, nature study, brush-work,
sloyd, cooking, sewing, singing, drill, deep breathing
exercises, science, paper-work, gardening, exhibitions,
&c. Then the old arithmetic, grammar, geography, Sc.,
must not be neglected. Every bit of work done must be
dated, home work thoroughly corrected, notes ot all
lessons carefully written, &c. Classes in big schools are
subject to continual disorganisation. Some pupils have
to be allowed out on certain days for cantata practice, 01
the pursuit of rocks and insects. Teachers have to leave
their ordinry work and take charge of these extras, the-
work of the room falling on one teacher. The kid-con-
ductors who take charge of swimming pupils have to.
walk to the water-hole, or wherever it is, or pay their .owin
fares. All these interruptions to ordinary school work:
are not taken into consideration when the annual!
examination comes. Children are expected to know the.
programme work thoroughly; so the last days beioie 1
examination are days of bitter cram for the poor kids and
slavery for the over-worked teacher. When the new
syllabus came into vogue cramming was strictly pro-
hibited, but what good is the prohibition ? The struggle
to shove a quart of facts into a one-pint kid, and to drive
the square information into the round infant, has in-
creased rather than diminished, and some day the infant
will burst in the school-room.
* * * *
After unsuccessfully charging him with
half-a-dozen offences, the Victorian law authorities
at last managed to have “ Professor ” Kenip, or
Daly, convicted of annexing a horse at Cbiltern,
away h ick in April, ’99. The upstanding person
with the extended hair was nonchalant to the-
last; and, after keeping Judge Eagleson waiting
lialf-an-hour, he casually remarked that a stranger
had told him the court would not sit till that,
hour, so he hadn’t hurried. Mr. Eagleson, having
informed Kemp that he was “an audacious and]
expert horse-thief,” sent him for three years to a
place where the inmates habitually wear their hair
short. The yarns that were told by the police before
“ Professor” Kemp’s conviction, apropos the awful
trouble they had had to lay their hands on the
wild person, were mostly rubbish —intended to
explain away their own failures and paint Kemp
as a desperado of staggering slipperiness. As a
matter* of fact, Kemp, charged with hashing his
lodging-house keeper, was in the hands of the police
even during his Sydney buck-jumping season ;
and, if the Victorian force couldn’t arrest a man
when he was in a cell, it ought to be turned off
for a while to practise on catching worms.
* * * *
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
THE SPENDERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(With apologetic salaams to liudyard Kipling.)
Vo doubt but ye are the Women—your throne is above the
Man's ;
H'A oso argues with you, he well must lay his plans.
Smiling the smile most ivitful, tinging the tone with fear,
Choosing the word well sweetened if he would have you
heat. i
Dowered by your doting lathers, or husbands (if ye tie
wives),
So that your purse be plenished, so ye have smoothened
lives;
So ye may roll in motors built for the body’s ease—
Swift, little smelly motors—and with gowns to wear in
these.
Will your fathers slave at the office ? Will your husbands
toil in the towns ?
While ye swoop o’er the gusty golf-links in your triply
tailored gowns—
While ye rove the shops for bargains, casting man’s gains
before
The satined swells of the showroom and the broadelot h’d
beaux at the door.
(Tepid, aloof, smooth-coiSured, unthinking, unthanking
smart,
Will ye smother your woman’s sweetness, will ye stifle
your woman’s heart,?)
Idle, openty idle, in the face of the undarned socks,
Idle, except for your pleasures, and the planning of your
frocks,
Ordering, spending, buying, getting and still to get—
Matinees, Bridge, and massage—ye who squander forget
Wealth was not. made witli the mountains, it is not
dipped from the deep ;
Men, not ye, have earned it—men, not ye, should keep.
But ye say, “ It will mar our pleasure ; ” ye say, “ It is
good for trade.”
Do ye wait till your husband’s patience is worn like a
binding braid ?
Till they go forth at morning, and the noon beholds them
broke ;
Till they come home at even, bearing the bankrupt’s
yoke.
.Vo doubt but ye are the women — absolute, smart and
wise,
The tinsel and toys of life —these are the things that ye
prize.
At your own doors, on your own souls, the spending and
saving lies.
vie.
P. N. K.


CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY
64 Pitt St., SYDNEY APPLIANCES, Ltd- 424 Little Collins St., MELBOURNE
STEEL RAILS. STEEL TRUCKS. TRAMWAY MATERIAL.
ROBEY
Portable Engines, Tractions, Thrashers, High Speeds, Vertical and
Horizontal Oil Engines, &c., &c.
BRUNTON’S SCOTCH WIRE ROPE. Hayward’s Sheep Dips, Pearn’s Pumps, Mining: Requisites, &c., &o.
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER, Managing, Director.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bank-of-Victoria-chairman Edward '.Miller,
M. moaned at the bank’s half-yearly meeting regard-
ing Premier Bent’s policy of paying off debtsout of revenue,
or paying foreign debts by means of local loans. “We
have remitted £1,700,000 to London this year," Miller
mourned apprehensively, “ and if we remit another
£4,000,000 next year, it may be a Strain upon our Re-
sources, and money may become scarce and dear. There-
fore, I think it would be wise to renew part of our loan in
London." Miller is preaching, in an inverted sort of way,
the doctrine that The Bulletin always preached, that it
is better to keep the money in the country than to send it
away. But The Bulletin’s idea—which is also Premier
Bent’s idea —is that it is best to pay off the principal of the
foreign debt and keep the interest in the country, while
Miller’s idea is to keep the principal in the country and
send away the interest. M.Uer, to avoid sending away,
say, £4,000,000 to repay tlie principal of a debt, just now
would renew the loan for perhaps 30 years at 31 per cent,
and send away £4,200,000 in interest, and then have to
send away £4,000,000 to repay the original debt after all
—total sent away, £8,200,0 )0. The Bulletin would rather
send £4,000,000 away, and be done with it. It wants to
send away just about half as much money as Miller does.
Moreover, just now Australia has its pockets full of gold,
and can afford to send away £4,000,000. If it renews the
debt, the final and peremptory demand for the money
may come when its pockets are uncomfortably empty.
Miller said in his speech that it was an unhappy state of
affairs when money was dear. His policy would culmi-
nate in a time when money would not be simply dear —it
would be compoundly dear. And then the banks might
once again “ stand or fall together,” as they fell together
before.
* » • »
One good thing will be remembered to the
credit of Premier Garrutliers —his Bill providing that
N. Government stock registered in London may be
transferred to Sydney, but that - stock registered in
N.S.W. must not be transferred to London; in other
words, that foreign debt may be transformed into local
debt, but that local debt can’t become foreign debt. In
this matter Bent, of Victoria, was ahead of him, but it
was a good deed none the less.
# * * ■#
The Melbourne Tramway and Omnibus Co.: —
Net Re-
serves,
includ-
Dividends on ing capi-
£2so,ooo actu- Writ- Added talised
ally paid by ten- to Re- Re-
June, Profits. Shareholders. off. serves, serves.
1896 £40,069 9J p.c. =£24,000 £16,069 £396,090
1897 51,978 9j „ „ 24,000 £15,000 12,978 409,068
1898 43,159 9£ „ „ 24,000 19,159 428,227
1899 56,629 11*,, ~ 28,800 10,000 17,829 446,056
1900 73,270 15£ „ „ 38,400 10,000 24,870 470,926
1901 107,505 24 „ „ 60,000 10,000 37,505 508,431
1902 92,538 24 „ „ 60,000 10,000 22,538 630,969
1903 80,944 19 „ „ 48,000 32,944 663,913
1904 104,579 24 „ „ 60,000 44,579 608,492
1905 102,555 24 „ „ 60,000 42,555 651,047
1906 156,407 24 „ „ 60,000 96,407 747,454
This extraordinary result for 1906 is partly due to the re-
covery of £24,758, paid as municipal rates on the lines. Even
so, however, it is a prodigious return ; and no wonder
that, in a burst of joy, the directors wipe out the last of
the goodwill item “ Interest and sinking fund on deben-
tures of Tramway Trust, paid during construction of
lines.” The balance of this item was £31,366, and it is
now wiped off in one act. The following (giving totals
of the various reserves) shows what has been done with
the profits that have not been paid in dividends :
1905. 1906.
Capitalised profits £230,000 £230,000
Renewal reserve 270,546 269,841
For return of capital .. .. 77,200 109,902
Dividend reserve 12,000 12,000
Depreciation of investments .. 20,000 20,000
Other depreciation 45,000 80,000
Undivided profit 27,668 25,711
£682,413 £747,454
Less goodwill item in process of
extinction .. .. .. 31,366 Nil
Net reserves £651,047 £747,454
Showing net additions of £96,407 for the year, after
paying a dividend at the rate of 24 per cent, on the
actually-paid capital. Apart from the £24,758 previously
mentioned, the year shows £29,094 more profit than its
predecessor. Traffic receipts (£479,035) were £19,550
larger, interest (£22,797) was £4707 more ; and on the
other side rates amounted to only £10,915 as against
£14,248. These items account for most of the remark-
able spring in profits. The small balance is accounted for
by the fact that, in spite of the increased traffic receipts
of £19,550, working expenses were actually reduced.
Fuel, insurance, repairs and maintenance, wages
(£125,390), and general charges amounted to £232,145, as
against £234,375 the previous year.
What a lucrative business it is the foregoing
shows. But it is actually more lucrative than even that.
For it also Daid £45,000 into a sinking fund to extinguish
the debenture debt of the Tramway Trust. The munici-
palities of Melbourne formed this Trust and raised
£1,650,000 to build the tramways, which they then
handed over to the co. till J uly 1, 1916, when the whole
undertaking will pass back to the municipalities. The
co. has to pay interest, provide a sinking fund (which
till 1905 was £33,000 a year, but now is £45,000), and
maintain the lines, &c. The co. itself put up £250,000
to equip the lines; subsequently £230,000 of profit was
transferred to capital. After paying interest on the
Trust’s debentures, and the sinking fund, and writing
down leaseholds, and paying for repairs, and spending
£BOl7 on renewals, the profit, apart from the recovered
rates (£24,758), shows £52 13s. per cent, on the £250,000
paid by shareholders. The co. has now given many of its
hitherto underpaid men an extra sixpence per day. It is
a small, belated, but welcome mercy ; and it almost looks
as if the co. could afford it.
The co.’s paid capital now is nominally £480,000
in 960,000 shares. In liquid assets, after paying its debts,
it holds £590,148. Of non-liquid assets, exclusive of
leaseholds, it has £394,334, mostly freeholds. Together,
these items represent £984,482, which is equal to 20s. 6d.
per share. Possibly some idea of what the co. may do in
the next 10 years may be got from what it has done in
the past five. Take, then, this comparison :
June, ’Ol. June, ’O6.
Liquid Assets .. .. £400,303 £876,443
Freeholds 253,455 250,903
Other Property .. .. 154,436 143,431
£808,194 £1,270,777
Less Debts .. 67,347 286,295
Surplus .. .. £740,847 £984,482
An increase in assets of £243,635 in five years, after
paying for renewals, and providing for dividend. That is
to say, the co. has 20s. Od. per share now, of which a
fraction over ss. has been provided in the past five years ;
and it has 10 years more to go. One thing, however, to
consider is whether, though it has written down its non-
liquid assets, it will be able to get book value for them.
• • » *
The National Bank of Maoriland :
Carried
Net Dividends. to Re- Reserves.
March, Profit. serves.
1897 ..£21,461 5 p.c. =£12,500 £8,961 £33,657
1898 .. 26,538 6 „ , 15,000 10,538 44,195
1899 .. 38,466 ' 7„ „ 17,500 20,966 65,161
1900 .. 42,348 8„ „ 20,000 22,348 87,509
1901 .. 65,785 10 „ „ 25,000 30,785 118,294
1902 .. 64,933 10 „ „ 25,000 39,933 158,227
1903 .. 54,533 10 „ „ 25,000 29,533 187,760
1904 .. 60,643 12 „ „ 30,000 30,643 218,403
1905 .. 49,907 12 „ „ 30,000 19,907 238,310
1906 .. 60,857 12 „ „ 30,000 20,857 259,167
The year’s experience was really better than these figures
indicate, because £lO,OOO was appropriated to writedown
premises, and the staff got a bonus of £3500, while £3500
was handed to the officers’ pension fund, instead of £3OOO
in 1905 and £2500 in 1904. During the year 50,000 shares
were offered to shareholders at a premium of £1 ; but,
though a considerable amount has been received on
account of them, they do not rank for dividend till
Ootober Ist. The old issued capital was in 100,000 shares
of £7 10s., of which £2 10s. was paid ; 60,000 more shares
are now allotted, and a further 80,000 are in reserve. Of
course all the shares were applied for. A 50s. share
carrying 12 per cent., issued for 705., shows a return of
£8 Us. 6d. percent. ; and anything like that isn’t liable
to be spurned. It practically means a bonus of 30s. or
£2 per new share.
The figures of the National Bank of Maoriland
fairly well explain how the continued progress is main-
tained :
1905. 1906.
Notes in circulation .. £247,126 £268,872 Inc., £21,746
Bills in circulation, &c. 415,309 489,908 Inc., 74,599
Deposits .. .. 3,218,481 3,440,456 Inc., 221,975
Liquid Assets .. .. 1,079,425 1,148,623 Inc., 69,198
Advances .. .. 3,226,684 3,532,973 Inc., 306,289
Premises, &c., .. .. 80,617 72,099 Dec., 8,518
So the advances have outpaced the deposits, though the
increase in that line has been marked. In Australia, on
the other hand, thougn deposits have poured into the
banks, there has been no local demand for the money,
which has consequently been shipped to England, to be
let out there at about 2 per cent. The Commercial Bank-
ing Co. of Sydney has 64 per cent, of the public’s money
in unproductive cash, and in other liquid assets ; in 18
months its London balances have sprung from £15,000
to £1,917,034. But the National of Maoriland has been
able to find highly profitable use for both its own and the
public’s money, and only 27 per cent, of the latter is re-
presented by liquid assets. Thus the Maoriland bank
has only just half the N.S.W. bank’s proportion of
idle and semi-idle money ; and if it can make only 1
per cent, out of the public’s money in use, that means
£11,500 a year to the National. Australia is as good a
country as Maoriland ; but Australia has a fool tariff, and
anti-Sosh foolishness, and a horror of a progressive land-
tax, &e. ; while Maoriland has fairly high Protection, a
progressive land-tax, compulsory land resumption, &c.
Arid the difference between those two policies means, at
the very least, £11,500 extra profit for the Maoriland in-
stitution. Probably it actually means nearer £23,000 ;
for the Maoriland bank can not only use more of its
money, hut it doesn’t have to chase clients and offer
them loans at ridiculously low rates. On its shareholders’
funds the Commercial of Sydney made last half-year at
the rate of £6 4s. 6d. per cent, per annum. Here is the
record of the National of Maoriland ;
1900 .. £l3 3 2 per cent. 1904 .. £l3 17 2 per cent.
1901 .. 16 10 6 „ „ 1905 .. 10 13 11 „ „
1902.. 17 12 7 „ „ 1906.. 10 8 3 „ „
1903.. 13 7 2 „ „
And the profits on which the more recent figures are
based are net, after large deductions for writing-down
premises, &c. Even the bank clerk has shared in the
prosperity ; not only has a fine pension fund been built
up for him, but he gets a bonus. Yet it is hard to say
which shudders most at the thought of a graduated land-
tax and the other Maoriland horrors —the Australian
bank clerk or his boss.
* ♦ * *
Queensland Trustees, Ltd. (Brisbane): —
Dividends and Added to Re-
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves, serves.
1897 .. £1077 S£ per cent. =£927 £l5O £653
1898 .. 1195 4 „ „ 1060 135 688
1899 .. 2248 7 „ „ 1856 392 1080
1900 .. 3359 8 „ „ 2121 1238 2318
1901 .. 2367 8 „ „ 2121 246 2564
1902 .. 3928 8 „ „ 2121 1807 4371
1903 .. 2546 8 „ „ 2121 425 4796
1904 .. 1576 6 „ „ 1590 4782
1905 .. 2122 6 „ ~ 1590 532 5314
1906 .. 2171 6 „ „ 1590 581 5895
This co., like most trustee cos., charges a corpus com-
mission (from 1-) to 2| per cent.) on the capital value of
the estate, as well as an annual commission ; but it does
not show how it deals with the corpus commission—
whether it credits itself with the full amount when the
estate comes in, or whether it reserves some of it to help
the annual commission pay the subsequent expenses of
management. If the latter is not done, then, as the
annual commission does not always cover expenses, it
might easily happen that the co. would show no profit
at all in a year in which no new estates of much value
came in ; or, to make a profit, expenses might be cut
down to the detriment of the administration of trusts.
For a business of such great importance as they transact,
trustee cos., as a rule, supply ridiculously little informa-
tion as to their methods. The Queensland co.’s figures
are erratic:—
1901. 1904. 1905. 1906.
Revenue .. .. £6967 £5995 £6658 £7245
Salaries, fees .. 3464 3417 3426 3656
Other expenses .. 1007 877 972 1283
Profit on funds p.c. £B/11/9 £5/4/10 £7/1/3 £7/2/1
The variations suggest that the corpus commissions are
not spread out evenly over the period which it is esti-
mated a trust estate will take to wind up. On the other
hand, the commission may be taken credit for in lumps
as the estate is disposed of—and there is less to complain
of in that system. For the first time the value of the
estates in hand is shown —£1,408,236. The expenses
(apart from depreciation) are equal to 7s. per cent, on
that amount. This is extremely high—almost, if not
quite, the highest in Australia, so far as can be made out
from published figures. The Ballarat co., with less
estates on hand, works at ss. 2d. per cent.; and that has
been viewed as high. The S. Australian office, with
£1,413,954 of trusts—j ust about tlie same as the Queensland
office —is run at a cost of 4s. Bd. per cent. ; and the
bigger offices get down to about 2s. 6d. per cent. Pro-
bably there have been special circumstances about the
year’s work ; but, even so, the rate, judging by past years,
is high, and accounts largely for what, for a trustee co.,
is a poor return on capital and reserves. Whether the
people interested in the trust estates are getting the ad-
vantage of very superior administration is another
matter, and, as to that, the figures tell nothing.
The Perpetual Trustees, Executors and
Agency 00. of Tasmania (Hobart)
Divs. and Written To Re- Re-
Profit. Div. Tax. off. serves, serves.
June, 1901 £454 6 p.c. = £315 £139 £4490
Dec., 1901 1404 8 „ „ 420 984 5474
June, 1902 703 8 „ „ 420 £255 28 5502
Dec., 1902 677 8 „ „ 420 257 5759
June, 1903 796 8 „ „ 420 713 5422
Dec., 1903 676 8 „ „ 420 256 5678
June, 1904 685 8 „ „ 420 265 5943
Dec., 1904 717 8„ „ 420 297 6240
June, 1905 818 8 „ „ 420 398 6638
Dec., 1905 653 8 „ „ 420 233 6871
June, 1906 718 8 „ „ 420 298 7169
A steady, profitable little business, about which not too
much information is given to either shareholders or
clients. Capital and reserves show for the half-year a
return at the rate of £8 10s. 3d. per cent, per annum.
The co. owes £7052 ; and among its assets—accounting
for nearly half of the total —is the item “ Sundry debtors,
£10,880,” which is vague. All revenue is lumped into one
item, so what the investments are yielding is hidden ; and
they may therefore be absurdly over-valued without any-
one being any the wiser. The law relating to 'r us tee cos.
badly needs attention. As matters stand, a trustee co.
could have lost all its capital and reserves, and still
flaunt enticing figures in the public eye. This co. isn t
that sort of co., as far as The Bulletin knows; but it
isn’t the law that stops it from being that sort.
• * » *
Castlemaine Woollen Co. (Vic.): —
Written To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividend. off. serves, serves.
1902 - 5 p.c. = £l3OO £2034
1903 £2214 4„ „ 1078 £4OO £736 2770
£lB9O of reserves transferred to capital .. 880
1904 2155 4 p.c. = 1156 750 249 1129
1905 1320 3„ „ 900 420 1549
1906 1280 3„ „ 900 380 1929
This is deplorable. Year by' year shows a shrinkage in
profits, while the Australian imports of apparel and soft-
goods for tlie first six months of the year represented
£5,062,848 as against £4,461,188 in the first six months of
19U5, an increase in foreign imports, mostly of goods that
this and other Australian co.’s could make, of £601,660.
The co. pays a wretched 3 per cent, dividend; but it
shouldn’t, for it lias apparently charged nothing
whatever against revenue for two years for wear
and tear, and an annual 6 per cent, on ma-
chinery and plant alone would absorb £1393.
Fortunately, unlike some others, the (Jastleinaine Woollen
00. is not drifting into debt, though it lias £2900 of
debentures and £6224 of an overdraft. But if it isn’t
drifting into debt to others, it is drifting into its own
debt; that is to say, it is using up its plant (which repre-
sents its capital) and is not replacing it out of revenue.
And that can only continue for a little while, until the
plant has to be thrown aside. The present tariff has had
a fair trial, and has proved utterly ineffective. The
brutal alternative now is to sack the employees, scrap the
plant, and write off the capital as lost, or raise the tariff.
Going oil as at present will mean death in the end, and a
short, sharp shock is better than a lingering agony.
w m » *
Walkers, Ltd., engine-builde.s, &c. (Mary-
borough, q.):—
Dividends and Written Re-
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. off. serves.
1896 ..£10,368 10 per cent. =£6371 £7500 £6,293
(£3620 forfeited capital written off assets.)
1897 .. 922 Nil 7,215
(£4O forfeited capital written off assets.)
1898 .. 4,702 6 per cent. = 3344 2500 6,073
1899 .. 2,003 5 „ „ 3344 4,732
1900 .. 4,126 5 „ „ 3344 6,514
1901 .. 6,113 6 „ „ 3363 8,264
1902 .. 1,029 Nil 2000 7,893
1903 .. 1,485 Nil 9,378
1904 .. 1,523 Nil 10,901
1905 .. 1,428 Nil 4600 7,720
1906 .. 2,182 Nil 6500 3,411
A little more activity in Queensland mining, a little more
settled feeling in the sugar business, and this co. is able
to show £2182 as available for writing down the book
value of assets to cover depreciation, &e. But though
the mining and sugar businesses are better, the
tariff stays where it was, so the foreigner benefits
most by the improvement—so far, anyway, as the supply
of plant is concerned. “At no time were the workshops
occupied to the extent of one-third of their capacity,” the
directors report, even though, in the struggle against
foreign competition, prices were cut to the bone. Of the
£6500 now written off, £4OOO is applied to reduce the
book value of land and improvements, and £2600 goes for
depreciation of buildings. The reserves are reduced to
£3411; and probably they are nominal. Plant, in-
cluding patterns, is in at £37,735; and plant and pat-
terns, for- which there is no use in Australia, are poor
assets. The co., which prospered in a modest way under
the fairly-effective Queensland tariff—the tariff that
Queensland’s recent visitor, G. Reid, had no hand in
framing—had put by something for renewals, extensions,
<ssc. With this it has now been able to pay off half the de-
bentures, so that only £10,576 remain ; and that is a
relief, for they carry 6) per cent, interest.
* » * *
The North Shore Gas Go. (Sydney):—
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1901.. £3776 7 per cent. = £3719 £57 £5,522
June, 1902.. 3742 7 „ „ „ 3790 6,474
Dec., 1902.. 6453 7 „ „ „ 3937 2516 7,990
June, 1903.. 4724 7 „ „ „ 4153 671 8,561
Dec., 1903.. 6495 7 „ „ „ 4997 1498 10,059
June, 1904.. 6366 7 „ „ „ 4408 958 11,017
Dec., 1904.. 6782 7 „ „ „ 4768 2014 13,031
June, 1905.. 6484 7 4812 672 13,703
Dec., 1905.. 7229 7£ „ „ ~ 5270 1959 15,662
June, 1906.. 7474 7£ „ „ „ 5465 2009 17,671
Of this half-year’s profit £2OOO is turned into the reserve
fund. Apparently this reserve is independent of the
allowance for depreciation; anyway, the net profit is
stated at £5474 “after allowing for reserve and depreci-
ation.” But if the £2OOO is reserved profit, there is no
reason why it should not be shown as profit; the chances
are, therefore, that it is a reserve for renewals, and, to
some extent, is also a sum set aside for depreciation.
Whether the true net profit is £5474 or something con-
siderably more is therefore open to doubt. Compare the
position with that of five years ago :
1901. 1906. Increase.
Capital £106,250 £149,892
Debts (including suspense
accounts .. .. 6,451 20,899
Total liabilities.. .. £112,701 £170,791 £58,090
Fixed investments .. £106,816 £168,909
Other assets .. .. 15,068 25,018
Total assets .. .. £121,884 £193,927 72,043
Growth of reserves in five years .. .. £13,953
But it still remains unsettled whether anything, and if
anything how much, has been written off plant, &c.
(fixed investments), for wear and tear. In the 1901 half-
year, the total assets earned net, according to the profit
and loss account, £6 2s. 6s. per cent, per annum ; in the
past half-year, £5 12s. 9d. per cent, per annum. That
suggests either that the book-value has not been vigor-
ously written down, or that the works into which capital
has been put in recent years are not as profitable as the
older works were. This is a case, however, where one
has to almost entirely trust the directors and “go
blind ” ; and the man who can get inside information has
all the advantage.
* * * *
Broken Hill and Suburban Gas Co. (N.S.W.):
To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
1904 £2401 6 per cent. = £1694 £707 £5636
1905 2986 6 „ „ „ 1694 1292 6928
.1906 3165 6 „ „ „ 1694 1471 8399
Of the reserves, £2296 is a replacement fund and £6103
undivided profits. The former is probably counter-
balanced (or more) by depreciation which has already
occurred. Nothing, for instance, is written off this year,
and it does not appear that any extensions have "been
paid for out of revenue. All the provision made to cover
wear-and-tear is the addition of its own small interest-
earnings to the replacement fund, and the payment for
current patches. Revenue is improving—1904, £6093 ;
1905, £6BlB ; 1906, £7873. But, in the absence of' any
sign that renewals are being provided for adequately,
suspicion rests upon both the profits and the reserves set
out above. Nevertheless, even reckoning the £3165 as
gross profit, the dividend is moderate ; for the £1471 un-
divided, and available for writing down, is equal to some-
thing over 5 per cent, of the book-value of the whole
undertaking. The co. has only trade debts ; its liquid
assets are £4642 in excess of liabilities. Twelve months
ago thev were £3952 in excess.
* * » »
Rockhampton Gas and Coke Co. (Q.)
Dividends and Written De-
Profit. Dividend Tax. Off. licit.
Dec., 1903 ..£1614 {^ P p.c. P o 7d! [ = £7l3 £747 795
June, 1904.. 1501 tfp.c. pref. „ 116 706 116.
Dec., 1904 .. 1666 \ ” 719 831 ~
June, 1905 .. 1237 9 p.c. pref. „ 116 1237 116
Dec., 1905.. 1337 L 717 504 -
June, 1906.. 1573 Nii 1573
This co. paid excessive dividends for many years, but
omitted to provide for depreciation or renewal; in other
words, it paid its dividends out of capital. Then, finding
its decayed assets ridiculously over-valued (the auditors
declined to sign the balance-sheet without remark), it
proceeded to write them down out of profits and set the
latter aside for renewals. But it was too late ; many of
the assets could no longer earn any profits.
There is an electric-light as well as a gas department;
the former cost £12,000 or £15,000 at least, and now shows
a steady loss without reckoning anything for wear and
tear. On top of their other troubles, shareholders have
the debenture trouble—£3o,ooo of it at one time, though
now reduced to £20,000. The co found out, what doesn’t
seem to have yet occurred to some others, that the
debenture-holder calls around for his interest regu-
larly, whether the plant that his money was
put into is worn out or not; he calls round
just the same, even though to run the decayed
plant means losing money. Altogether, the Rock-
hampton Co. is a valuable concern—to other people. It
shows them, among other things, how neeessary it is to
find out what provision a lighting co. is making for the
renewal of its plant, &c. ; and it also conveys a hint as to
the unwisdom of keeping a debenture-holder on the pre-
mises when the profits are big enough to gradually get
rid of him.
* * * •
The Cascadk Brewery Co. (Hobart, Tas.),
from the time when £60,750 capital was written off, of
which £7500 went to wipe out goodwill, leaving £USS
reserves with which to start afresh :
To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1902.. £4OBl 6 per cent. =£3402 £1579 £3014
Dec., 1902.. 3788 6 „ „ 3402 386 3400
June, 1903.. 4786 6 „ „ 3402 1384 4784
Dec., 1903.. 3408 6 „ „ 3402 6 4790
June, 1904.. 3917 6 „ „ 3402 615 5305
Dec., 1904.. 3920 6 „ „ 3402 518 6823
June, 1905.. 4606 6 „ „ 3402 1204 7027
Dec., 1905.. 3472 6 „ „ 3402 7 0 7097
June, 1906.. 4266 6 „ „ 3402 864 7961
Besides brewing beer, the co. has gone into business as
the vendor of “desirable suburban allotments.” There
is, therefore, an item, “ Land account, £2917,” which
ought probably to be reckoned a 3 a reserve ; and the
amount added to it during the half-year (£2377) should
probably be added to the profits. But there is doubt
about this matter, because the line. “Freehold pro-
perties, including Cascade estate of 4668 acres,” remains
in the balance-sheet at the same £186,946 at which it
stood six months ago. It looks as though the £2917
above-mentioned may be the profit which the transactions
will show when (and if) they are completed ; in which
case the reserves can stand as they are for the present.
These further figures show some other movements :
Dec., Dec., June,
1902. 1905. 1906.
Mortgages, debentures, &c.. £116,669 £124,602 £124,889
Freeholds, premises .. .. 180,482 186,946 186,946
Stock and plant .. .. 35,412 38,258 39,391
Sundry debtors, &c., less
trade debts 15,578 18,605 21,021
Gross profit on goods .. 10,770 12,050 12,673
Rents 3,712 3,775 3,848
Management, discounts, &c. 8,236 9,182 9,102
In addition to these expenses of management, &c., in-
terest absorbed £3054. The capital is £lOB,OOO ; and, as
shown above, mortgages, debentures, &c., amount to
£124,889. It would be better if mortgages and deben-
tures were separated in the accounts ; the mortgagee has
a lien on certain assets only, as a rule, while the deben-
ture-holder is practically a preferential shareholder, who
has a first claim on profits. The indebtedness is heavy,
and if money is coming in from the sale of lands the
debt isn’t shrinking, as it ought to do. What amount, if
any, is written off buildings and plant to cover deprecia-
tion is not disclosed ; it looks doubtful whether anything
at all has been written off in the past half-year. Any-
how, it seems evident that nothing has been written off
buildings. Under those circumstances, it is doubtful
whether the 6 per cent, dividend was more than barely
earned. And a co. with a debt much larger than its
capital, most of it represented by perishable plant,
buildings, &c., ought to show a wider margin than that.
* * * *
Albury Brewing and Malting Co. (N.S.W.):
Written To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1900 .. 6 p.c. =£725 £274
1901 .. £849 6„ „ 725 £l5O 248
1902 .. 1340 6 „ „ 725 300 £315 663
1903 .. 446 5 „ „ 725 150 134
1904 .. 773 5 „ „ 725 48 182
1905 .. 704 5 „ „ 725 161
1906 .. 698 5„ „ 725 )34
There is also a contingent-liability reserve account,
£320 ; to this £6l has been added during the year. These
contingent liabilities, against which bills of sale are held,
total £7357. If anything is written off for depreciation
it is not disclosed. On the other hand, the items build-
ings, plant, &c., are steadily swelling, so additions are
being charged to capital account; and the capital is bor-
rowed. Last year overdraft, &c., amounted to £4014;
this year to £5463. Nearly everything depends upon
whether full provision is being made for bad debts and
wear and tear ; only the assumption that they are being
provided for in an unusually generous way would justify
the present dividend. And there is no sign that they are
being provided for in that way.
* * * *
The Balmain New Ferry Co. (Sydney)
Net To Re- Writ- Re-
Profit. Dividends, serves. ten Off. serves.
June, 1901.. £990 10 p.c. =£64B £342 £4741
Dec., 1901.. 494 10 „ „ 648 4587
June, 1902.. 1031 10 „ „ 648 383 4970
£367 profit made on sale of forfeited shares 5337
Dec., 1902.. 272 7£ p.c. = 616 4993
£247 profit made on sale of forfeited shares 5240
June, 1903.. 309 5 p.c.= 410 5139
Dec., 1904.. 643 5 „ „ 410 233 5372
June, 1904.. 753 7£ „ „ 616 £4675 834
Dec., 1904.. 972 7£ „ „ 616 125 1065
June, 1905.. 932 7* „ „ 616 316 1381
Dec., 1905.. 958 7£ „ „ 616 342 1723
Premium on new shares 3294 5017
June, 1906.. 1726 10 p.c. = 1500 226 5243
The capital, which stood at £16,420 six months ago, is
now £30,000. Other important changes have occurred in
connection with this co.’s policy of expansion. Twelve
months ago the co. owed the public only £717, and
its liquid assets, after paying dividend, were £3013.
Now it owes £34,960, and its liquid assets are
only £1143; and, moreover, further obligations are
being incurred. The principal liabdities are mortgages
£11,050, and bank £21,998. How the latter is secured is
not mentioned. It is an unsatisfactory feature of N.S.W.
company law that a co. may' issue debentures giving a
creditor a complete preference over others without dis-
closing the fact in its balance-sheet. Whether this is a
case of that sort can only fie guessed. Anyhow, here is
the fact: on a capital of £30,000, this co. now shoulders
the risks attending on an investment of about £72,000;
and to help capital it has poor little reserves of £5243,
nearly all of which shareholders have themselves put into
the business. They' are now practically' in the position
of having £32,000 of cumulative preference capital,
standing between them and dividends ; and yet they put
up their dividend to 10 per cent., and set aside a
wretched £226 to safeguard themselves, not to mention
getting themselves out of pawn. It is stated that the
net profit is shown after providing fully' for depreciation,
but the amount provided for depreciation isn’t men-
tioned, and cannot be computed. The same thing was
stated some years ago ; yet in 1904 it was found necessary
to practically write off all the alleged reserves. No doubt
if things go very well, the co. may make money out of
its borrowings; but it has taken very large risks, and its
present policy doesn’t seem to be to reduce the risks,
even when it has the chance.
* ♦ * #
The Commercial Building and Investment
Co. (Sydney)
Loss on
Loss on Property Total
June, Business. Sales. Loss. Deficit.
1897 .. £3145 £3145 £1,330
1898 .. 4037 4037 5,367
1899 .. 1485 £l5OB 2993 8,360
1900 .. 933 933 9,293
1901 .. 186 186 9,479
1902 45 45 9,524
Profit. Profit.
1903 .. 708 708 8,816
1904 .. 286 286 8,530
Loss. Loss.
1905 .. 396 8165 8561 17,091
Profit. Profit.
1906 .. 758 758 16,333
This looks a pleasant change from previous records ; but
it isn’t altogether what it looks. Twelve months ago the
paid capital was £145,041 ; now it is £161,079. The call*
that have thus been got in have reduced the debts
to the public from £142,754 to £126,875, and the
interest bill from £6679 to £6038. Practically’, therefore,
the co. only shows a profit because the shareholders have
provided a forced loan, without interest, of the amount


How t
Make
Your
Will
So that it
<v
-V
*L
m
%
%
n u
hu.
%
Wt
- THt
A
(IIMITEO)
realised by the call (£16,038). The call (£1 per share)
was, by the way, fully met. The assets are almost ex-
clusively city and suburban property, £269,417; rents
totalled £10,969 gross, equal to £4 Is. 6d. per cent. From
that deduct upkeep, rates, expenses of management, etc.;
and from what is left the co. has to pay 4 and per cent,
on about £125,000 of borrowed money. The assets, after
paying all expenses except interest, show a return of
£2 10s. 6d. per cent. To bring them to a 4 per cent, net
basis they would have to be written down to £170,700.
The co. owes the public £126,875 ; deduct that and there
remains £43,825. That seems to be what the share-
holders’ interest in the concern is—a trifle under £2 15s.
per share, on which £9 has been paid.
* * * *
’Frisco has shocked the New Zealand Insurance
Co. into making itself “Limited.” Simultaneously it
issues 25,000 new £lO shares. The reserves were £440,986
in November last, and £300,000 will probably about see
the disastrous ’Frisco business through ; but the directors
are not willing to drain the reserves so severely. Evi-
dently the co. isn’t going to worry much to get Californian
business after this; the secretary has been sent to
’Frisco “to scrutinise every claim in the interests of
shareholders ; and the directors have decided to abide
strictly by the policy conditions.” In other words, the
co. is going to get out when it can. Foreign offices are
all pretty much alike, even when it is an Australasian
office that happens to be the foreigner. The new paid
capital of the N.Z. Go. will be £500,000, when the whole
of the £lO on the new shares is called. Dividends re-
cently have been 15 per cent, on £250,000 ; but the
average profits have been a little more than double that
for the past five years. The present shares, also £lO, are
only paid to £2 ; and presumably no more will be called
up on the new issue than on the old. The new shares are
to be issued “in such manner and on such terms as the
directors may appoint,” which seems to mean a stiff pre-
mium.
* ♦ * *
The South British, another of the big Maori-
land offices, isn’t “Limited” either ; but in any case its
shareholders would be liable for £lB per share, £1 paid,
it is comforting for insurers ; but it is a nightmare for
shareholders. For even though the South British has
reserves of £369,517, the New Zealand Co.’s experience
shows that, for practical purposes, the reserves are not
wholly available to pay a vast claim with. A co. usually
takes risks in proportion, to some extent, to its reserves;
and even a vast claim doesn’t reduce its risks anything
worth mentioning, wherefore it can’t afford to see all its
reserves go. With big reserves it can carry on, and make
a recovery ; without them it is lost for ever.
* * * *
For the first time since 1893 the United States
Treasury is buying silver for minting. Between 1890 and
1893 it made vast purchases of the metal under the Windom
and other Acts with the idea of keeping silver at an arti-
ficial value for currency purposes, and thesilver-miners had
a glorious time supplying the demand. In 1890 the price
ran up to 4s. 6|d. per oz. for standard metal. Then the
Indian currency was changed, Rand and Westralia
doubled the world’s output of gold, and the bottom fell
out of the bimetallist’s dream and the American silver
legislation simultaneously. The United States Trea-
sury was stuck with an enormous hoard of silver,
just as France had been previously, and it has
taken years to use up the excess. Meantime,
no new silver mines of any importance have been
discovered, and, though the output has been maintained,
it has only been through developments in metallurgy,
which have made it possible to treat poorer ore and waste
dumps at the old mines. What may be done in the way
of discovering new mines nobody knows ; but apart from
that, the outlook for silver seems bright. There probably
will be no high prices—because so many countries have
gone back on silver currency—but it seems very unlikely
that there will be any very low prices. The bottom was
touched in 1902-3 when a shade under Is. Old. was
reached.
* * •
Tin was quoted by cable at £191155. on Monday,
a jump of £l2 10s. Sydney Daily Telegraph couldn’t
stand that, and revised the cable, knocking off £lO, add-
ing a note saying what it had done. The spring, whether
it was £2los. or £l2 10s., was no doubt due to the United
States’ Treasury action in regard to silver. Tin and silver
are very sympathetic, mainly because the yellow person
who is by far the largest producer of tin is paid in silver,
and a rise in silver means increased cost of tin-production.
The good filling of old, worked-out places *in
the Broken Hill Prop, has been the salvation of the men
who have been working in Block 13 during the last 12
months. A gradual settlement has been taking place,
and if it wasn’t for the compact filling, the 300 ft. and
400 ft. levels would have gone with a run months ago.
There is a big crack between 300 ft. and 400 ft., and a fall
of ground occurred there a week or so back. The trouble
is mostly near Patterson shaft. Between there and
M‘Culloch shaft, ground which was beginning to bear too
heavily on the timber had to be let down, and it blocked
up the drive. Weatherly’s stopes are in work again, and
this will make up for any deficiency in ore-winning
caused by the Block 13 subsidence.
* * * *
The situation at B.H. Block 10 is not getting
any better. The mill is treating little more than half of
what it is capable of, and even that ore is being snatched
from any available corner. The supply is still mainly
coming from the 1215 ft., where the north drive is being
carried 10ft. wide—practically a drive and a stope at
the same time. This ore is good stuff. Big supplies
of timber are being dumped on the mine, and, by
the look of things underground, it will all be needed, for
a slight movement is still going on. The ropes are run-
ning through Campbell shaft, which has not become any
worse. At surface, it is intended to put in four Wilfleys
at the mill for the re-treatment of slimes, which it is
becoming difficult to keep within bounds.
* * * *
That wounded giant, the Sulphide Corpora-
tion’s Central mine, Broken Hill, is beginning to stir
again and fill his lungs. The emergency mill —the main
mill collapsed through a “ creep ”in the mine—is not yet
all ready, but a half section is being given a spin, also two
grinding pans. In opening up the broken ground a little
ore is being won, and this is being put through the
emergency plant. There is good ore in the crosscut at
the 1000 ft., which is to connect the Extended with the
main shaft; and that is 200 ft. below the present main
workings.
* * * *
J* -D* Kendall, who reported on Great Cobar
(N.S.W.) when the big deal nearly came off three years
ago, is on his way out to take charge. He is travelling
via the United States in order to get prices for an addi-
tional plant, sufficient to bring up the output to 15,000
tons a year.
1P • • *
he Bull-owned and mortgaged Pinnacles (far
west N.S.W.) is squeezing out a squalid existence by
picking over the dumps. The stope at the 270 ft. has a
height of about 60ft., and yet there isn’t enough timber
in the mine to make many packets of toothpicks. This
will have to be seen to before work is started again on a
decent scale.
* # * *
Shuttleton Mines (N.S.W.), following up the
good returns from the 24-ton parcel of sulphides treated
at Waratah, has dumped down on a comfortable ore body
first at the 380 ft. level and again at 410 ft. So far the lode
hasn’t been proved in length, but for a width of 14ft. aver-
age values can be taken at 8 per cent, copper. Shuttleton
is in 130,000 shares, of which 65,000 are paid to 10s. and
65,000 are contributing; and as most of the subscribed
capital is still available, the very important question
arises as to future policy. Mine has probably now enough
ore to warrant erection of a couple of reverbs.; but, seeing
that Crowl Creek furnaces are handy, and that that mine
has just bought 200 tons of seconds, there is sound reason,
for the present, in a policy of selling the ore mined to the
Crowl Creek people. This policy would prove the
Shuttleton, one way or the other, at the smallest cost.
* * * *
N. Wales’ newest discovery of alluvial gold
is at Wamboyne, 40 miles north of Wyalong ; but so far,
that is no justification for the rush of applications for
permits. Prospectors (Nelson and party) have sunk three
shafts, and bottomed at 28ft. on pipeclay, containing 2ft.
of wash. Prospects run up to 2dwt. to the load —which
is much too poor to rush to ; still, Nelson, an old Lamb-
ing Flat digger, is impressed with the locality.
• * * *
The wondrous finance of the Brisbane pro-
moters! Mount Canindah was in 300 shares at £25. It
struggled on with calls of £1 a month and the shipment
of small lots of picked ore, and drew close and quick
against documents. Now it has converted itself into
300,000 shares of 2s. each (it was to be 300,000 of £1 at
first, but considerations of stamp-duty cut down the
nominal figures by 90 per cent.). All the capital it has to
begin life on as a big co. is £1275, representing the last
call of the old syndicate. The little mill has started (20
tons a day capacity or thereabouts) on carbonates, and a
reverberatory is going up to deal with the concentrates.
There is some high-grade ore in the show (quantity not
estimatable) and a lot of low-grade (quantity similarly
unknown),; but that £1275 of working capital makes it
look like another “ skite ” mine.
*•*-**
Hampden-Cloncurry Co. has purchased the
Duchess mine (Q.) for £15,000 cash and 15,000 Hampden
shares. Thus the Duchess syndicate gets back the
£15,000 it paid the Kenned.ys for the mine, and has 15,000
Hampden shares to show for the £3OOO spent in develop-
ment. The lease recently pegged by the syndicate at the
old Tip Top camp, Agate Downs, is thrown in. Lonsdale
Smith, the new manager of the Hampden and the old
manager of the Duchess, recommended the purchase on
the strength of 4000 tons of 30 per cent, ore in sight and
“ probably in sight.” The existence of “ inferential ” ore
is a bad thing to figure on, and the fact that some mem-
bers of the old Ohillagoe crowd are behind the figuring
doesn't better it much ; for they don’t seem to have a
great deal of luck in guessing ore.
« * * *
O. copper mine (N.Q.) is putting up a record
in mine managers, having already uSed up.four, and
started on the fifth. They have a good man now, pro-
vided he can get along with his men ; but in any case he
is faced by more than one trouhle, want of water being
the most dangerous, though for the present there
is fairly good water to be got from the shafts.
Shareholders are continually asking why they don’t sink,
and, after the Mt. Garnet experience, well they might.
When Garnet was in full swing it was said that the ore
was practically unlimited, and shares were sold to about
£4. Over £200,000 worth of ore was taken out without
producing a dividend. This ore was all got above the 150 ft.
level, and was mostly carbonates. When the management
got a little deeper, the carbonates gave way to dirty
zinc, &c. The capital being exhausted, the co. collapsed.
What with the failure to sink, and one thing and another,
O.K. can’t get into the South’s confidence ; it takes only
the vaguest rumor to knock the market out. Then the
North (backed occasionally by Adelaide) buys ; and shares
creep up. But, until sinking is done, and new-manager
Shepherd gives his word that the' ore down there is all
right. Melbourne and Sydney will stand with O.K’s. in
their hand, read}' to throw them out at the first wink.
* * it *
Chillagoe (N.Q.) can mine and smelt at very low
cost. Extraction of copper from Chillagoe ore itself is
slightly over 3 per cent, copper and about 4s. 6d. worth
of silver. About two-thirds is oxidised fluxing ore, most
of it from an open cut. In June, production of copper
was estimated at 192 tons; 91 tons of that and 50760 z.
silver were from Chillagoe ore, and the balance of copper
and nearly 17,0000 z. silver were from outside ore. Chil-
lagoe evidently depends upon the available supplies of
oxidised fluxing ore, containing low copper values, other-
wise it would be ridiculous to smelt ore of such low grade.
Wallaroo and Moonta has been for years concentrating
better ore than Chillagoe smelts, and metallurgist Green-
way may not have been far out when he suggested con-
centration works for Ohillagoe.
* * * •
At Gympie (Q.), during July, 17,582 tons gave
10,0500 z. ; dividends for the month, £BlOO ; calls, £4112.
Compared with June, these returns show decreases of
154 tons, 1520 z., £552 in divs., and £2640 in calls. Scot-
tish gave 7700 tons, which crushed 39010 z. ; No. 2 S. Great
Eastern, 5240 tons, 24550 z., or a little over 9dwt. per ton ;
No. 1 South Oriental andGlanmire, 638 tons for 5130 z.; No.
1 North Oriental and Glanmire, 607 tons for 4970 z. ;
and South Glanmire and Monkland, 1214 tons for 4520 z.,
or a few grains over 7dwt. per ton. South Glanmire and
Monkland has almost ceased work in the upper or Monk-
land slates, and is prospecting the slate floors, 200 ft.
below. No. 2 South Great Eastern paid a 6d. div. ; No. 1
South Oriental and Glanmire, 3d. ; South Glanmire and
Monkland, 3d.; and No. 1 North Oriental and Glanmire,
3d.
* 9 * »
Catherine Reef United is another sample of
the goods the patient Bendigo-man makes his money out
of. All Bendigo knew the mine must come again ; so,
while the outsider thiew his shares on the market when
calls were made during the last few years, the confident
Bendigonian picked them up at a few shillings. They
were not quoted often in Melbourne those days, and
Sydney didn’t know them. Late last year the mine
started to “come,” on the strength of big stone at
2200 ft., and by the end of December shares stood
at 50s. At that point and during a later slump
a Sydney speculator came in. A fortnight ago
the return was sweetened by some rich stuff taken
from the far western side of the formation, and
5300 z. was reported from 400 tons, followed by an
eighteen-penny dividend. The market promptly jumped
past 72s. —at which point Melbourne to some extent, and
Sydney to a larger, came in, and the patient Bendigonian
went out. Yields of that size can’t be kept up ; the
formation is big (up to 60ft. wide), but patchy ; and
there happened to be a rich run available at the moment.
South New Moon, Bendigo, has frightened the
wits out of the specking gang of share dealers in Mel-
bourne. These chased the shares down the hill from the
time they were up at £l2, making profits all the way.
At first timid, they grew holder and bolder in their
attack. But the striking of stone in a crosscut
at 1060 ft. caused very much the same scatter as
takes place among a flock of crows when they see
signs of fight in an intended victim. Shares were there-
fore grabbed at, and so prices were rushed to a point
altogether out of proportion to the importance of the
strike. This is a pity ; for every supporter of mining
would like to see the same punishment given as befel
some of the offenders when South New Moon was on its
original up-grade. The stone now met with is 240 ft.
from the boundary, and there cannot be more than
enough to act as a sweetener to the low-grade quartz
which the co. has in every other section of the mine.
Had the management drawn a little more sparingly on
the rich stone beaten out in the past, this would not be
the case.
* * • *
What the Long Tunnel and the Extended mean
to Walhalla (Vic.) is shown by the figures for the past
quarter. First-named handled 6656 tons for 69620 z.,
showing an average of loz. 22gr., and it paid
in divs. £4800; while the Extended broke 3763 tons
for 63310 z.; average, loz. 'Bdwt.; divs., £14,400.
Long Tunnel, so far, does not seem to be getting
much to brag about in the north-west ground, show-
ing more than ever its luck in opening’ up rich stone
south of the Extended boundary. Co. has put itself safe
by buying Hannan’s lease, west of the parent mine. As
there are outcrops of stone distinct from Cohen’s reef
out in that direction, the board ought to bore the country.
Directors have plenty to do just now, worrying over the new
electric pumps which, so far, don’t seem to be “fish,
fowl, or good red herring.” Until they prove to be one
of the three, there is an embargo on the opening up of
the north-west ground, on account of the water left in it
when work was stopped there by the co. in the old days.
Sydney’s next nibble in Victorian mining will
be at Long Tunnel; and the bait will be the purchase of
the West Long Tunnel, which may get Cohen’s reef some
day. So far as the near future is concerned, the deal
means very little ; but Sydney wall hug it as an excuse
for coming in, as usual, so late in the day.
* * » *
Cathcart Proprietary, Ararat (Vic.), was one of
the shows to which Bew'ick-Moreing’s long arm reached
in the search for an alluvial catchpenny to help them on
their way through Victoria. They got in cheap enough
for anything ; certainly on terms which the Minister of
Mines, in liis interest for shareholders, ought to have
revised before accepting the transfer of the lease. Now,
at the mines, rich wash has been pricked. The mascotte
has been ex-Spring-Hill Leads Browne, whom the
old directors failed to appoint at the twelfth
hour. Bewick, Moreing and Co. brought him in
from Rutherglen to advise them, and he hit the mark.
As the Ararat field was a great alluvial diggings, there is
far more reason to go deep-lead mining there than at
Moolort. The Cathcart lead so far has not been wide,
and the runs of gold in it are narrow. Their richness,
however, leavens the lot up, and as the claim has a big
area, Bull, if properly advised, ought to have a good
show ahead.
The alleged thefts of gold from Westralian
mines is making the Boulder bubble. The head of the
detective department, in a report to the Government,
stated that he believed hundreds of thousands of pounds
worth of gold were stolen yearly. The Chamber of Mines
put the steal at about £400,000, as there was this differ-
ence between the gold exported or received at the Mint
and the amount reported to the Mines Department.
Bewick, Moreing and Co., however, say it isn’t more than
£60,000 or £70,000. Scantlebury, who started the hue
and cry, gave the figure at £1,000,000, on the authority
of Warden Finnerty. A Royal Commission is to inquire
into the matter, and there the thing will end. That an
enormous amount of gold was stolen in the past there is
no doubt; but, as every big mine has now a change-room
and a searcher, and very few of the rich bonanzas remain,
the quantity got away with, at least by miners, must be
small. The scare will do W.A. mining no good ; and if
the official reports are accepted, it will be a still heavier
blow to 8., M. and Co., who have been paid fat fees to
protect shareholders’ interests.
* * * *
Recently Great Boulder, Kalgoorlie, has been
pushing- on development much more vigorously. The
main shaft is down 2050 ft., where the twentieth level will
be driven. The lode is opening up very satisfactorily at
1900 ft. ; it is very wide in places—2sft.-—and is worth 11
to 12dwt. Edwards shaft to the south, which long stood
at 1200 ft., is down 1900 ft. ; and Hamilton shaft, to the
north, is down about 1350 ft., where the next level will be
opened. This latter point is interesting-, as Hamilton
shaft was started in June, 1904, to prospect a lode cut by
the diamond drill at 1335 ft. That lode was said to be worth
25dwt. for a width of 10ft. This is supposed to be the
Ivanhoe East lode, which has developed so satisfactorily
at the 800 ft., 1000 ft., and 1200 ft. levels. A new mine has
now been opened up in this long-neglected north lease,
and must greatly lengthen the life of the Boulder. There
is no reason why the lode should not eventually be proved
right up to the surface. So far, the average value is
about 20dwt. for a good payable width.
■*r * * *
Boulder Main Reef’s call of 6d. per share, pay-
able on August 1, was not notified by cable. It looks
very much as if “colonial” holders are to be, or have
been, frozen out, as has often happened before. The worst
of it is there appears to be no redress.
* * » *
Harvey Patterson, on his recent visit to Kal-
goorlie, pegged out two 24-acre blocks on the alluvial flat
east of Brown Hill. As there are several feet of alluvial
covering the ground, no prospecting has been done on
this flat except by fossickers looking for deep leads. The
venture looks unpromising; but Patterson, who is a
believer in the divining rod, reckons he is on a good
wicket, and is game to back his belief in cash. He has
let a contract to test the ground down to. 500 ft. by drill-
ing. If the venture succeeds there will be a wild rush to
peg adjoining blocks. Interesting to recall that Patter-
son tested, with the divining rod, the South Gippsland at
Vosperton before acquiring it for the Queen Margaret,
and also the Nine of Hearts at Malcolm. Neither has
come up to expectations ; still they are not blanks.
* * * *
North End, Kalgoorlie, has managed to raise
fresh capital, and is adding a Babcock and Wilcox boiler
and air compressor to the plant. It is said that a
vigorous policy of development is to be pursued, but
vigor does not appear to be one of the attributes of those
in control. Property’s chances are good if concern only
gets a run.
* * * »
Revenue, Meekathara (W.A.), continues to
glitter. Latest return is 6060 z. from Ijcwt., making
the total so far recovered 35210 z. from 15J tons. This
marks the Revenue as one of the richest small shows dis-
covered in recent years.
■k * * *
The late Tom Doyle’s old lease at Kanowna
(W.A.) has just produced 4360 z. from 65 tons, bringing
up the total since its acquisition by the present holders
to 7780 z. from 109 tons. The gold realised nearly £3OOO,
and, as the lease Was bought for £l2OO, the venture must
have proved all right. The ground is very hard and the
leader small, but it is a good proposition for a working
party.
* * * *
Gregory Hills (W.A.) is the scene just now of
much wild romancing by alleged prospectors, and some-
body will be left with an offspring to nurse. The Reward
lease was first pegged out in October, 1903, by Bob Ki rkpat-
rick and Charlie Richmond ; but their samples, tested at
the State battery at Laverton, proved so unsatisfactory
that the lease was abandoned. In February, 1904, Rich-
mond again went out for a Laverton syndicate and re-
turned with scwt. of samples, which also proved too poor.
In 1905, Richmond had a third try in company with
Jim Thomas, but the result was again a failure.
Tom Whitford and Steve Wake then went out, each on
his own, and both claim the Reward lease. Whitford
floated his show in Adelaide arid Wake in Boulder, and
developments may prove interesting. The country is
auriferous and tempting, or Richmond would not have
returned three times ; also, it is quite possible that Whit-
ford has struck something good. But it is not a new
find, as quite a dozen prospectors were there before Whit-
ford or Wake ever saw it.
For some months past five opal miners from
White Cliffs have been exploiting a show called the Union
Jack, three miles south of Ooolgardie (W.A.). Thin veins
of opal, in many cases of good quality, have been found,
and the prospectors reckon that, sooner or later, they
will strike a pocket and a fortune. The discovery of a
pocket would mean a wild rush ; but until they do find it
the prospectors will be regarded as quite harmless.
* * * *
“Mul”: “T.’s” account (B. 12/7/ 06) of the
Pilbarra (W.A.) fields is much too gaudy. There are not
“over 500 men knocking out from £4 to £lO per week tin
collecting,” arid if “the work is light, as mining work
goes,” it must not be forgotten that Pilbarra is the next
station to Sheol. The average maximum shade tempera-
ture in one month of last year was 109. Wages men are
poorly paid at £4 10s. a week, and you can reckon up
what sort of place it is from that. There isn’t one decent
gold mine in the territory ; the place is kept alive by
alluvial tin workings, and three years or so will see their
finish. The poor man who thinks he can make his fortune
on Pilbarra is advised not to go.
* * * *
New amalgamated Princess Royal and Cen-
tral Co., formed in Adelaide to probe Norseman
(W.A.) deeper, will be in 120,000 shares ; this means
40,000 new shares (like the others, 10s. each), of which
Central shareholders will take 25,000. Balance are re-
served. It is none too good a bargain for the Central.
* * * *
With copper at £B3, and the appearance of
keeping firm, S. Australia is still hunting up old records
and reviving old properties. Latest resurrection is
Copper Hill, which is getting Government help ; it is one
of the numberless shows on “ the Peninsula ” that have
never been able to live up to the reports made upon
them. The things that can go wrong with copper-mine
estimates are beyond counting.
■* * * *
H.S. : Ochres, siennas, See., are not distin-
guished in trade returns. Paint imports for Australia
are :—Ground in liquid, 135,000ewt.: prepared, 26,000 cwt.;:
dry colors, including white lead, 70,000 cwt.; putty,
7500 cwt. ; miscellaneous, 5500 cwt. No further informa-
tion as to the other....lnvestor: Will ask for further
information.. ..Zeph : No, a risky business Quartz:
Couldn’t tell without sampling- the mine, and that is out
of the question—it wouldn’t be allowed, anyway. But,
though it may be a very good gamble, it isn’t an invest-
ment.
* # » »
Another factor in reducing the mining costs,
especially in large mines, is the general use of “Little
Wonder” Hand Hammer and “One Man” Compressed
Air Drills. Broken Hill mines use them extensively. The
managers favor these drills for their great strength and
simplicity having only one working part; also for
economy in air consumption as they require only about
25ft. free air per minute. Miners prefer them, as work is
made much easier; for tributors, “Wonder” drills are
the means of bringing in larger returns. Messrs. W. and
J. Lempriere, of Melbourne and Sydney, have de-
scriptive catalogues for those interested, and attention
is drawn to an exceedingly simple and ingenious patent
water attachment for allaying dust.*
Cobar.—For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1594.
» * * *
Two sets of improved plunger pumps, Cornish
type, are at present being constructed for the “ keystone ”
shaft of the Loddon Valley Goldfields (Victoria) to the
order of Bewick, Moreing and Co. Each set will consist
of two lifts of 250 feet, the total lift being 500 feet. The
plungers are 26in. in diameter and 10ft. stroke and the
discharge from the two sets will be 6,000,000 gallons per
day. The valve boxes are made in separate pieces instead
of forming part of one H piece, and the valves are of the
compound flap type. The total weight of the two sets of
pumps is 150 tons. The Austral Otis Engineering
Company has this work in hand. This company has
constructed and erected most of the big volume deep
alluvial pumping plants now working in Victoria.* [n]
Not content with the splendid results obtained
by their concentrator, Messrs. W. L. Card and Son, the
inventors, have been working hard and experimenting
persistently to improve it. Whilst so engaged they made
what they consider the greatest discovery of the last 20
years in the concentrating art and that is their two-plane
adjustable deck. This with other important improve-
ments is embodied in the Improved Card Concentrator
which the licensees, N. Guthridge Ltd., are now
manufacturing.*
* * * *
Mineralised Slimes. —Advertiser is prepared
to successfully treat same by a new mechanical process.
Send samples to—Findlay, 1.9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.*
■* * * *
The Insurance Journal and General
Financial Record (London), of 15th August, 1905, wrote
thus with regard to the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society Limited: —“Last year’s report presents the same
gratifying story of steady progress. It testifies eloquently
to increase in the funds, increase in the renewal premiums,
increase in new premiums, and increase in the interest
arising from investments. It is, in short, on the ‘up-
grade,’ and its financial position is stronger than ever.”*
* * * ft
The Cathcart Proprietary Gold Mine, Ararat,
was the first mine in Victoria to adopt electricity as motive
power for pumping, hoisting and puddling. This plant
commenced work in September, 1904, and has been in
constant and successful operation ever since. It consists
of two return tube boilers, 160 horse-power engine, 110
kilowatt dynamo, switchboard, an electric hoist capable
of lifting 800 tons in 24 hours, an electric three-throw'
pump raising 25,000 gallons of water per hour and a 35
horsepower motor driving the puddlers. The dynamo
also provides electricity for 40 lights by means of which
the surface and underground workings are lighted.
Experience obtained on this mine during one year’s
service proves that: (1) electricity makes an actual saving
in fuel amounting to about £350 per annum ; (2) the
dynamo and motors cost practically nothing to maintain ;
(3) the cost of lubrication is reduced to a minimum ; (4)
electric motors require much less attention than
steam engines; and finally (5) electricity is much
more flexible than steam power, permitting ready exten-
sion or change as mining conditions frequently require.
The contractors for this installation were the Austral Otis
Engineering Company Limited, corner of Hanna and
Kavanagh-streets, South Melbourne, Sole Agents for Ganz
and Company, Budapest, Hungary.* [1
* ♦ * *
B. H. Pascoe, stock and share broker, member
of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne, 311 Collins-street,
Melbourne.*
* * * *
Connolly, Keam and Co., 123 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
or flotation. Must stand close expert investigation. *
* * * *
“Geo. E. Dickenson, 60 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, Manager and Trustee is prepared to consider
offers, sale or purchase of approved Mining properties
under working option or cash purchase.”
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne. *
■*•***
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteOo., Ltd., 74 Castlereayb-st., 74, Sydney', and
17 Hurxter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New' Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fiuming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discriDtion of cast or wrought iron work.*
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
The enterprising engineering firm R. Hornsby
and Sons, Ltd., Grantham, England, world renowned
manufacturers of the “Hornsby” Patent Safety Oil
Engine, the latest adaption of which is their Traction
Engine, have entered the Gas Engine arena and are now
making the Hornsby-Stockport Gas Engine and Suction
Gas Plant. The latter we learn will develop upwards of
10 brake horse pow-er at the cost of Id. per hour. The
minimum cost and attention required should prove a great
inducement to users of motive power to instal this type
of plant. The Australasian addresses of the above firm
are : Sussex-street, Sydney and Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne.*
* * * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A. Queen-street,
Melbourne. Commission business only. Agents every-
where.*
* * * i
The Zinc Corporation has taken careful advice
in connection with the large plant required at Broken
Hill, and has ordered Babcock and Wilcox water-tube
boilers with superheaters and mechanical stokers. This
order has been followed by the great firm of mining
engineers, Messrs. Bewick, Moreing and Co., placing-
orders with the same boiler company, in connection with
the South Blocks, also at the Hill. These instances
further prove the assertion that, wherever economy in
fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed. This company stock boilers at “ Haymarket,”
Sydney.*
* * *
Charters Towers.—Mining speculators would
do w-ell to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* * * *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
Collison and Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*


ANGLERS
Send
for our
FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE.
It will please you.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
409 and 411 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WATSON’S WHISKY
Resclrs Waverley Brewery, Agents.
David iStorer Sons’
Tattoo Oil
[Registered Trade Mare]
IS THE ONLY ABSOLUTELY ....
In Three Colors:
BLACK, RED,
(El BLUE.
Kept by
ALL MERCHANTS
(St. STOREKEEPERS.
SAFE WOOL-MARKING or
SHEEP BRANDING OIL
sdf
THE PERFECT
SHEEP-MARKER.
Aboriginalities.
“ W.P.8.” gives way to enthusiasm :-
He Oape gooseberries growing wild. There is nothing
extraordinary in the happening. Why should they not
grow here as well as anywhere else? At Norfolk Island,
'way down the South Pacific, these berries used to grow
in profusion and had to be dug up to prevent the Island
resolving itself into one large berry. How did they get
there 1 Couldn’t have been the birds, surely, and I
haven’t yet heard that the plant was indigenous or any
other word like it. The common or garden variety of
gooseberry did not appear, in my time at least. Yellow
guavas, with deliciously pink insides, grow wild at Norfolk
Island, and, in season, present a lovely study in yellow.
Birds are intensely fond of the fruit, likewise cattle.
Lemons of the large kind, big enough to wear a No. 7 hat,
are also in a state of wildness. And whatabout loquats ?
Phew 1 If anyone loves fruit let him go to Norfolk Island.
It is only a small spot stuck away on its own in the South
Pacific, but there is quality, if not quantity, to be had.
When one tires of guavas there are bananas, oranges,
mandarins, passion fruit (wild), peaches (wild), rose-
apples, cherrymoirs, red guavas, strawberries, peanuts,
figs and many other nice things. There are no cocoa-
nuts, and they won’t bear there. A lot of people are
mistaken about N.I. A business man went there
once to view the natural resources—they are not vast 1
When he came back he put in his bill, which showed J 620
for hotel expenses and £5 cab hire. There are neither
hotels nor cabs within 1000 miles. So that man would
appear untruthful. Norfolk Island is an oasis. A mere
speck on the ocean, and yet it enfolds all that Nature
(and fruit) delight on. I lived there, so I ought to know.
* * * *
“Starr”: A sulphur-crested cockatoo,
owned by an old lady at Mildura (Yic.) punt, ought
to win the cup for age. He has been 44 years in his
present billet. Drovers become inarticulate in
their struggles to curse him dead. His practice is
to sit well up in a huge gum-tree while sheep are
being run on to the punt, and issue cross orders to
the dogs, and deride the men. Some of the
drovers on that track would give almost any
money for a tree-climbing dog that could pursue
the cocky to his skyey bower and frighten seven
demons out of him.
AN UNFINISHED UNDERTAKING.
OVER-OILED PERSON: “ There's hish name, hish
aye, and (hie) wot he died of. But can’t
understandsh why leave him on top instead
of putting him in grave.”
“ Reily ” : “ Elmore ”is right. The wild
bee should be protected. Twenty years ago, when
there was a hive in every second tree, I’ve known
40 or 50 nests to be destroyed in one outing by
improvident honey-seekers, who gave no thought
to season or bee mortality. The wild wee beastie
is a curio in those places now. Bee-farmers,
though, have inadvertently benefited the insect.
Honey is cheap, and Australia would rather buy
it than hunt for it, so the bush-bee gets another
chance, such as it is.
Policeman
X. has been
detected work-
ing in an unex-
pected sphere
of usefulness.
It appears that,
in addition to
the multifari-
ous duties fall-
ing to the lot of
the country
policeman, he
has h i th er to
been charged
with the respon-
sibility of fore-
casting the pro-
bable wheat
yield in his dis-
trict. Further,
he is expected to
estimate the pro-
bable yield when
the growingemps
are just about
3in. high. The
wisest and young-
est bobby in the
land cannot in-
telligently sa y
how many bags a
crop will go to the
acre when it is
just shooting
above ground,and
so Policeman X.
is generally con-
tent with a valiant
guess. And it is
on these estimates
that is bused the
commercial plan
of campaign. Fore-
casts of wheat
available for ex-
port, plans and
arrangements of
exporters and ship-
pers, machinations
of jobbers and
speculators, and
the whole wheat
trade and wheat
swindle generally,
are built up like
a huge inverted
pyramid on the early
estimates of probable yields, and at the bottom
thereof is Policeman X. struggling loosely with
an agricultural problem that lie would fain con-
sign to the devil.
* * * *
“Kaban”: “ Werrimoo ” (B. 19/7/’O6)
gives Mrs. Wheeler’s honeymoon in London as
the probable occasion of the first introduction of
Coo-ee ’ to the Cold Country. Allow me to
state that I have discovered a use for “coo-ee”
much further north than London, and in an alto-
gether unexpected quarter. William Black, the
novelist describing a deer-stalking expedition in
the Hielan s, speaks of “ the startled ‘coo-ee ’ of
the long-beaked whaup.” The “whaup” is not
a bilious attack, but a bird known as the curlew.
Although it never leaves the British Islands itself,
it probably knows some feathered “cobber” who
does, and so the sound has spread.
* *■ * •
“The Mussel” : Be snakes (B. 19/7/’O6).
Ihe tradition that the bereaved partner of a
recently defunct snake comes round to identify
the remains within a few hours after the shock-
mg tragedy does not seem
so wonderful, when you
come to think of it. The
snake does not lead a her-
mit's life ; if he did, the de-
crease in the birth-rate would
mean the extinction of his
species. Therefore snakes
must be more or less gregari-
ous. It seems unreasonable
to suppose that two snakes
meet casually, like swag-
gies out-back, say “Good-
day,” and pass on. I do
not know whether the
snake’s marriage-tie is per-
manent ; but the said tie
must at least extend over
some appreciable time. So
there appears to be nothing
wonderful about one snake
holding an inquest, or, at
least, turning up to drop a
tear or wag a woeful tail
over his late partner. When
a man kills a snake he
always feels more or less
bloated out with pride, and
challenges doubting friends,
between beers, to come out
and measure it for them-
selves; and this accounts for
the discovery of the second snake
before it has had time to pack. Also,
what is to prevent two snakes of the same sex
batching together? It is common to see the
tracks of two snakes across a dusty bush road,
and the tracks only a few feet apart.
* » * .
“Gip”: What a difference between the
exclusive high-bred magpie and the friendly old
black-and-white fellow that hangs about the door.
When I make my appearance in the morning, the
latter—about a dozen or so—greet me this way !
“ Mornin’, missus ! Cold, ain’t it ? Terrible frost
again last night; can’t get a drink this mornin’.
Hurry up and hand out our breakfast ; been
waitin’ here since daylight.” Then I stroll across
the paddocks to a quiet gully among the hills, and
I hear the cultured notes of the black mag :
“Here’s that impossible person coming again.
Do you think it’s necessary for me to move ? How
very boring ! Turned off, has she ? Thanks ! She
is such a dreadful person !” Thus do the black
mags talk languidly on in the spreading wattle.
Surely their plaintive drawl is the most woeful
and melancholy of all bush sounds.
* * * IT
There is nothing better for killing all
infectious disease germs than Little’s Soluble
Phenyle. Try it in your bath ; use it generally
throughout the household if you want comfort. No
vermin can live where it is used. It has 100
different uses. Ask your grocer for a bottle.*
AN “ ARGUS ” ADVERTISEMENT.
RECLUSE, beyond want, occupying little low-
roofed bungalow on idyllic river bend, weary of
isolated solitude, desires correspond with home-
loving woman, not adverse to the holy bond.
“Reily”: Bunny is a very second-rate
pest in parts of this (Inverell, N.S.W.) district.
A spear-shaped grass seed —a drought result-
ranks classes ahead. It covers whole runs, and
mobs of sheep are tortured to death. Their flesh
fairly bristles with the seeds, which penetrate
wool, skin, and meat with ease. The suffering
animals are a misery to humane owners, and a
dead loss all round.
* * * *
“ W.P.8.” : Oh, I say, let me say some-
thing re the long-discarded-habit discussion.
While pacing up and down the balcony
of my hotel like a savage beast, the
other evening, my thoughts were dis-
turbed by the howling of a member
of the Salvation Army in the street
below. Two girls were leaning over
the balcony, and, as I passed, I heard
them laugh, and caught the word
“pennies.” They turned to me, and
asked me if I. happened to be the proud
possessor of a coin. They were sweet
little tilings, so I dug the sum of two
pennies from out my trousers. They
disappeared inside, laughing, and I
proceeded to wear the balcony out.
The member, who was still howling,
was making it apparent to all and
sundry that once (20 years ago, he said)
he had been a had, bold, wicked man,
and knew not the straight path. His
friends had said he was past praying
for, and gave him up. But (glory!) he
was now saved, etc. Presently the
two girls emerged, still giggling in-
anely, and approached the balcony-rail.
I ceased my promenade to watch
developments. Down went the pennies
in a white-hot state. The member
stooped to pick them up, and fervently
said, “God bless you, sisters and
brothers.” As he grabbed the pennies,
which had fallen close to one another,
he reverted to his long-discarded habit.
I could scarcely believe my ears, but
there it was, and I should think that
that saved person had to start on the
straight path all over again.
“ Nulla ” : Said Blime Bill, who, doomed
(by the police) for a certain time to walk the
earth, had just returned : “ Yairs, these cockies
is early birds orlight. I didn’t expect me break-
fast in bed, y’ know ; but, I tell yer, I was won-
derin’ where th’ ’ell th’ sun ’ad got ter when th’
bloke I was graftin’ for wakes me up an’ tells me
not to be wastin’ th’ forenoon. ’E ’ad ther robbo
ready, waitin’ ter go ter town, an’, climbin’ in,
we jogs along. We musta gone twenty mile,
when I ’ears somethin’ flyin’ off ther cart, an’,
blime, yous blokes mightn’t b’lieve me, but it was
fowls what had been roostin’ there—it was just
cornin’ daylight.”
“ T.F.M.” : I like to read the stories that
appear occasionally in English magazines about
life in the Australian “backwoods.” They are
! full of useful information and very entertaining.
Have just finished a yarn of that type in Cham-
bers's -Journal, entitled “Hunting Wild Horses
in Australia.” A youngster, living in the back-
woods—a good rough-rider, as most Australian
youngsters are—while on his way home from
school sights a mob of wild horses just outside his
pa’s boundary fence, and in the mob is a beautiful
grey filly with a long, silvery mane and tail. The
young rough-rider, who is also an expert in throw-
ing the lasso, determines to make that filly his
own, and so, having first obtained pa’s permission
to absent himself from the backwoods seminary,
he sets off on his own next morning to hunt down
the filly. He makes an early start, just when the
sun is tipping the mountains, and, after riding
hard all day among diggers’ nests and wombat
holes, he succeeds, as the sun is sinking behind the
distant hills, in lassoing that filly just as she is
about to disappear in a thicket. The filly is at
full gallop, and so is the young Nimrod ; and yet
to spring from his horse and give the rope a twist
round a tree is but the work of a second. When
young Kemp captures the filly (T think the
youngster’s name must have been Kemp) he is
away in the heart of the forest, many miles from
any trace of civilisation ; and as it is getting dark
there is nothing else for it but to bivouac for the
night, which he does, after tying the filly to a tree
and killing a few opossums for the dogs. How
the opossums are killed the author does not men-
tion, but possibly they are lassoed also. Like
most Australian youths, especially if they happen
to get benighted in the backwoods of Woolloo-
mooloo and similar solitudes, our hero is an early
riser ; and, as the first grey streaks of dawn shoot
through the tall gums next morning, he unhobbles
the filly, and, after handling her for an hour or
two, leads her home. It is a simple tale of life in
the Australian forest where wild horses come and
put their heads in at the window of the commer-
cial academy, till at last the teacher goes out in
disgust and captures them to prevent them inter-
rupting the history lesson.
* * * *
“ Gr.M.” : Strange that, notwithstanding
his great intelligence, the dog may be found with-
out presentiment even of personal peril. An in-
stance. Our dog (a young “lightweight”) and
that next door (a bull-terrier “heavy”) are on
bad terms. Through a hole in the fence the
terrier, after hunting his own territory, daily
enters and works ours in search of provender,
forcibly taking from our dog any bone on which he
may be engaged, and biting him if he resists. To-
day he lies in his yard, sick from over-eating. To
tempt him his owner placed a sheep’s liver before
his nose ; he couldn’t touch it. Our dog has been
in, realised the situation, eaten the liver, and,
before retiring, registered the size of his teeth in
the terrier’s ear —fleeing before the unearthly
howl that this excited. He is now basking in the
sun, day-dreaming, apparently without the
faintest prevision that by to-morrow, at latest, he
will have an idea of what the ’Frisco earthquake
was like.
* * * *
N. S. Wales has now 2730 full-blood
aborigines and 4180 half-castes. As compared
with last year, the full-bloods decreased by 41.
In 1882, when the first census was taken, there
were G 540 full-blood aborigines.
POETRY AND PROSE.
N.S.W. Fisheries Board talks of stirring
up the Chief Secretary to put a price on shags
heads. The Government is spending money freely
on the introduction of fish ova into river and lake
waters, and keeps a big live Board made of meat
to manage things, but all the time the shag—the
insatiable foe of young fish —is practically pro-
tected by the law, and spends its time undoing all
this work. It is an offence to discharge a firearm
at the ravenous cormorants that infest the lagoons
of Sydney Centennial Park and neighboring
waters. These lagoons could, in a few years, be
made fish-nurseries for the State if the birds that
prey on young fish were kept down.
LINES TO MY BRIDLE HAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hand o’ mine I
Idle, ambitionless hand o’ mine 1
Time has made wreck of
The days lang syne
When over the neck of
Old Number Nine
Wheeling the stragglers into line
The reins hung loose in you !
What is the use in you,
Hand o’ mine ?
Hand o’ mine !
White and woman-soft hand o’ mine !
Once you were brown with the
Kiss of the sun
(Light that went down with the
Days that are done);
Now you are groom of the
Paper and pen,
White as the tomb of l he
Days that were then.
Hand o’ mine !
Careless, comrade hand o’ mine !
You steadied the glass
While I poured the wine,
And you held the lass
While her waist I spanned
With a glad right hand !
Maybe ’twas rude of you ;
Never repine !
What is the good of you,
Hand o’ mine?
U.S.A.
WILL H. OGILNIE.


Wolfe’s Schnapps.
A PURE & WHOLESOME SPIRIT.
!WP“ Buy Whole Bottles. 'VS
WEDDING
PRESENTS.
WE ARE NOTED FOR.
Our enormous stock is replete with them.
Infinite in Variety. Because the best are
culled from each good maker.
Extremely Low in Price. Because the
cheapest lines are secured by our
Home buyer.
Exceptional in Quality. Because we must
maintain our reputation for best
quali ties.
Our Reputation controls our Income, and
so is of vital interest to us.
We excel in Silver Goods, which we sell as
low as Electroplate.
a
Sterling Silver-back Brush and Comb, in handsome
Satin-lined Morocco Case, 21/. ; larger, 22/6.
Plain Figures
Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter St,
Glimpse of Spotted Australia, through a
Barrier Miner (Broken Hill) advt. :
DISSOLUTION OP PARTNERSHIP.
NOTICE is hereby given that the Partnership hereto-
fore subsisting between us the undersigned NOTALLA
HABBIBULLA, MUCK MADEEN, MOASS, AFZUL,
ADJUNE, GOOLOB, and AKBAR AZIMULLAH, carry-
ing on business as Camel-owners and Carriers at Broken
Hill and in the West Darling District, New South Wales,
under the style or firm of NOTALLA HABBIBULLA, has
been DISSOLVED as from the 18th day of July, 1906, so
far as concerns the said Notalla Habbibulla and Afzul,
who retire from the said firm.
Dated at Broken Hill the 19th day of July, 1906.
Witness to marks—W. Hogg, J.P.
his
NOTALLA x HABBIBULLA
mark
his
MUCK x MADEEN
mark
MOASS (his x mark)
AFZUL (his x mark)
ADJUNE (his x mark)
GOOLOB (his x mark)
his
AKBAR x AZIMULLAH. .
mark
« * * «
“F.H.R.” : Be “ Waste Paper Basket’s ”
yarn (B. 26/7/’O6). A snake will attack, and even
chase, any person who intervenes between it and
“home” if that person takes the aggressive ; but.
the chase is a very feeble one. Twice have I been
chased by snakes—once by a brown and once by
a black, but never by a black and white snake or
a check one. The black snake merely charged me
so as to get a clear run at his stump, into which
he whirled like a black pudding down a dog.
The brown serpent was more annoyed. I was
going across a ploughed paddock, carrying a small
hag of broken quartz specimens. When I met
• Mr. Brown I told him I was sorry I had forgotten
my walking-stick, but I threw the bag of quartz
fair on his back. The soft soil beneath him was
his salvation. He moved on a little, and then 1
repeated the dose. Something annoyed him
perhaps he objected to being pelted with a wild-
cat. He pursued me for about twenty yards, but
[ do not think he seriously wanted to catch me,
for a snake is one of the quickest things alive if
it really means going, and a ploughed paddock is
not good for a man to make records on. I believe
“ W.P.8.” to be a Meat Trust.
* * * *
“ Yarrab ” : A detail observed in George-
street (Sydney) during the week impels the belief
that some of the Mulga contingent know a thing
or two. I observed an unbarbered horse and un-
fashionable turn-out, the latter seating a pair of
country shes, halt outside a meal factory. The
girls leaped out with great energy, tethered the
moke, produced a screw-wrench, and loosened the
axle-nut. Wrench and nut were then packed into
a small bag, and in went the girls for their forage.
Then the force of the proceeding struck me.
Taking off the nut made the removal of the turn-
out an impossibility. The idea was precaution
against the city vehicle thief. The insulted ex-
pression on the face of an adjacent leaner was
good to see, and he said “ By. cripes ! ” in a bitter
tone.
* * *
“ Quambat ” (whose address is illegible)
writes to say that, when a dog has taken a
poisoned bait, you should seize the animal by the
tail and swing it round your head till you are at
the last gasp. When you drop the dog it will
be sick, and next day there will be nothing wrong
with it, bar a certain limpness and flabbiness
about the tail.
FRIVOLOUS.
WALKER: “ Hello , Tommy, what have you been up to this time?”
WRAGGES : “ Writin me name on the carridge winders with me dimoml riny.”
“P.X.”: The climbing kangaroo is the
most interesting animal of the North Queensland
tableland ; he is more interesting and not half as
dangerous as the wild cat, which also flourishes in
those parts. The wild-cat lives chiefly on the
juice of Southern Jugginses, while the climbing
kangaroo is a vegetarian. A good many of the
latter have been caught, but they mostly die on
the way down, probably because of errors of diet,
1 bey are little fellows, rarely bigger than a wal-
r 'y> an d spring from bough to bough rather than
climb; and, like the’possum, they do most of their
tree-top wandering by night. They make a noise,
too, like the ’possum, but louder.
NOT NUMEROUS, BUT DENSE.
VISITOR : “ The population of Tinpan is not very dense.”
RESIDENT : “ Garn! There's heaps like Mickie here.”
What is Queensland going to do about its
prickly-pear curse ? It is a most serious evil, for
the pest is slowly but surely locking up millions of
acres of good country. Even as far west as Ounna-
mulla and Charleville squatters are fencing off
areas which are hopelessly given up to it. Less
than 50 yearsago the pear, coddled as a hedge plant,
was just beginning to get a hold on the Darling
Downs. To-day it has gathered in four million
acres of country. With no special steps taken,
what will be the position in another 20 years?
Will the accursed cactus be in possession of Queen-
street, Brisbane, by then ? There is “ another
side,” and a profitable one, to the rabbit curse ;
but there seems no likelihood of working up a
trade in potted prickles or fricasseed pear.
“Crow”: Saw a gin peacefully smoking
with a young piccaninny close by. A tame crow
-L s n ■ i j «■
''' as on !l near fence ’ Gin c,ozed off ’
Crow flew down, pecked the piccaninny on the
head, flew back again, and quietly watched the
gin soothing the offspring and looking round for
the trouble. When all was again peaceful in the
lubra’s home, and she settled down again, the
crow repeated his performance, but the gin’s sus-
picions were aroused, and without waiting to em-
panel a jury she hit the crow in the waistcoat
with her yam stick, much to the surprise of the
murky fowl.
SALLY.
[For The Bulletin.]
Ridin’ by ther river,
On ther way ter plough ;
By er little cottage
Fair gal milkin’ cow.
As I says “ Good mornin’,”
Says “ Good mornin’ ” back.
Turned awhile ter watch ’er
Ridin’ down ther track.
Then, o’ other mornin’s,
Fren’s we got, yer know ;
An’ I called ’er “ Sally,”
An’ she called me “ Joe.”
Useter stop ’n’ gossip
Sometimes quite er while ;
An’ I liked ’er manner—
Sorter liked ’er style.
Sorter loved each other. . . .
Then ther river rose
Through ther spring sun meltin’
O’ ther mountain snows.
Nuthin’ extra dang’rous,
Wasn’t quite bank-’igh,
’N’ one morn, es usual,
I went ridin’ by.
Looked across ther gateway—
Neither cow nor gal;
Silence roun’ ther cottage—
Wondered : “ Where is Sal ? ”
Then I sees ’er mother
From ther river come,
Moaning' ’n’ a-weepin’.
Thinks I : “ This is rum ! ”
Got it from ’er slowly. . . .
Told indoors ter stay,
Fred, ther youngest kiddy,
Somehow slipped away ;
Itunnin’ ter ther river,
Tripped upon ther bank ;
Saw Sal run ter save ’ini :
Grabbed’m. Then they sank.
Never saw ’er after,
Swept away ter sea,
Laughin’ Sally Morris
Brave es gal could be.
Yet it sets me thinkin’
Of ’er, even now
When I see gals sittin’
Milkin’ of er cow.
MAORILAND. TE AUOHA.
* * * *
“The Prooshan ” : Here is an exact copy
(bar the names) of a 24in. x 18in. notice I saw an
out-back publican tack up near the entrance to
his bar:—
NOTICE
To all whom it may concern or not. I Robert Never-see-
the-sign-of-it, commonly 7 known as “ Old Bob,” has been
accused by T my wife Hannah Never-hear-the-last-of-it:
of drinking Schnapps in my own bar. Take notice any
person coming into the bar must not shout for poor
old Bob, as Mother Never-hear-the-last-of-it wears the
trousers and rides the grey mare.
(Signed) OLD 808.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
So notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted , whether
sent by post or handed in; and no Jibs', will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
C. Flynn : You state violently from Arizona
that something which Jebb alleged to have happened at
Victoria (British Colombia), one or two thousand miles
off, wasn’t true. How do you know, as you weren’t
there ? We know various people who have made the same
journey, and tell the same story as Jebb
Ylenod : “ Jacob’s Feet ” humorous in strict moderation.
. ...J.A.R.: “Spring Sonnet ” good, but there is no ad-
dress nor any assurance that the signature represents your
real name. Under the circumstances, we suspect it of
being a steal G.L.L. : Conveys no definite idea....
To an Unknown Correspondent: Received one envelope
(postmark Trangie, N.S.W.), one sheet of blank paper,
and six penny stamps... .Kulpara : Chestnut (alas !)....
Nym : “ Curls ” is a small item of little visible purpose.
Manx: Point is that he had a “gathering” or
a lump or a sore on his mouth —and that isn’t a
nice thing to make verse about... .Martingale : Have
a pretty solid recollection that “Johnny” was declined.
G.A.K. : No address with “Maoriland Va11ey.”....
W.L.D. : Words only, and awkward words sometimes —
c.y., the line “A wilding of mid-summertime time.”....
W.0.R.8. : Pretty minor verse, and that is a 11....
Nulla: An infusion of blue-gum leaves would doubtless
be good for a poisoned leg; it would contain some of the
antiseptic eucalyptus oil. But it would not be an ideal
remedy Land Tax : The “ unimproved value ”of land
does not mean its original value when selected, but its
present value, apart from the value of all crops, build-
ings, etc., upon it. Suppose next your farm of 500 acres
there is another area of 500 acres of the same soil and
equal in every way, but not cleared or improved. The
value of that unimproved area would be equal to
the unimproved value of your land, and would be
the value on which you would pay the tax, if
that value were above the exemption limit
J.A.P. : Rather weakly handled Ina Wren: Lacks
skill in the telling J.M.O. : Not up to the literary
mark Dick H.: They have some quality of thought,
but are too rough and clumsy in forui....D. Byrne:
Well versified, but otherwise not up to much S.B. :
Discussion is how to shoot crows, and can’t be widened
into how not to shoot them. There are, no doubt,
millions of ways of not shooting them Doggerel:
Thanks; but error too trifling to notice....A.C.D.C. :
We don’t appoint local correspondents, but glad
to get short, interesting pars from any source
Capitalist: You’re a friend if you have helped to have The
Bulletin kept off the local School of Arts table because
of its “ mischevious politics.” Every School of Arts
boycott means a fresh batch of paying subscribers. Some
people, it seems, must read the paper ; it is a habit (bad
or good). If they can’t read it on the cheap at a School
of Arts they have to buy it W.F.B. : Can’t explain
the emu’s antics. It was probably just emusing itself—
Y.0.U.: Don’t strike The Bulletin line of action so far.
Aramis: (1) Verse just fails; (2) hardly worth the
trouble, but Tom-tom Mann would well suggest his noisy
uselessness....H.C.K. : Venerable chestnut.....A.G.J. ;
Graceful mediocrity.. ..Wal D. : Only the first stanza is
good.. ..D. James : The “Rory O’More” lilt-measure is
ludicrously out of keeping with the subject Helen D. :
Not freshness enough of treatment for such a well-worn
theme..lioron: Slack of style and weak of interest....
A. : Picture of the turning of the first sod of
the first N.S.W. railway not very interesting. If
you had a picture of the repayment of the debt on that
first railway we would rush it Wangatooka : They
hardly rise above doggerel L.H.E.: Rather forced and
artificial Roslyn : Gracefully worded, but produces no
definite impression C.B.W. : Mere mechanical jig-
jog K.E.N.: You have much to learn—spelling in-
cluded A.I.E.W. : “Thumb-nail Story” declined.
Wrong size for our nail W.G.H. : “Anti-Gambling
Bill” was lost third reading R.H.P.: “Cynics’
Comedy ” misses the ’bus—just clutches at the back step
of the flying vehicle, and fails by a hair’s-breath, and falls
down with mud in its eye, so to speak Richard T. :
Very poor stuff H.: Don’t altogether care for it.
....G.R.C. : Ornamental, but unimpressive... .R.W. A. :
Has good points, but fails on the literary side
Augh : “ Augh ! ’’—just our opinion of it.. ..Trio : That
spade story is patriarchal L.McL.: It wasn’t Mrs.
Besant who was “exposed” at a Sydney seance. Mrs.
Besant never, in this country at least, went in for
spiritualistic fakes of the Cissie and Geordie type....
Mul. : Cock-fighting spells gaol in N.S. Wales. The
Bulletin would be content if pigeon-shooting carried the
same penalty A. McL. : A good, sound article, but
same argument has been put before in 8... ..C.W.: (1)
Thanks. (2) We can’t find room to print every individual
instance of land monopoly Reily : Represents a wan-
ton waste of adjectives Noar Sark: Too tamely told.
H.F.P. : Hasn’t interest enough to condone the
doggerel... .G.H.K.: You can’t write—can’t even spell.
Alf. W. : Sony it’s no use to us C.E.F.M. : (1)
Just a par in your column about alcohol. (2) Verse not
up; it’s rough in more senses than one J.Q.M. :
Shakspeare. The lines occur in “Othello.” R. Thur :
Do they make ship biscuits in Australia to any extent?
B. : Good yarn, but a shade too undressed for
publication ; and to put clothes on it would spoil it....
D.H.R. : “ Gold Cave ” promised well, but ended feebly.
W.G.E. : Inclined to be twaddlesome.. ..Darcy M. :
Quite out of the running Neville G. : Very well
written, but too narrow of interest... .Aramis : Verses
only moderate, and you are describing a state of things
which, in most of the States, fell down a dead, defunct
corpse ten years ago Micawber : That little weekly is
so often girding at The Bulletin that it would look like
malice on our part to publish about its competition take-
downs Aurun : We’ve got that law now in the shape
of the Commerce Act... .P. : The Bulletin believes it to
be a fact that when a fully democratic Constitution is
given to all S’Africa, it will drift away from “ the
Empire ”; also that if a democratic Constitution is
refused to the Boer states they will break away. That’s
the dilemma with which the Chinese labor iniquity con -
fronts Britain....M. : The original “Big” Clarke came
out as a small capitalist to take up land in Tasmania.
Your scandalous suggestion is quite wrong.. ..Sub-
scriber: Last Melb. Cup was won by Blue Spec Musi-
cal: Sorry, can’t supply the information... .Veldt:
“Sacked” accepted and passed for payment... .C.S.K. :
Hardly worth mentioning that “The Dead Forget.”
That’s what they become dead for. If they didn’t forget,
it wouldn’t be worth while being dead Oxy Moron :
Quite true, but not expressed as brightly as they might
be “ Honest Micawber” : Your plea for consultations
only amounts to this —that you spend on them money
that you can’t spare, and that the sweep deferred maketh
the heart sick.
:
The noble forests of our land
Beneath man’s devasting hand
Soon will have vanished, leaving there
This country lying, gaunt and bare.
No wooded clothing, now she’s old,
To save her from her death of cold,
But lo ! new Woods arise with healing sure.
All hail then—Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure !


"THREE’S COMPANY-TWO’S THE DEVIL!"
The small farmers must unite with the large landowners to resist the Land-Tax. —ARGUS.
Small Farmer: “ Lemme go; it s you he wants! Fat Landowner: “You shan’t be broken up—we’ll stand or fall together, brother!”


"If flje of Vofecl
for Tj»n7 fye vrouU Consider-
•ttj.ert Were So«7G. J
Ir/ftrKs /fpijj^j
in S
C Ur^cfer.
[M)
Victoria Bill L
[Wlf® "tas
fc Ktlb‘*se< if
5 ,8 ? S /. >k
y:- G«f 07 wifl? fee n}/
/ >Mr- eUbWg.l /EgZ/,
j)o*4"" !rjoi*7<si ! I l\]\/f /
Well Cjeor^e!
I promise
*
\>e low, i 11 »
tyerj fifo't'ti, A
is called on -to f l^7^~f or
fjis wrftf b'S lasT drojp
turd ler J
We ngM”
to our voices r ’ (A^vs)
« Only Ij2? “to wrtcorK i'T’
wl/en
•7 se»>+s
Bill
J* to
cli*J» when-
t'fer -\b-f
He re ou gif to le hore
Hl)® ANA. 50 if we in -trains
gsdf
"T se A$K of
NVOOII7O elector^
15 o»7€ .”
PM
i Aj>roJ>os of
\ A*+< ~SI n >*79 -
\ bys'teri
TTe. toy • ,
j)hce foy
Q\lbficz -for JwdK'i^
[(' " AS % i
, it” will be COWsUH>e<^-
-> Be,, ' h) x
QweGnjcliff 6X c h 'y &
A foK+”wiH) Aoti-Wer £-
Si h PV |,| S°' l !
IN BENT’S COUNTRY.


\
:TKe Worlds!
The greatest benefit
you can confer upon your mouth
and teeth is to accustom yourse i
to regularly cleaning them with
Odol.
Such a pleasant taste, and so very
refreshing /
PERSONAL ITEMS.
W. N. Willis is the proud possessor of five
little daughters and a son. Willie Willis, tile
younger; is aged seven.
“ J.M.” sends this tale :
the following inscription appears on the foundation
stone of the Wesleyan Church, Charles-street, Perth
(W. A.): —
“Thfe stone was laid by Walter Simpson, Esq., J.P.
“ Let the whole earth be full of his glory.”
There are nine indirect references to Jack
Wren in Shakspeare. The most salient are :
“The wrens make prey where eagles dare not”
(“ Richard III.”); “ The poor wren, most diminu-
tive of birds, will fight” (“Macbeth”). Shak-
speare makes no mention of Collingwood or the
tote.
Itan ” : Re queer names. A family, which
used to reside at Singleton (N.S.W.), was bur-
dened with these : Rex, Baron, Count, Queenie,
Duke, Princess. The nextones were to have been
called Emperor and Justice of the Peace; but
there were no more next ones—Nature presum-
ably revolted.
Ex*Senator Ned Harney, Westralia’s most
eloquent and expensive lawyer, emigrates to the
Cold Country shortly. Harney is giving up a
local practice; said to be Worth from £4OOO to
£5OOO, to start from scratch in Lincoln’s Inn
Fields, or thereabouts. He has been 10 years in
W.A.. and could have had a judgeship had he
Wanted it,
The story goes round Maorilitnd that one
of Seel don’s West Coast admirers was in Welling-
ton wheh Holman Hunt’s picture, “The Light of
the World,” was being exhibited. He stood
before it for some time; and then in ad© just one
remark, “Well, 1 doti’t think much of it. It
isn’t at all like Dick.”
The lately-deceased Geo. W. Waterhouse
put up an unusual record in politics. He ran two
Ministries in South Australia —the first lasted
nine days in 1861, and the second, which closely
followed the first, hfing out for nearly two years.
Nine , years later he bobbed Up as Premier of
Maori land, and though he did nothing remark-
able ill any one of his Premierships, still it was
something of a record.
Louis Horwitz, tile Hamilton (Vic.) soli-
citor, who is doing a long tferin in Geelong Gaol
for a disorder of the chest, has been Undergoing
an examination in insolvency for weeks past.
The assignee, though an expert accountant, has
been unable to make head or tail of some of the
clever man’s accounts. Horwitz, however, could
always explain them in a twinkling. His actuarial
methods were of the most complicated descrip-
tion—a fact that leads to the conclusion that the
first requisite for a clever embezzler is an intricate
system of bookkeeping.
The “ mana ” of Rua Tapu (if that is his
name ; The Bulletin lias had eight letters from
Maoriland giving five different spelling of Rua), the
Maori prophet, who foretold that Jesus Christ and
Edward VII. would meet at Gisborne last month,
has vanished, and he is now a deteriorated seer,
sneaking home to Urewerabv the back road. The
Gisborne natives met him on his arrival with a
cold stare, and invited him to camp in his own
tents outside the pah limits. They have a pro-
phet of their own there, one Wereta, who met his
rival in wordy strife, and left his reputation as a
preacher hanging in tatters on a bush. The
pakehas who took advantage of the Maoris’ tem-
porary insanity, and bought land from them at
ridiculous prices, will get the worst of the deal,
as the magistrate in charge of native lands will
not sanction the sale. Not only will the pakehas
not get the land, but they have little hope of
getting the money back. Consequently, most of
Rua’s followers had their pilgrimage on the
cheap.
THE BACKBONE OF THE COUNTRY.
PARSON (on tour): “ Yes, my friend, your
country possesses some fine natural resources.”
NATIVE: “ Oh, I unnerstand! You want nice
girl, eh!”
One of the shortest terms in Queensland
Fossil House was served by W. H. Rawlings, who
died, the other day, within a fortnight of his
appointment. Twenty-five years ago Rawlings
and the late “Billy” Browne (who joined with
Morgan in forming the Democratic Government
that displaced the old Tory continuation of
Boodle) walked into Irvinebank carrying their
swags. Both developed lung disease, and to-day
they both lie in Toowong cemetery.
In the official list of members of the House
of Reps., nearly every man is called “ The Honor-
able.” Some wear the title because they are, or
have been, members of Ministries; others, because
they were in the first Commonwealth Parliament.
These are the men who do not bear the foolish
prefix: Carpenter, Culpin, Frazer, Gibb, Hutchi-
son, Lee, Johnson, Kelly, Liddell, Lonsdale,
Maloney, McWilliams, Robinson, Storfer, Thom-
son (Q.), Webster, and Wilson.
THE ANTI-GAMBLING CRUSADE.
At the conclusion the audience were requested to join in singing the National Anthem.—AGE.
BOOKIE (to friend): “Sing ‘ Gor' Save the King,’ why don’t yer?"
FHIEND: “ Wha' for?”
BOOKIE: " Why, s'elp me, he ’used to run racehorses himself?”
The late Bishop Langley was less tolerant
than his brother, the Sydney Archdeacon. When
the Bishop was Archdeacon, some of his church
officers, one Sunday, placed on the communion-
table a bowl full of the beautiful works of God
in the shape of white flowers and ferns. The
Archdeacon noticed it during the service, and
stopped in the middle of that dreary work of man,
his sermon, to shoot the bowl and the beautiful
works of God through the vestry door.
Mr. C. E. Pilcher, K.C., is on board the
China on his return to Sydney and fat briefs.
And again it is in the air that N.S.W. Chief
Justice Darley, now aged 76, intends to retire next
November, when he has completed 20 years of
service, and that Pilcher will be on hand to refuse
the appointment or else to rush at it with his
mouth open. There are, however, instances where
Irish Judges have held on to the Bench at ages
far in excess of Mr. Parley’s. Chief Justice
Lefroy sat until he was something like 90, and
Baron Pennefather, at over 80, had been blind for
years and yet hung on to his job and his horse-
hair. Ireland seems to have supplied the boss
records of the Empire as far as concerned the
lean and slippered pantaloon lingering toothless
at the fount of justice.
This is a true incident in the career of a
massive Melbourne professional gentleman
whose special province is the law. Mack
is taller and broader than two ordinary
lawyers, and when lie fell ill, as a result
of wet, cold, and exposure on a walking
tour, and contracted fever, the family
was driven to the necessity of calling in
two lusty, male nurses to hold him
down in his bed, one for day, the
other for night-shift. One morning,
when the day-shift came on, he found
the night-shift looking so peaked and
unwound that he invited him over to
the corner to be stimulated, and, as the
patient was just then sleeping in peace,
night-shift went thankfully. Aquarter-
of-an-hour later Mack was to be seen
walking through Fitzroy Gardens in a
fluttering shirt and a belltopper, and
carrying in his hand a black brief-
bag. By the time the stray giant had
reached the Treasury reserve he had
a small army after him, and if he had
not been interfered with he would
have sailed down Collins-street to his
office in his amazing dress. But three
policemen and a cab intervened, and
Mack was wheeled home again, still
carrying his little bag, and still
wearing the pure, black belltopper of
a blameless life. The little bag was
most characteristic. No Melbourne
business man is respectably dressed without his
small ’ f)^ c k bag _
“G.B. : Be the Wellington (M.L.)
firm - s boast that j t has the Earth for sale (B.
12/7/’O6). A witness in a libel case, instituted by
King O’Malley in South Oss a few years ago,
stated that K. O’M. was once in business as a
land agent in the United States, and that his
shingle bore the inscription : “ The Earth for
Sale by the Wild Irishman.”
From Adelaide
Philanthropist Charles Goode, of this city, at present
wandering about in cold parts, put his foot into it t’other
day. He was standing on the platform of an English rail-
vvay station when the Cardiff train passed through. A
elenryman leant out of a carriage window and accosted
o,d °- H - Goode, saying “ Don’t you know me? I m James,
o{ Adelaide.” Goode jumped to the conclusion that it
was the giddy and notorious James who lately left W. A.
with a female person; and being a righteous old gentle-
n™n’.he s ™ ppe< } back and declined to recognise the
offender. Then he wrote out to Adelaide telling how he
had given the glassy eye to a very bad man, and an Ade-
laide paper published his letter. Next day, a perfect
storm of correspondence assailed the paper, pointing out
that old C.H.G. had turned the cold shoulder of mockery
pn the wrong pareon-that this Rev. James was a blame-
old Goode, who wouldn’t insult a perfectly honest
shepherd for any money, will be a broken-up man when
he hears what he has done.
Mrs. Moorhouse, wife of Bishop Moor-
house, of Melbourne anrl Manchester, whose death
in England is chronicled, was the centre of a
sensational incident in Melbourne, over twenty
years ago. The Bishop, in a burst of indiscreet
eloquence, inveighed against the State education
system, on the ground that under it children
practised immorality. When badgered by indig-
nant questioners, he gave what professed to be
illustrations, based on the confidential informa-
tion of ladies. That did not satisfy the angry
questioners, and the incident closed with his
admission that he got the story from his wife,
who, it was presumed, had heard it in a vague
sort of way from some other lady.
Ex-Australian Railway Commissioner
John Matbieson, recently dead in England at the
age of 60, began his career at 13 with the Glasgow
and South-Western Railway 00. (Scotland), and
rose from booking-clerk to superintendent. In
1889 Thomas M‘llwraith made him Queensland’s
Chief Railway Commissioner. He held the posi-
tion until 1896, when he became Victoria’s Railway
Commissioner. Then, in 1900, he retired to Eng-
land, and became manager for the Midland Rail-
way Co. In view of the loud demands for an
imported Railway Commissioner with foreign
experience for N.S.W., it is interesting to note
that Mathieson’s 14 years Australian experience
led to his appointment to control an English
railway system worth £lB9,ooo,ooo—nearly as
much as the whole Australian public debt.
“ Ropata ” : Read in Fitchett’s paper—
Lifted, or some such title—that Australia pos-
sessed a second Macaulay in the person of. Fit
chett himself. This week a friend sent me a
second copy of the magazine, and I set myself to
study the new Macaulay. In a five-page article
written by Fitchett I find a monotony of expres-
sion and a persistence in repetition which are the
best of all answers to the groundless and impudent
eharge of Macaulayism. The word “historic” I
counted six times—“historic palace,” “historic
ridge,” “historic name” (twice), and “historic
interest ” (twice). The adjective “ grey ” is only
used four times—“grey city,” “ grey parapets,”
“grey walls,” “grey lanes.” The word “his-
tory” occurs five times; “imagination,” three
times; “blood,” four times (it’s a wonder there
wasn’t more blood than that); “classic,” three
times; “battle-scarred,” twice; “gallant dead.”
twice; “heroic dead,” five times; “heroic
scenes,” twice. “Shot-pitted Cashmere gate ”he
uses twice. And all this in five small pages. In
the same number Fitchett’s name, exclusive of
advertisements proper, is mentioned twelve .times,
and a photograph of the man is likewise given.
Tough as a piece of working-bullock and
hard as a drawn wire nail, old Frank Hann,
explorer and ex-squatter, has again returned to
civilisation, after a big dive into the Never-Never,
between Weld Springs (W.A.) and the South
Australian border. Hann was a North Queens-
land pioneer when Prime Minister Deakin was a
schoolboy, and his tracks from east to west and
from north to south of the continent would re-
semble the course of a spider returning from a
heavy evening out. It is mostly the tracks of
explorers who were fitted out with every comfort,
and carefully protected against personal loss, that
occupy the best places on the maps of Australia,
so Hann’s efforts to build up the geography of
the country on his own have not been generally
published. He loves the wild, free life of the
explorer, and grieves that the area that wants
exploring is becoming circumscribed. Several
years ago he arrived in Perth for a spell,
accompanied by a retinue of black followers,
one of whom was an unbleached Venus dressed
in a fetching costume of. white calico with
Turkey-red trimmings, and no corset to speak of.
It took a long time to disperse the admiring
crowds that followed Hann’s footsteps down Hay-
street, and a lawsuit with his landlord followed as
a mere trivial detail. The veteran should now be
nearing the 70th mile-post, but is still going
strong. He is much annoyed because the Perth
papers insist on terming him a prospector ; and
darkly hints that he will write up his peregrina-
tions. With a good literary man behind him the
book should be fine reading.
“ One who knows ” writes :
Writer was behind the scenes when Charles Oliver ruled
the N.S.W. Lands Department, from 1880 to 1888, and
admired the capacity and clear-headedness of the man.
What commanded most respect was his unflinching de-
termination to cleanse the administration, whilst doing
liberal justice to individual officers whose positions were
abolished for economic reasons. It is on record that
some 200 clerks, draughtsmen, and others, were
dispensed with by him, at a saving to the country’of over
£70,000 per annum in salaries, allowances, rents, &e., and
the administration simplified and made more speedy. It
is also on record that, during 1885-6, the enormous
number of 1,500 pastoral runs were divided by him
under the provisions of the 1884 Act, with great skill,
tact, and discrimination, without giving rise to the
slightest breath of scandal. Had he so chosen,
nothing could have been easier than to have
acquired wealth, far in excess of the sums recently
sworn to before the Royal Commission as paid, sub rosa,
for improvement leases. Another act that redounds to
Bis honor seems to have been completely lost sight of—
the discovery of far-reaching swindles whereby the public
estate had been defrauded of about 50,000 acres of choice
conditionally-purchased lands (in respect of which certi-
ficates of title had issued, although the conditions of the
law had palpably not been complied with). The dismissal
of seven officers concerned, and the recovery of all the
land to the State, followed. Yet this is the man who is
now to be turned adrift, as a reward for honesty, by the
Ministry of “Reform”!
Some recent aspects of a posturing parson :
Parson Worrall, who succeeded in making Tommy
Bent, Tommy’s Ministry, and most of Tommy’s Parlia-
ment look ridiculous, has been engaged ever since in
doing the same thing for himself, and again he has suc-
ceeded. Worrall has been posing as if he were a torn
martyr just released after great suffering. Exhaustion,
nervous break-down, nervous break-up, debility, and
all sorts of things have suddenly afflicted Worrall
since he faced the Bar of the House. “I think
a sea voyage would do me good,” he wailed to an
interviewer. Then he telegraphed to his wife, saying
that he was leaving for Fiji in a few days. “A talk in
Fijian would do me good,” he explained. Here folks
remembered that when Worrall was crusading against
Bent and posing as the about-to-be-martyred-one he had
told his audience that he had many a time, in far-off Fiji,
among savages and other things, faced greater dangers
than anything Bent could fetch along, and he had not
been afraid. They got curious about those dangers. Some
infidel who said he had lived in Fiji for about 30 years,
wrote to the papers, and said that the Rev. Worrall had
talked through his hat. The Fijians were quite harmless,
and the missionaries, instead of facing danger, faced good
meals and comfortable beds, and grew fat and lazy.
Then Worrall fell over himself to write and say that he
had been misreported. Certainly he had never faced
danger from the natives, of whom 90 per cent,
are good, mild Methodists; he meant that the
missionaries sometimes met hurricanes, and influ-
enza, and typhoid, and tilings like that, which, of
course, are not peculiar to Fiji. Unfortunately, the
same day one of Worrall’s greatest supporters dipped
his pen in gore and wrote on behalf of the parson. This
man said he was with Worrall in Fiji. The natives were
fierce and wild. Worrall had several times been in grave
personal danger. There had been awful murders, and
cannibalism had been practised in the islands when
Worrall was there. Worrall hadn’t been eaten, but he
might have been. There were tons of danger. The two
letters were printed together, and Worrall, who had been
a joke, became something of a public shriek.
OUT OF THE MOUTHS OF BABES
AND SUCKLINGS.
The cry for Protection came only from Mel-
bourne, and was a transparent piece of humbug,
as the Melbourne Age had recently shown that
Melbourne manufacturers were never in a more
prosperous condition than they are at present.—
Reid.
L.B.: “ Yes, George, owing to Protection.”
GEORGE: "Shurrup, you brat I Little boys
should be seen, not heard.”
Two Gippsland (Yic.) pioneers, dating
from the early 50’s, passed out, the other day,
within 24 hours of each other. John Carter
assisted in the surveying of a large portion of
South Gippsland. Captain Thomas Leggatt,
coastal navigator, is remembered for his adven-
turous voyage from Melbourne to Port Albert in
a coracle similar to those used by the early
Britons.


ANTHONY HORDERN’S SALE
FIFTEEN ACRES of Sale Bargains in Full Bloom for
THREE WEEKS. Fail not to Reap a Harvest of Jo y.
1M
9H\
mi
gas
&e
i
win
m
j
<7ir
m
®i-i
Sk-'\
■if
■M^ISUE
ON THE HISTORIC SLOPE OF BRICKFIELD HILL
o
July 3QtH
• ■ to • •
August 18th
S*
Both Days
Inclusive.
ANTHONY HORDERN <& SONS,
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS jsr jz?
PALACE EMPORIUM, SYDNEY.
A MOUSTACHE FOR 1016.
I’ll Try It.
The only sure and always certain Moustache
producer is
CAPSLLAR1NE .
It will give any man a full, luxuriant moustache
and we guarantee every jar of it. For 20 years we
have sold it and not a single complaint yet 1
Price 10)6
POST FREE ANYW HERE in AUSTRALASIA.
Under Sealed Cover.
The Result.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Pure Grape H.Y.D. BRANDY
J. B. COOK, Ltd., 82 Pitt St., Sydney, c/lgents.
Have You a PHONOGRAPH?
gs
If so, what are you paying for Records ?
COLUMBIA Gold Moulded Records
are superior to all others in Tone and
v Durability.
PRICE 113 EACH.
Write for our New 72-page CATALOGUE, and
particulars of our exchange offer on old and worn
Records.
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO. (CenU,
Australian
Headquarters
25 Ash St., Sydney, N.S. W.
,j %• *»*
i -J--V-. v
.
a
m
A
JAS.WARD, Brickfield Hill, sydney.
Devonport, a suburb of Auckland (M.L.),
recently decided that it would have a Ss.ddon
memorial, and, after much discussion, proposed
that it should take the form of a technical school,
to be maintained out of the rates. The proposal
was greeted with wild applause. A “ painful
impression ” was created by a bowelless councillor
who rose to point out that the borough already
bad an overdraft of £4500; he thought the best
memorial to the late Premier would be a special
rate, to be called the “Seddon Rate,” the money
to be devoted to paying off the indebtedness of
the municipality. He said that the fact that the
borough had been taken out of pawn in his honor
ivould be a good way to keep the dead statesman’s
memory green. But. as said before, the only
result was to create a “painful impression.”
What a number of candidates have an-
nounced themselves for the coining Australian
elections as Freetraders who believe in moderate
Protection ‘‘owing to the circumstances in which
the country is placed ' ”
Bigjohn Forrest is badly out of place in a
Ministry that pushes forward any sort of demo-
cratic legislation. John has already blurted out
the old Tory yell that a land-tax is robbery, and
in the Cabinet, whenever he is anything but a
mere excrescence, he is a drag. At the last Aus-
tralian elections, John was allowed a walk-over,
and spent his time in stumping the country
against Labor and Liberalism. This year he is
to be opposed by a Labor candidate, who will
probably be beaten, but his appearance on the
scene will help to keep the Bulky One busy in his
own constituency.


Be Your Own Beauty Doctor.
If you have a complexion that has a muddy or faded
appearance, or be troubled with blackheads, freckles and
wrinkles, or any skin blemishes whatever, you can easily
exchange for a skin without a blemish, a complexion
radiant with a transparent freshness, a clear, smooth, and
perfect skin that is so much to be admired. This is the
kind of complexion that we guarantee if you will give
Valaze a fair trial. Price 3s. 6d., or large jar 6s. (contain-
ing three times the amount), 6d. postage. Leading
chemists, or direct from Helena Rubinstein and Co., 274
Collins-street, Melbourne. Dr. Lykuski’s Special Valaze
Blackhead and Open Pores Cure —guaranteed to cure most
obstinate cases—2s. 6d. tin, by post 3s. Valaze Herbal
Soap, lasts six months, 2s. cake. Enclose 3d. in stamps
to cover Postage and we will forward you our latest edi-
tion of the “ New Guide to Beauty,” a book that is full of
most valuable information concerning the skin and
health, and will prove most useful and instructive
to anyone.*
dfg
sd
rtse
rgs
erg
ser
ser
sCtdtfa/v
c^wm
HIGH-CLASS COMFORTS.
BUCHANAN * OTARD-DUPUY
WHISKY BRANDY
QUALITY and AGE.
fs
“GR/^ENETTES’
'lt/ 18 ' 1
Are the Ideal Fabrics
for
RAINCOATS.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, August 14, 1906.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The Judkins wail against horse-racing and
gambles in general is having effect. The Exes,
led off by absenting themselves from Caulfield for
both big meetings. The Talbottle himself
wandered out last Saturday, but he doesn’t
count any. His lady is the Governor, and
she got up a rival show for the first Caul-
field meeting, giving a mild musical party at
Stonington that afternoon. For the second" she
attended an art show. Dame Northcote spent
the two race afternoons opening cat exhibitions
and’listening to Madame Arral trill in glad song.
So it looks as if the Vice-regal dames are leagued
with the lugubrious Judkins.
Caulfield for once failed to realise a sensation in
clothes this August season. Fashionables, whose
interest in race excitements seems on the wane,
turned out to both meetings in winter togs, and
looked anyhow. One honeymoon pair—Mr. and
Mrs. Charlie Lempriere—returned to publicity in
time for the second meeting, he carrying the
bride’s cloak all day—a touching sample of devo-
tion and servitude.
There was something of a sensation about the
last Marshall Hall concert, in the appearance of
Madame Blanche Arral, a -petite star from the
Paris Opera Comique. No preliminary puffs had
tickled the curiosity of the public, but a few in
the know had circulated word that Madame would
be a Treat(with a capital T), so the concert proved
the biggest of the matinee season; And Madame
was a Treat. Small, shapely, chic, she captivated
the audience with chiffons of charming black, with
large roses in green, mauve and pink as a bold
relief. The dense-black coiffure was dressed in the
Frenchiest fashion. There were only two numbers
down for her. The first was from “ Carmen.”
It poured in sweet liquid fashion—real tears in
its tragic wake. Applause was violent. The
advent of a singer who had smiles and tears in her
fresh, flexible voice, and the magnetism of health
and temperament, was expressed heartily. The
second number was a bigger hit. The “ Polacca
de Mignon ” sparkled with crisp brilliancies.
Five recalls (causing a repetition of the last merry
thistle-down passages) did not nearly express the
feelings of the crowd.
Inquiry as to Madame Arral’s past—musical
and operatic past, that is—led to interesting dis-
closures. The songster starred for five years in
the biggest theatres in Paris. She has been
decorated by the Czar and other despots and bad
characters, and has a number of odd trophies of
star nights in all parts of the world of song. She
owns, with Calve and Melba, the novelty of a
Masonic medal, which vouches for the fact
that Madame has been initiated into three
degrees of the goatish brotherhood. Also,
the artiste is a cat-fancier, a chiffon-col-
lector, and owns a Yankee husband. Her
health is a matter of joy—or her joy is a
matter of health. On Saturday night, when she
illuminates jewels of song with dress and gem
and gesture, she promises to be at her best
towards the finish. “I am all de melody—all
joy—all esprit after many numbers —not tired,
never.” And Madame gives an ecstatic glance
to the ceiling, which takes Providence into her
gratitude.
The typist now takes turns at matrimonial
scoring with the footlighter. One of her has
captured the chief of a big merchant's office. An
engagement is announced. The news is a shock.
No heart affection was suspected, none of the
usual moth-and-the-flame circlings noted. The
clerks conclude that all the preliminaries and
most of the philandermgs must have been
negotiated on the machine.
The Gymkhana, at the Glaoiarium—commonly
pronounced the Glassy Harem—was an assorted
joy. The crowd struggled for a view—struggled
till it stuck fast. It all meant considerable help
to the Blind Association. On the ice, the frolics
were run by the cream. The biggest hit of a
mixed bill was Miss Nancy Grice driving a team
of man. It was the boldest achievement on the
course. Miss Grice hunts the fox. This night
she handled the reins of her two-legged team with
firmness, and had the lust of sport in her eye as
she sped round the Glacial expanse at a rate that
suggested a motor run amok. Judge Molesworth
ran a snowy four-in-hand. Miss Lewers was
whip for a blue and white team which included
Miss Lesly Madden. Prof. Brewer, doing his
lightning glide with Miss Marsden, looked like a
beautiful blackbird swooping through space with
a small white dove. Prof. Chambers carved
images and flowers on the top crust of the ice, and
otherwise acquitted himself expertly.
The glad tidings of a wandering Victorienne’s
engagement is to hand—Miss Elaine Molesworth
(eldest daughter of the Judge who wears a jovial
boxer perpetually atilt) to Lieut.-Colonel Walker,
an officer stationed in the Punjab. The Miss in
question has the sporting look of her dad, and is
a comely young person, with a half-defiant, half-
humorous smile. She was never without it—no
matter how depressing the circumstances or
solemn the spree, I often wondered if she put it
on with her hat of mornings, or slept in it. It
was pleasing. The sex doesn’t smile enough; but
that’s the fault of bad teeth. The charmer only
is happy who goes through life with her own
natural pearls, and can laugh to full range without
a qualm. The unfortunate with borrowed molars
and blank intervals in the department of speech
hasn’t laughed for years. The human laugh in
its perfect form involves a bright, happy show of
original pearls. No family should be without it.
The Stonington Dame turned up at the news-
boys’ hop the other night, and garbed herself
splendidly for the crowded occasion. Her chiffons
ran to lilac mauve and deep orchid tones, with
any amount of spangle-and-diamond illumination.
Himself was there also, wearing his usual clothes
and a strong expression of disapproval. Aide
Crichton looked a woefully inefficient caddy. His
pilotage of the tall Exes, suggests a sprig of very
curly playful mignonette guarding two proud and
lofty poplars.
A pithy scribe shed this happy thought, the
other day: “We have come to a time when
everyone who does not happen to be a gentleman
is a lady, except the new woman, who, while she
has ceased to be a lady, has not yet become a
gentleman.” The Block creates the lady-man and
the man-lady. There are dozens of Johnnies
abroad these days, “ perfumed like a milliner” and
haberdashed like a Christmas-tree doll. While at
the Bridge tables, silent women play with male
finesse and earnestness. They whiff at a cigarette
now and then, and quaff a whisky-and-soda a little
more often. They’ll sit through half the night
playing, will whistle at their losses and slap their
legs buoyantly when fortune smiles. But even
the best she Bridge-player fails something, as a rule,
in being the perfect gentleman in manner, taste,
temper, and horse-sense.
The fashionables who have time and taste for
the yelper and the champion scratcher in the
domestic pet line have been going crazy over the
annual show of the Kennel Club. The display of
dog, cat and parrot started on Friday. Sixty-
eight cats were competing ; but there were others.
The marvellously groomed and massaged terriers
had satin cushions and point lace hankies, and
just a stylish touch of ennui. The names of the
hounds and bull-pups were of the most impressive
order. The spinsters and bairnless mothers who
exhibited pets had gone to extensive trouble to
find astounding designations for brutes that
couldn’t argue the point.
Miss Margaret Baskerville has some fine
bronzes, clay studies, and water colors on view as
a result of her two years’ study in sculping and
palette centres abroad. Rodin’s school of art is
responsible for one of the most remarkable clay
achievements—the figure of a lithe, muscular,
graceful athlete. The poise of the figure, the
taut muscles of one leg, the ease of the other, the
development of the chest, the fine, strong head,
and the general expression of hardy, manly youth-
fulness all render the work rare and beautiful.
“ Boy on a Dolphin,” a clay relief, is an admirably
conveyed fancy. “ June ”is a poetic bit of clay.
Three remarkable bronzes call attention to Miss
Baskerville’s almost masculine art. There is a
strength in securing the bold outline of limb or
head, and a dainty grace of expression pervades
her work. Miss Baskerville’s travels and study
far afield have worked wonders.
Miss Kitty Murphy, of Ballarat (sister of Cogh-
lan’s brewery), changed her name last Wednes-
day at the instance of a Mr. Tarvey. The
bride is one of a family that, some years ago,
became indebted to Tatt.’s Sweep. In the first
place, an aunt won a first prize—some £lO,OOO or
so, and this wealth descended, at aunt’s demise,
to Miss Kitty and her sisters. Subsequently Pa
and Ma Murphy won a prize running into four
figures. The story goes that the girls likewise
had a flutter in Tatt.’s which turned out almost as
successful at the parental speculation. It seemed
as though Tatt. had been designed by Providence
for the comfort of the family.
Talking of Murphys, Dr. “ J.” of that name
and of Kew, is due at one of the Melbourne altars
this week. He marries Miss Ethel Millane, one
of the prettiest nurses who ever sported cap and
apron at St. Vincent’s Hospital, where good looks
are common to the uniformed staff.
The Glaciarium received no permanent injuries
from Highlander Guy Madden’s recent fall. The
stout youth merely bruised great areas of himself.
Even the skates were not injured, so the Glaci-
arium management thinks itself fortunate.
Mrs. Frank Cave, the breezy and cultured
dame of the Spanish Consul, stands sponsor to a
scheme to swell the funds of the Foundling
Hospital by means of a theatrical matinee of
child performers, coached and put through
their paces by Miss J. Brenan. The show is
fixed for the second Saturday in September.
A stylish pair went right away down to the
old-fashioned part of the town, the other day, to
get married. It was Squatter Lang’s lawyer son,
with Miss Wilga Umphelby for accomplice. The
old St. James’ Cathedral was the locale, A spree
at Menzies’ followed on a small, subdued scale.
The Victorian Artists are crowing this year.
Vice-regal exhibits helped the show a lot, for the
smart sheep of Toorak flocked along, and in a
spurt of excitement started to purchase. The
Exes, themselves have been buying pet canvases,
and the Art Society is joyful. The attendance
has been the best for years, and the sales abso-
lutely a record.
The Talbottle dame has facile French. She
delighted the Alliance Franchise by pattering
sympathetically at the recent soiree. The tall
Ex. kept her lorgnette completely out of the con-
versation, so she must have been quite pleased.
It’s only when the grey dame is ruffled or bored
that she employs the refrigerating glasses.
No wonder there are not enough Mary Anns—
or nearly enough—to go round the State families,
when £250 is being offered at Prahran in prizes
for the yodeller and the elocutionary aspirant.
The result of the competing spirit in youngsters
is to make them clean crazy to be at Gray’s
“ Elegy ” and Tosti’s “ Good-bye ” from the por-
ridge hour till bed-time. And cheap teachers (?)
go round, offering lessons in appropriate gesture
and canary scales for a church coin, or even for a
grilled chop. Every suburb has its abiding pro-
fessor or professoress—capable or otherwise—and
its casual instructors. “ Nelly Bly ” taught while
you wait, and Chopin’s “ Appassionata,” or any
other concert gem, is to be acquired on the time-
payment cottage piano in two lessons at one-and-
sixpence apiece. Then a sum like £250 is promised
in prizes, and every chick in the State aspires in
song and perspires in the gyrations of elocution to
grab a slice of it. Why can’t some good com-
mittee of citizens offer a fat sum in trophies for
the largest family, and set the competition spirit
aflame in that useful direction ?
A parson has made the boldest proposal up to
date. The victim was an advanced spinster in
mourning, and in a letter of sympathy which the
shepherd addressed to her, he hinted at the loneli-
ness of her life, and spoke of her as one s
young, so fair, so dowered.” When she replied)
“Not at all,” or something just as casual, he wrote
frankly, dropping all metaphor and timidity. It
wasn’t a sentimental appeal. It was based on a
solid metal foundation, and wound up piously:
“ Think of the good your great fortune would do
in my poor parish.” Then the spinster gnashed
her teeth hard and wished to have him by the
scruff of the neck. When she had cooled down
she announced her weariness of “ Kerristianity
and her determination to try a little Paganism as
a change. The shepherd hastily withdrew, and
now counts up the loss of her patronage.
Talking of parsons. In one very beautiful
Suburb where the proverbial wattle trembles on
the river-bank, and the hills, after leaning to re-
fresh in the playful lagoon, undulate towards
“that inverted bowl the sky,” a parson-widower,
who hath his quiverful, is searching hopefully for
a second mate. The progeny number close on a
dozen, and every Sabbath they form a pathetic
brood at the kirk of their father. The sight
should appeal to the motherly and the lone
spinster. But it doesn’t. The eligible Misses of
the parish hold off. In vain he makes his after-
noon calls, and his tender remarks anent the state
solitary. His family haunts his steps. It hovers
over his chair in the parish drawing-rooms, and
comes up between his ingratiating smile and the
affections of the eligible Miss.
A returned gadder of keen observation gives an
amusing account of the present little batch of
Australians located in Ed. Vll.’s capital. He
says the struggle of the ’Roolander to toot-toot
herself right into the vortex is tremendous. And
there’s always a gay countess or marchioness or
two ready to sink all class differences in the interest
of, say, sport, and to fraternise some with the
mere Australian ; also there’s always a poor
wretch of a Vere de Vere only too glad to be
financed and feted by a sheep-squanderer. But
the visitor to the Hub of the World soon finds
that she is only hurt by such aristocratic patronage,
and through association with the frivolous countess
the steady-going, righteous viscountess is lost to
one’s sight and ken for ever. Also, he noted,
there is a disposition on the part of the most staid
gadder to look frisky and fit. The picture of one
notable Victorienne senior endeavoring to play
the giddy young lamb among the swell Londoners
was funnier than the thought of Bent having a
deportment lesson.
Marshall Hall books his passage for Britain.
He takes six months’ vacation, and leaves his
baton at home—but in his bag will be a few
original opera-scores and a set of golf-cleeks.
Mrs. Potts has been stopped in her shining
hours at Menzies’ by illness. A recent buggy
accident has misplaced her confidence, or some-
thing just as important, and she retires from
view for awhile to get re-adjusted.
The surprise of “ The Little Michus ” opening
night was the ad vance made by Miss Alma Bar-
ber. Her piquancy and pretty stage coquetries
took on at once.
On appearing in the partially undressed circle
on the last Waldron co. night, Miss Florence
Young was suddenly cheered by the gallery
throng. Florence lost her stolid air of self-assur-
ance, and didn’t know whether the cheers were
meant for her. She took several hurried glances
round, saw herself the cynosure of all eyes, and at
last bobbed her head towards the gods. Florence
was actually blushing, and the crowd, rather
pleased with her overwhelmed flush, cheered some
more.
Toorak’s fashionable wanderers are hurrying
on with their race-chiffons for the Randwick
carnival. Already Madame Masseran, the French
moulder of the form fashionable, has steamed off
to whalebone the stylish for September, and the
race-goer gets equipped with a hustle to follow on.
Mrs. Burton Stewart takes measures to draw
attention to her willowy and floating presence.
She sets up a big blaze of gem illumination, and
has been relieving the grey term of grass-widow-
hood by a succession of smart tiffin parties and
dinner sprees at Menzies’.
The Holy City gets its hair in crimp for the
marriage of Miss Shylie Blue and Mr. Herbert
Rymill, in the second week of September. One
trump card the bride-elect has in the attendance
of Governor Le Hunte’s only chick as bridesmaid.
Even in the Apple Isle the Kitchen Lancers are
in vogue, and the casualty-list of the polka-halls
is great. A correspondent sends word that at a
recent dance a Lancer was dashed against the wall
and suffered severe concussion of the brain. This is,
indeed, taking one’s pleasures violently. In this
Yarraside capital many a broken limb and mis-
placed ear are relics of a jaunty Kitchen Lancers.
Years ago, when the buoyant Hopetoun Ex. started
swinging a loose and flying limb in the Quadrille
d ’ honneur, fashionables took to the rollicking
kick-up, and let go in what became known as the
Kitchen, or Rowdy Lancers. The suburbanites
followed suit with a kind of Rugby football game.
The list of partially-killed and wounded has been
active ever since. The death of J. F. M’Carron,
at the Town Hall after a Lancers scrap one
season, scared dancers a little, but soon it was for-
gotten and the tornado sets were resumed. There-
fore, medical men haunt the ballrooms. They
know how profitable the Kitchen Lancers are.
The Talbottles alone look coldly on such scrim-
mages. They execute their duty hop with the
gravity of a jury returning a verdict of “ Guilty ”
without any recommendation to mercy.
Miss Bess Norris, the miniaturist who went
abroad from this State with her microscopic
brushes and capacity for taking pictures and
pains, is doing well in Europe. At last advices
she was stationed in Fogtown brushing in the
features of Mrs. Campbell-Praed on a fragment of
ivory. No talk yet of a return to these golden
wattle-haunts, which is best proof of success. In-
fidelity in an art aspirant to this Paradise argues
prosperity abroad.
My Adelaide correspondent writes :
The Girls’ Realm, that polite periodical for the damsels
of England, contains, in its July issue, a photograph and
short biographical account of Maude Puddy, Mus. Bac.,
the Adelaide girl who recently went to the Kaiser’s country
to study. Under the heading “What Girls are Doing,”
the magazine recounts each month the deeds of any girl
who has developed the genius habit very badly, and Miss
Puddy’s inclusion is regarded as rather an advertisement
for Tortoise Town.
Adelaide ’Varsity broke forth into some wild proceed-
ings this year in honor of the visiting lacrosse teams.
The Sports’ Association, besides various dinners and other
foods and mild excitements, gave a ball to all the girls of
its acquaintance. The usual and ordinary University
hop eventuated some months ago, but this affair was far
more youthful and joyous, and was an invitation instead
of a subscription proceeding.
Re par (B. 26 7,’06) about a girleen who was turned out
of a public place of amusement. Tortoise Town once
knew something of the same kind. The demoiselle in
question belonged to society, and the only charge against
her was her exuberant mirth and her unbridled shouts of
joy. She took life gladly with both hands, and, when she
took it, the rest of society couldn’t hear itself think. She
was even charged with having held conversation from a
theatre box with friends in the stalls and aimed sweets
at them and hit the wrong people. The management had
so many complaints that it was obliged to ask her to
withdraw her patronage and keep it withdrawn. How
long the ban lasted I don’t know, but the matter was
squared up somehow ; and now she goes where she likes,
and is a very quiet girl.
The small economies of a certain vice-regal dame are
furnishing food for feline conversation in a city slower than
this. The small offspring of said dame was learning to
trip the light fantastic prop, together with certain other
offspring of the very select, and it was arranged that the
kiddies should have a very select and private spree, and
dance a gavotte, or minuet, or something, before
their proud mammas. They were to wear simple,
pin-spotted, home-made white muslin frocks, and scarlet
shoes and stockings ; but, just when everything was
arranged, the vice-regal lady baulked at this wild extra-
vagance. She said her daughter had bronze shoes and
stockings, and she was sure they would look quite nice
enough, even though the kiddies were to wear red choux
on their frocks, and it wasn’t worth buying new ones, any-
way. And so that spree fell through. The select mammas
couldn’t possibly allow their offspring to dance in a
gavotte that wasn’t all wearing scarlet legs, even when
the brown-legged exception was a vice-regal one.
A joining event which might have caused some excite-
ment in the Holy City had that place of steeples not
neglected its opportunities, was that of Miss Hilda
Kyffin Thomas and Mr. Leonard Hack. Bride is a daughter
of Register proprietor Kyffin Thomas, and groom a
brother of Guli Hack, who has taught much of the young
S’Australian voice to trill and warble. Both families are
somewhat extra, but did not publish the fact by a loud
and splashy wedding. The Voice Breathed to relatives
only. m
Yours Affectionately,
TRYPHENA.
The popular councillor, Johnny Hines,
who died in Adelaide on Aug. 8, was for very
many years Parliamentary caterer, and in the
good oid times of champagne picnics he made lots
of money out of legislative feedings. He retired
not long ago, and gave his talents to municipal
affairs. Death came from blood poisoning, as a
result of cutting his corns.
Professor Henderson, lecturing on Tenny-
son, at Adelaide University, told his audience a
story which the old bard was fond of. Said
George the Fourth to a friend in Portsmouth :
“They tell me you are the biggest scoundrel in
this town”; and the friend replied, mildly, "I
hope your Highness is not come to take away my
character.” The professor was not game to give
his audience the other story which Tennyson used
to bracket with this as the neatest repartee on
record. Says the King of France to a courtier:
“They tell me you and I are much alike. Was
your mother much about the court?” And the
courtier answers in a matter-of-fact, information-
bureau style : “No, sire. My father often was,
but my mother not at all.”
The case of Charles Thornton, of Fitzroy
(Yic.) and Inglewood, and, at present, of Pentridge
He got nine months in ’B4 for forgery ; three
months in ’B7 for larceny ; 12 months in ’B9 for
breaking into a store ; then three months, one
month, and three months ; then, in ’9l, four years
and two floggings for robbery in company ; then
several more sentences. The other day he got
another ' three months for larceny and was
committed for trial on a charge of burglary and
another of larceny. What with his frequent trials
and his expensive maintenance while in gaol, the
State would have saved much money and worry if
he had been in gaol from the start, especially
if he had been kept at profitable employment.
On the other hand, there isn’t any evidence that
anybody was available in ’B4 capable of saying for
certain that Thornton was a person who would
cost hundreds of pounds in trials if he wasn’t
locked up for life. One can always tell at the end
of his life the man who ought to have been put
inside and kept there ; the trouble is to tell it at
the start. And that is the Thornton problem.
“ O’F.” : Retirement of Melbourne police-
magistrate Panton reminds me. Is there no re
tiring age for J.P.’s? It is the custom at Mel-
bourne City Court for the P.M. to stay away on a
Saturday morning and leave the serving-out of
justice to the senior J.P. present and his
colleagues. I don’t know the ages of these gentle-
men, but the 75 year-old Panton looks a boy by
comparison with most of them. As for their
judicial wisdom, I have a profound disrespect for
many of Panton’s decisions, but if ever I |am
threatened with arrest in Melbourne I will try
hard to avoid appearing in the City Court on a
Saturday.


SUPERFLUOUS HAIRS.
AN ABSOLUTE CURE FOUND AT LAST.
I ADY, self-cured of this distressing: affliction, will
forward remedy on receipt of 4/6, postage 6d.
extra. Other States, 5/8. Send Id. Stamp for booklet
on treatment and testimonials from grateful clients
cured. Only genuine postal address—“ Tonic,”
Central Chambers, 77 Swanston St., Melbourne.
\ /
Are unsurpassed
for
Golf,
Cricket,
or*
FOOTEALI;
Quality d- Fi'r\ish
Highest Grade.
Fine Assortment
of Handle GrijDS.
Accept only
DUNLOP
BRAND.
Obtainable all
Lead in cj Stores
d-Sports Depots.
. Th « „ „
Dunlop Rubber Coil
All States.
els
e^r
s rtl
S 3
AND
_
OUPPORTERS.,
-o**FOR SALE «*»-
. IN AIL LEADING STORED*
“ Garments fitted with Kleinert’s Dress
Shields and Kleinert’s Hose Supporters
bear the indefinable Stamp of Style.”
This is the Verdict of Three Continents.
PD
muorai
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, August 14, 1906.
Mr Dear Arini,—
The busy bee, the strenuous ant, and the hard-
working beaver—these pretty creatures are mere
drowsers in the sun compared with Miss Rawson,
who is now head of State Government House.
Her labors are of the dreariest description—
District Nursing Societies with heavy personages
prowling around in the gloaming of barn-like draw-
ing-rooms ; small bazaars with large clergymen,
bran-pies, cakesand aprons around ; and receptions
given by useful society women to Girls Friendly
delegates from the Great Soak. (Didn’t eleven
inches of rain fall in as many minutes on London
recently ?) These, and scores of the like jamborees,
make a large drab lane through the conscientious
girl’s life. Her attendance at Professor Wood-
house’s six lectures on Ancient Greek Scripture
made a luminous break in the drabness. That
section of society, whose knowledge of early Greece
began and ended with the picture, “A Reading
from Homer,” now knows its way pretty well
about the track that Prof. Woodhouse has blazed
for it. It feels as if it had personally rung the
bell at the front door of Pericles and e 'Peed the
sign in Alcibiades’ front garden, “ Beu .ro of the
Ancient Greek Dog.”
Time we ceased to hear the story about the
innocent and unsuspecting young wife (sometimes
she’s the unsophisticated young daughter) who,
after luncheon, is lured on to Bridge by her very
sophisticated hostess, and is told, when about to
leave, that she owes her entertainer £2O. Inno-
cent then goes home and in large-eyed horror tells
her husband (or male progenitor) of the sharp
practice. That stalwart citizen then pays the
gambling debt by cheque, with 7s. Gd. added in
payment of the lunch. This pawed-about anec-
dote was told a Sabbath or so ago by the Rev.
Ronald Maclntyre in a sermon given in his
fashionable church (where a fashionable gynaecolo-
gist takes around the plate), and the scene was
laid in a local frilly suburb. The exhausted yarn
has been told in every capital in Europe, and
nearly every smart Bridge-playing hostess
in London and New York has had it
related as happening in her house. It was
probably none too new in prehistoric times.
Matildadon, gambling with the teeth of a diplo-
docus (instead of cards) in the cave of another
lady, lost to her more fish currency than she could
pay, and, going home, wept to Billosaurus,
saving she didn’t know the teeth were loaded.
Billosaurus either haughtily sent round a
whale in full settlement, or he made a widow of
the lady to whom his Matildadon had lost. Rev.
Maclntyre needn’t burst his halo—-all Woollahra
and all the Points know whether the game is being
played for fun, or money, or out of pure cussed-
ness.
The report that the governess in a smart family
has eloped with a doctor is being eagerly pursued
all over Sydney. The identity of the family from
which the governess fled is fixed, but pursuers
haven’t yet caught up with the male flying-fish.
It is very rarely a medical man is caught. It is
more unusual still for a governess to lash out to
the length of an elopement.
The Spencer Bruntons bring a lot of people
together on tbe night of next washing day to
chase the. glowing hours with flying feet. (This
is a laborious way of saying there will be a dance
on Monday.) The Bruntons do a lot of enter-
taining on hoard their newly-acquired yacht, the
Gulnare. Now, which of Byron’s heroines was
Gulnare? Can’t place her from memory, but she
was, no doubt, something languorous, soft and
dark-eyed. And she nestled. All Byron’s
heroines nestled. And no doubt Brunton’s yacht
floats as gracefully as its name-giver.
Miss Mildred Lamb, who won the croquet tour-
nament at Rose Bay Golf Club, may lay the
unction to her complexion that, according to a
London specialist, she won’t injure her figure or
hand by being a champion at the game. The
next least harmless sport is said to be lawn tennis,
but it enlarges the right shoulder and hand.
Even much motoring coarsens the skin, and
reddens the nose.
Miss Lute Mackenzie (name of a pipe ! what
sort of a name for a girl is Lute ?), it seems, did
not go off unshepherded on her stage career.
Grant Stewart, of the Collier Co., is her cousin,
and she is to have a small part in the play of
which he is part writer.
When Lucas Tooth baroneted, and thereby rose
to the social grade of Cholmondeley de Battleaxe
and similar old families, quite an outburst of
paragraphs about him appeared in the Bullopolis
press. Those pars widely exploited the fact that
he is chairman of the' London branch of the
BankofN.S.W. Nary a reference was there to
the source of his income—the Australian “long
sleever ” with the froth on the top of it, and a
great deal of it for 6d. if you take a large vessel
into the jug entrance.
A. Waverley girl who went on a visit to Maori-
land will probably pluck her orange blossoms
there. The runholder (we don’t call them
squatters) who wants her to share his name and
sheep has written to the damsel’s father, and put
the case with an eloquence that Demosthenes
might envy. Said runholder is a N.S. Welshman
settled in M.L.
Another sprig of orange blossom: Miss Ethel
Rouse, of Mudgee, engaged to Mr. Wentworth
Hill, whose station is at Hay. Both parties’ bank
balances are so good that they can afford to con-
sider the lilies, and needn’t take much thought
for the morrow.
A London correspondent tells me that after
Amy Castles had warbled before the King and
<jueen, at the invitation of Ladv de Grey, the
Queen asked her “Why We had not heard her at
Covent Garden?” Amy, amongst other songs,
gave the sceptred pair “Wind in the Trees,”
“ ’Tis June ” and “ The Dove.”
Miss Beatrice Holloway’s portrait, nearly life-
size, is in Nicholson’s window, and is the cutest
thing in posing—specially the posing of the left
arm, with its curving of wrist and hand, said
hand holding a stem of white lilies.
Talking of young artistes: Miss Bee Usher, the
Sydney girl who is with “ The Squaw Man ” Co.,
in Melbourne, is understudying the star-woman,
Miss Ola Humphreys.
Mr. T. E. Donne, Chief of the Maoriland
Tourist Bureau—the Department for the Pro-
tection of Moss on the Wanganui River and for
the Prevention of the Battening down of Geysers—
arrives in Sydney, on Thursday, per Wimraera.
The newly-established Sydney Agency (to guide
the tourist over the moss and geyser land) has the
biggest brass plates in George-street. And, when
night falls, out rushes the legend “New Zealand
Exhibition,” done in electric fire over the
building. This design bobs in and out all
the evening, which shows the artfulness of the
management. If it were simply a plain glare you
might pass by, only remarking to yourself that it
is a well-lighted street; but when you turn the
corner into the glare, and next moment it is
blotted out, you naturally look up to see who
biotted it, and then the great electric inscription
flares out again, and you get curious, and ask a
policemen where Maoriland is, and he says he
doesn’t know. Sydney costumieres tell me that a
whole swarm of Maorilanders are over here enjoy-
ing the blessed weather we have been having. I
don’t wonder at it. If I could, I would enclose
you a bottleful of our weather for your admiration.
Leading lady and leading man of a certain
leading stock company in Sydney refused dona-
tions to the Brough memorial “on principle.”
“Brough,” they said, “never encouraged an
Australian artist.” Wouldn’t employ one at all,
unless an amateur of “good family,” who could
come on for little or nothing in the way of coin.
Well, what about Pattie Browne and Hilda Spong
to cite two whose names crop up at first time of
thinking ?
Miss Tittell Brune’s girl admirers are of a dis-
tinctly specialised class, and it would be worth
something to get at the intellectual significance of
their admiration. From certain millinery ateliers
here, certain madames tell me, their youthful
apprentices go in a body to see their idol in that
“ How-now-baggage ’’ piece, “Dorothy Vernon.”
They go at six o’clock (if they quit work earlier they
go earlier) to the theatre, taking their “ tea” with
them, and cheerfully wait through two blank
hours. Not since the now Her Majesty’s opening
night until Miss Brune’s appearance in the “I-fegs-
by-my-halidom ” play has the management had
to put up the “ House Full” notice at seven o’clock.
Actresses like Maud Jeffries have their admiring
following of the Lambswool clans. Nance O’Neil
appealed to eclectics, whoadmired without desiring
to know her personally. Gilded Johnnydom or
lacquered*Billydom crowds the stalls in honor of
the high-class leg and opulent bust of the show
girls of the chorus. But the Tittell Brune fever
is a special microbe —something akin to the wor-
ship of Baal and Ashtaroth.
The woman-writer in a morning daily heaves a
pretty pebble at the large body of advisers who
wish to see the superfluous female on the land
keeping bees. If Hamlet of to-day read that
paper he would say to Ophelia, “Go, get thee to
an apiary.” “If all the women told to keep bees
took the advice there wouldn’t be enough bees to
go round—it would be one woman one bee. Three
acres and a bee would be the ideal sought for by a
political orator for his constituents.” Any woman
who has kept bees and poultry on a small scale,
and merely as a hobby, will be dead agin keeping
them as a means of livelihood. Unless, of course,
she be an exceptional manager. I went in for
bees and turkeys once, but I didn’t own them—
they owned me. Twelve turklings were hatched
—never counted the bees —and they all died in
early turkhood, save one. This one was brought
up, so far as its morning's went, in the pocket of
my dressing-gown. No one could resist the
appealing voice of a young turkey. It has the
sweetest speaking voice of all winged creatures.
When I went a-cycling, the turkling would ride
with me also, nestling in a pocket slung between
the handle-bars, and chirruping like an angel.
She grew to be an elegant fowl, and then left me
for the harem of a base and designing gobbler
next door. The bees, too—they swarmed into
alien gardens, and those that remained stopped
indoors and kept up disgraceful orgies eating my
honey. When Igo on the land it will be to grow
things with roots and tops. In conclusion, better
to keep he’s than bees—one he, at any rate, with
the help of a proper marriage certificate.
A very drab world it seems after coming out
from a nearly two-hour draught of Dolores’
singing. Other singers have given us more thrill,
but none has held us in greater thrall. A more
unsensational star-voice Sydney has not heard,
yet there wasn’t a vacant seat in the Town Hall
at the singer’s recitals. Expert musicians differ
as to whether her voice has gone off or come on.
If it has done either the variation is not pro-
nounced enough for the ear of the amateur. But
all the experts agree about the “ marvellous exe-
cution,” the “wonderful breathing” of Dolores.
No plain, every-day breather can imagine, without
going to Dolores’ concerts, what real breathing is
like. The siren’s methods are at the highest
technical top-notch. All the singing-teachers
in the city and suburbs, and all their pupils
(it’s pretty accurate to make the wholesale
assertion), have come to the concerts, and the
majority of them say each concert is a Lesson (the
word is to be spoken reverently). One Gentle
Jane, sitting six seats from the star, went to a
friend at the far end of the hall and offered to ex-
change seats for the remainder of the numbers,
“for,” said she, “I’m sure you can’t hear down
here.” But the friend declined exchange, for
fear the singer would be heard too acutely “ up
there.” This gives an idea of thequality of Dimples’
organ. Her voice, in its restrained sweetness
and purity, travels as easily and unbrokenly as a
ray of light—a moonbeam, for choice, when the
beam slides over ice.
One reason—men chiefly urge this—of Dolores’
hold over the audience is her obvious femininity
and personal charm. With her simply-parted
hair and her round, smiling face, her baby-creased
neck and chubby figure, she makes an appeal to
the masculinity of her hearers. It’s a quite usual
thing to hear the Buster-Cross kind of listener
remark “She doesn’t put on a thing, does she?
I don’t think she puts on enough.” Referring, of
course, to the soprano’s utter want of pose or
arrogance—her lack of “dog.”
Franz Wells, the pianist, looks like the
Wretched and Melancholy Dane. His hair of
burnt-straw tone is of the Paderewski mane type.
He is a pupil of Godowski—a quiet player with
strong singing fingers, and a wrist of malleable
iron. The depth to which his hands drop below
the keyboard when at work is a revelation to some
local learners. But then “all Godowski’s pupils
do that way.” The hands seem to be climbing up
to the notes, like a monkey going up to sing in
the tree-top.
A big muff of violets, lined with pale blue silk,
was one of the floralties handed up to Dolores at her
first concert. It was sent from Melbourne. Grace
Palotta sent violets. Another offering had three
white birds in a bed of flowers. . “Dimples ” has
less weight, physically, than on her last visit.
Her frocking runs to shimmering, sheeny materials
in tones of pale blue, pale pink and silver, or
white sequined things.
Mrs. Stokes Rees, the lady-o’-war, is the latest
addition to committee of St. Vincent’s Hospital
ball. This remains the most fashionable and
most cutely-organised of all the charity Whirls.
It will pirouette on Oct. 3. Fancy sets are being
arranged by the leaders of our Four Dozen (that’s
good for us ; New York only runs to Four Hun-
dred), and Mrs. Commandant Gordon, the W. P.
Manning lady, Mrs. Deery and Mrs. Boesen are
helping things along.
The latest about Cranbrook, the residence of the
State Governor, is that the lease is about to expire
and the owner has a chance to sell the property
to a rich Sydney merchant for £25,000. Premier
Carruthers wants to re-lease for the Governor,
but the owner insists upon selling. Carruthers
will not go higher than £20,000, so he was asked
the other day if he could arrange matters so that
the merchant who wants to buy might inspect the
property. He promptly declined—the Governor
isn’t to be harried by inspections—and it is further
stated that his Excellency Rawson isn’t going to
move into any new premises. If there is to be a
move he will make one removal of it, and move by
the first boat to England.
A girl who went to wave the au revoir hanky
at the Sierra yesterday tells me that Cuyler
Hastings boarded the vessel after the gangway
had been pulled. He did the monkey act by way
of the vessel’s ladder and then turned an “If-I-
were-King ” gaze on the city from the upper
deck. Miss Holly Coffee got away in a startling
red and blue checker-board plaid and a courier
bag slung over the checks. Also went pianist
Borschkeand his hair, or the hair and its Borsclilte,
according to the order in which you choose to
place them.
The Boys’ Brigade Ball was whirled last night
under the direction of Mayoress Taylor, Miss
Margaret Harris, Mrs. Matthew Harris, and
other ladies always in the forefront of the battle
for worthy charities.
The John Hugheses (he is the M.L.C. and Vice-
President of the Executive Council) returned by
Canada yesterday. Both assumed temporary
spinal curvature before King Edward and the
Pope.
Mrs. George Cruickshank (step-daughter of
Janet Mrs. Clarke) is blossoming’ as our smartest
widow. She gives another ball presently. Her
companion is a Melbourne girl, over whose grey
eyes Sydney raves. Eyes like those of which
poet Daley wrote in “A Sunset Fantasy.”
The Pah’f’l—that obsolete warship called by the
Lower Orders the Powerful—has been giving the
Brisbane girls a treat. Naval men, more than
other uniformed persons, seem to know the gentle
art of making girl friends. They flirt with such
adroitness. Perhaps their long pickling in sea-
brine makes them, generally speaking, proof
against the microbe of Mash. Officers’ cabins on
the Pah’f’l are always aflame with flowers, and
the gassing, giggling young parties who assemble
therefor tea when a reception is “on” always
demand the history of the many photographs. Of
course they get the accurate history. Sailors
never, never digress from the straight path of
accuracy, and their adhesion to fact beats the gum
on the back of any postage-stamp I have ever met.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
The latest enemy of time is the flat roof at
Messrs. David Jones and Co.’s premises (Sydney)
That toney firm recently added a couple of
storeys to its already tall building, and
established on the flat roof a sky garden
where, in the midst of the city, ‘one hears
nothing of its noise, feels none of its dust, and
sips tea or consumes strawberries and cream under
the blue dome of heaven surrounded by palms
ferns and pot shrubs. It recalls the hanging
Gardens of Babylon, but in one respect—its floor—
)avid Jones’s garden is a long way ahead of that
of the Queen of Babylon. This impervious floor
is the roof of the huge emporium beneath, and is
made of P. & B. concrete, and is of a nature quite
new to Australia, of materials supplied by the
Paraffine Paint Co.* J
What vast sums ladies will cheerfully spend on
dress and at the same time totally neglect their com-
plexions; or, what is infinitely worse, cover a rough, coarse
skin with injurious paint and powder—a subterfuge
apparent to all but the most vulgar 1 In times gone-b v
such foolish methods were excusable ; but science has
made such strides in recent years that ladies troubled
with wrinkles, pimples, freckles or any facial blemish
need no longer worry. They have now a most reliable
and dainty cure in Patti’s Beauty Cream, which has added
three years of the highest Australasian reputation to a
quarter of a century of the most distinguished European
appreciation as the only perfect skin food and complexion
beautifier. It is found on the toilet tables of every ladv
of refinement because it is absolutely pure, harmless
ana a perfectly natural and never-failing* remedy for all
complexion troubles, no matter how bad they may be It
instantly clears the skin of all pimples, rash, &0., caused
by injurious cone ictions and imitations against which
ladies are cautioned. All chemists and stores, price 3s. 6d
and 6s. per pot.*
Maoriland contralto, Irene Ainsley, whose con-
cert m London brought the Prince and Princess c £
Wales at least they were brought by Melba—is.
a correspondent tells me, a tall, good-figured girl'
with a strong face, lighted by dark eyes and
crowned with dark hair. Her frock was a lovely
thing of white chiffon, sprayed with big pink
roses. Consensus of press opinion is that Miss
Ainsley has a fine voice of great promise.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEQRCE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the cit.v.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs., . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Dr. SOUTHAM’S
GOUT and
Rheumatic
PILLS
are a safe and simple remedy 'for the cure of
flout. Rheumatism, Rheum itic flout, Tic
Douloureux, Sciatica, Neuralgia. Muscular
Rheumatism, Lumbago, etc. These Pills are
of Australian origin, and are known as the
greatest Australian discovery, since-they give
immediate relief, and in many cases cure in a
few days. ' Sold only in bottles at If., 2/6, and
5/- If not obtainable locally, send postal note
to the Sola Proprietors and Manufacturers—
H. A ROiE Sl CO., Chemists,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
se
rgs
GrO TO HTiT.Ti-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Hag€o> Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
ARTIFICIAL
LIIBS.^
rg
We make them on the premises.
We make more than any other firm in Australia.
We also import them from the famous American
firm, A. A. Marks.
Every kind of Artificial Limb supplied at reason-
able prices.
Send for Free Book on Artificial Limbs.
DENYER BROTHERS,
Surgical Instrument
Makers,
281 George St., Sydney (opp. Hunter St>
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Senate, for some foolish reason, con-
trived to get it laid down as a fixed principle that
the provisions of the Federal Lands Acquisition
Bill should not be used in order to acquire land
for a Federal capital. That is just the ust, above
all others, to which the measure should be put,
but the Senate was in a small-minded mood in
one of its parish pump moods, in fact.
When the Dalby-Cattle Creek railway was
before Bananaland Parliament two years ago,
Philp and co. advocated the betterment principle.
Premier Kidston afterwards proposed a better-
ment tax, and Philp and co. declared excitedly
that it was a land-tax in disguise. Now that
Kidston has given them a chance to support their
own proposal, they argue that the old Guarantee
Act is quite good enough. “Janny” Leahy lost
much breath in expressing his horror of a measure
in which he plainly saw the “claw of the ser-
pent.”
Ex-Democrat Jenkinson , M.L. A.—known
to all sections of Q. Assembly as “Uriah ’—sits
on the front Opposition bench beside Philp and
Leahy. His presence isn’t cherished by his imme-
diate neighbors, but Jenkinson doesn tmind that.
He wants the world to know that he is out for a
portfolio, and means to get one before anyone
else. Philp’s old henchmen —Macartney, For-
syth, and otliers—are content to fight the boodler’s
battle from obscure corners of _ Parliament; but
“Uriah” insists upon parading his political
apostasy and advertising his aims.
G. Findley, M.L. A.-— known as “ Jumbo ”
—is the first Morganite to secede from Kidston.
He left over the Betterment tax. Jumbo, who is
a land auctioneer, took his large, elephantine way
across the floor of the House, made a rambling,
incoherent “ explanation,” and subsided beside
that other notorious turncoat, “Dinny” Keogh.
He then gazed at the Premier, as if expecting the
immediate resignation of the Government. But
nothing happened. The business of Parliament
proceeded as if Jumbo had never been. The
renegade, by the way, is member for Wide Bay,
a constituency that was also responsible for'the
original political existence of such awful circum-
stances as Tpzer and Jenkinson.
FICKLE FIDO’S
RETURN.
Mr. Reid lias arrived
back in Melbourne. —
Daily Press.
All her own—
for a week or
two!
A joint
Australian-
Maoriland con-
ference On pure-
food legislation is
mooted. It should
do much good. The
more effective, and
the more widely
advertised, the super-
vision of the food
products of Austra-
1-isia the better for the country’s stomach, and
its purse. The present time, when the flies are
thick on American reputations,.is the occasion to
push pure Australian products.
Plunkett, M.L. A., wants Premier Kidston
to “arrange for a referendum to ascertain whether
the people of Queensland are, or are not, favor-
ably inclined towards seceding from the
wealth.” But why leave it at that? Why not
also find out if they are favorable towards seceding
from the British empire, and''the globe, and the
human race; likewise whether North Queensland
desires to secede from South Queensland ? And
what’s the matter with a referendum of Mrs.
Plunkett to find, out if she wants to secede from
Mr. Plunkett —not that .The Bulletin supposes
for a moment that she would, but there is no
harm in having a referendum.
“Mul”.: Has citizen J. Wren been in-
stalled as financier of the Labor party? “His
vote and his money are at the disposal of Labor,”
wrote an enthusiastic Senator, some time back.
It is currently reported that the law-breaker of
Collingw'ood has helped another Labor member
out of a heavy financial difficulty. I'(want to
know if the Labor party is going into-the fray
with that useless and unoruamental parasite, the
illegal tote-man, on its shoulders. Its association
with Wren would lose it more votes than all his
badly-got wealth could buy for it.
N.S.W. Assembly has been a dull place
these last few 7 days. Nobody has said or ** *
or ! —! —! It is hard, in fact, to find a record of
a single damn. One member, with the best inten-
tions in the world, tried to raise a little excite-
ment by spreading the report that the Govern-
ment had “squared ’’the Crick cases against the
Speaker and the Sergeant-at-Arins. That being
about the sort of thing Joseph might do, some
actually believed the “snake.” Later, there
seemed a prospect of something of the old spirit
getting loose when one member got up to explain
why he had charged another member with having
accepted £1 for finding somebody a billet on the
railway's. The other member rose up, and was
much affected, and forgave his slanderer. But
there was no language. N.S.W. Assembly is
evidently in a tired mood just now 7 .
Thynne’s Bananaland friends are preparing
to give him a warm time when he returns. Thynne
is their mouthpiece in the Upper House —the
House of Stinking Fish. But he is now in
England, trying to raise money for the Chillagoe
Co. to build the Etheridge railway with, and a man
who wants to raise a lot of money can’t afford to
say that his country is ruined, and gone to the
dogs and the devil. His friends can hardly
believe that it was A. J. Thynne vdio said at the
annual Queensland dinner : : —
We used to have great times and a great surplus when
we spent from 1 ,£’2,000,000 to £3,000,000 a year of loan
money. Things were lively then ; public and private
expenditure were on- a lavish scale. But we are happily
past that. Public expenditure has been cut down to the
very lowest figure to which a careful Treasurer could
possibly reduce it. Private expenditure has also been
diminished to reasonable proportions. And what is the
result? The people of Queensland —apart from a few
public speakers who are generally a great nuisance—have
turned their attention to actual work ; and it is by actual
work during the last two or three years that they have
been able, without the aid of borrowed money, to show a
magnificent surplus, and to make substantial progress
individually and collectively. They put their shoulder
to the hollar, pulled .their heavy load over the hill, and
have now in front of them a period of greater prosperity
than they have ever hitherto had in prospect.
The case of Jones, who recently got three
votes at Surry Hills (N.S.W.), suggests something.
Jones is one of the persistent rear-guards of
N.S.W. elections. His record shrieks for itself :
Darlington, 3 votes ; Glebe, 40 ; King, 9 ; Surry
Hills, 3. Now, in N.S.W., it is the custom, when
an old politician is finally rejected for the Assembly
as having outlived any popularity he ever had,
and any usefulness he ever possessed, to make
him a legislator for life in the Upper House.
The Council is the House of the Old Rejected;
why not make it, instead, the House of the
Young Rejected ? If there must be an Upper
House, let it be an elective body, contain-
ing the same number of members as the
Assembly, representing the same constituencies,
and lasting for exactly the same period. At each
election, let the man who tops the poll go to the
Assembly and the man at the bottom go co the
Leg. Council. Then the Council will fulfil its
destiny by being the House of Jones, the Chamber
of Remnants and Tail-ends, and the man who got
the smallest vote of all Could be appointed to the
Chair and called the Scrap. And, as regards its
remuneration, it might have a free railway-pass,,'
authorising it to ride anywhere by cattle or freight
train, and an order for free board and lodging at
a sixpenny restaurant.
This paper receives a cutting from ths
Montreal (Canada) Star (11/5/’O6), which sets
forth that “Mr. E. Vickery, member of the,
Australian Parliament,” says be has seen in
Australia “a happy and prosperous population
pass gradually under the control of a band of labor
union demagogues,” until “the country is being
deserted by capital,” and “thousands of unem-
ployed are walking the streets. ” ; “ E. Vickery,
member of the Australian Parliament,” is also re-
ported as saying that the population of Australia
is 1,500,000 (most people thought it was nearly
three times that), and that 60 years ago it was
only 25,000 (heaven knows where these figures
come from ; the census never showed them).
Now, who is this Stinking Eisli person —“ E.
Vickery, member of the Australian Parlia-
ment?” His name doesn't appear on any list
of members of the Australian Parliament!
Certainly, there is one Vickery who is an
obscure nominee in the Upper House of some
State legislature, but be is a person who has
grown enormously rich in this allegedly ruined
country, and he has so much confidence in it that
lie keeps his stupendous pile invested here, feeling
that it: will be quite safe. So it can’t surely be
that Vickery. -- _• < ; :
Sydney Telegraph is still publishing at
intervals impassioned articles on “Dry Farming ”
—it Dried with unusual energy and at great
length on oth August, and the subject is liable to
crop up at any time in any part of the paper. The
object of all this Dry literature is to convince the
people of N.S.W. that the West is. after all,
quite a desirable place to raise crops in, and that
they should hustle out there, instead of disturbing
the big landowner whose unimproved principali-
ties block settlement in the moist coastal dis-
tricts. “ Dry Farming ”is an American idea (or
theory, or dream, or something), and, according to
the Telegraph, it
shows that with as low as 12in. of rain per annum irri-
gation can be clone without.
This is all very interesting, but, unfortunately,
there is hardly a spot in N.S.W. west of the
mountains that.can rely on getting 12in. of rain,
and sometimes quite a lot of it gets down to 3in.,
and can’t find any water to irrigate with. Then
Australia doesn’t know much about “ Dry Farm-
ing” yet, and the Telegraph’s picture of the
whole country.between the Darling and the moun-
tains as one vast Dry wheatfield, while the big land-
lords remain undisturbed on the coast, may be
premature. Better to exhaust the possibilities of
Damp Farming first.
WHAT IT WILL COME TO.
The new Victorian Licensing Bill provides that the inside of every bar must be clearly visible through a
window easily accessible from the public street.
HKR MASH : “ I came to say good-bye. This is the first day of the new Licensing Act. Drey
as my love for you may be, conversation under these conditions is intolerable.”
Another Tory yarn has collapsed. It ran
to the effect that if the Wages Boards in Victoria
fixed a minimum wage, it would reduce all workers
to a dead level. Now' the annual report of the
Chief Inspector of Factories ai-rives to show that,
though the Board’s minimum was 455. for males
and 20s. for females in the clothing trade—a
typical case—the average wages actually paid were
535. sd. for adult males, and 225. 3d. for adult
females.
For the Victorian Senate elections Prime
Minister Deakin lends Government support to
sitting-Senator Styles (consistent Democrat
and Protectionist) and manufacturer Charles
Atkins, over whom Toryism wept when
lie took up tlie cudgels against tlie stink-
ing-fiction party. The sobbing Tories
are still in a state of suspense as
regards their men. They pin their
faith, of course, on Simian Phraser,
as the sole remnant in the Senate
of the old Victorian landlord
party, and a man who can be relied
on to"shriek against anything new or
progressive in legislation. And
they are beginning to boost Jimmy
M‘Coll, M.H.R., the man who
voted, to send manufacturing
monopolists to gaol, but moved to
let rural monopolists (including
butter-agents) go free. Even the
name of Croker, the cute and dan-
dified solicitor, has been breathed.
It would be a new thing for Aus-
tralia to possess a Senator who is ac-
cused of wearing corsets.
Bent lias just passed another vote of
censure on <l. Oarruthers’ methods. When Car-
ruthers decided to knock the State Fire Insurance
Fund on the head (by the way, Oarruthers hasn’t
explained yet what he did with the accumulated
funds), he handed over the insurance business to
a middleman broker, instead of dealing direct with
the cos. Bent lately found that the same thing
was in vogue in Victoria, and jumped on it with
all his tonnage. But he might have gone further
than that. If it’s a good thing, as he says, to have
the State’s interest paid to Australians, it might
have occurred to Thomas that it is also a good
thing to have the State’s premiums paid to the
same Australians.
Besides offering £ll,OOO a year to help the
fishing industry, as set forth in the Federal Bonus
Bill, the Commonwealth Government proposes to
run a steam trawler on its own account. Some
bull-necked person, with a large voice and a small
intellect, is bound to rise in red heat to protest
against this Socialistic interference with Private
Enterprise; but as the lish have been racing
round these coasts from time immemorial, and
Private Enterprise hasn’t tackled the job of
stopping them, it is hard to say where the inter-
ference comes in. You can’t interfere with a
thing, even the size of an elephant, if it isn’t
there.
Ex-Freetrader Irvine becomes more mar-
vellous than ever. His latest, from Dandenong
(Vic.): —
He felt so strongly on that point (i.e., preferential
trade within the Empire) that he did not care how high
the duties were raised against foreigners, so long as our
own kith and kin were treated fairly.
Not a word nowadays from Irvine to say that
England’s glory rests upon the Open Door, or
that only by unrestricted commerce can we hope
to retain the greatness won by our forefathers.
Irvine now turns to Protection (“he does not care
how high.’’) to save the British Empire from
wreck. On all his old theories he is silent. But
profoundest of all is his silence regarding the
land-tax, for Which he barracked with such in-
tense earnestness when he went into the State
Parliament in 1894.
Farrer, M.L.A., the very newest Anti-
Sosh member of the Vic. Assembly, who was
elected a week or two ago by the combined efforts
of the Employers’ Federation, the Farmers’
League and the Women’s Gnash Ass, made his
first move in Parliament, when he gave notice of
a motion favoring the ploughing of the land BY the
State. One of these days, the Anti-Sosh party
will be denouncing Watson for stealing all the
planks of its platform.
ANOTHER SUPPORTER GONE.
I would not refuse a vote from the Prince of Darkness
—GEORGE REID.
HIS KNIBS : “I dessay not. But , had as I ham.
Hi couldn’t oblige you. Think what mother
would say.” (Vanishes into threepenny worth
of blue smoke.)
A female Victorian deputation lately asked
Bent to support a private Bill now before the
State Parliament giving the widow and infants a
lien on the old man’s money after he has departed
for the halo or the hob, as the case may be. lhe
Victorian Parliament has been assaulted with the
humane proposal for years, but the House of
Landlords has always thrown it out as an insult
to Proputty. Thewomen quoted thecaseofaGipps-
land man who left all his means to the Salv’armv,
and nothing to the wife who, for six year*
before his death, had toiled on the farm without
once going outside its gates ; another man whose
cash went to a Bible Society, and his wife to a
benevolent asylum ; and certain frisky old gentle-
men whose dying benevolence was all in favor
of their housekeepers. Bent promised that the
Bill to burke the aged saint or sinner in his evil
intentions towards his wife and children should
have Government support, so this time it seem*
to have a chance of passing.
OPEN SESAME.— Hunyadi Janos Water
is the “ open sesame ” of the human organism-
Speedy, sure, and gentle, it fulfils every indica-
tion in health and disease. It is a therapeutica
arsenal in itself. Indispensable *lo millions ot
human beings all over the world.*


ser
SHOE FOR LADIES
is perfect in form and finish, the Collarette giving a very pretty
appearance. This Shoe always gives the greatest satis-
faction in comfort and wear.
gs
POST FREE,
DUTY FREE,
13/6
ALL OVER THE
SI AXES,
INCLUDING W. A.
FROM A WEARER.
“The shoes arrived safely.
They fit like a g love. Had 1 had
my measure taken I could nob
have got a more perfect lit.
A.F.K., Mt. Hope, Tasmania.”
12/11 a pair ;or post and duty paid, 13/6 per pair. Fine GLACE
KiU, patent toe caps, pointed, medium or broad toes, lace or button.
ALSO,
f mer A c , an Overstrap Shoes, pointed toe, 10/0, 13/0 a pair
Postage extra on either of these, 9d.
YOU RUN NO RISK.
You can have a pair of these Shoes sent to you.
You can closely examine them.
YOU CAN TRY THEM ON.
You can exchange them for others, or
You can have your money returned if not satisfied.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 George St.,
SYDNEY.
Good News for
Picture Lovers!
We have opened up by latest American “ mail ” a large shipment of magnificent
WTAMERICAN PICTURED
IN COLORS
We strongly advise lovers of GOOD PICTURES to inspect these fine examples of American
art, which are EXCEPTIONALLY CHOICE and quite American
T/te Finest Selection ever shown in Australia
Including the work of America’s MOST FAMOUS ARTISTS such as
Gibson, Christy, Harrison Fisher, Kimball, Russell, Remington, &c.
Ihe studies are artistically mounted on Heavy Mounts ready for framing and will
be sold at the hitherto
unheard-of low price of
3/9
each;
erg
POST FREE
EACH 4/9.
SUBJECTS
HARRISON FISHER’S
Shipmates
Matinee Girls
Vital Question
Enslaved
Ready for the Ball
HARRISON FISHER’S
Making Hay
In Clover
Critical Moment
Match Play
KIMBALL’S
. Interrupted Solitaire
Love Game
Well Manned
Their Bond
KIMBALL’S
American Beauties (Heads
Pastel)—4 Subject's.
HARRISON FISHER’S
A Morning Greeting
An Hour with Art
In the Canoe
At the Piano
C. M. RUSSELL’S
Western Life—4 Subjects.
HOWARD CHANDLER CHRISTY’S
The Oldest Trust Company
Poaching
Unstable as Water
Looking Backward
Plea for Arbitration
In Deep Water
The Modern Lorelei, Which ?
A Duet without Words
Secrets of the Sea
Gold is not All
Two Heads are Better than One
The Seasons—Spring, Summer,
Autumn and Winter.
HARRISON FISHER’S
Heads in Colors 4 Ideal
Pictures
HARRISON FISHER’S
Pictures
In the Country
An Afternoon Call
On the Avenue
Final Instructions &c., &c.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO.,
476 George St *
(Opposite Q.V.
Markets),
Sydney .
'fiUnZ
Refiners and
Sole Manufacturers of
ESTABLISHED 1884.
SAN FRANCISCO, and 117 Pitt St., Sydney
MALTHOID ROOFING.
NOT THE SAME AS OTHER ROOFINGS.
FOR COTTAGE
building Malthoid makes a far better
outside covering for the roof than wood
and iron. It doesn’t matter whether
you build a Cathedral
OR COWSHED,
you 11 find Malthoid of great service to
you. It has two most important quali-
ties, pliability and durability. Made
from a pure mineral.
* * s no * seemly, do it not; if it is not true, speak it not. ft
—Marcus Aurelius.
WILLIAM BALDWIN
W. S, FRIEND & 00.,
JAMES W. JACK,
NORMAN & CO.,
E. T. HARRIS,
HEDLEY BUTTON,
BRISCOE & CO., LTD.,
Aust. Rep.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Wellington, N.Z.
Adelaide, S.A.
Townsville, Q.
Launceston, Tas.
Melbourne, Vic.
JAMES McEWAN & CO., LTD.. Melb.. Vic.
JAMES SANDY & CO., Sydney N S W
JOHN BURNS & CO., LTD., Auckland! N.z!
G. L. DENNISTON, Dunedin, N.Z.
WILLIAM SANDOVER & CO.. Perth W A
EDWARD REECE & SONS, Chch’ nY
E. L. YENCKEN&CO. Pty., Ltd.,Melb., Vic!
x T ™OMSON, BRIDGER & CO., LTD., Invercargill. N.Z.
THE N.Z. LOAN AND MERCANTILE AGENCY CO., LTD., Brisbane, Q.
FINNEY, ISLES & GO., LIMITED.
IN OUR ....
HIGH-CLASS TAILORING DEPARTMENT
WE ARE NOW OFFERING SPECIAL VALUE IN
Men’s Sac Suits
. '
631-
Made to Measure In PURE-WOOL FANCY TWEED WORSTEDS of
Australian, New Zealand, and British Mannfacture, and In
PURE-INDIGO SERGES and COATINGS.
Send for PATTERNS, and FORMS WITH FULLEST INSTRUCTIONS for SELF-MEASUREMENT.
These Suits are not of the Machine or Factory-made to Measure variety, but High-class Tailor-made.
Edward & Adelaide Sts., BRISBANE.
The Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assurance Society Limited
(Mutual) Established 1871. OCO OA . « .
CHIEF OFFICE IOR N.S.W.— 263 UGOfgG StfGGt, SytfllCy.
LIFE, ACCIDENT AND INVALIDITY ASSURANCE IN ONE POLICY.
ANNUAL PREMIUM for £lOOO, person aged 30, payable at 60 or Death. £39 19s 4d
SPECIAL BENEFITS: (1) £2OOO if death takes place as result of accident; (2) £lOOO for Permanent Total
Disablement; (3) £ooo for Permanent Partial Disablement; (4) £6 per week for Temporary Total Disablement
in Partial Disablement ; and (6) £6 per week for incapacitation through
specified diseases. For full particulars and conditions call or write for Prospectus, V. H. BAXTER. Res. Sec.
Patent Tuiencent
Incandescent Oil Lamp.
m
60 Candle Power
( for Less than
iOne Farthing per
Hoar with Ordi-
nary Kerosene*
STAND LAMPS
Complete
from . .
18/6 EACH.
ALSO,
Bracket % Hanging [amps
BURNER
Complete
126
Will Fit
Existing Fonts.
se
Welsbacti
Incandescent
Acetylene
Gas Burners
Brilliant Light
of 100 Candle
Power*
5/-
Complete
By using these
Incandescent
Burners, con-
sumption of
Acetylene Gas
will be reduced
by half and your
light doubled.
Acetylene Gas
Fittings and
L amps.
. b <ACEnjp|
, m A
U' ; ss
I*
n
BSHMi
■ '
J
does your, local storekeeper stock
THESE GOODS? IF NOT, WRITE TO s
WELSBACN LIGHT CO
OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED,
439-441 KENT ST., SYDNEY.
230 Flinders Lane, Melbourne*
Perry Bros*, Brisbane*
J* M* Ferguson, Ltd*, Perth, W*A*
48 Victoria St, Wellington, N.Z.
Harold Colton & Co., Adelaide.


A guaranteed cure for piles, itching, blind,
bleeding or protruding. Chemists refund money
if Pazo Ointment fails to cure any case, no
matter of how long standing, in 6 to 14 days.
First application gives ease and rest. 2s. 3d.*
“IVI OTA ” BRAND
/i Motor Car Spirits
Are the finest power spirits the world produces.
Sold by all Motor Manufacturers,
Importers, Repairers, etc., or of
The BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD.,
Agents, Adelaide, Melbourne & Sydney.
Pratt’s Motor Car Spirit.
Highest Grade
American . . .
ALWAYS UNIFORM IN QUALITY.
In stock at the Kerosene Stores of the COLON lAL OIL
COMPANY.
At all the Leading- Centres of Australia and New Zealand.
PETROL
Cable Address —
PASTIME, SYDNEY .
M. J. MOLONEY,
Tattersall’s Club,
SYDNEY .
COMMISSIONS Executed.
LONGEST HARKET RATES
GUARANTEED.::^—^
TEL. 1542 or 251.
Write or wire for Quotations.
Price Lists forwarded on Application.
Telegraphic Address—
MOLONEY, Tattersall’s,
SYDNEY.
RESCN’S
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Saturday last was chilly enough in Sydney to
make Rugby a game better worth playing than watching,
but* all the same, huge crowds gathered to look on. In
A Division Glebe played a remarkable game with South
Sydney, and won bv 10 to three. Balmain crushed
Mahlv by 20 to six—an awful drubbing, in spite of which
Maiily played gamely to the finish. Newtown downed
St. George by five to nil. In B division Sydney repulsed
University, the Collegians going down by five to six a
mighty small margin, but large enough to count.
Eastern Suburbs just managed to squelch Western
Suburbs by the same margin, in a game in which the
figures were 12 and 11 respectively. North Sydney had
the bye. The result is to leave Glebe still at the top of
the poll, with 23 points. The closest of the pursuers are
Eastern Suburbs and Newtown, with 19 points each.
South Sydney, University and Sydney follow with 17
each ; Balmain is 15, and Western Suburbs 11.
The burning interest that rival sectaries took
in each other’s immortal loss in the days when Calvin
and other strong-minded people were rather gone on
metaphysics, was quite equalled by that which raged
between Glebe and South Sydney teams on Saturday.
The barrackers of both sides were quite mad, and shouted
frantic requests to have the inner machinery of the oppo-
site side strewn on the field. Although the players did
not take this advice, some of them, at least, did what
they could. It was a fast, strenuous struggle, and had
South been able to keep all its men on the field there is
little doubt that it would have won the match. South
attacked, but the charge was brought to an end by the ball
being thrown out. Glebe secured the throw in and came
away, but South took the leather from Glebe and worked
back. Both sides had been cautioned for rough
play. Much dribbling and heavy ruck work followed,
relieved by marks and futile shots at goal by
both sides, and further numerous warnings re rough
play. A Glebe man struck the original idea of tossing the
South three-quarters men to prevent them following up,
and the referee granted a free kick to South. Nothing
came of it, and the gambols resumed. Cotter scored for
Glebe, but failed to convert. South attacked strenuously,
and, after a severe struggle, got over, but also failed to
convert. Then a South man smote the Glebe forward on
the jaw in the scrum, and was ordered off the field.
Another South man had been hurt, and the spell came to
an end with scores equal and South two men short.
The second spell proved that the lack of two men
was an impossible handicap. South played mag-
nificently, and let loose a series of splendid charges,
all of < which were pulled down, and the weakened
team hadn’t the strength or the weight to break
through Glebe defence. Right at the back Iledley, the
great full-back, sent the charging Southerners back again
and again by .the simple expedient of finding the line.
Then Glebe scored a field goal, and it was seen that the
South men’s case was hopeless ; but they played on splen-
didly. In the bitterness of impending defeat the game
became very, very rough, indeed. Another South man
was. hurt, and was carried off. South still sent its
charges right for the Glebe line, and played a game wor-
thy of Thermopylie, or some other place where nothing
hut the object matters. But it was all in vain. Glebe
always secured and kicked steadily down the touch line,
and South Sydney foamed at the mouth as it was slowly
forced back till, right on time, another try was scored by
Glebe, making that club winner by 10 to three. In the
dressing-rooms there were whispers that something was
going to happen, and the Glebe men waited till the crowd
should have thinned. Then they got aboard their ’bus
and started with speed, But before they got properly
going a shower of stones smashed windows* cut faces,
and laid men out insensible. Then all was chaos!
* * * »
Some of the other Rugby matches were equally
interesting from the point of play, but had not the added
distinction of being between the old premiers and the
probable new ones. University nearly fell down dead
with astonishment when it discovered that its forward
pack was not in the same street as that of Sydney. The
Uni. backs never got a show to work in any of their
pretty passing charges, the Sydney pack crushing
the faintest attempt to get the leather out. But for the
sound defence and splendid line-kicking of the Uni. backs
the game would have ended in a rout. As it was, Uni.
Was lucky to escape with a one point defeat—Sydney’s
superiority was worth many points. The Eastern
Suburbs victory over Western District was the narrowest
of close shaves and a streak of marvellous luck. The
speed of the Western forwards was terrific, and they ran
through the Eastern forwards and bustled the backs,
breaking up even the redoubtable Messenger and Rosen-
feld combination. The first half ended with Western
District leading by three to nil. flay was very
rough at times, both sides having a man sent
off the field. Ward Prentice played a sterling
game, and took much of the limelight that usually falls
on Messenger, whose brilliancy the speed of the Western
Subui-bs forwards had temporarily dimmed. West con-
tinued to score—eight to nil. Then Rosenfeld got over
and Messenger converted, making the score eight to five.
Western scored again, but, failing to convert, got only
three, and, with time running out fast, Eastern Suburbs
saw itself six poihts behind. Then, for the first time in
the game, the Eastern forwards showed some speed.
They took the leather to the line, and, after a struggle,
got over, but;\ydre penalised for being off side. At half
way the Eastern machine got going, and scored at the
corner. The kick failed, and the sun dipped down a bit
lower, and hope went with it. Western district was still
leading by three. The Eastern captain hurled his whole
team right at the line—a forlorn hope for a draw. West
stood the shock gallantly, and Ward Prentice got the
leather and strove to kick clear with the Eastern for-
wards right on top of him, It flew out low, and D’Al-
puget, East full-back, gathered it in, and right on time
the ball soared up and over the bar, a four point field
goal, leaving Eastern Suburbs winners by one point.
* * * *
They have some debacles in Maoriland Rugby
too, occasionally. Last Saturday! Auckland trampled
Canterbury under foot, winning by 29 to six in the inter-
provincial contest.
In the British Association circles of N.S.W. the
Gardiner Cup contests are attracting as much attention
as the competition matches. Sydney and Ultimo put up
a stern struggle at Epping course on Saturday; excite-
ment was at fever pitch when, at half-time, Ultimo led
by three to two. Sydney changed the positions of the
players in the team, but it apparently made no difference.
Ultimo increased the score to four to two, and Sydney’s
barrackers were suddenly tongue-tied. But the city
team was far from being beaten. It suddenly gave its
opponents an exhibition of speed that just paralysed
them, and two goals were scored in very short order,
making the game a draw—four all. Glebe and Woonoona
also got off their struggle for the Cup, and the country
team was scrunched—nine to three. Out at Granville,
Pyrmont, the premier club of the season, wiped the floor
comfortably with the local team,winning by four to one.
'» * * *
Something like a boil-over occurred in the
League Competition (Australian Rules) in Sydney last
week. Newtown was leading in the competition with 22
points; Sydney second With 20 points. On Satur-
day last Balmain, which was third on the list, with 16
points, beat the leading club by 65 to 52. Sydney wal-
loped East Sydney by 80 to 46. This brought Sydney
level with Newtown, with 22 each, and made Balmain
second on the list, with 20. The shocking example of the
day was Paddington, which Redfern dished by 120 to 13.
Another event like that and Paddington will decide to
confine its attention to skittles.
Saturday’s football in Melbourne showed pretty
clearly that the Association’s contention that the League
gives it no show for a “ gate ”is mere blather. Were the
eight League clubs to perish to-morrow, the Association
“gates” wouldn’t gain 20 per cent. There were but
three matches for the afternoon. In the League, the
weak “ Saints ” beat the weaker Melbourne by 73 points
to 40, before a crowd of about 3000, while at Carlton a
good 20,000 watched Fitzroy wallop the locals. All Asso-
ciation matches were suspended while a combined team
met S. Australia’s chosen 18, j’et the East Melbourne
ground, where they played, could have accommodated
six times the number of spectators—probably 3000 all
told. And those who stayed away were fully justified.
The weakest League club, Melbourne, could have easily
beaten a team picked from the combined Inter-Staters.
Their “systems” were non-existent, they kicked
and passed anyhow, their marking was more lucky than
happy, and, in fact, they did everything a beginner would
do and a past-master avoid. Yet, it was not a bad game
to watch, for, though Victoria led right throughout the
proceedings, the individual play of two or three Crow-
eaters was so vigorous that there were always hopes of
their doing something. They did it in the last quarter,
piling on seven goals five behinds, to Victoria’s one goal
one behind, but the effort came too late, and Bent’s State
won by 103 points to 87. The huge crowd that trammed
itself out to Carlton knew what to expect—and got
it. A very fast, open game with just enough “devil”
about it to keep one’s nerves strung from the bounce.
Carlton, as usual, played the losing individualistic game,
but was sure in picking up and straighter in kicking. At
quarter-time ’Roy had scored one goal five behinds to one
goal one behind. At half-time the maroons had added
another behind, while Carlton had put on two more goals.
The third quarter saw Carlton kick another goal and a
behind, while ’Roy added two goals and four behinds —
leaving it two points ahead of the blue-and-whites.
The final quarter saw Carlton make a determined rush,
and, in spite of a magnificent defence, its prize kick,
Caine, snatched the ball on a bounce, screwed swiftly
and punted a goal. That gave Carlton four points
of a lead, and the barrackers clapped the Lizzies on the
back and yelled, “ What’d I tell yer? Blime, ain’t it
prime?” But it wasn’t all over. The ’Roys’mettle was
up. Steadily they passed the leather on to within shoot-
ing distance. Twice they tried, but only scored minor
points. Then Trotter, their surest kick, got a mark at
an angle,'.6oyds. away. He placed the ball, and, taking
along run, drove it right across the wind fair
through the posts, and ’Roy yelled itself hoarse.
There were still five minutes to play, and Carlton
played for all it was worth. It got the chance,
and a long straight drive would have given it
victory, but though Caine sent the ball far over the
backs’ heads, he allowed too much for the wind, and the
globe went a foot outside the post, leaving ’Roy winner
by four goals 14 behinds to five goals throe behinds. The
better team won, but it almost deserved to lose for its
wretched kicking. This match leaves four teams only
with a chance of the pennant—Carlton, Essendon, ’Roy,
and ’Wood—and on present form there is little to choose.
* * * *
The whole of the suspended cricketers, having
put their case in as favorable a light as possible, and
become fairly ’umble, have now been re-admitted
to playing privileges by the N.S.W. Cricket Asso-
ciation, but are debarred from holding any office
for three years. On the whole, the Association
was magnanimous. Curiously enough, some of the
dailies were shocked at what they called the grudging
spirit of the Association, but that body was quite right.
In the meantime it is rather humorous to find that the
players, who said they only joined in with the Mel-
bourne Club for the purpose of ensuring a visit from an
English team, have been the real means of preventing one
coming next season. They inflated themselves on top of
their precious dignity so long that by the time they got
down again to their real size it was too late, according to
the Marylebone Club, to arrange for the tour. Where-
fore the players are likely to be further disliked by that
section of the public which deemed a visit next season
essential to the existence of the country.
* * * *
Twenty-nine started in the 30-mile race for the
Dunlop Individual Championship of N.S.W., the most
important amateur cycling race in the State, last
Saturday. The clubs represented were Marrickville,
Balmain, Enfield, Botany, Northern Suburbs, Swift,
Redfern, Annandale, Western and Eastern Suburbs.
Last year M‘Lean of the Western Suburbs ran away with
the event, and so fast did he ride from the jump last
Saturday that before the first 10 miles had been left
behind all but eight had dropped out. Starting on the
second round he went even faster, and attempted to
break away ; but had he done so it would have meant
acting as his own pacer, so he stayed with the bunch. At
20 miles the eight had dropped to five. In the last round
MT.ean came down, ripping spokes out of his back
wheel, and shaking himself up considerably. But he
remounted and flew on, and another man dropped out.
It then lay among four men, who were bunched together.
At the finish, H. Coleman, of the Marrickville Club,
sprinted, and M'Lean dropped into second place, with
Thompson, of Eastern Suburbs, third, and S. Goodben,
the winner’s club-mate, fourth. The time was lhr.
17min. 41 l-ssec.
* *• * *
Bathurst to Sydney road-race, promoted by the
Wallace Continental Tyre Co., will drop perspiration and
language along the country roads this Saturday. At
time of u'riting, somewhere about 100 have accepted and
are riding up to Bathurst on their own machines by easy
stages, making themselves acquainted with the track,
and the best places to break their necks. The Wallace
Co. has made the usual arrangements for supplying solid
and liquid refreshment to the cyclists as they whiz past
after the elusive loot. At Katoomba, about half-way, the
road has been swept clear for about five miles on both
sides of the town, and that garnished patch will be a rest
to the weary cyclist. t * *
The Cyclists’ Association got off its Camden to
Ashfield (N.S.W.) road race last Saturday. Over 100 co-
mpeted, so apparently the Association is fairly strong in
numbers, even if it is weak in cash and organising genius,
and, of course, there is always the chance of its raising a
good manager who can make things hum. The finish was
fairly exciting, A. Blakewell, the winner, defeating
Avery, the second man, by a couple of lengths, with third
arrival about 25 yards behind. This, in a run of 36 miles,
suggests that the handicapper has some horse-sense.
* * * *
Defections between date of nomination for
V. A.T.C. G.N. ’Chase and convincing day (Saturday) were
much greater than in connection with V.A.T.C. G.N.
Hurdles. Steeple list was reduced from 60 to 14, and yet
one more started than when Beilis scored last year. But
the race has never been contested by big fields ; no more
than 18 lined up at any time in its history, and there
have been occasions when only half that number showed
out.
* * • *
Isis, the only mare in the field, won Caulfield
G.N. Steeplechase last Saturday, running clean away
from Cardinal after they had cleared the last jump. Isis,
whose sire, Leroy, was a Musket horse, has been one of
the most consistent and safest performers at the game.
Last year she ran second to Beilis in the V.R.C. National,
and third to him at Caulfield. This year, with a lighter
burden and weaker opposition, she did the trick hand-
somely. Of the mare’s most dangerous opponents, Corin-
thus came early to grief. The General also fell (punters
must now be tired of expecting The General to get
round), and top-weight Beilis was pulled up. She had
nothing else to fear save Cardinal, and w'hen it came to a
question of stamina the son of Richelieu (a non-stayer)
was only good enough to finish in the second place once
Noteworthy that in the last three G.N. Steeple-
chases at Caulfield both Isis and Cardinal have been
twice placed, and in each of the three events the number
of competitors has been reduced to six or seven at the
finish.
* « * *
The N.S.W. pony-racing clubs are probably
sorry now that they spoke so loud. Had they gone round
the corner and settled their dispute quietly over a whisky
and soda there might have been no Gaming and Betting
Bill to-day. It was only when they started fighting over
one miserable day per week, and writing letters to the
papers about one another, that it really dawned on the
public generally that these clubs were racing six days out
of seven, and filling the working week with a stench of
horse, bad language, welshing, and the general villainy ot
the unregistered turf. Then Cholly Wade looked over
the fence, heard the language, heard the hum of the
villainy, sniffed the odors, and hurried away to prepare
his little Bill. They fought over a day in the week, and
now the pony clubs find themselves restricted to 16 days
racing each in the year on their own courses. No wonder
they yell—a fall from 156 to 16 racing days in a year is
calculated to make any club scream.
* * * *
The fatuous punter who specs his coin early has
been sorely dealt with during the past week. Maori-
lander Mahutonga, rated a good thing for one or more of
the coming Spring’s big plums, has broken down hope-
lessly, as far as present engagements are concerned, and
Melbourne Cup favorite Lord Ullin’s Daughter, up to her
eyes in a thorough Cup preparation, which is widely
different from the ordinary thing, has jarred a tendon
and been eased entirely for the time being. Trainer J.
Allsop fears the mare will not stand the necessary work
even if she survives present trouble.
* » » *
“F.C.”: Do the V.R.O. and other “legitimate”
clubs license I. Noses with the view of safeguarding the
public, or simply to grab some more fees? If the former,
where does the protection come in ? A Sydney man put
£2 on Windy and £1 on Sweet Bird for the Valley Handi-
cap at Moonee Valley recently. The Ikey bore [the
usual “ltegd. V.R.C.” ticket; but the visitor |got a
hint that his man was a “ balancer.” He asked for his
stake back, and was refused ; then called the police and
offered to sign a charge of welshing. They declined to
do anything. Sure enough, when Windy won, the
“balancer” handed back the stake of £2, but held firmly to
the £1 put on Sweet Bird. And M‘Leod hadn’t been dead
a month. It looks as though the M’Leod incident has
scared the crowd more than it has the welsliers and
“ balancers.”
* * * *
Coursing scribe of Sydney Referee cheerfully
foretells a “pronounced revival” in the hare-torturing
game next season. An exceptionally optimistic nature,
surely, seeing that Kensington Club had to abandon a
meeting the other day, owing to poverty of entries, and
Belmore Proprietary Club is on the verge of putting up
its shutters. Also there is likely to be something doing
in the State legislature shortly owing to the cruelty of
the alleged sport.
* # * •
The Victorian A. A. A. boxing and wrestling
championships will be a five-nights affair, commencing
on the 18th, at the Athenaeum Hall (Melb.). It has been
suggested that Judkins be invited to view the contests,
in order to see that they are quite unlike the horrors he
has pictured in his mind. Among foremost local ’rastlers
is a policeman, whose chance in the heavy event was
rosy, but, owing to the absurd regulations restricting
members of the force from joining in such competitions,
he is a non-starter. This goes to explain why nine alleged
burly constables are sometimes needed to capture one
sinewy rat of a law-breaker; the cop doesn’t get the
practice he should have. Weber and “Delhi” Neilson
wasted much time at the Russell-street barracks in im-
parting their knowledge, but the classes fell through
owing to the stalwart pupils having severe attacks of that
tired feeling. The tired feeling might have been got over
if there had been the excitement and limelight of an occa-
sional competition to look forward to, but all the joy in
sight consisted of a prospective rough-and-tumble with a
pushite in an alley.
■K * * *
Clem Hill, with the help of a liberal handicap,
won the big open event in connection with the S.A. golf
championship. The famous batsman is really pretty
good at all sports. He has lately scored at both golf and
lawn-tennis, and at billiards and hurdle-racing events
promoted by the Adelaide Stock Exchange.
* * * *
Ex-ten-miler Stillwell effected a surprise in the
five-mile cross-country championship at Ballarat last
Saturday by defeating the best distance peds. in Victoria.
The course was 2J miles on the Miners’ racecourse, with
five hurdles, and a similar distance of level going across
ploughed fields, barbed wire fences, and sundry crab
holes—the recent rains making it a sloppy journey.
Eighty odd runners (representing 14 teams) went forth
to get their feet wet. The knowing ones’ tip was George
Blake for winner, with East Melbourne a cert, for team
supremacy, but the r esult put the tipsters to con-
fusion. At the gun a rush for positions to the first jump
saw Sylvester (Hamilton) ahead from Kirby (East Ballarat),
the old hands waiting for the squib division to lose their
steam. P. White, Bult and Ferguson displaced the leaders
on the back stretch, and passed the stand for the first lap in
that order, but gave way to Blake before leaving the
course on the journey cross country. Half-way turn-
saw Blake 40yds. ahead of Stillwell, who got no nearer
till on the course for the finishing lap, when he crept up
on the leg-weary leader at every stride, showing some of
the old dash that had won three “tens” in succession.
Blake made strenuous efforts to get a move on, but the
Bssendon man ran in a winner with 100yds. to spare in
29min. 11 2-ssecs.—a rattling exhibition of stamina,
pace and judgment. Stillwell was a non-competitor
during last season, and aforesaid event amply proves that
the spell did him good. Essendon secured the teams
supremacy, defeating East Melbourne by five points, with
Stillwell Bros., Alex, and John Beeson, and Arkley.
T’other surprises were “ Rufus ” Ferguson’s failure to get
nearer than eighth, and Bult’s run into third place.
Jimmy Riddell, a previous five-mile winner, was fourth,
with Aitken, a promising novice, close on his heels.
* * * *
Quigley, of Sydney, having broken up in his
training, Ted Nelson was left without a foeman worthy
of his style at Melbourne Cyclorama on the 4th, so Robert
Fraser undertook at short notice to deal with J ohn Black,
“ the Fighting Englishman.” Robert went into the ring
with his natural fat thick upon him, but he was so much
John’s daddy that “the Fighting Englishman” did not
succeed in planting half-a-dozen solid bashes on him
during the fifteen rounds that the scrap lasted. Having
taken in a few unpleasant shocks in the first two rounds,
41 the Fighting Englishman ” discovered the urgent
necessity of keeping away, and although he delivered
little he avoided a lot, but what he did not avoid was
sufficient to have wearied a working bullock. Black,
although showing the red badge of courage all over him,
kept going with great gameness, but was so plainly a
beaten man in the sixteenth spasm, that referee Easto
stepped in between, and declared in a loud voice that
Fraser was the winner. It was a case in which the text,
“ Blessed is the peacemaker,” was very applicable.
* * * «
There is just a possibility that the O’Brien-
Squires fight for the premiership of the world may not
come off in Melbourne, after all. Wren proposes, but
Tommy Bent disposes matters like that, and Thomas
talks about introducing a Bill to suppress fights for
purses, and to make it a penal offence to charge admis-
sion to any battle, scrimmage, row', unpleasantness, or
boxing contest. If Bent fixes things so that to charge to
see O’Brien hit Squires and Squires retaliate, means
gaol, then the disagreement will not take place in
Melbourne. Of course, it is known that Thomas
has often threatened to do things which remain
undone. For instance, he threatened to open State
brickyards ; but they haven’t materialised, and it
is just possible that his Bill for the suppression of
prizefights may not get through Parliament till after the
O’Brien-Squires scrap has been decided. Anyhow, in the
event of such a measure driving the exhibition out of
Victoria, there is not the slightest chance of Carruthers
passing a similar Bill. His desire to score off Victoria
would cause him to regard a broken nose os part of the
splendid natural resources of his State.
* * * *
The Fraser-Black fight, at Melbourne Cyclo-
rama last week, was chiefly remarkable for the change of
referees. Joe Stokesbury has refereed there—and, on the
whole, has done it well —ever since the Olympic Club
started promoting mills. Some of his decisions of late
have, however, been uproariously questioned by the shil-
ling seaters, who, whatever their judgment may be worth,
can raise a fearful row. “ Joe ” objected to this, and con-
tracted the habit of yelling back at the “ bob ” multitude.
Then Stokesbury resigned, possibly because his voice had
given out with shouting at the “ bobbers,” and the Club
appointed Paddy Basto as referee, with two judges outside
the ring to keep his decisions in order. Considerable
question, is raised now as to who is to referee the big
championship fight in November. Stokesbury’s resig-
nation seems to put him out, and Basto is too excitable
a man to be given such a big job. O’Brien is noted
as a master of ring tactics, which means that he
knows more ways of beating the referee than
most other men. Squire’s method of fighting
contains so much of hustle and so little of what is
generally known as “ science” that a referee without fear
and w'ithout reproach will be needed. Wren’s sense of
grandeur, and omnipotence has increased to such an
alarming degree of late that it is quite possible he may
want to climb through the ropes and referee the fight
himself. He has never done it before ; but then he never
appeared as a barrister until the other day and he
considers that he made a brilliant success of it. Anyway
his argument will be that when a man provides the purse,
and the place and the pugs the least he can claim is to
act as referee. Perhaps, though. Bent will be as good as
his roar, and there’ll be no referee, and no fight.
The Change of Life.
THE BALUE OF DR. MORSE'S INDLAN ROOT PILIS
AT SUCH PERIODS.
Time seems inopportune when he brings a
woman to the turn of life. Life is, or should be,
at its ripest and best for her, and she approaches
this change with a dread of its effect born of her
knowledge of the sufferings of other women at
this season. There is not the slightest cause for
Mrs. E. WHSON.
(From a photo.)
fear or anxiety at this
period if Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills are
taken occasionally to keep
the system toned and the
stomach in proper working
order. Doctors prescribe
them, nurses recommend
them, and thousands of
women who have success-
fully and cheerfully passed
through that stage can
testify to the value of these
pills. “ I have found your
pills to be highly beneficial
for headaches, ” writes Mrs.
E. Wilson, 406 Harris-
street, Ultimo, Sydney,
“ and also during that critical period known as
the change of life, through which I have passed.
I can conscientiously recommend Dr. Morse’s
Indian .Root Pills as a genuine remedy for all
general family ailments, and also to all women
for complaints peculiar to their You are at
liberty to publish this, and 1 shall be pleased to
give my personal experience to anyone calling on
me.” Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills aid in the
digestion and assimilation of food, strengthening
every organ, making good red blood to pulsate
through the entire body. They get at the cause
of every complaint that has the stomach, liver or
kidneys as its origin, and are a positive and per-
manent cure for biliousness, indigestion, constipa-
tion, sick headache, sallow complexion, liver and
kidney troubles, piles, pimples, boils and blotches,
and for female ailments.*


E. T. WALSH,
Merchant Tailor
rgs
New Four-Guinea Suitings.
Stylish Patterns. Expert Cutting. No Factory Work.
SAMPLES AND MEASURE FORMS SENT TO ANY ADDRESS.
The Largest High-Class Tailoring Establishment in the Commonwealth.
INSPECTION INVITED.
359 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
Two Racing- Ponies Wanted
for Natal.
WILL any dealer in Racing Ponies com-
municate with advertiser with view to
purchasing a couple of ponies on commission.
Only good judges need apply. State commis-
sion, terms, &c., to
W. H. MALLETT,
Ladysmith, Natal, Africa.
THE
erits
of the
TA
PIPE
erg
are many, and its principle is the
most successful ever invented
for the benefit of smokers.
Nicotine is absolutely pre-
vented from entering
either mouth or pipe
bowl. Every pipe is
guaranteed.
A
“MASTA”
smokes cool
and dry and to
the end, of the
tobacco. The
bowls are made
from flawless briar-'
wood, well-seasoned.
To be had in three
qualities from all
cbnists throughout the Aus-
tralian. Commonwealth. Whole*
sale only from FELDHEIM*
GOTTH kLL & CO., Sydney.
¥F you wish to BUY, SELL, or HIRE
A. MOTOR LAUNCH,
A SAILING YACHT,
or MARINE MOTOR,
Call or Write for List.
MOTOR LAUNCH AGENCY,
CIRCULAR QUAY. T. 1760.
r>
71
r.
o ■
Cj
V/Jjpr
m
JOJM*wS
SPec'HTtK
iw'
m
m
A
Oou«*
P
HL*l\
ftttJ
pLZNb/j
%y°
fiuvnks! Borvt
lilVow iK&i we need il
JOSHUAS
lx Better d a>Lot Older
ISPECIAL
A promising lad, Ted McGibbon, met Alf.
Byfield at the Olympic (Melb.) A.C. on Friday night.
The lads opened proceedings in willing fashion. Byfield
was specially aggressive, but was soon' steadied by
\leGibbon, who landed several stinging straight lefts to
he face. Second act proved as vigorous as No. 1. the
iads crowding as much work into the allotted three
minutes as is usually witnessed over twice the distance.
But it was evident that the pace couldn’t last, and
■i the following rounds Byfield was very rooky ; he hung
■n and wrestled, and the exchanges were feeble compared
nth previous efforts. Fourth and last rou.ud saw con-
restants tangled among the ropes. Alf., getting the
vorst of the deal, reclined for four seconds, but assuming
the upright position once more, hurled himself into the
fray, only to meet the boards again for eight, and then
for seven seconds. Finally, Byfield smote Ted one,
under circumstances that caused the referee to order a
foul, and he awarded the cash to Mac. It mattered not
whether the loser fouled out or was knocked out. He
couldn't save himself from going out.
» » » •*
About the best display of “boxing” seen in
Sydney for a long while was the meeting between Johns
and.Blaqkmore, at the National Sporting Club, last week.
Johns is the welter-weight champion of Australia, and
lias been for some years. They started to slow music,
but gradually increased the pace till the atmosphere
emitted a warm glow. Occasionally there were brief
flashes of fight, but, taken all through, it was a splendid
exhibition of footwork, head-manipulation, and all the
liner tricks and graces of the art of glove-fighting, the
absolute antithesis of the crude mauling which another
referee had allowed to disgrace the week before. As
a refined and elevating show it stood on the same footing
as skirt dancing at an afternoon garden party, and if the
dub could guarantee that fights would always be con-
ducted on the sariie exquisite lines, one' side of the
gallery might be set apart for ladies, so that they might
study the disturbances as essays in deportment. Only
once was “blug” visible—a mere streak across the
mouth and chin that suggested that Blackmore had
been struck with a bunch of poppies. The fearsome
part of the business was the tremendous swipes and
bangs which hit neither party. Some of them were ter-
rible, and damaged the atmosphere severely. In the end
Johns won the elegant dancing competition on points.
* * * *
“Brumby”: After the Felix-Kling brawl of
the previous week, the Jolins-Blaekmore scrap at the
National Sporting Club (Sydney), was a work of art.
Compared to it the crude efforts of strenuous laborers
whitewashing a fence would be labors of main
force and fury. The former was a scuffling struggle
between two huge, ungainly animals, who floun-
dered and fell over each other on to the floor, and rose
breathlessly', and closed helplessly', and hung, nearly a
quarter-ton of meat and bone, on the ropes, making
vague and un-Christian atteinpts to disable each other.
But the scienced bout between the lighter men was
something to remember in the days when the fire of life
is low, and memory is all that is "left of the sinful past.
Blackmore was the in-boring fighter, always clever in
evasion and attack, but, above all, a hitter of the smash-
ing, dangerous order. Johns shaped as the pastmasterof
skilled grace. In him were combined the effectiveness of
the natural fighter, the cleverness of the consummate
hoxer, and the airy lightness of the danseuse. He was a
toe-ornainent, a dodgy penny balloon, a butterfly, a thing
of air. The whole exhibition was a wonder of pug-cul-
rure and a revelation of the poetry of motion, and it ex-
hilarated the mind like a seven-course feed of beer.
Probably it takes a long term of weary practising
before a mirror to attain Johns’ pre-eminently
cultured sty'le, but it’s a pleasant result anyhow, and the
end justifies the means.
* * * *
For some reason John Wren, Melb. tote law-
breaker, was not at the Olympic Club fight between
Fraser and Black last week. Consequently the admiring
public couldn’t nudge one another and say', “ That’s
’im.” But there were three big, quiet men there that
everybody gazed at. They' were Mike Williams, Bill
Squires, and Billy M‘Coll. They made a fine trio.
Williams is burly but active, with a deep chest like that
of a bull, and a massive mahogany face like the figure-
bead of an old warship. He speaks with a rich Irish
brogue, suggestive of the bogs of Connaught. William
Squires is always William Squires—massive, blocky, quiet
and thoughtful, with never a smile until the ring is
mentioned, and then his face lights up. And Billy
M'Coll is dapper, neat, well-tailored, well-groomed, and
well-spoken, as unlike a prize-fighter as can be imagined.
* * * *
National Sporting and Olympic Clubs, which
pretty well monopolise promotion of boxing events in
Sydney and Melbourne respectively, have decided to
reciprocate, “ to elevate boxing, and for the good of the
sport and boxers themselves.” Boxers will probably be
“ benefited ” by the giving of reduced purses, and being
compelled to fight where and under what conditions the
reciprocating clubs desire.
* » * *
“0.K.”: That quaint purist, Bent, talks of
introducing a short'Bill to prohibit prize-fights in \ .e-
-toria, on the ground that they are “ brutal exhibitions.”
Bent, viewed in the present and the past, looks onq of the
last men on earth who might be expected to shudder at
the spectacle of two pugs hitting one another, with a
limited amount of violence, but for that very reason he
is an impressive supporter of the anaemic Kerristian
party. A form of entertainment that appears brutal to
Thomas Bent would probably invite the same objection
from a majority of men if that majority had any per-
sonal knowledge of the matter. As regards women, it
may be roundly asserted that all, save the very lowest,
would vote for the suppression of contests which
are expected to terminate in a knock-out. The
art of prize-fighting, as exhibited by its most successful
professors, is not a little bit beautiful, nor is it
much of an art, seeing that a hurricane puncher, on the
one hand, is said to be a “ natural ” or born fighter, whilst
the fellow who stands up against him is credited with “ a
fine capacity for receiving punishment,” which is not an
artistic attribute. Nor is it much of. a manly art, as far
as it is art at all; otherwise, women would crowd to prize
fights as they crowd to all exhibitions of maplv
strength, activity, and pluck. It is largely a brutal busi-
ness, when its immediate purpose is unmitigated stoush,
and its ultimate object is a knock-out. A man who says
this courts the ridicule and scorn of prize-fight patrons in
general. But who are they—in general ? The most,
animal-minded and least law-abiding section of the com-
munity, leavened in their multitude by a sprink-
ling of intellectual “ sports,” including, perhaps, a
Supreme Court Justice, who has, in his time, passed
sentence on quite a number of the excited spectators.
One can afford to be laughed at by the paying
patrons of stoushirig entertainments, and hated by the
hangers-on of the game who get in free, and the pals of
the hangers-on who assemble outside the hall of
“ science ” to drink in the distant shouts of approbation,
or otherwise, with their large, outstanding ears. A
prize-fight is distinctly not a game of boxing in the sense
that a test match is a game of cricket, or a trapeze
“ turn ”at Rickards’s is an exhibition of gymnastics. Its
claim to be a display of “art” is negatived by the all-
round expression on the sea of faces what time, a Bill
Squires is giving the other bloke beans. Bent says it is
brutal, and he’s about right. Nobody has ever yet
accused Bent of erring in the direction of spirituality.
* * * *
Two of the recent dawg shows in Melbourne
reveal some astonishing differences of judicial opinion.
At the Vic. Dog and Poultry Show first and special prizes
were awarded to Northcote Baby in the Bull-dog
puppy (bitch) class, and; among the unmentioned com-
petitors was Light Brigade, entered by Mr. Sevior, of
Prahran. Mr. Sevior’s other bull-pup, Up Guards
(dog), took 2nd prize in its class, no first being awarded.
Evidently the judges reckoned that Up Guards was a
fairly good sort of bull-pup, and Light Brigade a pup of
no importance. But .when the same two animals were
exhibited at the Prahran Show, only three weeks later,
each of them got a first and special prize in its class,
whereas Northcote Baby, the bitch that scored first
and special at the Vic. Dog and Poultry Show, was now
branded second to Light Brigade, the bitch that had
previously gone unmentioned.
* ■* * *
Rhodes, for the first time in his career as a
Yorkshire county player, finds himself a long way down
in the list of bowling averages. On Ist July his record
was 55 wickets at a cost of 22.71 each, whilst Haigh,
another Yorkshireman, had 99 wickets for an average of
11.06. But as a batsman Rhodes has been promoted to
the dignity of a stonewaller for his side. As a rule, he is
one of the first pair at the wickets, and he takes first
strike.
A young lady said to the professor of
anatomy at a southern university, the other
day : “I intend to leave my brain to you when
I die.” The unexpected response was: “ Oh,
goodness, I shall be in hell years before you, my
dear.”
In Melbourne, a few days ago. Miss
Weekes, a good-looking young woman, sued
Walter Mayhew, a middle-aged remittance man,
for £2OO, money lent. The lady’s tale was
that they had been engaged, and that the re-
mittance man’s usual trouble had encountered
him—his cheques had miscarried or something—
and she had tided him over sundry difficulties.
Also, she had advanced £5O in one lump to pay
his fare to the Cold Old Land, so that he could
prosecute his claim to a large sum alleged to be in
“Chancery.” He promised to repay her every-
thing “when they were married,” but instead
of that he went and married someone else,
although it was alleged that he already
possessed a wife in Westralia. The amazing
part of the matter was the remittance-man’s
defence. He swore that he had never had
any money from plaintiff at all, except
a trifle of £3, which he had repaid; but
that he and she had gone to a solicitor’s office,
at her suggestion, and that he had there written
out a statement that he owed her £2OO, and
ordered that the better part of his blessed remit-
tance was to be paid by the lawyer to her “in
order to keep it from his present wife”’ Also, he
swore that his intention was to desert his present
wife and go away with plaintiff. It was an amazing
sort of defence, and the cross-examining lawyer
spoke to defendant quite insultingly; but that
amiable person was no more ruffled than the skin
of his belltopper. As the lawyer! who drew up
the agreement backed up the plaintiff’s statement
his Honor enthusiastically gave her a verdict for
the full £2OO, and the remittance man departed in
a subdued but casual frame of mind.
A statement by Cardinal Moran that,
shortly before his death, Henry Parkes expressed
regret at the hand he took in the non-sectarian,
secular Public Education Act of N.S.W., has
brought from his retirement Francis Abigail, who
asserts that he was entirely in the confidence of
Parkes, and was assured by him shortly before his
death that the Public Instruction Act was the one
great work of which he was proud. And it would
be difficult to believe, even on the say-so of many
Cardinals, that the hairy old man ever regretted
having passed the measure—even though it wasn’t
his measure, but one which he calmly borrowed
from an opponent.
Goldsbrougli, Mort and Co. report: During
the past week there has been little inquiry for wool,
Buyers being disinclined to operate. It is difficult to
a ?fount for thepresent state of the market unless con-
ditions on the European Continent are similar to those
ruling in Bradford, where manufacturers have been lin-
able to obtain for their goods anything consonant with
the high prices paid for the raw material in May and June.
Reports to hand-show there is more doing in tops at a
J?*? 1 '* s ,° we Isboul 1 sboult ‘ experience some improve-
ment m the local market a few weeks hence. Auctions
will be resumed on 4th September, when many of the new
clips will no doubt be submitted, and the result is awaited
with interest.*


(1) The best possible mail service.
(2) Every article we sell.
WHAT WE GUARANTEE!
(3) We assume every possible risk.
(4) Best Goods at Lowest Prices.
A. SAUNDERS.
FLOWER VASE, pure
silver-mounted, moss
green glass, Is Gd.
Other Styles, Is Gd, 2s,
2s 3d, 2s Gd.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver-mounted PAPER KNIFE, highly burnished
steel blade,' 7in long, 2s 6d.
. Other styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Doeskin TOBACCO POUCH,
best rubberi lining, pure
silver shield, 4s 6d.
Other Styles, 4s, 6s 6d,
6s 6d, Vs 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Wishbone
LINKS, 20s.
15ct. Gold, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
CARRIAGE CLOCK, finest
French 8-day movement,
solid brass case, enamel
dial, richly ornamented,
£3. Other Styles, 255,
80s, 40s, to £7 10s.
A.. SAUNDERS.
BREAD or CAKE SERVER, pale silver-plated, pearl
handle, 7Jin long, l"2s f>d.
Other Styles, Ss Od, 4s 6d, 5s 6d. 7s Bd, 10s 6d, 15s Od.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Shield and
Dumbbell LINKS, 21s.
15ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Swan PIN
CUSHION, velvet top,
6s 6d. Other Styles,
Is 6'd, 2s 6d, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
SEWING COMPANION,
comprising three pairs
Sheffield Steel Scis-
sors, 6s 6d.
Extra Quality, 11s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, pure silver-plated,
crystal glass, 8s Cd.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
GOODS OF
QUALITY.
We sell
only the
good
Quality of Goods
that we
know
will please
and give you
every satisfaction.
All Goods
sent
POST FREE
to any
address in
Australasia
18ct. Gold Diamonds
and Jtubies
or Sapphires,
£2.
18ct. Gold, 5 fine
Pure Opals, £2.
Larger. Opals,
£2 10s, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Zealand Greenstone
PENDANT, gold-mounted,
6s 6d. Larger, 7s 6d, 8s 6d,
10s, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold Fancy Curb Padlock BRACELET, in
sizes, £2, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s. All with
safety chain attached.
9ct. Gold PIN,
set pure White
Pearls, 12s 6d.
15ct. Gold,
17s 6d..
Ladies’ Black Open-face Key-
less WATCHES, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s 255.
Solid Silver, Hunting Cases,
255. 30s, £2, £2 10s, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
ENGLISH ROLLED-GOLD FRAMES, fitted ordinary Lenses, 12s 6d.
Astigmatic Lenses, 21s. Solid Gold, 255, 30s, 355, 40s.
Our Crystalite SPECS., 3s 6d. Pure Pebbles, 4s 6d, 7s 6cJ, 10s.
WE ARE CONSULTING QPTICIANS._
A. SAUNDERS.
18st Gold RING,
pure double-cut
diamond. £2,
Larger Diamond,
£3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Gold MUFF CHAINS, £2, £2 10s, £3,
£4, £4 10s, £5, £6, £7, £B, £lO. Necklets
to match, 12s 6d, 15s, l7s 6d, 20s.
15ct. Gold, 30s, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Signet
RING, 20s.
15ct. Gold, 40s.
Handsome 8-day Marbellette CLOCK, strikes hours and halves, ™h, loud *»|. ichl ly
ornamented case, brass mountings, fancy dial, first-elaffi timcbeeper .L- os.
Kept in free repair for 2 years. Other Styles, 255, 30s, 355, 40s, 42s Gd, 50s.
9ct. Gold i’EN-
DANT, set Pearls
and Ruby or Sap-
Gent.’s Shaving ROLL, comprising finest Silver
Steel Razor and 4 useful articles, 12s 6d. Extra
Quality, 15s. With two Razors, 21s, 22s 6d.
9et. Gold “Dinna
Forget” FH end-
Bldp CHARM,
7s 6d.
FREE for the
ASKING.
If you cannot
visit us,
send for
our
Illustrated
Catalogue.
Its exact
reproductions
take away
all uncertainty
from
MAIL BUYING.
It’s Free.
Just ask for it.
„
A. SAUNDERS.
COLLAR STUD ROX, pure
silver-plated, satin finish,
hand engraved, 4s 6d.
Other Styles, 5s 6d. 7s 6d.
Solid Silver Sovereign
PURSE. 7s 6d, i Os.
Silver Filled, Os 6d.
Solid Gold, £2 10s.
Gold Filled, 22s 6d.
18ct. Gold, pure
Diamonds and
Rubies or Sap-
phires, £3.
5 Pure Double-Cut
Diamonds, £5-
V-i
18ct. Gold, pure
double - cut Dia-
monds and Rubies
or Sapphires,
£7 10s.
!)ct Gold BRACELET, 3 pure double-cut diamonds,
ith safety Chain, £5. Diamond and 2 rubies, £4 10s.
Lady’s Solid Gold Hunting
Keyless Watches, Jewelled,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, £5,
£O, £7, £lO.
Guaranteed 2,3, 4, and 5
Crocodile Leather
Chatelaine Spec.
CASE, 10s 6d.
15s.
20s
/
N
Strong, reliable, Knockabout WATCHES,
8s 6d, 10s, 12s Cd, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
Our “Guard,” 15s. Our “Railway,” 20s.
Specially recommended. All Guaranteed.
9ct. Gold Scroll BROOCH, set pure
White Pearls, 20s.
Solid Silver Cloth or Ilat BRUSH,
long white bristles, 5s 6d. Other
Styles, 6s 6d, 7s Cd, 8s 6d, 16s.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Military HAIR
BRUSHES, long white bristles
10s Gd. Others, 8s Gd, 12s 6d,
15s, 20s.
Field or Marine GLASSES, large
field of vision, 255. Other Styles,
12s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 30s.
9ct G«i<l Scroll RTfOOCH, set
Pearls and Ruby, 15s.
Solid Silver-mounted HAIR COMB,
Imitation Tortoiseshell, 7s 6d. Other
Styles, 3s 6d, 4s 6cL 5s G&. 6s 6d.
Solid Gold ALBERTS, Single or Double, £3,
£3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5, £6. 15ct. Gold,
£5 10s, £6 10s, £7 10s, £8 10s, £lO. Solid
Silver, 7s Od, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s. Gold Filled,
15s, 17s Od, 20s, 255, 30s.
Juvenile CUP, pure silver-
plated, richly engraved,
gilt lined, Ss Gd. Other
Styles, 7s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s Gd, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
SOLID
SILVER.
£2.
GOLD-
CIIASED,
£4 is.
m
m,
m.
'
Solid Silver Hunting Keyless LEVERS,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, £5- Patent Go
Cased, £4 4s, £5 5s £6l °f/ | olld
£6 10s, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £A
Guarantee! 5. 6, and 7 years.
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER,j
SILVERSMITH, and OPTICIAN, )
A. SAUNDERS
j 809, 811, 813, 815,
( GEORGE-STREET, !
Opp.
Railway
Station,
Sydney.


mm
mm
M
p w$
1 a
m:
m
!&4|
IK.
<*
w
IP '/§®?
• -.*.
A
viu §JSA I
pp ■"•"■" ;
tHi pjste
as
Mi
■. >
wm mrnn.
m
■m
SfcWii
P B
V
Hfi.' :■.
Pis
y■ »to »«* asaum
■PIpHPMp ■; ■• .;f||
....
m i
%
m.
m
m
im
m
'
litefs
1
.
!S<® :
•.
&
;
HI
ril
mwmmM
ym
:.
m
m
>!
B
S..WP fa!&&££l&SP* »
t»s
»»s
fetlgpffo
■
•-
mmmm
■
v
w
l»
sssfc
sm
I*^l
rV- *•
|§s
H rl
1
fIS
'
•-
Hi
S*S
as
~......
< - 1 'V
©§#?
tf pi!
It
gsiiii
®a-
H
>
wa®
;• S
FULL
/
W
IT
*•/* 3 i /<je£>
&ea& t€i// €xpredd.
,ar.Z. ®
* K
■>'-h,JUL~.Lii tf
<tv*^ —jvi—■ '
&o\
c< *
w/irvwui Ai—<
o~ •A 1
< 4 V
T &
&
y y
aX
O
*-o a?
S
«!
„ ho
04.Ct/r-£p t/r~
Or
dcvtryx- / 2 c/Zfjz f{x as*r£Mrfi/n r LS
ctr'jrgr-cun, coo -t>_ - trcDir. Cvo <xcrr?Ji oi~
cxS£>p -<ytcLCi l^cAxryS J j^)\A™.
i/ZfJL CIhL CL 'lrs/pj- CjbtrjtfL
fu/n Cj. te >r< Hyoo-t'rLj^
*2*.
V
V \
XJ=rr
■K
%
x*e
XX
X
Xxx
x\.
x\Vi
V .
XX
/ jJ.
n't). rJ/.0. froctj /--■**
&U,
j., /c A t-
C*~~J yUs-isOC ■'&'
fit f /£. 'tf'L&tj f<b.fe*JZ- &&C* •^L-+j.
e/ J/L^z^-'
/'V-Xy } S-~-*L~-
flO
9ftrtA^+
/;
t4>v
A
fazinaZ
#
t) ■/ C
V
VyvUvk
'\ KVu ■* A"
& AA. XSwis .
v_vc~3\&i; -
Jc ~r
lv&
Ty-
<s>
%
SvN
:%. 2
■W
hr \
Satisfaction Ail Rotrnd.
Frcm every quarter comes warm
appreciation of Vice-Regal Mixture—a
tobacco perfectly cool, exquisitely
sweet, anti delightfully flavored.
If you are unable to obtain Vice-
Regal Mixture from your Storekeeper
op Tobacconist, send us a penny stamp
(for postage) and we will forward a
FREE SAMPLE.
In every tin of Vice-Regal Mixture
is placed an inset. On receipt of 12
insets we will forward post free to
any address
An Embossed Ash Tray
as sbown here considerably reduced
in size.
W. D.&H.O. Wills
Sydney.
P.S.-Let us Have your opinion of
tbe Mixture.


\
'
<1
«
I
‘Made in Australia.”
SQMET
TO
(ft, ft t
t <
, --
aW"w.
.
s,A <■ :
-
>«*
.< *
r-?;
:■>'
SPsaaHwaS^
WORK DONE BY THE PERFECT AUSTRALIAN PLOUGH— The MITCHELL.
THE BEST MUST WIN.
A Few Wins by the FAMOUS LIGHT DRAUGHT 4 MITCHELL.
ALL CHAMPIONS. MIND.
1891. Werribee Grand Champion-Jst, 2nd, and 3rd Prizes.—Only three Ploughs at
work, beating all competitors.
1892. Werribee Grand Champion-lst and 2nd Prizes.—ln this class three “ Mitchells ”
competed against all makers.
1893. International Match (Hobart, Tasmania), Ist Prize. —Won by the only "Mitchell"
Plough on the ground, against the World.
1894. Romsey Champion Match— lst Prize.—“ Mitchell ” superiority again proved.
1895. Werribee Grand Champion —lst and 2nd Prizes. —Not a feather ruffled.
1896. Yarrawonga Champion Match —Ist Prize. —Always on top.
1896. Grenfell, N.S.W., Champion Match— lst Prize.—One “Mitchell" at work,
with the usual result.
1897. Coolamon, N.S.W., Champion Match— lst Prize.—Practical ploughmen at the
head of our business, that's why we win so regularly.
1898. Intercolonial Champion hi ate h (Millthorpe, N.S.W.). — Ist, £5O; 2nd, £2O
(tied) ; 4th, £5 ; and sth Prizes. —The result of four
“ Mitchell" Ploughs competing against all noted makers.
1899. Intercolonial Champion Match (Millthorpe, N.S.W.) —Ist, £5O; 2nd, £2o.
Only two 44 Mitchells "at work. A splendid victory.
1900. Kyabram Champion Match— Ist Prize in Champion 2 and 4 Furrows.
1901. Broadmeadows Champion Match— lst, 2nd, 3rd and 4th Prizes. —Needs no
comment.
1902. Btiln Buxln Champion Match. —Ist Prize.
1903. Broadmeadows Champion Match —Ist Prize in two Champions? also two Ists,
two 2nds, and one 3rd.
1904. Campbellfield Champion Match —lst, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th Prizes; also one Ist
and one 4th.
1905. Broadmeadows Champion Match— lst, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th Prizes; also two Ists
and one 2nd. Eight Ploughs competing.
1906. Campbellfield Champion Match —Ist, 2nd, 3rd and 4th; also one Ist, one 2nd,
and one 3rd.
BEEN CROWING SINCE 1891—15 YEARS’ RESULTS
MEAN SOMETHING TO YOU, DON’T THEY?
MITCHELL Soft Centre
Mould-Boards
Are the result of 20 years’ experience of Australian
soils—2o years’ effort to please you.
Are made of the highest grade of steel—hard
enough to cut glass, yet made so tough by a layer
of soft steel between the two hard wearing
surfaces, that it is a job to break one, if you try.
To be hard enough to cut glass is to wear
wonderfully well, isn’t it ?
So if you have soft centre “Mitchells,” you
don’t need to buy new boards anv-way near so
soon as if you didn’t have them.
That is money in your pocket.
Our boards scour or clean well because they’re
as hard and as smooth as glass, giving light draft
and ability to plough with a “ Mitchell” when
you could not with another kind.
“Mitchell” Soft Centres are unequalled for
HARDNESS, TOUGHNESS, POLISH, and TURN.
Lots of other features if you’ll ask us.
Inter-State Agents.
Queensland— Jackson & Co., Ltd., corner Eagle
and Elizabeth Streets, Brisbane.
Tasmania South— Murdoch Bros., Hobart.
Tasmania North—W. Hart & Sons, Launceston.
Grain and Fertiliser Drills, Ploughs,
Harrows, Harvesters, Strippers,
Winnowers, &c.
MITCHELL
■"> CO.,
Agricultural Implement and
Machine Manufacturers,
Melbourne


mm
714
FLAT BELCHER,
Former Price, 18s.
936
TIFFANY ENGAGEMENT
RING
Former Price, 14s.
&
7>
864
HORSE-SHOE SCARF
PIN
Former Price, 18s.
Ml///
552
CLUSTER RING
Former Price, 245.
m
&
853 ' ! l\\
TIFFANY BROOCH
Former Price, 18s.
888
IF
BAR BROOCH
Former Price, 18s.
CLUSTER RING
Former Price, 18s.
//I
907
SCARF PIN
Former Price, 12s.
m
611
3-STONE GYPSY RING
| Former Price, 18s m
Great Clearance Sale
BARRIOS DIAMONDS.
OUR LEASE EXPIRES
£/ AND
OUR STOCK MUST BE CLEARED WITHOUT DELAY
Regardless of Cost or Previous Selling Price-
OUR OBJECT HAS BEEN ATTAINED.
We opened our stores in this country with one object in view, and that was to
convince you that our goods are all that we claim them to be, and that even after a
close personal examination you cannot tell BARRIOS DIAMONDS from real Diamonds.
The Opportunity of a Lifetime
To secure an article of Jewellery set with beautiful brilliant BARRIOS
DIAMONDS at a price that does not pay for the gold used in making the
settings.
REMEMBER ! You will never get: such a chance again, for after the close of
this GREAT SALE you will be able to obtain fiA.RR.IOiS DIAMONDS
only through the medium of the leading Jeweller, who will sell them by the carat
only, and the settings at their full worth.
EACH
YOUR
CHOICE
OF THOUSANDS OF
'; ■ r
4/-
EACH.
DIFFERENT DESIGNS IN JEWELLERY, SET WITH selected
BARRIOS DIAHONDS consisting of RINGS, PINS, BROOCHES,
LOCKETS, CUFF=LINKS, EARRINGS, PENDANTS, STUDS,
BANGLES, &c„ &c., WHICH WERE FORMERLY SOLD AT
10s., 125., 145., 165., 18s., 245. each.
TO-DAY AND WHILE THEY LAST, 4s. EACH.
BARRIOS DIAMONDS are the nearest approach to the genuine diamond
ever manufactured or discovered, and are absolutely guaranteed to retain their brilliancy
for ever. They have all the fire, flash, and sparkle of real gems, and will stand heat, acids,
alkali, &c., and can be washed and cleaned the same as real diamonds. So nearly do
they resemble the genuine that pawnbrokers have been deceived, and jewellers fooled.
The Mountings are Heavy 14-Carat Gold Shell, which
are Warranted to give Perfect Satisfaction.
MAIL ORDER
We have the largest Mail Order Depart-
ment in the country, devoted exclusively to the
sale of Jewellery. All orders filled the day
they are received. Send us Postal-note or
money-order for anything you want, and you
will be surprised and delighted with the article
you receive. The illustrations or descriptions
hardly do the goods justice. Remember, you
send us your order with the distinct under-
standing, that if goods are not exactly as
represented, your money will be refunded.
OUR £2OOO GUARANTEE
We absolutely guarantee BARRIOS DIA-
MONDS to retain their brilliancy for ever,
and the mountings to £*ive perfect satisfaction.
We will give £2OOO to any charitable in-
stitution if it can be shown that we ever refuse
to replace a stone which proves unsatisfactory.
BARRIOS DIAMONDS will stand acid,
heat, alkali, and may bo washed and cleaned
the same as genuine diamonds. They are such
exact imitations that even Government Ex-
perts have been deceived.
BARRIOS .DIAMOND CO.
•SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
THE BARRIOS DIAMOND CO
52 SWANSTON STREET,
MELBOURNE,
and
100 KING STREET
SYDNEY.
SOLITAIRE SCREW
EAR-RINGS
Former Price, 16s.
601
LOCKETS
Former Price, 16s.
935
FIVE-STONE HOOP
RING
Former Price, 16s.
908
SOLITAIRE STUD
Former Price, 12s.
938
ROUND BELCHER RING
Former Price, 245.
m
m
Vi
929
SUN RAY BROCCH
Former Price 18s,
m
868
CLUSTER SCARF PIN
Former Price, 12s*
Si
8545
CRESCENT BROOCH
Former Price, 18s.
%
m
9 ! 0
CUFF BUTTONS
Former Price , 168.


__ Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINL
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
LONDON .. .. .. £16 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £13 13s. to £31 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £115.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
QILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents: HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
The Bank of Australasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital £1,600,000
Reserve Fund 1,250,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors.. 1,600,000
£4,450,000
London Office : 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
I;SSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
AMES HELLICAR,
Superintendent.
national j)ank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1S6S.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending t,o 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £800,000 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,245 6 0
Reserve(inGovt.Stock, £43/435) .. 48,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,110,621 5 0
under government audit.
All New Business since 1803 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Jltuiro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Oallan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., ALL.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
The Qolonial fjutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,993,533.
Policies Issued 102,"US —Assuring £30,193,326.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,784,725
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
• travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STRiET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
gank of Qeio Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
The Bankof florth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.'
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
CAPlTAL—Authorised .. .. £700,000
Paid-up .. £lOO,OOO
Uncalled . .. 250,000
Reserved Fund .. \ 20,000
(Invested in Government Stuck) J £370,000
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.O.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood, Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jessop, Esq. Melbourne: Hon. F. S. Grimwade,
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.l.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
DALCETY & COMPANY
LIMITED.
■I ■ TTV/T —»-1»
Capital Fully Subscribed ... .£4,000,000
Capital Paid up ... ■■■ £1,000,000. J
Reserve Fund £165,000.
Head Office—96 Bishopsgate St.
Within, London, E.C.
BRANCHES:
VICTORIA— Melbourne and Geelong.
NEW SOUTH WALES— Sydney and Newcastle.
QUEENSLAND— Brisbane, Rockhampton & Townsville.
WEST AUSTRALIA— Perth, Fremantle, Kalgoorlie,
Geraldton, Albany, Carnarvon and Roeburne.
NEW ZEALAND— Dunedin, Christchurch, Wellington
$nd Napier.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— Adelaide and throughout the
South East.
This Company makes Advances on, and conducts the
Sale Of Land, Stock and Station Property, and receives
for-Sale in London or any of the markets of Australia or
NewZeafand consignments of Wool, Skins, Hides, Tallow,
Frozen and Preserved Meats, Grain and Dairy Produce of
all descriptions, and carries on a Financial, Shipping,
Insurance, Indent, Merchandise, and General Agency
business.
Shipping.
KT. TZ>. L.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
‘Twin-Screw Steamers,
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via NEW BRITAIN,
NEW GUINEA and MANILA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
*PRINZ SICISMUND, 3300 tons.. Ist SEPTEMBER.
♦WILLEHAD, 4761 tons .. .. 29th SEPTEMBER,
*PRINZ WALDEMAR. 3300 tons.. 27th OCTOBER.
♦Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Exoellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOIIMANN & CO.. 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
The Royal Sank of Queensland
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £407,013 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 175,737 10 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 67,000 0 0
£700,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. 1). Day. Asst. Mrigr., W. B. Alford
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, QUEEN VICTORIA 8T„ LONDON, E C.
19 Branches in Queensland,. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
London
Cape and Natal
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Da/yeti / and Company, Ltd..,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
sreg
PLYMOUTH anti LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
SUEVIC, to Sail on or about
Bth SEPTEMBER,
PERSIC, RUNIC, MEDIC,
and AURIC to follow.
I'A U US— Capetown
London
New York, &c.
£l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
19 0 0 to 31) <) a
25 2 b to 3b 2 b
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Abdication.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
S.S. Co. A.. & A. LINE (via SAN FRANCISCO).
THREE-WEEKLY FAST MAIL SERVICE run in conjunction with the Most Luxuriously Equipped Trains
and Atlantic Steamships in the World.
SHORTEST LINE FASTEST TIME TO
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN AND EUROPE.
FARES TO ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-CLASS LINE.
R.M S. SONOMA, 6200 TONS. SAILS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 3.
For Full Particulars and Illustrated Matter, send or apjny to—
BURNS, PHILP and CO. Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
* WINTER
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
Bv Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
sd
HOLIDAYS*
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking. Public Companies. Sec.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security. ■■■■ p
FAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
<s>
$
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to
Suppress Usury.
3XT.S.W.
jflontdepieteO.il.CoM EM*
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE,
and 229 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. ... ... ~ £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. £22,500 0 0
Directors: F. It. Godfrey, Esq,,Chairman : It. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BOItBOWMAN, Manager.
FIIEDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
‘H
spoffi
CREAM
D
Gives
Permanent
Polish.
Preserves and
Cleans the
Leather.
SOLD BY ALL STORE-
KEEPERS AND BOOT AND
SHOE SHOPS.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL. MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-IIED ROUTE.
NEXT SAILINGS—
Sept. 3, Oct. 1, Oct. 29.
To Europe
via
America,
The Most Interesting
Route.
£3T Send, for Illustrated Pamphlets. 1E&
UNIO.'I STEAM SHIP COMPA'IY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. Y
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter),
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
'coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Pish (gives
the definition of your character very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Sheet of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Hay market.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
RABBIT SKINS.
TO PILL OUR ORDERS WE REQUIRE
6,000,000 RABBIT SKINS
this Season, and are prepared to pay EXTREME PRICES.
IMMEDIATE RETURNS, NO COMMISSION.
Consign to— JAMES FAY, MCDONALD & CO.,
27j6 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY".
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Yongala (from Mel-
bourne), August 29.
S. S. Gran tala (from S 3 dney),.
September 5.
BRISBANE, 1 <
MACK AY, | '
TOWNSVILLE, , f
And Ports North to Cairns. I <
S.S. Alarloo, August 18.
S.S. Wollowra, August
S.S. lnnaminc.ka, Sept. 1
25.
next mill ■' Ueu/iext lloate to Goliliieht.i.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other interstate Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
| B Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
lVlessageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMHO and PARIS.
Steamers of 0500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japa,n. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at, Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Oneen’s Corner, Pitt Street. Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE TIIUY, Principal Agent.
Hotels.
PETTY’S HOTEL,
SYDNEY
iN EWI Y decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will be
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels, in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed.
Central, and away from the noise of trains.
Private Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET
C. W. CUPIT, Manager..
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Wil find every oinror ami convenience at —
MRS*. TOBIMS,
Queen's Mansions, a to 5 Beacon i/idd Parade
SI. HILDA.
'I HE Largest and ; uesi'-Appointed Boarding-house in
, the Colonies. Magnilicent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower lhaniicensed hotels. Oitv, i-hout
No. 107, Windsor.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
the (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
riodern Appointments. Tlodcrate Tariff.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS,
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
lvilda Rai way Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or froln
2 Guineas per Week.
Visitors to Melbourne Z™'!
Neale’s Temperance Hotel
(Tankards)
LONSDALE STREET (Next Law Courts;
is the handiest place to stay at. Being close to Railway
Stations, Theatres and Wharves ; and three minutes’ walk
from G.P.O. Bedrooms on Ground Floor if desired.
Board and Residence, 4s. 6d. per day; or from £1 per
week. Telei-uone IC4O.
Business Announcements.
fs
TEN DAYS' FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cy le bought of us. Your
Money in full refunded without qu stion
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
cycles, warranted six years.
LATEST
MODELS
<£2.M to £6
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or t lincher A Won Tyics, Inverted Lever Rim
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
Packed and Delivered Free
'.o any port in the world. We guarantee sail
delivery.
200
Second-hand Cycles
all makes, £ 7 fQ £2.10
gooa as new. .
frronf factory clearance sale at ha f factory pr>cet.
EARm A CYCLE
taking orders from sample
machine. Active Agent*
wan ed in each district. Large profits easily n ade. tor
free catalogues and our sitecml •\fler, using sufficient postage.
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, &c.. hair prices.
MEAD CYCLE CO - Dep'.
LIVERPOOL. LONDON AND CHICAGO.


THE BEALE PIANO FACTORIES. * THE
FOUNDRY.
X’.£> •
SSSSSBSm ’
r£Sß' '%
« ■
■:x i
y' !*i
m
. m j
•:.-i '.??»:*
l I l
«%SI
V'v-
m
b-S
li
k« <.
•
l
I hr
IWr
®i|
N, feR
<*
m « -■
,x. / • ■:• i
S" /
-
iiasrßja
1811
m
i
,
7
1
&
i
!
*
Jk
r : ' «H
5*55
iwm
Nr
sgjjgtf
***
■M ;
-,v..
St
w ,
•/• _ -
I
Mfe
r;
Hit
%
v.*;- Sf jKj sate]
» '
"H' • ■ •
V
£5
I
1
C'j v . ■'
• r. .;
■ *x *
Xf*
r
mWi
i/Ai J / . % *,
¥ r;=. ■
vro i
ir
ix?
I \||
7.1-1
1
ZfZ ;
&<# ■ v
...,
Tjrr
X
f Jr*
'.Y .- ■>,
•• - ~
This View shows Lady Northcote stamping the 6000th Piano Frame, in June, 1905.
To=day we are nearly up to the 8000th Frame.
BEALE AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Showrooms at Factories, Trafalgar Street, Annandale.
And at 474 George Street, Sydney, Opp. flarkets; 207 King Street, Newtown, 28
Hunter Street, Newcastle ; George Street, Bathurst; Auburn Street, Goulburn ,
101 Brisbane Street, Launceston; 107 Swanston Street, Helbourne; 127 Rundle
Street, Adelaide; His Majesty’s Theatre, Hay Street, Perth,. - & &r


Missing Friends.
OWEN and PATRICK GALLAGHER—
Father dead.
Amusements.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction of EDWIN GEACH.
TO-NiGHT AND EVERY EVENING.
CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S POPULAR DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION in a (Treat and interesting
DICKENSIAN PRODUCTION,
BLEAK HOUSE.
MISS BEATRICE HOLLOWAY as JO.
Magnificent Scenery and Costumes of the Period.
PRICES—3s, 2s, Is 6d, Is. Box Plans, Elvy’s, Day
Sales, White Rose.
EDWIN H. LEM A RE,
THE FAMOUS ENGLISH ORGANIST.
SYDNEY TOWN HALL,
SEPTEMBER 1,5, 6, 8.
Tickets at Paling’s.
H. N. SOUTHWELL,
Concert Manager.
Amusements.
B | , 'OWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Direction of J. and N. TAIT.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 16.
MDLLE. DOLORES,
The Great Prima Donna.
BRISBANE—AUGUST 23 and 26.
MELBOURNE—SEPTEMBER 1.
63., 45., 2s.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
■ Lessee J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF
BLAND HOLT’S Melodramatic Mirror of City Life—
IN LONDON TOWN.
SATURDAY NEXT—" RIDING TO WIN."
Box Plan at Elvy’s. POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s and Is.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ ■ Under the Direction of J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
MISS TITTELL BRUN E, supported by Mr. THOMAS
KINGSTON, in Haul Kester’s Stirring Stage Version of
Charles Major’s Famous Romance—
DOROTHY VERNON.
Box Plan at Paling’s. IST PRICES AS USUAL.
QUEEN'S HALL, SYDNEY.
Pitt-street, opp. Criterion Theatre.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
FISK JUBILEE SINGERS
And Their Moving Pictures.
SATURDAY NEXT—FIRST GRAND MATINEE.
Special Airangements for Schools and Colleges.
POPULAR PRICES—3s., 25., Is. Plan at Elvy’s. |Day
Sales at White Rose and all N.S.W. Bookstalls.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
BLANCHE ARRAL,
PRIMA DONNA OF FOUR CONTINENTS, t
IDOL OF EUROPE,
Paris, St. Petersburg, Brussels, New York, San Francisco,
Dresden, Frankfort, Hamburg, Bucharest.
Box Plan Now Open at Allan’s, Menzies’, The Grand.
Madame Arral proved herself a typical French artist.
She has a pure soprano voice, equally at home in cantabile
melody or coloratura flourish, a production finely de-
veloped in all registers, especially in the head notes,
vocal agility of exceptional brilliance, and a style likely
to win favor with the musical community of Melbourne.
—Tiib Aoe.
NOT FOREIGN NOTICES, BUT RIGHT HERE FROM
LOCAL PAPERS.
PROTECT YOUR FEET A Wonderful Discovery.
DR. HOCYES’ PATENT ASBESTOS SOLES
Prevent and Absolutely Cure Hot. Perspiring, and Inflamed
Feet, Corns, Bunions, Wet and Bad Feet, and other Ailments.
DR. HOGYES, an Army Surgeon, discovered that at the end of a com-
paratively short march, soldiers suffered considerable pain and incon-
venience due to SORENESS OF XHE FEET, and not to ordinary
physical fatigue. After long investigation he found that the evil was
attributable to the irritation set up by the leather insoles in their boots.
Many attempts have been made to overcome this trouble in the bringing out
of Cork and other Soles, but ail these have more or less failed to give the
wearer any appreciable or lasting benefit. There is a unique virtue in the
wearing of DR. HOGYES’ ASBESTOS SOLES, or Socks as they are called, not
to be found in any substitute. The material is very ELASTIC AND SOFT,
and as the double movement is avoided, the powers of endurance are greatly
increased. ASBESTOS—a non-conductor—keeps in the heat and keeps out
the cold and wet. COLD, WET, PERSPIRING AND INFLAMED FEET, CORNS,
BUNIONS, &c., are thus prevented, and, where any of these complaints
already exist, they will quickly disappear after a short use of ASBESTOS
SOCKS, which ease the feet at once, and give the complaints a chance to cure
themselves in a most natural manner.
If, therefore, you are suffering, or liable to suffer, from SORENESS or
IRRITATION of the feet, or from any of the complaints of the feet which
come to us so often, CIVE DR. HOGYES’ ASBESTOS SOCKS A TRIAL, and
the result will surprise you.
Hogyes’ Asbestos Socks are used by the Hungarian Army.
Read the following testimonial: —
A “ GODSEND.” — Mr. Percy Chamberlain, Factory Manager Life, New Idea, &c., Fitchett Bros.
Melbourne, writing on March 22nd, 1906, says “ The pair of Dr. Hogyes’ Asbestos Socks, purchased from
you in September last, have been quite a ‘ GODSEND ’to my father. He is now able to walk about without any
inconvenience, although previous to wearing the Socks it was pitiable to see him limping along. Please send
another pair 2s. quality, and wishing you success with these ‘ PAIN KILLERS.’ ”
Before Using'
Asbestos Socks.
After Us'ngr
Asbestis Socks
Made in 2 Qualities, viz., Is. and 2s. per pair; Postage 2d. per pair extra.
ALL SIZES LADIES and GENT'S. ALWAYS ADVISE SIZE REQUIRED.
A. J. SMITH & CO.,
Martin Chambers,
6 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
A SPECIAL FEATURE.
RIDING TROUSERS
in WHIPCORDS and SADDLE TWISTS,
255. 32s 6d.
RIDING BREECHES
WHIPCORDS and SADDLE TWISTS,
32s 6d to 50s.
GABARDINES and TWILLETTES,
32s 6d.
FLY OR SPLIT. FALL FRONT.
LACED OR BUTTONED KNEES.
Made on the same lines as HUNTING BREECHES,
cut very clean at the knees, with plenty of fullness on thighs, they
are acknowledged the Smartest Knickers Worn.
Specially Designed for . .
Perfed Freedom in. Walking, Fishing,
Shooting, Golfing, Motoring, &c.
IMPORTANT TO COUNTRY CLIENTS. “^Mgg
A PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED
For Knickers and Coats of every description.
Our Self-Measurement Forms, Patterns Post Free on application.
Write Now to . . .
r ,
BUCKLEY & NUNN LTD.
Tailors and Breeches Makers...
300-310 Bourke St.,
MELBOURNE.
Amusements.
HIPPODROME, SYDNEY.
|_|AYMARKET
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING, at 8 o’clock.
BOHEMIAN DRAMATIC COMPANY.
SPECTACULAR DRAMA.
Under the Direction of E. J. COLE,
Headed by Miss VENE LINDEN and Mr. W. H. AYR.
CHANGE OK PROGRAMME WEEKLY.
1&- PRICES—6d. and Is.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mk, Harky Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
SEYMOUR and DUPRE, Comedy and Specialty Artists.
Enormous Success of VASCO, the Mad Musician.
ALEXANDRA and BERTIE, in their Graceful and
Refined Aerial Act.
KELLY and AGNES, Popular Comedy Artists.
LIZETTE PARKES. BABY WATSON.
MAUD FANING, TOM DAWSON, OLIVE LENTON, &c.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
BLAKE and GRANBY, Eccentric Comedy Artists.
BRINN, Juggler, Cannon Manipulator, in “Fun on a
Battleship.”
CASSIE WALMER, Contralto Eccentrique.
AUSTIN and HARTLEY, Barrel Jumpers, in “ Athletes
at Play.”
NELLIE KILBURN, Soubrette Artiste.
Plan at Allan’s. i&T PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is
LI ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
" Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. O. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING.
AN INVASION OF MUSIC, MIRTH AND MERRIMENT.
Mr. J. C. Williamson’s Royal Comic Opera Co. in Andre
Messager’s Beautiful Comic Opera—
THE LITTLE MICHUS.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
Amusements.
|\| EVV THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
THURSDAY, Aug. 16, FRIDAY, Aug. 17—Last Two
Performances, “ HONOR THY FATHER."
SATURDAY, 18th AUGUST—
Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON'S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION in Chas. Longdens Eric Hudson's
Great Drama, in Four Acts—
MAN’S ENEMY.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan Allan's, Menzies’ & The Grand.
No. 4. NEW No. 4.
Albert’s American Annual
CONTAINING—
-10 numbers of Latest Songs, Piano Pieces, Lancers and
Cakewalks. (£1 worth of the Lest Music for 1/2)
I’M TRYING SO HARD.
BARNEY.
YOUR DAD CAVE HIS LIFE.
MY YOXOHAMA LADY.
UNDER THE ANHEUSER BUSH.
DOWN IN THE DEPTHS.
WOULD YOU CARE? Waltz.
BAILOR CAP, March.
HAPPY HITS, Lancers.
CEORCIA RACTIME, Waltz.
With full Words and Music, all bound together in
one volume, and with a beautiful cover. Will be
sent to any address in Australasia post free for 1/2.
ALBERT & SOMj King-st., Sydney.
Owners of the “ BOOMERANG ” Mouth Organ. Pub-
lishers of American Music, Wholesale' and Retail
Distributors of Edison’s Phonographs and Records.
Catalogues of Music and Musical Instruments, Phono-
graphs and Records posted free for the asking.
“ BOOMERANG,” SONGSTER No. 4, containing 60
Songs (words), Complete Guide to HYPNOTISM,
Comical Recitations, Funny Sayings, etc. Price 7d.
the lot, post free.
buffered for three years
Had to Pot Another Man on to Do His
WorK —-Body Became so Denuded of
Flesh that Clothes Hung LiKe a SacK.
CLEMENTS
TONIC
** Lifted me from that sorry state.*’
Mr. V. BorwicK, Storekeeper, of 286 and
288 Crown Road, Ultimo, relates Bis
complete cure to a Sydney reporter.
“It is six years ago now since I got all right
again,” Mr. Borwick remarked, “and I think it
was about up to me to have a change of luck,
considering that I had been suffering for fully
three years. The pains that ran along my gums
and reached up to the top of my head were some-
thing terrible, and half my time I did not know
what I was doing. My adversities set in when I
was ‘ running the plank,’ as they call it, on a boat
discharging blue metal, and I can assure you that
I was so broken down in health that I had to put
another man on to do my work about every other
week. Talk about neuralgia ! I’m sure nobody
could have it worse than I had, and as I found
such a grand cure for it the least I can do is to let
humanity know all about it, for I daresay my'
experience will prove very helpful. Well, out of
all the medicines I tried to cure neuralgia the only
one that was of any lasting benefit was Clements’
Tonic, and when I say that after keeping going
with that remedy for a few weeks the fearful pains
all left me and have never returned all these years,
it is the honest truth I am telling you.”
“ Is that the only ailment you have had ? ”
“Indeed, no. All the time the neuralgic
tortures were at me I had other troubles to deal
with, for my digestion was just as bad as it could
be. Both from want of appetite, and also owing
to the pains about my jaws, eating was almost out
of the question; but what was still more unfortunate
was the fact that the little I did force myself to
take to keep body and soul together had the
unhappy habit of disagreeing with me. And you
must remember that I was getting no sleep.
Neither night nor day—for weeks at a stretch
sometimes—could I get any rest, and, as you may
well imagine, the result was disastrous. I got so
terribly weak that ultimately I had to give up my
work altogether, and my body was so denuded of
flesh that my clothes hung about me like a sack.
Indeed, I was just going to have some of them
altered about the time that I started on Clements’
Tonic, and by some means or other the idea was
shelved for a while, for which I was afterwards
very glad, as in a few months I was as stoutas ever.
Yes; it was quite a matter for regular comment
how well I waslooking, and, thank God ! I felt well,
too. For three years previous to using Clements’
Tonic I was nothing but a total wreck, for every
part of my body was adversely affected in some
way or other. It was ray first experience of in-
digestion, and I sincerely trust it will he my last,
for I would rather be dead and out of the world
altogether than go through such misery again.
I got to feel as shaky and uncomfortable as if
everything in my inside was going to pieces, and
was so disturbed and unsettled mentally that the
least thing made me irritable. My eyes always
felt heavy and swollen to such an extent
that I could scarcely see to read, and I felt
so discontented and restless that I could not
stay indoors. Consequently I often wandered
about outside hardly knowing what to do with
myself, feeling as though death would be a
thousand times more welcome than the wretched
life I was leading, for I was in agony everywhere.
Ilie pains in my chest were really cruel, and I
thought I had strained myself or broken some-
thing between my shoulders owing to the pain
that was there. It was like getting hold of a
piece of meat and tearing it in two —that was the
kind of feeling I had between the shoulders, and
my loins ached badly into the bargain. ”
“ And have you never had a return of any of
those symptoms during the past six years?”
“ No, upon my honor ; and I have not had that
nasty bulged out feeling in the stomach either
after eating my food. No; Clements’ Tonic
removed everything, even to the bitter taste of a
morning, and the fur that used to cover my
tongue, besides which it gave me permanent relief
from the many attacks of giddiness that I had
previously been subjected to. How much
ray nerves accountsd for the misery I
had erdured is hard to say definitely,
but they undoubtedly had their fair share of
responsibility, for I must tell you that I was so
highly nervous tbit I could not stand the least
excitement without getting all of a tremble, and
I had also contracted an uncontrollable practice
of measuring the future with nothing but trouble
and worry in store. 1 ' All I could see before me
was a continuance of my suffering only to be added
to by misfortunes cf other descriptions, and now
that you understand the gloomy frame of mind I
was in, you will readily conceive why I speak so
highly of Clements’ Tonic for lifting me from that
sorry state to the happy and healthy condition I
am now blessed with.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
_ VICTOR BORWICK, of 286-288 Crown Road, Ultimo, in the State of New South Wales,
Commonwealth of Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully read the annexed
document, consisting of five folios, and consecutively numbered from one to five, and that it contains
and is a true ana faithful account of my illness rind cure by Clements’ Tonic, and also contains mv
full permissibly to publish in _ any way my statements —which I givf voluntarily, without receiving
any payment; and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, ana
by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act, 11)00. i
at •, / , . , , TTI . VICTOR BORWICK.
Subscribed and declared at Ultimo this twenty-third day of August, one thousand nine hundred
and four, before me, j KYLE J.P.
The very latest Federal capital Ananias—
from the Sydney Star :
When that most unfortunate decision respecting:
Ualgety is rescinded, there will be sites from which it
will be quite easy to pick one which, without the slightest
infringement of either the letter or the spirit of the Con-
stitution, will meet the reasonable wishes of New South
Wales. And is not the fulfilment of those wishes
solemnly covenanted for in the Constitution?
The Star could get quite a lot of money from
some of the advocates of Lyndhurst and other
sites if it would point out that “solemn
covenant” in the Constitution, which is just
what they have been looking for. And why doesn’t
it print the exact words of the solemn covenant,
and so make the biggest journalistic “ scoop ” of
the century ? A paper that knows a big thing
like that and doesn’t use it hasn’t sense enough to
keep its head out of its own printing machine.
Some people tried to run Hatter Storey on
to oppose J. C. Watson for the South Sydney
Federal seat. To a deputation urging him to
stand, last week, Storey inflated himself consider-
ably, and took it for granted that he could
“relegate Mr. Watson to private life.” The only
consideration that made him hesitate before
rushing into the fray was the “great need for
fearless, courageous men in the State Parliament.”
Were Storey to leave the State Parliament, what
would become of it?—he asked in effect. The
deputation gave the problem up. In the end
Storey gave a dignified refusal. He won’t oppose
Watson.


Dorvt wait for
That Bald Spot
&
Esse
apillal
r
Baldness
is Curable.
VERY few people believe it
possible to get their hair
back when once it is lost.
Let me assure these that
where a “down” exists on the
scalp nothing is more certain than
that this down can be made t* grow
into strong healthy hair with the
aid of “Capilla.”
Not one case, but thousands, have
come under my notice, and I have
yet to meet with a failure; in fact,
I am now so confident of the hair-
growing possibilities of “Capilla”
that I will forfeit £lOOO to any per-
son with a down on that bald spot
if the proper use of “Capilla” will
not make his hair grow 1 . “ Capilla ”
is designed both for the prevention
and cure of baldness. It keeps the
scalp healthy and clean, prevents
dandruff and premature greyness,
and stops the hair from falling out.
Sold everywhere at 1/6 and 2/6 a
bottle, full course posted direct for
17/6 from the Inventor,
W. O. Richards,
166 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Advice personally or by letter
cheerfully given free of charge.
On the Trail of the Trust
Price 1/3
POST FREE.
k
»
OIiARANTEB
m
YEARS
r
ELASTIC CARBO/N
mm
i
mmM
£** ■
n
~v
life
11
( s
■ I ■
m
i
*
dfg
FOR
5 YEARS
■LASTIC -
WEATHER PROOF-
WATER PROOF
FIRE PROOF—o-j
STOPS LEAKS —>-/
PREVENTS RUST-
FOR ANYTHING
REQUIRING THE
USE OF A
FIRST CLASS —>
PAINT
uyfecfurecf on/// bi/
rmjmmcm/mGca
CLEVELAND,- O.US.A.
Write for Samples and Further Particulars.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Brisbane & Adelaide; Tasmanian Woolgrowers Agency Co., Launceston, Tas.
W. D, Moore & Co. and Harris Scarfe & Co„ Ltd., Fremantle; J. S. Munro & Co., Zeehan, Tas.
THIS MEN’S
’Bash Boy’ Watch
GUARANTEED for 12 MONTHS,
Post Free to any Address in Australia
FOE
716
7/6
/
<&■
'T'HIS is a splendid Watch for country use. You
* couldn’t get a better timekeeper if you paid a
Hundred Guineas. We call it “The Bush Boy.”
It is a Polished Steel Cylinder Keyless Watch with
Jewelled Movement. You can have the Cases in
either Nickel or Gunmetal, as you like (say which).
Both are practically Dustproof—has a Strong Crystal
Glass Pace. Can he wound up, and hands set with-
out opening the Case. Every Watch is guaranteed
in writing for Twelve Months. Sent Post Free any-
where for 7/6. Sit down and write for it to-day. It
will stand plenty of knocking about, and be none the
worse for it. Ask us to send jou ! ”EK our Beauti-
fully Illustrated Catalogue of Watches. :wellery and
Plated Goods.
“DUNKLINC, THE JEWELLER,”
317 Bourke St., Melbourne.
Preliminary Notice .
UfltOCWflG THE cnno!
TH E ——
MIDLAND RAILWAY COMPANY
OF WESTERN AUSTRALIA, Ltd,,
Having 1 disposed of the Farms contained in
their First Subdivision, announce that their
SECOND GREAT SALE
. OF .
ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY
MAGNIFICENT
FARMING $ GRAZING
PROPERTIES,
Principally in the far-famed Berkshire Valley.
The picked locality of Western Australia.
From It to 12 miles from the Kailway.
WILL BE HELD
On a date to be advertised. £?
About the end of September.
COME AND INSPECT.
Every convenient arrangement made for Inspection.
UPSETS FOR GOOD LAND FROM
15s. to 40s. PER. ACRE.
TERMS :
Ten per cent, deposit, balance extending over 15
years with Interest at 4 per cent.
Write or Wire for particulars to the
MIDLAND RAILWAY COMPANY OF WESTERN
AUSTRALIA, LIMITED,
293 St. George’s Terrace, Perth, Western Australia.
Or, JAMES GARDINER, Auctioneer,
Halsbury Chambers, Howard St., Perth, W.A.
FITS
ARE CURABLE BY
TRENCH’S REMEDY
Head Office: Dublin.
A few Typical Cases out of Many Cures.
48 HOURS
TO LIVE.
A girl had fits in such rapid succession that she
was unable to take food or drink, and the
doctor who was attending her said she could
not live more than hours. Trench’s Remedy
at once stopped the fits, and there has not been
a further attack since—over two-and-a-hnlf years—and none
of the Remedy has been taken for over a year.
DECLARES TO
EE INCURABLE
A girl who had been at varfbug times
under treattneni by several of the leading
doctors of Melbourne was declared,to be
incurable by them all, and the parent*,
were advised to place her asylum.
She took from ten to twenty fits a day, yet w on using
Trench 's Remedy the attacks ceased at once, and she has uot
had a fit since—nearly three years. She ceased taking the
Remedy nearly two years ago.
£lOOO SPENT
WITHOUT RESULT.
The son of a leading merchant of
Melbourne broke down just .**3 he,was
commencing hia University course.
All the best physicians of Melbourne
were consulted, but none of them
could stop the fits. The father then took the young; man to
England and elsewhere to obtain the best advice in the world,
but, after spending over XI000. he brought him back wiih the
fits occurring more frequently than eve/. Trench’s Remedy
at once stopped the attacks, and the young man is now per-
fectly cured. *
The above statements can be verified by persona] reference
« 1 j parents of the patients, who, fiorn gratitude, have
offered to reply to any enquirers we refer to them.
VALUABLE BOOKLET POST FREE PROM
The Union Mfg. & Agency Go.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
It begins to dawn on the Victorian
Laborites that if they persist in their treachery to
the Protectionist Liberals who stood by Watson
md 00. they will have to play a lone hand with
few good cards in it. They lately invited the
Federal party to send delegates to confer with
them so as to prevent the Federal and Vic-
torian land-tax schemes clashing. Watson
Fisher and Tudor were appointed. Watson had
a previous engagement; and though Tudor was
fairly amenable, Fisher put his foot down gently
but firmly, and told the'Vic.'Laborites that his
party had propounded its scheme, and intended
to go ahead with it.
It seems impossible for any subject to
come before the Australian Parliament without
Willie-Motor Kelly making some supremely
stupid observations. For instance, on the Defence
qu stion:—
Mr. Kelly (N.S.W.) questioned the application of the
system to Australian conditions. There was no parallel
between Australia and Switzerland, which was a small
country with a comparatively large and concentrated
population.
The Swiss system of defence is simply to train
every man as far as possible, supply him with
arms, and trust in Providence. Little Willie
apparently just hecause he must always be sayin"
something, doubts whether this would do in Aus°-
tralia. He probably thinks that, because we have
so much more country to defend, and so few men
to defend it, we should only train half our men.
Prime Minister Deakin has shown a
willingness to be persuaded into many unwise
things. He will surely draw the line when the
mesmeric Dr. Arthur fixes on him a baleful eye,
and suggests that he sanction the immigration to
Australia of a horde' of Russian Jews. The
country has enough pawnbrokers, money-lenders
and hawkers. And so long as there are over
200,000 British-born people leaving the United
kingdom every year—people who only want
reasonable inducements to come this way—we
have no need for the Badly Chosen people from
Kussia.
Victorian lawyers shudder at local law
statistics. In 1891 their County Court tried 9947
cases; last year the number sank to 582. In the
supreme Court 5744 writs were issued in the
golden year; last twelve months, but a poor 623
and of them only a poorer 117 ended in a trial’
lhe one court that has at all decently held its end
up is the Petty Sessions; and there isn’t much
spoil m that A-it’s a counter-lunch at best.


MELBA ACCORDEONS
wse
Produce the
most . .
delightful
music.
They are
easily learnt
No know-
ledge of
music being
required to
become a
skilled
performer.
NEW 1906
MODELS
With 1,2, 8, or I Sets of reeds, six, eight or ten
fold double and triple Bellows with metal bound
corners, and all latest improvements.
Prices from 7/6 to 26/9.
Packed and delivered free to any Post Office or
Railway Station in Australasia.
Ask for our 1908 Illustrated Catalogue. We
will send it Post Free.
ALLAN & CO. Propy. Ltd.
a76«378 Collins Street, Melbourne : _
BOVRIL
Supplies Energy.
Bovril gives Strength to Resist
Disease and greatly aids
recovery from exhausting
illness.
ORDER THE
EDISON PHONOGRAPH
rgs
BY POST.
A WONDERFUL INSTRUMENT THAT HAS GREAT VOLUME OF TONE
AND CIVES YOU PERFECT MUSIC.
The Edison Gem - - £2 10s.
The Edison Standard £5.
The Edison Home - £7 10s.
RECORDS, Is., Is. 3d., Is. 6d. & Is. 9d. each.
Write for Catalogues. "3P|S
20,000
Edison
Records
to select
from.
S®
SEND FOR LIST OF
New
Records
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd.,
“MY OPTICIANS
Importers of Phonographs and Records,
393 GEORGE ST. (facing Royal Hotel), SYDNEY.
FREE!
MAKE BIG MONEY
We give away TALKING MACHINES,
COLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &C.,
to those who help us introduce our remedies. Tliis Talking Machine
reproduces Songs, Speeches, Band Music &c., and ean be used t all
biir monev"by giving- concerts with this machine, which we give away
Free. fSend us your name and address, and we \ Se n
nf nur New Life Vegetable Pills (Formulae printed on each box), cell
rhemat 1A a box then remit us the 8/- received and we will promptly
forward you, without extra expense or work, the valuable premiums as
lictprl This is the biggest offer ever made, and vou will be aeligntea.
We ire an old reliable tirm, and we will pThsent £lO in cash to anyone
who can m ove we do not do as we say. Our Pills are good sellers and
we are anxious to introduce them no matter hafc 't co *t s 0J- Send at
once. Don’t delay, it costs you nothing to tij. We take all risk.
Electine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
g
Free
£lOO
a WeeK
Given
Away
SPECIAL VALUE,
BLACK, CREAM, or
BLACK Tipped with
WHITE.
From the Farms of Africa.
Length, 9 inches.
3 for G/-
(Six Shillings).
The Feathers we offer you cannot be bought for
twice the money in any other house.
Send Postal Note or Money Order payable to
Joun Miller.
7k
l
7/0
Post
Free.
OSTRICH
PLUMES.
BLACK, WHITE,
CREAM,
NATURAL, or
BLACK Tipped with
WHITE.
Length, 15 inches.
The Best Feathers for the price m Australia.
Send a trial order to-day. Illustrated
Price List Post Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade,
PIT! STREET, SYDNEY.
[Mention The Bulletin.]
of Bourk3 and Swanstoi Streets, MELBOURNE.
Also at Corner
ser
good hair for all !
HOLLAND’S Marvellous Hair Restorer
has gained a world-wide reputation for arresting the Premature decay
?aUingoff^ is^'hinj'tryHl'^Price^Ss^s.'B^^'Po^tage'odex'trat
HOLLAND’S PARASENE
for Eczema, Ringworm, and all Parasitical Diseases o the ead and or
making hair grow on Bald Patches. Price, 5s , Postage Jd extra.
HOLLAND’S NA TURALINE
for Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Color. It acts Quiekh,
Naturally, and Effectively. Price, 5/6; Postage 9d extra.
CONSULT E. HOLLAND Tor ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold tby all Chemists, and by
HOLLAND,
HAIR
SPECIALIST,
195 Collins St., Melbourne
Bellevue Hotel, Brisbane.
BELLEVUE HOTEL
BRISBANE.
(Opposite Post and Telegraph Office, Parliament House, and
v Botanic Gardens.)
CONDUCTED on Continental system—no Meals, no charge,
when previously advised. The Hotel has been thoroughly
renovated and Ladies’ and Gents’ Bathrooms and Lavatories
on each floor added. Three minutes from the centre of the
town, and vet in the quietest locality. Porter meets all
trains and steamers. PETERMANN,
Also Imperial, Tcowcomba. PRorßiKToa.
M Britisb=flustralasian
1 BROAD STREET PLACE, LONDON, E.O.
Price 6d.
POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Managing Director* • Mr. J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
The British-Australasian is the journalistic
principle of connection between Great Britain
and Australasia.
It is the MEW SCHOOL in the develop-
ment of Australian thought. It gives Austra-
lian writers not only the benefit of Australian
circulation, but introduces them first-hand,
through its British circulation, to the teeming
millions of Great Britain.
The British-Australasian is the Organ
of Appreciation; THE AUSTRALIAN
LITERARY CITADEL in London.
Original Australian articles dealing with the
growth, development and resources of Aus-
tralia are particularly suitable; also Australian
stories, sketches, verse, &c., &c.
■r.7.\
m
I !31i«
rrjKfCOMIEBMB ]
BY Denotes, ;
fee- i
E i
X ■
?T.
-
DAVID BRAHAI & CO*
94 King St., Sydney.
Tailors and Costume Makers.
Sole Agents foe
Aertex Cellular Underwear.
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
Corner LITTLE COLLINS & ELIZABETH STS.,
MELBOURNE.
A s
0 0
0 0
it is necessary tor the Trustees to bring this business
i m to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following lines
at greatly reduced prices to clear
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip. Usual price, £O-
- Price .. • • .. • • • • • • w
3 Double-Barrel" Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5
3 Hammerless Double-Barrel Breech-loading 1
Guns, special high-grade trap gun, fitted with
treble wedge fast cross-bolt, left full choke,
right modified, and latest improvements, safety
indicator. Usual Price, £lB. Sale Price, £lO
6 Single-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, top action,
best quality barrels, choke bore, pistol grip,
walnut stock. Usual Price, £3. Sale Price .. £1 12 6
The Baden-Powell Rifle, fires 8.8. Cartridge,to
kill at lOOvds. Usual Price, 17s. fid. Sale Price £0 J
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders, top action, wal-
nut stock, choke bore, with cartridge machine
and cleaners complete. Usual Price, £5. i
Sale Price .. .. .. .. - ~
12 Rifles, 20th Century "Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridge. Usual Price, _
225. fid. Sale Price.. .. • • •• •• tu ' ’
6 Single-Barrel Muzzle-loading Guns, walnut
stock, twist barrel. Usual Price, 255. Sale Q
above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge ss. per 100
Smokeless Cartridges, 7s. 6d. per 100
8.8. Caps, fid. per 100
Shot, 2d. per lb. Caps, 2d. box.
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank:Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carnage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Spwl for illustrated Catalogue—posted free. __
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having trl cd In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OP SELF-CURE, will
forward the same, free oZ charge, to any-
MINER, u.P.0., SYDNEY.
gs
dfg
mwM
."'ufferers from Deafness or Hea.. poises
desiring a complete and permanent cure
should write to The L. It. VERNON CO.
GO HUNTER f*T., SYDNEY, for pam-
phlet desc ibing an entirely new self-
applied method which we will send post
free on mentioning this paper.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, NervonßConghi,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression inmediately
relieved by GIIIMAULT & Co’a INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. fi old by all Chemists.
Ascertained in N.S.W. Parliament that
Bathurst Agricultural Society has been tak-
ing the Treasury down year by year by collect-
ing subsidy on the “subscriptions” of side-
showmen, who put up booths at the Society s.
shows. When Signor Bellabellini, with the most
impossible fat woman on earth, wanted to show
his bloated human goods, admission Od., on
Bathurst show ground, part of the price of the
concession was counted as his membership fee, and
State subsidy was collected on that fee. It was
an ingenious fake. Probably a close examination
of the accounts of other agricultural societies
would lead to similar revelations and do some-
thing to discredit the system under which the
Treasury is bled by “good local members to
subsidise shows which are supposed to represent
the “ great natural industries,” but are very little
agricultural and a good deal cheap-jack gaffs and
inferior circus. (The Sydney show is about the
worst offender in the way of inferior circus.)
During the last half-century, Dr. Hocken,
of Dunedin (M.L.), has spent much time and coin
in acquiring a unique collection of curios, books,
pictures, plans, aud what-not, all relative to the
early days of the State. There are 70011 books
alone, and the lot is probably worth £15,000. The
little medical person lately presented his collec-
tion to the city, and the local Scots waited on
Premier Jones and asked for a grant of £l5OO
to provide accommodation for the valuables
—they would find the other £5OO required them-
selves. Almost the last official act of Temporary
Premier Jones consisted in telling the deputation
that he was amazed at its cheek, and bidding it
go and get work. The committee felt so much
smaller when it left that it had to hold up its kilt
to keep it out of the mud, but Jones’s language
produced good results —Dunedin passed the hat
and got over £lOOO in one day.
The Mountain Brought to Mahomet.
“You should go round and see Brickley,” said
Mrs. Jubbins. “ He’s down with bronchitis
again, and I hear he’s very bad.”
It was Saturday afternoon, and .Tubbins was
going to trim up his front garden. He put down
his hoe. , , , ~,
“Is that so 2 ” he said. “ I knew he hadn t been
at business for some days, but I had no idea —.
Yes, of bourse, I’ll go round. Good sort, old
Brickley is.”
Brickley lived not far away, and when, a tew
minutes later, Jubbins was ushered into his
friend’s dining-room, he stared ; for Brickley—
lolling cross-legged in an easy-chair, and putting
serenely at an old black briar looked like any-
thing but a man who was “ very bad.”
“Why, you old fraud!” Jubbins said, “what
d’you mean by getting out a report that you were
at death’s door when here you are, as jolly as a
sandboy?” . , , ,
“Well,” said Brickley, with a laugh, its
something in the way of a miracle. Up till yester-
day morning I was about as bad as they make em.
Murderous cough, raw chest, pains all over me,
and not the ghost of an appetite. Well, you
know Halliday, don’t you ? ”
“ Hal lid ay, of Gresham and Halliday, do you
mean ? ‘ Husky Halliday,’ as they call him.
“That’s the man. But ‘Husky’ no longer.
When he came to see me, yesterday, Ins voice was
as clear as a bell.”
“ Well, there was certainly room for improve-
ment. He used to make me think of a crwv with
the influenza. But, what has that to do with
“ I’m coming to that. 4 Why,’ I said to him ;
‘ what have you been doing to yourself ? Had an
operation performed on your voice-box?’ ‘No,
he said ; ‘ nothing like that. The change is
due to a much more pleasant remedy, and 1
want you to try it, right away.” With which
be produces a- neat little metal box, takes out of
it a tiny roll of silver-paper, and extracts from that
a small brown lozenge. ‘ Put that in your mouth, ’
he says. I did. The taste was very pleasant,
and reminded me strongly of something I couldn’t
‘place’ at first. Then it suddenly came back.
You know I first studied mining in Germany—in
the Harz Mountains. Well, sir, the flavor of
that little lozenge had in it a thousand memories
of that long-past time. In my nostrils was the
very smell of the pine-clad slopes of the Ober
Harz; a region that has no lung or throat
troubles of its own, though it is thick with chest-
invalids, sent thither from less favored localities.”
“ I see,” said Jubbins. “ And the stuff did you
good ?
“Good 1 Why, I haven’t taken a dozen of the
things, yet they’ve simply made anew man of me.
He landed over the box, and Jubbins put a
lozenge in his mouth. “Very pleasant taste,
anyway,” he said, smacking his lips. Then he
looked at the label on the box. “ Peps, ”he said.
“Oh, I see; something to do with digestion.
• pepsin,’ ‘ dyspepsia,’ and all those words. ”
“ You’re on the wrong track,” Brickley said.
“ Indirectly, the remedy will doubtless benefit
digestion, and all the other functions ; but its
speciality is lung and throat trouble of every sort.
What it does, in a word, is, saves you the time,
trouble, and expense of going to the pine-forest,
because it brings the pine-forest to you. See ? ”
“I see,” said Jubbins. "But, why ‘Peps’?
What does the word mean ? ”
“‘Peps’ is the plural. Each of these magical
lozenges is a ‘Pep.’ P E P—a ‘Pine-Extract-
Pastille.’”
“ Oh, that’s it, is it? Well, they ought to be
the very thing for Mrs. Jubbins’ chronic sore
throat. Where are they to be had ? ”
“Oh, you can get them at pretty well any
Chemist’s or Storekeepers, or from the PEPS
PASTILLE CO., 39 Pitt-street.”
“Right you are. old chap! Good-bye. Glad
you’re better. Mrs. J. shall start on a box with-
out delay.’


VICTORIA OS
Collins & SwanstonS* Melbourne#
WEST. AUSTRALIA ML
3955397 HaySE Perlt\ Hit
QUEENSLAND
Queens Edward Brisbane\\|J
NEW ZEALAND
M 65145 QueenS*. Auckland.
1 S 3 LambtonQuay.Wellington.
2365335 HighS 1 ;
Princes 5 Dunedinjp
£
CORNER.
If its from
Stewart Dawsons
ITS
good.
the
Wnfe
store nearest
you
K6c STEWART DAWSON advertising' is distinguished from
most others by the omission of ” glaring misrepresentations
and foolish exaggerations.” Compare the Prices and
Goods; then you will be fully satisfied.
Case containing two Pearl Handle, Silver-Plated
Butter Forks, 143 6d.
Solid Silver and Cut Glass Toilet Set, comprising’ Puff Box, Hair Pin Box,
Salts Bottle, and Pomade Jar, £2 ss.
m
I * X
Solid Silver Manicure Set in Case, £2 ss;
Others from the 2 piece set at 11s 6d,
up to 12 piece set, £6 6s.
Child’s Silver-Plated Spoon and Fork in
Case, 7s 6d, others 5s 6d, 8s 6d, 12s 6d.
Solid Silver, 22s 6d.
Solid Silver Pencil, Pocket Knife and Cigar Cutter in Case,
12s 6d; others at 16s 6d and 265.
Very Handsome Design Afternoon Tea Spoons
and Tongs, in Morocco Case, Best Plate, 27s 6d ;
Solid Silver, £3.
Solid Silver, Hand Engraved Salt Bottle, in Morocco
Case, 14s 6d ; larger sizes, 16s 6d, 21s, 30s.
'•V- V -'V- -
C 3»
lianiin!!ill!llilii!!Ullll!l!il!li!^!!l»
Tito Best Quality Silver-Plated Jam Spoons, in Case,
15s 6d ; others 10s 6d ; Solid Silver, 27s 6d,
Two Butter Knives, in Case, same Prices.
No. GloB.—Solid Silver Manicure Set,
£2lss.
No. 299 A.— Solid Sterling’ Silver Afternoon Tea Service, in Case,
£l2 10s.
Out Glass and Solid Silver Communion
Set in Case, for the Pocket, £2 10s.
Two Solid Silver Salt Cellars with Two Salt Spoons
in Case, £2 12s 6d ; other styles, 18s 6d, 30s, 40s.
A 1 Quality Silver-Plated Table Set. A very
useful Wedding Gift indeed. £2 7s 6d.
4
Child’s Solid Silver Cap and Spoon in
Morocco Case. Price, £2 15s.
No. G66ll. —Presentation Set of 12 Pairs Dessert Knives and
Forks. Absolutely the Finest Quality of Silver-Plate,
with Pearl Handles, £8 Bs.
stewaht da Ws «h 4
LONDON
Fine Quality Silver-Plated Pie Servers in Case, 30s;
others at 35s and 50s.
mm
MHtt&X DAWSON B<c
rnmmmm
No. 328—Child’s Spoon, Fork and Serviette
best Silver-Plate, in Morocco Case, 21s
Best Silver-Plated Butter Knife and Jam Spoon in Case,
15s 6d; others 10s 6d ;in Solid Siver, 21s and 27s 6d.
Six Solid Silver Afternoon Tea Spoons
in Case, 27s 6d ; others with the
Tongs, 40s, 455, 50s, 555.
Solid Silver Afternoon Tea Set in Case, £7 10s
others at £lO 10s, £ll 10s, £l2 10s.
No. G 4873. —Fine Sheffield Shear Steel Carvers, with Tusk Handles, 37s 6d.
No. GB99B.—Case of Six Afternoon Cake
Forks, Silver-Plated, 9s 6d.


A RAZOR THAT REALLY SHAVES!
A razor that really shaves and does not “pull” or give
trouble in ANY way ought to be just what YOU want.
THAT’S THE “ PLUM ” RAZOR. It will shave better and
quicker and last twice as long without stropping as any
other razor.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6.
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, Gd.
Oake Universal Shaving Soap, Gd.
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-.
Single Razor, Ivor}’ Handle, 16/-.
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-.
POST FREE TO ANY PART OF AUSTRALASIA.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George St.
SYDNEY.
at
£
PRICE 10/6 POST FREE ANYWHERE.
CABINET PHOTOS
ser
v
In order to extensively ad-
vertise onr artistic work, we are
making a special offer cf on#
dozen Cabinet Oval
Photos., copied from any photo,
sent to us, for 3/6, just half the
regular price ; and if we receive
your remittance with the photo,
you desire us to make the dozen
copies from (within 10 days) we
will send you by return post
absolutely
FREE
is?
■nplete details and instructions for producing oil
nteoenla gements (15 x 12 inches) from any photo.,
ihom any previous knowledge of painting or artistic
ab in - . A 1 we ask in return for these details and in-
structions is that vou send us the names and addresses
of five of yrnr friends likely to be interested in our
hig i-ciass copied photos at the hall-price rate, viz., 3/6
per dozen. Please mention this paper when writing.
THE AOENTS AND MAIL DEALERS
CO-OPERATIVE SOCIETY.
%S 9 OOLLINS-STKEET, MELBOURNE
FREE
BY BUST, A PERFECT
HOME OUREby that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing-sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OK ALL NERVOUS TROUbLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereag'? St.,
s^TzasnEY.
WILL ANDRADE™BOOKS
AND
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition, Is.
BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Marriage
Guide by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over BO
engravings, genuine 1904 edition, hard covers, im-
proved. Donklly’s Art ok Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, Is. Maria Monk, Is
6d. HoW to Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
roR the Spoil.; and all Zola’s, Is t!d each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Humorous Dialogue Book, Is. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is. House Painting
and Papering, 1/2. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d.
The Cuckold, Is ; post, Is 3d. Britain for tub
British, 6d. Freemasonry Exposed and Ex-
plained, 1905 edition, .with key to all de-
grees, Is. Cycle Building and Repairing,
new edition, 190 illustrations, Is 3d. De-
cameron of Boccaccio, Heptamkron. and many
others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the First
Night, 1/3. How to Write Signs, Tickets and
Posters, Is 3d. Staining. Varnishing and Polish-
ing Wood, Is 3d. Electric Bells, 1/3. Boot-
making and Repairing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise:
Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal
Gustave, Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
Piano Tuning and Repairing. Is 3d. How to Make
Love, Is. Modern Etiquette, Is.
NOVELTIES
©•
Y
M.
*2
Free Catalogues.
No. 1. Catalogue of Plays.
~ 2. Conjuring Apparatus.
~ 3. French Novels in
English.
~ 4. Useful and Mechanical
Books.
~ 6. Books for the Married.
~ 6. Advanced Literature.
Confessions of a Mel-
bourne Barmaid, illus., Is
3d. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, illustrated, Is.
Hoffman’s New Conjurino
Entertainment, Is 3d.
How to Bet and Gamble,
Is. Kropotkin’s Fields,
Factories and Work-
shops, Is 3d. God and
My Neighbor, 9d.
ZINCARA GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS, LOVE, BUSI-
NESS, FUTURITY, &0., with full directions, Is; posted 1/3.
Engineer’s Practical Test : ermines, boilers, gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6. How to Make Up, Illustrated
Guide to Lite Stage, Is. New Tricks with
Caros, la, Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Midwivks’ Hanopook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. 0100 Dancing, Is. Building Model
Boats, Is 3d. New Tricks with Coins, ls. Phrenology,
Is. Blacksmith’s Work, 1/3. Lover's Better Writer,
Is. Photography, Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post. Age of
Reason, Is 2d. Ingersoll’s Works, 9d. Irish
Song Book, Is. Lightning Calculator, Is. Min-
strel Show, ' jokes, speeches, etc., ' Is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, Is. Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Fast, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is 2d.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Picture Frame Making,
Is 3d. Poultry Keeping, Is. Dream Book, Is.
Every Man His Own Builder, Is and Is 3d.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
Free Catalogues.
508 GEORGE ST.
SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE
VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE ST
MELBOURNE.
HOLLOWAYS PILLS
sfg
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy tor Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as "run-down ” rr “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway’s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords mo** welcome relief
in a very short time.
&
&
❖
fv
&
$
$
sdf
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
v
erg
This DIET is recommended
in place of ordinary milk foods,
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
particularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Invalids.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who are
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particularly serviceable in conva-
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Aged.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
boiling water.
The “Allenburys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “Allenburys” Foods for Infants.
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., and Bridge & Loftus Streets, SYDNEY.
ITheßesttonsoler
IS
[ Briar Pipe. ]
< Obtainable
{from all Tobacconists I
INSTANT RELIEF.
POWELL’S
Balsam°'Aniseecf
COUGHS
l Fop/ COLDS
ASTHMA
BRONCHITIS.
> Safe for Children.
Imam
anise^ 0
all Chemists & Stores. Be sure
J/ou get Powell's with above
Trade Mark.
DRUG H ABIT
HAVE YOU FAII.Ef THROUGH
DRUNK
ENNESS
DON'T DESPAIR.
LIQUOR HABIT
OR. LANGSTON’S VEGETABLE CURE.
A Home Cure which never fails.
It is safe, sure, absolutely certain, and
inexpensive. A few doses produce a won-
derful change. The craving for all
intoxicants will be destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for fo<>d will
return, refreshing sleep ensues. This cure
will surprise and delight you. May be
GIVEN SECRETLY.
Thousands of Cures; here is one :
Ravemthorpe, W.A.. 23-9 04.
Have finished the half course, which has
effected a cure. I have no desire for drinks
in fact, have a repugnance to the very idea■
of it. Yours faithfully,
Write for Treatise No. 5. Posted Free.
tub Dr. Langston Institute,
129* COLLINS STREET,
V F L.BOU RNE.
TOBACCO HA. BIT
BEFORE
You Are Tired
Of being drugged and dosed and have gone the
rounds of so-called Specialists, humbugs and
quacks and had your ailment aggravated, consult
the Physicians and Surgeons of
H)r. Langstcn institute.
We Cure and Cure to Stay Cured all
NERVE, BLOOD & SKIN DISEASES.
The success of our Electro-Medical Treatment is
vouched for by thousands of grateful testi-
monials. The following speaks for itself :
“■ Mortat,” Goroke.
Dear Doctor,—
I wish to let you know that since taking
your treatment 1 am an entirely different
man. Previously I was one of the most
miserable men living. Now work seems no
trouble to me at all, and my sleep healthy
and refreshing. I hope that you may live
long to do your good work.
Sincerely yours, C. J. FLACK.
FREE FOR THE ASKING.
Our Latest Medical Work, MENS SANA IN
CORPORE SANO—a Comprehensive Treatise on
All Diseases, 128 Pages ( Illustrated ). Written to
be understood. Points out the way to a Perman-
ent Cure. It tells what you want to know ana
what you ought to know. POSTED FREE to all
sufferers. WRITE TO-DAY.-^(S
THE DR. LANGSTON INSTITUTE,
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Consultation Free. Fees Moderate.
When writing mention this paper.
BLOOD POISOH.
FOR MORE THAN TWENTY YEARS
we have made the cure of blood poison a
specialty, Primary, Secondary or Tertiary
Blood Poison Permanently Cured. You can
be treated at home under same guaranty.
Capital 500,000 dols. We solicit the most
obstinate cases. If you have exhausted the
old methods of treatment, and still have aches
and pains, Mucus Patches in Mouth, oore
Throat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spots,
Ulcers on any part of the body, Harr or
Eyebrows falling out, write for proofs ot
cures, xoo-page Book Free.
COOK REMEDY Co.,
1102 MASONIC TEMPLE, Chicago, U.S.A.
“ Skull ” : My suspicions have been
aroused re the genuineness of the disturbances
at moral meetings for the regeneration of beer*
bibbers and tote associates in Melbourne. Having
visited several of those meetings, and observed the
rowdy element closely, I was surprised to find that
it was always the same element. I knew that the
grand panjandrums and worthy past-masters of
the tote and two-up shops have given strict orders
to their followers to abstain from advertising the
small evangelists by whooping-up their gatherings,
because that kind of whoop induces the press to
print excited headlines over the reports of the
same, so I wondered how it came about that these
professional wreckers should go from suburb to
suburb, just to howl at inconsequential little men
platitudinising on a bench, and have themselves
systematically ejected. Now, it’s a dead certainty
that, if no one disturbs the meetings of the small
crusaders, the papers will only mention them in a
cursory way in minute type away over the leaf
among the remarks about the fire that broke out,
and the horse that bolted ; whereas, when the
rowdy contingent rushes in, and howls, and
shakes up the furniture, the papers give the
accounts much space, a front place, and four black
scare-heads. When a lull convinced the wee
band of hysterical reformers that the press was
forgetting them, the disturbances broke out again
suddenly, and with increased virulence, and once
more the orators were widely advertised and
abundantly glorified. My belief is that the moral
revivalists have a tame disturbing element of their
own, which is turned on when things are going slow,
and, after supplying the necessary opposition that
is the soulof business, it is ejected in sections with
fine dramatic effect, and, lo ! the cause doth hum.
If ever I go into the business of climbing plat-
forms to tell the public to be a good boy I shall
hire a contingent of disreputables to persecute me
like Gehenna. That’s the best scheme of adver-
tisement on earth.
Another of the letters with an under-
current of pathos that reach The Bulletin from
abroad :
Keep on hammering at a white and protected Aus-
tralia. There are some 5000 or 6000 Anstralians here
(S. Africa) who, when Australia is on the up-grade, will,
I am sure, eventually find their way back again to the
country from which they were driven by Freetrade.
Keep out the nigger arid keep out the foreigner’s goods.
1 “Hexham”.: Degenerate as the N. S.
Wales Parliament may be, it has
fall before it reaches the depths in which some of
the U.S. State Legislatures are wallowing. Iwo
years ago the Legislature of Pennsyl vama closed
.a session of plundering by-according to. the
Saturday. Evening Post of Phdadeiphia
dividing among its members, and carrying on, an
the furniture and movable fittings of the Legis-
lative Chambers. .


9
LIVER & KIDNEY TROUBLES REMOVED
Read this Convincing Testimony :
REV. F. L-. BULLEN writes :
Wellesley, Church Lane, Highfield, Southampton,
“ October 22nd, 1905.
“Dear Sirs, —I have no objection to your publishing
my testimony concerning the excellent properties of
Kutnow’s Powder. I only wish I had tried it years ago.
In my case it has proved to be ah agreeable and gentle
a,perient, cleansing the liver and kidneys, relieving the
brain of any symptoms of pain or discomfort, and Regu-
lating generally the whole organic system. I shall have
much confidence in recommending its use to my friends.
“I am, yours faithfully,
“(Rev.) F. L. BULLEN.”
KUTfiOW’S i
Improved ErrenvEsccßT carlgbao
POWDER.
fmk
fiiischcnsprung of Deer l?ab
ROAD. EX..+
RED 7RA
The Advantages of Kutnow's are:—
Firstly. —The power of expelling the excess of bile
and acids which accumulate in the system together with
putrefying deposits which occur in the bowels and kidneys.
Secondly. —The power of stimulating a sluggish
liver, and of eliminating all the excessive uric acid.
Thirdly. —The virtue of not only cleansing the
bowels and diluting the urine, but at the same time of
exercising a soothing influence on the system generally.
Fourthly. —The freedom it induces in the flow of
the gastric juices, thereby removing all the terrors of
indigestion.
Fifthly. —The utility of combining remedial proper-
ties with strengthening and invigorating virtues ; it thus
purities the blood, refreshes the brain, and revitalises the
whole system. v - •
HOW TO DETECT FRAUDULENT IMITATIONS.
Be careful to avoid spurious substitutes, which frequently
cause irreparable injury. The genuine and original
Kutnow s Powder is strongly recommended by all leading
physicians'for the stomach, liver, kidneys, and bowels.
Insist on getting Kutnow’s, which you can obtain at all
conscientious chemists throughout the world. Examine the
package and see that it bears the fac-siraile signature “ S.
Kutnow and Co., Ld.,” and the registered trade mark,
Jdirschensprung, or Deer Leap,” which are also on the
bottle, as shown in the reduced illustration. You will
then avoid imitations, and know
HOW TO SECURE GENUINE KUTNOW’S POWDER.
The
Edinburgh
Medical
Journal
SAYS :
“ Kutnow’s Powder
is an excellent pre-
paration, and one
we can highly re-
commend.^
NURSE CROSS
WRITES :
“2, Percy-road, Wrexham.
“ Sirs,—Some five years ago I had an acute attack
of nephritis (inflammation of the kidney), and my doctor
advised Harrogate waters. After trying them fbr'some
time with very little result, the doctor suggested giving
Kutnow’s Powder a trial, with such excellent result that
in a short time I felt very much better. I continued
taking it regularly every other day for two years, and
consider it worked an entire cure.
• MARGARET CROSS (Nurse).
KUTNOW’S powder regulates the bowels
SOLE PROPRIETORS: S. KUTNOW ®. CO., LTD., 41, FARRINGDON ROAD, LONDON, E.C.
A Maoriland woman has been brutally
interrupted while putting up a record. Her
maiden name was Easton, and she married a man
called Manlove. In a few years she parted with
Manlove and married Udale, a gardener. Later on,
during a domestic disturbance, she revealed her de-
ception, and Udale hoed her out of his little patch.
The lady then travelled north, and lived with
Henderson. He was just an ordinary Henderson,
as Hendersons go, and doesn’t call for any special
comment. But, after a while, Gros.venor asked her
rand in marriage! despite his knowledge of her re-
lationswith Henderson. So she married Grosvenor.
Then a silly ass of a policeman interfered, and
•Justice Copper called it three months—a month
for each husband and nothing for Henderson. A
humane feeling against allowing, a child to be
born in gaol was the cause of this large discount
on taking a quantity.
A Maoriland cohentingenter, who has
lieen doing people and time, seems somewhat
alxive the ruck of thieving swaddies. Archibald
McNeill left with the fourth of Maoriland’s
numerous contingents, and, on his return, when
everybody was blood-mad, he chummed in with
various stylish officers, who drove him round
and introduced him to the best sassiety, as
befitted a ’ero who had won the Victoria Cross.
It transpired afterwards that he had bought this
emblem of valor cheap in London. On the repre-
sentation that he hadn’t received a penhy of his
pay, various people advanced him £l4O in all, and
cursed the Government for its dilatoriness. Then
gas happened to leak, at. the meter, and
M‘Neill went to gaol for three years. Subse-
quently he convinced somebody that he was a
long-lost relative, and secured more money, and
incidentally, more gaol. Immediately on his
release he- we.nt forth in all ,the . glory of
bis new hair-cut, called on an adjacent farmer,
shook him heartily by the hand, and assured
him that lie was his cousin. The agriculturist
scratched his ear dreamily, while the cousin told
of the sheep run in Argentina, which he had just
sold for £12,000 ; then the farmer fell on his
golden breast, and lent him £2O till he could get
his money out of a Wellington bank. This is the
latest trouble, and Archibald McNeill’s new de-
parture is interesting as showing that the old
South African farm-burning narrative is no longer
a good asset to borrow money on, even in Maori-
Jand - Five years ago nd Maoriland swindler
would waste time being a bogus squatter from
Argentina. Everybody was from South Africa
then, and the dust of neglect gathered thickly on
even that good old “prop,” the uncle in Fiji,
xs ow there is a tendency to call for Towzer when
any stranger mentions, as the foundation of
his tale, that he came from the Boers’ burnt
country.
N.S. W. annual Prisons report shows that
expenditure has been reduced from £123,892 in
1890 to £88,356 in 1905. In addition, prisoners’
work represents a saving of £20,000 a year. Gaol
population decreased by 775 in the decade.' The
Comptroller, Mr. Neitenstein, suggests that a
further reduction in the gaol population could be
effected by adopting the system of allowing minor
offenders and quasi-criminals, a period of proba-
tion with liberty, but under police surveillance,
before actually sending them to gaol. He is
optimistic ns to the good results that will follow
from the Habitual Criminals Act and the
Neglected Children Act, recently passed.
The Australian National Party, forwarded
by the indefatigable Charles Atkins (the local
factory hands sing of him as “Tommy Atkins”),
is getting a quite serious acceptance in Mel-
bourne and elsewhere. The 'first object of
the A.N.P. is to collect 2s. 6d. from male
members (ladies are admitted for eighteen pence),
and the money is spent in diffusing information
calculated to stimulate Australian faith in Aus-
tralia—present and future. “ Tommy ” Atkins
is a barracker for the Commonwealth and all that
therein is, or that can be created there by public
endeavor. He shouts plain facts at it, and the
facts are expected to distil public spirit from the
public understanding. In a sense the A.NiP. is
an Anti-Stinking Fish Party, likewise a Band of
Political Hope. In fact, it is so joyously patriotic
that the head master of the Scotch College pro-
poses to form a branch in the school. It will
somewhat counteract the “ By Jingo” element in
public school education.
“ E. J.S.” writes from Tasmania :
Here in Tasmania work in the agricultural districts is
hard to get. Fanners, when they do employ men, pay
only 14s. or 15s. per week and tucker. Hence the exodus
of most of the young, strong and healthy farm laborers to
Maoriland. Many young men with a small capital cannot
purchase land ; therefore migration follows, and Queens-
land and other places benefit. A Credit Foncier system
was talked of, two or three years back, to assist those with
only a little capital; but it never came to pass. Recently,
one Cameron (brother of the Colonel and Norman;
M.H.R.) purchased another estate of 20,000 acres along-
side the one he already holds. These 20,000 acres could
easily support 100 families in this climate ; but instead
they will be used to grow wool and mutton, and about five
families will work them. Another big man named Hart has
acquired nearly 3000 acres within a mile of the rising town
of Devonport. This land is about the finest agricultural
and grazing property in the State, and would easily sup-
port _3O families (say five to a family ; 150 more people) ;
but instead the owner employs an overseer and about
five other men to work it. Send along your Federal
graduated land tax quickly.
Isn’t it about time 3tate members dropped
the absurd prefix “Honourable” wnen addressing
one. another in the House? What’s the matter
with : “Me cobber, the Bloke for Blank Flat?”
It Would be more appropriate and less Irritating
than that weary phrase “ Hon’rable member for
Blajzes.”
Insectarianism is doing the Westralian
Laljror party no good. Every by-contest since the
general election has been largely fought on the
walls of ’Derry, and some alleged Laborites have
done a good deal of the fighting, and have also
made uncalled-for remarks about the Flames of
Smithfield.
A sort of Protectionists’ religion tract,
prepared by Charles Atkins (the Judkins of this
crusade), is being scattered broadcast by the Pro-
tectionist Association of Victoria. The following
remarks on Australia’s woollen industry, or want
of industry, should appeal to every Christian
soul
It looks like a national trip into the realms of insanity
that, while needing work and sustenance for ourselves,
we should go oh giving the foreigners all the work, pro-
fit, and sustenance derivable from our raw material. In
1903 we imported £2,000,000, and in 1904 £2,500,000
worth of manufactured woollens, and this in face of the
facts that the world needs our wool, and that we can say
in what condition we will give it—manufactured or other-
wise. We should ourselves be the woollen manufacturers
of the world. At any rate, immediate steps should be
taken to ensure to us the work and profit evolving from
the manufacture of our own woollen requirements.
Another step might be taken whereby work for thousands
of men would at once be available— viz., by the Govern-
ment forbidding the export of wool in the grease.


Public Notice.
Commissioners of Savings Banks*
FOR ADVANCES DEPARTMENT.
(KNOWN AS CREDIT FONCIER.)
ELEVENTH ISSUE OF
Debentures for £loo*ooo
at 3i per cent.
TO MATURE 31st OCTOBER* 1917;
To be issued uVider the authority of the Acts of
Parliament of. Victoria, JVos. 1722,
'1778 and 1878.
CONDITIONS FOR TENDERS.
Tenders will be receivable at the Commissioners’ Head
Office, 20 Market-street, Melbourne, until noon on Tues-
day, 28th August, 1906. . , . im „
Debentures will be issued in denominations of £lOO, or
£5OO, as may be desired. .
Interest at 3£ percent, per annum will be payable half-
yearly on 30th April, and 31st October, the first such pay-
ment beingdue on 30th April, 1907, at the Commissioners
Head Office, or at any Savings Bank in Victoria.
Any tender below £9B per £lOO will not lie entertained.
Tenders must he accompanied by a deposit in cash, or by
a Bank Draft payable to the Commissioners of Savings
Banks, amounting to 10 per cent, of the face value of the
Debentures applied for, and if the Tender be accepted in
full, or pro rata, the balance must be paid on or before
28th February, 1907, or may be paid at an earlier date.
Interest at Si per cent, per annum will be allowed on
accepted Te. rers’lodgments of 10 per cent, and over
from date of . =ceipt to 31st October, 1906, and will be
payable up to that date on the issue of the debentures.
Commission will be allowed only to Brokers who are
members of recognised Stock Exchanges, at the rate_of
ten shillings per cent, on the face value of Debentures for
accepted Tenders. . . . , „ . .
The due payment of these Debentures, and of all inter-
est thereon, is a charge on all the securities held by and
the funds of the Commissioners, under Division. 3 of Part
1 of the Act No. 1481, and is also guaranteed by the Uo-
vernment of Victoria. , , ,
Copies of the authorising Acts may be inspected! and
Conditions and Form of Tender cad be obtained upoh Ap-
plication at the Head Office of the Commissioners or dny
of their Savings Banks.
By order of the Board, GEO. E. EMH.RY, f
Inspector-General of Savings Banks'.
6th August, 1906.
SAVED
FROM
ser
Being saved from this curse of habit, will send
free and confidential, full information how to cure
yourself at your own home, without publicity nor
detention from your daily routine work. Send no
money, it is Free and Strictly Confidential.
“ANALEPTIC” CO., 90 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
s’ 27
PRIZE
m
?rlhfvr
13 YOUR
“Cue’
' When ordering Billiard
requisites or
Athletic goods
OF ANY DESCRIPTION
For over fifty yoars the name “Aleock”
haS been fclosely associated with Sporting
Requisites iri every part of Australasia*
until to-day its appearance on Athletic
Goods has precisely the same meaning
as the hall mark on silver. Our Stocks
represent the very highest standard of
excellence, and our facilities for manufac-
turing High-grade Goods at reasonable
prices are unequalled
MELBOURNE,SYDNEY.PERTH.
WELLINGTON,N.2.&I9NDON.
• V
Tbe BRUNSWICK
Household
ICE MACHINE
is, as its natne implies, a machine that lias beeh brought
ijowli to the small capacity requited for a private house.
In short, where hitherto, it has been impossible for this
private house or the large boarding-house to get a
machine that is not “miles too big,” the BRUNSWICK
has solved the difficulty, and will provide you with as
small a quantity as 2001 b. of refrigeration and 101 b. of
actual ice. This is a boon to those in the Country and
Bush who have perhaps power—they only want J-horse
power for the smallest size of machine-and can drive a small refrigerator. A small scheme of cold storage is
the greatest luxury it is possible to have, and we invite inquiries from squatters and others before he ho
weather comes in Tell us what you want to do, and we will give you thefullest information as to how do it.
BUZAGOTT & CO., Ltd., «?»*»*& 7 & 9 Market St., Sydney.
Agents for Sharpies’ Tubular Separators, ‘ Hercules ’ Oil Engines, &c., &c.
JUST A FEW BOOKS
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings. Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book d.v De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zolas,
including Nana, Is Cd each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason s
Big Horse Book and How to Train the
Horse, Is 6d. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, Is posted. MyNeighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. Howto
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman
and the Confessional, Is 6d. The Art of Jui-Jitsu,
9d and Is 6d. God and My Neighbor, lOd. Britain
for the British, 4d. Behind tiie Scenes, Is 2d. How
to Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. MYSTERIE3 COURT OF QUEEN ELIZABETH, Is 6d.
Wa
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, hut about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, ts 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
.to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Eas.v, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Gd.
Self Instructor : Every Man llis Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. On Our New Selection, 6s 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is Gd. French Self Taught,
is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d
posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. ID® - Established 20 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot— ’
16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS
POSTAL NOTE
, MONEY ORDER, OR
OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ui>, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sapnio, genuine,
is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s fid.
Aristotle, 3s Cd. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgans
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to nil Degrees, 190 b
Edition, Is posted. Test Pocket Dictionary, sd
posted. Tokology, 7s fid post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassk’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget sons
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G.W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. How to
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 inew
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 lllus., leather
bound, ray price, 15s post paid (why pay •> '
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, ciotn
hound, 10s fid posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is fid posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAU
(Cockle’s Antibilious Pills.—"
“I do not hesitate to say it is the best made pill in the kingdom."— Dr. G. F. Collier, in the Pharmacopoeia of the Royal College of Physicians of London.
FAMED AS A FAMILY MEDICINE FOR A CENTURY. invaluable to every Mother of a family*
The Illustrated. Medical News
says“ Infants do remark-
ably well on it.”
The British Medical Journal
says:— “ Ber.ger’s Food has
by its excellence estab-
lished a reputation of its
own.’
ft
For INFANTS, INVALIDS, and the AGED.
BENGER’S FOOD IS COLD BY CHEMISTS, &c., EVERYWHERE.
' Benger’s Food has attained
its great reputation not by
extravagant or sensational
advertisement, but by the con-
stant recommendation of those
who have used it, and of Medi-
cal men who know its value.”
Recently Maoriland decided that it wanted
more population, and started to advertise vigor-
ously for liuraansin the English papers. One adver-
tisement appeared, stating that 1000 navvies were
urgently required for the construction of the
North Island Main Trunk Railway. The result
was that a hungry crowd of almost indigent
laborers swarmed into the State, and, having
tramped up to the railway works, took one glance
at the gloomy hills, all veiled in winter rain and
mist, scraped the accumulated mud off their legs,
and then fled hack to the towns to offer to work
at anything at all for about one half of the cur-
rent wages. The result is that an epidemic of
1 ‘ sacking ” has broken out, and men who thought
they Were liiiaerjtaid at SOs. per Week are being
teplabed by gtarviHg rieW arrivals who are abjectly
glad to get 3<js. Meanwhile ,the new Premier has
been fdolirig rdurid the U.S.A. With a reciprocity
treaty, Which can only open the niarkets of Maori-
iarid Wider.still to the Yankee dumper and patent
thief, and make work scarcer, and the rush for
30s. a week more urgent.
The Australian Parliamentary Labor party,
which persistently refuses to plump for high Pro-
tection, got the straight, sad truth, the other day,
from an unexpected quarter. Vic. Chief Secre-
tary Gillott, being asked to appoint a Wages
Board for the Harvester industry, replied that the
employees themselves objected to it; and the
employees at M‘Kay’s Bray brook works presently
backed him up as follows :
Wages Board rates have been paid at Braybrook for
many months, in some cases above the minimum. The
employee? generally recognise that the first thing to be
done is to secure adequate Protection against foreign
dumping, and until this is effected by the Federal Parlia-
ment, any restrictions are uncalled for.
Applying fair working conditions to an Australian
industry, so long as the employer is not adequately
protected against the foreign sweater, merely
means closing up the industry and creating more
unemployed.
Just how preferential trade May Work out
is shown by a circular issued by a Glasgow firm of
nail-exporters. In this the prices of the American
Steel Trust’s nails are quoted, with a footnote,
that “ these prices are for the Australian mar-
ket; if for Maoriland 7£ per cent, less.” Now
Maoriland has, in these items, a preferential
tariff in favor of Great Britain ; this the Yankee
has carefully noted, so he sends his nails through
Britain, knocks off per cent, to cut the Britisher
and the Australian out of the market, and, unless
the Maorilander hag sense enough, to raise his
duty Still Higher, Will presently cut HiM out of his
dwii Market;
J?liii]d, the spendthrift, got in an early
Effort; to pose as an economist by proposing that
the Queensland Assembly be reduced from 72 to
50 members. Philp thus flatters Kidston by pro-
fessing to imitate him. But it is all sham. He
didn’t propose to touch the Legislative Council —
his friends are there. And he didn’t say that he
wanted to deal with the 1 blazing anomaly, which
he allowed to exist all his Ministerial days, by
which some electorates have 5000 voters on the
roll and some not 800.


my ECZEMA
ALL OVER BODY
Eruptions Appeared on Chest, and
Face and Neck Were All Broken
Out—Scales and Crusts Formed
lowa Lady Has Great Faith
in Cuticura Remedies for Skin
Diseases.
ANOTHER WONDERFUL
CURE BY CUTICURA
“I had an eruption appear on my
chest and body and extend upwards
and downwards, so that my neck and
face were all broken out; also my arms
and the lower limbs as far as the knees.
I at first thought it was prickly heat.
But soon scales or crusts formed where
the breaking out was. Instead of going
to a physician, I purchased a complete
treatment of the Cuticura Remedies, in
which I had great faith, and all was
satisfactory. A year or two later the
eruption appeared again, only a little
lower; but before it had time to spread
I procured another supply of the Cuti-
cura Remedies, and continued their use
until the cure was complete. It is now
five years since the last attack, and
have not seen any signs of a return. I
have taken about three bottles of the
Cuticura Resolvent, and do not know
how much of the Soap or Ointment, as
I always keep them with me.
“ I decided to give the Cuticura Rem-
edies a trial after I had seen the results
of their treatment of eczema on an
infant belonging to one of our neigh-
bors. The parent took the child to the
nearest physician, but his treatment did
no good. So they procured the Cuticura
Remedies and cured her with them.
When they began using the Cuticura
Remedies her face was terribly disfigured
with sores, but she was entirely cured,
for I saw the same child at the age of
five years, and her mother told me the
eczema had never broken out since. I
have great faith in Cuticura Remedies
for skin diseases. Emma E. Wilson,
Liscomb, lowa, Oct. 1, 1905.”
The original of the above testimonial is on file in the
office of the Potter Drug & Chemical Corporation.
Reference: R. Towns & Co., Merchants, Sydney, N. S.W.
Complete External and Internal Treatment for every
Humour, from Pimples to Scrofula, from Infancy to Age,
consisting of Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and
Pills (Chocolate Coated, in vial of 60), may be had of all
druggists. A single set often cures. Potter Drug «
Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston, IT.S. A. „
OST* Mailed Free, “How to Care for Skin, Scalp end Hail.
Address, It. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
——
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for. Everything.
Australian Users now num-
ber over one thousand.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH
Colonial Mutual Building,
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Victoria, S.A. and Ta 3.—
VARLEY BROS.,
312-314 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth
Of course you have System
in your office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER I
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Write for Catalogue.
JOHN SARDS, 374 George St., Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent;}
Earning'
Power
of Brain
Depends upon everyday food to renew the
loss of yesterday.
You can’t make a keen, bright “thinker”
from badly selected food.
There are certain elements in the field
grains that Old Dame Nature must have
to build good, strong, working grey matter
in brain and nerve centres.
These things are scientifically incorporated
in the world-famous Brain Food
Grape-N uts.
“ There’s a Reason.”
Postum Cereal Co., Ltd. Battle Creek, Mich., U.S.A
95,000
“THE WAY BACK SERIES.”
NO 3, RED HARRY, 1/-
Indigestion
AND
LIVER & KIDNEY
DISORDERS
All yield to Mother Seigel’s Syrup. It
is a vegetable compound of selected
roots, barks and leaves. *** When your
stomach fails to digest food properly
your systm is thrown out of order.
The blood becomes impure and the
poisons and acids generated affect your
stomach, heart, kidneys and liver. But
all of these troubles^
ARE CURED BY
MOTHER
SEIGEL’S
SYRUP
IT CURED
Mr. Thomas E. Watson, 10 Chapel St.,
Woolloomooloo, Sydney, who writes:
“ For oyer three years I was a victim
of Indigestion, with intense pain.***
On a friend’s-advice I used Mother
and it cured me quickly
completely.’*,
Cure You
Seigel’s Syrup
and
It will
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
Clean White
'T' zj p-4-fj mean sound teeth, fit for their
■* vvl-xJ work, the condition they are kept
in by the use of
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Tooth Powder,
It is made for cleaning the Teeth, and
does it, too, pleasantly, thoroughly and
gently, without scratching or injuring
the enamel. That is why it is in such
constant demand all over the world.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,
England.
FITS CURED
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11/-.
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc
Wholesale Agents:
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared bv I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
25 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
WILL forward to any address our GOLD WIRE
BROOCHES on receipt of money order or
postal note. 9ct. Cold-Filled Round Wire Brooches,
3/6; with Pendant, Heart, or Cross, 5/-. In 15ct. C.F.
Twisted Wire, 6/6; with Pendant, 8/-. Illustrated Cata-
logue sent Free. R, SIMS, GOLD KING, Cote s
Book Arcade, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA .
Be Armed Against Punctures!
MIRACULUM
IS A
SURE PUNCTURE STOP
For MOTOR CARS, MOTOR CYCLES, and
BICYCLES.
It does not injure Rubber, but tends to preserve it.
Does not affect resiliency of Tyres.
Does not lift patches.
Easily operated, effective, and dead cheap.
Bring along your Cars and Cycles to
Miraculum Proprietary Ltd.
Next Independent Church,
RUSSELL ST., MELBOURNE,
or write, and a Booklet and Testimonials from the
leading Motorists and Cyclists in Australia will be
sent you.
14TLIVE ACENTS WANTED IN VARIOUS STATES.
CURABLE DISORDERS.
There are some diseases which are incurable *J® S ® of
other hand, two groups of disorders which afflict a large J . P P fte r year when their cases
rulfr»sfl“^idr t o ri»t iffeot of tbldWta were
are uric and biliary disorders, and they comprise the following common comp
Uiic
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Lumbago
Sciatica
Gravel and Stone
Bladder Troubles
Biliary
Indigestion
Biliousness
Jaundice
Sick Headache
Ancemia
General Debility
Blood Disorders
noisons which produce the disease. . , ,
mmWiWsimmm
r h aveT a Stone ?nd
Sthy is to place some urine, brickXstt fe —rS
stand until next morning . If Ithe kidneys are weak or diseased, and steps must imme-
dil°tely 0r be h^ S Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some of the many manifesta-
tions of uric poisoning will result.
The Liver is an automatic chemical laboratory. In the liver various substances are actually
£ S3nSSSCtfSST beable to a*™
Sick Headache, General Debility, and Blood Disorders.
K> n,CdlU,ClbllO, V , ’ , . ,1 .
ftn intimate is the relation between the work done by the kidneys and that done by the liver, that
, .. ■ f a 'i.. r „ on t-jja nart of the kidneys, the liver becomes affected in sympathy and vice
'versa 1 It was the realisation of the importance of this close union of the labor of those vital organs
which resulted in the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as
Warner’s Safe Cure.
Certain medical men, knowing what a boon it would be to humanity if some medicine could be found
which would act specifically on both the kidneys and liver, devoted themselves to an exhaustive search
for such a medium, and their devotion was eventually rewarded by their success in compounding a
medicine which possesses the required quality in the fullest degree. Warner s Safe Cure exhibits a
marveWouThealing action in all cases of functional or chronic disease. of the kidneys and liver, and
restoring them as it is able to do, to health and activity, it, of necessity, cures all complaints due to
the retention in the system of urinary and biliary poisons. A vigorous action of the kidneys and liver
naturally eliminates the poisons, and troubles due to the presence of the poisons cease. Cures affected
j by Warner’s Safe Cure are permanent simply because they are natural. DJ
Business, Robbery, etc.
One of the most neglected of Australia’s natural
industries is the distillation of perfume from the boronia
flower The boronia plant for ages seems to have wasted
its sweetness in Westralia, where it is indigenous to the
soil Of late years, since the discovery of Coolgardie
jrold the plant has been cultivated in the other States,
and ’nowadays it grows apace in cold Victoria, and big
bunches are sold for twopence by hawkers where a
little buttonhole bouquet used to cost a shilling.
The air of Sydney and Melbourne will presently be heavy
with the scent of boronia in its season, and the crowd will
remark “ How nice ! ” and then the unique aroma will
be forgotten for another year. The odors of violets and
lavender are always with us when the plants are out of
flower ; but boronia, which seems to yield more of the
verv essence of its sweetness to the distiller (though
the distillation may be more difficult) has not been
brought into popularity as a toilet perfume. All
the chemists’ stuff with winch women appeal to the
noses of mankind is imported. They want it from
Paris or London, yet they might get a delightful
native boronia essence for less money if they had the
mind to bring it into Australian fashion. There is a
“ True Boronia ” perfume distilled, in a small way, by men
with the unromantic names of Blogg Bros., Melbourne—a
cdm o-entle perfume, that carries a guarantee of good
character with it, and is entirely free from the
common or boudoir suggestion of disguised patch-
ouli such as many of the vaunted perfumes carry.
This honest Australian .flower scent is, it appears, better
appreciated in London than in Melbourne, where it is
made The larger quantity of a limited output is sent to
England, and Bloggs have at least one high-born con-
noiseur on their books—a countess, or a duchess, or
something—who sends an order at regular intervals for
another box of “ True Boronia.” Also, she is careful not
to teil the other countess cats where she gets it from,
which is a delicate compliment to the article, but not
good for trade. Evidently, a large demand for boronia
perfume could be easily created. Some of the leading
feminine lights of the Commonwealth should approach
the question in a commercial spirit with a view to starting
an Eesthetic^distillery. # # .
“Private Enterprise” (this is not a case of
“ business ” nor of “etc.”) is sometimes very enterprising
indeed After the ’Frisco quake one telegraph co.,
though it had no wires available, accepted many thousands
of messages for despatch by citizens wishing to reassure
distant friends. Those telegrams simply couldn’t be
despatched, but the co. is estimated to have netted
£2OO 000 bv fraudulently accepting them for despatch.
’'* » » *
“Now is your time,” wrote an energetic Sydney
marriage agent to a number of girls in stock. “Renew
vour subscriptions. There’s a lot of likely material at the
Farmers’ Conference sitting in Sydney; widowers' and
sm<de« mostly well-to-do. With many this Conference is
p urely a blind; it’s the chances of a wife brings them
down, though they pretend it’s maize and pumpkins.
Look sharp and renew your subscriptions.”
OK”: Touching a Bulletin par. (July 16th)
on *.i. "revival of the “ tea gift ” dodge in Melbourne, not-
withstanding the suppression of the parasitic “ Coupon ”
Co It is remarkable that the indignant MTntyre Bros,
and other Melbourne firms trading in tea of recognised
quality have not bestirred themselves to prevent these
evasions of the anti-coupon law. The thing 1 is being
carried to ludicrous limits. Where coupons or fancy
goods of trivial value were formerly given away with a
pound of tea, it is now the tea that is given away with
crockery worth almost what is charged for it at ordinary
shop rates. For instance, a grocer lures custom by
offering two cups and saucers with a pound of
“shilling” tea. The gift, so-called, represents lid. at
a fair trade computation, and the women of the district,
needing cups and saucers, devote them to the awful
purpose of holding the boiled mystery. Practically it is
penny tea to the purchaser, and it tastes like just what
might be expected for the money. A somewhat less
deadly preparation is inflicted in bob packages upon the
purchasers of one cup and saucer at other shops. This is
perhaps a worse evil for the legitimate tea-merchant to
i contend against, because the drinkers don’t immediately
get internal warnings. People have been known to drink
the tea for three months before they felt the effects. The
question as to how these gift teas come to be passed by
the Customs officers as rubbish fit for consumption pro-
vokes the question whether they are imported at all.
Possibly they are manufactured from Australian scrub,
or are blown in by the Melbourne dust-storms.
“ Hexham : “ Caber’s ” story (B. 19/7/’O6) of the
Jan who fell into a vat in a Queensland sugar mill, and
was fished out of the treacle three days later, reminds
me that, when assistant in a S. American colicha, I
several times found big junks of horseflesh-once nearly
an entire leg—in casks of Spanish wine. Horse is said to
give body to thin wine.
PIRATES OLD AND NEW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Those pirates of the bad old days, the rangers of the brine,
The highwaymen of many smiling seas,
They all were soulless scoundrels, but there s some-
thing rather fine
In the red-capped, swarthy rascal who in every fell design
Had the courage of his scarlet villainies.
He went out upon the waters, and a truthful sign he had
Not a Bible nor a Book of Common Prayer—
For the flag he flew proclaimed him as a robber. He was
clad
In the costume of his calling. He was honorably bad,
And to that extent his piracy was fair.
The buccaneers who sailed abroad to spoil the ships of
Spain
Were villains black and bloody, truth to tell ;
They were tyrants after power, and they drew the sword
for gain,
But their hearts were stout, their limbs were strong, they
“chanced it” with the slain,
Nor tried to dodge the loser’s share of Hell.
The brigand on his mountain track was something of a
thief,
And deep and wide his tide of carnage ran.
But he fought for all his plunder, and the vaunting
Tuscan chief
Staked his life upon the venture rash, and if he came to
grief
Then he simply took his hanging like a man.
We have our brigands nowadays, our slavers neat and
clean,
Our buccaneers maintain the evil search,
But, oh 1 the scoundrel crew has grown degenerate and
mean,
And on the trim, suburban streets the Pirate Chief is
seen,
As he bears his little brace of books to church.
They’ve all forsook the Spanish Main ; no more upon the
waves
The rover braves the fiercest winds that blow.
The brigand has an office in the city where he slaves,
And the pirate with advertisements your valued custom
craves,
While the buccaneer is Somebody and Co.
They murder still, but now the gang is cowardly and sly,
Its business signs are writ in blue and gold ;
It wears the blackest coats and sleekest hats that cash
can buy,
It robs, and rogues, and plunders yet, but when it comes
to die,
The church will point its spirit to the Fold.
The pirate stands in safety now, a pillar of the State,
He has comfort, he’s a coward, he is fat.
Our horror of the old-time one is nothing to the hate
That the heart of man is saving up to squander soon or
late '
On the pirate in the prim belltopper hat 1
VIC.
EDWARD DYSON.


TATTERSALL'S CONSULTATIONS.
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
NOW OPEN
ROSEHILL CUP, Rosehill, N.S.W., September 15 50,000 at 5 2 each.
METROPOLITAN STAKES, Randwick, N.S.W., October 1 ••• ••• ••• 100,000 at 5/2 each.
CAULFIELD CUP, Caulfield, Victoria, October 20 ... ••• ••• ••• 100,000 at 5 2 each,
MELBOURNE CUP, Flemington, Victoria, November 6 ... ••• 100,000 each 5/2 and 10/4.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d. on each
ss. Ticket, and 4d. on each lOs. Ticket. Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
T, 'e TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. Parcels may be forwarded through any PARCELS
DELIA ERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
HEARNES
BRONCHITIS
CURE
WORTH IN ONE ORDER
ELLIOTT BROTHERS LIM°
WHOLESALE DRUGGISTS
AND CRYSALTERS.
Sfeeefi
'S/iytda#Z^^yjxLly m 2.A£h.. t , /&&&,
Mr. W. G. Hearne,
Chemist, GEELONG.
Dear Sir,
We have much pleasure in enclosing to you herewith our order
for £9,600 worth of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Our sales for this remedy have always been large, but at no time
has the demand been so phenomenal as at present. We believe this forms
the largest straight-out order for any Chest Medicine in Australia.
We heartily congratulate you on the splendid reputation and
enormous sale which Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure enjoys.
We are, dear Sir,
Yours faithfully,
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing
power is marvellous. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing-
Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to
those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It
is most comforting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and
it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Con-
sumption has never been known to exist where “Coughs” have been properly treated with
this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning a dose is generally
sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6, is sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors,
and by the Proprietor, W. Q. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.


DR. SHELDON’S
DIGESTIVE, TABUEES.
“ DIGEST
WHAT
YOU EAT."
<£)?Sff£ lew's
2 ligestu&tySH?*
y,c,"j/ t eJirUVA ‘‘' >u sl£,°.'Z p *"*'
A Positive Cure
for
Indigestion, Dyspepsia,
and all
Stomach Troubles.
A MAN
NO STRONGER THAN HIS STOMACH.
THE STOMACH
controls the man. It governs
him both physically and men-
tally. The man is just what
his stomach makes him.
When the stomach is right,
the man is all right; he feels
good, he is happy, he is cheer-
ful, the world to him is all
sunshine.
When the stomach is
wrong the man is all wrong.
1 le is out of sorts, he is nerv-
ous, he is irritable, he is
gloomy and despondent, he
jis “cranky." His general
jdisposition is such that no-
Ibody wants to have anything
to do with him.
1 The stomach is the organ
on which the whole human
system must depend for sub-
sistence and existence. If the
stomach fails, then what is to
become of the rest of the
body ? Where does the force
of life come from? Doesn’t
it come largely from the
food ? You know that if you
stop eating, you will die.
Hut the mere eating of food
does not give life. Food can
no more give life without
digestion than coal can give
heat without combustion. It
is not what we eat but what
we digest that keeps up the
motor force of the body.
UNDIGESTED FOOD
is not only useless but harmful. It
ferments and decays inthestomach,
the evidence of which' you have in
the distress you experience, that
feeling of fulness, especially after
eating, flatulence (wind on the
stomach), belching and vomiting.
These symptoms are simply na-
ture’s warnings to you that some-
thing is wrong and that you should
do something.
This decayed food poisons the
blood, through which the entire
system becomes impure and dis-
eased. When the blood is bad it
is certain to cause disease of the
kidneys, the liver, the heart, the
lungs or any or all organs which
it is intended to nourish. Proper-
ly digested food makes pure healthy
blood which in turn makes a
healthy man by making every
organ of his body healthy.
PERFECTLY DIGESTED FOOD.
Now how are we to get perfectly
digested food? We are all en-
titled to this but by ignoring or
abusing nature’s laws we are de-
prived of it unless we make other
provisions. We can do this only
by taking the remedy which nature
has provided, the remedy which
contains a perfect combination of
all the elements which make up
the digestive fluids as they exist
in the human digestive organs.
THE ONLY WAY.
In no other way can we
perfectly digest all we eat.
Such a preparation is Ur.
Sheldon’s Digestive Tab-
ules. They actually digest
the food itself and prepare it
to be taken up by the blood.
They do this with no assist-
ance whatever from the di-
gestive .-.rgans or their juices.
Food it tubes is digested in
our laboratory tests as com-
pletely and perfectly as it
would be in the most healthy
stomach. Is it any wonder
then that Dr. Sheldon’s Di-
gestive Tabules effect such
seemingly wonderful cures?
DON’T DIET.
When taking this prepara-
tion, nothing else is neces-
sary. You don’t have to re-
strict your eating to a few
“ diets.” That’s nonsense.
Nature demands a variety
of foods. That's why nature
gives us such a generous
variety. Eat all your appetite
calls for. That's what your
appetite is for, to let you
know what elements of nu-
trition you really need. Eat
all you want. Dr. Sheldon’s
Digestive Tabules will di-
gest it and make a new
person of you.
They will give you strength,
new life, new ambition, and
enable you to enjoy living as
you never have enjoyed it
before.
T, D, «f B «ve Tabules are sold everywhere at 2s. 6d. for a tin containing 80
I abules. Buy a tin eat a good square meal, and then take a Tabule and note the result.
n l ab ,° Ut “‘j . you ar£ : not carefui. f ° r there will be No Pain nor disturbance,
and the food will be digested just as it used to be when your Stomach was Well and Strong
ft"' st °mach will soon be restored again, if you keep on taking them, just as
thousands of other stomachs have been from the sole and exclusive use of S J
Or. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules.
unable to procure locally, will be posted on receipt of the price, 2/6, or six boxes for 13/6by the
SHELDON DRUG COMPANY, 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
V!
iftffc:
SR
A
For W
Influenza,
Rheumatism,
Colds, Coughs,
Chill-on-the-Liver,
Weak Chests.
Weak Backs,
Aching Kidneys,
Asthma, Lumbago,
Sciatica, &c.
A Remedy °/. over ] 50 y‘ ars ' standing. Prescribed by Physicians and sold by Chemists in every part of the
civilized world. Guaranteed not to contain Belladonna, Opium, or any poison whatever.
ALLCOCK’S-The Original and only Genuine Porous Plaster.
A Page from a Swagman's
Diary.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WE reached Mount Hutton, on Island
Plain Creek, soon after noon. Four
men were wanted for the mustering
camps, and I proposed going out; but George
objected. He was unfavorably known at Mt.
Hutton, though that wasn’t the excuse he gave
for not calling on the good people down there.
The horses were notorious buck-jumpers. They
could kick the eye out of a mosquito without
touching its eyelash. The cattle were very wild,
many of them impossible to yard. The calves
and yearlings were lassooed in the bush, and
lashed down and branded. Some were branded
and ear-marked at full gallop.
“ How do they do that, George ? ”
“By jes’ ridin’ alongside an’ leanin’ over, with
the reins on one arm. This way ”
Unfortunately, he touched the mare with his
spur, and a sudden side movement put George on
his head.
“ I should think that’s rather a dangerous
game, George,” I remarked, as George picked
himself up and looked about for his pipe.
'* But they don’t all do it that way,” he said,
smiling sheepishly.
“ Wkatabout the brand?” I asked. “ Wouldn’t
it get cold ? ”
“T’asn’ttime. Y’oughter know speed generates
heat. Heven’t yer been to college ?”
“ Well, I did go to some such institution one
time; but I can’t say as I ever took much intellect
with me.”
“Greatmistake,” said George, seriously. “It’s
a waste o’ time goin’ to college without intellect.”
“ How is it the shoes on the horses don’t get
heated ?” I inquired.
“’Cause they don’t’ave any. Them ’orses ’as
hoofs hard as flint. Y’oughter see ’em goin’ down
mountains, and the blokes shootin’ wild bulls full
gallop. M’Donald was the cove could ride ’em.
Seen a ’orse buck with him one mornin’ till he
bucked the bridle off an’ slung the saddle from
under him without breakin’ a strap or unbucklin’
a girth. That’s true’s yer there ! I ken show yer
the paddick he bucked in. Mac. stuck to him,
an the ’orse kep’ on buckin’ till he bucked both
his boots an’ socks off. True’s yer born ! Then
he bucked ev’ry button off his togs, an’ loosened
his back teeth. The buckle of his belt broke an’
he was cornin’ undressed. But Mac. still stuck
to him, an’ that ’orse would ’a’ been performin’ yet
if his hoofs ’ad stood. But they got loose. Wot
does he do then but ketch his tail in his mouth—
between his legs—an’ roll over an’ over like a
hoop. They revoluted right down the hill an’
into the waterhole below the ’ouse. The hole’s
there yet. Show yer as we go by. The ’orse
stood in it to let his hoofs swell tight. Meant t’
’ave another cut in, but the bell rung an’ Mac.
went up for refreshments.”
“I suppose you’ve heard of the horse that
bucked his brand off, George ? Do they do any-
thing like that here ? ”
“ Do that !” said George, and he blew a whiff
through his nose. “ What a Mount ’Utton ’orse
can’t do is a utter nonimpossibility. Yer’ll see
’em with their tails kinked all shapes an’ their
ears dislercated. Seen one kick his brand off
wonst. Was cow-kickin’ at his rider when he
done it.”
“ Where are we going to camp to-night,
George ? ”
“ At the Mud Springs, three miles up.”
We were riding quietly along, when suddenly
my interest became centred in a most remarkable
individual. He was a real sundowner, the best
type of the genus I had seen. He was squatting
under a tree at a waterhole fronting Mt. Hutton
homestead. With the aid of two glasses, he was
cutting his hair close to the scalp. His excuses
for boots were bound together with greenhide and
wire; round his feet were pieces of blanket which
he called “ Prince Alberts.” He smiled benignly
as I pulled up, but did not stop shearing.
“ What’s the next place ahead ?” I asked him.
“ Dunno.”
“Well, what’s the manager’s name?”
“ Dunno.”
“ Didn’t you come the way we’re going ? ”
“ Dunno.”
He finished his bush-crop, and had a dry wash—
that is, he wiped himself with an old shirt. He
■evidently came from a dry-blowing district.
, ‘‘l never want ter see bosses, let Tone know
em,” he remarked. “All I want’s tucker—an’
plenty of it. Gorra match on yer?” He lit his
pipe. “As fer names o’places,” he resumed be-
tween puffs, “I gives ’em names o’ me own,
cordin’ to th’ treatment I get there. Fust place
yer come to’s ‘Hardnut’; then yer’ll run agin
‘Saltjunk,’ an’ if yer don’t get bogged on ‘Stick-
fast Flat,’ yer’ll hit ‘ Stinkin’-Stringy ’ safe
•enough. After that there’s ‘ Greenhide Codger,’
Pannikin Dog,’ ‘Dustbag,’ ‘ Pinch-o’-Tea,’
Hardcase,’ ‘Dead-’orse,’ ‘Skinflint,’ ‘Hungry-
Gut,’ ‘ Pipe-o’-Weed,’ ‘ Meengy-Beggar,’ an’ 50
more, from ‘ Bleedin’ Hill’ on’ards.”
You seem to have had bad luck in your
travels,” I ventured.
“Dunno. I’m alive; an’, luck or no luck, I’ll
get to where I’m goin’.”
“Where’s that?”
‘‘Peg-out.”
The old sundowner had one thing that we
would have been glad of for a pack-cover. This
was an oilskin coat—home-mkde by the look of
it—which he used for a tent.
line things t’ ’ave when it’s rainin’,” said
jeorge, as we rode away. “Keeps out every
•drop—an’ they make good water-buckets, too.
Gver carry water in yer pocket? I’ave. ’Bout
ten year ago it was. Had a oilskin made to
Wler-tremenjus big pockets in it, but no flaps.
Didn notice that till a storm copped me cornin’
from Miles. I feels the bloomin’ thing gettin’
eavier an’ ’eavier, an’ by’n’bye, feelin’ about, I
shoves me two ’ands inter them pockets, an’—
blest if there wasn’t ten gallons o’ water in each
of em, an’ I had ter stand on me thinkin’ end to
empty meself.”
“Why didn’t you take it off?” I asked,
deferentially.
, “Wasn't it rainin’? What d’yer think I was
umpm’a hoilskin for?” And George’s expres-
sion betokened sorrow for my stupidity.
Camped on a flat that was riddled with mud
springs. Hot water and mud bubbled up to the
surface, at times flowing over like lava from a
volcano, and forming into a concrete mass on the
nat. A mound of this stuff encircled each spring
giving it the appearance of an old well. Some of
them were covered with a thin crust of brittle
stun, lo walk upon this meant to drop into
eternity.
More n one man’s disappeared mysterious
-bout this part,” George remarked, as we peered
down a muddy orifice. “Shouldn’t wonder if
they’re doin’ a camp down there.” (Pause.)
“Ever walk in yer sleep?”
“Once—a long while ago.”
“ If yer done it once, there’s no tellin’ when yer
might break out again. Better tie yerself up to-
night.” (Longpause.) “ Ye’d be fit for tli’bone-
yard long fore we could fish yer out, an’ I’d ’ave
ter go ter th’ inkwest ter evidence how yer got in,
an’ prove as I ’adn’t a ’and in it. ’T’ud put me
ter a lot o’ trouble. I’ll lend yer the grey mare’s
’alter.”
“ Suppose I break away and go down with your
halter on me?”
“ By cripes ! ” said George, “ that ’ud look sus-
picious. Better not tie anythin’ on yer. ”
We had tea.
“Dunno wot to do with you to-night, I’m
sure,” George reflected, lighting his pipe. “Never
travelled with a bog-blinded somnambulist be-
fore.” (Long smoke.) Suddenly he jumped up.
“Th’ very thing!” he said, and disappeared in
the darkness. In a few minutes he returned,
jingling the horse-bell. “’T’ull wake me if yer
try to get away,” he declared, as he strapped the
thing round my neck. “Now I’ll be able ter
sleep peaceful.”
George was soon asleep. Then I took the bell
to a bush a few yards away, tied one end of a long
rope to it, and, crouching behind the saddles with
the other end, gave it a few vigorous tugs. George
stirred quickly and listened. “ Tingle—jangle—
jingle !” Up leaped George, and rushed towards
the bell with his hair bristling. “Hey—come
back ! Coo-ee ! Coo-ugh ! ” The rope was
jerked out of my hands, and a thud told that
George had got tangled in it. Reinvestigated on
his hands and knees, and presently came back
with a look on him like a thunderstorm.
“Fine game yer’avin’,” he growled, as he re-
turned to his blankets. “Pity yer didn’t break
yer blamed neck !’’ Getting no answer, George
turned his back to me and covered his head,
finally renouncing all responsibility in muffled
tones: “Ken go down forty blinded wells if yer
like !”
• • * #
We spelled a day at the Heifer Station, an
empty hut and a horse paddock on the bank of a
big lagoon. George knew all the country now,
and could find his way to Westgrove without a
road. Leaving the hut, we came presently to a
road running to right and left. George was look-
ing both ways at once. He was puzzled.
We took the road to the right, George peering
all ways. Struck a creek, and just below we saw
the hut we had started from. .Returned to the
cross-roads, and George went on a tour round
whilst I minded the pack-horses. He “toured
round ” for an hour before he found himself. Ex-
plained that the road was made since he was
through here last, and he had thought it was a
short cut. Then we came to burning grass, got
smoke-blind, and lost the road again dodging
round fires Discovered Westgrove accidentally.
George knew the woman who cooked here. Old
friend of his. So we turned out on the flat, and
he walked up to interview her. He came back
shortly—empty-handed, and looking as if the
interview had disagreed with him.
“ By cripes ! I’ll get even with her,” he growled,
picking up a pannikin.
“What’s happened ? ”
George sipped his tea. “ Jes’ called on her in
a friendly way,” he went on. “ Thought she
might get offended if I rode by, knowin’ her so
long.” George sipped more tea. “ Stuck me up
for a bridle what her jumpin’ ’usband never lent
me in his natchrel. Asked her if she’d a loaf o’
bread to spare, an’ the old cow went an’ asked
the missus. The missus made some veiled allusion
’bout leavin’ the premises. ’S if I wanted to take
th’ blighted premises with me. They’re nice
people about ’ere.”
• • * »
Next day we crossed the Great Dividing Range
on to the Western watershed. Approaching
Mooyar Downs we passed a dead swagraan. He
was lying in a little belt of scrub, with his elbow
on a iog, and his hand under his head. His swag
was about 40yds. away. Nearer to him was a
brass comb and a looking glass, and a quart-pot
in a half-rotten bag. His face was partly eaten
by ants ; yet a clay-dabber was still gripped
between his bare teeth, as though he had expired
suddenly while having his smoke. Two gins, who
had been hunting wallaby, carried the swag on a
pole into Merrivale. When asked about the
corpse, one said: “Baal mine touch dat one;
him too much dead.” It was buried later—un-
identified.
Occasionally the skeleton of some unknown
and unmissed wanderer is discovered in the bush,
with indications pointing clearly to murder. I
remember one which was found in a dense scrub
with the skull riddled with shot. Another came
to light near Goombungee (Q.), having the mark
of an axe on the skull, and a similar mark on one
of the shoulder-blades. Some decayed pieces of
clothing still clung to portions of the bones, but
there was nothing that could be identified. Such
cases start one pondering as to how many Butlers
there are prospecting about the bush. In the lonely
backblocks of Queensland, for instance, where
the narrow tracks wind through scrubs and gorges
and lignum, and houses are anything from 20 to
50 miles apart, police are scarce as princes, and men
travel for work where they are unknown and un-
noticed. Hundreds of murders could be committed
there with impunity. A swagman may be well-
known at stations; but when he passes one place he
is not expected back, and is not expected anywhere
else, so he is never definitely missed. It is a grue-
some subject, full of possibilities, and inclines you
to treat your casual mate like an aborigine—never
walk in front of him, and sleep with a bulldog
chained to your leg.
George called at Mooyar Downs, a selection, to
obtain settlement of a debt. He left me at the
sliprails, and advised me to let the horses feed
about, as he would be delayed some time. These
were old friends of his, and were sure to have a
lot of news to tell him, and would persuade him
to take afternoon tea. In the meantime, I might
get the meat-bag ready. He could have as much
meat here as he liked to take away. So I settled
down for a long time to wait at the sliprails.
George disappeared behind the house. A few
minutes after there came the sound of high-pitched
voices from that direction, and presently George
re-appeared in a great hurry. He was running,
and the owner of Mooyar Downs was running
behind him with something in his hands like a
clothes-prop. George ran all the way to the slip-
rails, but the owner of Mooyar Downs stopped
half-way and contented himself with shaking his
fist and the clothes-prop alternately, while he
delivered a spasmodic peroration to the vanishing
audience.
The horses were ready, and George mounted
with more celerity than he had shown for some
time. He kicked desperately at Lord Brumby’s
sides, and jerked savagely at the bit, whilst ever
and anon he cast furtive glances over his shoulder.
“Get any meat, George?” I asked, jogging to
keep alongside him.
“Meat! ” he said, his limbs still working faster
than the horse’s. “ Did you expect meat from
that cow? He wouldn’t give yer enything if yer
tongue was hangin’out an’ he was a iumped-up
Beef Trust.”
He treated Lord Brumby to another dose of
kicks, his eye on the rise ahead that would shut
out the view of a hateful place called Mooyar
Downs.
“Said he didn’t owe me no money. He’s a
dirty prevaricator.” (Pause.) “ I’ll show th’ cow !
.... Called me a crawler—not to mention other
things I wouldn’t say to a dog ! . . . . An’ hit me !
.... Said he paid me. He’s a liar !.. .. I’ll sum-
mons th’ swine !
“ How much does he owe you, George ? ”
“Seven bob. Says I owe it for board. Never
boarded with the miserable dog in me born days.
Wouldn’t be seen in the same paddick with him.”
“Oh ! I was wondering what you were run-
ning for. Was it to get out of the paddock ? ”
George looked at me with pitying eyes.
“ Did yer think I was frightened?”
We had brought no cooked tucker from last
camp, having depended on George’s friends to
fill the void, and it was two hours after dark
before we had anything to eat. Men in the bush,
particularly travellers, like to have their evening
meal over by sundown.
George had mostly a song to sing or a yarn to
tell at night time, but to-night he only whistled
softly to himself, and spread his blankets with
more deliberation than usual. I felt sorry for
George, for he wasn’t a bad fellow. As he often
said to himself: “There were plenty worse, if
you only knew where to find them.”
Edwahd S.
SORENSON.
“ llepublicano,” from Buenos Ayres
, ...
This countr y 1S afc present enjoying a run of prosperity,
and people are pa y in & a » hi S h as 10 and 12 P er cent - for
mone y- But it only requires two bad grain harvests to
brin £ about a greater smash-up than the year the Aus-
tralian boom burst.
I have met one or two Australian farmers land-hunting
here. But they had better stay at home. My business
brings me continually amongst the farmers, and I have
never met one who could say he possessed the horses and
machinery he worked. The landowners nearly all have
big general stores, where the tenant has to purchase his
goodg To buy land from the State you have to go too
far out; and there are no such things as roads and cul-
verts, nor deputations to Ministers.


IF WOMEN
The Way to be Well
ONLY KNEW
is to keep the Kidneys Well.
What a lot of backache there is among the women. .
And little wonder. A woman’s work and care and worry are enough to break down a much stronger constitution than
is given to most women —or men either, for the matter of that. The kidneys are invariably the first to feel the strain. . Anc
they let their needs be known, too, very promptly. Backache is the cry for help.. The cry of the sick kidneys.
There’s that awful dull ache away down low in the back. Then comes sharp pains higher up, pains in the limbs
headaches, a weary, never-rested feeling; a desire to stay in bed
in the morning—it’s all from the kidneys.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills help the kidneys, they
are made specially to act on the kidneys. Doan’s Pills cure
every ill of the kidneys and bladder from common backache to
dangerous diabetes, dropsy, Bright’s Disease. Bead the follow-
ing testimony :
Sydney Women Cured.
| BALMAIN.
Mrs. Wright, 6 Red Lion-street, Balmain,
this city, says : —“Four or five years ago I
used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for cold
in the kidneys. I was subject to that trouble
at the time ; every cold would fly to the
kidneys. In fact, the pain in the back would
be frightful. It seemed to affect my whole
system. A short course of these pills cured
me. I have had no cold in the kidneys since,
as the pills seemed to fortify these organs
against changes in the weather and such
conditions which bring out that troublesome
ailment. I made a statement to this effect
three years ago. lam pleased to confirm it.
I’ve recommended these pills to many who
suffer with the kidneys.”
| REDFERN.
Mrs. Burgess, 59 Eveleigh-st., Redferm
this city, says :—I used to suffer with pains
across the small of my back so severely that
I could scarcely get about the house. I was
very run down and in need of a tonic —one
cannot suffer with backache and keep in
good health. One day I complained about
my health to a friend, and she said, ‘ Why
don’t you use Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills?’" She spoke in great praise of this
remedy, how they had cured her. I imme-
diately sent to the chemist for a box of these
pills. lam glad to inform you that the pills
gave me complete relief. They are grand
pills for backache, and should be used by all
who suffer with this trouble.”
Are for Sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes 15s. 3d.), or
will be posted on receipt of price, by Foster-M‘Clellan Co.. 76 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S. W.
DOAN
Backache
Kidney
PILLS
Every Picture Tells
a Story.
Tiff l ,
JJ
f
a
I
Three Sinners.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was in a country train,
Rolling onward through the rain,
That three mischief-loving Tones,
Strove to cause a cleric pain,
By relating sundry stories
(Rather blue and nasty stories)
Of a very fervent, amatory strain.
Neither frightened glance nor look
Did the cleric give—nor took
Any heed of their narrations,
As they swung and bumped and shook,
And meandered through the stations
(Very slowly through the stations);
But, instead, just calmly sat and read his book.
Then three men, both bad and old,
Whispered fiercely : “ Are we sold ?
Does he think that he will beat us ? ”
At the thought both hot and cold
Went the three. “Or will he eat us !
(Perhaps he thinks that he can eat us ! ”).
And the train still onward bumped and slowly
rolled.
So they whispered, and they winked,
And the laughing metals clinked,
When the leader of the party,
As through tears of mirth he blinked,
In a manner gay and hearty
(And he could be gay and hearty),
Told a story—which is happily extinct.
But the cleric calmly read,
As by field and stream they sped ;
Never paid the least attention
Was as silent as the dead.
And the three—l cannot mention
(No, I really cannot mention)
All the nasty, bad and spiteful things they said.
“ Nerve ? Oh, yes, he has got some !
Doesn’t mind it ! Rather rum ! ”
So they muttered indiscreetly,
Looking dazed and very glum,
While the reverend most neatly
(Notice how they do it neatly ?)
Turned the pages of the work on Kingdom Come.
Mad were they and very sore.
But ere they could whisper more
Dashed the train into a station,
Where a man approached the door
And he caused much consternation
(Very bitter consternation)
When he shouted in a voice that was a roar.
Then the sinners sitting near
Felt abashed and rather queer,
When that cleric, calm and saintly,
Put his hand up to his ear ;
Thus conveying to them quaintly
(Very quietly and quaintly)
He was deaf, and so, of course, he couldn’t hear !
VIC.
KODAK.
Our Village.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THOUGH men may come and men may
go, our village (like the brook) will pursue
its changeless course for ever 1
And what a sleepy village it is ! The church,
the shops, are all asleep ; the police station, the
public-house, the State school, the bowling-green,
the “ reserve,” the shabby rows of cottages, the
villager, and the sparrow, cat, dog, stray horse
and cow that wander within his gates.
Why is our sleepy village here at all ? To what
purpose does it exist ? Of what use are its crazy
tenements (which will stand till they are con-
demned), its inn (known as the “White Horse” ;
the sign is a white horse chasseing), and its
chemist’s shop, where—in addition to the ordinary
medicines—mustard-plasters, sticks of liquorice,
lozenges, scent and stamps are supplied at the
lowest possible prices ?
If a landslip came and swallowed the village-
crazy tenements, “ White Horse,” chemist’s shop
and all—would the great world be a whit the
wiser ?
Would it even hear of its loss ?
I think not. I fear not. But I am expressing
this opinion in the strictest confidence, for it
would be as much as my life is worth were my
rank heresy to come to the ears of the villagers.
Our villager is essentially conservative —a model
of dull, self-satisfied contentment. Barren of
ambition and purpose, he talks of standing by
“ the good ways,” while he turns up his eyes in
horror at your jargon of electric lighting, surpliced
choirs, Queen Anne architecture, and the like.
Mr. Villager opines that the gas-lamp which
served his father will “do ” the son ; and, as to
your Papist fal-lals and nightgowns, he will have
none of them !
The gimcrack villa turns his stomach like the
bazaar cake (all plaster of Paris and no satisfac-
tion) ; and then, having exhausted his own
eloquence and your patience, Mr. Villager turns
his stubborn back, yawns, rolls over on his side,
and resumes his interrupted snooze.
Oh, the parson, the parson’s wife, and their
seven maiden daughters—what typical villagers
they are 1
I can see the parson’s wife now, nodding over
the reins of the pony chaise, while the brown pony
whisks his tail, and the fat parson pays his listless
compliments to the more listless parishioner
within doors. And I can see the seven maiden
daughters blinking their lethargic eyes, as they
boil over the front forms at the cricket-club con-
certs and friendly socials —drowsy little socials,
whose tedium is only broken by the appearance
of “light refreshments, supplied by the Guild,” in
the foi m of weak coffee and gingernuts, cream (?)
cakes, and wedges of thick Victoria sandwich.
Our policeman is the policeman of Phil May,
the policeman of “ The Slide ” !
Solemnly, and with unspeakable dignity, does
our policeman patrol the village streets, pausing
at rare intervals to administer a pompous warning
on an orchard-robbing urchin (who listens with his
tongue in his cheek), for the legs of the urchin are
fleet, and our policeman (alas !) waxeth fat ; more-
over the wicked urchin is well aware that the
forbidding dignitary is merely a John A Dreams,
walking in his sleep ! Our garrulous wool-gather-
ing chemist (whose prosings are warranted to lull
to slumber the liveliest buyer of two halfpenny
stamps) is surprised that his poppy-heads and
sedatives are so seldom in request .
“They wake me in the small hours for a mus-
tard plaster,” he grumbles, “ and call me from
my dinner for a stamp! And, talking of
At this point a dull glaze settles on the eye of
the unfortunate customer for he knows that
“Jones has begun,” and that the sun will be low
in the west ere he has ended.
The greengrocery is superintended by a maiden
lady (their name is legion in the village) whose
sallow complexion and heavy lids attest to the
truth of her statement that she rises before the
sun, and that it don’t suit ’er but that one must
be an early bird if one wants to catch the worm
at the morning market.
The maiden lady is said to have had a disap-
pointment,” but appears too tired to worry over it.
The butcher is a handsome man who has buried
a large family and is indolently raising a second.
A handsome man, but as torpid as the summer
fly that invades his mutton chops. His hand-
some, large-eyed children inherit their parent s
Creole airs. . ,
The grocer is (for our village) brisk, and the
baker (who is a widower and wears a kiss-curl) is
called a terror for the girls. And the girls—our
girls, our village girls—one and all they wear the
same expression —waiting !
Plain and comely, wise and foolish, young and
old, bold and sweet, all have this waiting air
expectancy tempered with resignation, resigna-
tion struggling with dejection, and a conscientious
determination to make the best of things. A sad
“ beast-of-burden,” wistful, querulous, longing,
disappointed kind of look have our girls as they
Stand in the sleepy sunshine, listening to the
sleepy birds twittering in the sleepy elms that
wave in the sleepy streets of the sleepy village !
DOROTHY McORAE.
“Reserved for Officers.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
GOLDSMITH’S veteran “wept o’er his
wounds and deeds of sorrow done ” ; but,
although my veteran had been badly hit
at Eland’s River, and his deeds of sorrow ranged
from the picking, on the end of a bayonet, of a
“ hands-upper ” from a patch of mimosa bush, to
the liberation of an infuriated swarm of bees
inside an officer’s tent, the only moisture observ-
able on his face came from contact with a beer
glass.
Nor, unlike most veterans, was he vain of his
geographical knowledge. The scene of his ex-
ploits was always identified in the same way. If
it wasn’t the place where he and his mates were
drunk and smashed something, then it was the
place where they were sober and stole something.
In fact this recital of burning, smashing, and
stealing was growing monotonous, when suddenly
came a welcome relief in the evidence of the Aus-
tralian’s desire, under all sorts of conditions, to be
clean—physically, that is. The last flicker of lime-
light left over from the war was just then
focussed on the case of Major Smith. Someone
had mentioned Smith, and, after a gloomy pause,
my veteran broke out savagely.
“ Blow Smith ! ” said he. “I ain’t got no time
for ’ini. We got a down on him for somethin’
what happened up Rhodesia.
“O’course, you’ve heard all about the tough
times and starvation tracks we struck up there,
but what settled us—we was mostly pretty hard
doers, too—was the dirt ’n’ fleas ’njlcther things
what comes to a man from turnin’ in all standin’
for weeks at a time. We was all the same, officers
’n’ men, ’n’ it was awful. In p’int of cleanliness
you couldn’t tell a dook from any old Domain
’owler.
“ Well, we was camped in the scrub up there,
bush veldt they call it, and one day Barcoo Bill—
he was alius skitin’ about urovin’ ’n’ we christened
him Barcoo —found a spring. Barcoo was alius
findm’ things. Once he seen a allygator ’n’
another time he reckoned he was woke up by a
lion roarin’ in his ear. But any’ow, when he put
us onter the spring, I tell yer we rushed it like a
second Wyalong.
“ It was bubblin’ outer some rocks, ’n’ at the
bottom was a hole ’bout six foot deep, a sorter
natural basin, an’ it was lovely. So we felt like
strikin’ a tank out back after a ‘Darlin’ shower’
on’y about a hundred times better. An’ then this
Major, ’oo be rights wasn’t our boss at all, puts in
his spoke. They must ’a’ noticed we was lookin’
light ’n’ frisky on it, ’n' next day Smith gets the
strength of it. And would yer b’leeve it, ’e ’ad
ther immortal hide to run some barb wire round
our spring an’ put up a notice, ‘ Reserved for
Officers,’ same as some o’ the chaps nailed on a
ladies’ carriage at De Aar ? An’ mind yer, ’e
wasn’t our boss at all.
“Well, o’ course, ther mob went away sore
over it, an’ Barcoo cussed until some o’ the fellers
in ther next tent told him it was bad manners to
be whisperin’. ‘I found ther flamin’ ’ole,’ said
Barcoo. ‘ An’ I’d like to get me lamps on the
cove what’ll stop me from swimmin’ in it.’
“Just then Sonny Hanson, ’oo had come over
to invite Barcoo to a little game, chips in. Sonny
was a quiet, sleepy sorter bloke. ’ls old man
was a parson, but he was terrible fond of a game,
an’ would play for anything, from matches
up. ‘Nice sort of a soldier, you are,’ says
Sonny. ‘Begrudgin’ the poor officer a bath.
I say let ’im ’ave it, an’ welcome.’ An’
then, just as Barcoo was goin’ to fasten on to him,
he smiles in a sleepy sorter way. ‘ Come over to
ther fire, Barcoo,’ says he, rattlin’ a dice-box ho
allers carried with his prayer-book ’n’ things, ‘ ’n’
if you like to bring them dog tins over I’ll show
yer a new game.”
* » * ♦
“There was a ’ell of a row next mornin’ when
the officers came back from their dip. I thought
Barcoo ’ad found another allygator when I ’eard
them in the distance. One of ’em ’ad his shirt
tied round his ’oof, an’ a English johnny who was
peggin’ in with them looked as if he’d ’ad a willin’
go with an indignant cactus plant.
“ Seems the fence ’ad disappeared in the night,
an’ while they was wonderin’ where it ’ad got to
most of ’em suddenly found it in the bottom o’
the spring, ’n’ about a cartload of empty tins
with it, not to mention some thorn bush ’n’ a
broken bottle.
“ The ‘ Reserved ’ notice was still standin’, ’n’
afterwards Sonny wrote on it ‘ You’re welcome.’
“We reckoned ther Bores must ’a’ done it.
Any’ow, we blamed it on ter them. We knew
they wouldn’t mind.”
NULLA.


Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is a wonderful medicine. We
give below the testimony of a grateful husband:
■ •»' :■
Va
fc>ss=—
%
\-Zy-
iJJMt
“My wife has all her life long been
subject to rush of blood to the head
and fainting-fits. In later years these
were more frequent, and her skin be-
came very sallow. She had scarcely
any appetite, and it was not safe to
leave her at home by herself for fear
of a fainting-fit. I may state we had
medical advice both in England and
hero in New Zealand, but it did no
good; so, some months back, I sug-
gested that she take Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla. She protested against it, be-
lieving it to be quackery, but I pur-
chased a bottle just to give it a trial,
and the result was marvelous. Mrs.
Moul has taken five bottles, and now
she is a new creature.
I forward you her photo by this mail, and you can make what use
you think proper of this statement. Yours gratefully.”— John F.
Moul, Ty-Coed, Swanson, Auckland.
P.S. I omitted stating that the photo was taken since using the
Sarsaparilla.”
Be sure you get the right kind of Sarsaparilla—“AYEß’S.” Don’t
let anybody induce you to try some other kind. You will regret it
if you do.
If you are not in good, vigorous health, if your nerves are not so
strong as you wish, if you are feeling run down and depressed, buy
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
:oday and begin the certain cure.
Prepared by £>K,. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mw;.. IT. 8. A..
Specialist
ln 'Ur'lßen and w^m™ S No Mapwiw* 1 Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed
Hlqa[> fijlon treatment by post a specialty.
JsfiJS ALFALINE VITALITY PHIS
■si sgss-ssss
Seif-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency and Desnair
® s - & 12s * Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double’Course Iss.e'd
BLOOD CUBE PILLS. Grat^ 00 "^? 1?US Blo° d and Skin Diseases,
bLUUU CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
n„r„5 eak W ° men ISSfifp&.^ a £gaCfo|SsSo. e &s%.“* S ’ 236 ‘
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes 6s Course
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powdlrs 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY
Branches : 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE - ’
481 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.; 111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE ?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N. 2.
HANS PETER RASMUSSEN.
gs
r Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION,
CONSTIPATION. \
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
There’s SECURITY in
ARTERS
P ITTLE
IVER
PI LLSa
Th* touch*. LIVER
Be Sure they are
•Small Pill. Small Dos*. Small Price.
Carter's
er
te Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
omach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
foour Eructations, Bilious Afiections.
DINNEFORDS
MAGN
SIA
V-
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout;
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
' for
Regular Use.
bser
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use ot
0& RI COfcO'3
1.1 P *j
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DE3ILITY.
Used for over a (Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating’
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in-one for 36s ; freight Is. &
ls6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne : F. H. Fauldingr & Co., 16 O'Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
DR. J. DOLUS BROWNE'S
THLORODYNE
Oi.utiM). —Genuine Chlorodyne.
ESery buttle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIAKRHCEA, &c. bears on the
(government Stamp the name of
the Inventor—-
Pr.J. CO LLIS BROWN €
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I Were asked which single medicine I should
P'etcr to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, 1 should say Ohlokohynk. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the*
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation. ■*
TO BE FIRST
is to occupy an enviable position. Many aspire for first place,
but few attain it. To acquire the lead, aspiration and push
alone are not sufficient—merit is required. This is exactly why
s f and f -remost among medicires—they possess real merit, and have proved
tnemselves worthy of a permanent position in the family medicine chest,
Trial purchasers become regular users, because they find nothing to equal
BEE CHAM'S PILLS for dispellir g
BILIOUS & NERVOUS DISORDERS, INDIGESTION,
SICK HEADACHE, LANGUOR,
and other such troubles which arise from a Disordered Stomach.
They regulate and tone up the entire system. The genuine wortn oi
BEECH AM'S PILLS has obtained for them Pe unique position of having
the Largest Sale of any Patent Medicine in the Wcrld.
THE SALE EXCEEDS SIX LIILLIOH BOXES ANNUALLY.
Sold everywhere in Boxes, price ///.} [56 pills) and 2 9 {I6S pills).
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
■ Completely overcome Deafness
lanci If i*;a d Noises, no tiiatter of
I how long standing. Are the same
'to the ear* as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months- without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet* Free.
Address—A. M. NABT, 145 Collins St.. Melbourn*.
AN INTERESTING
l)Oi»K HOK \ol ,\(. MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous anil other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality: Kuli- directions for self-treat-
lnent with internal It,medics, which has Cured thousands
2i<v e rn ! 'Bi , r. ,U ** l ' osl ' all l,O Pe before reading this hook.
SEN I hit hi. on AI’PI.K 'ATION, Address, 'SECRETARY
Boi’AXIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chamners, Elizabeth-
street, Svdnev
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness
Atrophy, Debility, \ aricocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annuallv. itemed*'
sent oy mail in plain packages. When CURED we ehame
you not more than TWENTY-EIVE SHIELINGS. b
Write To-day.
Address HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
w-Mmx
i/2
0
&
m
■V
S:
x/<
//
FREE TRIAL!!
NOT A PENNY COWN.
Simply- drop its. a-post cird with vour name
and w will arrange to forward one of-our
lat s in proved high grade EEECTRIC ;
BEETS FREE. !
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever nveuted.
It will cure all ases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion,- Eumbaao, Weak Back. Kid-
ney Live , am 1 St mach.CoifjplaiutSj Nervous-
ness and all weakness of Men and Women. H
We will give Free
to each per-
son writing
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book which should be read by all
Men and Women, if you are weak in anyway
delay no longer but write to-day for our splen-
did book and Belt Free /'Write to-day
The Dr Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
W THOUSANDS OFV
RUPTURED
PEOPLE have been and are being
CURED
by Dr Langston’s Perfect
Combined Treatment.
No Pain, Operation, or Detention from
Work. Immediate Belief, and Certain
Cure. Convincing Testimony aAd Refer-
ences from nearly every town in Australia
sent with iny Valuable Book—
“RUPTURE, ITS HISTORY 4 CURE”
FREE.
Posted 2 Stamps.
THE LANGSTON INSTITUTE
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
gs
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in 4g
hours without
Each Capsule bears the name nr
mt
martikt, m.d
DR.
'■» Consulting Physician, &c.
MEN and WOMEN SUF-
FERERS, if you have failed
to find relief elsewhere, if
you are despondent, and des-
pair of ever being cured,
CONSULT DR. MARTIN.
He is the Best Authority
on all Diseases of flen and
Wqpien. His successes in
Chronic and so-called In-
curable cases have gained
for him the LARGEST CON-
m
vy
Men
A NO
WOMEN
SULTING PRACTICE in the
Commonwealth.
DR. MARTIN’S long ex-
perience as a CLINICAL
SPECIALIST in the Hospitals
of Europe has made his
judgment infallible on Pri-
vate, IVervous, Blood, Skin,
and t.enito Urinary Diseases.
He lias NEVER FAILED to
Permanently Cure any case
he has undertaken.
Free to All
.uiiL'E?? 6 specimen copy of DR. MARTIN’S great work on the DSS=AS«=<i (IP mcm .un
WOMEN ; Contains 34 Illustrations and Colored PI , u-s. Write to d® v f»r“?. Bf*
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“THE DISEASES OF MEN AND
WOMEN AND THEIR HOME CURE,”
" e irom , vlI J>w ,owners, 7/6: or ,f r ,,u
Th&nv, 0 ; "° W ’ ‘ a ™ Py - "•'»• »<• Pa>T£D FREE for 33.
Bvo ,
papeHlwhen writing’.)


yoOr Latiijdry—Sir—
The unpunctual characteristics of
Voiir laundry peed never trouhle
you if you keep one of our
Cclloloid Collars
handy in your drawer. Thev
retain their nice white gjossv
appearance, and look as well as
linen collars, besides saving CO
per cent, on your, washing bill.
All
S'zes.
All
styles
WORTHINGTON PUMP CO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
s
SV3PSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET
SYDNEY.
Perdriau Rubber Co.^
270 Georgfe St., Sydney.
A Policy for the Commonwealth:
Price 6d.
Posted Bd.
Rabbit Skins, Marsupials, Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins and Wool ~9f «w>. 1
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., SYDNEY
HIGHEST VALUES, SPEEDY RETURNS. E. J. E. MACKENZIE, Manager.
HARDY’S
w
TINTARA
Wl N ES.
700 Prizes.
Sydney, Melbourne! and Adelaida.
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
Tli ■iih.ne cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill lor
Mill's or Ouarries. Weiulit about ISlb . Operated bv compressed air, consuming about 25 CUBIC FEET
•of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Strictly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
SOLE AGENTS: 111 £ I I CMDRIFRF 508 L,TTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
—I »f. CL Urn LClllrnlCnCi And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Every Pump Guaranteed.
m
•U
“There is No Better Pump
than the ‘KNOWLES.’”
• : ' mm m ll uuuMJUiMj ''' •** yV ' Vv '-
• KNOWLES PUMPS for every kind of service
kept in stock. SINGLE and DUPLEX, VERTICAL
and HORIZONTAL.
Boiler Feed or Pressure Pumps, Double Acting Plunger Pumps,
Tank or Light Service Pumps, Vertical Sinking Pumps,
Air Pumps, Circulating Pumps, etc.
PARKE & LACY CO., u*
60 CLARENCE ST., SIDNEY.
Melbourne Selling Agents s Bevan and Edwards Propy., Ltd., Latrobe Street.
PATERNOSTER’S
B PILLS B
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and ail pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
PQiNGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can bs obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
lllllllllllilllliilill
■ = c?,nc.'=3^.:s
akSkm
>c "oonca
nsefitfMnH
BWBSB
Fred Metters & Co.
RANGES
»- STOVES
MHuuiiiti uieis in N.S. Wales,
South Australia and West
A ustralia.
All influential storekeepers act as
our agents and stock our Stoves.
HEAD OFFICES :
558 George St., Sydney.
142 Rundie St., Adelaide.
William St., Perth.
Sol
by
all first-
class stores
in Australasia.
No. 81781 2-BLADE
“PAMPA,”
Cocoa Handle 116
Buffalo Handle- 21-
Stag Handle -m- 2j6
er
ser
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
S"ar.X>3XTE!-X".
The Victor in All
(Recent Slime Saving
Competitions.
DURABLE.
GAPAGB7Y--12 Tons in 24 Hours.
POWE-n REQUIRED— f Horse.
♦—
Adjustable Dressing
Surface to suit all
Ore Gravities.
«\.T f/' £\ i- ".'• :';•; -■
m
M,
1 I
The Sperry Slimer.
The Manager, Bombay
Syndicate Ltd., Coster-
field, Victoria, says:
“ The Sperry Slimer is
a great success with our
Slimes. It saves splendid
concentrates, 63per cent,
antimony and 2oz. gold
per ton.”
Sole Licensees
and
Manufadurers:
N. GUTHRIDGE Ltd.. Sydney &. Melbourne
