

IDE-W-A-IVS
SIXTY YEARS’
REPUTATION.
gfd
107 Kent
Mining anti Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’
Sydney,
Machinery,
nir.'Nrir.p at. tponmongEßY
Street,
—won—
and Sawmill
NBW AMD SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS
Requisites
available.
Mining
ĥ
3E3C Q H T.
adieu’s Orient fiote!
«i-l,
■BBB
PIONEER
LEATHER
WB E LTISM G
every belt guaranteed.
J. C. Ludowicl & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
and Electrically Driven
gf
For DRYING WOOL,
EXTRACTING TALLOW
from MEAT, REFUSE,
SOLE AGENTS— As used in the Principal Wool Scours and Meat 0^ s tliroU^ 0
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 7 Bent St., Sydney,
N
i
Take it back,
I must have -
PineAppie Brand
w
h
■dIAIWI MVMSia
IVAOH 3EI-3CX
@
f.
\ ■
'i ! • - r
Economy in Current.
Equality of Light.
THE
ESM a SWAH
United Electric
Light Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
58 CLARENCE ST.,
SYDNEY.
Queensland Dep6t:
Commonwealth ■:{
Buildings,
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE.
~cL
u
EGIDE NOW
and
Send
To
your
-
GOLDSBROUGH, HIIORT & CO.
WOOL COMMISSION 2 Per Cent.
The Only Charge to GROWERS.
LIMITED
E. J. E. MACKENZIE, Manager.
fgj
gh
THE WOBLD’B BEST
OIL ENGINE
IRRIGATION PLANTS
SUPPLIED.
AUTOMATIC IGNITION.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
ALL SIZES.
STATIONARY and PORTABLE.
SIMPLE.
ECONOMICAL
RELIABLE.
CHAS. BURRELL & SON’S (THETFORD, ENGLAND),
World FAMOUS TRACTION ENGINE AND ROAD LOCOMOTIVE. Best
and most Economical for Ploughing and general Haulage for
FARMER, SQUATTER, MINER and MERCHANT.
Send for Illustrated Catalogues B of Oil and Traction Engines to
E. COULiSON,
lO a’BECKETT STREET MELBOURNE.
fjghg
mm
ACER
As supplied to the 4 P. & o.’ & ‘N.D.L.’ Steamers.
Brewed & Bottled by KAISER BREWERY
BECK & CO., BREMEN, GERMANY.
h m mm arm m BA m ~~~ ■ m m n mm
WUNDERLICH
Regd.
UPE^)
Mark.
METAL
IMPORTERS OF
Crockery, Glassware, E.P.
Ware, Cutlery, Fancy Goods,
Watches, Clocks, Jewellery,
Tobacconists’ Supplies, &C,f &c,
(Wholesale and Retail).
I
%
;
156-160 Elizabeth St.,
New Edition Wholesale Catalogue Now Ready— Post free.
j ĥ
The Bulletin
Vol. 27.—N0. 1402.]
[Thursday, December 27, 1906.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW
BOOKS
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.,
71 CASTLEREACH ST.,
SYDNEY. 1
Wvllarde, As Ye Have Sown, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, post 6d.
Parsons, Garrick and His Circle, 8s 6d, post Bd,
Richey, The Builders’ Mechanic, Bs, post 6d.
Sullivan, Alcoholism, 4s, postage 6d.
Headley, Life and Evolution,los, posted.
Qrey, Sir George, Polynesian Mythology, Is,
New Zealand Verse, “ Canterbury Poets,” Is
3d.
Hyatt, The Pocket Thomas Hardy, 2s 6d, post 3d.
Hooking-, A Gamble With Life, 25.6 d & 3s 6d, post 6d.
Graham Travers, Growth : a Novel, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, post 6d.
Shenstone, The New Physics and Chemistry, 9s, p. Bd.
Dawson and Carte*, Producer Gas, 12s 6d, post 6d.
Bayley, The Complete Photographer, illus., 8s 6d, p. Is.
Carpenter, The Child in Art, illus., 6s, postage Bd.
THE WFRE TAPPERS,
By ARTHUR STRINGER, illustrated, cloth 3s 6d, postage 6d. extra.
A surprising l story with a new, theme. The efforts of, the
heroine to extricate herself and the man she loves, an electrical inventor, from the environment in which by sheer
force ®f circumstances they are placed, arouse intense interest throughout this unusal and absorbing novel.
mHE BOOKFELLOW’S, a Library Book-Shop,
Hamilton Street, Sydney.
"DOOKS by A.G.S. —A Queenslander’s Travel*
-L > Notes, 18.,p. Is. 3d. ; Oblation, illus. N.
Lindsay, 2s. 6d., p. 2s. 9d.; The Bed Pagan
(paper) 2s. 6d., p. 2s, 9d. (cloth) 4s. 6d., p. 55.;
Victor Daley, Is. 3d., p. Is. 4d.
mHE BOOKFELLOW, a Literary Magazine,
weekly from 3rd January. Take my advice
and SUBSCRIBE NOW from the first number.
16s. a year ; Bs. 6d. half-year ; 4s. 4d. quarterly,
post-free.—A. G. STEPHENS, Hamilton Street,
Sydney.
THE AUTHOR WITH THE LARGEST PUBLIC
The Sales of Nat Gould's Novels exceed
5*000,000 (five million) copies
Mr. John Lons has, at enormous expense,
secured the sole rights of publishing all Mr. Nat
Gould’s New Novels. They are produced in more
attractive style than hitherto, with cover designs
in colours by Mr. Harrington Bird, the well-known
horse painter. The following are those published
by Mr. John Long :
Price 2s. each, picture boards; or cloth gilt
2s. 6d. each. Crown Bvo, 288 pages.
Fourth Year op Publication
NAT GOULD’S ANNUAL
(1906)
THE PET OF THE PUBLIC
Price Is., large demy Bvo., 160 pages, sewed,
cover in colors
Note. —Tnis Popular Annual, containing a com-
plete and entirely new long Novel by Nat Gould
will be ready in November.
N.B.—A Novel by Nat Gould without the im-
print of John Long is an old one. Therefore in-
sist on being supplied with those bearing the
imprint of John Long.
London : JOHN LONG, Publisher
13 & 14 NORRIS ST., HAYMARKET
And at every Library and Book»ellci’’s Dhrouahout
the British Empire.
FOR THE LUNGS, THE THROAT, THE VOICE.
The Great. .
ANTISEPTIC
REMEDY
For the Cure of
Bronchitis /
and Influenza !
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
ĝ
A. The Larynx, or organ of voice.
B. The Trachea, or, windpipe.
0. The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
THE “AUSTRALASIAN
MEDICAL GAZETTE”
Bays
‘Of great service ia
flections of the
oice and throat.”
MT HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
w .. , i. • j t HurantmniflnL
Unlike bough Medicines, do nofc cause gastric discomfort or digestive
“Tot'Praotitioner'’ says “ Usefglln TonaUitis, Pharyngitis, and similar. adments.
+Softf by all Chemists . Tins, Is. Stf.
/
THE RED PAGE
THE GENTLE ART OF MARING
RUB[?]IY[?]TS
OF THE making of Rubaiyats there is no
end. The nonsense-versifiers are hot
upon the old tent-maker’s track. He
blazed his trail so unmistakably with capital
letters that it is an easy road to follow ; and
the whole mob of parodists are out upon the
wallaby, ruthlessly rubaiyatting. It would
surely please the old Persian philosopher
if he knew how famous he already was—in
parody. For—judging by the booksellers’
sales there has grown up in recent
years a class of readers who know
not the philosophy of Omar-Fitzgerald, who
have never delightedly dipped into that
edition illustrated by Gilbert James, or the
hundred other dainty bindings of that book
of verses underneath the bough, yet who
quote with a quick appreciation and a know-
ing pride the Rubaiyats of Carolyn Wells, or
Oliver Herford, or Gelett Burgess. A fair
student of light literature puts it charmingly
to me : “ The Rubaiyat of a Persian Kitten
is so much easier to understand than that old
thing by Omar Whatsisname, and the illus-
trations are so much funnier —and, after all,
the philosophy is much about the same! ” And
I sometimes think the old tent-maker must
forgive this vicarious worshipper as he sees
her hover perplexedly at the book-seller’s
counter, and putting his book down with a
pretty sigh, take up The Rubaiyat of a
Motor Car to send to her aunt. The dear
old lady could never understand who Pehlevi
or Jamshyd were—and her dog has quite
recently been run over by a motor-car !
Probably the best thing about Gelett
Burgess’s parody is its title, Omar Cayenne
(W. Dymock). Burgess, the author of that
exquisite epic called The Purple Cow, has,
however, some good things yet left to say.
Wake ! for the Hack can scatter into light
Shakespeare and Dante in a single Night!
—The Penny-a-liner is Abroad, and strikes
Our Modern Literature with a blithering Blight.
You know, my Friends, I’ve done with Purple
Cows,
And long to sober Fiction paid my Vows;
Spontaneous Glee is mighty hard to Sell—
’Twas Carolyn Wells that shot across my Bows.
Ah, Love ! could you and I perchance succeed
In boiling down the Million Books we read
Into One Book, and edit that a Bit—
They’d be a World's Best Literature, indeed !
And when, dear Reader, ?/om shall chance to spend
A night within The Hall of Fame—attend !
that blissful call, you find the Spot
When I broke in—don’t turn me down, my friend !
Burgess’s statement that Carolyn Wells,
specimens of whose work have recently been
quoted on this page, has shot across his bows
is confirmed by her Rubaiyat of a Motor Car,
unctuously illustrated in c lor by F. Stroth-
mann (W. Dymock). Carolyn aptly often
wonders
“ what the Dealers buy
One-half so Easy as the Folks they Sell.”
They say The Lion and The Lizard keep
The record for Hill-climbing, rough and steep ;
Ido not know those Makes. I’ll hunt them up.
I’d like to Buy one, if they’re not too Cheap.
A Look of Anguish underneath the Car,
Another Start, —a Squeak,—a Grunt, —a Jar !
The Aspiration Pipe is working loose !
The Vapor can’t get out! And there you are !
The Car no Question makes of Ayes or Noes,
But Here or There, as strikes its Fancy, goes.
But the Bystander, offering Advice,
He knows about it all— He knows — He KNOWS!
Ah, Love, could you and I with him conspire
To fix this Sorry Scheme of Things entire,
Would we not take it all apart, and then
Remodel with no danger of Back-Fire ?
The Rubaiyat of a Persian Kitten, by
Oliver Herford (W. Dymock), however,
must be regarded as the master-parody of
Omar. It is true that half the humor is to
be found in the illustrations by the author ;
but the parody is wonderfully close and
clever. Let us close this dissertation upon
butterflies’ wings by quoting some of Her-
ford’s happiest stanzas (old Omar smiling the
while !) :
The Mouse makes merry ’mid the Larder Shelves,
The Bird for Dinner in the Garden delves.
I often wonder what the creatures eat
One-half so toothsome as they are Themselves.
I sometimes think the Pussy-Willows grey
Are Angel Kittens who have lost their way,
And every Bulrush on the river bank
A Cat-Tail from some lovely Cat astray.
Myself when young did eagerly frequent
The Backyard fence and heard great Argument
About it, and About, yet evermore
Came out with fewer fur than in I went.
And that Inverted Bowl of Skyblue Delf,
That helpless lies upon the Pantry Shelf-
Lift. not your eyes to It for help, for It
Is quite as empty as you are yourself.
Some for the Glories of the Sole, and Some
Mew for the proper Bowl of Milk to come.
Ah, take the fish and let your credit go,
And plead the rumble of an empty Turn.
THE REAL ROMANCE
Among the few great biographies must be
placed Filson Young’s Christopher Columbus
(Grant Richards, per Sydney Book Club). The
author, before being attracted by the stirring
story of the discovery of the New World, has
haphazardly attacked a curious assortment of
subjects. The versatile Filson Young has issued
one novel, The Sands of Pleasure, has criticised
the great musicians in another volume titled
Mastersingers, has perpetrated The Happy
Motorist, and has admirably studied the
question of Ireland at the Cross Iloads.
But it is in his humap picture of the
great navigator who was also a great
liar, a great mystic, as an administrator a
great failure, a great poseur , in his great
moments greatly heroic, and, at last, to Fer-
dinand of Arragon a great nuisance—
that Young has found his mAtier. His story
of that first groping voyage across the dark-
ness of the unknown towards an Idea moves
with something of the steady recklessness, some-
thing of the rich dignity of the Genoese pilot
who “ bore Christ on his shoulders across
stormy seas, and found Him often, in that
dim light, a heavy and troublesome burden.”
The story of the subsequent voyages, of the
disasters that overtook the colonisation of
Espanola (Hayti), of sea-peril and recurrent
mutiny, desperate expedients and dreadful
battles, has the breathless and convincing interest
almost of Stevenson’s Treasure Island. And,
curiously intertangled with the Great Idea was
the ever-present lure of fabulous riches that
led these wanderers further and further into the
unknown in their frenzied search for the land of
pearls and gold. Here is the true romance set in
a world and a time that were compact of romance.
It was a period when all things were possible.
Voyaging vaguely through that world of wonder,
Columbus, though he never guessed that he had
discovered a new continent, was sure that he had
found the real Garden of Eden. All these are the
bare facts of history, but Young has clothed them
in a sumptuous garment. The story of the dis-
covery of Australasia still waits as graphic and
human an historian. Briefly we may glimpse at
Young’s style :
“ He was moving in a world of enchantment; the
weather was like no weather in any known part
of the world; there were fogs, black and thick,
which blew suddenly from the low marshy land,
and blew away as suddenly; the sea was some-
times white as milk, sometimes black as pitch,
sometimes purple, sometimes green ; scarlet
cranes stood looking at them as they slid past the
low sandbanks ; the warm, foggy air smelt of
roses ; shoals of turtles covered the waters ; black
butterflies circled in the mist; and the fever that
was beginning to work in the Admiral’s blood
mounted to his brain, so that in this land of bad
dreams his fixed ideas began to dominate all his
other faculties, and he decided that he must cer-
tainly be on the coast of Cathay, in the magic
land described by Marco Polo. . . .
“To live within sound or sight of the sea is to be
conscious of a voice or countenance that holds you
in unyielding bonds. The voice, being continuous,
creeps into the very pulses, and becomes part of
the pervading sound or silence of a man’s environ-
ment ; and the face, although it never regards
him, holds him with its changes and occupies his
mind with its everlasting riddle. Its profound in-
attention to man is part of its power over his
imagination; for, although it is so absorbed and
busy, and has regard for sun and stars and a
melancholy frowning concentration upon the foot
of cliffs, it is never face to face with man : he can
never come within the focus of its great glancing
vision. ... In the man who lives much on the
sea we always find, if he be articulate, something
of the dreamer and the mystic; that very con-
dition of mind, indeed, which we have traced in
Columbus, which sometimes led him to such
heights, and sometimes brought him to such
variance with the human code.”
SUST TWAIN
In the North American Review Mark Twain’s
gossipy autobiography continues to furnish good
things—in patches. The brief life-story of his
daughter Susy, who died in her twenty-fourth
year, is told with a quiet pathos. Twain quotes
from the biography that Susy, in her fourteenth
year, wrote of her father, retaining her “fre-
quently desperate spelling.” Twain observes
that “it is quite evident that several times at
breakfast and dinner in those long-past days I
was posing for the biography. In fact, I clearly
remember that I was doing that—and I also
remember that Susy detected it. I remember
saying a very smart thing, with a good deal of an
air, at the breakfast-table one morning, and that
Susy observed to her mother privately, a little
later, that papa was doing that for the biography.”
Susy’s unbiassed opinion of her father’s appear-
ance corrects some errors that have worried the
humorist.
“ Papa’s appearance has been described many
times, but very incorrectly. He has beautiful
gray hair, not any too thick, or any too long, but
just right; a Roman nose, which greatly improves
the beauty of his features ; kind blue eyes, and a
small moustache. . . . He has a very good figure—
in short, he is an extraordinary fine-looking man.
All his features are perfect, except he hasn’t
extraordinary teeth. . . . He has got a temper;
but we all of us have in this family. . . . He is the
loveliest man I ever saw or ever hope to see—and
oh, so absent-minded. He does tell perfectly
delightful stories. Clara and I used to sit on
each arm of his phair and listen while he told us
stories about the pictures on the wall. . . . Papa
uses strong language, but I have an idea not nearly
so strong as when he first married mamma. . . .
Grandma couldn’t make papa go to school, so she
let him go into a printing-office to learn the trade.
He did so, and gradually picked up enough
education to enable him to do about as well as
those who were more studious in early life...
Papa was about twenty years old when he went
on the Mississippi as a pilot. .Just before he
started on his trip Grandma Clemens asked him
to promise her on the Bible not to touch intoxi-
cating liquors or swear, and he said, ‘Yes,
mother, I will,’ and he kept that promise seven
years, when Grandma released him from it.”
THE PATH TO PROPHECY
An interesting piece of self-analysis, in which
H. G. Wells traces the development of his special
way of thinking, his prophetic habit of mind, is
prefixed to his essay on The Future of America
(G. Bell and Sons, Lond.).
“ I am curiously not interested in things (he
explains), and curiously interested in the conse-
quences of things... This habit of mind confronts
and perplexes my sense of things that simply are,
with my brooding pre-occupation with how they
will shape presently, what they will lead to, wfiat
seed they will sow, and how they will wear...
There are days, indeed, when it makes life seem
so transparent and flimsy, seem so dissolving, so
passing on to an equally transitory senes of con-
sequences, that the enhanced sense of instability
becomes restlessness and distress ; but, on the
other hand, nothing that exists, nothing what-
ever, remains altogether vulgar or dull and dead
or hopeless in its light. But the interest is
shifted. The pomp and splendor of established
order, the braying triumphs, ceremonies, con-
sumations, one sees these glittering shows tor
what they are—through their threadbare grand-
eur shine the little significant things that will
make the future.
“ To begin with, I remember that to me in my
boyhood speculation about the Future was a
monstrous joke. This present sort of thing, 1
believed, was going on for a time, interesting
personally, perhaps, but as a whole inconsecutive,
and then—it might be in my lifetime or a little
after it—there would be trumpets, and shoutings,
and celestial phenomena, a battle of Armageddon,
and the Judgment. .. . To talk about the Man
of the Year Million was. of course, in the face of
this great conviction, a whimsical play of fancy.
The year Million was just as impossible, just as
gaily nonsensical as fairyland.”
His second stage, as a result of a study of
biology, was of an end averted, a blackness and a
vagueness about the endless vista of years ahead,
that was tremendous —that terrified/ “ All this
scheme of things, life, force, destiny, which began
not six thousand years, mark you, but an infinity
ago, that has developed out of such strange, weird
shapes and incredible first intentions, out of
gaseous nebulae, .carboniferous swamps, saurian
giantry, and arboreal apes, is by the same token
to continue, developing into what? ... Ihe
books about the future that followed the first
stimulus of the world’s realisation of the impli-
cations of Darwinian science have all something
of the monstrous experimental imaginings of
children. I myself, in my microcosmic way,
duplicated my times. About the first thing I
ever wrote —it survives in an altered form as one
of a bookful.of essays—was of this type. The
Man of the Yew Million was presented as a sort
of pantomime head and a shrivelled body, and
years after that, the Time Machine , my first pub-
lished book, ran in the same vein.”
The third phase was to s nor ten the range of
outlook, to attempt something a little more proxi-
mate than the final destiny of man. “One becomes
more systematic, one sets to work to trace the
great changes of the last century or so, and one
produces these in a straight line and according to
the rule of three. In that fashion one got a sort
of gigantesque caricature of the existing world,
everything swollen to vast proportions and mas-
sive beyond measure. In my case that phase pro-
duced a book, When the bleeper Wakes.”
From this stage Wells went inevitably on to a
“scientific” attack upon the future....“ One
attempts a rude, wide analysis of contemporary
history, one seeks to clear and detach operating
causes and to work them out, and so, combining
this necessary set of consequences with that, to
achieve a synthetic forecast in terms just as broad
and general and vague as the causes considered
are few. I made, it happens, an experiment in
this scientific sort of prophecy in a book called
Anticipations, and I gave an altogether exces-
sive exposition and defence of it. .. In my Anti-
cipations I had intended simply to work out and
foretell, and, before I had finished, I was in a fine
full blast of exhortation.”
•So the prophetic mind comes out at last on the
other side of the “scientific” method, into the
large temperance, the valiant inconclusiveness,
the released creativeness of philosophy. “ Much
may be foretold as certain, much more as possible,
but the last decisions, and the greatest decisions,
lie in the hearts and wills of unique, incal-
culable men. With them we have to deal
as our ultimate reality in all these matters, and
our methods have to be not, ‘ scientific ’ at all for
all the greater issues, but critical, literary, even —
if you will—artistic. Here insight is of more
account than induction, and the perception of fine
tones than the counting of heads. Science deals
with necessity, and necessity is here but the firm
ground on which our freedom goes. One passes
from affairsof predestination to affairsof free-will.”
The Christmas number of The Gadfly (Adelaide)
is a cheerful and lavishly illustrated issue, full of
good things Australian, unsmeared by the slimy
trail of the syndicated story.
“ O’Fipp” remarks that misuse of the comma,
recently referred to in Kipling’s case, was in-
creased enormously by the introduction of the
linotype. Many a' compositor who knew how to
punctuate in deliberate hand-setting cast punctua-
tive reason to the winds when he became a lino,
operator. Commas especially became thick as
autumnal leaves. /The reasons for this were that
the speed demanded left little time to think, and
that commas, if deemed superfluous by the proof-
reader, could be cut out by the “slugger” who
arranged the corrected lines. After perseveringly
deleting commas for some years most readers
found that the practice wore out their wrists,
irked the “slugger,” and made no impression on
the average operator. Consequently many gave
it up in despair. That is a main reason for the
superabundance of commas in much of the machine-
set book and newspaper work of to-day.
THE RUBAIYAT OF AUSTRALIA
The distressing- examples of the painful art
of parody upon this page suggest that so
far the Rubaiyat of Australia has not been
written. The red page calls upon the poets
to make up that serious omission, and will
reward the Omar of the Bush with one
guinea. The last day for receiving Rubaiyats
will be the last day of January. The Rubaiyats
must be in the original metre, and must not ex-
ceed ten stanzas. One professor of parody defines
the art thus : There are three great divisions. The
first, mere word-rendering, is simply an imitation
of the original, and depends for its interest entirely
upon the substitution of a trivial or commonplace
motive for a lofty one, and following as nearly as
possible the original words. -Form-renderingis the
imitation of the style of an author, preferably
an author given to mannerisms or affectation.
The third division, srnse-rendering, is by far the
most meritorious, and utilizes not only the
original writer’s diction and style, but follows a
train of thought precisely along the lines that he
would have pursued from the given premises. It
is the third sort of parody that the red page wants
for its Rubaiyat of Bill Khayyam, its philosophy
of the back-blocks.
It has been thought worth while by Lewis Mel-
ville to write the life of that poor libertine,
George IV., under the title of The First Gentle-
man of Europe. (Hutchinson. Lond. per Sydney
Book Club.) The-;two voluiq£s are little more
than a list of George’s disreputable amours, pro-
fligacies! and rascalities ; but of this man there is
little else to chronicle. Thackeray looked through
all his life and recognised nothing but “a bow
and a grin.” He stripped him of his “pad and
tailor’s work,” and could get at nothing-actual.
“ Will men of the future,” he asks. “ have nothing
better to do than to unswathe and interpret that
royal old mummy?” Lewis Melville has appar-
ently nothing better to do. He quotes some of
the epitaphs of this “fat Adonis,” the first
gentleman of Europe :
He commenced his life as he had closed it, vain-
glorious, profligate, and extravagant; he seemed
not to feel nor to understand the duties of his
station—all his gratifications were selfish—all his
indulgences sensual. Real friends he had none—
but of needy dependents he had a crowd, and
“the most finished gentleman in Europe” was
content to reign over a palace occupied by none
but courtesans and parasites. —(Huish.)
A noble, nasty course he ran.
Superbly filthy and fastidious^
He was the world’s first gentleman,
And made the appelation hideous.
—(Praed.)
A violator of his word, a libertine over head and
ears in disgrace, a despiser of domestic ties, the
companion of gamblers and demireps, a man who
has just closed half a century without a single
claim on the gratitude of his country or the respect
of posterity.— (Leigh Hunt.)


h
Sena Your WO OH. to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., LTD.
The Leading: Sydney Salesmen.
THE LEADING FISHING TACKLE DEPOT.
We carry a Complete Stock of all the Best Continental Fishing Tackle suitable for Australian Fishing.
The Largest and Most Up-to-date Stock of
Mick Simmons
FISHING TACKLE
In The
States.
gh
RODS, REELS, LINES, FLIES, MINNOWS, SPINNERS, HOOKS, Suitable for any Fish.
Rods and Reels Built to Order, Prices cn application.
All our Goods are made of the best materials and by the most improved machinery and
mechanics it is possible to obtain, therefore we can fully guarantee that they will bear
out the reputation they have gained of being the best and .cheapest in the world.
Best Spiit Cane Rods .
MICK SIMMONS
These Rods are made especially to our expert’s
designs and guaranteed to stand the severest tests.
No. 1, Pattern 800—15 feet 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip,
bronzed fittings, serrated ferrules, best snake rings,
silk whippings, rubber button and metal knife for
butt; weight, 21bs., complete in bag, £5 10s.
No. 2, Pattern 800—14 feet. 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip,
bronzed fittings, serrated ferrules, best snake rings,
silk whippings, rubber button ; weight, 14oz. ; com-
plete in bag, £4 15s.
No. 3, Pattern 800—12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip,
bronze fittings, net handle hollow for tops, best snake
rings, silk whippings, button ; weight, 130 z.; com-
plete in bag (metal brazed), £2.
No. 4, Pattern 800—11 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip,
bronzed fittings, German silver snake rings, silk
whippings, best finish, button ; weight, Boz. ; com-
plete in bag (metal brazed), 21s.
No. 5, Pattern 800a—12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip,
bronzed fittings, lock joints, net handle for tops,
serrated ferrules, best snake rings, silk whippings,
rubber button and metal knife for butt; weight,
14oz. ; complete in bag, £2 10s.
No. 6, Pattern 800a—12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, steel centre,
spiral lock joint, bronzed fittings, serrated ferrules,
German silver snake rings, silk whippings, landing
handle hollow for tops, rubber button and metal
butt ; weight 16oz. ; complete in bag, £4 10s.
Best Greenheart Rods .
Many of the leading anglers who have used our Greenheart
Rods speak in the highest praise of their durability.
No. 13, Pattern 200—13 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, balanced
grip, bronzed fittings, best snake rings, universal
winch fittings, knife for butt, superior finish ; weight,
14 ozs. ; in bag (metal brazed), 26s 6d.
No. 14, Pattern 200—12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, balanced
grip, bronzed fittings, best snake rings, universal
winch fittings, knife for butt, superior finish ; weight,
1 lb. 12 ozs. ; in bag (metal brazed), 245.
No. 15, Pattern 200—14 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, balanced
grip, bronzed fittings, best snake ring’s, universal
winch fittings, wood button, superior finish ; weight,
1 lb. 12 ozs. ; in bag (metal brazed), 30s.
No. 16, Pattern 200-12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops (one short,
balanced grip, bronzed fittings, snake rings, universal
winch fittings, knife for butt; weight, 14 ozs. ; in
No. 17a,’ Pattern 200—12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops (1 short),
balanced grip, bronzed fittings, snake rings, universal
winch fittings ; weight, 16 ozs. ; in bag, 14s.
800 a.
gh
8008.
Split Cane.
No. 400.
Genera.! Rod for Fish up to 61b. Weight.
18 Pattern 200—12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops (one short), cork grip, lock joints, bronzed fittings, best snakt
ring's universal winch fittings, wood button, superior finish ; weight, 14oz. ; in bag (metal brazed), 255.
19, Pattern 200—12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip, bronzed fittings, best snake rings, universal wind
fittings, wood button, superior finish ; weight, 14oz. ;in bag, 21s. . . , . ,
19s, Pattern 200—12 feet- 3 joints, 2 tops, wood grip, bronzed fittings, best snake rings, universal wind
fittings, screw butt, superior finish ; weight, 16oz. ; in bag, 17s 6d. .
22, Pattern 400—13 feet, 3 joints, 1 top, balanced grip, bronzed fittings, snake rings, universal winch fittings ;
weight, 14oz. ;in bag, 11s 6d. . . . , ~
23, Pattern 400—12 feet ,3 joints, 1 top, balanced grip, bronzed fittings, snake rings, universal winch fittings ,
weight, 16oz. ;in bag, 9s 6d. . . . . . , .
24, Pattern 400—10 feet, 3 joints, 1 top, balanced grip, bronzed fittings, snake rings, universal winch fittings,
wood button; weight, 160 z.; in bag, 9s 6d. . . . . ,
24a, Pattern 400—11 feet, 3 joints X top, balanced grip, bronzed fiittings, snake rings, universal winch
fittings, wood button; weight, 17oz. ;in bag, 10s 6d. , . . , . .
25, Pattern 400—12 feet, 3 joints, 1 top, balanced grip, bronzed fittings, snake rings, universal winch
fittings, wood button, strong make : weight 14oz. ;in bag, 11s. . ... ~
26, Pattern 400—14 feet, 3 joints, 1 top, balanced grip, bronzed fittings, snake rings, universal winch fittings,
weight, 14oz. :in bag, 15s 6d. . . . , «...
27 Pattern 400—14 feet, 3 joints, 1 top, balanced grip, bronzed fittings, snake rings, universal winch fittings,
wood button, in bag, strong make ; weight, lib. 60z., 16s 6d. .
29 Pattern 500—12 feet, 4 joints, 3 tops, tapered butt, best fittings, snake rings, universal winch fittings,
wood button ; weight, lib. 3oz. ;in bag, 16s 6d. Post free, N.S.W., 17s 3d ; Interstate, 17s8d.
30 Pattern 500—10 feet, 4 joints, 1 top, tapered butt, best fittings, snake rings, best winch fittings, strong
make wood button ; weight, lib. Boz. ;in bag, 9s. Post free, N.S.W., 9s 9d ; Interstate, 10s 2d. .
31 Pattern 500—12 feet, 4 joints, 1 top, tapered butt, bronzed fittings, best snake rings, universal winch
fittings, strong make, wood button ; weight, lib. 4oz. ;in bag, 15s. Post free, N.S.W., 15s 9d ; Interstate,
39 S Pattern 500—12 feet. 4 joints, 3 tops (1 short), tapered butt, best fittings, best snake rings, universal
winch fittings, extra strong make ; weight, lib. 40z.; in bags, 18s 6d. Post free, N.S.W., 19s 3d ; Interstate,
33 S Pattern 500—12 feet 4 joints, 3 tops, tapered hollow butt for carrying tops, bronzed fittings, universal
winch fittings, best snake rings, knife for butt; weight, 14ozs. ;in bag (strong make), 19s 6d. Post free
34 Pattern 500—14 feet, 4 joints, 3 tops, tapered hollow butt for carrying tops, bronzed fittings, universal
winch fittings, best snake rings, knife for butt; weight, lib. 6ozs. ; in bag (strong make), 21s.
Best Lancewood Rods «
12, Pattern 100—12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, balanced grip, best nickel fittings, best rings, best winch fittings ;
weight, llozs. ;in wood case and bag, 10s 6d. . .... . . . ,
17, Pattern 200—12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops (1 short), balanced grip, best bronzed fittings, snake rings, universal
winch fittings, wood button, superior finish ; \yeight, 15ozs. ; in bag, 13s 6d.
Best Quality Hickory Rods -
These Bods are especiallv made to our own designs and guaranteed to stand satisfactory tests.
No 35 Pattern 500—12 feet, 4 joints, 1 top, tapered butt, best fittings, upright rings, best winch fittings;
' we’ic-ht lib. 6ozin bag, 7s 6d. Post free N.S.W., 8s 3d ; Interstate, 8s Bd. , . ,
No 36 Pattern 500—11 feet, 4 joints, 2 tops (1 short), tapered butt, best fittings, snake rings, universal winch
’ fittings ; weight, 14ozs. ;in bag, Bs. Post free N.S.W., 8s 9d ; Interstate, 9s 2d. .
No 37 Pattern 500—10 feet, 5 joints, 1 top, tapered butt, best fittings, snake rings, universal winch fittings;
' weight, l3ozs. - in bag, 10s. Post free N.S.W., 10s 6d ; Interstate, 10s Bd. . .
No. 38, Pattern 500—12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, tapered butt, best fittings, snake rings, universal winch fittings;
weight, 1 lb. 14 ozs. ; in bag, 10s 6d. . .
No 39 Pattern 500—12 feet, 4 joints, 2 tops (1 short), tapered butt, best bronzed fittings, snake rings, uni-
versal S fittings, best finish ; weight, 1 lb. 2 oz. ; in bag, 9s 6d. Post free N.S.W., 10s 3d ; Inter-
No Patten!*soo—ll feet, 6 joints, 1 top, tapered butt, best fittings, best snake rings, universal winch
’ fittings • weight, 1 lb. 1 oz. ; in bag, 13s 6d. Post free N.S.W., 14s 3d ; Interstate, 14s Bd.
No 41 Pattern 500—12 feet, 4 joints, 2 tops (1 short), tapered butt, best bronzed fittings, best snake rings,
universal winch fittings, best finish, knife for butt; weight, 1 lb. 3 ozs. ;in bag, 15s. Post free N.S.W.,
No 41a Pattern 500—12 feet, 5 joints, 3 tops (1 spinning), tapered butt, best fittings, snake rings, universal
‘ winch fittings, best finish ; weight, 1 lb. sozs. ;in bag, 13s 6d. Post free in N.S.W., 14s 3d; Interstate,
Nc. 42 S Pattern 500—14 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, tapered butt, best bronzed fittings, best snake rings, universal
winch fittings, knife for butt, superior finish, strong make ; weight, 1 lb. 12 ozs. ; in bag, 27s 6d.
No. 43 Pattern 500—10 feet, 4 joints, 1 top, tapered butt, best fittings, upright rings, best winch fittings;
weight, 1 lb. 3ozs. ; in bag, ss. 6d. Post free N.S.W., 6s 3d; Interstate, 6s Bd.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
Illustrated Fishing Tackle, Sports, Tobacco Lists, Sample Sheet of Fish Hooks
and Hints on Fishing, POST FREE.
Nottingham Pattern Walnut Wood Reels
ghg
All our Nottingham
Wood Reels are
manufactured from
the Best Materials
and Properly
Seasoned Wood.
No. I—B es t Solid
Brass Fittings,
Fast Handles, pol-
ished, 2in. dia-
meter, Is 6d
each ; 2£in., Is 9d
each ; 3in., 2s 3d
each ; 3Jin., 2s 6d
each; 4in., 3s 6d
each ; 4£in., 4s 6d
each; sin., 6s
each.
No. la—Solid Brass
Fitting's, Fast
Handles, polished,
2in. diameti r, Is
each ; 2£in., Is 3d
each : '< n., is tid
each;3Jin., Is 6d
each ; 4in., Is 9d
each.
MICK BIMMONS
No. 1b —Brass Back Polished Boy’s Reel, one handle, 2in. diameter, 5d each ; 2£in., 7d each ; 3in ; , lOd each. _
No. 2a— Best Star Back, brass handle plates and fittings, movable check, 3in. diameter, 6s each , Siin., 6s eacn ,
No. 2—Best Star Back, brass fittings, movable check, 3in. diameter, 6s 6d each ; 3}in., 6s 6d each ; 4in., 7s each ,
4Mn., 7s 6d each ; sin., 8s 6d each, without guard.
Our Expert is visiting the Tumut and Cooma Trout Streams.
No. 10
No. 10—Gunmetal Movable Check Reel, Screwed
Fittings, Plated, 2in., 2s each ; 2£in., 2s 6d.
Best Tackle Books .
No. 90.
No. 96—Best Combination Tackle Book, 6in., 7s each
No. 92—4jin. Grained Leather, 2 Parchment Pockets,
Pages for Flies, Flannel, &c., Is, Is 3d, Is 6d each
No 93—4 in. Leather, Three Pockets, Trout Pages,
Felts, Strap and Buckle, 3s 6d each.
No. 94—Sin. Solid Leather, Two Pockets, Parchment
Pages, Felts, &c., Strap and Buckle, 4s 6d each.
No. 95—4 in. Canvas Cover, Waterproof, Two Pockets,
Trout Pages, Parchment Pockets, Felts, Strap
and Buckle, etc., 5s 6d each.
No. 3a—Best Combination Reel, Star Back, Movable
Check, Patent Line Guard, Detachable Barrel,
3in., 12s each ; 4in., 13s fid each.
We have just published our Immense
Fishing Tackle Catalogue.
No. 97.
PaUey’s Cast Case
4in., 2s 9d ; sin., 4s 9d each.
Superior Quality Fishing Lines
No 146—The Standard Waterproof Plaited Braided Silk Line, rolled on cork.
No. 20yds. 40yds. 80 yds. No. 20yds. 40yds. 80yds.
K3OO lslOd 3s 8d 7s 4d each G6O 3s 6s 12s each.
J2OO 2s 4s 8s „ F4O 3s 6d 7s 14s „
1100 2s 2d 4s 4d 8s 9d „ E3O 4s 8s 16s „
HBO 2s 6d 5s 10s „ D2O 5s 10s 20s ~
No. 146 T—The Standard Double Taper Lines, for Trout Fishing, waterproof
braided, plaited silk in coils of 40yds. No. 30 to 60, 9s. 6d each.
No. 1460—The Perfect Waterproof Plaited Braided “Sure Catch” Silk Line, on
Cork. No. 40, 25yds., Is 3d each ; 50yds., 2s. 6d. each ; No. 30, 25yds., 2s 6d
each ; 50yds., 5s each.
No. 148—The Grown Waterproof Twisted Braided Silk Line, on Cork. No. 60,
40yds., Is 6d each.
English-Plaited Hemp Lines on Cork-
No. 20yds. 40yds. 80yds. No. 20yds., 40yds., 80yds
60 Is 9d 3s 6d 7s | 30 2s 6d 5s 10s
40 2s 4s 8s I 20 3s 6s I2s
No. 148 L—Best Plaited Irish Linen Line XX Strong, on Cork-
No. 60, 25 yards .. Is each No. 40, 25 yards .. Is 3d each
No. 60, 50 yards .. 2s each No. 40, 50 yards .. 2s 6d each
No.
100
80
60
40
20
Best Japanese Gut, 2yds. in one length, no joins
2d. each ; XX Pine, 3d each.
The
Reliable Gut Cast Lines -
Best Selected Gut, Blue, White or Green.
Quality No. 101, Fine, Iyd. in length, with No. 1/0 hook
attached, Id each.
Best Double Gut Cast Lines .
Quality No. 10, Fine, Iyd., 3d each ; 2yds., 6d each.
Quality No. 9, Stout, Iyd., 4d each ; 2yds., 8d each.
WF
Remittance and Freight Must
Accompany Order*
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.


Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Annual Distributions of the Surplus.
All Participating- Policies issued on or
before 31st December next will share in
THE CASH BONUS FOR THIS YEAR.
Amount of Surplus divided for the Year 1905 was £635,533, yielding Reversionary Bonuses
of about One Million Two Hundred Thousand Pounds Stirling. }
BONUSES ALLOTTED BY THIS SOCIETY LARGER THAN THOSE OF ANY OTHER LIFE OFFICE.
TOTAL CASH BONUSES DIVIDED TO END OF 1905, £12,216,401.
Write at once for full particulars to the Head Office, or any District Office or Agent of the Society
Dlß St^ e^h n eHo7R M j e ßiack L MT 5 - ena v. t ° r t£ e Hon - J- T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin
Short, Esq. »The Hon. R J Black, M.L.C., F. E. Winchcombe, Esq. ; James Burns, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape, Esq.
General Manager and Actuary: Richard Teece, F.I.A. F.F.A. F.S.S. 4
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. 9th November, 1906. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
The Australian Widows' Fund Life Assurance Society Limited
(Mltcal) NS W - 263 George Street, Sydney.
LIFE, ACCIDENT AND INVALIDITY ASSURANCE IN ONE POLICY .
ANNUAL PREMIUM for £lOOO, person aged 30, payable at 60 or Death, £39 19s. 4d.
SPECIAL BENEFITS : (1) £2OOO if death takes place as result of accident; (2) £lOOO for Permanent Total
Disablement; (3) £5OO for Permanent Partial Disablement; (4) £6 per week for Temporary Total Disablement j
(5) £1 10s. per week for Temporary Partial Disablement; and (6) £6 per week for incapacitation through
specified diseases. For full particulars and conditions call or write for Prospectus. V. H. BAXTER, Res. Sec.
FREE!
MAKE BIG MONEY
We give away TALKING MACHINES,
GOLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &0.,
to those who help us introduce our remedies. This Talking Machine
reproduces Songs, Speeches, Band Music, &c., and can be used at all
entertainments, in any size hall or room. It has a 14-inch Metal
Amplifying Horn, with Concert Base. Many of our agents are making
big money by giving concerts with this machine, which we give away
Free. Send us your name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
of our New Life Vegetable Pills (Formulae printed on each box). Sell
them at 1/- a box, then remit us the 8/- received and we will promptly
forward you, without extra expense or work, the valuable premiums as
listed. This is the biggest offer ever made, and yon will be delighted.
We are an old, reliable firm, and we will present £lO in cash to anyone
who can prove we do not do as we say. Our Pills are good sellers, and
we are anxious to introduce them no matter what it costs us. Send at
once. Don’t delay, it costs you nothing to try. We take all risk.
E/ectine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
sfi
£lOO
a Weeß
Given
Away
Free
Alarming Increase in Baldness!
A REMEDY OFFERED
Which possesses all the elements that go to produce a good head of hair. Its powerful,
stimulating properties go straight to the hair roots, giving them a life and vigour they
never knew before. And life and vigour to the roots mean more hair, stronger hair,
better hair. It will assuredly do all this for YOU, as it has done for thousands of others.
EDWARDS’
HARLENE
FOR
THE
HAIR
h
The Great Hair Producer and Restorer.
The Finest Dressing. Specially Prepared
and Delicately Perfumed. A Luxury
and a Necessity to every Modern Toilet.
Mr. HARRY DE WINDT,
The Great Explorer, writes:
"I have only used your ‘HARLENE’ for TWO
MONTHS and am perfectly astounded at its
marvellous results. My hair has ceased drop-
ping out, and is growing again quite thickly.”
I/O c? A /££ per Bottle, from Chemists and
/ t “w/\J Stores all over the world.
m
!
mm
Mfm
, > -mm
%
Edwards' “Harlene” Co.
95 & 96
High Holborn,
London, w.c.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
Regular Shipments.
The Trade Supplied.
Incandescent Acetylene Burners, with Mantle. Complete, 5s each.
ACETYLENE MOTOR, BUCCY, BICYCLE AND TABLE LAMPS, CAS FITTINGS, &c. IPTSend for Catalogue.
BRANDT BROS.* 236 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
and 197, 422, and 424 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL & 900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES The Best B T ds °" ly ° f SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
■WJNCHZSTfR
ĥg
Model 1905 Self-Loading Rifle
This rifle is a six shot, hammerless take-down, made in .32 and .35 calibers,
the cartridges being of the modern smokeless powder type. The recoil of
the exploded cartridge ejects the empty shell, cocks the hammer and feeds
a fresh cartridge from the magazine into the chamber, leaving the rifle ready
to shoot upon the operator’s pulling the trigger. The self-loading system
adds much to the pleasure of rifle shooting, either at target or game. The
list price of this model is $28.00.
These Rifles For Sale By Ail Dealers .
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS CO. f NEW HAVEN, CONN., U.S.A.
HOULDER BROTHERS & CO., Ltd
Passengers Booked to
All Parts of the World.
STEAMSHIP OWNERS, FREIGHT CONTRACTORS,
SHIP, INSURANCE & CHARTERING BROKERS.
THE HOULDEB. LINE STEAMERS.
Specially Constructed
for Conveyance of
Passengers, General Cargo, Froaen Produce, &c.
To and from AUSTRALASIA, AFRICA, LONDON, LIVERPOOL, GLASGOW, &c.
Steamer. Tons.
HORNBY ' 'ANGE 3,750
OVINGDE GRANGE 3,700
URMSTON RANGE 5,600
LANGTON oRANGE 9,400
DRAYTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10,500
ELSTREE GRANGE 6,000
ROYSTON GRANGE 6,330
Steamer. Ton s
BEACON ORANGE 6,300
RIPPINGHAM GRANGE 9,300
OSWESTRY GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10,500
THORPE GRANGE 6,350
HAVERSHAM GRANGE 11,500
EVERTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 11,500
SOUTHERN CROSS .. .. 7,300
First, Second and Third Saloon Cabins situated Amidships. Excellent Cuisine. Electric Light.
For full particulars, apply at the OFFICES OF THE COMPANY, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
12 Pall Mall, S.W., London. 14 Water-street, Liverpool. 30 Gordon-street, Glasgow. 337 Calle Cuyo, Buenos
Aires. 446 Calle San Martin, Rosario, Gran Dock, Ensenada, La Plata. Capetown and Durban, South Africa-
Head Office: 146 Leadenliall-street, London, E.C.
Brimful of Nourishment
•rHi^va
PLASMON
The Pood for Old and Young.
(Also Plasmon. Cocoa, Oats, Biscuits, Sic,)
NEW CLUB CARTRIDGES
The great popularity of New Club Cartridges has tempted other
makers to place on the market inferior cartridges of the same
brown color and general appearance. Accept no substitute.
New Club Cartridges are for sale by all dealers.
Union Metallic Cartridge Company
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U.S.A.
ENO’S
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE,
FRUIT
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
SALT.’
The effect of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt ’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.—Sm Capsule marked ENO’S 4 FRUIT SALT.' Without It you hart a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Pnparad only by J. O. UNO, Ltd., * FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS. LONDON. HNQ.,
by J. O. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c„ everywhere.
1
Vj
V Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
\ FURRED TONGUE.
)
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION. |
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
There’s SECURITY in
Larters
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
touch «» LIV E R
They
Small Pill. Small Dos*. Small Price.
Be Sure they are


W I had a very severe lung trouble
and was so weak that I oould scarcely
walk about or talk. All my friends
believed I could never get well. I
then began to take Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral and immediately felt an im-
provement. It took only two bottles
to work a complete cure. It certainly
saved my life.”
This is one of thousands of testi-
monials to the wonderful value of
Mger’s
'Cherrii federal
in cases of colds, cougns, and lung
and throat troubles of all kinds. A
standard and unrivaled remedy for
sixty years. In large and small bottles.
Beware of imitation so - called
“ Genuine Cherry Pectoral.” Be sure
to get “AYER’S Cherry Pectoral.”
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Learn to Swim &
BY ONE
TRIAL.
Price, 1/6 & 2/6. Creat Sport In the Water.
A person weighing from 50 to 2501 b. can float on them
without an effort. Inquire of anyone who has used
Ayrad’s Water-Wings and be convinced you can learn to
swim the first, day you are in the water. For those who
can swim they furnish a source of amusement nothing
can equal. Easily adjusted. Take no more room than a
pocket handkerchief. Sold through all stores, dealers in
sporting goods, outfitters, chemists, &c. Australian
agents, Ayvad’s Agency, 82a Pitt-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
Sole manufacturers, Ayvad Manuf’g. Co., Hoboken, N.J.
Note —Educational Dept., London County Council, classi-
fied Water-Wings with books, &c., as necessary school
supply.
the high-class washi-G MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
/?T77Tsr
□
POES NOT
SHRiNK.
The Ideal Material
for
Shirts, Pyjamas,
&c.
Economical
because
Durable.
From
Leading Hosiers,
Outfitters, &c.
SEE THE LABEL ON THE SELVEDGE.
By Ro.yal Warrant
Purveyors to
jghgj
His Majesty The
King and
Royal Family.
MOIR’S
" New Season’s ”
HEREIN Cr S.
SUPERIOR QUALITY GUARANTEED.
TRY THEIR .
11 Herrings in Anchovy Sauce,”
“Findon Haddocks,”
“Herrings a la Sardines.”
ASK FOR and SEE THAT YOU GET
MOIR’S
Pure Pickles.
THEY ARE A TREAT.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, Limited,
London, Aberdeen, Seville.
SYDNEY AGENCY: 47 MACQUARIE STREET,
CIRCULAR QUAY.
[2
IRISH
■^s
MOSS
WILL CURE THAT . , ,
Hacking Cough, &
Troublesome Cold,
Annoying Influenza
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption.
DON’T BUY IMITATIONS.
PUZZLE PURSE.
fas*
s
I
111
I ■
Hi
s
ills g
989
■
V
tm
m
m
I : :
The Latest and Best Puzzle Purse on the market.
Even our most industrious puzzle enthusiasts
baffled. Three entirely different moves before purse
can be opened. It is made of superior leather, with
inside pocket, and strong polished nickel frame.
Illustrated directions enclosed. Post free, any-
where, 1/9. Do not miss this chance of obtaining one
of the best and most useful puzzles ever produced.
PUZZLE POCKET KNIY ES. Puzzle Pocket
Knives, best Steel Blade, Buff Horn Handles, Spring
Back. Puzzle to shut as well as to open. A
splendid Rabbiters’ Knife. Three Sizes, 1/8, 2/2,
and 2/8, post free an vwhere.
H. L. HUTCHINSON,
THE DANDY'S NOVELTY
DIAMOND RING.
One of the best jolce
novelties to be
found in our varied
stock. To be worn
on the finger, and
it sparkles like a
genuine Koh-I-
Noor. Always
causes roars of
laughter, and it has
a splendid effect if
worn on the stage.
Illustration the
actual size. Post
free anywhere for
1/2. Also made in
a SCARF PIN, same
size stone. Price,
post free, 1/2 ; or
the Bing and Pin,
post free, 2/2.
j
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles
Surprise & Joke Novelties
Write for Price List B.
h hgh
THE WILD SNAKE.
Mechanical—moves in a most natural way, and the move-
ments can be varied at the will of the operator. Folds up
into a small cardboard box, which can be carried in the
coat or trousers pocket. Price, post free anywhere, for 1/9.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
BOX 3, P.O. HAYMARKET,
710 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
..'Those
wiry beards
that resist the
razor’s edge quickly
yield to the softening
influence of the pure
antiseptic lather pro-
duced by
Williams’
Shaving Stick
feels fine on the face
Sold by chemists, hairdressers and perfumers,
all over the world, or mailed to any address
Williams’
on receipt of price in stamps
Shaving Sticks,ls.; Williams’ Luxury Ta-
blets, Is.; Williams'American Shaving Tab
lets, 6d. (Trial size! of Williams’
ing Stick, 2d
TheJ. B. Williams Company
65 Gt. Hussell St., London, W. C. •
Pftrio iPllp T
office and facto-
ries, Glaston-
bury, Conn..
U. S.A.
Williams'
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd
Circular Pointed,
Pens.
Seven
f*f iato Medals
ĥj gh
Works i Birmingham, England,
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt, they glide
over the roughest
prper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention s also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Bloiting Ser.es.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
VAROIUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Visionary.
I wondered at her side ;
Ethereal fire she seemed ;
Her great blue eyes were wide,
Light-hazed, as though she dreamed.
She gazed on new-leafed trees.
“ What passes there ?” said I;
“ I see what no man sees,
Shades beckon, and glide by.”
A gust passed ; as with fear
She listened, ere she said :
“ What no man hears, I hear;
Faint voices of the dead.”
A spasm, like a weal
Of fire across her eyes.
“ What no man feels I feel;
The pain whereof man dies.”
Her eyes began to close
As morn on dreaming closes.
“I know what no man knows,
Till he in earth reposes.”
Light-hazed as though she dreamed,
Heir to forgotten lore,
Ethereal fire she seemed,
Who burns in dream no more.
MAORILAND.
JOHANNES C. ANDERSEN.
Rime of the Summer Girl.
A drift of crimson petals in the dust beneath our
feet,
The scent of swinging crimson, high and low,
The sound of lazy locusts, singing drowsy in the
heat,
The whisper of our footsteps, as we go ;
And you, your fine eyes flashing with a new and
lovely light,
You smile with lips inviting, roguish, red ;
Now is the bush a garden, with the rude world
out of sight,
Where, with the lunch, they travel far ahead.
Below, the crowded gullies, and the blur of ranges
blue,
The far, white haze of slow and slumbrous fires,
The sound of distant music in the forest, out of
view—
Far music like the hum of muted lyres ;
And here, idyllic solitude, where you and I alone
Are left to tread where late those gay ones
strode
Who brought the lunch, and dinner-beer and
things, while I, the drone,
Stayed with you, loafing up the sunny road.
Where grey and green the bracken grows beneath
the crowded gums,
With gaily-ribboned greenness all about;
Here in the patterned shade is where the thought
of Eden comes,
And here am I, your Adam, true, devout!
Forget not that to-morrow to the city we must go—
You to your mother stern, and I to toil;
While up the spur they travel with the luncheon
things in tow,
Unwinding slow the red road’s dusty coil.
Ah, here, your heart upon my heart, your face
against my own,
Your silken shoulders cool within my arm ;
Dearest, your lips ! For soon we part—you on
your way, alone,
My life grey-blank, with you no more to charm.
Kiss me, Dear Heart, with tenderness to cheer
me on my way ;
To-morrow comes, when duty calls us back;
To-morrow comes, with sadness —but our part-
ing’s due to-day,
For, with the lunch, they’re waiting up the
track !
VIC.
FRANK HENTY.
Facing the Dawn.
It is a thing much praised in song,
To greet the early hours of day ;
And I will join the minstrel throng
To sing its praises if I may ;
But it is better far to scorn
The silly mode they sing. Instead
Of rising to behold the morn,
Behold it e’er you go to bed.
There is an air ethereal
Between the midnight and the morn;
And Orpheus, the musical.
Blows gently through a magic horn
A tune that makes the houses dance,
The lamp-posts skip and sing their lay ;
Upon these revels you may chance
If you wait up to greet the day.
Then human feet are given wings
To skip unwearied on their way;
And, empty of prosaic things,
The world is full of music gay ;
And as the wanderers beguile
Gay imps with laughter and with song.
The dancing moons look down and smile,
The jolly chimney pots among.
If business —in a bottle—keep
You at some festive long carouse
Because prosaic humans sleep
You need not hurry to your house;
A little longer hesitate,
Before you rush your homely bower ;
To remedy your being late
You get home at an early hour.
N.s.w.
HAMER.


THE " BRUNSWICK” ICE MACHINE
ĥ
COLD STORAGE ON A
SMALL SCALE .
/"\F course it can be done on any scale, no matter how
large, but the “ Brunswick ” is the first successful
small capacity machine, i.e. it will give you a cooling
capacity equal to the melting of 200 lbs. of ice, and only
takes a i h.p. to drive it.
This means that it is admirably adapted indeed in the
smallest size. It is intended for the large Boardinghouse
or Mansion, the Hotel, Butcher’s Shop, and anywhere
where it is desirable to preserve perishable articles of
food. In the hot regions of the country, where ice is,
if obtainable at all, very costly, it may be installed, and
will be a great boon. Very easily worked, with
practically no attention, and always effective.
Writs for our interesting: Catalogue
and further particulars.
BUZACOTT & CO., Ltd., Sole Aaonts ! 7*9 Market St., Sydney.
ħ
g
Unrivalled for the Complexion.
Cold Medal. Paris Exhibition, 1900,
Crand Prix, St. Louis. 1904.
F. WOLFF & 80HN,
KARLSRUHE.
Of all Chemists and Perfumers. Be sure you get WOLFF’S.
Sole Agents s LOHMANN & CO., Melbourne ant! Sydney.
ADRIAN & CO.™ BOOKS.
hg
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition,
Is. BOOK OF NATURE and ILLUS-
TRATED MARRIAGE GUIDE by Dr.
Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition,
hard covers, improved. How to
Danck, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for tub Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d
each. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter, Irish
Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Humorous Dialogue Book, Is. Devil in Sydney,
Baldheads, etc., Is. House Painting
and Papering. Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post, Is
3d. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptamf.ron, and
many others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the
First Nigiit, 1/3. Staining. Varnishing and
Polishing Wood Is 3d. Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and
Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ;
post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy,
Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. How to Make
Love, Is. Dream Book, Is.
Confession of a Melbourne Barmaid, illus., Is 3d.
Hoffman’s New Conjuring Entertainment, Is 3d.
Ideal French Art Studies, 5 parts, 10s. Zingara
Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love. Business,
Futurity, and with full directions, Is; posted, Is 3d.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Dr. Foote’s
Plain Home Talk, 20th Century edition, very
latest, 1243 pages, over 400 colored plates and
engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho, genuine, Is. Mid-
wiVes’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phren-
ology, Is. Lover's Letter Writer, Is. Tocology
for Mothers, 7s 6d. Lightning Calculator, Is.
Minstrel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, 1/3. Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren Is ; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is.
ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
508 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
3 ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
JohnSeccs.
Scotch whisky
ALL THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
FOR UPWARDS OF 60 YEARS.
€0
HAGON BROS.
...FAMOUS...
Now is your time to order a Suit for Xmas.
We have a magnificent assortment to select
from. We guarantee fit and every garment
well shrunk.
107-9 Oxford Street (only).
TELEPHONE 179 WILLIAM STREET.
63h
SUITS.
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies' Hairdressers, Hair- 161 KING ST., SYDNEY
Workers & Dermatologists, Between Elizabeth & Castlereagh Streets.
LADIES’ PREMIER HAIRDRESSING SALOON. TRANSFORMATIONS made on the latest
Parisian principle, suitable to be worn ,on all occasions. TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, TOILET
REQUISITES, and all accessories in stock. Ladies’ Homes visited. Combings made up.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. Telephone 2138.
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DRESSING ROOMS ON GROUND FLOOR.
£
RABBIT SKINS WANTED.
Also KANGAROO, WALLABY,
OPOSSUM, <fcc.
Consign to :
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd., Commission Salesmen Only, SYDNEY.
n
S 3
I'iitU
'll l|
HU
JO s.
EEIX!
ill
piiEßi
k --.»
HOTEL
METROPOLE
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes front
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay,
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
h
g
Sold bv
All Jewellers
ftnir to see our PHOTOGRAPHIC CARD of New
Watches, just forwarded to every JEWELLER
In the Colonies.
7\ Certificate Given With Each Watch.
Estate
175 a
wm
w • '.'"'•■l
an
m s>,v
SB*
ET^I
§l®®
m »Rr
2®*i
•«*3&JSSeSyi
'*«:»■ :
Ruberoid
Roofing
replaces the best
galvanised iron
on the N.S.W.
Government Rail-
way Loco. Sheds,
Eveleig'h.
Wholesale Agents s
E. RICH & Co., Ltd.,
Sydney & Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered ab the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 27.—N0. 1402.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 27. 1906.
Pbiob Sd.
ROOSEVELT’S "MAILED FIST” ACT.-(WITH A HINT TO AUSTRALIA.)
Teddy : “Down on your knees, you young rascal. Do you want to get your father into trouble?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
“Australia /or the A astral ia ns, 9f
Printed and Published bv William Macleod, of
Mu ;rave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per A,nnum ... . ... ... -PI 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tim Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a gear.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Tlow to Address I.otters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would, oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The, Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there ; the official
always is.
Special Police.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Talcs or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 8000 xvords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Nervspaper Clippings.
All communications ivill be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood, that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To A mateurs in Ithiclc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —ivill be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tins Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.
South Auric a. — The Central News Agency, Capetown ;
Messrs. 11. A. Thompson d Co., %8 lliebeck Street, Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
The Clark Stuart Co., Ltd., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco. — W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6%in. xlldn.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 27, 1906.
THE THREATENED PURITYRANNY.
Now Parliaments cease from troubling and Cabi-
nets are at rest. With the glow of the generous
(Southern sun on their faces, the Australian people
set themselves to make merry, taking to the
waterside or the woods, where they worship the
god Pan on the altar of a picnic basket. The
cities are full of country folk spending the surplus
of wage or harvest amid town allurements; the
picturesque rural haunts are invaded by hosts from
the city seeking in the quiet calm of the bush, rest
for jangled nerves and fevered eyes. The holiday
season spreads everywhere. To few does the
time bring no change. The poorest find some
break, however small, in their “toiling for leave
to live”; even the domestic servant, unless she
is very attached to her employer, finds the call of
Christmas a call to the wild, and rushes off, to
country home or pleasure spot, to spend the
savings of the year. Australia makes universal
holiday—in an odd case or two, alas, sordidly and
brutally, forgetting the workaday life in the Lethe
of drunkenness; but in the general with gay and
light-hearted abandon, accentuated this year by
the general prosperity of good seasons. The serious
business of life is set aside with all the whole-
lieartedness of a Southern-European race dancing
through its carnival.
Those sad-eyed prophetsof woe who seek to trans-
plant to this bright and Sunny clime, among this
gay and cheerful people, the gloomy purityranny,
which grew out of the nightmares of men pos-
sessed of devils in cold and barren lands,
might with advantage spend the closing days
of the year in a dispassionate study of
the holiday crowds and the holiday spirit, and
ask themselves whether it is ever likely that
Calvinism can be acclimatised to Australia. The
Parliamentary sessions which have just closed have
been marked to an unusual degree by attempts at
purityrannical legislation. The shadow of the
clerical “Don’t” has been over them, and the voice
of Judkins and his like has been exalted,
with the result that several measures have
leached the Statute-book in various States, and
several more have been brought to the point of
accomplishment, designed wholly’ to spread Gloom
and to make people unhappy' for the imaginary
good of their souls. Ahe spirit which conceives
God as a jealous God, grudging every smile on
the face of His creatures, delighting in the ugly
and the dismal, has thus won a degree of recogni-
tion wholly out of agreement with the general
, sentiments of the people. The fanaticism of the
Puritans lias been met half-way by the slavishness
of politicians, who, mistaking the trend of public
opinion, have rushed to enact Gloom, thinking
Gloom to be a popular card to play. Perhaps the
glow of the summer holiday season will exorcise
that spirit, and show its sponsors the hopelessness
of it in Australia.
* * * *
Indeed the holiday spirit is carried a little too
far in Australia. That must be admitted even by a
paper which strives to see Australia in its bestlight.
Too little preparation is made for the inevitable
serious work of the future, too much thought
giyen to the pleasures of the present. Still, the
spirit of cheerfulness and holiday-making is a
more sound and wholesome basis for a great
nation than any other. England was greatest,
intellectually and otherwise, when England was
merriest, and the standard of its power drooped
with the advent of sordid commercialism and
gloomy Calvinism. All the great enduring work of
the world has been done with an air of gaiety; there
has been never a gloomy' Renaissance. Australia—
taking life as a thing to be lived and enjoyed, not
merely as a means to making money, or making
ourselves miserable—is on abetter track than, say,
America, where the traffic m money has become
such a passion that human life is stripped of all
human enjoyment for mad sacrifice to Mammon ;
where the mere child is rushed from school, as soon,
almost, as he has learnt to figure, given a dollar and
urged to take a friend down for another dollar
and so found a fortune. Life is, to some
large extent, an end and not merely an
instrument to be worn out in accomplishing
a sordid purpose. This Australians insensibly
recognise. Their holiday spirit is the instinctive
declaration of their resolve to live joy ously, not
merely to exist as working machines, or as the
doleful subjects of a clerical tyranny, urging men
to make this world a vale of tears as a means to
happiness hereafter.
-»• * * *
That very sound and acute observer, Mr.
O. C. Beale, after a recent tour of America,
brought back this comparison, illustrating some-
what the differing national ideals of America and
Australia, the two new countries of the earth :
In the Pullman car workshops the employees work
13 hours at night or 11 hours in the day, with
an interval in each case for a meal ; and work
hard all the time. In New York he met a humani-
tarian employer who quite agreed that the United States
workman was kept too long' at work and received too
little pay ; but he then found that the girls in this man’s
paper mill were kept at work at night for 13 hours,
without an interval at all except such as would enable
them to hurriedly snatch a sandwich. Children were
kept at work for 12 hours a day looking after weaving-
machinery'. The Australian workman, even though he
may earn less, is vastly better off in his own country'.
That impresses the point of Australia’s superior
civilisation —a civilisation which follows the
French example. In France the business or pro-
fessional man, when he has made a competency,
usually retires to cultivate roses, or follow some
other amiable hobby. In America the typical
man aims at a fortune, and, having made that,
aspires to a million, and then another million, and
finally falls panting in his tracks, pursuing
gold to the last, and seeing nothing of the sky,
or of the earth. Australia’s inclination is
towards the French idea, not to make a god
of Money or of Work, but to seek first
the pleasures of life. Pursued irrationally
such a spirit would, of course, be disastrous. A
nation of sybarites would soon perish. But
within bounds of reason it is the true gospel of
life —to look in this world for some enjoyment
from every good faculty we possess; finding
pleasure in worthy work and further pleasure in
relaxation from work ; seeking after music and
poetry as well as serving Labor and Duty.
Such an Epicureanism is becoming the national
spirit of Australia, and finds fullest expression in
the holiday passion. In its bright, clear light the
mould of Calvinism cannot flourish.
POPULATION-IMPORTED AND NATIVE.
This from “ Medi-Cuss ” :
For some time past a little gang of Sydney amateur
political faddists have been rending the very heavens
with the cry that all this country needs is more popula-
tion—any old sort of population—and that walking
replica of a tailor’s model, Spruce Myth —the very ordi-
nary Myth —has been shedding tears of woe because his
pet brand of immigrant, the nigger, the Chow and the
Monkey, have been barred by the White Australia policy
of the Australian Parliament. Mr. Little-Breeches Car-
ruthers also seems boiling with enthusiasm over the we-
want-more-population fad. He recently informed an
awe-struck House that he had referred to the Lack of
Intelligence Department—that lately devised asylum for
old Government supporters—the duty' of inducing a large
number of citizens who have recently' been evicted —at a
good price—from their holdings on the catchment area
of the New York City water supply, to come to this coun-
try and take up land. Now, if this idea did not provide
such ample evidence of a pitiable lack of brains, it would
be ludicro s in view of the fact that, during the past
two years, for every block of reasonably good land made
available there has been an average of ten applicant-, most
of them local men, nine-tenths of whom have necessarily'
been disappointed. And both the Premier and Dr. Arthur
seem to be ignorant of, or to conveniently overlook, the
fact that, by section 45 of the Crown Lands Act of 1895,
which Mr. Carrutiiers fathered, no man not a British
subject is eligible as an applicant for a homestead lease,
a 0.P., or a C.P.L., till after he has resided at least one
yearinN.S. W., and has made and lodged a declaration
of his intention to become naturalised within five y'ears.
In this connection, I may remark, I know personally of
at least two foreigners who have taken up land in N.S.W.
after only a few weeks’ residence. They' had lived for
many years in another State, but that doesn’t count.
And although they may have made the necessary declara-
tion as to their intention to become naturalised, I hold
that by the provisions of this fool Act, worthy of the sire
thereof, those men are at this moment illegally holding
their land, and are liable at any moment to be thrown out
on their necks, forfeiting every penny they have paid. Is it
likely, I ask, that intelligent American citizens are going
to travel 10,000 miles to a country' cursed with such a
Lands Department as this, lose a whole year’s time under
heavy expense, and then barter their nationality- for a
one-in-ten chance of getting a block of land, when they
can secure one as good at home for half the cost—lost
time and expenses of travelling and living taken into
consideration? I never heard of a good converted Jew
who did not make a darned bad Christian, and I am
taking no stock in the American, German, or Scandi-
navian who swaps his nationality for a ticket in one of
Mr. Ashton’S land raffles.
it - v -fc
Now, I am fully aware that Australia badly needs more
citizens —and will soon need them worse—but what I
want to point out is the astonishing fact that, while all
this outcry is being raised about inducing immigration,
nothing is being done to keep in the land the very best
class that any country can be blessed with —the "white
babies ; the little ones of to-day, who in a few short years
must take the places of the present-time men and women
workers. Every year in N.S.W., with its small popula-
tion, its genial climate, its cheap food supply (Sydney
Meat Ring barred), over 4400 babies, just over and
under 12 months of age, die; and of these just
over and under the age of five years, over 16,000
join the Great Majority. When it is remembered
that to these awful totals must be added the untold
thousands murdered by the .. jortionist and the baby-
farmer, then may we well stand appalled. These figures
betray a state of affairs that would be serious enough in
a great city like London, with its hordes of poverty-
stricken wretches, half-starved, all but naked, and sub-
jected r.o the rigors of a climate of whose severity our
nalive-born have happily no conception. When we con-
sider our favored surroundings, and our crying need of
population, then it would seem that to shameful indiffer-
ence, or to criminal neglect, must a large share of this
disgraceful indictment be ascribed.
* * » •
I note by recently-published statistics that at the end
of 1905 there were in N.S.W. 4477 half-castes (aboriginal)
—an increase of 297 over the previous year ; although
there were 78 less full-bloods than 12 months previously.
Now what gets on my nerves is the fact that, while these
little lemon-colored coons, with a gin for a ma and every-
body for a pa, are drafted into State homes, and care-
fully nourished and educated by the State, the Board (I
would like to take a Winchester and turn the members
thereof into the bored) of the N.S.W’. Govern:..;-nt
Benevolent Asylum has piously decided that “ it is notin
the best interests of morality that a Foundling Home
be established in Sydney at the present time.” What damn-
able ignorance and hypocrisy ! This in face of the dreadful
statistics above quoted, and the pitiful fact that almost
daily in Sydney the police and others are finding
helpless white little ones, abandoned to starve, and
perhaps die, in the streets, by desperate and heart-
broken mothers who are forced to an act contrary to
their very instinct, through the absence of any refuge in
which to lay their heads. The pity' and the crime of it!
“Two wrongs never make a right,” therefore I say
nothing against the State nourishing and protecting the
half-caste. I have met hundreds, aye, thousands of the
breed ; and I cheerfully' bear testimony' to the fact that I
have met quite four who were good citizens, and they
were still-born. But I say, without fear of contradic-
tion, that, almost without exception, the half-caste who
isn’t still-born inherits none of the virtues and all of the
vices of its white parent, together with the low cunning
and animalism of its black origin ; and I further say' that,
the world over, the breed abhors the black parent, and
murderously hates its white progenitor and all his kind.
* ir ft *
I hold, then, that any State that coddles the degenerate
half-caste whilst consistently', in the name of “morality,”
neglecting the offspring of its white population, not
only loses sight of its own interest, but commits a de-
grading crime as well ; and I frankly express my honest
conviction that any Board that neglects its obvious duty
to the Almighty, humanity, and the State, by refusing
to provide a shelter for helpless white girls, does so
because of criminal ignorance and inhumanity, or because
the members thereof fear that the lecheries of their own
class will be exposed. I freely admit that were a Found-
ling- Home established there might be an apparent in-
crease in the number of illegitimate births, but that
apparent increase would be composed of the children on
whom, otherwise, the abortionist and the Makins would
get in their work. The ass who argues that a girl will
“go wrong” simply'because she has shelter for herself
and babe provided in advance should be given a few iron
bars and a canvus jacket, and turned into a walking
lunatic asylum. It stands to reason and common sense
that no woman, no mother, would abandon her own
flesh and blood to perhaps nameless death, could she go
to a State institution where there was no catmittee
to hang “married” or “single” cards over the beds.
The mother of the illegitimate is a very tigress in her
love for her offspring. She knows that the world
regards it with scorn, and she, therefore, must and
does do duty for both parents and friends if she
has any possible show. The illegitimate is also aware
that he is looked down on ; and he very' early
realises that with him it is a case of “ root pig, or
die.” Hence, he roots. Is it wise to allow a Board of
senile, derelict guinea pigs to dictate continuation of
murder as a policy, because, forsooth, some person in
“ sassiety'” may be “ found out,” or because an apparent
increase in illegitimate births may shock the hypocritical
Ohadbands of the land ? lam a firm believer in the doc-
trine enunciated by Hall Caine in “The Christian” :
“ Every woman, no matter how degraded, is a citizen of
the State, and, if she be a mother, a creditor as well.”
Let the State then pay at least a part of its just debt
to her.
* « * *
Further, I deem it a most damnable anomaly that
N.S.W. should, by statute, protect the aboriginal woman
against the white leeherer, whilst neglecting to provide
punishment for the nigger, the Chow, or the Monkey
that consorts with the white woman. I note, in this
connection, that one unspeakable politician favors mis-
cegenation, and has publicly called ttention to the
beauty of the quadroon and the octoroon as proofs
of the desirability of a mixture of the races. It
makes one tremble for the continuation of the White
Australia principle to note that not a man nor woman in
the audience so addressed had enough of conviction or
courage to resent the proposition that our white women
should bring destruction to their race by union with the
nigger. I hope that the next time such an enemy to
Australian interests dares to publicly' state that he
considers, that our women will do well by mating with
the nigger, he and his frock-coat and belltopper will be
sent to the political scrap-heap.
* * * *
Born and raised in the U.S.A. and trained in a doctor’s
office, I have had ample opportunity' in years past to
witness the curse of God that follows such unholy alli-
ance as the union of the black —no matter of how remote
degree—with the white. I thank God that in the U.S.
miscegenation is denounced and punished as a crime by
statute. How much, then, do we owe to the statesmen
—for they are true statesmen—who laid down the White
Australia principle, and how vitally' important is it that
that principle should be upheld ! When the race war, that
inevitable struggle of the not distant future, turns
America into a shambles, the Australian boys and girls of
to-day'will realise that the legislators, who are now being
shrieked at by blasphemous quacks and bounders, builded
better than they knew', and their fame will be emblazoned
in letters of gold in the Temple of Good Works, what
time the very names of their traducers are buried deep in
a sea of infamous oblivion. I pray that I may soon see
the day' when the Australian Parliament will do its
bounden duty, and make miscegenation a crime punish-
able by heavy penalties to all parties concerned, especially
the plate-pusher who sells his country and his peanut soul
b.y taking a fee for marrying black to white. I also hope
to see a still heavier penalty' provided for the colored man
who cohabits with a white woman, w'hile I would like to
see boiled in oil all those nigger-loving legislators of the
Kanaka Prostitute party' who recently voted in favor of
non-deportation of those Kanakas who are living with
w'hite women. For the nigger found guilty of
cohabiting with a white woman I would provide five y'ears
on the roads. We badly need some semblance of a road
here on the N. Coast.
And to all these things The Bulletin says Amen.
THE POLITICAL FUTURE.
For Heaven alone knows what reason, the anti-
Australian daily press is striving now to gather
up again its scattered wits and argue that there
has been somewhere a great Anti-Socialist victory,
and that it is the duty of Deakin to join Reid
and “give effect to the will of the majority.” It
is hard, indeed, to see what reason there is for
this arguing against the obvious. No clearer
call came from the Australian electors than
that to do away with Reid. In his own State,
almost in every place that he spoke his candi-
date was beaten; he scarcely escaped with
his own political life. In Victoria every aspirant
who had been associated with Reid was slain.
Apparently for the reason that they had been
colleagues of Reid, such notable landmarks as
M‘Lean and M ‘Cay were swept away, the former
by a political beginner. In no other State was
REID-ism, as such, given any great support. For
all p ractical purposes Reid may now be dismissed
from the political equations. His own fol-
lowers recognise this. They are fully aware
now —some of them had dim suspicions on the
subject before—that their “revered leader” has
led them over a precipice. The ghosts of Sydney
Smith, Conroy, Lonsdale, Lee, M‘Oay and
M‘Lean gibber warnings to others who survived,
and that these warnings are not disregarded is
shown by a general movement of detachment
from G. Reid. It would not be at all surprising
to find on the opening of Parliament that there
was a movement to oust him from the leadership
in Parliament, leaving him to try to make his
peace with the Labor party, and win to office on
that ticket. To imagine an alliance between
Deakin, whose policy has been almost unani-
mously affirmed, and who, with his allies, com-
mands a huge majority of the House of Repre-
sentatives, and the discredited leader of the dis-
credited Anti-Sosh cause is sheer inanity.
• * * *
Apart from the thumps which the electors gave
to him, G. Reid has had to face some savage
criticism from members of his own party. Bruce
Smith —one of the few fixed quantities among the
Freetraders : a man who has, at least, the courage
of his opinions—made this shrewd thrust after the
poll:
Of this I feel certain, that after all that has passed
between Mr. Dbakin and Mr. Reid there can be no pros-
pect of a combination between them. Mr. Deakin has
frequently spoken of resigning because of his health ;
and that contingency is possible though not probable.
Mr. li,Ein has also said—some time since — that if he did
not secure a majority in this Parliament he would retire
from the Federal arena. That is another possible con-
tingency ; but I know nothing of Mr. Reid’s movements
or intentions, and watch the evolution of events as
curiously as an outsider.
On top of this gentle hint to clear out, G. Reid
got this hard rub from M ‘Millan :
When we are face to face with a situation such as that
which now threatens us, it is well to see where our own
follies and our want of management contributed to the
result. I cannot, of course, speak of the new' party of
amalgamated Freetraders and Protectionists. I refer
chiefly to that party with which I was identified both in
the local and Federal Parliament. Both parties at times,
by tactics which, in order not to be offensive, I shall not
particularise, for years coddled the Labor party, some-
times imagining they were using them for their own pur-
poses, at other times with the contemptible desire
to strike a blow, apart from principle, at their
opponents, while all the time they were building it
up and consolidating it for the great fight of the future.
If the old Freetrade party had done its duty, and occu-
pied less of its time in political strategy, it W'ould have
been much stronger to-day, and although it might have
lost support in certain undesirable directions, it would
have secured the respect of the country, and created the
sentiment and the anxiety to vote among thousands w'ho
now look upon all parties either as political adveniurers
or political opportunists. Let us try a straightforward
policy, dealing justly and honorably with all the varied
interests of the people, and not continually moving back-
ward and forward on the border line between principle
and expediency.
This effective summary of the Reid methods, from
one of his own followers, this candid exposure of
Reid’s squalid efforts to intrigue with the Labor
party during the life of the first Australian Parlia-
ment represents, in the main, the opinion of the
decent section of the Conservative party, and
indicates one more of the reasons why G. Reid
becomes a negligible factor in politics. The
Conservatives do not trust him ; the Liberals and
the Laborites he has absolutely antagonised. He
begins to pay at last the penalty of an oppor-
tunism so shameless as to extend even to pal-
tering with the great question of Australian
union.
•**■*•*•
The future—as was forecasted in this paper
before the elections—rests with Deakin and
Watson. Probably the Deakin Ministry will
remain in office until the tariff issue is
settled. It has a clear mandate from the electors
to attend to that work, and the Labor party will,
presumably, recognise that fact and frustrate any
attempt to disturb the existing state of things for
the present. But, the tariff issue settled, the
Deakin Government can hardly continue as it
is now with any satisfaction to itself or to the
country. It is practically unrepresented in the
Senate ; in the House of Representatives it has
less than a third of the membership. The Labor
party cannot take the reins ; whilst strong in
the Senate, it has also only about a third of
the Representatives. The one hope for stable
Government is in a Deakin-Watson alliance.
To such a development there should be no in-
surmountable obstacle, once the clamor and the
recriminations of the elections have died away.
Concessions would be necessary on both sides.
Labor would have to give safeguards against such
tactics as sent candidates in Victorian constitu-
encies against men who had given whole-hearted
support to a Labor Government. On the other
hand, some means of dealing effectively with the,
land monopolist who keeps his throttling clutch
on Australian progress would have to be part of
the alliance programme.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
So Long, 1906!
In four days, Australia will say “So long” to
one of the best friends ever a nation had. And
already the little stranger, whose top-hair begins
to blow out above the horizon as he hurries in to
take the old one’s place, wears a golden halo, and
looks as though he means to be a good friend too.
Australia pays well for such friendships. How
responsive our land is ! We come out of a gloomy
year to double and treble our productiveness in
the smiling one that follows. Three and four
years ago Australia suffered the tribulation
of blighted harvests and stricken flocks.
Yet there were compensations in store for
those who had faith and patience. The
land was only lying fallow under the
drought to pour out three abundant harvests
afterwards; and it looks as though the chance,
which diminished flocks gave, was taken to
restore the riches of native grasses and scrub —
riches which had been too ravenously attacked.
Friendly, smiling years of this sort Australia
has had before; but 1906 poured treasure out
with both hands. With great productive-
ness came high prices, a rare combination.
Wool, wheat, copper, lead, tin, silver—for all
of them the markets have been bright; in some
cases, glittering. Up to a couple of years
ago Australia had got into the bad habit
of rarely showing in London except with an I O U
in its hand ; and London was getting very tired of
that seemingly eternal cadge. To-day, while
Australia still owes tremendously, it has on
deposit in London close upon £10,000,000, part of
the surplus of its three good years. Even yet our
old, obliging friend Bull-Cohen has hardly real-
ised that Australia has gone into his own old line of
business in a small way; he hasn’t perhaps
noticed to any extent that the Little Boy from
Manly’s nose is growing distinctly longer and
lumpier. But he will begin' to notice presently,
and when he does there isn’t much doubt
that the very people who cried “ Stinking
Fish ” most vociferously a few years ago will
make the most noise in the chorus of praise. As
for Australia, hasn’t our land got too much robust
con. monsense to let that praise turn its head ? We
know the size of the debt that has yet to be
worked off. We do not know what other lean


years of drought may have to be provided for,
but certainly other lean years will come. When
they do come, Australia will surely be less
inclined to turn down its mouth and howl, or
tolerate those who do it. It will remember 1906.
Bo long, 1906 !
♦
Boggabri Demands a Voice—also Carruthers.
Premier Carruthers is “doing all he can to
have the State of N.S. Wales represented in
London ” at the Imperial Conference next year—
by Premier Carruthers, of course. The Mayor
of Boggabri will also, no doubt, see that Boggabri
is worthily represented—by the Mayor of Bog-
gabri. For Boggabri has a clear interest in this
matter, provided the Imperial Conference talks
about culverts and whether it is better to burn
dead goats or bury them. Nobody else is entitled
to express Boggabri’s views on the question of
the disposal of dead goats. What does Mr. Car-
ruthers know about dead goats? What does the
united genius of the State Government know ?
There isn’t an expert on this momentous question
among them. One of the State Premiers says
that on many subjects the Federal authority does
not represent the State view. That is the atti-
tude of Boggabri exactly—and, may we add, the
attitude of every other respectable self-governing
body in the State. It is true that the Imperial
Conference may sniff the matter of defunct goat
from afar, and resolve to leave it alone. It may
even say that it is not an Imperial matter—
though, as everyone knows, dead goat is well-
nigh universal, and, being dead, must be dis-
posed of if it is not to give unnecessary offence.
Still, even so, has not the Mayor of Boggabri his
own opinions about such Imperial matters as
Defence and inter-Empire trade? It is true
again that on these questions he has never been
formally consulted by the ratepayers—the free and
independent ratepayers—but there are not many
of them that haven’t said to him that those were
their sentiments exactly, after the sixth glass at
Hogan’s pub.; and Mr. Carruthers can’t say that
much, anyhow. On these Imperial questions, he
never consulted either Boggabri or any other
place, either formally or informally.
♦
The Civil Service Drudge.
Sydney Telegraph, with its spotted tongue in its
cheek, lately discussed under a ‘ ‘ scare heading ”
the classification, report of the N.S.W. Public
Service Board and came to the conclusion that
the N.S.W. civil servant is a wretchedly-paid
animal. The conclusion is correct enough, but
comes curiously from the Telegraph, which has
always been ready, when political exigencies
demanded, to put the public servant on the grill
as a “ parasite,” a “ blood-sucker,” a “ leech,” and
many other strangely offensive things. When, for
instance, Greid was helping to fake his surplus by
a general massacre of the civil service no one
could have given him more warm support than
the Telegraph. However, that is of the past,
and comparatively unimportant. If the Tele-
graph is sincerely converted now, and willing to
aid in an agitation for a decently-paid public
service, The Bulletin will rejoice to get its aid.
But the sincerity of the conversion is doubtful
The Telegraph, like all other papers which find
it wise, for the circulation’s sake, to flavor a
reactionary Toryism with occasional professions of
bogus Radicalism, sees no more easy way to
curry favor with the masses than by sneering at
“ the highly-paid civil servant.” (There is an
ineradicable idea in the bosoms of most men with
£l5O a year that no man is worth £3OO a year;
and the £3OO a year individual follows with a firm
faith that that sum is the utmost limit of human
value.) The apparently paradoxical fact about
the N.S.W. civil service—the same applies to all
Australian civil services—is that it is at once ill-
paid and too expensive. The work should
be done more cheaply, and the men em-
ployed should get better salaries. The pre-
sent system of civil service administration is to
give a certain task to B, a man of strictly routine
ability. To keep him from mistakes a complicated
system of red-tape has been invented, which em-
ploys an enormous number of unnecessary clerks.
If B. were a capable man, and paid to take
responsibility, he could do the work which now
takes up the time of himself and C., D. and E., and
do it vastly better and more quickly. But B. is a
poorly-paid drudge, doing work which should be
responsible, but which, as he is a poorly-paid
drudge, has had to be surrounded with checks
and counter-checks until it has become almost
purely mechanical. To be effective civil service
reform must sweep all that away, and make it the
policy of the State to secure the highest possible
ability by paying an adequate price for it and
then giving that ability a chance to show itself in
vigorous initiative.
The White and the North.
In a report on “ Hygiene in the Northern Terri-
tory,” Dr. Ramsay Smith, head of the Health
Department of S. Australia, has made an import-
ant contribution to the literature of White Aus-
tralia. It is all the more valuable because it is
the result of personal investigations made on the
spot, and because the matter is considered purely
from the medical and scientific point of view.
Unfortunately, the S. A. statistics are so imper-
fect, or the numbers covered are so small, that no
acceptable conclusions based upon them can be
arrived at. But there are at least the statistics
of Queensland. What are the facts regarding
work, disease, and death among blacks and whites
there? On the figures for the five years to the end
of 1903 Dr. Ramsay Smith derives data which can
be summarised as follows :
Whites. Kanakas.
Total population .. i. 2,395,088 45,445
Total deaths .. .. .. 27,690 1,654
Deaths per thousand .. .. 11 - 56 36'39
Deaths from tubercular disease 1,008 602
Ditto per thousand .. .. - 042 13'24
As to “total population,” it may be necessary to
explain that it is the totals for each of the five
years added together; that is the only way, of
course, in which the death rate for the whole term
could be worked out. The Kanakas are a picked
lot. They are mostly selected males, of the age
of least natural mortality. Thus while of Queens-
land infants under one year 75'86 per 1000 die in
a year, of young men between 20 and 25 only
4‘48 per 1000 die per annum. The mortality
among the black population of Queensland ought,
therefore, to be much lower than that among the
whites, even if the climate were equally
suitable to both. Yet, on five years’ figures, the
death-rate among the blacks and browns was over
three-times the rate among whites. With such
figures as these before him, and having assured
himself that the conditions of the two parts of
North Australia are very similar, Dr. Smith
reaches this conclusion :
The objection to white labor is not a health objection
at alb The facts are everywhere in favor of the whites.
The question is really a commercial one.
That whites have suffered, and do still suffer
severely in the tropics, is, of course, admitted.
And no wonder, seeing that they do —and some-
times have been forced to do—the things they
ought to leave undone. In this very report Dr.
Smith incidentally mentions that not so very long
ago the British soldier on foreign service was
compelled, as part of his duty, to drink nearly
lialf-a-pint of spirits daily, and the commissioned
officer had to see and certify that he did it. But
probably the thoughtlessness or stupidity of the
white, thrown into unusual surroundings, affects
his comfort more than his health. “It does seem
strange,” says Dr. Smith, “that at Pt. Darwin,
where cows do well, people will not keep them,
saying they prefer condensed milk.” So, also,
“it is remarkable that in one of the best countries
in the world for fruit-growing there should be a
scarcity of that commodity.” He mentions a
dozen other instances of similar ineptitude. In
short, man—even man used to other latitudes—
can make himself reasonably comfortable in the
Northern Territory. Nature has done her part:—
As regards both climatic conditions and the non-
occurrence of preventible diseases, the Territory is highly
favored. #
But, even so, disregard of the natural conditions
must be disastrous or at least inconvenient. Yet
that there is anything in the northern climate
inherently baneful to the white, both the Queens-
land statistics and Dr. Ramsay Smith’s investi-
gations agree in repudiating.
Gush and Cant.
“ Talafekau ” writes concerning Chant and Co.,
the Social Purists of London :
We are told that “ the wicked flourish like a green bay
tree,” but, as life proceeds, a conviction is gradually
stealing upon me that the wicked, as ilourishers, are not
in it with the good. Especially with the good who, not
content with their own goodness, feel “ a call” to spread
their good contagion, to force their fellows to be
“ better,” as their views construe betterment, no matter
how greatly these latter may object to the reformative
process. Age cannot stale nor custom wither the infinite
variety of the evergreen Evangelist.
This is a reflection forced upon me by a recent Bulletin
par. (15/11/’O6) dealing with the objections to the Milo
form divine put forward by a Mrs. Ormiston Chant,
formerly, I think, endearingly known to us of Bohemia as
Mrs. Enormous Cant. How many years have passed
away from us since Mrs. Chant, dressed in her “prettiest
evening gown,” and backed by a devoted bodyguard of
Prudes on the Prowl, pervaded the “pestilent pro-
menades” of the Empire Theatre, in the blessed cause of
Social Purity, while bad men “accosted” her, and
naughty, saupy demi-mondaines wondered? Since by
night she “ promenaded,” and by day waged wordy war
on the Leicester-square “ Palace of Iniquity,” its manage-
ment, ballets, bars, lounges, johnnies, girlies, “chuckers-
out,” and pleasantries and prettinesses generally ? Since,
aided fortuitously by the coinciding dominance of the
County Council, and by the unforgettable MacDougall,
and other self-styled “ decent healthy animals ” of the
MacDougall ultra-dour type, she climbed to her apo-
theosis on witnessing “the Empire” close its doors?
Since that scene of passion and regret, the “ last night ”
of London’s favorite house of entertainment, when
Manager George Edwardes appeared before the curtain
and, amid cries of “ The dirty dogs!” and “Turn them
out 1 ” explained, with “ tears in his voice,” to an abso-
lutely hysterical audience, that the requirements of the
County Council had left him no resource but to close the
theatre, and thus throw into the streets the hundreds of
people dependent upon it for a living? Since the suc-
ceeding rush of the displaced Empire Flossies to the
neighboring, rival and un-Chanted Alhambra wrought
dismayed wrath among the somewhat less swagger sirens
of the latter establishment ?
Eheu fugaces ! How many years ? Twelve, quite;
thirteen, maybe. What a jump of time ago ! One feels
staling, aging, as one thinks of it. And what a lot cf
decent sinners have gone to their long rest since then—
their long unrest, if Puritanism could fix them as it
fancies ! But Enormous Cant still waxes fat, and kicks
now quite as strenuously as ever.
And though the Empire didn’t remain closed for long,
after all, spoofing Macßougall’s scruples and inspectors
by some unimportant structural alterations so that
Flossie trekked back to her gilded mart again, and all
was much as it had been, the redoubtable Mrs. Chant,
undiscouraged by such partial failures, still hustles as
freshly as of yore for a cause which seems to preach that
to the “pure’’all things are impure.
Perhaps the most interesting feature of the lady’s
scrimmage with La Milo is the unexpected appearance
of bx-Pall Mall editor Stead for the defence. To Saint
Stead, as to so many of us, woman appears to come
mostly with “trouble in both hands.” VVas it not “all
on account of Eliza” that the good man once suffered
bonds and imprisonment ? And now, all on account
of La Milo, he has floundered over the starchy flounces of
the High Priestess of Social Purity, colliding frictionally
with Her Righteousness—he, who has been himself per-
haps Purity’s most refulgent Apostle—and a ray has been
riven from the halo of his saintship in the eyes of his
erstwhile staunch supporters. When Saintliness meets
Purity, as some may have it—when Gush encounters
Cant, to please others —what happens? Just what happens
when Sin falls out with Wickedness. Language ensues ;
words happen, which only differ in degree in their im-
peachment of the opposition. So Pure Cant and Perfect
Gush are now hammering and tonging one another, much
after the fashion of the unregenerate, and the outcome
of the melee must be left to the cables, though I would
wager that Cant has the last word.
♦-
Tlie 720 Owners of Half N.S. Wales.
The issue of the Land Settlement section of N. S. W.
Statistical Register offers the usual encourage-
ment to the progressive land-taxer. The Greid
yarn is that a progressive land-tax isn’t wanted for
bursting-up purposes, because big estates are
bursting themselves up. If there were ever a
time when they would naturally do that it is the
present, because, on account of phenomenal prices
and seasons —tilings which have hardly ever come
together before—there is a rush to get land
on almost any terms. In other words, just
those very conditions exist for which the
land-grabber has been waiting. Yet, in spite
of that, instead of the land passing into
the hands of the many, big estates are still
accumulating. In 1896—the Statistical Register
for that year shows—the freeholds of 10,001 acres
and upwards covered 20,919,276 acres. They
now cover 22,734,915 acres. Thus, in the past 10
years, instead of the big holdings being cut up,
they have mopped up another 1,815,039 acres of
N.S.W. In 1896 there were 679 of these great
bars to settlement; this year there are 720 of
vhem. True, the figures have shrunk slightly
during the last three years ; yet the aggregate
held in big estates to-day is only 147,619 acres less
than it was when it reached its maximum iu 1903.
All, therefore, that even the high prices for land
and the fear of a coming progressive land-tax
have jointly clipped out of the total area is 147,619
acres; and no less than 46§ per cent, of the
whole of the freehold land of the State is still in
720 hands. It is appalling—nearly one-half of all
the freehold of the State in 720 hands—an average
of over 49 square miles each ! If they used it, and
so added to the wealth of the country in men and
mqney, some at least of the edge of criticism
would be blunted. The farm drudges would not
be so good as the independent farmer —the man
with that stake in the country by which the Tory
professes to set so much store —but at least they
would be men. The shocking fact, however, is
that, in spite of the encouragement of good
seasons and fair wheat prices, only 138 per 10,000
acres of these big holdings were cultivated this
year as against 152 per 10,000 acres in 1900. So
the big holdings are actually going still further
out of cultivation. Of the holdings of from 31 to
400 acres 1432 out of every 10,000 acres are culti-
vated ; that is to say, on the comparatively small
holdings there is nearly 11 times more cultivation,
on a given area, than there is upon the vast free-
hold tracts where the 49-square-mile land-bug
straddles. If he would use his vast areas, the
land-bug might be tolerated ; when he won’t, he
loses the only moral right he can claim to possess
them.
♦
Chow Horrors in S’Africa.
“One Who’s Been Thebe” writes from personal
knowledge of the Ohovv in S’Africa :
Small wonder mass meetings are being held in Pretoria
and Johannesburg demanding the publication of the
Royal Commissioner’s report on Chinese crime. I
spent some 18 months amongst the Chows in S’Africa,
and know many white miners working with them. Once,
whiie in charge of a party of 20 Chows working under-
ground at a deep level, I had just set them their various
duties, and had turned round for a second or two,
when the lamps were extinguished, and I was
knocked on the head and rendered unconscious.
When I “came to” I was stark-naked right
down to hoots and socks, and the brutes had decamped
with everything bar the mine. I have frequently had to
fire into the air to frighten them when they had
begun committing nameless crimes among them-
selves. Not having any of their own women with
them, they are consorting- with Kaffir and Euro-
pean prostitutes. Murder and plunder are common
Mongolian recreations. For instance: Six of these
friends of Bruce Smith escaped from the compound of a
mine, and attacked a farm, where they demanded food
and drink, and, having got both, shot the farmer dead.
After wounding and outraging his widow, they cut off
three fingers of her right hand for the rings they bore,
and set fire to the house. Twelve escapees from a mine
demanded food at a Boer farmhouse. The Boer supplied
them. They then shot and wounded him and his three sons,
bound and gagged them, and ransacked the house, after
which they outraged the women, even children of five and
six not being spared, right before the eyes of the men,
set fire to the house, and decamped. Such things have
been happening every day. It will make interesting but
fearful reading, if the full report of Judge Buckniu, (the
Royal Commissioner) is published.
♦
Where the Big Estate Blights.
“ Itan ” photographs the effects of land monopoly
on the N.S.W. South Coast:—
Tlie South Coast of N.S.W. has some well-developed
examples of the far-reaching effects of the big estate evil,
notably in Coolangatta—willed by David Berry to Dr.
Hay—and in a couple of other tracts of territory, but not
quite such extensive principalities. Stagnation is written
boldly on the face of that part of the State. The recent
spurt of money-earning from the product of the cow has
had no effect in bustling the towns, as is the case on the
North Coast, where the land is mostly held in handy
holdings by the occupiers. One can travel many miles
through the heritage of Hay at the present moment —
despite the salutary lesson of the Great Drought, which
swept to dust about two-thirds of their dairy herds—and
not see a single handful of fodder conserved, innumerable
paddocks with no clothing save the natural grasses, fences
in advanced decay, houses old and unfit for use, barns
corrupted by time, cow yards so dirty as to even stir to
mortification a Board of Health officer, vegetable and
flower gardens practically unknown, and not an acre to
the square mile under crop. There is no other district
with similar claims to fertility so backward in agriculture,
so absolutely devoid of individual enterprise. Yet it is
one of the very oldest districts from a settlement stand-
point. The tenant farmer, as a matter of common
admission locally, has been a huge failure, because of the
conditions of his occupancy. For the past ten years
there has been such a persistent exodus of the pick of the
bunch —farmers who jumped at the chance to go else-
where to escape the eternal rent day—that the South
Coast men now form the bulk of the most pro-
gressive farmers in the booming dairy districts of the
Richmond River. The Shoalhaven has winced under the
strain, for all it has left now are the scanty few who
managed to acquire their own holdings on the owner’s
terms, and the wasters, who are fearful examples of the
dispiriting, heart-destroying, demoralising effect of land
monopoly. Almost to a man these farmers are without
ambition, are out-of-date, and do not seem to even bother
about the little comforts which make rural life bearable.
The degeneracy of serfdom is sharply reflected in the
progeny.
An attempt was made some time ago to better things by
selling men their holdings, on an arrangementinvolvinga
small deposit, the balance when they had it, and solid
interest to be found annually. But with many the last
state is worse than the first, for the prices agreed upon are
so high that the wolfish interest makes the old
rent rate look like a lamb. The waterlogging
thus remains and the derelicts float on, cursed
by the souring influence of the Big Estate system.
A few newcomers, who are introducing modern farming
methods, seem to have little effect beyond simply
astonishing the natives. Occasionally some of the
mountain settlers, where the isolation is more pro-
nounced, vary the monotony of the cowyard with drink.
The chief liquor is a locally-made spirit from the heads
of a fodder plant called farmers friend. It is greased
lightning. When several stills were pounced upon, a few
years ago, much of the distilled damnation on hand was
hurriedly buried, but there is still some remaining, very
much o.p. The publicans of Berry know when a spree is
contemplated, by the purchase of a few bottles of rum
to blend with the mountain dew-. For a day or two the
reckless lashing makes a western shearing centre green
with envy at the wild, frenzied time. Then a sorry re-
covery—a recollection of neglected cows, and a fond
return to the milkers and the poddies.
The curse of the big estate overshadows the country
side. A progressive land-tax 20 years ago would have
stirred sleepy Shoalhaven to retain the best of the men
she bred, and the country would now be carrying four
times, very likely 10 times, the present population. At
Nowra and Berry the visitor strikes .yawning business men,
who, once aroused, use vile language about monopolies,
but lowly breathe their curses for fear of being heard.
«,
The Cow, the Whole Cow, and Nothing
But the Cow.
“Gilrooney” writes :
I have just been mentally surveying the landscape of
Cow, and have come to the conclusion that the said land-
scape is a calamity of huge and horrible proportions.
Apart from the purely business aspect, which this article
doesn’t propose to discuss, the dairying industry is a
hopeless, sordid, and demoralising factor in our national
existence. Where this scribe hangs out his shingle (in
the south-west of N.S.W.) the Calamity of Cow is rapidly
becoming established, and here are the kinds of results
it is producing :
If the dairy proprietor has children of his own, they do
the milking and other necessary work before and after
school. But, as two or three, in many cases, have to
milk from 20 to 40 cows before they can think of such a
mere detail as education, it generally happens that it is
10 or 11 o’clock before they reach school. Then, in the
afternoon, when their poor little brains are addled and
wearied, there is a lightning-like transition from know-
ledge to Cow. Always Cow ! You shall speak the Cow,
the whole Cow, and nothing but the Cow l Therefore,
it is inevitable that these innocent, childish drudges will
never possess a mind above sour milk, nor a soul above a
separator. But that is the best and most hopeful
side of the proposition ; for when the school-house is
over two miles distant from the Cow, the chances are ten
to one against them ever being sent at all. Then, again,
if the dairyman has no family of his own, he has to
engage outside labor, and this means that, as dairying is
such a notoriously-sweated business, he won’t pay a man
decent wages ; and so he employs boys—whose proper
place is at school. Or, if he does employ a man, it is at
children’s wages ; and whether it is better to have a
sweated man taking a child’s place, so that the juvenile
may go to school, or to have a child losing its education
in order to give man his industrial status, is a sordid,
sickening, unsatisfactory problem at its best.
Dairying is just about on the same plane as the agri-
cultural “share system” and rabbit-trapping. The
whole three are “ great primary industries,” and if ever
three industries were calculated to bring a country down
to the depths of servile drudgery and hopeless self-efface-
ment, they are those three. Possibly the introduction of
milking machines and other appliances will make dairy-
ing less brutalising, and more profitable ; but, as things
are going, Australia’s children will probably be so much
saturated with the spirit of the Cow that they will only
be able to say “ moo ” when the machinery millennium
arrives. Of course, all dairy farms are not slave and
ignoramus factories; but the ones that inspire and
justify optimism are the exceptions and not the rule.
The moral is plain—a simple moral taught by the bitter
lessons of experience and the irresistible force of reason.
A nation must diversify its ideas and energies over a
broad field of action if it aspires to extract itself from
the mire of industrial monotony and intellectual decay.
Therefore, Australia must establish manufactures, and
establish them mighty quickly, so that the bush boy who
hates Oow as he hates poison, shall be enabled to apply
his talents to some task more congenial to himself, and
possibly more profitable to his country. At present he
is sentenced for life to the “ share ” cultivation paddock,
the dominion of bunny, or the awful milking-yaid. And,
even with the first two abhorrences in mind, I know of
no greater destroyer of body, mind, and soul than the
unspeakable calamity of Cow.
- ♦
As usual, the Victorian “ House of Review ’
celebrated the close of the session by dealing with
a large number of measures after the fashion of a
man who has little inclination for work—and less
capacity. Most of the Bills were amended ap-
parently out of mere can tankei ousness, as in the
Marriage Act Amending Bill, where they agreed
to allow a woman to marry her deceased husband's
brother, but refused the same right as regards her
departed hubby’s nephew', also to a man as regards
his late wife’s niece. Then they amended the
Money-lenders Bill by insisting that no assign-
ment should be voidable unless obtained by
fraud. They started to monkey with the Chil-
dren’s Courts Bill, but it having no relation to
property, they did no material damage. They
limited the operation of the Stock Diseases Bill
to one year—when the weary old performance
will have to be gone over again at great expense.
They altered the Boilers Inspection Bill to its fur-
ther disadvantage, and, finally, they took the
Chinese Furniture Factories Regulation Bill by
its piece of tape, and disgustedly tossed it into
the gutter. This last performance was a piece of
pure cranky impertinence. The Chinese were
merely to be compelled to register and to observe
the same laws as the white man, and no more
were to be allowed to start in the furniture busi-
ness. Victorians have been, by all this, further
urged to the conclusion that one House is quite
enough for State purposes.
“M.W.”, from Brisbane, confirms a Bulletin
judgment as to the election results in Queens-
land :
The Q. Labor party is singularly unfortunate in its
principal Labor journal. No paper has given more valu-
able assistance to the Tory party than has the Brisbane
Worker. The Conservative newspapers find its utter-
ances simply invaluable. Associated with the Worker
and its narrow, bigoted policy is the Central Political
Executive. The calibre of this body may be gauged by
its treatment of ex-Senator Dawson. Dawson’s conduct
as a Senator was beyond all defence. The bounden duty
of the C.P.E. was to strike him off the Party ticket. But
the C.P.E. performed one of the shabbiest tricks on
record. At the first election of candidates, so strong was
the feeling that Dawson was displaced by Griffith, a
Townsville man. Then the C.P.E. took fright— Dawson
might run as an Independent and spoil the show. There-
fore, a second election was rigged up a few days after,
and Dawson reinstated. The whole story leaked out,
was exposed in several newspapers, and the Worker has
never dared to contradict it. Dawson shortly after,
urged by his friends, withdrew his candidature, and then,
repenting, wired to cancel the withdrawal. But the
C.P.E. had again taken fright at the rising indignation
against Dawson, and accepted his resignation and
ignored his cancellation thereof, although the can-
cellation wire arrived before the written resignation.
The fact is the policy of extreme Socialism as preached
by the Worker does not appeal to the average Queensland
voter. He understands Watson’S position, and is inclined
to favor the nationalisation of monopolies, but beyond
that he cannot go. He does not believe in alienation of
large areas of Crown lands, but he does believe in small
freeholds, and when a rabid Labor journal tells him the
small freeholder is a curse to the country—an alienator
and a land-jobber—he smiles amusedly, and votes for the
other side. The average Queensland voter understands
the Morgan-Kidston policy of gradual reform, of financial
solvency, of progressive democratic legislation ; but he is
not in favor of “ pulling up things by the roots” as advo-
cated by the organ of extreme Socialism. If the Worker
policy continues to dominate any considerable section of
the Queensland Labor party, there is ahead of that body
irretrievable disaster.
«,
“Vigilans:” Something should be done in
regard to the awful treatment of aboriginal
female children in the Northern Territory.
Children apparently under ten years of age are
being traded to the Chinese —the moral, social,
and financial curse of the North —fora bag of flour
or a bottle or two of liquor. On the out-lying
fields, such as Horseshoe Creek and the Driffield,
young children of this age may be seen any time
living openly with the heathens. When these
inhuman wretches go to work in the claims, the
children go with them, carrying their water-bags
and provisions! Surely such a state of. things
does not exist in any other part of the civilised
world. I know one Chinaman who is now living
with a child of, I should judge, nine years ; and
I know a Munilaman who lives with one of ten
years. There is no secrecy about the matter.
The children live in the grass hovels with the
Chinaman. No one interferes. They say it is
the custom of the country. And it is our country
—and we are responsible !
The general secretary of the Australasian Feder-
ated Butchers’ Union. Victorian branch, makes
this defence on a statement in The Bulletin
(22/11/’OG) of the union’s disloyalty to unionism in
the matter of the recent slaughtermen's trouble,
and puts a different complexion on the matter :
There never was a strike. The slaughtermen did not
cease work for one minute. They asked for, and obtained,
an increase during lunch hour ; the increase was finally
ratified by the firm at 5 o’clock in the evening. There-
fore they did not do anything in defiance of the
Wages Board, which is empowered to fix the lowest
possible minimum, and not a standard or maximum wage.
There is nothing to prevent any individual, or number of
individuals, asking for an increase if they can earn it.
Trouble had been brewing at these particular works for
years, owing to pin-pricking and imposition. In antici-
pation of trouble, the Wages Board was called together
some four months ago ; but, owing to the opposition
oi the employers’ representatives on the Board, and
the amount of quibbling indulged in, time was frit-
tered away and no decision arrived at. The chairman
then became ill, and the Board could not meet to settle
the questions of rates of pay at freezing works. The
trouble was intensified by the action of the firm in
directly and indirectly inducing about 70 to 80 slaughter-
men to come over from Maoriland the first week in Sep-
tember. They were kept waiting about, running into
debt, whilst exporters and graziers were battling’ with
each other over the price of stock ; and when work did
start some six or seven weeks later, the workmen had a
big bill of expenses to wipe off, and then not sufficient
work for those engaged. The men had to suffer whilst
exporters were forcing down the graziers’ prices here,
and forcing up the London markets. I have never yet
known that to be under a Wages Board, v'hich fixes a
minimum rate of wages, denies the right of any work-
man to ask for a higher rate under such circumstances as
these.
♦
“M‘C.”, from Johannesburg :
“ Exile’s” remarks (B. 4/10/’OG) equally apply to Aus
tralians residing here. We frequently discuss Australian
legislation—the fiscal issue in particular. We all have
some affection for our native land. But we generally
conclude by regretfully admitting that there are few
inducements offered us to return. We learnt trades in
Australia, and then stood on the wharves and watched
the implements we should have been employed in making
slung ashore out of foreign boats. Now we read
periodically that Australia wants immigrants ! Let us
see a future before us, and we who know Australia shall
soon return.


AS*
%
<1
MARK
TRADE
1001
*°
NEW* CONFECTION.
SAVE the wrappers.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion. “The New Clown.”
Her Majesty’s " Parsifal ” ; matinees, “ Alice in
Wonderland.”
Theatre Royal “A Path of Thorns.”
Palace “ The New Boy.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Lyceum Hall Edison’s Popular Pictures.
Rondi “ Wonderland.”
Amphitheatre “ Dreamland.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hick Majesty’s “ Mother Goose.”
Theatre Royal “Village Blacksmith.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
St. Kilda Esplanade.. . “ Dreamland.”
Mr. W. Tyree, 314 George-street, Sydney.
Dear Sir,—l read my boy Bill’s letter in the paper. I
want to tell you that your Spray has worked wonders in
this house. Before Mr. Williams went to Sydney he used
to make my children spray the orchard, whilst he smoked
his pipe and gave directions. Many is the time the poor
things had their hands all blistered working the pumps,
and every now and then, when the pumps got choked up
or wanted a new washer, Mr. Williams used to swear most
horrible, and blame the poor children: they dreaded
spraying time. Now it’s quite different; he has got a
spray each for Gwendoline, Eugene, and Venetia, and he
keeps Billy making up the mixture and charging the
machines. The result is, our orchard never looked so
well; we are going to make money at last.
Of course, you know we keep a Poultry Farm as well
and before we got the Spray, the children had to go into
the Fowlhouses to whitewash them, and a pretty job it
was—they used to get covered in whitewash and insects ;
now that there is no work attached to the job, Mr!
Williams does it himself; he sits down on a box and
lights his pipe, and sprays the houses in no time.
All the neighbors came round to have a look at the
place. Mr. Williams has got quite conceited, and has let
his hair grow long because, he says, it looks more artistic,
and now that he is able to do artistic jobs, he must dress
up to the character. Bast week he got up a painting
competition to paint the Parson’s fence and stables. Mr.
Williams gave any other man seventy-five yards start in
one hundred, and beat them all badly.
Mr. Williams has got all the family drilling every even-
ing as the Williams Fire Brigade. He savs there is going
to be a lot of bush fires this year, and so he has rigged up
the tyres of an old cart wheel, hung on a branch of a
tree ; in the middle of the night he makes an awful noise
by hammering the tyre ; the children all fall into their
places with their sprays ready for an emergency. I think
Mr. Williams would be pleased if a fire came along, so
that he could show what he can do as Bush Fire Super-
intendent.—Yours &c.,
Amelia William's.
strain upon the modern theatre-goer—apart, of
course, from the miraculous power of Cup and
Spear. Svengali has familiarised the hypno-
tist and his subject, and, strange as it looks,
Trilby, of the Paris artists’ quarter, has
i)> a a . r S e factor in making a “mystery
play ” possible as a purely modern melodramatic
performance. Certainly Parsifal has to be
simple and pure ” to meet the requirements
of Kundry’s redemption; and even in those
legendary days, it seems, the only way to keep
a young man, of 21 or so, simple and pure was to
bury him. Possibly it is necessary to underline
the young man’s special qualifications; but it is
hard to take him seriously when he asks, “What
is a woman?” Still, this is only momentary, and
the man improves, but a suspicion lasts
that he isn’t real. He remains to the end such a
character as only a mystery play could furnish.
* * * *
A versatility is demanded which Mias
Brune, with all her good qualities, does not
possess. Physically she is not a perfect Kundry ;
and there is less devil in her than the case seems
sometimes to call for. Out of Klingsor’s power,
she is the perfect clinging ivy ; but she is not a
convincing nettle. No doubt she hates Kling-
sor’s work, and she expresses her horror graphi-
cally ; but once at least, when she sets out to lure
Parsifal, she is in earnest about living up to her
shocking reputation. Hitherto she has generally
been accused of being hoydenish at some part of
the proceedings. There is no trace of that here.
Say that she lacks “devil’’ and some physical
qualities, and one says all that can fairly be said
in her disfavor. As Amfortas, Vivian Edwards
gets his first big chance—a less robustious
Edwards than he was when, a couple of years
ago, he thundered as a very raw juvenile lead to
Beatrice Holloway. Presence and voice favor him,
and if he does not yet strike his audience hard
with an individuality, he at least impresses
it with having made a close study of his heavy
part. Kingston is handicapped with the un-
reality of Parsifal, yet reaches his best before the
altar beside the tomb of Titurel. That aged
monarch —out of whose misfortunes the doddering
section of Australian Leg. Councils will draw
much self-satisfaction—leads to Atholwood lurk-
ing behind a prodigious beard. Mervale’s
Klingsor is probably the most artistic thing of
all; and Miss Vaughan is, from two points of
view, an impressive Zana, who suggests things
to him when Satan has personally run out of
ideas.
* * * *
But “Parsifal,” whatever it may do later,
will appeal to holiday-audiences in the first place
as a spectacle. Nature helps along Kundry’s
redemption with a terrific thunderstorm and
earthquake at the end of act 111., and, in the way
of impressive crash-bang, there has not been of
late the like. It is “the limit” in the way of
stage mechanism, and the fine perspective in
which the subsequent scene of desolation is pre-
sented is almost as striking as the wholesale
destruction ; while the fire ballet which conveys
the intimate connection of Klingsor and the devil
—politely called Satanas during the performance
—demands the only other line available.
** * *
Lord Cyril Garston (Hugh Ward), at heart
a good sort, whom an Eton and Oxford educa-
tion has turned into a perfect English ass, all
nerves and affectations, thinks that he has man-
slaughtered his friend ; runs away to escape the
imaginary inquest and consequences; and becomes
a clown in a strolling circus until the inevitable
clearing-up makes all end happily. In the
circus, incidentally, he learns to be a man under
the stimulus of Mary Platt (Miss Grace Palotta)
and Proprietor Dixon (George Willoughby).
That’sthe story of “The New Clown ” presented at
Sydney Criterion on Saturday by those excellent
comedians, Miss Palotta, Ward, Willoughby and
co., graced with many songs, acutely funny
always, occasionally having a little undercurrent of
pathos, as in the circus girl’s hopeless love for the
lord who is playing the clown and thereby
learning to be something less of a clown.
It is a story bubbling over with laughter,
but helped by its reasonableness and human
touch to be almost worthy of rank as a
comedy, not a farce. Witty in places, almost
pathetic in others, “The New Clown” gives
moments of relief from loud merriment, which
helps it much.
• • * *
The Willoughby Ward Co. had a warm
greeting from the audience, and just as warm an
appreciation at the end. “The New Clown”
certainly gives better opportunities to the co.
than did “The Man from Mexico.” Miss Grace
Palotta, whose singing improves with every visit,
adorns a part which is dainty rather than
farcical with one quaintly pretty song,
“Mary,” and with Ward sings a gay
lyric, “Strolling,” in which the pair make the
best hit of the piece. She does justice both
to the merriment and pathos of her part.
Hugh Ward pervades the play with his character
sketch of Lord Garston—played in a spirit of the
broadest comedy, but always with a subtle
note, showing the development of the callow
lordlingfrom the complete ass to his final outcome,
when he is “ a man and not a mouse.” His songs,
topical and otherwise—solos, duets with Miss
Palotta, trios with Miss Palotta and Wil-
loughby—are as numerous as they are humor-
ous. To Willoughby falls the part of the
circus proprietor, a typical “ lion comique ”
character, and he puts it into the front
rank with Ward’s Clown. Indeed, among
the three principals it is difficult to
fairly divide the credit. Let it be added
that very good work is done by Arthur
Cornell, Edward Bonfield, and Reginald Wake-
ham. “ The New Chum ” looks as though
it would say “ Here we are again !” for many a
night.
** * *
An amateur company with a considerable
stiffening of first-class professionals is holding the
stage at Sydney Palace with that delightful ex-
travaganza, “The New Boy.” The story of
“The New Boy” is well enough known. Into
the complications of the yarn playwright Arthur
Law has worked a large and highly creditable mass
of human fun. The climax is reached when the up-
to-date Stock Exchange gambler disguised as a
schoolboy goes out to play football with the young
ruffians of Bircligrove. Writer. never realised
what an awful ruffian he nad been till he saw
Bullock Major on the stage, and then
the past rose up and smote him. Bullock
is the head boy—which is the same as
the head ruffian of all the ruffians, and
his one argument is his heavy right. The only
thing his heavy right gives way to is his obscene
left. However, the play, as usual, ends well,
Mr. Archibald Rennick, the New Boy, unmasking
the villainy of Felix Roach, who has grown fat on
the downfall of Dry Champagne, Limited, to Dr.
Candy. Then the shares rise once more, and Mr.
and Mrs. Rennick are enabled to go back to
Belgravia and fashionable flats, and all is bliss.
That clever young Australian, Blandford
Wright, who not only acts plays with more than
moderate success, but also writes them, is
limited to a very brief part in the production
at the Palace, but makes the most of it.
Mr. Johnson Weir makes of Felix Roach quite a
stirring character.. One grows to like him for the
cheerful way in which he makes the best of a diffi-
cult part. Harry Diver, an old Sydney favorite,
took the part of Theodore de Brizac, the French
master, and played up to his own standard. The
ladies of the piece dressed charmingly, and car-
ried out their parts with a smooth thoroughness
that told of long and earnest rehearsal.
* * * *
The only difference between “The Path of
Thorns ” and other melodramas with which Bland
Holt has charmed his gods is that the scenery of
“The Path” is Australian and two women go
astray instead of one. It is the tale of how two
sisters went wrong. Harrie Ireland(SybilSpurway)
went astray comfortably in a mansion on the
shores Sydney Harbor, and Jennie Pollick
(Nellie Spuraway) goes astray in Argyle Cut
with a thief as a companion strayer from the
straight and narrow way. All the characters
tread the bramblypath, but naturally the sharpest
thorns fall to the feet of the sweet and gentle
Frances Ross, who does not go astray, and the good
and noble Walter Baker, who in this upheaval
blossoms out as an inventor. Of course he tries
to sell his invention to the villain, Albert
Norman (Jonas Deane). Baker tries to sell
his invention to Norman for £lOOO, and
the gallery cheers wildly £lOOO is an
immeasurable fortune to the gallery ! But the
cold-blooded Norman offers £5O. Later on he
offers £2OO, just to suit his own villainous ends,
and the gallery heaved up and howled wildly to
Walter Baker not to take it. But Baker ignored
the warning and took it—just to save his clieeild,
he explains to the gallery—and the gallery wept.
Then a corpse came into the yarn, and Walter
Baker quite naturally gets sentenced to be hanged
by the neck till dead. After 16 volumes of ad-
ventures, the face at the window or something
tells the truth, and Baker sells his invention, and
all the thieves and “perfect ladies” become
deacons and deaconesses, and take little children
down to Cremorne to picnics.
* * *
*■ The Path of Thorns ” is the joint work
of Arthur Shirley and Sutton Yane. They have
tried to catch an Australian atmosphere and failed
miserably. The only people who have caught
the local atmosphere are the scene painters,
and they have done their work thoroughly.
Their representations of Sydney are as beautiful
as they are realistic. Indeed the splendid mount-
ings and the humorous acting of Bland Holt and
his wife are the best features of the show.
* * *
Owing to the indisposition of the Post
Office to allow too much interference with the
course of the Christmas goose, this paper is
obliged to go to press without saying anything
very definite this issue about “Alice in Wonder-
land,” Sydney was going to have its first
chance of renewing acquaintance with the
Mad Hatter and the Mock Turtle on Monday
afternoon; and when you make your soup on
Monday morning, and the Mock Turtle doesn’t
begin to mock till Monday afternoon, the delight-
ful old humbug is fairly safe from that week’s pot.
Meantime there is no reason why Sydney
shouldn’t, on its own responsibility, interview the
numerous queens and pursue the Caterpillar, not
to mention the two oysters, at the daily matinees
at Her Majesty’s.
* * * *
The Bulletin just misses Selbo this week.
Last year Selbo threw plates before the King
and Queen, and broke so few of them that a
few days later the Prince and Princess of
Wales turned up to find out how. The
Bulletin doesn’t profess to know the cause
of all this royal interest in the matter ;
still, if they must throw plates, it is just as well
for even the Royal Family to know how to do it
without breaking them, now that money has gone
up to 6 per cent, in England. For the present,
however, the King and Queen, not to mention
the Prince and the Princess, have the advantage
of this paper, as Selbo won’t start at the Tivoli
till Boxing Night. Meantime, there is a large
and joyous holiday bill capable of filling the
Castlereagh-street house, even if it were made of
india-rubber, and could stretch to twice its every-
day size.
* » * *
This Xmas and Happy New Year Mel-
bourne is satisfied with two theatres and a vaude-
ville show, and two other theatres stand empty—
the Princess and Bijou. And yet people will talk
of building new theatres in the city ! The passing
of the Princess since Her Majesty’s was lifted into
popularity signifies that Melbourne is already pos-
sessed of more theatres than it knows what to do
with. However, the owners of the Bijou are about
to make another effort to induce theatre-goers
to visit their place, and the interior is to be torn
out of the one-time comedy-house, and a new and
beautiful one substituted. Possibly Harry
Rickards’s company, now organising in London
to give Australians fresh comedy, will break out
at the Bijou, although H. R. Cartright’s com-
pany, the clever little crowd that played some
pretty plays very smartly, put up a magnificent
failure there.
* * * *
At Melbourne Opera House at time of
writing, Chanti, Selbo, Bedford, Harry Tate and
others took a hand in keeping a bright holiday
bill on the bounce. King and Benson were still
melodiously warbling “Be it ever so hum-bul,
there’s no place,” etc., and other snatches of well-
worn song, in the intervals of what some people
called “lively patter,” and others “silly horse-
play.”
* * * *
Melb. Theatre Royal, after playing at
being a morgue, and housing ghouls, and enter-
taining crowded and ecstatic audiences in the
process, has relapsed into mere domesticity. It
is now the stage of “ a picturesque, thrilling, and
heart-stirring drama of family life.” “The
Village Blacksmith ” and his sorrows and joys
evoke these promising adjectives. By freauent
quotations from the late Mr. Longfellow’s
verses concerning an artisan of the same
calling, the uninitiated might be misled into
a belief that they were to encounter that stalwart
pillar of the village chapel in grease-paint replica.
Mr. Anderson knows his public too well for that.
The smith at the Royal has a liking for strong
drink, and, presumably, an indifference to morn-
ing service. Also, he and his missus—unlike the
other family—have much misery inflicted upon
them by a dramatic Providence and an energetic
villain. The blacksmith’s name is, very suitably,
John Strong, and he lives with his wife (Eugenie
Duggan) and their chee-ild in a highly-desirable
cottage near his shop. Mrs. Strong’s papa died in
gaol, leaving behind him £lO,OOO, which sumshow s
a familiar melodramatic predilection for dealing in
even money. Captain Leo, a personage who
looks like a masquerading curate, and is a cham-
pion athlete, knows of this circumstance, and has
the sinful desire to make it beneficial only to him-
self. To the unsuspecting Eugenie Strong he
makes elaborate advances, and when she repels
them, just drugs her, and changes her cherished
wedding-ring for one of his own providing. Then
he proceeds to say suggestive things to her boss,
who seems a person of uncertain temper. The
smith demands that his missus show him herring,
and reads within it some remarks by a gentle-
man who claims to be her husband in all but
name. All this puts the fat into the forge fire.
The blacksmith is evidently discouraged by his
domestic troubles, for he gives up work and takes
to drink. When his infant son goes out looking
for him, that intelligent cherub makes a bee-line
for the local pub. ; and meets his “Daddy” with-
out delay. While father is getting his hat the
child is abducted by a travelling tinker and his
wife, who are accomplices of the enter-
prising Capt. Leo. Strong and his missus both
pursue their offspring to London, where the
infant is rescued by the blacksmith and restored
to his Moth-er. When his father escapes from
the clutches of the baleful Leo, “ Little Harry ”
pipes a blessing, and waves a wasted little paw
over his progenitors, which brings about an imme-
diate reconciliation. The blacksmith then goes
out for Leo’s gore. In spite of Leo’s dyspeptic
appearance, he is a wrestler of note. Being hard-
up at this juncture, he issues a challenge of £lOO
and the championship he holds to all comers.
The only acceptance comes from an unknown,
who stipulates that he shall wrestle in his
mask. The wrestle takes place on the stage of
the Empire Music Hall, and lifts the drama into
an atmosphere of savage interest. The unknown
is unmasked after the first round, and Leo
discovers that his antagonist is the mighty
mechanic he has wronged. He hisses “To the
death ! ” and puts up a show like Buttan Singh in
an irritable mood. After a tempest of giant
swings, cross-buttocks, bridges, and Nelsons of
various degrees, the smith dashes Leo down the
second time, and is acclaimed winner. Not being
used to such enthusiastic handling, Leo falls in a
position which breaks his neck. And revenge
and a hundred pounds are the blacksmith’s.
« * * *
In a long, and sometimes irrelevant cast,
Miss Duggan gets only opportunity to be lugu-
brious and weepful. The athletic Leo is played by
delicate-looking Lawrence Dunbar, who makes up
for the tameness of his appearance by the fiendish-
ness of his deeds. Geo. Cross, as the smutty, but
virtuous Strong, shows an advance on much of his
recent work, and puts up a performance on the
mat which should attract some attention from
Citizen Wren. Bert Bailey and Temple Harri-
son are comic reliefs in their usual way. And
through several fine stage pictures wander a host
of auxiliaries and other interesting or decorative
people.
•:lc * # *
The postal arrangements forced on The
Bulletin by the holiday season prevent a review
of the Melbourne pantomime this week. But it
is to be presumed with some certainty that
Mother Goose glittered as per advertised an-
nouncements on Saturday night.
** * *
“Melb.”: Marshall Hall remains in the
spirit. His Conservatorium aspirants did more
than pretty well in their operatic bits at Her
Majesty’s on Saturday afternoon. The (nearly
all) amateur orchestra, women and men, numbered
over forty, amazingly good. Miss Gerty Fleming
sang and acted Romeo under the tomb of the
Capulets, with Miss Eva Stamp as Juliet. Miss
Fleming is a mighty fine woman, up to the ideal
I have formed of Charlotte Cushman as Romeo.
Yet the piece from “ Aida ” was even better done.
Miss Hesketh Jones made a splendid vocal Aida,
better than the woman Williamson brought
from Italy. The musical may be pleased to know
the composition of the Marshall Hall orchestra :
violins 17, violas 2, ’cellos 2, basses 2, harp 1,
flutes 2, oboes 2, English horn 1, clarionets 2,
bassoons 2, horns 2, trumpets 2, trombones 3, and
one performer on the bombardon drums. Thus
the total is 41. Melbourne concerts have been
exuberant this year. Just a few that have hit me
the hardest: Above all, Blanche Arral drawing
such crowds at the Princess’s. Next in excellence,
and on a very large scale, came the Lyric
orchestra and chorus in Bellini’s “Norma”
(opera di camera), at the Melbourne Town
Hall. The Lyrics, in former years, have given
Mozart’s “Magic Flute,” Weber’s “Oberon,”
and Weber’s “Der Freischutz.” Equal to them
in merit, though only about half in numbers, was
the Euterpe Society’s performance of Bellini’s
“La Somnambula,” at the Athenaeum. This
society has moved up from Prahran, where it
gave “Maritana,” “Martha,” and “II Trova-
tore.” I was surprised a week or two ago with
a cantata called “The Angel of the Harvest,” in
the little St. Paul’s Church, Clifton Hill. They
had an orchestra of 26, and chorus of 50, all
their own choir. Indeed, the Melbourne church
choirs are stuffed with decent sopranos and
baritones, but all up a tree for tenors.
Lastly, a word on the newly-formed Essendon
amateur orchestra, 40 women and men. under
Professor Jager. They gave me last month one of
the bright evenings of the year. Miss Jager
reaped the laurels with her piano rendering of
Weber’s Concert Stucke, backed by the orchestra.
## * *
The American pictures have gone from
Adelaide Royal, which promises the magician
Czerny for Christmas week. Tivoli and Town
Hall are also to run holiday shows. For the
moment the Hippodrome has things to itself.
This unpretending open-air show, managed by
Lennon, Hyman, and Lennon, has caught on, and
at the end of its second month puts forth a canvas
roof, and increased advertising space, and other
signs of material prosperity.
“PARSIFAL.”
Dwarfing the love of women, passing great,
They held the Holy Grail inviolate—
The cup from which the Christ they called their Lord
Supped with His chosen at the parting board ;
Held it within the Mount of Holy Grail
Titurel and his hosts in knightly mail.
And, with the Cup, they held in sacred trust
The Spear that in His side Longinus thrust
What time He helpless hung upon the Tree,
Mingling forgiveness with Death’s agony,
And turned on Kundry, mocking from the press,
One dying look—a blessing, a caress.
Sternly each man held his appointed post
Titurel’s men, beset by Satan’s host
Led on by Klingsor, chosen instrument,
And chosen well, on devilish deeds intent;
Beset by him and Zana and their brood,
Titurel and the Mount of Grail withstood.
So waged the war till weight of years bowed down
The King ; then passed, more lustrous now, the Crown
To him, Amfortas, whom his wife had bare,
And with the Crown passed on the sacred Care.
Fair was Amfortas, yet, by duty led,
Sworn not to look on maid to woo or wed.
Then chuckled Satan in his servant’s heart:
“ So shall we rend this Mount of Grail apart!
Beneath the Crown no longer doth there flow
Blood cooled by age, half-frozen, pulsing slow !
But youthful blood, fast-surging, bubbling, hot:
So water bubbleth in a brittle pot.
Kundry she cometh from the womb of her
Who mocked His lips upon the Cross with myrrh.
Aye Kundry, she is fair, and knoweth well
With hotblood youth where lies the magic spell.
Thus shall this king and Spear and Cup be ours,
And with the Cup and Spear their magic powers.
So, doubting, Kundry went, and cast her net;
Spellbound, yet striving vainly to forget
That mingled look of pardon and of grief,
When, mocking Christ as well the ribald thief,
She from whom sprang Satanas’ messenger
Offered His parching lips the bitter myrrh.
And cast her net too well. Self-confident,
Forth Hotblood fared, on Love and Conquest bent,
In eager quest, the Holy Spear in place ;
Yet sighed and sighed, and snatched one glad embrace.
And as fell Klingsor grasped the Christ-stained prize,
The maiden quailed beneath the Anguished Eyes.
Changes the scene of strife. But yesterday
They did but guard who now must wrench away.
Amfortas, broke, despite his kingly birth
May lead not. But, high-honored for his worth,
Steps out a youth, the knighted Parsifal,
Who pledges life to join the Spear and Grail.
Then chuckled Satan in his servant’s heart :
“ Fair Kundry, speed again thy piercing dart.”
And Kundry, doubting more, yet spellbound still,
Sets well her snares to do the hellish will;
Then falters, crying, for the Pitying Eyes
She sees again—this knight’s of bold emprise.
The signal set aforetime this, the cry !
The Spear is cast—" So shall this bold knight die ! ”
But, harmless unto him no sin hath touched,
The Spear hangs, pendant, quivering to be clutched.
Grasp, Parsifal! And with thy whole might thrust,
Then take thee hence, thee and thy sacred trust.
So came again the Spear. Amfortas now
Took from his own, and on a worthier brow
Bestowed the Crown ; yet found sweet recompense
In wedding her who erst had drawn him thence ;
Saved by the pitying look that lit the Cross,
Pure love is gold, all else she knows is dross.
#* * *
J. C. Williamson deserves to succeed with
“Parsifal,” if only for his pluck in putting on so
big a thing of so unusual a sort at Her Majesty’s
(Sydney) without the sanction of an English
success. The “book” is by the Rev. Hillhouse
Taylor, of Sydney, modified to meet dramatic
requirements. With an eye, no doubt, to Tittell
Brune, the stage story is not so much that of
Parsifal as of Kundry “ The Redemption of
Kundry ”it carries for a sub-title. An opening
tableau introduces the lady in her Jekyll-and-
Hyde character: deep in love with Amfortas, and
striving after good for that reason; under the
mesmeric influence of Klingsor, and for that
reason forced to do evil. Parsifal, “the simple
one and pure,” and the instrument in the final
redemption of the lady, imposes the heaviest


cvn
%
uiZ
't
u
William Fleming# equitable bp?, georgest,Sydney.
... .... < wu,
Ja/t/uud rim/afflcd for uJ
nape amu-fu/lu t/A/& uaw/'
ZJumad Jpr-ecmcnvt/ y'Jatid -
ftu&CTi. hi/ a>
mSuvrutim/cr)
"vtyjtorhk/ 'tfitinu.
Gets There Quickest
m
ss
CURES INDIGESTIOn
HEADACHE & NEURALG3
L FISHER’S
0
PHOSPHERWE
r.,
All Chemists, 1/- ; four times the quantity, 2/6.
Insist upon Fisher’s.
Five Drops in Water Half an Hour After Meals is
the Greatest Aid to Digestion Known.
POST FREE.
RELIABILITY TEST.
Mr. Thomas Forsyth, of Ashfield, writes and declares
on oath the following “ I suffered from acute inflam-
mation of the stomach, with a burning pain. My tongue
got a thick coating over it, and I constantly suffered
from Nausea. Why, I used to be almost constantly
vomiting. I consulted two doctors in Ashfield for years
without getting relief. But in three weeks FISHER’S
PHOSPHERINE completely cured me. lam Noble
Grand for the Loyal Ashfield M.U.1.0.0.F. I have been
in the Lodge for 18 years. Most of the members know of
my illness. Five to ten drops of FISHER’S PHOS-
PHERINE always takes away a sour taste in the mouth
and keeps my stomach in regular order. Let everyone
know of my case.” J
Subscribed and declared at Ashfield this Twentieth
day of August, one thousand nine hundred and three,
■before me,
A. R. LEMAIRE, J.P.
FISHER & COMPANY, Chemists, 337 George St,, Sydney
SPEEDIEBT CURE FOR RHEUMATISM, NERVOUSNESS, KIDNEY AILMENTS, and SEASICKNESS.
Great ceremonies take place in the Maori
Pah at the Christchurch Exhibition, on the arrival
of natives from other parts of the islands. It is a
unique show. The welcome begins with shouts
from men high up in the look-out tower of the
pah as the visitors approach. This is followed by
a weird wailing from the women inside the stock-
ade, and deep, booming shouts from the warriors
gathered there. In the open air this makes for
wonderful harmony. There is material for opera in
it. The women (sopranos and contraltos) dance
slowly toward the carved gateway, waving green
branches in welcome. The warriors (bass and
baritone) form a thick wedge and prance solemnly
behind, their deep voices backing up the sharp,
shrill cries of the women. All this is punctuated
by the tenors on the high look-out tower. When
the visitors reach the drawbridge, the Maoris
grow silent, and, with a soft and swinging move-
ment, drift quietly backward. The guests ad-
vance in single file and silence. The dignity
of this is usually spoilt by the visiting natives
being in horribly mis-fitting European dress.
The two groups form into double line opposite
each other, and from the silence, the welcoming
chief (clad in mat and feathers) stalks out and
elocutes. Then the other chief (mostly in a sac
suit and awful high hat) has his say. After pre-
senting the staff of peace, the ceremonies, songs,
and dances take place. So far, the Cook Islanders
take the palm for singing. Theirs is a musical
chant, and the accompaniment is made altogether
by a minor monotone drawled by the greater
number, and occasionally changed into a sharp
pizzacato, which sounds exactly like the buzz of
stringed instruments.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“ L.E.” : Why doesn’t some Variety entertainer break
fres.ii ice ? There are only one or two Variety lines in the
business ; so if you are not a Queen of the Horizontal Bar,
or jJn Educated Bull-terrier, you are chased out into the
COl<| wet, to listen to Bevan addressing the unemployed,
or dlse you have to go on the dry land. Why doesn’t
somebody go on the stage and give us some of his adven-
tures Out-Back? A few strong doses of “ Aboriginalities”
stuff, acquired from the most notorious Bush naturalists
and liars, would last an ordinary mummer half a life-
time. Something Australian—even of the wildest and
woolliest brand, with snakes and giant goannas and
shanty rum in it—ought to create a joyous panic in a
theatre that, so far, has given only worn and weary, and
mostly shoddy, imported goods.
“Hamer”: A godsend to the travelling show is the
local know-all, who has travelled and seen things—and
people. He lends the seal of his confirmation to the
manager’s lies, and backs up the advance-agent’s per-
juries. I was once trying to get a broken-down show
into passable solvency, and I inundated various city
weeklies that were accused of a country circulation with
details of our English successes, with my own favorable
English criticisms attached. Some of them were printed,
and the local know-alls in various towns boomed the show
from bankruptcy to affluence. One bush perjurer told
me, and all besides, that he remembered seeing me act in
the theatre in New York. His ideas of that metropolis
were of a purely backblocks character, and he spoke
vaguely of “ the theatre ” to which he “walked over from
the pub.”
London Chronicle gives a Frenchman’s judgment
affirming the superiority of the ballet in London to that
of Paris: “It is true that the ladies of your ballet have
more beautiful figures than ours, and why? In England,
your girls are tall and scraggy—and you can put on. In
France, our girls are short and fat —helas ! mon ami, you
cannot take off ! ”
James A. Bailey, who recently passed out in New York,
was a great showman, and so was his partner, Barnum ;
but Bailey’s original partner, Cooper, was the greatest of
the trio, if his biography is reasonably near the truth.
Said biography, which was on sale at a ridiculously high
price during the tour of the Cooper and Bailey show in
these latitudes, was full of remarks like this : “ James E.
Cooper devoted his life, and expended a princely fortune,
in order to afford the lover of natural history opportuni-
ties Of studying the rare book of nature as written in
living characters by the hand of the Creator.” All the
same, this lofty philanthropist and his partner, Bailey,
were not above imposing upon the guileless Australian
public with a faked giraffe, whose 20ft. of neck was moved
to and fro by a mechanical device secreted somewhere
about its frame. The ardent students of nature were
solemnly warned by placard not to approach too near
this dangerous animal’s place of captivity, else there
might be sudden death. (More likely there would be a
sudden discovery that the stalky fraud was a dead skin
object that made a few occasional movements on wires.)
The giraffe was a poor fraud, and most of the time it
stood stock still, with a glassy eye fixed on vacancy.
Fired by the success of Pansy Milo Montague, another
beauteous being has flashed on the London ’alls. She
calls herself “Galatea, la Statue Humaine,” and was
billed to appear at the Palace on Oct. 29. On the pre-
ceding Friday a press view was to be given, to which
1000 persons of importance were invited. All of them
were asked to give their “ candid opinion ” of the show.
It is a mighty strong woman who can stand 1000 candid
opinions.
“ Melb.”: So much for the Miss Highkickinghams of
Williamson’s choir. Now for the men. What a drop
is there. Why must the chorus man be such a com-
parative yahoo (in the stage girls’ estimation)? They
thought it disgusting when six of them had to be carried
off by men in “ The Oingalee.” Why not provide chorus
men up to the standard of the girls—real dashing Hercu-
leses, Antinouses, and Apollos ? Let them be universally
known as Frankie, Algy, Monty, Johnnie, and so on.
Let “ bokays ” be left for them, socks, buskins, pipes, or
whatever they desire. Let them now and again be led to
the altar by Miss Toorakia. Then comic opera will
balloon. Another ss. a week ought to enable the chorus
man to dress as well, and be as handsome off the stage as
on. Besides, the dear girls (off the stage) would subsi-
dise them. There would be diamond rings and trifles,
Melbourne gifts pawnable in Sydney, and vice versa.
A play with the Bilandersonian title of “ The Girl Who
Lost;Her Character ” is now wandering about England.
A new book of Henry Irving anecdotes tells a quaint
one of Disraeli’s visiting “The Corsican Brothers.” He
was much bent, and walked feebly—being, as a matter
of fact, 75 years old, and within three or four months of
his death. But he brightened up enough to say, “Do
you think we could have supper somewhere, and ask
some of the coryphees to join us, as we used to do in Paris
in the fifties ? ” The other side of the joke was that
Irving had had the greatest difficulty in getting any of
the highly-respectable ladies of his company to appear as
coryphdes at all (in the opera ball scene of the play), and
those who did so figure “ would have set an example to a
confirmation class.”
Luscombe Searelle, whose name again hits Australians,
is said by London Era to have made somewhere about
£1,000,000 out of his participation in Boer war business.
The author of “Bobadil,” “Mizpah,” and other musical
eccentricities is said by the Era to have stacked several
thousand stands of arms under the stage of his Johannes-
burg theatre to help in Dr. Jameson’s raid, but a stage-
hand informed, and Kruger seized the lot. Searelle, too,
was sentenced to be shot. On account of these outrages
and indignities, the Era says, the British Government
allotted him one million or thereabouts cash.
“Fitzgerald’s Circus” is not going to be a mere
memory of the past after all. Mrs. Tom Fitzgerald—in
London—has decided that the show business and the old
name are too good to be given up. She has accordingly
aceummulated half a circus in England, and has set sail
for India with it. Irskine Scott, Fitz.’s representative in
Melbourne, has, under orders from Mrs. Tom, collected
the other half of the show in Melbourne. Much of the
menagerie sold by Bostock and Wombwell will probably
find its way into tbe new show. The Australian half left
the other day for Colombo. With the Australian section
went a ballet. It appears that, in India, the circus-
goers love to gaze on the limbs of the ballet girl, and
especially the Australian girl. The contract with the
girls contained a clause exacting a penalty of £2OO for
every husband snared by a nymph during the period
of her engagement with the circus. This is £lOO better
than Tallis and Co.’s £lOO penalty ; but, then,
India’s climate is probably twice as husbandish as
Australia’s.
At the present moment, it is almost impossible to walk
about London without bumping into some new tenor or
other from Melbourne. There are at least eight of them
now in the big town on the Thames, all hailing from the
Bent city—Henry Stockwell, Walter Kirby, Thorold
Waters, Hector Lightfoot, Arthur Royd (who has only
sung since going Englandwards), Charles Rose, young
Hal Cohen, and James Watts, whose light was more or less
buried as a nimble dancer with the Williamson comic
opera company. Of these, the first five at least are on
the market, and plucking the wily engagement from its
parent branch. When the others get going as well,
London should have just enough Melbourne tenor for its
immediate digestion, unless one or two of them meet on
the doorsteps of the musical agents, and reduce each
other to a condition of mangled remains.
A Melbourne doctor tells of a little experience with an
actress, something of a comic opera celebrity. The M.D.
was called in to attend on the lady, who was down with
gastritis. He found her worried and excitable, and her
temperature “ away up.” Having thought the matter
out the good doctor sat by the bedside forfifteen minutes,
telling the patient what a ghastly mess her under-study
was making of her part. When he left the pulse was
much reduced, and the lady was “doing well.” “Now,
she swears by me,” says that physician.
It has been an axiom that no woman can compose an
opera. Few have composed well-known music. A Miss
Smyth troubled English managers with an opera last year,
but they would not look at it. The work was called
“ Forest Lovers,” or something like that. She took it to
Germany, where it was produced with fair success,
as “ Der Wald ” —The Forest. The last London Atiienasum
mentions that she has achieved a great success
at the Leipsic Opera House with another opera, “ Der
Strandrecht ” —The Beach Right. The principal characters
are Cornish Methodists, who also do wrecking. Wagner
is her maki inspiration. In “ Der Wald” it was noticed that
her best efforts were in orchestration, which depicted
Nature in the forest. In the “ Strandrecht,” she is pro-
nounced fine with an interpretation of the sea, after the
line of Wagner’s “Flying Dutchman.”
The juvenile production of “ Alice in Wonderland” at
Sydney Her Majesty’s reminds that “Alice’’was lucky
to become a stage pieee at all. Lewis Carroll insisted on
exercising a painfully old-maidish censorship oyer all
plays founded on his stories. He also prided himself on
the fact that he had “ never entered a music-hall,” and
altogether was such a highly proper person that it’s a
wonder he didn’t taboo the “ playhouse ” as well.
Yvette Guilbert, the Parisian singer of rorty chansons
which nobody has yet been game to translate into
English, has just had a story of her life published, in
which her various love affairs are described with a wealth
of detail worthy of Hall Caine himself. Yvette is now in
America, and the Puritan soul of that country has been
severely shocked in consequence. The big New York
dailies have for a moment taken their heads out of the
Chicago meat tin and sent along reporters to ask her
what she meant by it. In the published interviews,
Yvette was charmingly ingenuous and Parisian. Yvette’s
simplicity has knocked New York endways, and other
actresses have been indignantly denouncing the French
lady—whether for her frankness or her backwardness is
not apparent.
“ Hamlet the Mummer ” : Was playing the north-west
of N.S.W. with a vaudeville show at the break-up of the
last great drought. Rain had been hanging about all
day, and when we were half through our show heavy
drops were heard on the roof. The audience jumped up
and cheered wildly, and a serio-comic, who had just
finished her turn, thought she had made the hit of her
life, came back and started an encore. The girl burst
into tears when she saw the people rush out into the
rain, and discovered she hadn’t made any hit at all —in
fact, the audience had forgotten that there was such a
person on the surface of the globe.
“ Philo ”: An interesting personality in Australian
theatrical life is Mr. Joe Tolano. He is probably the
oldest Australian-born mummer—a son of the late
Raphael Tolano. He first “ walked on ”in the sixties at
the old Sydney Lyceum, which was situated where
Lassetter’s now stands, and was actively engaged coaxing
forth the loud, joyous laugh until he retired a few years
ago. He will be hest remembered by old-timers for his
Chinaman in “ My Partner,” and generally as comedian
under limelight Rignold, with whom he served continu-
ously for 12 years. He was associated with the frolic-
some Bland Holt when the latter first came to Sydney
under engagement to John Bennett, and acted pantaloon
to Holt’s clown in the pantomime, “Apples,” the part in
which Bland made his first hit in Australia. This was
Christmas 1876.
“T.F.M.”: The other day, in passing the Burke and
Wills monument in Spring-street, Melbourne, it flashed
upon me that the site has a certain appropriateness.
It is almost opposite the Princess Theatre, and had not
Burke fallen an abject victim to the spells of Julia
Mathews, a burlesque mummer who, in the early sixties,
was in high favor with the patrons of that establishment,
he would probably never have aspired to the leadership
of the expedition commemorated by the piece of bronze
across the street. A mere inspector of police was, in
those days, not very attractive metal to a footlights pet,
and as Burke gazed njght after night from the audi-
torium upon his idol, he realised that, unless he did
something heroic, he had Buckley’s chance of possessing
the fair Julia. For that charming lady he resolved to do
or die, and he died- He was certainly the first to cross
the continent from south to north, but from start to
finish there was nothing heroic about the business.
Almost simultaneously Stuart set out from South Aus.
scantily equipped, and accomplished far more than
Burke and Wills did, without losing a man. Stuart had
judgment and experience in his favor, however, while
Burke had neither. And Stuart hadn't his mind disar-
ranged by thoughts of an actress.
“ J.A.C.” : George Rivers Allpress, who has just
assumed the conductorship of the Sydney Professional
Musicians’ Band, was nearly throwing up the sponge at
the outset of his career. His first appearance was as
second fiddle in an opera company formed by Martin
Simonsen in 1880. I was a member of the company, and,
prior to starting' on tour, we were rehearsing “Lucrezia
Borgia,” in Melbourne. Allpress, then only a boy, made
so many mistakes that he became convinced that music
was not his vocation, and told Simonsen so. “ No, All-
press,” said Simonsen, “ you vill do all right. You make
blenty of mistakes, but you make good vons. I can hear
them—ve all can hear them. Alvays make good vons,
Allpress.”
“Larrikin ” : Went to a suburban circus t’other night.
It was a wet night, and the sight of the performers was a
misery. The poor wretches, with their tawdry dresses
in the last stage of dinginess, were shivering with the
cold. One of the turns was a thought-reading, sort-of-
second-sight affair. One poor, ill-washed girl, in a
wretched gauzy dress that was cut low and exposed her
bony little shoulders, sat blind-folded in the ring whilst
her sister went the round of the people in the first row
of seats, touching their hats and asking her blind-
folded relative to describe them. She did, too, and
pretty accurately, but at times she hesitated, and
then the expression on the two girls’ faces was
painful in the extreme. Most of the performers sat
near me huddled up in wraps whilst waiting for their
turn, and thej r conversed with me. I learned that the
dummy clown was in consumption and was voted an in-
curable case. The rough-riding lady who had a crippled
knee told me how she had been bucked off and smashed
up in a Wild-West Show. She had been a country girl
and used to going after stock. The whip-cracker seemed
to be the most admired person in the show so far as
the ladies of the troupe were concerned. They
all lauded his looks and style—and he was a well-looking,
devil-may-care sort of chap too. One of the young ladies
who performed with a paper umbrella upon a slack wire
confided to me that she “ did enjoy goin’ on parade with
the circus, because she always had to be lassoed off her
horse by the lasso-thrower ! ” I believe she was supposed
to be an escaping - white maiden, and the lasso-thrower
was the Bad Indian who captured her. Evidently she
had poured out her poor, ill-paid little affections on the
Bad Indian, and when he dragged her in the sawdust at
the end of his rope she felt that this was love.
Bram Stoker’s book of Henry Irving recollections gives
the whole history, from the inside, of Irving’s long
tenure of the London Lyceum. Bill Holloway’s big
chance in January, 1893, is worked up into a narrative of
five pages. Irving was suddenly down with grippe ;
nobody else could take the part. Holloway (then play-
ing Kent) was asked to read it. He took it home,
put in the afternoon available at study, and, sur-
rounded by elaborate arrangements for prompting,
went through without ever needing them. When
Irving was in danger of being pushed off his own
stage by excited guests at his coronation reception in
1902, he wisely sent for Richard Seddon to come and
stand by him as a kind of buffer, and the danger was
over. Toole, in Australia, in 1890, seht home to Irving, as
a Christmas present, two frozen mutton carcases and a
live kangaroo. He was a desperate humorist, was Toole.
Stoker, who was Irving’s business-manager for over
20 years, reckons that his takings were over two millions ;
but Irving did things on a princely scale, both in
mounting the plays and in private life, and he was never
particularly well off.
A temporary “ male impersonator,” long before Miss
“ Bill ” Edwards was thought of, was Eva Maria Violette,
the Austrian dancer, who afterwards became Mrs. David
Garrick. When Violette made her first voyage to England
she was dressed to fit the assumed character of a young
Hanoverian baron, but her voice gave away the innocent
swindle. By the way, Theodore Martin’s recent book of
“ Monographs ” gives a very different view of the Garrick
circle from that placed before Australia a year or two
ago in the Musgrove production of “ Pretty Peggy.”
Martin denies that Garrick was a mean man, and points
out that the tradition to that effect was mainly fostered
by persons who found no difficulty in borrowing hundreds
of pounds from him without acknowledgment. Martin
also credits Peg Woffington with a phenomenal host of
encouraged lovers, and an absolute indifference concern-
ing her break with Garrick, which took place shortly
before he married Violette. “ Garrick’s heart was
touched; hers was not.” It would be only fair to
Violette for some “ historical ” playwright to reverse the
positions of “Pretty Peggy”—by making Peg the
villainess and Violette the heroine.
When Richard Harding Davis, travelling with some
friends, was gathering material for “ The Dictator” (here
staged by Collier) among the Central American republics,
they dined one day at the ghost of an alleged hamlet, and
the natives clustered round the windows and doors of the
primitive village cook-shop to watch them eat.
Gradually they came nearer, till they leaned
over the shoulders of the visitors and breathed right
on their heads. Then one or two handy geniuses in
the party began to be frivolous with the visitors, and
astonished them with parlor magic. They reached out
between mouthfuls, and picked coins from behind the
township beauty’s ear, or out of the oldest inhabitant’s
lucerne-like beard. This was all very well till they came
to depart, but then the village belle said she hadn’t given
them leave to go mining back of her ears, and she’d thank
them to hand over that bullion. Also, the oldest inhabi-
tant held that he didn’t remember selling all right, title,
and interest in and to the precious metals found in his
whiskers, and anyway the prospectors hadn’t taken out
any miner’s right. Davis and his friends had to hand
over consid’r’ble dollars to prevent the matter going into
court, and after that they didn’t joke in Central America
“ Rix”: A Poverty Pointer (B. 15/11/’O6) speaks of
Julia Matthews, old-time burlesque actress and comic-
opera star, as a Maorilander. She was a Victorian who,
after breaking the heart of explorer Burke (he was
smitten when she was playing in the burlesque of
“ Aladdin,” at the old Melbourne Princess’s), married her
chief ticket-taker in Dunedin to escape the thraldom of
her rapacious parents, and eventually died in the Cold
Country. She was first heard of at Stawell (Vic.) in ’6O
or ’6l.
“ T.D.” : Contralto Kate Rooney’s progress in London
has been a gradual one, but it has been none the less
sure, and she has the satisfaction of knowing that her
recent advance into the front rank of concert artists at
the Boosey “ballads” was the result of a meritorious
and plucky struggle. Miss Rooney originally journeyed
to London just to take a course of lessons and go back to
Sydney again, but one small engagement led to another,
and presently her work piled up into a tidy heap, and
she decided to hang on to England and do things.
“ T.D.”; Once a singer gets a fair hold of audiences in
England, there’s a little gold mine to be made out of the
gramaphone business, if it’s properly worked. A front-
rank artist sings, say, half-a-dozen songs into the ’phone,
a matter of a couple of afternoons’work, when allowances
are made for preliminary tests and the breaking-up of
faulty records. The result is a good settled living income
for a specified term of years, provided the public hooks on.
A proper degree of popularity means more records and
more income, so that a vocalist of lazy disposition could
just settle down and do nothing for a time but bask in
the luxury of a bed and three meals reg’lar every day.
But the thing has to be done in a good business-like
fashion. Heaps of people are only too eager to sing into
the’phone and get a handful of guineas before they are
fairly off the first step of the musical ladder, and when
their popularity widens, as it does in some cases, the
result is futile tearfulness. The voice has been given
away for a mess of pottage.
A MOST USEFUL ANTHEM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The presence of mind of a stage-manager prevented a
theatre panic in Launceston on Dec. 13. A large timber-
yard at the back of the building had taken fire, and the
stage-manager directed the orchestra to play the National
Anthem, whereupon the audience quickly left the build-
ing.-*- News item.
’Twas the manager, on learning
That the timber-yard was burning,
Showed a mind that was discerning,
And achieved a brilliant thing 1
For he whispered to the leader
Of the orchestra : “ We need a
Tune to clear the House ! ” Then, reader,
They struck up : “ God Save the King !”
Did the audience wait to hear it ?
Not a bit 1 They could’nt bear it 1
It was horrid to be near it;
And they didn’t stay to sing 1
So, in spite of all abuses,
It’s most obvious excuse is
That it really has its uses,
That old tune : “ God Save the King ! ”
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. Will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
J. Mutifz: Pen-name sounds like the opening
of a soda-water bottle. Verse tastes like the soda-water
three days later... .E.R. : Cannibal wheeze ancient.
“Hop,”infact, hasso thoroughly exploited cannibal humor
that it is a poor chance to go over his tailings... .Nemo :
An atom of joke in an uncleared acre of rhyme... .F.J.L.:
No “dickey-birds” need apply G.E.T. (Reefton): It
got... .Squirrel: There are only two places for “ original
verses which occurred to you on being asked to write
your autograph in a friend’s album.” One is your friend’s
album. Our copy reached the other.. ..L.A.A.: Leave day
and night alone, and don’t say “lo”so frequently....
A.C. : Not a bit of it. Dorothy Frances McCfae is a
bright, prosperous girl, with an absolutely cheerful face ;
she isn’t “ stranded in London,” but just now contem-
plates a trip there, and will be much amused to hear
of your kind interest in the pathetic situation
you think ■ she is in because of the sad note
in her dainty verses. (2) That subject is going
to be dealt with in The Lone Hand magazine
Pat Ronymic : It is ingenious, but not specially in-
teresting.... .B. : Don’t care much for “ Long Road,”
or “ Oblivion.” The other is good. Your writing is very
hard to read... .Iris: One will pass... .L.E.A.: Your castle
in Spain is rather an ordinary kind of turret, and hardly
amounts even to a tower, let alone a donjon keep....
H.W. : “Trooper” in this country suggests a mounted
bobby, and the “eftsoons” and the “casement,” and
such lines as “Wot she who doth hither ride’’don’t
seem in keeping. Also, a trooper here doesn’t listen to
the “ trump of war.” He simply arrests a man who is
using bad language C.G.L.: Almost impossible now
to say anything fresh about a sunset D.M.W. : “ Dark
Eyes” rather incoherent and sudden. One accepted
out of the three W.M.: “Cleopatra” is almost
too dead to make verse about.... Hack: “Port-
land” rather long for the value of the subject....
D.C.L. : Pretty good, but we try to avoid death-bed
verse with white flowers and rain beating on the window.
H.D. : Not enough in “Over the Hills.” Hamer:
Frankly admit we can’t read “ Work.” Your writing is
always dreadful and this is the limit W.S.: “For
Fatherland” is too crude....J.G. : “One of Many”
hardly reaches high-water level... .S.F.O. : “My Bride”
seems like a description of a rather nice girl, but only of
interest to herself and her fortunate lover.. . .Spring H. :
“ Babs ” very illegible, but so far as we can struggle with
it “Babs” isrejected L.S. : “Lady’s Chain” and
“ Morituri ” hardly leave a big enough footprint on the
sands of time Rambler: Mechanical Saxon: You’ll.
have to cultivate your ear first Brad : Verse not a fair
match for the sentiments D. Hello : The Bulletin
never hinted that the Jap is better than the German. Its
point was that so foolish is Australia to depend entirely
for its defence on a nation with a Jap ally, that some day
it may even find the Jap loaded on to it to defend it
against the German Mark M. : Very good, but un-
fortunately quite out of our line Francis Lloyd: Please
send address.... .J.G. : Could do nothing with those
niggers. “Bosco” is the only Italian word like the
term, and it means “a wood”—not “good.” Nulla:
You surely didn’t expect us to print a thing at third-
hand R.T.B. : No more mean-cocky at present
Novice: We pay for everything we print. “ Policeman-
fly ” been already amply discussed in Bulletin Brad :
Same applies to wood-grubs S.J.S. (Dubbo): “The
Ballade of Captain Starlight,” by F. J. Broomfield, was
printed in B. of Nov. 15, 1903, on the inside of back-
cover, “At Poverty Point.” O.K. : We found them
“ Bells of Misery,” t 00... .D.W.T. :No room for conven-
tional Xmas poetry Platypus : Realistic, but too form-
less and scrappy Banshee : Unfortunately too common
a story to be remarkable Nymsie : “Fish-gore” ranges
from rather good to pretty bad.... Bohemian : Sorry it
isn’t good enough Gully: Verse too weak, but your
letter will make a par Platman : Your item also will
make only a par... .H.M‘L. : Rather well written, but
the “ Sister ” device is so hackneyed that one understands
right from the beginning Austin D. : The theme is
very old and weary E.R. : It certainly is miserable
flapdoodle, but we haven’t room to reprint H.J.S.:
Lacks life and spirit... .Tadpole : Doggerel, you said,
and such it is Quondong (S. Africa): Have to refuse
much interesting matter from your continent. Australia
is our chief care M.J.M. : The man who bet that he
would be convicted, of course, loses... .Gan. T. Har.:
Womanlike verses, but unsuitable R.B. : Like
your white waterfall, it “leapt for ever down
the emptiness.” Maida M. : Too conventional....
W.F.M. : Better take your Pegasus to a vet
Judex : No ; Dyson was in Melbourne in 1890....80rder
Gate: Hopeless prose Hamer: Your fault still is too
much facility Wizard : It is not a sonnet Syd. C. :
Pretty, and that’s all Orthos: Lazy rhyming. No
value 491: Well written, but the dream device is
played out Suigah : Can't recognise any plagiar-
ism Roslyn : Don’t know what it is all about....
Periwinkle: Not much in that.... Snug: Abortive
humor Rita W.: Small merit as yet, but there’s plenty
of time before you. Try to get out of the conventional
groove H. McL.: Some verse facility, but no freshness
or originality. Prose sketch much better... .Labor J. J. :
Rather weak and confused, and you’ve got the story of
Uriah wrong-way-about J.W. : All very true, but the
verse isn’t good enough Skye : A silly little bit....
Judex : If there’s a concentrating mill over your way,
put your stuff through it; it’s your only hope....
Nym : “ Some Day ” has your usual defect of inequality.
“ Goddess ” is very crude Nulla : Flat and wooden
Braemar : Both weak and ineffective... .Henry P. : Very
bad verse Timon : Too complicated and cumbrous....
O.C.W. : Humor should bubble up ; the pump is too
obviously behind yours.... J.J.D. : Write W. J. Swan, 110
Dowling-street, Redfern, Sydney, re Eureka veterans
Unsuitable: F.L.L., 5.G.8., Minnie M., Arthur Aola,
T.A.W., R.S.M., Maud P., G.A.L., A.L.R., C.H.C., W.
Lee, P. 0.8., A.T.D., Semaphore, Eungella, Viol, Relay,
Alf. K., Roy Race, R.G.C., Polo, M.J.M., E.T.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
G.S. : Joke too old for anything Joe R. : It is pos-
sible to carry impressionism too far, and you’ve done it.
. ...E.D. : Both pictures died young... .Leo : Not well
enough draVvn, and only a small, pale jest, anyhow'....
G.B. : Impossible to trace that sketch now T. :
Grotesquely out of drawing. If the boy weighs four
stone then the man is equal to half-a-ton... .T.R.A. :
One nightmare declined.. ..J.D.T. : Little thing about a
boy, a dead father, and 3d., rejected Unsuitable :
Neil H., E.R.


Deafness Official fasts
THE Official Investigations of the Deaf are well described
in the “ EAROSCOPE REVIEW,” explaining fully
the wonderfully-constructed mechanism of hearing, the
Causes and Dangers of Deafness, Head Noises, &c., &c.,
and hpw to cure yourself at your own home with pure
natural Aural Kinetics. No Medicine. No Electricity,
and No Ear-Drums necessary.
The WeiA-Known and High ly-Esteemed Nurse Stuart,
of 62 Bondi Road, Waverlby, writes : “ I am happy to tell
you that after 15 years of suffering I am now completely
cured. I hope that all unfortunate victims will be fortu-
nate enough to hear of your wonderful EAROSCOPE.”
A Retired Squatter writes : “ I find my memory
better, and my hearing is improving every day.”
An Ex-Postmaster writes : “ Your EAROSCOPE is
the best treatment I have ever tried ; all complications
have entirely disappeared.
Call or write for full FREE particulars. Address—
THE “EAROSCOPE” CO., 90 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
ghgh
SNAPPED
WITH A.
"TICKA.”
The “ TICKA ” Camera is not a toy but a good
handy Watch-pocket CAMERA.
IT TAKES 25 PICTURES at one loading. It is
simple to work, and fits in the vest pocket. You
can enlarge the pictures afterwards, if you desire.
The price is only 12 6 , post free. Spool of Film
for 25 pictures, 1/3. Send to
HARRINGTON’S
For information about
The “ CRACKBHOT ” CAMERA, at 7/6. The " CANTOR,” at 10/6. The “ METEOR,” at 15/-, and
THE NEW MQDSL ‘'No. 1 VICTOR,” with every possible movement and improvement, price still 30/-.
FRESH PAPERS. FRESH PLATES. FRESH CHEMICALS.
386 George-dt
near
G.P.0.,
Sydney, and 93 Queen-st., Brisbane-
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
The Sydney Ferries Co. reckons it will
be quite strong enough to flout the authorities,
who are making well-meaning but unregarded
regulations for the crowded ferry traffic at Cir-
cular Quay. About a year ago, the Sydney
Harbor Trust ordered that none but bona-fide
ferry services, for the benefit of residential popu-
lat'ons, should start from the Quay. All picnics
and excursions were to start from Dawes Point.
Lately, the Sydney Ferries purchased Clifton
Gardens (old Chowder Bay), and started a huge
swimming bath there. To get to this resort, the
cot is using the Neutral Bay ferry-landing at the
Quay. In reply to a general uproar, the Sydney
Ferries Co. poked out its tongue at the Sydney
Harbor Trust, and answered that it was running
a ferry service to a residential suburb. If the
whole of the northern suburbs population chose
to go home via the swimming baths, it could
not help that. Any other body but the wealthy
Sylney Ferries would have been pulled up long
ago.
WHEN CLOTHES MAKE THE MAN.
“ That was my husband. Why didn't you re-
cognise him?”
"Oh, Mary, I never saw him like that before. ”
“Smithy,” in vindication :
“ Australia has no society,” says an ex-French consul.
Now I have had the privilege of living in France, Ger-
many, Great Britain, Switzerland, U.S.A., and have
visited most of the other parts of the globe, and I am not
familiar with any race where the average citizen is as
intelligent or as resourceful as the Australian. The class
of individual who usually cries “stinking fish” either
knows nothing at all about Australians or belongs to that
detestable class which likes to be surrounded by a
retinue of grovelling serfs.
Tile revelation made regarding secret coirt-
nlissions atid rebates by butter agents and ship-
ping companies before the Vic. Buttet Commis-
sion gave Victoria d creepy feeling. The
iriqriiries into the conditions of other trades
showed that the secret commission existed every-
where, and that business generally Was rotten
with it. Bent shuddered audibly, arid Mackey
rushed away to his .room and drafted a Bill to
squelch the evil. The Ministry, in indignant
moral tones, introduced the Bill into the House,
and passed it into law. That was a year ago.
Yet last week the Cabinet calmly announced that
it had just appointed an officer to see to the
carrying out of the provisions of the Act. The
officer is one of the most inquisitive detectives in
the Police Department, and the Cabinet reckons
that he will be prosecuting half Melbourne before
long. This is the Bent method. Tommy goes
mad about a thing for a week, and then forgets all
about it for a 3’ear.
* * * *
In N.S. Wales the State Government has
so far not chosen to follow in the footsteps of the
Federal Parliament and legislate against secret
commissions. The Federal Act can only apply to
inter-State transactions, and cannot affect trade
confined within the borders of one State. N.S.
Wales, meanwhile, is honeycombed with the cor-
ruption of these commissions. In almost every
calling there is some sturdy beggar clamoring
for backsheesh, and the business man who
refuses to “tip” often goes to the wall. But
strenuous press opposition would greet any
attempt at reform, and it is whispered that
a reason is to be found in the fact that some news-
papers are very bad offenders and allow heavy
secret commissions on such items as auctioneers’
advertisements. The exaction, of course, falls on
the auctioneers’ customers j they are levied on
fdr huge advertising charges, which the newspaper
whacks ” With the auctioneer pirate,
* * * *
It has been whispered that N. S. W. owes its
beautiful National Park to the fact that certain
influential people interested in South Coast col-
lieries didn’t want a competitor nearer to Sydney,
and so had the Port Hacking district reserved as
a park. Good results sometimes spring from
mean motives. Probably Joseph Carruthers is in
a hurry to reserve 100 square miles around
Kosciusko as a State park mostly because he
thinks it will embarrass the Federal Government
in its capital-building. But the step, anyhow, is
a good one. Federal or State, Kosciusko should
be a National Park.
* * * *
Melbourne University council is moving in
a good direction by giving approval to a scheme
of compulsory military training for students—the
Commonwealth Government providing rifles,
ammunition and instruction. Two years’ training
(drill, lectures, and shooting) is proposed.
* ■* * *
Lindsay Russell, who accused himself of
having embezzled various large sums of money
from a number of Victorian municipal bodies,
found no difficulty in convincing the court of his
guilt. In extenuation, it was urged that Russell
was a bad accountant, and had so many things to
look after that he got dreadfully mixed up. The
Crown, however, after Russell gave himself up
on the embezzlement charges, preferred two
charges of forgery against him, and these couldn’t
be explained by faulty accountancy. He got three
years to learn something of arithmetic and to
forget something of writing.
The Sydney cabby seeks his own destruc-
tion in asking that the surveillance over his calling
should be moderated to, say, the Melbourne
c o n d i t ions.
Granted that
i n Sydney the
cabby hardly
gets a f a i r
(leal from the
traffic officers
when his in-
terests come
into conflict
with tram in-
ti‘rests, there
would be no
advantage to
him in allow-
ing, because
of that fact,
a m od i fi ca-
tion of the
strict laws
against over-
charging, etc.
In Sydney
the general
public is just
beginning to
understand
that the cab-
man is not
necessarily a
rapacious ani-
mal who will
certainly demand
an ex t o rtionate
fare and beinsulting
if he does not get
it. The cab regulations are so strictly ob-
served that “ the legal fare ” is becoming
the actual fare (with a small ■pour Loire added
in most cases), and a customer knows that he
can travel for 15 minutes for a shilling, if
he chooses, without insult. In Melbourne, where
the control is less strict, it is not so, and the
public patronises cabs only in cases of dire neces-
sity. Now, it is to the interest of the cabby to
have many fares at reasonable rates rather than
rare ones at extortionate rates. The best means
to secure that is for the public to know the legal
charge, and to be reasonably certain that it will
be accepted cheerfully.
* * * *
The lopsided development of cities is
curiously shown in connection with the new
statue in Adelaide to Light, who, as first Sur-
veyor-General of S.A., selected tbe site of the
capital. Light died young, and was buried in the
middle of the Square bearing his name, in the
fashionable residential quarter at the West End.
And since then Adelaide has grown “away in
other directions, and the old, solid, English, veran-
dahless residences are mostly occupied by Chinese
and Afghans, and the kind of lady who marries
them. So Light’s original obelisk, crumbling to
decay, has been inexpensively replaced, and the
statue goes to quite another part of the city.
* * * *
Miss M. Challis, High-street, Carterton,
N.Z., writes: —“I was a sufferer from chronic
indigestion, and gave Chamberlain’s Tablets a
trial, with most satisfactory results. I can
sincerely say that they are the best medicine of
the kind that I have ever used, and have pleasure
in recommending them to all who suffer from
indigestion in any form.”*
THE INSULT.
BILLO: "'Ow did I get it? I got it offer Snorkey.”
BIILLO : “ Wod yer been doin' to Snorkey ?”
BILLO: "Nuffin. I on’y said as I ’card he was
teachin' Sunday school.”
One of the jurymen who helped to try the
Crick-Willis case complained bitterly to Attorney-
General Wade that he had been openly assailed
in the street by questions as to how much he got
out of it. He said it was unpleasant, and pro-
bably it was. But he must, to an extent, blame
jurymen as a class. Assuming—as it is only fair
to assume —that there was no such work in this
case ; in the past there have been notorious
cases in which there is but little doubt some of the
jury were paid to disagree. Anyhow a portion of
the population is firmly convinced that jury-
squaring is a matter of fact. (Doesn’t one State
Department, by the way, keep a man “to look
after the jury ” when it has a case on hand ?)
The law that requires a unanimous verdict to
secure a conviction makes the work of the jury-
squarer comparatively easy. One only has to be
“squared” to secure a practical acquittal, and a
rich man with his back to the wall, fight-
ing for his liberty, will naturally pour
out his gold like water to secure friends
in the jury-room; and one is sufficient.
Reform might take the shape of abolishing the
unanimous verdict, and increasing the jury to 16
or 18, with a three-fourths verdict to carry the
day. This would make it hard to “square” a
jury. It would be necessary to bribe six or seven,
which would not only increase the cost greatly,
but make the risk of discovery altogether too
great.
Latest manifestation of the “opening”
mania is an Age announcement that “Mr. Agar
Wynne has consented to open the Christmas tree
in aid of the Baptist Church, St. Kilda ” (Melb.).
Poor old Nature will yet be out of a job because
some illustrious nonentity insists on opening
spring.
“X.”: “There!” said the distinguished
scientist, as I opened the door to his knock,
“observe how that child over the road
laughs. Horribly tinny. Phonographs ; I know
it. Pardon me, but cannot you notice some-
thing of the kind in your own voice?
And in mine ? Yes, it’s the same every-
where I go. People are unconsciously mimicking
that diabolical instrument. What else can you
expect ? Nowadays, infants are born within
sound of phonographs, grow up, eat, sleep, drink,
marry, and give in marriage, all the time uncon-
sciously assimilating into their Heaven-sent organs
of speech the sounds of that Satanic invention.
And they praise the man who is responsible for
their undoing ! Imagine what our speech will be
in another five years ! We cannot help ourselves.
It will be like the voice of the cat in the night
which has its head transfixed in a salmon-tin.”
“ Squidge” :
Melbourne’s fly-
ing burglar (B.
7/12/’O6) is well-
known to quite
a number of
people, and the
chief marvel
about him is not
his aeroplane
methods, but the
skill with which
he bluffs the
police who,
“from informa-
tion received,
think they know
all about him,
but still cannot
get together a
sufficiently
strong case to
warrant an ar-
rest. Thisscfaw-
rel burglar is said
to be a window-
cleaner. He has
no nerves at all,
and will stand
cheerfully sing-
ing on the Sin.
sill of a sixth-
storey window
whilehe polishes
away at the
panes above him.
While cleaning a
warehouse he
leaves a window
on one of the
top floors un-
fastened. At
dead of night
when the police
are somewhere
else (any fool
can make sure
of that) he shins
up a sewer-pipe
or a water-pipe.
reaches the unlocked window, and
the warehouse is at his mercy —the
more so that he generally knows
where safe keys and desk keys are
carefully hidden. He does not get much,
\ as a rule, but that does not matter. The
flying burglar is strictly an amateur. He does
not burgle for a living, but for a pastime. It re-
quires skill, courage, and practice, and is altogether
a much better game than golf or billiards, or punt-
ing at the races. The police have no chance with
the man. He knows every water-pipe on every
building in the city, while the roofs are as familiar
to him as the lanes. No policeman can catch a
man who runs away over eight-storey buildings.
* * * *
Each year the imported English periodi-
cals make an extra splash at Xmas by issuing
highly-colored, printed-in-Germany picture sup-
plements of subjects that appeal directly to the
great, half-educated middle-classes. The choice
of subjects ranges from “The Snow Ball” to
“ His Mother’s Hope.” The depths of bathos
are reached by a picture in this year’s Xmas
supplement to Blacxc and White. It is entitled
“ Reunited, ’* and in it a highly-colored young
man angel, with 12-h.p. wings, is embracing in
mid-wind a young lady with scanty clothing and
no visible means of support (she seems not yet to
be fitted with the flying appendages). Xmas
may bring good cheer, but, alas! it brings the
colored supplement also.
*- * » *
The disease-spreading slate is still an
institution in the Queensland State schools. A
deputation recently waited on Minister for Edu-
cation Barlow to urge its abolition. Several pro-
minent Brisbane medicos, who were on the depu-
tation, made startling allegations regarding the
dangers to health that the slate involves owing to
the usual method of cleaning. Despite the fact
that it would take only £5OOO a year to substitute
paper, the slate is to be allowed to do its best to
spread consumption and other diseases among the
children of Bananaland. The only result of the
deputation’s representations is the issuing of
instructions to the teachers to disinfect slates
regularly. Failing State action, parents who wish
their children to avoid the risk of contracting
disease should supply them with paper writing
tablets. The expense of tablets does not amount
to more than a shilling a year per pupil. And
a penny a month is not an excessive amount for a
parent to spend in safeguarding the health of his
child.
BEBE-RIBBON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
N.S.W.
If a maiden you would woo,
From her bbbC-ribbon’s hue
Through her blouse transparent, you
Take your cue.
You must merely be polite
When her blbC-ribbon’s white,
For she mightn’t—or she might—
When it’s white.
But you’d be a swain obtuse
If her bbbC-ribbon’s puce ;
For she gives you no excuse
When it’s puce,
When beneath her blome the sheen
Of her bib 1-ribbon’s grem—
Just be careful What you mean
Whett it’s green.
And yori haven't gdt a hope
When her ribbon’s heliotrope ;
She’s not likely to elope
When it’s ’trope.
An 1 be careful what you do
When her bibi-rihbon’s blue,
For she has no time for you
When it’s blue.
But you needn’t stop to think
When her bibi-ribbon’s pink ;
It’s as useful as a wink
When it’s pink !
A. H. A.
TO A LITTLE CHILD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Come, let me kiss you, Newly-Seven,
Seven times and once to grow on,
For the new year may not go on
Till the lucky kiss be given,
Child of Heaven, Newly-Seven.
Your eyes, so confidently blue,
They were the mother’s eyes before you,
And the gay spirit looking through.
It was the mother’s soul that bore you;
Therefore, Seven, we adore you.
Her beauty was the gift of Heaven,
And yours, child, too, is Godly-given,
For it doth seem to me that even
Thus Jesus looked when He was seven.
N.S.W
HERBERT WALLACE.


The Lone Hand
A Monthly Magazine of Imagination
(The Bulletin’s New Publication)
V
CONTRIBUTIONS ARE INVITED.
PICTURES. PROSE. POETRY.
Anything that will interest Australia
and the World.
Address—The Editors,
LONE HAND,
21U George Street,
Sydney.
Another Shape in Soft flats
This is a nobby shape in soft hats
that will meet many a man’s ideas
in both shape and shade.
It is a comfortable hat for present
season’s wear—is light, and comes in
a/1 sizes.
The shape is just as shown.
The colors are Fawn, Light and
Dark Grey.
The brims are in 2|, and 2f in.
Price 13s 6d
Post Free, 14s 3d.
Please state size when ordering.
gh
PEAPES & CO., Ltd.
MEN’S and BOYS’ OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George St., Sydney
A tender-hearted young Sydney woman,
walking down Pitt-street last week, observed an
extremely attenuated specimen of doghood.
Full of compassion, she rushed to a shop and pur-
chased a meat pie, and, accompanied by two other
tender-hearted females to whom the story had
been imparted on the way, returned to find the
animal eating a piece of orange peel. Affected by
this confirmation of the dog’s starved condition,
she extracted the pie from the bag and placed it
temptingly on the kerbstone with a “There you
are, poor doggie.” The dog critically surveyed
the three faces, sniffed the pie, and with a
withering look of scorn trotted off. He was a
prize dog of a thin species, and had a soul much
above meat pie.
* * * *
Little has been done by Melbourne City
Council to improve the supervision of dirty,
bruised meat slaughtered by the casual farmers in
the country, and sent by rail to the city. “It is
not possible under existing conditions,” says the
Council’s report, “to brand the carcase sent by
rad at the railway station. If proper accommo-
dation can be provided at the station, a branding
depot should be appointed there.” As Railway-
man Tait will probably refuse to provide this
depot, the casual carcase will still be flung,
as heretofore, among the bags of fertilizer, and
the cases of fruit, to await its chance of atten-
tion.
THE ABSOLUTE DEARTH OF DANCING MEN.—(A SUGGESTED REMEDY.)
FLUNKEY: “ Miss Poison and Dummy!”
It would be hard to imagine anything more
aimless than the conduct of the Tom Mannites in
getting arrested in Prahran (Vic.)every Saturday
night. The thing has become a sort of passion
with them, and every week they solemnly draw
lots and mark down one of their number for the
sacrifice with all the formality and all the fuss of
the selection of a Nihilist bomb-thrower. Then
the chosen one, pretending to glory in the choice,
goes out to Prahran on a tram (the Tom Mann
head-quarters are in the city of Melbourne), and
marches into Chatham-street—the road to glory.
There he waits till he knows the police have their
eyes on him. Then he seizes a box and, standing
upon it, commences to speak. A burly John
heaves up to him. “Are ye goin’ to stop?” he
says. The victim goes on speaking. The John
arrests him and the thing is over. The victim
gets a month next Court-sitting. But they have
got into the habit of doing it, and apparently
they’ll keep on to the end of time.
Sydney barrister Nugent Robertson got
into conflict with the High Court last week, and
took his bumping badly. It all started over the
humble penny that Robertson wouldn’t pay to
come off a ferry wharf. He had paid a penny to
go on, hadn’t gone by the ferry, and when he
wouldn’t pay another penny to come off, the
ferry co. blocked him. For that “ imprison-
ment” he got £lOO damages, and the N.S.W.
Full Court refused the co. a new trial. After
that run of success, the High Court knocked
him out with an order that a verdict be
entered for the co. The view of the High
Court was that he went on the wharf on
condition that he agreed to pay Id. to come
off, and that he wasn’t imprisoned because
the co. offered him facilities for getting away
by water. It is, altogether, a pretty tough
proposition. Everybody knows that what you
ready pay the penny for is not to go through the
gates, but for being ferried across the water, and
if you are not ferried across the water, then,
though you may not be entitled to get back the
penny you paid to go in, the co. hasn’t earned
the penny which it charges to let you out; and a
co. hasn’t a right to get what it hasn’t earned.
Some of these days the ferry cos. will probably
strike a heap of trouble another way. At present,
in order to save expense, they all, or nearly all,
collect fares at only the Sydney end ; you pay
there going on and you pay there coming
off. Some cantankerous person, or a person with
a young barrister friend who wants an advt., will
some day refuse to pay the penny to come off, and
the man won’t let him through the turnstile,
whereupon there will bo an action for assault, or
imprisonment, or something. The plaintiff will
claim that all the legal right the co. has is to sue
him for the penny, and not to imprison him.
When that happens the co. will begin to be sorry
that it didn’t collect before the voyage started —
just as the Railway Commissioners do. That
would put the business on a solid foundation.
The present practice invites trouble.
* * * *
“ L.L.8.” gives a note on London :—The
city man of London may be well dressed,
but he looks shabby. He may be well fed, still
be has an empty appearance, which may be due
to the cut of his waistcoat. Always pre-occupied,
he hurries along, glancing neither to the right nor
left, wearing I-need-a-holiday kind of expression,
and always the top hat and frock coat. See him
on a wet, muddy day, dressed in these absurdities,
his pants turned up to the ankles over heavy
water-tight boots, the felt of his hat all awry, and
carrying his umbrella all flopping, mud all round
him and a great deal on him. He looks what he
undoubtedly is, the conservative Englishman.
Given one spark of originality he would learn
how to walk about in comfort. Still, he is a type,
and London is all types. Individuality is lost
unless one is, or can do, something abnormal.
The West Ender belongs to a different part of the
machine; he is the “brass” work. He is a
sauntering kind of individual. He saunters
everywhere. His speech is a kind of saunter, but
his dress is a hand gallop, and his manners damn-
able.
The rise of Judkinism seems to be world-
wide. Not only is Australia groaning under the
juddy affliction, and New York suffering from
the anti-artistic crusade of Anthony Comstock,
but Germany is going one better. The Saxon
Minister of Public Instruction has issued an order
forbidding flirting among school teachers. The
interpretation of “flirting ” is not that given by
the moral missionaries of the South Sea Islands.
It includes kissing, cuddling, making goo-goo
eyes, or going for lone walks without the presence
of a third person. All offenders are to be sacked
as a warning and a horrible example, lest Hans of
fourteen should surreptitiously pull the flaxen
tails of twelve-year-old Gretchen on the way
home from school. Another and more vigorous
Judkins has just been arrested in Berlin for muti-
lating nude statues. When his lodgings were
searched, trunks were discovered full of fragments
of marble knocked from statues all over Europe.
* * * *
Dr. Robertson, of Vic. Health Depart-
ment, lately inspected Mildura from a ‘ ‘ dnnky ”
point of view. He found one coffee palace—there
are no hotels—which sold no soft drinks, and
three clubs :
There is no haughty exclusiveness about these clubs.
The water supply of the township is undrinkable, and, as
a man must drink, the club members appear anxious to
extend the right hand of good fellowship to all comers,
so that no man need go athirst. . . . Liquor is more
accessible in Mildura than at places where hotels are
licensed, and at much cheaper rates. ... A well-con-
ducted hotel, under municipal control, would be infinitely
preferable to a coffee palace plus clubs.
Take a dose of Chamberlain’s Tablets when
you are bilious. They cleanse and invigorate the
stomach and liver, so that when the attack is over
you feel better than ever. Sold everywhere at
Is. 6d.*
LOGIC IN THE NIGHT.
Mb. Shake (in a hollow whisper): “ Take the poker and go first, my lore.”
MRS. SHAKE : “ Why should I?”
MR. SHAKE : “ It’s only a coward that would touch a woman, and burglars arc seldom cowards.”
This is the season when woman has con-
structed for her £l5 worth of special clothes so that
she may go to the seaside or the mountains and have
255. worth of fresh air ; and man lays in an extra
large store of tobacco and whisky so that he may
enjoy a recreative trip. It would be hard to esti-
mate the amount of harm done to the national,
health by the “holiday trip” habit. Many a
person exchanges a comfortable, well-ventilated,
cool home with a well-ordered commissariat in a
city suburb, for a share in a crowded, shed-like
cottage, and poor-quality food, in the country,
under the delusion that “ a change of air ” is good.
It is, of course ; if there are not too many handi-
cappingdisadvantages attached. Wisdom suggests
that if you can’t get a quiet, comfortable holiday
in the country with about as good sleeping
accommodation and eating as you can get in your
own home, best stay there and put in the holidays
doing little day-by-day trips.
Does the city-dweller, man or woman,
ever strike the idea of taking his holiday in his
own city and deliberately setting aside a
week or a month to discover its attrac-
tions? Most of us live in a city and know
of it nothing. The Melbournians neglect to
explore the upper reaches of the Yarra, and the
beautiful beaches around Mentone; the Sydney
folk, whilst hardly able to avoid a knowledge of
some of the thousand beauties of their specially-
favored home, never give its environs the careful
studious appreciation they would, as tourists,
accord to a foreign city. A holiday spent with
the home as the base, and his or her own city as
the field, would be a delightful experience for the
citizen of any Australian capital.
* * * *
During present Sydney Quarter Sessions a
witness referred to the prisoner as “the man on
the left,” and a lawyer wanted to know who was
meant. “He means the gentleman in there-
served box,” said Judge Murray.
Bent has re-appointed police magistrate
Panton for another six months. “ This is the las®
time,” Bent remarked when he announced the
appointment to the reporter. But Panton’s terra
has been extended “ for the last time ” as often as
a popular actress takes benefits. Por the last five
years he has been putting in “the last six
months.”
* * * *
Parramatta Gaol has the N.S.W. record
for murders and attempts to murder. In January,
1872, prisoner Thomas Kelly was executed for an
assault with a hammer on overseer M‘Laron ;
four years later Ah Chong was hanged for the
murder in the gaol of a fellow countryman ; in
April, 1885, Johns (one of “Moonlight’s” gang)
was hanged for stabbing one Roberts, who was
doing ten years in the same ill-reputed gaol.
* * * *
N.S.W. has been assured by a number of
witnesses before a Select Committee that its
private hospitals are often dens of crime and
pre-natal abattoirs. Very often the sup-
posed proprietress is a woman who has a
nurse’s certificate, but she is an absentee
farming out her certificate, and the care of
the patients is left to untrained women who are
nurses only in uniform. The private asylums for
the insane were exposed years ago by the
late George Dibbs, and the present inquiry
has so far concerned itself mostly with o. istetric
establishments. The disclosures are appalling.
Some of the places work in connection with
disreputable practitioners; by far the greater
number are the dens of amateur abortionists,
have no connection with any doctor, and merely
call one in when things have reached a desperate
stage. Against this sort of crime there is,
according to witnesses before the Select Com-
mittee, absolutely no legal protection for the
public.
There is another class of N.S.W. fraud
hospital, which makes a speciality of drink
cures. Men are received suffering from d.t.’s,
and treated so as to at least temporarily cure
them. They pay stiff prices, and are discharged
“ cured.” But the cure is of a strictly temporary
kind, and such hospitals have regular customers,
who come back again and again to be “cured.”
The general result of the inquiry is to suggest
that the hospital business should be strictly a
State or municipal monopoly.
* * .* *
“F.H.R.” : I want more butchers’ shops
in the city during the hot weather. Never mind
the water-carts. They’re not to be depended on.
A dust-storm may strike your street while the
erratic sprinkler is in someone else’s thorough-
fare. But the butcher’s shop is always there, and
the amount of dust the gorgeous display of meat
absorbs is marvellous.
* * * *
Vic. Board of Health lately decided, in
spite of the protest of a Melbourne alderman, not
to allow those merchants who had stocked tinned
peas with copper coloring to clear out their stocks
unless they labelled them “Peas and Copper.”
Copper is introduced to the peas to intensify the
green color. The particular salts of copper used
are protoxide of copper (verdigris) and sulphate
of copper (blue vitriol), both poisons. Gaol would
not be too harsh a punishment for the man who
mixed copper with tinned peas.
* •» * *
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northc-ote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
THE MILITARY MO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In consequence of it having been obsei ved that severa
officers in the Irish Command are in the habit of shaving
the upper lip, General Lord Grenfell has directed atten-
tion to Paragraph 660 of the King’s Regulations, which
r rders for all ranks “that the chin and under lip are to
be shaved, but not the upper lip ; whiskers, if worn, are
to be of moderate length.”— London Daily Mail.
The value true we do not know
Of hair in time of battle, thougli
Great tomes of saga and of song
We sadly overhaul.
In history, no records show
If Alexander wore a mo,
Or Agamemnon whiskers long,
Like those of Donegal.
The Iron Duke did not equip
The stiffness of his upper lip
With any beautiful moustache,
Or decorate his chin.
J. Cfesar certainly had none,
Nor Marlborough, nor Washington ;
Napoleon wore no whiskers flash
When he went out to win.
These previous Paladins of arms
Were military false aArms ;
They had no barbered beauty like,
Say, Baden-Powell shows.
To-day, plain, simple Mud their name,
Though they were tactful, willing, game.
What use if mighty blows we strike
But wear no dainty mo. ?
A.B.
THE BRUNETTE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
lie Arthur Adamson “ The Blonde,” 13/12/’O6.
Ah ! had you seen the blonde I saw one day
You would forget
That you e’er credited with queenly sway
Poor me—-Brunette.
She was a girl cold-seeming, tall and fair,
With eyes of gray,
Gold lurked within the tangles of her hair ;
And as I looked a ray
Of sunlight came, and bathed her in its glow
A moment’s space,
Turning to rosy flush and whitest snow
Her face.
And my sad eyes—longing to be so fair,
Not sombre night—
Were blinded by the glory of her hair,
All flashing light.
Then, too, the eyes that looked so gray
When latest seen
Became, beneath that subtle searching ray,
Soft mocking green.
Enchanting depths, beneath the glorious shade
Of gold-fringed lash ;
Bewitched, I saw the sunray siowly fade,
’Twas but a flash.
And then I saw her blush, and well ! know
Th o’ cold she seems,
Hot, red blood pulses ’neath the outward snow
And warms her dreams.
SYD. O.


CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY
64 Pitt St., SYDNEY APPLIANCES, Ltd. 424 Little Collins St., MELBOURNE
ROBEY
steel rails. steel trucks, tramway material.
Portable Engines, Tractions, Thrashers, High Speeds, Vertical and
Horizontal Oil Engines, &c., &c.
BIIUNTON’S SCOTCH WIRE ROPE. Hayward’w Sheep Dips, Pearn’s Pumps, Mining Requisites, &0., &o.
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER, Man.ein* Director.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
There begins to be an idea that some Australian
banKs are overdoing the London deposit business. At
the last balance (September 30), for instance, the Bank of
New South Wales had £2,520,000 at short call in London,
besides ordinary balances. General manager Bussell
French, during his recent visit to Europe, seems to have
been so impressed with the effect of the piling up of
Australian money in English banks that he believes it is
rattling good Australian policy, and the best knock-out
blow that can be given to Stinking Fish taradiddles.
On top of that, it is, of course, very good business for the
Australian banks—anyhow, for the time being very
profitable business. But foreign wool-buyers, who
expected to get the benefit of the plentiful money
in Australia, are disappointed. A few years ago
they were chased for their business ; they brought open
credits, and a couple of years ago one or two Anglo-
Australian banks actually lost money in negotiating
them. This year this business is hardly wanted. No
doubt something is to be said for the bank manager. He
can see a certain profit in London, while if he kept clear
of London and held himself free to finance the wool busi-
ness, he could have no guarantee that, after all, the
owners wouldn’t ship to Europe and sell there. But, on
the other hand, it is a serious thing to put any obstacle
in the way of Australian wool sales. If we can’t have the
manufacture of the stuff, let us at least have the selling
of it. The matter doesn’t stop at wool, but that is the
line most affected ; and the feeling is growing so strong
that the chances are the gold exports will be eased off.
If the Australian banker finds himself between the devil
and the deep sea in the matter, he had better ask himself
how far he is himself responsible for getting there. His
choice lies between a foreign market which mostly isn’t
worth having and a local market which is unreliable ; and
yet N.S. Wales alone in the first 11 months of this year im-
ported £17,618,686 worth of foreign goods—mostly manu-
factured. He might have had the financing of the indus-
tries Which produced most of those things ; and high
Protection' would have given it to him. A man who
under such circumstances doesn’t fight for high Pro-
tection deserves all the dilemmas he gets into.
* * * *
Sydney Daily Telegraph has got so into the
Stinking Fish habit that it can’t apparently knock it off.
Reviewing the Stock Exchange transactions of the year,
it remarked on Saturday that prices tended upwards till
towards the end of the year, when, among other things,
the results of the elections shocked investors, and there
was a relapse. Now, compare the closing prices of a few
N.S. Wales stocks with those of the Saturday before the
elections, when the Daily Telegraph and the rest of
them were assuring Australia that Anti-Socialism was
going to have a triumph. N.S. Wales 3 and 3£ per cents.
(1912) were unchanged ; but after the elections, 4 per
cents, moved up from 102 to 102£; 3 per cents. (1924) moved
up from 90 to 91; 3£ per cents. (1915) moved up
from 99 to 99J ; Commercial Bank of Sydney shares from
£3l 12s. 6d. to £3l 17s. 6d. ; Sydney Ferries, from 725. to
80s. 6d. ; Port Jackson Steamship, from 735. to 80s. ;
Burns. Philp, from 375. to 38s. ; Colonial Sugar, from £4l
to £4llos. : Dalgety and Co., from £6 6s. to £6 7s. 6d. ;
Perpetual Trustee; from 12s. 9s. to 13s.—buyers’ quota-
tions in each case. As a matter of fact, there was a slight
relapse before the elections, when the Telegraph and the
others were saying that the return to power of G. Beid
and his incompetents was absolutely sure ; but after the
elections, when the bottom fell out of those prophecies,
there was a recovery. The man with money, it seems,
never did take Anti-Sosh seriously. But what ought to
be done to the Stinking Fish Telegraph?
* ■♦ * *
Five years’ Australian export figures (those for
1906 being estimated so far as the last few days of the
year are concerned): —
. 1902 £44,000,000
1903 48,000,000
1904 57,000,000
1905 56,841,000
1906 68,717,000
On the strength of it, there is the general report that
more money is being spent this Christmas than at any
other Christmas that the oldest inhabitant can remem-
ber. But, alas, mostly on foreign goods. With its
riches Australia is buying the product of the foreign
factory instead of putting the money into a factory of its
own.
* * * #
An insurance man writes about repudiations,
&c. : —“ Whilst we are daily having the suggestion
pressed upon us that S cialism means repudiation of the
public debt to the detriment of John Bull, financier—a
suggestion which, by the way, is delightfully nebulous—
it may not be out of place to note some repudiations
which wealthy English and foreign corporations are in-
flicting upon the Australian public by means of our ante-
diluvian Companies Act. The Common Law, in its wisdom,
lays it down that a principal shall only be liable for the
acts of his agents or servants to the extent of the powers
granted in the power of attorney ; so that before you
know whether the Australian representative of an English
or foreign principal is authorised to do business with
you, it is necessary that you should peruse his
power of attorney. It is all right when he is
taking your mpney; he forgets that he has a power
of attorney. But when he has to pay you, or keep a
pledge that he has given you, then he hunts through his
power of attorney to see whether hi* restricted authority
will allow him to pay.
“ Now, the shoe pinches me, and through me and
others directly interested it pinches thousands of
others, in this wise: I am the manager of an Aus-
tralian insurance company, and all the shareholders
of that insurance company are residents in Australia.
All its directors, both at head office and branches, are
business men closely associated with the most important
of our Australian institutions. And these directors have
reputations with the Australian public, and will not have
those reputations sullied. They will not repudiate
the action of any of their officers; they may
discharge the officer if he exceeds his authority, but they
will keep faith with the public. Is the public and com-
mercial life of Australia so clean that we can ignore this
spirit? But the gentlemen controlling the destinies of
the English companies, sitting in London, say ‘lt’s a far
cry to Australia ; we don’t know these colonials, and
they ought to think themselves flattered that we send
representatives to them with sufficient authority to collect
money from them ; and as to paying losses or keeping
pledges, we’ll please ourselves what authority we give our
representatives. ’ Some time ago my co. re-insured with the
Australian representative of a wealthy English corpora-
tion an amount of about £2OOO. A loss occurred, and the
English corporation decline 1 to pay, on the grounds that
the Australian representative was not authorised to take
that class of risk, and the result of the legal action was a
non-suit on those grounds. Later on, another English
company got out of a loss on purely technical grounds,
the said company having got into difficulties and
merged (that is the delightful term used when an English
oompany gets into difficulties and its business is
sold) in another English company. What did the sub-
merged company care for what the Australian public
thought of its action ? You can’t kill a dead horse !
“Now, insurance business cannot be profitably carried
on (and therefore cannot be carried on at all) without
tariff agreements between the various companies. These
tariff agreements regulate rates, &c. ; and, although
primarily for the benefit of the companies, are un-
doubtedly beneficial to the insured, as they tend to keep
the business clean. Well, up to a month ago such a tariff
existed in Western Australia, and the pledges given by all
companies to maintain it was in the following form :
*On behalf of the Company, I hereby re-aflirm
my, and its, allegiance to the agreements and tariff of
the Fire Underwriters’Association of Western Australia,
and I hereby pledge my honor and the honor of my
company that I will do nothing, directly or indirectly, in
evasion of any of the provisions of such agreements ; also,
I undertake and pledge myself and my company to regu-
late all representatives, either of the company or my
own, accordingly.’ Notwithstanding this pledge, surely
the most solemn a business man can give, a month ago
five English companies deliberately broke up the
agreement without any notice or warning, and com-
menced a wild scramble for business. Some Bulletin
readers may smile, and say that that action has given
them cheap insurance policies. Let them wait for
the sequel. Part of it has already come, as the following
news item from the daily press will show :
‘ The manager of the Royal Insurance Company has
received instructions by cable to the effect that the com-
pany will not be bound by any policy locally issued which
contained altered conditions. In the case of the Govern-
ment insurance recently effected in Western Australia
for £1,500,000 at Is. per cent., an undertaking was given
that the company waived its rights of cancelling the
policy for a period of three years. Yesterday, in conse-
quence of the cablegram referred to, the manager of the
Royal Insurance Company informed the Under-Secretary
for Works that he had gone outside his authority in
agreeing to waive right of cancellation, and that his com-
pany declined to be bound by his action.’
When English companies break faith with their con-
freres, how can Australia rely upon them keeping faith
with the assured ? ”
* * * *
Though the Leg. Council mutilated some of the
Assembly’s provisions, the S. Aus. Parliament has passed
the Bill constituting a Trust, representing the State and
the interested municipalities, to acquire the horse-trams
for £230,000, and to electrify the system. The State will
finance the business, and will probably raise the money
locally by Treasury bills.
* * * * *
The Bank of New Zealand, having got rid of
the Assets Realisation Board, whose existence prevented
any higher dividend than 6 per cent., has made a start
with a 6 per cent. div. for the half-year, equal to 10 per
cent, per annum. At that rate the investment return on
£8 ss. per share is 4 per cent.
* * * *
A Bill providing that all unreclaimed balances
at the banks shall go to the Government is at present on
the list in Victoria’s Parliament; and the Argus, in
opposing the Bill as “ unnecessary,” said that the banks
were very honorable, and could be depended upon to do
nothing mean or shabby. Yet, three days later, the
Argus itself published a letter giving the following two
examples of “gentlemanly” banking conduct:—ln one
case, a balance of £6 was left unoperated on for five
years, at the end of which time the amount had been
reduced, by the charge for keeping accounts, to £2 10s.
In the other case, a man, when closing his account, asked
for the exact amount at his credit, and drew and cashed
a cheque for the sum. A few weeks later be received a
note to the effect that his account was overdrawn to the
extent of 4s. 6d. Investigation showed that, when he
was closing his account, the bank made a mistake, and he
had left sixpence to his credit. That kept his account
open, and the charge for keeping accounts put him ss. in
debt 1
• * • *
The Victorian State Land Bank
Loss
by Discount Carried
on Loans Written to
Loss. Floated. off. Reserves. Deficit.
1897 .. £1,462 £1,462
Profit. Reserves.
1898 .. 1,608 £l6OB 146
1899 .. 5,551 ' 5551 5,697
1900 .. 6,846 6846 12,543
1901 .. 8,150 £2931 5219 17,762
1902 .. 9,090 4414 4676 22,438
1903 .. 8,047 1385 £2OOO 4662 27,100
1904 .. 10,280 5374 2000 2906 30,006
1905 ... 9,560 8241 1319 31,325
1906 .. 10,048 2417 7631 38,956
This State bank was established at the end of 1896 for
the assistance of farmers, being organised as a branch
of the Savings Bank. Under the principal and
amending. Acts provision was made for the issue of
mortgage bonds and debentures to provide funds. In
the first place, 3 per cents, were issued—at a discount,
of course. The bank’s practice is to regard this discount
as an asset, and to gradually write it off'out of profits.
In the foregoing table, as discount is purely a paper
asset, it has been at once written off. The balance-sheet
shows reserves of £55,769, and discount not yet provided
for cut of profits £16,813 (so far, £7948 has been provided),
leaving net reserves as shown above, £38,956. The total
amount of bonds and debentures issued is £2,083,600 ; of
this, £489,575 has been repaid. Of the outstanding
£1,594,025 the public holds £680,450, and the Savings
Bank £913,575.
During the past year the mortgagors’ repay-
ments exceeded the new adyances :
Mortgages Working Expenses inpropor-
June, Outstanding. Expenses. tion to Mortgages.
1897 .. £108,350 £1683 £lll 1 per cent.
1898 .. 523,852 3831 14 7
1899 .. 758,983 4465 11 9
1900 .. 895,913 5813 12 11
1901 .. 1,021,240 6537 12 9
1902 .. 1,144,826 7155 12 6
1903 .. 1,267,207 8022 12 8 „
1904 .. 1,337,817 8272 12 4
1905 .. 1,369,673 9080 13 3
1906 .. 1,350,623 8692 12 11 „
The advances were £131,034 ; the repayments, £152,625 —
a reduction of £21,591. (The table above shows a reduc-
tion of £19,050 ; the other £2541 is represented by fore-
closed properties, which appeared in last year’s balance-
sheet, but are absent from this ; presumably they have
been sold or redeemed.) The common yarn with regard
to a State bank is that the politician would unloadallhis
deadbeat constituents on to the institution, and get hope-
less advances for them. This State bank’s figures treat
that yarn with all the disrespect it deserves. There not
only is not a foreclosed property on the balance-sheet,
but the total amount of overdue repayments (usually an
annual 5 per cent, of the advance) is now £33. Owing,
£33 ; paid, £670,710. There are few better records than
that. As to working expenses shown above, some un-
desirable explanation is necessary. Valuation expenses
are separated from general expenses ; part of the former
is covered by fees, and it is only the other part that is
added to general expenses and shown above. Hence the
variation in the figures.
On the whole, the progress of the Victorian
State Land Bank is disappointing. Compare the figures
as to advances outstanding with those of the Maoriland
bank: —
1899 .. £1,434,829 1903 .. £2,590,543
1900 .. 1,747,329 1904 .. 2,795,849
1901 .. 2,131,100 1905 .. 2,753,182
1902 .. 2,368,317 1906 .. 3,125,000
The conditions as to repayment are about the same in
the two cases. In Maoriland, however, the expense rate,
by reason alone of the larger business, was got down last
year to 4s. lid. per cent. That is to say, the Maoriland
State Bank can afford to lend at Bs. per cent, less than
the Victorian. Why ? Simply because there are 9986
mortgagors in M.L. against 3175 in Victoria. In the one
State there is a graduated land-tax to pave the way for
the repurchase and settlement laws ; in the other there
is no progressive land-tax, so that the repurchase and
settlement measure is practically worthless. The amount
of land-settlement can be fairly well judged by the de-
mand upon the State Land’ Banks. Here we have two
banks of almost equal age, and the one which has a pro-
gressive land-tax to help settlement has more than three
t imes the number of settlers on its books.
The National Bank of Tasmania (Laun-
ceston) :
Dividendsand Writ- To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. ten off. serves, serves.
Nov., 1900.. £5462 5 p.c.=£3991 £2OOO £26,958
Mav, 1901.. 5052 5 „ „ 3991 £lO6l 28,019
Nov., 1901.. 5139 5 „ „ 3991 1148 29,167
Mav, 1902.. 4472 5 „ „ 3991 481 29,648
Nov., 1902.. 4479 5 „ „ 3991 488 30,136
May, 1903.. 4908 6 „ „ 3991 917 31,053
Nov., 1903.. 4699 5 „ „ 3991 708 31,761
Mav, 1904.. 5247 6 „ „ 4789 458 32,219
Nov., 1904.. 5438 6 „ „ 4789 649 32,868
May, 1905.. 5291 6 „ „ 4789 5(Y> 33,370
Nov., 1905.. 5752 6 „ „ 4789 963 34,333
May, 1906.. 5696 6 „ „ 4789 1000 34,240
Nov., 1906.. 6249 6 „ „ 4789 1460 35,700
These Tasmanian bank figures are going back in a shock-
ing manner upon those local papers and politicians that
say that Federation is driving Tasmania to pot. And the
following comparison looks as though the profits may he
even better
Nov., 1906. Nov., 1906.
Notes in circulation .. £69,783 £63,167 Inc. £3,384
Bills, &c 6,962 8,784 Inc. 2,822
Deposits at Interest .. 262,698 245,624 Dec. 6,974
Deposits, free .. ..239,500 287,262 Inc. 47,752
Liquid assets .. .. 188,146 201,651 Inc. 13,606
Advances .. .. 632,673 667,775 Inc. 35,202
Premises, &c 28,286 27,932 Dec. 354
The bank will not yet have felt the full effect of the
increase in advances and the reduction of interest-bearing
deposits ; next half-year, presuming the present figures
are maintained, profits may reasonably be even larger—
unless, of course, there have been important recoveries
during the past term ; and no doubt more than one bank
has lately recovered old bad and doubtful debts to an
extent that has almost taken its breath away. Certainly
in this case there has been a surprising spring in profits.
Based on capital and reserves, recent earnings have been
as follows:
May, 1903 ..£5 7 9 p.c. I May, 1905 ..£5 14 5 p.c.
Nov., 1903 .. 6 2 8,, | Nov., 1905 ..6 4 1,,
May, 1904 .. 614 2 „ I May, 1906 .. 6 2 3 „
Nov., 1904 .. 6 18 1 ~ I Nov:, 1906 .. 614 2 „
Yet, though the balance-sheet movements suggest that
profits may be still larger, this bank is nearer its limit
than most others. These most others have an unneces-
sary amount of liquid assets, waiting only for High Pro-
tection and new industries to permit them to be put to
greater profit; while, on the other hand, this bank’s
liquid assets represent only 33J per cent, of its debt to
the public, and below that it is not safe to go far. For
much larger profits it may, under ordinary circum-
stances, look only to an increase in, deposits, &c. ; at pre-
sent they amount to only about three times the total of
the capital and reserves, as against about eight times in
the case, say, of the Bank of N.S. Wales. The compara-
tive smallness of deposits, &c., in proportion to capital
means greater safety for the depositor, other things
being equal; but it also means comparatively poor profits
for the shareholder.
* * * •
The Universal Permanent Building and
Investment Society (Melbourne): —
Losses
(apart from
Debenture Debenture Total Nominal
Oct., Interest). Interest. Losses. Deficit.
1897 £5391 £2346 £7737 £13,925
1898 5956 2104 8060 21,985
Profit.
1899 414 2001 1587 23,572
1900 1151 1974 823 24,395
Total l-rofit.
1901 2538 1842 696 23,699
1902 4246 2369 1877 21,822
Total Loss.
1903 1837 1897 60 21,882
Reserves.
£23,747 written off capital to provide for losses 1,865
(£52,239 written off capital for depreciation.)
1904 1418 1912 494 1,371
Profit.
1905 2472 1908 664 1,935
1906 1989 1324 665 2,600
The figures, presented in this way, will now show a con-
siderable change. Hitherto there have been 5 per cent,
debentures outstanding ; in 1905 they called for £B5O of
interest. Owing to the cheapening of money it has paid
the directors to wipe these out, mostly with money
taken on fixed deposit and call; and the interest on
these borrowings reduces the apparent profit shown in
the first column above. The net result is, however, an
improvement. The realisation of the properties at their
written-down values is satisfactory. Twelve months ago
they stood at £103,363 (including office premises); now
they are £8291 less, while the balances owing on sales,
etc., are £6281 more. The difference is represented by
repayments of loans, etc.—the co’s. total liabilities have
been reduced from £65,290 to £62,405 during the year,
or by £2885. Put in another way, the year’s net result,
as disclosed, is that £8291 of properties have been
realised, and £665 profit has been made ; total £8956.
Of that, £6281 is out in advances, and £2885 has
been paid off outstanding debts; and to complete
these payments, cash balances, etc., have been reduced
by about £2lO. Of course, the final result depends
largely upon whether the sale-bargains are completed.
Whether there is any sort of internal reserve to provide
against possible losses in this direction can’t be told from
the accounts. The properties in possession are now
written down to £58,889; they returned net £2591 =
£4 Bs. p.c. This is after paying sewerage, repairs, rates,
insurance, and commission, and ought to mean that the
balance-sheet values are now about fair. Three years
back, 12s. in the £ was written off capital; it looks as
though shareholders may regard that as about the limit
of their losses of capital. ■ But there doesn’t seem much
hope of interest for a while, unless the remodelling of
the co.’s big offices turns out unusually well.
The Haymarket Permanent Land, Building
and Investment Co. (Sydney):—
Added to Re-
Nr>v., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1097.. Nil £452 £40,134
1898.. 477 Nil 477 40,611
189'J.. 1401 1J per cent. =£lo9o 311 40,922
1900 .. 2344 3 „ „ 2201 143 41,065
1901 .. 2369 3 „ „ 2271 98 41,163
1902 .. 2922 3 „ ~ 2308 614 41,777
1903.. 2590 3 „ „ 2477 113 41,890
1904.. 3044 3 „ „ 2584 460 42,350
1905 .. 3017 3 „ „ 2595 422 42,772
1906.. 3349 3 ~ „ 2623 726 43,498
This co. is in business as a speculator in city, subur-
ban and country lands ; it owns the Furracabad Estate,
among others, at Glen Innes (N.S.W.). This and other
estates it sells, on t me payment or otherwise—and it is
mostly not otherwise. The following gives some further
details as to the course of the business :
1900. 1904. 1905. 1906.
Capital .. .. £75,156 £86,232 £87,018 £87,728
Deposits .. .. 50,689 42,938 37,460 40,253
Other liabilities.. 45,559 39,351 55,467 52,909
Advances, &c. .. 42,003 52,675 57,593 58,927
City properties.. 57,803 38,264 38,372 38,384
Other properties 106,314 114,461 119,898 125,821
Cash balances,
&c 7,459 6,776 8,153 2,568
The city properties are being got rid of, and the new
capital and undivided profits have gone apparently into
country land. Just how that is going to turn out
nobody can tell. No hint of it can be got from the
accounts —figures are far too wise to hint at such a thing.
Even the end of the sale transactions which have already
been booked is in doubt; the purchases may not be
completed. Possibly, however, the co. has some special
provision against disaster of that sort, not shown in the
accounts ; if it hasn’t been making some such provision,
the profit for a co. in this business has lately been small.
It is a case, however, in which one wants to know more
than the published accounts tell him.
* * * »
Mosgiel Woollen Factory Co. (Dunedin,
M.L.): —
Written To Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1901.. £4582 6 p.c. =£4352 £5O £20,459
Premiums on New Shares .. 85 20,544
1902.. 8666 7 p.c. = 5842 £3BOO 19,568
1903.. 7272 7,, „ 5842 1500 19,498
1904.. 667 3i ~ ~ 2921 17,244
1905.. 3312 3s„ ~ 2921 328 63 17,307
1906.. 2483 2J„ ~ 2086 552 17,152
The balance sheet of practically every woollen-manufac-
turing co. in Australia and Maoriland tells the same tale.
The industry is being carried on under arbitration and
wages board awards, which in most cases have put up the
cost of production ; but no higher Protection has been
given against the foreigner who isn’t working under
arbitration courts and wages boards, and whose labor-
costs haven’t been put up. Consequently more and more
of the trade is drifting into the hands of the foreigner ;
and still more will drift that way, because when the pro-’
fits disappear altogether, the business won’t be carried on.
The workmen will then have their arbitration courts, but"
because they didn’t buttress them with High Protection’
they won’t haveany work, and their last state will be worse
than their first. And the high price of woolis expediting
the process, because of the foreigner’s willingness to use
shoddy instead of wool, and his larger facilities for
getting it. In this particular case, as in most others,
the co.’s larger creditors, especially those who have lent
it money, are calling in their advances ; and that means
that, instead of working the mills to full capacity, the
cos. are using up stocks. This co.’s debts to the public
(mainly loans and overdraft) were last year £22,061; this
year they have been reduced to £14,458. To make that
reduction “goods manufactured, in process and raw
material,” have been worked down from £46,795 to
£37,462. The amount written off is merely the total
spent on replacements ; nothing has been provided out
of profits to cover general depreciation. And still, in
order to pay a poor little 2J per cent., the reserves have
to be drawn upon. It is all most depressing. Yet the
movement has been going on now for some years, and
still nothing is done to prevent the inevitable disaster, by
higher Protection and the regulation of imports of shoddy.
The Australian Mont de Piete Loan and
Deposit Co. (Melbourne) :
To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
Oct., 1900 .. £l,OlB 8 p.c.= £865 £153 £1,695
April, 1901 .. 693 8 ~ ~ 865 1,523
Deficit.
f £16,022 embezzled. | 13,902
Oct., 1901 ~ 597-f £l4,72Bcapital writ-VReserves.
1 ten off. J 826
April, 1902 .. 1,019 8 p.c.= 516 503 1,329
Oct., 1902 .. 1,156 8 ~ ~ 516 640 1,969
April, 1903 ." 688 8 ~ ~ 516 172 2,141
Oct., 1903 . 949 8 ~ „ 516 433 2,574
April, 1904 .. 820 8 ~ ~ 516 304 2,878
Oct., 1904 .. 740 8 ~ ~ 516 224 3,102
April, 1905 .. 856 8 ~ „ 516 340 3,442
Oct., 1905 .. 863 8 „ „ 516 347 3,789
April, 1906 .. 986 8 ~ „ 616 470 4,259
Oct., 1906 .. 950 8 ~ ~ 516 434 4,693
The reserves are creeping up ; and, as shareholders’
funds bring in about 11 per cent.—they did rather
better than that in the past year—the additions to
reserves during the past five years should be earn-
ing close upon £SOO a year. But the expenses
have gone up too; and, though the fixed deposits
now are only £6002 as against £7484 in 1901-2, expenses,
including interest, amounted to £2501 for the half-year
as against £2244 in the earlier term, when presumably
the interest bill was a good deal smaller. Management
is thus getting the benefit of the reserves, and not the
shareholders. That, however, isn’t a movement that
should go on indefinitely'. Still, if the earnings of the
reserves are going in expenses, the reserves themselves
are available as a protection to capital ; and experience
has shown that capital represented by Mont de Pi6t6
pledges calls for a good deal of protection on account of
the silk petticoat’s habit of going out of fashion and the
way the e.p. teapot has of accumulating black spots.
The Charters Towers Gas Co. (Q.)
Dividends and Writ- To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. ten off. serves, serves.
Oct., 1902.. £1273 10 p.c.=£loso £lO2 £l2l £2381
Apr., 1903.. 956 10 „ „ 1050
Oct., 1903.. 1437 10 „ „ 1050 100 287 2574
Apr., 1904.. 968 10 ~ ~ 1050 93 2399
Oct., 1904.. 1375 10 „ ~ 1050 100 225 2624
Apr., 1905.. 985 10 „ „ 1050
Oct., 1905. 1438 10 ~ „ 1050 100 288 2847
Apr., 1906 603 10 ~ ~ 1050 - 2400
Oct., 1906.. 1345 10 ~ „ 1050 100 195 2595
The amount written off for depreciation is very small—
£loo a year only means i per cent, on the book value of
fixed assets—but from £l5O to £450 per half-year is spent
on maintenance, which includes the renewal of retorts.
It is very questionable, however, whether the general de-
preciation is covered by the small amount provided for
the purpose; for no amount of patching can keep
works of this character quite as good as new.
The reserves consist of a formal reserve fund
of £IOOO and undivided profit; the former is
on fixed deposit; but the balance, along with the capital,
is sunk in the business. The thing is good while it lasts ;
but, apart from the fact that the Towers is a mining town,
and that a mining town only lives by eating itself, there
is always the danger with a co. of this sort that it is
consuming its capital—in other words, is wearing out its
plant without providing for replacement from revenue.
* * * *
The Young Co-operative Flour Mill Co.
(Young, N.S.W.): —
Written To Re- Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1901 £2,134 7J p.c. =£1073 £584 £477 £6,435
1902 16,757 10 „ ~ 1500 566 14,691 21,126
Loss.
1903 801 10 ~ ~ 1500 417 18,408
Profit.
1904 2,845 15 „ ~ 2250 503 92 18,500
Loss.
1905 63 71 „ „ 1125 391 16,921
Profit.
1906 2,032 10 ~ ~ 1500 371 161 17,082
Like the “great natural industry” on which it depends,
the handling of flour seems to be an erratic business;
but with this co., at any rate, the profits have so far
outweighed the losses. The capital is £15,000 ; that and
portion of the reserve are represented by plant, stock
and book debts. The balance of the reserves (£13,943
before paying dividend) is in bank deposits.
* * * *
“ Yerranderie ” wants to know ; “ Can I get a
full return from the smelting cos. for an ore containing a
good percentage of both copper and lead ? As the lead is
about 25 per cent, and copper about 13 per cent., it would
be a big loss to go unpaid for either of them. Would I
get more from foreign buyers ? ” To which answers a man
who has been buying or smelting ores all his life: “ The
silver-lead smelters in Australia will take the ore for its
lead contents, but will allow nothing for the copper ; for
a coppery'-lead ore is a troublesome impurity to the lead
smelter. On the other hand, Australian copper smelters
are not keen on leady-copper ores. Lead in copper is
probably a worse impurity than copper in lead. They
are ugly combinations in any case, except to the special-
ising smelters, who lay themselves out to deal with
impure ores. For an ore going lead 25 per cent, and
copper 13 per cent., I should say it was impossible to get
paid on full metal contents, not only in Australia, but in
any part of the world. For a parcel of over 10 tons
foreign buyers would probably pay for full copper con-
tents (dry assay) and all lead over 15 per cent., making
the usual charge for smelting and transport.”
* * * «
“Blue Tier”: In Tasmanian tin-dredging
latest step is a change of management at the Gladstone,
owing to the Board bringing men in from Bright (Vic.) to
show the ’Cootas how to work. The first Ryan was a
Vic. dredgemaster ; then came M'Callum, a Maorilander ;
then Ryan No, 2, a local trainee; and back they go to
Vic. At the Ringarooma, too, there has been a swap-
ping ; Bradley, a Maorilander, having thrown up the job
to go back to his ricketty islands. The Ringarooma has
been trying for months to get across the river, but now
its nose is turned the other way about. Apparently the
co., having marched its men uphill, is going to march
them down again. If there is payable ground on the
side the dredge is on, someone ought to tell why
months have been wasted in a fruitless attempt to cross
the Ringarooma. The Bright newcomer on the Gladstone
has not got above average yields, but he seems to be
straightening up the dredere. If he gets it to work up to
the average of the Bright dredges, the next question that;
must be asked is, how is it that all the men in charge before
laid the blame for the low yields on to the plant ? There
has been more disappointment to the square inch over
the dredging boom in Tasmania than over anything there
since the Briseis float. Locals believe the tin is in the
ground, but they have never believed that a dredge can
lift the quantity of dirt stated, or that the tin can be
saved on a swaying, swinging dredge. They hoped, from
the talk of the early experts, that they were wrong, but
neither the managements nor the results have, so far,
brought conviction to them.
* * * *
The Magnet, one of the early products of the
Zeehan and Dundas (Tas.) rush of 12 years ago, made its
best profit last half year—£sß2l. Of this £4200 went in
divs. (the sth and 6th). This was on a capital of £14,958.
The future depends upon lead and silver prices, and so do
the ore reservte ; for most of the ore is low-grade, and a


Beat Tobacco
the world can
produce. -0
p* r
vl • ounce.
3 STRENGTHS—
A 1 Mild.
B 2 Medium.
C 3 Strong. /
/
A
o
4?
/2oz. Tins 1/-
4oz. Tins 2/-
Boz. Tins 3/9
/ Sold Loose only by
/a. a. marks,
/376 George St.
310 George St.
28 Hunter St.
177 Oxford St.
SYDNEY.
fall would make much of it unprofitable. With metals
around their present level, there should be at least four
years’ ore available.
• * * *
The last 18 months’ work of the North Mount
Farrell(Tas.)... „
Ore Divi- Written Be-
Sales. Profit, dends. off. s ®f v ® s '
Oct., 1905 .. £7,372 £470
Apr., 1906 .. 11,508 3210 £894 6,796
Oct., 1906 .. 15,873 5890 1804 £6ll 10,271
Profit last half-year was 9s. 9d. per ton ; mining, milling,
and all charges ran to 16s. 6d. per ton, which, though
slightly ahead of the previous half-year’s figures, repre-
sents very good work. The average value of the cruae
ore isn’t set out in the reports, but the recovery works
out at 6T9oz. silver and 6'71 per cent, lead ; 12,092 tons
of ore was handled, which were concentrated to 1421 tons.
Becent developments have been satisfactory, and there is
a good life assured —if the metal markets keep favorable.
Everything depends on that. Last half-year’s profit was
at the rate of £7 ss. per ton of lead produced. A fall of
£1 per ton for lead below last half-year’s high average
would knock off £BO9 from the profit, and a fall of Id. tor
silver would knock off £3lO. And they are big' slices
when the total profit is only £5890.
• « * *
“ M.C.”: He Mt. Lyell reserves. Last half-
year they smelted 133,490 tons pyritic and 65,901 tons
silicious ore, inclusive of 58,664 tons from the North
Lyell. Beserves of pyritic ore, that can be cheaply
mined on the open-cut system, are 1,134,000 tons; at
present rate of output this will be cut out in five years.
There is more pyritic ore beneath the open cut, but it
will be more expensive to mine. Beserves of silicious ore in
the North Lyell are estimated at 322,000 tons, not quite
three years’ supply. The two mines depend, as a pyritic
mining proposition, on each other ; it is not a question
of one of them developing ore, but of both doing so. The
North Lyell requires about twice as much ore as it
reckons it has in sight, to last out the five years’supply
of pyritic ore ; after that the extra cost of pyritic ore
will present a new feature. The hard fact is, the North
Lyell is anything but a big proposition, and even Mt.
Lyell is not the inexhaustible thing it was once reckoned
to be.
* * * *
Prices of a few Broken Hill stocks at the closing
of the Exchanges in the past three years :
1904. 1905. 1906.
s. d. s. d. s. d.
British (old .. .. 15 8 34 3 46 0
British (new).. .. 14 0 32 9 44 3
B.H. Prop 44 6 65 0 108 6
Block 10 .. .. 42 9 108 0 95 0
Block 14 .. .. 12 0 29 0 33 '0
„ (pref.).. .. 12 3 28 0 31 6
Junction .. .. 8 5 7 6 9 0
Junction North .. 10 6 19 6 39 3
B.H. South (con.) .. 39 9 76 3 162 0
„ (paid) .. 47 9 84 6 171 o
South Blocks | l 3 (j I" 60 3
North 25 6 54 3 94 0
Sulphide (pref.) .. 11 6 29 3 28 0
„ (ord.) .. 14 0 15 9 20 0
In most cases higher prices ruled in October and Novem-
ber. The action of the Bank of England in putting up
the bank rate to 6 per cent, appears to have then steadied
speculation, and the rapid upward movement in lead was
checked. As the increase in prices of stock is based
almost wholly (except in the case of the South and South
Blocks) upon the rise in metals, people who hold shares
at .the top prices must feel a bit uncomfortable when
they look at the foregoing list and reflect upon the awful
uncertainty of the metal markets.
Broken Hill Water Supply, 2Gs. twelve months
ago ; 19s. at closing this year. Yet there wasn’t any
slump to speak of when the Broken Hill and Umberum-
berka Water Bill went through the N.S.W. Parliament in
the last days of the session. The co. has been threatened
with a municipal supply for years, and “inside” in-
vestors evidently reckoned that this Bill would effectually
prevent anything worse happening. The Bill is practi-
cally a mining cos’, affair ; the chief movers in the matter
were the South and Sulphide Corporation ; and, unless
the B.H. Water Supply Co.’s service fails, the new service
is not to be tapped for town supply. The local municipal
people approved of this on the ground that what they
needed was really a supplementary reservoir to serve as a
stand-by. Whether the new scheme, which the mining
cos. will finance, will give Broken Hill absolute security
is doubtful; but, anyhow, it will give more security.
For one thing, the new reservoir will be deeper than the
old one, and evaporation (which is tremendous out there)
won’t empty it so soon.
* 1k ft *
Crowl Creek and Shuttleton copper cos.
(N.S.W.) have agreed to the amalgamation proposals
already described. The new co.—Crowl Creek-Shuttleton
—will have a capital of £150,000 ; each co. is to subscribe
for 15,000 shares at 7s. each, and the £10,500 thus raised
is to go to the new co.’s credit.
m m * m
Lake View Consols, Kalgoorlie, shows no im-
provement in depth, and the impoverishment of the lode
seems to be permanent. No hopeful sign has been met
with at 1900 ft., and it is questionable if the directors
have the pluck to go on sinking, as Lansell did, on the
off-chance of values making again. Co. made a good deal
in acquiring a half interest in Broken Hill South Blocks
for £73,500. Of the 100,000 shares acquired 31,500 have
been sold for £47,500, and the balance still held are
quoted at over 60s. Co. also holds interests in Burmah
and other countries, but they are speculative. It seems
that co. also has an option over 10,000 reserve shares in
Broken Hill South Blocks, on which there should be a
nice profit.
* « * #
Hannan’s Star, Kalgoorlie, is now entirely in
the hands of tributors, and Trewartlia James, the
consulting engineer, is on the look out for another pro-
perty. Co. has £27,000 cash in hand, in addition to which
there ftre some calls outstanding. A thorough sampling
of the Fairplay, at the north end of the field, has just
been made with the view of acquiring it and adjoining
leases for the Star ; but sufficient development has not
been done yet to warrant a purchase. At 150 ft. there is
a pay shoot 90ft. long and 6ft. wide, worth, on an aver-
age, 12£dwt. per ton, some of the ore running up to 6oz.
From this the owners have picked out and treated several
hundred tons worth 2oz. The outlook of the show is
promising enough, but a big price is asked for it, and
some £SOOO would have to be spent in development under
option before anyone would be justified in buying it. It
is probable that capital will be forthcoming to give the
show a thorough test.
• • « *
Oliillagoe Co. shareholders have agreed to put
up £150,000 towards the cost of the Etheridge railway
extension, in 300,000 shares of 10s. each ; apparently they
are also to pay Is. premium. This will raise the share
issue to 1,000,000. The cost of the line and equipment
will, it is estimated, be about £400,000. The money
required will be raised partly by ordinary debentures
to the extent of £75,000 (at March 31st last the outstand-
ing debentures were £498,250), and by railway debentures
(2J per cent, guaranteed by the State), and by the in-
creased capital. The new share issue is underwritten at
11s. Becently the shares in the the co., which were down
to 9d. two years ago, have sold at 12s. 6d. Heaven only
knowshow the price is justified. Past results certainly don’t
support the quotations ; and the increase of debentures
adds to the shareholders’ risks. In 1903 the co. made a
loss (after paying debenture interest) of £18,705 ; in 1904
the loss was £35,618 ; for the 12 months to March, 1906,
there was a profit of £533. Certainly railway receipts
are better, and so are the mining prospects ; but are they
permanent ?
* * * *
Development at Brilliant Extended, Charters
Towers, for the past six months has not opened up any
fresh bodies of stone. Instead of the western ground
improving, as was expected, values have fallen to 355.
per ton in the No. 4 west level. A mere 6d. per ton
profit from a 3ft. reef is not encouraging. An underlay
was started from No. 4 west, and is now down to No. 7
west. Stone all the way through is poor and patchy.
The reef, 3ft. thick in No. 7 west, is worth 40s. per ton ;
but this level is approaching a poorer patch of stone,
similar to that met with in No. 4. Nor is the eastern
ground panning out up to expectations. At No. 10 east
hanging-wall level (vertical depth 2280 ft.) there was pay-
able stone, extending out some 500 ft. east from the No. 3
underlay. At No. 13 east (2455 ft.) the reef cut out
after driving 180 ft. from the underlay, and in
No. 14 east (in 97ft.) the reef is smaller than that
met with in Nos. 12 and 13 eastern levels.
Sinking the underlay shaft is to be continued as soon as
the rises have holed through from No. 14 east and west
to No. 13 for ventilation. In the sink there is showing
4ft. of crushing stuff. Probably this is a continuation of
the eastern make of stone crossing the underlay shaft.
No. 12 west level is out 499 ft. from the No. 3 underlay,
with nothing payable in the end. This level is being
pushed out to the Brilliant Deep Levels’ boundary, about
150 ft. further on. An item in the balance-sheet, lately
published, leads one to believe that the Deep Levels is
sharing the cost of this level for ventilation purposes.
• » * *
From Charters Towers :—“ Mine sampling got
no further ahead at Charters Towers after manager Mac-
Leod had lectured upon the risks managers would run in
forming an estimate of values. MacLeod manages the
Brilliant Extended. There he has made tests to show
that sampling is unreliable, although he admits that four
out of five reefs could be sampled within 25 per cent, of
the correct value. His own mine has proved that. In
No. 7 west level, off the No. 2 underlay, for 150 ft.
the reef was sampled. The returns from several
trial crushings went within ldwt. per ton of the
assay of the samples. Beturns from the trial parcel,
and the locality where it came from, were published.
Consequently shareholders knew what they had in that
particular part of the mine. MacLeod, nevertheless,
advocates the practice that has been followed for years,
viz., trial crushings. It is a matter of indifference how
a property is tested, providing the shareholders and
intending investors are acquainted with the values and
quantity. Under the present system, trial crushings
from five tons up to 100 tons are put through. The
parties controlling the mine have access to the battery
on two tickets. First ticket allows admission, because
they are owners or part owners of the battery. Second
ticket says they are directors of the mine that produced
the stone ; consequently, it is their duty to watch the
crushing going through. These men are conscientious
watchmen, and know to a fraction what the trial parcel
yields. But the returns are lumped with the general
crushing, and the ordinary shareholders are none the
wiser, until the market moves.
* * * •
“Up at the School Reserve, the reef in that
show assayed 2oz. 6dwt., according to the local Miner.
Seeing that no contradiction came from the directors, the
public accepted the value as correct. Actual return
from the battery was something like ldwt. per ton.
When returns were posted it was too late. The people on
the ground floor had the market settled. There is less
money in dividends on the Towers than in the market;
and this is why. Carrington’s is another instance where
returns have been misleading. The low returns had the
effect of bringing values from 9s. to Is. 6d. within a few
months. To-day buyers are offering 7s. Systematic
mine sampling may be a costly affair, running into
thousands of pounds. But it’s a certainty that the
public would not lose so much cash in finding out what
the property is worth as it does now under the present
market-manipulation system. And it is that system
which keeps the public from providing the money for
legitimate mining enterprises."
Another of those deals that don’t smell too
sweet has been reported from London, where 20,000
reserved shares in Mt. Mollo.v (N.Q.) have been placed at
275. 6d. at a time when the stock was quoted in Australia
at 40s. Presumably J. Bull will pay 40s. too ; so the go-
between will rake in 12s. 6d. Who is the go-between ?
The last business of this sort reported was in Mt. Elliott,
in which a parcel of shares was sold for 30s. when the
Australian market stood at about 40s. Later on they
were whipped up to over 80s., at which point probably
the 30s. shares were unloaded. The proceeds of the little
Molloy lot are to go in making a short railway connection
with the Cairns-Mareeba line.
* • * •
Heavy selling orders for O.K. have come down
from North Queensland during the week. What
threatens to be an unusually wet season up there is the
bother.
* k * •
Of the dozens of tin claims that have been
more or less opened up in the Beid’s Creek district
(N.Q.), with Dalzell’s as the best known of them, lots of
local men like the Nil Desperandum (O’Meara’s) best.
They have got down over 60ft. here, and the lode, more
than 4ft. wide, is bigger at the bottom than at the top.
Ore is chlorite, same as the Vulcan’s, and runs about
6 per cent. Local opinion sets store on the fact that it is
in solid granite. Yet lode tin-mining in solid granite has
never been much of a success, in N.S. Wales at any rate,
and claims are being recommended by the most experi-
enced men on the ground (amongst others) that the
nearest granite is a long way off. Tastes differ.
* * * *
Although copper matte is converted into blister
copper at the O.K. and Mt. Molloy, the larger Ohillagoe
still exports matte in quantities. No doubt Chillagoe,
for the time being, makes more money by exporting
crude matte, but it only makes it at the expense of the
country which supplies the ore. And it is a fool of a
country that allows such exploitation.
• * * *
The day of modest floats has arrived at Dayles-
ford (Vic.). When the reputation of Ajax was holding
up a whole lot of little prospecting “goes,” both paid-up
shares and cash went to the peggers-out of leases. Now,
if they get any coin, it is only £lOO or so, and the share
payment is limited to scrip paid up only to the amount
of the application and allotment money. Thus, in
the Cockatoo Beef, which has lately flapped out
of the parental nest for public inspection, 10,000
shares paid up to Is. are taken with £lOO cash ;
while 15,000 shares on which Is. has been paid have
been subscribed for. This float means that £750 cash
is subscribed, of which £lOO goes to the vendors. The
rest is for prospecting. Take it that the lease cost £100;
the holders of the 10,000 shares get their money back and
the benefit of the expenditure of the £650. If any strike
is made and shares should reach, say, 35., the transaction
will be a good one for the paid-uppers. If nothing is hit,
then they have to come into line and pay calls. So, after
all, the Cockatoo, belying its namesake, won’t be able to
poach much on people’s wheat-fields. Still, it has a
mighty good chance of getting fat with very small effort
should a share-hustle take place over the field. And that
is just what there is no reason for.
* * * *
Enterprise gold dredge, Creswick (Vic.), on
2 grains of gold per yard, made £983 net profit in six
months; 130,000yds. were treated from a surface area of
4£ acres, which contain 21,780 square yards, so the dredge
must have dug a mighty large hole 6yds. or so deep. As
there are only 4840 square yards in an acre, some of these
dredge figures, telling of enormous quantities of dirt
handled, are evidently well-watered. Altogether about
24J acres have been turned over, and 225. paid in divi-
dends—roughly, Is. an acre per share.
• * * *
Horseshoe Creek tinfield (Northern Territory)
has, in two years, by the sheer richness of its ores, become
the most prosperous locality in the North; yet the
Government will not help by erecting a crushing plant,
and there is not enough initiative in the place to lead to
a private enterprise battery, apart from a poor, weary
little five-head. The trouble is that almost all the claims
are worked by Chinese, and they have no ideas about
machinery. For the first half of this year, 1005 tons
of material were treated at the battery for con-
centrates valued at £6213 —over £6 per ton, and
the tailings are about the best claim on the field.
Whether the lodes live to a depth is an open question,
but there is an immense quantity of from 2£ per cent,
to 4 per cent, stuff that would pay well with ah up-to-
date battery, for it could be got out by open-cuts. To a
great extent it is worked on the 10 per cent, tribute
racket. One syndicate of four holds 480 acres, merely
hen-scratched by Chinamen, who follow the rich leaders
for a few feet and then leave for home. The deepest
shaft (Boyling’s) is down 80ft. on a 3ft. 3in. lode ; a rich
seam runs through it, carrying as much as 25 per cent,
oxide. Most claims measure from 40 acres to 160 acres,
and are simply pig-rooted ; no development work is being
done. The price charged for crushing (£2 ss. per ton) is
prohibitive. Mt. Todd, four miles away from Horseshoe
Creek, is in a sorry plight. There are three claims there,
the owners of which have from 50 to 300 tons at grass ;
but they will not send to the battery, as, besides the
£2 ss. for the crushing, 9s. per ton is charged for carting.
Mt. Todd alone could employ a 10-stamp battery. Unless
somebody takes the field in hand, in a few years’ time it
will be like all the other N.T. fields —pig-rooted, hen-
scratched, well-nigh ruined, and deserted.
* •» * *
“Whaffor”: The Northern Territory mining
Warden is fixed at a place called Burrundie, 25 miles from
Pine Creek. There is no post office there. The place
has been dead for years ; yet the S.A. Govt, takes no
action. To procure a miner’s right or license, miners
have no end of trouble out-back ; for one thing, the
Govt, will not take postage stamps. If you require an
interview, you have to carry your swag with you, as there
is no hotel or other accommodation in the place. How
can this country make any headway when this state of
things is allowed? Pine Creek should be the Warden’s
headquarters.
* * * *
“ Disinterested Territorian” wires from Brock’s
Creek (N.T.)Challenge ‘Pea-Green’s’ statement re
Fountain Head sluicing proposition (B. 22/11/’O6). So
far from the claims l eing worked out, 30 Chows are at
present time making 20s. to 30s. per week with cradles.”
* * * *
J.P.W.: The business lias been carried on for
35 years ; and the co. with that experience behind it has
not been able to pay a dividend for the last nine years.
One or two others, shipping shale, have made fair but
irregular profits.
* * • *
Sargents, Ltd., to run various Sydney cook-
shops, will be registered shortly.
* * • •
Cabled that a new machine will enable white
miners to work as cheaply as the Chow at Johannesburg.
It seems most likely that white miners could do that
even without a new drill. The Chow’s mine-labor
efficiency is notoriously low ; J. Bullenstein, just finding
that out, is starting to sling mud,at him. The Hand,
plus machine drills and Chows, has never got working
costs below 205., while at Italgoorlie mining and milling
costs in several instances are far below 205., and in some
have got below 10s. Of course, the conditions of blasting
rock, securing ground, and mill work vary a lot; but, on
the whole, the conditions at the Band, particularly with
regard to milling work, are highly favorable. With an
average stamp duty per day on the Band of 5| tons, mill-
ing costs should be low. The average value of the Band
ore is only 335. 9d. per ton. That is why the Bandlords
are so feverish to cut costs down to 20s.
• • » *
Gross immorality may have something to do
with the repatriation of the Band Chows, but it’s more
than likely that the Bandlords are finding out —what was
common knowledge in Australia —that the Chow is a
purely surface worker. Given a big open cut, or potter-
ing about a race with a long-handled shovel, he will do a
lot of work in a lot of time ; but he is practically useless, at
times worse than useless, underground. While he won’t
face any danger that he can see, he knows so little where
to look'for danger or how to prevent it that his workings
are usually death-traps (some hair-raising eases were
illustrated in a recent Govt, report on Northern Territory
mines) ; and in the case of a fall of rock or other mining
mishap, God help the miner, white or yellow, who
depends upon the Chow’s succour. So, at latest, in con-
tinuance of England’s amazing kindness to the Jewhannes-
burgers, Winston Churchill states that “ it is intended to
continue State aid in the repatriation of Chinese from
the Band.”
* * w *
“Janor”: Was yarning, a while back, with a
mine manager of large experience (30 years of it) in Great
Britain, many parts of Europe, and South America. Also,
he has superintended much deep shaft-sinking in Aus-
tralia, and he emphatically said the Australian miner
ranked first in the world. He was not only a good
grafter, but intelligent, and was at home in any kind of
ground or style of timbering. To use his own words,
“ You can’t put him wrong, and any changes in working
conditions he adapts himself to quickly and cheerfully.”
• • • •
The result of the first of the struggles for con-
trol of the big American life offices is through—the
“administration ” ticket has been so easily carried in the
New York Life that it looks as though the same
thing will happen in the others. Three tickets
have been issued—nominally three; practically two.
Besides the office or “ administration ” ticket and
the reform ticket, there was a composite affair put
forward by the “ administration ” agents, in one office, at
any rate; but, as the composite ticket included a
majority of “ administration ” nominees, it amounted to
a smart dodge to clip the wings of the reformers. In
other words, it gets votes for “ administration ” nominees
in quarters where it was recognised that there was need of
reform. The success of the “ administration ” ticket will,
of course, he put forward as proof that the majority of
the policy-holders are quite satisfied ; what it really
means is that, in a concern of this size, the office machinery
is practically supreme, and that the policy-holders’ con-
trol is more nominal than real. And the wider the area
over which the business is spread, the more complete is
the office autocracy. Which is one more reason against
the extension of Australian mutual offices outside Aus-
tralia.
• • • *
A Manchester (Eng.) firm has brought producer-
gas plants into notice in Westralia as a means of utilising
Collie coal. That powdery stuff is reckoned to be very
well suited for producer-gas plants, which, under the
most favorable conditions, develop 1-h.p. per l)lb. of coal.
The idea is to generate gas (carbon monoxide) by the suc-
tion of air and steam into a furnace, using the gas to
work a gas engine. The economy depends upon local
conditions, such as the amount of power required and
the cost of the better class of fuel for steam raising. Pro-
ducer gas is also to be given a trial at Kalgoorlie for
roasting ore.
* * • *
One of the special points to be considered by
the Broken Hill British Mine in the extension of their
present mill, was a suitable rockbreaker. There are
several types of crushers at the Hill, but the management
of the British decided to purchase Austin Botary Bock-
breakers after exhaustive enquiry and practical work
with other make's. The Block 10 Co. purchased two
Austin’s some time ago, and these were put to a very
severe test for capacity, horsepower, and wearing ability
—the result has been a triumphant and conclusive proof
that the Austin is the best machine at present offering,
crushing more material with less h.p. than other makes.
They have forced lubrication, double counter shaft
bearings, and are of heavy construction to withstand all
strain. W. and J. Lempriere, of Melbourne, are the sol*
agents.*
• * * V
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.,
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * * #
The Insurance India (London), in its Septem-
ber, 1906, issue writes :—“ We have to congratulate the
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society on a remarkably
excellent report for the year ending 31st. December, 1905.
From a new business point of view, the year was the most
successful that the Society has experienced for a long
time, the new policies issued numbering 3687 and assur-
ing £922,401.”*
* • * *
To Mine Managers, Assayers and others.
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime, Zinc Shavings,
Mabor, and all Mining and Assay Chemicals and
Apparatus, Microscopes and accessories can be obtained
of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne. Agents for
Oertling’s and Schlag and Berend’s Balances.*
The Charlotte Plains Consolidated G. M.
Co.’s new Havillah Shaft has just installed a high
lift pump to make all necessary provision against
any increase in the volume of water now that, they
are opening up large areas of wash dirt. This instal-
lation is in addition to the large three throw pump
which has given such high efficiency and such constant
service since its inception. The new pump is of the high
lift turbine type, electrically driven, and is capable of
lifting 2,016,000 gallons of water in 24 hours against a
total head of 360 feet. The mechanical efficiency of the
pump is guaranteed at 71‘5 percent, and all repairs and
replacements apart from undue wear are likewise
guaranteed for twelve months. The pump has four
runners and four vanes made from best bronze and the
shaft is attached by means of a flexible coupling to a
Ganz three phase motor 440 volts pressure, 60 cycles
capable of giving 207 li.p. The Austral Otis Engineering-
Company, of South Melbourne, have executed this con-
tract. This Company has had the manufacture of most
of the big volume deep alluvial lead pumping schemes in
Victoria and has metin each with unqualified success.* [A]
* * » *
COBAB. —For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
Cobab. —For information on all mining matters,
apply to G. Marshe. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
D. H. Dunlop, Stock and Share Broker,
Cobar. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
X * * *
Budgery.—Write G. M. Field, Hermidale. On
the field.
* * * *
Connolly, Keam and Co., 123 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
or flotation. Must stand close expert investigation.*
* * * *
“Geo. E. Dickenson, 60 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, Manager and Trustee is prepared to consider
offers, sale or purchase of approved Mining properties
under working option or cash purchase.”
* * * *
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silberbero and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
» * » *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used fop making boilers, fiuming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discriDtion of cast or wrought iron work.*
■* * * *
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange). *
* * * *
The enterprising engineering firm R. Hornsby
and Sons, Ltd., Grantham, England, world renowned
manufacturers of the “Hornsby” Patent Safety Oil
Engine, the latest adaption of which is their Traction
Engine, have entered the Gas Engine arena and are now
making the Homsby-S took port Gas Engine and Suction
Gas Plant. The latter we learn will develop upwards of
10 brake horse power at the cost of Id. per hour. The
minimum cost and attention required should prove a great
inducement to users of motive power to instal this type
of plant. The Australasian addresses of the above firm
are : Sussex-street, Sydney and Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne.*
• * * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and .Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Commission business only. Agents every-
where.*
* * * *
The Reavell Air Compressor is an entirely new
departure in compressor design, and by its numerous
good points is already finding considerable favor in Au -
tralian mining circles. As there are no suction valves,
the volumetric efficiency is at least 6 per cent higher than
any other compressor. It is unrivalled for driving by
means of an electric motor, and is the only machine in
which driving gears can be altogether dispensed with.
The sole licensees for Australia are Babcock and Wilcox,
makers of the well-known water tube boiler, whose Aus-
tralasian office is at the Haymarket, Sydney.*
* * * *
Charters Towers.—Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* » » *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
“ The Chief ” : Be that aged gentleman at
Nowra (N.S.W.) who died recently with his
beautifully-polished oak coffin on the premises all
ready. I knew of a very similar case in Sydney
about 15 years ago. Simpson had long been ill,
and a few weeks before his death he instructed a
friend to buy him a cemetery allotment “ with a
nice eastern aspect.” From photographs he
selected a tombstone, and he wrote his own
epitaph and had it engraved on the stone, all but
the date of death. He also ordered a carefully-
selected and superior coffin with its inscription,
paid all the bills, including his doctor’s invoice
and his board and lodging account, and then
turned over punctually and died. It was a small
party that gathered at his grave—his son, his
brother (who had not been on speaking terms
with the deceased for 30 years), the doctor, and
myself as executor. The will left everything to
the young son ; and the brother sent in a claim
for 10s. for time wasted attending the funeral.
The lawyer and I booted the claim out.
“ K.” : The most interesting feature of the
Church Congress held in Melbourne was the out-
lining of a new Australian Church to take the
place of the Church of England and one or two
other sects, and to set up Australian ideals and
conform to Australian conditions, regardless of
what theories may beaddling in the headsof ancient
prelates on the other side of the earth. Naturally,
the motion provoked criticism, and of course
the critics arose with pained expressions to
enlarge upon the “disloyalty” of the proposal.
Such action was playing into the hands
of those pestilent people “ who wanted an
Australian flag with as little as possible
of the Union Jack on it,” moaned one agitated
churchman. Australia’s desire to wear its own
home-made shirt was at the outset an evidence of
treason and an effort to tear this country from its
mother’s arms, and now it seems that any attempt
to be religious on lines that commend them-
selves to our particular view is black treason
and an outrage on the throne and person.
It is an amazing thing that the bat-eyed type
of / Australian Imperialist should address the
Almighty otherwise than through the vice-regal
representatives in the States or his Excellency the
Governor-General.


Hotel
Australia
KATES FROM
12s. 6d. per Day
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light. It is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent hand engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 6.30.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
A GOLDEN OPPORTUNITY.—A way out of a difficulty
is provided by the “8.1. G." novel and easy plan of pur-
chase of necessities and luxuries. If the purchase of a
nice diamond half-hoop ring is needed, or a good-grade
watch, gold chain, or bangle, or any silver-plated goods
or, cutlery is required to be made, make it at once on our
easy deferred monthly payment system and have the
goods now. The advantages are yours; so don’t lose
time. Write or call at once for our catalogue ; it will
please you. The British Imperial Goldsmiths, 66 Pitt-
street, Sydney.*
ANGLERS
Send
for our
FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE.
It will please you.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
409 and 411 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
(The “ H. & B.” Post Card Firm.)
PRIVATE CHRISTMAS CARDS, printed specially for
you with your own name, address and greeting:
fro m 2/8 Dozen. Beautiful Art Designs. Orders
posted same day as received. Prices Complete, post
free, 2/6, 3/6, 4/9, 6/6, and 8/3 per dozen. Send
three penny Stamps for specimens, or send along
Postal Note and leave choice to us. We will satisfy
you or return your money. HARDINC and BILLINC,
Fine Art Publishers, 250 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
(The “ H & B.” Post Card Firm.)
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resells Waverley Brewery, Agents.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
ANTI-CLIMAX.
"I'll fight yer for forty quid , an’ put up ther
stuff! ”
“ Make it a hundred, an’ I'm yer man !”
“ You pay up a bob fer them drinks or I’ll belt
yer both !”
“Starr”: We have an unusual bush-
worker in our section of the saltbush. When
fortune hands him his cheque, he doesn’t “do it
in ” hereabouts. Instead, he works his passage
to Hingland and spends it there. Then he works
back to Australia and grafts for another cheque.
Generally the third year sees him go. Seven or
eight trips ’Ome during 20 years ! “ Australia,”
he says, “is always worth returning to—no place
like it.” What sort of a place it would presently
be if everybody treated it that way he probably
doesn’t stop to think.
“ Leonardo ” : A glad day it was for the
Maoriland cocky when John Chinaman came
along and expressed a willingness to buy fungus,
which, like kauri gum, is one of the staple pro-
ducts of the land of fern and footballers. Then
the farmer’s children had frequent attacks of
measles, and went gathering fungus as a cure,
and in many cases mother put the baby in the
pig-stye, and went gathering fungus also ; and,
often as not, father went out and bagged the
growth. Fungus put bread in the mouths of
many of the small settlers in Maoriland, and in
spite of the butter boom John still has his
white army of fungus-gatherers.
* * * *
‘ ‘ Kati-Kati ” : He was a Canadian. We
took him into a large block of kauri that the
timber company-is just cutting out. The sound
of axes filled the air. The axemen were a splendid
lot ol fellows, and we reckoned the stranger would
be impressed. Not a bit of it. “Pretty childish,”
was all he volunteered. “Indeed !” we snorted;
“suppose you could do better where you come
from.” “ Well,” said Blue-nose, “we don’t
reckon to be exactly savages. In a crop like that
we would simply run our large-size reaper and
binder through, let the sheaves lie for a few days,
then stook them for three months before stacking
to season. Why, man, a paralytic savage with
atrophy of the thinking faculties could chip away
at the stalks like you are doing.”
* * * *
“F.H. tl.” tells of his own and Bill’s
infamy :
When I joined Bill in Gippsland he was quite excited
over the richness of a small leader they had just out in
the mine. I was camped in the same hut with William,
and when I accidentally came across a bag of rich speci-
mens it explained a lot of things, one being Bill’s pro-
jected trip to Tasmania. I mentioned the matter to him,
and requested him to remove the parcel or reduce it to
such limits that it could be more safely hidden. Bill
undertook to dolly it, and when we were on afternoon
shift he used to do a bit of hard work during the forenoon
in the scrub adjacent. One morning Bill was hammering
away, making a noise like a concealed motor-car, when
the boss rode up to the hut. He missed Bill at once, and
I cursed his persistent “ bang, bang,” but could see no
way of giving him the “ office.” My tale of Bill’s recently
acquired fondness for drink, and his absence at
the pub., was worthy of this column, but the
narrative was likely to be upset if Bill showed
up. At last the boss, looking suspiciously at me,
said in a hard, cold voice, “What’s that noise?" Then
I soared to the occasion. “That’s the champion lyre
bird of Australia,” I said, proudly. “ He’s the greatest
mimic the world ever produced. He’s imitating a quartz
battery now. Sometimes he imitates the shaft, or makes
a noise like a stope. He’s always hereabouts, but we can
never catch a glimpse of him." The boss said, laconi-
cally, “No doubt.” Then he turned his horse towards
Bill’s bonanza. For a moment things looked serious, but
Bill had heard the horse. The scrub was thick, and the
boss failed to see the most wonderful lyre bird in the
southern hemisphere. He rode away, looking back now
and again like a detective who knows he has just left a
hot clue. Bill stayed in the scrub for some time that
morning, and ’twas just as well, for the boss rode back
that way about half-an-hour later. “I don’t hear that
lyre bird now,” he said, looking hard at me. I said that
the fowl was probably tired.
* * * #
Is there such an animal as an
“ Abo. Verax” ? If there is, can it describe any-
thing to equal the following? A few years back
a Jewish family, settled in Perth, engaged a
young aboriginal girl as a servant for their chil-
dren. This family, friends of mine, lately emi-
grated to Melbourne. On paying them a visit
for the first time, I was astonished to see a young
(about 18), full-blooded aboriginal girl sitting at
dinner and chatting away with the rest of the
family in —Yiddish 111 The abo. girl when taken
up by the kind Hebrews had known no language
except her own. Naturally, therefore, she had
taken up Yiddish, and gradually become pro-
ficient in that language.
* • * *
Drover Rose, who has lately crossed
Northern Australia with a mob of cattle, is
exhibiting some attractive aboriginal spear-heads
in glass, which have been made from “dead
marines ” cast adrift in the desert by thirsty
whites. All the heads were shaped with a piece
of flint, some representing leaves of trees. These
glass points were fastened to spears 10ft. long by
a mixture of beeswax and turpentine extracted
from spinifex, and bound with the sinews of
kangaroos. The spears are thrown with
woomeras, and a skilled black can kill a human
being at from 80 to 100 yards with one of them.
With a smaller woomera it is said they can kill
birds on the wing at 40 yards, but they surely
must be very tired fowl. The spear-head is
so constructed that when it sinks into the flesh
it breaks off, so that in the case of a human being
a surgical operation is necessary to get rid of the
jagged glass tips.
* * * »
“Elmore”: Sandy Macpherson had a
great reputation for good dealing. Anything
Sandy dealt in (barring grog) turned into money ;
so, when he offered to join Ted and me, we wel-
comed him eagerly. We gave him two dozen
traps each, and in a week he was catching as
many rabbits as the two of us. Foxes and wild
dogs were ruining our traps, and they took more
rabbits out than we sent away. Ted tried
strychnine baits, but only poisoned his own dog,
and as mine didn’t appear next day (or since) he
gave them best. One day Sandy said: “I’m
going into the town to-day. There’s two horses
in the pound to be sold. I might buy one. Will
you chaps go shares ? ” We rushed the offer, and
off he went. Late that afternoon we heard
Sandy coming. Ted went down the track to
meet him. I watched him till he reached the
road ; then he stopped and stared. Presently
Sandy loomed up dragging behind him the most
forsaken animal I ever saw. I looked in
vain for a sound spot on him. “Great Scott,
Sandy,” I gasped, “ what the devil did you bring
that thing here for ? ” Ted asked him how much
he paid for it. Sandy got narked and said: “I
paid twenty-nine bob for him. You two needn’t
take a share unless you like.” Ted and I shook
hands with ourselves at this, and our estimate of
Sandy’s acumen was somewhat reduced. Sandy
took his steed up into the bush. Then we heard
a shot, and just at dark Sandy arrived. He had
his horse’s hide with him. We questioned him,
but he only laughed and said : “ You’ll see in the
morning, and you’ll be sorry.” In the morning
we did see, and we were sorry. Sandy had shot
and skinned and partly roasted the horse, and
had set his 48 traps around it. In them were four
foxes and three wild dogs. By the end of the
week, with hide and bonuses, he cleared £23145.
IN THE PARK.
AGED DOSSER : “I see by this ’ere noosepaper that the Guverment’s goin’ to spend ten millions
on irrigatin' the back country, an' 'undreds in this 'ere very city dyin' for a drink."
INDIGNANT CHORUS : "Shame! Shame!"
‘ ‘ Mallarapoonie ” : I struck a copper-
gougers’ camp lately where they kept a novel
record of the flight of time. The day I arrived at
the camp was a Thursday; the date was just
“1391, Anno Bulletini 27.” There were three
gougers in camp. One gouger, surnamed Bill
(his Christian name was Bogantungan, curtailed
to Bogan) informed me during the course
of general conversation that they had
been camped there for 29 Bulletins.
Times, he said, were looking up in the
gouging line ; he had a parcel of 10 tons
of ore to send away, and the teams would
be there about next Bulletin. Yes, he
admitted, they were in an out-of-the-way
place, and tucker was hard to get. They
had been nearly a Bulletin without meat
then, but his mate, Jim, was expected
to arrive any minute with beef.
Half a salted cow, Bill remarked, lasted
the camp about three Bulletins. (They
had enough flour to do for five Bulletins
yet.) His mate, Jim, hadlately been down
to the Towers for a spell. Jim took 27
Bulletins’ wages with him, and was
away about six Bulletins. Blued the
lot—. Tim did. He’d only been back a
Bulletin —no, be gad, it was two Bul-
letins. “Say, Joe, did Jim come back
last Bulletin or the one before?” (A
gruff voice inside the tent answered “ The
Bulletin before last.”) Yes, that was
right. Then Bill reckoned they were
going to shift camp for a few Bulletins.
to sink on another show they knew of. If
she turned out all right they would
apply for exemption for this claim and
hang her up for 26 Bulletins. I rode
on that evening and clean forgot to ask
Bill how they managed if The Bulletin
missed fire for a week. Doubtless they
would count that week as simply nothing
—a hole in the ground.
“T.W.F.”: Here is a peculiar case of
maternal instinct as displayed by a magpie. We
called him Jacko, bub from the time when he first
started to cut his tail feathers until his untimely
death, the problem of sex had never been solved.
Jacko had always taken kindly to the children,
but the baby was the object of his special affec-
tion. Jacko guarded the infant as though it had
been his own little magpie, pecked the cat when-
ever it came near, and made the dog so unhappy
that it ran away from home. If the baby cried
Jacko would come flapping in, regard it tenderly
with an affectionate side-glance, and then hop off
down the garden, to return in a few minutes with
a worm, or a grub, or some other tempting
morsel. One day the child’s mother was startled
by an unusual commotion. Caw ! Caw ! Caw !
squeaked the bird, and the baby screamed as
though it had lost the teat of its bottle. Jacko
was perched on the teethling’s shoulder, trying
to insert a live wriggling centipede into its mouth.
The mother seized the fire-shovel, and Jacko gob
it on his worm-basket with a thud. Thus he died,
a martyr to the maternal instinct.
“ R.A.” : Has any Bulletin contributor
heard the old man kangaroo making music ? He
has some intelligence. Four of us had just come
in off a fencing job, north of Narrandera. The
last six chains of wire fence were up, bright and
shining in the sun, and there was nothing to dis-
turb the harmony but the curses of Bill when he
found our tin pails had been stolen. That night
the moon came up like a silvered monodle, and all
was still. Bill stopped quarrelling with the mos-
quito herd, and held up a bony hand. A won-
drous music came to us like the playing of
a great harp, and soon the listless pine
scrub was saturated with the busli Nocturne.
When we got through to the clearing the show
was dead ahead of us, less than two chains away.
An old man ’roo and his missus sat up against
the fence, playing the wild iEolian harp on the
wires with a feeling and finish that brought the
tears even to Bill’s sinful eyes. In the middle of
a magnificent arpeggio, right along the whole
seven wires, the G string parted with a loud
twang, and in two jumps the scared ’roos were olf
the stage.
a void A TIGER SNAKE CAUGHT IN A MOUSE-
TRAP. (See letter-press.)
Photo, by C. S. Moss, Nowra, N.S.W.
Mrs. Pritchard, of Numba estate, near
Nowra (N.S.W.), set a mousetrap under a chest of
drawers, recently, and the next morning, on
putting the trap out, found a catch of sorts. A
mouse, with an eye to cheese, had been “first
come, first served,” and then a large tiger snake,
with an eye to mouse, had gone in at one of the
holes of the trap (an ordinary tin one) and was
nipped by the spring. Finding that its scales
prevented a retreat, it dragged itself farther
through until it had length enough to enter a
second hole in the trap, when its girth pre-
vented its going further. When discovered it
was still alive, and by a lucky chance Mrs.
Pritchard had escaped with a caution. If the
snake had not been caught in two places, as shown
in the photograph, there would have been an
accident. The tiger snake is almost as deadly as
the death adder, according to Dr. TidswelL Mr.
Moss, of Nowra, supplies the photo, and the
above particulars. The trap is seen bottom-side
up. The stick shown in the picture was inserted
to hold up the outfit while it was being focussed.
THE BIRTH OP THE TAMBO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was years ago, when the gods were young
And the earth was a jewel rare,
That the Tambo River was given tongue
For the sake of a maiden fair.
She came swift-foot from the lowland ways—
From the heart of the joyous spring,
And up where the white Alps met her gaze
She looked on the great Snow King.
Ah 1 she was pure as the Mother of God,
And he was as pure as now ;
What wonder, then, that the ways she trod
Led up to the mountain brow ?
What wonder, then, as from spur to spur
She climbed to his mighty throne,
His smile of welcome should win from her
A love that was all his own?
Ah ! they met at last, and her blood was hot —
Was hob with her youth’s desire ;
And the Snow King yearned, but his heart was not
An altar for mortal fire.
Vet he held her close when she clung to him
As a lover she longed to keep,
And, 10, when the night came, grey and dim,
She lay in his arms asleep.
Oh, cold and calm was his soft caress,
And he covered her up with care,
Kissing her lips and each golden tress
Of her out-spread red-gold hair.
But never again did he see her face
With the blush of its youth abloom,
For he knew, where he reigned in his lonely place,
That his heart was the maiden’s tomb.
And he wept great tears, as a lover weeps,
Through many an after morn,
And thus, for the sake of a maid who sleeps
Was the Tambo River born.
N.S.W.
MILKY WHITE.
AN ANTIC STORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Man at grindstone
Sharp’ning axe —
Thoughts of honey
Bees and wax.
Man goes whistling
Through the brush,
Axe on shoulder,
Gay as thrush.
Man at butt of
Big box tree,
Swings his axe
With vim and glee.
Man jumps high
Into the air—
(Save and guard us !)
Hear him swear!
Man in frenzy,
Doffs his pants—
What’s the trouble ?
Bull-doo ants !
N.S.W.
P. JEFF. WALLACE.


ĝ
By Appointment to
H.M. The King and H.R.H. The Prince of Wales.
ğh
SALT
Report of the INSTITUTE OF HYGIENE, London:
“ Cerebos Salt is composed of refined table Salt, combined with phosphates which
“ exist in most food products in the natural condition. The phosphates in wheat
“are much diminished in the preparation of flour. Phosphates in meat and
“ vegetables are. to a large extent, lost in cooking. Theuse of CerebosSalt in place
“ of ordinary salt restores these natural and valuable products to the daily food.”
Agents: Messrs. Harrison <V Attwood , Sydney.
fingers-
BY THOUSANDS
Have been graced by our Rings, or perhaps it were
better to say thousands of our Rings are graced by
charming fingers.
We sell so many because we are known for
The most exquisite of Rings.
The latest designs in Rings.
The extreme finish of our Rings.
The lowness of price of our Rings.
We have been making Rings for many years.
Our prices are as low as London prices.
2"Choice Sapphires, 1
Tourmaline, with Small
Olivines, £lO 10s.
4 Pearls and 1
Australian Sapphics,
£4 4s.
Diamond Half-Hoop
Ring, £5 ss.
A Marvkli op Value.
2 Rubies & 1 Diamond
or 2 Sapphires and 1
Diamond, 18et., 635.
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
g
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter St.
“ Ho-Ki ” : Can anyone account for the
sagacity of dogs in discriminating between
domestic pets and the wild species? Once duly
introduced, the average dog never interferes with
an adopted wallaby or ’possum. This forbearance
appears to be due to a high-minded regard for the
wishes of his master rather than to any affection
for the other beast. In fact, the latter is treated
with studied contempt, and is never, by any
chance, accorded a smile or a tail-shake. A dog
will invariably pretend not to see a tame ’roo,
even when the ’roo is clawing at his ear. Saw
our dog chase a mob of wallabies one day. He
eventually singled out one small specimen, which
headed straight for the house. After putting up
a record on the home run, the dog got close
enough to snap, when he suddenly discovered
that he was pursuing the station “joey.” Carlo
is always a red dog, but he blushed a deeper red
as he desisted from the chase and slunk home
with his tail wiping the face of the landscape.
* * * *
“ F.H.R.” : Note an article on the useful-
ness of the bag to the cocky. The kerosene-tin is
just as much the railway-man’s friend. Go into
any brake-van on the line, and there you see one,
with handles attached, full of water; another holds
coals; and on the shelf is a light, handy, tucker-
box, constructed from the same faithful servant.
These tucker-boxes are made from two empty
tins. Wire is run round the edges to make them
firm, while the edge of the tin is soldered round
the wire to keep it in place. A little receptacle
is along one side for the knife, fork and spoon,
while, in some, little caddies are provided for tea,
sugar and salt. Handle, fastening and name-
plate are also made from tin, and the name of the
owner shows in the bright tin through the black
paint with which they are invariably coated.
Also, a lcerosene-tin, cut in halves with the edges
turned in, is a splendid washing-basin, whilst the
railway man’s wife puts the tin to such uses as
boiling meat and clothes, or even washes the rail-
way kid in it.
* * * *
“Emblo”: All those muchly-advertised
patent hair-restorers pale before most of the
artesian bores round here (Central Queensland).
Personally know of two or three old men, nearly
bald when they first went to regulate the flow of
the bore, who now threaten to outvie Willis as
regards hair. Our Jackeroo (the genuine im-
ported article, don’t you know) started with the
proverbial eleven a-side on his upper lip; now,
after a course of bore water, he is bidding fair to
make Kaiser Billy look to his antlers.
THE LAST RESOURCE.
BULLOCKY BILL (who, by the evening of a hard-fought day, has used up his whip-lash and the
accumulated language of a lurid life) ; “Gentlemen, I takes off my ’at to yer. I says,
GENTLEMEN, please pull !”
“ Quan ” : How’s this for a strenuous bit
of work, locally alleged to be a record in the
timber-loading business? At Myall Creek, on
the Grafton-Casino (N.S.W.) railway line, 68 logs,
weighing 150 tons, were placed on ten trucks in
1 hour 50min. No steam power was used, and
one truck of 18 tons was loaded in seven minutes.
“A. Borig”:
Everything
changes as the
world progresses
or goes back,
and fishing is no
exception to the
eternal law.
Since the advent
of trout, my old,
stringy-bark sap-
ling fishing rod,
hand-lines and
hook that would
hold a cow, are
all discarded.
No more search-
ing and digging
for worms, which
arealwaysscarce
when fish are
biting; no more
joy in discover-
ing a colony of
fat frogs, and no
more magpies
and parrots shot
for bait, but in-
stead a book of
pretty flies, red
and green spin-
ners, spoon-
fl a s h eis, etc.
Mechanical de-
vices, which cost
money, are accu-
mulated, and
fishing is now a
violent exercise.
More or less
clumsily I “cast”
a fly the other
day, and a beauty
took it as it
touched the
water. Acciden-
tally, I suppose,
I hooked him,
and in a moment
was in the throes
of a wild and
woolly fight. He
tore through the
deep like a tor-
pedo, bucked like
a colt, and backed and filled, till the desire to
haul him out by main force, or break something,
nearly overpowered me. I hate to lose a fish —he is
such a whopper, when you lose him —and the agony
of that quarter of an hour nearly turned my hair
white. Finally, when both of us were exhausted,
he came in close enough for a friend to put an ex-
pensive landing net under him and lift him out.
How I longed, duriftg the turmoil, for a ’Bidgee
cod hand-line —a surprised trout would have been
on the grass, if hi 4 jaw held, while you would
wink.
* i * *
“ Itan ” : Wheiice come the fish which are
found in the creeks and lagoons formed by the
surplus water from artesian bores in Western
Queensland ? Some specimens, recently taken at
Charleville, are quite distinct from any known
species in the inland rivers of the northern State.
A Melbourne expert has identified the fish as
therapon truttaceus, a kind of perch, commonly
found in the streams of the Lake Eyre basin. But
Charleville is nearly 500 miles away. Besides the
fish problem, it is puzzling to know whence come
the seeds to produce the strong, rush-like growths
along the fringe of these watercourses These
growths are abundant at almost every place where
artesian water is to be found, and are so utterly
different from the surrounding vegetation as to
suggest artificial planting. Possibly, if we could
find out the nearest country in which exactly
similar reeds grow, we might locate the other end
of the great hole in the earth that the water comes
from.
ONCE KICKED, TWICE SLY.
RIPPER WEEKS: “ Blime, Humble, what light
boots you alwiz wear.”
HUMBLE THE TOUGH: “ Yus; that comes of
leavin’ the missus t’ buy ’em.”
“F.H.R.” : Saw Wayback and party in
an open boat last Sunday. Kate was squeezed
up in the bow, with her rich, ruddy hair streaming
in a ten-knot breeze. Dad himself sat in the
stern-sheets, and jerked the tiller about like a
young heifer. Uncle was pulling stroke, with a
very cunning stroke indeed. He dipped very
gingerly into the briny, and finished with a
bucket of spray, which Mum adroitly fielded with
her gamp. Dad took the spray like a hero. One
of the boys (about 48) who pulled, put me in mind
of a man trying to cut wood with an axe in each
hand. He dipped deep down into the “big
dam,” and he hadn’t time to get a pull on before
he was struggling to get the sculls out again. The
“ boy ” reckoned if the thing wouldn’t slip away
from under him, he’d shift somethin g.
* * * *
“The Prooshan ” : Throughout N.S.W.
bullockies name their tugs pretty much alike.
Star, Chummy, Brandy, White, Yal-
ler, Cocky, Knob (pronounced Naub
with much drawl), Broad (a wide-
horned beast), Smoker, Jimmy, and
Spot, are to be met with everywhere.
Then there are others named after
notabilities past and present, such as
Kelly, Starlight, Butler, Morgan,
Deemin’, Norton and Crick. In boggy
countries there are the Puddlers and
Swampies.
* * *
“ Gip ” : Saw an amusing event
the other day. Rory, whose parentage
is obscure, but who is admittedly the
best rabbiter and the largest dog on
the station, was going helter-skelter
across the plain after a fleeing rabbit.
Bunny had been indulging in over-
much green stuff, or something ; any-
how, she got blown. But instead of
crouching down, as any well-con-
ducted rabbit would do, so that Rory
could pounce on her conveniently, she
faced round and stood on her hind-
legs. Rory stopped short, and for a
fraction of a second regarded the
rabbit in unmitigated surprise ; then,
with ears down and tail between his
legs, he fled frantically for us—and
safety. “Go back, yer cow ! Yer
lump o’ tripe, go back ! ” shouted six
excited men. But Rory never stopped
till he fell panting at our feet in a sky-blue funk
♦ • * •
“ A. Borig ” : Walking along a creek a few
days ago I saw a platypus feeding among the
grass about ten yards from the water. He can-
tered in quick and lively when he saw, or heard
me, dived, rose and eyed me suspiciously, and
then disappeared for good. The platypus is
numerous this year in this locality, probably on
account of the absence of floods in the creeks.
Have noticed that, after dry seasons, they become
numerous, obviously from the fact that the young
have a chance to grow in the nest, which is above
low, or moderately low, water-mark. A flood
washes them out and drowns them when very
young. I have seen a dozen little fellows about
six inches long, when a fresh was in the creek,
swimming vigorously against the stream.
“ F.H.R.” : Outlie dairy where I slaved
eight days a week when a lad, there was a young
bull that would have taken complete possession
of the place had it not been for “Smoker.”
Smoker was the hardest biting dog I have ever
climbed a tree from. Being a ginger dog he
naturally put a lot of bite into his attack. He
would catch a beast by the heel and then sit back.
The wrench must have been very severe on him,
but seemed to affect the beast considerably also,
generally leaving an incision an inch long by half-
an-inch deep. None of the other dogs were any
good to Billy the bull, and he was a danger to
anyone on foot or horse. We were feeding the
cows one day when Billy was courting. Dad took
an armful of green stuff from the slide, and
Billy made for a stalk. I think his intentions
were honorable, but Dad had his own opinion,
and made for the fence as fast as his legs (which
were very bandy from following crooked furrows
and riding draught horses) would take him.
Before he reached the sliprails old Smoker had
darted out and had started Billy on the first heat
of the Austral. Dad didn’t notice this, nor did
he notice the hundredweight of stuff he carried
until he tried to push it through the fence. Then
he sacked me for laughing at him.
■* * * •
The bitterness of “Joe Billycan” :
Re “ Paul Oupid ” (B. S/11/’OfJ) and his patent method
of tying up horses by the tail. We had the father-in-law
of all bridle-breakers at our place, and had tried every-
thing to cure him. We even went as far as tying him up
all day with pole-strap and trace-chain, but he never
moved. Next day I hung him up by the bridle, and he
vamoosed in less than 10 seconds, leaving the reins on the
fence. As soon as I saw “ Paul’s ” article I said to meself
“ What-ho 1 ” and went in search of my brother, William
Billycan. I read it to him, and we agreed that Lord
Brumby’s time for a lesson had arrived, and, as the old
man and the missus had gone to town, we reckoned on
being undisturbed. Bill opined that it would be just as
well to put the saddle on and let him think he was going
for a trip. This we did —put on Bill’s new five-quid
saddle. We followed “ Paul’s ’’ instructions and put the
line round the tail, and all the rest of it, and hung him
up to the fence. Then we retired to smoke and watch
results. We didn’t have to wait long. The horse had a
look round, and didn’t seem to think much of “ Paul’s”
patent. He just bunched up and came into the “britchen ”
like the game ’un he is—but he overdid it. The strain on
his tail told. He gave a roar that could be heard a mile
away, and jumped straight ahead. He got half way over
the fence, when he was pulled sideways, and came down
on his neck, likewise on Bill’s saddle, with his off hind leg
between the first and second wires. We managed to cut
him loose eventually, and chop out the top rail. Then he got
on his feet and lit out for the river, as if all the devils were
behind him. I went after him, leaving Bill giving selec-
tions from cuss operas. It took about an hour to catch
Lord Brumby, and I waited another hour to give Bill
time to cool off—his saddle was a wreck. Was
just going home, when Bill came, carrying what was
left of his saddle. He said he’d teach me to be damn
funny with his good property, and waded in. We’ll
draw the curtain here ; Bill is two stone heavier than I
am, and learns fighting. When I got home—crawled
there —the old man went off the handle for lialf-an-hour
about me destroving the plough-reins, and damaging the
fence. That settled it. Late that night I got a spreader
from the barn, went down to the flat, caught Lord
Brumby, and just laid him out. Next night I was in
Sydney. Have still got the spreader and am looking for
“ Paul Oupid,” who, I suppose, is one of those Circular
Quay bushmen. When I square things up with that
gentleman I’m going to learn Ju-jit-su (?) and go back
and give my brother William Billycan the loveliest hiding
he ever got. Then I’m going to stand for the Senate.
* * * *
“Werrimee”: A blackfellow was one
day pulling up, after wheeling his cattle on to
camp, when the bit parted in the horse’s mouth.
Finding itself free, the animal bucked furiously
for a while, then bolted through the bush. The
darky, while dodging limbs and trees, drew the
throat lash, and buckling it round the horse’s
neck, hung on until he had choked the animal to
a standstill, which didn’t take very long.
* * * *
“ Silas ” : Here is an interesting subject for
investigation by Abo. experts. Bullock drivers
hold steadfastly to the belief that an ordinary
bullock, working side by side with a bull, will
inevitably sicken and die. For this reason a
bullocky who happens to have a bull in his team
works the animal in the pole, but changes its
mate regularly. Lime-carters on the Barrier a
few years back often worked bulls, and every man
of them was satisfied that a bullock was doomed
if kept in yoke with a bull. Their opinion was
that the breath of the bull carried physical con-
tamination to the bullock, but the unSffentific
mind always has some such simple solution to its
problems. Having myself no theory to offer, I
throw the idea amongst The Bulletin pack of
bush specialists, and leave th sm to worry it out.
•»* * ’
“ Falder ” : Was “ had ” the same way as
“Hassan” (B. 6/12/’O6) with a bronze-wing
pigeon shamming a broken wing to save her
brood. We came on the pair suddenly; the
young one ran one way, with my mate after it.
As the mother apparently couldn’t fly, I made
after her. She fluttered towards the creek bank,
always just out of reach, though apparently in
great distress. When she got to the creek bank
(about 50 yards) she suddenly lifted the trailing
wing and flew into the scrub. My mate got the
young one; it is coming on nicely on wattle-seed.
* * * *
“ Barcoo ” : On a recent visit to Yeppoon
(C.Q.), mate and myself were walking along the
beach with rifles, on the alert for a shot at a
shovel-nose shark (a big, harmless variety). We
approached an Irishman having a dip. “Lend
me your gun,” he said. “I will show you how to
empty the lead into a shovel-nose.” My mate
handed him his rifle. He proceeded out into the
water, and had scarcely got waist-deep, when
Nosey made his appearance. Pat let drive, and
must have tickled the fish, for it charged its
would-be assassin between the legs. You mightn’t
believe me, but he lifted that huge lump of
humanity about thirty feet in the air. I myself
counted 15 clear somersaults. “ Holy father,” he
exclaimed, “ I’m devoured.” The fish made good
his escape.
IN THE KAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Up the hill, thro’ dripping timbers, winds the way.
’Neath the tossing boughs that, creaking, swing and sway,
In the rain’s long slanting fall,
While o’er ridge and road and all
Lies a sombre, sodden pall,
Leaden-gray.
With a muffled swish the trees croon their glee,
And the grasses stoop and drink thirstily,
At the waters running fleet
Past their aching, dusty feet,
In a boundless, shoreless sheet
Like a sea.
Down the muddy, hoof-scarred road, leaping high,
Serried hosts of waters madly flee ;
And the lashing, blinding rain
Drums a dirge-like dull refrain,
In the culvert ’cross the lane,
Eerily.
QUEENSLAND.
CHAS E. HOWELL.


Try
h
I
i
r
'A dinner I?€en
+o M'W.HliVitfe
to Cdebate Vlj entry
into Fed j»<alif"ics .
£/id«*t|y fife idea, i<j
Tie up
P UBl (for<ct
Hu £*%»***’ T „
T . CW? .** 1
Kills rlill * f4Jcr
des-Trc-zed *tQ I -
f\rK (Mel b) Contes +*
kr r. c ° w ''ftfe
Children sre ferrenzad
f< n unfed Qurroj- ir.*'
(Counci llor tytenj
young Kirrgffere !
•feKe if In, ffof doinp <S
Trjucij Wt’lff if* J 4
Tire i h
N 7oiv7 TTcteller.
p-. — j
rj *re >v
ggftSSK
Brighton \
TV3n»W&y \
) *
ggljf Good Biz;
Tsc oberafive (Vicj
A eighf
TjOMry-UigVf" -jVobi
A** r l*e>cf " ,
( /,c ,
®lyTdjArttfTeMjew
grocers licenses A* A
s|>€tiaj f»7«'7i\C« "bo
iife .of-^e
■ (aso
1
on V W WV\*&
Abbotsford in
‘cW ' ,
° (Ase)
He*. -■‘Wot' devil*,'
$€ mzfter wilt} $e
S^: — Oh
foe\ sir iKi 7 o -for
je.»oV" how*
life C*>se •f.'pH'TT
Gro'ssh Llctuslj !
CORIG
SCORES
Crouch 10,04
L.»c«t Coi -f >2^
M
CApT.
%» Ci{
R Pt4p P"
£r.
Arf“
Jud4y ’ Ere isn't" it*
___ "Hi «t7« you "tooK On *tfte Ministry *>,.
1 Oo Vt" "tnG •*'
v O
Kp! BE/\r
His SlocKi^..
PARSONS, POLITICIANS, AND OTHER HUMORS.


NEW YEAR GREETING.
AUSTRALIA: “Yes old boy, I HAVE done pretty well, haven't I? Just keep your friend up in the clouds going with the
sprinkler, and I’ll surprise you in 1907.”


Have a Care
for Your Eyes.
The Great Poet Milton asks:
Why was this sight
To such a tender ball of the eye confined
Therefore when afflicted with Sandy
Blight, Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids, &c.,
don’t experiment, but use the Australian
.National Remedy,
M'S mum EVE LOTION,
This Preparation has been the salva-
tion of thousands. Rose’s Celebrated
Eye Lotion is sold by all Chemists and
Storekeepers throughout Australasia.
If not obtainable locally a postal note
for 1/9 to the Proprietors, will bring you
a bottle by return post.
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers :
H. A. ROSE & CO.,
Chemists and Druggists,
531 George Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
One Queensland Senate nomination paper
read—“ Andrew Dawson, Amalgamator.” Amal-
gamator ! The irony of it!
James Steel, who died at Walcha (N.S.W.),
lately, at the reputed age of 99, was camped at
’Frisco (U.S.A.) when it had but four houses.
Dubbo (N.S.W.) is blessed with three
excellent parsons, Campion, Lea and Matthews,
and they’re all imported Englishmen, all by birth
authorised by “society” to put on “side,” and all
good Radicals.
The pertinacity of the pensioner. Mr.
John S. Adam, who died at Turramurra (N.S.W.)
lately, used to be chief draughtsman in the Survey
Office. Then for over thirty years he drew a
retiring pension of £228 11s. sd. per annum.
G. H. Reid and H. E. Cohen are the sole
survivors of the Stuart Administration of 1883.
The Cabinet Was numerically StrOhg, Cbhsigtihg Of
ll and physically strong; comprisihg
itieh like Copeland, J. P. Abbott and Dibbs.
“Back to my farm,” says Thomas Play-
ford, after close on forty years in political service.
He entered S.A. Parliament in 1868, and has
held almost all offices worth holding. Tom’s
father, an old Life Guardsman, preached in Ade-
laide in 1844.
Nawman Bayles, the Toorak sassiety-boy
who now sits in the Vic. Legislative Assembly,
the other day made protest against legislating on
big subjects “at the end of the season. 1 ' Nawman
Bayles must think that Parliament is a tennis
tournament or a dancing party.
Baker, the retiring President of the
Senate, was the first native-born to sit in S.A.
Leg. Council, and to become member of a S.A.
Government. In 1870, he and his father put up
an odd record by carrying in the two Houses, on
the same day, votes of want-of-confidence in the
Government of the ttiothehfc.
N.S. Wales Chief Justice has completed
§0 years’ service, and in October next Mr. Owen
will have done the same. Rumor has lately given
Pilcher—4o years at the Bar—the Chief Justice-
ship and made_Wade Mr. Owen’s successor, rank-
ing after Justice Pring. But Rumor has also
given a seat to Mr. Gordon, the Bankruptcy bar-
rister. Justice Gregory Walker has now been
some months absent on sick leave-.
MELBA, HER LATEST PORTRAIT.
In the autumn of 1905 an invitation was
sent by the Lyceum Club, London, to colonial
women writers to submit specimens of their work.
MSS. poured in from Australia, S’Africa. India,
Maoriland and the Pacific Islands. Eleven
MSS. were chosen as “ excellent ” and out of those,
seven were the work of M. Forrest, of Brisbane,
so well-known to Bulletin readers.
Kyneton (Vic.) possesses a church digni-
tary, Canon Bishop. If he continues to ascend
the ecclesiastical ladder, Bishop Bishop will
surely be unique.
“ H.” writes about a hefty Briton :
Almost completely forgotten is the splash which first
brought British Minister Winston Churchill into notoriety.
At the age of 21, Churchill returned from Cuba, where he
b*dbeen fighting with the Spaniards against the insurrec-
tioriists. The night he landed he went, like even' good
Englishman, to the Empite Mrisic Ball, only to find that
during his absence there had been an outbreak of Judkins-
lsm, and the promenade where all the loveliest arid,liveli-
est damsels in London held rendezvous haa beeri barfed
up under orders from Mrs. Ormiston Chant. Churchill;
described as a small red-headed boy, pushed his way to
the balustrade of the dress circle, and harangued the
audience in protest. “Where,” he asked, “does the
Englishman in London always find a welcome? Where
does he first go when, battle-scarred and travel-worn, he
reaches home?. Who is there to greet him with a smile
and join him in a drink? Who is ever faithful, ever
true? The Ladies of the Empire Promenade.” The
crowd cheered Churchill, became excited by his en-
thusiasm, and finally, at his request, followed him in a
charge on the barricades, which were torn down. It was
an historic incident, meet to rank with the fancy dry-
land diving act of Marcus Curtius, or the final combat in
the Coliseum. All the same, had Churchill’s name been
plain Smith, he would probably have been bumped down
the stairs by a policeman, and finecblOs. at Bow-street
next morning.
“ Melb.” : When Archbishop Clarke came
to Melbourne there was a division in the Church
Council about Bishopscourt. The sensible party
Said : “What does an Englishman care about our
Aristfaliflii traditions ? Let us sell this horrid
old place, aiid get a btand-new one.” The iden-
tities were shocked, and carried the resolution to
tinker up Bishopscourt. It was indeed a ram-
shackle, antiquated Milestone dofijbn, in the Midst
of a tiny forest, ns wild as Croajirigolbng. The
grand object of affection with the identities was,
and is, the old red-gum tree, absolutely the
ugliest nightmare of a tree in Australia. Arch-
bishop Clarke and his wife had to pretend. I
should imagine, to fall in love with this mon-
strosity. The tree has a remarkable limb near
the ground. It ducks down from the trunk in a
slant 15ft., and then rises likea switchback to a total
length of 30ft. Thousands of pounds were spent
in doctoring up Bishopscourt, and perpetual
attention has given the bit of bush a suitable
English appearance, but Coe’s tumbledown old
coach-house remains the same because his present
Grace obstinately refuses to maintain an equipage.
Wherefore the growlers want to know what lie
gets £4O a Week for. Just as if money isn’t to be
saved as well as souls,
William Moofe* in “Studio Sketches,”
jlist out, has more about William Stanford than
has hitherto appeared. He sculpted that queer
bluestone fountain in Spring-street. Appren-
ticed to a Loridon stonemason, he fan away to
sea. Arrived in Melbouriie 1852, and proceeded
td Bendigo. Great lover of horses. Eor a street
disturbance he got imprisonment.
His next sentence was
ten years for horse-steal-
ing. Put in his time at
Pentridge Stockade, then
known as “the Crystal
Palace.” Stanford, a
beardless youth, was
manacled with heavy
leg-ii-ons through being
troublesome. Made fre-
quent attempts to escape.
Shot down when scaling
the wails. Danced in
fetters before the Super-
who there-
upon ordered heavier
irons. Danced, again.
Then a 201 b. weight was
attached to' each foot.
He raised one and
wagged it. “MyG !”
exclaimed the Super.,
“you’re a wonder,” and
ordered the irons off.
After serving six years
Stanford got a ticket-of-
leave. Worked as a
mason for Cornish and
Bruce, at Malmsburv
Viaduct. At a strike
time Stanford took the
road to Bendigo, with-
out reporting himself to
the Kyneton police. In
1860 he was convicted
at Bendigo for highway
robbery and horse-steal-
ing. His sentences then
amounted to 22 years.
The chaplain noticed that
Stanford was fond of
drawing statuary, copied
from penny magazine
volumes. He carved a
beautiful figure from a
meat-bone. The chaplain
brought this under the
notice of Governor
Champ. The eminent
sculptor, Charles Sum-
mers, was then allowed to give Stanford some
lessons. He obtained leave to carve his
fountain. One of the gaol warders allowed his
son to pose for the figure which appears under
the jet. The eagles around were taken from a
stuffed eagle-hawk. He was “discharged to free-
dom by remission ” when he had six years to
serve. A kind friend established him in business
as a monumental sculptor on Dandenong Road,
Windsor, Melbourne. He prospered, married,
lived 10 years in freedom.
A. C. Macdonald retires from the hon.
secretariat of the Victorian Geographical Society.
He mentioned, in his farewell speech, that he
was personally acquainted with such pioneer ex-
plorers as Hamilton Hume, Capt. Sturt, Major
Mitchell, Gregory, Giles, Landsborough, etc.
He founded both the Melbourne and Adelaide
branches of the Geographical Society. The
Adelaide Society has bought, for £2OOO, the York
Gate Library, the most complete collection of
publications relative to Early Australia. Sixty
years ago Macdonald made the first of three
overland trips from N.S.W. to Port Phillip with
stock. He had to swim the principal rivers and
creeks in 1847, when they were in high flood, and
he narrowly escaped drowning on two occasions.
Away back in 1888, John Eyers, of
Bathurst, publican and mortgagee, died and left
£25,779, the income from which his widow was to
enjoy for life, or until she married again, when
the income was to go to her daughter by a former
marriage and her children; The daughter' and
her children and the widow are all dead, so Equity
is trying to settle the ownership, and Costs seems
to be the claimant with the most insinuating ways.
When the proper dose of Chamberlain’s
Tablets is taken, their action is so natural that one
can hardly realise it is the effect of a medicine.
Sold everywhere at Is. 6d.*
A GOOD PROSPECT.
Dying Man (just converted): “ I'm all right note, Mr. Snoozleum , I’m all right. I've 'ad a
'ard time of it on this earth, hut I realise I'm gain' straight to ’Earer [?] won’t I
jest 'are a h-of a time when I get there."
The British Weekly, the most repre-
sentative religious paper in the world, gives our
Rev. Blood-and-thunderer Fitchett some rough
gruel in a review of “ Ithuriel’s Spear ” :
His books have no fine and delicate touches, no indis-
soluble marriages between word and word. But in a
certain coarse and garish effectiveness, there are few to
surpass him, and his descriptions make excellent copy for
the daily newspapers. ... The fascination of war is strong
upon him. The Christian hero of the present book per-
fects his sanctification by going out to South Africa and
shooting a number of Boers in war. This attitude to-
wards war is strange in a Christian minister, and to many
it must be repellent. ... A very careful reading has forced
upon us the reluctant conviction that Dr. Fitchett’s novel
is a bad and pernicious book.
Grounds for this are the rev. gentleman’s reckless
libels and his slanders. One passage is “an out-
rage and a scandal.” A weighty review con-
cludes :
It is necessary that the strongest protest should be
raised from the Christian camp against Dr. Fitchett’s
methods. We believe with all our heart that Christianity
is the one religion that has fairly measured itself with sin
and sorrow and death, and in that there is a great argu-
ment which will make way in the end. But Dr. Fitchett’s
weapons recoil upon himself, and, what is worse, on the
cause he pleads.
William Charles Wentworth, son of Fitz- j
william Wentworth, and grandson of the original !
W. C. Wentworth, married the other day. But
Vaucluse, as a Wentworth residence, will soon be
a thing of the past. The ambition of the first '
Wentworth was to fix the family home for all
time, and he strove for a hereditary title of earl or
baron to hang on the door-knob of his new man-
sion. Wentworth toiled hard after that fan- j
tasy. He whipped up every influence that;
seemed likely to back him, and he and i
Deas-Thompson and Charles Cowper and j
George Macleay held feverish meetings, and !
implored the people to hustle for titles for them, j
Blit pdblic derision was the only answer, and a .
few paltry knighthoods were all that came the
way of the agitators. For a time Wentworth |
threatened to quit Australia unless the people j
hustled for his earldom; but he and his family;
thought of th’e unearned increment, and decided j
to do nothing r&sh. They hung on, though with j
no great tenacity'. as far as personal residence was
concerned, to the old homestead at Watson’s Bay. j
Now the highb&i bidder may take it—roof-tree !
and all.
Joseph Ward, Maoriland’s moderately j
new Premier, has had his life threatened twice, >
and each time he has secured the culprit’s release. [
A few years back a frozen-meat expert said he’d I
make cold meat of Ward with a gun. The cold- j
cow expert, who during his spare moments was a [
mental healer, was sentenced to much imprison- I
ment, but, at Ward's request, he was-released. I
He thereupon settled down as a respectable j
citizen, with nothing else against him than that |
he has become a town councillor. An Auckland [
sharebroker, the latest threatener, alleged that I
Ward had violated the Treaty of Waitangi, or the j
Forty-nine Articles, or something, and therefore I
ought to die. Joseph pleaded that the share- j
broker should not be sent to gaol; the Judge \
agreed, but he is not to go outside a 20-mile 1
radius of Auckland. Both men are supposed to
have Maori blood in their veins i though why that |
should make them want to spill Joseph’s blood
is not clear.
Judkins, the man of cant, has announced
that he is willing to be a martyr and go to the
Victorian State Parliament. As a sequel to the
ti-tree wreath with which he was crowned at
Brighton, his following gave him a benefit concert
to provide funds for a holiday. Juddy, in reply
to the usual grease, announced that heroic resolu-
tion.
They mention, as successor to Archdeacon
(now Bishop) Langley at St. Philip’s, Sydney,
Rev. John Dixon, of Balmain, who, once upon a
time, worked as a coal miner. The Archdeacon,
before he joined the church, was one of the Bank
of Australasia’s managers. There is probably
only one case of an Australian bank’s general
manager taking the cloth; that was J. G.
Pitcher, of Adelaide. ‘ '
A certain effect of bad drinking-water is
bowel trouble— Wolfe’s Schnapps' will‘keep the'
bowels in perfect order. Caution.— There is no
genuine aromatic Scnnapps but * Vfolfk s.
Call it by its full name.*
“ M. A. P. ” (London) states the latest
fashion set by the King is the *pe wearing of
the wedding-ring.” Ah, yes ! biflSook at the age
of his Majesty. He can afford thus discreet
now.
The nerve of the Austral Honan, a
boundary-rider outside Cockbu* ,i.A.), thrown
from a bolting mule against a wi re fence, broke
his thigh, but fixed up a forked-stick, and walked
a mile —somehow —from the lonely scene of the
accident for help.
A N.S.W. backblocks J.P., being told of
the contemptuous references frequently made
to his illiteracy, jerked a thumb backwards over
his shoulder in the direction of his store and
said, “I’ve a Cambridge Master of Arts in there
keepin’ books for me at twenty-five bob a week.
Is him or me the best man for the Binch o’ the
country ? Earnin’ is good, maybe, but knowin’
things an’ doin’ thim is better, an’ that’s why I’m
the man for the Binch, an’ not the chap inside.”
MELBA'S SON , GEORGE ARMSTRONG,
MARRIED THIS MONTH.
In two ways the country may have done a
very good thing for itself by sending ex-Defence
Minister Playford back to his farm. The farm is
chiefly a market garden, and it yields as good
cherries as were ever blamed for giving Australia
appendicitis. When the old gardener was S.
Australian Agent-General in London he knew
Covent Garden far better than he did St. James’.
He used to send out valuable information to the
Government about fruit and vegetable-growing;
mostly it went into pigeon-holes, but even then it
stayed in the old gardener’s brain, and when he
came out from England (still without a Court
suit) he put it all into practice. Among other
things he has been experimenting on tjie artificial
fertilising of the potato patch. If Australia were
wanting a Minister for Potatoes, T. Playford
would be worth the money. As it is, he will
make a valuable Minister for Potatoes without
salary.


POST CARD ALBUMS
lfc*% ■
'Zk/'
' [ ( . Post Card
Albun?
No. 303—T0 hold 150 Cards, Qd.
At ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
ALL THESE POST CARD ALBUMS are SEWN with THREAD. NO DUTCH
METAL is used in the decoration of any of the books. ALL ARE FULLY
GUARDED with two guards to every leaf, and will lie flat when filled with cards. Unless
there are TWO GUARDS TO EVERY LEAF—that is, a guard to represent every page of
cards it is obvious that a book cannot lie flat when full They also have clean-cut narrow
slits for the insertion of cards which hold them tightly ; the cards do not slip about and drop
out, as they do with punched out open slots.
- 9d, Is, Is 3d.
. Is, Is 3d, Is 6d, 3s, 3s Gd.
. is 3d, Is 6d, 2s, 2s 3d, 3s, 3s Gd, ss, Gs Gd,
. 2 S Gd, 3s, 4s Gd, ss, Gs Gd, 7s Gd, lGs, 21s.
- 3s Gd, ss, Gs 3d, 7s Gd, IQs, 28s Gd.
TO HOLD 150 CARDS
~ ~ 200 ~
~ e» 300 ~
„ ~ 400 ~
~ ~ 500 ~
UWVAAAAAAA
wM
ST WARD
LB DM
A/vwvvv\nnA/fTF\)
. Cvp
No. 302—T0 hold 200 Cards, Is,
a
ilo. 1888—To hold 300 Cards, 1/6.
A Large
Assortment
of Other
Patterns,
from 6d. to
20s. each.
>*«
■
, d
PCST
• i
CARDS
No- 2002—T0 hold 200 Oards, 38.
A Large
Variety of
Post Cards,
English,
Irish and
Scotch
Scenery, and
many other
subjects,
from 6d. per
doz.
KERRY’S POST CARDS, Hand colored, thousands to cHoose from,
Xmas and New Year's Wishes, Is. per dozen.
ACTRESSES, Enamelled, Black and White, 2d. eacH, Is. lOd. do*, s
Hand-Colored, 3d. eacH * 2s, lOd. per doz.
ROTARY SERIES, 2d. and 3d. eacH t Is. lOd. and 2s. lOd. per doz.
Pest .Caret
/ Album
/
No. 04—To hold 400 Cards, 4/6.
I—-, > -tf» '
ANTHONY HORDERN <& SONS,
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS
PALACE EMPORIUM, SYDNEY.
Legal Notice.
In the Supreme Court of Queensland.
No. 168 of 1906.
Between Alexander Bonar McDonald and Howard
Smith and the Peak Downs Freehold Copper
and Coal Company Limited Plaintiffs, and
Louis Le Gould, John McGregor, and Charles
John Brown York Defendants.
To the above named defendants.
Take notice that this action was on the 19th day
of November 1906 commenced against you and that
the plaintiffs by their amended writ of summons
claim to establish their title to the land described
in Deed of Grant No. 14,282 Volume 6 Folio 45
known as Mineral Selection or portion. No. 12
situated in the County of Clermont containing 80
acres more or less and a declaration that the
plaintiffs The Peak Downs Freehold Copper and
Coal Company Limited a,re entitled to the said
lands for an estate in fee simple in possession and
that the plaintiffs Alexander Bonar McDonald
and Howard Smith were so entitled to the said
lands for such estate until about the month of
June 1906.
And take notice that the Court has by Order
dated the 3rd day of December 1906 authorised
service of the said writ of summons on you by in-
sertion of this notice twice in the Brisbane
Courier The Telegrah The Daily Mail The
Queenslander The Caericornian The Peak
Downs Telegram and The Sydney Bulletin and
by service of a copy of the said writ on the
Attorney-General and the Curator of Intestate
Estates.
And further take notice that you are required
within 30 days after the insertion of the last of the
advertisements ordered by the Court inclusive of
the day of such last insertion to cause an appear-
ance to be entered for you at the Supreme Court
at Brisbane. And that in default of your so doing
the plaintiffs may proceed with this action.
Dated this 7th day of December 1906.
HERBERT C. REEVE
Solicitor 62 and 64 Queen Street Brisbane.
Agent for RISIN and MULLIN
Solicitors for plaintiffs,
Drummond Street, Clermont.
£BOO
——■—w
For NOTHING.
I AM continually paying sums from £1
to £5O (sometimes as much as £800)
for lots of OLD POSTAGE STAHPS
on letters put away years ago and forgotten. Surely you know some old families
who may have some ? Hunt them up at once — they are worth money.
Send for my “ Illustrated List,” containing pictures and prices of the valuable ones.
T. H. NICOLLE, 14 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
MARCONI SAYS
The Improvements suggested by Mr. MARCONFS genius
will be embodied in the CYLINDER and DISC
COLUMBIA Graphophones
«So far as the mechanical
construction of the COLUMBIA
Graphophones is concerned, / do
not see that they can be im-
proved* I think they have a
wonderful future,
and / hope to do my
part in aiding their
development. ”
Which already have first reputation for Pure Musical
tones. A demonstration will prove it. Ask your
dealer. Say-“ COLUMBIA! ”
For Free Catalogues of Graphophones and Lists of Records
write to
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO.. GENT..
Dept. B. 255 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Creators of the Talking ITachine Industry. ....
Owners of the fundamental patents
Largest Talking Machine Manufacturers in the world.
“Gilrooney” : The members of the black-
leg Machine Shearers’ Union are, this season, re-
sponsible for a big lot of the shearing troubles
Out Back, and the promoters of the Pastoraliats’
Union No. 2 are vaguely wondering what
the lurid Hades has gone wrong with the works.
The fact of the matter is that a very large number
of the M.S.U. members are A.W.U. at heart,
and merely purchase a “ scab ” ticket as a matter
of form and convenience, and as a passport into
the camp of the enemy. And those patient, per-
sistent attacks from within are going to demolish
the M.S.U. citadel with greater rapidity and with
more completeness than all the open, vigorous
campaigning on earth. The whole denouement
is a triumph of patience and tact, and the men
who planned this guerilla species of industrial
warfare deserve to be bracketed with Joubert,
Cronje, De Wet, and co.
The Atlantic City (U.S.A.) railway disaster
is another seasonable advertisement of the merits
of private enterprise railway systems—from which
Australia is always urged to import its managers.
In all 70 passengers were killed by a tram
plunging over a bridge into a river :
It was not an inevitable mechanical failure which
caused the train to plunge from the drawbridge,
but criminal neglect and recklessness, which ren-
dered such a result at some time inevitable.
The interlocking mechanism connecting the rails
on the swing bridge with the rails on the trestle was
faulty and had always been faulty. The railroad people
knew it was faulty to the extent that every train crossed
with risk, yet they permitted it to be used. Moreover,
the trestle bridge, of which a swing bridge formed the
centre, was itself a flimsy, shaking, tottering structure,
which swayed under the strain of the crowds to-day when
efforts were made to raise the submerged cars. It is also
asserted that the air-brakes on the rear car had failed to
act during the run from Philadelphia.
Parsimony of that sort, of course, spells dividends
for a time. But is that what Australia wants ?
“ Hooks ” : Agenting in the far-back
recently, I called at a State school to ask my way.
The teacher, six months out from Sydney, m-
formed me that I was the first stranger that he
had encountered in all that time. The poor devil
was trying to pump a little English into his
third class—three big, awkward girls. During
the lesson the word “Almighty” occurred,
and the teacher did his best to explain its meaning
by using it in various sentences, composed by
himself and written on the blackboard. He then
left the class, giving it instructions to compose a
sentence using the word “ Almighty ” in the same
sense. On his return the eldest, a girl of 15,
handed him her slate, upon which was written m
a great sprawling hand : “ Almighty God ! if you
let that horse go, i will harf-kill you ! ” The look
of despair on the poor pedagogue’s face as he
passed the slate to me fully explained the position,
and, as I shook hands with him, I vowed that
should ever I be the dad of a boy I would make
anything but a way-back teacher of him.


&J
0
&
Beauty was at one time to the great majority of
women, as a thing beyond—a possession for which Nature
was alone responsible. That's all changed now. With
the advances made in Beauty Culture it is possible for
every woman to have what at least is Beauty’s greatest
attribute—a fresh, radiant complexion. Mile. Helena
Rubinstein, the Russian Skin and Complexion Specialist,
has in every sense altered the face of Australia. Her
Valaze Massage Institutes, at 158 Pitt-street, Sydney, and
271 Collins-street, Melbourne, are equipped with every
device for the attainment of feminine beauty. The jaded
society woman, tired out with the incessant round of
entertainment, may, by the treatment of face massage at
these Institutes, be made as fresh as a rose again. All
the weary nerves and muscles of the face are soothed and
strengthened, the circulation of the blood increased and
all the pores spurred into their natural activity. Sittings
from 4s. 6d. Then the removal of serious beauty
blemishes is also undertaken at the Valaze Institute.
Birth marks, moles, disfiguring growths, red noses, and
all the other list of hideous beauty ailments are removed
on the lines followed by the great continental specialists.
Of Valaze, that dainty Russian Skin Food, no word of
praise is needed. It is the boudoir belief of thousands of
Australian women. Other toilet specialties handled by
Mile. Rubinstein are Rusmo Hair Killer, for the self
removal of superfluous hairs; Valaze Herbal Soap for the
complexion ; Valaze Blackhead and Open Pore Cure ;
Valaze Skin Lotion. These articles are sold by chemists
everywhere, or direct from Mile. H. Rubinstein & Co.,
274 Collins-street, Melbourne, and 158 Pitt-street, Sydney
Dymock’s Circulating Library.
The question of a suitable Christmas present now
engages our mind. What more lasting pleasure and
what gift more appreciated chan a year’s reading of the
latest and best literature ? We can supply it; our books
are all clean ; they are covered in a neat green cloth;
every writer and _ author of note are represented by
their new works in quantities sufficient to enable every
subscriber to get the book they ask for. Our terms
are reasonable, for £2 2s. per annum or 255. for six
months a resident in the city or suburbs may change two
volumes and two magazines as often as they wish; for
21s. per annum or 12s. 6d. for six months one book and
one magazine are allowed. To residents in the country
we send a parcel of eight volumes at a time for £2 12s. 6d.
per annum or £1 11s. 6d. for six months. Write or call
for our catalogues. Dymock’s Book Arcade and Circu-
lating Library, 428 George-street, Sydney.*
Don’t Be The Exception. —Rather be as others.
If you are fond of eating—eat. You can eat with perfect
safety, no matter how you have been troubled with
indigestion, if you use Senior’s Digestive Dinner Tablets.
They assist digestion and quickly enable the stomach to
digest the food unaided. Is. and 2s. 6d., and Is. 2d. and
2s. 9d., post free from Senior’s Pharmacy, 246 George-
street, Sydney.*
Goutez et Comparez
BUCHANAN’S
“BLACK
AND
WHITE”
WHISKY
3
w
‘eRA^ 7 E:METTE;S ,
lisl\ Are Fabrics
RAINCOATS.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, December 25, 1906.
My Dear Arini.—
Sydney is having its yearly yawn at the domes-
tic servant problem. And the letters of the mis-
tress and the maid (written by gentlemen of the
press) rage furiously together in Herald and
Telegraph. There have been meetings of ladies
to discuss ways and means of importing Mary
Ann wholesale. You can’t beat into the wooden
heads of these ladies the fact that the serving
damsel—that is the trained , competent woman—
is as rare a bird in England as she is here. In
proportion to our population, of course. Train
those we have already and raise the status of the
domestic servant, as that of the nurse has been
improved, and voila the solution of the pro-
position.
Meantime, this cry of desperation from an
American paper:—
TT OUSE WORK.—Is therein Chicago a neat, com-
petent girl, that understands and is willing to
do general housework for a family of three adults, in
quiet suburb in summer, in modern apartment in
winter? Such a girl can secure a pleasant and per-
manent position and name her own salary. ’Phone
week days North 450, or address A 533. Tribune.
Among the experiences of District Court
Judge Docker, of N.S. Wales, the most un-
usual was that of sentencing a woman to
imprisonment for nine months in a private
house. The people of the house entered into
a bond to carefully lock her up every night.
That peculiar incident occurred at Norfolk
Island, when he opened the first criminal court
under the new regulations in the days of George
Dibbs. The Judge first sentenced the woman to
gaol, but, although there was an old convict
prison on the island, there was no gaoler, and the
question arose as to whether a gaoler should be
appointed and paid for nine months or the girl be
let off. The compromise was the curious arrange-
ment with a private family.
What would the bush do without its gover-
ness? After teaching half-a-dozen bushlets
for five days that they mustn’t say “raound
abaout the skule,” she is expected to “fly
round and blow her dicky ” on Saturdays,
and take a hand with the scrubbing and house
drudgery. She is also expected to wash and iron
when Missus has the “ ’fluenzer,”. or Emily’s
“away fr’oliday.” When the Christmas holi-
days arrive, and the magnificent accumulation of
salary won’t carry her to her city home, she gets
“afortnit.” After six months’ residence with
the family, Miss Graftalot is expected to “ take a
fancy” to Johnnie, the eldest son, and let him
escort her to the darnce at Mint Crick. On find-
ing the governess item missing once at Black Dog
Ridge, I made inquiries. “ Ho, well,” said the
lady of the Ridge, “ them gals from Sydney ain’t
strong enuf fer the bush. They’re on’y good fer
teachin’. Father sent and got a governor this
time. Y’see, he kin do the killin’ and help with
the lamb-markin’. A gal’s no good fer them
things. A governor’s the best.”
In Sydney Supreme Court one woman recently
sued another, a hairdresser, for £lOOO damages for
loss of part of her hair. About £1 per hair! Sued
lady, it was asserted, poured something baldify-
mg on suing lady’s head. Mixture turned, out to
be simple aromatic vinegar, and a skin specialist
said something about skin troubles as a cause
of the _ bald spots. Talking of hair. The
cedar tint is growing in favor. It is said
to be acquired by a henna treatment. Until
the hair is well brilliantined and brushed
it looks like oakum. A returned Australienne,
who knows and saw a great deal of a well-known
novelist, says that the portly writer has had her
hair every shade except pink and grey. The last
is what it ought to be. One season it was olive-
green. Now it is black, and the gifted authoress
talks of floating a hair restorer on the market—
same as Sims.
Arthur Streeton, the painter, returned to
Sydney from London last Saturday. He is wider
and bearded, but otherwise little untouched by
time. Souter, Leist, Collingridge and other
artists went to the station to say the welcoming
word. Streeton almost immediately went on to
see his people. A dinner will be given to him at
Paris House on Thursday.
From a letter of one of three nice, qolly, hard-
working, Victorian sisters:—“We have taken
two rooms (for the Xmas holidays) in a house in
the Valley with—don’t laugh—a widower, with
one boy of 10. I mean we have taken furnished
¥ s house ‘ We are S° in g to take some
old duds, books, cushions and rugs, and spend a
week in lazy idleness, far from trams and dust
and noise and unwelcome visitors. I propose
lying out on the grass most of the time with my
hair loose. That’s my idea of enjoyment on a
sunny day with nothing to do. The widower has
been one for six years, so perhaps he will now
begin to take notice, and as he is an ex-sailor who
knows ? Cora may fetch him with her good cooking
Alice consents to let him alone, as she does not
like cows or milk or cream. I make no promises
about not being seductive until I see what he is
hke. His wife left a good piano behind her, and
he is said to like music, so I’ll take out some of
my httle sad ballads, that are so appropriate to
my build and beauty, and I’ll sing them in the
gloaming, And I might promise you a storyette
for the new magazine, ‘Husband Hunting in a
Victorian Valley. .In past days the valley was
celebrated for the wild pigs that roamed there
The two pastimes might be bracketed.”
Most ticklesome Xmas card I’ve had up to date
shows a female face, the feminine copy of old
King Cole, with a real calico-bonnet, and a shred
of real shawl on her shoulders. The smile
o, n A the face of the lady is jollier than
that on the face of a tiger who had eaten
a whole harem. And the card carries the
printed wish, “ May the corners of your mouth
never turn down.” Wouldn’t the phrase make a
capital toast ? And “ Thou shalt not turn down
the corners of thy mouth” would make a fine
eleventh commandment.
__A correspondent, after commenting on Miss
Maisie Kelly’s and Miss Innes’s girl-bachelor
~93i5 e colo> sends this cut from an American paper:
Women, to the number of sixteen, of whom
nine are school teachers, have organised
themselves into a Five Hundred club, and
intend by unfeigned gaiety during the long
evenings of the winter to demonstrate to man he
~, I . n no w ise indispensable to their happiness.”
Wtis the outcome of a solemn conclave, in
which the women admitted that, through no fault
or failings of their own, but wholly on account of
the scarcity of eligible men, they were doomed to
social celibacy during the coming winter.
Since last letter two more engagements of
widows are announced. The crying need of a
law for the burning of a relict on the death of
her husband cries out louder every day. Mrs.
Cruickshank, widow of the big squatter of that
name, and second daughter of the late Baronet
William Clarke, has harpooned Professor Cars-
law of Sydney Uni. She is a very tall and well-
liked woman, with money and one adopted child,
-the Prof, expounds mathematics, which science,
on the authority of Schopenhauer, isn’t a science
at all and doesn’t require any brains for its
expounding or acquisition. Perhaps S. is correct,
and that’s why the Professor has such a head of
hair ! He is a rather distinguished-looking man
with a huge black moustache, a cockatoo nose
and glasses, and a habit of standing on one leg.
He s very like a pterodactyl. Believe this
antediluvian was a kind of bat the size of a horse;
but, anyway, it was an aristocrat amongst flying
machines, and there’s nothing like it to-day—
except Prof. Oarslaw. The engagement will come
as a shock to the Idas at the University, and
they will now become converts to the doctrine of
I he Incineration of the Widow.
Other relict engagement is that of Mrs. Willis
™ ho was one of the M'Phillamys, of Bathurst, to
Mr. MacFarlane, the nice, clean-shaved Stipen-
diarv Magistrate. Bride-elect is a pretty woman,
and her daughter, Miss Daisy Willis, is one of
Sydney’s belles.
MnW. Birt ,°f the shipping firm of Birt, Potter
ana Hughes, has been on these widely-smiling
shores for the past three weeks, staying with Mr.
Owen Cox, at '‘Avoca.” He greatly resembles
the dear departed (to England) Captain Wilson,
a n d last Saturday he left by the Moeraki to give
the Maorilanders a treat.
Mrs. Fred. McQuade’s huge royal crimson motor
car is the latest petrol startler in Sydney. On
rnday, deep in the afternoon, Pitt-street, opposite
the Civil Service stores, suffered such a bad
attack of congestion of motor-cars and women
that the large, healthy policeman directing traffic
must by nightfall have had nervous prostration
instead of his usual steak and onions. Women,
dressed as if for a race-meeting or a garden-party!
overflowed the street and sidewalks and shop
doorways like a tidal wave of color—only more
noisy. The cause of the Corner in Women was
the simultaneous appearance, not on the same
paving-stone, of course, of Missßawson, shopping,
and Miss Grace Balotta, in a painted pink muslin
and green hat, with Miss Faith full. Fair Grace
is again staying with the Faithfull one at Eliza-
beth Bay.
Mr. Lew. Davies, of Davies and Felion, was
married last week to Miss Sparke. A quiet, no-
fuss ceremony, and the bridal clothes simple
muslin, and a hat with a long white veil.
Ihe long tail veil has within the last fortnight
adopted Sydney. It patronises the city, stream-
ing behind the hat like a glittering mist or the
meteor flag of England. Brown-eyed and red-
haired women have it brown or turquoise; choco-
late complexioned ones like it to match the pillar-
boxes, but the more affluent a woman the longer
her pennant.
Miss Rosette Wilson, one of the Vic. W. R.
Wilsons of racing fame, is in Sydney. A bird of
Paradise type of damsel. She goes a-buying the
Xmas card in a brown costume with emerald-
green hose (and, of course, shoes), and long pink
coral earrings, and Sydney looks at her breath-
lessly for a minute, and then runs round asking
itself her name.
The two naval brides-elect, Miss Dorothy
Mitchell and Miss Marjorie Knox, are going to
Tasmania to be on the Speck when the Pah’f’l
arrives there in April.
Marie Lloyd’s marriage in London to Alec.
Hurley, a music-hall comedian, was more farcical
than sacramental. The two groomsmen wiped
the face and boots of the bridegroom previous to
the ceremony—that was humor, and the wedding
service was punctuated by skits and gags from
the onlookers. When the unblushing bride came
out from the Registrar’s, she was hugged and
kissed and greeted with shouts of “Good old
Mawry.” England isn’t quite full of fogs and
serious people.
Mr. Henry L. Jones (of the Carnegie Steel
Trust), recently in Canton, tells anecdotes of the
Chinamen and their disastrous flood. It rained
rivers for days and the Josses took no heed of
prayers for cessation. Then on a morniqg, by
advice of the Governor, 1000 Chinese assembled
and took the roof off the big Joss temple, and let
the weather slop in on the idol to see how he
liked it. The god endured his drenching for some
hours; then the rain stopped. And his triumphant
worshippers chuckled as they put back the roof.
One loser by the flood brought in his policy to the
office in which he’d insured his property. “We
insure only against fire,” explained the insurance
officer ; “ the flood is an act of God.” Said the
Chinaman, “ Where allee-same fella God’s office?
I go see him.”
An Australienne, writing from London, says
she really doesn’t know where the other Austra-
lians feed—they must have found some cheap
places, for she never sees them at the Savoy or
the Carlton. First time this innocent dined at
one of these places—eight o’clock Sunday even-
ing—she fell into a kind of trance, and her
eyes haven’t properly closed since. They opened
till their openness became a saucer-like glare
at sight of the dazzling jewel-laden women, the
almost tailored-to-death men, the exotic menu
and table arrangements. Ugh ! No trance falls
upon that kind of damsel, and her eyes don’t
glare like infuriated dinner plates when she looks
her first on the Sutherland Falls in Maoriland
or on the glory of the Kanimbla Valley in the
Blue Mountains.
One of the young ’gentlemen who advertise in
Sydney daily papers their desire to correspond
with stylish and accomplished ladies, with the
object, etc., expresses himself full up of the busi-
ness.. A month’s mysterious letter-writing—
fictitious names and addresses being used by
both parties, and nerve-wasting efforts made to
disguise the handwriting— resulted in bringing
him face to face with' the landlady of his own
hash-turret.
One characteristic of the Imperial house of
Austria is that it is a gentleman—always. It takes
a royal interest in everything, and no courtesy is
too small to escape its notice. Also, it again and
yet again throws the throne overboard and marries
the girl. Some time ago an Austrian warship
dropped m on Maoriland, and when the captain
was leaving the Government presented him with
a kiwi, a wood hen or two, and some samples of
kauri and rimu timber. When the warship
Rot _ home Francis Joseph examined the
h lw i at a respectful distance and admired the
woodhen’s admirable method of sucking hen-eggs,
and expressed himself as quite delighted. They
were interesting, and now he has returned the
compliment by presenting the colony with six
does and two male Tyrolese chamois. The Maori-
land Government accepted them with zest, and
they will probably be liberated in the fastnesses
oi the Southern Alps.
Returned wanderers of this week include Mrs.
and Miss Leila Rodd. Latter is a decorative
scheme in girls, and her maternal progenitor is
noted for her Figure.
Just about the same number of listeners went
out to the Sydney Cricket Ground to hear the
LiedertafeTs postponed outdoor concert as would
have gone to the Town Hall had the society
made its music at its old address. Yet
® ni ght was like a Florentine one—hushed, cool
? nc * moonlit. Sydney likes to take its pleasures
in a brazier kind of way and to feel like a steamed
potato as the “Hymn to Night” and Gounod’s
Nazareth ” mingle with the vitiated air of the
iown Hall on a midsummer night. Miss Rosina
-Buckmann, the M.L. soprano, was the favorite
of th« evening.
“ Ho-lci ” complains to me with great earnest-
ness : I would like to see some effort
made to clip the wings of the Fat Woman—that
is, if one can imagine a Fat Woman ever having
wings. The Fat Man is sufficiently bad, but for
greasy self-complacency commend me to the female
type of Fat. Was recently badly splashed with
j^ r< ? ni w heels of a motor-car in which
lolled a heavy lady whose fat ran into three chins,
one did not stop to apologise. Now, I demand,
why should all the wealth concentrated in a
motor-car be at the command of one Fat Woman ;
and what right has a woman to three chins, any-
how ? J
From Brisbane:—
Before Lady Chelmsford flitted awhile from Brisbane,
she poured out autograph letters begging All, likewise
Sundry, to patronise the fete in aid of the Diphtheria
Ward, which Govt. House proposes to run in the autumn.
“ It merely means that you would make a point of being
present, and bringing your friends,” adds the wily lady,
well knowing that Mrs. De Jersey Brown, once on the
premises, will be an easy victim at Govt. House stall.
Pretty Fanny Power, the daughter of the Judge who
bakes at Rockhampton, is to wed her squatter early
next month. Miss C. Foxton, daughter of newly-elected
Rep. for Brisbane, becomes 0. E. Bright, wife of the
Dep.-Postmaster-General, about the same time.
From M.L. Exhibition :
The whares in the Maori pah are beginning to bristle
with “No Admittance” placards. The visitors had be-
come a plague. The owners of the whares were to them
mere exhibits, and not human beings, living their every-
day life there. Curiosity poked its nose into the most
intimate domestic concerns of these people. As one
result the cunning little brown-eyed “ Exhibition ” baby
(born in the stockade) is kept jealously hidden, because
the mother couldn’t any longer stand the jocular
fool who offered to buy it. The Samoans have
had a bad time, too; it was worst for them on
the day of their arrival. They were miserable
from cold, and, sitting huddled up in the big whare
provided temporarily for them in the pah, they were
blocked in by a solid stolid wall of staring eyes and
gaping mouths. The Samoans are a fine-looking people,
in spite of their awkward, incongruous, half-Euro-
pean dress, and their shivering blue lips, and they flung
back flashing glances at the staring mob. A young half-
caste Maori, a doctor, is in charge of the hospital at
the pah. Even his quarters were not proof against
invaders. They walked in, stared at the doctor seated
at his table, walked about the room, and prodded his
effects with their parasols. This was amusing for once
or twice ; but now a staring placard blocks the way.
The Fijians are judged by most visitors to be by far the
finest-looking of the visiting Islanders. They are splen-
didly-built men, and walk with the dignity of a newly-
made J.P. Their police have a fetching uniform—tunic
to the knees, of dark-blue cloth, with a scarlet sash.
They have a dandy’s care for the exact dressing of their
pompadour fuzz. One Vas posing for a local artist, and
his companion spent the time walking round and criti-
cising his appearance intently ; then, with much guttural
talk, he helped the model to put a displaced tuft of hair
at its proper point of attention above the ear.
Looking at the big bronze Maori group in the Exhi-
bition makes one wish all the harder that Australia would
perpetuate the memory of the now dying-out aborigines
by some fine statuary. Attempts, soon abandoned, have
been made at times in Melbourne and Sydney, and it is
possible to come across sketches and studies and casts
that were begun before enthusiasm was killed by unsym-
pathetic political figureheads. Henry Parkes was anxious
for something big and bronze and aboriginal to be placed
at Manly. He even had casts and studies made (they are
still in existence), but died before the project was carried
through.
Australian artists are well represented right at the
entrance to the Exhibition. Sculptor Summers’ beauti-
ful marbles are in the Grand Hall under the dome (the
Victorians made a big mistake in letting these slip out of
their hands), and a gigantic bronze Maori group in the
main avenue is the work of Macdonald, another Aus-
tralian. This bronze is just finished, and is a striking bit
of work. A Maori man and woman (with a cunning little
bronze baby slung across her back) stand eight feet in
height on a massive pedestal of another ten feet. Four
figures of men (on the same gigantic scale) are seated on
the pedestal—some apparently at work on carving, the
others playing the Maori Pan-pipes. It is a fine thing.
Sculptor Summers has arrived with his precious
marbles, and sat up two nights to see them properly un-
packed. He has the packing of such things down'to a
science. The other lot of statuary purchased in Rome
by Joseph Ward was as smashed up as if it had been
made of sugar figures off a wedding-cake. “ Too cheap
packing,” says Summers—“you have to watch those
Italian beggars at every turn.” The only possible wood
for packing such things seems to be poDlar—old, seasoned
poplar. It is soft, won’t break, has "no grain, and will
not stain the marble. Poplar is a valuable timber.
Summers reckons his cases alone cost £l5O.
Canadian Commissioner Race, at the M.L. Exhibition
is by way of being a journalist, and is sending
some cute copy along to the Canadian papers,
in the odd times between looking after his court
and helping along banquet speeches and re-
joicings (his oratory has something of the “honey
and spice and ile scraped off the hinges of the
gates of Paradise,” spoken once of a countryman of his).
He does not think that there is any other country
in the world where one could find such complacent con-
tent as in Maoriland.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
Last Maoriland census showed that South
Island had gained 26,000 population in five years,
but the North had soared up by 86,000, and a
redistribution of seats is now being arranged.
Under the old system each island had 38 seats ;
now three seats will be taken from the South
Island and given to the North ; and the South is
very sore about it.
The Patriotic Association founded in
Sydney in 1869 by W. C. Windeyer, G. R. Dibbs
and G. H. Reid, held most of the ideals of the
Australian Natives’ Association of the present.
Among: the rules was one that all members should
be native born, but to include Reid a special
exception clause was added. This intense
anxiety to include Reid seems strange to a genera-
tion that knows Reid.
Clerical pretensions are alike the world
wide over. Protestant or Roman Catholic, der-
vish, bonze, rain-maker, and all the rest, the
cleric must be kept out of politics. In Spain that
is at last being found out. The priests stigmatise
civil marriages as “concubinage.” The State
firmly responds with a law compelling all marriage
contracts to be made by the civil power.
London Outlook, discussing the British
over-ruling of Newfoundland’s fishing laws:—
The people of Newfoundland seem quite unable to
recognise that Natal took complete responsibility for the
results of her own action, and dealt with the native
rising without Imperial aid, while Newfoundland, in any
disagreement with the United States, can only base her
arguments upon Imperial forces and Imperial funds.
Regardless of the elementary consideration that British
taxpayers, who will have to pay the piper, have some
right to advise about the tune, the Newfoundland press
continues to speak heroically of “ an appeal to the other
colonies to resist Imperial aggression.”
It will be put in exactly the same way to Aus-
tralia one day : “You want a White Australia,
but can you fight for it ? If not, do you expect
us to fight your battles ? ”
“ Huffin-Guffin ” : I took my youngsters to
the Melbourne Botanic Gardens last Sunday
afternoon, and pondered on the advantages of
having such a delightful place to spend an hour
or two. I pictured the possibilities if the Anti-
Sosh gang happened to get into power, and
carried out its programme consistently.
Thousands of kiddies, who, like mine, step
from their doorstep on to an asphalt footpath,
and from an asphalt “play-ground” into school
would hardly ever see a tree, or know the feel of
grass, but for the Gardens. What a hard,
asphalty world it would be for us working people
if there were no soft, grassy, socialistic spots like
Director Guilfoyle’s Botanic Gardens !
A just complaint:—
An Australian perfume distiller quotes an instance of
how the existing Tariff—which Reid wants to leave alone
—cuts both ways against the native industry. The com-
plainant states that the shape of the bottle is half the
battle with a local manufacturer who fights feminine
prejudice in favor of the imported article. Unless the
bottle is shaped on old familiar lines the women refuse to
believe that the perfume can possibly be first-class. Thus-
far there is no local production of these orthodox bottles,
and the perfume makers have to import them under a
duty of 2s. 6d. per dozen. A charge of 2£d. each is added
to the cost of the empty bottle for the manufacturer who
fills it with Australian perfume. But if the same bottle
comes along with foreign scent inside it the importer is
charged only 3d. a dozen duty. He gets the bottle 2Jd.
cheaper in consideration of the fact that he is putting
foreign stuff on a market which ought to be confined to
the local manufacturer by a prohibitive tariff. Plainly
the duty on foreign perfume wants to be boosted up high
enough to enable the native perfume to live while it is
waiting for the native bottle to put itself in. The more
Australian perfume there is to put into the Australian
bottle, the sooner the Australian bottle will arrive to
surround the Australian perfume.


M
Ask for this Brand of
BUTTER
Maybe you are particular about
Butter.
You like it “just so”—mild and just
right—you can’t explain what it is,
but you know it just as soon as you’ve
tasted it.
Then you would appreciate Q.M.E.
It has a “different ” flavor.
It is the highest grade Butter made
in Australia —made to beat all other
butters in quality and flavor.
And it does!
In 11b. Tiro and 561 b. BOXES.
“SißS™ Q-M.E. BUTTER.
■*>
r
a
Tka
Hiok€L-»
emjKLf
TOR GUACE
here's a
NICE
CUP OF TEA
l
Kz
O,
IPTONS
Teas
ALL GROCERS
Duncan Preston (SI Co.
Sole Representatives for Australasia,
107 Pitt Street. SYDNEY.
Stw 1
<Dress
IT'LEINER’FS DRESS SHIELDS combine the qualities
AV necessary for perfect Protection to any garment* They
are as well known to the Modistes of Melbourne and
Sydney as to those of Paris, London, or New York.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, December 24, 1906.
My Dear Yarrie.—
It’s a stale game being an unattached adult just
now. It’s the Xmas season when mothers crow
and infants scream, and the world is expected to
grin patiently through all the glad Babel. The
single She who hasn’t a genuine love of the bib
and tucker species, who can’t glow at its foolish
Rattle, smile at its pantomimic pranks, and kiss
with enthusiasm its dear little be - treacled
mouth, oughtn’t to be hanging loose about. She
ought to shut herself in a room with a pack
of cards and play Patience, or take a sleeping
drug to last her the Santa Claus season.
She really has no right to be current. I have
seen her in the toy department doing her duty to
a maternal friend, and her ashen-grey face, her
dull, heavy glance, and the turned-down corners
of her disagreeable mouth were droll enough to
make an owl laugh. It’s a blithe and gay She
who can joy in purchasing trumpets and baa-
lambs for someone else’s kiddies.
The infant’s education in toys is a wonderful
thing. A doll is the desired joy. But any old waxen
or wooden image or rag effigy doesn’t do. Not
by any means. Tommy who likes dolls asks for a
double-jointed male one, or a stuffed soldier that
takes little wooden steps in a baby march move-
ment when he’s wound up. Tootles asks for a
French kid doll that squeaks at a pressure, and
goes to sleep, and blinks its eyes animatedly if it’s
only shaken violently enough. Then there’s the
great question of hair. One child likes a
curly mop, another prefers minuet ringlets.
A third howls for a thick Fijian tangle. A
fourth demands simply real hair, and knows
the difference between wool, deal shavings, and
hair. It’s instructive to note doll-culture, and to
hear the high priestesses descant on what’s what
in the great kingdom of Make-Believe.
A grieving widower publishes in the press that
the place of his recently deceased mate never will
be filled. Why protest ? Interesting now to wait
for his change of mind. It’s an unwise thing
to rush into printed declarations on such occasions.
Widowers, who make violent demonstrations of
sorrow, are the very ones to rush blind-folded into
fresh responsibilities and domestic chains. One
I wot of was so distracted at the death of his
mate, whom he had loved (let it be said to his
credit) wisely and well, that it was as much as his
chums could do at the grave to keep him from
diving in. He was desperate in his grief.
Men took home to their wives the story of
his great woe. Wives wept in re-telling the story.
The world was edified; and the yarn was still
fresh when the mourner took unto himself a per-
manent sympathiser. It was exactly two months
after the grave plunge was averted ; and a very
gay bridegroom was he.
Freak parties are not yet. A few of the
Tooraketty fry are winding up the old year with
surprise and disguise shivoos. At one, styled
“For Girls Only,” one cake went to a local Dolly
Dimples, who turned up as a post-prandial male
in pyjamas, short head-crop, and bath-slippers.
She whiffed a weed with masculine sang-froid, and
was a real cute copy of a negligi he, and got the
second prize. The first award is a deadly
secret. It must represent a very big
shock since who the winner was and what or
whom she burlesqued is kept quiet. In Uncle
Sam’s land they went very strong with the freak
party, reaching the climax with a Vice-Versa
junket, which meant that large fashionable mixed
companies of revellers appeared wearing their
clothes back to front.
One marriage happened with the fading year.
Miss Katherine Ogilvie to Mr. James A.
Graham. A flock of girl supported her and a
brace of youths flanked the groom. The bride is
the daughter of ex-Captain Ogilvie, an old boy in
blue who made a small fortune during a
long term of pilotage at Williamstown, There’s
a whole crop of nice Ogilvie girls, two
of whom have just returned from a
1906 gad. The bride herself is a bright brunette.
For once a bride didn’t leave in dove grey for the
Express. The new Mrs. Graham departed in
glad rose-pink. It’s a good color. The grey may
be symbolic of dove and love and peace—but how
the pink does proclaim an optimistic gladness !
Greys should be relegated to the newly-loosed or
the grief-laden or the insolvent or the elderly.
No bride should gather the confetti on a grey
garb. Rose-pink is the thing.
Miss Ivy Clarke has returned, an improved
edition of her salad-day self. She has caught on
to the waist-grip habit, that of having the meridian
acutely defined, and wears her thatch in a Fijian
fuzz, waved and frizzed and puffed enormously.
That probably represents the latest in top trim-
mings. The Dowager herself clings to the collar of
curls across her philanthropic brow and a neat dis-
play of top coils.
Mrs. J. P. Parker and her two chicks have re-
turned from some years’ journeying over the
earth. Long residence abroad has converted the
young Victoriennes into two 'English-looking
Missies, with complexions and a manner of speech
quite free of the ’Rooland twang. They talk of
returning soon again—the son remaining in the
shipping firm from which the Parker family draws
its cash.
The auctioneer is at his wits’ ends to carry off
sales which no one attends, or only the dealers
who are not be persuaded by cute dodges or
polished advertisement phrases. The fact is,
there are all sales and no bidders. Every week
the wealthy are disposing of their household
sticks and effects, in view of their departure from
Australia, or because of their flitting to residen-
tial flats in the city or thereabouts.
Mr. W. M. Campbell finally carried off the
Northcote trophy for stroke competition, at the
Victoria links, the other day. Because it was a
Vice-regal donation, and theG.-G. was interested,
the Victorians golfed in their best kit, and left off
violent ejaculations when the ball was lost. And
the she-golfers of other clubs grizzled that they
couldn’t see the match—that the Governor-General
encouraged the exclusive sex with trophies to the
club that doesn’t go a-linking with womankind.
Mr. Bowes Kelly has a herd of brougham
horses under the hammer. No more gee-gees for
the mining magnate. Hereafter he and his large,
handsome mate will always toot-toot over the
land.
Two impressively-labelled gadders are reported
among the outward passengers by the Omrah.
One fussy Claudia writes from Adelaide: “A
lovely crowd on board —and two Sirs. None of
us had heard of them in Melbourne. Where do
these titled strangers lodge? I go regularly
through the lists of the swagger hotels, and never
come across the names of these oocasional nobles.
Do they travel incog, to insure themselves against
the Grand Gape ?” It is strange how the passen-
ger lists dazzle the innocent! There is constantly
a duke, or signor, or smaller lordling jaunting by
the big liners. But they come and go mysteri-
ously—being sometimes deft at cards, sometimes
amorous or taking. Particularly taking. At
such times one should have her diamonds and her
emotions and her cash under lock and key. The
travelling duke is to be avoided. Plain Bill Jones
is safer company.
A flock of strenuous Western dames and station
chicks rallied to the polo contest at Moonee
Valley, the other day, to see some “fast play.”
Nothing less than fast play could possibly interest
that woolly herd of squattoeraey. " Captain
Greville took a day off caddy-duty from the
Federal Exes, and umpired the game. Tea served
m a tent supported the onlookers through the
hurricane match, and one accident relieved the
tension. It was a spill to Mr. Cyril Winter-
Irving. It goes to prove that no youth named
Cyril should attempt to figure in such a reckless
and desperate game. However, he wasn’t severely
damaged, and having assured himself that all his
structure was according to the original plan, he
resumed his pole and his pony, to the applause of
the stylish clan. The highest score went to the
credit of the Caramut men.
A little local dame is going about as a stranger
in the city owing to the fact that she is now sport-
ing a plain piebald thatch, and friends accustomed
to a pile of sovereign tresses fail to recognise the
little metamorphosed soul. She is quite frank
over the matter: “ I love my summer sea-dip, so
my old wool suffers. It’s dip versus dye—and the
dip wins. I can’t go without a morning frolic in
the briny, so I am suspending chemical aid till
the fireside season. I suppose I look 104 and a
horrible fright, but wait till the winter, I’ll dazzle
you.” So she will. By that time the elderly
Aphrodite will have had her skin burnt russet
brown, and the gold hair mintage in conjunction
will be a shock. How much easier to buy shop
hair and unskewer it on going into the bath—
and replace it after the salt plunge. Then your
family and friends will not go cutting you un-
awares in the public market-place.
Once more Miss Violet Mount has been fare-
welling the public or inducing the public to fare-
well her in silver coin and applause. When will
the grateful tootler arise to thunder her applause
at the benevolent people who pay and powder and
befrill themselves to hear her? This struck me
hard, the other evening, when a cold-nosed
warbler arrived on the platform, and —according a
scant nod to the crowd that had given up an
evening plus some cash to hear her—started on a
tour of her top 0 with business-like despatch.
Now, it wasn’t a very charming or fascinating top
C, and I marvelled at the patience of the good
people. Miss Mount may have farwelled often
and lagged superfluous at the adieu step, but at
least she thanked her patrons with a great crop of
smile. Also she spent much money on her
chiffons, was a satisfying sight, and really sang
with brilliancy.
A recent bereavement notice in the Akgus has
this simple little appeal, “Hide me.” It was
refreshing with its quiet pathos compared with
the average flamboyant forecast of glory.
Mr. Edgar Marsden —a son of the Government
Architect—is the latest announced tenor. The
youth is of Herculean build, and impressive; but
he alienates sympathy by a very haughty chin
and a threatening eye. The girleens sigh, but
hold off.
Lady Talbot has bestirred herself in the 1907
exhibition of Australian women’s work. She
collected the leading spirits of the movement
together last week, and for once omitted lorgnette
play. The Penelopes found the dame a much
more intimate and chattable president without
the haughty glasses. Hair-dressing is to be
one of the competitive subjects. Probably the
contestants will be given dummies to work on,
and not human victims. Fancy the hair-pin
stabbing and the scars from red-hot curling-tongs
one would receive from the eager competitors. It’s
bad enough to hurry a head-upholsteress at any
time.
Despite the fact that Professor Peterson grows
greyer every day in the service of song, his cage
of canaries up at the Conservatorium make no
sensational flights into melody. Concert after
concert shows the same crop of mediocre missies.
The Professor is a learned musician and a cultured
soul generally, but he’s cold and Quakerish, with a
grey mind, a grey eye, and a grey soul. He has
the air of an over-polished Scotch dominie. He
imparts no fire, no color to his Professorship.
The Conservatorium has Madame Janson for
vocal trainer, but that masterful spirit has, so
far, accomplished no great revolution.
I hear from one of the capitals the story of a
nurse who was summoned to attend a dying
Croesus. She attended —and so well that the
enormously rich old swell recovered. As a reward
he offered her a trip round the world. In his con-
valescent days he mapped out the jaunt, and
made alluring suggestions for her visiting all the
capitals of the world. She was enraptured, and
made all preparations for a luxurious gad. Then
the good-bye hour arrived with her “case.” He
reminded her that they’d pretty well have to meet
every day till they departed. They ! Then a lot
of the rose-color faded out of her dream. He
was going too. She had a struggle with herself.
To lose the trip or to suffer the ex-patient! Of
course she’s going. But was she wise in getting
him well? She might have had the trip (by
bequest) if Croesus had not recovered.
A rather busy Coliins-street practitioner tells
me that he has been having a good rest for the
last few days. Not a holiday ; just a dearth of
patients. It seems the public puts off, or
adjourns, its pains and aches till after the plum-
pudding season. Operations are always deferred,
ho matter how urgent, for the sentimental reason
of eating the fatted goose at the Christmas family
board. The spirit is ludicrous, but human.
The Talbots steamed off to Macedon t’other
day with a trio of imported chums —Sir John and
Mrs. Gorst, and Colonel Hubert Foster. The
Vice-regals suspend much ceremony when at the
cottage, and the rigid Ex. has even been known to
get excited when the bush fires, which execute much
serpentine dance about the hilly neighborhood,
licked a flaming way to the very cottage-gates
last year. Even a Governor must suspend for-
mality when the bush takes on flame wings, and
must drop all pomp and ceremony when a lengthy
snake, bent on business, grovels at his feet. He
really goes about Macedon in mental pyjamas,
and the caddies in giddy straw deckers, while the
ladyship almost drops into metaphorical curl-
papers.
A friend tells me : We are living in the heart of
Melbourne’s aristocracy. Down the street on our
left are some people who are related to a promi-
nent League footballer. His portrait is on th 9
latest cigarette cards. Just at the back reside
some boys whose uncle is a leading jockey. He,
also, is_ on cigarette cards. Not far away there
are racing stables. Some of the racehorses therein
ape on cigarette cards, too. When the footballer’s,
the jockey’s, and the racing stable proprietor’s
boys get together the swagger is intense, and
common ordinary people’s boys grow green with
envy. The cigaret.te-card industry is in a flouri-
shing condition in our suburb. It often Duzzled
me how our bouse rent was so high, until it
dawned on me that the gentle landlord was
charging for our aristocratic surroundings. And if
summer develops the fact that a leading cricketer’s
brother dwells in this or an adjacent street, I
expect the rent will go up again.
The humors of one kind of church choir
are emphasised when a preacher who can
and will sing a little happens along. The
quarrelsome soprano and contralto hasten to bury
the hatchet—in the preacher’s vocal reputation.
Likewise the tenor and basso for once find some-
thing they can agree upon, viz., that their worthy
pastor’s presumption in lifting up his voice in
song is ridiculous. One singing cleric com-
plained of his choir tittering when he sang ;
but he still insisted on singing more than once at
each service. Consequently, there wasn’t time
for the solo efforts of some of the choir members.
Then the choir resigned in a body, but the
preacher said he didn’t care—he’d just as soon
as not tackle the anthems and concerted pieces
by himself ; and he would, too, if they said much.
Anticipations of an overworked minister struggling
with a piece arranged for eight voices did not
appeal to his flock, and after much excitement
among deacons, elders, and other such folk, it was
agreed that the Rev. Obed. was quite right, and so
were the choir members, but they really mustn’t
snigger at him again. It was also settled that the
Rev. Obed. might sing occasionally if he wanted to.
But when he does, the tenor still champs at the
bit that isn’t there, and the soprano bridles, and
the basso gloomily says that he doesn’t know
what things are coming to.
From “Rosna,” of Adelaide :
Mrs. Ellis Rowan, whose pictures of Australian flowers
everybody knows, is offering a collection of a hundred
paintings to the Adelaide gallery for £1000; hut the
authorities don’t jump, and it is doubtful whether the
bargain will be struck. It was said a while back that an
American buyer had offered double the money, but that
the artist would rather they stayed in Australia.
Mr. Proctor, an almost unknown Adelaidean, has joined
Madame Arral’s Company for a tour through the Maori
Isles. He will act as accompanist to the bright little
star.
Adelaide Gadfly has discovered a remarkable resem-
blance between a fascinating but mysterious songstress
who lately descended on these parts and Princess
Alexandra von Ysenburg Dudingen, of Switzerland (didn’t
know the Swiss Republic owned any Princesses), who,
according to SKETCH, had a fancy for buying old castles
and furnishing them (on credit), and who some time back
mysteriously disappeared. Photographs of the eccentric
princess and the singer have been published side by side,
and the picture of the princess is more like the singer
than the singer’s own pictures are.
A S. Australian gadder, lately returned from Britain,
publicly expounds on the manners and customs of the
king of that country. At the races said gadder was par-
ticularly struck with the fact that he walked about the
course like an ordinary citizen. Apparently he expected
to see him go on stilts, with his crown hanging on his
ear. After the blare of trumpets surrounding everything
vice-regal in Australia, the ordinary behavior of a mere
king seems disappointing.
An interesting engagement—Doctors Eulalie Burnard
and Dean Dawson, who have jointly bought a country
practice, and will proceed to chase the giddy microbe
hand-in-hand.
Yours Affectionately,
TRYRHENA.
Considering that there are only 93 Japan-
ese children concerned in the unpleasantness
between the Californian State Government and
the Mikado, there’s a suspicion that Japan isn’t
worrying so much about the education of the Jap
children as the Japanning of the Hawaiian
Islands. Japan has a big fleet in the Pacific,
U.S.A. a small one. The Hawaiian Isles and
the Philippines are rich, and would make a first-
class Japanese colony, and in the event of a row
over racial pride, the Japs would seize the Islands,
and leave things at that. It would take far more
than the Islands are worth to drive the Japs out,
and the Americans are a business people.
The result of the Federal Election in S.A.
should teach the Labor party a lesson. If they
had included Playford on their ticket, dropping
one direct nominee, it is possible that the three
Anti-Soshers would have been defeated —Vardon
would certainly not have been elected. They
frightened Bonython out of politics by opposing
him in Barker, with the result of assuring the
election of Livingston who was rejected by a
bucolic State constituency.
Throughout the elections the local Anti-
Sosh pursued Webster in Gwydir (N.S.W.) with
the amazing yarn that the proposed land-tax was
4d. in the £ and that the £6OOO holding would
have to pay £lOO a year. As a matter of fact,
the Labor party’s land-tax would cost the £6OOO
man £lO Bs. 4d. a year because it provides for a
£5OOO exemption, while Anti-Sosh Reid’s State
land tax actually costs him £24. That is the
difference between Greid’s and the Labor party’s
care for the interests of the comparatively small
man.
“ Tas ” : What would you call this ? One
morning last week, in the hash-house area of our
Sydney suburb, I was lying in bed putting off the
“evil hour” till the last possible second, when the
raucous cry of “Rabbee-o, fi’ rabbee” came. It
occurred to me that this identical cry, with the
very same inflections, variations, etc., was
familiar to my ears. I investigated, and found
that the owner of the mellifluous shriek was the
same who breathed at the same early hours of the
morning when I was living op infant’s food, 20
years ago, in Tasmania. I had never heard it
since.


furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
ĝhg
G-O TO KCELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei), Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Prioe Lists Cratis.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strife
MAttalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Hal/-dozen, free by post throughout
A ustrulia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
Btereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 6/-. Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, Bs>C. FBG St. Martin, Paris, France
ARTIFICIAL
LIMBS.^
gh
We make them on the premises.
We make more than any other firm in Australia.
We also import them from the famous American
firm, A. A. Marks.
Every kind of Artificial Limb supplied at reason-
able prices.
Send for Free Book on Artificial Limbs.
DENYER BROTHERS, Su,gi “!S™”"‘
281 George St., Sydney (opp. Hunter St.).
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAT
POINTS
There is not so much difference when you
come to examine it between sun-downer and
lan-downer.
It’s certainly now time that Reid was
called Australia’s Broken Reid. The Bruised
Myth and the Broken Reid.
Chief Justice Griffith (in the old days) :
“ By whomsoever such competition as reduces
wages below the point at which European laborers
can live in decency and health is carried on—these
people are the enemies of the public.”
Anti-Sosh is now taking a friendly in-
terest in Mr. Deakin, and forgets that he is a
“ Ministerial Socialist,” and wants to know what’s
the matter with him walking out with Reid again.
But no sensible man walks out with Reid a second
time.
Sydney Smith ascribes his defeat for
Bathurst solely to the press campaign against
him. A member of the Ministry gives Smith a
good epitaph. “We’re sorry to lose him per-
sonally ; politically, it’s as good as losing any
other two Reidites.”
A deputation waited on Federal Minister
Lyne, last week, suggesting to the Federal
Government to encourage the manufacture of
iron, so that the State Government could make
wire-netting for protecting their farms from
bunny. “We are all Protectionists,” said one of
them. “It seems to me that you are all
Socialists,” said Lyne. “ Most of us are Anti-
Socialists,” proudly retorted the spokesman.
“We want the State Government to make wire-
netting so that we may protect our holdings.”
And that’s what the average Anti-Sosher thinks is
Anti-Sosh.
Little Jacky Evans, Premier of Tasmania,
skipped off to Maoriland, the other day, to tell
them that Tasmania “was going to the dogs
through Federation and Federal extravagance.”
Jacky lias an aboriginal faculty of observation, or
he’d recognise that, as between Tasmania and
Maoriland, there is now. and always has been,
but one great difference—Tory government in one
island group, Democratic government in the
other. Toryism made for stagnation and decay,
Democracy for progress and prosperity. That
was apparent long before Federation came: and
since Federation Tasmania has progressed a
little
A MEAL SPORT.
HE: “Facts, there's no sport like pig-hunting.
Ay'm, awfully jolly fond of it —-passionately
fond of it.”
SHE: “ Indeed. Do you often got ”
HE: “ Oh, Ay've nerah been; but Ay'm awfully
jolly fond of it.”
“I did my best,” whined Reid to the
morning press reporters who came to him for a
crumb of comfort in the dismal day of disaster
after the polls. Precisely, Reid did his best to
grossly misrepresent and gratuitously insult the
people, their leaders, and their cause; and his
best boomeranged back on him.
It is many a day since an election played
such ducks and drakes with candidates’ hopes as
the one just over. Carpenter, in Westralia, was
leading from Seeesli Hedges by over 200 on the
Wednesday night. Next night saw the positions
reversed, and they stopped that way. At the
same stage Kearsley was over 400 ahead of anti-
Australian Liddell for Hunter (N.S.W.), but the
outside booths went for the foreigners’ advocate,
and K. was finally outed. In Victoria, Wis«* led
McLean by 200; next day saw Reid’s other-half-
Premier 140 ahead, with but the far eastern votes
to come in. These, however, mostly went the way
they should go, and Wise finally gained a Federal
seat. When Kennedy, standing for Echuca,
went to bed on Wednesday night he felt fairly
satisfied with his 350 lead. Thursday saw this
reduced to a wretched nine votes. The counting
proceeded on Friday as the returns came in, and
that night Kennedy was six votes behind Palmer,
with six “absentee” votes still to come. They
came to hand on Saturday, and three turned out
to be for Kennedy, while the other three were
informal. Palmer got a majority of three in
a 15,000 poll! But the worst boil-over happened
to L.aborite Tunnecliffe.
No m ( an in the whole of Australia has had
such disgusting bad luck as Tunnecliffe, one of
the Victorian Labor three for the Senate. The
day after the elections he was a long way ahead
of Russell, the second man of the Labor trio ; but
the returning-officer in Melbourne had made a
mistake of 529 in his total, and this reduced
Tunnecliffe’s lead on Friday to 221. Still,
it looked as though he would win. Russell, how-
ever, started to creep up on him. By Saturday
night Tunnecliffe was only 174 votes ahead.
Monday morning’s counting reduced his lead to
12, and Russell began to hope. In the afternoon,
however, Tunnecliffe forged ahead again, and
finished the day with a lead of 150. This looked
safe, and he went to bed feeling like a Senator.
But Tuesday’s counting reversed all expectations.
Russell made a late run, securing 4783 votes to
Tunnecliffe’s 4416, and won the seat by 217. Yet
Tunnecliffe was undoubtedly the brainiest and the
best of the three Labor candidates.
The reforming Carruthers has cut down
unnecessary expense by the purchase of a
motor-car to be used —presumably on Government
business —by the Governor, the Ministry, heads
of departments, and other public officers.
This car is to be placed in charge of the
police, and whenever a public officer desires to
lord it in the motor-car a skilled chaffeur-copper
will drive.
One of the Iteidite tricks during the late
elections was to circulate among the Little Bethel
voters green dodgers urging them to vote for the
Labor candidate as a “ sturdy champion of Home
Rule for Ireland.” A sample from the Newcastle
district: —
VOTE FOR
DAVID WATKINS
AND
HOME RULE
FOR
IRELAND.
He Voted for it in the Last Parliament, and can be
RELIED ON to support it in the future.
This was printed at 27G George-street, Sydney —
which is the office of the Watchman.
Despite the wail of Anti-Sosh that a
Federal land-tax means confiscation, the holders
of choice suburban estates do not show any
haste to rid themselves of their burdens.
Consider Bradley’s Head, Mosmans. Some
years ago the bulk of this was sold, but the
eyes were held for bigger values by the owners.
Since then the purchasers have dotted the
headland with magnificent residences, the
mu nicipality has constructed first-class roads,
and water, gas and sewerage have been
laid on. The holders of the vacant land
have done nothing but wait for values to
go up, and have now calmly clapped the
unearned increment on to their price, and
won’t disgorge except at an extravagant
figure.
Maoriland Cabinet has decided to set
up a Council of Defence in place of a com-
mandant. The new Council wall consist of
Colonels D.ivis, Robin and Collins, and
Defence Under-Secretary Grey. Sadly
unoriginal are Australasian communities.
Since England decided that it could better
muddle its defences with the help of a
Board the Commonwealth and Maoriland
have both followed suit. There is really
nothing sacrosanct about a Board that
the hope should be entertained of turning
muddle into order by the creation of one ;
indeed, the military organisation seems
to be specially one that calls for govern-
ment by a despot—the right despot.
But Britain has a Board, and we must
follow the example woodenly.
N.S.W. Government Botanist
Maiden has to complain of people looting
the public parks of flowers and plants.
Possibly a result of the Anti-Sosh propa-
ganda. Anti-Sosh takes its practical form
in such vandalism against public rights and
pleasures.
Cabled that the Commons has passed the
School Children’s Meals Bill—empowering the
L.O.C. to establish restaurants for the children
at or near schools, at the expense of the rate-
payers. How will the purity of the home survive
this rank Socialism ?
Premier Seddon, shortly before his death,
made a vigorous speech at Palmerston North
(M.L.) on the question of racial purity, and gave
Maoriland a warning to beware of the Yellow
Peril. The first public utterance of any real
importance made by Premier Joseph Ward has
been on the same subject. Joseph has been very
explicit. He said that he didn’t think much of
Roosevelt for being ’umble to the Monkey, and
that if every other white man’s country in the
world became ’umble in a like manner, it would
make no difference to him. That’s the right
spirit to go to the Imperial Conference in.
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE.
REV. HOLYFAT : "And to what unhappy temptation do you ascribe your present position, my
poor friend? ”
HIS POOR FRIEND : “ Gur’ment interference win private henterprise.
REV. HOLYFAT : "Ah, some unjust award of the Arbitration Court, perhaps! Or some tram-
melling of your right to trade, by the Early Closing Act, aroused your just incligna-
nation to deeds of violence."
HIS POOR FRIEND : “ Worse nor that, guv'nor. I was jimmying me way inter a Dartin'
Point 'ouse when a ‘John’ spotted me and put me in this cruel place."
Ever since election day Anti-Sosh has been
making allusions to “undercurrents” and “hidden
and secret forces,” with other mysterious re-
ferences, in order to account for the defeat of
some of its prominent candidates. Probably the
undercurrent of good sense which exists in the
most fluctuating of democracies, and the semi-
secret forces of reason, are referred to.
“Oxymoron”: You don’t want lo read
the Sydney Telegraph to get an idea of the
“great” meetings the Freetrade Sena-
tors had in the country towns. At
Goulburn the Oddfellows’ Hall was
hired. In the morning it was visited
by the Senators and much admired.
“ How many will this hall hold ? ”
shrieked Senator Gould from, the gal-
lery to a stranger. “About 300 up-
stairs.” “And how many below?”
“About 400.” “Then I suppose you
could squeeze in about 1000?” “1
dare say.” “Well, this ought to be
our best meeting.” : The Senators
then amused themselves testing the
“soundings” of the hall. At 8 p.m.,
the time for the farce to commence,
there were present 30 persons—-includ-
ing several children whom their parents
brought out for fear the Socialists would
steal them.
Ramsay Macdonald, the English
Labor member w r ho came to Australia
to learn and stayed to preach, tells
Victorians that Protection may do very
well for Australia, a country that
does not export manufactures, but it
would never do for England, a nation
that makes for the world. What does
this mean, if not that Protection raises
wages, and thereby increases the cost
of production? Is Labor member
Macdonald prepared to tell Australian
unionists that he is a low-wages advo-
cate in the interests of England’s over-
sea trade? We cannot expect him to
say how it is America find Germany,
highly protected countries, increase
their exports of manufactures more
rapidly than Freetrade England. Ap-
parently he is blind to that hard fact.
A Sydney manufacturing co. lately
turned out 1020 tons of steel in one day.
But, alas ! it was the Dominion Iron
and Steel Co., of Sydney, Canada.
It is told of an Anti-Sosh lady-canvasser
in Melbourne that she encountered a woman
scrubbing the verandah of a suburban cottage,
and tackled her warmly in the interests of Anti.
“You couldn’t think of voting for a man like
Blank,” she said. “He is one of those wicked
Socialists, you know. He would take away this
little home from you, and divide up your be-
longings. He would take your children from
you, and pack them into State institutions. How
can you have any dealings with a man like that ? ”
The woman stopped scrubbing for a moment. “ I
can’t very well get out of it,” she said. “You
see, I’m married to him.”
Eight members of the new Federal House
represent minority votes, six of them being
Victorians :—Atkinson (Wilmot), J. Thomson
(Cowper), Agar Wynne (Balaclava), Matthews
(Melbourne Ports), Wilson (Corangamite), Brown
(Tndi), Salmon (Laanecoorie), Harper (Meruda).
In four cases a second ballot would probably
return the man just elected, but in at least three
it certainly wouldn’t —therefore, some 00,000
Australian electors will be misrepresented for the
next three years. The case of Gratton Wilson, of
Corangamite, Foreign-trader and Anti-Australian,
is especially notable, as this is the second term
for which he will be a minority quantity, so to
speak, and on both occasions the splitting of votes
has kept out a good Australian democrat in
Desmond Dunne.
When renewing the engagement of its
Agent-General for 12 months, Tasmania decided
that an officer of the Department in London
should be a resident of Tasmania for at least a
year, and to this end it was proposed that the
Secretary to the Premier and the Secretary to the
Agent-General should change positions for a term.
A good idea, but coming rather late in the day,
since Agents-General will soon have to give place
to a High Commissioner.
BAD ENOUGH.
WIFE: “See that Mrs. Larerdown opposite. I
think she's two-faced."
HUB: “ Oh, don't say anything so horrible about
her. Isn't it had enough for her to have one
face like that ?”
All of Adelaide’s fattest and most unen-
lightened citizens waited on Premier Price, the
other day, to urge him to accept the alleged tender
for the construction of the Land Grab Kailway.
The burden of their wail was, in effect, that the
project was rotten from a financial point of view,
so the State should snap up _ any offer from a
syndicate, ignorant of what it was taking on.
Price declined flatly to see it from that po:nt of
view.
Your food does you little good when you
have no desire for it, when you dread meal times.
What you need is a dose of Chamherlain’s Tab-
lets, for they will sharpen your appetite and
strengthen the digestive organs.*


Pianos
Exchanged
If you are
not satis-
fied with
your old
Piano, why
not ex-
change it
for a new
one from
Paling’s
Call or write to
Paling's, who will
tell you how to make
an exchange, and at
the same time asK
for a Catalogue.
Paling'*s
338 George St.
65 Sydney
The Paling
Piano
Just the
Piano for
the cottage
home; fine
tone, good
touch and
excellent
value.
The Paling
Piano is fit-
ted with 3
pedals.
Old Pianos taken
in exchange.
Catalogues free
CJaBHiHnBaHBBBnH
Sole Sellers
Paling'*s
338 George St.
60 Sydney
Paling’s
Violins
We Hold
very larg'e
stocks of
Violins at
Cheapest
rates.
The
Students’
Model,
£1 -11 -6.
Complete.
Send for our illus-
trated Catalogue.
String's and Fitting's
for Every Musical
Instrument.
Paling'*s
338 George St.
69 Sydney
Ji A
't
%
-ft
1C h
JU
ER
Pp OiH
MAyy
PA WATER)
5En flat springs
'T 5
*
:
6
I'l anß @
OURN6
!A SPA CO
The MODERN
HOSTESS. «
"I give you ‘KOOMAH
SPA ’! Drink it. In your
whisky, in your wine, or
with milk it is delicious.
It sparkles like liquid
diamonds. It has three
great points:
1. It's name is Koomah.
2. It is Australia's natural
mineral water.
3. It is sold by the oldest
Australian Mineral
Water firm,
E. Rowlands, j
MELBOURNE,
SYDNEY
KATOOMBA,
BALLARAT.'
[COPYRIGHT.]
The First Complete Piano
fi-h
1
,£V=T=
7t*j
The Mew Pianola Plano Is an Upright Plano of the Highest Crade, with a Metro-
style Pianola inside its case. It Is in every parti uarare fe t Piano, and in
addition, contains within its case a complete Metrostyle Pianola, the only Plano-
playing device endorsed by the greatest living musicians.
It can be played by the fingers on the keyboard in the usual way.
It can be played by means of a Pianola action within its case.
There is noth mr to move up in front of the keyboard. To change the method from
hand-playing to Pianola-playing it is only necessary to slide back a panel in the front of the
case, and insert a perforated roll of music. 1 u 1 tn •
There is no outward indication which catches the eye to distinguish the Pianola Piano
from the heretofore t.ype of Pianoforte. a i lano
A cordial invitation to call is extended to everyone who may be interested in hearing the
Pianola Piano, irrespective of any intention to purchase. • B
Descriptive Booklet sent free upon request. Ask for Catalog M.
HENRY M. BIRGE CO.,
Head Office &. Wareroom-185.7 Collins-sft.. Melbourne.
Branches at 357 Sydneys 311 Queen.st.,
Brisbane: 38 King Williomot., Adelaide.


MOTA (SHELL) BRAND
MOTOR. CAR. SPIRITS.
Used by the winners of the Dunlop Cup, the Car-
land Cun. “ Mota ” Trophy, “ Australian Blue Bib-
and” First in Class A, First in Class B, First in
’ Class C. Also 4 Gold Medals.
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO., LTD.,
Agents: Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney,
Pratt’s Motor Car Spirit.
Highest Grade
American . . .
PETROL
ALWAYS UNIFORM IN QUALITY.
In stock at the Kerosene Stores of the COLONIAL OIL
COMPANY.
At all the Leading Centres of Australia and New Zealand.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agent.-Mes.rs. E. H. FOTHERCILL It CO., 1C Mouatt St„ Fremantle.
Bbewert and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The association that was recently formed in
Svdnev to uphold true, clean, manly British sport
against the tyranny of the Anti-Gambling Act, may have
had something to do with the attempt of the Carruthers
Ministry to undo its Act as regards trotting and coursing,
but otherwise it doesn’t threaten to set Port Jack-
son on fire. The people who were mixed up with
the start of it seemed to he interested mostly in
coursing, ponv-racing, unregistered horse-racing, club-
betting and two-upping. None of these things are
sport in the proper sense of the term any more than
roulette or thimble-rigging is sport. They are methods
of gambling pure and simple, and many of the speakers
seem to be under the impression that sport and betting
are identical, which they aren’t. Sport and betting are
two things apart, like sherry and hitters, and, although
thev may blend nicely when judiciously mixed, too much
of the betting is had. Beal sport, such as running, walk-
ing, rowing, base-balling, tennis, football, cricket, hurling,
lacrosse, and so forth, all assist in the development of
the human body, brain, sight and nervous systems. They
make the men who indulge in them haidy and self-
reliant, and can exist without betting. But once betting
becomes recognised at any class of athletic exercise, the
pastime begins to decay, as witness running in the past,
also sculling, and now professional cycling.
* * * *.
V B, C Chairman McCracken is of opinion that
the club will gain considerably by the passing of Bent s
Anti-Gambling Act. At present that i august bodydoes
not really know where it stands with regard to book-
makers, and has a strong suspicion that it must license
any bookmaker who comes along with the fee in one
hand and his ticket-block in the other. It is also doubt-
ful if it has the power to fire objectionable book-
makers off the course. The new Act the chairman
says, will settle all that, and give the club abso-
lute power to refuse to license any bookmaker it
dislikes for any reason. It also gives the power to eject
objectionable parties, and to restrict the man who howls
the odds to howling in a spot where he will be the
least annoyance, and to bump him out if he howls else-
where, which privileges, the chairman thinks, are worth
any extra taxation that the Act is likely to impose.
* * * *
Said that citizen John Wren is going to bring
his energies to the rescue of track cycling, which is, at
the present, a rapidly dying sport. The Austral meeting
showed a fearsome slump, and now the A.N. A fete
committee has had to extend the time for entries,
owing to the scarcity of would-be starters.. Wren’s idea
is said to be the bringing about of a revival of paced
racing behind tandems and motor-bikes. But the real
trouble is that the professional bikist has disgusted the
public bv his crooked ways, and till an absolutely new
crowd of riders come on to the tracks out of the
flourishing amateur bodies the business is dead. There
is no slump in the amateur branch of the business. The
success of P the Warrnambool to Melbourne road race,
when 235 riders struggled through wind and ram over
165 miles of heavy road, for badges and trophies, proves
fcba.t. ,p 4 «
Former sporting-editor of S.A. Register, W.
B Carr, just returned from England, pronounces largely
in favor of sport as carried on in Australia. He says
the Australian public is better catered for, and at far
less expense thin on English racecourses. On most of
these, spectators must content themselves with viewing
onlv part of the race ; many starts take place out of
sio-ht Numbered saddle-cloths are unknown, and the
starting-barrier is only arriving. At Goodwood, an
Weal course, with fairly up-to-date appointments it
costs £1 for fare, £1 entrance to grand-stand, 10s. to
saddling-paddock, and £1 to Tattersall’s enclosure.
Worses and horsemanship are of the best in England
fnd the whip is seldom and sparingly used. On French
courses, the bookie is “ not allowed ” but business iscon-
ducted by means of a primitive kind of totalisator.
* * * •
expected, in accordance with precedent,
W. P. Crick’s Show-Cause proceedings before N.S.W.
Supreme Court were postponed till after the races. His
funeral will, one day, be postponed so that his mortal
remains can go to the races.
* * * *
Probably one of the best-named horses that ever
raced died lately in the Cold Coun try. This was Amphion,
by Speculum or'Bosebery out of Suicide. Amphion, it
mav be recollected, was an old-time Cretan king, Who
committed suicide on being told he was illegitimate.
« « • ’
Raid that Wade’s Anti-Gambling Act has
thrown out of employment, in Sydney alone, somewhere
about 150 bookmakers’clerks. These men used to have
constant employment, owing to the multiplicity of rac-
ing events-now, with the number of meetings reduced
by somewhere about 70 per cent., a mere handful of men
do the work, and the ones who were connected with the
betting shops have had to seek fresa openings. On the
other hand the Bill has increased the attendance at the
small meetings which precede the big gatherings enor-
mously. Men go to the small suburban races to bet on
the big A.J.C. events.
* • * *
The opening of the A.J.O. Summer meeting at
Wandwiek was fairly gorgeous, and the crowd larger than
usual One must go to the racecourse now to bet unless
he knows in what particular Baptist tea-room his favorite
bookmaker has taken refuge. The plum of the day
was the Villiers Stakes, for which no less than
91 snorted silk, and the only people who didn’t
seem at all enthusiastic were the bookmakers. Not a
cenT more than three to one would they lay against
t lipiana Even a hopeless case like Jim Dorset was
backed down to s’s, which was quite ridiculous The only
joy in the business was that Ikey got a horrible fright: he
howled 15 to 1 against Dantzic, and 20 to 1 against Pom-
pous, and at the half-distance Luciana came out like the
wind with Pompous and Dantzic challenging beautifully.
Mack'en’s brown mare was, however toogood, and won by
a neck from Pompous, with half a length separating the
sons of Bumptious and Haut Bnon. The time, 1 nun.
41sec., is a second more that that of Cherson in 1904, and
Befrain in 1905.
* * * “
Mr Brockboffs yacht Rawhiti remained m
Watson’s Bay till Saturday morning in spite of Friday’s
lovely nor’-easter ; hut, then, no good Sailor will volun-
tarilv put to sea on a Friday. They had a great send-off,
however, at eight on Saturday morning ; soon
the big yacht cleared the heads, and a bowling
breeze blew her off to Melbourne, where she will try to
annex for N S.W. the Sayonara and La Carabine Cups.
Judging by his record this season on the Sydney side,
Brockhoff’s chances are better than Buckley s.
In seven starts, the beautiful yacht has won
four times, and sailed third once. She lias won
the Petrel, Beauchamp, and Basin Cups. The Bawhiti
has proved to be a better boat outside than inside Sydney
Harbor, and the conditions of sailing in Port Phillip will
b.■ much more favorable to her than those under which
she competed in Port Jackson.
Mr. BrockliofFs trip round to Melbourne in the
Rawhiti is not likely to he a champagne picnic. Yacht
voyages have a knack of turning out unpleasantly. When
the Rawhiti came over from Maoriland she encountered a
series of circular storms in the middle of the Tasman
Sea that caused considerable delay, and led to the crew
being placed on reduced rations. There is not much
danger of that sort of thing happening on the
way to Melbourne, as the yacht is in the hands of
a good skipper and has a crew of experts. Writer
once went round Maoriland Sounds in a schooner-rigged
craft of 75 tons on what was described as a pleasure trip.
Itwasthe weirdest amusement he ever struck, and con-
sisted of being soaking wet 12 hours out of 24, three
times in imminent risk of death by drowning, twice by
falling gear, scores of times by nearly falling into the
galley fire while the yacht stood on her head thinking
which way she would fall, and as many times by being
hurled out of his bunk when the beastly boat suddenly
•■‘lay down it.”
* * * •
All efforts to get English champion swimmer
Billington re-instated as an amateur have failed, and it is
improbable that any further applications will be made, as
the flyer has discovered that there is more money in pro-
fessionalism. Had he been re-instated it was more than
likely that he would have come to Australia for a season.
Now that is quite off. I
* * » »
N.S.W. champion swimmer, Cecil Healy, is
back in Sydney, looking well after his wanderings in far
countrees. He reports that he had a ripping time gener-
ally, and the people were the incarnation of hospitality.
With regard to the debacle at Athens, Cecil frankly says
he had doubts about starting, and had he represented
himself only would not have done so. He arrived late
and had no chance of getting into form ; and for his
failure Australians can blame their own ridiculous habit
of leaving everything to the last minute. Had he been
sent away at the right time and provided with money
enough to have enabled him to buy the facilities to get
into form, he would at least have swum up to it. That
he didn’t is not his fault. He made his first appearance
at the Sydney-Yaucluse carnival at Watson’s Bay on
Saturday. , « *
The 440 yards swimming championship of
N.S.W. was contested at the East Sydney-Vaucluse
clubs’ carnival on Saturday. Of the six who started,
Reg. Healy, brother of Cecil, went to the front, and at
300 yards was leading by five yards, with Dickman
and Garland neck and neck second. At 400
yards he had increased his lead by another yard,
and won easily in smin. 46 3-ssec. The attack on the 500
yards record was a failure, Cecil Healey, Baker, Wick-
ham, Tartakover and Fred Lane, who started from
scratch, finishing in smin. 4 l-ssec., or l-ssec. outside
the world’s record. They swam a great race, but, not
being pushed by the opposition, were apparently not
extended to the uttermost. A strong opposition counts
for a lot of virtue sometimes.
• * * *
The English team in Maoriland found some-
thing soft at Wanganui, and hit up 453 for nine wickets.
The local response was 111 for 12 wickets, which was just
plain horrible. Later on Wanganui’s innings closed for
124. Cricket in Maoriland is mostly a joke.
* * * *
Another round of First Grade cricket, con-
cluded in Sydney on Saturday last, left Gordon in the
lead with 11 competition points, Burwood and Padding-
ton second with 5 each ; then North Sydney, 3; Glebe
and Central Cumberland, 2 each; Waverley, I—all the
rest nothing or less. Day and wickets were perfect;
still, except in patches, honors were with the ball.
The only batsmen to lift the business out of the
ruck were Carew and Hodgkinson, of Middle Harbor (123
and 102 not out respectively), and Gregg, of Burwood,
also not out for 141. But, in spite of its two cen-
turies, Middle Harbor was licked on the first in-
nings by 149 runs. Central Cumberland produced
a new bowler, H. A. Bowman, from Windsor
(N.S.W.), who made a ghastly gap in the ranks
of Waverley in both innings. Central C. had smacked
up 316 ; in Waverley’s first innings Bowman took 7 for
44 : in the second, 3 for 63, and Pye backed him up with
5 for 17. Waverley was beaten by an innings and 139
runs. These are fine bowling figures, especially for a day
of perfect light on a faultless wicket. Bowden, of Glebe,
also did good work against University, taking 5 for 42,
with Kellaway’s 3 for 19 a good support. *
Five Waddys played in the Old Boys’ team in
the annual King’s School Past V. Present cricket fixture
recently. Of the five, two are “reverends.” Cricket,
piety, and going to King’s School seem to be fixed habits
in the Waddy family.
* * * •
“Adelaide”: Any help that S.A. could get
from two imported Sydney bowlers against N.S.W. was
far more than balanced by the weather. Rain seldom
interferes with Adelaide Oval wickets, and old-timers
talked of the test match in Lord Sheffield’s year, which
was a similar affair. S.A. all out for 61, and three for
six in the follow-on, tells its own tale. Hill took the
course—wise, but unusual in Australia—of sacrificing
his tail men in the follow-on, and on the final
day the crack batsmen had a better wicket. N.S.W. won
by an innings and 109, but might easily have lost the
game if thev had lost the toss. Macartney’s 5 for 18 in
the mud was creditable, but Wright’s 6 for 91 on a per-
fect pitch was better work ; the genuine South Aus-
tralian quite outbowled the imported O’Connor and
M’Beath, and is probably now as good a man as Saunders.
» * * *
Victorian selection committee appears to have
made a mistake by excluding E. Goss from the Vic. team
ao-ainst N.S.W. He captured six wickets for 113 against
S?A. recently, and has been in good form in club cricket.
The inclusion of Frank Laver emphasises the fact that it
is hard to shift an Australian XI player once he is rooted.
* * * *
Victorian cricketer Peter McAlister appears to
have a safe mortgage on one of the vacancies in the Aus-
tralian XI. Playing for East Melbourne against St.
Kilda last week, McAlister scored 265 not out (in a stay
of a trifle over four hours) out of a total of 390 for four
wickets. On this season’s form McAlister is Victoria’s
best batsman. » * *
Simpson-llayward, who got six wickets for 73
runs for the touring M.C.C. against Auckland, is a
bowler with a large bag full of wiles. He bowls under-
arm, and the deliveries are alleged to curl and distort
into myriad ways once they reach the ground.
* * « *
S.M. Herald has advertised another wearying
eo'g-laying competition, and the published conditions
show that these events mean good money to somebody.
£6O is offered in prizes, and entries are limited to 100 at
£l, which means a profit of £4O for a start. Further, all
the eggs laid become the property of the committee, and,
if the 600 hens only lav 100 each during the year, 60,000
eo-gs means between £2OO and £3OO. Steps are taken, of
course, to ensure that the eggs are unfertile, otherwise
they would run up to £1 Is. a setting. There is always a
general scramble to get an entry accepted for these com-
petitions, which are getting on the ordinary reader’s
nerves. When Wade takes to his trade of suppressing
things again, his attention should be drawn to these
exasperating events. ,
The annual speed carnival of the American
Automobile Club, on the Ormond-Daytona Beach,
Florida, has been set down for January 22nd to 27th. The
last meeting saw the world’s mile record won by a Stanley
steam car, driven bv F. Marriott. The world’s best petrol
car makers have built special machines to win back that
record, and as the steam-car people have built special
cars to retain it, a Titanic struggle will probably ensue.
The end of it will be that one of these whizzers will un-
expectedly develop into a flying machine. The best
times last year were 28 l-ssec. for the flying mile, and
68 4-ssec. for the flying two-mile championships. The
latter was established by a 200 h.p. Darracq. At present
the best time made by a petrol car in the mile contest is
2 2-ssec. less than Marriott’s in the steam Stanley.
« * * *
In America, over 44 miles of road near Boston,
a twin-cylindered car (h.p. not mentioned) was recently
driven 3000 miles without stopping the engine, on £6 10s.
worth of petrol, 161 £ gallons. This works out at lj miles
per penny. In Victoria, last week, A. G. Hampton drove
a 6h.p. single cylinder de Dion over 90J miles on 2s. lOd.
worth of petrol, or at the rate of 2'66 miles per penny.
J. W. Moffat drove his 4-cylindered lOh.p. Beeston-
Humber 76 3-8 miles on the same quantity, equal to
2'257 miles per penny. So what does the blessed Yankee
think of that now ?
* * * *
R. L. Baker goes to England to represent
N.S.W. in the English amateur boxing championships
next year. “Snowy” Baker has been top-notcher in
Australasia for a number of years, and should be a worthy
prop to keep the Kangaroo’s tail out of the mud.
* * * *
The facial beauty of Yankee champion bruiser
O’Hagen-O’Brien seems to be in considerable jeopardy.
“ Gooner” Moir is now in the States, seeking an oppor-
tunity of knocking corners off it, and O’Hagen-O’Brien
seems anxious to avoid coming in very close contact with
the “Gooner.” Moir declares that if he cannot force
O’Brien into the ring in the States he will go back to
England and fight for the championship of the
Cold Country, and then return to the States and claim
the championship there. In the meantime, it is said
that William Squires is also anxious to cause O’Brien
pain, and is likely to go East in pursuit of the beauty
boxer. If Moir’s English trip works out right the British
champion and the Australian champion will meet in the
States for the championship of the world, and then
O’Brien will be forced to fight either one or the other, or
take a back seat. Meanwhile, it is said that the
terrible Jeffries is returning to the ring, in which case, in
all probability, the names of Moir and Squires stand a
good chance of being changed to Dirt and Mud respec-
tively.
■* * • *
Joe Walcott, posing as colored middleweight
champion of New South Wales, was introduced to the
Melbourne public by the Olympic Club on Monday night,
the 17th, when he met the local champion of the fish-
hawkers, Ted Whiting, one of the most industrious pugs
Melbourne has produced. Previously Whiting had
climbed over Walcott in nine rounds in Sydney, but
the chocolate pug was not satisfied, and on this
occasion sailed in to mop up the Melbournian in
half-a-tick, or something under. Whiting, however,
desires nothing better than a whirling mix-up, and
Joe stopped most of his hot stuff wit.i his
face. The lads had agreed not to worry over a clean
break, and the result was the wildest fight yet seen at the
Cyelorama. The contestants did not bite or kick, but
they hit in holds, gouged, bored, screwed, and wrestled,
and literally wallowed their way through 13 rounds, Wal-
cott getting much the bigger half of the punishment every
time. After the 13th, the coon was quite satisfied that
the white Australian was the better man, and appealed
to his seconds to toss in the duster. Whiting’s win en-
titles him to claim the ju-jitsu, cateh-as-catch-can,
barrow-pushers’ welter-weight championship.
* * » •
That scrap between Montague Andrews and
Robert Whitelaw, at Sydney National Amphitheatre, last
week, was the third between these gentry. On the first
occasion Montague got the tired feeling ; he had a dim
suspicion if the thing lasted longer he would never get
his mouth into proper position again. The second meet-
ing found Montague much improved, and in better fettle,
and he twirled his fists and body in an artistic manner
that won the decision on points. The latest scrap was
a full-length energetic affair, in which Montague did
the most damage in the early part of the unpleasantness,
while towards the end Whitelaw got in some very telling
bashes. The only trouble was that neither carried a
knock-out punch in his kit. It was interesting, but it is
doubtful if it was “ scrapping.” In this writer’s opinion
no twenty round fight between ordinary men is.
* * * *
The glory of Mike Williams, champion of
S’Africa and a few other places, came to a sudden end
when, before 10,000 people, he bumped Australia’s cham-
pion, Squires, at Richmond racecourse (Melb.), Saturday
afternoon. Squires hurled himself in with a simul-
taneous left and right that caught Williams off
his guard, and hit him where he lived. Williams was
accustomed to fighters who pawed round before getting
to serious business, and this business-like directness
demoralised him somewhat. Nevertheless, he stood up
gamely and reached for Squires’ point. But the
elusive Australian faded like the mirage, and, as
Williams’ blows landed on the air, he came in again
and rained blows on jaw, nose and eye. Williams
fell to his knees, but struggled up to receive half-a-dozen
more, and again went down. That was the end—4s
seconds, yet a long sermon on the value of getting a good
blow in first.
• * * *
A strictly-accurate man, with a neat turn of
expression, was the Omrah sailor who lately described a
little mill between one of the ship’s officers and a luggage
porter, by saying that he had observed the former “lead-
ing the porter by his clothes” off the vessel. Seeing that
the mate had taken the other by the scruff of the neck
and the slack of his pants, and had run him violently
down the baggage gangway, the sailorman was mani-
festly an unemotional and unexaggerative person.
* * * *
N.S.W. XI. met a Ballarat XYI. on
Friday in the city that didn’t go back on Deakin.
Feature of the match was a beautiful and artistic
exhibition by Gregory. Top score for Ballarat was
50, made by Hodge before Hopkins got him with a
fast straight one. The innings closed for 178. Then the
Walers got on the job. The natives were not
astonished till Gregory started to smack up 112 m no
time ; and, later on, Macartney wrote 101 on the board
before Hale caught him off Bailey. When N.S.W. had
scored 369 for eight wickets, Ballarat went off and either
groaned. , , , *
A curious feature of the match between Mel-
bourne Church of England and Sydney Grammar Schools
was that in the first innings Melbourne smacked 283, and
N.S.W. replied with 238—same figures, mixed differently.
Back at the sticks, however, Melbourne went to pieces
and was dismissed for 206, and at the drawing of stumps
Sydney had 256 for the loss of four wickets.
Apparently the professional ped. simply cannot
run straight, and the result is that flat-racing, which a
while ago threatened to again boom in N.S.W,, is now as
dead as a salt herring, and much more smelly. Even the
veteran promoter, McGrory, has thrown up the sponge.
Not a single fixture is listed for the rest of December or
January in N.S.W. In the West the business still keeps
its head above water.
* * * '
Although there is, of course, no doubt that
Postle beat Day with comparative ease at Kalgoorlie, it
must be urged for the visitor that circumstances were
very much against him. The heat was terrific, the dust
was worse, and to the stranger from muddy soil and
leaden skies it was unusually distressing. The man from
the Isle of Bogs also states that he could not see the
track, and had to let Postle lead the way in the 300
yards event. Right through the present footracing
boom in Westralia strong suspicion has attached
itself to the timing. Using the split watch is a
science, and the Westralians seemed to have erred
on the sensational side right through. F rinstance,
Postle is credited with covering the 75yds. in 7 l-6sec.
Well if he did, he travelled almighty fast. =lt is admitted
that the track is slightly down hill, but not noticeably
so In the 300 he is credited with 30 4-ssec., which is
•just plain absolutely marvellous (if he did it). Inde-
pendent watches made it several seconds more.
From happy England. John Stratton,
90 years old, and his third wife, aged 68 years,
have applied for out-relief to the King’s Norton
Board of Guardians. Stratton is the father of 33
children, but none of them is able to keep him.
Advt. S.M.H., 17/12/’O6
(CONGENIAL Employment, wages and half profit,
for bona fide industrious man with £lOO, no ex-
perience necessary, but must be Anti-Socialist and
sober. No agents. PRINCIPAL. G.P.O.
Monkey land has taken another step for-
ward in the direction of combining the yellow
races, with the ultimate object of driving the
whites out of Asia. The Indo-Japanese Associa-
tion, which numbers many leading Japs among
its members, has been formed at Tokio, “ to pre-
pare the ground for Great Britain granting to
India self-government on the basis of that of
Canada and Australia.” When Brer Monkey
thus starts to put an interfering paw into his pot,
Brer Bull may begin to have other thoughts about
that alliance.
As mixed drinks, and too many of ’em,
are bad tor voters, so are mixed politics and too
many of ’em detrimental to the country. Electors,
of the male sex, anyway, who plump all the time
forD.C.L. Whisky follow without a swerve the
straight path of progress. Inspiration to political
wisdom and D.C.L. Whisky can be poured
together from the same bottle every time. D.C.L.
is the brand of enlightment as well as of learning.
London Outlook records the rejuvenation
of China :
There has been opened the first stretch of railway from
the Chinese capital to Kalgan. When this line is com-
pleted across the old overland tea route, it will cut off the
immense Manchurian detour and will bring Pekin within
twelve days of London. The railway has been entirely
constructed up to the present terminus, and will be com-
pleted, by a Cantonese engineer, educated in America. It
is expected that the line will be completed in three years.
The characteristic process now going on in China is none
the less portentous for being devoid of what the geologists
call catastrophic features. It is nothing less than revolu-
tion by instalments.
Chamberlain’s Tablets are “Just What
You Need ” when there is a feeling of fullness
and distress after meals. They aid digestiQn and
regulate the bowels, leaving them in a natural
and healthy condition.*
While overlanding from the N.T. to
Queensland, drover Rose chanced across Tom
Hume, a white man, who has lived for 20 years
with the blacks at Top Springs. On reaching the
border the men struck for higher wages, so Rose
paid them off, and with the aid of Hume and his
following of niggers, the great mob of nearly3ooo
head of cattle were taken to the Cloncurry River
(a distance of 300 miles), where other whites were
available.
OPEN SESAME.—-Hunyadi Janos Water
is the “open sesame” of the human organism.
Speedy, sure, and gentle, it fulfils every mdica-
tion in health and disease. It is a therapeutical
arsenal in itself. Indispensable to millions of
human beings all over the world.*
The monopolistic —and, of course, Anti-
Sosh—Melbourne Gas Co. made a grievous blun-
der when, the very day after his election was
assured, it went to court to garnishee Senator
Russell’s deposit for an allegedly unpaid gas bill
of a couple of pounds. Next day the co. dis-
covered that the Russell it wanted its money from
was quite a different person ; but so far it hasn t
explained its haste in rushing to the Law without
first taking the trouble to ask the Senator for the
amount. Had it taken that simple course it
wouldn’t have made such an ass of itself.
Lord Chief Justice Coleridge, on property
in land (the quotation was made recently in Yic.
Parliament by John Murray):—
In the present day there is nothing perhaps as to which
confusion of thought is greater and more mischievous
than as to property itself... ; and as to the laws of pro-
perty. Now what is the right of property? The end of
property is subsistence, by which end nature has bounded
our pretensions to it; hence, in the state of nature, we
cannot take more than we use, nor hold it longer
than we live, and are capable of using it. ...
All laws of property must stand upon the general advan-
tage, for a country belongs to its inhabitants; and in
what proportions and by what rules its inhabitants are
to own its property must be settled by law, and the
moment a fragment of the people sets up rights as inherent
in them, and not founded on the public good, plain ab-
surdities follow, for laws of property are like all other
laws, to be changed when the public good requires it. It
would be wel. indeed that the owners of property in land
or money . . . should recognise that the title to . the
enjoyment of it must rest upon the same foundation ;
and that the mode and measure of their enjoyment of the
common stock of the State, if it injures the State, can no
more be defended, and will no more be endured, by a
free people than any other public nuisance or mischief.
At Wellington (M.L.), there are some 200
prisoners employed making bricks. The job is
done thoroughly on up-to-date lines, with the
result that thousands of good unsold bricks are
stacked in the yard. The “Guv’mint” has the
last possible ass of an agreement with Private
Enterprise whereby the prison-made brick shall
not be sold unless P. Enterprise is wholly unable
to cope with the demand for the article. The
fact that the bricks might be sold at the same
price that P. Enterprise charges, and the proceeds
applied towards the support of Mr. Sikes’s family,
never seems to have struck the persons who made
this ultimate mule of an agreement.
Tasmanian Government Railway Department
has issued a comprehensive guide book to the Raspberry
Isle. It is well printed, profusely illustrated, and full of
information. It gives elaborate details of. hqw to reach
by rail or coach all the reasonably accessible parts of the
island where good fishing is to be obtained, sights to be
seen, and bracing climate to be enjoyed.
However one may reprobate the tendency on
the part of Commercial Travellers to occupy their clients’
time with stories of a religious nature, in the mass the
Travellers are a fine, patriotic body of men, and the latest
issue of their “Australia To-day and New Zealand’s
proves it. This splendidly printed, well-illustrated pro-
duction is full of useful information as to the resources of
the Commonwealth and Isles beyond. It shows the
marvellous progress they have made in a material way
and is full of useful information to people contem,
plating a trial of their luck in the Commonwealth or-
Maoriland.
John Sands takes time by the forelock and
brings out his Directory for Sydney and Suburbs for 190/
while 1906 is gasping out its last days. Roughly, the
work is divided into 13 sections. There is a general
index to the names of buildings, chambers, ter-
races, etc., all arranged in alphabetical order.
The street, suburban, alphabetical, trades and pro-
fessional, and country commercial directories are in
their usual places, so that people who use the Directory
regularly can find them in the dark. There are lists of
educational, ecclesiastical and legal personages, including
even the Justice of the Peace. Firms with fixed pay-
days, Commonwealth and State Government and Parlia-
mentary dignitaries occupy their usual niches. It is
a complete directory.


Lora Kitchener.
\y
1
Sir Henry Irving.
m
liMlli
IjSlVi
m 3
wm
Sir Edmund Burton,
TESTIMONIALS:
Lord Kitchener writes: “He much
enjoys Marsuma Cigars.”
Sir Henry Irving writes : “They are
of very fine quality.”
Sir Edmund Barton considers quality
excellent.
SOLE AGENTS:
FELDHEIM, COTTHELF& CO., Sydney, N.S.W.
FOTHERCILL & CO., Fremantle, W.A.
MR. DAN REDDAN, Fitzroy, Melbourne, Vic.
Mr. DUNCAN McLEAN, Greymouth, N.Z.
Messrs. AULD & SONS, Adelaide, S.A.
Messrs. WHITE & CO., Hobart, Tasmania.
Mr. P. A. 0. BYRNE, Launceston, Tas.
R. W. SWAN, Adelaide.
Barney Allen
TURF COLOSSUS
OF AUSTRALIA.
S.P.
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
THE GOLDEN KING,
Sufficient address—
BARNEY ALLEN,
Melbourne.
Business Commissions
executed on the most
liberal terms.
30 years before the
public, never found
wanting.
I guarantee clients the
highest market price
obtainable.
intending investors, send
for my quotations
before dealing with
others.
%
STANDISH and 6AGOT.
PERTH CUP and RAILWAY
STAKES.
VILLIERS STAKES and
SUMMER CUP.
CARRINGTON STAKES and
TATTERSALL’S CUP.
Bankers
Victoria and Royal Banks.
Subscribers
are notifed that LATEST INFOR-
MATION AND QUOTATIONS will
be found in ft The King of
Sport ” newspaper, published weekly, and posted free throughout Aus-
tralia for 4s. 6d. yearly.
Address: 44 King of Sport ” Office, 294 Collins St„ Melbourne,
PUNCTURES!
THE REPUTABLE DEALER knows
that it is good, and that is why he
recommends . . .
THE OTHER KIND OF DEALER
knows that it is good, and that is why he
doesn’t recommend . . .
PUNCTURES ! !
MIRAGULUM
MIRACULUM
He is looking
after your
interests.
He is looking
after repairs
and renewals.
YOU WILL. KNOW WHICH DEALER TO GO TO!
IPV*MIRACULUM seals punctures instantly and
automatically; preserves the rubber and does not
affect the face. It is economical and easily used,
and is absolutely reliable.
I
Charging: Depot: 266 Latrobe Street (2 Doors
from Elizabeth Street).
BICYCLES, 45.; MOTOR CARS, from 30s.
All dealers, or write for Booklet.
Mirariiliim Pnmnratinn I+H 395 coll/ns street, Melbourne
miracuium uorporaiion Lilia, VICKERY’S chambers, 82 pittst., SYDNEY.
"A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.”
Post Free 6d. from “The
Bulletin ** Office.
w
y
/
/
/
/
%
Ts
A
k
j
r
Yi
h
v/i
7.
/
(/.
A?
Wa
/ .
V/sA
Y/
SPEEDMEN
On Road and Track swear by
DUNLOP
TYRES
FOR
fast riding
AND
HARD WEAR
Another Big Victory
FOR THE AUSTRALIAN DUNLOP.
AUSTRAL WHEEL RACE, 1906
Won by H. THOMAS (20 yards) in the Record Time
for the Race of 3 mins. 59 4/5 secs, on “ DUNLOPS.”
The Big Australasian Cycling Double for 1906—The
Warrnambool Road Race and Austral Wheal Race—have
been carried off by Australia’s Foren ost Tyre.
None to equal the Australian-made
Tyre in Quality or Value.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS*
Roadster Tyres Guaranteed 12 Months*
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
MELBOURNE, SVONEY ADELAIDE PERTH, BRISBANE and CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z,
This is “British patriotism” as understood
by the Randlords of B’Africa, the men who made
the war to destroy the Boer republics “for the
sake of the Union Jack ” :
Rather native labor, rather Chinamen even, than the
scum of England or other country, who, with their equal
rights, will run riot in the land, upset all calculation,
and do nothing else but strike on the smallest provoca-
tion.
It is an extract from an approved “Progressive
party” manifesto to the Johannesburg electors.
In Victoria nine candidates ran for the
Senate, of whom three were Anti-Sosh ; the
Deakinites and Labor men polled 592,286 votes,
Anti-Sosh 477,726; nevertheless two Anti-Sosh
men sit for Victoria. In N.S.W. the Labor
people scattered their votes over six candidates;
Anti-Sosh went straight for its three Reid phono-
fraphs, but, in any case, it had a big majority.
'hat majority was the result of a systematic
refusal on the part of the daily press to
even publish the names of the Labor bunch, let
alone report their views, and the Labor men,
being new and practically unknown, had an im-
possible task. .In S.A. Anti-Sosh was 11,152 to
the bad, but owing to the opposition being divided
among four men, while Anti-Sosh votes were only
divided by three, S.A. returns two Anti-Sosh
Senators.
N.S.W. Gov. Rawson’s excursions into
matters which don’t concern him are singularly
unfortunate. Once he was before the public as
an advocate of flogging. Now he joins in with
the daily paper cry about the people who don’t
vote :
He had been horrified to see the apathy of Australians
in the Federal election, and could not really believe that
not 50 per cent, of the people who had votes took the
trouble to record them.
The wail concerning the people who don’t vote
mostly arises from ignorance—unconscious some-
times, at other times wilfully assumed, to explain
away a defeat. The number of names on the rolls is
always far in excess of the actual number of persons
who actually could vote in that electorate. There’s
always a proportion who have moved at the last
moment and can’t honestly vote; a proportion
have died ; others are too ill, or are unexpectedly
travelling; there’s even a small proportion who
have gone mad or got into gaol in the interval
between roll collection and voting. Calculations
on the basis that .all the names on the electoral
roll represent possible voters are sadly erroneous.
As a matter of fact, voting in Australia is very
popular. Any electioneering agent can tell stories
of small localities of a certain stable type where
every possible vote has been polled.


A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Scarf Pin,
set Pearl and Ruby'
or Sapphire, 10s;
15ct. Gold, 15s.
GIFTS for XMAS.
Our Xmas display offers the widest pos-
sible opportunity for selection. These
illustrations give you but a suggestion ot
the thousand-and-one useful and beautiful
things we have in stock.
2 re
2~
A. SAUNDERS.
Cent's Collar Stud Rox, Pure Silver-
plated, Pierced Design, 4s 6d;
Ollier Styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold Kangaroo Charm,
5s 6d.
Emu Design, 5s 6d.
SOLID
GOLD,
£3.
SOLID
SILVER,
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Hunting Keyless
Watches, full jewelled, 255, 30s,
355, 40s, 50s, 00s. Solid Gold,
£3, £3 10s, £4, £5, £6 10s £7 10s.
XMAS CATALOGUE.
If you have not received our Xmas Cata-
logue, write for a copy now. We send it
post free to any address. All*goods sent
carriage free anywhere in Australasia.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Xmas Bell
Charm, 7s 6d;
with Pin and Chain,
12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent's Solid Silver Cigar Cutter,
6s 6d; Plain, 4s 6d.
Other Styles.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Heart or
Round Shape Pendant,
Bet Pearls and Ru'~.iea
or Sapphires, 2Ds.
mmmmm
Solid Brass 8-day French
Carriage Clock, Well Fin-
ished, Lever Escapement,
4fin high, 40s. Other
Styles, 255, 80s, 40s, 60s.
A. SAUNDEIIS.
Bet. Gold 2-Bar Brooch, Pearl-set Scroll, 17s 6d.
15ct. Gold, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
ISct. Gold, Diamond and
Rubies or Sapphires, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
LBct. Gold, Diamond and
Rubies or Sapphires, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Star Pendant or
Brooch, set Fine White Pearls,
£5 ss. Similar Styles, 355,
40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 3-Bar Brooch, set Pearls and Ruby or
Sapphire, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
ISct. Gold, Diamond and
Rubies or Sapphires, £3;
S Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Pure Diamonds
and Rubies or
Sapphires, £7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Sovereign
Purse, 8s 6d; Silver Filled,
6s 6d; Solid Gold,
£2 12s 6d; Gold Filled, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Set. Gold and Pearl Trowel
Charm. Ss 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Serviette Clip,.
2s 6d;
Extra Heavy, Ss 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Stone
Set Shoe Charm, Is 6dJ.
A SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Cigar Case, Morocco
Tan or Black, Silver Shield,
Other Styles, 6s 6d, 8s 6d,
12s 6d. 15s.
Leather,
10s 64.
10s 6d,
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Bird Brooch, Pearl,
Ruby, or Turquoise, set Spray,
4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent’s. Solid Silver Hair and Cloth or Hat
Brush, in Solid Leather Case, Richly
Embossed, 20s.
Other Styles, 355, £3, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Chain Purse, Richly Embossed,
Size Sin x 3Jin, 70s; Engraved, 60s.
Other Styles, 30s, 355, 40s, 60s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold 2-Bar Brooch, set Diamond
and Fine White Pearls, 22s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold “Luck;”
Shoe Charm, 5s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Nail, File,
3b 6d. ■
A. SAUKDEKS.
Solid Silver Tie Clip, 2s.
Engraved, 2s 6d.
9ct. Gold, 12s 6d;
Engraved, 15s.
Lady’s Purse and’ Card Case,.
Seal Leather, Black and
Green, Pure Silver Mounts,
15s. Other Styles, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 16s, 17s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Manicure Set, handsomely
embossed, in Silk-lined Case, 15s.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 17s Gd, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Set. Gold Bar Brooch, Amethyst
Centre, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Sulid Silver Hair Brush, richly embossed, extra
long fine White Bristles, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
SliPSi#
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Ivy Deal Bar
Brooch, 7s 6d.
15ct. Gold. 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct- Gold Heart and Dumbbell
Links, 12s 6d.
loot. Gold, 255; Silver, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Floral Spray Brooch,
set Diamond Spark, 12s 6d.
New Zealand Greenstone Heart
n StAf a ,
5s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS'. I -
- Brush anal
Soap Holder, Solid;
Silver, 15s-6d.
Other- Styles*
7s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Floral Spray Brooch, set Fine
White Pearls, £4 10s.
The Latest Design.
-jorjou
■ ::v
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Signet Ring,
20s; 15et. Gold, £2;
18et. Gold, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Pure Double
cut Diamond, £3;
Larger, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Curling Tong, Solid Silver Hsi idles, Richly Embossed, Polished Steel End, 6iin
long, 8s 6d. Other Styles, 6s 6d, 16s 6d.
Solid
Silver,
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless
Watches, Full Jewelled, £2, £2 10s, £B,
£3 10s, £4, £5, £6, and £lO.
Solid Gold, £7 10s, £8 10s, £lO, to £6O.
Solid
Gold,
£7/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Bamboo Bracelet, fitted with strong Safety
Chain, 255.
Larger, 9ct. Gold, SOs, 355, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Cct. Gold Hand Clasp
Ring, 255;
15ct. Gold, £2 10s;
ISct. Gold, £3.
i
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold BueKle
Ring, 17s 6d;
15ct. Gold, 80s;
ISct. Gold, £2.
I
A. SAUNDEKS.
9ct. Gold Pin,
Chain and Wishbone
Charm, 5s 6d;
Larger, 7b 6d.
A. SAUNDERS. _ „, in
K«k«, ■sns-ft-siofa w-
Sydney's Leading Joweller,
Silversmith and Op tician,
A. SAUNDERS.
809, 811,813,815,817 George-st-,
SYDNEY, N.S.W,


5F* Gfc,
/V
\ /j
A
, x
r
At
My Word!”
My Cigarette—CAPSTAN!


9
The Best is Not too Good
FOR
THE AUSTRALIAN!
THEREFORE BUY
COPYRIGHT.
11 His Master’s Voice ” Quality
“ HIS MASTER’S VOICE.”
GRAMOPHONES .»■«
Gramophone Records.
THEY ARE THE BEST.
THERE ARE OTHERS, BUT
KUGELM ANN’S
'V
'-V v
0
Ptire
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
“Beauty's
Aid-"
FREE
SAMPLE
gent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann's Pure Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pel
return mail. Sole Proprietors—
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE jt 199 Clarence St, SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
WONDERLAND CITY
(THE CONEY ISLAND OF AUSTRALIA).
THE PRIDE AND ADMIRATION OF ALL.
Sole Proprietor and Director r- WM. ANDERSON.
ITS FAME AND GLORY EXTOLLED BY THOUSANDS.
YOU CANNOT PICTURE ITS MAGNITUDE.
IT HAS TO BE SEEN.
Abundant Opportunities for Merriment. An Unending Source of Delight.
COUNTRY VISITORS, who want to know what enjoyment really is, who
want to taste the delights of being hurled through space on the newest swift
motion devices, to sup in the open air, to hear the best music, and experience an
honest, thorough-going revel, must seek out Wonderland City. lake the Bondi lram.
THE HIT OF THE HOLIDAY SEASON.
Wonderland City cost the proprietor £20,000. It’s yours for 6d., and your
children’s for 3d. _
NOVELTY IS THE PASSWORD.
“ Half a hundred shows in one.”—S.M. Herald.
A FEW OF THEM.—Marionette Theatre, Royal Aquarium, Waxworks of
Celebrities, Palace of Illusions, The Fun Factory, Helter Skelter, Topsy Turveydom,
Maze, Switchback Railway, American Shooting Gallery, Open-air Roller Skating
Rink, Imperial Menagerie of Wild Beasts, Miniature Railway, Double-decker Riding
Gallery. The Grand Boulevard, Surf Avenue, The Glen, Wonderland City Military
Band, Ladies’ Orchestra (20 performers), Metropolitan City Band, Katzenjammer
Castle, Alice, the Elephant and the Children’s Friend.
SENSATIONAL FEAT.
Professor Cormack, England’s Greatest High Diver, will give sensational exhibi-
tions of high-diving THIS AFTERNOON and TO-NIGHT. He will be assisted by a
TROUPE OF DIVING GIRLS.
“ Go and take the kiddies.”—Daily Telegraph.
IDEAL PICNICKING PLACE.
Visitors to Wonderland City wishing “to make a day of it ” are notified that the
grounds are open from 11 a.m. till 11 p.m. to them daily at the ordinary admis-
sion charges. There is a beautiful beach where the children may paddle.
FREE FESTIVAL OF FUN !
“ There is a liberal supply of free entertainments, including first-rate vaudeville
talent, and an open-air beach theatre, a menagerie, waxworks, and aquarium, a
hippodrome, circus, and music of three bands.” — Evening News.
WHEN SYDNEY IS STUFFY—take a Bondi Tram to WONDERLAND ClTY—where
Ocean Breezes Blow.
KING’S THEATRE OF VARIETIES.
EILEEN CAPEL, Imitations of well-known Stage Favorites.
ROCHFORT and HART, Talented Duettists.
THE MUSICAL GARDNERS, Clever and refined Instrumental Act.
NELLIE MAHER, a Dazzling Serio.
NELLIE—THE QUEALYS—HARRY, in their Great Frolic Dance.
EDITH MAITLAND, Illustrated Songstress.
LA PETITE LAURIE, Child Equilibrist.
LITTLE LILY GRIMSHAW, Coon Impersonator.
MEXICAN JACK, the Famous Scout and Sharpshooter.
THE WONDERSCOPE, Entirely Novel Series of Fun-provoking Pictures.
PLEASANT SUNDAYS.
TWO GRAND PROMENADE CONCERTS,
Afternoon and Evening. LEADING ARTISTS. 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. 8 p.m to 10 p.m.
The Concerts will be under the Musical Directorship of Mr. George Gardner.
At night the Grounds will be illuminated by Myriads of Electric Lights.
SUNDAY. 2 P.M. TILL 10 P.M. SUNDAY,
A Modern Melodrama.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
nVXICK Wibner had been in the ring
I with Fate, and after threp uninteresting
rounds was left hanging on to the ropes.
Round the first saw Nick married to a lady with
a temper of ice and a vacant allotment where the
heart machinery usually moves and throbs. Nick’s
wife never throbbed; she never scolded or wept
over him when the bookmakers gave him bits of
pasteboard in exchange for his wages.
Nick was a compositor by trade. There are
other romantic callings, such as whaling and
preparing nitro-glycerine for the use of safe-
breakers, but Nick preferred to lift type, and
collect pie, until baldness and desolation set in.
In the course of years the woman of ice, with
the vacancy in her emotions, presented Nick with
a family. When he was not dropping type into
the eye of the world, Nick would watch his four
sons crawling -to the brink of manhood —it was
hinted not one of the four would ever arrive at
the edge. Three of them wore spectacles like
Nick. The other sold evening papers and shep-
herded Nick home on Saturdays—when it would
have taken nine dogs and three drovers to keep
his wages from rushing through the wings of the
bookmaker’s yard.
There was one daughter, Nina. Even the
deadliness of her home surroundings could not
suppress her soulful laughter, or the quick tongue
that rippled about her father’s ears and almost
shook his lifeless ego into being.
“Daddy, daddy, why don’t you laugh? Why
don’t you put your head out of the window and
sing, like O’Leary, next door ? ”
“Don’t worry me, Nina; don’t worry. My
hands are cold. My feet never seem to get warm
in this house. .. . Damn O’Leary’s singing ; he
wakens me in t}ie morning ! ”
“Picking up type makes you cold, daddy,
doesn’t it?”
“Strikes into the heart, child. .. . The bad
light blinds me. You don’t know how cold lead
is, Nina, until ”
“ Until what, daddy ? ”
“ Until the letters begin to drop into your soul.
Think of it,” he said, with a nod. “All the
people I’ve buried and married and sent to gaol.
The endless processions of rogues and blackguards
I’ve beatified and canonised, and—and you want
me to sing like O’Leary.”
When Nick’s family averaged 17 years old, the
woman who had missed her emotions took to her
bed and refused to get better. The doctors said
a little imagination would have kept her alive.
Her vital forces had no central depbt; her soul
was without fingers and couldn’t hang on. She
passed away in the dark, and Nick worked over-
time to pay the funeral expenses.
Thereafter, Nick entered upon his second round
with Fate, breathing hard.
The boys had no time for Nick. They drifted
east and west into commonplace occupations—as
plumbers, printers, carpenters. The youngest
boy, with a flicker of Romance in his blood, be-
came a painter and signwriter.
Nina, the laughterful, became a fashionable
barmaid and finally disappeared in a yellow dog-
cart driven by a bookmaker named Josephs.
Bitterness crept into Nick Wilmer’s soul. There
was nothing on the horizon to illumine the future
—only the cold comp, room and the heaps of pie
and the lye and the blurred face of Nina shining
down endless columns of type.
One day, in company with a man named
Bliteher, he started a paper called the Fist.
Blitcher had ability and a pen ; he sharpened the
latter daily on the public’s nerves. From its
roots the Fist was a nasty paper. The office
smelt of blackmail; it became the haunt of the
sandbag journalist and the pony spieler. Sport
and defamations filled its bill for some years until
the public grew tired and a bailiff looked in to
read the proofs.
Blitcher was not without hope. “Thirty
pounds will pay our debts,” he said cheerfully.
“ Thirty pounds will give us a fresh start. I’m
out for scalps to-day.” He put on his frock-
coat leisurely, left the office and did not return
until evening. Nick Wilmer was bending over a
form, his back to the light, as his partner entered
hurriedly.
Blitcher took some manuscript from his pocket,
and placed it in front of Nick. “Set it up to-
night,” he said huskily. “ I want to show a proof
in the morning to Mrs. Armstrong, at the most
expensive hotel in town. Don’t fail me,
YVilmer.”
Nick wiped his spectacles and ran his eye over
the MS., nodding and grunting as the bitterly
worded contents reached his mind. “It’s awful
printing stuff like this about a woman,” he said
feebly. “Is she well off ? ” •
“Prominent New York society woman. One
of the Four Hundred, I believe. Married a
young oil magnate only last September. She
brought him to Australia to cool his heels and
break him of home and mother.”
“Is —is all this blackguard information about
her career as a girl authentic ? ” mumbled Wilmer.
“ We’ve more trouble than we can fight at present
without buying fresh libels.”
“We’ll give her a chance to buy the proof,
anyhow,” snapped Blitcher. “Thirty quid will
keep it out of print. She’d pay ten times the
amount to keep her boy husband from seeing it.
She spends £2OO a year on poodle dogs. ’
At 10 o’clock next morning Blitcher dis-
appeared with a proof of the article, while the
bailiff prowled round the composing-room, peep-
ing inquisitively over the printer’s shoulder, and
asking questions, .
At 2 o’clock Biitcher appeared, his face puffed
and livid about the eyes. Nick Wilmer regarded
him with a watery, inquisitive stare. “ How did
she like it?” he asked. “We’ll have to be care-
ful. I don’t want to end my days in gaol. Did
—did ” .
“ She sat down and laughed in the drawing-
room while I read it to her,’’ snarled Blitcher.
“ She admitted that it was a damaging piece of
literature, but didn’t feel inclined to buy it just
then. But I’ll make her sweat, the velvet-footed
tigress. I’ll post her husband the first copy we
print. I guess he’s made of cheese if he stays
with her afterwards.” ... , „
“ Hush, hush; don’t let the bailiff hear you .
whined his partner.
The night came with a biting southerly and
driving rain. A cab drew up outside the liST
newspaper office. A woman, delicately veiled
and gloved, alighted and slipped upstairs like one
well acquainted with editors and printing estab-
lishments.
A ujme painted on a hingeless door caught her
eye. She tapped softly, and Nick Wilmer opened
it, scrutinising her closely. “ Daddy. . . . Have
I grown much ? ” she half whispered.
He stared at her through liis spectacles for a
moment, and his cold right hand went up to Ins
olamvny brow. “ Nina,” he said feebly. “ Come
in, child.”
He felt her warm, young fingers clasping his
bloodless hands, and through the blackguard
years of his life he saw her again, a little child in
the grey-faced house with the broken gate. And
now . . . she had come with rain on her beautiful
clothes and hot tears in her eyes. And behind it
all was a thought that he had lost count of time—
that his memory was slipping, slipping into a cold
inferno of lead type.
“ Daddy, sit here ! ” she choked. “ Oh, daddy,
daddy! ”
“What is it, Nina?” His voice was cracked.
A taste white as death stayed in his mouth.
“Don’t look so frightened.” His white head
nodded like a broken flower-stalk. “And don’t
cry in my office, Nina : Blitcher might hear you.
“Daddy, listen ... It was bad of me to leave
you, you remember. I became a barmaid, and
took a passage to America. I did well. Got
married. He’s only a boy—only a boy, daddy,
and I want to be good to him.”
“That’s right. Nina, that’s right. Be good to
him.” The white head nodded again. The
watery eyes blinked at her through the spectacles.
“ I’m going to be a woman, daddy ; I’m going
to live for my husband. Now .. . listen, daddy.
That partner of yours came to my hotel this
morning with that—that unspeakable story . . .
all a lie and a slander !” she cried bitterly.
Nick Wilmer sat rigid in the chair beside his
daughter, his fingers locked over his knees. He
did not speak.
“ I understand that your paper comes out once
a week, daddy,” she went on, “and —are you
listening, daddy ?—you simply mustn’t let that
thing appear in print. It won’t hurt me socially,
but it will break his heart. Daddy, are you lis-
tening?”
A cracked smile seemed to expand over Nick
Wilmer’s face; then he hugged hie knees, as
though he were nursing an angry wolf. His head
fell slightly forward.
The accompanying silence struck her sharper
than blackguard words or printed articles. A
voice reached her from the street below—the yell-
ing, high-pitched voice of a newsboy.
“Fust edition ! Sydney’s Bedlamite Barmaid
Hooks a Gilded Jay ! ”
The Fist had gone to press for its last issue a
day earlier than usual.
N.B.W.
ALBERT DORRINGTON.
Canada has discarded the Lee'-Enfield,
and has armed her forces with the Ross rifle, the
arm being made at Quebec, where, on the strength
of the Government contract, the Ross company
established its works. What Canada can do
surely Australia can do.
Victorian Labor Political Executive is
said to be able to see, as a result of the
Federal elections, that things are wrong, and
to be resolved op a big effort to right
them before the State elections. Still, it
is doubtful whether the Executive knows
what is wrong. The wild attack on Deakin,
directed and made by the Victorian Labor party,
has caused serious dissension. Nothing was so
unnatural or so disgusting in the whole contest in
Victoria as the obvious preference of the extreme
section of the Labor party for an Anti-Sosh can-
didate rather than a Deakinite.


Missing Friends.
nriOM STEWART, native of Victoria, 45
- 1 - years, on Oxley, Ulonga, and Nap Nap
Stations, in the early eighties. Any information
will be thankfully received by his brother,
JOHN H. STEWART,
Swan Hill, Victoria.
QUIN.— Wanted information of MICHAEL
QUIN, last heard of by his brother Bartle (in
Dublin) about five years ago. Was then working in
Bourke District, Wilcannia, N.S.W. Reply to
G. M. Quaid, c/o. B. Mountcastle & Sons, Brisbane.
Government Advertisement.
Under instructions from the Honorable the Minister
for Lands.
CROWN LAND SALE.
COUNTY CUMBERLAND. PARISH BOTANY,
BOROUGH OF RAND WICK.
AUCTION SALE ON THE GROUND,
SATURDAY, 19th JANUARY, 1007
at 2.30 o’clock p.m.
327 SUBURBAN ALLOTMENTS.
Part of the area is situated on the west and south of the
Randwick Rifle Range, between Rainbow-street, Bunne-
rong-road, and Maroubra Bay-road, intersected by the
tram line to Little Bay ; and part on the east and south of
the Labor Depot at Bunnerong, partly fronting Maroubra
Bay-road and Bunnerong-road and the tram line to
Little Bay.
Distant from 5£ to 7$ miles from the General Post
Office.
Prices, from £25 to £165 Per Lot.
TERMS : Deposit 25 per cent., balance in five equal
annual instalments, with interest at 5 per cent, per
annum.
Plans and all particulars may be obtained from the
Information Bureau, Department of Lands, Sydney ; or
the Auctioneers,
HARDIE (®L GORMAN,
(sa-91). PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Public Notice.
THE MISSES CLAPP will close their rooms
at Monahan’s Buildings, 231 Flinders Lane,
during the month of January, as usual. Business
will be resumed on FEBRUARY Ist.
Business Announcements.
RABBIT SKINS.
TO FILL OUR ORDERS WE REQUIRE
6,000,000 RABBIT SKINS
this Season, and are prepared to pay EXTREME PRICES.
IMMEDIATE RETURNS, NO COMMISSION.
Consign to—JAMES FAY, MCDONALD & CO.,
276 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
THE FIGHTING ROOSTERS
Perfectly Feathered Models of Game Fowls
Only Seven Pence
Per Pair
Post Free.
YOU can have lots of fun with these little Game Roosters
They can he made to light most fiercely in a perfectly
life-like manner. Only 7d. per pair complete, posted to any
address, with full directions. With each order we will send
our 200-page Illustrated Catalogue of Toys, Games, Puzzles.
THE UNION MFC. CO., 299 Elizabeth St., Melb.
Amusements.
Criterion theatre, Sydney
Direction of EDWIN GEACH.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING, the
WILLOUGHBY AND WARD PREMIER LONDON
COMEDY COMPANY, including'
MISS GRACE PALOTTA, the Famous Beauty Actress, in
THE HEW CLOWH.
PRICES—Ss, 3s, 2s,'and Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
“ " Under the Direction of J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING,
the Celebrated Young American Tragedienne, Miss
TITTELL BRUNE,
in the Romantic-Mystery Drama, entitled,
PARSIFAL;
or, THE REDEMPTION OF KUNDRY.
MISS TITTELL BRUNE as KUNDRY.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■■ IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT.
THIS THURSDAY AFTERNOON, DEC. 27, at 2 o’clock,
And EVERY SUBSEQUENT AFTERNOON at 2,
Mr. Williamson will present the charming Fairy Panto-
mime, founded on Lewis Carroll’s Popular Stories, “ Alice
in Wonderland” and “ Through the Looking-glass,” by
Saville Clarke. Music by YYalter Slaughter, entitled
“ALICE IN WONDERLAND,”
and interpreted entirely by Australian Children.
PRICES AS USUAL. BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
* Lessee J. C. WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING,
BLAND HOLT’S Special Attraction for the New Year
Holidays, entitled,
A PATH OF THORNS,
Written by Messrs. Arthur Shirley and Sutton Vane.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. PR,ICES as USUAL.
Highland society of new south
wales.
ANNUAL SCOTTISH CONCERT.
TOWN HALL. NEW YEAR’S NIGHT.
MADAME MAGGIE STERLING.
MISS LALLIE MACKENZIE.
MR. ANDREW BLACK.
MR. JOHN LEMMONE.
MR. EDGAR FULTON.
BALMAIN SCOTTISH CHOIR.
RESERVED SEATS, 4s. GALLERIES and BODY OF
PI ALL, 3s. EASTERN GALLERY, 2s. BACK SEATS, Is
BOX PLAN, PALING’S. J. CURRIE ELLES, Hon Sec.
■rIVE ACRES COVERED WITH TH E
WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES
. . . AT . . .
“DREAMLAN D,”
ST KILDA.
OPEN DAILY 2to il r.M. jagr - ADMISSION 6d.
E. S. SALAMBO, Managing Director.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY
* Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mu. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
Great Succsss of Mr. CHARLES LEONARD FLETCHER.
SELBO, the King of Clubs. Miss EMMIE MORRISON.
Miss CORA CASELLI.
DUNCAN AND GODFREY, in an Entirely New Sketch,
“ THE COSTER’S BABY.”
Great Success of Mr. LARRY LEWIS, Comedian.
MISS LEONIE DIXON, Mr. IRVING SAYLES.
Mr. POST MASON, the Popular American Baritone.
STEWART & LORRAINE, THE TWO COLLIERS.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBO U R N E
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
KING AND BENSON, Sketch Artists.
HARRY TATE’S CO. in “ MOTORING.”
OHANTI, Electrical Quick Change Artist.
HARRY BEDFORD, Comedian and Dancer.
OASSELLI & JAMES, Greatest Exponents of the Banjo.
THE GAUMONT CHRONOPIIONE, Talking, Singing,
Musical Moving Picture Machine.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s, 2s 6a, 2s, Is.
L|ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE."
■ ■ Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
GREAT SUCCESS EVERY EVENING of
Mr. J. C. Williamson’s Royal Comic Opera Co. in the
Brilliantly Successful Pantomime,
MOTHER GOOSE,
By the Strongest Combinations of High-class Artists
ever before an Australian audience.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays
|\|EW THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING,
Mr. William Anderson’s Famous Dramatic Co., in a
Great Christmas Carnival Attraction,
THE VILLAGE BLACKSMITH,
For First Time in Australia.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’& The Oran 1.
WHAT KIND OF MUSIC DO YOU LUCE ?
m
• n
TRADE
WOTU
PHO
Ib may be classical or ragtime, or it may be the
“hit” of the latest musical comedy, or a selection
from one of the operas.
No matter what—you can have it on the Edison
Phonograph any time you like.
Step into any talking-machine dealer’s and ask
to hear the Edison—you will agree that it is the
best music maker and entertainer you have yet
heard.
EDISON PHONOGRAPHS AND RECORDS are
obtainable at ail Talking-.Ylachine Dealers
in Australasia.
WRITE FOR BOOKLET-
“HOME ENTERTAINHENTS ” with
the Edison Phonograph.
National Phonograph Company of Australia, Ltd
340 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
S&&
mm
m
A
- l
■
m
i!S,»
I km
m
• .
J
fe
m
m
S
h
y
•San-'. f
I ?§
ri
3^B
Pjf/j
5/
ft*'"-
USHHI
> ~ ,*;
B 1
M
w
ğ gh
James 'Ward,
501 Geo. St.,
Sydney..
The East
Is Calling
v>.
f
■;'A
s- i —<■ £.
WB
0
w -:
W ~* —"
R.fi 7
k*- - .
/«*•
j^SSta»Sf
V,. w-
A J
A
• I
P:t
si
*mw&mssm»
M AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA
GIBBS. BRIGHT & C 9
AOELUU. MEIBOURNE.SVDNEV. BRISBANE.
GficNtm STREET. 3& QUEEN STJREET. 3ZPITTSimr. EAGIt STREET.
E..<& A.
Mail Line.
MANILA—CHINA-
JAPAN.
Via QUEENSLAND and
PORT DARWIN.
Space fox* Frozen Cargo.
Saloon Accommodation amidships. Large, airy
two-berth cabins, all on the upper deck, and fitted
with electric fans. Through booking via Japan,
Canada. United States of America, and Europe.
Particulars of Passage Money, Ports of Call, (Sic.,
forwarded to any address on application.
“The Prooshan ” : The greatest “take-
in ” in the bird diet line is the well-know garden
pest, the satin bird. I believe The Bulletin has
scruples about shooting these birds, but, if its
cabbage column had been devoured as often as
mine, it would talk ‘"Plain English” to the
speckled gent through the muzzle of a gun. I once
stewed a brace of them for three hours ; result, a
round, plump little junk of dark-colored wood. I
stewed them for two hours more with similar
result. I let them simmer after tea till bed time,
and from “get up ” till breakfast, and then I ate
two of the sweetest bits of feather food I ever
tasted. They need to steiv all day.


Are you.
Brainy
Enough
to select a diet especially to keep
the Brain strong, keen and well
nourished ?
Brain and Nerves are physical-
wear away under use just like other
tissue and the more Brain work
one does the more nourishment is
required or Brain will suffer and
grow dull.
“Gray Matter”
Is Built
of Albumen and Phosphate of Pot-
ash in the daily food, and these ele-
ments are provided in better pro-
portion and more easily digested
form in Grape-Nuts than in any
other food.
That’s a solid, sturdy fact.
Grape-Nuts
FOOD BUILDS BRAINS
Trial Proves. There’s a Reason.
Made by Postum Cereal Co., Ltd.,
Battle Creek, Mich., U.S.A.
MONEY to LEND
—on-
PASTORAL LANDS A L™r T
ALEX. JOBSON, A.I.A.
Public Accountant, 90 Pitt St., Sydney.
Tel. 4552.
RANKINE & DOBBIE
Manufacturing Stationers,
Printers and Bookbinders.
MINING SCRIP
A SPECIALITY.
285 COLLINS STREET
tblephonk MELBOURNE
j g
A FORTUNE
IS CERTAIN
If only the exact oppor-
tunities of life are known.
Ascertain those by means
of Astrology. Send date
of birth, postal note for
11- and postage, for
A TEST .. .
HOROSCOPE
Calculated and written by
R. Herschell, who has
supplied Horoscopes to
the late Mr. Cecil Rhodes,
W. E. Gladstone, and
thousands of others.
Money Returned if HOROSCOPE Incorrect.
R. HERSCHELL Co f London),
Boat 3, Hawthorn, VICTORIA.
ss
ON
m
m,
Ri
Maizes theSKIN
CLE AR. & POSY
TRY IT ~
ATOUR EXPENSE.
A DAINTY SAMPLE BOX. containing Jar of Creme
Simon, Box of Powder, and Cake of Soap, sent on
receipt of 3d. in stamps to cover postage.
JOUBERT & JOUBERT, Melbourne] CLAUDE HEALV A CO.. 61 Pitt SU
Sydney; or LOUIS JOUBERT, 519 Wellington St.. Perth. AGENTS.
YOUR FORTUNE
FREE
By the World’s Greatest Astrologer. Send me your
name, date of birth, sex, if married or single, and
1/- for postage, etc., and I will mail you, sealed and
confidential, a document of great value to you in
the pursuits of your future happiness in love, busi-
ness and other fields of life’s activities. Thousands
are this day blessing the hour they 'first wrote me.
ADDRESS:
Prof- Henri de Astro,
366 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE.
A
POLICY for thk COMMONWEALTH,
Price, Gd.
Legal Notice.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
IN HIS MAJESTY'S COURT
EOR DIVORCE AND MATRI-
MONIAL CAUSES
No. 22 of 1906
BETWEEN
GEORGE HENRY HUGHES
Petitioner
and
MARY HUGHES
Respondent
and
STEPHEN SCOTT
Co-respondent
TO MARY HUGHES formerly of Boulder City
in the State of Western Australia but now of
Victoria and Stephen Scott formerly of Boulder
City in the State of Western Australia but now
of Victoria Barman
TAKE NOTICE that a petition has been filed
in our said Court against you the said Mary
Hughes by George Henry Hughes of Piesse
Street Boulder City in the State of Western
Australia late Hotelkeeper who claims to have
been lawfully married to you praying for a disso-
lution of the said marriage and the custody of
John Henry Hughes the issue of his said marriage
on the ground of the adultery of you the said
Mary Hughes with you the said Stephen Scott
and Citations have been issued against you the
said Mary Hughes and Stephen Scott command-
ing you to appear to the said Citations within
forty-five days after the service thereof on you
And further take notice that an order has been
granted that this advertisement of the said
Citations and petition be deemed sufficient service
of the said Citations and petition on you and
each of you
DATED this 31 st day of October 1906
F. A. MOSELEY .
REGISTRAR OF THE SUPREME
COURT OF WESTERN AUSTRALIA
LEONARD LOHRMANN 329 St. George’s
Terrace Perth Solicitor for the Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND
No. 177 of 1906
BETWEEN
WILLIAM HENRY MYERS and
ARTHUR WELLER
Plaintiffs
And
WILLIAM DUNNE O’TOOLE and
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY
(LIMITED)
Defendants
TO the above named defendant —
WILLIAM DUNNE O’TOOLE
TAKE NOTICE that this action was on the
4th day of December 1906 commenced against you
and the Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited)
the executors and trustees of the Will of
THOMAS HUSSEY KELLY deceased and
that the plaintiffs by their writ of summons claim
to establish their title to part of the land described
in Deed of Grant No. 14874 Yol. 6 Folio 101
County Parish and Town of Clermont containing
One acre more or less such part being described
as subdivision 2 of allotment 2 of section 13 com-
mencing at the North-East corner of allotment 2
of section 13 thence Westerly along Drummond
street 36 feet thence Southerly at right angles
330 feet to Lime-street thence Easterly 36 feet to
the South-East corner of allotment 2 of section 13
thence Northerly 330 feet to the point of com-
mencement and a declaration that the plaintiff
William Henry Myers is entitled to the said land
for an estate in fee simple in possession and that
the plaintiff Arthur Weller was entitled to the
said land for an estate in fee simple in possession
in and during the year 1903.
And take notice that the Court has by Order
dated the 7th day of December 1906 authorised
service of the said writ of summons on you by
insertion of this Notice once in the Brisbane
Courier the Queenslander the Rockhampton
Morning Bulletin the Peak Downs Telegram
and the Sydney Bulletin and by service of a
copy of the said writ on the Attorney-General
and the Curator of Intestate Estates.
And further take notice that you are required
within 30 days after the publication of the last of
the advertisements ordered by the Court inclusive
of the day of such last publication to cause an
appearance to be entered for you at the Supreme
Court at Brisbane And that in default of your so
doing the plaintiffs may proceed with this action
against you.
Dated this 13th day of December 1906.
HERBERT C. REEVE
Solicitor 62 and 64 Queen-street Brisbane
Agent for RISIEN and MULLIN,
Solicitors for plaintiffs
Drummond-street Clermont.
S’! British-Australasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians In London.
Price 6d*
POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.G.
Two Doors from, Southampton Row
and Kingsway.
Managing Director - - - J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
THIS MEN’S
“Bush Boy" Watch
Guaranteed for 12 Months.
Post Free to any Address In Australia for
7(6
THIS is a splendid Watch for Country Use. You
couldn’t get a better Timekeeper if you paid
a Hundred Guineas. We call it “ The Bush
Boy,” It is a Polished Steel Cylinder Keyless
Watch with Jewelled Movement. You can have
the Case in either Gunmetal or Nickel, as you like
(say wtiich)—both are practically Dustproof. Has
a Strong Crystal Glass Face. Can be wound up and
hands set without opening Case. Every Watch is
guaranteed in writing for 12 months. Sent Post
Free anywhere for 7/6. Sit down and write for it
to-day. It will stand plenty of knocking about,
and be none the worse for it. Ask us to send
you Free our Beautifully Illustrated Catalogue of
Watches, Jewellery, and Plated Goods.
“ DUNKLING, THE JEWELLER,”
315 Bourke St., Melbourne.
7/6
Clean White
Teeth
mean sound teeth, fit for their
work, the condition they are kept
in by the use of
CALVERTS
Carbolic Tooth Powder,
It is made for cleaning the Teeth, and
does it, too, pleasantly, thoroughly and
gently, without scratching or injuring
the enamel. That is why it is in such
eonstant demand all over the world.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,
England.
SPECIAL VALUE,
BLACK, CREAM, or
BLACK Tipped with
WHITE.
From the Farms of Africa.
Length, 9 inches.
3 for O/-
(Six Shillings).
St
The Feathers we offer you cannot be bought for
twice the money in any other house.
Send Money Order payable to John Miller.
is
7/6
Post
Free.
OSTRICH
PLUMES.
BLACK, WHITE,
CREAM,
NATURAL, or
BLACK Tipped with
WHITE.
Length, 15 inches.
The Best Feathers for the price in Australia.
Send a trial order to-day. Illustrated
Price List Post Free.
MILLER S FEATHER SKOP
Corner of Strand Arcade,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Streets, MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.]
THIS RAZOR isa
g h
j ĥ
THE PLUM RAZOR.
YOUR SHAVING TROUBLES
ARE OVER.
—Your Shaving troubles are over the moment
you buy a Plum Razor. It will give you more
shaving comfort —more ease—quicker shaves,
and more perfect shaves than you ever had
before. 10/6, post free anywhere.
A FEW EXTRAS
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/3.
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d.
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d.
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6.
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-.
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-.
POST FREE TO ANY PART OF AUSTRALIA.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney
Picture Post Cards*
Of course you won’t use the everyday
Xmas and New Year Cards this year,
when everyone else will be sending
PICTURE POST CARDS
I have the finest lot ever introduced to
Australia, and can supply almost any
kind worth having. Send 2s. fid. Postal
Note for trial parcel. Price lists post free.
W. H. ROBINSON,
LARCEST DEALER in POST CARDS in QUEENSLAND,
213-215 QUEEN ST., & 24 QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE, Q.
X
IV
V
1
>v
l
5v
&
fV
A,
Js>
£>
«o
5V
Sr
Sr
$$
5S
Xc
iv
4 4?
//
gh
m
m
mm
BE YOUR OWN
DOCTOR.
A proper course of Physical Culture
will maintain a healthy state in man or
woman. It requires time, however,
and expense. These two drawbacks have
been successfully overcome, and you
can secure the same results—mechanical
Physical Culture from the
Hygienic Body Perfector
and Health Brace.
A wonderfully ingenious appliance that
supports the Chest, Stomach and
Shoulders, reduces “HIGH
STOMACH,” developes the Bust, and
cures all Organic Weakness. It cures
Stomach, Liver and Kidney Complaints.
Easy and comfortable to wear. Price
10/6. Send eor FREE BOOK with
Full Particulars.
The HEALTH BRACE CO.,
Suite B, Top Floor, [3.
107 Cast/ereagh St., SYDNEY.
tfORRISS
IMPERIAL
DR. J. DOLUS BROWNE'S
QHLOROPyNE
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS.
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c. bears on the
Stamp the name of the In-
ventor
Pr. J. COLLIS BROWN€
TIIE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28,1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single rpedicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL,. CAPETOWN and LONDON.
*Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
The Bank of Australasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. £1,600,000
Reserve Fund 1,280,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors.. 1,600,000
£4,480,000
London Office : 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
AMES HELLICAR,
Superintendent.
national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. *.. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,245 5 0
Reserve (in Govt. Stock, £43,435) .. 51,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager. —W. Y. RALSTON.
The Colonial mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,990,533.
Policies Issued 102,148 —Assuring £30,193,326.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,784,725.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New Sooth Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon. .T. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Broce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of Dew Z ea l an^
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
PDAMTO nDACTC
UnANIO unftrio
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
Bank nf Qorth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director :
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
SOUTHERN BRANCH : PITT STREET.
Manly. Hornsby. Clen Innes. Deepwater.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
DALGETY & COMPANY
LIMITED.
Capital Fully Subscribed ... £4,000,000
Capital Paid up ... ... £1,000,000.
Reserve Fund £165,000.
Head Office—96 Bishopsgate St.
Within, London, E.C.
BRANCHES:
VlCTORlA— Melbourne and Geelong.
NEW SOUTH WALES —Sydney and Newcastle.
QUEENSLAND— Brisbane, Rockhampton & Townsville.
WEST AUSTRALIA— Perth, Fremantle, Kalgoorlie,
Geraldton, Albany, Carnarvon and Roeburne.
NEW ZEALAND— Dunedin, Christchurch, Wellington
and Napier.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— AdeIaide and throughout the
South East.
This Company makes Advances on, and conducts the
Sale of, Land, Stock and Station Property, and receives
for Sale in London or any of the markets of Australia or
New Zealand consignments of Wool, Skins, Hides, Tallow,
Frozen and Preserved Meats, Grain and Dairy Produce of
all descriptions, and carries on a Financial, Shipping,
Insurance, Indent, Merchandise, and General Agency
business.
Shipping.
3XT. ID. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHF.R LLOYD.)
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar. London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
‘Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
PRINZ SICISMUND .. 15th JANUARY.
SANDAKAN 12th FEBRUARY.
MANILA 12th MARCH.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent-
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO.. 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Svdnev.
Banking. Public Companies. &,c.
The Royal Bank of Queensland
T 1 71 W Irn T'k »
LIMIX.KI >.
Capital Paid-up . . .. .. .. £457,613 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 175,737 10 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 67,000 0 0
£700,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
London Office :
31 BUDCE ROW, QUEEN VICTORIA ST., LONDON, E.C.
7.9 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
WHITE STAR LINE.
ĝh
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
AFRIC, to Sail from Sydney on
or about 28th DECEMBER,
SUEVIC, PERSIC. RUNIC and
MEDIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown or Durban
London
New York, &c.
£l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
19 0 0 to 30 0 0
25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation-
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
♦MARATHON
SALAMIS
DAMASCUS
N. Allan
A. Douglas, R.N.R.
H. A. Schleman ..
Noon, Jan. 10
Noon, Feb. 2
Noon, March 2
•Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and, Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
(3 C:!;E! - A - ::IXrI:C:J S.s. CJo. -A.. & A. LIKTE (via SAN FRANCISCO).
THREE-WEEKLY FAST MAIL SERVICE run in conjunction with the Most Luxuriously Equipped Trains
and Steamshius in the World.
SHORTEST LINE—FASTEST TIME TO
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN AND EUROPE.
R.M.S SIERRA, 6200 Tons, Sails from Sydney MONDAY, JANUARY 7, at I p.m.
Some people think that “HOMEWARD THROUGH AMERICA” is an expensive way.
Enquire for fares etc., etc., and learn facts before booking elsewhere.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
HOLIDAY
TO
N* QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
ghg
CRUISES.
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking. Public Companies. &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
nnm
FAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
f 5
Free
Accident insurance
Po/icies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL. .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
3XT.S.A*7.
(!|ont deplete Co., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE,
and 229 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Gollins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £22,500 0 0
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grioe, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood, Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jessop, Esq. Melbourne : Hon. F. S. Grimwade,
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN GOODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
GANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
NEXT SAILINGS —
Jaiia 21, Feb. 18, March 18.
To EUROPE via AMERICA,
the MOST
ATTRACTIVE ROUTE.
Excursion to Honolulu,
THE PARADISE OF THE PACIFIC.
Fare Includes Hotel Expenses,
&c., in Honolulu.
<3T Send for Illustrated Pamphlets.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YuUNC. Y
WONDERFUL I/AIUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter),
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Kail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Sheei of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Hayinarket.
X
New York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
IF
• • •
YOU HAD AN ACCIDENT
and held an Accident Policy in the SOUTH BRITISH you could receive DOUBLE
YOUR USUAL INCOME whilst laid up, which would pay the Doctor and
Chemist. We issue Policies from £1 Is. per annum upwards.
m~ SPECIAL TERMS FOR SPECIAL NEEDS.
SOUTH BRITISH FIRE, MARINE & ACCIDENT
CAPITAL—£I,9OO,OOO. 12 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY. George H. Moore, Manager.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to ail North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN, W.A., Port for
.S,S Yongala, Wednesday,
January 9
(Without Transhipment).
Ravensttiorpe Goldfields.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY, f
TOWNSVILLE, I
And Ports Norrh to Cairns.
S.S. Coolgardie, Dec. 28.
S.S. Marloo, January 5.
Jiest, anti Cheapest Haute to (ioltl/leltl
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Mari times
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling' at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows:
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
| the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street. Sydney.
J. LOTH, Acting Princmal Agent.
Sank of j|eiu gouth Wales.
Establish kd 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 2,000,000 0 o
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. .. 1,475,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. ~ 2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,475,000 0 0
Directors :
The Hon. Charles K. MacKkllar, M.L.C., President.
Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Hon. Sir Norm and MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.O.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.O.
Auditors:
Frederick W. Uther, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks ; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the woild.
J .RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manager
Hotels.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will Arid every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beacon3field Parade
ST. KILDA.
rpiLS Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
VISITORS TO BRISBANE.
Union Club,
Brisbane,
Select Private Establishment for Families, Ladies,
Commercial Gentlemen. Patronised by several
leading members Commercial Travellers’Associa-
tion. Large garden and lawn. Excellent cuisine.
TERHS MODERATE.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
%A/1M POLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
* * Kilda Rai way Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
Business Announcements.
TILE - LIKE COATING.
COOLS Best ! Lasts Best !
Insist that Cases be Opened on the Job.
“ ARABIC
WHITE or COTTA.
Chief Ironmongers and
Color Merchants.
Note Spelling-:
A—B—A-l’-I-O,”
Trade Mart.


&
Ml
TENNIS BALLS
R.
YEARS of experience in the manufacture of Tennis
Balls have brought the well-known
CONTINENTAL BRANDS
to a high state of perfection. Only the highest grade
materials are used in the process of manufacture, the
aim of the Continental Co. being to produce Tennis
Balls so far superior to the many cheap grades
already on the market as to win for them a greatly
increased demand amongst Tennis enthusiasts. Made
in two styles—
“CONTINENTALS” and “CONREX.”
Clarence St., Sydney,
gġhgh
Market St., flelbourne,
mmmm
mm
V
Hor ~
[tt-ikr
ocis
Engine
as
HoK
water
BA6-
0?
best
■M*.
Wan 8
Rubbe
Wssl
Jot
Host
tof
SciS
Bai*
Cap
ste
<s
N
tmv
°e
shee
fi
Write for Quotations and Lists.
r
Ik*
i/*\»
10
jOiHUW
PI;
if-'* 4
iPtOf"-
OJ
AV
V'
#
/
O liu»»
FO
ssg&if
a UND
/CHU/Vq
1\
1
Th Mifcs! B(»vir
~t»vbw iK&i we need it
JOSHUAS
tf
SPECIAL
Is Better 6 &Lot Older.**
Carterton (M.L.) lawyers lately swooped
with unerring instinct on an abandoned person
who had drawn a lease for a client. He wasn’t a
lawyer, and the Law Society, which isn’t going
to let any common person copy a form out of a
book when a lawyer’s clerk can copy it and his
boss draw the three guineas, got him fined £5 by
a sympathetic lawyer. M.L. sells its people fire-
insurance, life-insurance, accident-insurance, rail-
way tickets, etc., but it doesn’t sell them a
common legal instrument, mainly because its
lawyer-ridden House of Reps, has seen to it that
lawyers must be protected. Carterton went
round to the law-office of the plaintiffs when the
amateur—but correct —conveyancer had been
fined, and hooted in the window. Also, it rushed
round to the court and paid the fine in a seornfu
manner.
The wail of the N.S.W. schoolmaster is
loud in the land. Attendances are falling. That
means decrease of salaries. The Education
Department points out that decreased attendances
are expected for a few years. (The children that
weren’t born a few years ago have now reached
school age, so to speak). The only hope of the
teachers is an influx of population. Let them
go bald-headed for Protection and the taxation of
big estates. These two things spell more popula-
tion, with increased school attendances.


ghcjgh
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’S—AMMONIA]
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
jğ k
. . WEAR . .
Buckley & Nunn’s
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
Also in Two
other Shapes
Same Price*
No. lO
ALL SIZES and
FITTINGS.
Shall we
send you a
pair ?
Posted,
hgķ
STAG’S
HEAD
BRAND
OF
BOOTS
As Illustrated,
In BOX CALF,
1416
BUCKLEY & NUNN, Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
&
ft
&
*r. C
*»•«
HAPPY, HEALTHYCHILDREN
fill the home with sunshine. When they become fretful
and out of sorts, it is generally because a mild laxative
is required —not a purgative, mind ! Nothing is so truly
beneficial in such cases as a dose of California Syrup of
Figs, which the little ones accept eagerly for its delicious
flavour: and it causes no discomfort: just relieves and
corrects gently, naturally, comfortingly, overcoming the
tendency to constipation. For its perfect purity and
harmlessness, as well as for its truly beneficial effects,
it is cordially endorsed by the medical profession.
“NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.”
Ask for California Syrup of Figs, and see that the package bears
the name and trade mark of the California Fig Syrup Co.
Of all Chemists, in two sizes.
TRADE MARK
PATENT TWENCENT
INCANDESCENT OIL LAMP
w
60 Candle Power for Less than One Farthing
per Hoar with Ordinary Kerosene.
STAND LAMPS complete from 18/6
EACH.
. ALSO .
Bracket & Hanging Lamps.
DOES your LOCAL STOREKEEPER STOCK THESE GOODS ?
IF NOT, WRITE TO
WELSBACH LIGHT C°
OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED,
439-441 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
230 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE. 48 VICTORIA ST., WELLINGTON, N.Z. PERRY BROS., BRISBANE.
HAROLD COLTON & CO., ADELAIDE. J. M. FERGUSON, LTD., PERTH, W.A.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd.
S YDNE Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain, J ull particulars will be furnished on application. 8
Sole Agents in. N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “ GRIP’TROPPEE.”
FRANZ JOSEF
QUALITY and
CONDITION
PERFECT.
LAGER BEER
SUPERIOR TO
ALL OTHERS.
“TAKE RISKS”
A NEW Motto in GOOD
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
MAKES tiie SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
*
0
£*9
MOSQUITOES.
Agents— Elliott Bros.
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
AH Roughness, Redness,
I>.n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers: M. BEETHAIIII & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Felton, Grim wade & Co., Melbourne.
“ Flagship ” : Away back behind the Wal-
laby Creek (which supplies part of the Yan Yean
water supply) in the Dividing Range, Victoria,
is a plateau some three miles across, over which
roam flocks of wild sheep. Dor years, regularly,
some shearers have been shearing these wanderers.
Their parents have evidently, at some bygone
time, strayed from droving flocks, and crossed the
hills to this plateau. There is ample feed for the
flock.
“ Quan ” writes :
Have been comparing the examination for appointment
as P.M. in N.S.W. with that for a public school-teacher’s
first-class certificate, and have been getting some curious
results. The P.M.’s exam, is on seven law books, the
Criminal Law Amendment Act of 1883, Acts amending
same, and the Acts relating to mining on Crown and
private lands, and the exam, does not go outside the
matter contained in the text-books and Acts mentioned.
The first-class teacher's exam, is one in English language
and literature, history (from the age of Pericles to the
present), and one of the following elective groups :
Mathematics, consisting of geometry, algebra, plane trigo-
nometry, and applied mathematics ; languages (two to be
selected from Latin, French and German); science (aselec-
tion of three to be made from physics, chemistry, geology,
botany, physiology and agriculture). Also, such subjects
as belong to the second-class certificate exam, in which he
did not obtain 65 per cent, when sitting for that exam.
Although certain text-books are recommended by the
Education Department, the exam, is not confined to the
subject matter of them. The amount of study required
for either English language and literature or history is
very little less than that needed for the whole of the
police magistrate’s exam., while that in education (an
abstruse and philosophical subject, in which twelve text-
books are recommended) necessitates far wider and
intensely deeper thought. Yet, the lowest salary
paid to a police magistrate is £350, with fees
of office and liberal travelling, allowances, while
many a first-class teacher is kept for years on as low a
salary as £216, with residence. With a slice of luck the
teacher will eventually get a wage equal to that at which
the P.M. commences. Part of the said luck consists in
living for a pretty considerable period. Seeing that all
the first-class and three-fourths of the second-class
teachers could, with twelve months’ study, pass the
P.M.’s exam., it may seem strange that so few of them
sit for it. But there’s a reason. Well they know that
even were they to pass they are not wanted in the Jus-
tice Department, and are looked upon with disfavor in
their own Department. A case in point: A teacher
with a first-class certificate, who is also a B.A.
of Sydney University, sat for the P.M.’s ex-
amination at the same time as an official of another
Government Department. The teacher secured a
first-class pass, while the official failed. Subsequently,
however, the latter got a second-class pass. The
teacher is still a teacher on £228 per annum, while the
official is a P.M., getting £4OO. The teacher’s prospects
of appointment as a P.M. are nil, and a verbal application
made by him for promotion to a better school received
this reply :—“ We must first consider teachers who are
satisfied to remain in the Department; you wanted to
leave us.” Of course, I’ll admit that two teachers have
received magisterial appointments, but that was a
number of years ago.
Jebb, whose study of colonial conditions
has resulted in notable additions to modern poli.
tical literature, concludes, from a survey of the
S’African position, that a Federation is the best
hope for British and Boer Africa. He admits
that in a Federation the Boer and not the British
element will predominate.
On consideration of the existing’ facts there is no
effective British majority in sight. As regards the
national Parliament, the inability of the British to stand
together makes it hopeless to plan an effective majority
in the Lower House by means of any plausible gerry-
mander.
But he trusts that a united S’Africa would in time
develop into another Australia, practically inde-
pendent, but attached to Britain.
“ Grip ” : That par. (B. 22/10/’O6) about the
woman whose mind had weakened under the
“tremendous strain of the forest solitude,” &c.,
reminds me of a little woman I once struck mid-
way between the Clarence and the Richmond.
She was young and not long married, and the
Bush so far had not driven her mad, but it was a
moral that sooner or later it would. The little
two-roomed humpy had been raised miles and
miles and miles from anywhere, and there she
lived alone, with her three-months-old baby. We
supposed her husband returned at night; but no,
only on Saturday nights did she see him, and he
left again for his work on Sunday afternoon.
“ Aren’t you frightfully lonely ? ” we asked, pity-
ingly. The little woman smiled. “ Oh, no,” she
answered, in the soft voice of the deaf person ;
“ I have baby and the dogs. Besides,” she added,
brightening, “ the mailman passes twice a week.”
But even as she moved hospitably about she
talked quite audibly to herself—a habit that is
very easily acquired in the back-blocks. I am
often amused at bushmen, who ride by in different
stages of hairiness, making public their most
private affairs as they go. Generally they are
old, and their talk is of horse and a “ deal.” Once
a lover went by, gesticulating wildly; his talk
concerned a rival. Again, it was a pink-cheeked
boy declaiming loudly Banjo Paterson’s “Man
from Snowy River.” But the person among my
acquaintances who has developed the habit most
surprisingly is an educated Englishman, who has
girdled the globe, so to speak, and has only been a
matter of five years in the wilderness, long
ago he passed on his lonesome, positively shouting
his most inward thoughts, which were fluttering
round a promising reef. After two years of Bush
loneliness I quite naturally make a confidante of
the cat. Another year and even a listening cat
will be unnecessary, and I will have got to the
stage of making earnest remarks to nothing and
shaking hands with the air.


A RECORD.
AULPANA WINES
In competition
against all . . .
Australia at. .
1904 CHAMPION CUP—HOCK
1905 CHAMPION CUP—CLARET
1906 CHAMPION CUP—SHERRY
And Numerous FIRST PRIZES.
¥
ADELAIDE WIHE SHOW.
HEAD OFFICE: ADELAIDE, S.A.
SYDNEY BRANCH: ANCEL PLACE, PITT
m
THE GOOD WORK OF
CAPILLARINE
You will be surprised at the pood work Capillanne
will do. It is just as good as we sav, and will
produce a Moustache in remarkably quick time.
Harmless and undetectable.
PRICE lOs 6d, Post Free anywhere, under Sealed Cover.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY.
jVfWtfjh Vi:
ms
: ■; -■ - •
s J
m
fit
Vv.
V
A
Sf
<4/
1
s
The Dr. HcLaughlin Co.,
100 W. HARKET ST., SYDNEY.
i*
SP
Men’s Weakness
Cured to Stay Cured.
IPMI Mii&N&SW
DURING- the past five years in Australasia we have restored
ten thousand weak men to perfect health and vigor. These
men were, in many cases, complete wrecks of their former
selves—“ Weak” in every sense of its meaning. They are, to-
day, splendid examples of manly strength and vigor.
Let any weak man come to us and follow our advice for three
months, and we will restore all his former strength, and in many
cases give him more vitality than he ever had.
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt
does more for the health and growth of this sunny land than
all Legislation, Public Resolutions, and Pulpit Exhortation
combined. It has only to be given a fair trial to be appie-
ciated. It positively cures the worst cases of Loss of Vital
Power, Varicocele, Enlarged Prostate Gland, Kidney and
Bladder Troubles, Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica, and
Derangement of the Digestive System. It is guaranteed in
every case undertaken. The cure is always permanent.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Call and consult us about your condition. We charge no
fee for advice, and if you call we will give you a free test to
show you what our Belt will do. You only buy if your judg-
ment directs you to do so. Write or Call To-Day.
SEND THIS COUPON TO US TO-DAY.
FREE BOOK.
Send us this Coupon and
we will post our hand-
some Free Book to you
free of charge. Our Book
is worth its weight in gold to chronic sufferers. It points the
true and only road to health and vigor, and give the prices of
the different grades of our Belt. Send for it AT ONCE.
NAME
ADDRESS
Bull. 27-12-6.
The Best
Summer Drink
oi\ Earth
//mm-
•'/////
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SY33KTEY.
m
&
r When buying 1
Lime Juice
Buy the Best.
The best Lime Juice Cordial is
Montserrat
made from cultivated limes.
“ MONTSERRAT ” is always
fresh and pleasant to the
taste, and mixed with water,
soda water, or other aerated
waters it makes a cooling,
refreshing, and healthful drink.
« Montserrat ” is sold by all Chemists, Grocers, etc
FREE
t t h° e
WEAK
NERVOUS and DEBILITATED.
Dr. Langston’s Medical Work, “ Mens Sana
in Corpore Sano,” written after an experience
of 50 years as an Expert Specialist in
DISEASES OF MEN. You can have the
benefit of all this vast experience for the
asking. Write for the Book to-day, it is Free.
Posted, 2 Stamps,
DR. LANGSTON INSTITUTE,
Established 1887.
129 Collins St., Melbourne.
Mention this Paper. Consultation Free.
THE DAZZLER
POCKET,
Elects
I I>»
LAMP
Only 3/- Post Free.
Although sold at a low price this is absolutely the best Electric
Pocket Lamp on the market. Is INSTANTLY AVAILABLE.
Just press the button and a brilliant light floods forth. Can’t
blow out, no smoke, no oil, no matches. Has its own powerful
simple battery, which can he re-charged with cold water.
Strongly made nickelled case, finished in imitation leather, &c.
Pits the hand and fits the pocket. Useful for many purposes.
Better than any lantern. A wonderful demonstration of the
every-day utility of electricity. A NOVELTY, AND GOOD
PUN. May he used in a hundred mirth-provoking ways.
Every lamp tested, and will reach you ready for immediate
use. Price, only 3/-, carriage free to any address. Or with
BULL’S EYE MAGNIFYING LENS, increasing the light
threefold—a perfect dazzler, price 5/., carriage free.
EDESON ELECTRIC CO.
229 Collins St., Melbourne.
WOOL, HIDES, SHEEPSKINS, TALLOW, &c.,
SOLD TO BEST ADVANTAGE BY
A. M. L. and F. Coy., Ltd.,
CAPITAL, *4,000,000.
SUBSCRIBED, *3,000,000.
SYDNEY.
PAID-UP, *520,000.
RESERVE, *275,000.
The Illustrated Medical News
says“ Infants do remark-
ably well on it.”
The British Medical Journal
says“ Benger’s Food has
by its excellence estab-
lished a reputation of its
own.’ ;
Vi'*
VD
for INFANTS, INVALIDS, sad the AGED.
SENDER’S FOOD IS SOLD BY CHEMISTS, Ac., EVERYWHERE,
Benger’s Food has attained
its great reputation not by
extravagant or sensational
advertisement, but by the con-
stant recommendation of those
who have used it, and of Medi-
cal men who know its value/’
“ Edyson ” : Tliis is a true tale, with small
modifications. The widow Cameron, of Buckup,
had a big store and a little orphan. She was 36
years of age, plump and comfortable, and half-a-
dozen bachelors of more or less importance in the
community were ready and willing the moment
the widow telegraphed “Yes.” But the widow
didn’t. She held them all off, and tended her
store on her lone, saving for such assistance as a
grubby small boy could afford. For three months
Buckup had been haunted by a spectral English-
man with a college education and a mangled hat.
He wore a pair of trousers that advertised the
ragged state of his shirt, and lived on small jobs
and large benevolence. His name was Fitz-
clarenee, or something like it, and bis story was
known. He was the representative of the bank-
rupt end of an old English family, and he had
come to Australia to die of consumption. He was
understood to be dying rapidly, with a total dis-
regard of his inability to pay his funeral expenses.
Suddenly, to the wild surprise of Buckup, the
widow Cameron adopted Fitzclarence. She put
some good clothes on him, and gave him an
appointment in her store. By strict inattention to
business he rose rapidly, and then came the next
stunning blow—the widow Cameron married Fitz-
clarence. She said she had invested in him
through the promptings of love tinctured with
benevolence. She could not let the poor man
pass away like little Eva without a tender hand
to wipe his fevered brow, she said. Meanwhile
Fitzclarence didn’t die—he suddenly remained
alive. The great commercial centre of Buckup
continued to comment bitterly on the shocking
mess the relict of Cameron had made of her life,
when, like a thunderclap, came the intelligence
that Fitzclarence was wanted to take possession
of £50,000 or so, his share of the estate of a distant
relation who had died daft and irresponsible.
Congratulations poured in upon Mr. and Mrs.
Fitzclarence, and the lady smiled a soft, intro-
spective smile, and said never a word about the
advertisement which she had cut from a Mel-
bourne paper just two hours before adopting the
misfortunate consumptive. There was only one
little slip, and that may be regarded as an act of
Providence. Fitzclarence’s hard, out-door life in
Australia had cured his consumption, and he
didn’t fulfil expectations. He is still living, and
living fast, and he seems likely to spend not only
the £50,000 but the store and all its contents in
drink.
“Snell”: The lesson of the recent
Federal election, so far as I read it, teaches the
necessity of a further revision of the Electoral
Act to severely curtail the liberality of the Fat
friends of Fat candidates. The latter are com-
pelled to be moderate in their spending, but there
is nothing to prevent the candidates Cousin
James from becoming suddenly prodigal in the
interests of Anti-Sosh and Good Government.
The generosity of Cousin James and Fat s bosom
pal Ogslard, in and about Melbourne on election
day was simply prodigious. Practically every
cab, drag, buggy, and motor car in the metropolis
was rushing about the suburbs, hauling the
upholders of Anti-Sosh to the poll. Very scarce
indeed was the bumble trap bearing the radical
man’s posters, and I am asked to believe that this
tremendous waste of kerosene and horseflesh was
the spontaneous result of the liberality of Ogslard.


IF YOU DON’T
DIKE THE HEAT
. . . WEAR . . .
Aertex Cellular
. . AND KEEP COOE.
“AERTEX” ventilates >'.o body—lets out the heat
and keeps the skin dry and eool.
It prevents that uncomfortable warm feeling: caused
by too closely woven underwear. It is beautifully
soft and will not irritate the most sensitive skin.
Doctors recommend it as the most health}' fabric
ever invented.
SHIRTS from 4s. ; SINGLETS from 2s. 6d.
Full Illustrated Price Lists and Samples Post Free.
SOLE AGENTS IN N.S.W.—
DAVID BRAHAM &CO.
94 King St., Sydney.
Sold
by
all first-
class stores
in Australasia.
No. 817CJ 2-BLADE
“ PAMPA,"
Cocoa Handle 1/6
Buffalo Handle- 21-
Stag Handle - m - 2/6
hjh
Lockwood Bros Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
‘PAMPA’
POCKET
KNti/ES
are the
BEST.
RUPTURE
EASILY, QUICKLY, pfSpCn
AND PERMANENTLY UUfILU
WITHOUT OPERATION.
No pain, danger, inconvenience, or loss of time.
Immediate relief, ease,comfort, and certain cure.
Thousands of testimonial let'ers from people
you know, together with TREATISE No. 12,
posted free. Call or write to-day.
OR. LANGSTON'S INSTITUTE
ESTABLISHED 1887,
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
THE BALLET GIRL
kj
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913 M G.P.0. , SYDNEY.
RHEUMATISM.
i /?’s
GOUT
PILLS
Are recommended by doctors with confi
dence as one of the valuable results of
medical science, and the only remedy
ever discovered for these disorders, in
that they not only rapidly cure but pre-
vent the recurrence of the malady.
Of Chemists and Stores, 1/li and 2/9 per box.
Proprietors— PßOUT & CO., 229, Strand,
London, England.
AT FOLKS
EEDUCE
your weight
5 lbs. a week
No inconvenience. No strict diet. Pursue
your ordinary avocation. Endorsed by Physicians.
Book and particulars iree. Address—
J AS. C R A I G &, CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Letter frcm a Little Girl—
FATHER
GOMES HOME DRUNK
EVERY NIGHT,
So please, Dr. Langston, send some of your
Remedy that Mrs. S had. I have no money,
but want father cured of DRUNKENNESS.
Father is now cured, and the child is happy.
A Home Cure which Never Fails. May be
Given Secretly. Write for Treatise No. 5.
DR. LANGSTON INSTITUTE
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH.
Price (id, from The Bulletin Office.
5^
T
m
Miss KELLERMANN
(the Commonwealth’s Lady Champion
Swimmer) writing of
9 CA
ABSOLUTELY
PUKE
COCOA
Says “I find it more nourishing and sustaining than any other.
tun, i us . e speak in equally high praise of its sterling qualities.
Whether your life is spent m the open air, undertaking tests of strength and
' endurance, or in the equally arduous duties of the office, workshop, home,
etc., it is imperative that you should take an abundance of pure liquid food.
Amongst liquid foods, CADBURY'S COCOA occupies the chief place •
because it is ABSOLUTELY PURE. It gives substantial
benefit to the muscular and nervous system, and at the same
time can be absorbed with little digestive effort.
“A Perfect Food.”— Health.
Insist on getting CADBURY’S.
BOVRIL
Adds nutriment to Soups, Curries, etc.
There is nothing like Bovril to makQ a
man feel fit. It makes him as fit as he
feels.
ĵ
HUTCHISON’S INVENTIONS FOR THE DEAF.
THE MASSACON AND THE ACOUSTICON
Which obtained the only Gold Medal awarded by the International Jury at the World’s
Fair, St. Louis (U.S.A.). to anv exhibit
FOR THE ALLEVIATION OF DEAFNESS.
and for which the Inventor has received asimilar medal from Her Most Gracious Majesty
Queen Alexandra (a photograph of which maybe seen at the undermentioned addresses)
MAY HE INSPECTED'FREE OF CHARGE,
AT THE OFFICES OF THE “ ACOUSTIC PATENTS, LIMITED,”
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE.
Catalogue No. 2, containing all particulars, will be forwarded Free by Post on application.
O. POLLOCK. Svdnev Manager.
gckck
BE A HYPNOTIST
AND
WAKE
FUNsMONEY
Would you like to exert a strange and magic power over others? Do you.
desire to possess an accomplishment by which you can make both fun and
money? If so, you shopld become a Hypnotist. You can now master this
wonderful, mysterious and fascinating science free of all cost at your own
home. By a few hours' study you can learn all about the secrets, methods,
uses and wonders of the hypnotic trance. You can surprise and mystify all
your friends by placing any one you wish under this weird and magic spell,
and compel them to see, 'think, feel, and act precisely as you wish. You
can sway the minds of others, perform the most wonderful and astounding-
feats, and create fun and amusement for hours at a time. You can do a.
thousand amazing things that other people cannot do,' and make yourself famous in a week's time. If
you want to make money, you can do so by giving entertaipments, curing disease, or teachingrthe art to
others. These are three sure and easy ways to win a fortune. Why be poor? Why work for others,
when you can mastertliis money-making profession so lnvestigate now. It costs nothing to find
out ail about it. Professor Barraden, "the world-renowned'Bypnotist has issued a large and elegant
FREE BOOK, entitled, “A Key to the Mysteries of Hypnotism,” and anybody can get a copy of it
merely for the asking. It is the most beautiful, interesting, and valuable book ever published. It
contains beautiful pictures and is a marvel of elegance and splendor. Best oi all, this charming book tells
you just how to become a hypnotist. Every secret and mystery is here explained in the simplest
language. You are also shown how 3 r ou may heal the sick, relieve pai.n, cure bad habits, give sleep to the
restless and comfort to the sorrowing. And for yourself, as this free Book shows, .you can win promotion,
social and business standing - , increase of trade, the influence, friendship or love you most desire, and, in
short, all that is needed to make you rich, esteemed and happy as long - as me lasts. This book also treats
fully on Personal Magnetism, Magnet c -Healing and kindered subjects, ami how to cure yourself of
any pain, ache or disease. In spite of its great value and precious contents, this hook is free to you.
Simply write and it will be sent by next mail. Don’t send any money, but sejid your name and
address TO-DAY. %
Professor R. H. BARRADEN, 89 Pitt Street, Sydney.
DINNEFORD’S
The Universal Eemedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
The Physician’s fe
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
a
Qfjnr S//VGL£TO/V'S eye ointments
*0 il Cl FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES. •
rsj EVER FAILS.
Ask your Chemist fop the Little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEN,
Specialist
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Weak Men AIFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Will Cure the Nerves, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Rost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
BLOOD CURE PILLS.
Cupe all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blood
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43/6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
Weak Women
Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6.
Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing' Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEOROE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches : 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE ; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE ;
111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE ?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N. 2.
HANS PETER RASMUSSEN.
[TfießestConsoler
is a
iar Pipe, j
Obtainable j
from all Tobacconists I
\VfILL forward to any address our GOLD WIRE
yy BROOCHES on receipt of money order or
postal note. 9ct. Cold-Filled Round Wire Brooches,
3/6 j with Pendant, Heart, or Cross, 5/-. In 15ct. C.F.
Twisted Wire, 6/6; with Pendant, 8/-. Illustrated Cata-
I lojfue sent Free. R. SIMS, GOLD KING, Cole’s
Book Arcade, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
DRUNKARDS
CAN BE CURED
With or without the patient’s knowledge. For FREE
Book and References write and enclose stamps to
pay for postage. THE EUCRASY COY., 62 Hunter
Street, Sydney.
FHH
mK
/ is
AMD
REFUSE
jhjkhh
k fuy k
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
Money in full refunded without question
if not perfectly satisfactory- Highest grade
cycles, warranted six years..
LATEST
MODELS
£2.110 to £6
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or Clincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Rim
Drakes, Two Speed Gears, etc..
Packed and Delivered Free
Lo any port in the world. We guarantee safe
delivery.
200
Second-Hand Cycles
all makes,
good as new,
£1 to £2mlo
Great factory clearance sale at half factory price».
mn a cycle
taking orders from sample
machine. Active Agents
wan'ed in each district. Large profits easily n ade. Write at once for
free catalogues and our special offer , using sufficient postage.
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs,, <fcc., half prices.
MEAD CYCLE GO - Dept, use
uveppoot, r ' v 7 ~« r,n.
L
DEAFNESS
‘“The Electricon.”
A miniature Device
for the EAR—invis-
ible, easily adjusted,
and entirely com-
fortable. Makes low
sounds and whispers
plainly heard. Over
fifty thousand sold,
ck ķ
giving instant relief from deafness
and bead noises.
There are but few cases of deafness that
cannot be benefited. Write for booklet
and testimonials.
THE
L. R. VERNON CO.
60-64 Hunter St., Sydney.
BLOOD POISON.
FOR MORE THAN TWENTY YEARS
we have made the cure of blood poison a
specialty, Primary, Secondary or Tertiary
Blood Poison Permanently Cured. You can
be treated at home under same guaranty.
Capital 500,000 dols. We solicit the most
obstinate cases. If you have exhausted the
old methods of treatment, and still have aches
and pains, Mucus Patches in Mouth, Sore
Throat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spots,
Ulcers on any part of the body, Hair or
Eyebrows falling out, write for proofs of
cures. 100-page Book Free.
COOK REMEDY Co..
1102 MASONIC TEMPLE, Chicago, U.S.A.


DOCTOR CURED
OF ECZEMA
Maryland Physician Cures Himself of
Eczema With the Cuticura Reme-
dies. Prescribes Them Often and
Has Cured Many Cases Where
Other Formulas Have Failed—Dr.
Fisher Says:
CUTICURA REMEDIES
POSSESS TRUE MERIT
“ My face was afflicted with eczema
in the year 1897. I used theSCuticura
Remedies, and was»entirely cured. I
am a practicing physician and very
often prescribe Cuticura Resolvent and
Cuticura Soap in cases of eczema, and
they have cured where other formulas
have failed. I am not in the habit of
endorsing patent medicines, but when
I find remedies possessing true merit,
such as the Cuticura Remedies do, I am
broad-minded enough to proclaim their
virtues to the world. I have been prac-
ticing medicine for sixteen years, and
must say I find your Remedies A No. 1.
G. M. Fisher, M. D., Big Pool, Md.,
May 24, 1905.”
The original of the above testimonial ia on file In the
office of the Potter Drug & Chemical Corporation.
Reference; It. Towns & Co., Merchants, Sydney, N. S.W.
A SET OFTEN CURES
Complete Treatment for Every
Humour from Pimples
to Scrofula.
Bathe the affected parts with hot
water and Cuticura Soap, to cleanse
the surface of crusts and scales and
soften the thickened cuticle; dry,
without hard rubbing, and apply
Cuticura Ointment freely, to allay
itching, irritation, and inflammation,
and soothe and heal; and, lastly, take
Cuticura Resolvent Pills to cool and
cleanse the blood. A single set, is often
sufficient to cure the most torturing,
disfiguring, itching, burning, and scaly
skin, scalp, and blood humours,with loss
of hair, from infancy to age, when all
else fails.
Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Resolvent Pills (Choco-
late Coated, in vial of 60) are sold throughout the world.
Potter Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston, LT. S. A.
ailed Free, “ How to Cure Every Humour.”
Address, R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
IS THE
UnderwooD
Gold
Medals,
Paris,
1900.
Venice,
1901
Buffalo
1901
Rome,
1902
Limoges,
1903
St. Louis,
1904
Lumen,
1905
Chicago,
1906
SIGHT WRITING. BILLING
AND CORRESPONDENCE
TYPEWRITER
BEST?
Just, try it and you will see WHY it IS.
And why the Underwood Is
COVETED by arm-wracked
Operators.
ENVIED its success by TRUSTS and
COMBINATIONS.
SCOFFED at by old fashioned Reliables
FLATTERED by Copyists, ai
BOUGHT for its STERLING IK ITIES.
*V)IC
FILE on the WABASH‘ System.
WRITE on the UNDERWOOD.
JONH SANDS: Dep. U : 374 George-street,
Sydney.
For Sunburn
or Sore Eyes
quick relief can be
obtained by the applica-
tion of the well known remedy,
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Ointment.
It has a good record of success for cure of
many skin ailments, iteh, ringworm, piles,
etc. Minor mishaps such as cuts, bruises
or scalds will keep healthy and heal rapidly
with its use.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester
England.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10hS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF’TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in. the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Ball 3
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
100,000
“THE WAYBACK SERIES,
MO 3, RED HARRY, 1/-
MOTHER
SEIGELS
SYRUP
Indigestion means
torturing pain, intense
weariness, wretched days
and wakeful nights. It
means starved blood,
starved muscles, a starved
body and a starved brain;
in short, it means shattered
health and a broken con-
stitution unless you root
it out without delay.
Mother Seigel’s Syrup has
no rival as a remedy for
indigestion. Its reputation
is based on thirty-five
years’ success in curing
Indigestion, Biliousness,
and all disorders of the
stomach,liver and kidneys
GIVES
STRENGTH
TO THE
WEAK,
ENERGY
TO THE
LANGUID,
COMFORT
TO THE
DYSPEPTIC,
AND
“For five years I suffer-
ed from Indigestion, which
weakened my wholesystem.
I could not eat for pain,
and I endured agonies
from headachealmost daily.
There was a strange numb-
ness in my left side, and
my eyesight became sodim
that I thought I was going
blind. Nothing relieved
me, and I had almost lost
hope; but MotherSeigel’s
Syrup cured me complete-
ly.”— From Mrs. Jessie
Newman, 62, Gore Street,
Fitzroy, Melbourne, Vic-
toria. April 13, 1906.
GOOD DIGESTION
TAKE IT!—Though
everything else has failed.
TO ALL
TAKE IT!
It WILL Cure You.
THE AGCORDEON for Country Residents.
g
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £1
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price JBI 7s 6d;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-'
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musioal Instruments,
watches, jewellery, Etc., 2io Queen St., Brisbane
Letters about
Liver Complaint
From Mr. J. Edwards, Davey-street, East Geelong, Vic., 31st August 1905.
“ For about twelve months I had been ailing from aggravated liver complaint, producing indi-
gestion, biliousness, a heavy feeling in the chest and frequent pains in the shoulder blades. I tried
the usual purgative remedies, which had the effect of only temporarily improving my condition. 1
could get no permanent relief until I took Warner’s Safe Cure. lam pleased to say that the good
effect of that medicine became apparent almost immediately I commenced to take it, and in a short
time I was thoroughly cured. I have recommended Warner’s Safe Cure to many of my friends, whc
all speak well of it.”
From Mrs. K. Chapman, 160 Paddington-street, Sydney, N.S.W., Bth February, 1906.
“ For a considerable time I was a sufferer from liver complaint accompanied by severe pains in the
back, depression of spirits and loss of appetite. I tried anything I thought would do me good, but
obtained no relief whatever. I happened to read one of your books giving accounts of wonderful
cures Warner’s Safe Cure has effected, and therefore decided to try its effect on myself. The result
was marvellous, as in a short space of time I was completely restored to good health, and, I am glad
to say, I have not been troubled with pains of any description since.”
From Mr. Gladstone Mayne, 22 Parade, Norwood, S.A., 14tli December, 1905.
“For several years past I suffered much pain from symptoms of liver complaint, such as bilious-
ness, indications denoting congestion, heavy pain in the right side, and a dull persistent pain under
the right shoulder blade. I was also affected with dizziness, headaches and loss of sleep. I resorted
for relief to a number of medicines, but did not obtain any good result until I began to take Warner’s
Safe Cure. I took: only a few bottles of that medicine when all painful symptoms subsided. During
the last twelve months I have not felt anything of the old complaint. Being fully convinced that I
am permanently cured, I am truly grateful.”
From Miss Annie Leleman, Zabina-street, off Thomas-street, North Broken Hill, N.S.W., 28th
November, 1905.
“ I have much pleasure in testifying as to the efficacy of Warner’s Safe Cure, haying taken that
medicine when suffering from functional derangement of the liver. I was troubled with severe pains
in the back, sides and head, with constant dizziness. Indigestion troubled me a good deal and caused
me many sleepless nights, whilst exercise of any kind brought on fatigue. Warner’s Safe Cure was
brought under my notice. I procured two bottles of the medicine, and after taking the second bottle
I found a great improvement had taken place in my health. All aches and pains had gradually
ceased to trouble me. I could eat without distress, and get refreshing sleep.”
From Mr. A. McEwan, 6 Princes Place, Darlinghurst, N.S.W., 15th September, 1905.
“ I suffered for months from liver complaint, which caused dizziness in my head and a languid
tired feeling. I also had severe pains in my side and back. I tried many medicines to obtain relief,
but without effect. I was advised to try Warner’s Safe Cure by a friend of mine, and it is a good
thing that I took his advice, as, after taking about four bottles of Warner’s Safe Cure, I was
thoroughly cured.”
From Mr. William Tanner, Hawks’ Lane, West Geelong, Vic., 31st August, IJOS.
“ It affords me great pleasure to write to you as to the efficacy of Warner’s Safe Cure in my case.
For years I had been suffering from loss of appetite and indigestion, accompanied by violent pains in
my stomach and disagreeable symptoms after every meal. I also noticed a loss of nervous power.
When in this condition I began to take Warner’s Safe .Cure. The relief I obtained was speedy, and
after I had taken a few bottles the symptoms I have described ceased to exist, and now I feel like a
s ew man.”
A treatise explaining- the action of
Warner’s Safe Cure
will be sent post free by H. H. Warner and Co., Ltd., Australasian Branch, Melbourne. [lo]
The Inky Way.
Yankee yellow-journalist Hearst pays big salaries ; the
highest is £lO,OOO a year, the two next £BOOO and £6OOO.
Eight of his staff divide £48,000 between them.
* * • *
“ Falder ”: I rise to air a grievance common to all
writers, and suggest a remedy. When one goes looking
for editors, one always tinds the wretches shut up in
little rabbit hutches, with doors locked and blurred glass
windows. Knocking i. no use ; kicking or scratching at
the door is equally futile ; yet one can plainly hear the
editor moving about inside. Now for the remedy. Let
each author adopt a distinctive signal (mine, for instance,
is the plaintive mating coo of the scrub-pigeon). Let
him coo or growl or scream it through the keyhole. The
editor inside would recognise it, and could rap once for
“Come in,” or three times for “Goterblazes.” The
whole process would only take about 30 seconds.
* • • *
The journalistic invasion of Asia by Australia con-
tinues. Latest to leave these shores is Mr. Stanley
Kingsbury, late of the Brisbane Courier, who goes on
to Hongkong.
* * * *
Useful is the work done in an unobtrusive kind of
way by the journalist. An example: J. A. Philp, of the
Courier and Queenslander, who is just now conducting
a crusade to make the use of the silo universal among
dairy farmers. To him chiefly belongs the credit of
bringing the mail steamers to Brisbane.
• * #
Ex-Judge Casey, of Melbourne, is another of Australia’s
early printers who travelled to success through law and
politics. Half a century ago Casey worked on the Bendigo
Advertiser with Angus Maekay, one of the original
founders of Sydney Daily Telegraph. He next ran a
little sheet further back in the bush. He was elected to
Parliament in 1861, but was unseated, and did nou become
a live member till a couple of years later. “J.J.”was
always personally ornamental; even in his bush period
the brilliance of his ties was suggestive of a sunset with
vegetables. As commissioner at the Paris Exhibition of
1878, however, he toued down the shrieking hues of what
he wore round his neck, and his clothes broke the news
to France for the first lime that Australians were a
civilised white race.
Artist Percy Spence tells the British Australasian :
“ A very prominent Australian weekly engaged me to do
it a full-page picture of a naval engagement. I had
drawn some figures tumbling into a bpat, hazily seen
through a mist of spray. These figures worried the
editorial mind exceedingly, and when the page came
down the chief and the night editor, and most of the staff
(so I heard afterwards), sat over it in careworn conclave.
Then they came to the sapient conclusion that the figures
were out of proportion—and they actually had them
chiselled out ! Now, you know, no London editor would
dare to offer such an affront to an artist thus commis-
sioned. In fact, lam sure in no place in the world could
such a thing be done except in Australia. For another
paper I was engaged to do a pastoral scene, and 1 drew a
typical mob of sheep enveloped in a cloud of dust. The
editor handed it to me back with a severe countenance.
‘lt isn’t what we want at all,’ he said, austerely. ‘Our
readers demand detail. They must see the breed of the
sheep.’ I apologised profoundly for the dust, and
inquired if he would like the station brand to be shown
conspicuously stamped on each sheep.' He seemed to
think it was not a bad idea.”
• * • m
“ China": Par. in “ Inky Way” (B. 25/11/’O6) com-
plaining of lack of originality in naming newspapers is
exampled in Hongkong. The China Mail quite recently
launched on an unenthusiastic Oriental world a new illus-
trated weekly. Stuck for a catchy name, the manage-
ment decided to test the originality of the reading
public—the critics. A prize of £5O odd was offered for
the most suitable name selection to be made
by readers themselves, and out of a hundred or so of
names sent in riot one got up out of the group to hit the
fancy. Mostly the mob stuck to the titles that were
perhaps new in pre-historic periods— Telegraph, Budget,
Sketch, and so on, with the prefix Hongkong or China.
* * * *
Charming blunder from Evening Mail (W.A.) 27/11/’O6 :
GROCER’S BOY
CAUSES GREAT LOSS
TO SOAP COMBINE.
London, Monday.—Owing to the action of a grocer’s
boy named Cott, the Soap Trust combination have lost
£1,500,000 sterling.
* # * «
About Australian journalists in London : Harry Thomp-
son, formerly chief sub-editor Daily Express, now runs
Earl’s Court, the great pleasure-ground, where London
flocks during the summer months. Martin Donohue,
war correspondent and genial person generally, runs the
Daily Chronicle office in Paris. L. J. Brient is engaged
in press-agency business. Miss Elmes, formerly of Mel-
bourne Argus, is doing well in feminine journalism.
Ethel Mills has been successful in placing stories and get-
ting on the right side of the London editor. E. C. Buley
has succeeded Jack Scantlebury as editor of the
British Australasian, and has for sub-editor
Leon Brodzky, formerly of Melbourne Herald. Bernard
Espinasse contributes to various journals. Graham Hill,
another playwright, has had a play put on by Lily Lang-
try, which is doing well. Thorold Waters, formerly of
Melbourne Age, is nowadays a tenor, amongst niany
other sweet voices from Australia. A. Francis Walker,
from Queensland, writes serious articles for the serious
rags. Firth Scott spends his time writing novels with
more or less Australian interest. Alfred Buchanan has
just had a novel published entitled “Bubble Reputa-
tion.” Sophie Osmond is engaged in the trade of fiction-
purveying. Miss Heinbockel, who had some exciting
experiences during the Boer war, writes fiction for the
fickle crowd. Desmond Byrne acts as correspondent for
Melbourne Age.
* • * •
The new paper about to be brought out in Wellington
in opposition to the Democratic Times will be appallingly
Tory. Look at the names of the directorate: “John
Duthie, merchant, Wellington ; Hon. C. J. Johnston,
merchant, Wellington ; F. H. D. Bell, barrister, Welling-
ton ; John G. W. Aitken, merchant, also Wellington ;
William Russell, settler, Hawkes Bay ; H. G. Williams,
settler, Masterton.” It sounds like the roll-call of the
National League or the League of Organised Land Grab-
bers. Unless some of these leopards have changed their
spots, what an awful rag it will be 1 There is only one
thing that will keep it within the bounds of reason, and
that is that every man on the directorate hates to lose
saxpence, although the crowd represents the heaviest
money-bags in Maoriland.
• » • *
“Dux”: live often wondered what a printer’s devil
is. Now 1 know ! T’other morning, I strolled into th
office of the local rag, feeling quite 8-horse power, to
raise Sheol on account of the non-delivery of my par-
ticular sheet. Wandered through several empty rooms ;
nobody in sight. I blundered on ; the smell of oil and
ink grew stronger until I found myself in a room con-
taining a huge mass of machinery, from behind which
peered a grimy face, the impish owner of which shrilly
demanded “What the blank do you blanky well want
there ? Have you blanky well broke your blanky chain ? ”
My wrath subsided, and meekly I asked for “the boss.”
“Lor blime,” was the reply, “do yet tyke me fer tile
blanky boss, er the blanky foreman, er the blanky pub-
-I’sher ? Yer lorst, aint yer? Wanter put’n’ad. in ther
pyper ter let yer little sisters know where yer strayed
ter, do yer ? ” Here I fled, but a piercing shrillness
followed up the stairs with intimations that “the boss
was probably barthing ’is innards at ther ’Arp o’ Erin
an’ the foreman was took ter ther ’orspital with D.Ts.” ’
W.P.B.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Declined with thanks ! Now God be praised*
His saints have kindly treated me
To choke the roaring I had raised
For goggle-eyed Posterity.
Hard logic and the rule of thumb
All go to prove the verdict wise—
And, from this hence, I’ll be the dumb,
Deaf dog of dead-house enterprise.
Declined with thanks ! Ah well, old chap,
It were in-com-para-bly worse
To have an unborn butcher wrap
His chops in my erotic verse.
N.S.W.
H.M.C.


C
L
a
VICTORIA
Co I lins & S wansfbn S'? Melboorne;
WEST. AUSTRALIA
395&397 Hay St Perm I
QUEENSLAND I
Queen 5 Edward Brisbane
NEW ZEALAND
865 143 QueenS*. Auckland.
153 LambtonQuay. Wellington.
236 5338 HighS*Christchurch.'
Princes 5 DowlinqS* Dunedin^
f
ST.SYPW^
All Goods are sold for CASH ONLY, ana are delivered
Free on receipt of remittance.
Write for a FREE FULLY-ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST.
leg»g»g<9g>gog>»gi
?Oo
/fits from
Stewart Dawsoms
its good.
Write the
store nee rest
you.
K6e STEWART DAWSON advertising is distinguished from
most others by the omission of “glaring misrepresentations
and foolish exaggerations.” Compare the Prices and
Goods; then you will be fully satisfied.
No. G67.V2—Pearl Set
9ct. Gold and Enamel
No. H 221 —9ct. Gold
Locket., 30a.
No. G 9445 —15ct. Gold
Nautical Brooch, £2.
Ifo. G67s4—Pearl Set
Gold and Enamel
Pendant, 30s.
No. H222—Gent.’s 9ct.
Gold Locket, 30s.
No. G67ss—Oct. Gold,
Pearl and Enamel
Pendant, 225. 6d.
No. G5787—15ct. Gold
and Diamond Locket,
£6 10s.
No. G 9451 —15ct Gold Nautical Brooch.
£ll2s. 6d.
F
No. G9977-—Pearl Set Music Brooch,
225. 6d.
No. 09871-
Solid Silver
having- Brush,
10s. 6d.
Gold-Mounted Amber Cigarette Holders, in Case,
11s. 6d. and 12s. 6d. ; Cigar Holders, 11s. 6d.,
13s. 6d., 14s. 6d., 225. 6d.
No. G 9870—
Solid Silver
Shaving Brush,
14s. 6d.
No. G9976—Pearl, Ruby and Sapphire
Set 9ct. Gold Brooch, 17s. 6d.
No. G972l—9ct. Gold Music Brooch,
16s. 6d.
No. G9394—Fine Pearl and 15ct. Gold
Spray Brooch, £3 10s.
No. GB2s6—Pearl and Amethyst Bangle, 9ct. Gold,
£2 15s.
No. G 9393 —Fine Pearl and 15ct. Gold
Spray Brooch, £3 3s.
Silver-Plated Sugar and Cream Frame,
China Dishes, 12s 6d.
FIDDLE
iL
OLD ENGLISH.
A 1 Quality Silver-Plate on Nickel.
Either Pattern Spoons and Porks, Table Size, 355. per dozen.
„ „ ~ ~ ~ Dessert Size, 255. per dozen.
„ ~ Tea Spoons, 15s per dozen.
k
V
No. GB492—Carved Green-
stone and 9et. Gold
Links, 255.
No. G472s.—Ocfc. Hall-
Marked Gold Medal,
17s 6d.
No. C jtiO— Cut Glass and Silver-Plated Full
S: Te Butter Dish, 18s 6d.
No. 69448 —Fine Pearl Set and 15ct. Gold
Brooch, £4.
No. G9443—Finely Designed Golf Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £2 15s.
No. G9444—Real Pearls and 15ct. Gold Golf
Brooch, £3.
No. G 9450 —15ct. Gold “ Nautical ” Brooch,
£2 ss.
No. H67—Gent’s Best Quality Travelling Case, 25s
with Extra Razor, 30s.
HP*
No. Hls9—Lady’s Pearl Handle and Best Sheffield Steel Pen Knife, 3s
Men’s Medium Size ditto, 6s 6d.
No. E7l6B—Cut Glass and Silver-Plated
Butter Dish, 14s 6d.
No. G2222—China and Silver
Plated Tea Pot Stand, 14s 6d.
G 108 —“ Love’s Awakening' ” Silver-Mounted
Comb, 10s 6d»
v xiftVvV'
-V. ' .
Solid Silver Soap Dish and Shaving Brush,
in Case, 30s.
No. G4525—9ct. Gold Knife Charm,
No. GBB44—Silver-plated Bamboo
Gong, 21s.
No. E7469—The Wicker Sugar, with
Sifter, Silver-Plated, 14s 6d.
B
No. G7R77 —Case of Two Solid Silver Butter
Knives, 27s 6d ; Jam Spoons or Jam and
Butter, if preferred, 27s 6d.
jijife
No. P7736—Silver-Plated Knife Bests, 8s 6d pair*
No. G42B2—Silver-Plated and Fancy Cream Glass
Butter Dish, 11s Cd.


TATTERSALL’S CONSULTATIONS
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
NOW OPEN
HO2ART CUP, Elwick, Hobart, February 6, 1907.
LAUNCESTON CUP (Special, Drawn Morning of Race), Launceston, Tas., February 13,1907.
NEWMARKET HANDICAP, Flemington, Vic., March 2, 1907.
AUSTRALIAN CUP, Flemington, Vic., March 5, 1907.
50,000 at 5/2 each.
50,000 at 5 2 each.
100,000 at 10/4 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
IMPORTANT NOTICE
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d. on each
SS. Ticket, and 4-d. on each fOs. Ticket. Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. Parcels may be forwarded through any PARC
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
97 Queen St., MELBOURNE.
98 King William St., ADELAIDE.
Booking Fee,
3d.
per Parcel.
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING $ MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
The Milk Foods closely approximate in composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant
They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns-
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys” Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys” Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
ALLEN & HANBLIRYS Ltd., LONDON, « Bridge Sts., Sydney
mm
Disinfecting!
Fluid.
COLORLESS,
FRA RANT,
NC^-rOJS"NOUS.
1/-
Pint Bottles.
Oxidant s Germicide
Indispensable in all Slok Rooms.
Also 1/- Tins Powder
and 1/-&1/3 Boxes Soap.
Of all Chemists and Storekeepers.
The “SANITAS” Co.,
Ltd., Limehouse,
London.
-*t
BRONCHITIS
CURE
The Famous Remedy For
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, & CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World.
Those who have takep this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing power is marvellous. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of
Breathing, Hoarseness, F'ain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it
effects a Complete Cure. It is most comforting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never been known to exist where “Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house
should be without it, as, taken at the beginning a dose is generally sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain.
Beware of Imitations ! The great success of HEARNPS BRONCHITIS CURE, has induced a number
of unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of
deceiving the simple-minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that
HEARiME’S BRONCHITIS CURE has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact,
and to request you in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S and to see that you get it
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable loc ily.
NOTICE.
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. 1A does NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. It is equally beneficial for
the youngest child and the most aged person.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Mull
Flanders, a rare book oy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tiie
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s
Big Horse Book and How to Train the
Horse, Is 6d. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, ,Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, ls3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MYNEiGiiBORRAYMOND,Is;post,Is3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of tiie Rod (Flagellations-
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Ciiiniquy’s Priest, Woman
and the Confessional, Is 6d. The Art of Jui-Jitsu,
9d and Is 6d. God and My Neighbor, lOd. Britain
for the British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How
to Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d.. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is' 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
i
1
IS
i
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads op Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book op
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple 4 (new), 4s 6d-
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK."
Br Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young'and old, but about..
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapter
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning- mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : Evert Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. On Our New Selection, 6s 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught,
Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d
posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash, ter - Established SO Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-6 Park Street, Sydney (only)
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT
♦
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappiio, genuine,
is. Old Bdsii Songs, Is 3d upst. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6a.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Lovf, and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Codrt of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Boor of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
MOTHEk, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London 2s each posted.
Sappiio, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing” Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages; cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAy!


gkgh
ghk
g
ĝhk
ghk
aAe
-urfiew
-udc
Ar
tfi'r' * •
'‘Dujrestrw'hoct
you-
Mrs. H. Hawkins of Christie Road,
Waratah, Newcastle, writes: “After
taking three boxes of Dr. Sheldon’s
Digestive Tabules I can eat anything
1 want, enjoy it, and not have the
slightest sign of Indigestion."
DRUGS WON’T CURE RHEUMATISM
THIS MEDICAL BATTERY WILL!
hkg
k
Have you ever obtained more than
temporary relief from the pains of
Rheumatism and Sciatica by swal-
lowing drugs ? Haven’t you found
when the effects of the drugging has
worn off that the pain was more
agonising than ever ?
Stop it!
Use this wonderful Electric Bat-
tery—it will cure the worst case of
Rheumatism —is good for nearly all
aches and pains and nervous
diseases.
The Osborn & Jerdan
New Electric Battery
will send its nerve-restoring—pain-
relieving currents right to the
affected parts. It doesn’t hesitate
—it doesn’t stop to argue on its
errand—it gives you a Practical
proof of its wonderful curative
powers. Order one to-day by mail—
money back if it is not all we claim.
Post Free 355.
DESCRIPTIVE BOOKLET
POST FREE.
OSBORN & JERPAN, Ltd.
"My
Opticians,"
OPTICIANS and
ELECTRICIANS
&
393 GEORGE ST
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY,
The Big Bull-Yank.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN they take the Gov’ment engines off
At the end of the Gov’ment road,
You’ll hear a Baldwin’s wheezy cough
As they back her down to the load.
For this is the stretch where the mail-trains race
For fifty miles and more,
Making up time, which the tardy pace
On the hills has lost before.
They couple her on, with a time-worn jest,
Where the Longburn block-bells call,
And the big Bull-Yank will do her best
When they let the signal fall.
Now, hear the sound of her hard exhaust,
As her weight leans on the train,
There’s a heavy roar when the bridge is crossed,
And she is free on the plain.
The long train thrills to her throbbing beat,
And sways to her gathering speed.
Ah, there is something in speed that’s sweet
As a flagon of flowing mead.
The world seems kinder ; no wind blows cold
’Neath the heaven’s azure dome,
When the big Bull-Yank has taken hold,
And we are galloping home.
Where the flax-leaves gleam in the autumn sun
You can hear the great wheels romp.
She’s breaking her heart for a record run
By Tokomaru swamp—
Straining and rolling, and throwing stars
To the call of her double chime.
Ah ! there is life in the rushing cars,
And the clamor of wheels is rhyme.
You’ll never feel the check of a brake,
And many a tale is told
How stout curves shudder and bridges shake
When the big Bull-Yank takes hold.
Mile upon mile she will race and haul,
And the townships flitting by
Will hear the boast in her tuneful call
That tells that her speed is high.
You’ll feel her galloping round the curves,
Rolling down on her springs,
And the cars will follow in giddy swerves,
Like hurrying, hunted things.
Her black smoke tells of a fire hard-coaled —
They’re driving her all they know,
Eor I heard it whispered when she took hold
They had settled to let her go.
When they run the Gov’ment engines back
To their work on the Gov’ment road,
A Baldwin splutters along the track
To be coupled on to the load,
To the sound of a laugh and a careless jest
Where the Longburn block-bell calls,
And the big Bull-Yank will swell her chest
When the rigid signal falls.
And over the metals, hard and cold,
By Tokomaru swamp,
She’ll sing a song that is never old
While her thundering drivers romp ;
And you’ll never feel a brake-shoe bite,
Or the gaping buffers jar,
When the big Bull-Yank has got you tight
At the end of her coupling-bar.
MAORILAND
WILL LAWSON.
La Revanche.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was sweltering hot on the narrow bush-
track, and I thought I’d pull aside into the
scrub and have a smoke. I got off my
beast, and was leading him into the shade, when
he shied violently, and a voice came from amongst
the branches of a sapling.
“Aha! De’orse-a no expec’ to see von man
perch-a in de tree like-a de birrd-a.”
Then there dropped to the ground a queer-look-
ing little chap, whose fashion of English was
hardly needed to stamp him as Dago. “ Southern
Italian, for choice,” I told myself, as I noted the
short Punchinello figure, the black bullet-head,
the green-tan complexion, the twinkle of good-
humor-cttm-roguery in the beady little dark eye.
My guess was good. He was Calabrese, he told
me, but had lived long in France. A cook, he
was. A chef, in fact, he added, with a smirk, as
he rapidly rolled a cigarette and lighted it. Then
he hauled himself up to his branch again, and sat
twinkling down at me, with his legs dangling.
“ Den, vat for I knock about in de Bush-a, you
teenk, eh ? ”
“ Well,” I said, when I had got my pipe going;
“ I’m more curious to know how you came to be
knocked about in the Bush.” Reasonably recent
personal violence was advertised upon his face by
two decadent “ black eyes,” a bruised cheek, and
a lip-swelling that lop tilted his scrubby black
moustache.
He flung one hand at me, and I thought the
inevitable “ Attro/” was upon his lips. But he
drew in his arm, smote his fist upon his pate, and
said “ God-dam ! ”
“Well,” I said, “ that’s plain English, any-
how ! And is that how you feel about it ? ”
His face brightened-up again with comical
suddenness, and, with a shrug of his shoulders
and an airy wave of his cigarette, he hopped down
from his branch like a cock-sparrow.
“Itell-a you about dat,” he said. “ Eet vas
very onplaisan’ teeng for me —vat you call von
‘rough-a time-a.’ But, Cospetto! I getta laivel
vit dem. I, vat you say-a, ‘come out on top.’
I, Baldovino Tovagliuolo, I ’ave mi gran’
raivainge.” Here Mr. B.T. became suddenly
and unaccountably convulsed with laughter.
“ Corpo! ’’ ecstatically smiting his thigh, “ but I
like-a to be dere ven dey find out. Diamine! —
no ! On vat you call-a second t’oughts, I no
like-a. Dey moordair me eef dey catch-a me ! ”
“ Who’ll murder you ? What have you done?
What’s it all about ? ” I said ; beginning to think
that possibly this small man with the large name
had a “ little bit off the top.” But with Southern
quickness he divined my thought, and, with a
grimace, seated himself on his swag and set
himself. steadily to tell me his tale.
He had been—great come-down for an alleged
■cordon bleu— men’s cook at a station a good bit
further back ; had left, and, striking the men’s hut
at Wundabarra, had remained a few days there-
with remarkable consequences.
The incumbentof the cook’s office at Wundabarra
was Irish, red-headed, and appropriately peppery ;
•and a discussion upon their Art and Mystery be-
tween him and the visitor had led to hot words,
.and in due course to the collision of Ireland’s' fist
with Italy’s eye. Italy had thereupon flung him-
self unscientifically upon the foe, but had been
dragged off by the others, and compelled to do
battle in the British fashion, with results, of course,
disastrous to himself,
“Venlstan’ oopy vit mi arrms benda, so, de
vay dey show-a me, he push-a out his feest
queek-a, like von ’orse-a keek, an’ knocko mi eye
damnabile, an’ I fall down dead-a ; but dey lif’ me
oop again, an’ dat dam Irlandese, ’e knock-a mi
ozzer eye, an’ kill me some more-a. Seex dam
temp I vas knock-a to de terra , an’ den dey lif’ me
oop. an’ dey say, ‘ Good-a man ! Eet eez all ovair.
Shake-a de han’ vit heem.’ An’ Ino unnerstan’;
but I shake-a de han’ all right-a, an’ I say to
miself, ‘ Vait a beet, Baldovino, an’ you pay-out-a
all dese dam barbari.’ An’ ven de cook say ’e
vair sorree, an’e letta me cook for von veek, eef
I like-a, I say dat in two-tree day, ven I getta
de propair teengs togezzer, I cooka dem von
deener more superbo dan dey evair not ’aveeatin
all deir life before-a. An’ I getta de teengs, an’
I cooka dem de deener ; an’ dey say he seemply
magnifico. An’ dey vira into heem. Bacco ! ’ow
dey vira in. Dey no leave-a so mosh as von dam
fragmen’ per i cani —for de doggas. An’ dey vant
me vair bad to tella dem vat teengs dey’ave eata ;
an’ I say I no tella dem, but I write-a down de
menu ; an’ ven dey can finda annyboddee vat can
reeda de Fransh for dem, den dey know-a all
about heem.”
Here the little man bobbed suddenly up from
his swag and hopped around in another ecstasy of
enjoyment. But the joke hadn’t come my way
yet, so I yawned, knocked the ashes out of my
pipe, and was putting my foot in the stirrup, when
B. Tovagliuolo laid a detaining hand on my arm.
“ Von momaint,” he said, peering at me through
his cigarette-smoke, with half-shut eyes. “You
no see vere de fon—de shoke —com een, eh ? But,
tella me—can you reada Francese —Fransh, I
mean ? ”
“ Oui, ” I said. “ Comme-ci, comme-qa.”
“ Aha —vair good ! Den, eef you should ’appen
to go neara—vat ’is name, de station —Vundabarra
—you might aska to see dat menu ; an’ ven you
reada eet for dem bnrbarissimi malacletli, you
unnerstan’ vere de shoke com een. An’ dey
unnerstan’ ’ow Baldovino Tovagliuolo pay-a dem
outa for all dem knocka in the faecia.”
My interest awoke. I was myself on my way
to Wundabarra—going to put in a week or two
with Crawford, the bachelor manager thereof.
I’d have a look at this menu , I told myself, and
see wherein consisted the “shoke” that appeared
so amply to compensate the Dago for the man-
handling he had undergone. But—perhaps it was
no joke. “Here, I say,” I broke out aloud-
“ this is no poisoning business, is it ? Because”——
“ Poison ?—no feara ! De dam wretches deserva
to be poison all-righta, but I not fool enough to
try dat game. Possibilmentc , Ibe hanga som’
day, but I in no such a dam ’urree as all dat.”
I left him seated on his swag, rolling another
cigarette and piping, not unmelodiously, the
“ Lucrezia Borgia ” air, “La rnia vendetta.”
*■*■*»
“No,” Crawford said; “there couldn’t have
been any poisoning in the case. The men are all
right. 13ut we must have a look at this blessed
menu. Hi, Jimmy,” he called to the half-caste
boy who had acted as “parlormaid”; “cutover
to the hut and tell cooky I want him.”
We were smoking on the verandah after dinner.
Presently the men’s cook made his appearance.
“You had a foreign chap at the hut for a few
days last week, didn’t you, Flanagan ? ” asked
Crawford.
Mr. Flanagan—rufous, raw-boned and raucous-
voiced—checked a snigger. “ Yis, boss, we had ;
and a funny little divil he was ! ”
“So I understand—funnier even than perhaps
you’re aware of. Cooked a fine dinner for all
hands one day, didn’t he ? ”
“ He did,” Flanagan answered, with a stare of
surprise. “He did that. I don’t belave the
Governor-Gineral ever laid lip to a betther ! ”
“And you don’t know what it consisted of?”
“Divil a know ! The Dago chap wudn't tell us
nothin’ about that. But he wrote out a maynew,
an’ he sez, sez he ; ‘ It’s ahl there, me bhoys—ahl
there, in most illigant Frinch,’ he sez ; ‘an’ whin
yez gets annywan to thranslate it for yez, ye’ll be
wahnting to see me bahd,’ hesez; ‘just to embrashe
me, an’ kiss me han’, an’ tell me what a great
artis’ lam intoirely.’ An’ divil another word
cud we get out of him.”
“I see. How did you come to let him cook?”
Mr. Flanagan shifted his weight from one leg
to the other, and scratched his scarlet whisker.
“ Well, y’see, boss—’twas this way. The Dago
was a cocky little sparra, and he got arguin’ wid
me about cookery ; an’ wan wurrd led to another,
till at lasht he cahls me a dam ignorant Oirish
savage. So” —Mr. Flanagan modestly paused.
“Yes, goon. And then?”
“Oh, well, then I hands him out wan in the oi.
I wus a bit sorry when I seen he cuddn’t use his
han’s no more nor me granny ; but he flew at me
loike a woild-cat, an’ the other chaps hauled him
off an’ med him foight like a Christian.”
“ Like a Christian !” echoed Crawford. “ Quite
so!” he added, with a cynical laugh. “Well,
then?”
“Well, then,” Flanagan went on, unwillingly,
“ I had to drop him foive or six toimes before
he’d quit.”
Crawford frowned and puffed hard at his pipe.
“ Well,” he said, “ I don’t think much of the lot
of you for treating a stranger and a foreigner like
that.”
“’Twas all fair enough,” Flanagan said, sulkily.
“ Fair enough ; yes—according to your notion
of proper fighting. But you wouldn’t have called
it fair if this chap had stuck a knife in your gizzard,
which would probably be his notion of proper
fighting. But let that pass. He says, lam told,
that he got even with the lot of you through that
dinner, and that, when you get the menu trans-
lated for you, you’ll find out how. So, bring the
paper here, and we’ll have a look at it.”
In a few minutes the cook returned with the
fateful document; and, as he handed it to Craw-
ford, I could dimly see the forms of half-a-dozen
of the hands hovering curiously in the dusky back-
ground.
I took the paper over to the lamp and opened it.
The writing was in a small copper-plate-ish hand ;
and, as my eye fell on the first item, I began to
understand.
Struggling with laughter, I turned to Crawford.
“ Well,” he said ; “ can you make it out ? ”
“ Oh, yes ; I can make it out quite well ; but I
hardly think it’s advisable to give these men a
translation. You see, the first item is, ‘ Puree de
sauterelles vertes .’ ”
“Sounds well, at all events,” said Crawford,
smacking his lips and leaning back in his chair.
“I can’t get my fellow to give me anything half
so grand as that. What’s it mean ?”
I stooped and whispered in his ear. He sat
suddenly up and whistled. “ Oh, that’s the game,
is it ? What a lark ! And the rest of it ? ”
I ran my eye to the end. “ Worse !” I said.
“Never mind ! Frenchy, or Dutchy, or what-
ever he is, has got back on the beggars all right.
Here, you chaps, come along, all of*'you, and hear
what your toff dinner was made of.”
The men gathered up, looking a bit puzzled and
sheepish; and, loudly and slowly, I read :
“Puree de sauterelles• vertes. Green-grass-
hopper-soup.”
A gasp from one man and a snigger from
another. They probably thought I was “ kidding ”
them.
“ Salmis de lezard aux vers-de-bois. Hashed
lizard and wood-grubs.”
“Oh, Lord !” from a man in the rear. “I say,
Mister,” from the cook, “what are y’ givin’ us ?
Ye can’t pull me leg like that, ye know.”
“I’m pulling no legs,” I said. “I’m reading
what is here—neither more nor less. Corneille
au kari,” I went on ; “ curried crow.”
“Faugh !” from the man nearest the cook—
“ that’s enough for me.”
It was apparently more than enough, for he fled,
and was ill—audibly.
“ Petits pates des blattes. Cockroach-patties.”
Here another man spat out viciously and fled.
Then all the rest, save the cook, broke ground and
followed. And the sounds of them as they went,
were like unto the heaving of the great deep. The
cook was as pale as death in the lamplight, but he
stuck grimly, so to speak, by his laboring gastric
engines.
“Go on,” he said, doggedly. “ Give us the rest
of the picnic, while ye’re about it.”
“ Porc-&pec etuve aux mouches-d-viande. Stewed
porcupine and blowflies.”
Moisture glistened on the cook’s forehead ; he
gasped like a dying fish. Then with a tremendous
effort, he set his mouth to speak.
“ Go-go ”
“ On,” he would have said. But Nature rushed
him. He clapped his hands to his stomach, and,
with a hideous groan—
La Revanche was complete !
ALEX. E. MONTGOMERY .
The House and the Storm.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rriHE man from Maoriland had been
telling how hard and how often the wind
blew in parts of the North Island of his
great country, and although nobody questioned
his veracity there was a general suspicion that he
had over-stressed his points.
The gentle shearer who was having his hair
amputated entered quietly into the conversation.
It blew a good deal on the tableland up Weather
Head, Western Noo South, he said in a casual
way. For instance, he had known it blow four
hundred big trees off 80 acres of Peter Madden s
land, leaving the paddock ploughed and ready
for planting. The week previous to that storm
Madden had a fresh coat of paint on the
front of his pub. at the Left Turn. “But,”
said the gentle shearer, “ when I rid past nex
mornin’ there wasn’t ez much paint on ther pub
ez there is on er skinned sheep. The sign was
jist er blank. ‘Hello, Pete,’ I sez, ‘ what’s come
t’ yer name over ther door ? ’ ‘ Why,’ sez Madden,
‘ ther blarsted wind blew it clean off ther sign las’
night.’ ”
When the clamor subsided the gentle shearer,
who was now having some of his whiskers
destroyed, resumed his dispassionate speech.
“ Yeh needn’t tell me,” he said. “ 1 was ready
enough remindin’ Madden ther pertickler kind of
a liar he was. Know old M'Fadyen’s homestead
up under Razor Edge ? That’s eighteen mile west
of Madden’s pub at the Left Turn. I struck it at
noon. Mack ’n’ his wimmen ’n’all his people was
out in front, gapin’ et ther house, which was fresh
done er pretty pea green. But here ’n’ there all
over ther front large capital letters was stuck on
promiscuous, right end up, up-side down, side-
ways, any old how.
“ ‘ What’s ther new game,’ I sez. * What iv yeh
bin doin’ t’ the ’ouse? ’
“ ‘Devil a thing,’ sez Mack. ‘I haven’t put a
brush to it. It happened in the storm last night.’
“Then I started pickin’ out ther letters. M, D,
A, E, P, D, N. Suddenly I struck ther key iv ther
riddle. Them letters meant ‘P. Mad den.’ ’Twas
Peter’s sign from the Left Turn mixed in the
shiftin’. Ther wind what had blown ther coat of
paint off Peter’s pub had blown it clean slap on to
Mack’s’omestead. That satisfied me. I rid right
back, ’n’ apologised to Madden, ’n’ I ain’t in too
hot a ’urry t’ slam ‘Liar’ in er man’s teeth
nowadays.”
Then the gentle shearer, who had now finished
having his hair abolished, rose and looked at the
man from Maoriland with the eye of a friendly
corroborator who had done him a good turn.
E.D.


XMAS FEASTINC
Health Hints for the Festive Season.
THIS is the season of eating, drinking, and making merry. The season of
family gatherings ; when old friends, who, may be, have not met for years,
revive old memories over flavory turkeys, fat ducks, Christmas puddings,
and sparkling wines. Nothing more
easily causes Liver and Stomach Dis-
orders than an excess of rich foods. It
brings about a surcharge of
bile, which causes Head-
ache, Indigestion, and other
Stomach Troubles. Bile
Beans are scientifically com-
pounded to remedy ailments
of this kind. They act
directly upon the Liver and
Stomach, enablingthe former
to secrete sufficient bile to
flush the bowels, and clear
off all waste matter from the
system.
r
77)
n
A.
rn
y
Attention to your health at this season is important, and a dose
Beans taken before retiring will put your system in proper order.
A SUMMER TONIC.
As a Summer Medicine, Bile Beans are singu-
larly suitable. By toning up the Liver and
Stomach and gently opening the bowels, they
promptly dispel Summer Fag, Languor, Lassi-
tude, Fatigue, Headache, Debility, Loss of
Appetite, Anaemia, and ensure sleep by restoring
Nature’s healthy functions.
Bile Beans are obtainable everywhere at 1/li,
or 2/9 Large Family Box (containing three times
the quantity).
HOW BILE BEANS CURE.
Bile Beans are so compounded that they
operate directly upon the Liver and Stomach,
and here again they differ from the operation of
other medicines. When taken for, say, Bilious-
ness or Headache, they do not merely purge,
but they act upon the Liver, regulating and
correcting its Bile secretion. Bile is the natural
purgative of the body, and, by thus working on
Nature’s lines, Bile Beans effect a cure in
NATURE’S OWN WAY.
Bill
OF NCBI f *|
(A
9
mdmiadiatmJdytf
<2
mid /aJti d/imd d
S fid dmdmd. -
Cophetua’s Kiss.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
TOIJ say that love’s a lie. Perhaps. It is
not love you bear,
As o’er my hand the ripples lapse of your
gold flood of hair;
Not love, as lip with lip may meet; not love, as
red lips part;
No more to love is tuned the beat of that which
was your heart.
Ido not ask for dreams, Lorraine; you have no
dreams to share.
For hope or faith lam not fain—no hope nor faith
is there.
Enough the hour that makes you mine; in this
our hearts are one—
We dare no more our dreams combine whose days
of dreams are done.
You loved, and loved but once, Lorraine ; too
much your lover knew
Of self-denial’s after-pain to promise, loving you,
Renunciation, since the pain renunciation brings
Weighs not with that glad moment’s gain when
beggar-maids meet kings.
He meted out his royal dole as kings are wont to
do.
The beggar : maid gave all her soul; her king, a
kiss or two.
And then the hour of anguish came for you to
tread alone
The bitter path of silent shame that he, your
king, had shown.
You passed through your Gethsemane, nor knew
the sun above;
’Twas dark when on your Calvary you raised your
cross of love;
Your clinging hands were bruised thereon, your
tender bosom bled—
Your heart? Your heart went living on. What
though your soul was dead ?
* * * *
No matter where my faith was lost. As in a mirror
seen,
Mine eyes perceive the haunting ghost of what I
might have been.
Too late, Lorraine, to dream of this, since fate
will never bring
The hopes that might have crowned our kiss, if I
had been your king !
VIC.
KETTLEDRUM.
The Crows.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FRESH from Keble College, Oxford,
the little parson arrived in the Riverina
during the long drought, and saw Febru-
ary’s copper skies close down on the plains like a
hot lid shutting down on smouldering ashes.
The sullen despair of the people was terrible,
and his first wonder at their wickedness soon
passed in pity of their sufferings and in admira-
tion of their courage. They seldom spoke—only
uttered short curses about stock, feed, water. They
toiled incessantly. The railway sidings from
Junee to Hay were congested with trucks, laden
with fodder bought at famine prices from the
farmers of Illawarra and the North Coast. This
feed, with vast quantities of scrub cut from the
river-belts, was carted many miles to the scattered
flocks that were too weak to travel and had to be
fed where they stood. The new-chum noticed
with horror the famished brutes licking the very
dust—as he thought; in reality nosing for the
withered stalks and seeds of vanished herbage.
He rode a bicycle, and his flying black coat-tails
were soon familiar in the district. A feverish
pity and a longing to help drove his wheel far out
into the plains. The hateful crows flapped
heavily and cawed curses as he spurted past dead
sheep ; he pedalled slowly through thousands that
could not die. The wicked blue mirage came and
went about him ; silent little waves of impalpable
dust leapt from under his tyre ; rhymes from the
“Ancient Mariner” rang in his ears—he, too,
was adrift in a sea of phantoms, and death, and
corruption.
One day, he came up to a man stooping over a
young ewe, still alive, but lying helpless. Her
exposed eye was picked out by the crows. Her
lamb lay near, dead—both eyes gone, the kidneys
ripped out. The man set her on her legs, but she
was too weak to stand.
“ Kargh—kargh—kar-r-gh ! ”
“ Look,” said the stockman.
The other glanced up at the crows.
“ No—here ! ” The man pointed at the ground.
The ewe lay in a dusty circle of innumerable
hoof-prints. He shook his fist fiercely in the
clergyman's face.
“She faced them bloody crows for two days—
round and round—her little ’un beside her all the
w'hile suckin’ her strength—but they got it at last.”
He rode on, sick at heart.
“Hey, parson”
He glanced back over his shoulder. The man
was holding up the dead lamb by its tail.
“ Feed My lambs ! ”
As his head again bowed forward the little car-
case thudded almost under his wheel and rolled
over and over in the dust. The monstrous insult
was not meant for him.
At some of the larger tanks pumping engines
had been rigged to lift what water remained into
radiating troughs, but at the smaller hole he now
approached there was other work forward.
The thirst-maddened sheep had staggered by
scores into the quagmire, and, too weak to return,
had remained bogged until they fell, and were
trampled under foot. Three men worked in the
stinking slime, dragging out the living sheep, and
building a protecting wall round the bog with the
swollen carcases ; from these the wool would be
plucked by hand—later on. He dismounted on
the blistered brink and looked down.
There was something eerie, inhuman, abomin-
able in the scene—the yellow pit quivering in
white light—the mud-plastered men so active
among the shapeless, silent, grey things. It was
like a glimpse through a microscope at a drop of
putrid water, swarming and seething with
elementary life.
“Storm cornin’,” said one of the men, looking
■up, and trying to wipe his forehead on his
shoulder. A cylindrical dust-cloud was rolling
from the west. He had spoken cheerfully ; dust
was preferable to stench and flies. The others
•scrambled to the brink to look.
“I’ve brought the Sydney papers.” The par-
son threw a roll on the ground. They nodded
thanks, and returned to their work ; he remounted
and followed his shadow back across the plains.
The white sunlight suddenly fled before him. He
looked back and saw that all the west was blotted
out by a billow of red dust. It seemed as though
the plains themselves were upheaving in a tidal
wave.
He loved Nature. Despite Keble, and gold
crosses, and ascetic illuminations, they twain were
still one flesh, and her rising passion now thrilled
him. He dismounted and leaned on his wheel,
waiting. The lamb—the tainted slough—were
forgotten in the thought that whenever Creation
thus appealed to him he heard the voice of the
Creator.
Scattered puffs of dust trailed towards him over
the plains, as cats’-paws flick an oily sea—then
the storm burst. He turned his back to the wind
that licked the baked soil as bare as concrete.
The heavier particles, driving along the ground,
tinkled against the steel spokes, and piled to
windward of the tyres. He moved his foot, and
already its outline was ridged in sand. He looked
at it curiously, remembering the before-unaccount-
able heaps of red earth against the western side of
every post. He pictured the fate of a sick or
drunken man lying there, the earth-wave beating
up against him —rippling over
“ Kargh—kargh—kar-r-gh ! ”
He could not see the black wings driving and
wheeling, nor the wicked eyes that had found
him, but the lightning thought of a dead lauib
with bloody eye-sockets seared his soul —he
became conscious of an obscene power, of which
the evil birds were but a manifestation—a power
malefic, wide-winged, with cruel beak, and tear-
ing talons.
“ Kar-r-gh ! ”
He stared up into the murk—dull red, like dry
blood—and shook his fist madly at the accursed
cry. An imprecation tore his heart and distorted
his face.
“ God ,” he stopped.
The Great Name rang through his horror in a
voice that was not his own; he flung down his
machine and fell on his knees, his hands clasped,
sobs shaking him.
“Then the Lord answered Job out of the
whirlwind.”
DOWELL O'REILLY.
Something Overheard.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ be poor and to be good is a double
misfortune, my dear Jane!” Jane
eyed the speaker sternly, a woman with
fluffy hair and innocent blue eyes. It was on the
open-faced car of the Rose Bay tram. I sat near
Blue Eyes and Jane. Blue Eyes was pretty ;
Jane was plain. Jane knew I was listening.
Plain people are always so observant. She
despised me. People always despise you for
doing what they would do themselves. Blue
Eyes was buttoning her gloves.
“You are a terrible Pagan, Eva,” said Jane,
solemnly. “ Don’t you believe in virtue ?'
Blue Eyes slowly turned to Jane, leaving me a
softly flushed, satiny cheek—“ When she is plain,
perhaps ; when she is rich, perhaps ; when she is
pretty and poor—never!” Then she went on
buttoning her gloves.
“Don’t you believe in another world?” said
Jane, with big eyes.
Bhio Eyca laughed. “Everyone hopes for
another world, Jane, darling; but I never met
anybody yet who was over-anxious to get there ! ”
Jane pondered over this ; even I pondered ; and
the car as it rumbled down the Double Bay hill
seemed to be bursting with ponderation. The
cold September air blew in our young faces, and
the fragrance of pittosporum in the house gardens
intoxicated. That last remark weighed heavily
on me. It was one of those remarks which insist
on weighing. Jane was obviously troubled.
I stole a look at Eva. She looked far too pretty
to be cynical; yet her mouth told a tale.
“I wouldn’t like to be you ! ” said Jane, uncom-
fortably. Jane was evidently a blessing (in dis-
guise) to some family.
“I am very happy, dear!” said Blue Eyes,
complacently. “It is only you good people who
are thoroughly miserable.”
“ It would do you good to be poor—and—and
hungry,” said Jane, unpleasantly.
“No doubt, darling!” said Blue Eyes, with
seductive sweetness. “I dare say hunger is a
very dreadful thing, but, really now, do you think
anyone possesses enough imagination to feel the
hunger of her neighbor ? ”
Jane was clearly no match for this female cynic
with the blue eyes. (I was having the time of my
life.)
“ Oh, you can sneer and make your ambiguous
remarks, which I’m sure nobody understands,’
pursued Jane.
“ Excuse me, ma’am ! ” I nearly said—but I was
afraid of Jane.
The conductor, in his charming way, asked for
our tickets. Jane dived into her bag for hers,
and the man swore under his teeth. Blue Eyes
had hers ready inside the palm-hole of her glove.
“Why are good people always slow?” she in-
quired gravely of the Universe.
“Are you speaking of me?” said Jane, bad-
temperedly.
“Oh, no, dear !” said Blue Eyes, politely.
“ Sometimes your politeness is almost offen-
sive ! ” burst out Jane with a flash.
“Politeness is a necessary protection against
sincerity,” replied Blue Eyes with accuracy.
“ Eva, you are really shocking. I don’t know
where you get your ideas.” (As if Jane would.)
“ I’m sure I can’t think what you will be when
you become old.”
“Ah ,” said the shocking and pretty one,
“ when I get old ! A long time away, Jane.”
“Not so long,” said Jane, viciously.
“Oh yes, dearest, no woman ever perceives she
is old until the others have ceased to mention it.
It is the stoppage of their remarks that draws her
attention.”
Jane looked at her in astonishment.
“And when you come to think of the others
ceasing to mention it—it gives me a very fair
innings—eh, Jennie?”
Here I chuckled. I really couldn’t help it.
Blue Eyes gave me a mischievous look, and then,
as in duty bound, turned me her shoulder. Jane
shuddered and ignored me.
“ I hope you won’t take it into your head to
become one of those writing people ! ” said Jane,
severely. “ Don’t think because you can say
things! can’t answer, that you are clever.”
Eva smiled inscrutably. “You think, then,
Janie, that few write cleverly ? ”
“Mighty few!” said Jane, with ungrammati-
cal cruelty.
“Humph!” said Blue Eyes, reflectively—
“ Sometimes I wonder are there so many who
read cleverly ? ”
The car stopped. I had to get off.
N.S.W.
HELEN JEROME.


The photograph and letter we are privileged to
publish below testify eloquently to the value of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla:
mi
“In my line of business, viz.,
miner and prospector on the
fields in the West, one is always
subject to feeling out of sorts on
account of the diet. Several
times I had to give up work and
seek medical advice, which is
very expensive there. I got no
relief, and then tried several
tonics, one after the other, but
they did me no lasting good.
Reading about Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla, I gave it a trial. It did me
more good, with lasting effect,
than anything I ever took; and I
now always take two or three
bottles out with me and have
no more occasion for expensive
medical bills.” Wm. Thomp-
son, Ilindley St., Adelaide, S. A.
Such a testimonial shows how valuable Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is to those
who need strength, energy, a clear brain, and ability to prosecute
life’s work successfully. It removes all feeling of exhaustion, braces
up, makes work easier, gives strength to the muscles, refreshes and
invigorates, and, best of all, takes out every impurity from the blood.
AYER’S S arsaparilla
The Greatest of All Nerve Tonics.
Prepared by DB. J. C. AYEE & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S, A.
Be sure that you are not induced to take some
other Sarsaparilla, claimed to be “just as good.”
See that you get “AYER’S” Sarsaparilla.
Ayer’s Pills act on the liver; they cure biliousness.
ghk
COLORED v?
And Artistic
POST CARDS
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each containing 6
of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us, at 6d. per packet. When you
have sold the oards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from the list of jewellery which we send you. By continuing tlie sale
of our cards you can earn a Ladies’ or Cent.’s Silver Watoh and Chain. Remember, we
want to do business with you again, and to do this we must give you full satisfaction.
V
R
E
E
We take all the Risk. You can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with any other firm.
We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could not make you
this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post cards sell at once, wherever seen.
POST CARD Co., 8.K., Pitt-st., Sydney
FREE TRIAL H
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved high grade EUJCTRIC
BIJI/TS FRKK.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is themost perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney., Live., and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness; and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free
to each per-
son writing
to *s one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in any way
delay no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIO.
Please mention this paper.
PATERNOSTER’S
I
the old reliable
ENGLISH REMEDY
..FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pal as of
Head, Pace, or Limbs,
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN*
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Cbemiata la
Australia and New Zealand.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
rM
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Rlcord’B Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne; F. H. Fauidlng & Co., 16 O'Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEJSP, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY.
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Oastlereagh
►Street, Sydney.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the ease may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
■ent by mail in plain packages. Whan CURED we charge
yon not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS. 8
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney,
FREE
BT PQST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly-
celebi'afed FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
nn n.p rtm -r U • t-AttISIAJN SPECIALIST.
totvootv™ ’ showing sufferers how they may CURB
ALL NERVjOUS TROUbLEs!
rtmM? “** th«r serious consequences. A HOMb
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagb St*.
sirx)3srsif.
ghk
i&9!£
- »
vy
Is
NS
AND
TO
S’
e o
9&,
*4
M
f*
to
ft
M
M
•Vs
tfSS
CSS
&
rjr£
*Bl2
8?
m
V
m
-v-vawmi)
vawmi)
A
OF
V
1
PILLS
h
A good Clip will
not necessarily
guarantee
a GOOD PRICE unless Handled
GOOD SALESMEN.
HILL CLARK & CO.,
will guarantee BEST MARKET VALUl|^^^
NERVOUSNESS'
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OF BEEF-CURB, Will
forward the same, free of charge, to any-
one interested.
Address: A.MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Y. J. Daley’s ‘* At Dawn and Dusk, ” a
collection of his best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price, 4s. 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
ĥ
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in 43
hours 'Without
incon-
venience.
Each Capsule hears the name Mr
hkg
v •MEJVawo <3r
women. A
A »
An Xmas Gift
TO
ALL SUFFERERS THROUGHOUT
THE COMMONWEALTH.
FOR the Christmas Week Dr. Martin has decided to
present every patient suffering from any Chronic Ail-
ment or Disease with a FREE copy of his great work,
“ THE DISEASES GF MEN AND WOMEN ”
(published at 7s. 6d.), and which, has been so highly praised throughout the whole of
Australasia, several thousand copies having been sold since the date of issue.
Every applicant for Dr. Martin’s Xmas Gift must cut out this notice and send it with
his or her full name and address, together with five stamps (the cost of postage—outside the
Commonwealth the postage is ninepence) at the same time mentioning the nattA of their
ailments. Applications will only be received up to Slstf December. WL
DR. MARTIN, M.D.,
CONSULTING PHYSICIAN IN AII9«EABE3
OF MEN and WOMEN, SPttfilST IN
PRIVATE, NERVOUS and SKIIt%EASES,
Address—** Elmley House,” 151 Elizabeth St., Hyde P


Use Your
Hose —Now
If you use a Gar-
den Hose now,
you’ll get more out
of your garden
later on more
pleasure, more
flowers, more veg-
©tables—better ones, too.
There’s no better Hose than ours.
Send for
Price Lists
There’s a lot that's not nearly so
good, pur Hose has a reputation
behind it, and every hose we sell
will do that reputation s>ood.
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
Manufacturers and importers,
270 'GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ĝhkghk
fiRSMAULtS INDIAN CIGARETTES
ghk
WORTHINGTON PUMP GO., Li mite#
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SIMPSON *#BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
hk
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
t Celebrated
PLATE and
)CUTLERY
©©sum
The Beaver Brand has stood the test of time.
(oh[£
or
AX Pi
WOLF
At the Showrooms—
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street,
a,so at SYDNEY
"THE BLOCK,"
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
PROPRIETORS
J. & J. Maxfield, Ltd.,
gh
khk
TINTARA
WINES. .
hkg
Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaida.
m
m
hk
FORCED LUBRICATION.
RIGID ECCENTRIC BEARING.
DOUBLE COUNTERSHAFT BEARINGS.
THOROUGHLY DUST PROOF.
Sole Agents—
W. &J. LEM PRI ERE,
MELBOURNE; SYDNEY «
PARKE &' LACY COX LTD
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
fgS|G3Ji3S
■j*
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA FOR
All Sizes and Styles Kept Jn Stock.
Single, and Duplex; Regular, Brass, and Iron Fitted (for Cyanide).,,
/
EVERY PUMP IS GUARANTEE!).
Catalogues and Full particulars on Application*
“There is No Better Pump thaii the Knowles/
MARSHALL’S.
/
m
R. t. SCRUTTON & CO.V
97 CLARENCE ST, SYDNEY,
Engineers’, Ironmonger’s and Machinery Merchants.
HAVE IN STOCK— SOLE AGENTS—
Marshall’s Portable, Horizontal, Vertical, Dredge Engines and Boilers.
SNOW Duplex Steam Pumps & Fittings,
Pulleys— Oast, W. 1., Wood, Shafting, Hangers, &c., Gun Metal Fittin%s,
Valves, Lubricators, &c., Iron— Bar, Rod, Plate, Steel Wheels, Pipe and
Fittings, Engineers’ Tools, and Importers of all Steam Users
Requirements. Correspondence Invited.^
ONES
FOR PASTORALIST, STOCK AjMD
STATION WORK.
for our FREE BOOK on TELE-
PHONES. HOW TO INSTAL THEM.
SILVERTOWN TELEGRAPH WORKS C°.V
279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ghk
HOME
ABBOTT” FILTER
( I
Is Australian, and has
withstood the Severest
Bacteriological Tests.
All Sizes, Fountain
Pressure, from 20s ,
if you want to drink ABSOLUTELY PURE WATER, buyar
or
V
l “ ABBOTT.”
THE RATLIN
Hand Ice Machine
Will Freeze Water In 3 Minutes.
invaluable in the Country
where ice cannot be got.
A Post Card will gfet you
full particulars.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.
263 GEORGE STREET, SYDRrEY
486 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
