

fsdf
SIXTY YEARS’
REPUTATION.
WH1SJS.I
•5
107 Kent Stree ti, Sydney,
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery,
— ~. t m /v,v,™Tniimi r njTPxxr .»r. STr.nmsrT>.HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
HOBART.
»
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
m
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Son, Ltd., U 7 York St., Sydney
BROADBENT’S
Direct Steam, Belt,
an:l Electrically Driven
XT
0
For DRYING WOOL,
EXTRACTING TALLOW
from MEAT, REFUSE,
&C.) &c.
SOLE AGENTS— As used in the Principal Wool Scours and Meat Works throughout Ai
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 7 Bent St., Sydney, N.S.
ml
iiw.
\
back
it
Take
I must have -
HUTTON S
Pine-Apple Brand
sd
fsd
SAFES
DOORS
LOCKS
TlaticnaL
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO.fOF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital - - - £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branch:
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society). GIBB, Manager,
Active Age ts andOarivassers Wanted.
QM, all, oUhsAJd a -& z^Wr
f
To Send your WOOL and PRODUCE to
ROUGH, MORT & GO
COL
WOOL COMMISSION 2 Per Cent.
The Only Charge to GROWERS.
LIMITED,
SYDNEY
K J. E. MACKENZIE, Manager.
sdf
sd
mm
is the Queen of all teas
FOf^
i Aroma,Streiigtiu-Purity:
Reg&
a
ft
Trade Mark.
f
CEILING
*T>
PS
1
t*
FERRIER/S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers— SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
Also largest makers in Australia of Refrigerating and Ice-Making Machinery.
VdS
Absolutely the BEST TABLE WATER.
G-OX.X.X3NT & O Q.,
The Bulletin
V01.27.—N0. 1397.]
[Thursday, November 22. 1906.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


f HE BOOKPELLOW’S MARKET RE PORT.
7 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
Trade generally has been very good, and
a busy Christmas is expected. All classes of
literature have been in demand, and many
customers have departed en souriant.
THE BOOKFELLOW’S special offer to out-
back readers : THIRTY-FIVESELEOTED SIX-
PENNIES FOR ONE POUND, post free any-
where in Australasia , is beginning to be
appreciated. Many of the best, novels are now
sold at Sixpence, and when well chosen are
very attractive. The publications of the
Rationalist Press—Darwin, Haeckel, and so on
—are sold at the same price. When writing,
mention the authors and books you want;
also, those you don’t want.
Corelli’s are low, very low, partly in conse-
quence of a dastardly press attack. French
novels, on the other hand, go high.
THE BOOKFELLOW offers a prize of £1 Is.
for the best BALLADE OF THE BOOKFEL-
New Book Shop, at 7 Hamilton
Street, Sydney—“as secluded as it is access-
ible,” says W. B. Melville: Entries, in styict
form, close December 15. (The best little book
on ballade-making is Gleeson White’s Ballades
and Rondeaux, price. Is. 3d. posted, and Worth
double.)
For books, magazines, or advice, address the
expert book-finder, The Bookfellow, 7 Hamil-
ton Street, Sydney. a.g.s.
BOOKS
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.,
71 CASTLEREACH ST.
SYDNEY.
Nesbit, The Incomplete Amorist, 3s (id, postage 6d.
Williamson, Car of Destiny, 2s (id & 3s (id ,_ post 6d.
Albanesi, Little Brown Mouse, 2s 6d & 3s (id, post 6d.
Oppenheim, TheJLost Leader, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, post (id.
Ziinmern, Italy for the Italians, 7s, post 6d.
Shelley, Enderby, a Novel, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, post 6d.
Wrixon, Sir H., The Pattern Nation, 3s (id, post 4d.
Shepherd, Practical Farming-, Plans, &c., 5s 6d, post 6d.
Anthony Hope, Sophy of Kravonia, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d
Sheppard, Running- Horse Inn, 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Bacheller, Silas Strong, 2s 6d & 3s (id , postage 6d
Hiehens, Call of the Blood, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, post 6d\
Magnay, The Master Spirit, 3s 6d, post 6d.
Levi, Billiards : Strokes of the Game, 5s Cd, post 6d
Coates, Seeing the Invisible : Practical Studies in Ps'vcho-
metry, Thought Transference, Telepathy, &e., 6s p 6d
THE GAIETY OF FATMA,
A Novel bj' KATHLEEN WATSON, author of “ The Litanies of
Life/’ wrapper 2s 6d, cloth binding 3s 6d, postage 6d extra.
menthol
G.^ViDSO/V.
Sold by Chemists. Tins, Is. 6d
The Great Antiseptic and
Prophylactic .
Suitable for old and young.
The Lancet: “ Proved to be as effective, bactericidallv,
as is Creosote.”
The Australasian Medical Gazette : “ Of great service
in affections of the voice and throat.”
The Practitioner: “Useful in Tonsilitis, Pharyngitis
and similar ailments.” s
Post Free on receipt of stamps from the
Sole Manufacturer, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich,
Sydney Depot, 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLAGE.
Agencies in all the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 1
THE RED PAGE.
KIPLING OF POOR’S HILL
KIPLING, whose genius may be defined
as an infinite capacity for taking
notes, has deserted his five nations
and seven seas, and settled down
in Sussex. He is too busy just now to
manage the Empire for us; England has
“ magicked ” him •with her unchanging an-
tiquity.
The inevitable end of popular authors is a
growing carelessness, a complacency of the
intellect, a langor of the invention, a slacken-
ing of the phrase. Popular authors begin
by audacity, and end in dullness. They
prosper, and grow tedious. Hall Caine may
conformably be cited. But Kipling will not
drift into dullness; he will become un-
intelligible. through a desperate excess
of zeal. He, at least, is always
boyishly interested in his work; his
plans are carefully laid, but he is too
much interested in his foundations; his
stories stand stiffly buttressed, but they are
not castles in the imaginative air. He
paints his prose red with local color; his
characters emerge with their blushing techni-
calities thick upon them. But the more
industriously he builds, the more insignifi-
cant grow his buildings ; desperately he
attempts to make up by observation what
he is losing in spontaneity ; his note-books
are too much with him. His style is in-
tensely labored ; but occasionally, as in this
passage from his latest book, he achieves an
effect. (Fulke, hanging in a black shaft of
the castle, with the tide slowly creeping
about his knees, is telling to his torturers
the sorry story of his life) :
“Was it bad ? ” said Dan, awestruck.
“Beyond belief,” Sir Richard answered. “ None
the less, there was that in it which forced even
Gilbert to laugh. We three laughed till we ached.
At one place his teeth so chattered that we could
not well hear, and we reached him down a cup of
wine. Then he warmed to it, and smoothly set
out all his shifts, malices, and treacheries, his
extreme boldnesses (he was desperate bold); his
retreats, shufflings, and counterfeitings (he was
also inconceivably a coward); his lack of gear and
honor ; his despair at their loss; his remedies, and
well-colored contrivances. Yes, he waved the
filthy rags of his life before us, as though they
had been some proud banner. When he ceased,
we saw by torches that the tide stood at the cor-
ners of his mouth, and he breathed strongly
through his nose.”
But, temporarily, and in a degree, Kipling
has been saved—by the modern magazine.
The magazine does not demand intellect,
unless discreetly veiled ; it insists upon a
ground-work of the familiar, for an imagina-
tion tethered and contentedly a-graze, for
moral complacency and a cheerful end. Its
chief aim is to save its readers from mental
effort. Hence came the serial with whose
characters the reader each succeeding month
became on terms of greater familiarity. But
this labor-saving device also involved on the
part of the reader the mental effort of re-
calling exactly what happened in the previous
chapters. Even elaborate recapitulations but
clumsily admitted the difficulty. On the other
hand, the detached short story compelled the
reader to make the acquaintance, for a
brief period, of a totally new set of
characters. It scarcely seemed worth while
to be introduced to these strangers if, after
a few pages the reader had to lose them, and
the interest they aroused, for ever. So inevit-
ably came the serial in which every chapter is
“complete in itself,” a mere disconnected
series of short stories about the same set of
characters. Tins serial in water-tight com-
partments avoids the necessity of recalling
the incidents' of the previous chapter, and,
at the same time, obviates the formality of
introducing the reader to strangers. And if,
by chance, you miss a chapter of the semi-
detached serial, there is no hiatus in your
memory ; you merely enter the next water-
tight compartment. And the modern maga-
zine remembers that we are all boys it
accedes to the craving for adventure; the love
of the large and obvious, the directness and
explicitness of the heart of youth.
And Kipling, coming back to simple
things, accedes, super-journalist as at heart
he is, to this modern magazine demand.
The reader, picking up a stray issue of a
magazine containing a section of PuckofPook’s
Hill (Macmillan), as it is called for English
eyes —in America, for reasons, the story was
titled Robin Goodfellow—His Friends —finds
all that the modern magazine has asked for.
Kipling has been brought roundly up to his
audience. The' reader needs no introduction
to his characters—-he vaguely remembers
that in previous issues there was a character
named Puck and two English children for
whose delight Puck, “ the oldest Old Thing
in England,” puts upon the homely stage of
Sussex a pageant of the romantic past. At
times it is dull—through excess of archae-
ology. Kipling has the boy’s desire to
show how clever, how observant, how know-
ing he is ; and often the story hobbles
over lumps of information left awkwardly
in the way. And though this self-briefed
advocate of the Empire cannot quite disrobe,
slowly his Sussex environment is sinking into
him ; he has come home from the Empire to
Pook’s Hill. England, with her immense,
ordered, secluded antiquity, her aged com-
placency, cannot but mould*the outsider to
her mental outlook ; Sussex has, in a phrase
that Kipling will pardon me for using, “ got
him down.” So it is of little England that
Puck-Kipling somewhat stolidly sings :
Seo you the dimpled track that runs
All hollow through the wheat ?
O, that was where they hauled the guns
That smote King Philip’s fleet.
See you our little mill that clacks
So busy by the brook ?
She has ground her corn and paid her tax
Ever since Domesday Book.
See you our stilly woods of oak
And the dread ditch beside ?
O, that was where the Saxons broke
On the day that Harold died.
See you the windy levels spread
About the gates of Rye ?
O, that was where the Northmen fled
When Alfred's ships came by.
See you our pastures wide and lone, .
Where the red oxen browse ?
O, there was a city thronged and known,
Ere London boasted a house.
And see you, after rain, the trace
Of mound and ditch and wall ?
O, that was a legion’s camping place,
When Caasar sailed from Gaul.
And see you marks that show and fade,
Like shadows on the Downs?
O. they are the lines the Flint Men made,
To guard their wondrous towns.
Trackway and Camp and City lost,
Salt Marsh where now is corn ;
Old Wars, old Peace, old Arts that cease,
And so was-England born !
She is not any common Earth, V
Water, or wood, or air,
But Merlin’s Isle of Gramarye,
Where you and I will fare.
J*
The wonderland of history through which
Puck leads his two little confiding Alices is
at times an interesting country—as- when
upon the stage comes striding tire gallant,
glittering figure of Parnesius, the centurion
of the thirtieth legion in Britain, with his
rollicking marching song :
When I left Rome for Lalage’s sake,
By the Legions’ Road to Rimini,
She vowed her heart was mine to take '
With me and my shield to Rimini—
(Till the Eagles flew from Rimini !)
And I've tramped Britain and I’ve tramped
Gaul
And the Pontic shore where the snow-flakes
fall
As white as the neck of Lalage—
As cold as the heart of Lalage ■!■
And I’ve lost Britain and I’ve lost Gaul,
And I’ve lost Rome, and worst of all,
I’ve lost Lalage !
Puck of Pook’s Hill is primarily for the
delectation of children, and Kipling has one
secret for them, which Lewis Carroll missed
and Defoe knew. He recognises the vora-
cious curiosity of the child—youth’s incur-
able “How?”; he satisfies the inevitable
demand for full particulars, and tells his
small reader exactly “how it is done.”
Thus, there is Weland’s singing sword with
magic runes upon it Kipling writes out all
the runes—and very dull runes they are : the
office rune-writer could reel off in his lunch-
time an epigrammatic runic dozen that would
give that sword something to sing about 1-
Still, the children are not defrauded of their
legitimate demand. “ What was she like ? ”
asks Dan about Witta’s ship ; and Kipling
describes the ship. “ What lessons did you
do —when—when you were little ? ” Una
asks the centurion, and Kipling gives the
list. “‘And we saluted the guard and the
Altar of Victory there.’ ‘ How ? How ? ’
said Dan and Una ” ; jind Kipling shows
them how. So there is mention of the
Danes, and Kipling drags in by the hair the
Dane women left lamenting in the North,
and tells you the song they sang.
What is a woman that you forsake her,
And the hearth-fire and the home-acre,
To go with the old grey Widow-maker?
She has no house to lay a guest in-
But one chill bed for all to rest in,
That the pale suns and the stray bergs nest in.
She has no strong white arms to fold you,
But the ten-times-fingering weed to hold you
Bound on the rocks where the tide has rolled you.
Yet, when the signs of summer thicken,
And the ice breaks, and the birch-buds quicken,
Yearly you turn from our side, and sicken—
Sicken again for the shouts and the slaughters,—
You steal away to the lapping waters,
And look at your ship in her winter quarters.
You forget our mirth, and talk at the tables,
The kine in the shed and the horse in the stables—
To pitch her sides and go over her cables !
Then you drive out where the storm-clouds
swallow ;
And the sound of your oar-blades falling hollow,
Is all we have left through the months to follow!
Ah ! what is Woman that you forsake her,
And the hearth-fire and the home-acre,
To go with the old grey Widow-maker ?
Ifc will be apparent that the 'verses quoted
are little more than neat rhymed prose ; the
form is metrical, but the idea underlying it
is prose. And there are worse specimens
that will remain unquoted. It is difficult to
determine how Kipling, a self-conscious arti-
ficer in words, could suffer some of these
deplorable pieces to disfigure his book.
Either his critical powers are weakening, or
he has come to the careless conclusion that
his audience were children who would not
judge. Yet, in that case, how explain the
insertion in a boys’ adventure-book of this,
the most interesting of his verse-efforts ?
When first by Eden Tree,
The four great rivers ran.
To each was appointed a Man
Her Prince and Ruler to be
But after this was ordained,
(The ancient legends tell).
There came dark Israel,
Fqr whom no river remained.
Then He That is Wholly Just,
Said to him : “ Fling on the ground
A handful of yellow dust,
And a Fifth Great River shall run.
Mightier than these four,
In secret the Earth around;
And Her secret evermore,
Shall be shown to thee and thy Race.”
So it was said and done.
And, deep in the veins of Earth,
And, fed by a thousand springs
That comfort the market-place,
Or sap the power of Kings,
The Fifth Great River had birth,
Even as it was foietokl
The Secret River of Gold !
And Israel laid down
His sceptre and his crown,
To brood on that River bank,
Where the waters Hashed and sank,
And borrowed in earth and fell,
And bided a season below ;
For reason that none might know,
Save only Israel.
He is the Lord of the Last—
The Fifth, most wonderful, Flood.
He hears Her thunder past
And Her song is in his blood.
He can foresay : “ She will fall,”
For he knows which fountain dries,
Behind which desert-belt
A thousand leagues to the South.
He can foresay : “ She will rise.”
He knows what far snows melt;
Along what mountain-wall
A thousand leagues to the North.
He snuffs the coining drought
As'lie snuffs the coming rain,
He knows what each will bring forth,
And turns it to his gain.
A Prince without a sword,
A Ruler without a Throne ;
Israel follows his quest.
In every land a guest,
Of many lands a lord,,
In no land King is he.
But the Fifth Great River keeps
The secret of Her deeps
For Israel alone,
As it was ordered to be.
MARK TW[?] DIARY
Mark Twain publishes cheerful extracts from
his comprehensive autobiography—it is to stretch
to a quarter of a million words, three times the
average length of a novel—in The North American
Review. The work will not appear in book form
till after the author’s death. In the second Sept,
issue—for the Review has become a fortnightly—
Mark gives the genesis of his jumping-frog and
his equally lively cable mitigating the report of
his death.
*
*• _ When Artemus Ward passed through Cali-
fornia on a lecturing tour, in 1865 or ’66, I told
him the “Jumping Frog” story, and he asked me
to write it out and send it to his publisher, Carl-
ton, to be used in padding out a small book which
Artemus had prepared for the press and which
needed some more stuffing to make it big enough
lor the price that was to be charged for it. It
reached Carlton in time, but he didn’t think much
of it, and was not willing to go to the type-setting
expense of adding it to the book. He did not
put it in the waste-basket, but made Henry Clapp
a present of it, and Clapp used it to help out the
funeral of his dying literary journal. The Satur-
day Press. “The Jumping Frog” appeared in
the last number of that paper, was the most joy-
ous feature of the obsequies, and was at once
copied in the newspapers of America and Eng-
land. It certainly had a wide celebrity, and it
still had at the time that lam speaking of—but I
was aware that it was only the frog that was cele-
brated. It wasn’t I. 1 was still an obscurity.
qs t
When Mark Twain, then living in London, was
reported dead, the London representatives of the
American papers flocked in to find, to their dis-
appointment, the author alive and “worth next
to nothing as a text for transatlantic news.”
One of these men was a gentle and kindly and
grave and sympathetic Irishman, who hid his
sorrow the best he could, and tried to look glad,
and told me that his paper, the Evening Sun, had
cabled him that it was reported in New York that
I was dead. What should he cable ; in reply ? I
said :
“ Say the report is greatly exaggerated.”
He never smiled, but went solemnly away and
sent the cable in those words. The remark hit
the world pleasantly, and to this day it keeps
turning up, now and then, in the newspapers
when people have occasion to discount exaggera-
tion.
The next man was also an Irishman. He had
his New York cable in his hand—from the New
York World —and he was so evidently trying to
get around that cable with inventive softnesses;
and palliations that tny curiosity was aroused and
I wanted to see what it did really say. So when
occasion' offered I slipped it out of his hand. It
•aid : /
“If Mark Twain dying send five hundred
words. If dead send a thousand.”
Now that old letter of mine sold yesterday for
forty-three dollars. When I am dead it will be
worth eighty-six.
Twain records a conversation with R. L.
Stevenson, and remarked to him of Thomas
Bailey Aldrich, “Yes, he was always brilliant,
he will always be brilliant; he will be brilliant in
hell—you will see.”
Stevenson, smiling a chucklv smile,. “I hope i
not.”
“Well, you will, and he will dim even those •
ruddy fires and look like a transfigured Adonis, j
backed against a pink sunset.”
THE SURBITON INTELLECT
An English reviewer has been running amok
among the Australian bards for the benefit of
The British Australasian. That journal in order
to ascertain “the exact opinion of a competent
London critic on the chifftees Australian work
would have with London editors and publishers,”
arranged for a review of six Australian books of
verse. The writer, who is a well-known journalist,
occupying a position as reader to a publishing firm,
and also acting in an editorial capacity on a literary
weekly, was asked to express his views frankly.
The test volumes were by A. B. Paterson (2),
H. Lawson (2), Victor Daley and Brunton
Stephens. The reviewer, who knew nothing of
Australia, looked to find verse having “a tone
and a race-feeling of its own,” and found in
Stephens and Daley “ the literarily studious,’’and
in the rest “the illiterate.” Daley’s
work, he opines, might as easily have been done in
Surbiton as in Sydney. Brunton Stephens’ note
strikes this cockney journalist as rather personal
than representative or national. [Every poet’s
note must be personal: did Byron interpret the
aristocratic aspirations of his peers, or Keats ex-
press the ideals of chemists’ assistants ?] Turning
to the bush-ballad, this Surbiton intellect finds-
pages of blue-gum and any quantity of mulga;
but he pathetically complains: “Is it either
new of true? Is it either Australian or poetry?
Vernacular rhyme is not a new discovery.”
“Really, really!” he smiles. “There was-
once a man called Bret Harte.... You can do this
kind of thing with a bowie-knife and a broncho,
or with a stockwhip and a bluey, with equal
facility and at an equal distance from
truth....A sufficient number of mulgas to the
square inch of verse will cause you to be hailed as-
a truly national bard. Yet an intelligent Cook’s
tourist could acquire all that in a very short time,
and even an afternoon in Kew Gardens would go
a long way.... The substitution of a mulga for a
primrose, or a bell-bird for a lark, does not ad-
vance you a step on the road towards a national
poetry.” And, * finally—quite finally—“they
mustn’t do it again.”
After this, there is nothing for us to do but wilt.
But the only poetical Cook’s tourist who came
this way had to borrow his local color from mere
local bards. He would have saved hitnself from
many charges of plagiarism ifhe had only studied
his subject at first hand at Kew Gardens. And
there are kangaroos to be seen—for a small
charge—at the London Zoo. Australian bards
should accept with gratitude this ingenuous
self-analysis of the Surbiton intellect that looks
for poetry and findsmulga. Beforesuch intellects
it is wasteful excess even to throw mulga. The
Surbiton critic, who can do this sort of thing so
easily, is also reader to a London publishing firm.
The moral is that Australian bards should stick
to Australian publishers. The outlying Surbitons
will join in the procession—in time, But really,
really, they mustn’t do it again !
“R.D.” points out that the line, “Where the
warrigal whimpered and brayed,® first appeared
in a prize ode written for the Melb. Exhibition of
1888. Its second appearance was in The Seven
Seas, by a person named Rudyard Kipling.
A volume of verse, titled London Streets, by
Arthur H. Adams, author of Maoriland, etc., is
announced for publication by T. N. Foulis,
London.


sdf
send Your WOOL to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., LTD.
The Leading Sydney Salesmen.
THE LEADING FISHING TACKLE DEPOT.
We carry a complete stock of all the Best Continental Fishing Tackle suitable for Australian Fishing,
sd
V.
*///{
f
sdf
sd
Trout Flies on Turn-
down-eyed Hoots
No. 132
Best Trout Flies
Our Artificial Trout Flies are made specially to
our Expert’s order. They are dressed to suit Aus-
tralian Pishing, and have been used with immense
success in New Zealand, Tasmania and Victoria for
many years. These Plies proved beyond doubt to
be the most deadly flies ever used in New South
Wales during the past season.
No. 135 —Best Flies on Turn-down-eyed Hooks, Nos.
C, 8, 10, including the Alder, White Moth, Coach-
man, Scone Fly, Evening Dun, Red Hackle, and
others, Is 9d per dozen, 2d each
No. 138—Best Plies on Turn-down-eyed' Limerick
Hooks, Nos. 4,0, 8, including the Blue Bottle,
Oockybondhu, Dusty Miller, Grasshopper,
Heckum Peckum, Hardy’s Favourite, Jungle
Cock, Silver Doctor, Peveril of the Peak, Water
Cricket, Was]), Woodcock and others. No. 4
hooks, 2s per dozen, 2d each ; No. 6 and 8 hooks,
ls9d dozen, 2d each.
No. 136a—Best Plies on Turn-down-e.ved Sneck
Hooks, Nos. 3,4, 5, including the Coachman,
White Moth, Alder, Red Hackle, and others, 2s
dozen, 2d each.
No. 136b—Best Plies on Turn-down-eyed Limerick
Hooks, Nos. 3,4, 5, including the Coachman,
White Moth, Alder, Black Hackle and others, 2s
per dozen, 2d each.
No. 130c—Best Floating- May Plies, on Turn-down-
eyed Hooks, Nos. 4,6, 8, assorted, 2s 6d per
dozen, 3d each.
No. 137 —Best Plies on Sneck Hooks to looped 8-
incfpGut, Nos. 6,8, 10, including the Blue Bottle,
Cow Dung/Oak, Francis, Red Ant, White Moth,
Coachman and others, Is S)d per dozen, 2d each.
No. 138 —Dashwood Flies, on Nos. 6 to 14 hooks, to
8-inch Looped Gut, 2s 6d per dozen, 3d each.
No. 139—Alexander Plies, on Nos. 6 to 14 Hooks,
to 8-inch Looped Gut, Is 9d per dozen, 2d each.
No. 139a—Best Trout and Herring Casts, fitted up
complete with Flies to order, from Is to 5s each.
No. 140—Trout or Herring Plies on Gut, Nos. 7 to
12 hooks, Is per dozen.
No. 151—Trout or Herring Plies, on 8-inch Looped
Gut, Nos. 7 to 12 hooks, Is. 3d per dozen ; ljd
each.
Best Perch Plies.
Our Pert h Plies are made from the best Feathers
and Dressing obtainable, and made to our own
Patterns—no others just as good.
No. 132.—Best Perch Plies on No. 2/0 Turn-down
Eyed Hooks, including the Butcher, Jock Scott,
Golden Butterfly, Hornet, Silver Doctor, Dragon
and others, Is Cd each.
No. 132 A.—Best Perch Plies on No. 1/0 2/0 Looped
Gut Hooks, including the Butcher, Jock Scott,
Golden Butterfly, Hornet, Silver Doctor, Dragon
and others, Is 3d each.
No. 132 S.—Best Perch Plies on No. 4 Turn-down
Eyed Limerick Hooks, including the Dragon,
Silver Doctor, Hornet, Golden Butterfly, Jock
Scott, Butcher and others, Is 3d each.
No. 134.—Best Perch Flies on Nos. 1/0 and 2/0
Hooks to Gut, 9d each.
No. 134 D.—Best Perch Flies on Nos. 1/0 and 2/0
Double Hooks to Gut, Cd each.
No. 134 G.— Special Grasshopper Fly, No. 4 to 1
Hooks to Gut, Cd each.
137—N0. 8 Hook
Mil
wm
mm
mm
■m.
■■■■
wm
Floating- May
Trout Flies on
Turn-down-eyed
Hooks.
fsd
MSok Simmons for
Sea & River Tackle
Flv No.
i34D
BOX ON
No. 98 Safety
Bait Box for
attaching to
Kod for Arti-
ficial Baits,
&c., 3d each.
law# 1
Best
Fly
Boxes.
137—N0. 6 Hook
Fly Box No. 102.
No. 99—Best Ply Boxes for carrying Flies, Fitted with Patent Clips, 31-inch x2£ x 1-inch
hold 40 Eyed Trout Flies, 8s Cd’ each.
No. 100—0-inch x 4 x 1-inch, to hold 84 Eyed Trout Flies, 12s each.
No. 101—Oblong Fly Box for Eyed Flies (with Cork), 5-inch, 3s each ; 7-inch, 4s each.
No.’ 101b— Oblong Fly Box for Eyed Flies (metal clips) Is 9d each. ,
No. 102—Minnow Bait Box, with two divisions, used also for Fish Hooks, etc., bd eacn.
to
fs
dgdag
No. 112—
16in.,
7s 6d
m&m&m
No. 124
CLOSED
Patent Collapsible
Trout Net,
with Folding 4 Handle and
Clip to fit on belt for
wading 4 .
&&
m&M
mmm/s
brsksssSbl
«!SsSI
£S«
Ste-
SH
SSSEfoS^
No. 124—Open.
No. 124—Best Polished “ Fork ” Folding Net Ring, 7s 6d
Illustrated Fishing Tackle, Sports, Tobacco Lists, Sample Sheet of Fish Hooks, and Hints on Fishing
—Post Free.
BEST ARTIFICIAL BAITS-
No. 186—Best Soleskin Whitebait Minnows, swivel in head, gut mounts, 2in., 2}in., 3£in., 2s each.
No. 187—Best Pearl Phantom Minnows, gut mounts, 2in., 2s 6d each.
No. 188—Best Soft Rubber
Patent Wagtail Minnows,
gut mounts, 2in., Is 9rl ;
Sin., 2s each.
No. 18!) —Best Quality (Jeen’s
Spiral Minnow, gut
mounts, a deadly bait for
Trout, Perch and Ood.
ls 9d ; 2in., 2s ; 3in.,
2s 9d ; 4in., 3s 6d each.
dafg
Try a Wagtail Bait.
Mick Simmons.
WAGTAIL
BAIT
No. 188.
BEST DEVON
MINNOWS.
fd
O^VIOGOW’S
gd
Patent
R!NG-MOUNTED
Devon,
■'-== •is
f 4Y
No 1958. _____
Spoon Phantom
No. 189— Geen’s Minnow.
No. 190—Best Ring-Mounted Devon Min-
nows, assorted colors, gu t mounts, lin.,
( ljin., Is (id each ; lfi n., 2in., Is 9d each.
No. 191—Best Devon Minnows, mounted on
Gimp, assortedOolors, lin., l£in., Is ;
ljin., ljin., 2in.,ls 3d each.
No. 190—Best Quality Ring Mountings,
complete lor Devon Minnows, Is each.
No. 192—Best Minnow Cap Leads, for
Weighing Baits,
2d. each.
No. 194 Best
Otto Baits, 2fin.
Is 6d each ;3Jin,
Is 9d each.
No. 195 b Best
Spoon Phantom
Spinning Bait,
ljin., l£in., Is
9d each ; 2in.,
2s each.
No. 179.
Rouke Spinner.
No. 179—Best Ron lie Trout Spinners.
These Spinners are successful
when all others fail; exact size,
9d each.
Should You Need a Special
Bait, kindly drop us a line.
sfgfd
The Pioneer
Spinner.
No. 180—Best Soleskin Fly Spinner,
on wire bar, a good bait for
Trout and Perch, 6d each.
No. 181—Best Pioneer Spinners, the
most deadly Spinner for Trout,
Cod and Perch on the market,
ljin., 2s each.
No. 182—Best Silk Phantom. Minnow,
swivel in head, gut mounts, ljin.,
2im, 2Jin., 2fin., Is 9d each.
No. 178—Perch Fly Spin*
Mick Simmons
For Fishing
Tackle.
No. 174—Best Pure Rubber Minnows, for Trout and
Perch, 6d each.
No. 175—Best FI v Minnows, for Trout and Perch, 6d each.
No. 176 —Soft Rubber Casting Minnows, I .'jin., 9d each.
No. 177—Best Quality Spoon Flashes, for Trout and Perch,
single hook, |in., fin., 6d each.
No. 178—Best Perch Fly Spins, very deadly bait, mounted
on treble hook, exact size, 3d each.
N^sssai^///
'M
MW
ss:
533
No. 167—Best Killem Spinners, No. 1,9 d each; No. 2,9 d each.
Perch and Ood take these Spinners readily.
Best Waterproof Fishing Bags.
No. 127—Twill, 2 Divisions inside
Outside Pocket for Tackle, l‘2in.
10s 6d each ; 14in., 12s 6d each.
Mick Simmons
]28 —Brown Canvas,
ends ; 12in., 4s 6d, 5s
14in., 6s 6d, 7s 6d each
open at
6d each ;
g
No. 176. —Rubber Minnow.
Best English
Fishing Creels.
No. 130—No. 3,6 s each ; No. 4
7s 3d each ; No. 5,8 s (id each
No. 6,9 s 6d each.
df
No. 129 —16in. Stout Canvas Bag-, 2 Divi-
sions, with plain strap and buttons,
2s each.
No. 129a—16in. Stout Canvas Bag, no
Divisions, with strap, 1 button, 9d
each.
gdf
The Two-Sided
Tackle Box,
ontains two circular divisions
(•4in. with 2 sides) for holding
Gut and Hooks, enamelled inside
6d.
Our Expert,
Mr. J. H. Smith,
is ou a visit to
the Tumut and
Cooma
Trout Streams.
Ws/r / '" r <%
«
oL_®.
Best Large Split Shot, in Patent Shot Box, 3d each
WE HAVE JUST PUBLISHED OUR IMMENSE FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE.
REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.


YOUNG MAN
Get back your Lost Strength. Don’t
Delay. The Freeman and Wallace
Specialists Restore Lost Strength in Men and cure
Special Diseases, from any cause arising. They cure a
man for good; their treatment succeeds where others fail.
We specially address these words to the young men of to-day, those who should by health and strength form the backbone of Australian nationalism.
Australia looks to its young men to take the place of the older ones now passing out of the spheres of Life’s battles to maintain her national pride and power.
It is the young man of the present who will determine her future—the strong, robust young man, the pride not only of his country, but of his race.
gd
g
MR. BARKER, VICTORIA, Cured of
Blood Poison.
Therefore, young man, we say listen to our words of advice and warning. Are you
strong and healthy, what you should be at your age; or are you weak, without energy,
wasting away, a victim to an exhausting drain upon your vital forces, only half under-
stood by you and full of meaning? Do you suffer from debility, exhaustion, failing nerve-
power, weakness of the back and spine, run-down in the nerve-centres, till you know what
you are by your own folly—a half-man in strength, but a giant in weakness ? If you are
in this condition, you cannot hope to be a success in life. You will continue for a few
years in your present state, and then the asylum or the hospital may see your end.
Young man, take warning. Whatever your condition may be by disease, exposure,
privation, abuses of any kind of your natural powers, family inheritance, or habitual
weakness, you can be made strong and healthy, and a new constitution be yours. There are
in Sydney at present Four of the Greatest Experts in Men’s Diseases practising in
Australia, members of the Medical Staff of the Freeman & Wallace Institute,
and who understand disease in men as a boy understands his alphabet. These Experts
make a speciality of disease resulting from excessive or unnatural strain or break-down of
the natural powers, and guarantee to cure the worst case that may be treated by them.
All advice by post or personally private and professional. All letters punctually answered.
m
MR. SIMPSON, VICTORIA, Cured of
Nerve Weakness.
THE FREEMAN 4 WALLACE SPECIALISTS
Cure Men's Special Diseases
Young - , Middle-Aged,
or Aged Men"--
Any man in doubt as to his condition
should read these remarks upon some of
the diseases to which men are liable. We
cure them rapidly, permanently, eco-
nomically.
VARICOCELE.
We can cure this disease without operation,
and under our treatment the congested blood
vessels within ten days disappear. The parts
are restored to their natural condition, vigor
and strength, and circulation is re-established
by electricity and electro-medication. It is the
twentieth century treatment.
RUPTURE.
We cure in 30 days, without operation or
hypodermic injection, and oftentimes use no
trusses. Our treatment is painless, bloodless,
and with no detention from business. Old
standing or maltreated cases specially invited.
Progressive treatment is the only kind that
will reduce , the'chronic conditions and ulti-
mately cure. Our methods are those of Conti-
nental scientists.
LOST VIGOR.
You may be lacking in the power of vitality.
If so, we will restore you the snap, vim, and
vigor of manhood, the loss of which may be
the result of indiscretions, excesses, and un-
natural weaknesses. Electricity and medicine
will work wonders, and establish cures where
cures were despaired of. Physical, hopeless
wrecks have been made happy, powerful men
by us? Nerve diseases are especially amenable
to the curative effects of electro-medication,
because electricity is the basis of the animal
magnetism at all times pervading the human
system.
“WEAKNESS” IN MEN.
Weakness is merely a symptom brought on
by early dissipation or improper treatment of
contracted diseases. The cure lies in restoring
the system to its normal healthy state. This
we accomplish rapidly without the use of a
long course of internal remedies. Our treat-
ment is original and scientific, and has proved
absolutely effective by thousands of tests.
NERVO-VITAL DEBILITY.
There is certainly no victim of Nervo-Vital
Debility but who hopes to be rejuvenated
some time. You should not lose your grip on
life because inferior remedies have failed to
benefit you. Our special treatment for this
trouble, varied and modified to suit each indi-
vidual case, i< an unfailing cure, and a man
regains his health, strength and vitality.
URINARY AILMENTS.
We cure without the knife or instrument by
an application which acts-directly on the parts
affected, dissolving the trouble completely, by
our galvanic electrical medical treatment. It
is painless, and in no wise interferes with your
business duties. Our method is new, reliable,
and immediately effective. Write for full par-
ticulars concerning this wonderful system.
KIDNEY TROUBLE.
We cure all irritation, stoppage, pain in
back, brickdust sediment, and catarrhal con-
dition. We cure to stay cured. We do not
experiment. We know what these conditions
involve to a sufferer. We have cured many
thousands during our extensive practice.
Kidney troubles may be termed an Australian
disease, accelerated by climatic conditions.
They are deadly destructive. Do not trifle
with them or they will kill you.
PILES.
We cure without operation in 10 days ; no
detention from business ; no acid injection or
ligatures used. Electricity and gentle medica-
tion. This system is adopted by the most
scientific Continental practitioners, who have
intimately studied these distressing complica-
tions, which are so prevalent in Australia. The
conditions are so delicate in character that no
one but skilled Scientists should attempt to
treat them. Aggravation means operation.
BLOOD POISON.
Specific or Contagious Blood Poison also
comes within the specialties of DOCTOR
WALLACE, our Physician-in-Chief, and his
staff. Prompt treatment is the only kind that
should be used in combating this disease. Only
temporary relief can come from hot spring
baths, specifics, or mineral mixtures and
poisons. During the past year Dr. WALLACE
and his Medical Officers have originated and
perfected a cure for Specific Blood Poison that
is absolutelty safe, rapid and permanent, and
leaves no injurious after-effects. Every external
symptom soon disappears, while the blood, the
tissues, the nerve fibres, the bones and whole
system are cleansed, strengthened and restored
to perfect health and purity. It mav be in its
primary stages ; it may have been hereditary,
or contracted in early days. We cure all its
complications. This is a serious disorder, and
all men should be careful in selecting their
physician. It is a matter of Life and Death.
Mal-treatment means death as sure as the sun
shines. Our cures are sure cures of this dread
disease.
We have cured so many thousands of cases of
the above complaints that if there is a cure for
your disease you will find it at our Institute.
With proper obedience to our medical instruc-
tions there is no such thing as failure to our
treatment.
Testimonies from Men we have Gured.
We publish here a few testimonies from patients we have cured, and which
will do any sick and suffering man good to read. It will show him that no matter
how bad and hopeless his case may be, relief and cure may be obtained if he only
writes to or consults the Specialists of The Freeman and Wallace Institute,
Sydney, who are renowned for their great cures in Diseases Of Men,
which are their specialities.
_ GEORGE SIMPSON, whose portrait appears here, is a man well known in pastoral circles in Mullawarre.
Out in the great Victorian farms and sheep runs, in all winds and weathers, a man runs a great risk of laying the founda-
tion of a disease which will eat out the vital forces of nature and ultimately kill. Mr. Simpson was for some time under
treatment of the Freeman and Wallace Specialists, but was ultimately cured. He concluded a verv interesting letter
concerning his recovery recently thus:—
“I consider that you have restored me to perfect health and strength from a condi-
tion of Nerve Weakness and general debility. lam now in splendid health.”
(Signed) George Simpson.
a well-known Victorian, of Victoria-street, Richmond, Melbourne, who, after unavailing treat-
ment at the hands of several medical men; came to us and received our specialistic treatment for a few months, writes as
follows, under date Feb. 10, 1906
' * I desire to express my gratitude to you with the results of your specialistic treat-
ment. I was afflicted very gravely. Treatment at the hands of two well-known doctors
failed to do me any good. Fortunately, I was persuaded to consult you, and to undergo
a course of treatment. The results have gratified me almost beyond expression. I am now
restored to sound health and strength.”
(Signed) P. Barker.
Mr. Barker is glad he is cured. You would be glad also after being treated by us, for we can cure
you by our skilful treatment. ■
The Specialists of the Institute cure these diseases, which they specialise :
Rupture, Varicocele. Varicose Veins, “Weak-
ness,” or Loss of Vital Power, Contagious Blood
Poison, Prostatic Gland Inflammation and
Weakness, Urinary and Bladder Troubles, Ure-
thral Obstructions, Stricture, Insomnia,
Poverty of Blood and all Reflex Ailments.
In any of these diseases Free Advice is given personally or by letter. Read the testimonies that follow.
If JT U cannot call at our Institute, fully describe vour symptoms, and you will receive in a plain envelope a
scientific and honest opinion of your case. GUARANTEED CURE IN EVERY CASE ACCEPTED. The Chief Physician
Dr. Wallace, L.R.C.S., E., L.R.C.P., E., L.M., is registered by Australian and English Medical Boards, and mav be
consulted Iree by post or personally. He bears diplomas from some of the leading Medical Centres of Great Britain
He is one of a staff of FOUR QUALIFIED MEDICAL SPECIALISTS, always in attendance at the Institute The
Specialists great medical work, “ Clinical Experiences,” 750 pages, 31 chapters, 150 medical plates, post free to any
address,
As, in diagnosing a ease, we study the cause, duration, and phenomena
of diseased conditions, so we effect a cure.
Our proportion of cures is Ninety-five per cent. We always treat our
patients courteously, study them effectually, prescribe for them honestly.
We do not fail to win their good opinions.
Perfection in the treatment of disease is essential if you require to
be made healthy and strong with the strength of youth. A concentrated
study is absolutely necessary if a doctor desires to excel in the treatment
of any particular form of disease. You may, if necessary, have the advice
of our combined medical Staff upon your illness or trouble.
THE
\9
ELECTRO-MEDICAL AND
SURGICAL INSTITUTE
Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney
And at Melbourne
Howard Freeman, Director.
Dr. Wallace, Chief Physician.
Dr. Elizabeth White, Women’s Diseases.
Dr. F. Bell, Lecturer to Institutes.
Also A LARGE STAFF OF EXPERTS.


\\
It’s an easy job for the barber to
part the hair on a head like this.
It’s just as easy to prevent baldness
if you only do the right thing.
Baldness is almost always a sure
sign of neglect; it is the story of neg-
lected dandruff.
Dandruff is untidy, unnecessary, and
unhealthy.
flair Vigor,
■cures dandruff and prevents baldness.
You save your hair and you are spared
the annoyance of untidy clothing. |
It also stops falling of the hair, and
makes the hair grow thick and long.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Be sure you get AYER’S Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, MassU. S. A.
Learn to Swim
BY ONE
TRIAL.
fdg
c3! !i
Witor-W^ngs
Price, 1/6 & 2/6. Great Sport in the Water.
A person weighing from 50 to 2501 b. can float on them
without an effort. Inquire of anyone who has used
Ayvad’s Water-Wings and be convinced you can learn to
swim the first day you are in the water. For those who
can swim they furnish a source of amusement nothing
can equal. Easily adjusted. Take no more room than a
pocket handkerchief. Sold all stores, dealers in
sporting goods, outfitters, chemists, &c. Australian
agents, Ayvad’s Agency, 82a Pitt-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
Sole manufacturers, Ayvad Manuf’g. Co., Hoboken, N. J.
Note —Educational Dept., LondorwCo'uuty Council, classi-
fied Water-Wings with books, &c., as necessary' school
supply.
6
J What is v
the matter
KD
With your chest? Per-
haps a little pain, a little
cough, a little wheezing,
a little stuffiness ? Never
run past nature's danger
signals! Act instantly;
take SCOTT'S EMUL-
SION of cod liver oil
and hypophosphites of
lime and soda and avert
the danger. You will
quickly be well.
Hamllton-on-Forth, Tasmania, July 15,
1905. 44 My son, Ledgitt Jordan, was for
years a great sufferer from weak lungs, and
was often so 111 that he was unable to rest
in bed, being compelled to sit by the fire to
enable him to obtain any ease at all. He
decided to give Scott's Emulsion a trial,
and did so with most wonderful results. It
gave him an appetite for ordinary foods, and
so eased his lungs and cough that he was
enabled to sleep well. He Is restored to
complete good health, and has gained two
stone In weight." (Mrs.) D. B. L. Jordan.
Scott's Emulsion never disgusts, never dis-
agrees. It Is the original emulsion of cod
liver oil which has stood the test of 30 years.
The celebrated Scott process, by which
Scott's alone is made, has been constantly
improved and to-day produces the finest
emulsion and the most nutritious form of
fdg
Always get the Emul.
lion with this mark—the
Rahman—the mark ol
the “Scott" vroesMl
cod liver oil in the world.
Always SCOTT'S for
the
Test the truth of this.
Write at once for a free
sample bottle (enclosing
4d. for postage and men-
tioning this paper) to
SCOTT & BOWNE,
Ltd., 483 Kent Street,
Sydney, N.S.W ■.&&&
SSON HSiai
FOR
The besr remedy
INFLUENZA, *
COUGHS,
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS.
ASTHMA
Ask for Bonn 1 ng ton's
and seetkatyou get it.
ADRIAN & CO.' BOOKS,
Stationery, Conjuring Apparatus, Tricks,
FRENCH’S PLAYS, RECITATIONS, JOKE BOOKS, MINSTREL SHOW
WIGS, GREASE PAINTS, &C.
AND ANY OTHER ARTICLE YOU MAY REQUIRE (at Cheapest Rates).
Send to us, whom you may rely on for promptness and attention.
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition, Is.; post, Is.
3d. BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Marriage
Guide by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition, hard covers, im-
proved. Donelly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, Is. Maria Monk, Is
6d. How to Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Humorous Dialogue Book, Is. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is. House Painting
and Papering, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post, Is
3d. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptamkron, and
many others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the
First Night, 1/3. Staining. Varnishing and
Polishing Wood, Is 3d. Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and
Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ;
post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy,
Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. How to Make
Love, Is. Dream Book, Is.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Poultry Keeping, Is.
Confession of a Melbourne Barmaid, illus., Is 3d.
Hoffman’s New Conjuring Entertainment, Is 3d.
Ideal French Art Studies, 5 parts, 10s. Zingara
Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love. Business,
Futurity, and with full directions, Is; posted, Is 3d.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Dr. Foote’s
Plain Home Talk, 20th Century edition, very-
latest, 124 S pages, over 400 colored plates and
engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho, genuine, Is. Mid-
wives’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. New TriCks with Coins, Is. Phren-
ology, Is. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is. Tocology
for Mothers, 7s 6d. Lightning Calculator, Is.
Minstrel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, 1/3. Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is 2d.
And any book you want, at regular rates.
Above prices include postage to any address
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
NOTE.—A SPLENDID LINE OF 6 POSTCARDS for 6d., posted Bd, depicting ail
Towns in Great Britain (something special and British Make). We won’t
disappoint you. Send for a set. And all other qualities kept in stock. The Fines
Selection of Favourite English Actress Cards, spangled and plain finish. Kindly inspect.
ONLY
ADDRESS,
508 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
dsf
His Majesty The
King and'
Royal Family.
MOIR’S
“ New Season’s ”
HERRINGS.
SUPERIOR QUALITY GUARANTEED.
TRY THEIR . .
“Herrings in Anchovy Sauce,”
“Findon Haddocks,”
“Herrings a la Sardines.”
ASK FOR and SEE THAT YOU GET
MOIR’S
Pure Pickles.
THEY ARE A TREAT.
JOHN MOIXti AND SON, Limited,
London, Aberdeen, Seville.
SYDNEY AGENCY: 47 MACQUARIE STREET,
OIRCULAR QUAY. [2
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyeiia’
gd
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
DAY AND
NIGHT
WEAR.
Economical
because
Durable.
From
Leading
Drapers.
The Queen says:— " You can wear it for
night dresses all the yeaf round."
SEE THE LABEL ON THE SELVEDGE.
VARIOVS VERSEC
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Traveller.
“Traveller, traveller, whither away?
Your coat with the dust of the road is grey,
You limp with the gait of the travel-sore,
Your beard is the beard of a week or more.
Whence and whither I pray you tell,
I vow you have travelled this day full well.”
“ Good sir, I have journeyed o’er yonder chain
Of purple hills from a distant plain ;
And I must on, ere my day is done,
To yonder hills with their bases swathed
In the evening mists, and their summits bathed
In the light of the setting sun.”
“ Traveller, traveller, when did you rise ?
And where is the couch where you closed your
eyes ?”
“ I rose full early, at peep o’ day,
And my couch was a pallet of sweet new hay ;
I washed myself in a running stream
When the world lay wrapped in her deepest
dream,
And I broke my fast in a farmer’s croft
Ere the bee was abroad or the lark aloft;
And I must on, ere my day is done,
To yonder hills with their bases swathed
In the evening mists, and their summits bathed
In the light of the setting sun.”
“ Traveller, traveller, whom did you meet ?”
“ I passed a fair in a village street,
A pageant of rascally playing-folk,
A blacksmith grim in his sweat and smoke,
A host at the door of his ivied inn,
A peddling Jew, and a beggar thin,
A postman merry, a dairy-maid,
A mumbling scholar, a parson staid.
And I must on, ere my day is done,
To yonder hills with their bases swathed
In the evening mists, and their summits bathed
In the light of the setting sun.”
“ Traveller, traveller, why do you roam ?
Afield do you wander or seek your home ?
For, faith, it seems ’tis a weary road
And a lonely march to your next abode.”
“ I have no home, and I have no wife,
And nothing to cherish or love in life ;
But a voice from within me seems to say—
A voice that I cannot disobey—
That I must on, ere my day is done,
To yonder hills with their bases swathed
In the evening mists, and their summits bathed
In the light of the setting sun.”
MAOHILAND.
C.R.A.
The Orchid Flower.
God fashioned the maid for the man to love,
As He fashioned the stars for the night;
And the heart of a man is as darkness,
And the love of a maid is as light.
Yet God in His wisdom makes her blind—
The maid that is like a rose—
Else man were only as plastic clay.
To mould as her fancy chose.
And woe to the man who kneels at the shrine
Of a maid who knows her power;
He dies like a fly at the honey-heart
Of a great, red, hungry flower.
For the petals close while he feeds his fill,
And drinks of the wine of doom,
And his poor wings droop, and he swoons to death
In the warm, sweet-scented gloom.
God fashioned the maid for the man to love,
And He fashioned her sweet and fair;
But He pitied the man, and He dulled her sense
To the strength of her silken snare.
n.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Bunch of Roses.
There was a crowd in town for the Show, jolly and
brown-faced fellows.
The florists’ windows were brightly decked with
scarlets, and greens, and yellows.
And eyes that looked last on the tallow-guins, or
a bush pub. wall of slabs,
Glanced now with a would-be careless air from the
doors of the hansom cabs !
I was a fool—like other fools —and my cheque
went down with the others,
For when it’s a case of the easy sins . .. why, most
of us men are brothers !
And as I dawdled along the street (so chance in a
life disposes)
She passed me close in the jostling crowd—the
girl and her bunch of roses !
And some of the blooms were white as truth,
and some were as maiden’s blushes,
And some were pink as the tinted palm that a
man in his brown hand crushes.
There were roses, too, on her wide straw hat, and
a deep gold rose on her breast there,
But the rose of youth in her deep brown eyes was
the rose that I loved the best there.
Clatter of cars and the clang of bells, and the
hustle of many feet,
And—God ! have I lost her for ever amidst the
stir of the sordid street ?
Heigh ! Call me a cab with the swiftest horse.
All that the driver knows is
A hare-brained fellow, from somewhere West,
would follow a bunch of roses 1
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Reid and His Australian Capital.
A correspondent revives an old fact
Amid the wild whirl of Sosh and Anti-Sosh, and the
clamor of 476 landowners to have the Australian capital
city each in his own backyard, it seems to be forgotten
that the man who made all this trouble, the man who
barred the finest harbor in the world as a site for the
permanent seat of Government, was Greid I
Greid was chief of the Antibillious Party which vio-
lently opposed the Draft Bill as drawn by the Federal
Convention. He was Premier of N.S.W., and used his
great influence, with the aid of the scandalous “ 80,000
minimum,” to secure the defeat of the Bill when sub-
mitted to the first referendum.
Under that Bill, which Greid so violently opposed, there
was nothing to prevent Sydney becoming the Australian
capital. It is true that the other State capitals were not
barred from selection ; but Sydney was not barred ; the
Bill as it first went to the people, and as a majority
of the N.S.W. people accepted it, left the site of the
capital an open question.
When the enormous number of votes polled for the
Convention Bill in the Ma State made it very plain that
the electors of, N.S.W. were strongly in favor of Federation,
Greid discovered that a change of front was necessary ;
that Federation was coming, and that there was more
political profit in helping it along than in making any
further fruitless efforts to block it. But to wheel right
round and support a measure which he had violently op-
posed was somewhat too startling a right-about-face even
for Greid.
Then came the conference of State Premiers in Mel-
bourne, the sole purpose of which was to allow Greid to
“ save his face ”on the change of front. He was not to
be an isolationist any more, but the Bill he would support
must not be quite the same Bill as he had been recently
falling out of buggies to block the progress of. So the
Conference of State Premiers—none of whom had any
constitutional status on this question—obligingly altered
the Bill.
How?
By Providing that the Federal Capital must not be
WITHIN ONE HUNDRED MILES OF SYDNEY !
The Bill, before Greid and his coal-cellar Conference of
State Premiers altered it, allowed the selection of Sydney
as the Australian capital. Possibly Sydney might not
have been selected, but it was Greid who altered the Con-
stitution to provide that Sydney should not be selected
nor any place within one hundred miles thereof 1
George Reid’s idea of a monopoly is a quaint
sentiment. This is how he has been answering
the Labor party’s plea for the nationalisation of
monopolies all over the Commonwealth : “ Mono-
polies, when they become injurious to the public,
should be dealt with, but not by creating another
monopoly bigger still.” Plainly then, according
to “the vigorous legal mind” of the bulging
person with the goggle in his eye, a concern owned
by the whole country is a monopoly in just the
same sense as if it were held by a single capitalist
bent upon exploiting the country for all it is
worth, and i 3 just as villainous. Hence, the
N.S.W. railways are pernicious monopolies,
because the whole of the people own them, and by
so doing wickedly prevent some of themselves
from running railways and growing rich at the ex-
pense of the rest of themselves. In fact, when the
whole of the people own the railways the position
is more disgusting and reprehensible than when
ten people own them, because it is a bigger mo-
nopoly. It is so big a monopoly that it couldn’t
be any bigger, so it is the last possibility in the
way of political infamy. It is also plain,
according to him of the goggle, that a pure
republic, in which all the people run the
Government, is just as much a despotism
as an autocracy, where one man runs the
whole show, and slavery is exactly the same as
freedom, for, whether you own yourself or are
owned by somebody - else, you are still owned.
Greid, with the goggle in h.,-: eye, is a wonderful
circumstance.


Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Annual Distributions of the Surplus,
All Participating' Policies issued on or
before 31st December next will share in
THE CASH BONUS FOR THIS YEAR.
Amount of Surplus divided for the Year 1905 was £635,533, yielding Reversionary Bonuses
of abi'Ut One Million Two Hundred Thousand Pounds sterling.
BONUSES ALLOTTED BY THIS SOCIETY LARGER THAN THOSE OF ANY OTHER LIFE OFFICE.
TOTAL CASH BONUSES DIVIDED TO END OF 1905, £12,216,401.
Write at once for full particulars to the Head Office, or any District Office or Agent of the Society.
Directors -The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Wincheombe, Esq. ; James Burns, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape, Esq.
General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. 9th November, 1906. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
The Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assurance Society Limited
(Mutual)
CHIEF 11 OFFICE \%r NS W- 263 George Street, Sydney.
LIFE , ACCIDENT AND INVALIDITY ASSURANCE IN ONE POLICY .
ANNUAL PREMIUM for £lOOO, person aged 30, payable at 60 or Death, £39 19s. 4d.
SPECIAL BENEFITS : (1) £2OOO if death takes place as result of accident; (2) £lOOO for Permanent Total
Disablement; (3) £3OO for Permanent Partial Disablement; (4) £6 per week for Temporary Total Disablement;
(5) £1 10s. per week for Temporary Partial Disablement; and (6) £6 per week for incapacitation througli
specified diseases. For full particulars and conditions call or write for Prospectus. V. H. BAXTER. Res. Sec, _
FREE!
MAKE BIG MONEY
We give away TALKING MACHINES,
GOLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &C.,
to those who help us introduce our remedies. This Talking Machine
reproduces Songs, Speeches, Band Music, &c., and can be used at all
entertainments, in any size hall or room. It has a 14-inch Metal
Amplifying Horn, with Concert Base. Many of our agents are making
big money by giving concerts with this machine, which we give away
Free. Send us your name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
of our New Life Vegetable Pills (Formula printed on each box). Sell
them at 1/- a box, then remit us the 8/- received and we will promptly
forward you, without extra expense or work, the valuable premiums as
listed. This is the biggest offer ever made, and you will be delighted.
We are an" old,' reliable firm, and we will present £lO in cash to anyone
who can prove we do not do as we say. Our Pills are good sellers, and
we are anxious to introduce them no matter what it costs us. Send at
once. Don’t delay, it costs you nothing to try. We take all risk.
Electine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
1
£lOO
a WeeK
Given
Away
Free
ar
MAKE
your
own
AERATED WATERS
WITH AN
AUSTRAL AERATED
WATER MACHINE.
AERATED WATERS cost less than
FOURPENCE PER DOZEN pro-
duced by these machines.
Prices from £lB and upwards.
Catalogues and full particulars from—
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
214 Queen Street,
Melbourne, Vic.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd.
SYDNB Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent "GRIP DROPPER.”
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
xo DEFY COMFEXITIOKT.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&c
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
fsg
mm
•Fill
CLoJ3©(3jS©a<3
Black Powder Shotgun Cartridges
The most successful hunters shoot Winchester “New
Rival” Factory Loaded Shotgun Cartridges, blue in
color, because they can kill more game with them. Try
them and you will find that they are sure fire, give good
pattern and penetration and are satisfactory in every
way. Be sure and get Winchester Factory Loaded
“Newßival” Cartridges. Don’t accept any substitute.
ALL DEALERS SELL THEM
HOULDER BROTHERS & CO., Ltd.
Passengers Booked to
All Parts of the World.
STEAMSHIP OWNERS, FREIGHT CONTRACTORS,
SHIP, INSURANCE & CHARTERING BROKERS.
THE MOULDER LINE STEAMERS. for Conveyance of
Passengers, General Cargo, Frozen Produce, &c.
To and from AUSTRALASIA, AFRICA, LONDON, LIVERPOOL, GLASGOW, &c.
Steamer. Tons.
HORNBY GRANGE 3,750
OVINGDEAN GRANGE 3,700
URMSTON GRANGE 5,600
LANGTON GRANGE 9,400
DRAYTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10,500
ELSTREE GRANGE 6,000
ROYSTON GRANGE 6,330
Steamer. | Ton 8
BEACON GRANGE 6,300
RIPPINGHAM GRANGE . 9,300
OSWESTRY GR VNGE (Twin Screw) .. . 10,500
THORPE GRANGE 6,350
HAVERSHAM GRANGE 11,500
EVERTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 11,500
SOUTHERN CROSS 7,300
First, Second and Third Saloon Cabins situated Amidships, Excellent Cuisine. Electric Light.
For full particulars, apply at the OFFICES OF THE COMPANY, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
12 Pall Mall, S.W., London. 14 Water-street, Liverpool. 30 Gordon-street, Glasgow. 337 Calle Cuyo, Buenos
Aires. 446 Calle San Martin, Rosario, Gran Dock, Ensenada, La Plata. Capetown and Durban, South Africa.
Head Office: 146 Leadenhall-street, London, E.C.
Brimful of Nourishment
Trade
&
lIA/VIf^ON
MarK* rZM
PLASMON
The Pood for Old and Young.
(Also Plasmoii Cocoa, Oats, Biscuits, &c.)
lllillii
A
mi
.22 calibre cartridges cart;
be relied upon to help
clean out the rabbit pests.„
U. M. C. -.22 short and long
' cartridges, loadedwithblack 9 j
or smokeless, powder, i
are accurate, sure of fire, and have great killing power.
Furnished with ungreased bullets, also madejwith hollow-
point bullets which are very effective on small game.
UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE COMPANY
ibiiiiiliij
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U. S. A.
il!l!4!i!i!i!!!i:!!ll!ili!i!Uliiii!imii!:n!!!ililli!
■lfilliil*
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENO’S
HEADACHE,
fi
FRUIT
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
SALT.’
The effect of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt * on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.—Sc* Capsule marked ENO’S 'FRUIT SALT.’ Without it you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Pttparad only by J. 0. ESNO, Ltd., • FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, ENG.,
toy J. O. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
sdf
gdfs
V Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
\ FURRED TONGUE.
* INDIGESTION.
' CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
There’s SECURITY in
BARTERS
g
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
TOUGH th.
Be Sure they are
Carter’s


For Sunburn
Prpc quick relief can ba
Oi Of/it? obtained by the applica-
tion of the well known remedy,
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Ointment.
It has a good record of success for cure of
many skin ailments, itch, ringworm, piles,
etc. Minor mishaps such as cuts, bruises
or scalds will keep healthy and heal rapidly
with its use.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
England.
umuwirs
boxcalf
widtUUafec*
Msn’i Boot? & SKoa*
M^ufaet-Mav;
atitoiftw 8,8 ? 1
UOSIO«.MASt-^ 6A -
ACKING
[WORD
TO THE
WISE
r
Pleases People Who are
Particular, for boots polished with
Crozine keep soft, stay black, and look
well ALWAYS, besides are cleanly to
wear.
I CKOZINE is the popular liquid
[black—absolutely free from acids
easily applied imparting a correct
[black polish of unequalled dura-
bility. It improves leather, and is
not itself affected by dampness and
will not smut nor soil the clothing.
At Boot Shops the world over.
The Genuine is Hauthaway's.
Made only by
C. L. HAUTHAWAY & SONS, inc.
BOSTON, MASS., TJ. 8. A.
Agents for United Kingdom
JOHN S. DEED & SONS, Ltd.
London, England.
THE BALLET GIRL
dsfg
m
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913 , G.P.O. m SYDNEY.
RHEUMATISM.
fcU'lK'S
GOUT
PILLS
Are recommended by doctors with confi
detice as one of the valuable results of
medical science, and the only remedy
ever discovered for these disorders, in
that they not only rapidly cure but pre-
vent the recurrence of the malady.
Of Chemists and Stores, 1/1J and 2/9 per box.
Proprietors— PßOUT & CO., 229, Strand,
London, England.
FAT FOLKS
REDUCE
your weight
5 lbs. a week
No inconvenience. No strict diet. Pursue
your ordinary avocation. Endorsed by Physicians.
Book and particulars free. Address —
JAS. CRAIG & CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozcrinc fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11 -
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc
Wholesale Agents :
SAYERS, ALLPORT & PUTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
25 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
Letter frcm a Little Girl —
FATHER
GOMES HOME DRUNK
EVERY NIGHT,
So -please, Dr. Langston, send some of your
Kemedy that Mrs. S had. I have no money,
but want father cured of DRUNKENNESS.
Father is now cured, and the child is happy.
A Home Cure which Never Fails. May he
Given Secretly, Write for Treatise No. 5.
DR. LANGSTON INSTITUTE
129 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE.
POLICY foe the COMMONWEALTH.
Price Gd, from The Bulletin Office.
fds
Many of the
COMMONWEALTH’S
sturdy sons and daughters owe their ,
p good health and splendid physique to the
strength-giving and nourishing properties y
CADBURY’S
ABSOLUTELY
PURE
COCOA.
A pure liquid food which gives substantial
benefit to the muscular and nervous system, .
and which can be absorbed with little A
digestive effort. Invaluable for young M
and old at all times and seasons, f
“ The Standard of highest f
purity.” —The Lancet,
BOVRIL
Adds nutriment to Soups, Curries, etc.
There is nothing like Bovril to maks a
man feel fit. It makes him as fit as he
feels.
m
r
Baldness
is Curable.
VERY few people believe it
possible to get their hair
back when once it is lost.
Let rne assure these that
where a “down” exists on the
scalp nothing is more certain than
that this down can be made to grow
into strong healthy hair with the
aid of “Capilla.”
Notone case, but thousands, have
come under my notice, and I have
yet to meet with a failure ; in fact,
I am now so confident of the hair-
growing possibilities of “ Capilla ”
that I will forfeit £lOOO to any per-
son with a down on that bald spot
if the proper use of “ Capilla” will
not make his hair grow. “ Capilla ”
is designed both for the prevention
and cure of baldness. It keeps the
scalp healthy and clean, prevents
dandruff and premature greyness,
and stops the hair from falling out.
Sold everywhere at 1/6 and 2/6 a
bottle, full course posted direct for
17/6 from the Inventor,
W. O. Richards,
166 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Advice personally or by letter
cheerfully given free of charge.
iumznaniH»Ki
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s '
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDSI
MAGNESIA)
gdsf
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES.
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
NEVER FAILS.
Ask your Chemist for the Little Book:
‘HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES
CURED
“A truly delightful Thirst Quencher.”
The Lancet writes : —“ Lime Juice is, particularly during the
summer, afar more wholesome drink than any form of alcohol.”
u
MONTSERRAT!
LIMEJUICE CORDIAL
“ Montserrat ” is obtained solely from the celebrated
Lime Juice Plantations in the Island of Montserrat.
To obtain the genuine, specify “ MONTSERRAT.”
OF ALL STORES AND CHEMISTS.
T he MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkbl),
Lac/ies’ Hairdressers, Hair- * 161 KING ST., SYDNEY
Workers & Dermatologists, Next Herald Branch Office. Telephone 2138.
LADIES’ PREMIER HAIRDRESSING SALOON. TRANSFORMATIONS made on the latest
Parisian principle, suitable to be worn on all occasions. TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, TOILET
REQUISITES, and all accessories in stock. Ladies’ Homes visited. Combings made up.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DRESSING ROOMS ON GROUND FLOOR.
*
Take None But
The Trustworthy
King of
Briar Pipes
Obtainable
from all Tobacconists.
WILL forward to any address our GOLD WIRE
BROOCHES on receipt of money order or
postal note. 9ct. Gold-Filled Round Wire Brooches,
3/6; with Pendant, Heart, or Cross, 5/-. In 15ct. G.F.
Twisted Wire, 6/6; with Pendant, 8/-. Illustrated Cata-
logue sent Free. R. SIMS, GOLD KING, Cole’s
Book Arcade, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
DRUNKARDS
CAN BE CURED
With or without the patient’s knowledge. For FREE
Book and References write and enclose stamps to
pay for postage. THE EUCRASY COY., 62 Hunter
Street, Sydney.
SK FORlfe
AND
REFUSE
ÜBSHTDTE
g
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
Is allowed on every cy> le bought of us. Your
Money in full refunded, without question
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
cycles, warranted six years.
LATEST
MODELS
£2.10 to £6
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or < lincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Bim
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
sicked and Delivered Free
o any port in the world. We guarantee safe
delivery.
nnn Second-Hand Cycles
ZSIU «“ makes - £1 to £2*lo
good as
Great factory
EAR«! A CYCLE
taking orders from’ sample
machine. Active Agents
warded in each district. Large profits easily made. Writeat once for
free catalogues and our special offer, using sufficient postage.
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, &c., halj prices,
MEAD CYCLE GO. Dept. 839
LIVERPOOL, LONDON AND CHICAGO.
dfsg
DEAFNESS
“The Electricon.’’
A miniature Device
for the EAR—invis-
ible, easily adjusted,
aud entirely com-
fortable. Makes low
sounds and whispers
plainly heard. Over
fifty thousand sold,
giving instant relief from deafness
and head noises.
There are but few cases of deafness that
cannot be benefited. Write for booklet
and testimonials.
JOT
T HE
L. R. VERNON CO.,
60-64 Hunter St., Sydney.
BLOOD POISON.
FOR MORE THAN TWENTY YEARS
we have made the cure of blood poison a
specialty, Primary, Secondary or Tertiary
Blood Poison Permanently Cured. You can
be treated at home under same guaranty.
Capital 500,000 dols. AYe solicit the most
obstinate cases. If you have exhausted the
old methods of treatment, and still have aches
and pains, Mucus Patches in Mouth, Sore
Throat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spots,
Ulcers on any part of the body, Hair or
Eyebrows falling out, write for proofs of
cures. 100-page Book Free.
COOK REMEDY Co.,
HO2 MASONIC TEMPLE, Chicago, U.S.A.


3 ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
fißki
■
Johnßecgs.
SfECtM. UDiKUR
Scotch whisky
m
%
25
7a
A
Z
z
ALL THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
FOR UPWARDS OF 60 YEARS.
mu
in
Qraphophones
Make Happy Homes,
GENUINE
| COLUMBIA |
& MAKE W
t Price, 15/- Complete* |
%€€€€€€€€€€«€€«€€€€€ &
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH Co*
GEN’L.)
25 4SH STREET, SYDNEY.
THE “BRUNSWICK”
ICE MACHINE
fds
maj' be classed as a small HOUSEHOLD REFRIC
It’s capacity varies from 10 tons of ice to lOlbs., an
is in its smallest size that its remarkable convenience
for small households is apparent.
Hotels, boarding houses, butchers, and restaurants
have hitherto had to be contented with an Ice Box an a
few blocks of ice—a wasteful and expensive procee ing.
With the BRUNSWICK ICE MACHINE you have a port-
able cold storage sufficient to keep sweet and sound a
your perishable stock, and, in the smallest size, give you
101 b. of ice per day for actual use as ice as well as
refrigeration—equal to 2001bs. of ice. The whole thing
is run by a little J-horse power motor, and the cost is
very moderate.
THE BRUNSWICK HOUSEHOLD ICE MACHINE
solves for ever the question of cold storage
on a small private scale. Send for Circular
and further particulars.
BUZACOTT & CO., Ltd.,
Sole Agents,
7 & 9 Market St., Sydney.
Grain Drill
Buyers...
We have on hand a small
stock of the well and
favorably known...
"SUPERIOR ”
“AMERICAN ”
and “ONTARIO”
Grain and Fertilizer Drills.
They are new, In perfect condition, and fully warranted—
per usual.
Those who act QUICKLY, and pet their orders booked
before the stock Is sold, will pay only as follows: —
9 coulter
11 and 12 coulter
13 and 14 ~
13 ~
Grass Seeders,
HOE
£29 10 O
31 lO O
33 O O
34 IO O
all sizes,
DISC
£3l O O
33 O O
34 IO O
36 O O
£l5 0 extra.
Delivery: F.o.b. Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, or Launceston,
Orders must be firm —no cancellations permitted.
Terms at above prices: Spot cash at time of starting or
farmers of approved credit may pay the small sum of £3 IO O
In cash at starting to cover interest, and give two P/IN's of
equal amounts to cover the above prices, the first to fall due
on February 15th, 1908, and the second twelve months later.
Those who apply EARLY get a full assortment of sizes
to choose from.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AMERICA
Agents throughout Australasia.
(Incorporated)
Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide and Launceston
YOUR FORTUNE FREE
By the World’s Greatest Astrologer. Send me your
name, date of birth, sex, if married or single, and 1/-
for postage, etc., and I will mail you, sealed and confi-
dential, a document of great value to you in the
pursuits of your future happiness in love, business and
other fields of life’s activities. Thousands are this day
blessing the hour they first wrote me AddreM
Prof Henri de Astro, 366 Bourke-st. Melbourne
£BOO
FOR NOTHING.
I am continually paying
sums from £1 to £5O (some-
times as much as £800) for
lots of OLD POSTAGE
STAMPS on lettersput away
years ago and forgotten.
Surely YOU know some old families who may have some ?
Hunt them up at once— they are worth money. Send
for my “ Illustrated List ” containing pictures and prices
of the valuable ones. (Estb. 1890).
T. H. NICOLLE, 14 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
RABBIT SKINS WANTED
Also KANGAROO, WALLABY,
OPOSSUM f &Gm
Consign to :
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd., Commission Salesmen Only, SYDNEY.
ate”
mm
iiiSiili
Laying Ruheroic! Roofing on Railway Running Sheds, Ev sleigh, N.S.W. Government Railways.
Ruberoid
Roofing
replaces tl\e
best
galvanised
iron on the
various
engine
bouses of
tbe N.S.W.
Railways.
Wholesale Agents«
E. RICH & CO.,
LTD.,
Sydney &. Brisbane.
RUBEROID ROOFING.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
VOL. 27.—N0. 1397.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1906.
Pbiob 6d.
NOT PLAYING THE GAME.
Sydney TELEGRAPH complains bitterly in almost -every issue that the moderation and common-sense shown by Labor-leader Watson are only a disguise.
Whiskers ward (disgustedly ): “You know he shouldn’t look so beastly gentlemanly. It upsets all my theories. He ought to look like this object
here. He ought to have a bomb. He ought to have tusks. It’s his business to look like a gorilla. Dash it! This isn’t playing the game.”


XMAS EDITION
. . . OP . . .
The Bulletin, 1906.
A Special and Enlarged Issue.
Published on DECEMBER 13.
It will contain Verses, Sketches and Stories, grave and
gay, by the foremost writers of the Commonwealth.
The illustrations will represent the best Black and
White work in Australia, and will picture the national
humor.
Thb Bulletin Xmas Number, year by year, is the
standard epitome of the life of young Australia.
Agents will be supplied at the usual
rates, but, in consequence of the heavy
outlay on this Special Edition, NO
RETURNS will be accepted.
ORDERS FOR EXTRA COPIES should
be forwarded at once to ensure delivery.
Single copies post free to any of the Commonwealth
States and Maoriland, 6id. ; Foreign Addresses, Bd.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the A listralinns.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper 00., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... J?i g p
Half-yearly ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin 0/lice Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
tobeaddressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
iloiu to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tiie Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Sped til Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 8000 rvords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is fonvarded 'without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in. Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture tvhich has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, No. 1 Broad-street Place.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Messrs. B. A. Thompson & Co., 88 lliebeck Street, Cape-
town; The Central Neivs Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver , 8.C.;
The Clark Stuart Co., Ltd., Vancouver, B.C,
San Francisco. — W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong .—Brewer and Co., 88 Queen’s Road, Ilong
Kong.
Shanghai. — BreiverandCo.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6%in. xlkin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1906.
GEOEGE REID SAYS HE SMELLS SOME-
THING BUENING.
I have been asked why I dropped the question of Free-
trade in order to preach Anti-Socialism. But when the
house is on fire it is necessary to drop everything- else
while you put out the flames.— George Reid’s frequent
explanation.
For the man who lives, politically or otherwise,
by his wits there is a great deal in knowing when
to make a diversion, and the right moment to
change the subject. Probably there have been
cases before now in which a man, who had been
dealt a hopeless hand and saw a large jackpot
passing away from him, has made a timely
diversion by leaping to his feet in great apparent
agitation, and stating that he smelt fire. If
the movement is sufficiently energetic the table
goes over, and the pot goes over, and the very
bad hand and the rest of the pack get mixed up
on the floor, and when calm is restored there is
nothing for it but to have a fresh deal —
possibly with better luck to the man who
made the diversion. It is now over a year since
GeorgJe Reid rose in sudden excitement and said
he smelt something burning. He was then
playing in very hard luck. The pot represented
office, and no words could tell how much Reid
wanted office. All the hand he had consisted of
his old, busted Foreign-trade superstition, and it
wasn’t capable of taking a trick. Hardly any-
body outside N.S.W. cared for the Foreign-trade
fetish, and hardly anybody inside N.S.W. really
cared for it. Even during Reid's time in N.S.W.
his boa,sted ‘‘Free’’-trade consisted of huge
Protection for beer, wine, sugar, tobacco, cigars,
Freetrade newspapers, etc., and in immense
bonuses to the local agricultural industry by
special railway rates. And even in Reid’s
time the Foreign - trade Government only
existed in N.S.W. by the grace and permission
of the Labor party. In the Australian Par-
liament things were even worse for Reid. The
Labor members declined to listen to his most
humble and plausible overtures for an alliance.
He couldn’t attain to leadership by turning Pro-
tectionist, for Deakin and Isaacs already held
the command of the Australian party ; lie might
have turned Protectionist readily enough, but if
he did he could only hope to be a private renegade
and a wood-and-water joey in the ranks. He was
in a poor minority, with no hope of alliances. His
Toryism and his incurable unreliability cut him
off from the Labor men, and these two things,
combined with his professed fiscal superstition,
cut him off from the Protectionists. He looked
over his hand, and there wasn’t even a small pair
in it. So at this depressing moment he broke up
the game with wild cries of “ Fire ! ”
* * * *
It was all in one sudden instant that George
Reid discovered that the fires of Socialism had
broken out. Certainly it is difficult to see that
there is any more Socialism now than there was 10
years ago. The Australian Labor party is no more
Socialistic than the N.S.W. Labor party was
when Reid allied himself with it for the sake of
office, and made concessions to it during five long
years for the sake of pay. Nothing has happened
of late, and nothing promises to happen in the
near future, that is more dreadful than the things
that happened, or promised to happen, in those
old days. The only difference is that Freetrade—
Reid’s particular and remarkable variety of Free-
trade—was a hand worth holding then ; now it is
only a hand worth dropping on the floor. So for
12 months Reid has been a person in a state of
bogus distraction who alleges that he smells some-
thing burning. This alleged odour of combustion
has enabled him to make a wild and clamorous
retreat from the impossible Freetrade position.
He doesn’t abandon Freetrade, which is a
difficult thing to do with profit, and he
doesn’t turn Protectionist, which is a diffi-
cult matter to do with advantage. He
has invented something which enables him to
decline to mention either of these questions. When
the painful subject turns up, a frantic, rushing,
staring, coatless, hatless Reid asks wildly: “How
can you waste time talking of such matters, im-
portant as they are, at this fearful crisis, when the
premises are on fire, and the devouring element is
let loose, and the conflagration is assuming un-
heard-of proportions?” Reid smells something
burning with such intensity of nose that it is
difficult now to get him even to hear the word
“ Freetrade ” when it is shouted in his ear. If he
does hear it he is too excited to reply. He is a
desperate little man these days, full of artifical
flurry, and consumed with a desire to pour water
on something or anything. In his haste he looks
as if he would almost pour water on everything.
* * * *
If Reid and his party had offered, as a
shameless, mercenary bargain made in cold
blood, to accept the existing Protectionist
tariff which, inefficient and half-hearted as
it is, is still Protectionist, and still a thing
which Reid, and Cook, and the Smiths, and
Wilks, and Kelly, and Lonsdale have denounced
with a frenzy of vituperation—if they had cal-
lously offered to accept the existing tariff for the
sake of office, it would have been too brazen an
act of treachery to be lived down. Even Reid’s
most consistent press apologists would have been
driven to denounce it. But the sudden discovery
that the premises are on fire enables them to pose
as men who rush away from Freetrade from the
best instead of the meanest motives. They don’t
sacrifice their lost cause in a low, shabby way for
the sake of jobs and salary ; they nobly drop the
hopeless burden of a dead superstition that they
may fly light as they hasten to save their beloved
but combusted country. The same sudden smell-
ing of fire enables the Melbourne Argus and the
Sydney Telegraph and Herald, and the Bris-
bane Courier, and the Launceston Examiner,
and similar papers, to drop the lost cause
of Freetrade, which is no longer a thing to
scoop in votes; they also take the hint
and become aware of something burning. It
enables Reid to gather in weak-kneed and
half-hearted Protectionists like M‘Cay and
M‘Coll and M‘Lean; they like him for his
Toryism and hate him for his Freetrade theories,
but when he assures them that he withdraws all
opposition to the existing tariff, not as a mere
renegade who wants to buy votes, but as a
patriotic politician who is blown almost to death
with running to put out their blazing native land,
there is a common ground on which negotiation is
possible. The same violent and premeditated
sniffing of fire enables Tory-Freetrade candidates
to stand with some show of success for Protec-
tionist constituencies. It would be useless to
say baldly : “I am a Freetrader who is willing to
accept the present tariff for the sake of getting
into Parliament.” But there is some hope in the
large patriotic attitude which says: “I am
a Freetrader, but I am willing to sink all minor
differences, and leave the tariff as it is, in order
that all good citizens may combine in grappling
with the huge conspiracy which has poured
kerosene over this fair community, and applied a
match to it.” That sort of man secures the solid
Freetrade vote. The Freetrader knows that
there is no chance of getting the present tariff
abolished or reduced ; his only hope lies in pre-
venting a very necessary increase. It was a
mighty poor hope until now, but George Reid’s
sudden smell of something burning has improved
it a little. There is always an outside show that
sufficient Protectionists may be roped in to elect
the man who smells something burning and is
going to leave the tariff as it is, in preference to
the man who is going to improve the tariff, but
who doesn’t smell anything burning.
The great initial difficulty was to find fuel
wherewith to get up even the semblance of that
fire-over which there is all this fuss and fury.
The Anti-Socialists dare not declare against the
State-ownership of railways, though State railway
ownership is Socialism pure and simple. They
dare not declare against special cheap railway
rates on farm produce, which these Socialistic
States have conceded in their paternal regard for
“the producer.” They may preach free compe-
tition and individual effort, and so on, but it
would be ruinous to tell the farmer that freights
should be fixed by free competition, which would
mean, in most cases, just carrying his produce a
shade below bullock-dray charges. They would
commit political suicide if they denounced the
Socialistic State land banks which lend money to
farmers at far below the old bank rates of Private
Enterprise. This would be specially suicidal
just now, when the N.S.W. State Government,
created by Reid’s old party, and largely made up
of Reid’s old colleagues, proposes to amalgamate
the two savings banks in order that it may get
several millions of money to lend out cheaply to
farmers on strictly Socialistic principles. Then the
Anti-Socialists would be sawing at their own throats
if they declared against the Socialistic policy of post
offices, telegraphs, and telephones that are owned
and managed by the Government, and proposed
to sell the two last to private companies, as in the
United States, and to farm out the postal busi-
ness after the fashion that, till recently, prevailed
in Persia. They would be deliberately hanging
themselves on a withered tree if they explained
that they were hostile to the Socialistic policy of
old-age pensions. And they might as well
drown themselves politically in the nearest
waterhole as stump Queensland in defence
of the Colonial Sugar Co.’s monopoly; or
patrol the Western District of Victoria, or the
localities infested by the South Australian Co.,
or the Australian Agricultural Co., or the Peel
River Co., or the Van Diemen’s Land Co., and
denounce Socialistic interference with land mono-
poly ; and, as for going to Lithgow to pronounce
firmly in favor of leaving the iron industry solely
to private competition, without any assistance
from a paternal Government, they might as well
placard the walls of that town with the invita-
tion : “Please Throw Slag At Us.” As for per-
vading the north with violent repudiations of
the Labor party’s Anti-Kanaka policy, or the
south with diatribes against Industrial Arbitra-
tion, there are easier and pleasanter ways of
dying. And, on top of all, though the Anti-
Socialist party is mostly Foreign-trade it
dare not seriously denounce Protection any-
where. So when George Reid leaped up sud-
denly from the table, and dropped his
very bad hand, and upset it and the pack and the
furniture together on the floor, and shouted that
he smelt something burning, his accomplices had
a very small rag, and a very attenuated bit of
paper, and a very damp match with which to
attempt even a semblance of combustion.
• • « •
Still, it must be admitted that Reid and his
accomplices have toiled magnificently. It was
hardly possible to denounce anything that the
Protectionist and Labor parties have done, for
there is scarcely an item in the list which the
country would allow to be repealed. It wasn’t
easy, either, to denounce the things that those
parties really propose to do, for they are almost
all things that the country really demands. But,
in denouncing the things that neither Pro-
tectionists nor Labor men ever dreamed of
doing, there was a considerable field. It
was suddenly discovered that these parties,
which have been before the Australian
public for years and years, and have been
composed all that time of ordinary, well-behaved
citizens and ordinary, law-abiding heads of
families, intend to break up the marriage tie,
pollute the home, smash up the domestic hearth
for road metal, have all children brought up in
State asylums, establish free love and a com-
munity of goods, and wade in revolution
generally. It was ascertained all at once that
they were going to confiscate everything, and
sing the Marseillaise, and dance the Carmagnole,
and generally throw off their human disguise,
and come out in their true but long-concealed
character as plain gorillas. It was an incredibly
crude lie, worthy of the imagination of some
small girl suffering from too much London
Journal, but it has been circulated with all the
energy that the one-time Freetrade press was
capable of. And George Reid, in his new character
as a public and national fireman driving furiously
to put out an imaginary fire, is a really interest-
ing figure. He has lived strictly up to his promise
to drop everything else but his fire-extinguishing
character. His dog and his principles and his
last shred of political decency have all gone over-
board in the race. The only trouble is that the
fire to which he professes to be driving in such
haste refuses to show a gleam on the horizon, but
George doesn’t mind in the least if he and his
alleged fire-engine never arrive at any fire. If
the vehicle takes him to the Premiership that will
do quite as well—in fact a great deal better.
Meanwhile, he continues to smell something burn-
ing, and states the fact clearly. He will continue
to smell something burning till December 12.
After that he probably won’t smell anything.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Concerning a Challenge, and £125 for a
Hospital, and the Continued Silence of
Senator Gould and Others.
The Commonwealth had no power, nor was such a
thing ever contemplated, of imposing a tax for the pur-
pose of bursting up big estates, and such a proposal was
a barefaced attempt to interfere with the State rights
and the State prerogative. —Senator Gould, of N.S. W.,
as reported in Sydney ’Graph.
The Bulletin is still waiting—it has now been
waiting for two weeks—to hear from Senator
Gquld in reference to the above matter. But it
doesn’t restrict itself to Senator Gould. If any
of the horde of Anti-Sosh perverters who, up till
quite recently, were denouncing the proposed
Federal graduated land-tax as “ unconstitu-
tional’’and “contrary to the Constitution” and
“ an infringement on State rights and the State
prerogative ” will produce the clause of the Con-
stitution which makes the proposed tax uncon-
stitutional, or which reserves land taxation as a
State prerogative, The Bulletin will pay £125
to any hospital that individual likes to
nominate. If the individual is greedy, and wants
the £125 for himself instead of letting it go
to the hospital, he can have it for himself.
If any dispute arises as to the reading of the
clause quoted—assuming some Anti-Sosh person
quotes a clause—The Bulletin will nominate as
its referee a barrister of good standing and repute;
the applicant for the £125 can do likewise; the
two barristers will decide on the selection
of a third; and these three legal gentlemen
of good standing will resolve whether this paper
has lost or won. If they decide that The
Bulletin has lost its case, and that the Com-
monwealth has no power to impose a gradu-
ated land-tax, and that such an act is “a
barefaced attempt to interfere with the State
rights and the State prerogative,” and' that*
in these matters Senator Gould was telling
the truth, this organ of public opinion will
make the cheque £l5O, the extra £25 being for the
worry and delay caused by the arbitration. In
making this offer it only asks the Anti-Sosh
crowd to demonstrate in the simplest way
that it isn’t a cur, that it isn’t a liar, that
it isn’t a slanderer of its opponents and
a disseminator of falsehoods, and that it is
something approaching a gentleman—or a lady.
Up till a fortnight ago, when The Bulletin
first held out its cheque and asked for particulars,
nearly every Anti-Sosh candidate and newspaper
was bellowing about the alleged “ unconsti-
tutional” character of a Federal graduated land-
tax ; now, day by day, though there are columns
of Anti-Sosh speeches, yet, on this particular
subject, there doesn’t seem to be one word. But
it is only necessary to go back a few weeks to find
Anti-Sosh almost unanimously frothing at the
mouth over this same topic. So far, The Bul-
letin has confined its challenge to this one subject,
because it concerns a question which can be defin-
itely settled by reference to the Constitution. The
stories about the Democratic party’s intention to
break up the home, about the proposed desecration
of the marriage tie, about the proposed wholesale
confiscation of industries, about the alleged inten-
tion to steal the money in the banks, about the
secret intent to ultimately abolish the £SOOO
exemption on the graduated land-tax, about
the hidden purpose of establishing com-
munism—all these are vague, hazy lies which
can’t be proved or disproved by reference to any
public document. The yarn about the alleged un-
constitutional character of the Federal graduated
land-tax can be proved Or disproved, and The
Bulletin offers a handsome reward, open to any
person or any newspaper, for the proof of the
Anti-Sosh assertion. If no proof is forthcoming
the public is invited to judge Anti-Sosh as a liar
all round—to judge its credibility in things which
can’t be put to the test of direct evidence by its
utter lack of credibility over the matter which can
be put to the test of direct evidence. And, in
particular, the public is invited not to vote for
Senator Gould—to regard him as a man who has
backed-down and backed-out.
♦
Victorian Aid to N.S.W. Industries.
A recent squalid proceeding in Melbourne goes
to show, as a side issue, who are, and who are not,
the friends of N.S.W. industry. O'lTO Sachse,
Victoria’s truly dreadful Minister for Education,
endeavored to enter into a contract with a Ger-
man friend of his to buy 200 imported pianos for
the State schools. As soon as the proposal was
known, it was squashed amid a torrent of public
indignation, and Sachse was nearly swept avvay
in the confusion. In fact, it was only by hanging
on with both hands to the strong rock of Bent
that he kept afloat at all. The Protectionist press
of Victoria rose as one editor to denounce the pur-
chase of imported pianos when Australian ones of
at least equally good quality are available, and
the Chamber of Manufactures passed a savage
resolution to the same effect. True, there is no
piano factory in Victoria ; in fact, the only Aus-
tralian piano factory is in N.S.W., but these Vic-
torian Protectionists recognise that N.S.W. is
quite as much Australia to them as Victoria is.
The Sydney Freetrade papers, on the other hand,
passed the incident over in considerable silence.
It w r as against their importing principles to putin
a good word for a N.S.W. manufacturing industry,
and it was still more against their parochial princi-
ples to draw attention to the sympathy shown by
Victorian Protectionists for a N.S.W. industry.
The N.S.W. piano industry is making some pro-
gress under the influence of a 20 per cent, duty,
which was secured for it largely by the votes and
the enthusiastic support of Victorian Protectionist
politicians. In this respect the N.S.W. piano
business is on the same footing as every other
protected industry in N.S.W.; they all owe the
Protection they have received mostly to the votes
of Victorian politicians; the chief things they got
from N.S.W. politicians were scoffs and curses.
This was another reason why the anti-National,
anti-Australian, importing press of Sydney should
say little about Otto Sachse’s wretched bargain
and its consequences. In Sydney there is no end
to the cries of the squalid Johnson and the
miserable Kelly and their press supporters to the
effect that all proposals for protecting Australian
industries are “devised in the interests of Vic-
torian firms.” That made any allusion—even a
side allusion—to N.S.W.’s protected piano indus-
try a disagreeable business for the importers’
press. As a solid matter of fact, N.S.W.
came off better than Victoria in the matter of
Protection, and Protection was devised more in
the interests of N.S.W. than Victorian manufac-
turers. In the serving out of Protective duties
the spirit industry—which was practically a Vic-
torian monopoly—go so little Protection that it
was killed dead. The N.S.W. members fought
the point till they killed it. The woollen indus-
try, in which Victoria had far more hands em-
ployed than all the other States put together, got
so little Protection (15 per cent.) that most woollen
factories are now making bare bread and cheese.
The agricultural implement industi'y was mostly
Victorian and South Australian, and Queensland
was also interested; it only got 12J per cent.
The boot and shoe industry was rather greater in
N.S.W., judged by the number of pairs of hoof-
gear turned out, than in Victoria—in fact N.S.W.
was the principal producer. That industry got a
splendid 30 per cent. The beer and tobacco and
wine industries were about as strong in N.S.W.
as in Victoria, and they all got heavy duties, which
made them prosper greatly. The sugar industry
was purely a N.S.W. and Queensland matter,
and it got specially heavy Protection. All
through the tariff debate, when an industry in
which N.S.W. was chiefly concerned came under
consideration, it had the Victorian Protectionists
and a whole lot of the N.S.W. Freetraders to vote
for protecting it; a mainly Victorian industry
had the Votes of the Victorian members in favor
of Protection, and the frenzied curses of the
N. S. W. importing contingent. Therefore, N. S. W.
came off best. All the items quoted are merely
parallels of the N.S.W. piano industry, which got
20 per cent., while the Victorian harvester in dus-
try could only obtain 12J. Still, it would be
hopeless to expect that these, or dozens of other
evidences, would have the least effect on the petty
Kelly and the small Johnson, and their venomous
kind. They have two reliable hatreds—hatred of
all Australian manufactures in the first place, and
hatred of Victoria, as the State which first set to
work to foster Australian manufactures, in the
second. And in the presence of these two shock-
ing animosities reason drops dead, and common-
sense gives up the ghost.
♦—
The Amazing Case of Edmund and Maximilian,
Farm-Confiscators.
Two of the curious circumstances of the present
Federal campaign are Edmund Lonsdale, candi-
date for New England (N.S.W.), and Maximilian
Hirsch, candidate for Wimmera (Vic.). Both
these men ask for votes in the Reid interest.
They want to be returned as members of a party
which is pledged to withdraw all opposition to
the present tariff; yet they are both allegedly


virulent Freetraders. That is anomalqus enough,
but it is nothing to the anomaly which follows.
Edmund and Maximilian also ask to be returned
as members of a party which is bitterly opposed
to the Federal graduated land-tax, and at the
same time they are both known as whole hog
Single-taxers. The proposed Federal graduated
land-tax will levy nothing at all on proper-
ties worth £SOOO or less, while properties worth
£IO,OOO will pay in the £ on the
second £SOOO only—equal to |d. in the £
on the whole £IO,OOO. The party in whose name
Edmund Lonsdale and Maximilian Hirsch seek
election declares this tax to be robbery, imposi-
tion, confiscation, and other bad language. Yet
Edmund and Maximilian, though they probably
don’t mention the fact to the farmers of Wimmera
or New England, are pledged as Single-taxers
to abolish all taxes except taxes on land, and to
heap on the land-owner, great and small, the
entire tax burden of the Commonwealth. Instead
of id. in the £ on the capital value of a property
worth £lo,ooo—which is equal to about sd. in the
£ of the annual rental—the Single-tax party to
which Edmund and Maximilian belong talks of
20s. in the £ ; that is to say it talks of absolute
confiscation and absolute nationalisation. Instead
of nothing in the £ on estates worth less than
£SOOO, the Single-tax party talks of levying every-
thing in the £—of taking the whole “quid.” The
spectacle of Edmund and Maximilian trying to get
votes as Anti-Socialists and denouncing as
robbery a very small tax to be levied on big
estates which block settlement, and yet being
shining lights of a political sect which aims at con-
fiscating the full value of all land, even if it i s
only an estate of one acre, is anomalous. Some
people would go further, and call it a sample of
such bounding insolence and cheeky hypocrisy as
the world seldom witnesses. Presumably, the
only reason why Lonsdale and Hirsch, the
Farm-Confiscators, get the support of the Free-
trade-Tory push is because they are opposed to
Australian manufactures. Their shockingly re-
volutionary land principles are overlooked on
account of the energy they show in trying to get
the Australian workman done out of his job.
Otherwise it is impossible to account for Edmund
and Maximilian.
♦
Shoes at Fivepence-ha’penny.
A line of shoes was lately landed in Australia
invoiced from America at a shade under lid. a
pair. Fivepence-ha’penny per shoe ! The only
scrap of real leather about them is a shaving on
the soles—the rest consists of a cloth that looks
like kid, some wood, some paper, and about
80 stitches. There is, of course, no mark on these
frauds to indicate where they come from; but
when they have been worn once or twice and fall
to pieces, the fool-Australian who bought them is
mostly warned against “cheap colonial rubbish”
for the future. Then lie (or she —the eleven-
penny article is a she-shoe) is handed down a
fourteen-and-elevenpenny pair of “ American
goods ” —made in Australia. They turn out well,
and, afterwards, there is a prejudice in that house-
hold against “cheap colonial rubbish.” But even
the boot at fivepence-ha’penny is beaten by a line
of slippers, whose origin, so far as brands or
marks go, is also wrapped in mystery. These
were actually landed in Australia, duty paid, at
about s£d. per pair—under 3d. per slipper. There
were some thousands of them in one shipment.
They were retailed (and perhaps are still being
retailed) at anything from 7|d. per pair up-
wards. Of course there was not a trace of
genuine leather in those goods; but because they
were cheap and rubbish they got the name for
being “ Colonial.” Something very severe will
have to be done with shoddy in Australia ; for
somehow the Australian is a peculiarly easy
victim of the shoddy shark. Fine material and
all as he is made of, he won’t look ahead, unless
he is driven to it. He proves that by his indif-
ference to the great question of Defence. Just as
he buys a cheap navy and doesn’t get a ship at
all, so he buys a cheap boot or a cheap shoe or a
cheap suit and gets neither leather nor wool. The
foreign shoddy-manufacturer supplies him with
something that looks all right, but is a mockery
in the end ; and he buys it just as he buys
the vast railway station with the mocking mort-
gage at the back of it. More than most people,
then, the Australian needs Protection against
the shoddy that the Foreign-trader encourages
into the country. And the Australian who wants
to he a good Australian needs to watch on his own
account the tendency to buy cheap, “flash”
goods. Australia, with its vast supplies of honest
raw material, can make good, plain, serviceable,
well-finished and sound goods; but it can’t yet
make cheap flash goods. That may come after.
It is to he hoped it will only come a long while
after. By the time it has learned how to make
them, Australia, if it is wise, will have forgotten
how to buy them.
♦
The Pinnacle of Prosperity.
As the Foreign-trade papers truly observe these
times, “ manufactures were never so prosperous
in Australia as they are to-day.” That is, taking
Australia in the aggregate ; Queensland suffered
terribly when its high Protective State tariff was
replaced by the half-hearted Protection tariff
of the Commonwealth, and it is still suf-
fering; but the growth of N. S. W. and
Victoria keeps the total figures on the right
side. And yet Protectionists demand a higher
tariff, and, because of this, the Foreign-trade
papers profess to be bewildered at the hunger and
greed of the Protectionist cormorant. It is a
beautiful instance of the Importing party’s hypo-
crisy. If Whiskers Wakd, of the Sydney Tele-
graph, was never before so rich as he is to-day, it
might still only mean that he is now £1 better off
than he was 20 years ago, and he wouldn’t call him-
self a cormorant for being dissatisfied with that rate
of progress. If there were 10 or 100, or even 1000
more acres under cultivation in Australia than
ever before, or if there were three more people in
the Commonwealth than at any previous date, it
wouldn’t necessarily mean satisfactory progress.
France to-day contains a larger population than it
ever did previously since the beginning of history,
yet in the matter of population the Foreign-trade
press of Australia has held up France scores of
times to public view as a dreadful example of a
decaying nation —a place with a lost birth-rate—a
specimen of race suicide. The fact that Australian
manufactures are now conducted on a greater
scale than ever before is nothing much to be glad
about; they were formerly on a twopenny scale,
and the fact that they have soared to the three-
penny level of industry is no reason why Aus-
tralia should sit down and be content. For the
first nine months of 1906 the three principal
States of the Commonwealth had such a boom
in manufactures and agriculture and land
settlement that they managed to attract a
little over 11,000 immigrants. That is not a rate
of progress which is calculated to inspire confid-
ence. If this country is ever to be fairly safe from
invasion, it wants to get along faster than that.
Plainly there is an urgent demand for more em-
ployment, so that there may be an opening for
more immigrants. Therefore, though there is
more land under cultivation than ever before, the
Foreign-trade press is passionate in its demands
for further land settlement, though it is savagely
hostile to any scheme for breaking up the great
estates, and thus making room for settlers. And
though there are more people here than at any
previous date, it loudly demands still more people.
And though the railway rates on farm produce
are lower than at any previous time in the coun-
try’s history, and far below paying point, the
Importers’ press urges that they should be
lowered yet again, so as to “develop our great
natural resources.” And though we never had
so many miles of railway before, it de-
mands more railways. And it wants more
“trade,” though we never exported so much
before; and some of it wants more loans, though
we never had so much debt before; and all of it
wants more defences, though Australia never pre-
viously had so many guns as it has now —that is
to say, it used to have two guns where it required
100, and now it has as many as three. In all
these matters the Shoddy press can see quite
clearly that, if we formerly got along at the rate
of a quarter-mile per hour, and are now putting
up the unexampled figure of half-a-mile per hour,
that is no reason why we shouldn’t do miles
per hour. But with manufactures the position
is different. On that subject the Importers’ paper
always holds that, if we have risen from the two-
penny to the threepenny stage, the fact clearly
proves that anyone who wants to see his country
get along as far as fourpence is a cormorant and
a harpy. The hatred which such rags as the
Melbourne Argus and the Sydney Telegraph
have for Australian manufactures amounts to a
mania and an obsession and a disease, but it is
pleasing to note that the blight of their influence
is a decaying blight. Australia is now indepen-
dent of imports in many lines of agricultural
produce, and has even progressed to the export-
ing stage, and every good Australian realises that
it is just as essential for the country to be self-
supporting in manufactures as in agriculture, and
that there is no more blessedness in importing
machinery than in importing wheat. He has
realised that it is fully as reasonable to assist
manufactures with Customs duties as to prop up
agriculture with absurdly low railway freights.
And he is no more content to stop at the three-
penny stage in manufactures, though the country
may never have been as high as the threepenny
stage before, than he is content to let agriculture
and land settlement and population stop where
they are, because they are also a little ahead of
the best previous record.
The Greater City.
The N.S.W. Assembly has now before it a
halting sort of proposition for the consolidation
of the many scattered municipalities of Sydney
and Newcastle into a Greater Sydney and a
Greater Coalopolis. The measure is good in many
respects, but it takes very little responsibility,
and offers very little direct suggestion as to the
municipal constitution required. In each case
there is to be a convention —at least the Bill, if it
passes, will authorise both Houses of Parliament
to pass a resolution, and if that passes there will
be a convention. In Sydney—assuming there is a
convention, which depends on there being a
resolution —the people are to elect 40 delegates
and the aldermen are to elect five. Then these
45 delegates are to elect five more, making
50, and if these 50 proceeded to elect another
2J, it would just about round off the
circuitousness of things. Newcastle is to
form a similar convention of 21 members.
These conventions are to draft a constitution,
each for its own city, said constitution including
a scheme for the transfer of liabilities and assets ;
and the scheme thus devised is to be submitted to
the people per referendum. All the places that
vote “yes,” and which can be consolidated into a
solid area will be consolidated. Places which vote
“no” will stay out until some future referendum
alters the situation. Places that vote “yes,” but
which are cut off from the main body by places
that vote “no,” will also stand out for the time.
All this is fair and reasonable enough ; the really
weak point in the scheme is its finance. The
consolidated cities are to be divided into not less
than eight or more than 12 wards of about the
same population, and, in view of the differences
of debts and assets, and the different degrees of
insolvency, it is permitted to levy differential
rates on these wards. But Greater Sydney has
really 40 different degrees of debt, different
amounts of assets, and different varieties of in-
solvency. It is impossible to make eight or 12
differential rates meet the case unless some
sets of ratepayers are willing to make a
small sacrifice—say |d. or so—and that is a
thing which may or may not happen. The only
process which, so far as The Bulletin can see,
would directly meet the case, is to have an in-
dependent valuation of the debts and the re-
munerative assets of each present municipality ;
to transfer the assets to the new joint munici-
pality, which would also take over as much debt
as they represent; and then to sit down seriously
and consider the rest of the problem. Even after
this transfer of remunerative assets and their
corresponding debts there would be much debt
remaining, and it is over that remainder the
trouble is likely to arise. The way out, it has
always seemed to this paper, is to make each
existing municipality for a time a ward of Greater
Sydney, returning five aldermen, or one alderman,
or half, or a third of an alderman (that is, two or
three wards returning an alderman jointly),
according to population. All new debts incurred
would be the debts of the Greater City, and
it would levy uniform taxes, and have its
own sinking fund. But it would also levy
on each ward a separate rate, calculated to
extinguish all the separate debts —the ones un-
represented by assets and not taken over by the
Greater City—in as few years as possible. That
financial trouble being removed, there could then
be a re-subdivision of the Greater City into wards
of convenient size, and the old boundaries could
disappear. There is no other way that this paper
can see to prevent a bitter and almost endless
squabble over the odd halfpenny—unless the con-
ventions are much more reasonable and patriotic
than the past conduct of mayors and aldermen
would indicate.
♦
The Yellow Slaves on the Lord Antrim.
That obstreperous person, Captain Cordiner,
of the s.s. Lord Antrim, has got to be almost as
frequent a pervader of the Australian police
courts as the notorious skipper of the Melville
Island was a while back. Cordiner’s trouble
began when he left Sydney in defiance of the port
authorities, and was brought back and fined. He
had hardly got on his ship again before 15 of his
Chinese crew walked ashore, and demanded of
the first constable they met that they be locked
up and charged with mutiny or any other old
thing, so that their complaints could be investi-
gated. After much confab, P.M.’s Panton and
Dwyer did investigate them, when it appeared
that the collective Ah Fat had signed on for
two years in Yokohama, under the impression
that they were signing on for three months; that
they had been kept short of water, and that the
tucker had varied in quantity and quality from
little to less and from poor to very bad. Some of
the food was stated to be six years old, and to wear
whiskers. Eventually the whole argument was
remitted to P.M. Dwyer, who decided that the
two years’ agreements were good ; also, that the
Chinese had not mutinied nor deserted. That
practically meant that they had to return to the
ship on the old hungry and weevily footing. But
the Chinese steadfastly declined to go. Here
the Federal authorities, foreseeing the proba-
bility of an influx of undesirable aliens,
began to take an interest in the matter;
but skipper Cordiner saved them trouble by
charging his unwilling servants with being absent
without leave, and so had them locked up. Then
magistrate Dwyer remarked in a drooping voice
that he was tired of the whole circumstance, and
advised the parties to come to terms, which they
did. Under the circumstances, the sort of terms
that were arrived at can be easily guessed. The
Chinkies are to be discharged, forfeiting all their
wages except a lump sum of £5O. They are
to work their passages to Singapore on the s.s.
Kalgoorlie, and then pay their passages to Hong-
kong—out of the £5O, presumably. Considering
all these things—the three months’ work of 15
Chinkies for £5O, the infrequent water, the scarce
and aged tucker, the working of their passages
half-way back for nothing, and the paying of the
remainder out of the £50 —there seem to be few
points about being a Chinese fireman on a British
vessel.
The Anti-Socialist Yic. Slaughtermen.
In one part of Melbourne the other day, Lemmon,
M.L.A., was asking Parliament to place certain
additional trades under the operation of Wages
Boards. In another, a body of slaughtermen
were throwing down their lethal weapons and
demanding that the decision of the Wages Board
under which they had been working should be
set aside. There were 27,000 head of stock wait-
ing to be killed, Melbourne was growing hungry,
and the master butcher, who was not concerned
about delicate questions of economics, raised
the rate of pay from £1 to 255. per hundred.
So far, no body or person in authority in Labor
circles has said a nasty word about the slaughter-
men. Thfe Trades Hall Council has not moved
towards expelling them as a common nuisance
and a danger to the cause. Not one Labor mem-
ber has denounced them as a menace to the safety
of the 40,000 other workers under the Wages
Boards. Nobody has mentioned the fact that
their selfishness has led them to perpetrate a gross
act of treachery, which should be regarded by the
Labor sympathisers generally as an army regards
treachery in the face of an enemy. As a business-
man, the master-butcher was wise in conceding
the increased rate. It paid him to do so, and it
was immaterial to him whether the men were
wrecking their own cause or not. In all proba-
bility, he viewed such a possibility with a certain
amount of satisfaction. According to his state-
ment, the men, under the old price of £1 a hun-
dred, were able to earn from £5 to £8 weekly.
Whether this is true or not affects the issue not
one iota. The men agitated for a Wages Board,
and implored the electors of the State to send in
members pledged to the system. The electors
did so. the Boards were created in the face of
immense opposition ; and the slaughtermen now
calmly toss over the ladder on which they have
been standing for years, and, in effect, tell the
members who secured the Boards, and the
electors who backed them up, to go 'to the
devil. What is more important still, they are in
the same breath telling the 40,00 b other workers
—the majority of them being girls, who, before
Wages Boards became operative, were unable to
defend themselves against a sweating system that
frequently meant plain prostitution—to go to the
devil as well. The action of the slaughter-
men is one which calls for instant and
qjersistent condemnation. Wages Boards exist
to regulate wages, and to avert strikes and other
industrial troubles. If they can’t avert strikes they
will disappear in time—it may not be a very long
time, either —as institutions that have failed to
serve their purpose, and that is the worst disaster
that could happen to the workers, the employers,
and the country. What is badly wanted in Labor
circles is some central body, invested with disci-
plinary powers over unions and individuals.
Those guilty of actions calculated to injure the
Labor cause, such as the refusal to obey the ruling
of the Wages Board or Arbitration Court, should
be ordered to do so. If they still remain defiant,
they should be passed out of the unions as traitors,
their records expunged from the books, and their
names should be Slush thereafter.
+
The Progress (?) of Democracy in Tasmania.
Tasmania has just concluded the first session of
its fifteenth Parliament, and, on December 3,
will have experienced fifty years of bi-cameral
government by one Chamber. The “Upper ’
House still rules as effectively as it did in 1856,
and as arrogantly, as ignorantly, and as selfishly.
Premier Evans, G.M.G. (Council’s Menial
Groveller), holds office, according to the leader
of the Opposition, as “ agent in the Assembly of
the Council, supported there by objectionable
influences to betray the House which he should
lead, and to undermine the rights it is his
privilege to maintain.” The Democratic element
in Tas. politics consists of thirteen out of
thirty-five members (seven Laborites and six of
Nicholls’ Opposition); a year ago there were not
more than four— Nicholls, Long, Burns and
Moore. Premier and retired mariner Evans,
moved by the persons who compose his policy for
him, commenced the session by giving the
wretched Propsting and the freebooting Urqu-
HART office as Attorney-General and Treasurer,
and by announcing that he intended a policy of
“mild progress,” whose principle feature was a
re-assessment of the land of the State, ‘ ‘ so that, in
two or three years, Ministers could make up their
minds whether they believed in taxing land values.”
Other items were Closer Settlement and an
Income-tax. All these measures were promptly
battered to pieces by the Council, and, when the
Opposition and Laborites spoke savagely thereat,
the Tory Mercury reminded them that the
Government, through the wretched Propsting
(they speak of the “Sin of Aproptacy”in Tas-
mania), has introduced them to the House of
Doddering with a hint that they were not in-
tended to pass. In the Assembly Evans’ own
party voted against his measures, and by the help
of the other side only did he carry them. Accord-
ingto the Opposition leader, “he depended upon
the Tories to keep him in office, upon the Labor
party and Opposition to carry his measures, and
upon the Legislative Council to throw them out.”
The first session of the fifteenth Parliament,
therefore, leaves Tasmania just where Van
Diemen’s Land was 50 years ago, when it decided
to change its name and manners. Under the
Hare svstem, which will now apply to all House
of Assembly elections, Labor, Liberals and Tories
will probably pan out about equally, and Tas-
manian Democrats sit with gloomy brows, wonder-
ing whether they can hang on without getting
sick until the general election of 1909.
Voices From Monkeydom.
So far it has been hard to find in Australia a daily
paper that professed to sympathise with the
United States in its disagreement with Japan. In
a general way, the objection of American children
to associate with Japanese children in school
hours was set down to “ignorant labor-unionist
interference,” and all the available sympathy was
saved up for Monkeydom. The Monkey, it is
true, heaps disabilities on the white man—pro-
hibits him owning land, or being a retail trader, or
being a shareholder, except under very rare cir-
cumstances, in mines, banks, or companies, and
devises all manner of means to drive him out of
the country. Against all this the Australian
Tory press, in its Jap obsession, has not a word to
say. On the other hand, it teemed with advice to
the United States to put no unpleasant restric-
tions on the Jap, and in exhortations to Australia
to let the Monkey in freely because he is a liberal
and progressive Monkey, with a beautiful tail.
Yet, curiously enough, without the fact making
any difference in its enthusiasm about the humane
and progressive and just and liberal Monkey, the
same Tory press publishes things like the follow-
ing, from M'Kknzie’s “New Korea,” showing
that country under the blessings of Jap rule: —
In the way of education something has been done, but
very little, and on doubtful lines.. .. A limited number of
common schools have been startedin thecountryto teach
young Koreans Japanese. In some cases these schools
are taught by Japanese military officers. A high Japan-
ese official ‘in Seoul denied to me, in most positive
fashion, that it was their intention to teach Japanese in
the common Korean schools. I went into the country
and saw for myself, examining pupils and text-books. I
found that the official was misinformed. There was no
attempt to teach Korean ; the education was all in
Japanese. In one case, where the pupils were all Koreans,
the Japanese teacher knew no Korean. . . .
About two thousand Japanese, at very high pay, have
been brought into the administration, so that probably
the cost of government is far greater to-day than ever
before. There have been various improvements carried
out for the benefit of the Japanese settlers. For instance,
the Japanese settlement at Chemulpho wants a fresh
water supply. Nearly two million yen (about £200,000),
borrowed by the Korean Government at high interest
from Japan,'is to be used for this. Chemulpho improve-
ment is to be charged, not on the Japanese colony there,
but on the Korean nation. . .
There is little or no justice for the Korean. . . The
peasant finds that he has now two tyrants instead of
one over him ; and knows not at what hour his property
will be taken from him without compensation and with-
out right of appeal. . .
My attention was called to the state of the prisons, and
I visited two of them. In the first, at Pingyang, I found
eighteen men and one woman confined in one cell.
Several of the men were fastened tb the ground by
wooden stocks. The prisoners were emaciated, and their
bodies showed plain signs of horrible disease. Their
clothing was of the poorest, the cell was indescribably
filthy, and the prisoners were confined in it, without
exercise and without employment, year after year. One
man had been in the cell for six years.
The second prison, Sun-chon, was much worse. In the
inner room there—so dark that for some moments I could
see nothing—l found three men fastened flat on the
ground, their heads and feet ini stocks arid their hands
tied together. The room had no light or ventilation,
save from a small hole in the wall. The men’s backs were
fearfully scarred with cuts from beatings. Their arms
were cut to the bone in many places by the ropes that
had been tightly bound around them, and the wounds
thus made were suppurating freely. The upper parts of
the limbs were swollen. Great weals and blisters could
be seen on their flesh. One man’s eyes were closed and
To Britain.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Proud parent, from whose lordly hearth
Outspreads the everlasting fire,
Which lifts the patriotic path
Of our desire —
From whose high hands in infant need
There came our sustenance and food,
So we might multiply and breed
To nationhood !
Parent of power, whose shadowed arm
Hath held in fear each lurking foe,
And kept our childhood free of harm
And free of woe—
Behold ! thy children stronger are,
The scattered seed hath taken root;
Now witness, without stain or scar
The human fruit!
In many hearts a debt remains,
The bonds of birth the spirit move,
Yet, turning on our sunlit plains,
Wet eyes of love—
Lo ! ’tis a warm-lipped, glowing bride,
Whose shy caresses we would force,
And work our will, and with her ride
Our chosen course.
The map of empire grows apace,
The spoils of conquest heap anew,
False smiles do mask each frowning face —
Your friends are few ;
The dusky hordes whose smothered wrath
Your iron hand hath held at bay,
In secret state they issue forth.
The kingdoms sway.
The yellow people grow in guile,
Their ranks, as countless as the sands,
Are strong for strife. You only smile
And take their hands.
You take their hands whom we mistrust;
Their feet are placed beneath your board ;
We only see the hate, the lust
Of rape and sword.
Because of this the bonds you wove
Of silken sheen in parent pride
We sever yet, and, that we love
Our peerless bride,
We weld new bonds of steel and sure,
And build us ships of war complete,
And place the guns that will endure
About her feet.
We do it not in boasting vain,
We do it in no bitterness;
We would but help, when storms unchain,
To bear the stress.
Parent of Power, whose Empire runs
From Pole to Pole, behold the Bride !
Her lips are sweet, and are your sons
Not justified ?
TAS.
C. LOUIS RANDALL.


y]
m
ejr
a
i
m
ss
SOI
LET HER GO, GALLAHER
Mr. Photog : "Now, if Madame will look pleasant”-
Miss Phisog : “ How can I if I have no Gold Plate Cigarettes ?’
the sight gone, heavy suppuration oozing from th
closed lids. Presumably the eyes had been knocked in
by blows. The men had lain thus confined, without
moving, for days. ... The place was the nearest approach
to Hell I have ever seen.
That is the picture of a foreign country under
Jap rule. It is to avert any chance of Australia
becoming a similar picture; and to prevent any
risk of J oe Cook, and George Reid, and Senator
Gould, and Bruce Smith, and Cole of the Book
Arcade winding up in places like the one above
described ; and their wives and daughters be-
coming something like the Corean woman who
was in the cell with 18 men ; that The Bulletin
advocates the Federal graduated land-tax to
break up the great estates and provide room for
millions of small settlers, and High Protection to
find work for a great artisan population, so that
we will have men to argue a serious point with
Monkey and Co. in the day when their tails
become too prominent. Otherwise, should Britain
get into great trouble, Japan, as Britain’s ally,
may occupy Australia for our own good, to save
us from the Germans or some other white enemy,
just as it occupied Korea in a friendly spirit to
save the country from Russia, and in a friendly
spirit made it a hell—in addition to such hell as it
was before.
Immigration and Defence.
Grant Ilervey writes :
Dr. Richard Arthur’s immigration proposals are an
oasis of sense in a wilderness of Joe CooK-ery. If we want
to keep the northern end of Australia we must nail it to
the southern portion with (1) a large white population,
(2) a transcontinental railway. Australia is the United
States turned upside down ; and the Gulf of Carpentaria
is another road to the heart of our continent, precisely
as the Gulf of Mexico was, and is, the southern door-way
of the U.S. What the possession of Louisiana meant to
Uncle Sam, the possession of North Australia means to
this country. Let an able-bodied enemy establish him-
self there, and, with its present equipment of politicians,
it would take the Commonwealth about a quarter of a
century to shift him. We have got one great advantage
over the struggling American Republic, viz.. North
Australia already belongs to us. America had to buy
Louisiana from France, and the bill ran into seven
figures. If we had a Jefferson on the national premises,
steps would be taken to make the northern and
most precious portion of the continent ours in fact, as
well as in theory. The earth belongs to those who use
it ; and it is an absolute certainty that, if we do not
colonise N. Australia, somebody else will.
If the situation of Australia were not so serious, the
Commonwealth’s defence policy—as explained by T.
Playford —would be almost comic. For, when the
brown enemy arrives, he need not waste time throwing
ironmongery at Melbourne and Sydney. He can walk
through the back-door between the I3oth and 140th
meridians. Without a big white population in the North,
and without either a transcontinental railway or a fleet,
Australia resembles a jeweller’s shop with the back-door
open, and no caretaker on the premises. By encouraging
a stream of immigration from Europe, we will at least
establish a permanent caretaker. And when an Austra-
lian-owned (and, preferably, Australian-built) fleet cruises
in the great Archipelago, and a Federal railway spans
the continent, the national jeweller’s shop will be fairly
safe.
The very greatness of America is largely owing to the
fact that one stock has not monopolised the country and
its opportunities. The nigger is undoubtedly a bad
feature in the population of the U.S. —there are nearly
9,000,000 of him at present—but Uncle Samuel’s black
brudder was a pre-Federal legacy, just the same as our
Chow-Kanaka-Hindu mixture is. But, by importing
millions of Britons, Germans, Swedes, Italians, Russians,
Frenchmen, Irishmen, &c., and by providing free land
for them, America escaped degenerating into a feeble
nation of white task-masters, to be ultimately swamped
by a black proletariat. The great difference between our
color-problem and America’s is, that we have a preco-
ciously intelligent Monkey, and not a more or less
ignorant Sambo, to contend' with. America’s interests in
the Philippines are necessarily menaced by the Monkey,
but it is a different menace to ours. It is our home-land
that is threatened; it is only the United States’incubus
that is in danger.
Seeley points out, in “ The Expansion of England,”
how the struggle for colonies has led the nations into
the Western Hemisphere ; and how the Mediterranean,
instead of remaining the world’s arena, has become a
peaceful lake. The North Atlantic is passing through a
similar period of transition, and has literally sunk to a
herrir g-pond. The Pacific will .undoubtedly be the
battle-ground of the future ; and our position, so long as
a paltry 4,000,000 persist in hanging around the southern
fringe of a continent which contains 2,972,906 square
miles, wall be unspeakably perilous. It is evident that
Japan is about to make the same kind of effort to
establish colonies which Britain made in the'seventeenth,
eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. The only material
difference is that, in the coming contest for supremacy in
the Pacific, Japan will have no invasions to feat—that is,
unless Russia finds a home-made Napoleon— and conse-
quently will be able to devote a greater portion of its
forces to the seizure of foreign territory.
The power that dominates Australia will boss the
Southern Hemisphere; and, if we leave North Australia
empty, it won’t be a white nation that will do the
dominating.
A letter from Coolamon (N.S.W.) :
We had Reid here holding forth in great style. He
looked through his bit of window pane, and told us many
things, and there are some of his statements that we
can’t make head or tail of. The first one was that
Watson’s land-tax of 4d. in the £ looks very innocent,
but when you come to look into it and understand it, it
pans out at 6s. Bd. an acre. The other is that the duty
on harvesters under Lyne’s management comes to 71 per
cent. He wouldn’t explain how it came to be that, but
there were a lot of us listening, and we couldn’t make out
how he worked it out.
The Bulletin also doesn’t know how the
amazing 71 per cent is worked out, but as
it was stipulated, when the extra duty (which
isn’t anything like 71 per cent.) was put on,
that the price of harvesters should be reduced it
doesn’t seem to matter much. The farmer gets
his harvester cheaper with the high duty than
with the low one, and that is his chief concern.
As regards the land-tax the farmer doesn’t need
to worry about the fourpenny lie. What con-
cerns him is that, so long as a poor struggling
agriculturist owns only £5OOO worth of land (not
land and improvements, but just land), he will
pay nothing, and if the impoverished farmer only
owns £lO,OOO worth of land he will merely pay
|d. in the £on the second £5OOO worth. That is
how he will stand with the Commonwealth, but,
of course, he must pay the State tax which Reid
put on —and it strikes the owner of £5OOO worth
of land with an annual bill for £l9 16s. Bd. So
the question arises: If, as Reid says, Watson’s
proposal to charge the farmer with £5OOO worth of
land nothing in the £ means a burden of 6s. Bd.
per acre, how much per acre does Reid’s land-tax
of Id. in the £ amount to, seeing that it strikes
every farmer with more than £240 worth of land ?
♦
Re the Trawool (Vic.) irrigation and electric
power scheme, alluded to in this paper (11/10/’O6),
J. M. and H. E. Coane write as follows:
The statements in The Bulletin are inaccurate in the
Rowing particulars:—
(а) Mr. H. E. Coane is not a constituent of Mr. Bent’s.
(б) The stored water will not reach within many miles
of Captain M’Leish’s land.
(c) The proposal is not that a syndicate should build
the dam, but that the Government should do so.
(d) The use of the water for power would not interfere
with irrigation.
(e) On the contrary, it would compel the judicious
conservation and regulation of the Goulburn discharge
to carry over drought periods.
(f) There has been no secrecy beyond ordinary business
reticence.
This is a pretty comprehensive and all-round
contradiction of the statements of The Bulletin’s
correspondent. Also, it is terse, business-like,
and all that a contradiction should be. Long,
loose, straggling contradictions are beastly.
♦
The official report of unemployment prepared by the
Vic. Public Works Department for Premier Bent,
administers a heavy jolt to the Tory orators who
are eternally telling the city unemployed to get
away to the country “where men are wanted.”
Three months back, when unemployed were
numerous in Melbourne, Ballarat, Bendigo, and
Geelong, a Government Bureau sent out to all
the police stations to ascertain where labor
was wanted. No replies were forthcom-
ing, and Bent anxiously inquired why the !
answers didn’t pour in. The present report
is based upon the explanations received.
These show that, speaking as a whole, there is
absolutely no continuous demand for labor in the
country. What demand exists is temporary and
sporadic, and is in every district (except in the
Mallee, and even there the exception only exists
at harvest time) met by men on the spot. The
reason given for the disappearance of the demand
which formerly existed, is the development of
agricultural machinery ; and the extent of this is
proved by the fact that, though the harvest of
1905-6 was immeasurably greater than that of 1895-6,
the number of men employed was 10 per cent,
smaller than in the earlier season. An old-time
Goulburn Valley farmer recently stated publicly
that he now requires one man on an area of wheat
land which, eight years back, required eight.
The other seven men, being unable ,to find labor
on the land, had naturally gone to the cities,
where they have since been listening to the advice
of persons who ordered them back to the land,
where there is nothing for them to do, while at
the_ same time refusing to grant them a tariff
which will keep them employed where they are.
It is up to Australia generally to see that the men
displaced have a chance to make the machinery
that displaces them.
Quite recently Mr. Spruce Myth begged the
ladies of the Empire and Australian “Democratic”
Leagues to persuade their female servants, to
attend his amazingly ignorant lectures on Anti-
Sosh. He pointed out that these humble creatures
had votes, and, at a time like this, when the home
was in danger, and the marriage lines might be
cancelled at any moment, it would be just as well
that they should be instructed by some really en-
lightened person how to cast those votes. Con-
sequently, Mary Ann was rounded up in consider-
able numbers, and the morning papers were able
to report enthusiastic and crowded meetings of
women anxious to gain information on the burning
subjects of the day, and to conclude with the
gratifying remark that many of them were
women in the humbler walks of life. One night
Mr. Myth was hard at work expatiating on the
horrors of Socialism, and showing each Mary Ann
how she would have to share the use of her latest
new hat with the other Mary Ann who had never
had a new hat because she spent all her spare
money on stickjaw. To back himself up, he
quoted something from Karl Marx, whom he
described at random as a Socialist, and then a
fearsome thing happened. A Mary Ann arose,
and after carefully adjusting her old-fashoned
“ sailor,” proceeded to make a painful impression
by pointing out that it was not only unfair but
absurd to quote Marx as'a Socialist. Marx, the
young person explained, was a Jew, and was
personally a Communist. Communism was the
rudimentary organisation of a tribe, and appealed
very much to the Jews, who still retained some of
their old tribal instincts. Socialism was the
penultimate and logical development of the joint-
stock form of enterprise, and naturally appealed
to the colder and more logical Anglo-Saxon.
While the ladies of the Leagues were gasping and
threatening to faint, Mary Ann went on to
express her regret that any gentleman should
attempt to instruct the people on questions as to
which he had neglected to ascertain the elementary
facts. Just then her mistress fainted, and made
a diversion which broke the thread of Mary
Ann’s discourse. But Mary Ann represented a
great Fact while she lasted. In Australia the
working men (and in a less, but still a consider-
able, degree the working women) are thoughtful
students of political economy, while the bagman,
and the merchant, and the office-brigade m
general, likewise Darling Point, and Point Piper,
and Randwick, and Hawthorn, and Toorak, and
Society in general, know in most cases just as
much about it as an aborigine.
The crusade now being carried on by Parson
Tregear, in Melbourne, against the R.C. convent
laundries, is likely to do good by attracting atten-
tion to the sweating conditions that prevail in
most of the big charitable institutions — R.O. and
Protestant alike. Nearly every home for “fallen”
women and refractory girls in Melbourne, is not
only self-supporting, but provides a big profit
that is used in extending the operations of the
concern. These profits are made solely out of the
labor of the unfortunates who are relegated to the
institutions. Every one of note has a woman
agent who visits the police courts, and when
any robust, well-muscled girl or woman is brought
up, the agent steps forward and offers to take her
to the “Home.” No other kind is applied for.
This offer is invariably accepted, and the girl is
taken off to the “ Home ” (which is always a
laundry or factory of some sort) and made to toil
for an indefinite number of hours per day. Fac-
tories Acts and Wages Boards don’t apply, and the
girls drive engines and do all sorts of prohibited
work for nothing a week but their food and clothes,
and these are nothing to shout about. They are
deprived of their liberty and are, to all intents
and purposes, prisoners. Their labor is prison
labor, with the profits going, not to the
State, but to private individuals, and it
competes most unfairly with similar labor,
outside; for the promoters cut rates to such
an extent that undertakings run on proper lines,
paying fair wages, and working reasonable hours,
cannot compete with them. It is a monstrous
system, whereby certain employers are supplied
with gratis slave labor,'and, according to Tregear,
get 10s. a week per slave as bonus. If Tregear’ s
agitation causes a drastic change in these things,
then the shindy he is arousing will be of some
service to the community.
The Bulletin is pleased to announce that,
just as this issue was going to press, it received an
application from a Melbourne gentleman (not in
politics) who hopes to collect the cheque depicted
on page 24, and who proposes to prove that a
Federal graduated land-tax is unconstitutional.
As this paper can’t see that his argument lias any
bottom in it, the matter must needs be arbitrated
upon. Meanwhile it is regrettable that all the
loud Anti-Sosh politician’s who have been making
such a clamor about the alleged unconstitutional
character of the land-tax should have lain so very
low when invited to come forth and demonstrate
the faith that they said was in them, and that the
silence of Senator Gould should have been such a
very silent silence. 1 ;
There were several surprises about the
Victorian nominations for the Federal elections,
but the quaintest circumstance of the day tran-
spired at Melbourne city. Barrister Andrews
had decided that the city was a sure thing for
little Dr. Maloney, and retired from the fight.
Then all was peace till four minutes before closing
time, when temperance joss, W. J. Lormer,
rushed in with a friend, who wildly waved
twenty-five valuable pound-notes and a signed
nomination paper. The official scrutinised the
paper and returned it to Lormer, with the
remark that it was informal, his occupation
not being given. W.J. hastily scribbled the
word “accountant,” but while the official was
counting the notes, a clerk noticed that the paper
was filled in as for Melbourne Forts, instead of
Melbourne. Lormer glanced at the clock ; it
was two minutes to the hour, and the Ports office
was miles away. There was nothing else for it,
so he heroically grabbed a pen and scored out,the
word “Ports,” and pitted himself against
Maloney, who otherwise would have been the
sole Victorian candidate returned unopposed.
Lormer’s £25 will almost certainly go into the
general revenue ; but a man who leaves his nomi-
nation to the very last moment, and even then
isn’t sure which electorate he intends to stand for,
deserves to lose something as a sort of reminder.
The Victorian police force has no luck with
tote raids, and the series made at Ballarat last
week resulted in the eternal fiasco. The police
made their plans about a week ahead. Three
plain-clothes policemen, a couple of sergeants, a
couple of senior-constables, a couple of sub-inspec-
tors, the inspector, and the detective in charge
of the affair were all who officially knew these
plans—only eleven of them. Of course, every
owner of a tote shop also knew all about
the raid—where it was to be, when it was to be,
and how it was to be—in good time. When the
police arrived they found all the big birds flown.
They had expected to get hundreds of pounds,
sheaves of tickets, and rolls of papers and tote-
sheets. Instead, they got 27 rouseabout sort of
fellows, and £25, most of which was found in the
pockets of two of the 27 arrested. The raids were
a pretty bad failure, and the police profess that
they don’t understand why. It is probable that
the tote-shop keepers had so many people eager
to sell them the whole of the police plans that
they were able to - cut the price down to a mere
nominal fee. Competition is strong in Ballarat.
The suicide of a murderous mounted police-
man at Pyramid Hill (Vic.) suggests the advisa-
bility of haying periodical examinations of the
force by specialists in brain disease. In this case
the constable-one Lang—-confined his murders to
his domestic circle, his victims being two little
daughters of four and five years old. But the
same homicidal mania might have prompted him
to wipe out the whole of the scattered population
of Pyramid Hill district. An artful lunatic police-
man on horseback could kill any number of law-
abiding citizens, one at a time, before he paused
to blow his own brains out, and he might amuse
himself with impunity the while by making
out a detailed report of each crime, and entering
it in the charge-book at his own police-station.
A mad “ bobby ” thirsting for blood on a bucolic
beat is an awful possibility to contemplate. As
regards mounted-constable Lang, the possibility
was aprobability. His father, afarmer in theEuroa
district, hanged himself a few years ago. Now
that Lang, junior, has gone the way of the old
man, a stream of evidence re the Lang family
insanity will doubtless come pouring into the
Police Department, which placed him in charge
of a district where he was able to go mad at his
leisure. The case of this deranged policeman recalls
a previous Vic. bobby horror —that of the police-
man at Brighton, who assailed his family with an
axe. The Brighton constable was “depressed”
because a coroner spoke to him sharply. The
Pyramid Hill man was worried because he had
been officially reprimanded. Murderous lunacy
breaks out in different spots in different people ;
in the case of policemen, it seems to come to a
head in their official vanity.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ The Lights o’ London.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Virginian.”
Criterion “The Midnight Wedding.”
Town Hall Amy Sherwin.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Lyceum Hall Edison’s Popular Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “Dr. Wake’s Patient.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Spring Chicken.”
Theatre Royal “The Power and the Glory.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
St. Kilda Esplanade.. “ Dreamland.”
+
Meynell and Gunn, with whom is now
incorporated Varna, are building up a big bank-
balance on “ kid.” There is nothing that you can
more easily humbug the public with than this
same stage kid. The public, when it takes off its
hat to listen to stage kid, puts all its ordinary
critical faculties into the vacant receptacle, and
deposits the parcel under the seat. The same
public talks of “born actors”—dozens of “born
actors ” —and yet apparently it doesn’t expect the
actor to be born until he is 20 or 25 or so. The
fact that the youngster of 10 or 12 is just as much
born as ever it is going to be, and that it is just as
much a born actor as ever it will be, and that it
never will be much of an actor unless it is an
actor already, the public carefully disrem embers,
the thing it ordinarily does its remembering with
being, as already mentioned, temporarily under
the seat. It is when the kid gets beyond 15
or so, and begins to consider its leg how beautiful
it is, and its hair whether it is in the right light,
that the vast army of born actors starts to go to
pieces ; and then, from out of the wreckage, creep
the actors who are also artists, and know about
the proper lights to show their hair in, and so on.
To get a good kid actor isn’t, then, marvellous
in the least. There are thousands of them, and
the best of them the public probably never
sees. Yet the public (with its brains in its hat
under the seat) nearly wears out its hands with
applause when one appears, and is prepared to
swear that anything under 12 on the stagt is a
prodigy.
* * » *
So M., G., and V., at Sydney Palace,
follow up “The Fatal Wedding,” which travels
almost wholly on its kid interest, with a farce-
piece, “The Little Stranger.” But this paper is
a mighty bad judge if there is the same staying
capacity about the “Stranger” that there is about
the “ Wedding.” There is kid in it—more
kid, in it—but there is no “domestic interest.”
The stage kid and cheap melodrama go together
naturally—the cne-ild and the wronged mother.
They appeal hardest to the same section. When
there isn’t any wronged mother, when there is
just kid, the kid is apt to lose its halo, and
the public, reaching under the seat for its
brains, is more than half-inclined to get bored.
Familiarity, with impostures at any rate, breeds
contempt; and the stage-kid, so far as he is re-
presented as a prodigy, is generally a little
impostor. The “domestic interest ”of the melo-
drama doesn’t allow the public to get too familiar
with the kid ; it occasionally obliterates the
infant with the tears of the wronged mother.
“ The Little Stranger,” being farce and nonsense
of the most nonsensical kind, doesn’t hide the
humbug. In fact, instead of making a little angel
of him, as melodrama invariably demands, it
makes a little imp of him ; and how will the good,
dear ladies, who are the great stand-by of the kid
piece, stand that? Not a childish imp, either —no
Toddie or Budge—but a mannish imp, a music-hall
freak who helps his boss of the “hall of illusions” to
humbug the public and bowl o'.’t the spiritualists.
In this case a mother is the spiritualist; she
wants to see a Soul; the hall-of-illusions man, to
prove that it is all humbug and to cure her, pre-
tends that her husband is dead ; and he palms off
this kid as a Soul—the soul of her supposed dead
husband ; and it does such outrageous things that
she promptly gets a hatred of Souls. This isn’t
a situation in which the kid can command sym-
pathy ; and that is fatal to long popularity. And
there is nothing striking enough about either
piece or players to make it a great success other-
wise, though the performance seems to be several
degrees better than that with which the co.
opened in Melbourne.
** * #
“The Fatal Wedding” is still pursuing
the even misdemeanor of its way at Sydney Cri.,
but it will give place to “ The Midnight Wed-
ding” on Saturday. The popular Harcourt
Beatty, who was the royal Bearer of the Dog in
“Sweet Nell,” will be in the cast in a powerful
military capacity.
** * *
“ The Virginian ” still gives Charles
Waldron a chance to talk a dialect which, for
all 99-g per cent, of the Sydney citizens who gather
at Her Majesty’s know, may be home-made, but
which, on the other hand, may represent no end
of hard study and close observation on Waldron’s
part. It isn’t a very pleasing dialect, however,
and isn’t really worth any great amount of
study. Still, Charles Waldron seems to be the
sort of actor whom no amount of hard, pains-
taking work would block, even if there wasn’t
promise of any big thing to show as a result. Some-
how, “ The Virginian ’’ hasn’t sent up Waldron’s
stock as a hero. Sydney maidenhood can’t
quite make up its mind to like a hero who tells the
Girl, not only that she’s going to like him, but
that she’s going to love him before they’re through.
Of course it turns out true ; but if the young man
had been so cocksure and perky with some girls,
it would pretty certainly have turned out untrue.
** * *
Although the programme announces that
“Bland Holt has pleasure” in presenting “The
Lights o’ London,” at Sydney Royal, this paper
flatly refuses to believe the statement. Mr. Holt
has always been noted for his humanity, and he
wouldn’t present “The Lights ” unless he were
driven to it. It is one of the most crude of the
many dramas in which Walter Baker and Miss
Frances Ross get themselves into a hideous mess
and flop round helplessly in the slough of despond
and incompetence. If they would die in it, as
they ought to, the moral teaching of the play
might justify its existence. It would at least
teach the gentleman and lady in the gallery, who
mould their lives upon the drama, that it is no
good having Right on youi side unless you are
prepared to hustle. But some detective or police-
man, who might be much better employed, comes
along and holds judicial proceedings iivthe gutter,
with the push for a jury, and squares things up in
a God-like manner. Not content with helping
people who never helped themselves, except by
firing off copybook platitudes at the gallery, the
force, holding a sudden and peremptory court
on the edge of the pavement, pulls . down
from his position of hard-won affluence some stage
villain who has at least shown enterprise, energy,
and ability to put up a scrap. This is a moral
age (look at the Anti-Gaming Acts !), and this is


Insure
with tho
fdsg
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
/
111
iI'UL
mcmm.
William Fleming# equitable m, georges t .syd/iev.
c JkcMut)(Ji)?Sandmiiu wzu
fo/ W
fuwc (mufuttyu/i/to uauf'
Mtcmalc Jcrettncmt/ Yjatu -
factum.. bt' ce
iwfiaruL.wv.o?, .
>J** wtyJttin, 'ftflmi.
The Great Nerve Tonic for Neuralgic and Rheumatic Pains—
FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE.
V
A
Jf
,o
o
REMARKABLE TESTIMONY.
Mr. John Shepherd writes :—I was suffering from acute
neuralgia down the veins of the neck and over the whole
head and face. My mouth was much swollen. lam sub-
ject to these attacks, and was six weeks under a doctor.
After commencing to take “ FISHER’S ” Phospherine I
had immediate relief, and in one day was cured ; there
only remained a slight weakness from the excessive pain I
had endured. ... , ■«
Whatever is the matter with me in the future I will
always use “ FISHER’S ” Phospherine, for it is a most
wonderful MEDICINE and NERVE TONIC.
An Infallible Cure for Headaohe, Brain Fag,
and Indigestion.
FIVE DROPS IN WATER AFTER MEALS IS THE
GREATEST AID TO DIGESTION KNOWN.
It takes away a sour taste in the mouth, and makes
the breath sweet and pleasant when TAKEN HALF AN
HOUR BEFORE BREAKFAST.
ALL CHEMISTS, 1/- ; FOUR TIMES THE QUANTITY, 2/6.
BE SURE YOU GET “ FISHER’S.”
♦
MANUFACTURING PHARMACY,
FISHER & CO., Chemists and Druggists, 337 George Street, opp. General Post Office, Sydney
a moral paper, and it doesn t object to The
Lights” because it is twaddle, or because its
situations are ridiculous, or because Walter
Baker’s whine has grown absolutely deadly, but
because it teaches that the fellow who has Right,
especially hereditary Right, on lus side need not
• ljstle. All he has to do is sit on a seat in a park
and do a perish till the detective or policeman
happens a' ng and turns the discord of his life to
affluent ha, .iony.
* # *
Everybody knows the plot of “The
Lights”—it is. the same old plot. The same old
son has offended and defied the eternal old father
who lives in a home made beautiful by the best
limelight effects. The villain plots the son s
destruction and hires a poacher to half-strangle
the c’d man, but to be careful to leave him enough
breath with which to accuse the son. They always
accuse the sons who have married the lodge-
keepers’ lovely daughters. Then come the gaol,
the escape, the meeting in London, starvation, a
night in the park on a seat under the trees by the
river, where the two conspirators come and quarrel,
and villain Albert Norman Armytage throws his
fellow villain Arthur Styan Preene into the
water from the top of the bridge. Then Baker,
instead of walking quietly to the bank and
holding out a hand to the drowning scoundrel,
runs several hundred yards to the top of the
bridge, and dives, amid thunders of applause.
As the base, utterly sordid Hetty Preene,
Harrie Ireland of the beautiful hair is distinctly
good. And her dress is as beautiful as her
assumed character is unlovely. No one else gets a
show to dress, but Miss Prances Ross looks as
charming in her rags as it is possible for any
woman to do under the. circumstances. Truly
Mrs. Blandolt does display a lovely nightie for
half the fraction of a second, but it is so fleeting,
so evanescent, as to hardly count. Arthur Styan’s
Seth Preene has the robustiousness to be expected
in a North Country poacher, although he is an
unmitigated scoundrel, while Albert Norman’s
Clifford Armytage, the wicked nephew, is an ideal
polished ruffian. His energetic throwing of Seth
Preene over the bridge comes as a shock to those
who had not seen Seth Preene go the same way be-
fore, when George Rignold used to be the down-
trodden ’ero.
** * *
Papa Holman and Neville Mayman
brought their series of Costume Dramatic Reci-
tals at St. James’s Hall (Syd.) to a close last week
with the usual carefully rehearsed and accurately
costumed double entertainment; also, there was
a musical interlude between the two little
comedies. The programme opened with a grand
unbilled storm prelude, played by the Heavenly
Orchestra —to get down to details, it rained like
all Gehenna-and-its-uncle for an hour or so, con-
sequently the house was rather thin. “Our
Bitterest Foe ” was played briskly by Mr. May-
man, who was quite magnificent as the noble
General Von Rosenberg; Mr. F. Wilson, as Henri
de la Fere, of the French Army ; and Miss Lilian
Booth, charmingly early-Victorianised in high-
waisted gown and ringlets. The musical inter-
lude was delightful. Mrs. Mayman was on the
programme, but didn’t sing—she never, or hardly
ever, does ! But Henri Staell soothed any dis-
appointment with one of Zarsitkzy’s violin solos
on an instrument apparently possessed by a
demon of laughter and an angel of tears.
He played again, an obligato to Miss Carrie
Lancetey’s rendering of Godard’s “Chanson de
Florian.” The sorrowful part of the business was
that this was all that was heard from these two
gifted people. “The Captain of the Watch”
brought the show to an end. It is a somewhat
old-fashioned farce, with much of the elementary
kind of humor—strange gentlemen getting into
ladies’ rooms, and portly old bucks climbing bal-
conies in search of what they called “ amours,”
but which this irreverent age coarsely styles
“mash.” Papa Holman, who is a most proper
and respectable old gentleman, looked a real old
buck in his military fixings when he found himself
in a strange house at midnight; but, all the same,
the young women screamed realistically when
they discovered his presence—not because he was
a man, but because he was the wrong man. Alto-
gether, it was a bright little entertainment, in
spite of its elderly fashion.
** * *
Madame Amy Sherwin had a satisfactory
audience at Sydney Town Hall on Saturday
night, and her programme was as varied and as
perfectly sung as the star’s old friends and new
admirers could wish. Nevin’s “Rosary” and
“Robin Adair” took the ear with an extra take.
Basso Gange and pianist Harvey did their tune-
ful work well. Thursday’s concert will take place
at the Y.M.C.A. Hall, and a Scotch night will
occur at the Town Hall on Saturday. To this
will come the Highland Society dressed,in full
haggis.
* # *
Gramophone and Typewriter, Limited,
gave a selection of canned music, at Pitt-street
School of Arts, on Friday evening—beautiful,
fresh goods, packed by Melba, Caruso, and a lot
of other stars. The selections were played on the
Monarch (Senior) Gramophone. Several of the
audience said there was no need to travel to
hear the best music. If the music of the
spheres isn’t already ‘ ‘ recorded ” in Sydney—well,
neither is it elsewhere. If a record of Caruso’s
recitative as he was hauled by two policemen
before the Yankee beak could be gramophoned,
it might prove quite melodious. The vision of the
little, barrel-like tenor, whose voice is worth a
guinea a note, scattering it gratis, in the clutches
of two Broadway bobbies, is funnier than an Early
Christian martyr sitting down on a tack.
** * *
Theatrical manager Mr. William Anderson
is evidently not affected by the large percentage
of moisture in the Sydney climate. Otherwise he
would never havehad the energy to acquire that drab
and almost forgotten spec, known as the Bondi
Aquarium and develop and transform it into
something as bright as the sun, and which
promises to draw people as surely as the
moon does the tide. Mechanics, scenic artists,
builders, electricians are at work on the 25
acres of property, and when they are
done with it it will deserve its name,. Wonderland.
A theatre to seat 800 persons, a huge stage tor
vaudeville entertainments, a circus, a skating-
rink, a fun factory, tea houses, switchbacks tna
will run the passenger into the glorious Bondi
breakers, wire ropes and a Blondin, mazes,
lovers’ walks (five miles of these), sharks
and seals in tanks, Alice the elephant, music
—in fact, the enumeration of the forms ol
amusement that Wonderland will provide al-
most makes one giddy. The freedom of the
premises will be given to Australians some time
next week, when its 60 arc lamps and 7500
smaller electric lights will make Orion’s Belt, the
Southern Cross, the Pleiades, and such like feel
anxious about their jobs.
** * *
Besides a few changes of no great conse-
quence in the serio-comic line, SydneyTiv.oli this
week rejoices in a new Tate sketch —“Fishing,
built on the same general principles as Motor-
ing,” and worthy of three adjectives and an
adverb of praise. The right three adjectives and
one adverb don’t occur at the moment —but for
the matter of that, neither do the fish.
MISS MABEL LANE, a charming actress, who
died last week in Sydney.
Photo, by Talma, Sydney.
Now that the Melbourne Cup turmoil has
gone into retirement for another year, the rush
towards “Mrs. Gorringe’s Necklace,” at the
Princess’s, has slowed down to a well-bred crawl.
Hubert Davis’s comedy-drama is a good enter-
tainment for most sorts of public, but it falls a
trifle short of expectations. Looking for reasons
why the late Robert Brough was deeply impressed
by this humorous-dolorous play when he saw it in
London some years ago, one naturally assumes
that the original cast was specially well-suited to
the work. Played by the Brough-Flemming
Go., the characters, or some of them, seem
lacking in truth. Whilst the acting is mostly
capable, the impersonations—with the ex-
ception, perhaps, of Mrs. Brough’s nervous,
ill-tempered matron, and Miss Gordon Lee’s
irreverent juvenile daughter—are not at all con-
vincing. Even Miss Beatrice Day, bright and
happy in her part, fails to persuade any thought-
ful observer that she is a brainless, garrulous
Mrs. Gorringe. Her face belies her presentation
of foolishness. Impossible to suppose her capable
of boring her hostess to death, or of mistaking
another woman’s adorer for her own par-
ticular “mash.” The dramatist had _some-
body quite different from Miss Day in his
mind’s eye when he drew the _ picture of
Mrs. Gorringe. Also, he certainly intended the
helpless, hopeless jewel-robber to be “a charming
personality,” a showy, debonair young man,
whose weakness for baccarat was only exceeded by
his passion for penitence. The text is explicit as to
the sort of David Cairn that Carter Pickford ought
to be, yet Pickford makes his David a wild-eyed,
smileless creature of melodrama, with flattened
hair and an incriminating manner—a society
Hamlet haunted by visions of the Ghost. Fortu-
nately, the sad story of Pickford’s sin and sorrow
is subservient to the light-comedy interest, and
the troubles that arise from the negligence of
Mrs. Gorringe are laughing matters, as a rule.
And the most amusing scenes are quite realistic
in their satire of conventional politeness. Mrs.
Gorringe retires on Saturday in favor of “ Dr.
Wake’s Patient,” which is billed for a “ limited
number of nights.”
** * *
At Her Majesty’s (Melbourne) the flow of
music and the feast of splendor will appeal to
popular favor for an indefinite number of weeks.
“ The Spring Chicken ”is a success —a great suc-
cess—and the management, in the fulness of its
joy, is issuing a rubber egg, which, on being
gently but firmly pressed, emits an inflated
apology for a hen. The rotundity of this frivo-
lous toy fully expresses the financial prospects of
the show it symbolises.
#* * *
Manager Anderson has caught on to the
tail-end of the passing craze for kiddiedrama, and
the present revival at Melbourne Royal is “The
Power and the Glory.” Concerning which, this
scribe tried hard to say “Amen,” but “Amen”
stuck in his throat. “ The P. and the G.” dates
back to the period when stage infants were born
to die in the third act, with a prayer upon then-
lips ; but whereas Little Willie and Little Lva,
and many others, were content to remain in strict
seclusion after the angels had borne them
aloft, Little Linda pops out from a hole
in the sky wflat tiipe the principal villain is
endeavoring to hurl Mother from the top of tiie
Monument in London. There have been some
notable resurrections of the dead in Andersonum
drama —-in the present case Mother comes back to
life after being laid out upon the lid of a sar-
cophagus in a chapel—but this casual apparition
of Linda from behind a cloud seems hardly fair to
the villain. It breaks him up, and thwarts his
fell purpose. It is an act of poetic injustice ; for
when a man’ has lured the woman he loves to
the top Of a lonely monument he is entitled,
by the 'rules of the game, to throw her over
the railings and suffer for his crime. Next to
poor Mother and her miraculous little daughter,
the most astounding female in “The Power and
the Glory” is a haughty Lady Gwendoline, who
was formerly known as Countess Morris. Her
Ladyship, after denouncing the vulgarity of the
masses, offers the hand of friendship to a stout
lady who runs a coffee-stall, and consents to an
alliance between the two families, as the
result of having been conducted to the
“flies” of the Burlington Theatre by a
mad pieman and an idiot butcher’s appren-
tice. In its wealth of scenic surprises
the Anderson show is as strong as before.
Also the company is different in sundry
places, and the notable absence of Miss
Duggan gives an air of novelty to the
performance.
*# * *
After a long absence, containing
much foreign study, and, incidentally, a
foreign husband, Signora Nora Dane-
Valenti’s song recital, at the Masonic
Hall, gave her townspeople a chance to
welcome and criticise her. Her frocking
and her manner made the welcome enthu-
siastic, and gave a pleasant bias to the
second detail. The Signora’s voice is a
notable exposition of the benefits of proper
training. It is a mellow mezzo-soprano, even
in tone and bright of timbre, and is pro-
duced with such easy skill that her warblings
attain the charm of seeming spontaneity.
And she has temperament and personality—
an impassioned sympathetic temperament
that lends laughter, maybe, or tears, to
her singing, and a large, smiling platform
personality, which has a twinkle in its eye,
and enibraces an audience as audiences like
to be embraced. To say that the singer
is perhaps more delightful than the voice
is to pay the sum total of her performance
a pretty high compliment. Her programme
was well selected ; it was compiled of little
brava arias and lyrics in three languages,
the art of enunciation being conspicuously
admirable in the French numbers.
* * *
The circuses that lately enlivened the
neighborhood of Prince’s Bridge have put out
their lights and gone beyond recall. Bostock s
ceased to be when the menagerie was sold at
auction last week, and Wirths’ concluded the
Melbourne season on Saturday, when Marvellous
Lloyd, the man who goes one better, or two better,
than Caicedo on the tight rope, smiled at the
vast audience as graciously as he is said to have
beamed upon King Edward the last time they
met. The Wirths’ forces, reinforced by a number
of lions and things from Bostock’s, are now
marching through Tasmania. A three months
tour in Maoriland is to follow in due course, and
somewhere about Easter of next year the wander-
ing brethren will pitch their tents at Sydney once
again.
* * # *
The sale of Bostock and Wombwell’s
menagerie has added some interesting beasts to the
Melbourne, Sydney and Adelaide Zoos. A camel,
of the legitimate two-humped order, went to the
Adelaide Gardens for £4s—a bargain sale. The
manager of Melbourne Aquarium picked up a sea
lion for £l2, and a tapir was bought at £2B for one
of the Zoos. The big elephant, destined for the
Bondi “Wonderland,” cost Anderson the tidy
sum of £837 10s., whereas two lions and their
respective wives went for only £45 a piece. Most
of the lots were disposed of, and although some of
them were “practically given away” the result
proved something of a revelation to the gaping
crowd. The auction results with subsequent
private sales totalled £3OOO. Few people can give
a fairly accurate guess at the market value of a
travelling menagerie. Having no use for a blue-
nosed monkey the average citizen can’t under-
stand how it comes to be worth more than £5O.
* * # *
A tall and sprightly juggler by the name
of Selbo is the latest arrival at the Opera House.
In his final feat of plate-throwing, Selbo falls
short of the veteran Cinque valli’s greatest
a-chievement —they all fall short of “Chinky”in
one respect or other —nevertheless the new man
shows some admirable points of originality, and
his style of juggling has a gaiety which wins glad
approval. Les Cabiacs have returned to Mel-
bourne for a few nights, “La Moto Girl” is still
striking her note of interrogation, and the coster
romance of “Me and Her” continues to reveal
posssibilities of pathos in an atmosphere of ex-
ceedingly stale fish.
* * * #
At Adelaide Royal, “Veronique” has
given way to Gilbert and Sullivan’s “Utopia
Limited.” The change is welcome. The fun
that mostly turned on the christening to be ex-
pected next year, or the sensations of the spectator
when a lady fell off a donkey, soon waxed thin,
and the tuneful music was hardly “popular’'
enough to atone. Also, the English words Written
to a French air are mostly a misfit, and the
beautifully clear enunciation of Several members
of the company made this all too obvious.
“Utopia ” is quite English in its allusions and in
its occasionally ponderous humor. Both pieces
have been magnificently mounted. The Tivoli is
closed, but a fliclcergraph and variety-show (which
might be called a flick for short) has opened at the
Jubilee Exhibition, the idea being to compete
with the Hippodrome as an outdoor evening
attraction.
Melbourne Argus, the other day, threw up its
bonnet and cried “ Hooray ” because it had
suddenly learned that the s.s. Somerset sailed
lately from Port Adelaide, for the Cold
Country, with 2000 tons of iron ore from the Iron
Knob, belonging to the B. H. Prop. Co. It is
good to learn that Australia is at last beginning
to do something with its huge iron deposits, but
there is rather more to grieve than rejoice oyer in
the fact that this fool country does the simple
but arduous manual toil of digging up several
thousand of tons of brown rock, then humps it
on board ship and sits down to wait while some
skilled mechanics, clever chemists and highly-
trained engineers turn the mullock into steel
plates, bars', wire and what not. They sometimes
even turn 10s. worth of that mullock into b5OO
worth of motor-car or sand-dredge. And for
every ton of the result of this primary industry
which Australia sends away it gets back perhaps
a hundredweight of the results of secondary and
tertiary industries. The added value consists,
not of material, but of labor alone specialised,
scientifically-applied, brainy labor. And yet
there are quite a number of unemployed m this
country.
There were rumors last week that,
Nepean having declined him, “ Johnny
Hawthorne, the old N.S.W. Foreign-trade
hack was contemplating a descent upon 1 arkes
in the “Independent Liberal” interest against
Spruce Myth. Whether Hawthorne really
contemplated it or not, there was a violent
hustle round in the interests of the Myth-
and its beautiful clothes, and poor old Hawthorne
was packed off to Newcastle with promises of
extra-special support. But xxx-tra support
wouldn’t elect him against Watkins, Labonteand
good Protectionist. Newcastle wants to sell coal,
and the more factories there are the more coal it
will sell.
A controversy as to the name of the family
which boasts the earliest association with Aus-
tralia is now proceeding in London. The Johnson
family, one of whose members, Colonel Johnson,
was the first British officer to set foot on Port
Jackson, was going strong, when, from some
remote suburb, came a claimant in an obscure
Dutchman named Peter Johann Schmidt, whose
ancestor, Johann Schmidt, landed in the Gulf of
Carpentaria in 1606 as a sailor on the ship
Duyfhen. All the same, there are many excellent
charts of the Australian coast which bear date
considerably anterior to 1606. One, by an imagin-
ative Frenchman, shows the blackpfellers riding
chargers and carrying their kings about in
gorgeous palanquins, while the beaches are strewn
with lions, tigers and the like. This chart is a
pleasing variant on the custom followed in those
days, when the draftsman usually filled in blank
spaces with the announcement “ This country is
all full of devils.”
The real hero seldom leaves his name with
the reporter. Atabig fire in aEiehmond(Yic.)soft
goods shop the other Saturday evening, some 200
employees and customers —nearly all women—
made a rush for the narrow doorway. As usual
someone stumbled, and fell, and in a moment
about a dozen women were down, and every
second the pile of struggling female was getting
greater and more tangled. Then a couple of
working men who were passing by, saw the
danger and stepped in. They bore up against a
roaring torrent of female that wanted to trample
them to dust, picked up the fallen heap and got
its component parts outside, and having cleared
the doorway they managed to keep back the rush
sufficiently to prevent the doorway getting
blocked again. In a very few minutes the chiffon
place was a mass of flames, but nobody got even
hurt. And the two men, who had been badly
clawed in the struggle, didn’t even wait to give
their photographs to the Evenin’ Herald.
The Presbyterian General Assembly of
Victoria set to work last week to choose a Pro-
fessor of Theology for its Ormond College. There
were four names mentioned —those of two Aus-
tralians and two men in Scotland. The Austra-
lians were bumped out early in the contest,: as a
matter of course; they were hardly even
considered. The old Scotch parsons, most
of whom come from Aberdeen or Edinburgh,
reckon that no theologian who wasn’t edu-
cated in the land of Knox is worth shucks.
One Scotch candidate was rejected as not suffi-
ciently ferocious upon the damnation of infants;
the old soured greybeards reckoning he was a
heretic. This left only a bitter old Scot named
Cairns in the running. He is solid on the damna-
tion of infants. But Cairns hadn’t applied for the
billet—didn’t want it—had already thrown the
offer of it back at the Assembly’s head. Never-
theless, so anxious was the Assembly to get an
imported man of good damning capacity, that
Cairns was elected, and given a whole year to
think over the offer. All of which is just plain
sickening.


Deafness Official Tests
OFFICIAL Investigations of the Deaf are well described
in Ihe “ EAROSCOPE REVIEW,” explaining fully
the wonderfully-constructed mechanism of hearing, the
Causes and Dangers of Deafness, Head Noises, &c., &c.,
.and how to cure yourself at your own home with pure
natural Aural Kinetics. No Medicine. No Electricity,
and No Ear-Drums necessary.
A- Graduated Nurse writes : “ I am happy to tell you
that after 15 years .of suffering I, am now completely
cured. I hope that all unfortunate victim# will be fortu-
nate enough to hear of your wonderful EAROSCOPE.”
A Retired Squatter writes : “I find my memory
better, and my hearing is improving every day.”
An Ex-Postmaster writes: “Your EAROSCOPE is
the best treatment I have ever tried ; all complications
have entirely disappeared.
Call or write for full FREE particulars. Address—
THE “EAROSCOPE” CO., 90 Pitt St,, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Lone Hand
A Monthly Magazine of Imagination
(The Bulletin’s New Publication)
V
CONTRIBUTIONS ARE INVITED.
PICTURES. PROSE. POETRY.
Anything that will interest Australia
and the World.
Address —The Editors,
LONE HAND,
glk George Street,
Sydney.
Society
ART IS NOT ONLY LONG, BUT DANGEROUS !
[For The Bulletin.]
Recently, in a Maoriland court, a print-seller was
charged with indecency for having exposed for sale a
copy of the celebrated picture, “ Psyche’s Mirror.”
Ye who mate the painters’ pigments listen to the story
told,
Of an artist of distinctive gifts that once were much
extolled.
He was happy, famous, honored, till it came one day to
pass
He conceived and limned a picture of a field of waving
grass.
And he wrote beneath his painting “ Grass in Spring-
time ” —signed his name—
Said, “ I’ve never wrought a truer canvas since I won to
fame. ”
Came the connoisseurs to view it—came the critical to
scan—
And With these in evil moment came a moral-minded
man ;
One whose name was Ebenezer Smellfilth—noted fellow
he—
One whose days had been devoted to the cause of Purity 1
Long before the glowing canvas eager Ebenezer stood,
Scrutinised the cord it hung by, said the frame was
“ rather good”—
But he pursed his blue lips tightly, and in shocked tones
he declared,
“ Pictures such as these are baneful 1 Shall their painters
then be spared ?
Never ! Not while Ebenezer Smellfilth breathes and has
his strength,
And to crush these lewd exhibits I will go to any length 1”
So he went to a policeman (the police are godly men,
Whose concern for public morals breaks out badly—now
and then),
And with him he held a parley, and, before a week had
sped,
Mute and meek, the master painter to a crowded court
was led.
He stood charged with having painted and exposed unto
the view
Of the multitude a picture most indecorous and “ blue ” 1
Asked, pro forma, how he pleaded, “Guilty or not
guilty,” he
Said h'e’d painted but a paddock— asked could that in-
decent b ■.
“Yea,” cried godly Ebenezer, “ yea, a thousand times
again !
There is not a doubt about it; the indecency is plain !
You have painted in a paddock (in Exhibit One, ’tis seen
How the grass upon the section grows exuberant and
green !)
Now within the Holy Gospel (here I have you in my
mesh)
It has been distinctly stated : ‘ Flesh is Grass,’ so Grass is
Flesh !
Can you noiv deny my charge, sir? It’s so simple, don’t
you see—
If a field of bare flesh isn't, then what is indecency ?”
The stern old Judge grew pale and wan as he, beneath
his breath,
Said “The prisoner is guilty, and — I sentence him to
death ! ”
MAORILAND. SINC. S. CLARK.
* * * *
The steamer Lord Antrim, which has been
making rather dirty weather of it lately in Aus-
tralian law courts, and has been on a lee shore in
the witness-box, is allegedly the only survivor of
15 vessels that were engaged in blockade-running
for Russia during the war. The others were
. captured dr destroyed by the Japs, or other-
wise went to David Jones—not the
drapery man.
WHO'S HURT?
There will be no harm to the Australians in having the
Chines here.—HWASE HON CHRSO, Chinese Commis-
sioner,
AUSTRALIA; “ It's them pore dear Chows I’M
thinkiay of.”
L.E.” : In notes on England I have
noticed few correspondents touch on John Bull’s
strongest point, his passion for food. Kipling de-
scribed Australians as “five-meal, meat-fed men,”
but the toughest shearer is outclassed by
a Brixton merchant. It is a debateable
point whether Fog or Food has most
dulled the English mind, but the Big
Event in English life is Feeding Time.
The rich live only for a big dinner. The
starving poor, who form the submerged
majority of the nation, live mainly in
hopes of a big dinner. Roast beef
takes the place of art, and puddin’
of politics in Fogland. And the
greatest sorrow that can happen to
an Englishman is for something to
go wrong with the sausages. It
touches his heart. On all possible
occasions Bull breaks
out into Dinner. A
merchants’ banquet
reaches the monu-
mental and sub-
lime. There are
20 courses, and
the ceremony
lasts four hours.
Bull doesn’t dally
with the vic-
tuals; he shifts
things all the
time. At the 10th
course he takes
ten minutes’ inter-
mission and a
cigarette to get his
second wind, and
then gallops to the
finish. An M.P. re-
cently wrote a pathe-
tic letter to the
Times complaining
that pressure of busi-
ness allowed him only an hour and
a-half for lunch. He was quite
sorry for himself and wept on his
own bosom. This passion for Food
recalls the old Roman Imperialists
who, instead of a cigarette at the
10th lap, took an emetic. No
wonder Australians are exhorted
to make larger contributions to
maintain the power and dignity of
the Bingy Empire.
The Australian Arbitration Court is still
busy on the case of the steamship officers, and is
learning some astounding facts in the course of the
hearing. Cases of coastal steamship officers being
on duty 30 and 40 hours at a stretch seem quite
common, and a case of 41 consecutive hours was
sworn to—-only three hours less than the Mel-
bourne bricklayers want to fix as a week’s work.
And the marine officer’s pay is less than that of a
bricklayer—much less in many cases. Also he
lives with Care for his threshold and Precipice for
his bed, always considering the possibility of a
charge of manslaughter, and almost the certainty
of the loss of his certificate and his means of liveli-
hood, if the vessel dances gaily to destruction
when he has fallen asleep standing during his
404th consecutive hour on duty. This atrocious
sweating of officers is one of the ways in which sea
carriageismadeeheap, so that it may underbid rail-
way carriage and make the people’s railways unpro-
fitable. Another of the ghosts of the sea which keep
cropping up in this case is that of the officer with
a pilot’s certificate. The captain or mate who
possesses this document often saves his owners
many times his pay in pilotage fees. He gets no
extra salary, as a rule, from the grasping owners,
and yet he saves them all this money at huge risk
to himself. An officer’s certificate is more slippery
than the small pair you bluff on at poker. It is
gained by years of ill-paid and dangerous toil, and
then it may be blown out in a moment, like
a candle in a gale, through any of a dozen different
forms of accident. It isn’t so very slippery at
sea, except in bad ships on bad coasts, but
struggling in and out of wretched bar harbors the
document is likely to dry up and vanish any
moment. The small coastal captain who is his
own pilot takes his official existence in his hands
three or four times a week without a penny of
extra remuneration, merely to save money for his
owners. And all the thanks he gets is an indig-
nant query as to why he burnt so much coal last
trip.
* * * * :
A newly-appointed Carruthers J.P., be-
wildered by the long harangue of the defen-
dant’s solicitor, adjourned the court. Then he
took the solicitor to the neighboring hotel, and
over a glass asked him for “the true law of the,
case, man to man.” At the next hearing the
defendant was acquitted. Evidently the J.P.
had been given the true and indubitable hang of
the case.
* * * *
At Blenheim (M.L.) recently a boat struck
a snag not many yards from the shore, and nine
persons were drowned. In the terror and con-
fusion no one saved a two-year-old baby that was
onboard. The mite paddled instinctively, and
made fairly good time to the shore. The mother
didn't paddle instinctively, and was lost. This
seems to suggest that the human animal is just as
much a swimmer by nature as any other baby
animal until it overcomes the instinct by thick-
ing too much, or squashes it with a corset
and two tight boocs, or skewers it to death
with the animal’s hat pin.
The agitation in Adelaide against hanging
Habibulla, the Afghan, was curiously mixed.
He had chopped his white wife in halves by
night, and dropped her in the Torrens, but the
jury recommended him to mercy, on the ground
that he had good reason for jealousy. The presid-
ing Judge said he would support the recommen-
dation. The Price Government disregarded it.
Then Langdon Bonython’s Advertiser shrieked
wildly for reprieve in successive leading articles
—and it ordinarily barracks for Price. The
Tory Critic asserted that the Government
dare not hang Mr. Habibulla. On the last
day for decision the Tory Register shrieked with
equal fierceness for hanging. The direct Labor
weekly, the Herald, said nothing at all till every-
thing was over. And last Friday, in the middle
of the clamor, Habibulla climbed up an elevated
place.by the neck, and settled the maltter. S. A.,
with its multiplicity of religions, was able to find
a priest of his exact shade of creed to minister to
him at the finish. There is hardly a religion on
earth that S.A. doesn’t keep in stock.
*.* * *
Wolfe’s Schnapps, as good for women as
for men—buy bottles with wrappers intact.
Get what has been known for 70 years. Don’t be
deceived. Get Wolfe’s Schnapps.*
The Northern Territorian now gets his
grave dug by Chinamen, the Palmerston Council
having let a contract to a local Ah Lean. There
is some grumbling about it ; still _it seems
according to the fitness of things, that
the race that is digging the grave of the
Territory should also dig the grave of
the Territorian.
A FATAL OMISSION.
“Did you bach anything for the Gup?”
“ Every blanky ’orse excepting the clerk of the
course! ”
The spasm of virtue which took the Corn-
stalk law so badly a little while ago on the subject
of fortune-telling appears to have passed. The
same old clairvoyants, prophets, ghost-raisers,
second-sighters and trance-mediums hold or !> the
same old paw at the same old address, and pub-
lish the same old card in the papers, and the only
difference seems to be that they are even more
numerous than they were in other days.
• * * *
“ N.L.” : Doleful seems to me the news
that two strapping Victorian axemen have been
engaged to help along a kind of variety show
in London. Doubtless they were once
open-browed youths raging around among
the timber in the neighborhood of ! the
Otway Forest, or laying waste the strong-
rooted giants of Wuk Wuk -honestly pur-
suing their toil, without once pausing to
seek applause by telling father that they
did it with their little hatchet. But, ha!
enter the villain. He enticeth them to
nominate for a wood-chopping contest and
darnce, to be held in conjunction with the
Gluckmaglog Agricultural and Pastoral
Society’s annual show. Could no one warn
these simple children of natures that it is
the first contest (and darnce) that leadeth
to destruction ? Where —oh, where was
Judkins? Winning their heats, fanned by
the praise of beauty at the darnce, they
enter for more contests, capture the
highest Australian laurels, and now—now
behold them chopping to make a London
holiday !- Once in “the profession,” who
shall say that dramas will not be written
round them, as aforetime round pugilists
and other strong men? Then, many years
hence, when extreme age and shrunken
thews forbid further wood-chopping, will
they be able to resist the temptation feto
buy some face-massage and a few ounces
of store teeth, and blossom out as fascinat-
ing young beauty actors ? Who can tell ?
* * * X
After the last Maori war had died of
ennui, the Government of that day awarded
to sixteen veterans a brand-new medal
called the Maorilana “ Cross.” The com-
mon or backyard man would be inflated
when he thought that only fifteen men out of
the earth’s millions shared any distinction
with himself, but the Maoriland veteran is
seemingly even more beastly exclusive than that.
Ever since the miserable day when a Government
—now dead, buried, forgotten, and utterly gone —
decided to hand out that pewter gaud, 15 veterans
have demanded at intervals that Parliament
should “ show reason why H. Wrigg should not be
deprived of the Maoriland Gross.” If H. Wrigg
lost his Cross there would be only fifteen of
the lamented ironmongery in existence, and it
would then be very exclusive indeed. The exact
nature of the grievance of the fifteen against H.
Wrigg is not clearly understood by the bulk of the
public, nor does it care much.
« • * *
A little hooker, named the Lady Isabel,
reached Sydney, last week, with a sensational tale
of attempted piracy and murder on the high seas.
Coming from London, the vessel put into a South
African port, and there the skipper discovered
the crew’s alleged fell intent to throw him over-
board and plunder the ship. The master mariner’s
first intention was to turn the wholesetof supposed
pirates loose in South Africa, and why he didn’t
do it he thus explained to the S.M. Herald
The immigration laws of South Africa will not allow
men to be landed under a penalty of £2OO per head, and
the position for ine, therefore, was far from a comforting
one.
Under the Commonwealth immigration laws the
captain could have put these men ashore in Aus-
tralia without any trouble. Yet, according to
Joe Cook, Reid, the several Smiths, and the
Stinking Fish party in general, the Australian
laws are a blot on the Hempire and something
quite unprecedented in the way of a horror and a
public disgrace.
Attacks like that made the other day on
Deputy-Governor Quaine, of Parramatta (N.S.W.)
Gaol, are rare now, though they used to be
common enough even 20 years ago. Dubbo,
Bathurst, Berrima, Parramatta, and Darling-
hurst all record sensational attacks on prison
officials. In a good many cases the official died,
and then the old punctual N.S.W. law hanged
the prisoner early in the morning. (For some
reason or other the habit of early-morning hang-
ing seems incurable.) Prisoners who are doing
long terms for crimes of violence are, in all well-
conducted prison systems, regarded as dangerous,
and constantly searched for concealed weapons.
The violent prisoner is much the same as he used
to be, but he doesn’t get the chances he used to
get.
* * * *
The death of Bill again. Only in this case
it was Jack—Jack Hammell, who, with his mate,
Wm. Newman, was killed, t’other day, by a fall
of rock in the New Argus mine, at Eaglehawk
(Vie.). Newman was killed outright; but Ham-
mell, after three-quarters of an hour’s work, was
extricated, with his leg badly gashed and the
bone of his arm wrecked, from beneath a slab of
stone weighing nearly a ton. “ How is it. Jack ? ”
inquired a mate. “A bit shaky,” Jack replied.
“ I’ll be all right, but I’m afraid I’ll lose my leg.”
Then, with a last “You’ll break it gently to my
wife,” Jack Hammell, moleskinned hero, went
out. Yet “Consider the risks of Capital,” says
the Fatman.
*• * m *
“ L,” from Melbourne :
I thought, that the R.C. Church was a fine, enterprising
business concern, but I am disgusted at the bulge which
Archbishop Carr has allowed Methodist Parson George
Tregear to get on him. Tregear started off with agirl named
Lucy Penberthy, alleged to have fled from the neglect
and tyranny of an R.C. charitable institution. He has
followed up this maiden with four others. Mean-
time, Archbishop Carr has not one escaped Methodist to
his credit! The Methodists have charitable Homes—for
children at Cheltenham, and for maidens at Mintaro. I
hereby make a business offer to the plump Archbishop.
For fifteen quid I will provide him with an escaped girl
from Mintaro, or I will do him a line at wholesale rates—
say five for £6O. It is shocking to think that an old-
established religious business is being left so wofully
behind as Archbishop Carr’s is.
• * • *
Speaking of a certain simplicity in recent
feminine racecourse costumes, Melbourne Argus
remarks that “ country visitors, who look forward
to seeing ‘the quality’ in their best, are some-
what disappointed.” The poor old Argos always
seems to imagine that it is published in a land
where every man from the country (except the
“ squire ”) goes about in a smock frock, tugging
his forelock at sight of “ the quality,” and saying
“ thank’ee kindly, zur and marm, I be doin’
nicely.” To do it justice, it is not the fault of the
squire-worshipping Argus that Australia’s rural
population is still, in the main, free from the taint
of subservience.
LA MILO , the Australian Venus, now mu kin
a huge sensation in England.
The impecunious of Sydney have found
out the advantages of living on the Lane Cove
River. The suburbs there are within the Parra,
niatta District Court area. The angry creditor
of Sydney must sue for his account at Parramatta
(where the District Court sits but seldom), and if
he wishes to push matters to the cm sa point there
is further delay and expense. Only a very angry
or very patient creditor can wait for Parramatta
to get a move on it.
REQUIESCAT.
[FOR THE BULLET IN.]
He burst into the public bar, and in the air he flung
His imitation Panama, and cried to Mr. Bung—
“ Oh, fill ’em up, the blooming lot ; I’ll go the perfect hog.
I’ll do in every bean I’ve got, for Souter’s drawn a dog.”
And Mr. Bung he filled ’em, and he put the froth on top,
But ere the stranger drank, upon his knees we saw him
drop.
A prayer perhaps he muttered as he mumbled in his hat;
’Twas a Latin word he uttered —something like
“Odamiscat 1"
N.S.W.
JEACH.


11
sdfg
dsf
f Improve your position by taking:
a Postal Course of Tuition from
STOTT & HOARE’S Business
College, Moore St., Sydney.
“ Home Study,” Post Free.
Another Shape in Soft Hats
This is a nobby shape in soft hats
that will meet many a man’s ideas
in both shape and shade.
It is a comfortable hat for present
season’s wear—is light, and comes in
all sizes.
The shape is just as shown.
The colors are Fawn, Light and
Dark Grey.
The brims are in 2| and 2f in.
Price 13s 6d
Post Free, 3d.
Please state size when ordering.
gsdf
PEAPES & CO., Ltd.
MEN’S and BOYS’ OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George St., Sydney
A curious case was lately heard in New
South Wales. A cattle-duffer was arrested
because of the inexplicable presence of hides on
his premises, and is now working out the dead
horse of his crime in gaol. During the search of
his premises a woman was discovered and arrested
as an accomplice. Dor years she had been known
in the district as bearing a name quite different
from that of the male accused, and it was assumed
that they were “ living in sin,” but when she was
placed in the dock it was shown that the pair
were really married. So, on a point of law, the
woman was released. The marriage, in fact,
made an honest woman of her—honest as regards
the hides, as well as honest in the conventional
sense.
* * * *
“Melb.” : On Sabbath evening (Nov. 11)
Torn Mann being in the stone jug, which used to
be known as Wintle’s hotel, the Zion . (Dowie’s)
Hall hard by had a placard outside, with these
letters apparently written in blood : “ Tom Mann
is Gaoled by the Pimps of the Anti-Socialistic
Party. Mrs. Tom Mann will lecture To-Night on
the Chicago Martyrs.” The hall holds 1600
people. After music by the band, Mrs. Mann
came forward to lecture, and the roof must have
been lifted half an inch. A pleasant little blonde
lady, dressed in green velvet, with a becoming
yellow stomacher. Her voice was sweet and low,
yet distinctly audible. She said that day
{Nov. 11) was the exact anniversary of the
■“ murder ” of the Chicago martyrs, in 1886.
She also sang “ Annie Laurie” with feeling, and
said she introduced it because one of the “mur-
dered ” men had composed a version of it with
the refrain, “For charming anarchy I would lay
me down and die.” A gentleman in the meeting
told me that he had heard a lecture in America,
by Mrs. Parsons, widow of one of the anarchists
who perished on the scaffold, and that Mrs. Mann
reminded him somewhat of Mrs. Parsons, who
had extraordinary magnetic influence as a public
speaker. After Mrs. Mann had spoken, there
was a yet livelier sensation in reserve. Miss
Lizzie Ahern, who had done ten days in Mel-
bourne gaol, over the Prahran embroglio, came
forward in an imitation of the prison dress, and
was much welcomed. She is tall, and a good
speaker. Her garb was a coarse, black gown,
with dirty white apron ; but the head-dress, a
big, green sun-bonnet, captivated the audience
most. She spoke severely about the prison
management, especially about a parson who came
round, with his nauseous sorrow, and a charitable
expression of his fear that Der-rink had landed
the ladies there.
The vessels that went out to look for the
crippled and abandoned steamer Port Stephens
have returned unsuccessful. When the Port
Stephens was deserted, it was hopelessly
broken down, and it had no canvas of any value,
provisions were nearly run out, the vessel was
drifting fast towards the Polar ice, and it
was far out of the track of ships—it was
by one chance in a thousand that a sailing
ship, also far off its track, sighted the float-
ing ruin and took off the crew. The failure of
the search shows that the captain was right
in leaving the vessel. If he and his crew had
remained on board, the ship would have been just
as lost as it is now, and the men would have been
dead of cold and hunger as well. Yet the
last possibility of a fool in the shape of a
Marine Court, at Wellington (M.L.), spoke
most violently to the captain for not staying
on board and committing a lingering and
horrible suicide amid the Polar floes —a suicide
which wouldn’t have done a penn’orth of good to
the ship or its owners. The court seemed to
think the vessel would have been more findable if
the captain’s dead body had been on board, frozen
stiff against the bulwarks, with a glassy eye fixed
on nothing for evermore —a frozen captain, it may
be mentioned, keeps almost indefinitely. The
court came to its remarkable conclusion in a nice
warm room, with a hot stomach wrapped round
its lunch, and cigars in its pocket, and a public-
house handy. If it had been out on the pub.-less
wastes of the Antarctic it would probably have
thought differently. When a case like that crops
up, the defendant should have the right to claim
a re-hearing, and the court should eat nothing for
two days before the re-hearing, and sleep out on
the hills. Or else it should be turned adrift in an
open boat, and the matter be put to it a second
time when it is picked up—if it is ever picked up.
• * * *
It appears that those nine men who were
swept off the Defence steamer Vulcan in Port
Phillip bay were all lying dog-sick astern when
the big seas came. The vessel, which is as shallow
as a dish, dipped right under water, and the sea-
sick men, wrapped in their heavy overcoats and
feeling too miserable to live simply, floated off. It
was mighty good luck that all nine were not
drowned. A military inquiry was hold —with doors
closed to the press! The decision is that nobody
was to blame. The arrogant Department that
refuses publicity to the evidence when it drowns
its soldiers is quite likely to put the blame on the
man who was insubordinate enough to get drowned.
He was absent from the vessel without leave.
* * * *
Mr. W. Marshall, Inspector, Vermin Des-
truction Act, Coleraine, Vic., says“ We
always keep Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy in the
house, and would not be without it. I consider
it the best of all medicines, for it gives instant
relief, whether the patient is one of the children
or myself. When I first tried Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy I was driving through the Cas-
terton district, and had caught a severe cold. I
bought a couple of bottles from Messrs. H. and
G. Harris, of Casterton, and kept a bottle in my
pocket, taking a dose about every three hours,
and before they were used was completely cured.
I used to suffer from bronchitis, but by taking
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy at the first
symptom always ward off an attack. I have
given Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy a sound and
substantial trial, and have no hesitation in saying
it is the best of all cough medicines, and can
highly recommend it to anyone with a family.”*
Christchurch (M.L.) is a disappointed
city. It expected a wild rush from all parts of
the earth to its Exhibition, and the rushers fell
some thousands short of anticipations, Christ-
church had rigged up bunks in the washhouse, the
dog-kennel, and the fowl-shanty, and planted
itself at the front gate to keep off the howling
hordes which would clamor for a doss m Fido s
residence; and the hordes didn’t clamor—they
mostly found room at Coker’s and Warner s. One
citizen who had “cut out” his cheque in beery
expectation of the rich harvest, booted Fido into
the next yard when he realised. that the good
time wasn’t coming, and Eido bit the old man
next door, and tore up the garden, and acted like
Judkins when he’s got a gambling clue. Others
simply sat down to wait till Christmas time,
when, Christchurch says, the rush will really
eventuate. A city which can keep its pecker up
as Christchurch is doing deserves better luck.
* * * *
N.S.W. police officials, after making a
feeble pretence at adopting the Berthon system
of identifying criminals, have found the practice
of anthropometry too severe, a tax on their
intellects, and now rely with child-like confidence
on finger-prints in Indian ink for the identifica-
tion of suspected persons. In a general way, the
complicated svstem of lines on the skin of the
finger and thumb tips of the human hand is fairly
permanent, and the prints of the corresponding
finger-tips of no two human beings are exactly
alike; but the differences are often microscopic,
and the print of the same finger varies with time,
and may be totally changed as the result of acci-
dent or violence. The Berthon system includes
four measures —the length of the hand, breaxlth
of the head, length of the left foot; and length of
the middle finger of the left hand. All these
measurements must agree to constitute an identi-
fication that will satisfy the French police, and
the finger-print is an auxiliary. To rely on
finger-prints alone is to scrag men at random.
* • * •
There are threats of bloodshed in one Syd-
ney suburb over those pestilent newspaper egg-
laying competitions. Two neighbors, ex-civil
servants, who worked peacefully under the same
official roof for thirty years, were
sundered by a policeman the other
night, when, in another couple of
minutes, one or other would have
been guilty of manslaughter. Mad-
ness blazed in their eyes, and, as they
had been fighting with lethal weapons,
they were considerably cut and
hacked about. The whole trouble
was that one accused the other of
stealing an egg from his prize
leghorn hen’s nest, and substituting
for it the egg of an inferior leghorn.
The accused referred the constable to
three newspaper editors who had
awarded him first-class prizes for his
egg exhibits, and also offered to
produce letters from the heads of
nublic departments, and Ministers
of the Crown, vouching for his re-
spectability. The accuser was
equally strong in character re-
cords. And, as the constable adds,
both were of exemplary behavior
till bitten by the egg-laying mania.
It is the constable’s opinion that
such competitions must be sup-
pressed by law.
A queer complaint has
been made on behalf of the
idiots of Kew (Vic.) Asylum.
The patients—mostly children
—used to go every night to
prayers-and-preaching in a
meeting hall, till Inspector-
General Jones (Victoria has
many highly - placed men
named Jones) found that they
were getting their clothes and
feet wet on winter nights, and
were liable to pneumonia and
influenza and other deadly ills.
So he prohibited the bleak and
sodden journeyings to the meet-
ings. Then the complaint arose
that a brutal man named Jones had
robbed the poor, weak-minded ones
of their chance of salvation, which
showed that the person who ran the
meetings had no small opinion of him-
self as an individual who handed down the
blessing of God from a shelf. It looks the sort of
wail that the pious father of an idiot would raise.
The Inspector-General now offers indoor prayers
instead, but the feeling still remains that he is
a hardened and depraved infidel named Jones.
It was recently stated by Governor
Talbottle (though he didn’t say where he got
his facts from) that infant mortality is lower in
Victoria than anywhere else in the world.
Nevertheless, the baby items in Melbourne
papers are rather shuddersome. Wednesday’s
papers last week contained two inquests re-
garding “ murder by persons unknown”—the
first upon a baby buried in the sand at Brighton
beach ; the second on a dead infant found on the
railway line. On Thursday there was a lull in
the dead-baby industry, but on Friday it was
reported that the coroner, “sitting” on a
deceased three-months-old infant, declared that
the nurses who had had charge of it were unfit,
and that with clearer evidence he would have
committed both of them for manslaughter. That
was an average baby-week—or baby-three days—
in Melbourne.
The Presbyterian mind works very slowly.
The Victorian General Assembly met last week,
and some of the young meenisters brought for-
ward a proposal for the formation of social clubs
to attract the working man, whom, they said, the
church was neglecting. The old Tory Presby-
terians opposed the idea.- Dr. Paton, the vener-
able missionary man, said that he
could not conceive how such means would bring men
under the influence of the Gospel. No one could show
him where the Saviour recommended billiard-rooms and
such-like things as a means of saving souls.
And not one man thought of asking Paton where
or when the Saviour recommended him to wear
black pants and a black tail coat and a murky
hat, or where He recommended Presbyterianism,
or collections, or called himself “Dr.” or “Rev.,”
or proposed having a General Assembly, or urged
people to go to church in a tram-car. Paton’s
argument is a common one, and some people
think it convincing, but it is really about the most
easily busted thing of its kind on this earth.
« •* * *
The meek will inherit the earth—that is,
if they don’t eat it all in the meantime.
A MUSICAL EDUCATION.
MUSTRESS (an indifferent warbler, to new girl):
“ Fond of music, Mary? ”
MARY (condescendingly): “Sure, mem, T'm quite
used to it. In me last place there was two
ladies who thought they could sing.”
“ U.” : I went to church on the nearest
Sunday to the late Ned anniversary, and this is
how I was rewarded :
Where, dear friends, where, may I ask, would this
smiling State of Victoria have been if it had not been for
the existence of his Gracious Majesty’s late beloved
mother? There would have been no Victoria! No, dear
friends ; all our hallowed memories of this favored spot
would have—er—would have been —that is, had to —er —
cluster round some other name !
* «--*-*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
PURSUED
[FOR THE BUKKETIN.]
THE churchman's soul stept forth
From out its shell of clay,
And past the Gate of Wrath
It proudly took its way,
Self-confident and grim,
Its halo in its hand,
Humming a lively hymn
It sought the Blessed Land.
Behind the Gorgeous Ghost
A furtive spirit glode,
From pillar unto post,
Along the star-lit road;
And followed without rest
Uutil the Ghost did stand
Before the Throne —then pressed
A bill into its hand.
The crowding angel band
The songs of glory hushed,
Tried hard to understand
A maddened ghost that rushed,
Regardless of its fat,
About the lighted room,
And flung its halo at
The tailor from the tomb.
VIC.
KODAR.
A GRUMBLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Re Randolph Bedford’s poem, “To My Lady Romance ”
(B. l/11/’O6).
Oh, Randolph ! since I read your poetry
The world is all one question-mark to me.
In pity, tell me what’s a “ mirador ”?
(I never knew my ignorance before.)’
Just add a footnote as to “sharded” wings,
And “elytrons.” I’ve never met the things ;
And if you would explain just what is meant
By “ pavonine,” likewise “ mirifleent,”
I’d take it as a favor, for my brain
Is quite unequal to this high-class strain.
I do not wonder that your lady fled—
Such languages as those would scare the dead.
VIC.
SYD. C.


CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY
64 Pitt St., SYDNEY APPLIANCES, Ltd- 424 Little Collins St., MELBOURNE
ROBEY
STEEL RAILS. STEEL TRUCKS. TRAMWAY MATERIAL.
Portable Engines, Tractions, Thrashers, High Speeds, Vertical and
Horizontal Oil Engines, &c., &c.
BRUNTON’S SCOTCH WIRE ROPE. Hayward’« Sheep Dips, Pearn’s Pumps, Mining Requisites, &c., &0.
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER, Manning Director.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The N.S. Wales Government’s latest example
of class legislation" is a Bill which provides for turning
the Savings Bank into a bank to make advances to
farmers and others (chiefly farmers) who need accommo-
dation and can give the necessary security; and the
Savings Bank of N.S. Wales—" the Barrack-street Bank ”
is to come in if a majority of depositors agree. To find
out if they do agree a referendum is to be taken. The
referendum in such a case is a weak Joseph’s way out of
something that looks like a difficulty but isn’t really one
at all. What would be said if it* was proposed that a
majority of depositors in the Bank of N.S. Wales should
decide whether the whole body of deposits should be
handed over to the Bank of Australasia, or vice versa ?
The Savings Bank of N.S. Wales is a semi-State concern,
whose management is already in the hands of State
nominees. To what extent the State is behind
it can be summed- up from the one fact that when
the depositors rushed it a few years ago, the State,
by the hand of then Premier Dibbs, stopped the rush by
posting up a notice that the State would see that every
depositor was paid. With such relations existing between
the State and the Bank, the simple, obvious thing to do,
when there already is a State Bank in existence, is to
take the thing over, and let those who don’t approve
remove their deposits elsewhere.
Sydney Daily Telegraph says that the whole
question for the depositors to consider when they vote
is, “ whether the voters would rather have, say, 3£ per
emt. (the Government rate) for their money than 4 per
cent, (the Barrack-street rate).” Almost as a matter of
course, because the Telegraph says it, it is nothing of
the sort. The question isn’t even whether they would
rather have 3J per cent., with the security of the whole
State behind it, or 4 per cent., with no'guarantees at
all to back the bank’s I O U for the return of the deposit.
The Savings Bank of N.S. Wales (“ Barrack-street Bank ”)
has no capital ; but at December 31st last it had—
Reserve Fund £270,660
Mortgages Depreciation Account .. 45,049
Unappropriated balance .. .. 8,145
Total £323,854
Its assets totalled £5,871,989, of which £1,099,915 was out
on mortgagee AH that there is to secure the depositors
against a slump in the value of the securities is this
£323,854, and that (even if it is all good) represents only
Is. lid. per £of the assets. In other words, if the assets
shrank Is. 3d. injt’hte £ the loss could only be made good
at the expense qi the depositors. Even the mortgages
alone are only protected by the reserves to the extent of
ss. lid, in the £. Now, to show that the protection in
proportion to assets is small, take the Commercial Banking
Co. of Sydney. Its capital and reserves (the depositors’
guarantee fund) represent 2s. 6d. in the £ of all assets ;
they represent no less than ss. 3d. in the £ of all advances
(mortgages, etc.). And, as a further protection, there
is a reserve liability of £1,000,000. Or, to take a smaller
bank, the North Queensland’s depositors are protected
to the extent of 4s. 6d. in the £ of all assets and 6s. 9d.
in the £ of advances alone. If the “ Barrack-street
Bank” depositors think that they can get along without
capital, without very much in the way of reserves, and
without a guarantee which is equal to capital and reserves
in case of emergency, they are very liable to find them-
selves horribly mistaken.
The Telegraph says that the “Barrack-street
Bank ” pays 4 per cent, and the Government Bank only
3£per cent. That is true ; the “ Barrack-street Bank,”
secure in the State gu .rantee (for which it pays not a
penny), can and does lend on mortgage. When the
guarantee is withdrawn, it won’t be able to lend as much
on mortgage without taking great risks ; and the rate of
interest must sag. On the other hand, the Government
Savings Bank, which hitherto hasn’t gone in for mort-
gages or general investments at all, but has confined itself
to the least profitable but practically riskless business,
is to be re-modelled for the express purpose of taking
mortgages for the assistance, in particular, of country
settlers (there is (an awful lot of class legislation for the
benefit of the country settler) ; so that the chances are
that its rates, if they don’t advance, will at least keep
steady. The proposed referendum is a foolish business ;
but when the depositor thinks over what will happen to
him with his reserves of Is. ljd. in the £ when the State
guarantee is withdrawn and a crisis happens, he will pro-
bably decide to go over to an institution which has the
whole strength and credit of the State behind it. And
if he doesn’t go over at the referendum, he will go over
later when he ha’s had time to forget the daily paper’s
ingenuous absurdities.
* * * *
Maoriland’s Police Provident Fund has just
been overhauled by Actuary Morris Fox, of the State In-
surance Department, who, having made a valuation of
assets and liabilities, reports a deficiency of no less than
£214,168. That is to say, calculating life-expectations
according to Farr’s English Hm. table, £329,157 will be
needed to meet all claims ; while the accumulated funds
are £27,121, and the value of future contributions is
£87,868, or a total of £114,989, leaving the deficiency
mentioned. Of course, as usual, the State will make
that up—if, when it is wanted, the State happens to be
in a position to pay out large extra sums. If it
isn’t, then the police won’t get their pensions. It
is another horrible case of drift. The present Police
Provident Fund Act was passed in 1899, and up to the
present only sufficient time has elapsed to send along 69
pensioners, of whom 12 have died, leaving 57 now drawing
on the fund. The annual total contribution to the fund
amounts to £6624 ; and in the past year the claims on the
fund were £5037 ; so that the contributions still pay the
pensions. But the growth of pensions has been like
this:—
Pensions in Force. Amount.
1900 .. 2 £295
1901 .. 11 1045
1902 .. 25 1987
1903 .. 33 3022
1904 .. 41 3580
1905 .. 46 4139
1906 .. 57 5037
At the present rate of increase, therefore, in a couple of
years more the contributions will be all mopped up by
claims, and nothing whatever will go to reserves. Then,
as the pensions increase, the small reserves will be
drawn upon ; and, judging by the ages of contributors,
these reserves will be exhausted in about six or seven
year* after that. When that happens, either the State
will have to begin paying up the deficiency of £214,168, or
the pensions will have to be cut down. The State gaily
adopted a pension scheme which Would thus pay for
itself for the first 15 years or thereabouts, but
which would afterwards call for a very large
State contribution ; yet instead of providing for that
contribution straight off, it passed on the liability ; in
the usual cowardly or careless fashion, it threw the bill
into the cradle for the infant to'ivrestle with. Seeing
that, from the very beginning, the men’s own contribu-
tions were not expected to be sufficient, the State sub-
vention should have started along with the first contri-
butions from the members, and the subvention should
have been spread out just as uniformly as the members’
contributions. The question now is whether the State
is going to let matters drift as long as they will, and
until the Fund gets water-logged, or whether it will do
the decent, honest thing at once, and start paying up
the money that will have to be paid sooner or later. The
alternative is either an increase of the members’ contri-
butions or a reduction of the benefits ; and, if either of
those is going to be adopted, then there is all the greater
reason why there should be no delay in dealing with the
matter. For the longer it is delayed, the larger the
reduction of benefits or the increase of contributions that
will be necessary.
* * « i
The cable mentions something extra in the way
of a recovery : the N.Z. Loan and Mercantile Agency—
one of the great pastoral finance cos. of Australasia—
proposes next month to pay a 5 per cent. div. This will
he the first for no less than 14 years. The co. had, how-
ever, such appalling drought-troubles that about seven-
eighths of its capital had to be written off, and for many
years not only was the debenture interest not all paid,
but shareholders could only get rid of shares by paying
the “buyer” £4 per share to take them. The word
“ buyer” is humorous in such a connection. In 1904 and
1905 full interest wa» paid, and something substantial
was written off assets ; and this year, though the figures
are not available, the directors have decided upon the
dividend before mentioned.
* » * *
The Queensland Deposit Bank and Build-
ing Society, Ltd. (Brisbane), from the year when it wrote
off £58,790, of which £19,595 went to wipe out a profit
and loss debit:—
Added to
. Interest
Suspense
Busi- Account Profit. Added Nomi-
ness from from to Re- nal Re-
Sept., Loss. Earning's. Sales. serves, serves.
1899 .. £748 £5OO £1,022 £774 £5,464
Profit.
1900 .. 192 200 2,253 2,645 8,109
1901 .. 331 500 1,054 1,885 9,994
1902 .. 287 295 * 582 10,576
.1903 .. 680 303 983 11,559
1904 .. 462 332 794 12,353
Y '
1905 .. 138 138 12,491
1906 .. 86 86 12,577
The steady realisation of securities continues, as the fol-
lowing shows :
• Property
and Cash
Capital. Deposits. Advances. Credits.
1899 £36,589 £56,029 £94,113 £3828
1900 39,759 50,614 93,468 4910
1901 43,785 46,880 94,771 5784
1902 46,771 42,137 96,525 . 2846
1903 46,996 38,918 96,119 2094
1904 47,005 37,536 95,133 1619
1905 47,291 35,589 94,478 757
1906 47,304 34,567 93,023 1284
So in seven years £21,462 of the deposits have been paid
off, partly out of profits, partly with new capital, partly
out of assets. This shows the proportions :
Capital raised (£4637 now forfeited) £10,715
Cash .. 2,544
By reduction of other assets .. 1,090
Business and sale profits .. .. 7,113
Total available to pay off deposits £21,462
Of course, as to sale profits, the fact has to be remembered
that in 1898 there was a heavy writing-down of the
assets, out of capital; so that the profit really means that
the loss hasn’t been quite as great as had been provided
for, and a little of the capital is coming back. The re-
maining deposits are to be paid off, according to present
arrangements, by annual instalments, spread over the
next i 0 years, after which some back interest (apparently
included with the deposits in the accounts) has to be
struggled with ; and whether all can be paid without
trenching on the capital depends a good deal upon the
future of the property market in Brisbane. Of the “ pro-
perty and advances ” shown above, £56,916 is “ property
and land”; and, as the whole item, including £36,105
advances, only brought in gross last year £2026, or at the
rate of £2 3s. 6d. per cent., it is clear that either the pro-
perties are still overvalued, or a very large proportion of
them are unproductive vacant lands ; and the future of
that sort of asset nobody knows. Still, as between the
book values and the capital (as written down) there is a
very tidy buffer, in the shape of the nominal reserves, of
£12,577 ; while the profit, though small, helps in the same
way—thanks very largely to the economical manner in.
which the rather melancholy concern is being run.
The Ballarat Woollen amd Worsted Co.
(Vic.):-
Dividends on Added
Capital as to Re- Re-
Profits. Written Down, serves, serves.
Sept., 1902.. £17,389
Mar.,-1903 .. £2269 15 p.c. = £2249 £2O 17,409
Sept., 1903.. 2215 15 „ 2249 17,375
Mar., 1904 .. 2308 15 „ „ 2249 59 17,434
Sept., 1904 .. 2291 15 „ „ 2249 42 17,476
Mar., 1905 .. 1778 13J „ ~ 2000 17,254
Sept., 1905 .. 1384 10 „ „ 1500 17,138
Mar., 1906 .. 1136 10 „ „ 1500 16,774
Sept., 1906.. 1650 10 „ „ 1500 150 16,924
This co. originally had a capital of £40,000 ; but before
Victoria made up its mind that there was no hope for
such young Australian industries without High Protec-
tion, £30,000 or thereabouts had been lost and was
written off, and shareholders subsequently had to dip
their hands in their pockets and pay up another £20,000.
A 10 per cent, dividend therefore represents really only
5 per cent, on capital actually put into the business.
This past half-year the co. has benefited by Victoria’s
general prosperity, and the awful downward rush of pro-
fits has been arrested, and for the first time for two years
the dividend has been earned. Even now, though, it is
impossible to say whether an adequate (or any) amount
has been written off for wear and tear of plant. What,
however, is clear is that keen foreign competition under
the reduced tariff has driven the co. to make addition
after addition to its plant ; and, though much of the new
plant has most likely displaced the old, the profits have
not been sufficient to wipe out the cost of the latter.
The result of this, and of the large accumulation of
stocks, is that, whereas at the end of 1899 the liabilities,,
less cash balances, were £145, they are now £21,740.
Meantime, though this co. got an unusually good start
under the Victorian State policy of High Protection, and
had time to build up a fine reputation for its goods, it
has seen factories which didn’t have that advantage come
to grief one after the other ; and only during the last few
months it bought up the idle plant of the Australian
Woollen Mills Co., of Footscray, that co. having been
compelled, by the low Commonwealth tariff, to give up
the struggle, scatter its staff, and close its works.
* * * *
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson and Co.,
Ltd. , druggists, etc. (Sydney) :
Added Nomi-
toße- nal Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Aug., 1904 .. 10 p.c. =£6ooo £1912:
Feb., 1905 .. £6143 10 „ „ 6000 £143 2055
Aug., 1905 .. 5959 10 ~ „ 6000 2014
Feb., 1906 .. 7124 10 „ „ 6000 1124 3138
Aug., 1906 .. 6338 10 ~ ~ 6000 338 3476
No profit and loss account is published, and it is not easy
to guess the real strength of the situation. A very big
item is goodwill—goodwill in the business, goodwill,
represented by patent rights, etc. What is being written
off this item out of profits is not disclosed ; and until you
get to know that you don’t know much about the con-
cern. Here, however, is the movement of the figures of
the item which includes goodwill, besides stock, etc..:—
Aug., 1904 .. ..£98,178 I Feb., 1906 .. ..£85,841
Eeb., 1905 .. .. 93,757 Aug.,1906 .. .. 80,227
Aug., 1905 .. .. 89,540
Meantime, while cash balances, &c., have been hardly
affected, £15,000 of a mortgage has been wiped off and
£7500 put into freeholds—that is in two years. Certainly,,
stocks may have been reduced by sales to do this and to
make the reduction shown in the lumped item quoted
just now ; but it seems a good deal more likely that about
£5OOO is being' set aside out of each half-year’s profits to
write down assets ; and, as a good many of them are paper
assets, that is the only proper thing to do. The mort-
gage previously mentioned having been cleared out of the
way, all the debts that remain are ordinary trade accounts
—£4547. ■ # .
Broken Hill Block 14 Co., mining silver,
lead, and zinc: — „ . ,
Written
off,
Develop- Re-
Loss. Dividends, ment, &c. serves.
Sept., 1903 .. £2,247 Nil ££,522
Mar., 1904 .. 2,618 Nil ... 2,904
Forfeited capital added to Reserves, £29 .. 2,933
Sept., 1904 .. 2,578 Nil 355
Deficit.
Mar., 1905 .. 533 Nil 178
Profit. Reserves.
Sept., 1905 .. 22,475 Nil £620 21,677
Premium on Preference Shares, £476 .. .. 22,153
Mar., 1906 .. 17,595 £6,335 33,413
Sept,., 1906 .. 30,198 11,500 7,235 44,876
That presents matters in the very best light. For in-
stance, though nothing has been written off plant for
tear and wear for a very long while, except by the simple
process of writing up the mine, the £7235 spent last half-
year on development is not charged against profits
in the foregoing. Deducting that, the profits were
£22,963 ; and of that £10,977 came from carbonate
ore, of which the general manager estimates that
3000 tons, worth (say) £9OOO in profits, are left in the
mine. Sulphides, upon which the mine must stand or
fall, gave (including value of zinc tailings sold or pro-
duced) £11,535, after paying for development. This in-
cludes £6220 for zinc material; and the current produc-
tion was not worth that much. At £11,535, however, the
half-year’s output of sulphides was worth in profit just
7s. per ton. There are in sight, it is estimated, 187,000
tons of milling sulphides, which would be worth in profit
at that rate £65,450. To that, add the value of the old
tailings in stock and sold, perhaps £9OOO for carbonates,
and £15,675 surplus of more or less liquid assets, and we
get £90,125 plus old tailings as the present value of the
concern. The old tailings not paid for may be worth
£20,000; gross total, £110,125. The market value
(Nov. 15) was £365,000. Presumably those who are pay-
ing this price can tell why they are giving
three-arid-a-half-times more for the mine than it is worth
on the figures given in the half-yearly report. No doubt
more ore may be discovered, and the extraction may be
improved. On the other hand, the metal prices of the
last six months are not likely to be maintained. Out of
the seven half-years, results of which are set out above,
four showed an actual loss ; but there had been a loss for
three half-years before that. That is to say, Block 14 has
been actually a losing business in four years out of the
last six. Also, there is less ore developed now, according
to official estimates, than there was some years ago ; and
about half of the value of the old tailings has already
been received. The paid capital is £155,000 (preference
£30,000 and ordinary £125,000), and on present showing
the mine is not worth more.
• * * *
The big end of the trouble at Block 14, Broken
Hill, is merely that there isn’t much visible ore, and what
there is is poor and hard to treat. Scarcity of it means
heavy development expense ; poorness means heavy mill-
ing charges and low returns. Compare the ore from
some mines :
Lead. Silver.
Block 14.. .. 13T p.c. 10"2 oz.
South .. .. 15-8 „ 5-3 „
North .. .. 17-99 „ 5-3 „
Block 10.. .. 13-19,, 13T1„
A unit of lead is worth (at £l7 10s. per ton) 3s. 6d. ; an
ounce of silver, say 2s. 6d. But, whereas about two-
thirds of the lead can be recovered, only a little over one-
third of the silver is got in the concentrates ; so that,
while an extra unit of lead is really worth about 2s. 4d.,
an extra ounce of silver is worth only about lid. per
ton. In other words, while the extra soz. of silver in
Block 14, as compared with the South ore, is only worth
4s. 7d., the extra 2J p.c. of lead in the South is worth
about ss. lOd. Then there is the difference in recoveries :
Lead. Silver.
South .. 74-1 p.c. ... 54T p.c.
North .. 72-88 „ .. 53’07 „
Block 10 .. 65-69 ~ .. 36-47,,
Block 14 .. 62-5 „ .. 38-4 „
Taking the lead value of their ore into account, this
means that the South gets out 10 - 7 p.c., and Block 14
8-2 p.c. of lead, a difference of 2£ p.c. ; and 2J units of
lead means (at £l7 10s. per ton) Bs. 9d. per ton. But
not only does the South get out Bs. 9d. per ton more of
lead, but the concentrating process is cheaper. Some
more figures, showing milling costs
South .. .. 4s. 6’6d. per ton.
North .. .. 4 1-4,,,,
Block 10 .. .. 4 11 ~ ~
Block 14 .. .. 6 4-26 ~ ~
Whether the North counts in everything is uncertain ;
but that would only make a difference of a few pence.
Here, then, is another 2s. per ton (nearly) accounted for.
Possibly Block 14 may be able to knock off that 2s. in the
future ; but Is. at least of it is doubtful, because Block
14 simply hasn’t got the same sort of ore as the South
and the North. Yet because the South is at Broken Hill
and Block 14 is at Broken Hill, the great success of the
■ South is made to excuse a Block 14 boom. Foregoing
figures may, however, partly explain why one mine there
may make a great success while another is only a
stringer, paying dividends at the top of the market and
■no time else.
* * * *
The Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co.,
ithe Commonwealth’s greatest copper-producer, from the
lime when it amalgamated with North Lyell (before that
iit had paid £996,574 in dividends): —
Dividends and Written
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. Deficit.
Sept., 1903.. £2,048
Mar., 1904.. £115,172 Nil 113,12^
■Sept., 1904.. 129,502 12J p.c. = £78,780 163,846
Mar., 1905.. 161,755 12| ~ „ 78,750 £8,764 238,087
;Sept., 1905.. 201,985 12£ „ „ 78,750 9,021 352,301
Mar., 1906.. 267,795 20 „ ~126,000 8,713 485,383
Sept., 1906.. 251,095 25 „ ~ 157,500 10,071 568,907
The amounts shown above as written off during the past
half-year include £9556 depreciation and £515 premium
paid on 5 per cent, debentures redeemed. There was a
small special reserve (not reckoned with the reserves
above) accumulated to provide for redemption premiums ;
but it was not sufficient for the purpose. The movement
in the matter of these debentures has been as follows
Debentures Retired Special
Outstanding. During Term. Reserve.
Aug., 1903 .. £140,000
Mar., 1904 .. 120,000 £20,000 £l,OOO
-Sept., 1904 .. 97,750 22,250 1,556
Mar., 1905 .. 89,760 7,990 1,899
Sept., 1905 .. 78,420 11,340 1,553
Mar., 1906 .. 76,720 1,700 1,469
Sept., 1906 .. 45,220 31,500
A mining co.’s reserves are usually of the nominal
kind ; for the profits are made by eating up the mine,
yet the partially eaten up mine in the
balance-sheet at full original cost. There is, however, a
pretty large difference between Lyell and most mining-
cos. ; for it has a surplus of liquid assets over current lia-
bilities (including debentures) of £497,783.
Costs at Mt. Lyell continue to move up. A
■comparison :
Mar., Sept., Mar., Sept.,
1905. 1905. 1906. 1906.
Mining, &c.. 4s. ll'9ld. ss. l'B9d. ss. 3'B2d. 6s. o'B7d.
■Smelting .. 6s. s'l3d. 6s. 715 d. 6s. 9'9Bd. Bs. 2'36d.
Converting.. Is. 7'35d. Is. 610 d. Is. 5'25d. Is. 7'22d.
But the increase in the mining cost is almost all
accounted for by an increase of Is. per ton charged
against mined ore on account of Preparatory Works
Overburden, making that charge 2s. per ton. This
increase is due to an alteration in plans whereby pyritic
ore will be taken out by open-cut to a greater depth than
was originally proposed. This, of course, means, in
order to get a safe batter, an increase in the overburden
that will have to be cut away. As to output:—•
Copper. Silver. Gold.
Sept.,’os .. 4253 tons 365,4400 z. 12,4250 z.
Mar., ’O6 .. 4565 „ 374,762,, 12,342,,
Sept.,’o6 .. 4444 „ 329,183,, 10,746 ~
The ore, metal-bearing fluxes, &c., of all classes treated
were 199,289 tons as against 214,870 tons in the preceding
half-year. The gross profit per ton of copper was £56 10s.
OJd. For the previous half-year it was £5B 13s. 3d. Yet
the average value of copper last half-year was £B5 9s. 4d.
as against £BO 7s. 3d. in the previous term ; so that,
either through larger outlay or lower values, it appears
to have cost £7 ss. 3|d. more to produce each ton or
copper in the past term. The reserves of ore in the mine
work out approximately as follows
Ore, tons. Value. Contents.
Mt. Lyell mine .. 1,342,000 O'6Q p.c. 8,052 tons.
Mt. Lyell open-cut .. 2,614,000 0'52 ~ 13,593 ~
North Lyell, &c. .. 322,161 5’25 ~ 16,910 ~
Total copper .. .. .. .. 38,555 tons.
But the average silver and gold contents of the reserves
are somewhat less than those of the ore treated during
the past half-year. Assuming them to be the same, how-
ever, or setting the probable increased output of super-
phosphates against the shortage of gold and silver, then,
at last half-year’s costs, and at last half-year’s prices,
there is £2,179,000 of profit in the mines ; and to that
must be added the surplus of liquid assets, making a total
of £2,676,000 after paying off debentures. Copper, it will
be remembered, averaged £B5 9s. 4d. last half-year —about
£2O more per ton than, down to a year ago, any prudent
man would figure on. At 48s. 6d. per share, the market
values the mine at £2,910,000. It is not such an extra-
vagant over-valuation as is common just at present; hut,
all the same, it is beyond what the figures will support.
* # » *
From a mining standpoint, the Mt. Lyell report
for the Sept, half-year is the surprise of the six months.
When in 1904 Sticht disclosed the poverty of the Mt.
Lyell mine ore, also the smallness of the North Lyell re-
serves to 500 ft., it looked as if “ the Blow ” had a mighty
poor and short future. But surprise after surprise, im-
provement after improvement, happened. Even the
abandonment of the old practice of valuing the mine on a
£5O-per-ton basis for copper turned out a safe departure.
Sticht’s figures of ore then (1904) were : —Mt. Lyell mine,
available by open-cut work down to No. 4 and 5 levels,
I, tons ; North Lyell mine, ore in sight (open cut,
22,129 tons, and underground 148,365 tons), 170,494 tons.
Figures show what has been beaten out in the two mines
since then :
Period Mt. Lyell. North Lyell.
to Tons. Tons.
Sept., 1904 .. 144J442 .. 53,530
Mar., 1905 .. 149,647 .. 52,201
Sept., 1905 .. 152,063 .. 55,389
Mar., 1906 .. 146,426 .. 57,641
Sept., 1906 .. 133,490 .. 59,128
Totals .. 726,068 .. 277,889
Last half-year co. had good additions outside the main
ore body above the 700 ft. level. Now it is down to
850 ft with its shaft, and the engine winze is pretty
well to the same depth. Therefore, what can be
described as “ probably safe ore in sight ” is included in
a new estimate of the ore in the mine. By this addition
Sticht raises his North reserve from 170,000 tons to 322,000
tons, the bulk of which is either under the 700 ft. level, or
above that level to 600 ft. If Mt. Lyell estimates were not
accepted as being as orthodox as the Book of Job, the
gentle speaker could with safety have a bang at the scrip,
as it is a Christian act to “regulate” the market when
reserves are framed on anything except “ ore proved.”
To go to the Lyell mine : Sticht, by widening the scope
of the open-cut, brings up his reserves of pyrites available
for open-cutting to 1,342,000 tons, averaging "60 per cent,
copper, l - 920z. silver, and ’0440z. gold. As stated, his
1904 estimate of open-cut ore was 1,682,889 tons,
worth ‘6O per cent, copper, 2oz. silver, and - 04 oz.
gold per ton. Therefore the leeway made since is
not heavy, although 726,000 tons have been mined.
One safety factor is introduced to the estimates. This is
the reduction of the grade of the North Lyell ore from
6’25 per cent, copper to 5'25 per cent., and the silver from
2'250z. to l'sooz. per ton. Still, if copper keeps up, and
the co. goes on earning largely from its phosphate works,
these compensating influences outweigh the reduction.
J. Bull, by the way, now owns nine-tenths of the Lyell;
and he certainly isn’t interested in a better-run concern
anywhere.
***'«
Bendigo has been lured into a curious discussion
as to whether mining there would not have been more
profitable if it had stopped at 1000 ft. ; and, to support
the Yes side, old records of surface richness are dug up.
Victoria Hill yielded £600,000 down to 400 ft. ; Lazarus and
Co. got £120,000 from above 200 ft. ; Bonati and Co., on
the New Chum, picked 70oz. out of a surface bucketful;
Johnson’s Eeef surface stuff ran about 150 oz. per ton ;
Catherine United got 50,0000 z. above 437 ft. ; Sullivan and
Sons’ Windmill Hill claim was going 500 oz. per ton at
12ft. deep ; the Pioneer, at Eaglehawk, from 25ft. got
£5OOO out of two tons ; and the Clarence Reef Co. £98,000
down to 100 ft. But, after all, those things have got very
little to do with the practical question, which is, not
whether the bottom is as good as the top, but whether
the bottom isn’t better than nothing at all.
* * * *
The Bendigo boom is as broken as an egg that
John Forrest has trodden oh, so there is as much chance
of doing a gaudy float there as of convincing the
average Bendigonian that the Golden City is ever
likely to suffer in reputation. South New Moon
is shrinking as fast as a bit of ice under the sun.
This fall hits a big lot of people, who won’t see
that the best of the stone in the mine has gone and
that without a strike at depth the history of the Clarence
is likely to be repeated. Diamond Hill stocks, too, look
very watery. People who fell in over them deserve what
they got, for they were warned that the formations
were doubtful both as to size and as to value.
Catherine United, too, is sickly-liued. Develop-
ment is behind-hand, and stone is not reflect-
ing the golden tints of Coakes’s report. New
Argus is in the dumps ; best stone has gone. Specimen
Hills are between a shake and a shiver around the 355.
mark. Johnson’s have wilted, and Lazarus are weakly
because Victoria Quartz doesn’t catch on. Thus it is left
for New Moon to hold up its head almost alone. Virginia
comes next. Altogether it is a certain ty that Bendigo’s
next quarterly return is going to show a reduced gold
output.
-* * * *
Latest “English syndicate” heard from wants
the Spring Gully claims, at Castlemaine (Vic.). E. D.
Williams, the chairman of the parent co., brought back
the offer from London, and it looks as if the thing will go
through if the Spring Gully, Spring Gully No. 1, South
Spring Gully, and a private owner can agree on a division
of the spoil. There will be £60,000 to cut up and 24,000
shares ; but part of the cash will have to go back in pur-
chasing 12,000 contrib. shares, which the “ syndicate ”
says the present owners must subscribe for. Spring
Gully, with a 40-head battery and a dividend history of
about 50s. per share (under 6s. paid), will want the heavy
end of the swag.
* * * *
E. J. Dunne, director of Vic. geological survey,
has damned the New Birthday, Goldsborough (Vic.):
“ The beds in the mine appear to he either high up in the
Lancefield zone, or at the bottom of the Bendigo zone,
and as the Lancefield zone was not very productive, it is
quite possible that sinking might mean entering a poor
or barren zone.” Sinking, he thinks, would be “ purely
prospecting in unknown country,” with poor chances.
His conclusions are, of course, disputed. Friends of the
mine, which has given some very fine results, want to
know whether Dunne reckons that the origin of the gold
is identical with that of Lancefield or Bendigo, consider-
ing the distances of those fields from Goldsborough and
from one another ; if not, does he consider that the gold
comes out of the containing strata, which isn’t a popular
theory ? In any case, say the supporters of the old claim,
his grounds are extremely far-fetched on which to turn
down what has been a magnificent mine, and may be so
again in the hands of an up-to-date manager.
* * * ft
8,. L. Jack’s report on O.K. (North Queensland)
was going to settle all doubts about that much-debated
mine ; but the day after the gist of it was wired down
from Cairns, the market found itself just about where it
was before. One crowd said the remarks were satis-
factory, and the other said they weren’t, and, though the
market moved up a hit, it soon didn’t make a difference of
a ha’penny a share. “ There is 17£ months of ore in sight
at present rate of smelting,” Dr. Jack says. That is a con-
servative estimate. There is, probably, nearer two years’
ore. Profit, at recent rate, and with no machinery to
pay for, will run easily to 6d. per share per month.
Taking Jack’s estimate, then, there is, say, Bs. to 9s. of
profit per share in sight. But, from! the manner in
which it has been worked, there is not much use
basing estimates of the mine’s value on the ore in sight,
because exploration and development have been almost
entirely neglected. Partly that was due to transport
difficulties ; it’s one thing to mine in Pitt or Collins-
street and another to mine 50 miles back from rail in one
of the roughest parts of Australia where the weather is
either a drought or a flood, and 200 miles or so from any
sort of port. Anyhow, the mine hasn’t been developed
below, say, 150 ft., and even for tha t depth only in a small
section of it. On Jack’s figures (so far as the summary


You can’t be in two
places at once.
But you can
Trust
Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited),
Spring Street, Sydney.
Write them.
They will ad under
Power of Attorney
for you.
allows one to judge) the situation seems to be that for
about Bs. or 9s. per share O.K. is a reasonably safe invest-
ment, and for anything beyond that it is a gamble with
very good cliances.
Almost every Cloncurry (Q.) concern is now
dawdling. At first it seemed as though they had hopes
of getting in with metal while the copper market was
good and in spite of the haulage difficulties. Now, how-
ever, possibly because they believe that the copper mar-
ket is going to keep good, they are doing as little as
possible, and are waiting for the railway, which is making
fair progress; but it is a country of vast distances. There
is, therefore, going to be less movement in Cloncurry
shows in the next 12 months than seemed likely a little
while back.
* * * *
Dalziell’s tin, Reid’s Creek (Q.), is reported by
the managing director to have crushed 160 tons ore for
a yield estimated at about 16 tons black tin. Concen-
trates should assay 70 per cent, for metal if they have been
properly dressed, as most of the ore came from open-cuts
near the surface. Such a yield is highly payable ; still
Dalziell’s, like most of these North Queensland tin shows,
has only been developed in a fragmentary way at shallow
levels. The people up north are supposed to know
a thing or two about tin, and Adelaide and Sydney
know next to nothing about it ; but, for all that,
in the battle of wits, the Queensland punter may get left,
simply because he is over-sanguine. Further, nearly ali
of the shows are absurdly over-capitalised. Things are
so far very much in the air about Dalziell’s ; all that can
be said with certainty is that under favorable conditions
as to water supply, there seems to be enough ore in the
shallow workings to give some good crushings. It may'
be recollected that some time since the mine assays were
grievously bungled, which disgusted some of the share-
holders and caused them to sell; and these people have
said hard things about the mine ever since.
* * ■* *
Mills’ United, Charters Towers, in spite of its
past history and its ore reserves (120,000 tons, worth
£3 10s.), is a somewhat slippery investment on a share
market value of nearly £400,000. Bast history of a mine
is none too safe a guide as to the future, but it is some-
times a check on believing too much. Mills’ United has
yielded £948,691 from 258,941 tons of stone, an average of
£3 13s. 3d. per ton, and out of this £1 3s. sd. per share
has been paid in dividends. Expenses are now lower than
they were, but an estimated profit of £2 per ton seems to
be stretching things as far as they will go. More than
double the proved ore reserves, c r say a quarter of a
million tons of ore, at an average profit of £2 per ton, are
required to justify present market prices.
• • * *
Mills United, Charters Towers, in addition to
paying the usual quarterly shilling a share in December,
will then divide the 75,000 paids and 25,000 contribs. in
Pfeiffer’s Day Dawn, the new amalgamation of the D.D.
Freehold and the United western ground. Mills United
shares will thus carry one Pfeiffer’s paid for every' four
Uniteds, and one contrib. for every 12. Mills United
shares carry' these rights till transfer books close some
time in December.
* * -A *
The little spurt engineered in D.D. School
Reserves, Charters Towers, mainly on the strength of
what Mills’ United has done, fizzled out when the crush-
ing was reported—l 42 tons for 14oz. 10dwt., without
sands and concentrates. Anything up to 2oz. 6dwt. had
been tipped ; and, though the market didn’t swallow
that, even though assays were reported, shares were in-
dustriously run up from nothing, or thereabouts, to 4s.
Charters Towers doesn’t go much on estimates as to ore-
reserves and assay-figures ; and after its experience with
School Reserves, it will stand off them more than ever.
* * » *
Walsh and Tinaroo district (N.Q.) has shown an
enormous improvement in mineral output. In 1901 it
was £62,241 ; this year the output of tin, copper, silver,
lead, wolfram, and moly'bdenite, from Irvinebank, 0.K.,
Chillagoe, &c., will tot up to about £1,000,000. High
prices are the main cause of this prosperity, but railways
have made it possible to turn the ore into money.
* * * •
Mt. Cannindali, one of the Willeocks group of
Queensland copper shows, should have started smelting
this week. The concentrator will feed the smelter, but
up to now there isn’t any bright hope that the smelter
will feed the shareholder.
* • • *
Mt. Morgan (Q.) proposes to utilise pyrites in
the production of sulphuric acid, for which it has hitherto
had to import sulphur. Mt. Morgan copper ore is
silicious; the co. has large lime quarries, and is now
looking round for an iron mine for fluxing purposes.
• * * *
The Zinc Corporation issues a circular to share-
holders notifying that “ a long series of experiments have
been made, and a final test run of 1300 tons of tailings
showed a recovery' of 81 per cent, of the zinc,
55 per cent, of the lead, and 65 per cent, of the
silver.” The zinc concentrate in which this recovery was
made assays 44 per cent, zinc, 8 per cent, lead, and Boz.
silver. And this can be separated into leady and zincy
concentrates. “ Mr. Queneau states that he considers he
can guarantee an extraction of 85 per cent, zinc, 60 per
cent, lead, and 60 per cent, silver. These results are
highly satisfactory'.” If that is all that the circular
says, it amounts for practical purposes to just
about nothing. For 15 years past any metal-
lurgist at Broken Hill could have reported that
much. The trouble is, not to separate the metals,
but to do it at a price that will pay. Right back to the
days of Dr. Schnabel, who was the first man brought out
to Australia to wrestle with the sulphides in a scientific
spirit, the mere extraction hasn’t been the bugbear; it was
always costs. Here, apparently, there is no word about
costs, so there might just as well be no word at all.
• * # *
The market has been looking hard at the
British, Broken Hill, and wondering what’s the matter
with the mine. As a matter of fact, the only thing wrong
with the mine is that the true western leg has been turning
somersaults or otherwise misbehaving after it got below the
530 ft. level; and the search forit which is being conducted
at the 800 ft. level is like playing a game of blind-man’s
buff. In Block 14, next door, the lode at the 300 ft. level
has turned turtle; but, fortunately, there its antics
could be followed, for the ore body was caught in the
act. A similar thing may have occurred to the British
western leg, and one of these days it may be picked up
in a most unexpected place. The eastern vein at the
800 ft., small thing as it is, commands the attentions of a
diamond drill to locate it at a point near the shaft. Fur-
ther north in the drive this vein was proved, but, so far,
the drill has failed to establish any claim to greatness on
behalf of the eastern vein.
* * * *
The water-logged Queensland Smelting Co. has
got off a co. in London (the Q.S. Co. is of London, too)
to take over the Pinnacles, a few miles out from Broken
Hill, and a claim of large possibilities. The Smelting
Co.’s interest in the matter is, however, uncertain, for
when it drifted into financial troubles some time ago, it
put the Pinnacles up the spout; and it doesn’t seem to
have been in a position since to take it down again.
Bewick, Moreing and Co. will not exercise the
option they had over the Allendale, Barrier district
(N.S.W.).
m ,* • • *
As Budgery (N.S.W.) has every appearance of
turning out a mine, and as a steady' output of ore has
started—though, of course, it is so far only a one-level
show—the market is beginning.to try to sort out the
litter of cats that the field produced. So far, as
most of them are very slow about getting to
work, there isn’t much to distinguish the wild
from the tame variety. At the moment the stream of
favor turns towards the Reward, which has an outcrop
showing copper carbonates ; and North Blocks also come
into favor again on the calculation that if the Reward lode
and the Budgery parent lode live that far, they ought to
junction in the Blocks.
* » * •
It says a deal for the holders’ faith in Budgery
Mines that they have been pushing off paids to get into
contribs. at about 4s. less, in the belief that, as divs. will
come at once, contribs. are as good as paids. But contribs.
are always loaded. When Broken Hill South got into its
stride, contribs. thought that their worries were past;
but they got an awakening when machinery calls were
made.
* » f * •
Re antimony. B.H. Prop, produces a consider-
able quantity of antimonial lead, which now commands a
high price. Some time ago this product was of very little
account. The concerns that control the production of
antimonial lead are said to be responsible for the rise in
the price of antimony. Of this metal Australia sends out
one-fifth of the total world’s production. The process
for extracting antimony from crude ore is wasteful,
but the waste does not account for .the fact that
50 per cent, ore is only worth £26 at Hillgrove
(N.S.W.), while the metal.is worth £lOO. Account sales
of antimony ore from Ravenswood (Queensland),
where some rich patches of ore have been found,
show that the price in England;(on the basis of 50 per
cent, metal) was £32; but, after weighing deductions,
freight charges, insurance, and commissions, &c., are paid,
the net return was about the same as at Hillgrove. The
export of antimony ih Austria (the largest producer) is
subject to Government control, as also is that of pitch
blend, the ore from which radium is extracted. The
Austrian Government enters into mining undertakings to
an extent which would make the Australian anti-
Socialist shudder. He, poor man, seems to think there is
no such thing outside a few diseased Australian imagina-
tions.
• • • •
Ivanhoe Junction, Kalgoorlie, is being equipped
with the object of joining the producers early in the new
year. According to contract, the 10-head mill has to be
delivered and erected by Jan. 31. How the mine will
turn out it is difficult to say. It has been inspected and
sampled by most of the mine managers of the field, in-
cluding Hewitson and Gleisberg, who both reckoned it
was all right. Under Hewitson’s direction, two test
parcels, expected to go 10dwt., were treated at Boulder
No. 1 battery, but the result was under 3dwt. It is, how-
ever, only fair to say that the battery had previously
earned such a notoriously bad name among prospectors
that it had lost custom, and half of the last parcel, when
removed to another mill, showed a better result. Manager
Hocking reckons he has any amount of 9dwt. ore in sight,
and, as this is as good stuff as the Perseverance and South
Kalgurli are working, .and better than the Lake View
has, it should pay well enough if the mine is properly
handled and the treatment plant is a success.
• * * *
North End, Kalgoorlie, started its re-modelled
plant running regularly from November 1. Several trial
runs were made during October, so the plates were set
and everything in good running order. The first month’s
run should thus be a fair criterion of the mine’s value,
and no excuses should be accepted if any are offered.
In the lowest level, the pay shoot is Bft. wide, and assays
30z., and the prospects of the co. are better than ever
they were before. The mine may even save the com-
pany’s management, and that is saying a good deal for it.
• * * *
Hannan’s Star, Kalgoorlie, which has been
under a cloud for a long time, looks as if it may have a
new spell of life. Oo.’s consulting engineer, Trewartha
James, has let the mine on tribute, so that, like Hannan’s
Reward, the co. runs no risk, and must get a royalty.
Under this agreement tributors, during October, treated
745 tons, yielding £2146. As the tributors are now in
full swing, it is expected that 1500 tons will be treated
monthly ; but the ore is expected to be poorer. Mean-
time Trewartha James is on the look-out for a new pro-
perty ; and, as the co. has nearly £30,000 in hand besides
outstanding calls, it is in a fair position to take up any-
thing good that offers.
* * • •
Golden Pole, Davyhurst (W. A.), during October
treated 1056 tons, worth 70s. sd. per ton, against 1180
tons, worth 545. sd. in September, and 1450 tons, worth
58s. 7d., in August. So the quantity treated is rapidly
diminishing, and no reason is given for it. Ten head of
stamps are said to have run 744 hours, or exactly 31 days,
i.e., full time. Against 1056 tons crushed, 1766 tons were
cyanided, so 700 tons of old residues, worth about £5OO,
were treated, which means about 10s. per ton on the ore
treated. Nat Harper, who is again in charge, will have a
tough job to put the mine on a div.-earning basis, but
there is no doubt that he will do his utmost to make
things hum.
* • • *
Sandstone Development, Black Range (W.A.),
which is in 250,000 shares of ss. each, has been success-
fully floated, 90,000 shares having been applied for.
Besides holding the deep-level ground of the Oroya-Black
Range, the co. holds the adjoining northern blocks on
the strike of the reef. Recent developments have
disclosed some very rich stone on these north blocks, but
the gold shoots are rather short. Holders of scrip will
get a good run for their money. The Oroya-Black Range
is marking time, and practically nothing is being done.
Whether the suspension is due to the pinching of the
reef, or to its flattening and so passing into the Sand-
stone Development’s ground, it is not easy to say. After
ordering a 20-head mill, and saying that there were
40,000 tons of 70s. ore in sight, the sudden cessation of
operations looks peculiar. Before the Sandstone was
floated some possibly unkind people said that the Oroya-
Black Range was being presented in the worst light in
order to prejudice a flotation of the adjoining blocks.
Even if that were so, the Sandstone flotation having been
accomplished, there is no reason now, on that score at
least, why the Black Range should be kept almost idle.
* • * *
Norseman (W.A.) is at last to have a railway,
if the Government can borrow the money to build it.
That the district deserves one there is no doubt, as there
are several mines that would pay were they not handi-
capped by practically prohibitive cartage rates for all
stores required. Whenever a start on the line is made
many new mines will be heard of. Captain Treloar, who
so successfully managed the Princess Royal for years, has
just visited the district, and secured an option on the
New Moon, which he is satisfied will turn out well. In
Treloar’s opinion it will be six months before the Princess
Royal will begin to benefit from its absorption of the
Central, but he thinks that subsequently things should
move. He considers the Mararoa the most promising
mine in the district, and believes that it will eventually
give a good account of itself. Of course, a lot of calls
will have to be faced before shareholders «an hope for any
return on their money.
« • • *
Euro, Laverton (W.A.), from which the 40-head
mill was removed to the Lancefield, has since March last
returned 12930 z., worth £4321, from'27o4 tons treated.
The mine was condemned and abandoned by 8., M. and
Co., and afterwards was re-pegged by the present
holders. At the time of the abandonment, there were
many who said that the plant was being removed to a
worse mine. Whether this was so or not, certainly the
plant on the Lancefield is idle, as the sulphide ore is too
refractory for ordinary treatment. There are serious
defects in the Lancefield’s new plant, designed after that
of the South Kalgurli, and a thorough overhaul will have
to be made before regular returns can be looked for.
• * • •
The last hasn’t apparently been heard of J. H.
Grant, whose Narlarla (W.A.) shows, having been vehe-
mently boomed in Adelaide, were blasted by a couple of
visiting experts, whereupon the Adelaide cos. rushed
into liquidation with a haste that seemed to call for
some explanation. Grant, who is a well-known Ballarat
mine-manager, has now made a statement to the Perth
papers to the effect that he wired to his co. in Adelaide—
“ There is not sufficient development to justify sending
■expert for the purpose of large flotation. Better wait.”
That and more of the sort, Grant 6ays, was suppressed,
and Andrew Wilson was rushed on to report. Says
Grant: “ He remained on the mine only two days and
never saw the bottom of the shaft, He made no assays,
but he condemned the property." Grant still alleges
that the first lift, of sinking through the lode gives a
gross value of over £lB per ton. Westralian State Geolo-
gist Woodward reported that he found “a trace of
copper” in the ironstone between the blows. Grant
challenges Woodward to find Jewt. of ironstone on the
property. Altogether there seems room for some more
inquiry into the Narlarla Hills matter.
« * * *
A Westralian firm claims to have made an
important scientific discovery for making briquettes from
coal dust by a cheap chemical process without the aid of
pitch or tar. When Zeb. Lane tried to establish the
briquetting business at Collie, whose co.l is too soft and
friable for long cartage, he had to import a ship-load of
pitch from Europe; and that was one of the expenses
that ruled the thing out.
* * •* •
“ Pea Green ” : Fountain Head (Northern Ter-
ritory) sluicing proposition tried to get the Adelaide
public to mother it on a basis of 4000 shares of £lO each ;
2000 shares and £5OO cash for the vendors. As they
hadn’t spent £lO on the ground, a pretty big scoop was
tried on. It failed dismally, and the spec, was supposed
to be dead for ever. This was last January. Quite re-
cently, however, two Adelaide “ hydraulic engineers ”
went up to inspect, and the result is a new attempt to get
the affair floated. This time it is 4000 shares at £lo=
£40,000; 2000 for the public (1000 at £lO, and a bonus
share for each one applied for); 1700 (=£17,000) and
£3OO cash for the vendors ; 300 in reserve. Vendors have
spent nothing on the ground except the experts’ fees (or
fares, most likely), yet the public is asked to present them
with £17,300, and, in addition, to put up £9700 as a work-
ing capital. Former reports set out cubic area as
37,000,000 yards available for sluicing, worth 2s, to 4s.
per yard. Present reports set it out as 8,000,000 to
10,000,000 yards, worth Is. 6d. per yard. As the Chinamen
have been at it for the past 25 years, there is little left;
this wiiter puts the area at about 3,000,000 yards, worth,
perhaps, 3d. a yard. It certainly is not worth Is. 6d.
when the gentle Chow has about done with it. He’ll
stick to ground so long as it is worth 6d. a yard ; and, as
he is leaving the locality, there is good proof that there
is nothing worth a straw' left for a sluicing co.
» # * 9
Mutual Hills is a Tasmanian tin product of the
same breeding as Briseis Extended. The claim is not far
from the Briseis, and can be worked from that co.’s Main
Creek race. Without that water,' the show’s name is
Mud, except in winter time. Tassy' shareholders
cleared out w'hen the market was hot in Melbourne,
for they didn’t like the mining done, and they knew that
the wind must soon veer round to the north with a co.
possessing so little capital. When the body corporate
was at about its last kick, they grabbed hold of it with a
’coota-like snap. They didn’t, however, flick anyone off
the Board ; but the directors knew that Launceston had
the reins in hand, so they beat a quick retreat. Mel-
bourne is still to have the head office, but it will be a
shell without a kernel. Launceston will do the work,
and it is pretty certain will draw the fees. A lingering
hope seems to stick in the Tasmanians’ head-piece
that if they prove a mine, Melbourne will buy' in again.
Look at the list 1 Briseis Extended, Transit, Weldbrook,
St. Helens, Wyniford, and the dredging shows. Take
even the top-sawyers —Briseis and New Brothers Home
No. 1. These two are giving some capital back, but
there is no Stock Exchange bite in them. As for the
rest, the money has gone into the Ringarooma or the
Weld. Now that the tooting has subsided there isn’t an
Orpheus in the mining world that can pipe a tune which
will induce one Melbourne man to put a penny in to find
the pounds that have disappeared.
• * • *
One of the marvels of Maoriland is the main-
tenance of the output of kauri gum. Last year, though
they have been rooting the stuff up for 60 years, 10,883
tons, worth £561,444, was exported, and that constitutes
almost a record ; anyhow, it has only been beaten about
four times. And yet for at least 30 years past it has been
referred to as a “ declining industry,” and one which on
that account was not worth much help or encouragement.
From first to last, as far as the records run, £12,920,531
worth has been produced; and £7,525,854 of that has
come out in the last 15 years—which is a pretty good
record tor a “ declining industry." Still the business
must end some day; and probably there isn’t much gum
left in the hilly ground now. That was always the
easiest to get at; from such ground the gum
rarely had to be forked out from a depth of more
than 18in. In the swamps, however, there is gum
20ft. deep, and the gum-hook can work at times to that
depth. There are still many swamps which, after being
drained, may be expected to give good results ; but the
Government won’t even consider the drainage question
yet. The gum-digger is a man of very few friends ;
there is no capital behind him to talk in a loud voice ;
often he is an alien, and rarely will he enter into any
sort of combination. So, one way and another, he gets
little consideration. And yet his £13,000,000 is a lot of
money.
At one time Maoriland prepared the kauri gum
for the market, scraping and grading it. It was never a
very big business, this preparation for market, but
still it employed 600 or 600 people. Now very
little of this work is done in Maoriland. It is said
that labor was found to be cheaper in Europe ; and so to
Europe the stuff went, dirt and all. Yet all the while
Maoriland had a monopoly of the market, and could
have commanded for the gum a price sufficient to pay
decent wages in the country out of which the gum was
rooted. There are an almost infinite number of grades
of gum—for commercial purposes, as many as 40 or 50—
and when the grading is done in Europe, the digger
doesn’t know whether his stuff is really fifth-grade or
45th. Mostly it seems to be about 45th when it isn’t
49th. The diggers have been grumbling to themselves
about the need for State-grading for as many years as
they have been gum-digging, but they get no forrarder.
When they grow unusually angry and want to know why
they are only offered about half of the cabled price, the
gum-buyer always mentions the vast difference between
first grade and the 41st; and so they get no forrarder in
that direction either.
• • • •
Montague Moore and T. J. Heskett, of the
much-mentioned direct steel-process, write: Re
“ M.C.’s ” remarks (B. 15/11/’O6). We have never repre-
sented that the direct production of iron from iron ore is
new, but we claim to have perfected a method of doing
it which is commercially'practicable, and more economical
than the present indirect (or blast furnace) method. As
to the difficulty of obtaining pure ores, there are, in
Australia, immense deposits of very' pure iron ore,
suitable for treatment by our process without separation.
The Edison process for concentration of low-grade ores is
now being applied on a very extensive scale in Norway.
Other methods of concentration are being successfully
used in other parts of the world (vide “ Electric Smelting
and Refining,” by Borghers and M’Millan, 1897, page 377).
The main object of our process is to do away' with a
secondary process, avoiding the necessity for making an
intermediate product of impure (or pig) iron, in order
to remove the silicious and earthy materials. Certainly
different ores may require slightly different treatment,
but our process can be applied to the treatment of all
classes of iron ore.
* • • •
Perlexed : So are we. All that seems certain
is that the worst reports about the district have been
made by people who want to get adjacent claims
cheap... .Surplus : Of that class of stock, Dalgety’s
A. 8.8.: Public debt per head ;—Queensland, £7B 2s. lid.;
N.S. Wales, £55 os. 6d. ; Tas., £52 6s. (From “ A.B.C.
of Queensland Statistics.”) France, £3l ss. sd. ; United
Kingdom, £lB 6s. 9d. (From “ Statesman’s Year Book.”)
....Tontine: Don’t know what it would be worth ; but
a few years ago a Sydney office, which issued a 20-year
tontine policy carrying a £23 15s. premium (annual),
estimated the thing would be worth £975 cash, or £5OO
cash and £625 payable at death (original policy issuable
between ages 30 and 40). The results are not l.m-i.v to be
better than that estimate.... Ballarat: Of th.se men-
tioned, if you have no objection to the proprietary system,
the Citizens’.
• * * *
An English metal - market authority says
“ copper-producing cos. have lost nothing of their
strength.” It is reckoned American copper production
will be 1,000,000,0001 b. for 1906; and this is, of course,
very carefully parcelled out to imaginary consumers,
and there is only 10,000,0001 b. left for contingencies. But
with dear money and a rise in the value of other com-
modities, statistics as to consumption are the weak leg of
the metal market. Increased production on top of a
slump in trade will send the prices of metals down faster
than they rose.
* • * *
Some old Bendigo “ call ” mines (calls due 14th
November): Confidence Extended, 70th of 6d. ; Cornish
United, 72nd of £1; Eureka Extended, 122nd of 3d ;
Garibaldi, 95th of 3d.; Garden Gully Consolidated, 66th
of 3d.; Great Britain, 131st>of 6d.; Hustlers’ Reserve Ho.
2, 71st of Is. ; Londonderry, 70th of £1; New Chum and
Victoria, 82nd of Is.; North Argus, 81st of 6d.; Victory
and Pandora, 64th of 6d. There are a number of hardy
old veterans who have had their diamond wedding call.
Napoleon G.M. Co., in the list with its first humble call
of a penny, has a long way to go to beat Great Britain, on
the 131st mark. Yet some day the legal manager of the
Napoleon may be able to say to the shareholders : “Forty
centuries (of calls) look down upon you.” Still Bendigo
is a bad pattern to follow ; in fact, there is hardly another
field in Australia that could rely upon calls to develop its
mines. For the great majority the capital must either
be put up in a wad at the start or be subsequently saved
out of profits.
* * * #
Iron ore has risen in price about 2s. per ton in
America and Spain. Spain supplies England with five
or six million tons of ore a year. If ore can be profitably
dragged from Spain to England, it could be taken from
S. Australia, Tasmania, or Queensland to N.S.W. coal
mines if necessary. Fortunately at present that amount
of haulage doesn’t seem necessary ; but, as a matter of
fact, Australia knows little about the real character of
its iron ores as vet.
» * * »
One of the special points to be considered by
the Broken Hill British Mine in the extension of their
present mill, was a suitable roekbreaker. There are
several types of crushers at the Hill, but the management
of the British decided to purchase Austin Rotary Rock-
breakers after exhaustive enquiry and practical work
with other makes. The Block io Co. purchased two
Austin’s some time ago, and these were put to a very
severe test for capacity, horsepower, and wearing ability
—the result has been a triumphant and conclusive proof
that the Austin is the best machine at present offering,
crushing more material with less h.p. than other makes.
They have forced lubrication, double counter shaft
bearings, and are of heavy construction to withstand all
strain. W. and J. Lempriere, of Melbourne, are the sole
agents.*
* * »
Two patent portable traction scoop engines
are being built to the order of Messrs. McLelland and
Cooper for cutting the main irrigation channels in the
Waranga Basin District of Victoria. The engines will be
placed on opposite sides of the channels and will pull and
tip the scoops in their own direction, and so make the
channel and form the embankment. There are two
engines of the vertical compound type, and, along with
winding drums, friction clutches, worm gearing, and
other appliances, are mounted on a mild steel framework
carriage which projects above and forward over a portion
of the locomotive boiler. The boiler is mounted on
driving and steering wheels. The main haulage engine
is 160 I.H.P. and the smaller one 35 I.H.P. The Austral
Otis Engineering Company Ltd., South Melbourne, are
the man ufacturers. * [d. ]
* * * *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.,
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * * *
The Financial Standard (London), wrote in
its issue of 11th September, 1906, regarding The Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited: —“Notwith-
standing the utmost conservatism observed by the
Directors, continual progress is being achieved and the
latest report shows that the trading for the past year is
no exception to past records.”*
* * * »
Cobar. —For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Cobar. —For information on all mining matters,
apply to G. Marshe. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* • « »
D. H. Dunlop, Stock and Share Broker,
Cobar. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * » *
Budgery.—Write G. M. Field, Hermidale. On
the field.
• • * *
Connolly, Keam and Co., 123 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
or flotation. Must stand close expert investigation.*
* * * *
Auriferous or otherwise Mineralised Slimes,
Sands or Cement successfully treated by a new process,
write to Findlay, 19 Macquarie Place, Sydney.*
* • * *
“Geo. E. Dickenson, 60 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, Manager and Trustee is prepared to consider
offers, sale or purchase of approved Mining properties
under working option or cash purchase.”
* * * *
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne. *
« « * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out. with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discriotion of cast or wrought iron work.*
* * * »
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
* * * *
The enterprising engineering firm R. Hornsby
and Sons, Ltd., Grantham, England, world renowned
manufacturers of the “Hornsby” Patent Safety Oil
Engine, the latest adaption of which is their Traction
Engine, have entered the Gas Engine arena and are now
making the Hornsby-Stockport Gas Engine and Suction
Gas Plant. The latter we learn will develop upwards of
10 brake horse power at the cost of Id. per hour. The
minimum cost and attention required should prove a great
inducement to users of motive power to instal this type
of plant. The Australasian addresses of the above firm
are: Sussex-street, Sydney and Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne.*
• * * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
. Melbourne. Commission business only. Agents every-
where.*
* * * *
The Rea veil Air Compressor is an entirely new
departure in compressor design, and by its numerous
good points is already finding considerable favor in Au -
tralian mining circles. As there are no suction valves,
the volumetric efficiency is at least 5 per cent higher than
any other compressor. It is unrivalled for driving by
means of an electric motor, and is the only machine in
which driving gears can be altogether dispensed with.
The sole licensees for Australia are Babcock and Wilcox,
makers of the well-known water tube boiler, Whose Aus-
tralasian office is at the Haymarket, Sydney.*
* * * *
Charters Towers. —Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
• * • •
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
Collison and Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*


WATSON’S WHISKY
Rescli/s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
ANGLERS
Send
lor our
FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE.
It will please you.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
409 and 411 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
(The “ H. & B.” Post Card Firm.)
QRIVATE CHRISTMAS CARDS, printed specially for
Y you with your own name, address and greeting
fro m 2/6 Dozen. Beautiful Art Designs. Orders
posted same day as received. Prices Complete, post
free, 2/6, 3/6, 4/9, 6/6, and 8/3 per dozen. Send
three penny Stamps for specimens, or send along
Postal Note and leave choice to us. We will satisfy
you or return your money. HARDING and BILLING,
Fine Art Publishers, 250 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
(The “ H & B." Post Card Firm.)
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
BROTHERS IN ADVERSITY.
TRAVELLER (with 75th. swag) : “ Any chance of a lift ?”
DRIVER (of knocked-up team): “ Yes, under the ear ! ”
“ Ossian ” writes :
“ Cocky ” (B. 27/9/’O6) is surely indulging in airy agri-
cultural mirth when he asserts that 95 per cent, of the
B waggies are useless for toil on farms. If he seriously
maintains that such is the case, he has only to take a run
up to the Tweed, Richmond, or Clarence River about a
fortnight before the crushing season commences at the
sugar mills. All the main roads leading into the various
mill centres are thronged with swaggies in quest of
employment. They get it too, and, judging by the
Colonial Sugar Qo. ’s dividends, these same swa»men
must be pretty industrious.
Joe”: Read your various “ Abs ” on
the different methods of crow-shooting some
little time back. Arrived here from Sydney yes-
terday with £2 in my pocket and a gun in my
and. (Remember the £2, please.) Am staying
at the pub the only one. Looked out of my
bedroom window soon after daylight this morri-
ing, and spotted a crow sitting near the wood-
heap, breakfasting off a rabbit’s hind leg. Grabbed
my gun, poked it through the window, and—
-Kang Crow fell over, said “L ” three
times, jumped up, propelled itself with great
agihty to the top of the woodheap, using
only one leg and a wing, and turned round and
commenced a most lurid speech which was cut
short by me, in my astonishment, pulling
the second trigger in mistake. Crow dropped
dead, bo did a woolly idiot of a pet sheep, which
just arrived in the nick of time. So did I when
the landlady began to mention things after finding
them. She expects me to pay £1 for the best
talking crow on the Monaro, and 95., representing
half the value of the pet sheep. (Remember the
£2 very hard here, please.) The Bulletin put
the notion of crow-shooting into my mind, there-
fore I shall be obliged, Mr. Editor of The Bul-
letin to receive £1 from you, and I'll stand the
cost of the sheep myself. If you send me £2 10s.
I will send you the gun by return, packed secure
from observation, and post free.
* * * *
“ Yalak ” : Would someone kindly give
me the names of the localities where the snakes
chase one in the alarming fashion described in
Ibe Bulletin lately ? Have lived in snake coun-
try all my life, and never yet met with that kind.
As a matter of fact, the snakes I am acquainted
with cannot travel on level ground as fast as a
man can kick his hat. so being chased by one
would not be a very hair-raising experience. On
a steep grassy slope, if the snake has a very press-
ing engagement, he can travel some, but on level
ground—well, he is only a glorified snail. Snakes
only crawl, you know'. 1 merely mention this, as
some writers appear to have a hazy notion that
they wear seven league boots or use a motor. I
have killed scores of snakes. My favorite line of
argument with them is a thin stick, 4ft. or
sft. long. I stand in front to argue, not behind.
Snakes cannot spring, so a man is perfectly safe
if he calls at the frontdoor of the reptile; but
they can throw themselves backwards on their
tails, so keep in front. When I say they cannot
spring, I except death adders. I know nothing
about them. I have been told they can spring,
but would certainly have to see it to believe it.
At the same time, I quite agree with “F.H.R.”
that, when men talk about jumping on snakes, 10
times out of nine it is pure skite. Onlv a lunatic
would take liberties with condensed death in that
way.
• * * *
‘‘ Nimrif” : The other day I bumped
against a miner named Thomson, recently Jo ver
from the Northern Territory. He is a fine, wiry
specimen of the human race, and declares, that,
after 11 years’ sojourn in the vicinity of Pine
Creek, he is satisfied the climate is better than
that of most parts of Queensland. He speaks
hopefully of the prospects of the N.T., provided
it is populated with Europeans ; but refers to the
Chinese miners and the South Australian Govern-
ment in tones of deepest gloom. Thomson gave
Brisbane Telegraph a fine interview, in which he
declared (1) that the Territory, to be successful,
must be administered by the Commonwealth ; (2)
that Australia is allowing a fine asset to waste for
w r ant of a railway ; (3) that the Chinamen are
merely picking the eyes out of the best fields ; (4)
that the climate is healthy, and fever only a fat-
man s bogey. He laughed loudly when his atten-
tion was called to a letter in the press suggesting
that fevers lurked in wait for the white man and
hid in hollow logs in terror when a Chow came
along, or some such thing. Anyhow, he is going
back to live on damper, post-and-rail tea, and
buffalo till the Commonwealth wakes up and
starts the Transcontinental line.
“ Reka,” from Maoriland :
The mania for importing and acclimatising takes wild
and fearful forms. This time it is snakes. The particular
snake is to be carefully selected, and is guaranteed to be
a nice, discriminating variety that will subsist solelv on
the eggs of blackbirds, thrushes, and other imported
nuisances. Somebody suggested that he (the snake)
might eat the eggs of native birds, whereat the people
who advocated his introduction were deeply hurt at the
slur cast on their prospective snake. Finally, a lot of
“?" ser . vat ) , . ve members (this is an account of an incident
at an Acclimatisation Society meeting) voted against the
snake, and the animal was defeated by a small majority.
But he will bob up again as sure as eggs.
CONCERNING NAVIGATION.
“ Yus! Navigators to-day ’as everything in their favor. In my day we ’ad nothing. Yet I
traded atween Orstraha an Tasmania for forty odd year, in rougher weather and on
darker nights than we ’as nowadays , an’ I never missed the tight little island more
nor three times.”
* Itan : Re German Professor Klaatscli,
the seeker after the missing link, who has struck
encouragement in Northern Australia by finding
an aboriginal with “feet like hands,” and with
the ■ ‘ big toe as far back on his foot as the thumb on
the hand.” Between October Creek and Coolabulla
exists a tribe of cannibals who are deformed and
twisted in their bodies, and resemble the ape in
many respects. They have even two inches of
protruding backbone to do duty as a tail. The
country they inhabit is one of the most remark-
able areas in Australia, mainly because of its
barrenness. No grass of any sort grows there,
and the few shrubs which struggle for an exist-
ence never reach any height ; they have gnarled
trunks and twisted branches, and are almost
devoid of leaves. This shrub is inappropriately
called the “alligator.” It is as useless as it is
unornamental, and stock will not touch it. The
tailed cannibals inhabit or lurk in the fringe of
dense brush which is found on both sides of the
and strip. It is probable that Klaatsch’s speci-
men is one of these.
* * * *
“Mundala”: Re recent discussion, “Do
snakes chase you ? ” My oath ! They do. I saw
them. Started cue morning to pull some dirt out
of the shaft. Bill shovelled a snake into the
bucket without seeing him. I saw him when
emptying the bucket, arid threw back-hand-
springs from the top of the dump. Snake saw
there was no chance of catching me, so wriggled
back to the shaft, and deliberately threw himself
down. Luckily, he fell clear, and was a bit dazed
by the fall, so Bill seized the opportunity and
the tamping-stick, and settled him. Guess when
a snake’ll chase you down a 30ft. shaft he’ll chase
you anywhere. Shortly afterwards, on my way
to the camp to peel some spuds, I came within an
inch of treading on a death-adder. Sprang
greatly into the air, and cleared the tent and
bough shed in one leap. When I came down I
saw that the death-adder was a blue-tongued
lizard—so spared him. However, he must
have reckoned frightening me was a good joke
because when I was sitting on the edge of
the bunk, with a dish of spuds and water
on my knees, he came into the tent and started to
crawl over my boot. This time I got angry, and,
without even waiting to gather up the spuds and
water, I assaulted him violently with two pieces
of tree and the cattle dog, eventually casting his
remains to the four winds of heaven. I don’t like
lizards that pretend to be death adders. The
snake in the shaft was a little one—about a foot
long—marked from head to tail with bright red
and black rings, like a football stocking. I reckon
he was a shaft-adder.
* * * *
“Cocky,” in reply to “Half’’and others
(B. l/10/’O6): —
What a bees’ nest of protest arises when one cocky
states facts ! I give more, with detail. My location is
the Hawkesbury (N.S.W.), not counted a high pay dis-
trict. Wages of orchard hands, wood-cutters, general
workers, 6s, a day; real good hands, 6s. Skilled workers,
like house-builders, get up to 12s. Skilled bushmen, like
sleeper-cutters, Is. 3d. at the stump j average sleepers per
day per worker, eight to 18, according to ability and
class of timber. At potato-digging, road and fencing
contracts, good men make 15s. to 20s, a day ; also,
duffers don’t make tucker. Firewood-cutting is counted
the poorest game of all, yet I know three men who
started with nothing, and are now worth one to several
thousands. Never hear of a good man idle, except he be
a new arrival and his quality unknown. Australia,
outside the towns, is largely cockies or selectors,
and, while there arts poor samples, the mass
is the finest rural population on earth. I have
seen Canadians, but they are not up to our standard.
Watched the man cutting 18 sleepers a day. No bustle
the poetry of motion, the axe dropping the line like a
ruler.
“Agricola”: In the early part of this
year, when the rainfall on the coast was consider-
ably below the average, Won Suey and Co.
suffered much loss. The destruction of josses
that had not risen to expectations reached an
alarming percentage. I happened to witness one
of the rain-making performances. Early one
morning, when the change of the moon was due,
all local Chowdom assembled on a hill a mile out
of town. It unwound its pigtail, plaited it, and
eked it out with black ribbons. Then the oldest
pagan lifted up his voice in a weird chant, and at
intervals the mob chimed in with a melancholy
noise that sounded like “Sa-a! Sa-a!” After
five minutes of this the heathen proceshed
down the hill in single file, the old fellow
bleating in front. Every ten steps they
bowed, and grea,t was the bow thereof.
Reaching the bottom, they united in a special
howl of supplication, and solemnly waddled
towards town. They had not gone far when they
met a girl, and a shriek of disgust broke from
them as they shook their fists at her and dispersed
to their respective gardens. That afternoon I
asked my cabbagee John the wherefore of the
closing disturbance, He said the job was all
spoiled. “ Meet boy fus’—goo’. Girl—no goo’.”
They were going to have another try when the
moon changed again ; and, when the day came, I
advised young next-door Jim to go along and
meet them. They nearly sacrificed .Tim in their
joy, and presented him with enough preserved
ginger to see him over Christmas. The rain came
~hoggins of it—within three days, and young
Jim s fortune is made. Weird nuts and dubious
sweetmeats land at liis house, and every Chow
that meets him says “ Goo’-day. Welly ni’ boy.
Hee-yah !”
* * » *
“ Janor ” : My chips go on “Philo” in
Ji-he. ‘ snake-bite effects,” &c., discussion (B.
25/10/06), for I’ve had ocular proof that dogs do
not always peg out in a state of coma when fatally
bitten. Have seen two dogs die quite mad and
so active to the last that it was not safe to get
close to them. As to the way men die after a
bite—well, generally drunk. Remember an ex-
ception to that rule, though, some years ago. One
of a party of prospectors was bitten by a tiger
snake about sundown. There was no grog in
camp, so we cut a piece out of the man’s leg, put
on a ligature and kept the patient moving about.
He took the matter very coolly and expressed
neither grief nor funk. At midnight he suddenly
broke aw 7 ay from the mates who were tramping
with him round the great camp fire, yelled like a
maniac, and, dropping his head, charged with
great force a big gum tree whitely gleaming in
the firelight. We picked him up dead. The
force of the impact had brained him. Thought
of this when reading of “Gip’s” bullock that
died with such ridiculous antics, and it’s a Geo.
Washington to a Geo. Reid'that the loony animal
was snake bitten.
* * * *
B.H. Proprietary Co. has caused a sensa-
tion at Iron Knob (S.A.), that hill of rich iron-
stone from which it gets its flux for the Port
Pine smelters. The Knob is in pastoral country,
and the miners’ dogs have made trouble among
the surrounding sheep; so the edict has gone
forth that all dogs must go ! As the Knob com-
munity only exists by the goodwill of the Pro-
prietary co., and no village Hampden was forth-
coming to withstand the tyrant, valuable animals
were hastily sent to friends at a distance, while
the others were shot or poisoned. Water is too
scarce and valuable to be dreamed of as a dog-
drowning fluid. Iron Knob is now the ohe do°Tess
township of Australia.
THE BARD OF FURTHESR OUT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He longed to be a Back-Blocks Bard,
And fame he wished to win—
He wrote at night and studied hard
(He read The Bulletin) ;
He sent in “ stuff ” unceasingly
But couldn’t {jet it through ’
■"■ml
To see what I could do.
The poet’s light was in his eye.
He aimed to be a man ;
He bought a bluey and a fly,
A brand new billy-can.
I showed him how to roll his swag
And “ sling it ” with the best:
I gave him my old water-bag,
And pointed to the west.
“ Now you can take the train as far
As Blazes if you like—
The wealthy go by motor-car
(Some travellers go by bike);
They race it through without a rest,
And find it very tame—
But if you tramp it to the west
You’ll get there just the same.
“ (No matter if the hour is late,
The morning goes Out-Back),
Yqu do not need a dog nor mate,
You’ll find them on the track.
You must avoid such (lead 1 y rhymes
As ‘self’ and ‘elf,’ and ‘shelf.’
But were it as in other times,
I’d go with you myself.
“ Those days are done for me, but ah 1
On hills where you shall be,
The wattle and the waratah
Are good to smell and see.
But there’s a scent, my heart believes.
That ‘ travellers ’ set higher
Than wattle—’tis the dried gum leaves
That light the evening fire.
“ The evening fire and morning fire
Are one fire in the Bush.
( You ll find the points that require
As towards the west you push.)
And as j'ou pass by ancient ways,
Old camps, and mountain springs,
The spirits of the Roaring Days
Will whisper many things.
“ The lonely ridge-and-gully belt—■
The spirit of the whole—
It must be seen, it must be felt —
Must sink into your soul 1
The summer silence—creek-oaks’ sigh—
The windy, rainy “ woosh ”
’Tis known to other men, and I
The Spirit of the Bush I
“ So on, and on, through dust and heat,
When past the spurs you be—
And you shall meet whom you shall meet,
And see what you shall see.
You need not claim the stranger’s due,
They yield it everywhere,
And mate-ship is a thing that you
Must take for granted there.
“ And in the land of Lord-knows-where—
Right up and furthest out—
You find a new Australia there
That we know nought about.
Live as they live, fight as they fight,
Succeed as they succeed,
And then come back again and write
For all the world to read.”
I’ve got a note from Hungerford ,
'Tis written frank and fair ;
The bushman’s grim philosophy—
The bushman’s grin are there.
And tramping on through rain and drought—
Unlooked for and unmissed—
I may have sent to furthest out
The Great Bush Novelist.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.


WOLFE’S Schnapps
MEANS BUSINESS WHEN IT TACKLES
YOUR KIDNEY TROUBLES!
LADIES’
“Fx&R” Watch
At £6 6s.
Is a f-Plate Lever. Is jewelled in 16 holes.
Has a Ruby roller jewel. Has solid 14ct. gold case.
Has Brequet Hair Spring.
Has compensated and adjusted balance.
Is guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in order for two
years (breakages excepted) without charge.
It will stand hard riding and knocking about.
It is made in every style of case.
It goes with profound accuracy.
Lady’s £-plate Lever, Solid Hct. Gold Case,
£6 6s : ditto, 18ct. Case, £7 7s.
Plain Figures
Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS
The Oldest Jewellery House
in Sydney,
: 23 Hunter St,
“Nym” : Looks very much as if Provi-
dence has been on the side of the crow lately.
Near Codville, during the last twelve months,
these things have happened. (1) A cocky got his
gun, sneaked into the stable, and fired at crow
through a crack in the slabs. The target flew off
with a sarcastic caw, and next morning the
shootist found the stable, buggy-house contain-
ing two buggies and three sets of harness, and a
feed-house full of seed-wheat, burnt to the
ground; result of a smouldering gun wad. (2)
A farmer’s daughter took a pea-gun to shoot a
crow sitting on the garden fence; and, as she
pulled the trigger, her little sister ran round the
corner of the house, received the shot in her
head, and died three weeks later. (3) This week
a cocky’s son took the household weapon to ex-
terminate another egg-pirate. Result—loss of a
thumb through the breach of the gun blowing
out. I could multiply these instances of Provi-
dence’s regard for the crow, and will henceforth
shoot nothing more vicious than a Bulletin sub-
editor or a parson.
* * * *
The other day there trudged into Bulum-
waal (Vic.) a man and his wife with their twelve
months old baby. The husband carried a lot of
household stuff, and the wife humped the infant
and a fearsome tale about an unknown and in-
cendiary lunatic who had set fire to their hut
what time the husband was pursuing the elusive
dwt. at the bottom of a long hole. The lady’s
story wilted and collapsed under police examina-
tion. It proved that her mind had weakened
under the strain of the tremendous forest solitude.
The trees accumulated on her soul, and she
became subject to delusions amid the dripping
foliage. Her husband had promised to shift to
Cassilis, and—with the trees weighing heavily on
her soul —she set fire to the house to accelerate
the shift. Then she had a convenient delusion.
The local policeman dismissed the case without
costs; and the last seen of the party was the
husband (who looked, with his load of household
stuff, like an ant fleeing with a loaf), and the wife,
and the baby and the delusions, starting on their
dreary 60-miles mountain pilgrimage to Cassilis,
where at least there would be the sound of human
voices and room to breathe among the trees.
• # • »
“Ossian” : In B. l/11/’O6, “Ralf” truly
remarks that the real loafer in N.S.W. is found
in the towns, and not on the wallaby track with
Matilda up. In almost every town one strikes
two or three returned farm-burners, who never
weary of recounting their innumerable and vari-
ous exploits. They never work. They live on
their “reputation,” and wax fat. I lived in a
town with a population of about 1200, where no
less than ten sleek, able-bodied drones ran a sort
of “ Rural Bohemian Club.” Their clubhouse
was a dilapidated and abandoned saddler’s shop,
propped up between a bicycle shop and a black-
smith’s. The “president” refused point-blank
to work, facetiously observing that “’E ’ad a
brother died workin’.” His fellow clubmen held
similar views on the subject, and eulogised him as
“ a blanky white man ’’ in view of the fact that
he supplied the major part of the wherewithal to
run the show. Said wherewithal he procured
from his widowed mother. He showed Ins grati-
tude by getting drunk and belaboring the unfor-
tunate woman most brutally. The gang com-
prised a compositor, a tailor, three saddlers, two
whip-plaiters, a jockey, and two ex-farm-burners.
THE PUNTER'S LOT IS NOT A HAPPY ONE.
GLOOMY ONE : “First race I wins a fiver an' gets balanced. Then I puts me last five bob , bar
a thrummer, oh a ’orse which actually won, on’y the judge give the verdict to the second
’orse. An’ then I drops the thrummer down a grating, an’ has to walk ’ome. So help
me, if I was the angel Gabriel flyin’ to Heaven I’d get shot on the road for a blanky bird.”
‘ ‘ Dandalup ”: The latest Westralian Abori-
gines Act, which restricts white men from associ-
ating with the blacks, is a sensible thing and a
boon to the western community. The nor’-west
abounds with half-castes, who have inherited all
the vices of the white, coupled with the cunning
of the black. Many of the squatters and “ big
folk ” have three or four, or more, black Venuses
hanging around the premises ; and one gained
much notoriety by always having a squad of black
damsels of tender years, disguised as boys, in
attendance upon him when travelling.
THE GOLD STEALERS.
FAGEMAN : “So ,I’ve got the stick, have I? What’s the reason, boss?”
MINE MANAGER: “ The reason is, I don’t want to hate to go to the trouble of puddling you
every time you come up.”
“ Vigilans ” : A disease (plain distemper,
probably) has broken out amongst dingoes in the
Northern Territory, and is carrying them off
wholesale and retail. On the Victoria, where, a
few years ago, the dogs were in mobs, you will
not find one in a week’s ride. The canine becomes
paralysed in the hind quarters, and has a con-
tinuous chattering of the teeth, which symptoms
last until death. Domestic dogs are also attacked.
“ Wang ” (from Victoria) :
Re that choicest expression of vernacular slang, the
boshter. I have noticed repeatedly in The Bulletin that
what is known here as boshter is called bosker in Sydney.
We never hear of a bosker here. There is a bonza, a sort
of improvement on the. boshter; and bonzarina, feminine
of bonza. Occasionally one hears of a dabster (a variety
of boshter), and a bontoshter, which denotes something
abnormal in the boshter line. But the good old “ bloke ”
and the “ tart ” will be above ground when the boshter
and his kindred are fertilizing the daisies. I lately heard a
bloke alluding to one of the country’s great natural
resources as “ me bit ov a bundle.”
*• A. 8.” : Here are two more stories of
aboriginal indifference to pain. In 1901, a black-
fellow was taken to Kalgoorlie Hospital with a
leg 30 badly fractured that amputation was neces-
sary. Two days after the operation, the nig.
escaped from the hospital without a crutch or
other assistance, and was never heard of again.
In his book on the Victorian aborigines, the late
bad-tempered Brough Smyth tells of a blackfellow
who, after trying a number of tribal cures on an
ulcerated foot, calmly sat down and burned the
foot off in the camp-lire. Chow endurance is
pretty fair, too. In the fifties, a Chinaman broke
his leg near theMclvor, and his mates, following
the brutal Chow custom, promptly left him to his
fate on the road. The leg mortified, the dead
flesh fell away, and when a white man at last
secured a doctor, all he had to do was to saw off
the bare bit of bone sticking out of a perfectly
healed wound.
“ Whaffor ” : One of the sights of the
Territory is the Chow at Pine Creek sweeping the
tracks after rain. This is the heathen’s primitive
way of scavenging for gold.
* * * *
“F.H.R.” writes
Re “ Ylenold ” (B. 8/11/’O6). If a man who asks another
to have a drink and then expects him to pay for it him-
self causes no excitement in Gatton (Q.), he would cause a
serious disturbance in almost any pub. in N.S.W. Such
an action would be regarded as the greatest of insults,
and would be “ chucked up ” to the perpetrator and his
family unto the ninth and tenth generations. Saw a
party of four at a wayside pub. near Dubbo playing
cards. The understanding was that they should play for
drinks for all hands, onlookers included ; but when the
game was finished, one player planked down a shilling,
the price of two drinks, and vamoosed to the back. His
playing partner quickly followed, and an interesting
couple of rounds satisfied the Gatton advocate that it
was cheaper to pay —which he didn’t, for the assembly as
one man refused to drink with “ the swine,” or some-
thing equally as eulogistic. The most despised man in
the bush is the mean man.
THE OLD STORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A platypus sat on a moss-grown og,
By the brink of a dark lagoon,
And close by his side sat a big, green frog
With his eye on the bright, new moon.
A lover was pleading his suit with guile
To a maid with a pensive smirk,
But the platypus smiled an amphibious smile,
While the bull-frog said, “ Get work !
Work 1 Work ! ”
The bull-frog said, “ Get work ! ”
They plighted their vows in the old, old way,
And they thrilled with the sapae old' bliss,
Repeated the things that all 1 elvers say,
And wound up with the same old kiss !
He said, “ In my soul is no trace of guile,
No danger for thee would I shirk,”
But the platypus smiled with the same old smile,
And the bull-frog said, “ Get work 1
Work ! Work ! ”
The bull-frog said, “ Get work ! ”
N.S.W.
THOS. E. SPENCER.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice ( except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
E.Y.K. : “The Spit” just misses the mark.
The waves hardly roar loudly en0ugh....C.0.H.: Cant
you persuade the boss to take something for that sneeze
of his? B. : “Burial” spoiled by insufficiency of
plot. Right up to page 13 it seemed that something was
going to happen to the box, and it didn’t... .McD. :
“ Rooks” is full of wisdom, but its lore is too uneven
Steve : You’ve tried to crowd an awful lot of rhymes into
“ On the Land,” and your rhymes have turned dog on
you in places... .Spotter : Can’t acknowledge pars, in
this column. It would take too much space. Your
friendly letter doesn’t contain anything calling for print,
so kept for private consumption... .Nivals : Can quite
believe that the Y.M.C. A. has modified its infuriated and
bloodshot attitude towards tobacco since tobacco-man
Dixson dropped that splendid £5OOO into the plate. It is
only common gratitude to do 50... .Uloola : Plain, every-
day snake tale, and plain, everyday report of teetotal
meeting. We don’t profess to acknowledge paragraphs.
Thev are as numerous as Israel coming out of Egypt.. ..
0. IL : You will have to grow anew ear before you will
be a poet M.J. :It would be dear to our hearts to
print some verses from Ngamatapouri; but, alas,
“ grapple” simply won’t rhvine with “ battle ” over here
in'Sydney. Still, “Grass-seeding” very nearly blew in.
Anti-Humbug : The selection has been made, and if
you are a Labor man you will stick to it. That’
is the only way to get either man elected
Paddvmelon : Have killed the dead snake’s mate.
She ‘ had begun to crawl over everything
F.McM. : Suggestions not even reasonably fresh
D.N. : “Singer’s Appeal” of no value whatever
Smig : In view of the popularity of the School of Arts
copy of The Bulletin among the clergy of Albury, pre-
sumabty there is no hope of one of them having it shut
out from there on high moral grounds Lof : Don’t feel
inclined to throw bricks that way yet. Up-north opinion
is that the people interested in that co-operative mill are
making about the best effort in Queensland under white-
labor conditions -...Mundala : No chance at present....
R.A.V. : Vague meanderings.. .D.M. : Not worth print.
Nym :‘ ‘ Dad ”is no g00d.... Quillet: Too many weak
spots Krys W.: The wife’s-brother-complication is a
well-worn fictional device. .E.G.0.: Has no literary value.
. . .P.B.M. : Too slovenly and illegible for consideration.
Also, Yic. stamps are useless here, unless 1005 e....
J..J.W. ; Too long-winded and prosy G.F.S. : Sorry it
hasn’t quality enough... .M.J. (M.L.) : Thanks for good
wishes. Item sent hardly deserves print Emma: Too
crude and awkward... .P.P.D. : A long way below par.
Ne Cede Malis : Rather dull and heavy A. Rual :
The burnt-will incident has already been commented
upon in The Bulletin P.G.A. : Both unsatisfactory.
B. Oulder: The subject has been often and more
powerfully dealt with. Compare William Watson s :
And —dreaming much —I never dare
To dream that in my prisoned soul
The flutter of a trembling prayer
Can move the Mind that is the Whole.
Though kneeling nations watch and yearn,
Does the primordial purpose turn ?
Jeach : “Little Mon” is blankly (not to say
“bianky”) unintelligible... .Tim D. : Poseidon was the
Greek Neptune—or, more properly, Neptune was the
Latin Poseidon....La Petite; Cultivate a simpler and
more straightforward style. Your knowledge of English
is too defective to let you indulge with advantage in
Meredithian posturings and tumblings ; and much of
what you obviously intend for recondite pregnancy of
expression is merely rank nonsense.. . .Derwent: None
of them with grip enough R.O. : Trite theme and
commonplace treatment... .T.D.B. : Some of it is sound
but most of it is bosh G.E.T. : Didn’t quite ‘ arrive.
....W.PI.R. : But vve don’t want a “Marseillaise.
“AUonging ’’ and “marshonging ” never get anywhere...
A.V.G. : You have ideas, but you don’t give them dis-
tinct expression.... Edie C. : Pretty, but we don t use
allegories Groper: Too like many other American
duel-stories....L.S. : Both rather pleasing, but quite
unimpressive John Maguire: When BallanCe formed
his Ministry there were five Labor members in Maoriland
Parliament. There are 80 members in Maoriland House
of Reps. Horace Tozer has been Queensland’s lament-
able Agent-General since 1898. The other questions
would involve weeks of research B.S. : Fear it
wouldn’t make much of a picture... .Mudd: Your objec-
tion carefully noted. How would it be for you to write a
“ Factory ’Ands ” sketch, just to show Dyson how the dia-
logue should be done?... .R.J.K.P.: After we use
train items on hand the subject will be allowed to die....
Stacky: The “Who’s Catching Fish” joke is a battle-
scarred veteran S.S. : “Bland, Surgeon,” is a labored
frivolity The Moodier: Just charge for the par along
with the rest and call it square Jeach : Interesting
letter to hand.... Waratah (S’Africa) : The insufficiently-
stamped wrapper that you send is from Queensland, and
isn’t our wrapper. Postage ought to be 2d R.Ew. :
Inefficient jokes A. Mummer : “Poverty” hardly up
to standard Brad: Timber humor.-. ..G.B. (Vic.) : The
workers are just as much responsible for the huge public
debt as the “bounders and boomers and bankers.” They
voted just as enthusiastically for borrowing Governments
as anybody else, and had just as big a faith in loans as
the cause of prosperity. Even now it is mighty hard to
get some of the State Labor parties to vote for honesty,
and the last loan-razzle—that of Owe’Sullivan in N.S.W.
—was dependent wholly on Labor support.. ..White
Australian : (1) The Bulletin doesn’t propose to “ fasten
on Australia the curse of militarism.” Training your
citizens isn’t “ the curse.” (2) Any guarantee of protec-
tion that the Hague Convention, which hasn’t a soldier
or ship to enforce its decisions, could give us would be
just waste paper. The idea is pathetic in its foolishness.
Do you never read history, and see what becomes of the
States which rely on the paper guarantees of other
States ? As regards .your statement that the population
of Australia is stationary, that is an absurd lie and a
Stinking Fish. We need not be so utterly helpless, if we
only care to realise the fact, as your wretched policy of
pessimism would suggest Unsuitable : Gladstone.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS
p.j.H. : Idea hardly fresh enough. It is an old life
insurance gag. “What age your father, if living?”
“120.” “ What?” “Yes, he’d be 120 if living.”
Vigil: Nothing hopeful in that batch Cecil T.S. : One
will serve as suggestion. No address on drawings....
Ronam: Poor drawing; poor joke C.K.: About
25,000 ft. below publication level W.R.W.: Pencil
sketch of woman telling man that another man had
called her a heifer declined. Appendicitis joke met
the same fate. They were ugly in their lives, and
in the basket they were not divided T.8.C.:
Some humor about sketch, but the legend attached
is drier than the animal therein alluded to
C.D.: “ Bowled” joke as old as St. Peter, and picture no
g00d... .Roy S. : Unsuitable ; but drawing shows some
slight promise E.D. : Has some traces of humor, but
reef isn’t payable E.E.O. : Well, the figures are stiff ;
the man seems to have a black eye ; and the jest is only
moderate W.E.G. : Not much in the subject, and the
drawing is crude, though the style is bold and shows pro-
mise. If you can get the necessary training, you should
do good work in time 0.R.8. : A cheerless thing....


x<
Off
-for
Tifi-f
"Hed f/ow s'o. n*
)/oh)«s fairi'opirls
Wh«»> 'ffidy ooP '
out of J *
fU ConVtfnfj.^
( Revise g«a^
sfdg
"It" >S
who biases Aus+P*l.A.
(oy}>ai|arib», h^-f-
-{Sen^+brFrAseJ
i< device Jh>v
Jbreveh^ . A ball t\/J Wj*«k<
- AcKild cv « S c ,r! “
C oh re!
7ouol)f wed %
liit-K wiif itje fov.T. ~ho'tij<2r db y
friend ef uf>
V> nun •'— buf' doo
itfe. show z&2\y ."
Pmie - set of
FAtjE TeeTk fa*
The 6tiT
AftouT WHAT Tri'S
Picture —
f fee
\ OML Dollar J
\ stvrnjf) !
__ Tt/st* ye*- yer
protected ! &-'#)«* yer wv>tj y' 'owrs j
Q J) I ]_ Coddllb »
CJenl"l«h,«v, I— in 2JI **y life-
We W'fl*' protected body 'fro*)
foylfrihlC J *’
Me It
S+w.K^r
The Kl°o’~ y®u>e nof (
A BaJlaM*"
A bwt" 0
•for il>e of Itje J>oli'ce~
v'ftfuM dut^l
%
w.A
J)RUMK!
°y °[
c
gVP A i„
*
l%ter
Richmond, store
"T ,r C N fJUr»»b<K S of- Customers' v/q tod. >
k. %
15ty left" burning "build (»£.'
b (*T s )
'sr sty! i tyve^ot-
fciy !
VICTORIAN EPISODES.


AFTER THE WAR.
“Yes, we must teach the people to shoot, and shoot straight, if we don’t want to find ourselves or our children pulling exalted Asiatic officials round
Sydney streets in rickshaws. Just imagine how, say, Mr. Reid and the Minister for Customs would look in the shafts racing down Pitt=street for the Manly
boat, one of them with a mandarin of the fifth button aboard, and the other with— er— the Viceroy of Pe=chi=li province.”
A military man in the “Australian Star.”


I
I
iiihlffilclili
Pgrifiimii!
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The leading Australian lights of the
Seventh Day Adventists—a sect which preaches
the gospel of vegetarianism—are Dr. Kress and
Kvangelist Paap.
Australia’s Chief Justice is said to be
descended from Rhys Ap Griffiths, an ancient
King of Wales. Victoria’s Redmond Barry came
irom the same family.
THE LATE “BOBBY” BYRNE, of Brisbane
FIGARO. Died, November 16.
They all do it. Towns’ testimonial to the
electric-belt recalls that even Bill Beach testi-
monialised (1) a brand of cocoa and (2) a make of
pills.
“ F.C.”: For a really charming girl’s name,
and one that fills the bill as well as the lips, com-
mend me to one I came across in a school register
lately—Anaemia Parker, to wit.
Captain White, who was present at the
Eureka Stockade riots, has, at the age of 80, set
himself the task of reclaiming some of the
Blaekall Range country, Queensland.
Died at Christchurch (M.L.), last Sunday
--killed by the Exhibition, may be—Colonel Pitt,
volunteer officer, barrister, solicit or, and Attorney
General a most estimable man, but a politician
of no account.
Alas, poor Gladys ! The head-teacher of
the Hawksburn (Yic.) State school writes proudly
to the newspapers that Gladys Redfein, who first
came to school in the beginning of 1897, has,
since then, never missed a half-day. She has
nearly 10 years of unbroken attendance. What a
depressing record !
The legislative father of the Maoriland
mutual fire insurance system, which enables
farmers to combine to insure their crops and
buildings, died the other day. Kirkbride,
M.H.R., was a Tory of the weighty sort, but
he did this thing for co-operation, and deserves to
be remembered for it.
From Brisbane Courier :
The Rev. W. S. Tomlin and Mrs. Tomlin were expected
to arrive in Brisbane from England last nig-ht. The
Archbishop of Brisbane has appointed Mr. Tomlin to the
vacant canonry at the cathedral.
So, once more, England supplies the canons while
Australia supplies the curates.
A young woman with a name that would
have made the fortune of a London Journal
romance—Neredah Farr—has been committed for
trial in Sydney on two forgery charges. Neredah
Farr! If she is guilty she ought to plead chat
her name drove her to it. It requires money to
live up to such a designation, and you can’t take
a beautiful cognomen like that into the kitchen
and wash greasy plates with it.
It was hoped that Peter Allen, the alleged
humorist of the S.A. Assembly, would be left at
the elections, but the cockies of his district voted
for him like one man, and he beat the third Labor
nominee at the last moment. Allen’s jests sound
like old Joe Millerisms. They give the impression
of being carefully prepared, and then Peter
elaborately leads up to his joke, and when he has
made the fitting opportunity Peter’s joke happens,
just as a funeral might do, and he is content.
Book Arcade Cole, whom Monkey-
jand papers regard as the Voice of Civi-
ised Australia, dabbled in many crafts
ft w} ] f -; el =ng a barrowload of books
into the Melbourne market. He was
photographer, cordial manufacturer, car-
penter, and wood-splitter one time or
another, and doesn’t consider his round
o occupations yet complete. When
there are enough Japs in Australia to
make a.constituency for him he thinks
that the Prime Ministership of the
Commonwealth would be a good post to
finish up with.
There are four generations of the
Gicjley-Kings in the little cemetery at-
tached to St. Mary Magdalene Church
at St Mary’s, South Creek (N.S.W.).
-the third Governor of N.S. Wales
moulders in England, but his wife is in
St. Mary Magdalene’s God’s acre ; so is
her son, Admiral Parker King, and his
son, Philip Gidley King, M.L.C., and
a son of the last-named. Likewise
many others of the family lie there.
Put the race is not extinct. There
are 14 Kings in the N.S.W. Public Ser-
vice List.
Jos. Symes, who wasted a lifetime
i, n y.'? tona tr ymg to teach people what
he chan t know about God, is publishing his re-
miniscences in England. He tells how he defied
the law when fined £125 for publishing a paper
without sureties
I gave the Attorney-General a candid statement of my
position and intentions. In a letter, published in the
Liberator, I informed him that, knowing him to be a
dishonest man, I had provided for this emergency. “All
the furniture I have,” said I, “is on time-payment •
so you cannot seize that. The rest of my estate consists
of a sick wife, a few fowls, and a cat and a dog You
may seize these when you like. If these fail to' satisfy
you, you can take the carcase. If none of these satisfy
you, I promise to pay at the resurrection, if vou make the
demand.
“ Poor Hawk ” writes :
About the quietest and most unassuming man in
Bourke(N.S.W.) is the author of “On the Fringe of the
Never Never”—H. K. Bloxham, who runs a land agency
and registry office, and sells gramaphones and other
noisesome things. He doesn’t suffer from land agent’s
elbow; his only sin is land agent’s gramaphone Blox-
ham who must he over 40, is starting to hustle a bit in
middle age. as he has two new books with his publishers
and another ready for the press.
Ben Rounsevell, who disappears from S.
Australian legislative circles, was practically the
last of his type. Big Ben, of the vast circum-
ference and the patch shaved out of his whiskers,
had hardly any financial ability, yet he was
Treasurer four times, and other sorts of Minister
several other times, mainly on account of his per-
sonal popularity in and out of the House. Of
late years he consistently made Liberal speeches,
and then always sat down to vote for the Conser-
vatives—which was probably the result of his train-
ing in the beer and whisky business. Privately
he is one of the most generous of citizens.
Died, at St. Helen’s Hospital, Brisbane, J.
Edgar (otherwise “Bobby”) Byrne, editor of
Figaro for years. Punch, his first venture, was
his ideal of journalism ; when it became defunct,
journalism died also. Byrne’s contempt for the
daily press was unfit for publication. Eigaro,
which is still running, was constructed out of the
debris of Punch, and recently absorbed a similar
production, Flashes. It wasn’t much of a paper
but it provided Bobby with a decent living. For
years he suffered from duns and neuralgia, and
the latter, after attacking him in various places,
finally settled on his spine, and Bobby at last suc-
cumbed.
‘ ‘ The Aged One ” writes :
A beacon or water-mark in Hobson’s Bay has disap-
peared through fire. Hegarty’s Baths at St. Hilda existed
for something like half a century. In the 50’s Capt.
Kennys baths were as well-known as the old post-office
clock, under which Osborne, the precursor of C. J. Don
Wilson Gray, and Graham Berry, used to give ton<nie to
the woes of the unemployed and “ damn the squatters.”
Then came along Hegarty, and Hegarty’s Baths have been
noted for long years. One of the Hegarties, Mick of that
Uk came to Sydney in the early 70’s and opened a sort
i Jy® Chanta -nt, in Market-street, next to 0. J. Roberts’
old Oiown and Anchor (the C.M.G. is ashamed of the old
name now), on the site of the old City Theatre, opened by
Joe Simmons in 18—. Here Mick Hegarty sold soft drinks
oiUy, but the waitresses were dressed in fancy costumes
displaying a large amount of limb, and the singing was
not too bad. Then Mick expanded, and took the old
Queen’s Theatre in York-street, where all sorts of busi-
ness was done. Mick has retired into slippered ease now,
may be seen occasionally about Sydney searching for
old land marks which have disappeared.
SOUNDING HIM.
Mr. Bruce Smith, speaking at a banquet to a Chinese
official, said he had a soft place in his heart for the
Japanese.
AUSTRALIA: “Soft! My oath, it is!”
How soon they pass ! The Melbourne
Tramways concession was for 33 years, and there
are still nearly 11 years to run; yet already, of
those who sat in Parliament when smooth, sleek
Duncan Gillies brought in the Tramways Bill,
only three remain— “Works” Cameron, who
opposed the measure, and Bent and Righteous
Wnxon, who voted for it. Of the other 140, who
can remember more than half-a-dozen ?
There was something pathetic, as it implied
a previous oversight, in the special announce-
ment m S.M. Herald the other day that—
Mr. J. Malbon-Thompson, of Queensland, attended his
Excellency’s levee on Friday, and was among those to
whom the private entree was granted.
Mr. Thompson is a Sydney native and now
approaching the 80’s. Thirty years ago he was a
political power in Queensland, and shared Cabinet
rank with such men as Mcllwraith and Macrossan.
He was a land reformer as well as a lawyer, and
was father of the Homesteads Area Bill, a measure
which, it was hoped, would crush dummying, but
which, like all other measures of the kind, left the
dummy still flourishing. He always loved Sydney
Harbor and has passed most of his late years
within sight of its waters.
THE PRICE OF MEAT.
The Freetrader’s cheapness is a flesh and blood chean-
ness.—DEAKIN, at Geelong.
The widow of Joseph Somes, who owned
the Tory, the ship from which the sovereignty of
Queen Victoria was proclaimed over Maoriland,
is still alive, and living in North Devon (Eng.).
She is now over 90, and lately forwarded a con-
tribution of £lOO to the New* Buildings Fund of
Christ’s College (Canterbury). The lady’s
husband died as far back as 1845.
Captain Charles, one of the ‘ ‘ Ancient
Mariners " who reminisced in Sydney last week,
is some months into his 89th year. He left the
salt-water for the dairy yard, and was the first to
send to England a shipment of Australian butter.
He is an M.L.C., and is strongly opposed to that
anomalous' body being either abolished or made
elective. The large amount of mortality among
M.’sL.C., he argues, keeps the House in touch
with the people quite as effectively as elections
do in the Lower Chamber. Most people would
think it only keeps it in touch w'ith the under-
taker. But the captain is sound on butter, all the
same, and he’s a good, hearty Anti-Borrower, too.
Holy Hindle, who considers himself en-
titled to the women’s vote in Cook (N.S.W.), told
a ladies’ meeting the other night of several of his
exploits while a member of the State Assembly,
But he didn’t tell of his exploit as admonisher of
the late Henry Copeland. Holy thought there
was something amiss with Henry, and, zealous
Sunday school teacher that he was, he considered
it good enough to reprove the burly ex-miner in
presence of a full House. He kept interjecting
scoffs about drink while Copeland was speaking.
At last Henry spotted him, and great and sudden
was the scatter that ensued. Sunday-school John
took to his heels and kept on the scared run till
he found himself in the opep air of Macquarie-
street. Copeland lost a coat-tail and cravat
through friends trying to hold him back; and
Holy Hmdle, reconnoitring from the street, was
comforted to see that his pursuer was in the
hands of strong politicians on the outside terrace.
If Henry had not been seized he would probably
have chased Holy to Redfern.
One of the last acts of the Maoriland Par-
liament, during the dying hours of the session,
was the granting of £4OO as a compassionate
allowance to the widow of the late George Fisher.
Fisher was for 18 years a member of the House of
Representatives, and was once Minister for Edu-
cation. He started life as a printer, became a
reporter, joined the Hansard staff, and, later
was elected as one of Wellington’s representatives!
He was a fluent speaker, and was reckoned one of
the ablest men in the House. He boasted an extra-
ordinary popularity in Wellington, and was
returned for the city time after time, despite a
chronic failing. At on© election his expenses
totalled 9s. 6d.—9s. for advertising, 6d. for cigar-
ettes. The last time George Fisher faced the
music the failing had got the upper hand of him,
and the candidate was quite unable to speak. All
he contributed to the campaign was a song and
dance. He said, next day : “ The people of Wel-
lington will electvme as long as there’s breath in my
body.” They did more. When George died, they
elected his son to \the vacant seat, and when the
son had made an ass of himself over the Voucher
Mystery, they elected him again.
Victoria is hearing far too much of John
Wren, who is puffed’ out to the size of a prize
bullock. There are Wren handicaps, Wren con-
certs, Wren bioscopes, and Wren racing carnivals.
The little, sharp-faced bookmaker is making too
much of an advertisement of himself, and Mel-
bourne is getting very sick of it. His last dodge
was a contribution of £2OO to the unjustifiable strike
of the builders and bricklayers. He remarked in
a letter which accompanied the cheque that it was
a “combat between flesh and blood and callous,
combined capital,” and that he was on the
side of flesh and blood. Undoubtedly this
advertisement will pay Wren. He will get back
ten times the £2OO from the bets of those foolish
people who have come to hang round him as a
democratic patriot, instead of a rich law-breaker.
Wren, nevertheless, is slowly but surely damning
himself by his bloated advertisement .of his own
person. And the Labor members of Parliament
who have pinned themselves to his coat-tails are
liable to be damned also.
Mrs. E. O. MacDevitt, whose late husband
figured, years ago, as Attorney-General of Queens-
land, now bosses an association of women workers
in Melbourne. Edward O’Donnell MacDevitt
was, in his time, looked up to as the luckiest man
who ever struck Brisbane. His rise was meteoric
till it culminated in his seven months’ occupancy
of the Attorney-General’s job. Then he melted
away and returned to bar practice in Melbourne,
where he died. Mrs. MacDevitt, a woman of
many talents, acted for a time as secretary to
Mayoress McEacharn.
With the death of ex-Mayor John Hard-
grave, Brisbane loses an interesting figure. Shoe-
maker Johnnie Hardgrave, who disseminated
boots and opinions with equal zeal in the early
’fifties, was a native of Ireland. He saved quietly,
and invested sagaciously in city property, with
the result that in a very few years he was able to
“ retire ” into the arena of municipal life. Then
he had the time of his life. There was a quaint
humor about the Kruger-like figure that drew
men of all opinions to his side. He was a good
pal of S. W. Griffith, Tozer, and other tem-
porary runners of Government, and he
twice refused an almost sure seat in Par-
liament. His heart was in the Town Coun-
cil, where the weekly scrimmages were the
breath of his nostrils. His election to the
already erratic Water Board was regarded as a
huge joke. It is said that in speaking to a com-
plaint received by that body on the unfitness of
Enoggera to wash in, J.H. remarked that he
couldn’t see “ any reason to use it for such a pur-
pose. There was too much of this washing busi-
ness. It wasn’t necessary. He had not had a
bath for 40 years. If the skin was let alone, it
peeled off in time, and all that needed washing
occasionally were the exposed parts.” _ It is
believed, however, that this was only his joke,
and that he washed assiduously in secret. Hard-
grave was a tough customer, and, shortly before
his 80th birthday, he toiled all over the Enoggera
ridges with a party, hunting for a site for an
additional reservoir. A touch of pleurisy settled
him at the age of 81.
“U.”: It makes me tired to read the
gush of Victorian newspapers concerning the
exploits of one Melbourne detective. The public
posing of the man in question continually forces
him under the notice of any criminal who is not
blind, and even the blind ones can’t help hearing
him. Consequently his chance of making an arrest
is limited to the just-arrived confidence man from
some such remote spot
as Cohoes, N.Y.
Yet whenever he
arrests that fresh
young unsuspect-
ing person the jour-
nals blossom into
columns of admira-
tion of the remark-
able capture made
by Detective Mo-
des tdaisy, whose
wonderful acumen
and clever tactics are
so well known to
-their readers. And
then all the new
criminals in the city
make a note of him,
and watch him
throwing chests all
over the premises,
and after that they
know him as well
as if he were the
St. Kilda tramcar.
OUR OLD FRIEND, BYRON MOORE.
Obit, at Sydney, on November 17th,
in his 53rd year, Arthur Geoffrey Eager,
J.P. He was the son of Geoffrey Eager, an old-
time politician, who served as Treasurer in two
N.S. W. Ministries under Premier Martin, and as
Minister for Public Works under Premier Forster
in 1859, and afterwards became Under-Secretary
for Trade and Finance. The first of the family to
come to Australia was Edward Eager, a solicitor,
who arrived very early in last century. He was
an Irishman, and allied himself with the early
Methodists. On his arrival in Sydney, according
to Colwells “Methodism,” he fixed his home
at Windsor, where he taught a school during the
week, and on the seventh day sin-shifted and
sky-piloted in the Hawkesbury settlements. In
1815 he had married and settled himself in
O Connell-street, where the future Treasurer was
born in 1818. _ When the Methodists built their
first church in Macquarie-street, Edward Eager
lent them £lOOO to complete the work. In 1821
Eager and Dr. Redfern went to England as a
deputation to represent some people with griev-
ances, but Mr. Eager did not return to report
progress. He just dropped out of the N.S.W.
annals.
HIS WORKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Thy works, O Lord, are manifold.”— Holy Writ.
The landless looked with longing eyes,
He saw the western plains unrolled ;
The greedy Fatman’s paradise,
The many lands of Manifold.
And dotted here and dotted there,
In fields of changing green and gold
(He almost envied them their share)
The flocks and herds of Manifold.
He saw the helot farmers toil
From dawn to dark—like serfs of old,
Spend brawn and brain upon the soil
To pay the rents of Manifold.
The landless sighed—ah, bitterly
(No charm for him such vision holds).
“ Wrong, wrong, the Bible’s wrong,” quoth he,
“ Thy works, 0 Lord, are Manifold’s.”
VIC.
R.N.C.


BICYCLERS Built of the
Genuine B.S.A. Fittings
With Best DUNLOP TYRES guaranteed for 12 Months,
or OCEANIC TYRES guaranteed for 6 Months.
In StocK or built to order SLRedfern Works.
AMONG the many trades followed by
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS is
that of BICYCLE BUILDERS, and
in this capacity they have met with the
success which generally follows pluck and
perseverance.
THE , . .
UNIVERSAL
BICYCLE...
made at Anthony Horderns’ Redfern Fac-
tory will be found worthy of attention, and
it must be distinctly understood that all
the machines are fully warranted.
SPECIFICATION.
FRAME. —ljin. best weldless steel tubing, D stays with bridge,
narrow tread, all double butted tubing, beautifully enamelled
black.
FRONT FORKS.—Box crown, D shaped sides, fork crown
plated on copper.
WHEELS.—2Bin. x l|in., double butted plated spokes, Dunlop-
Welch rims, specially enamelled.
HUBS.—B.S. A., oil-retaining, plated on copper.
CHAIN WHEEL.— £in. x lin., detachable, 22 to 26 teeth.
CRANKS.—Detachable, 6£in. or 7in., right and left threads,
square.
HANDLE BARS. —Reversible or fixed, with cork grips.
SADDLE.—BIO pattern.
CHAIN.—B.S.A., Jin. block.
PEDALS.—3|in. 8.5. A., rattrap, cross stays, right and left
threads.
TOOLS. —Set of 3 B.S. A. wrenches, with tool bag.
BRAKE. —Duck thumb.
FINISH.—BIack enamel of the highest quality, all bright parts
heavily plated on copper.
TYRES.—Best Dunlop-Welch or Oceanic.
vs
m
-
m
/MB
THIS MACHINE, complete with Inflator and Oiler, and Best Dunlop Tyres, guaranteed for 12 months
Can also be supplied fitted with Oceanic Vulcanised Tyres. Guaranteed for 6 months
Tb ? same machine, fitted with B.S. A. or Eadie Coaster Hub, free wheel
With genuine B.S.A. free wheel clutch, and back pedalling brake, or Bowden back rim brake
Or with Hub Two Speed Gear and Bowden Back Rim Brake
£ll 10s.
£lO 10s.
£l2 10s.
£l3 10s.
£l5
ANTHONY HORDERN <& SONS
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS jsrjzr
PALACE EMPORIUM, SYDNEY
n
Li t .W?/
D.
r;
as-
m
-4feV
mfSftsS*'
JO>HWW
v'
IBsr
/
Oou«*
4J
score
c J r man
i^UnD/
WCHLA/Vd
mist .
ft
!
we
neediL
JOSHUAS
SPECIAL
V;. .


Eb. Vickery and his like are hit hard by
the recent legislation of New Jersey and other
American States. When a citizen dies there with
property in excess of 1,000,000 dollars the State
seizes the excess. Well, a million dollars is
enough for any man to die with.
Thomas Bent, who was pushed into Anti-
Gambling legislation against his will, is now
chuckling over the fact that his Bill, which was
probably never intended to be taken seriously,
has brought the Vic. Labor party into utter con-
tempt. Bent didn’t foresee that some of the Labor
men would openly fight for Jack Wren as though
they were mere hirelings of that pernicious per-
son. Nobody could have foreseen anything so
fatuous. But as soon as their foolishness became
scandalously apparent, Bent had quite enough
horse-sense to pose as a grand moral reformer
confronted by the immoral obstruction of wicked
Democrats. The game is right into Bent’s hand.
The Quest for Beauty is woman’s one eternal
pilgrimage. And it is surprising how many meet their
Mecca through the virtues of that dainty Russian Skin
Food, Valaze. The charm of a clear, radiant complexion
comes to all with the use of this excellent preparation.
Valaze conjures away in the shortest while all such facial
blemishes as Wrinkles, Crowsfeet, Sallowness, Freckles,
Tan, and Pimples. It will not harm the most sensitive
skin, being compounded from rare balsamic herbs that
grow only on the slopes of the Carpathian Moun-
tains, and prepared under the direction of Dr.
Lykuski, one of the foremost Skin and Complexion
Specialists in Europe. Costing only 3s. 6d. and 6s.
a jar, it has the further virtue of being inexpensive.
Guaranteed not to encourage the growth of hair. When
used in conjunction with Valaze Herbal Soap the fullest
benefits are ensured. Posted, of course 6d. must be
added. Valaze Blackhead and Open Pore Cure is another
toilet requisite that supplies a want of Australian women.
It will remove the most obstinate cases of this distressing
complaint; 2s. 6d. tin, posted 3s. Valaze Herbal Soap,
compounded from almonds and rare herbs, greatly assists
the beautifying action of Valaze, feeds as well as cleanses;
2s. cake, postage 2d. Rusmo Hair Killer, a sure and
speedy remover of superfluous bairs, destroys the roots;
5s., postage 3d. “New Guide to Beauty a little
brochure on the care of the skin and complexion, revised
to include the latest European beauty achievements.
Posted free for 3d. in stamps, or free with the purchase
of any Valaze preparation. All these Valaze toilet articles
obtainable from leading chemists, or direct from Mdlle.
Rubinstein and Co., 274 Collins-street, Melbourne, and
158 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
Dymock’s Circulating Library.
During our long and warm summer there is no home
comfort more necessary than a plentiful supply of good
reading, and when the best books are available to every
subscriber of our up-to-date library, what family should
be without that comfort ? Our rates are reasonable, all
volumes are clean and neatly covered in a green cloth ;
large quantities of every book of note, published in
London or America, whether it be fiction, travel, history,
biography, light science, reminiscence or belles lettres,
are added to the stock immediately upon arrival in
Sydney. Members get the books they ask for ; there is
no delay or disappointment in not being able to procure
the works that are being discussed among readers, at the
height of their popularity. For £2 2s. per annum, or 25s,
for six months, a resident in city or suburbs may change
two volumes and two of the latest magazines at a time as
often as desired; for 21s. per annum, or 12s. 6d. for six
months, one volume and one magazine are allowed. To
residents in the country we send a parcel of eight volumes
at a time a3 often as required, for the sum of £2 12s. 6d.
per annum, or £111s. 6d. for six months. Special pro-
portionate rates are quoted for larger exchanges and for
shorter periods. Write or call for our catalogues, which
are published periodically, giving full particulars of
terms, etc., at Dymock’s Book Arcade and Circulating
Library, 428 George-street, Sydney.*
If your digestive organs are deranged,
you are not getting much fun out of living—and will not
until you can derive the benefit you should from the food
you eat. Senior’s Digestive Dinner Tablets make this
possible for you. In all forms of indigestion they give
immediate relief, and you won’t have to wait long before
you are perfectly well—to stay well—if you take one or
two Senior’s Digestive Dinner Tablets after each meal.
You will not be drugging yourself by their use, but
taking a very pleasant medicine in the shape of a lozenge
which will not only cure indigestion, but will bring the
system back to its proper condition, clear away the
injury done by malassimilation of the food (which causes
that blotched and flushed appearance in the face) and
cleanse the blood of the impurities gathered during con-
stipation. Senior’s Digestive Dinner Tablets are sold at
Is. and 2s. 6d. per box, or Is. 2d. and 2s. 9d. post free
from Senior’s Pharmacy, 246 George-street, Sydney.*
SUM«^
t>*V
\t*
4
AAViM-nv
Goutez et Comparez.
BUCHANAN’S
“BLACK
AND
WHITE”
WHISKY
3
“g^/w’cnettes
the Ideal Fabrics
for
s-UisK
RAINCOATS.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, November 20, 1906.
My Dear Arini.—
Two hbrn-and-hide families were connected by
marriage at St. Jude’s, Randwick, on November
14, Mien Miss Minnie Elizabeth Richards, second
daughter of Mrs. Robert Richards, of “ Holk-
ham,” Randwick, was married to Mr. F. Badgery,
of “Holmwood,” Goulburn. The cattle of the
two families are on not quite a thousand hills, but
they are on a good many, and their joint hides
dry on miles of fence.
An Australian girl who was at Lady Agnes
Lygon’s wedding (she married Mr. George Peel,
son of the ex-Speaker of the House of Commons)
says the posies carried by the bridesmaids were of
simple daisies such as you may buy near our Post
Office for sixpence a bunch. Our friend Lord
Beauchamp gave the bride—his step-sister—away.
She is a nice-faced girl of 26.
A friendly correspondent points out (in faint
lead pencil) that Miss Dorothy Mitchell, whose
engagement to the son of our State Governor is
announced, is the daughter of the late J. Suther-
land Mitchell, of “Etham,” Darling Point, and
that his wealth was derived from Tooth’s Brewery
before Tooth became a co. with so many people
interested in it that the liquor might fairly be
called Teeth’s beer.
Saw a trousseau, large doll size (actually half-
woman size), about to go for competition to
America. Cloth, silk, chiffon, serge—all beauti-
fully made in the latest vogues. The frocks were
made on the McDowell Garment-Cutting System,
on which Madame Bell is the Sydney authority.
McDowell, a New York ladies’ tailor, perfected
this royal road to dress-cutting after 13 years’
study of various systems. A series of jointed
curves, and lines and circles in flexible steel,
enable the user of the system to cut any garments
by measurement, and to have them seamless if she
so desires.
J. J. Rouse, local boss of the photographic sup-
ply business, and one of the set which owns the
local Prince Alfred Yacht Club, is back again in
Sydney, after a holiday trot round the universe.
When Rouse reached ’Frisco, he found that he
had only just missed the earthquake, and that
things were out of focus. He immediately
plunged into the business of making pictures and
cinematographs of the ruined city, and reckons he
struck the psychological moment right in the
middle of its psychologicalness.
That much-appreciated, over-hirsuted Mark
Hambourg is to be married to the daughter of a
well-known London knight. Times have changed
for the better as regards the music artist. Re-
member that in “ Vanity Fair ” the wealthy city
magnate, Bullock, mentions, with anger and dis-
gust, that a certain Honorable “was seen speaking
to a damned fiddler” at a Reception. And when
Grisi and Mario sang at the house of the
Duke of Wellington none of the guests spoke
to the stars, and they were separated from
the company by a ribbon stretched between
them and it. bio doubt the singers were the
gainers. Also, to come to later time, when
Queen Victoria, in her early married life, sang in
her own private circle, to the accompaniment of a
famous pianiste, the, whole country rang w'ith the
breach of decorum, and “the indiscretion was
never repeated.” “Indiscretion” is good. Perhaps
the voice was not. What the country probably
resented was that its Queen should have allowed
a d—d professional pianiste to accompany Her
Voice. As the late lamented Gladstone said,
“We are living into a gentler time.” This is a
levelling age when a musical genius may even
speak to Bullock. And Mark Hambourg isn’t
being chased with a whip by a large, violent,
h-less knight.
Miss Rosina Pinhey, a member of an intensely
musical Sydney family, has appeared as Violetta
in 1 Traviata, ’ at the Opera House, Ventimiglia,
Italy. Ventimiglia is the little town between
Italy and France, where the Italian Customs
search your luggage, and possibly steal some of it.
Miss Pinhey would probably have a number of
English and Americans in the audience. She is
“Rosine Sydna ” professionally. And if her
audiences quite understood that she is a Sydney-
sider, the new soprano will be a splendid ad. for
Australia. They will at least inquire the where-
abouts of Sydney. Datillo-Rubbo, the painter,
came here through seeing a beautiful Australian
girl on a liner at Naples. Miss Pinhey is a mag-
nificent-looking girl. The adjective is a large one,
but it is not too big for her. With her lustrous com-
plexion, well-developed figure and all-round air of
abundant vitality, she would not quite look the
part of the consumptive Violetta. Miss Pinhey
has been studying for four years under Marchesi
and Lombardi, Caruso’s teacher.
Hugo Gorlitz tells an anecdote of Caruso, “ the
greatest tenor in the memory of living men.” He
hates to pay income-tax. An eel is gritty and
unwieldy compared to this top-noter when evading
the debt, and a hurried greyhound represents
Sleep alongside him at sucti a time. As his tax
must amount to £5OO a year or over, he is worth
pursuit by the tax-gatherer. And on an evening
recently, as Caruso Was going into Covent Garden
to lift up his glorious voice in the cardboard
streets, under the lattice of a middle-aged prima-
donna, her wig shining ’neath the rays of a blue-
muslin moon, the minions of the Department sur-
rounded him. “No, I will not pay,” he told
them, and intimated that they might take him to
the dungeon and keep him ’ there. They were
taking him away when up to another door drove
the King. So the management rushed out and
abased itself in front of the cab-liorse and vowed
that Caruso durst not be dungeoned—’twere
treason. As the singer still wouldn’t, the manage-
ment had to pay up for him.
When the Gorlitz-Sherwins are at home they
are in Kent, and Madame does considerable gar-
dening in that hop-full region. Perhaps that is one
considerable reason why she’s kept her voice and
appearance so well. While you are planting out
the violet suckers and watching the plums ripen
on the wall you are apt to forget the housekeep-
ing and the_ dressmaker, which are two great
causes of wrinkles—to say nothing of the greater
causes.
In February, Madame Sherwin will sing at the
Maoriland Exhibition for one week. It is to be
hoped she won’t be treated as was Marie Narelle,
and have a free orchestral concert suddenly sooled
on to her on the night of her own intended
warblmg. According to Mr. Shipman, manager
for Miss Narelle, the orchestral tumult was to
occur in the main corridor close to the doors of
the Concert Hall. The soprano resented this
phase of the Monro doctrine, and declined to
sing. The Maoriland press is unanimously sym-
pathetic with her over the broken melody and
broken faith.
Poor Mabel Lane, whose soul was prema-
turely demanded of her last week, died of
pleurisy. She never quite regained strength
after the operation for the removal of cancer
that she underwent more than a year ago. Hers
was an attractive personality, and her fine
dark grey eyes reminded of pansies. At the time
of what proved to be her final illness Mr. Ander-
son was waiting for her to take part in a Mel-
bourne production. Miss Helen Burdette (Mrs.
Harry Diver) was hurriedly sent for to fill the
vacant place.
By the Barwon last night Alice (now Alice in
Wonderland) arrived in Sydney. One of
Manager Anderson’s staff got into a pearl grey
suit, a heliotrope tie, and a Baden Powell hat, and
went to meet her, carrying a huge bunch of sweet
pea and white roses. As he bowed low before the
damsel, who was dressed in the altogether, she
grasped the posy and swallowed it at one mouth-
ful. Then, in a frankly-elephantine manner, she
extended her trunk for more floral food, but
the reception committee purposely mistook the
action, and shook her warmly by the proboscis.
Wonderland, the Coney Island of this conti-
nent, is to be opened with lustrous effects and
thrills in a week or so.
Miss Di Cooper, so reminiscent of Marion
Crawford’s foreign heroines who look as if they’d
fed on chocolates and coffee, is back in the role
that speeds “The Fatal Wedding.” Her tropi-
cal-bird dressing still brightens up the interior of
the Australia, and, report says, she acquires an
extra glint of lustre from the wearing of an en-
gagement noose. That amazing play, “ The
Fatal Wedding”—it raked in £3OOO profit in
Maoriland alone—was in Mr. William Anderson’s
query desk for three years. He dropped it. One
would think on reading it that any sane man
would drop it (wrapped around a brick) on the
author’s head from the greatest possible height.
Yet those who picked it up weren’t insane, as the
box-office returns prove. They simply recognised
the insanity of the public, and gave it a gibbering
play with straws in its hair.
Mrs. Potts —Blanche Wallace—is again in Syd-
ney, but not in good health.
To-night (Tuesday, 20th) a group of Mr. Edwin
J. Brady’s friends will meet at a dinner at
the A.8.C., to bid him “Good luck,” and “ Till-
we-meet-again,” Mr. Brady, whose journalistic
and poetical work is well and favorably known to
Australians, goes to Melbourne to take'up literary
toil.
A hybrid Jap-American fortuneteller has got
Sydney society by the pocket. From nine in the
morning to late into the night he is hard at work
telling persons who are curious, or on the search
for thrill, of matters with which they are already
acquainted. The visitor writes a certain number
of questions on a piece of paper, which is then
rolled into a tiny ball. This the wizard presses
against his prophetic, brow, and so reads the
queries with more or less- accuracy.- If you’ve
read Hudson’s “Laws of Psychic Phenomena,”
you are not struck stiff with wonder at the
achievement. Togo-Washington’s replies to the
questions are very much what the questioner
would wish—or what she (the questioner is mostly
she) suspects will be the solution. If her mind is
foggy on_the outcome of the question asked—so
will be his answer. But his receiving teller must
have cramps in the fingers from counting the five
shillingses and half-sovereigns.
“It was a most swagger At Home. Out of the
140 women present 90 were wearing purple.”
From a letter from London. '
Mr. Stitt, the sandy, smiling "gentleman who
has for some years managed the business of the
Canadian-Pacific steamship line in Sydney, leaves
by next trip of the Aorangi for Canada. In Clear
Skvland (Walter Besant so called Canada), Mr.
Stitt will still work for the All-Red,'fine, and the
cold, clear climate will tend to preserve his look
of phenomenal innocence. No man could possi-
bly be as innocent as Mr. Stitt looks, and he must
find the aspect most valuable in business. Mrs.
Stitt and children go later to the maple-leaf coun-
try after the marriage of Mrs. Stitt’s daughter to a
Sydney solicitor, Mr. Charles Drew.
N.D.L. Grosser Kurfurst left Southampton on
Bth October with a saloonful of English baronets
and German counts. A large consignment ,6f blue
blood was dropped at Port Said for the Cairo
season. But Alfred Cooper, a titled London
merchant, is going on to Sydney for the of
his health. Count Morner, new Swedish Consul
forN.S.W., left at Colombo, to come on by the
next German mail. Captain Starlight Dam pier
was on board, likewise portion of a large Pointer
family, the M’Quades. Daughter Nellie, a buxom
youngster and a connoisseuse in dogs, is bringing
out some prize Pomeranians. Sir Francis Price,
cousin of Colonel Tom “ Fire-low-and-lay-’em-
out,” is another emigrant to Australia by the
Grosser Kurfurst. He’s a youth with a pretty
fortune, who has renounced the pomps and
vanities of London, and pines for the wild, free
life and billy-tea.
A booklet—in a charming get-up of blue and
silver —intimates that the great estate “Warrie-
wood,” in the Narrabeen district, is on the market
in the form of township lots, hill sites and farm
blocks. The pictures suggest “ Warriewood ”as
a Garden of Eden locality, where a stockbroker
might dally with Amaryllis in the shade, or
Titania embrace the ears of Nicholas Bottom, and
admire his beauteous bray among the grass.
At a recent garden party at Bishopscourt, the
residence of the Archbishop, a festivity always
attended by droves of the clergy, it was noticed
that, while the parsons were a fairly good-looking
crowd, some of their wives were spectacles to
make the angels weep. Do the clergy marry as a
matter of penance ?
Priests or parsons—no matter what denomina-
tion—are very rarely swagger. If they were,
they’d be just as much pursued by the amorous,
clamorous female as are doctors, military men,
and the mounted trooper. A certain suburb
near Rome is weeping itself blind these days
because its padre has been carried off by a
beautiful young member of a noble family. The
priest was a cultured man, devoted to his work,
but he was also an officer of reserves, and it was.
no unusual thing to see him entering his crowded
church booted, spurred, helmeted, and with a.
sword at his side, to reappear at the altar a few
minutes later clad in sacred vestments. How
could a woman help falling in love with such a
Double ! I know women who would have sand-
bagged It if all else failed to get It away. Some
of them would have sand-bagged the whole
Church. Perhaps that was what the noble
Roman girl did. Anyhow, she won.
A correspondent finds fault with imported
fashions:—
The Australian girl is adorable, cambric-robed and sun-
aureoled, on her native asphalt; but seen in Fi-fi’s show-
room trying on finery she’s merely wonderful. In that
mirage the much-desired articles are imported goods of
great price, exotic in design, and mostly inappropriate to
local dress opportunities. Everywhere are adornments
planned to assist the recherche charms of the languid
Viennese ; embellishments suited to the chic devil in the
Parisienne; gauds that would enhance the heavy
splendor of an English dame. Nowhere is preference;
shown for the cheerful simplicity which should be;
the complement of the Australian climate. Foreign
fashion frolics cruelly with the unpadded beauties of our
national type. Fashion sends lithe and lureful waists
to Coventry, and makes dainty busts resemble the domes-
tic mantelshelf by putting an illusive line under them ;;
and she entices into a skin-tight gown, which dissects,
their figures, alike the massive matron and the girl who
looks like a folded screen. And these practical jokes she
crowns with hats like opium-bleached visions dreamed
by a paperhanger. Hats ! They are like distorted fields
of fabulous foliage and unreal flowers. Sombrely black,,
with waving white feathers, they look like a maiden’s
hearse, Others, strangely curved, plumed from the wings
of some fantastic bird, suggest the aftermath of an orgy
of sinister cost. Some, elaborately simple, would make
the innocent naivety of a seven-year-old appear a finished
study. Still others would transform the respectable
mother of ten into a semblance of the Witch of Endor.
How can those pretty dears and splendid dames, that are
to be seen and admired on every paving-stone, sacrifice
sartorial decency, and wear those European impro-
prieties shown behind every smart cotton-shop’s plate-
glass ! They’ll wear a compilation of last season’s
fashions from the other end of the earth. They’ll wear
motley editions of old world extravagances. They’ll be
more severely tailored than the sportiest English-
woman, or fluffier than the fluffiest French girl, instead
of affecting some particular and Australian characteristic
in their decorations. Oh! why can’t our sweet Aus-
traliennes be a little original in their most highly-priced
moments, instead of uniting half-a-dozen alien modes,
and wearing the results on inauspicious occasions !
President Roosevelt’s ideas of spelling reform
are evidently not shared by his family. Recently
his daughter, Ethel, having lost a watch, adver-
tised that she had probably dropped it, and didn’t
spell it “dropt,” according to the new system.
After all, you can’t reform British spelling till
you reform the alphabet. “Watch,” for instance,
should be spelled with three letters, “w” and
“aw’’and “chay.” And there ain’t no “aw”
nor any “ chay.”
“Rosna” writes from Adelaide :
The Municipal Worships committed the usual garden
party, at Victoria Park, on the 15th, and a few thousand
eager folk stood on the hems of each other’s frocks in the
great tea fight. A lonely-looking Excellency (with a
brace of aides and a visiting bishop or so) joined the glad
throng, and held out his income-hook to all the cele-
brated persons that could be found. A Chinese Ambassa-
dor in full regalia—peacock’s feathers and yellow button
and all —with a morose-looking interpreter in tow, gave
a foreign touch to the show. All the local Chinamen of
note were brought along out of compliment to Ambas-
sador John. One of them was so overcome by the honor
heaped on his unexpected head that he wore dress
clothes and a top hat. Two shes behind me enlightened
me as to the mission of the yellow gentleman in the
remnants of poultry. “ Oh, you know,” said one, “ he’s
come here to see how China can get hold of Australia.
That’s it. You just see. In a little while, when the
Labor party gets the upper hand and England drops
Australia, the Chinese will come. That’s what we’re
coming to sure enough.” And yet, if we only knew,
these same people, who are so afraid the Speck will
drop Australia with a loud thud, are probably
just the ones who are too lazy to vote on elec-
tion day. Some specially ultra frocking decorated the
spree. Mayoress Bruce wore a grey costume of some
splehdor, and a grey hat, with the favorite green ostrich
plume waving in the breeze. Several returned voyagers
in Parisian frills adorned the scene.
The peerage and landed gentry of this State are busy
drifting in, in small (handfuls, to Williamson’s comic
opera these nights. Madame Blanche Arral and her hus-
band, with concert manager Howells, occupied a box at
“Veronique.” The little star remains in Adelaide over
the 24th, when she warbles a farewell at the Town Hall.
In the meantime, she is gathering popularity all round.
At “ Veronique,” she was one of the most enthusiastic
applauders, and cast encouraging smiles upon Dolly
Castles, Celia Ghiloni, and the rest. The general opinion
seems to be that the present opera company can boast
prettier and sweeter-voiced girleens than any that has
previously visited this city of Sunday calm.
A good percentage of frilly folk decorated Miss Martha
Kleversahl’s concert on the 10th and went away impressed,
by a fine voice, well-manipulated. Miss Kleversahl is a
mezzo-soprano and has the sense. not to hide the
fact. The average mezzo is too apt to masquerade as a
true soprano, and the result is disastrous. Authorities
say, how'e ver, that the present mezzo rather leans the other
way and is close to being a contralto. Some of her lower
notes are particularly fine. The soulful element is,
unfortunately, almost entirely lacking from her wonder-
tones, which is likely to be a considerable drawback to
her.
Among the travellers returned to Adelaide is Police
Commissioner Madley, who has been squandering eight
months’ leave in London and other sparsely inhabited dis-
tricts, and incidentally looking for health. He is a particu-
lar favorite with the girls of this State, who have
a habit of pursuing him about Rundle-street, on Saturday
mornings, and demanding tickets for various festivities.
These .are usually forthcoming, for the Police Commis-
sioner,i? a generous soul, who would give aw’ay his official
helmet to a nice woman, if she wanted it for her poodle
to drink out of. But rumor has been busy during his
a j ei iv. e ’ ei ?o a fi' ri 8' him to various countesses and the like,
and the ticket-collectors are looking worried. •If the
countess should really turn up they will probably go in a
body and rend her in twain. Other travellers just re-
turned are Mr. and Mrs. Jim Hackett, who have been
sauntering among volcanic eruptions and Egyptian mum-
mies. They are somewhat inveterate gadders and curio-
hunters, and bring along spoil from every fresh jaunt.
Misses Rose M'Pherson and Bessie Davidson, the artists
of this State, return shortly from a daub abroad. They
have duly imbibed the glories of sunset on the Seine,
inoonsets on the Guadalquivir, etc., and incidentally they
havebeen “hung” in the Paris Salon and other eminent
exhibitions. This is something to be joyful over, and
S. A. holds out hands of pride to its two hung daughters.
There died some weeks ago, in Germany, an Adelaide
girleen, Miss Tilla Heuzenroeder, who went hence to the
Vaterland some four years ago, in pursuit of musical
study. She was a clever pianist, and had a good voice
and charming presence, but, through some ill-luck, she
did not make her way. She died of hard work and
general break-down, leaving this old globe a little the
poorer for her loss. The deceased came of a musical
family, being a niece of that eccentric genius Heuzen-
roeder, who passed out in Adelaide a dozen or so years
ago, after casting some radiance on things musical
thereabouts.
Talking of the mad appendix-chase, by the way, a pro-
minent Adelaide medico has the craae badly. One of
the nurses at the public hospital has a troublesome
corn that made her lame. In a rash moment, she asked
said medico to do something to relieve it. He promptly
sent her to bed and operated for appendicitis. This story
is quite untrue.
An Adelaide damsel, Miss Dorothea Poole, 8.A., has
returned from the Blessed Isles, where she has been
gathering in a tripos, or some such mystery, among the
ishe-students of Cambridge. She is a daughter of Rev. P.
iSlaney Poole, himself an M.A. ; in fact the family wears
many alphabetical decorations in its hair. Miss Poole
held several scholarships at the Adelaide ’Varsity, from
which she wrested her 8.A., and afterwards spent three
years at Newnham College in the pursuit of modern and
mediaeval languages. Having overtaken several of these
—and not the slowest and most crippled ones either—
she returns in triumph. Personally, I admit that 1 am
not swift enough on the feet for the pursuit of languages
—barring dead ones, which anybody can overtake.
■ Yours Affectionately,
TRYPHENA.


wees
1
_r
m
Hr:
DUNLOP RUDDER
HEELS TOO!”
■unnnnraNpMMMamMMMHHKNaiiqAriitfanrewuun
Have You Tried a P«ir ?
**° *° ®* once. The result
will surprise you. Accept nothing
but Dunlop Brand. All Lrading Boot. Shoes
THE OUNE.O.P TYRE COMPANY
EAELDOUNNE. SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, PENYM, SRISAANE AND
and
fitted
wifh
R
m
\v
Does not feink or burst
IT LASTS FOR YEARS.
Just try a Length and judge ft* Quality.
Ask your Storekeeper for Dunlop Brand,
THE DUNLOP TYRE CO. OP AUST.- LTD.
US Flinders St., Melbourne; 150 Clarence fit., Sydney;
t«7 Grenfell Adelaide; 368-170 Adelaide 8t„ Brisbane;
6i7Hay Perth; 118 Lichfield St.. Christchurch, IfA'
gtoclw
(Dress
T/rEINERT'S DRESS SHIELDS combine the qualities
“• necessary for perfect Protection to any garment. They
are as well known to the Modistes of Melbourne and
Sydney as to those of Paris, London, or New York.
pn
Jr* mJ
#
LkcUSMPE
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, November 20, 1906.
My Dear Yarrie,—
It was a terrible effort for the State vice-regal
to arrive in time to raise its respective lid or bob
its respective curtsey as the later and higher
Ex. arrived each weathery day at Flemington.
The etiquette is—and Australia would be blotted
out by an outraged Providence for its unobserv-
ance—for the lower Ex. to foot the turf first,
and assemble when the Anthem announces the
boss chief and his party. Then these latter omni-
potents exit early, the dutiful minor Ex. once
more removing its lid and bending its kneejoint
with the Anthem blare. They relate that one day
the omnipotents approached Caulfield only to
learn that the “Stonington” batch hadn’t
transpired. There were a few dreadful moments
while the Constitution staggered in the balance,
and the liberties won for us by our fore-
fathers on many battlefields were so nearly
lost that they were found again with great
difficulty. The brass and braid escort, exer-
cising tremendous presence of mind, clanked
away with the astounded G.-G. omnipotents, back
on the road it had traversed, and there meandered
till the signal flashed along that the Talbottle
family had arrived at full speed with its unfinished
breakfast in its hand. Then the Northcotes hove
again into view, the band anthemed, and all was
well.
The G.-G. Northcote has been presenting
trophies to the Sandringham top-scorers. On
Saturday they struggled for one of them. Mr.
Steve Fairbairn (grass-widowering here at pre-
sent) and Miss Traill came out as champions, and
Mr. W. J. Riddell and Mrs. Stanley followed,
i Going up the “ Stonington ” drive on a recent
occasion I was tickled to see two sisters of
renown and giddy style produce a pocket
mirror of family-group size, and therein adjust
their facial schemes. After having taken
turns at establishing their childlike expression,
and having disposed the chestnut tendrils coyly
about the temples, the mirror was withdrawn
from view, and the brace of dazzlers sailed
into the thick of things. Fancy getting one’s
smile into position in this open air style !
Mr. Theo Marks records the biggest win of all
the Harbor sports this gee-gee carnival. Some
thousands go to swell the Marks coffers. The
Athenaeum brethren celebrated the plunger’s pro-
phetic judgment by a noble club spread, and the
chorus, “ Theo’sa jolly good fellow,” raised echoes
in Collins-street.
A breezy Toorak dame gives me tidings of Lord
Dicky Nevill, who has not been lost to sight and
ambling miserably through Europe as report hath
it, but. on the contrary, has been having a great
time with Royalty and co. A while ago, in the
land o’ cakes, Dicky spent a week with the Wales
pair, the Highnesses being hosts. At present the
ex-aide is at Nevill Hall with his old sportive
dad. So Dicky can’t be pining so very hard for a
post as shawl-carrier and hat-rack to the Aus-
tralian Exes.
Another aide drifts from the Northcote eyrie.
This time it’s Captain Kerr-Pearce —the Italian-
featured attache who didn’t live up to his rather
wicked looks, and failed to realise the hopes of
the Tooraketty clans. They found him rather
tired and not disposed to rise to any giddy
activity. He leaves for the country where
Richard 111. is buried, in the first week in
December.
Rustication and common or garden wedded
bliss seem to suit two toney dames. At the recent
junkets, Mrs. Gordon Lyon and Mrs. H. M. Cox
led by more than a head in all the Elemington
struttings. They only transpire in these parts at
times of great festive outbreaks, when their serene
look of health and happiness counts for special
attractiveness. The towny is a worn, peevish,
nervous person most of her time, and the air of
gaiety with which she endeavors to invest herself
at the yearly Flemington sporting spasms only
c ills more attention to her condition of chronic
fag. Rouge, powder and moral endeavor, all
combined, cannot give the haggard society marm’s
face the serenity or the quiet joy of the feminine
who is domiciled, say, away out towards Nature’s
play-grounds at Heidelberg or Woodend, where
they don’t wearily pursue pleasure on painted and
battered feet (figure of speech) all the gaslit hours.
“Owing to the owner relinquishing housekeep-
ing” is the monotonous formula which explains, in
the auction sale columns of the dailies, why the
pots and pans are going to the hammer. Who is
going to inhabit all the mansions which the Blest
are giving up every day ? You can’t possibly get
a family of’’cockroaches to pay the rent or the
taxes, and; rabbits prefer a green run in the
country. It'U difficult to meander o’er the heights
of Toorak and through the fragrant neighborhood
of flowery Armadale without a qualm at the “ To
Let" sign-posts protruding from high green
hedges or thrusting themselves over impressive
tall iron gates. The Brodribbs start off for an
unlimited gad in a week or two, and thereafter
from week’s end to week’s-end families of'great
cash tonnage loop the, loop for Europe. The
liners are booked well into the middle of April,
and so the Man with the Hammer keeps busy
with the “ G oing-going-gone ’’ clamor of the auc-
tion mart.
A very irate citizeness writes in more angry
complaint of the Railway-Tait management. She
was one of a party that arrived at Flemington on
Derby Day in the midst of a virulent shower.
She hesitated —she says she only hesitated a
fraction of a second—before stepping with her
costly raiment into the downpour, when, without
even a warning steam whistle, she was whisked back
to town. There before she could step out or con-
sider a plan, the wet crowd swamped her—it sat
on her knee, laid its paws on her shoulders,
crushed her toque, and trampled on her en-
amelled kid toes. Thus she did the second jour-
ney. She tore herself from the embrace of the
hydra-headed multitude before Flemington was
reached, and hurled herself on the wet platform,
only in time to be caught by a waiting relative.
Battered, crushed, and tearful, she had to start
her Derby day. Of course, she never recovered
her crisp chiffon look or her good spirits, and now
she thinks of suing the annoying railway Pooh-
bah for damaged feelings and racked nerves, to
say nothing of the hat. But if she does he win
probably proceed against her for travelling three
times on one ticket.
The Toorakites who broke through a Conti-
nental bill of giddy fare to get back here for the
season of Clothes Horse are looking sorry. It
was such a quick, wet time, and it’s all over so
soon, leaving a largely untouched wardrobe and a
tall bill into the bargain.
A sporting Dives, with a handle to his name, is
reported to have a large interest in a theatrical
firm of recent establishment, but the truth of the
rumor is very questionable.
The amount of make-up employed by the ordi-
nary smart She on her face is astonishing. In
the swooning and toilette reserves at Flemington,
on Oaks day, I saw one of the Tooraketty clan
at work on her complexion. It seems that wind
and sun and tiffin-nectar had affected the morn-
ing’s face-scheme badly. So she unloaded her
fancy portmanteau at a dressing-table, then pro-
ceeded to establish a fresh ’scape. First, she
removed with chamois all the remnants .'of the
disused make-up. In effect, she took off her pre-
vious countenance, and threw it on the floor.
Then, taking a white grease-pot from her
properties, she applied an even coating all
over her bland aspect. This was, in its
turn, dabbed dry. Then the blush roses and
the lip petals were work,ed up deftly. A powder
mop softened the edges. Finally a crayon pen-
cilled the brows and traced a very light shadow
line under the eyes. A critical review was taken
of the whole scheme. A natural glow of satis-
faction set the eyes sparkling. A wisp of veil
was lowered over the lovely work, and the artist,
with a cold, levelling stare at the watchers of her
skill, passed out to do her cakewalk. She’s only
one of a Tooraketty set whose make-up has
become a horribly prevalent habit.
The cousins Landale—Cyril and Edith —will
be using the hymeneal altar at the start of 1907.
Cyril looks a typical youth of his name. His
address is given as the Isthmian Club, Piccadilly,
which impresses the Cream no end. A London
clubman, they reckon, ought to be just it.
Two dress-builders used up so much actual
brain power and physical energy on the most
poetic Flemington creations that the clo' brought
on nervous exhaustion, and they are ordered to
quit the pinning-up quarters for some months. So
the sisters hasten to Uncle Sam’s land for a term
of rest. And there are some amazingly restful
spots in the Samuel Country, for all its hustle.
Little Mrs. J. Niall and her elongated daughter
—she's a long-spun-out hope—drift back from
their 1906 gad at the time this world will be about
recovering from its Christmas gorge.
Accidents in the hunting field are generally
pretty bad. It isn’t only that the funny-bone is
put out of joint, or the ankle dislodged, but the
system has the shock of the fall to reckon with,
and this often keeps an ordinarily strong person
pale and flagging a long time. Miss Hodges, the
daughter of the Justice, is an example. Ever
since her spill in the trail of the fox, when her
spine was slightly injured, she has looked wan.
She is now perfect in construction again, as far as
medical reports go, but her rather wistful face
tells a tale of the shock and the subsequent sick-
bed-days. The game, which is quite uneatable
when overtaken, is scarcely worth the risk. Pink
smiling health is too valuable.
Miss Olive Morrell is the pet of the hour.
Toorak does all the fussing. She doesn’t.. No
amount of flattery would cause her to hustle or
flurry any. Hers is a lazy grace. Charmers of
her shape may be lazy. It’s only the fat who
have to sit erect all the time and avoid cushions
that invite a 1011.
Beatrice Miranda, writing from London in
October, had not yet decided to which teacher
of singing she would entrust her voice, but she
evidently has no intention of bursting forth as a
finished artist until she gets the “ 0.K.” degree
from a recognised authority, Her health is im-
proved greatly, she says. The sea voyage and
complete rest have made a new girl of her, and,
thusfar, she finds no fault with the London
climate. Which will be pleasant news to the
Melbourne admirers of chat charming young
singer. Beatrice Miranda, by the way, gives a
great account of her sister Lalla, who “ arrived ”
on the operatic stage some 10 years ago; “ Lalla
was over here for a fortnight with us, and she is
in splendid health. Her voice has improved out
of all recognition. What strikes one most is the
beautiful, even, velvety quality. From G- in alt,
down to low C, every note is the same. This
season she is going to Lisbon to the Opera
House.” .
The committee of the Deaf and Dumb Institu-
tion, St. Kilda-road, has issued invitations to a
garden fete, in aid of the asylum aforesaid. The
gathering, fixed for Friday afternoon this week,
is “ to meet Lady Talbot.”
Wonderful how character lines and curves mark
the ballet leg ! Miss Jessie Brown, the ring-
letted dancer who plays a kid’s part in “ The
Spring Chicken,” dressed in pinnies, legs, and
hair ribbon-loops, gives the show away by her
giddy extremities. Her face looks that of an
innocent of twelve, but her stockinged limbs are
past their majority. They are the sauciest,
cunningest, prettiest, most experienced legs in
the whole hallet.
The Junoesque Maud Amber posts a card from
the land of Rajahs with a slightly-draped black
Venus pictured thereon, and the wheeze, “ How’s
this for a Cup costume ? ” Last year the large,
comely Maud was one of the handsomest spec-
tacles at the Cup, and the memory sets her
longing to tread the turf and back the fancy nag
of great price once more. The Blake-Amber pair
are amongst the American grease-stickers who
stoutly believe in ’Roo-land as a paradise for the
professional and the poor.
Miss Florence Young is probably the most
practical she-mummer on the Australian boards.
For years she has been accumulating her fat
salary and hoarding it along with her fashionable
gewgaws, for a distant rainy day. Never, in the
most dizzy height of her gaiety, has the strenuous
footlighter lost sight of the future and the
slow, grey, down-hill track ahead. Now she
has invested a large share of her savings in a
lovely farming property, with green meadows un-
rolling before the eye, and emerald hills breasting
the sky-line. There, one day. Miss Florrie will
squat, and see lambkins frisking, and listen to
meditative kine browse on the verdant herbage,
and watch the spring hen setting on the spring
chicken. And the Comic Opera songstress feels
that she has done well and wisely. All that
breaks her up now is that she hasn’t time to
attend Technical Cow-classes.
A gilt-edged chorus fowl (with her lovely, big
proportions, “chick” is a satire) has captured the
most luxurious benedict Toorak owns. All other
adorers have been shunted sans ceremony.
Little Surgeon Syme, whose knowledgable eyes
beam steadily from behind a pair of homely specs.,
has absent-minded ways. He was enjoying a
portion of “ Spring Chicken,” at Her Majesty’s,
when he had a call to a hospital. He made a
lightning exit, but returned within an.hour wearing
a sailor hat, from the crown of which two knobby
skewers protruded. It was only when he removed
the lid that his party discovered he was wearing
a fine sample of some nurse’s outdoor headgear.
His ovvn straw decker had been left to comfort the
Nightingale whose millinery he had unconsciously
banged on his learned top bump. He walked
home bare-headed—the guilty thing with the
fancy thatch-skewers under his arm, and the stars
shining on his small pink pate.
Mrs. George Chirnside headed a large detach-
ment of the local nobility at Signora I)ane-
Yalenti’s Saturday warble. In fact, there was
more quality than quantity about the Irish-
Victorienne’s audience. The applause was quite
robust. The Signora, with the rolling brogue and
the rollicking chin-dimple (chin-dimples are quite
devilish at times), sang to a crowd that handed
up cartloads of choice blooms, and every time the
audience spotted her stately brocade bodice
tails (of the swallow cut) it called her back
again. The big warbler emptied her fine
lungs of some heavy charges of song most
.stirring of which were the dramatic volleys.
Two little amorous songlets, by Consul Pinschof’s
pretty chick, were on the bill, and were accom-
panied by the composing Miss, who wore the
daintiest blush-pink chiffons for the part. “I
Love My Love ” earned an encore. The Signora
doesn’t intend to warble any more in this city.
But she lingers awhile longer before rejoining her
spouse.
Mr. Herbert Flemming has a mighty fine son
in tow at present. He shares the heavily hand-
some look of his dad, but has only half the load of
avoirdupois and years to support. Flemming,
junior, has been picturesquely tanned by several
Bananaland summers.
A Brisbane correspondent writes:—
Lord and Lady Chelmsford recently dropped into the
studio of the late artist Randall, and his Ex. this week
purchased several of that clever painter’s water-color bits
of the Queensland coast. As a natural consequence, the
public, which was previously but little impressed by
Randall’s really remarkable beach work, is now tumbling
over itself to obtain some of those “delicious bits.”
Thus does society drop a cheap laurel on the artist’s grave.
It is rumored that the charming cousin of Government
’Ouse may yet remain in Queensland, and grace the castle
of a titled member of the official set. That mansion con-
tains a collection of rare china and silver that would
make a good background for the lady.
The University Congress has concluded its sittings, and
the weary delegates who survived the monotony of
the week were entertained at a garden party on the site of
the future “ ’ome of knowledge ”at Kelvin Grove. Kelvin
Grove is a lone waste where they used to run a city
refuge farm, and it is far from tram and train, and the
picture of those 400 elderly sires and dames plodding over
the half-mile of boulders to where, in the shade of some
trees, locusts were dropping on to the refreshments, was
pathetic. “ Garden party, is it ? ” remarked one anguished
lady as she sank into a seat and shook out a large cotton
handkerchief. “It iseenis to me more like an exploring
expedition.”
The wedding of Mr. Duckett White—eldest son of the
late Ernest White, one of the old colonists—and pretty
Miss Macdonald is to take place in a few days’ time.
There passed out on Friday at noon, Edgar J. Byrne, of
Figaro, Ppnch and. Flashes. fame. “Bobbie,” who was
about the best-known pressman in this State, will be
sorely missed in Brisbane. His were about the most
consistent papers in Queensland ; they lived in the Stone
Age of Toryism all the time. “ Bobbie,” who went under
to acute neuralgia, owned to 65, but was nearer 80. He
had followed nearly every calling from that of miner to
that of storekeeper, and was known from the Gulf to
Adelaide. His son (who took to the stage, and was for
years one of Irving’s stock company) and a widow survive
him, and are somewhere in England.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
The general manager of the East Greta
Coal C'o. writes :
Quotation from a paragraph in the S.M. Herald and
Bulletin :
“ Accordingly the flour was brought from Newtown to
West Maitland, a distance of 120 miles, for £1 Bs. 3d
The distance between West Maitland and Stanford Mer-
thyr is only 9J miles, yet the baker had to pay for this
short distance a freight charge of £ll2s. 9d. In other
words, he was charged a heavier freight for the 9* miles
on the private line than for 120 on the Government line ”
The secretary of the Kurri Kurri Progress Committee
is in error as to the facts. It is absurd on the face of
it to suppose that the rail freight of 8| tons of flour for a
distance of 120 miles could be so low as 3s. 3d. per ton
From Sydney or suburbs to Newcastle or Hamilton flour
is carried at Bs. 4d. per ton, being less than ordinary
“A ” rate. Indeed, it is less than “M ” rate. This flour
was charged— .
s. d.
8 4 per ton as from Newtown to Hamilton.
3 2 » » » » Hamilton to W. Maitland.
3 8 »> .. >■ » W. Maitland to S. Merthyr.
Total. .15 2 per ton, not £1 Bs. 3d. for 8f tons.
If it had been re-consigned from Hamilton to S. Merthyr
direct, it would have been charged ss. 2d. per ton instead
of 6s. lOd. per ton, making the aggregate freight 13s. 6d
per ton instead of 15s. 2d. per ton.
Of the 3s. Bd. per ton from West Maitland to Stanford
Merthyr the Government gets one-half, and of the 5s 2d
per ton from Hamilton to Stanford Merthyr the Govern’
ment gets two-thirds. The Government received 13s 4d
per ton, and the private railway onlv Is. lOd. per ton
while the Government finds half a mile of railway and no
haulage, for the last Is. lOd. in their total charge The
private railway finds the remainder of the railway—
about 9 miles—and does the haulage over both for its
Is. lOd. and all the work incidental to delivery end.
The actual total charges by the Government .. £5 18 0
>» » >» » ~ Private Railway .. 16 4
£6 14 4
From Melbourne Age (15/11/’O6)
'JT'SOAPED, from Kew Asylum, Bth November, ft
MAN.. - likely to ask farmers for work. In*
formation nearest Police Station.
“Likely to ask farmers for work.” Well, that,
may be a sign of insanity; but he’s a madder man
who would go round looking for work at the Aus-
tralian iron-mills and steel-works. G. H. jtteid
and co. have seen to that.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY St CO.,
324 GEOROE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finishe 1 French work, 5/-. Pine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State Wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, 89C. FBG St. Martin, Paris, France
m.
<3-0 TO HBLL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want'real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nageo, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
This Elastic Truss—
Elastic
Truss-
Single, 15/-
Double, 20/-
is the acme of comfort, made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (oppt. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Bulletin hears on moderate authority
that it has been decided not to have any Federal
election at all, the Sydney Tf.legkapii having
elected i everybody in advance, and settled the
whole business.
George Reid is still talking about his
Flexible Blot, but exactly what Flexibility he
proposes to add to the Blot, or what Blot he in-
tends to drop on his Flexibility, continues unex-
plained.
Monger, M.L.A., has made another be-
ginning with his Secesh Bill in the Westralian
Assembly, and is again talking quite seriously
about taking a referendum on the question of
breaking away from the Commonwealth.
The Tory Freetrade press lias been
strangely silent as to the moral to be drawn from
the success of the S.A. Labor party at the recent
State elections, although it gave leading articles
to an alleged triumph of the Conservative
party at petty municipal elections in Eng-
land. And where is the great impression
said to have been left behind by G. Reid when he
stirred up anti-Sosh in Adelaide a few weeks
back? Reid returned from S.A. on that occasion
with the news that he had definitely slain the
Labor party quite dead.
THE CONTINUED SILENCE OF SENATOR GOULD.
The statement of Senator Gould that the proposed Federal
graduated land-tax was unconstitutional moves THE BULLETIN
(for the third time) to ask him to rise up like a man and pro-
duce the clause of the Constitution which prohibits the proposed tax.
If he, or any other anti-Sosh person, will produce such a clause a cheque
for the above sum will be paid over. Please all Speak at once.—(See also
“ Plain English ” this issue.)
There were some sadden happenings over
the elections in Victoria. Joe Kirton, the hope-
less wobbler who was to split Deakin’s vote at
Ballarat, nominated on Friday, but at one
minute before closing time on Saturday he burst
in and withdrew his paper. On the other hand,
Former burst in and lodged his paper as
Maloney’s opponent at Melbourne city three
minutes before closing time.
One of the sad sights of Queensland these
days is ex-Premier “ Andy ” Dawson fighting the
Labor party’s three for the Senate. Most of the
large claims he makes about his old services to
the party are true ; but, then, he isn’t any longer
the old Anderson Dawson. If he was, he wouldn’t
be where he is. How the old Anderson Dawson
would have denounced a man for what he is doing
now !
S.A. returns unopposed four Representa-
tives, all good Democrats—Kingston, Batchelor,
Hutchison and Poynton. N.S.W. returns two
Representatives unopposed—Cook and Dugald
Thomson, both Tories, enemies of Australian
industry, members of the Dear Land party,
opponents of land-settlement, and individuals
who cry out for foreign goods so that the Aus-
tralian workman may be deprived of hisiob.
“Jimmy” Graham is being boomed for
South Sydney as “the friend of the poor”—in
short, he has trained some midwives. There was
really more solid foundation in the claim of
another “Jimmy”—Mirams—who years ago asked
to be returned for Williamstown (Vic.) on the
ground that his wife had 14 times supplied mid-
wives with a job.
New England (N.S.W.) Federal fight, after
all, lies between Labor-Protectionist Foster and
anti-Sosh Lonsdale, and it is now up to every
farmer in the constituency, who feels worried
about land taxation, to sit down on his haystack
and decide where he comes in. Labor-Protec-
tionist Foster believes in a progressive land-tax
with a £5OOO exemption— i.e. , a farmer with not
more than £sooo worth of land (improvements
not included ; the impost applies to land alone)
will pay no Federal land-tax. Anti-Sosh Lons-
dale. vice-president of Sydney Single-Tax League,
be!,eves in taxing all land without any exemption.
Lonsdale believes that the land-owner is the only
person in the country who should be taxed. As
the Single-taxer’s joss, Henry George, puts it,
Lonsdale believes in “ abolishing all taxation save
that upon land values.” At all events, that is
what Lonsdale says he believes in when he wags
his whiskers at Sydney Single-Tax League’s
meetings, though probably he doesn’t mention
these beliefs when denouncing the Labor party’s
£5OOO exemption tax to the New England land-
owners. The New England land-owner has now
to figure out which candidate’s belief—if carried
into effect—will suit him best.
Only by affecting to regard Bailes’s motion
for an inquiry into Education Minister Sachse’s
projected purchase of 200 imported pianos for
Vic. schools as a motion of want of confidence did
Premier Bent contrive to defeat it. Sachse’s posi-
tion at present is this : Bent has publicly repudi-
ated his action, voided the contract he made, and,
while contending that there was nothing corrupt,
has admitted that Sachse isn’t fit for the position
he holds. Each of the Melbourne daily news-
papers, and nearly every Vic. country paper
worth mentioning, has demanded that Sachse
shall hand in his resignation. Both sides of the
Assembly have risen to denounce him, and his
apologists on the Government side were unable to
advance any better excuse than that he was a
poor, harmless creature, who didn’t know what
he was doing. In face of all this, Sachse hangs
on to his portfolio. He is a man of limited
ability and overweening vanity. He sees Bent
adopting the large off-hand course of doing things
without asking anybody, and he is fired with an
ambition to do the same. Sachse forgets that he
isn’t Bent—he is only limp. It is as good as
a turn at Rickards’ to see Sachse receiving a
deputation and posing in the limelight. He feels
his elevated position keenly. The trouble is that
the Leg. Council hasn’t enough intelligent men to
go round, and when Davies was made Attorney-
General its capabilities were about exhausted.
But instead of leaving Davies to look after all the
Government interests in the Upper House, Bent
and previous Premiers have made a heap of port-
folioed and honorary Ministers out of obscure
M.’sL.C., with the result that the lower end of
the table at a Cabinet meeting looks like a
kindergarten class for feeble-minded children.
Brisbane Courier assures the small far-
mer that he needn’t take any notice of the Federal
Labor party’s £5OOO land-tax exemption; the real
sinfulness of the party, it remarks, shows up in
the fact that “ the Queensland Labor party plat-
form only provides for an exemp-
tion of £300.” In N.S. Wales Geo.
Reid’s exemption got down as low
as £24o—and Reid not only pro-
posed it; he passed it. Yet
somehow the Courier has over-
looked G. Reid’s real sinfulness.
The effects of the Melbourne bricklayers’
strike already begin to fall heavily on those for
whom the trouble was not intended. The imme-
diate result of the stoppage of the big city build-
ing contracts has been the discharge of over 100
brick-carters out Brunswick and Northcote way,
and these were men who earned from 30s. to 40s.
for about 60 hours’ work. Arbitration courts and
Wages Boards may be slow, but, at any rate, they
don’t scatter starvation broadcast while they are
grinding out justice.
In N.S.W. four candidates are going to
scramble for the Cowper seat in the Reps., and
three for Nepean ; otherwise the contests are all
two-man affairs, and the fellow with the majority
will win. In Victoria things are chaotic. Bala-
clava has four candidates, Ballarat six, Bourke
three, Corangamite three, Fawkner three, Indi
three, Kooyong three, Laanecoorie three, Port
Melbourne four, Mernda four, Wimmera five,
and Yarra three. Victoria has a fair chance
to get 12. representatives of minorities. At
Ballarat there are two Ministerialists, two
nien labelled “Labor” and two ticketed
“ Independent Labor,” and who will be the tail
of that procession heaven only knows, though it is
almost certain that Alfred Deakin will be the
head. On a rough guess, The Bulletin nomi-
nates Mr. Batman Jabez Coon for tail. In S.A.
Anti-Sosh let four seats go by default, and
the' rest (three) are two-men contests. In
Queensland every seat is a two-man contest.
In Tasmania four men scramble for Denison,
three for Darwin, and four for Wilmot. In each
of the Westralian constituents there are only two
nominees. There Anti-Sosh labels itself “ The
Westralian party,” and is going to holler solidly
about its railway and nothing else.
THE SAGREDNESS OF LIBERTY.
SPRUCE MYTH : “Stay. You must not interfere with the Liberty of the Subject and
Private Enterprise .”
Since the S. Australian genera] election,
the other day, seven more ancients lie in the
political graveyard. Oatt and Gilbert had sat
continuously since 1881. Rounsevell dated from
1875. Then there are Tucker, Cohen, Livingston
and Foster. All but Gilbert began as advanced
Liberals, but fell away until their old friends
didn’t know them, and didn’t particularly want
to.
Australia learned the surprising fact the
other day that Britain had 11 first-class and two
second-class battleships and 12 cruisers laid up for
repairs. Australia trusts so completely to the
British fleet for its very existence that an item
like this gives it a sinking feeling at the base of
the stomach. Even if we doubled our naval con-
tribution—as little Willie-Motor Kelly advises
after taking afternoon tea on the flagship—it
wouldn’t necessarily hurry on these repairs.
Hans Irvine, who has resigned from the
Vic. House of Fat to stand for the Grampians
seat in the Reps., is a striking example of how
bad a politician a good vigneron can be. Lately
he announced himself as an Independent who
proposed to sit in Opposition, and as a Pro-
tectionist who will vote with the Free-
traders. Further, he is opposed to alter-
ing the Constitution, but yet wants
the transitory Braddon clause
retained for evermore, which
can’t be done without altering
the Constitution. Moreover, N
being a strong anti-Socialist, he
approves of the Federal Govern-
ment’s Socialist bonuses to
farmers. Taking him all round, he
seems to be a firm believer in
Hans, with a rooted objection to Ir-
vine; or else he cordially approves
of Irvine, but reckons that Hans
doesn’t know enough to catch cater-
pillars.
Thus alleged Freetrader William Wilks, \
at Balmain (N.S.W.): —
The Deakin Ministry could deal with the tariff readily
enough so far as agricultural machinery was concerned,
because Victoria was largely interested in that, but they
could not find time to deal with metals and machinery in
which N.S.W., and Balmain in particular, was so much
concerned.
Wilks, by his stonewalling, helped his fellow-
obstructionists to delay the work of the session so
that the Government hadn’t time to “deal with
metals,” etc. Wilks asks the support of the
Ereetrade-electors because of that splendid fight
to prevent Protection for the metal industries.
And having made the “dealing with metals,”
etc., impossible, Freetrader Wilks curses the
Government for not having dealt with them in
the way of giving them more Protection, and asks
the support of the Protectionist electors because
he is utterly disgusted with a Government that
didn’t “ deal ” with them. All his political life
Wilks has declared that Protection is injurious,
and now he is as mad as a dripping hen because,
he says, victoria was injured and N.S.W. wasn’t.
As a side issue, the two States are just about
equally concerned in metals and machinery, but
Bilk didn’t mention that.
Thus Bill Lyne’s opponent, the Anti-
Socialist Gibb (S.M. Herald report):—
Questioned on the subject of a progressive land-tax,
Mr. Gibb pointed out the great difference between the
position in Maoriland and this country. He said they
had no regular Labor or Socialistic party in Maoriland ;
that Mr. Seddon never proposed nationalisation of lands ;
and that in this country that was frankly admitted to be
the aim of the Labor party. They would thus see that
the cases were not parallel.. .. He recognised the im-
portance of closer settlement, and had throughout his
life fought for a policy that would have the effect of
opening up the land to the people.
It seems difficult to get from shuffler Gibb a state-
ment whether he is in favor of the graduated
land-tax or not —he only “points out the differ-
ence between the position in Maoriland and this
country,” and talks vaguely about “opening up
the land.” Anyhow, Gibb is in the same Opposi-
tion camp with those land nationalisers, Edmund
Lonsdale and Maximilian Hirsch, so he seems to
be an undecided person in very dubious company.
In spite of Premier Bent’s promises, made
long ago, to put the Victorian lunacy treatment
system on a scientific basis, the horrible old
“system” still prevails. The other day the
Terang Police Court committed a woman,
assumed to be mentally unsound, to Geelong
gaol. There the doctors, finding no sign of in-
sanity, ordered her discharge, which was accom-
plished by bringing her to the Police Court,
charging her with being insane, and then
acquitting her. The Law ordered her to pay £5
lis. lOd. costs ! The Law is a discrepant animal
in most respects, but in the matter of costs it is
surer than the Day of Judgment.
Talk about machine politics in connection
with Labor ! St. Ledger, one of the Anti-Sosh
three in Queensland, offered himself as a candi-
date at Charters Towers to the Anti-Sosh League,
and was beaten eight to one by Sayers, who for
the last dozen years has been vainly struggling to
enter the State Parliament. Although badly
beaten by a political corpse, St. Ledger said it
didn’t matter—he would be selected in Brisbane.
The Anti-Sosh League in Brisbane —a little crowd
of about 50—had “party funds” for the election.
But that wasn’t announced ; the yarn was spread
that the rumors of “party funds” were “Labor
lies.” So, fearing the expense of a Senatorial
election, practically nobody but St. Ledger
nominated. You see, St. Ledger, the nominee of
a little clique, knew, and the public didn’t. So
St. Ledger got the nomination. It was a
triumph of engineering; and “Janny” Leahy
probably knows who the engineer was.
Maoriland Premier Ward goes to Europe
for six months. He has but just returned from
Europe. His last trip cost Maoriland £2BOO ; the
proposed one will cost but £l5OO. Seddon’s
death and burial cost £l5OO, and his fatal
holiday to Australia cost £579; and the
expenses of the “All Black” football
team to England ran to £1963. Alto-
gether, Joseph’s little scrap of the
globe can show a very decent bill
for holiday expenses.
A LETTER TO B. SMITH.
“ Australian Party ” writes :
A young lady (21) returned on the eve of recent S.A.
elections from a holiday spent with the wife of a lawyer
at Gawler, and, speaking to a friend about a certain can-
didate, she said: “Mind you don’t vote for the
Socialists." Friend replied: “ Who are the Socialists?”
Young lady : “ Why, the commoners.” Friend : “ And
who are the commoners?” Young. Lady:.“Why, the
Socialists. They’ll take our homes from us.”
And now the election is over, and the ‘ ‘ Socialists”
rule S.A., yet that young lady sleeps in her bed
as usual, and her vision of a Socialist taking pos-
session, and sending her to doss in the dog-kennel,
shows no sign of realisation.
When the elections begin to rage and
gnash their teeth the antique Tory sits up, rubs
his eyes and mutters: “ Now these Socialists
will be swept away!” But as the people,_ awakened
to their democratic necessities, use their political
broom (handle and all) on the Tory party, nothing
remains for Mr. Antique but to waken his
mentality with judicious applications of D.C.L.
Whisky, or go sound asleep again.*
A DARK POSSIBILITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The aboriginal population in Maoriland has increased
b.V 4588 during the last five years, and now stands at
47,731. —News item.
We’ve been told so oft
Of the brown man’s doom ;
That his brain’s too soft
And he must make room !
We have spoke in scorn
Of the brown man’s birth ;
Said the white was born
To acquire the earth I .
Brother, I begin to
Doubt a little now —
Doubt about the white m an’s dowry !
Is the tale untrue ?
Shall the brown unruly,
Make the white man rue
In the isles of Thule ?
While the white man’s wife
Is a person skilled
In restricting life—
Keeps the cot unfilled—
What about the Hindu l
What about the Chow ?
What about the Nigger and the Maori ?
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.


Don’t
make the MistaKe
of supposing that BECAUSE you may pay what LOOKS TO YOU
like a high price for your Boots that you will ACTUALLY BE PAYING
TOO MUCH for theni. A boot that will stand soleing four times is surely
worth double the money yoh would pay for a poor boot. The uppers of
The Callaghan Boot
are made from the best thoroughly solidified skins, and are remarkable for
their durability, and some of them have seen SIX SOLES WORN OUT
before crying “enough,”
In Fine French Calf, 225. 6d.
In Tan - - . - 235. 6d. ,
Post and Duty Free,
TO ALL THE STATES,
INCLUDING W.A., fob
23/6
IN TAN -
-24/6
SEND FOR THE NEW
CALLAGHAN
STYLE-BOOK.
POSTED FREE.
90 Illustrations.
WRITE
TO-DAY
FOR
ITS
•>$
>7
m
Very Stylish.
VERY LONG WEAR.
AN EXACT FIT.
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS,
Through our Mail Order System, can
have a pair of these Boots sent to them,
closely examine them, FIT THEM ON.
They can exchange them, or we can refund
their money. Our Mail Order Goods always go right. "^1
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
: ■'
>:■••'- ,Jf
' ' >
FOR THE
AND AFTER.
ONE of the many good points of the
“ Kodak ” is that with fair usage and
ordinary care, it will last a life time.
KODAKS are BUILT FOR WORK as well
as for PLAY. They represent Strength and
Elegance combined, and invariably produce
good photographs'. . . *
They can be used with either FILMS or
PLATES at will, and the films can be
DEVELOPED IN DAYLIGHT*
We are pleased to demonstrate this to all
enquirers. All styles and patterns of Kodaks
at all prices
From 6s. to £2O.
BAKER&ROUSE
PRPY., LIMITED.
Sole Agents in Australia for “KODAK
LIMITED,” and for all Dealers* Supplies.
375 & 377 George St„ Sydney
“ THE BLOCK,” 284 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
78=80 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
37 RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE.
sfd
gdsf
Refiners and
Sole Manufacturers of
ESTABLISHED 1884.
SAN FRANCISCO, and 117 Pitt St., Sydney
P. & B. BUILDING
NOT THE SAME AS OTHER PAPE
PAPER
THE HOUSE
you’re buildiug, whether it be of wood
and iron or brick and tile, must be
made weatherproof and watertight to
preserve the
BEAUTIFUL
interior from damp. The best way is
to line weatherboard or rough-oast
slates, tiles or iron, with P. & B.
Paper. Send for samples.
If It is not seemly, do it not; if it is not true, speak it not.”— Marcos Aurelius.
WILLIAM BALDWIN
W. S, FRIEND & 00.,
JAMES W. JACK,
NORMAN & CO.,
E. T. HARRIS,
HEDLEY BUTTON,
BRISCOE & CO., LTD.,
Aast. Rep.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Wellington, N.Z.
Adelaide, S.A.
Townsville, Q.
Launceston, Tas.
Melbourne, Vic.
JAMES McEWAN & CO., LTD., Melb., Vic.
JAMES SANDY & 00., Sydney, N.S.W,
JOHN BURNS & CO., LTD., Auckland, N.Z.
G. L. DENNISTON, Dunedin, N.Z.
WILLIAM SANDOVER & C 0... Perth, W.A.
EDWARD REECE & SONS, Chch., N.Z.
E. L. YENOEEN & CO. Pty., Ltd., Melb., Vic.
THOMSON, BRIDGES & CO., LTD., Invercargill. N.Z.
THE N.Z. LOAN AND MERCANTILE AGENCY CO., LTD., Brisbane, Q.
g
OSTRICH PLUMES
From our Famous Farms in South Africa.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 10$ inches).
This style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
3 for 10 -
POST FREE
to any address.
We make this Special Offer to advertise our Ostrich Plumes.
Order payable to John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free
BLACK or NATURAL FEATHER BOAS, 12/6.
Write To-day. Send Money
Length, I\yds>
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
[Mention The Bulletin.]
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., Melbourne
THIS RAZOR isa
THE Plum is a clean cutting, easy-
going dependable razor that
will make you say “Ah, a good
comfortable shave at last.” Try it
—your money back if it fails to
please.
dsfg
PRICE, lOs. 6d„ Post Free.
Single Razor In Leather Case, 10/6.
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6.
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-.
Razoleo Lightening' Sharpener, 6d.
Cake Universal Shaving: Soap, 6d.
POST FREE TO ANY PART OF AUSTRALASIA.
CRAIG & AITKEN 654 George St., Sydney
iK
'Z
%
S~'
ft
ER
2>o
!^oih
mah
PA WATER)
5Cn FUAT' SPRINGS
•f (»TM>+ •
fl-ANDS
OURNE' 1 5
A SPA C O
The MODERN
hostess..#
“I give you ‘KOOMAII
SPA'! Drink it. In youi
whisky, in your wine, or
with milk it is delicious.
It sparkles like liquid
diamonds. It has three
great points:
1. It's name b Koomah.
2. It *s Australia's natural
mineral water.
3. It is sold by the oldest
Australian Mineral
Water firm,
E. Rowlands,,
MELBOURNE,
SYDNEY,
KATOOMBA,
BALLARAT."


“M OTA ” brand
Motor Car Spirits
Are the finest power spirits the world produces.
Sold by all Motor Manufacturers,
Importers, Repairers, etc., or of
The BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD,
Agents, Adelaide, Melbourne & Sydney.
Pratt’s Motor Car Spirit.
Highest Grade
American . . .
PETROL
ALWAYS UNIFORM IN QUALITY.
In stock at the Kerosene Stores of the COLONIAL OIL
COMPANY.
At all the Leading Centres of Australia and New Zealand.
THE STANDARD FAMILY MEDICINE.
Dk. Morse’s Indian Root Pills Superior to
all Others.
The prudent housewife has learnt by experience
that Nature occasionally requires some assistance,
and that this assistance is best afforded by
prompt recourse to Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills. In thousands of homes the little amber
bottle in which these pills are packed is the sole
medicine chest, for there are few complaints in
which Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills cannot be
administered without beneficial results. Many a
serious illness may be prevented by the timely
use of these pills, and being purely vegetable they
do not weaken, sicken or gripe, and may be taken
by the most delicate woman or the youngest
child. “ For some considerable time,” writes
Mrs. M. Brown, of 15 Gipps-street, Paddington,
Sydney, “ I suffered with indigestion and head-
aches, and during that period I tried many
remedies. A neighbor advised me to try your
pills, and so effective was the result that after
ridding me of the pains in the back, headaches,
and other symptoms of my complaint, and re-
storing me to health, I decided never to be with-
out your medicine in the house. They are now
our family medicine ; my husband, children and
myself all use them occasionally. I recommend
them whenever possible.” Dr Morse’s Indian
Root Pills are a perfect blood purifier and a
positive and permanent cure for biliousness,
indigestion, constipation, headaches, sallow com-
plexion, liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples,
boils and blotches, and for female ailments.*
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt Bt., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices:
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
If the V.R.O. stewards had any idea of stand-
ins' to their guns they would now proceed to refuse the
nominations of Jack Wren’s “dummy” horse-owners.
Everybody knows that Wren’s horses are running at
registered meetings in the colors—as the term goes—of
three or four, or half-a-dozen, other people, yet the
stewards who vetoed the Tote man. are winking at his
agents; As for the bogus owners of Wren’s ponies that
run at unregistered meetings—well, Wren himself is the
potentate who winks at them.
“ W.V.” : “F.F.” (B. l/11/’O6) ought to try the
scheme of offering a horse-owner part of a sweepstake.
The owner he writes about can only have had one eye ;
and that orb must have been incapable of investigating
the contents of a clear-glass bottle. I drew a horse my-
self in Tatt.’s sweep some time ago. Offered the owner
one-quarter of the stake. The cormorant refused my
very reasonable offer. Wanted half of first, second or
third money. Also, telegraphed me to send over a
jockey to Sydney (I live in Melbourne) and to pay all his
(the jock’s) exes, together with £lOO in the event of a
win. Besides all this, he made no blooming error as to
the genuineness of my side of the agreement. Received
a communication from his solicitors, together with a
typed agreement some miles long, which was a half-
brother to a garnishee order on my screw. Two items
were —£5 ss. solicitors’ expenses, and all the acceptance
fees for the race, win or lose. He wanted to hold the
ticket and distribute the money. Eventually I signed to
pay him half of Ist, 2nd, or 3rd money, if his Blanky
Horse won. However, this abbreviation of the agreement
euchred the joint altogether, for the Damned Horse
never even started.
* * * *
It is not often that a newspaper racing prophet
does any good by hacking his own tips ; but the sporting
editor of one of the Adelaide dailies had a really good
win over the Poseidon double for the two Cups.
* * * *
The Bulletin writer who spoke of gee-gee
Dyed Garments as ill-named, and incidentally tipped the
animal for the V.R.O. Handicap, which it duly won (a
7 to 1 chance), is now cheerfully prepared to admit that
he was ignorant of the text from Isaiah whereby the
significance of the aforesaid name is explained. Also, he
is now convinced that he should have written “ugly
named” instead of “ill-named.” But he objects to
getting reprimanded for his error, which hurt nobody,
without being given credit for his prophetic utterance,
which was calculated to benefit punting mankind. It
was he, and not Isaiah, who tipped Dyed Garments for the
V. Handicap, on the strength of its unsuccessful
running a week previously. * #
The revival of pedestrianism by John Wren
made a fourth and final appearance at the Melbourne
Exhibition Oval on Monday night (12/11/’O6). The prin-
cipal event was the final of the 120yds. sprint handicap
for £5OO, split up into four dividends of £3OO, £7O, £2O,
and £lO, the preliminary heat winners dividing £lOO.
Fivepeds., on marks from 9yds. to lljyds., qualified for
the big money race. H. Chase proved
the best, and led all the way, winning by sft. in
llsec. J. Donaldson, the favorite (9|yds.) defeated
J. A. Parker (10yds.) by inches for second money.
W. Richardson (11yds.) was fourth, and the virtual
scratch man (9yds.) never caught the field. The
finest and most attractive performance of the meet-
ingr was created in the Ascot Mile Handicap, champion
W. P. Garrard, defeating Bob M‘Farlane by five yards in
the good time of 4min. 26 l-ssec. Both peds were on
scratch, and gave away starts of from 45 to 80yds.
The duel between Garrard and Mac. aroused more
enthusiasm than all the sprints lumped into one.
Garrard made the pace so solid that Mac. could
just hang on. The field was run off its legs, and
at the finish peds., public, and officials put hands
together, and raised a loud voice. Arthur Postle made
another record-breaking attempt over 100yds. He
defeated Jack Marsh with 2yds. advantage, but failed to
do better than even time (lOsec.). Arthur also started in
the 220vds. handicap final, but was unable to catch the
field, Norman Oliver winning from Jack Devine, in
21 4-ssec. Wren, Esq., was evidently after an awful
example, as several peds. were cautioned for not running
all out when hopelessly beaten, and it cost a well-known
sprinter £2 for displaying a hand near his nose before
starting in a heat. That much boomed American
sprinter Max Whittingham is still an unknown quantity.
Has he fallen overboard?
* * » •
“Adel” writes: Not even S.A.’s two imported
bowlers could bring success in the match with Victoria,
and the Adelaide crowd, which is dead tired of seeing its
own men beaten, stayed away from the Oval in great
multitudes. It was the batting—contrary to ail expec-
tation—that failed. With Victoria out for 125, the S.A.
team only established a lead of 96. A plucky stand by
some Vic. juniors at the second try (Carroll 112, Vaughan
65, Bush 62) gave S.A. 256 to tie —and it lost by 70.
Among the Victorians, Collins, who seemed less fast than
of old, was quite ineffective, but Saunders, who seemed a
trifle less slow, was at times unplayable, and had 10 for
143 on the whole game. Of the S. A. team, only Hill and
Darling did anything with the bat. Gehrs failed com-
pletely both times. Wright took four wickets, but
O’Connor and M‘Beth, who were residents of Sydney
till six weeks back, had to do nearly all the bowling.
* * * *
Gordon heads Sydney Metropolitan Cricket
Competition with six points, and the nearest rival is
North Sydney (Gordon’s parent club) with three. Then
come University, Paddington, Central Cumberland, Bur-'
wood and Waverley, all with two each. The other five
clubs are sundry points less than nothing. So far this
season there has not been a single draw. On Saturday
last, although it was pre-eminently a batsman’s day, only
two centuries were scored. Goddard, of Redfern, made
125 against Waverley before Keele caught him off one
from Hill. It was a great display of reliable batting
and lasted three hours, during Which period the
smiter . smote 20 fours. The other century - maker
was Macartney, of Gordon, whose 110 included 15
fours and one sixer. He was caught by Johnson off
Duff.. His clubmate, B. N. Hickson, had hard luck.
For over two hours he batted with the greatest care and
skill, and was well on the way for his century when he
was thrown out by N. Y. Deane? His 91 included eight
fours and three sixes. Among the bowlers, Garnsey, of
Burwood, was best, with seven wickets for 68 runs, in
Central Cumberland’s first innings. In the same club’s
second innings Deane took four of the six wickets that
fell, for 29. Another good performance was that of Fin-
neran, of Sydney, who, in Middle Harbor’s second
innings, took five of the six wickets that fell, for 44.
Carty, of Paddington, showed up well against University,
bagging four for 52. Bowden, of Glebe, did better, with
four of Balmain’s for 42. Whiddon and Gee bowled well
for Middle Harbor against Sydney, Whiddon securing
four for 48, and Gee three for 19.
* * * *
Although a little coursing may becarried on in
the Sydney suburban racecourses, the sport seems prac-
tically doomed. The'committee of the National Coursing
Association has announced that, unless coursing grounds
are exempted from the provisions of the Anti-Gambing
Act, the cruel pastime must go. And a very good thing,
too ! The point is just this : These gamblers buy hares,
and when the unfortunate animal escapes from the dogs
it is only an escape into captivity. The hare is brought
out to run for its life another day, and the ordeal is
repeated over arid over again till the poor thing is at last
caught. Out' at Kensington (Sydney) there was one
rather strong hare that made its escape regularly till,
one day, it lost an eye. After that, it had three narrow
escapes, and was at last caught by a dog from the blind
side. And the ruffians called that sport!
* * * *
Melbourne amateur billiardists were not quite
satisfied with the crushing defeat of their champion,
Tricks, by the visiting Rumball. On figures, the Sydney
player appeared to have a pull over the Vic. champion
before they went to the tabl , but if they can be judged
on previous figures, Tricks didn’t show his true form in
his first meeting with the (probably) better man. He
maintained his usual good style most of the time—cueing
more attractively than Rumball —yet he gave one the
impression that he was out of health and lacking the
confidence that has supported him in many an uphill
fight. This was the more noticeable because Rumball’s
best breaks—Bl and 63—were nothing for one of Tricks’
calibre to be alarmed at. A weaker man might have
happened to give a better display against the winner
under the protracted circumstances. The circumstances
were very protracted. A game of 3000 up was spread
over five sessions, whereas it might have been more
satisfactorilv divided into three.
* * k »
“Brumby”: Re M.L.A. Solly’s hysterical
whoop to the Vic. Parliament anent “ Two-up ” (B.
25/10/’O6). Sol. has probably never been in a two-up
school in his life, and has evidently spoken his piece on
“ information received ” —like the irresponsible Judkins,
who froths forth weird charges against no one in parti-
cular, and when pressed for details relapses into a holy
and profound silence like that of the desert after the
children of Israel had left. As a matter of fact, the
“schools” play on Saturday afternoons from 2.30 till
about six, when an adjournment is made for tea, and
players disperse. Play is resumed again at 8.15 or 8.30,
and continued till about 3 or 3.80 a.m., by which time the
supply of money is exhausted, through lucky, gamblers
going homewards. None of the lucky ones will stay on at
such a time ; there is little money about, and a run of ill-
luck at any moment may scatter their pile aniongst the
straggling riff-raff players who themselves have only a
few shillings to lose. The establishment is again opened
for play at 2.30 p.m., closed again for tea and opened, as
on the night before, at the same hour. This dispenses
with the ridiculous yarn of Solly that “ young
fellows”—why “young fellows”? Why not old
sinners, for a change ?—enter the schools on Satur-
day afternoons and do not leave before Monday
morning. In regard to the proprietors introducing
two-headed pennies, and being occasionally, on that
account, severely assaulted by their patrons, I coldly
interject “Bats !” Such an action would simply ruin
their connection with the players—the fundamental
secret of the popularity of two-up being the reputation
for fair-dealing enjoyed by those who run the schools.
Also, Solly avers the proprietors acquire great proficiency
in “heading ’em” by assiduous practice. Now, any
chump knows that the proprietor never spins at all—
with the exception of a single ceremonial toss at the
opening of play. Anyhow, the man who could attain the
skill to “head’em” at will would deserve all he made,
for the thing is simply impossible, as anyone who tosses
two pennies higher than his head will realise after noting
how the coins rebound, spin, twist and roll in all direc-
tions on striking the ground.
* * * *
St. George (Sydney) Sailing and Motor Boat
Club distinguished itself on Saturday last. Of 10 starters
one was swamped, one lost a man overboard and lost the
race picking him up, and four others were disqualified
for not rounding the marks properly. Altogether they
had a great time.
Prince Alfred Club’s ocean yacht race for the
Petrel Cup and £IOJ on Saturday last had a somewhat
unsatisfactory ending, owing to the rounding mark being
laid several miles from where the yachtsmen had been
informed it would be dropped overboard. So the four
yachts that had left the fleet behind them in the trip
down Port Jackson cleared the Heads and threshed away
up northward in search of the mark that was miles away
due east of them. The rearguard discovered the mistake
and went for the mark without losing any time at all.
This gave the scratch boat, Rawhiti, a clear run for it,
and it finished 90 seconds ahead of Herreshoff, with
Fleetwing third. The Rawhiti’s name will be included
among the list of those that have a leg in for Commodore
Dempster’s handsome trophy, but it is understood that
Mr. Brockhoff is anxious for the race to be re-sailed. He
is too good a sportsman, and has too good a boat to wish
to score by any unfortunate mistake. Culwulla, Kuku-
hurra, Fleetwing, and Magic were the ones that went
northwards, and Rawhiti was following them when its
skipper discovered the mistake. Culwulla and Scotia,
which left the rest of the fleet far behind, were hope-
lessly out of it, and retired in despair. So, presumably,
the race will be re-sailed. The Alfred Club doesn t have
many blunders, and its contests are usually famous for
smooth working.
... *
Something went wrong with Christian. Webb
*nd the Australian in the Sydney Sailing Club’s 18-
footer handicap on Saturday, and that usually formidable
boat could do no better than finish fifth- Sixteen started,
Mona capsizing on the way to the line. The sail she
carried was big enough to have capsized the Grosser
Kurfurst. Stella filled up at Bradley’s Head. Viking led
the fleet to George’s Head, where Vision rushed past and
led round the lightship, with Scot and Crescent in close
pursuit. Australian was far down on the list and appa-
rently not too comfortable in the stiff breeze, while the
rival flyer, Holmes’ Donnelly, seemed to be under-can-
vassed.' At the lightship, Zena ripped its sail and had to
retire. Vision maintained the lead under the ballooners,
and led the way to Shark Island, with Scot and Crescent
still close behind —somewhat closer than befo’re, in fact.
At Clark Island, Australian had improved its position,
but nothing to speak of, and Scot and Crescent had
drawn still closer to the leader. The thresh back to
Taylor Bay saw a great struggle between Vision, Scot,
and Orescent, while Australian dashed into fifth position.
Running before the wind, Scot and .Crescent passed
Vision, and crossed and recrossed each other in a bewil-
dering manner. When the}' reached the line it happened
to be Crescent’s turn, and that Turkish emblem won by
4sec. Vision and Viking filled third and fourth places.
It was a great race.
* * *. »
The Victorian Yacht Racing Association engi-
neered a splendid spectacle for the opening of the season
in Hobson’s Bay, Saturday last, when Commodore Douglas,
of the Geelong Club, led no less than 50 yachts through a
series of graceful and interesting evolutions, carried out
in decidedly stormy, water. Looks as though the
jealousies that have hitherto kept Melbourne yachting
clubs apart, and prevented anything like proper develop-
ment of the sport, have at last been overcome and
drowned in the champagne that flowed at the banquet at
St. Hilda Club House on Saturday night.
• * * *
The struggle for the Four-Oar Championship
of Victoria took place on Saturday last, over the usual 2£
miles of the lower Yarra. The conditions were not alto-
gether Elysian, including oppressive heat, a head wind
and a strong ebb tide. Mercantile Club had two
crews competing, No. 1, all veterans, and No. 2,
none too green. The other contestants were,
Albert Park and Hawthorn Clubs. Mercantile
No. 2 had but little chance as they were pulling
in a heavy, old-fashioned clinker-built craft, and a mile
of the pace set for them by their rivals broke them right
up. At the start the two Mercs, went to the front, and
then No. 1 crew begaffito move away. Albert Park got
on a great swing, and: drew a few feet in front of Mercs.
Noi l. This lead it- afterwards increased to a whole
length. Hawthorn and Mercs. No. 2 were evidently in for
a donkey-licking. At Spottswood Point, the Alberts, in
spite of a desperate effort by the Mercs., were two lengths
ahead, and Hawthorn had left the struggling No. 2 team
along way behind. Near the sugar-works the two rear
boats were ten lengths behind, but Mercs. No. 1 were
making frantic efforts, and Alberts were showing signs
of cracking up. Their stroke seemed to lose its power,
and slowly the Mercs, were drawing up. Rounding the
sugar-works Mercs. No. 1 beat Alberts for position,
and, with a series of frantic yells from excited
followers, overhauled them and shot past. Alberts
were so obviously pumped that the Hawthorn
boat put on a great spurt and tried for second
place, but Alberts were not so pumped as all that, and
managed to beat the pursuit by a good length. The
Mercantile boat led the wav home with 10 lengths to
spare. The time, 19min. 402-ssec., was dead slow, but the
conditions were very adverse. The record, 14min. 20sec.,
was made by Albert Park in 1904.
* -K * *
Wanganui (M.L.) people do not conceal the
fact that they are disappointed with Stanbury’s style,
and are afraid, unless the ex-champion improves a lot,
that he will not make a decent meal for their local man,
Webb, whom they regard as a model of grace and power.
Stanbury is working very hard, and is out on the river at
daybreak training ; and his early habits came in handy to
one local resident who was badly bitten by the sculling
fever. This local person was a perfect novice in an out-
rigger, and he determined to acquire proficiency while no
one was looking, so he stole out through the heavy mist
that always hangs over the Wanganui at daybreak. He
had just reached the middle of the stream when over he
went, and the rim of the world rushed at him. His
bubbling yell brought Stanbury to the rescue, and the
ex-champion retrieved both man and boat. The Wan-
ganui is mighty cold in and when Stan-
bury got his man to the shore he was nearly dead with
cramp. The incident has made Stanhury very popular,
but has not caused the local people to think any .better
of his chances. They are wildly patriotic in Maoriland,
and they carry the patriotism to a point that amounts to
bloated skull.
* * * *
Durnan and Towns are being besieged with
requests to row over various courses. The Raymond
Terrace (N.S.W.) people have offered to put up the £lOO
exes that Towns has to allow Durnan, if the pair will
settle their watery difference on the Terrace course.
Penrith proposes that it should be decided on the Nepean,
and talks vaguely of “ something substantial ” in the way
of an inducement, but carefully refrains from committing
itself to any stated sum. On the other hand there are
tempting offers from the residents along some portions of
the Parramatta outside the recognised championship
course. The scullers realise that they will get a bigger
crowd on the Parramatta than anywhere else, but such a
huge proportion of it will travel there by tram, and in its
own motor-launch, and in unauthorised steamers, sailing
boats, catamarans, and other weird craft, that it might
pay them better to row over the Nepean or Terrace
courses. So far, it is said, there is no offer from the
people along the Parramatta championship course.
* * * *
A fiend named Pickering has brought to light 1
a pretty kettle of fish. Canadian sculler Durnan was
welcomed here by N.S.W. Chief Secretary Dismal Jimmy
Hogue, and now the cynical Pickering rises to ask, per
medium of the Sunday Sun, if the Hon. Hogue is aware
that Durnan is here to row for a thumping big side-wager.
He also wants to know if the race will be rowed on a
licensed racecourse, in order to make that wager legal.
If not, what does the Carruthers Government mean to do
about it ? Pickering is unkind.
* * * *
The motor bike is turning out a much more
reliable animal than most people expected. Of the 13 riders
who scored full points in the first run-off of the N.S.W.
Pioneer Club’s reliability test, four withdrew, and of the
nine who actually started no less than seven again scored
the full marks. The course was only 56 miles, but it was
bumpier than before, and had to be traversed at higher
speeds. In the passenger section, three started, and were
ordered to maintain an average speed of 14 miles an hour,
and the rest of the classes progressed gradually to a top
rate of 23 miles an hour. A still more severe test will be
made this Saturday to pick out the absolutely best,
and to decide the destinations of the prizts.
After six days of strenuous effort and unceasing
watchfulness on the part of competitors, and ope rather
serious accident, the Dunlop 1000-Miles Motor Reliability
Test came to an end on Saturday last opposite Salvation
Army Barracks in Victoria Parade, Melbourne. The
winner turned up in O. Camphin, who drove his 12-h.p.
Darracq over the 1000 miles in 39hr. 58min. with the loss
of three points only. The second man was T. Rollason,
in a 10 h.p. De Dion, who lost 36 points, and occupied
45hr. 7min. Third man was W. R. Grimwade, who
drove an Australian-made Tarrant car. He lost
40 points, but occupied only 37hr. 23£min. Kellow
in the 40-h.p. Napier, had wretched luck. A big New-
foundland dog charged the car, which was travelling at
schedule spe.ed, and got mangled. It bent a rod under-
neath the car in the process, and threw the wheels out of
line to such an extent that they tore the tyres off every
few yards, and, generally, steering was almost impossible.
All the same, the great Napier car was only three hours
behind schedule time. The rest of the prize winners were
A- G. Hampton, R. Edols, F. B. Roche, F. E. Fay, Guy
Madden, and C. B. Kellow.
The general teaching of the Test is that, for all-
round reliability, 6 and 8 h.p. single cylinder cars can-
not be beaten. The three that started all finished.
Three cars fractured their frames, and coils and
frame springs also proved to be too lightly made
in the imported machines for Australian roads.
There ‘was only one serious accident in which a
15h.p. De Dion car turned turtle while travelling at 40
miles per hour. Strange to say, although both occupants
were severely injured, the car was quite undamaged, and
was driven back to Melbourne by a young driver without
any trouble. Another solemn lesson is that, for low
petrol consumption and fast time and all-round relia-
bility, the Australian-built car is a lot ahead of most of
the imported ones.
* * » »
N.S.W. League of Wheelmen will hold its
Summer meeting at the same old stand on the nights of
Monday and Wednesday, November 26 and 28 respec-
tively, and the Summer Girl will walk abroad in the cool
night air, and in the glory of transparent skirts showing
frills and bebe ribbon as in a glass clearly and dis-
tinctly. Up to date about 100 nominations have been
received, and Westralia is the only State that will
not be represented by some crack riders. The Summer
meeting is merely a sort of preliminary roll on the field;
t e big events belong to later on. The plums of the
coming event are not too heavily gilded, the. Summer
Wheel Race being worth only £3O, and the Motor-Paced
Handicap £2O. Of course there are the usual mile and half-
mile sprints, and the two five-mile scratch events. Also a
motor-bike race for members of the Pioneer Club. Many
people are under the impression that cycling is a dead
sport, and the impending meeting will no doubt throw
some light on the matter. One feature is that the com-
petitors will be all Australians. This Saturday will see
the running of the Goulburn to Sydney Road Race, for
which a big field is entered. The absence of Howard, the
Westralian champion, from the big contest is much
regretted.
» * * »
At last, and a long-looked-for last, a white man
is once more wrestling champion of Australia, for, on
Monday night, at Meibom ne Cyclorama Building, Buttan
Singh threw up the murky Asiatic sponge to Clarence
Weber, after each man had secured a fall. Nearly
4000 people were present, and whooped loudly for
White Australia, and went nearly mad with delight when
the sinuous Pathan declined to go on. The first bout
lasted 13 minutes, during which Buttan secured a leg
lock hold on Weber, and the white man had to either go
down or have his thigh dislocated. So he went down.
In the second Weber attacked ferociously, and put
the Pathan on the defensive. Moving round and
round the mat the colored man tried all he
knew for one of his patent grips, but Weber
never gave him a moment’s opportunity, and suddenly
rushing in, secured ahead bar, then a three-quarter Nel-
son, and, before Buttan could retaliate, he was turned
over and dashed down on the mat. There he lay, refusing
to rise, with his nose and mouth bleeding, and complain-
ing that his leg and arm were injured. Considering the
wild-beast tactics by which he has won his former
matches with the same man, no sympathy is felt for the
Pathan.
* * * ‘
In the U.S.A. the Jew is becoming beastly
aggressive, and taking to pugilism as a business. Among
the best of the fighters of the U.S.A. are, and have been,
Joseph Choynski, Joseph Bernstein, Joseph Herman, H.
Tenney (now dead), E. Menne, Abel Attell, Samuel Berger
(who made a mess of O’Brien’s beauty lately), and
Kaufmann. And all of them Jew's. Titus_ performed a
great feat when he laid Cohen right out amidst the ruins
of his city on Mount Moriah, for Cohen has a dirty left.
Said that Canadian sculler Durnan’s racing
skiff is a marvel of frailty. Made of cedar as thin as
shavings, the whole turnout weighs only 231 b. That sort
of thing may be good enough for the St. Lawrence, but it
ought to be thicker for the Parramatta. If one of our
man-eating sharks gets underneath Durnan he will be
able to see him right through that skiff, and there’ll be a
rush, a snap, and a vanished athlete. That sort of adver-
tisement would have a most depressing effect on the
London money market.
» » * »
Westralia has had a row over the bribing of
football players engaged in a senior match. East Fre-
mantle, this"year’s premiers, had to play West Perth for
the final. Had East gone under, another team, South
Fremantle, would have had the right to challenge West
Perth, and another big gate would have been assured,
and the bookmakers would have had another day out.
Three of the East players were, therefore, boldly ap-
proached by two beaks with books, and a tenner apiece
was given them to play stiff. The men took the money
and told their captain ; and the money was retained tilt
after the match, in which they apparently played honestly
enough, as their team won easily. At a subsequent
inquiry one of the bookies unblushingly told the whole
story, and added that the £3O had been invested in bets
by the three players concerned. The Association was
puzzled, but disqualified the trio for three years.
WEEN IN BLANK VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A note of hand from Mr. Wren-
Such notes as poets only do receive—
Not signifying flux of bullion
Or gathering from flats of Collingwood,
Courteously drew me to our Exhibition
On Wednesday eve to see electrics.
“The blaze far round illumined Hell ”
Excuse me, Milton, I mean Heaven.
I had meandered up through Carlton Gardens,
Of yore-time consecrate to kerosene-tins,
Jam-tins, and all summed up in
“ Any rags, any bones, any bottles to-day ? ”
Now a peaceful, sylvan shade.
The Exhibition looms as pandemonium,
“ I built myself a lordly pleasure-house ; ”
Adown the glistening bulge of dome
There gleams electric light from off the top.
The palace rises in a spectral way,
I enter—all within is dark,
Most cavernous, peopled by the ghosts
Of General Booth, John Alexander Dowie,
And thousands more.
Dark, too, is the Oval,
With dimly moving forms of Wren and Co.
Suddenly, as I have said,
There flashes up most glorious blaze
To show what shall be when the sports
Begin for John Wren’s cash.
But, ye Muses, came I along to see lights ?
No fear. I came to see the man.
This Wren, whose mighty fame
The city doth envelop.
Judkins’s Wren, his Lucifer,
Sans whom your Juddy, Worrall,
And that lot would be quite lost.
A casual little man.
Legs slightly bowed, as thougli he’d gripped
The barrel of a horse. His stride
Is confident and springy. But little
Doth he talk. An odd and easy smile
Plays ever round the corners of his mouth,
Whereas Judkins hath a countenance of wood—
Woebegone, as though all joy had fled.
Drab tweed suit and black boxer hat
Appropriately are sported by Squires’ patron.
They say we grow alike to those we love,
And so Wren is not uniike Judkins,
With a fancy dash of rare Bland Holt.
He gazes o’er at Parl’ment House,
Which, let me tell you, bounds the Oval—
Not the Parliament of Deakin,
But that of God’s own gardener.
Illuminated skylights in the roof
Suggest that e’en there Wren is the topic,
While Solly and Frank Anstey don the gloves
’Gainst Goshen. But Wren
Turns no hair in an earthquake,
He still goes smiling on.
’IC.
STARGAZER.


KUGELMANN’S
©
Ptire
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
&
(“Beauty's
Aid/'
j*
FREE
SAMPLE
sent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp,
&
Kugelmann’s Pare Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted per
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
H. E. KUOELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE j* 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
SAC
SUIT
To Order,
63/-
YOUR XMAS SUIT.
Any gentleman will do himself justice by wearing a suit of our
making.
We have a multitude of handsome patterns.
Leave your order early.
SAMPLES POSTED FREE.
HAGON BROS.,
NOTE ADDRESS : 107-9 Oxford St., Only.
Old Johnny Hawthorne, who is running
in the interests of the Tory, Foreign-trade, Dear
Land and Anti-Settlement party at Newcastle
(N.S. W.), seems an even “ backer ” back number
than most. He is no further advanced than the
Six Hatters Lie which is miles and miles behind
die bulk of the great army of Stinking Fish.
That army is far past even the Petriana Lie, and
has got on to the Marriage Tie Lie and the Land
Confiscation Lie. Johnny also says that “the
party to which I belong represents loyalty,” which
is a left-off political cry from the days of Parkes
and the Kiama Ghost. Even the last camp-
toiiower at the tail of the regular forces of Stinking
rish passed the bones of that old gag in his
march years ago.
Mackinnon has induced Yic. Assembly to
pass his Widows’ and Orphans’ Maintenance Bill,
which takes it out of the power of a malicious
man to will away all his possessions, and leave his
wife and children wholly penniless. He also
sought to make it impossible for a rich wife to ex-
clude her husband and the children—especially
the children—when distributing her belongings
by will, but Speaker Madden was astounded and
broken up over the shocking newness of this pro-
position, and ruled that such an amendment was
irrelevant to the subject of the Bill. Also he
said wildly that the proposed idea was “quite
new in law.” The Madden family likes its law
old and blue and mouldy, and holds that no
country is justified in making a statute till some
other country has made it, and that there should
never be a beginning, but always a precedent.
Motor Reliability Test .
THE DUNLOP CUP
WON ON
CONTINENTAL TYRES.
THE GARLAND CUP
The Motoring Blue Ribbon of Australia
THE DUNLOP GOLD MEDAL
THE fIOTA TROPHY
THE PRATT’S CUP
. . . ALL WON ON . . .
CONTINENTAL TYRES
Without a Single Change of Tyre.
WALSH’S FOUR-GUINEA SUITS
Tl RE Not Equalled for Style and General Appearance—acknowledged
to be the Best Value in Sydney. They are made in our own work-
rooms, under supervision, by weekly-wage Tailors, who also take a pride
in the finish of their work. The Newest and Most Expensive Patterns
from the Manufacturers. The result is that lam able to make Fashionable
Suits at Four Guineas. We call very special attention to our make of
Garments, showing that our Tailor’s Skill is endless, and nothing seems
impossible in the way of production. Patterns, Self-Measure Forms,
and Illustrations on application.
E. T. WALSH,
Expert Tailor,
359 George St., Sydney
Barney Allen,
TURF COLOSSUS
OF AUSTRALIA.
a
'■it:,
m
Up:'
THE GOLDEN KING.
Sufficient address—
BARNEY ALLEN,
Melbourne.
Business Commissions exe-
cuted on the most liberal
terms.
30 years before the public,
never found wanting.
I guarantee clients the highest
market price obtainable.
Intending investors, send for
my quotations before deal-
ing with others.
*
STANDISH & BAGOT.
VILLIERS STAKES
and SUMMER CUP-
S.P. THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
Bankers
Victoria and Royal Banks
Subscribers
are notifed that LATEST INFOR-
MATION AND QUOTATIONS will
be found in ts The King of
Sport ” newspaper, published weekly, and posted free throughout Aus-
tralia for 4s. 6d. yearly.
Address: ** King of Sport ** Office, 294 Collins St*, Melbourne*
fd
Aa a cyclist you know you have to
encounter difficulties “on both sides
the hill ’’-“-the
Eadie Two-Speed Coaster
enables you to overcome them aIL
It has been called “ the hub of many
merits”—it embodies IN ONE SHELL
a high gear for the level—a low gear
for the hill—a free-wheel on BOTH
gears—and a back-pedalling brake of
absolute efficiency. It makes hill-
climbing easy and coasting a delight.
Specify it in your next new mount
and have this built of
EADIE FITTINGS
[Ask your Dealer.]
THE EADIE M’F’G CO., LD„
Redditch, England.
St ARARIT” TILE-LIKE COATING.
Cools Best ! Lasts Best 1
Insist that Cases be Opened on the Job.
WHITE or COTTA. Note Spelling :
Chief Ironmongers and “ A—R—A—B—l—o,”
Color Merchants. Trade Mark.
yjU ANTED Manager for large Suction Dredge. Liberal
salary paid to competent man. Tin experience
preferred. Apply to “ DREDGE,” GORDON & GOTCH,
giving full particulars of qualification.
A
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH,
Price, 6d.
Norwood Road Race
(ADELAIDE, 8.A.)
The winner—L. Eliott —first man in and fastest
time, used Miraculum in his tubes. The 25 miles of
road were in bad condition. Several placed men
also used
MIRACULUM
MIRACULUM instantly and effectively seals
punctures in motor and cycle tyres.
MIRACULUM does not effect the resiliency of the
tyre.
MIRACULUM is economical and easily used.
MIRACULUM does NOT perish the rubber, and
WE GUARANTEE
all tubes purchased from us against perishing, if
charged with Miraculum.
Charging Depot: 266 Latrobe Street (2 Doors
from Elizabeth Street), Melbourne.
BICYCLES, 45.; MOTOR CARS, from 30s.
All dealers, or write for Booklet.
Miraculum Corporation Ltd.,
395 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
VICKERY’S CHAMBERS, 82 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Publications.
AUSTRALIAN DRAMA.
FIRST BOOK :
“WANTED, A HUSBAND,”
A ONE-ACT FAROE. PRICE, ONE SHILLING.
Author, Fred. J. Forrester, Beaudesert, Queensland.
POSTAL NOTES OR STAMPS.
Special Rate to Book Trade .
Missing Friends.
COGHL AN. —Will W. COGHLAN, who left
South Africa, Oct., 1905, per s.s. “Devon,”
please communicate with CROSSLEY, Post
Office, Beaconsfield, Kimberley, South Africa.
IDLING.—If this should meet the eye of
CHARLES WILLIAM PILLING, or
anybody knowing his whereabouts, please com-
municate with his brother OLI VER, Lynohford.
Mt. Lyell, Tasmania. * ’


OUT=OF=TOWN SERVICE.
Our Mail Orders are handled by trained men, whose
experience and knowledge of what is most in favour at
the moment assure careful selection. All Goods are
delivered CARRIAGE EREE anywhere in Australasia.
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue, that makes MAIL
BUYIN'G EASY. It’s free for the asking.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Cabinet PHOTO. FRAME,
Richly Embossed, 10s 6d.
Other Styles, os 6d, 8s 6d, 10s Gd,
12s 6d. 15s, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
AUTOMATIC RAZOR STROP,
Pure Silver-Plated,
Richly Embossed, 13s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s,
255. 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver CLOTH or HAT BRUSH.
Long White Bristles, 5s 6d.
Other Styles, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s Gd.
A. SAUNDERS.
SHAVING CUP, Pure Silver-Plated.
Richly Embossed, Gilt Lined, 20s.
Other Styles, 5s 6d, 13s 6d, 15s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOBACCO POUCH, Buckskin,
Pure Silver Shield,
Rubber Lining, 4s 6d.
Other Styles, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d.
Black Morocco Leather STRAP PURSE and CARD
CASE, Pure Silver Mounts and Lock, 8s 6d.
Other Styles, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d,
15s, 20s.
With Solid Silver Chain attached, 3s 6d extra.
/St
>T>:SO
I
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver CHAIN PURSE,
Sin., 22s 6d; 3Jin., 255; 3Jin., 27s 6d
4in., 32s 6d; sin.. 455.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s,
17s 6d, 20s.
■
pro's
A. SAUNDERS.
Zylonite HAIR SSRUSH,
Extra Long Fine White Bristles, 5s 6d.
Other Styles, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d,
10s 6d. 12s 6d.
A Guide to RIGHT BUYING.
Our illustrated Catalogue is the largest of its kind pub-
lished. It illustrates oyer 3000 designs of Watches, Clocks,
Jewellery, Silverplate, Leather and Optical Goods. Let us
send it to you- It will COST YOU NOTHING, and will show
you the difference between HONEST GOODS and the mass
of shoddy goods shown in most stores-
SHAVING BRUSH. Highly Bur-
nished Nickel, Badger Bristles,
5s 6d. Other Style's, 3s, 3s 6d,
4s, 7s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
FIELD or MARINE GLASS,
Large Field, Sharp Definition, 255.
Other Styles, 12s 6d, 15s,
20s, to £lO.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver CIGAR CUTTER,
Richly Engraved, 5s 6d.
Plain, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
JEWEL CASKET, Pure Silver-Plated,
and Embossed, Silk Lined,
Other Styles, 12s 6d, 15s 6d, 16s
255, 30s, £2.
Richly Pierced,
255.
6d, 20s,
A. SAUNDERS.
CIGAR CASE, Seal Leather,
Green, Black, and Brown,
Pure Silver Mounts,
Calf Lined, 16s 6d.
Other Styles, 6s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 16s, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
SHAVING SET, Polished Nickel
Bevelled Glass Mirror,
Glass Base, 255.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d,
14s 6d, 17s 6d, 21s, 30s,
A. SATJNDERS.
GENT.’S SHAVING ROLL, comprising 5 Articles,
Finest Sheffield Steel, in Leather Case, 12s 6d.
Other Styles, Iss, 21s, 22s 6d, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s or Gent.’s TRAVELLING ROLL, Fitted with,
.every Convenience, Leather Roll, 20s.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s 6d, 17s 6d,
20s, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
“Pearl,” or
“Garden of the Soul”
PRAYER BOOK,
Pure Silver-Mounted, 7s 6d..
Heavier Mounts, 10s 6d,
. , 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver
SEWING COMPANION,
6 Articles, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 7s 6d, 8s fid.
15s, and 18s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Tan Leather WRIST BAG,
Fitted with Perfume Bottle
and Purse. 5s 6d.
Other Styles, 6s, 6d, 8s 6d,
iOs 6d. 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
INK STAND, Polished Nickel, Crystal Glass Bottle, :
Wooden Base, 7s 6d; Glass Base, 12s 6d;
Nickel Base, f Ss. Larger, 17s 6d.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d,
15s, 17s 6d. 20s.
All Goods
Sent
Carriage
Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
Handsome Gilt Bedroom CLOCK,
Tinted Enamel Dial, Onyx Base,
First-Class Timekeeper
12in. High, £2 ss.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d,
15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
SHOE LIFT and HOOK,
Solid Silver Mounted,
7in. long, in Silk Lined Case, 7s 6d.
Other Styles, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
VaV
A. SAUNDERS.
TOILET POMADE JAR,
Pure Silver-Mounted
Cut Glass, in 4 Sizes,
5s 6d, 8s 6d, 12s 6d, 20s.
Finest French J3RIAR PIPES,
Seymour System,
Vulcanite. and Amber Mouthpieces,
Pure Silver-Mounted, 20s.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s,
17s 6d. 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver HAIR BRUSH,
Richly Embossed, Long Bristles, Vs fid.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s,
17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver WAIST BELT BUCKLE,
Handsomely Pierced and Engraved, 12s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s 6d, 17s 6d,
20s, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
SEWING COMPANION,
Comprises 10 Useful Articles,
Pearl Mounted, Velvet Lined Case;
12s 6d.
Other Styles, 7s 6d, 10s 6d, 15s 6d,
16s 6d, 21s.
Silversmith mi 0 ptician,
A.
809, 811, 813,815,817 George-st,
Opposite New
Railway Station
, SYDNEY.


ti
Westward Ho!** Series. No. 5.
“ When all things were made, none was made better than Tobacco; to be a Lone Man's Companion, a
Bachelor's Friend, a Hungry Man's Food, a Sad Man's Cordial, a Wakeful Man's Sleep, and a Chilly
Man's Fire. There's no Herb like it under the canopy of Heaven." — Kingsley's “ Westward Ho ! ”
' '
m
A#**
Wi
>
a
’■ *'■ '
itS
H
■ ■
*
%
t\°
si
M
1
Sill
» Mi
<1
m
m
■
k m
’ll E
BFjr
■ s3g
-
Pi
m
mm
8
M
» j
HAVELOCR TOBACCO.
Ha
3 [OH
rv 'f


~ FLIES
CARRY
DISEASE
The COMMON
HOUSE FLY
is a Danger to
Human Life.
f
: \ .
<£>
Evferyriyisix.
Mmv Killer
dt He^rt.
IT’S Hairy body carries botH disease
and deatH. Having its origin in
filth, it brings witH it tbe bacteria
wbicH breeds in liltH. And as it moves
about, now crawling over refuse, now
over tbe food of tbe table, flying from tbe lips of the sicK to
tbe lips of tbe bealtby, it is said to be more dangerous to
modern society than were tbe wild beasts to primitive man.
Tbe bigb mortality among children in tbe congested
districts a city, where families are closely crowded together,
where refuse accumulates fast, where food is often Kept in
living rooms, is due to a large degree, so scientists now say, to
tbe fly. Infant diseases chiefly prevail in summer, when tbe
flies abound.
LCTIDANE
Is the Greatest KILLER
of FLIES other Insedis.
Be careful to observe the spelling of the name INSECTIBANE, as no other Insect Powder
possesses the qualities which render INSECTIBANE so peculiarly efficacious.
SOLD EVERYWHERE^
Wholesale s
ELLIOTT BROS.,
Australian Drug Coy,
SYDNEY-


AT POVERTY POINT.
Miss Rita Wyndale, mentioned recently on Poverty
Point as a member of the first B. and B. co., is in these
latter days Mrs. M. B. Gragg, proprietress of Collins-
street’s City Club Hotel, which is one of the bright spots
in Melbourne’s Inky Way.
“ La Milo and Cruicksharik ” blow their little trumpet
by letter from London Pavilion Theatre “As you will
have seen, the magnificent eulogy of Mr. W. T. Stead has
been reprinted over the whole of England, and has firmly
established the already great popularity of ‘La Milo and
Cruickshank.’ We have already received over 2000 press
cuttings on the subject—varying from double columns to
pars.—which you can easily understand when you re-
member that there are over 3000 newspapers printed in
England. The Continental and American cuttings have
yet to arrive. This remarkable boom is now referred to
in the English press as the greatest unsolicited advertise-
ment ever received by an artiste. As a result, the price
of our act has been going up £lO a day, and every mana-
ger wants it. The Pavilion cannot cope with the aug-
mented business, and are thinking of having matinees
daily to carry the overflow. We have this week signed on
with the Moss and Stoll Empires, Ltd., for 30 weeks’ tour
in the principal centres of England, Scotland, and Ire-
land, at three figures—double the money we were getting
at the Pavilion—making our salary equal to that of an
Australian State Governor. The only Australian that
still beats us is Melba. In view of this new booking, we
have abandoned the Continent for the time being.”
[Truly the caudal appendage of our kitten has become a
lengthy article.]
Robert Courtneidge is pushing his London success of
“ The Dairymaids” and his touring companies for “ The
Dairymaids” and “The Blue Moon” by means of a
two-sheet newspaper, published gratis. This ingenious
rag, titled “ The Dairy Maid,” and typed in imitation of
an ordinary daily paper, is loaded from end to end with
advertisement of the two shows, in one form or ocher.
Even the incidental advts. of patent foods, cocoas, &c.,
introduce a mention of “ The Dairymaids,” and the only
outside announcements are of pantomimes that Court-
neidge is to produce at Christmas in Edinburgh and
Newcastle. He seems to be making a lot of money at a
time when London theatre-managers in general are
scratching their diminished heads. He is now at work
upon a comic-opera version of “ Tom Jones,” written by
himself and his friend Thompson (of the Clarion), and
musicked by Edward German.
A relic of the far-back shearing sheds did a perish in
Sydney the other week. A mouth organ, and bones, and
copious head foliage were his stock-in-trade. Ifis street
playing, which was good of its kind, woke in a few
ears old memories of the bush ball, but the city larrikin
was unappreciative, and old Backblocks played on a
mighty poor wicket!
From London, about a play with Julius Superbus in
it: —Monday evening (Oct. 8) went to th« “ Winter’s
Tale,” and was disappointed. Tree himself is not in the
cast. They cut and slashed the pi <y until it was un-
recognisable, and put in several entirely futile gags. Two
scenes opened with a chorus which was not Shakspeare’s.
There were two hymns to Apollo. Autolycus, instead of
changing clothes with Florizel, picked up a mantle which
Florizel had laid down apparently on purpose for him,
and made some gag as he did so. They cut out the last
sentence of the oracle’s, the whole of Paulina’s speech
on Hermione’s death, and the scene between the two
gentlemen who report the meeting of Polixenes and
Leontes when they discovered that Perdita was
Leontes’ daughter, so that to anyone who did not know
the play the last scene was unintelligible. The scene where
the gentleman talk about Hermione’s Statue was also cut
out. Whenever anyone made a villainous speech the sky
darkened and we had a roll of thunder. In the Court of
Justice scene, after the reading of the oracle, when
Leontes says “ It’s a lie,” the stage became absolutely,
dark. Once a fireball fell. This I suppose is Tree’s
interpretation of “ The Heavens are angry.” Mrs. Tree
as Paulina rolled her eyes round'the gallery. Viola Tree
as Perdita was ungraceful and drank water out of
Florizel’s hat. Autolycus did not raise a laugh’; and I’ll
ri«k saying Ellen Terry misunderstood Hermione. But
she raved and “carried on” with Polixenes (Julius
Knight) “ something shocking.”
Died in Sydney, last week, MissMabelLane—of pleurisy,
it was said. Mabel is remembered by many Melbourneites
as the pretty daughter of the late Mrs. Lane, and, at her
mothers hotel in Oollins-street, she acted as the hand-
maiden of the bar for some years before the stately old
hostess took her to London and secured a stage foothold
for her._ She did nothing considerable in London, but
she did Vo well, and when manager Williamson engaged
her for the “ Ben Hur ’’ Co., four years ago, it was a very
competent and picturesque actress who came back to her
native land. Some of the parts she played Under J.C.W.’s
management fitted Mabel Lane admirably. For instance,
she was strikingly effective, in her quiet, melodramatic
style, as Larrabee’s accomplice in “Sherlock Holmes.”
She gave a touch of distinction to placid matronly char-
acters, and when she passed from the Williamson to the
Anderson Co. she brightened the bellowdrama proceed-
ings with her presence. Mabel Lane made her last
appearance in public at Melbourne Royal, not many
weeks ago.
The showman, Reuben Doodeward, charged with
“ wickedly and scandalously ” exhibiting a double-headed
dead and bottled infant at Sydney Show Ground, was
convicted and bound over in five quid to come up for
sentence when called upon. Now Reuben wants to
recover his bottled horror, and threatens law proceedings.
“O’F.” : A Poverty Pointer (B. 15/11/’O6) classes E. W.
Hornung as an Australian. But Hornung’s Australian
experience was packed into two years or less, and he de-
parted from this land 20 years ago. Certainly Hornung
has flavored his writings with “ Australian ” allusions of
a sort ever since. As far as I remember, his amateur
cracksman, Raffles, in the novel, cracked his first crib at
Yea (Vic.) while he was a member of a visiting English
cricket team. If Hornung is Australian, so are Havelock
Ellis [four years in N.S.W.), Kipling, Dolores, General
Booth, Little Cliff, and numerous other more or less de-
sirable aliens.
THE LATE OLLY DEERING.
“J.A.0.”: Death has been busy in the ranks of the
Australian theatrical profession recently. First Lar-
piour who, if not an actor, was at least an old showman ;
then Myra Kemble, Mabel Lane, and Tom Rainford ; now
Oily Deering. All within a couple of weeks or so. My
acquaintance with Oily began in 1880, about the time he
was playing the Bo'sun in J. 0. Williamson’s first Mel-
bourne production, of “ Pinafore.” Besides Deer-
ing, the cast included Maggie Moore, Annie Leaf,
Tom Riceardi (the boss Sir Joseph), Charles Harding
(dead), Tom Rainford (dead), and Lou. Braham (dead).
Oily Deering might almost be said to have been born on
the stage ; all his family connections had been, more or
less, in “ the business.” Before his father came to Aus-
tralia he was a well-known actor throughout the English,
provinces. Olty’s sjster, who went by the singular name
of “ Waddie,” was also an actress, and was married to
“Billy” Gill, the original Australian Sam Gerridge in
“Caste.” When Deering, sen., died, his widow, Oily’s
mother, married another actor, named Chapman, and
with him the family toured Asia, principally India.
There Chapman acquired sunstroke, and deemed
it prudent to return to Australia. After he arrived, he
became lessee of Geelong theatre. Oily had a step-sister,
whom I remember in opera comp&njes, She was married
to Tom Bellair, also of a theatrical family ; in fact, they
were all in it, up to their necks. Oily was, a good deal
older than he looked ; in 26 years I don’t remember any
change in him. However, I can hardly credit the state-
ment he is reported to have recently made, i.e., that he
was close on 70. Sixty or over, certainly, but 70 ■! He
was an excellent all-round actor —a good deal of sameness
about him, no doubt, but in some parts really very good.
He was, I think, married three times, and always had the
luck to secure pretty and clever women. His widow,
known in the profession as Linda Raymond, I have heard
characterised as the best actress on the Australian stage.
Oily Deering had a portable joke in his later years ; when
in Sydney he often lived at Waverley near the cemetery,
and he us d to ask the tram-conductors for “ a ticket to
the plantation, please.”
“T. O’Fipp ” : The latest “ novel, graceful and refined
aerial act ” under Rickards’ management set me reckon-
ing how many acrobats named Bertie had been visible to
the naked eye in Australia during the last 20 years. The
census came out this way : Bertie, 75 per cent. ; Willie or
Charlie, 24£ per cent. ; miscellaneous, £ per cent. In
Melbourne, in the nineties, one Bertie was a high-dive
specialist. There was always a preliminary, “Are you
ready, Bertie?”—and the mothers present blessed his
little heart as they 7 heard a childish “ Yes, dadda.” But,
when one got a close view, Bertie looked about 45 and
“ Dadda ” not more than 23. I cannot discover that there
has ever been an acrobat called Bill.
“ T.D.” : Fog town papers are voicing the actor’s com-
plaint that -work is scarce and money 7 scarcer. The Aus-
tralian aspirant who thinks to storm the theatrical
citadels here should at least cast his eye over the front
page in the Era, where all the star people indicate their
wants and whereabouts. This week (August 11th) the
list contains over fifty names of people who have London
reputations of varioussizes, and who proclaim themselves
at liberty for engagements. They include such big guns
as Lionel Brough, Oissie Loftus, Florence St. John, and
Australia’s old friends, Titheradge, Harry Paulton, and
Ada Ferrar. And as for salaries, to-day’s Telegraph con-
tains a growl by an actor that they have Slumped to
nothingness. Touring stars who got £9 and £lO a week
a couple of years ago are now content with £6 a week, or
less, for an engagement of fourteen weeks, which proba-
bly constitutes their whole round of work for six or eight
months. As for the melodrama “ hero,” he rushes £3 a
week, and will accept £2 10s. Musical comedy and the
improvement of the ’alls are largely responsible.
Died, in London, old showman Wybert Reeve, aged 75.
The death of Ristori, the tragedienne, recalls her visit
to Melbourne in the seventies, when the late Gatehouse
was Mayor. Gatehouse/was a mayor of the sort people
know only in corpie opera nowadays. His ’possum rug
and chain never oppressed him or dulled his wits. He
was always “ one of the boys.” Among the pleasing
incidents of his term of offipe was his act in commandeering
a lonely saveloy machine, which he drove in front Of a
public procession; he finished up by offering Bowen,
the Victorian Governor of the day, a hot saveloy
and a spud in the presence of a gilded assemblage.
Gatehouse was a strong patron of the drama, and when
several “ leading citizens ” cdntributed to present Ristori
with a silver chaplet, Gatehouse was chosen to make the
presentation. The shivoo took place On the stage of the
old Opera House, and Gatehouse prepared for it by seeing
life extensively during the early part of the evening. The
result was that, when he came out from the wings, wear-
ing his furs and chain, he broke up the house with a
joyous low-comedy wink. His speech was a delightful
piece of humor, but, when he came to place the
wreath on Ristori’s head, he took a bad shot
and misled his mark. The metal vegetation fell
on the stage, and when it was picked up it had a dent
in the side. Gatehouse had another shot, but he was as
far off Ristori’s marble brow as ever. All he did was to
catch her carefully-coiffed hair in one of the leaves and
haul it down. At the third try he contrived to hang the
chaplet on ,one of her ears, upon which he bowed to the
cheering house, while Ristori rushed off at the wings
with her golden hair hanging down, and the silver
chaplet dangling and flapping on her bare back. Al-
together it was a glorious ceremony. But the breed of
mayors has degenerated since, and Melbourne will never
know another like Gatehouse.
“ Hamer ” : Par. (B. 13/9/’O6) about theatrical salaries
in England reminds me that almost always in the small
Fogland travelling and tent shows, the carpenter is the
p)Ost important and best-paid member of the co.
“Hiphen”: I was standing ’mid the ice fields at the
Glaciarium recently, feeling like Nansen up the Pole, when
a new, fresh English Johnnie glided up gracefully and
asked me how I was progressing with my skating endeavors.
“ This is not like the re-al thing,” he said slightingly
as he cut a figure 8, and then paused affably on one foot.
“ Imagine to yahself an open space—a huge bonfiah in
the middle, and the dangah of the. ice giving at any
moment. There’s the charm ! The risk of a ducking or
worse. This is too tame —no dangah.” At that moment a
beginner—a heavyweight beginner—whirled up un-
steadily, twirled groggily on one skate, threw out his
arms wildly, and, clutching the adventurous English
youth by the back of the neck, threw him down and fell
on him solidly. Half-an-hour afterwards I assisted the
remains of the danger-loving Johnnie into a cab, and I
never—let the Recording Angel take note—l never
breathed the word “ Danger,” or referred to the tameness
of indoor skating.
Herr Slap, will conduct Musgrove’s grand operas in
Australia.
“ Australienne ” (from London): Mischa Elman gave his
final recital as a prodigy last Sunday, in the Queen’s Hall,
assisted vocally by Amy Castles. The youth is tired of
boyhood and wants to be a man, and to spend a few years
in solid study. Amy Castles sang beautifully, and it is
rumored that sister Eileen’s voice is quite as good. Both
are developing figure rapidly—there’s considerably more
of them than there used to be. Why do successful
singers so often run to flesh? There’s prosperous little
Francie Adler piling up weight as quickly as she does
fame and dollars. Nellie Stewart and her daughter were
among the audience. A party of. Australians discovered
them, and whistled “Oranges, Sweet Oranges,” much to
Sweet Nell’s delight.
Australia will see Julius Superbus Knight again next
year. At present, he is in the Cold Country, assisting J.
C. Williamson’s London representative (Malone) to get
together a company to play “ Raffles,” “ The Scarlet Pim-
pernel,” and “The Exploits of Brigadier Gerard,” that
famous Frenchman who was Napoleon’s Bill Adams, and
would have saved the Empire if he could have been in
two places at once.
“Snell”: An experienced pro. has been giving me
some advice to assist me in constructing the popular
drama I have no intention of writing. “ Many years of
coming in and going out of stage doors, and saying ‘How
do?’in the crowd,” said the leading comedian, “have
served to satisfy me that there is only one thing that will
guarantee a play as a big money-maker. It must please
the women. Put the idea of getting on to the sensibilities
of the intelligent male playgoer right out of your head,
and pile in all the stuff you can think of that will stir up
Woman. Think of what starts her ready tear in ‘ East
Lvnne,’ what flutters her tender soul in ‘The Silver King,’
what gets home on her affections in ‘The Fatal Wedding,’
and pile it on. Tickle her foolish, immature sense of
humor with the old notions which she knows to be funny,
and can make no mistake about, and put in lots of
toddling'children. By these means you’ll rope in the
softer sex, and the softer sex will lug the old tough in by
the ear. Men can’t drag women to a play they like, but
women drag men to a play they like, and that’s all about
it.” This bears out my opinion that the drama is rapidly
arid surely becoming a dissipation for dames. Lots of
men I know only go to the theatre to “take the girl,”
and they take her to the theatre for the same reason that
they give her ice cream—because it’s a foolish fancy of
hers.
“Nulla”: Some names lend themselves more than
others to the running of one-man shows. There was
Hoggins, who used to promote entertainments in aid of
worthy objects. It was marvellous how Hoggins, in vari-
ous disguises, used to permeate the programme. Opposite
“Sole Lessee” would be the name, suggestive of gilded
stability, Samuel F. Hoggins. The Business Manager was
the chipper, Americanised, S. Frederick Hoggins ; while
Frederico Hoggins was Musical Director. S. F. Hoggins
sang that pathetic ballad, “ When Dear Old Father
Nearly Took the Pledge ” ; while Sam Hoggins was hilari-
ous in his rendering of “Ma Watermelon Gal.” The man
who stood at the door and took money was Hoggins, short
and rocky-loolting. The shows had a good run until
people found that the worthy objects were mostly Hog-
gins ; then he retired. Afterwards he drove a lucerne
cart, and was mostly called Hoggo, or just plain Hog.
“ Terence O’Fipp ” : I don’t know whether the musical
and elocutionary competitions are concerned in it, but
Melbourne is daily becoming more plagued with a visita-
tion of painfully stagey infants. The city seems to be
turning into one vast variety stage. Fuzzy-haired and
short-socked girls of the serio type predominate, though
hoys of equally artificial manner sometimes arouse
disgust. The precocious females invade trains and trams
in scores, oozing affectation and cheap perfume. Chits
of seven talk and laugh in vile imitation of the style of
prominent footlighters, obviously admiring their own
sw'eet voices the while. The odious “ English ” pro-
nunciation —“naice,” “good-baye,” and soon—puts the
finishing touch to one’s ire with the parents w'ho are
primarily responsible for this juvenile depravity. I am
about to gird up my bluchers and flee to the sylvan
shades of Koo-wee-rup to see if there are any natural
youngsters left in the land.
HIDING HIS NAKEDNESS.
After all, Mr. Reid and his followers have
not yet discarded Fre trade; they have
merely covered it with the wool of anti-
Sooialisni. — Letter to Sydney TELEGEAPH.
“Melb.”: About peacocks being unlucky. All through
the history of the existing Princess Theatre there have
been peacocks on each side of the proscenium. Bern-
hardt, Toole, I.eslie, Farren, and the Gown Trotter
pleaded against them in vain. When the theatre was
re-decorated, under Williamson and Musgrove, every-
thing was changed except the peacocks.
When she was a good way off the half-century, Bern-
hardt used to say that those in the acting profession
ought to retire at 50. As Sarah has kept going for more
than a decade after that limit, she has evidently changed
her mind. Or, perhaps, she is the exception that proves
the rule.
The great thing to-day is to demonstrate that Shak-
speare is really “ good sport.” We have to get rid of the
last lingering vestige of the old mistake, which was to
treat him as a public monument, if not as a religious
ceremony—in other words, to make him a bore.— London
Times.
“ Stony” : Re “ Yarrab ” and his remarks about negro
minstrelsy (B. 4/10/’O6). Down in Fort Worth (Texas) I
heard a nigger singing, over and over again, something
like this : “ Ho, mollor ! Ho, mollor ; I ainagoiner sin-o
longer.” I had a vague uninformed idea that the nigger
must be using the original African ; but when I asked him
to repeat- the sentence word by word, I.found he was
singing, “ Oh, my Lord 1 Oh, my Lord 1 I ain’t a-goin’to
sin no longer!” This, presumably, is a sample of the
“deep, though crazy, religious tone of the earlier songs,”
referred toby “Yarrab.”
Sydney Trades Union Organiser, Mrs.
Dwyer, recently published a powerful appeal to
the women voters of the Commonwealth that
shook the Telegraph up very considerably.. In
fact, the ’Graph took it so much to heart that it
spread itself over a sub-leader in reply thereto,
and called in the services of its numerous staff of
letter writers —“Constant Reader,” “Pro Bono
Publico,” “Mother of 116 Children,” and so on,
and they wrestled with the document for days,
and with much weariness. Mrs. Dwyer is one of
the three famous Golding sisters, and probably
knows more about the conditions of women’s
work in N.S.W. than any other three people in
public life to-day.
Dr. Graham, the Sydney Tory and Dear
Lana candidate, holds that the Colonial Sugar
Refining Co.’s monopoly shouldn’t be interfered
with, because most of the shareholders are
“widows, spinsters, and men of small means.”’
The Tory party seems to have a most useful job
lot of widows on hand for use at emergencies. But
when it comes to the widow who wants a Wages
Board or an Arbitration Court to order her boss
to give her more than 10s. a week for 72 hours’
sewing, or the gaunt, half-starved widow on a
little farm, who wants to know why the landlord
should raise the rent every two or three years, till
it swallows up almost every penny she and her
children can earn—well, Jimmy Graham, of the
Sweating and Dear Land party, never heard of
these widows.
Age advt., Nov. 13
Temperance Hall; subject, “ Does the Bible Teach
Women should be Silent in Church and State?” “I* l ®'
cussion.” Woman suffragists invited. Mrs. Murray will
hypnotise a lady, who will give surroundings. Pains will
be removed from the platform and deafness relieved.
Silver coin.
Come to think of it, however, there is large
scope in Australia just now for a lady who will
remove pains from platforms. Anti-Sosh is more
than a pain—it is an agony ; and the, poor widowed
farmer with a little bit of ground worth £IO,OOO
and a crushing land-tax of a frock and a half a
year is a distressing affliction. Time will remove
them, just as it removed the Petriana pain and
the Six Hatters agony ; but a lady who could up-
root such things promptly, instead of letting them
rot themselves out, so to speak, is worth more
than a silver coin of any decent country’s money
Australian manufacturer O. C. Beale, who
returned from abroad recently, to an Adelaide
’Tiser interviewer: —
I am very strongly impressed with the belief that Aus-
tralia will be expected to provide for its own defences in
the future, instead of depending upon the heavily-bur-
dened people of the old country. There is a constant
drain from the British islands of able-bodied people to
other lands, whilst the poverty-stricken, the weak, the
sick, and the insane are left at home. At Glasgow I was
informed that among the workers on the Clyde banks the
expression is often to be heard, and I heard it myself,
“ We don’t regard Australia as an asset.”
Those foolish people who object to Australia start-
ing to provide its own defences on the ground, as
Willie-Motor Kelly put it, that we ought “frankly
to look to the Mother Country ” in such matters,
might do some solid thinking just here. Aus-
tralia will have to provide its own defences
sooner or later, so why not do the graceful thing,
and provide them voluntarily? Why place the
Mother Country in the unpleasant position of
having to tell us that we are too old to hang on
to Ma any longer ?
Hearken to the ravings of Agar Wynne,
Tory candidate for Balaclava (Vic.): —
If you start to nationalise industries, you cannot stop
at one or two, but YOU MUST NATIONALISE EVERY
INDUSTRY. This simply means that everything we eat,
drink and wear will have to be made by the Government.
The Government newspapers will regulate your politics ;
the Government milch cow will supply you with milk.
You will have heads of these departments who will be
autocratic. My wife may want a pink dress, the autocrat
will give me a blue one, and how will I dare to take it
home ? Every person will be allotted some duty, whether
he is suitable or not. There will not be any money in
circulation, because no one will be earning any. All
ambition and inventive genius will be dulled, and w»e will
simply drift back to slavery. Is it not absurd ? Can you
imagine sane men seriously propounding such folly ?
And all these shrieks are based on the insane
statement that if you nationalise one or two in-
dustries you must nationalise all of them. Yet
all the time the fact stared the raving old man in
the face that we nationalised the railways fifty
years ago, and yet that fact hasn't compelled us
to nationalise coaches, steamboats, and butter
factories.
COLLECTIVE INVESTIGATION.—The ex-
Eerience of millions of people in all quarters of the
abitable globe, during the last quarter of a
century, has confirmed the value of Hunyadi Janos
as the best and safest natural aperient. Invalu-
able to diners-out.*
The Charles Heidsieclc man is back from the
Melbourne Cup frivols, where the sparkling bubbles
flowed like water. He has turned on the tap here with
a liberal hand which is pleasant to our restauranters
during this chill season.*
The first considerations of life are good food and
clothing, for humanity is only what its outer covering
and inside lining make it. All questions of health and
success in life are inextricably mixed up with the subject
of what we wear. It is an important question at all
times, but during the holiday season, when the city man
goes forth and’toils over the face of his country, or over
the waters thereof, and sleeps in draughty tents on ill-
made beds, and calls these things enjoyment, the question
of clothing becomes serious. Some of these well-mean-
ing, but misguided, enthusiasts take their wives with
them, and then the question of what to wear becomes
still more serious, for, if the holiday-makers are not pro-
perly clothed, it takes them the best part of the ensuing
year to get over the effects of the great time they had.
But to the man and woman clothed in Alrtex Cellular
fabrics camping-out carries no terrors, for this hygienic
material radiates the heat and keeps out the cold.
Messrs. Braham and Cos., of 94 King-street, Sydney, the
sole agents for this fabric, are also making a specialty
this season of ladies’ cambric costumes, tailor-made and
cut to measure, with blouse or shirt fronts, collar and
tie, from 325. 6d. The ladies’ department is presided
over by an experienced manageress, w»ho is ready to pro-
duce on the instant a wealth of beautiful articles for
feminine use and adornment.*
Patent medicine people who have good reliable
articles that have achieved a name for themselves are
amongst those who hail the Australian Commerce Actwith
unfeigned delight, as it will knock out the crowd of spurious
imitations which unscrupulous vendors trade off on an
unsuspecting public as “just as good.” Genuine medical
preparations have hitherto been the most unfortunate of
commodities at the hands of the imitator, who, with no
reputation to either lose or make, has done much mis-
chief by casting a stigma on many decent preparations
with his hideous make-believes. Many of the owners
of proprietary remedies have already furnished
particulars of their composition, and prominent amongst
the number are the owners of California Syrup of
Figs. This most desirable and much imitated modern
medicine has not been guilty of empirical claims, nor
ever made a secret of its ingredients. Doctors
the world over have always been furnished with
the correct formula on request, and, -in every case
where such information has been supplied, the result
has been increased recommendation of the remedy,
California Syrup of Figs contains no podophyllin, or other
drug of a debilitating character, and its excellence is due,
not only to originality and simplicity of combination,
but also to the care and skill with which it is manufac-
tured by scientific processes known only to the California
, Syrup Co.—processes which insure the qualitative purity
and quantitative uniformity essential in a laxative, as in,
all other medicines.*
THE LOST BOHEMIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When my life’s smug peace I leave awhile,
Like a blind sea-fog ; and the parting years
Roll back, till the Light of Memory peers
Through a rainbow tangle of smiles and tears ;
I see Bohemia’s Isle.
’Twas my land once ; but now I’m banned
By my base betrayal. My Judas sin
Now bars the way, and I claim no kin,
Nor ever again can I hope to win
To that magic motherland.
But times there are when the Fates allow
My purblind eyes to go peering back
Through the dull grey mists, and the drifting wrack
Of years that were—through the night-clouds back,
And see, as I see now—
The dancing waves of a summer sea,
And the Jewel-Isle on its lustrous breast,
Where life is naught but a long, long jest
Where music, laughter, and love are best,
And reign—a trinity !
Where beckoning hands for ever call,
And ripe-red lips and bosoms white
Laugh and lure through the summer nigh
While, soft as snowflakes, fragrant, light,
The scented roses fall.
There writhing limbs in an endless dance
Whirl and twist to a rhythm fleet,
While the blossoms fall ’neath the twinkling feet,
And music maddens, subtle, sweet,
And eyes, love-laden, glance.
Above an abyss, they dance to deatyh —
To the outer dark, to a thousand woes—
So says this grey, grim w 7 orld. Who knows?
Not I—for I faltered—but each one goes
With a laugh on his last breath.
Or, locked in one glad, mad last embrace,
Red lip to lip, and hand in hand
(And none on the brink, fear-palsied stand),
They laugh and leap—Bohemia’s Band—
Into the Outer Space !
The blood-red blossoms, says One who knows,
Are “ dead blooms for a soul’s defeat ”
“ Vile poison flowers ! ’’—but, ah, they’re sweet!
And the one I found ’neath a dancer’s feet
Was only a ripe red rose.
Still are the summer waters gay,
Somewhere behind the grey banks low ;
The blood-red roses falling, glow,
The Death-bound Dancers laugning go
A-down their flower-strewn way.
And I —the traitor, renegade,
Clutched by the claws of circumstance,
Know there can come no second chance
To join again in the Death-bound Dance —
Bohemia’s Blest Brigade.
queensland.
C.E.H.


SUMMER
Cambric Costumes
TAILOR CUT, TO MEASURES.
BLOUSE or SHIRT FRONTS
COLLAR and TIE
From
32(6.
DAVID BRAHAI & CO.
Ladies’ Tailors,
94 King Street, Sydney.
RUPTURE
EASILY, QUICKLY, pimrn
AND PERMANENTLY UUiILU
WITHOUT OPERATION.
No pain, danger, inconvenience, or loss of time.
Immediate relief, ease, comfort, and certain cure.
Thousands of testimonial letters from people
you know, together with TREATISE No. 12,
posted free. Call or write to-day.
DR. LANGSTON’S INSTITUTE
ESTABLISHED 1887,
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Tlxe Dfiaszjler
Electric Pocket Lamp
UGH
Only 3 /• carriage paid to any address.
'T'HIS Electric Pocket Lamp is guaranteed in thorough order,
giving a dazzling bright light. Though so cheap, it is
of the highest quality. Just press the button and you have
a brilliant illumination. The flashlight thrown suddenly
into a dark corner often reveals very funny things. Better
than a lantern; no danger, no smoke, no smell, no oil, no
matches. Always instantly available. The most wonderful
invention in electrical science. It contains its own battery
and can readily be carried in the pocket. Battery recharged
when necessary by merely pouring in a little cold water. The
price is only 35., including carriage to any address, the
cheapest ever offered. Every Lamp tested before issue and
guaranteed in perfect order. The same lamp with Bull’s-
Eye Magnifier, giving three times as much light, 55., carriage
paid. Obtainable only from
The Union Mfg. & Agency Co.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
HERE ARE SOME REAL NOVELTIES.
THE JOKER CIGAR CASE
ROUGH ON CADGERS.
On removing the lid a most clever imitation of
genuine “Whiffs” is seen. Of course your friend
will want one, but, just as he proceeds to “Help
himself,” a slight pressure of the Button will cause
the cigar to spring out and give him the greatest
shock he has had for a long time. Price 1/2,
post free.
The SQUIRT CAMERA
PRODUCES PLENTY OF FUN.
HAVE A JOKE AT YOUR FRIEND'S EXPENSE.
You can have
lots of fun if you
have one of our
Squirt Cameras.
Ask your friend
whether he
would care to
have his likeness
taken. Showing
him a sample of
the artistic work
you have already
produced, and,
getting- his as-
2^
Eh
sent, you go to a lot of fuss making- him look s ,-ious
and arraying him before the Camera. Release the
shutter, and you will quickly see his serious face
change on getting the full force of water which you
have previously placed in the rubber bulb in the
Camera. Price lOd., post free, anywhere.
A. J. SMITH & CO., 14 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY
f#
FAMOUS CHRISTMAS ALBUMS
THE BEST SHILLING'S WORTH EVER OFFERED.
ps® at
SomtJbtttW M« -
Oye-and-ttya You will Ptw-sot Ma . ,
MarcH! Mat-**! an «lti» »nnmt* , /( -
(n tbo Vnilay wtiuru th» «U* Ohio (lows .
C«,*tlM In t*>«» Ate - .
1 tovorf, You Sutton than ¥oi> hunw
Olttflt.it Oswb t»« MI«*I««Irb .
Whan «ho WloS Tako* Command -
Melbourne Musical Magazine, No. 11.
15 OF THE LATEST SONGS OF THE DAY.
1. WHY DIO THEY SELL KILLARNEY ?
The popular waltz sons', which has swept
Australia from end to end.
2. SOMEBODY LOVES ME. One of the
best and most popular love songs ever written.
3. SYLVIE. The dainty coon love song,
made popular by the phonographs.
4. WHAT MIGHT HAVE BEEN. The cele-
brated ballad, which is now included in a Is.
album for the first time.
5. BABY’S TEARS. A charming lullaby,
by Paul Dresser, composer of “ On the Banks
of the Wabash.”
6. IN THE VALLEY WHERE THE OLD
OHIO FLOWS. A beautiful pastoral ballad,
which has won popularity.
7. SONG BIRDS ARE'SINGING OF YOU.
This pretty little song alone is worth the
price of the book.
8. CASTLES IN THE AIR. The popular
Scotch song that will live for ever.
9. BY AND BYE YOU WILL FORGET
ME. A sweet song, with a haunting refrain.
10. I LOVED YOU BETTER THAN YOU
KNEW. A splendid love song ; a general
favorite.
11. MARCH, MARCH, OR BLUE BON-
NETS. The stirring Scotch song sung so
successfully by Jessie M’Lachlan.
12. WHEN THE PILOT TAKES COM-
MAND. A descriptive song by the composer
of “ In Friendship’s Name.”
13. THE OLD CHURCH BELLS ARE
SILENT. By the composer of “Fatal Wed-
ding.”
14. DAD’S SWEETHEART OF LONG AGO.
15. GLIDING DOWN THE MISSISSIPPI.
A pretty descriptive waltz ballad.
AND ALL FOR 1/., POSTED 1/2.
ALLAN’S DANCE ALBUM, No. 3.
Allan’s Dance Albums Nos. 1 and 2
achieved greater popularity, because they
were the best books of the kind ever
offered. No. 3 is a better album if any-
thing.
JUST READ THIS SPLENDID CONTENTS
No. 1.-MARION WALTZES. A splendid
set, worthy to rank with popular successes
like “ Venetia ” and “ Myosotis.”
2. STARS AND STRIPES MILITARY
SOHOTTISOHE. Irresistible • melody and
plenty of go with it.
3. -FESTIVITY QUADRILLES. As the
name indicates, full of merry melodies.
4. —CRACKAJACK POLKA. One of the
best polkas written for years.
5. —ESTRADA VALSE. A very melodious
Spanish waltz, one of the sort that makes
you long- to dance.
6. SLEIGH BELLS GALLOP. Very
bright; may be played together with “ hand
bells. ”
7. -SALOME INTERMEZZO. The world-
' famous intermezzo.
8. —WILL OF THE WISP LANCERS. A
really good dancing set, bright melodies.
9. LOVE’S DEVOTION WALTZES. This
is probably the best item in the book. As a
1 waltz, it is “ superb.”
10. -CHICAGO HUSSARS QUICKSTEP.
Full of vim,and go ; has a good melody.
11. UNDER THE SEA VALSE. A new
Spanish waltz. Should equal in popularity
“ Over the Waves.”
12. —NATION AL LANCERS. A rollicking
Irish, Scotch, and English—melodious. One
of the finest ever written. And the price is
1/-; POSTED, 1/2.
yiplin and Cornet Separate Parts, 6d. each;
posted 7d. each.
ALLAN’S
AFULI DANCE
PROGRAMME
CONTENTS
: Morion Waites
: Estrada Valse
. slsfs andSirifies Hrfitar
Sdßfedß c« ... ;
Upon the Sea.Wah/
Cratfeajatk Polka
Love's Bevplion Waltzes
; ThE Chirago Hussars'
Quickstep
Quadrilles
ijSatome c Intermezzo
r Will n the wisp. Lancer-
s•; The National-Cancers»
■
Q. !
i .Of '•
J> ’ a -a
tm.
fIi’JJNSK" (
«fI6QURNE
BCTOHJO 6EBUN6
To be had of all Musicsellers and Booksellers throughout Australia and New Zealand,
or from the Publishers, ALLAN & GO.,' 276-278 Collins Street, Melbourne.
TRADE
"gramopho**
MARK
On November 19th, 1906,
THERE WERE PLACED ON SALE THE LATEST
Gramophone Records
The reproductions of the voices of the most celebrated vocalists of Europe:—
SIGS. CARUSO, SCOTT I, DE GOGORZA, MADAMES EMMA
EAMES, SELMA KURZ and SEMBRICH.
Tshe
GRAMOPHONE & TYPEWRITER, Ltd.,
have produced many magnificent Records, but these surpass
any previously offered, and all lovers of good music should
include them in their collection.
CAN BE OBTAINED FROM—
SYDNEY AGENTS— Messrs. Clapiiam & Co., 318 George Street. Messrs. Paling & Co., Ltd., 338 George
Street. Messrs. Marcus Clark & Co., Ltd., George Street. The Roneo Co. of Australasia, 21 Hunter
Street. Mr. W. Hope, Bondi Junction. The Talking Machine Co., 470 a George Street.
Melbourne— Mr. A. P. Sykes, 272 Little Collins
Street.
Perth —Messrs. Nicholson & Co.
Auckland, N.Z. —Messrs. Dknnes Bros.
Christchurch, N.Z.— Oiiivkrs’ Music Stores, 123
Manchester Street.
Tonga Island— Mr. E. H. Mitchell, Haabai.
Brisbane—Messrs. Heindorff Bros., 210 Queen
Street.
Wellington, N.Z- — Mr. T. Holton, “Tbe
Talkeries.”
Dunedin, N.Z.— Messrs. Maclean & Co.
Gisborne, N.Z.— Mr. J. H. Gittos.
«gEST° 1782
PHOENIX
Assurance Company of London
\\l PITT ST., SYDNEY (Falmouth Chambers). robert Walter
A RECORD.
AULDANA WINES
In competition
against all . . .
Australia at. .
1904 CHAMPION CUP—HOCK
1905 CHAMPION CUP—CLARET
1906 CHAMPION CUP—SHERRY
And Numerous FIRST PRIZES.
ADELAIDE WINE SHOW.
HEAD OFFICE: ADELAIDE, S.A.
SYDNEY BRANCH: ANGEL PLACE. PITT BT.
THE SECOND SUBDIVISION
(6000 Acres) of The
The property of Messrs.
D. C. McCONNEL & SONS
Cressbrook Estate
©
40,835
acres
At TOOGOOLAWAH RAILWAY STATION,
79 Miles from Brisbane, Queensland, on
the Upper Brisbane River,
36 RICH DAIRY and AGRICULTURAL
FARMS
(60 to 236 Acres) to be sold by Auction at the
Alexandra Hall, Toogoolawah, Saturday, Dec. 15,’06, at 3 o’clock
1 Jo PP Forrest, Managing Director of Moreheads Ltd., one of the leading Experts
*!' Stock and Station Business, writes after inspecting:—“l have no hesitation in saying that as
Dairying Country combined with Agricultural and Fattening, Cressbrook has no superior
in Queensland, in fact, acre for acre, I do not know where it can be equalled.”
i Mr. John Cameron, M.L.A., one of the highest authorities on value, writes During the
last 3 or 4 years I have inspected and valued all the largest Freehold Estates in the Upper Brisbane
of fftema//” 1 consider the Cf, ossbrook Estate is by far the most valuable
„ . E - 4 * n P J9j kerl t? a ’,}P e wide] y known judge of Dairy Stock, who has settled on the
Estate, wiites on 2nd November, 19061 consider this Estate to be one of the finest freehold pro-
perties in Australia, comprising the very best agricultural, lucerne, lamb-fattening and dairying land.”
n , J HE CRESSBROOK ESTATE
„ °J Alluvial River Flats with Black and Chocolate Soil (workable under any climatic
conditions) and.easy sloping agricultural ridges, none of which, in the portion for sale, exceed 100 feet
m height. It is magnificently watered by the Upper Brisbane River and numerous creeks
and lagoons, and not a single hoof tvas lost in the great 1902 drought.
SPECIAL ATTRACTIONS.
The Condensed Milk Factory which
is on the Estate pays sd. to s|d. per gallon for
milk, and will take any quantity. (Cressbrook
Milk is the leading brand in Queensland).
Q.M.E. Butter Factory at Esk (12
miles)
Railway Station on the Estate.
Established Township with Church,
School, Bank, Public Hall, Factory, &c.
Abundant and well distributed
Rainfall, average 37.37 in. and 79* wet days
per year for 14 years.
20 YEARS TERMS
moth Deposit; No Payment (except interest
5%) for 24 months ; balance yearly.
No survey fees or residential conditions; every facility for inspection
Free Railway Fares to Purchasers from any part of the States.
plenty of accommodation
WRITE TO DA Y
(or illustrated Plans to
ISLES, LOVE & CO
A uctioneers,
Queen St., Brisbane
mm
s m
VaQdcvillg— -At Hon>€l
Gn the EDISON PHONOGRAPH you can
entertain your guests or children with
the funniest songs, duets, impersona-
tions and musical specialities that
have made a hit on the English and
American stages. They “bring down
the house ” every time !
THE •••
EDISON Phonograph
Makes an Ideal Gift.
Write to-day for Free Booklet,
“ HOME ENTERTAINMENTS WITH THE EDISON PHONOGRAPH.”
National Phonograph Co. of Australia Ltd.
340 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Australian Mutual Provident Society
announces in our advertising columns that the next
yearly investigation into the affairs of the Society and the
consequent distribution of the surplus will be made as
at 31st December, next, when all participating policies
ii en i°j t * )e books will share in the cash bonus to be then
allotted. This feature of the Society’s operations is at all
times specially interesting to the members, as it is
quickly followed by an intimation of the most gratifying
kind in the shape of a bonus certificate, showing the
of each member’s share in the year’s profits. As
affording some indication of the magnitude of the
Society’s operations, we might mention that during the
fifty-seven ■ sears the Society has been in existence, it has
divided among the members, in the shape of cash
bonuses, no less a sum than £12,216,401, while the amount
so divided for the single year, 1905, after providing for
all necessary reserves, reached £635,533, representing a
sum equal to 3601 of the participating assurance
premiums received during the twelve months. To those
of our readers who desire to share in the cash bonus to be
declared for this year, no time should be lost in effecting
the necessary cover on their lives before the close of the
year.*
Deakin has only four supporters in
N.S.W., and of the four Lyne, Ewing, and Chap-
man hold portfolios, while Chanter is an ex-Chair-
man of Committees. Is this an example of what
the Ma State dailies call “ the sinister Victorian
influence ” ?
For the Federal elections, read ‘ 4 A Policy
for the Commonwealth,” by James Edmond,
price 6d., post free; and “On the Trail of the
Trust,” by Bulletin writers, freely illustrated,
price Is., post free.
“‘We want no sectarian business in our
schools,” said an angry man, who had paused at a
State school door to listen to the children singing,
“What’s the matter?” asked the mistress, who
noticed the man’s temper. “There!” he ex-
claimed. The children were singing, “ This is the
song of the bee, his legs are of yellow, a jolly good
fellow.” “That’s out of the Commonwealth
School Paper, approved by authority,” said the
mistress. “Oh, I know,” growled the man,
moving off, “he’s a jolly good fellow because his
legs are yellow. Now, what would he be if his
legs were green ? ”


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
•Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
The Rank of Australasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital £1,600,000
Reserve Fund 1,280,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors.. 1,600,000
£4,480,000
London Office: 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
AMES HELLICAR,
Superintendent.
national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 186 S.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,245 6 0
Reserve(inGovt. Stock, £43.435) .. 51,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnoilt Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq.; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager. —W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial IQotoal [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,990,533.
Policies Issued 102,148—Assuring £30,193,326.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,784,725.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.G., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of nem 2 ea l aD^
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL ... £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other planes.
Bank of north Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
SOUTHERN BRANCH : PITT STREET.
Manly. Hornsby. Clen Innes. Deepwater.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
DALGETY & COMPANY
LIMITED.
Capital Fully Subscribed ... .£4,000,000
Capital Paid up £1,000,000.
Reserve Fund £165,000.
Head Office—96 Bishopsgate St.
Within, London, E.C.
BRANCHES:
VlCTORlA— Melbourne and Geelong.
NEW SOUTH WALES— Sydney and Newcastle.
QUEENSLAND— Brisbane, Rockhampton & Townsville.
WEST AUSTRALIA— Perth, Fremantle, Kalgoorlie,
Geraldton, Albany, Carnarvon and Roeburne.
NEW ZEALAND— Dunedin, Christchurch, Wellington
and Napier.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— AdeIaide and throughout the
South East.
This Company makes Advances on, and conducts the
Sale of, Land, Stock and Station Property, and receives
for Sale in London or any of the markets of Australia or
New Zealand consignments of Wool, Skins, Hides, Tallow,
Frozen and Preserved Meats, Grain and Dairy Produce of
all descriptions, and carries on a Financial, Shipping,
Insurance, Indent, Merchandise, and General Agency
business.
Shipping.
INJ. ID. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
•Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
Prom SYDNEY Everv Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
SANDAKAN .. 22nd NOVEMBER.
MANILA 20th DECEMBER.
PRINZ SIGISMUND .. .. 15th JANUARY.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO.. 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
The Royal gank of Queensland
LIMITED.
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £457,613 10 0
Reserve Liability op Shareholders .. 175,737 10 0
Reserve PuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 67,000 0 0
£700,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, QUEEN VICTORIA ST., LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
WHITE STAR LINE.
gds
PLYMOUTH and LONDON' via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
MEDIC, to Sail from Sydney on
or about 30th NOVEMBER,
AERIC, STJEVIC, PERSIC and
RUNIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown or Durban £l4 14 0 to £23 2
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets , Timetables , and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
•Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
S.J9. 00. A.. & A.. X-X3XT3E3 (via SAN FRANCISCO).
THREE-WEEKLY FAST MAIL SERVICE run in conjunction with the Most Luxuriously Equipped Trains
and Steamships in the World.
SHORTEST LINE FASTEST TIME TO
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN AND EUROPE.
R.M.S SONOMA, 6200 Tons, Sails from Sydney MONDAY, NOVEMBER 26, at 1 p.m.
Some people think that “HOMEWARD THROUGH AMERICA” is an expensive way.
Enquire for fares etc., etc., and learn facts before booking elsewhere.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
# HOLIDAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
fg
CRUISES.
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banicing, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
FAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
<s>
$
a*
Free
Accident insurance
Poiicies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
TNT.S.-W.
fDoit deplete o.#|. Co., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE,
and 229 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Colline-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £22,500 0 0
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq.,O.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood, Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jbssop, Esq. Melbourne: Hon. P. S. Grimwade,
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE FAVORITE STEAMER,
AO RANG I,
SAILS NOVEMBER 26th.
FOLLOWING SAILINGS—
Dec. 24, Jan. 21, Feb. 18.
EXCURSION TO HONOLULU,
The Paradise of the Pacific.
RATE INCLUDES HOTEL AND OTHER
EXPENSES IN HONOLULU.
The BEST OCEAN TRIP that can
be obtained from Australia.
Send for Illustrated Pamphlets. ISJi
4. '
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. Y
WONDERFUL. VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter),
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Sheej of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
IF
YOU HAD
AN ACCIDENT .
and held an Accident Policy in the SOUTH BRITISH you could receive DOUBLE
YOUR USUAL INCOME whilst laid up, which would pay the Doctor and
Chemist. We issue Policies'.from £1 Is. per annum upwards.
m~ SPECIAL TERMS FOR SPECIAL NEEDS.
SOUTH BRITISH FIRE, MARINE & ACCIDENT
CAPITAL £1,900,000. 12 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY. George H. Moore, Manager.
Snipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN, W.A., Port for
I S,S Yongala Nov. 28,
Grantala, Dec. 12.
Ravensthorpe Goldfields.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Innamincka, Nov. 24.
S.S. Cooljjardie, Dec. 1.
Jiest and Cheapest Itoute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. s. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
J. LOTH. Acting Princiual Agent.
Hotels.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILO A.
rrVHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, £-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
the (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St-, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con*
venient and Healthy Locality,
flodern Appointments. Hoderate Tariff.
Visitors to Melbourne
WILL FIND
THAT. . .
Neale's Temperance Hotel
(Tankards)
LONSDALE STREET (Next Law Courts;
is the handiest place to stay at. Being' close to Railway
Stations, Theatres and Wharves ; and three minutes’ walk
from G.P.O. Bedrooms on Ground Floor if desired.
Board and Residence, 4s. 6d. per day; or from £1 per
week. Telephone 1640.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
lA# IM POLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
* w Kilda Rai way Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
VISITORS TO BRISBANE.
Union Club
T
Brisbane*
Select Private Establishment for Families, Ladies,
Commercial Gentletaen. Patronised by several
leading members Commercial Travellers’ Associa-
tion. Large garden and lawn. Excellent cuisine.
TERiIS MODERATE.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephon* No.. 10kS. CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Bails
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
Business Announcements.
RABBIT SKINS.
TO FILL OUR ORDERS WE REQUIRE
6,000,000 RABBIT SKINS
this Season, and are prepared to pay EXTREME PRICES.
IMMEDIATE RETURNS, NO COMMISSION.
Consign to — JAMES FAY, MCDONALD & CO.,
27C SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.


A Fortune is Certain
If only the exact opportunities and possi-
bilities of life are known and understood.
This information can only be obtained
by means of Astrology.
SEND Is. IN STAMPS FOR
A TEST HOROSCOPE,
calculated and written by R. Herschell, who has
supplied Horoscopes to the late Mr. Cecil Rhodes,
W. E. Gladstone, and thousands of others.
Money returned if Horoscope incorrect.
As this offer will not be open long, cut out, fill
up, and send the part below at once to.
ROBERT HERSCHELL (of London),
Box 3, Hawthorn, Victoria.
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE OF BIRTH
Amusements.
SEASON.
M Y SHERWIN
SPECIAL CONCERT
(By Request),
THIS THURSDAY EVENING, NOV. 22, at S o’oloek.
Y.M.C.A. HALL, SYDNEY.
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY,
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT, NOV. 24, at 8 o’clock,
GRAND SCOTTISH NIGHT,
Under the Immediate Patronage of the
HIGHLAND SOCIETY OF N.S.W.
AMY SHERWIN,
Supported bj>-
ARNOLD GANGE, the Scottish Basso, and CLEMENT
HARVEY, the Rome Pianist.
Plan for both Concerts Now Open at Paling’s.
PRICES. —For Thursday : ss, 3s, and 2s. For Saturday :
ss, 3s, 2s, and ONE SHILLING.
HALL, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES EVERY WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY.
EDISON’S POPULAR PICTURES.
The Greatest Array of “ Living Pictures " ever
seen in Sydney.
Plan at Elvy’s.
Day Sales, “The White Rose. 1
Amusements.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction of Messrs. CLYDE HEYNELL
and JOHN GUNN.
SATURDAY NEXT, NOVEMBER 24th.
First Production in Australia of the Great Romantic
Drama
THE MIDNIGHT WEDDING.
Special Engagement of MR. HARCOURT BEATTY.
PRICES—POPULAR. Plan, Elvy’s.
MAJESTY’S THEATRE,
SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
CHARLES WALDRON and OLA HUMPHREY in
a Delightful Love Romance, entitled,
THE VIRGINIAN.
Supported by Mr. Williamson’s New Dramatic Company.
Prices as usual.
HEATRE ROYAL,
Lessee J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
SYDNEY
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING,
BLAND HOLT’S Interesting and Fascinating Story,
THE LIGHTS O’ LONDON,
Written by George R. Sims, Esq.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. PRICES as USUAL.
WONDERLAND CITY
(The Coney Island of Australia).
Sole Proprietor and Director, Mrl' William Anderson.
• The Largest One-Man Amusement Enterprise
in the World.
DEDICATED TO MIRTH AND MERRIMENT.
Twenty Acres —Fifty Features.
SYDNEY’S GREAT PLAYGROUND.
Beauty, Music, Fun r and Sensation
AT BONDI BY THE SEA.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mn. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
Great Success of Mr. LARRY LEWIS, Comedian.
THE ALASKAS, comedy Acrobatic Artists.
HARRY TATE’S COMPANY in their Screamingly
Funny Sketch, “FISHING.”
VIOLET STOOKELLE, England’s Dainty Comedienne.
Mr. POST MASON, the Popular American Baritone.
THE GAUMONT OHRONOPHONE, the Talking, Singing
and Musical Moving Picture Machine.
Miss OASSIE WALMER.
CASSELLI and JAMES, England’s leading Banjoists.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
DUNCAN and GODFREY, in Coster Romance,
“ ME AND HER.”
SELBO, World’s Greatest Club Juggler.
STEWART & LORRAINE, Artistic Musical Act.
LA MOTO GIRL, a Mystifying Novelty, a World’s Wonder.
HAMMOND and WYATT, the Sandow Girls.
THE GAUMONT OHRONOPHONE, Talking, Singing,
Musical Moving Picture Machine.
LES CABIACS, French Acrobats.
Plan at Allan’s. S 3" PRICES—3s, 2s 6a, 2s, Is.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING, PHENOMENAL SUCCESS of
Mr. J. 0. Williamson’s Royal Comic Opera Co. in the
Latest London Gaiety Success,
THE SPRING CHICKEN.
For the First Time in Melbourne.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays
Amusements.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
GBEAT SUCCESS of
THE BROUGH-FLEMMING COMEDY COMPANY,
Under the Direction of Mr. Herbert Flemming,
MRS. GORRINGE’S NECKLACE.
MRS. GORRINGE’S NECKLACE.
Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’, and The Grand.
N
EW THEATRE
Lessee
ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
WILLIAM ANDERSON.
A STUPENDOUS DRAMATIC ATTRACTION.
Mr. William Anderson’s Famous Dramatic Co., in a
revival of ,
THE POWER AND THE GLORY.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand.
m ive ACRES COVERED WITH THE
■ WORLD’S - GREATEST NOVELTIES
. . . AT . . .
“DREAMLAN D,”
ST KILDA.
OPEN DAILY 2 to il p.m. ADMISSION 6d.
E. S. SALAMBO, Managing Director.
GARDEN FETE
In aid of BUILDING FUND of the VICTORIAN DEAF
AND DUMB INSTITUTION.
To he held in the GROUNDS, ST. KILDA ROAD,
On FRIDAY and SATURDAY AFTERNOONS and
EVENINGS, NOVEMBER 23rd and 24tli.
Opening Ceremony by LADY TALBOT on FRIDAY 23id.
ADMISSION Is. OH I T iPA EN ™ Aw att?r t
MRS. SCARLETT, MRS. QUINNELL,
Hon. Tieas. Hon. Sec.
CAUTION.
The Public are warned against the many spurious
imitations brought into the market under various
labels, and it is therefore necessary to ask for my
No. 4 Eau de Cologne,
'jdz>
- Jh.
distilled strictly according to the original recipe of
the inventor, my ancestor, which is known in all
parts of the world by the lawfully registered label
here shown.
The addition of address ‘‘JULICHS PLATZ
No 4 ” alone warrants genuineness of my EAU
DE COLOGNE.
JOHANN MARIA FARINA,
Julichs Platz No 4,
Cologne o. Rhine*
By appointment to H.M. KING EDWARD VII.,
and to most other Imperial and Royal Courts.
Britisl)*flustralaslan
&
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
POST FREE, £1 per year,
1 IlLc OU« in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where tiles
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care or
the. British-Australasian during the hrst
two months of a visit to Great Britain, in-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia m
London.
Note the Address—
-1 BROAD STREET PLACE, FINSBURY
CIRCUS, LONDON, E.C.
One minute’s walk from Liverpool Street Railway
Stations.
Managing Director
J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
Phoenix Foundry Locomotive
. . . and . . .
Engineering Works, Ballarat
IMPORTANT SALE BY AUCTION
OF
Engineering:, Foundry, Boilermaklngr, Forging,
Hydraulic Rivetting and Woodworking Plants of
the Phoenix Foundry 00., Ltd., together with an
immense quantity of Machine and other Tools and
Large Stock of New Materials,
Will be sold ON THE WORKS on
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday,
18th, 19th, 20th, and 21st December, 190%
AT 10.30 SHARP EACH DAY.
The most extensive, complete, and up-to-date En-
gineering Plant ever offered at auction in Victoria.
The Company is in liquidation and the plant and
effects must be sold to wind up its affairs.
By Order of CAMERON & SUTHERLAND, Machinery
Merchants, Melbourne, Ballarat, Bendigo & Sydney.
Full particulars in catalogue obtainable from
CAMERON and SUTHERLAND,
or the Auctioneers,
BELL, LAMBERT & CO., Ballarat, Victoria.
REUBEN BRANCH,
GARMENT
SPECIALIST,
Established 1881.
Hyde ParK
Corner,
OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY.
fdg
The Three-Button
Single-Breasted
Sac Suit
pourtrayed on this page, is our
standard model for Spring and
Summer, 1906.
The Greatest Values ever ofFered
by any House in the States.
Sac Suit, to your measure, 40s, 50s,
60s, 70s, 80s.
Trousers, to your measure, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s, 18s 6d, 21s.
Country Customers will please
add Postage when Remitting.
ALL COATS INCLUDE HAIRCLOTH FRONTS,
and are FINISHED with the BEST LININGS.
Fit Guaranteed.
First-Class Cutters Only Employed,
Large Assortment of Summer
Tweeds, Fancy Worsteds,
Tennis Flannels and Navy Blue
Cp rH .„ a PURE INDIGO DYE
(Guaranteed not to fade).
SERGE SUITS IN ALL QUALITIES AT
PRICES QUOTED.
♦ * ♦
Gentlemen's Furnishings♦
GENT.’S UNDRESSED WHITE SHIRTS, Four-fold Irish Linen
Cuffs and Fronts, Long Cloth Bodies, 2s lid.
GENT.’S FASHION SHIRTS, Checks and Stripes, Splendid
Assortment of Designs, 2s 6d, 2s lid, 3s 3d, 3s lid,
4s 6d, 4s lid.
STRAW BOATERS, Plain and Tyre Edge, 2s 6d, 2s lid, 3s 6d,
3s lid, 4s 3d, 4s 6d.
GENUINE PANAMA HATS, 12s 6d, 14s 6d, 17s 6d, 21s,
22s 6d, 32s 6d.
CHIP STRAW HATS, Is lid, 2s 3d, 3s lid.
HARD and SOFT HATS, in all the latest Shapes and Shades, all
sizes, 4s lid, 5s lid, 7s 6d, 8s lid, 9s lid, 12s 6d.
%
A Summer Outing Suit.
Sac Coat and Trousers (Coat unl'ined) to measure,
in Plain and Striped Crash, 18s 6d, 21s, 255.
Tennis Flannel, Sac and Trousers, 27s 6d,
32s 6d, 40s. In Grey and Navy Effects.
Flannel Trousers, to measure,' los 6d, 12s 6d.
Crash Trousers, to measure, 8/6, l2/6-
Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms
Mailed on application.
All Materials Thoroughly Shrt lk.


THE SELECTION OF A HOME
IS quite as important to you as the selection of a wife to live in it. Wouldn’t you like
the seven little Australians, more or fewer, that are coming to you, or which have
already arrived, to live in a charming, healthy environment ? Of course you would.
Then come to “ Warriewood,” that great estate, now ready for subdivision into
mm
IS
IHS
Narrabeen Lake.
building lots, township sites, and farm blocks. “ Warriewood ”is situated in the
Narrabeen district, within ten miles from Manly. Splendid level roads lead
to you, running between beautiful scenery of wood and water and villa
homes. Public vehicles make it easy of access. Perhaps you would make
df
From Sheepstation Hill on the Estate.
your choice of a farm site, and so take up the growing of things —fruit, vegetables, bees,
and pigs. The pig is not a Greek-looking animal, but—short of your owning a herd of
horses that will win the Cup for you year after year—you can’t possess a more profitable
quadruped. The soil of “ Warriewood,” tested by guaranteed analysis, has a larger proper-
fgWii
I'M-
Warriewood Beach , within //JO yards of the Estate.
(This is the favorite Picnic and Bathing Beach for Miles.)
fcion of fertilising ingredients than the most fertile land on the famed Richmond River. It
is only fair to warn you that, in making your choice of a lot in this sample of real estate,
you will have more difficulty than
PORTIA EXPERIENCED WITH HER. THREE CASKETS,
because you will have such a variety of sites, views, slopes, heights, and aspects from
which to choose.
If you begin modestly with a home
like this on your choice lot, there is no
reason why you should not in a. few
years have a house approached by
a stately entrance like thi%—
w:
:
A Cottage of Content at Warriewood.
WiWf;Jic
Warriewood Sketch.
The terms for Farm Blocks are £2 per acre deposit, balance extending over 10 years,
while purchasers who improve their blocks need pay no instalments for two years. Resi-
dential Sites can be obtained on terms of £1 deposit and 10s. monthly for the lot. Further
particulars and a free Illustrated Booklet can be obtained from the Sydney Agents of the
Estate , Messrs. lIENR YF. HALLOBAN and GO., of 82 Pitt-st. The Local Agent for
the Estate, Mr. C. I. Harrington, of Mona Yale, Pittwater, himself a practical farmer,
will be glad to reply to all inquiries by letter or otherwise.
85.
10s.
A m
810.
18s.
815.
12s.
820.
18s.
825.
18s.
I
830.
20s.
mm
/mm
835.
10s.
840.
Bs.
m
845.
lOs.
a>_
*4
/m
850.
10s.
XMAS
DESIGNS
. . . IN . . .
HIGH-GRADE
JEWELLERY
. . . AT . . .
Manufacturers’ Prices.
gfd
New Illustrated Xmas
Catalogue Now Ready
Post Free on application.
In presenting our new Illustrated Jewellery-
Catalogue to the public we desire to specially draw
your attention to the fact that we are manufacturers
of our own goods and the material used is absolutely
the very best that is procurable. Every stone before
being mounted is carefully examined by us person-
ally so that none but first-water, pure, flawless stones
leave our manufactory.
The Mountings are pure Gold, Sterling Silver,
and Solid Gold Shell, and each article bears the
Carat stamp which is a guarantee that the article is
all that it is represented to be.
Kara Diamonds are very
Hard and Full of Fire.
KARA DIAMONDS are unlike other Imitation
Diamonds as they appear Brilliant under
Daylight, Gaslight, or Electric/ight.
Kara Diamond Jewellery must not be con
founded with cheap imitations, they may be worn
side by side with genuine diamonds and defy detec-
tion by the keenest experts.
KARA DIAMONDS have NO
Competitors. They are the
ONLY Gems worthy the
name of Diamonds.
Every Stone is Guaranteed
to remain EVER BRILLIANT .
gfd
A Genuine Guarantee accompanies each article.
Handsome Illustrated Catalogue and Price List
Free on application to DEPT. B.
Kara Diamond Co
ONLY ADDRESS-
-310 George St., Sydney


“STARVED"
DYSPEPTIC
Got right again—
Built up on
Grape-Nuts
“ There’s a Reason **
To Let
The newly erected premises known as
ADAMS' BREWERY,
HOBART, TAS.,
consisting: of Four Flats with spacious
cellar, divided as under.
CELLAR-
116ft. x 60ft., 9ft. 6in. high.
GROUND FLOOR—
Three divisions, 57 x 28ft., 96 x 39ft.,
and 69ft. 6in. x 29ft.
FIR ST FLOOR-
Five divisions, 96 x 39ft., 57 x 28ft.,
96 x 26ft., 110 x 70ft., 61 x 28ft.,
61 x 28ft.
SECOND FLOOR-
Two divisions, 170 x 36ft., 170 x 28ft.
THIRD FLOOR-
Two divisions, 170 x 28ft., 170 x 36ft.
With the above there is the old Brewery
building, consisting of capacious cellars,
ground floor and first floor; also commodious
iron building, detached, containing two
divisions on ground floor, 40 x 47ft. and
39 x 47ft., and first floor, 79 x 47ft.
The premises are suitable for various
manufacturingpurposes, or for cool storage.
A Very Low Rental will be accepted, but
the premises will not be let for brewing
purposes. Full particulars on application to
H. NICHOLLS,
CASCADE BREWERY,
HOBART, TAS.
gdf
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock In the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
A to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding of same, ana beg to submit the following lines
at greatly reduced prices to clear: —
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip. Usual price, £6.
Sale Price .. £3 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £Blss. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Hammerless Double-Barrel Breech-loading
Guns, SPECIAL high-grade trap gun, fitted
with treble wedge fast cross-bolt, left full choke,
rightmodified.andlatest improvements, safety
indicator. Usual Price, £lB. Sale Price, £lO 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, top action, choke bore, walnut stock.
Usual Price, £3. Sale Price £1 12 6
The Norfolk Rifle, fires 8.8. Cartridges to kill at
100yds. Usual Price, 17s. 6d. Sale Price .. £0 8 9
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price ..£5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders, top action, wal-
nut stock, with cartridge machine and cleaners
complete. Usual price, £5. Sale price .. £2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price £0 13 9
6 Single-Barrel Muzzle-loading Guns, walnut
stock, twist barrel. Usual Price, 255. Sale
Price .. .. .. .. •. • • •• £0 15 0
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES. 12 Gauge. ss. per 100
Smokeless Cartridges, 6s. 9d. per 100
8.8. Caps, 9d. per box.
Shot, 2d. per lb. Caps, 2d. box.
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO._
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDNEY.
...CHRISTMAS...
PHONOGRAPH OFFER.
mm
-ra&oa
-cMji
$2
ffioMi
Simply fill in your name and address below and forward to us.
We send the Catalogue by return.
FROM now on to Christmas we are making
special offers in Phonographs. Being
wholesalers of Phonographs in N.S. W., we
are in a position to sell instruments at prices that
leave no doubt as to their lowness.
We have imported a special shipment of the
Famous EDISON PHONOGRAPHS for
the Christmas Season, and these are now on view
at our establishment.
HOW TO BUY A PHONOGRAPH
BY JTAIL.
Simply send your order giving full name and
address and enclosing the price, and we deliver
promptly and safely same day.
The Edison Gem Phonograph, £2 I Os*
The Edison Standard Phonograph, £5
The Edison Home Phonograph, £7 10s.
Please send me your Catalogue of Edison Phonographs and
Lists of Records.
NAME
ADDRESS .
20,000
Records to select from,
Is., Is. 3d., Is. 6d.,
and Is. 9d. each.
OSBORN & JERPAN, Ltd.
My
Opticians,'
IMPORTERS OF PHONO-
GRAPHS AND RECORDS,
393 GEORGE ST
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYI9KEY,
me TYREE,
Automatic vSPRAY
PATENTED UNDER THE INTERNATIONAL CONVENTION
IN ALL COUNTRIES OF THE WORLD.
THE man who makes two blades of grass grow where one
grew before is recognised as a Public Benefactor. The
TYREE SPRAY will do more than this; it will
enable you to grow two sheep where one grew before, as it
can be used as a rabbit destroyer. It will double the fruit
crop, as it enables anyone to keep down the insect pests. It
will double the output of poultry and eggs for the same
reason. It can be used for white-washing, painting, spray-
ing, disinfecting, fire extinguishing, cleaning windows, kalso-
mining, washing horses, traps, houses, and a number of
other uses too numerous to mention.
The TYREE SPRAY works at a cost of one
half penny per hour.
SEND FOR A TYREE PAMPHLET ON THE ABOVE SUBJECTS. IT GIVES
FULL INFORMATION; OR, BETTER STILL, SEND FOR SPRAY.
PRICES, FROM *.2 lOs. EACH.
Pamphlet included. Agents wanted Everywhere.
SHOWROOMS and OFFICES:
314 George Street, Sydney.
I’ll Try It:
IN ONE JAR OF CAPILLARINE.
In one jar of the Famous Capillarine is concentrated
the essence of many years experience of an eminent
hair specialist. Capillarine will produce a full
grown moustache in wonderfully quick time.
PRICE, lOs 6d, post free anywhere, under sealed cover*
The Result.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY.
A CERTAIN WAY
TO IMPROVE
YOUR MEMORY.
HTHE PELMAN-FOSTER Memory System
1 means to the brain what modern business
methods mean to commercial life. We show
you how to train the brain to think and
remember—we help you to make the brain a
well-ordered house of mental treasures, where
every fact is accessible—where every scrap of
knowledge comes readily to mind when you
require it.
There is no mystery about Memory training-
Write to-day for our free booklet, “ Memory,
and How to Improve It,” and learn what a
simple thing it is to train your memory to serve
you faithfully.
Address the Secretary:
The Pelman School of Memory*
G.P.O. BOX, 402, MELBOURNE.
London: 4 Bloomsbury Street, W.O.
America: 901 Whitehall Building, New York.
Germany: Braunerstr, 13 Munich.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
gfdgd
MED1CAT0R.
Catarrh is inflammation of
the lining membrane of the
nose and adjoining passages.
If this inflammation is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the
sight and hearing, destroys
the sense of taste and smell,
renders the breath offensive,
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? If so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache,Neuralgia,Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
Price,complete with 4 months’
treatment by mail, 10s.
Write for Booklet, free, or send order direct to
Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPyWE
Caution-— I Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remudy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BEONCHITIS,
DIAEEHCEA, &c. bears on the
Stamp the name of the In-
ventor
Pr. J. COLLIS BROWN€
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
PATERNOSTER’S
PILLS
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
ASTHMA CURE
ERIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Bold, by all Chemists.
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
‘PAMPA’
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BEST.
sfgfd
Sold'
by
all first-
class stores
in Australasia.
No. 8176J 2-BLADE
“ PAMPA,"
Cocoa Handle 116
Buffalo Handle- 21-
Stag Handle - - - 216
Vic. Citizens’ League, as the exponent of
anti-Sosh, indicates by its leaflets that it has con-
siderably modified its opinions. In a struggle to
distinguish between what it calls “State capi-
talism ” and Socialism, the V.C.L. admits that
postal, electric light; gas, tramway, railway, and
similar services, are essentially enterprises which
should not be carried out by private enterprise
unless the State or municipality will not take on
the job. Further, it says a number of very nasty
things about the effects of private ownership of
railways in America. Taking it altogether, the
article is one which, about five years ago, would
have, made the average Fatman turn somersaults
for its revolutionary teachings. Even the Citi-
zens’ League moves, when it is examined under a
microscope. Judging by the literature it is cir-
culating just now, the anti-Socialist party ought
to be called the semi-Socialist party, but unfortu-
nately voters have to look out for the men behind
the literature. The semi-Socialism of Reid and
Bilnox is something to keep in front of you all the
time, even as you keep in front of you the abori-
gine who carries the axe.
For the Federal elections, read “ A Policy
for the Commonwealth,” by James Edmond,
price 6d., post free; and “On the Trail of the
Trust,” by Bulletin writers, freely illustrated,
price Is., post free.
A Mildura policeman, with a helmetful of
common sense, brought both feet down—they were
sensible feet too —on the Guy Fawkes business.
On the day that the long-deceased Fawkes was
billed to be resurrected and again despatched to
the accompaniment of crackers, bonfires, and a
useless, expenditure of good powder, the pillar of
the law took it upon himself to inform children,
and certain foolish grown-up children, that any
person detected lighting fires or squibs would be
proceeded against under the Act relating to the
“careless use of fire.” It is high time that this
dangerous Guy Fawkes business was stamped out
of Australia, which is a dry country and not suit-
able for fooling with combustibles.
“Jones ” : Wouldn’t there be more sense
in Dr. Arthur’s emigration proposals we F® ™
suggest importing about 25,000 Transvaal Boers.
That is if they would come. If that number of
married Boers were placed in the Northern Terri-
tory now in 10 years’time they would .probably
have increased sufficiently to give any invader a
hard nut to crack. Considering what we know
the Boers, they would form an ideal
for the Jews, they would probably try to pawn
the whole place the first chance that arose. An
there would be little use in having Jews without
about 100 Christians for each Jew *o sell goods .
But either as regards Jew or Boer or Britisher, 1
expect tlfe stable door at Fort Darwin won t be
closed until the horse is stolen.


Consumption
Can Be Cured.
At Last a Remedy has been found
that Cures Consumption.
Dr. Derk P. Yonkerman, Discoverer of the
New Cure for Consum(*ion.
Marvellous as it may seem after centuries of failure,
a remedy has been discovered that has cured the
Deadly Consumption even in the advanced stages of
the disease. No one will longer doubt that con-
sumption can be cured after reading the proof of
hundreds of cases cured by this wonderful discovery—
some after change of climate and all other remedies
tried, had failed, and the cases had been pronounced
hopeless of cure. This new remedy has also proved
itself effective and speedy in curing t atarrh, Bron-
chitis, Asthma, and many serious throat and lung
troubles.
In order that all in need of this wonderful product
of science may test its efficacy for themselves,
a company has been formed to give it to the
world and a Free Trial Treatment can be obtained
•»" writing the Derk i\ Yonkerman Co. Ltd.,
Dixson Buildings, Sydney. Send no money.
Simply mention this paper and ask for the Free
Trial Treatment. It will be sent you by return of
post, carriage paid,
- ABSOLUTELY FREE.
Don’t wait if you have any of the symptoms of con-
sumption, if you have chronic catarrh, bronchitis,
asthma, pains in ypuV chest, a cold on your lungs, or
any throat or lung trouble, write to-day for the free
trial treatment and book of instructions, and cure
yourself before it is too late.
The truth of the matter is-THIS!
The reason that most Paints crack and peel off is simply because
they are not ELASTIC.
When the Oil, which is the LIFE of a Paint, evaporates, it leaves
a CRUSTY SURFACE of pigment, and as the changes in the atmos-
phere takes place, expanding and contracting the surface—OFF comes
the paint.
Now, Arco Elastic Carbon Paint is, as its name implies,
ELASTIC. That is, it contracts and expands with the climatic
changes, and thus, under ALL circumstances and conditions, it STICKS.
Under ordinary conditions Arco Elastic Carbon Paint will last
INDEFINITELY, but under SEVERE conditions it’s Guaranteed
for FIVE YEARS.
Manufactured in RED, BLUE. BROWN, GREEN
and BLACK, by . . .
lohe ATLANTIC REFINING CO.,
Equitable Buildings, j Cleveland, Ohio,
Melbourne. U.S.A.
Wholesale Agents—
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Brisbane, and Adelaide.
Tasmanian Woolgrowers’ Agency Co., Launceston, Tasmania.
W. D. Moore & Co. and Harris, Scarfe & Co., Premantle.
J. S. l*lunro & Co., Zeehan, Tasmania.
Thomas Brown & Sons, Townsville.
Walter Reid & Co., Rockhampton.
FOR the Federal Elections, read “A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH,” by
James Edmond, price 6d., post free ; and “ON THE TRAIL OF THE TRUST,”
by Bulletin writers, freely illustrated, price Is., post free.
KUTNOW’S POWDER
CORRECTS IRREGULARITIES.
I KUTNOW’S i
IMPRDVtO EEf SIWESCEM CARLsBAD
POWDER.
rtuscheniipfijßg.or Deer Leaw
e h ij
rAPRIHCnON R9AL
(pS.Tt.nEU Ml STATIONER'S hALLA
Dr. J. BOND SULLIVAN, M.D., M.R.C.3., Lug.,
writes s “I personally’ derived mticb
benefit from Kutnow’s Powder.”
KUTNOW’S POWDER is the finest
health-giving draught in the world. It is a
perfect liver cleanser and keeps the stomach
in order. It is a natural blood purifier, and
as such eradicates all disfigurements of the
skin. It imparts to the complexion that
ruddy glow of robust health which is the best
type of beauty. It corrects all digestive and
excretory irregularities. It is delightfully
refreshing, exhilariting, and invigorating to
the whole nervous system. It relieves the
pressure of blood on the brain, thereby
removing depression and headache. It gives
you the enjoyment of a keen appetite and a
sound, healthy digestion. It is gentle and
mild in its action, and agreeable to the most
delicate stomach.
Dr. I. N. LOVE, Professor of Clinical
Medical Diseases of Children and Hygiene,
Marion-Sims College of Medicine and Col-
lege of Physicians and Surgeons, says
“ The great Surgeon, Professor Lawson
Taifc, M.D., found Kutnow’s Powder of great
value to him personally and in his practice,
and this remedy is one of the few he con-
spicuously endorsed over his own signature.
Kutnow’s Powder stimulates the activities of
the bowels and kidneys. A dessert-spoonful
in a tumbler full of water taken immediately
on 1 sing in the morning cleanses the bowels,
dilute., the urine, and flushes out the kidneys
in the most satisfactory way. Thorough
elimination is salvation, and there is no
better eliminator than Kutnow’s Powder.”
OHljißlijdMMßE
THOWS
POWDER
!' 'lll
m
Sift
m
Hirachensprung. or Oeer Leap.
REV. F. L. BULLEN
WRITES :
“ Wellesley, Church Lane, Highfield,
“ Southampton, Oct. 22, 1905.
“ Dear Sirs,—l have no objection to your
publishing my testimony concerning the
excellent properties of Kutnow’s Powder.
I only wish I had tried it years ago. In my
case it has proved to be an agreeable and
gentle aperient, cleansing the liver and kid-
neys, relieving the brain of any symptoms of
pain or discomfort, and regulating generally
the whole organic system.
“ Yours truly,
“(Rev.) F. L. BULLEN.”
COLONEL W. H. WILSON
WHITES :
“Broadview, Petersfield,
“ 15th March, 1906.
“ Sirs, —I have pleasure in inform-
ing you that I have just finished a 21
days’ course of Kutnow’s Powder and
have derived much benefit from it.
“(Colonel) W. H. WILSON.”
How to Detect Fraud!
The genuine and original Kutnow's Powder
can he had of all Chemists throughout the
world. See "that the fac-simile signature,
“S. Kutnow & C0., : Ld.,” and the regis-
tered trade mark, “ Hirschensprung, or
Deer Leap,” are on the package and bottle
as shown in the reduced illustrations above.
You will then avoid fraud and
Get Genuine
Kutnow’s Powder.
KUTNOW’S POWDER INVIGORATES YOUR BODY
:■ 5] • -■ ‘ ' ‘ j ... . ’■ ‘ ll ' ‘ -
Sole Proprietors: S. KUTNOW (Si CO., LTD., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C.
- [2-B].
There is just published “From Libau to
Tsushima,” by Eugene S. Politovsky, engineer-
in-chief to Russia’s Bolted Fleet. Politovsky
went down in the Kniaz Suvaroff, Rojdestvensky’s
flagship, and the memoirs are compiled from
letters to his wife. Here are some extracts, which
show how things were managed on the Baltic
fleet: —
Making for Gaboon, on the West Coast of Africa, the
navigating officers took the fleet thirty miles past Gaboon
before they discovered their whereabouts (which perhaps
throws additional light on the North Sea affair); at the
same place, three officers were dismissed the fleet
for flagrant disobedience ; at Angra Pequena, two men
went mad ; at Nossi-B6 there were mutinies on the
Roland and Malay transports and the cruiser Naehinoff,
and some of the mutineers were marooned; there are
fatalities in the fleet nearly every day ; there are many
things I cannot tell you of on paper ; yesterday a sailor
flung himself into the sea and was drowned ; officers sit-
ting’ at table drunk ; porpoises mistaken for torpedo-
boats or submarines; torpedo-boats collide, one badly
damaged ; two officers seize a disorderly sailor and beat
his face into a pulp ; the battleship Orel is full of con-
victs, who are always trying to damage her ; the captain
of the Ural armed transport openly boasts his intention
to surrender. Shame ! shame ! we wallow in shame !
Did ever a comic opera fleet, manned by peasants
and commanded by dismounted horsemen, lumber
more horribly to destruction ? Even the armed
schooners, and the raft with cannon on it, and the
fighting dredge with which Lopez of Paraguay
argued on the Rio de la Plata with the fleets of
Brazil and Argentina made a better show. In
fact, no dredge in history ever put up a grander
fight than that of Lopez, and his raft fought like
a demon.
“A.C.D.,” from Hobart :
The Hobart Metropolitan Drainage Board is putting up
a good claim to be wiped out of existence. About three
years ago it was decided to adopt a deep drainage scheme
in the fragrant Tasmanian capital, where, formerly, the
sewage meandered gently across a street. A Board
was" appointed to carry out the work. The Board’s
engineer estimated the cost at £BO,OOO. This was the
first big blunder. It was soon followed by others—such
as mistakes in levels, bad laying of pipes, disregard of
important specifications by contractors, under estimate
of proportion of rock to soil (rock was stated to be only 5
percent., but is now proved to be nearly 50 per cent.),
and so on. The public demanded that somebody—or
everybody—be sacked. The Board had no idea of sacking
itself. So the engineer went. Shortl.v afterwards
another row' resulted in the resignation of the chairman.
These changes failed to do any real good. Recently' the
Board, having used up all its money', and finding it had
not completed half the scheme, applied to Parliament for
a further grant of £6o,ooo—possibly it will require double
that amount, hut it wanted £60,000 to go on with. The
citizens protested, and called upon Parliament to instruct
the Board to dig one more trench and bury itself therein.
Parliament weakly' decided to caution the Board, but
when a Board hasn’t any brains a caution from a Legisla-
ture which hasn’t many makes little difference. Also
£30,000 was granted. Of course if the Board fritters
away the £30,000 in the same absurd way as it did the
£60,000, and then comes and ask for £90,000, Parliament
will have to grant the money in the end. Half a drainage
system is of no use to the city'. It is the sort of job that
must be finished, therefore the decision to let the Board
go back to its office and bray with impunity is especially
worthy of Tasmania.
The growing practice in Australian law
courts of handing over girls accused of light
offences to representatives of the Salv’army and
similar bodies should be stopped, unless an officer
of the court is appointed to interview them from
time to time during the period of probation, and
report officially on their treatment. There are
allegations that in many cases the institution
treatment is a great deal worse than gaol treat-
ment.
Governors nowadays don’t spend their
fore or afternoons in the workshops of their “ sub-
jects, ’’but Denison, in the fifties, used to pass
hours at the bench of the just dead clockmaker,
Tornaghi, in his George-street shop ; and Gover-
nor Loftiis —the chooky-hen man—was addicted
to spending evenings with an old Marrickville
engineer, who kept a boiler going with evil-smell-
ing leather compounds, in the hope of making out
of the things he boiled a ship-coating which would
resist cannon balls. Loftus used' to prowl round
among the boiled things and the bad smells and
fire bullets at sheets of the stuff, and he wrote
reams of letters to the Admiralty about the inven-
tion. The Admiralty never even replied.


Curing by Post
THE RISE AND GROWTH
OF A
GREAT INSTITUTION.
Behind tl ic scenes in the Dr. McLaughlin Electric
Belt Co., 100W. Market Street, Sydney.
Sydney, Nov. 20th, 1906.
The ordinary person scarcely realises
the real value of the uses to which the
Post may be successfully put., In earlier
days sufferers living away from trade
centres were often sorely inconvenienced,
even'having their lives endangered, and
many dying owing to their inaccessibility
to medical attention. * Doctors often be-
ing required could not be had for love or
money, and where the trouble was such
that good ; homely remedies -were of no
avail, the patient’s j chances of recovery
were indeed exceedingly slim.
) Now the Post Office has changed all
this., i Except in .cases of . exceptional
accidents, a patient can have professional
specialist’s advice in a very short space of
time, without budging from his own door-
step-as it'were.- He can consult freely
and; with; every .advantage , by post, and
can secure the same result that an expen-
sive ‘trip to the'city would give, except,
of course, where a surgical operation is
imperative. \
These are exceptional advantages, and
our grandfathers and mothers would have
scoffed at the idea of their ever coming
to pass. The greatest brains in the
country are now available by post and at
short notice, and probably the institution
that has taken the greatest advantage of
this opportunity and brought the details
of treating by post to the greatest exacti-
tude, has been The Dr. McLaughlin Co.
At their head offices in Sydney the
writer was given every opportunity to
learn “ how it was done.”
Their immense correspondence depart-
ment, swarming with clerks, card keepers,
and stenographers, is presided over by an
expert correspondence, specialist. When
one enters the department the hustle and
hurry appears at first to be all confusion,
but as he is shown around by. a mild
mannered, soft voiced personage, he soon
finds that every move produces its result.
Everything has its place, and all is order
and system —not chaos, as at first appears
to be the case.
The voluminous correspondence—from
six hundred to fifteen hundred letters
per day, so I am informed—pass - through
the mail clerks’ hands. They are sorted
and assigned to their different depart-
ments.. 1 The requests “for their book”
to one clerk, and filled; the letters
entered and : filed by others. 1 “ State-
ments for diagnosis” are put to one side
' to await the. careful perusal of the
Specialists at . their two hourly clinic
during the day, when the diagnosis is
prepared and dictated, later to be read
and approved ; any analysis are made in
the meantime.
are
“Reports from cured patients”
handled by the testimonial clerk, who
makes a record of each case. Reports or
requests from patients under treatment
are handed to the clinic at ten, twelve,
or three o’clock, and suitable advice and
directions given for the patients’ further
guidance. The “ repair letters ” are
treated by the “ old belt ” and repair
department, and all the time the type-
writers are humming away, reminding
one of a great telegraphing department
in a railway or at the G. P.O.
The advertising is handled by the adver-
tising manager, and all their handsome
stationery is printed in their own shop.
Over five years ago TheI)r. McLaughlin
Co. opened their business in Sydney,
from whence they extended with branches
in the other States. Their appliance was
at once recognised as being possessed of
more than usual merit, and their prac-
tice became the greatest mail order busi-
ness in Australia, as it is in other parts
of the world.
The concern is noted for its fair and
courteous treatment of its patrons. As
its business depends upon results, it can
boast of the greatest possible success, for
by its books it was proven clearly that
there are to-day over ten thousand grate-
ful patients willing to publicly testify to
its merits, and, it is safe to presume, that
many more who do their quiet work
amongst their friends, . always recom-
mending and pushing the Belt.
Their book is free for the asking, and
will be posted on request. Their hand-
some suite of offices at 100 W. Market-
street, Sydney, are open from 9 a.m. to
6 p.m. daily for free consultation with
sufferers who call.
YOUR EYES I
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT 1
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bcurke St., Melbourne.
The Best
Summer Drink
oi\ Earth
7 x try
sgdsfgdfsg
# .#
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as “ run-down ”or “out of sorts." Females
of every age find Holloway’s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords mo** welcome relief
in a very short time.
A
* # v
dsfgfdsgfd
The GRANDEST LIVER FILL in the WORLD
“Take a Cockle’s Pill” is the Doctor’s advice throughout the English-speaking’ world, whenever a furred
tongue or a sallow complexion indicates the need of a safe, reliable means of cleansing the liver and bowels.
For Bile, Liver, Acidity and all kindred complaints, these famous pills act readily, surely and safely.
Of all Chemists, at prices from 1/H to 22/-
COCKLES ANTIBILIOUS PILLS
there is no financial risk nor physical risk in
RISIi’*S 3 Star Scotch WhisKy
ASK FOR IT AND TRY. FRANZ JOSEF LAGER BEER is the Brand now in demand.
The Illustrated Medical News
saysinfants do remark-
ably well on it.”
The British Medical Journal
saysßenger’s Food has
by its excellence estab-
lished a reputation of its
own.”
%
FOOD
For INFANTS * INVALIDS, and the AGED,
BENOER’S FOOD IS SOLD BY CHEMISTS, ftc., EYERYgHERB.
Benger’s Food has attained
its great reputation not by
extravagant or sensational
advertisement, but by the con-
stant recommendation of those
who have used it, and of Medi-
cal men who know its value.”
Tasmania® Health Officer Elkington has
been investigating the rural water supplies, tie
found things. At Fingal the town water supply
is lifted from the river just below where, the
drainage of the town, enters. Tins is to entire a
perpetual circulation of the Frugal drainage
among the Fingal people. New Norfolk, where
all the State’s insane are housed, gets its watei
supply from the Lachlan, “upon whose banks
above the intake are numerous houses and several
bor> grounds The river banks are stated, on
reZble authority, to be habitually used as
latrines by the hop-piekers. The disposal of gai -
bageuw the river waters is alleged to be quite a
usual' practice.” At Deloraine the site of the
water supplv reservoir is used as the town tip.
And 1 so on 1 . "The Tasmanian rustic is evidently
quite as dirty in bis habits as his Tory principles
would seem to indicate.
“ Uckle ” writes
•< Mallarapoonie’s-” suggestion (B. h a good
one. We all seem to feel a sort of brotherly love for
“ Hop./’Lindsay and eo„ and we have airy and quite
illogical fancies about their personal a .PP® aian< l e - U N }
picture “ Hop.” somehow, on no evidence at all, as a
small, neat individual with a clean-shaved Jace and a
larsre family. Norman Lindsay has a well-chiselled,
clean-shaved face, and is-a fawonte with girls. Lionel
Lindsay I somehow see in myuundseyeasthe black
sheep of the family—and youdf better not ( publish his
picture 1 Souter wears high collars-and says Bai .love
and his pants always have the correct crease
is the srood man of the crowd, and is alwajs smiling a
lovely smile, especially when talking to- children. He
look/ 51 years old. Vincent I somehow picture in nil
own mindws an embittered kind of man who-loses all his
money at the races. McCrae is the ;
party I always see Booth wearing a Salvarmy jerse.i
and beating the big drum. He will go
was reared in luxury, has a pi nk and white * pl™m
and a hooked nose. Weston .is like Hop , ,h vt has a
smaller family. I always picture Weston asmbemg
divorced, or an orphan, or something And jfh e lndr*,
victual who answers the correspondents ha * a / on "l
tail, a pair of horns, and two cloven hoofs, assays
Ari' out-buck storekeeper, visiting Sydney,
lately, acquired the reputation of being some-
thing of a parson, because of tlie ostentatious way
he went about with a Bible under his-arm. .Uni
other respects- he was not at all parsomcak
“Do you preach when at home m your ow
nlace ? ” asked a barmaid, as he swallowed his-
third whisky. “Preach?” lie asked. Why,
no.” She tapped the Bible which lay - beside the
whisky bottle, and inquired, W hat s that for .
“Oh, that!” he replied., “Bma.J.B., and
that’s what I swear parties on. 1 ve got ™
habit of carrying the kit with me. Oimme
another drink.”
The Bulletin likes this essay on natural
history:— ■ 1 ■ ! . -.
Pleas are synonyms of agility. A flea can jump in
fact more than one can. They can pimp quicker than■«
woman jumps to conclusions. If G. Reid were , a flea, A
would not take him long to jump from Yes to
more than it does now. And, if G. R. had, been madfe a
fleathere would have been one Freetraders and!one
more flea. Nature is full of these compensations. Fleas
are useful animals. They keep us exermsed getting out
of their way. A dog without fleas gets too little exer-
cise. On the other hand, the flea gets too-little dog.
Happiness cannot be in two places at once.


TORTURED RY
ITCHINGECZEMA
Suffered Tremendous Itching Over
Whole Body—Scratched Until
Bled-Worse at Night, With
Soreness and Excruciating Pains
A Western Lady's
WONDERFUL CURE BY
CUTICURA REMEDIES
“Last year at this time I suffered
with a tremendous itching on my
back, which grew worse and worse, un-
til it spread over the whole body, and
only my face and hands were free.
For four months or so I suffered tor-
ments, and I had to scratch, scratch,
scratch, until I bled. At night when
I went to bed things got worse, and I
had at times to get up and scratch my
body all over, until I was as sore as
could be, and until I suffered excruciat-
ing pains. I did not know what it was,
and resorted to a number of blood
gurifisrs, using at times also Cuticura
oap. They told me then that I was suf-
fering from eczema. Then I made up
my mind that I would also use Cuticura
Ointment and Cuticura Resolvent. I
used them according to instructions, and
very soon indeed I was greatly relieved.
I continued until well, and now I am
ready to recommend the Cuticura Rem-
edies to any one. Mrs. Mary Metzger
Sweetwater, Okla., June 28, 1905.”
The original of the above testimonial is on file in the
office of the Potter Drug & Chemical Corporation.
Reference ; R. Towns & Co., Merchants, Sydney, N. S.W.
TORTURING, DISFIGURING
Humours, Eczemas, and Itchings
Cured by Cuticura.
The agonizing itching and burning
of the skin, as in eczema; the frightful
scaling, as in psoriasis; the loss of hair
and crusting of scalp, as in scalled
head —all demand a remedy of almost
superhuman virtues to successfully
cope with them. That Cuticura Soap,
Ointment, and Pills are such stands
proven beyond all doubt.
Sold throughout the world. Cuticura Soap, Ointment,
and Resolvent Pills (Chocolate Coated, in vial of 60),
may be had of all druggists A single set often cures.
Potter Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
Mailed Free, “ Howto Cure Baby Humours."
Address, R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
WEAREVER"
ALUMINUM
Cooking Utensils*
The Celebrated
WEAR-EVER Brand.
Silvery, Bright, Clean. Do
not Bust nor Chip. Not
liable to burn the food.
Practically Everlasting.
Wholesale and Retail from Sole Australian Agents,
NEW YORK IMPORT 00., Block Place, Melbourne:
34 King William-st., and 150 Rundle-st., Adelaide:
MULLER & WILSON, 98 Ellzabeth-st., Brisbane,
Sydney, Perth, &c., and Leading Stores.
Up-Lo-uate v.'nlcu su-iiis
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Storekeepers.
Australian Users now num-
ber over one thousand.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH-
Colonlal Mutual Building,
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Sub-Agencies :
Victoria, S.A. and Tas
VARLEY BROS.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Bookman’s Buildings,
Adelaide.
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth
Of course you have System
in your office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
UNDERWOOD “VISIBLE”
BILLING TYPEWRITER.
JOHN SANDS, 374 George St„ Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent Wabash Systems.
Clean White
Teeth mean sound teeth, fit for their
work, the condition they are kept
in by the use of
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Tooth Powder
It is made for cleaning the Teeth, and
does it, too, pleasantly, thoroughly and
gently, without scratching or injuring
the enamel. That is why it is in such
constant demand all over the world.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,
England.
RODS
■ For Locating MINES]—-
LOST TREASURE &c.
The Latest Improved.
Write for Booklet, 2 Stamps.
6i Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
Edw. NORTON.
100,000
“THE WAYBACK SERIES.
NO 3, RED HARRY, 1/-
The lost ana Best word
indigestion
IS
MOTHER
SEIGEIS SYRUP
USE IT—IT PROVES ITSELF.
ion is the
foundation 'x<
of health, the
absolute bedrock
on which life itself
is built. When it fails
every organ of your body,
right up to the brain, suffers;
when it stops altogether-
you die. This is the plain
truth. If you suffer from
indigestion in any form,
take Mother Seigel’s >
Syrup—take it as you
would take medi-
cine prescribed
by a physician,
as direct- y
ed, and
IT WILL a
11 WILL
CURE xVJ
appetite
broke down,
and what I did
eat I could not
<✓ digest, There was a
bad taste in my mouth, j
tightness across my chest, 1
and aches and pains all over
me. I lost strength, slept
badly, and felt done up after
the least exertion. Nothing
did me any good at all but
Mother Seigel’s Syrup. That
thoroughly cured me."
From Mr. M. Nielsen,
Bourbon Street,
V Bundaberg,
Central
Queensland
n Dec. 29th. 1
We are on the SPOT
with Crystaiate Billiard Bales
//s/*
M,
■-M
Only
Subslifyfe
for •
Ivory
AUOC/f& C?PfyMJ.
•
zu/zAß£msr
The Crystalate
Billiard Ball . . .
is positively truer than ivory,
is as near as possible the same
weight, and will improve your
game 20 per cent. It is the
same color right through and
will last three times as long as
its expensive rival. It has now
been admitted to championship
rank, and the world’s greatest
“Knights of the Cue” freely
admit its superiority.
Sydney Showrooms—
-422 GEORGE STREET
CURES= KIDNEY DISEASE
From Mr. Thomas H. Roach, 24 Margaret-street, Enmore, Sydney, N.S.W., 16th March, 1906.
“About seven years ago my little daughter, now ten years of age, contracted scarlet fever in a
very severe form. She recovered from the fever, but her constitution was left very weak, and some
years later she began to suffer from Bright’s Disease of the kidneys, and dropsy. Her appetite at first
became very capricious, then her body and head began to swell and her face became pallid. We were
alarmed by her condition, especially when the doctor, after a thorough examination, pronounced her
to be suffering from Bright’s Disease in a bad form. She was taken to the hospital, where her disease
was pronounced by the doctor to be quite incurable, and that they could do nothing for her. Her
urine, by analysis, showed much albumen. We tried every possible means of alleviating her
sufferings without result. It was an awful and anxious time for us to see her dying and to be able to
do nothing to help her. As a last resource we decided to give her Warner’s Safe Cure, having heard
such good reports of the efficacy of that medicine. The result proved the reports to be correct, for
after she had taken one bottle we were delighted to find the medicine was doing her good. We per-
severed with the medicine, and she continued to grow better and stronger. Every week showed great
improvement. Repeated tests proved that the quantity of albumen in her urine was decreasing. We
continued to give her Warner’s Safe Cure until all trace of albumen and sediment had disappeared,
and all signs of dropsy had left her. She has now fully regained her health and strength, and looks
more robust than any member of the family.”
From Miss M. Cornish, Storekeeper, 352 High-street, Bendigo, Vic., 24th August, 1905.
“For many years past I had been suffering from kidney complaint. The pain in my back and
sides was so intense at times that I could not lie down, and sleep was out of the question, whilst food
was revolting to me. I also suffered from severe chronic headaches, recurring two or three times each
week. Doctors’ medicines did me no good, so I started to try the effect of Warner’s Safe Cure. Soon
after commencing to take this medicine I obtained relief, and gradually began to mend, until all pain
had left me and I could eat and sleep without distress. lam now in the best of health.”
From Miss Elizabeth Newbery, Bangor, S.A., 3rd August, 1905.
“ In hope that others may benefit by my experience, I wish to testify to what Warner’s Safe Cure
has done for me in saving my life. In October, 1903, I was taken ill with dropsy whilst away from
home. I did not take much notice of it at first, but soon became so ill that I had to be removed to the
hospital. For ten weeks two doctors attended to me, and at last had to confess that they could do
nothing for me, and that the best thing I could do was to go home to my parents. They fully expected
that I should die, and I thought the same. I decided to go home. Before leaving, a minister ad-
vised me to try Warner’s Safe Cure, saying that a like case, to his knowledge, had been cured by that
medicine. For seven months, after arriving at home, my life was hanging by a thread, and everyone
thought that I should die. Often I had such difficulty in breathing that a rope had to be passed
through a beam in the roof and I had to be raised by that, so that, whilst holding on, I could get my
breath. At one period of my illness I measured forty-four (44) inches round the waist. I then pro-
cured a bottle of Warner’s Safe Cure, and finding that it did me a little good, I continued to take it,
i .king also Warner’s Safe Pills. Altogether, I took thirteen bottles of the medicine (with the pills),
and, marvellous to say, since then I have been stronger and have enjoyed better health than ever
before. Warner’s Safe Cure undoubtedly saved my life after the doctors said that I was incurable.”
From Mr. J. W. Jackson, Storekeeper, 87 Inkerman-street, St. Kilda, Vic., 25th January, 1906.
“For a number of years I suffered from disease of the kidneys, which gradually undermined my
health. As the disease advanced I became weaker. I lost all appetite and experienced extreme
wakefulness and nervousness. I had a sinking feeling which increased day by day, unfitting me for
exercise of any kind. When at the worst I commenced to take Warner’s Safe Cure. I rapidly re-
covered, and was soon once again in the enjoyment of good health and strength.”
A treatise containing many similar letters and an explanation why
Warner’s Safe Cure
cures kidney and liver diseases, and the effects of those diseases, such as Rheumatism, Gout, Neu-
ralgia, Lumbago, Sciatica, Blood Disorders, Ansemia, Indigestion, Biliousness, Jaundice, Gravel,
Stone and Bladder Troubles, will be sent post free by H. H. Warner and Co. Ltd., Australasiaii
Branch, Melbourne. rgi
The Inky Way.
Prime Minister Deakin had a little healthy furi with the
Argus lately. Senator Synion had forwarded a fierce
letter to the Age, calling Deakin a liar for saying, at
Ballarat, that Symon passed the Union Label through the
Senate. The Age, which stands solidly by Deakin, showed
him the letter and got his reply, and both were published
together next morning. Deakin, after being interviewed
by the Age, guessed that Symon would send a similar
letter to the Argus, so he wrote an explanation to that
paper, commencing: “In the event of a letter from Senator
Symon reaching you, etc.” This knocked the Argus out
completely, as Symon had written to it. It published
both letters, with a pompous note explaining that it
didn’t know how Deakin knew that Symon was writing,
and that, anyhow, it hadn’t told him. Of course, when
the Age appeared that morning, the mystery was ex-
plained. Deakin followed up his Argus letter with a
column of explanation the next day. The Argus said
that Deakin was having two shots at Symon, and it
wouldn’t have printed the second lot, only that it was
certain to appear in the Age. And the fun of it all was
that it didn’t appear in the Age ; and the Argus doesn’t
know now whether it is on its head or its heels.
• * * *
“ U.”: As that Melbourne newspaper fetish, the “ Oup
introduction ” of the dailies, seems likely to be a perma-
nent institution, I have invented a machine for turning
it out more expeditiously than is feasible by hand labor.
You just tip in the old familiar ingredients—“ brown-
faced Westerners,” “ when we were boys together,”
“men from the land of drought," “Queenslanders. . .
length of limb,” “ Carbine, lovingly known as
‘Old Jack,”’ and the rest of the mouldy, sham
sentiment. Whatever you do, don’t forget to pour
in some Adam Lindsay Gordon and platitude.
Then set the machinery going (a child can work it),
and in five minutes you will have a better article than
is nowadays produced by the combined efforts of the
descriptive purple-patcher, editor, sub., sporting ed.,
“Woman’s Column” expert, lino.-operator, galley-
puller, lino.-slugger (they know their turf history in the
linotype room), proof-reader, and proprietor. I will for-
ward patterns and self-measurement forms to any re-
spectable daily on application.
• * * •
It isn’t pleasant to see the N.S.W. rural papers joining
with the metropolitan papers in crying out for State pap.
The Country Press Conference, lately concluded, suggested
reduced rates on the railways for pressmen, a promise
that the Government should not canvass for advertise-
ments for its own publications, and the establishment at
the Technical College of linotype and monotype classes.
With the last proposal—though it is obviously suggested
as a means to save newspaper proprietors from
the expense of training machine compositors—
there can be no disagreement; it is a valid ex-
tension of technical education. But to cadge for
cheap railway fares is undignified, and the request that
the Government should refrain from meeting some of the
cost of its publications by the insertion of advertisements
is impudent. The N.S.W. country press is in a bad way.
Generations of a semi-Freetrade and wholly centralising
policy have whittled it down to a shadow of its old im-
portance whilst fattening the metropolitan press. Any
policy to restore the rural papers to their ancient status
deserves support, for it would be of enormous public
advantage to lessen the influence of the importers’
organs. But the attitude of begging for subsidies and
concessions from the State does not promise anything in
that direction.
* * • *
N.S.W. Attorney-General Wade is promised a busy
time over his law prohibiting the publication of betting
quotations. There is hardly a foreign paper that isn’t
more or less liable to seizure under this statute. Even
the London Times will be held to be a disturber of the
King’s peace in N.S.W. London papers give the betting
on the Derby for weeks ahead, and the figures get here
in plenty of time to demoralise a holy community...
Possibly Wade has taken on a job that is beyond his size.
• * • *
A shorthand writer, giving evidence before Sydney
Tramway Commission, testified that in transcribing he
“ always improved the language of the speaker.” Recalls
the story of the Pitmanite who ended his report of a
statesman’s speech:—
“The speaker concluded by expressing it as his deliberate
conviction that, on the whole, simple faith was to be con-
sidered of more value than Norman blood, and, under all
the circumstances, a kindly heart was preferable to a
coronet. (Applause.)”
When he was “ wigged ” by the editor, he triumphantly
produced his “ Pitman’s Reporter,” with the advice in it
“Always when possible improve the language of a
speaker.”
PRO BONO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.J
I’ve a word or two to say,
Ere I take my lonely way
To another, and, I hope, a better plane,
Which I don’t expect to do
For another year or two,
But I wish to tell you this while I retain
All my faculties intact—
That my intellect is racked
By the eloquence, and wisdom, and the flow
Of the language deep and grand,
Of the visionary hand
That we designate “ Pro Bono Publico.”
Does a knotty point arise
Re the habits of the flies,
Or the manner of the dingo or the shark,
Or the things we left undone,
Or the setting of the sun,
Then “ Pro Bono ” rises gaily as a lark.
And he straight elucidates—
While we scratch our addled pates—
Why the sunrise moves the rooster bird to crow ;
Then he sinks back in the sea
Of his dark obscurity,
Just exactly as a deity would go.
Then he takes an interest
In the sins we love the best,
And he warns us of the punishment in store 5
And he keeps his eagle eye
On the Parliamentary pie,
And informs us they “ are rotten to the core.”
Which of course is only right.
But the members sit all night,
And they never seem to be a bit dismayed;
For they’ve heard it all before,
So they wrangle as of yore,
And continue to be very much decayed.
From the eye-teeth of a bear
To a wild musician’s hair,
And the yelling of an oysterman at night,
And the making of a tart—
Oh ! he knows it all by heart,
And if we misunderstand he puts us right
In the column—more or less—
Which the learnfed daily press
Keeps for efforts it considers very fine ;
And his inky thumbs he twirls
While he scatters all his pearls
And—we take it that we represent the swine.
In a world that’s full of Care,
And of Lodgers and Despair,
And Flirtation trying hard to be Romance,
He’s the Reason and the Brains,
And the Warden of the Drains,
And an Interesting Inky Circumstance.
And he rises like a fog
To denounce a howling dog,
Or to say the morning train was rather slow.
And his ghost will never rest,
For he’ll anger all the Blest
By “ Pro Boning” to the angel “ Publico.”
VIC.
KODAK.


A
m
&
Ate
*
a*
■w
HO-lJs
\7f-P
IW
)
'A
/ '.t&M
i //
Hr?-;
-3)
&
te
/:. j
/
'
M
1
aVVtO
«x§
C)
<3^
v~
)#4
£JTS
(f 6 £ fi
O-fSf,
-f2
V
h^rj'Jp
4m h
s
. .i
December Brides and
Wedding Bells
THE month of Love and Roses is near at hand, and Engagements, Weddings, and
rumors of Weddings will be the order of the day. Associated with such occa-
sions comes thought of remembrance—" What shall we give the Happy Pair ? ”
It is often a puzzling question, but how easily solved by a visit to Stewart Dawson's—
undeniably the place for Wedding Gifts ? While you are planning your visit here let us
remind you of a few suitable selections that would please and gratify. We pay all
postages—attach cards, which we supply if necessary, and pack everything so that safe
delivery is assured. Would one of our Catalogues be of service ? Your name and address
on a post card if sent to us will ensure your receiving a copy by return.
No. G3Bo9—Massive Solid Silver 4 o’clock Tea Set in
Morocco Case, £l3 10s.
No. G9s24—The Pansy Jam Dish, Fine
Silver-Plate and China, 21s.
limilllllllllllliilUllMmmii,...,
□fjnSJS#’
55
No. G79B2—Our Guinea Salad Bowl, Good Wearing Plate and
Clear Crystal Glass.
No. G472o—Silver-Plated Cake Basket, 16s. 6d.
Our 30s. one is a beauty.
No. 64389—Finely decorated Silver-Plated Cake or Fruit Dish, 355.
No. 05841 —Silver-Plated Biscuit, Butter and Cheese Stand, 37/6
1 c, G 519 better one, same stylo, £2 7s. 6d
No. H2o94—Out Glass and Best Silver-
plate Claret J ug, £3.
No. 82384—0ut Glass and
Silver-Plated Butter Dish
and Knife, 11s. 6d.
No. G 2426 —Silver-Plated and Embossed
Centrepiece, £5 ss.
No. G264B—Best Silver-Plated
Hot Water Jug-, 355.
No. G 4553—4 Cup Silver-Plated Egg
Frame, 375. 6d.
Write the Store Nearest You.
No. F4S4B—Fine Plate and Cut-Glass Stewed
Fruit Dish, £4 10s.
No. GB7l4—Two Division Silver-Plated
Vegetable Dish, 37s 6d.
No. 7739—Fancy Jam or Honey
Dish, Best Silver-Plate, 1' .
No. 02222—Silver-Plated China
Teapot Stand, 145.6 d.
No. G 6989.
Silver-Plated
Hand Bell,
No. E6636—Silver-Plated Breakfast Dish 355.
No. G3sB6—Fancy Crystal and
Silver-Plated Jam Dish, 6s. Cd.
No. 399A.E. —Silver-Plated Sugar
Basin, 20s.
No. G426o—Embossed and Silver-
Plated Butter Dish, £1 ss.
f
r/-
No. G2s34—Silver-Plated and Gold-lined
Triple Biscuit Box, best quality, £8 10s.
No. 370 —Silver-Plated Entree Dish, £2 6s.
Embossed and Silver-Plated Cheese Dish, £2 6s.
/fit's
from
Stewart Dawsons
S its good. Sj
Write the Lhg
store nearesr »
you. S
?Oo
£
VICTORIA
Collins & SwansfonS!?
WEST. AUSTRALIA /if'-
It
395&397 Hay St Perm
QUEENSLAND
) QueenS Edward S 1?
NEW ZEALAND V;
146 5143 QueenSL Auckland.
I S 3 LambtonQuay. Wellington
2365233 HighS f ,Christchurch^
Princes S DowlingS* DunednL


Babys Ideal Toilet.
ZAM-BUK SOAP Indispensable to the Nursery.
No skin is so liable to skin-disease as
that of babies and young children. One
reason is the tissue has not matured ; the
functions are not properly developed, and
the least irregularity will favor the
growth of skin trouble. We see this in
the readiness of baby’s skin to chafe and
inflame.
An irritable skin and a sweet tem-
pered baby do not go together, and baby
can’t get rid of the irritability and chafing
unless you throw away these gritty toilet
powders and cheap toilet soaps, which
are generally full of harsh, complexion-
stealing alkali.
The ideal soap is Zam-Buk Medicinal
Toilet Soap. It is ideal because it is
dainty and pure enough for the most
sensative skin, and is a soap and cosmetic
in one.
Use it exclusively for baby’s daily
bath.
I
M
i(r
m
7
< /
7*3
Baby’s daily bath calls for no other
cosmetic than Zam-Buk Soap ; for the
best of toilet powders are to be regarded
with suspicion. These powders stop the
skin from breathing; and the chafing
allayed for the moment is aggravated in
the end.
Zam-Buk Soap is not only more natural,
but is more efficacious. It is refreshing
to the entire body. It keeps the pores
open, and under its medicinal influence
the skin develops into sound tissue able
to resist skin disease more easily in later
years.
Those worries of a mother’s existence—
milk crust, scald head, eczema, rash,
ringworm, chafing, blotches, and other
children’s ailments too numerous to men-
tion in detail—quickly yield to the sooth-
ing, softening and healing action of Zam-
Buk Soap.
Mothers will find Zam-Buk Soap eminently suited for their own toilet, for it is an ideal remedy for chaps and
soreness due to the weather or housework. It prevents pimples, blackheads, freckles, eczema, sunburn, gravel rash,
dandruff, barber’s rash, scurf in the hair, disagreeable perspiration of body or feet, stings from insects, &c., and paints the
rosebuds of health on the erstwhile parched cheeks.
Bor its unique virtues as a complexion aid and as a Skin-Cure and Skin-Tonic Zam-Buk Soap should be found in
every nursery and bathroom. _______________
* C, | ImiLiiniiii T °*1 g Y
FOR SCALP TROUBLES.
Zam-Buk is especially useful in the scalp diseases of young children. Crop short the
hair, dress freely with the well-known Zam-Buk Balm night'and morning, apply it well to the
scalp, afterwards rinse and lather with Zam-Buk Soap. This treatment, regularly persevered
in, will combat the worst case of scalp disease.
It will arrest mattering, allay the horrible irritation, and by degrees heal the sores up
and leave the scalp sweet, wholesome and clean. The rich, creamy lather from Zam-Buk
Soap has also a stimulating effect on the hair follicles, and the hair once devastated by
disease is naturally restored to its old glossiness.
Have ZAM-BUK SOAP on every washstand. A tablet costs Is., or a dainty box of three
tablets may be had for 2/10, of all Chemists or Stores, or for same price, direct from The
Zam-Buk Mnfg. Co., 39 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.VV.
GUT OUT and MAIL THIS COUPON.
By sending this Coupon and Id. Stamp
(for postage) to the ZAM-BUK MNFG. CO.,
39 PiTT STREET, SYDNEY, you will receive
a dainty FREE SAMPLE TABLET by return
fJost ' Bulletin, Nov., 22, 1906.
Business, Robbery, etc.
The Everton Grange lately tossed out on the
Cockney wharves 92,000 crates of frozen rabbits-four and
a half million rodents in one hard lump. What a birth-
vate the animal has that can lose numbers like that and
not miss them ’
* * * *
Svrinpv tranv* qpem likolv to chamre the com-
Sydney trams seem nueiy to cnange rne com
mercial aspect of Circular Quay. Already there are
seveial large and roomy st ', , ‘h
loading is interfered with by the trams, so the lessees of
the stores have gone elsewhere. I«or hal -a-century these
buildings have never wanted tenants until now.
** . *
Queensland had a sensation, the other day, when
the Agricultural Department unearthed a young Chicago
in some local meat works. Dr. Ham, of the Health De-
partment, seized some £3OO worth of beef stock, emptied
into it a few quarts of kerosene, and ordered it away to a
manure farm. Over this incident the local press pre-
served a silence which smelled like the meat.
* * * *
The people of Corowa (N.S.W.), who are now
talking a great deal of their silk industry', did something
really spectacular a quarter of a century ago. They
sent Mrs. Bladen Neill to England with a pair of socks
made out of Corowa-grown silk, and that lady presented
the hoof-g'arments to Albert Edward, Prince of Wales,
He, it is said, showed his appreciation by at once putting
on the articles, but this must be an exaggeration ; he
surely' waited till the lady' had retired. Anyhow, it was
a proud day' for Corowa.
* * * *
“ T.D.”: The craving for foreign things has so
eaten into the souls of Englishmen that, even when they
do manufacture goods, an American or Continental label
has often to be put on to ensure a sale. Half the big'boot
shops in London now are ostensibly' American, of the
Walk’emquick or Wear’emeasy varieties. Certainly the
’Murkan boot is a comfort to the foot and a consolation
to the e.ve, but quite a lot of that same ’Murkan boot is
made from’Murkan lasts up in Northampton, where the
English boot is supposed to grow. Was in a shop the
other day, when the boss showed me two boots which he
said were made on the same last and from the same
materials. One was called the “Walkalong” or some-
thing, and he sold it for a guinea as American. The
other was the “ Campbell-Bannerman,” marked 14s. 6d.
But the real American boot is a very' prominent article in
Britain these times, and Northampton is one of the
slowest and slackest towns I’ve ever been in.
*■*■**
The boom, or threatened boom, in jute goods
has been a srodsend to the countrv nedlar in him
Ordinarily the person who round am one tffe
cockies for old ba|® and sacks is an apologetic plrson!
but this season he is almost a trader, and is cultivating a
habit of speaking disparagingly to his customers as to
the quality and appearance of their proffered bags. Good
second-hand bags easily fetch 4s. 6d. a dozen just now,
and then the collector makes a profit; and prices
threaten to increase. Farmers who used to allow the
kids to sell the old bags for pocket money now audit the
bag-accounts with the pertinacity of a bank inspector,
and woe to the kid who rips a hole in one of them. No
wonder city dealers in new season stuff advocate a pre-
mium on grain packed in new bags.
F ®
„ , . , *
R rom the ARGUS, m a table of the imports of
British goods to Australia for eight months of two con-
secutive years :
1905. 1906.
Bars, rods, angle iron (tons) .. 15,318 18,459
Rails (tons) .. 9,998 14,848
Tubes, fittings, and pipes (tons) .. 10,273 13,227
Woollens (yards) .. .. .. 3,058,900 4,284,700
Boots and shoes (dozen pairs) .. 50,718 58,441
Naturally, with three great harvests and good prices
for wool and butter, some manufactures in Australia
are doing fairly well; it would be an au'ful look-out for
them if they weren’t. But thousands of pounds which
should be spent locally are going abroad, as the above
few' figures—which are typical of the lot—show. They
show that there is no room in the Australian Parliament
for
The Vic. cocky lately met with Private Enter-
prise. A sturdy individualist of a cream-separator agent
has been spreading dodgers all over the country setting
forth that his brand of machine was selected out of 20
exhibits at the last Vic. Agricultural Show by the officers
of the Agricultural Department. The officers hadn’t
selected this or any other machine, nor had they made a
test of separators at all, but the assertion that they had
was P arfc of tlie sturcl y individualism of the agent. Far-
mers came along to buy the machine about which the
despised public servants had thought so highly, and
storekeepers all over the country fought to secure local
Just then the offi / ers 0 f the Agricultural
Department got wind of the advertising scheme, and
it wa g up to them to interfere. In a soulless,
g ■ tio t £ ey published the news of the agent’s
action broadcast, and sent a letter calling upon him to
withdraw his dodgers and issue them no more. Now all
over the country wild cockies are tearing handfuls of
hair out of the faithful cow, and irate storekeepers are
imploring the agencies they abandoned to take them on
again.
* * * *
“0.C.W.” : Moral suasion is all very well in
theory, but a Protectionist axe is about the only thing
that will knock out the prejudice which is in the mind of
the black-coated counter-jumper who hovers round the
purchaser of goods in the city rag shop. I needed a simple
article of dress called a shirt, and tried to obtain a
“Made in Australia” shirt in Adelaide. A tour began
with the large retail shops, but I was told that they could
not “make shirts in this country like they do in Eng-
land.” Being in a hurry, I could not wait to argue the
point, but pushed on in my quest to a shirt-maker. His
reply was that he could not sell “ dressed shirts ” because
he was only able to do a made-to-order trade owing to
the prejudice against locally-made goods. I landed
a t last at a large city retail house, and when my
policy was announced a reply was pat that “they
could not make them so good out here. I was enraged,
but calmed down when a fellow Protectionist came up
and said he was pleased to meet me as he also was helping
to build the Tariff Wall for Australia. The shop-walker
then said that, if they had not a shirt to suit me they
could obtain it. I allowed that I would await their try -
log- They tried, and succeeded in getting me a really
good shirt, which they' all admitted compared most favor-
ably with theirs at 7s. 9d., but for which they had to
charge me 7s. lid.—2d. for my principles. Somehow I
felt that the ghoul in black had got the best of me, but I
paid, and next day called on the shirtmaker (whose name
I saw on the article). His price was 6s. 6d. each, or less,
if I took a dozen. But what trouble I had to unearth this !
* * * *
“Phcemx”: The tales about enormous gold-
stealings in Westralia are probably very much exagge-
rated although the robbery may have been considerable,
But there was one place in these States that, for stealing,
could B' ive other minin S distlicfc a hundred thousa » d
? unceS a,l<l W T% the
fainou t s ™ am f. g ° ]
pocketing a few specimens u deigrou d was a crude
the business. It was when the office was given to the
braceman and heavy truck loads of rich quartz specimens
y iel d ,n S often a ”nf
®tone, were run out and carelessly (.) tipped at the end of
tle mullock heap and qumtly collected afterwards- that
T? s , wh , ere hauls ' A f e !' e made. In all mining dis-
tncts where the quartz contains coarse gold, or specimen
f“* k . tf®* 11 "? H Ca " !r °m'i Remember sinking on a
“ buck reef at the old Two-Mile, Gympie. We drove along
it, sunk on it, and did everything else we could think of,
but not a color could we discover. We abandoned it, and
went prospecting elsewhere. Some time afterwards,
however, a couple of wages-men who had been working
in a rich mine, pegged it out and started sinking on the
reef. One of our party explained the nature of the
quartz to them, but they were so obstinate and pig-
headed that they would not listen to his kindly advice.
Imagine our surprise when we were informed that they
had “struck a patch.” A couple of underground wages-
men, who had never done any prospecting in their lives !
They carted about three tons to the machine, and got it
crushed. It yielded 120 oz. of gold, worth £450. Then
they fled—didn’t wait to get out another ton. We
hastened down to look at the old mine, and found the
same old buck reef, without a color in it. It is a w'icked
thing to doubt the honesty of one’s fellow'-creatures, but
we did it then.
“ Bundaberg ” : Remarks of 0. E. Russell, re-
printed from Everybody’s Magazine in B 25/10/’O6, are, I
am afraid, written in too-pink ink. I wish they were just
sober truth, but. they are not. “ Government cane mills,”
he says, “cut the heart out of the grinding monopoly.”
Alas, no! The “grinding monopoly,” if it ever had a
heart, has one still. I write that with 15 years’ experience
behind me. Make no mistake, the Sug'ar Trust is here.
Australian output exceeds consumption in good years.
And the refinery here, under some agreement, is not
allowed to make more than a limited amount, only about
two-thirds of what it could make. The Trust exports
the surplus in the form of raw sugar. This refinery here
is the only place in Queensland, and the only place of any
size in Australia, outside the C.S.R. Co., open to pur-
chase raw sugars ; so all the Trust has to do is to reduce
the price it will pay for raws, and then it is just as much
on top as ever it was. The easy remedy would be a State
refinery ; and that is almost absolutely necessary to pro-
tect the State interest in central mills, which now, with
one exception, sell to the Trust.
* * ■» •
Works for the extraction of gold from sea-water
are in course of construction at Broken Head (N.S. W.), a
few miles south of Cape Byron. The power to work the
machinery is to be obtained from the waves. A lease of
five acres of beach—not five acres of ocean—has been
obtained, and a considerable amount of preparatory’ work
has been done, but portions of it have been destroyed by
violent storms lately raging in the locality’. It is ex-
pected that everything will be in going order by the end
of the year. Analyses made in Sydney show from
half a grain to two grains of gold per ton of water
—depending on the richness of the patches. The
ore-body is huge and the mining costs will be small.
Three funnel-shaped openings, each 3ft. in diameter, and
fixed in rock, are filled by every successive wave of the
rising tide, and the water is forced through a 22in. pipe
into a reservoir. After passing through various pipes
and over numerous wheels, and receiving a chemical
solution on the way, it finally reaches a smaller re-
servoir. Here it is allowed to rest. The solution, in
combination with the gold, sinks to the bottom, and a
pipe takes the water or tailing's out to sea again. The
residue then goes into a tank, and subsequently into a
vat, where it is kept in a state of agitation. While it is
thus agitated a cyanide solution is poured in, and the
gold is obtained. The chemical solution is known only
to the prospector but lime is alleged to be its chief con-
stituent. The tank has a capacity of 10,000 tons of water,
and can be filled twice a day. Calculated on the minimum
amount of gold per ton disclosed by analysis—half a grain
• —about 21oz. of gold is expected daily.
* * * *
“Cyanide”: Anyone working on or connected
with the mines here (Westralia) knows quite well that
gold stealing is rife, and most will agree that it is not the
miner or the underground worker who gets away with
the bulk of it. When the oxidised ore was being worked
the underground man had chances thrust upon him, and
did not always dodge the temptation, but now when nine-
tenths of the men employed are engaged on sulphide lodes,
their integrity (which I claim is as high as that of workers
in any other part of the world) is not often put to the test.
Nine-tenths of the plunder which finds its way into the
hands of the gold “ fence ” is obtained after the ore has
gone through the battery. One does not hear much of
gold stealing in Bendigo or Ballarat, because if you steal
gold there you mostly steal from your neighbor.' Every
second man met in Bendigo or Ballarat has a direct share
interest in the mines apart from the employment he gets
in them. When the monthly return of the gold yield
appears in the papers all know that about three-fourths
of the amount belongs to the place and will mostly be
spent in it or for its benefit. But in Ilalgoorlie and
Boulder City not one man in 50 holds shares in the great
producing mines, and what does it matter to the man in
the street if the Great Boulder or the Horseshoe mine
were robbed of a thousand ounces monthly ? It’s not his
gold. It’s not our gold. It’s not the State’s gold. It’s
not the Commonwealth gold. It’s J. Bull’s gold ; let
him look after it. That’s the spirit shown. Those
who get away with the gold from the mines get a
very’small proportion for themselves, as they have to tip
and fee so many’ who are in the know. The man who gets
the lion’s share of the plunder is the “fence” or illicit
gold buyer. He may be an assayer who is supposed to
get his living by sampling for clients. As all the mines of
any consequence do their own sampling, and prospectors
can get all the sampling they want done at the School of
Mines, there can be only a small amount of legitimate
work to be done by the large number of persons engaged
in the assay business. Most of them live well, however.
In conclusion, the matter is regarded by the people of
the goldfields very much as smuggling was looked upon
by the British people 60 or 70 years ago. Nothing will
cure the evil but the gradual passing of the mines into the
hands of our own people. When the shares of our gold-
mines are held by the people who work them, and whose
welfare principally depends upon them, then will every
man be a policeman, more or less, as he is interested in
preventing himself being robbed.
* -K ¥ *
“ Mallapoonie ”: This sort of thing is liable to
occur on any well-regulated field: —Bill, Jim and Joe
aggregated the prospecting syndicate. When times got
bad, and their luck was out, Joe quarrelled with Jim and
Bill, and left. Bill and Jim said that two were company,
and that Joe was a crowd. Then things started to look
up for Joe. He discovered a good-looking reef, which he
kept a close secret. Joe picked the eyes out of the out-
crop, and laboriously packed the ore over rugged coun-
try to be treated. The eyes went high percentages, and
Joe’s air castles were scraping the Milky Way. He in-
sidiously implied that Jim and Bill were Jonahs. Bill
and Jim were too down on their luck to reply forcibly to
this impeachment. Then Joe sat down to shepherd his
show, and “to make arrangements to induce capital,
&c.” Just here Joe’s troubles started home to roost in a
flock.
A prospector chanced across Joe’s show, and saw un-
fulfilled labor conditions sticking out of Joe’s claim like
Mt. Macedon. His experience soon calculated up how
long it was since Joe had put a pick in it, and on the 31st
day from pick-date he quietly pegged it as abandoned
ground.
Then that prospector, out of pure wickedness, asked
Bill and Jim whose unworked claim it was, and if it was
jumpable, besides .imparting the information of its
whereabouts. Bill mentally resolved to jump. Likewise
Jim. Meanwhile, Joe, smelling a rat, was riding like
Sheol to the Warden, 40 miles away, to apply for regis-
tration of his ground. Next morning Bill and Jim both
said they guessed they’d prospect away south that day.
Joe’s claim was north. At noon or thereabouts, after
verymuch walking, Jim found Bill sitting disconsolately on
Joe’s outcrop contemplating the prospector’s pegs. Bill
asked Jim what the blank space he was doing there, and
Jim asked Bill the same, and sarcastically hoped he
wasn’t trespassing on Bill’s ground. Then Bill spoke
hotly, and called Jim a row of asterisks, and the language
of both parties as they trudged back to camp was some-
thing shocking. Then Joe arrived back desperately.
Bill asked him whether he hadn’t forgotten to re-peg
within seven clear days before making application, and
Joe asked Bill what the asterisk space it had to do with
him. Then Bill said Joe was a Judas Iscariot, or a cow,
or something, and the controversy that followed could be
better described as a brawl. And now Bill and Jim and
Joe aggregate three distinctly separate syndicates, and
the prospector continues building a long hole through
Joe’s outcrop.
* * * *
“TJ.”: Rev. Bleeds Fitchett remarked at a
recent sectarian meeting in Melbourne that “ Protestants
should ever remember the great events and martyrdoms
which marked the history of their faith.” I quite agree
with Brother Fitchett, more especially as I intend to start
a sectarian sausage-shop. All my goods will be marked
with strictly Protestant mottoes. For instance, a line
which I hope to boom is the ‘ ‘ Blanky Mary blood pudding. ”
Each several pudding is to have printed on the case a
help to memory—among others, “ Lest We Forget,”
“Mary—The Celebrated Tudor Duo —Lizzie,” “Henry
VIII. Reformed our Faith and upheld the Marriage
Tie,” “ Have you read ‘ Bleeds that Won the Empire ? ’ "
and similar relevant phrases. The last-quoted question
will be included only in the event of my coming
to an arrangement with Brother Fitchett for the
use as sausage-wraps of unsold quantities of his excel-
lent family papers. lam sure my inscribed blood pud-
dings will be greatly in demand, particularly for the
prevention of the alarming tendency shown by young
Australians to disregard religious feuds. I have many
other moral items of stock in view, but here I need only
mention the “ Flames of Smithfield faggot.” This is an
excellent made dish, highly-seasoned, and tasting like a
torch-light procession.


TATTERSALL’S CONSULTATIONS.
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
NOW OPEN
NEWCASTLE TATTERSALL’S CUP, Newcastle, N.S.W., December 8 ... 50,000 at 5/2 each.
SUMMER CUP, Randwick, N.S.W., December 26 50,000 at 5/2 each.
PERTH CUP, Perth, W.A., December 29 50,000 at 5/2 each.
IMPORTANT NOTICE,
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d, on each
ss. Ticket, and 4d. on each 10s. Ticket. Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. Parcels may be forwarded through any PARCELS
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
97 Queen St., MELBOURNE.
98 King William St., ADELAIDE.
/Booking Fee,
3d.
( per Parcel.
Hypnotism
sgd
Reader, why not he .able to use the
! most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many marvellous feats
that are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
| conquer pain; win reluctant affection,
[gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
f nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
| Hypnotism, -Which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
[of the Art. It contains
' hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, anti is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever published. For a short
time I will send this magnifi-
cent work FREE; sealed on
receipt of 6d. (stamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotize. It is a chance of
a life-time. Address—
fgdf
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
gdfs
gfds
0 Unrivalled for the Complexion.
Cold Medal. Paris Exhibition, 1900. F. WOLFF & SOHN,
Crand Prix, St. Louis, 1904. KARLSRUHE.
Of all Chemists and Perfumers. Be sure you get WOLFF’S.
Sole Agents 3 LOHMANN & CO., Melbourne and Sydney.
Pure Grape H.Y.D. BRANDY
J. B. COOK, Ltd., 82 Pitt St., Sydney, cAgents.
mm
MdDisinfectingfc
JSfDisinfectingJ
Fluid.
COLORLESS,
FRA C RANT,
NQM-POiS" NOUS.
1/-
Pint Bottles.
Oxidants Germicide i
Indispensable In all Sick Rooms.
Also 1/- Tins Powder
and 1/-&1/3 Boxes Soap.
0/ all Chemists and Storekeeperl.
K The “SANITAS” Co.,
Ltd., Limehouse,
v London.
HEARNES
Tlx© Famous Remedy For
BRONCHITIS
CURE
GOUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, <fc CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World.
Those who have takep this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing power is marvellous. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis. Cough, Difficulty of
Breathing, Hoarseness, Fain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it
ettects a Complete Cure. It is most comforting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic, nor Consumption to develop Consumption has never been known to exist where "Coughs" have been properly treated with this medicine. No house
should be without it, as, taken at the beginning a dose is generally sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain.
Be'SiraLFe of Imitations ! The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, has induced a number
of unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of
deceiving the simple-minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact,
and to request you in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S and to see that you get if
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable loc lly.
NOTICE.“ Hearne ’ S Bronch,tiB Cure No. 1A does NOT contain any poison within the meaning; of the Act. It is equally beneficial for
child and the most aged person.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
op Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s
Big Horse Book and How to Train tiie
Horse, Is 6d. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeigiibor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science op Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book op Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book op Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman
and the Confessional, Is 6d. The Art of Jui-Jitsu,
9d and Is 6d. God and My Neighbor, lOd. Britain
for the British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How
to Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
■
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, Is 30 dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads op Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, 13
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
Sosted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
lan His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
i SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
, P T „' c ° v , ere< T edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Trainino, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. On Our New Selection, 6s 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught,
Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 6s 6d
gosted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
'ecameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. I*~ Established SO Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
(only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6a.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made East, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Bead Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Headings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 16s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post, 200 Old-Time Songs (words and musio com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


A TEST EXPERIMENT.
THE REMARKABLE POWER
POSSESSED BY A NEW REMEDY.
It is cl.limed that Dr. Sheldon’s Diges-
tive Tabules, a preparation for the cure of
Indigestion, Dyspepsia, and all Stomach
I roubles, have the power to digest
from 300 to 3000 times their own weight
of meat, eggs or other wholesome food,
and this claim has been proven by actual
experiments in the following manner :
A hard-boiled egg cut into small pieces
was placed in a bottle containing warm
water heated to ninety-eight degrees (or
blood heat); one of these Tabules
was then placed in the bottle and the
proper temperature maintained for three
hours and a half, at the end of which
time the egg was as completely digested
as it would have been in a healthy
stomach.
This experiment was undertaken to
demonstrate that what it would do
in the bottle it would also do in the
stomach, hence its unquestionable value
in the cure of Dyspepia and Weak Diges-
tion. Very few people are free from
some form of Indigestion, but scarcely
two will have the same symptoms.
Some will suffer most from distress
after eating, bloating and gas in the
stomach and bowels, others have acid
dyspepsia and heartburn, others palpita-
tion or headaches, sleeplessness, pains in
the chest and under shoulder blades,
extreme nervousness, as in nervous dys-
pepsia, but they all have the same
cause failure to properly digest
what is eaten. The stomach must have
rest and assistance.
Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules accom-
plish this by digesting the food, and in a
short time the stomach is restored to its
normal action and vigor. At the same
time, the Tabules are so harmless that a
child can take them with benefit.
Obtainable everywhere.
Honestly worth a Guinea f
Pears’ Annual
XMAS, 1906. Ready Nov. 26th.
Published by the Proprietors, A. & F. PEARS, Ltd., 71-75, New Oxford Street,
London, W.C.
CONTAINS —
Two New&Original Xmas Tales
viz. :
6 Joyce Pleasantry, 9
By GEORGE R. SIMS.
(Illustrated by Hugh Thomson, R. 1.), and
* Captain Silver, 9
By MAX PEMBERTON.
(Illustrated by Frank Dadd, R. 1.),
In HANDSOME COLOURED COVER, and accompanied by
THREE LARGE
Presentation Plates
Printed in the best and most artistic style of the Chromo-Lithographic Art,
‘The Snowball,’
By H. PIFFARD.
Size 28 Jx 19 inches. Printed in 13 Colours.
Sweet Idleness,’
By J. W. GODWARD.
Size 23 x 175 inches. Printed in 16 Colours.
‘The Cause of Many Troubles/
By E. G. HANDEL LUCAS. Size 15 xl2 inches. Printed in 12 Colours.
SOLD BY ALL BOOKSELLERS.
Wholesale Agents for Australasia, Messrs. GORDON & GOTCH.
Fact’ry ’Ands.
THE TRUCULENT BOY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
'VTIPPE# CREEGrAN was a nugget of a
boy, short, but stoutly built, tough and
" ugly, with a small corn of a nose and two
narrow eyes, all set together in a wide waste of
face. His mouth was far removed from the other
important features, and came upon the observer
as an afterthought. The ears of the truculent
boy sprouted from his head with a suddenness
somewhat disconcerting, and they were un-
necessarily large.
“ Say, Ned,” observed Billy the Boy, on the oc-
casion of Nipper’s first appearance, “’r them
things ears, ’r what?”
“ Wha' thell d’yer think?” retorted Oreegan,
sourly.
“ Oh, I was thinkin’ they might be handles ’r
fakements t’ swim with. Skews me fer mentionin’
it afore we’re interdooced, won’tcher ? ”
“ I’ll belt yer chin in iv yer get merry with me,”
said the new boy, the light of battle shining in
his eye. “Yes! Yes!”
“ You’ll what ? ”
“ Yes, will I. Say, ’re yer wantin’ it ? ” Nipper
sidled up to the printer’s devil, and butted him
along with his shoulder three times. “I’m yer
man,” he said. “Yes. Fight yer with one hand.
Yes. Yes. Any day. Yes.”
“ Dear, dear, dear,” murmured Billy the Boy,
“’ow these children talk !’’ But Billy displayed
a certain discretion in getting downstairs. Then
his voice came up : “ Hi, yous, get up’n’ ’ave er
look et ther strange-but-true on ther bag-flat. It
can clap its ears.”
“I’ll pass that mug out iv he comes pickin’ et
me,” said Oreegan to the packer. “ Yes. Y-e-e-s.”
And the boy resumed his work, growling with ex-
ceeding bitterness.
The “ Yes ” in Nipper’s speech took the place
that snarling holds in the vocabulary of an angry
terrier. The word was uttered with an open
mouth and a shooting of the under jaw, was
drawn out as long as breath held, and the air that
went with it was a hateful blend of malevolence
and contempt.
The truculent boy made no friends. Within a
few days he had established a reign of terror, arid
the feeble foreman displayed a nervous awe in his
presence. He gave Nipper no orders, but some-
times ventured a mild request or a gentle sugges-
tion, which was received by the boy with sullen
mutterings. Master Oreegan entertained a dark
suspicion that the people of the factory were eon-
spring to work him to death, and hate smouldered
in his soul. His combativeness was purely in-
stinctive; it dominated him on the slightest
encroachment, or in the face of the smallest
wrong. When roused to fury, his language was
that of a sinner grown old and hardened dealing
with working bullocks.
On fine days the male employees from the fac-
tory and the printers’ flat sat along the kerb or on
the window-sills in Egg Lane, and Nipper’s trucu-
lence made him the butt of the company. Billy
the Boy was the first victim. Billy was some- .
thing of a spoilt child in the business, and was
allowed much latitude in consideration of his
elderly humor, his quaint impishness, and his
talent in imitating farm-yards, phonographs, and
popular actors ; but his quality as an entertainer
did not appeal to Nipper Oreegan, more especi-
ally when Nipper was the butt of Billy’s lyso-
lence. The printer’s devil had discretion, and
as a rule he assailed Nipper from elevated places,
•or only when the road was open lor a rapid
retreat; but retribution overtook him one day in
•the middle of his lunch.
“D’jer know me ’n’ Nip’s goin’ t' run er
■circus?” Billy asked the assemblage. “It’ll be
er boshter, too. I’m buildin’ er cage fer Nipper.
He’s goin’ ter be ther mad monkey, ’n’ clap his
ears. Clap yer ears fer ther gentlemen, Nipper.
Get onter ther lugs, lads; he pinched ’em from er
baby helerphant. Iv Nip had any sense he’d fly
with them ears, but yer kin see he ain’t got no
more savvy than er doped goslin’.”
Here Billy dropped his lunch, and “did his
dash,” but a delivery van blocked the way, and
the next instant Nipper Oreegan was on him, and
for one minute there was a drizzling whirl of
limbs in a small storm of dust, chaff, straw, and
lunch wrappers. Then Billy went down in a
sitting position against the store opposite, and he
was a changed boy. He was ruffled and torn and
had a black eye, and his nose shed much blood.
Billy the Boy wept and whined, and crawled
round on his hands and knees seeking a “ rock.”
As he crawled he heaped wonderful abuse upon
his enemy.
“Yeh dirty, mean, cock-eyed Chow t’ hit er
man when he ain’t ready,” moaned Billy, con-
tinuing his hunt. “ Yeh stinkin’ cur ! You’ll see
what you’ll get. G’ out, yer monkey-mugged
slum tnungrool, you’ll cop yer doss.” Billy arose,
and Oreegan made another rush, but a stone
bounced on his thick skull and broke a window
•on the second floor, and the printer’s devil dived
in amongst the wilderness of bales in the dark
basement.
When next Billy appeared on the top flat his
-eye resembled a large, rain-cracked purple plum,
but Billy felt he could afford to be jaunty, in view
of the egg-like excrescence on Nipper’s head and
the blood-stains on his shirt. He whistled an airy
strain, keeping a sidelong eye on the foe.
“ When’s ther berloon goin’ up ? ” he asked the
packer, with a wink towards Nipper’s swelling.
“ Yes, ’n’ if yer gi’ me yer lip y’ll get more
•eyes,” growled Oreegan. “ Jist wait till nex’
time, that’s all. Yes.”
“Hark et ther animal with the ’ump,” retorted
Billy. “ Looks t’ me’s if it got anythin’ that was
goin’.” But Billy’s air and utterance lacked the
true assurance, and it was plain there was to be
no next time for him.
Benno, the clerk, was ill-advised enough to
incur Master Creegan’s wrath on one occasion.
Benno had given the boy certain orders in his
superior way, and Nipper had carefully ignored
them. Benno went to him an hour later, very
angry indeed, and Benno when very angry had
the formidable aspect of an indignant cock-
sparrow. He took Nipper by the ear and
pinched.
“ Here, me noble,” he said, “ what erbout them
samples ? Er yer goin’t’ trot ’em up, ’r am ler
party iv ther name iv Mud ? Have ’em erlong in
ten ticks, ’r I’ll be er bad father t’ yeh, little
■Oreegan.”
“Take yer meat-hooks outer me,” snarled
Nipper.
“Is ther little boy goin’ t’ be good?” said
Benno, playfully, and his pinch tightened.
Then Nipper let go with both hands, and Benno
was rushed before a small tornado full of flying
limbs, and was backed against the packer’s table,
winded and suffering many hurts. He leaned
there, very pale, open-mouthed, amazed, and his
index finger went up and painfully oscillated a
loosened tooth. The sight stirred the factory to
unfeeling laughter.
Benno wagged the other index finger impres-
sively at Creegan. “I’ll see you after hours.
Mister Creegan,” he gasped. “’n’ I’ll take my
belt t’ yer, young feller, me lad. You can save up
for it—you 11 get an unmerciful.”
“Garni” said Nipper. “I’m Mat Dooley’s
fav’rit pupil. I could do with er dozen like you
jist t’ toy with. Yes, I could—yes.”
The clerk did not take his belt to the truculent
boy that evening. Perhaps he forgot. It re-
mained for Sarah Eddie to visit upon Nipper the
only retribution that befell him during his stay
at Spats’. Sarah was large, and Sarah was
powerful. She happened to be turning quite
suddenly with a stack of freshly-pasted brown
bags in her arms, when Creegan was passing her
board, and the bundle caught the boy in the face,
bore him down, and skated all over him. In
circumstances like these Nipper never waited for
apologies. He scrambled to his feet, maddened
by the outrage and the yells of the Beauties, and
plunged at Sarah, punching blindly. Miss Eddie
sustained injuries before she quite realised what
had happened, but, once understanding came
to her, she got promptly down to business.
She reached for Nipper Creegan with two
large, capable hands, and she grabbed his ears
as he came in. Then she shook the remain-
ing trifle of sense out of him ; she rocked him
to and fro; she bumped his head on the pasting-
board ; she anathematised him with screams; she
towed him to the wall, and deliberately knocked
his skull against it five times; she kicked him
repeatedly, then put him down, and stood on part
of him.
Nipper came up, blind with rage and far from
conquered, and Miss Eddie was willing, but the
packer intervened. Master Creegan writhed in
his clutches.
“Lemmego!” he cried ; “I ain’t done ! I’ll
fight her, big ez she is. Yes, I’ll fight her any
time she likes.”
Sarah went at him with her brush. “Come
on!” she screamed, “Come on!” She smote
Nipper across the face, smearing him with paste.
“ Let ’er fight fair ! ” vociferated Nipper. “Let
’er fight fair, ’n’ I’m her man. She was foolin’
all ther time. Yes, yes ; ’ittin’ in holts ’n’ fightin’
all in, she was. Let ’er break clean, ’n’ I’ll fight
’er far five quid. Yes ! ”
The packer dragged him away by the scruff,
and planted him at his bench, soothing him with
a punt.
“This ain’t no place fer you, Baby Creegan,”
said Feathers. “You’re too dainty fer this job.
You want er grip in er religious’ome. Be busy,
’r I’ll belt yeh.”
“You look who yer skull-dragging, see,” said
Nipper, and he sparred at Feathers, but the
packer adroitly kicked his heels from under him,
and Nipper went down hard. Feathers hoisted
him up by the scruff again, and rubbed his nose
on the packing board.
“I kin see your untimely end, sweetie,” said
Mills.
“Yes, you’d nark erchurch. Ye-e-es,” sneered
Nipper. “Get me sacked, ’n’ iv I carn’t deal with
yeh on me lonesome, I knows what can. Yes.
My push’ll mess you about. Yes. Yes.”
Feathers punted him again for comfort, and
returned to his customary duties, and for the rest
of the day the truculent boy was a black and
bitter misanthrope.
Nipper would attack anything. He did not
discriminate, and went for the largest man as
readily as for the smallest girl. Goudy, the town
traveller, was the largest man, and it must be
admitted he brought it on himself. Creegan had
merely run into him with a loaded truck. The
load was so high as to obscure Nipper’s view, and
the'iron legs took the town traveller across the
calves. Now, there is nothing nastier to collide
with than the iron legs of a perpendicular truck.
Goudy gave a bound and a howl, then cuffed
Nipper in his anger and his pain, and foolishly
went down to rub his hurts, instead of preparing
his defence. Consequently, when Master Creegan
came in, wrathfully punching and kicking, Goudy
sustained a cut lip, a maimed ear, and a clicking
clip on the shin from a new boot.
“ Whoof 1 ” cried Goudy in pure anguish, a 3
he ran at Nipper. It was not in Nipper’s nature
to run from anything. He met Goudy in a sullen,
stupid spirit, and kicked him on the other shin.
“Whoof!” said Goudy again, and he sat down
on some parcels and embraced his shins.
“ Wheew!” he cried, drawing wind in through
his set teeth. Goudy was an elderly man, and a
stout one, and the father of a family. It was a
painful sight. Feathers choked on his quid,
struggled with his emotions for a moment, and
then 3 fell into un-Christian laughter. All the
Beauties commanding a full view of Goudy’s dis-
tress joined in the uproar, and the rest rushed for
positions. The town traveller recollected him-
self, and came gingerly to his feet, and turned on
Nipper. The boy faced him like a young bull,
with beetling brows, and lowering grimly. Goudy
changed his mind and limped downstairs.
“ There’s where yer bundled, baby mine,” said
the packer. „ „„
“Well, what’d he wan ter plug me for?” said
the truculent boy. I never done nothink t’ him.
No. Yous all seem t’ think I’m here t’ practise
on. Yes, yes, yes, yeh do. Ye-e-es.”
But Mr. Goudy did not report the boy. He
knew the Beauties were disposed to be resentful
to a “ put-away,” and after due consideration left
Nipper to work his own undoing.
The truculent boy would not have lasted a
month were it not that Feathers took a certain joy
in the young ruffian. Feathers could always
manage him. He had a pleasant way of dropping
the bag-shaped dusty hessian off a bale over
Nipper when he was otherwise uncontrollable,
and bringing him up sharp, smothering and
struggling, but helpless. One afternoon he had
him bagged for an hour, while Fuzzy Ellis, the
foreman, revolved nervously about the tumbling
bundle, stumbling over things and ejaculating,
“Now, now! Come, come! Bless my soul!
Enough of this! Enough of this ! ”
The comps and printers on the lower flat de-
lighted to aggravate Nipper. .His bursts of
fighting fury were vastly entertaining to every-
body but the party attacked. Master Creegan
was a very strong boy, and took delight in dis-
playing his strength. It was his duty to truck
the reams of paper up to the guillotines, and he
stacked mighty loads on the upright truck,
and deftly ran them up the gangway past the
stair railings, hidden from sight behind the
moving pile. While the road was clear, and he
could keep his 15 or 16 cwt. of paper poised on a
dead centre, he was all right, but any misadven-
ture that disturbed the equilibrium resulted in
disaster. The printers had come up the stairs,
and slid small obstacles in front of the truck-
wheels several times already, and Nipper had
assaulted innocent folders when his reams shot all
about the factory. On this occasion Nipper was
steering a stack of reams of brown paper higher
than himself, and had a good run on the smooth
floor, when Billy the Boy saw him coming, and
pushed a length of “ furniture ” through the
rails, and then shot downstairs again. The two
wheels of the truck struck the piece of wood with
a terrible jolt. Nipper was hoisted off his feet,
and his nose collided sharply with a crossbar of
the truck. The reams slid all over the place. One
brought Sarah Eddie down, another crashed into
a loaded pasting board, overturning it on top of
two squealing pasters, and Master Creegan and
the truck and one loose ream fell together,
Nipper underneath. The boy worried his way
out of the scattered sheets and arose. He
gazed at the ruin, he felt his injuries,
and then he began to see red. He dashed
for the stairs, he went down them with a
swoop, collided with a figure on the midway land-
ing, and “ bucked in.'’ With his hard, bullet
head down, he used his fists in desperate swings,
and the thud of his blows was heard all over the
place. Hurled back by his victim, Nipper fell
in a half-reclining position on the stairs, and now
he saw and understood. Towering over him was
a massive, ginger man, purple with wrath. The
man was a Personage, he was clad in broadcloth
and fine linen, the blood from his damaged nose
dripped through his moustache, his battered bell-
topper floated in the lye tub below.
This time Nipper’s victim was Odgson himself
—Odgson the owner—Odgson the great and good !
For a moment Nipper blinked at Spats in
stupid wonder, and then he grasped the situation.
“Gimme me money, ’n’ I’ll go !” he said.
Nipper Creegan was off the premises inside of
four minutes.
EDWARD DYSON.
“ Janor ” : Burdekin Billy was the label of
a gentleman who resided in the Far North—
where the paw-paw blooms. He was a profes-
sional ’gator hunter. When not pursuing the
saurian, he stalked the flowing pint. He was on
the beer-path when we met, and in return for my
assistance in securing the quarry, handed over
some curious ’gator facts. He told me the story
of his pet croc’—how he brought it up from the
shell on the bottle, trained it as a watch dog and
wood and water joey, and a killer of snakes; and
its sudden death. William of the Burdekin also
averred that the ’gator has a well-developed sense
of humor, and recounted this incident as evidence.
Camped one night in the open on the bank of
Barratta Creek, he was roused at dawn by a
slight movement near his head. Looking out of
the tail of his eye, he spotted a large ’gator
sitting upon its rudder regarding him intently.
Bill snatched his Colt from underneath
his head, and fired point blank at the
crocodile’s deadlight. The weapon missed fire.
Tried next chamber, same result. The whole
seven missed. And then strange things happened ;
that is, 8.8. affirmed they did. A hoarse chuckle
issued from the huge jaw, the fishy eye winked
the wink of low comedy, a bulge on the scaly
cheek located the tip of the ’gator’s tongue, and a
gruesome paw slowly rose to the reptilian snout.
For several minutes it enjoyed Bill’s amazement,
and then, tremulous with internal smiles, the
huge brute rushed into the water. Bill sprang
for his rifle, but the sight of seven cart-
ridges laid side by side near his pillow paralysed
him. The ’gator had drawn them while the
hunter slept. That’s why he laughed. Bill had
stacks more facts about ’gators, but, as they be-
came submerged in beer before they reached me,
he has ’em still.


KIDNEY TROUBLE IS SERIOUS
It Gomes on Unnoticed—but is Fatal if Neglected.
r m
#==
1?
I'M
I
9
w.
fH
u Every Picture tells a Story.
"W,
Have you suspected your kidneys as the cause of your trouble ?
Does your back, head, or limbs ache ? Is there rheumatism, weak
heart, or dropsy ? Is there too great or too little flow of the urine, with
gravel or sediment ? Do you feel always tired, done up, nervous?
These symptoms, and many more, come from unfiltered blood blood
loaded with impurities that are poisoning every organ.
If, then, you would “ get well/’ you must make the kidneys well.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are for the kidneys and
bladder only. They are a special kidney medicine (no ac-
tion on the bowels). They are nature’s greatest healing
medicine, because they heal the kidneys, the blood purifiers,
and help them in their great work.
Bead the following testimony from a Sydney
woman :
MOTHER AND CHILD CURED
Of Backache and Weak Kidneys.
Mrs Louis Smorti, 1 Little Selwyn-street, Moore Park, this city, says I can
eive Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills a real good recommendation to all those who
suffer with weak kidneys. I have proved this medicine in the case of my little boy,
who had very weak kidneys. Every night he lay in discomfort in a wet bed, and
the secretions were very discolored. Indications showed that the kidneys were in a
verv unhealthy condition. I heard of children having been cured of this complaint
bv Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, but did not use them at first, I tried various other
remedies. After a good many failures, a friend again strongly urged me to try
Doan’s Pills. I resolved that I would give them a trial, and am very pleased to be
able to tell you that they have wrought a permanent cure. Two boxes were
quite sufficient in his case, and he has been quite well for over a year now.
H “I mio-ht also mention that Doan’s Pills proved very good in my own case. I
suffered with backaches, headaches, and giddiness. Some days I could scarcely get
about my work. I used four boxes, and am quite cured—and cured permanently,
for over a year has passed and I have had no return of the ailment.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are
sold by all Chemists and Store-
keepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes
15s. 3d.), or will be posted on receipt
of price by Foster-McClellan Cc,, 76
Pitt-street, Sydney.
snvoq
Backacne
Kid n ey
gdsfsd
A Letter to Bill.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My Dear Bill, —
In re Mabel. lam in receipt of your letter of
J Line 25, which comes as a disagreeable surprise.
I am astonished to find you have such a poor
opinion of my friendship, and can assure you that
you are utterly mistaken, both as regards my
feelings towards yourself and the supposed cause
of what you seem to regard as a deliberate slight.
I don’t bear you any ill-will over anything, much
less the affair alluded to in your letter.
Of my own account I dropped off Mabel’s
visiting list over 18 months ago, and, as far as I
can recollect, we parted good friends. In the in-
terval I have met her (by accident) twice ; once
at Harry’s and once in the street, when she asked
me what time it was, and rushed on. It was
10 a.m. and we were hurrying in different direc-
tions —she to the tea-room and I to the office.
I resolved to give up calling when, one evening,
I was introduced to another pirate who, I could
see, bad beaten, me for the inside running. The
situation was getting too crowded. I felt as if
I'd burst if I didn’t get out of the house pretty
quick and walk somewhere fast. So I counted
myself out —told some lie about an appointment
in town, and left, to the evident relief of both of
them.
1 understand that the same chap is still to the
fore, and it says a lot for his staying qualities.
You can’t expect any bright young girl to sup-
press her natural thirst for scalps and glory and
chocolate creams—to say nothing of violets and
free tram-fares. If you insist on being taken
seriously, wait until she’s past the first tantalising
stages and is getting so near thirty that she never
mentions the subject of age. By that time the
“summery” young man who merely wants to
take her out for a walk, and sit for two long,
chilly hours underneath a tree with his arm wound
tightly round her waist, arouses no enthusiasm in
her maidenly bosom. The reckless way he spends
his money on expensive sweets only conjures up
thoughts of other nice boys of ten summers back
who loved and vowed and promised all things,
and then drifted—or were pushed—out of the
story and married someone else.
Get her, when she’s in a confidential mood, to
talk of them, and you’ll realise—if you happen to
be one of the “summery ” variety, with the usual
small salary and no intentions worth mentioning
—what it is like to be patronised by a nice attrac-
tive girl, who is getting so close to thirty that she
hasn’t any time to waste on men who don’t mean
business.
Bill, did you ever sit by Mabel when you were
suffering from the unutterable yearning, and try
to get her to talk sensibly ? I used to, and the
only thing she ever said was, “You are a dear,
silly kid !”
Said it about fifty times one night, until it got
on my nerves.
Then I pushed her head off my shoulder and
said,’“O! that be d d!”
Took me three weeks to square it.
Bill, do you love her still? If you do, come
back —if you’ve got the fare—and start your
second siege. Unless she’s chucked the outlaw
who succeeded me, and just taken on a fresh
pirate, she’s sick to death of her outlaw by this
time, and her blue eyes—the ones I wasted 145
evenings gazing into—are sweeping the horizon
for the next victim. Gome back with the glory of
your long absence upon you and the long-tea-
service medal that you’ve earned. Come back—
if you must —and make a fool of yourself, but
don’t blame me when closing time comes round
again.
I hope you won’t think nip conceited (I know
quite well you will!) when I tell you I have
lately been receiving signs that some offerings at
the old shrine would be acceptable to the goddess
in charge. (Don't swear!) There have been
various tender messages, and an intimate friend
of the goddess went so far as to say But
never mind, Bill, I’in not going to take any
notice of ’em. So far as Mabel is concerned I’m
a worked-out claim, not paying any more confec-
tionery dividends ; and I’m leading a peaceful,
neglected life, and not having the heart torn out
of me by a heartless girl prospector. That doesn’t
alter Mabel's hunting programme, though. Like
all women, she’s merciless, and loses sight of the
fact that it’s not fair to kill the same animal
twice. I’ve had my share of the slaughter, and
am content to remain dead. Why the devil do
you want to come to life again? Can’t you
realise, you fool, that you’re a Tender Memory ?
It wouldn’t be decent to go back over the same
ground and rip up the Past if you don’t mean to
marry her and asphalt it down. You simply
can’t sail in there and start talking the same rot
you used to. You’ll have to invent a new lot—
that is, unless you walk straight in and say,
“Look here! I want you to marry me!” And
what’s the odds she doesn’t say, “You are a dear,
silly kid ” ?
Bill, do you think you’re competent to manage
the sort of variety show Mabel is ?
Do you reckon she’ll have any new sort of con-
versation, or will she hand out the same old
“nice boy” narratives she filled in the summer
nights with ?
Do you think she’ll ever be able to say anything
besides “You are a dear, silly kid ! ”
Bill, that’s a dreadful remark for a man to lean
his weary brain against after a hard day’s work.
Of course she might grow up to be a different
woman, but the chances are she’d only be a
different Mabel—probably a fatter one.
“ Dear, Silly Kid ”—do you think I could think
these things, and write them in cold blood, if I
wasn’t cured ?
And you accuse me of being unfriendly with
you because two years ago we thought we loved
her! Loved her ! !
Oh, Bill 1 Bill! I’m making an ass of myself
over another girl now. Not the same sort of ass
you know, but a more deliberate, cynical, uncharit-
able mule. (Thank Heaven we improve as we go
on !) Even if I wanted to, I couldn’t ask Mabel
to lean her head on my shoulder and tell me what
Bertie told her about Reg when he returned the
book.
What sort of an abandoned wretch do you
think I am that you write these things to me ?
Me!
Pages and pages of it !
After all these years !
And all about Mabel !
Mabel ! !
Great He irens, Bill, you must have been
drunk ! !
VIC.
KODAK.
The Haven.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MY deep and tranquil haven
Winds inland from the sea,
A league or more by sandy shore
And tangled greenery.
Hid in a bosom of green hills
It falls asleep at last,
Hushed by a lullaby of rills,
Down valleys velvet-grassed.
There when the morning silvers
The silent vapors rise,
All.dim and pale beneath their veil
My quiet haven lies.
The fragrant land-wind wakes betimes -
And stirs the ripples grey ;
Up from the hills the red sun climbs,
Bringing the broad, bright day.
The land-wind is a soft wind
That breathes of flowers and sun,
And all too soon—long ere the noon—
Its faintest breath is done.
The sunlight rests on briar and brake,
Green bank and stilly reach,
Where languid tides can scarcely make
A pace-length up the beach.
And so the day goes dreaming,
And so from morn till eve,
In still content my mind is bent
On the bright dreams I weave ;
But when the great and westering sun
Swoops down upon the sea,
The time of my content is done,
And longing wakes in me.
Outside, the long waves whiten
Beneath an eager breeze,
The tall cliffs quake as surges break
About their rocky knees.
The squall sweeps by—a shrieking blast,
Whipt by the stinging hail—
The screaming sea-fowl stagger past,
In the grip of the rising gale.
My haven, oh, my haven !
Desired through stormy years,
Pictured each night with new delight,
And sought by day with tears ;
Thy peace is as the peace of death,
And oh, alas for me !
I breathe no more the living breath
Of the fierce, the open sea !
QUEENSLAND.
A. W.
The Drunks’ Tram.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
COMING home in the last tram, a man
with a pendulous chin snores discordantly
till awakened by the drunk who trips over
his feet, and lands on his hat in the far corner.
There he promptly goe3 to sleep. “Socialist ! ”
hisses the dewlapped one, and then his .attention
is riveted by the two faded females. They are
kissing their hands to a fatuous youth who is
smoking a cigar, and looking as though it were an
unwholesome experiment.
“ Room for two little ones ? ” giggle the faded
females, with the artlessness of sweet- seventeen.
They look, and probably are, about 35. Then, as
the tram starts with a jerk, they plump heavily
on to the most of the fat man, who grunts “ Don’t,
mention it.”
Two youths of the bottle-oh persuasion swarm,
on at the next stop, and perch precariously on tho-
front stanchions. There is an odor of pies and
coffee about them, and they discuss the doings of
one Micko at the “Alley.” Two-up school
attendants rarely drink anything stronger than
coffee.
From the rear come muffled growls and curses,
suggestive of feeding-time at the Zoo, and Willo
and Johnno almost fall off in their eagerness to-
investigate. “ On’y a drunk what won’t weigh
out,” they remark to the expectant driver, and'
that official expresses a pious, though irrelevant,
wish for speedy death, and rattles the machinery
so that the tram progresses with a sort of song
and dance movement.
Guard 0001 comes along fixing his collar, and,
unheeding the familiar “’Chv is it, Smacker?”
from Willo, says “Fares” in the tones of an
executioner demanding more blood. The fat man
“obliges a lydy ” who has forgotten her purse,
but it is onlv after much expostulation by the
guard, aided by the friendly Willo, that it dawns
upon the drunk that trams are not free institu-
tions. He hands out threepence with a remark
about “Robbery,” and then Guard 0001 relieves,
his feelings. “ Blime, they’d make a man tired.
You wait for ’em, hold ’em on the tram, an’ when
you ask ’em to weigh out they wan ter fight. These
late trams are deadly ; only encourage people to
stay out an’ getshikkered. Some of ’em”—eyeing
the drunk grievedly —“’u’d sooner fight a week
than pav thrippence.”
Johnno says emphatically, “Oughter be dead.” -
“ Crown Str-e-e-t” !!! The faded females get off,
and the fat man apparently has an idea of doing
likewise, but thinks better of it, and follows the
general example by craning his neck till the faded
ones are swallowed by the darkness.
The tram gains speed from here ; nevertheless,
Willo remarks, “ Hurroo. See yer ter-morrer,”
and disappears in ghostly fashion, followed
shortly by his mate. “I predict someone ’ll be-
seem’ the inside of a morgue one er these days,’’
says the driver moodily. There is a loud and pro-
longed “ Darlin’ur-r-r-rse ! ” from the rear, and,,
side-stepping the drunk, who asks incoherently for-
Balmain, we go home.
NULIA.


If you are run down, losing strength, are greatly
debilitated, and suffer from the long, hot summer,
there is one medicine that will quickly cure you. It is
fgsdfgdfs
Sarsaparilla
Read this interesting testimonial of a lady residing at East Brisbane:
gdfgdfgdf
“The past season I had a severe at-
tack of dengue fever, which left me
feeling very weak and languid, with
little appetite and no energy; but I
am pleased to say Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
cured me.
“As a blood purifier and tonic for
those who are affected by the debili-
tating heat of the Queensland summer,
it is unequaled, and I am pleased to
recommend it to those who need a reli-
able remedy.”
If you are sick, you cer-
tainly should give Ayer’s Sar-
saparilla a thorough trial. It
cannot fail to help you, for it purifies the blood first of all.
Then your nerves become steady and strong, and the hot
weather of summer does not affect you. Remember, it is
a wonderful medicine for the children, too, when they are
thin and feeble, pale and languid. Put your confidence in
it, for there is no family medicine in the world its equal.
Make sure that you get “AYER’S” Sarsaparilla
not some other kind, put up to imitate it, and
which will do you no good.
Prepared by DR. J. C. AYER & GO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Aver’s PHIs cure dvsoepsia: strengthen the stomach.
ƒdgfds
And Artistic
CARDS
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us .vour name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each containing 6
of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us, at Gd. per packet. When you
have sold the cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from the list of jewellery which we send you. By continuing the sale
of our cards you can earn a Ladies’ or Cent’s Silver Watch and Chain. Remember, we
want to do business with you again, and to do this we must give you full satisfaction.
gfdsg
We take all the Risk. You can return the cards vf not sold. We have no connection with any other firm.
We are the largest dealers in pdst cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could not make you
this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post cards sell at once, wherever seen.
REGAL
A.RD Co., 8.K., Pitt-st.,
Sydney
FREE.
RINGS, RIFLES, PHOTO.
sdfgdsf
CAMERAS, SILVER WATCHES, MUSI-
CAL, INSTRUMENTS AND MANY
OTHER VALUABLE PRIZES.
Send us your name and address and we will send
you, Post Free, Twelve Pure Aluminium Thimbles
to sell for us at 6d. each. When you have sold
them send us our 6s. and your choice of presents
from the list we will forward you. We take all
the Risk. You can return the thimbles if not sold.
We import our prizes or we could not make you
this liberal offer. Be the first in your district.
THE ALUMINIUM GO.,
8.K., O’Connell Street, Sydney.
[S3
mm
m
im
FREE TRIAL!!
NOT A PENKY TOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
lab s unproved high grade KLKCfRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all tases' of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney. Live , and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness. and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free son writing
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in anyway
delay no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free. Write to-day,
The Dr Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
gdsfgfds
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that j usbly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST-
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how fchey may OURJB
themselves of all nervous troubles,
Debility, and their seripuA consequences. A HOME
CURE pjire and simple for All who need it Address—
PARISIAN AGENCiY, Castlereagh St* s
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
£)S RX CORO’S
ess£** ce °f y.v f
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century vvith unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Rlcord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Fauldingr & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Itemed'’
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
(Completely overcome Dkafn
land Head Noises, no matter of
fhow.long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
x eyes. * Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Addnas-A. M. NABT, 145 Collins St., Melbourne
How
are
you
?
Everyone is familiar with this expression It is heard the wide world
over. Every language has its equivalent for "How are you?” Good
health is the one great universal wish and desire. The most eminent
experts say that four-fifths of all, sickness comes directly from
indigestion, or a torpid condition of the liver and bowels.
cure four-fifths of all diseases by removing the cause. They tone you
up and dispel the impurities which cause sluggishness and heaviness—
Natures warnings of disorder. BEECHAM'S PILLS keep people
cheerful and make life sunny. They are the greatest known medicine
for giving strength to the stomach, correcting the digestion and
regulating the liver, kidneys, and bowels, in fact they are an
unfailing remedy to
Keep You Fit «
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/1-i (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills). 1
A POOR QUALITY WATCH CHAIN
DETRACTS FROM
THE APPEARANCE
gdsf
of an otherwise well-dressed man, and “ the Store where quality Counts”
specialises in Gold and Silver Alberts.
Every Albert we sell is made right in our own workshops and carries but one profit. This means that you
save money on your purchase.
We can make up any pattern of Watch Chain you prefer—light or heavy—and will glad'y quote you
the cost on request.
A number of patterns—with detailed prices—are shown in our new
Christmas Catalogue. May we send you. a copy, post free ?
The pattern illustrated —stamped on every link. In 9ct. Gold, 655.; 15ct. Gold, £5 55.;
Silver, 9s. 6d.; 5-year Rolled Gold, lOs. 6d.; Io=year Rolled Gold, 20s. ; Mexican Silver,
2s. 6d.; Post Pree to any address, with the right ot return if you are in any way dissatisfied.
We want you to try the “A. & C." Plate Powder at our expense. It is the
only kind we recommend for cleaning plate of any description and we will
mail you a sample post free if you send this advertisement with your request.
gfds
GE ST.
SYDNEY
Corner \
Royal Arcade/
Opp. the Barometer, Q.V. Harkets.
gdsf
gfdsg
sfdfd
Price
POST FR
sgdsfg
dsgd
sfgd
sfgd
A good Clip will
not necessarily
'
i, ■
a GOOD PRICE unless Handled
„ y GOOD SALESMEN.
HILL CLARK & CO.,
will guarantee BEST MARKET VALUE.
NERVOUSNESS
juOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OP SELF-CURE, will
forward the same, free o£ charge, to any**
one interested.
Address: A.MINER, u.P.0., SYDNEY.
V. J. Daley’s “At Dawn ancl Dusk,” a
collection of his best verses; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price, 4s. Gd. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bui.Lktin office, ss.
sfgsd
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the ;ani3
diseases in 48
hours without
incon-
venience.
Each Capsule bears the name nr-
r ut
MEN
NO
WOMEN
m
Over 20,000 CASES Successfully
Treated during the last 25 years.
SUCCESS UNPARALLELED IN AUSTRALIA.
DR. MARTIN, M.D., Etc.,
The only Legally Qualified Author and Specialist Advertising and
Holding his Qualifications.
Specialist in Nervous, Skin Troubles, Rupture, Varicocele, etc.
Consulting Physician in Men’s Special Disorders.
DISEASES OF WOMEN A SPECIALITY. Moderate Charges.
Effectual Treatment, Absolute and Rapid Cures.
Acute Disorders Cured in 48 hours. Chronic Cases, sto 10 davs
SPECIAL NOTICE.—DR. MARTIN’S Five Lectures mav be had for ‘2s. (id., post free. '
PRESS EXTRACTS.—The Australian Press on Dr. Martin’s publications. Post Free.
‘SPECIMEN PAGES.”—A glimpse of what “The Diseases of Men and Women” is like Thirtv-twn
pages, fully illustrated. Posted Free for two stamps. •’
Consultation Free (personally, or by letter). Hours, 10 to 4 ; 7 to 9 daily
Dr. Martin receives a Limited Number of RESIDENT Patients at “ ELMLEY HOUSE.”
CALL OR WRITE. NOTE ADDRESS—
DR, MARTIN, M.D., “
Please mention this paper when writing.
Elizabeth-street,
HYDE. PARK, SYDNEY.
/'A ,


Use Your
K OS© —Now
If you use a Gar-
den Hose now,
you’ll get more out
of your garden
later on more
pleasure, more
flowers, more veg-
etables—better ones, too.
Thsre's no better Hosa than ours.
Senct for
Price Lists
There’s a lot that’s not nearly so
pood. Our llose has a reputation
behind it, and every hose we sell
will do that reputation yood.
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
Manufacturers and Importers,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WORTHINGTON PUMP CO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
A Policy for the Commonwealth:
Price 6d.
Posted Bd.
gfd
g
fdsf
dgsdf
gsfd
700 Prizes.
TINTARA
WINES. .
Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide.
gfdsgsfd
AUSTIN CRUSHER.
FORCED LUBRICATION.
RIGID ECCENTRIC BEARING.
DOUBLE COUNTERSHAFT BEARING f.
THOROUGHLY DUST PROOF.
Sole Agents—
W. & J. LEM PR!ERE,
MELBOURNE; SYDNEY.
PARKE & LACY COY LTD.
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
gfds
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA FOR
KNOWLES STEAM PUMPS
All Sizes and Styles Kept In Stock*
Single, and Duplex ; Regular, Brass, and Iron Fitted (for Cyanide).
EVERY PUMP IS GUARANTEED* ;
Catalogues and Full particulars on Application.
“There is No Better Pump than the Knowles.”
gdfsgdsf
97 Clarence St., Sydney
Importers of &. Sole Ag'ents
MARSHALL’S Engines & Boilers, Portable,
Horizontal, Vertical, Dredge.
RUSSELL’S Black, Gal vd,, Tubes & Fittings.
TUCK’S English Leather Belting, Packing.
LIMESTONE Wood Pulleys, Shutting, &c.
ALBANY Compound, Oils, &c.
BALATA BELTING.
Unbreakable Pulley Co. Shafting, Pulleys,
Hangers, Pedestals, Plummer Blocks.
'■i
DUPLEX STEAM PUMP
ALL S/ZES and FOR ALL PURPOSES .
Engineers’, Ironmonger’s
and Machinery Merchants
HAVE IN STOCK
ALL REQUISITES FOR STEAM USERS.
Valves
Lubricator®
G.M. Fittings
Blacksmiths’ Tools
Engineers’ Tools
Wheels and Axles
Wire Hopes
etc., etc.
Lathes
Drilling Machines
Boilers, Injectors
Emery Wheels
Bolts, Rivets
Bar Iron & Steel
Sheets, Plates
Mining Steel.
gsdfgsdfg
R PASTORALIST, STOCK AND
STATION WORK.
Jtfrite for our FREE BOOK on TELE-
PHONES. HOW TO IKSTAL THEM.
SILVERTOWN TELEGRAPH WORKS C° Y .>
279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
K
The ‘SPERRY*
SUMER
bears the same relation
to other slime saving
appliances as the
“CARD” Table
to other Concentrators,
and that speaks volumes
in its favor.
■
-
fim
i: 'U
\o‘
INSTALLED AT THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY,
Adjustable Dressing 1
Surface to suit all
ore gravities.
SIMPLE. DURABLE.
Capacity, 12 tons in 24
hours. Powpr required,
|-horse.
®BET SEND FOR BOOKLET.
Sole Licensees
and
Manufacturers,
Ltd., Sydney &
' \
