

DEWAR’S WHISKY
THE SUPERB
STIMULANT.
■
R. Car. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AV AIL ABLE.
COUNTRY VISITORS TO THE ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SHOW aee invited by
IBSON, BATTLE & CO., 7 BENT ST ;' SYDNEY
INTERESTING EXHIBIT OF MACHINERY
At the end of the
Machinery Avenue.
I
HOBART.
adley’s Orient Hotel.
PIONEER
LX;
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
\
Take it back,
I must have-
HUTTON’S
fine-Apple Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
sAr
7laticnaL
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital - - - £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branch:
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society). w A q IBB> Manager
Active Agents and Canvassers Wanted. “»d
u mt
a//,
P'
,
UOJ V3OOUO UDOA
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS!
m
. *'
m
a
■«sr
■
BENSDORPS
Royal
Dutch
4
ASK
FOR
STANDARD
UNRIVALLLED INT QUALITY -
m
WOT- X3XT BOTTLE.'I®
KRUPP BALL
Wet & Dry
Crushing.
NOYES BROS.,
15 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
109 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
75 BARRACK STREET, PERTH.
45 ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE. DUNEDIN,
JUST PUBLISHED.
Price 21s.
I
THE FINEST
BOOK of ILLUSTRATIONS
ever Issued in Australia.
Three Hundred of “'
i" Pictures,
A UNIQUE AND LUXURIOUS GIFT.
HELIDON SPA.
Absolutely the BEST TABLE WATER.
G-OX.X.XJXT & CO., Agents.
The Bulletin
Yd. 27.—N0. 1365.]
[Thursday, April 12, 1906.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THIS WEEK’S NEW BOOKS,
Hewlett., Pan and Young- Shepherd, 2s 6d, post 3d.
Baudelaire, *' Canterbury Poets,’’ Is, post 3d.
Hardy, What Men Like in Women, Is 3d, post 3d.
Brailsford, Macedonia : Its Races and Future, 9s, post 6d.
Sims, For Life and After, cloth 3s 6d, post (id.
Montagu, Art of Driving- Motor Car, Is, post 3d.
Wragg-e, Romance of South Seas, 9s, post (id.
Hales, Dramatists of To-day, 7s 6d. post 6d.
Thurston, The Gamblers, author of “ John Chilcote,"
paper covers 2s 6d, cloth binding 3s 6d, postage 6d extra.
Maxwell Grey, The Great Refusal, cloth 3s 6d, post sd.
Eichhorn’s Wireless Telegraphy, 10s, postage Bd.
Cassall, Chucks for Metal Working, Is 3d, post 3d.
Edwards, Temperance Compendium, Is 6d, post 3d.
TALES OF TRE F3SH PATROL,
By 4AC:< L.OMBQN, author of The Seawolf, The Game, Call
of the Wild, &c., <&c. Cloth, illustrated, 3s fid, postage 6d.
GEORGE ROBERTSON &. CO. PROP. LTD., 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
spit
m
mm
THEGaEAT
pkAmvsmic Remedy
J -J7- v , -r,<y- - --. .
- gg
'•■■ ;
S^sT '//,
'£s.« — 'SSSSS/S' - r ' '.. : -.—a-i-s
for Influenza, Bronchitis, Astbm& f &&ll affections of
the throat & lungs,«, for prevention of Consumption-
Sold in Tins, 1/6, or Post Free on receipt of stamps from the Sole Manufacturer, C. HUDSON, Chemisn, Ipswich,
Queensland. SYDNEY DEPOT—S and 7 Queen’s Place. Agencies in all the Australian States & New Zealand.
LONDON AGENT—VY. F. Pasmore, Chemist, 320 Regent Street W. J
THE RED PAGE .
EMILY DICKINSON
HER poems are published by Methuen
of London (4s. 6 d. net), and the
book has passed through some score
of editions—in America chiefly.
Some readers may know her by these oft-
quoted lines picturing her intoxication with
natural beauty :
Inebriate of air am I,
And debauchee of dew,
Reeling, through endless summer days,
From inns of molten blue.
That terse, piquant mode of expression was
Miss Dickinson’s prerogative. “Was”—
for she died ten years ago, aged 56, un-
married. Her verses have been printed
since her. death : in life she was a recluse,
“ literally spending years without setting
her foot beyond the doorstep.” And in
seclusion she dreamed, and rarely wrote her
dream in reckless, flashing phrases, with
curious metaphors and common words
dragged fibni tl ”übbish-heap and set (some-
times) to shine wit. ' "tuvge meaning.
Angels' breathless ballot
Lingers to record thee ;
Imps in eager caucus
Raffle for my soul.
An unusual poetess, without a doubt.
T. W. Higginson, who prefaces her book, is
reminded of Blake ; but not happily, one
thinks. Blake’s mind was a crystal, with what-
ever flaws—the mind of a madman child: Miss
Dickinson’s mind suggests rather a witch-
broth, with New England religion, Emer-
son’s philosophy, and lonely womanhood
bubbling together in turmoil, and jetting
forth hot spurts of doctrinal emotion. She
wastes no words, and her words gleam
often :
The purple brook within the breast
Still chafes its narrow bed...
Still rears the East her amber flag,
Guides still the sun along the crag
His caravan of red...
But there is more in her than phrases : there
is insight—a personal view quickly taken,
and written down in a form packed with sig-
nificance :
The bustle in a house
The morning after death
Is solcmnest of industries
Enacted upon earth,—
The sweeping up the heart,
And putting love away
We shall not want to use again
Until eternity.
The book has 130 pages, and every page
its separate piece: a facet of the writer’s
mind polished so hastily that often it seems
an unpolished fragment. Flung off, these
rhymes are, as if from some pregnant nucleus
whirling at speed.
Except to heaven, she is nought;
Except for angels, lone ;
Except for some wide-wandering bee,
A flower superfluous blown;
Except for winds, provincial;
Except by butterflies,
Unnoticed as a single dew
That on the acre lies.
The smallest housewife in the grass,
Yet take her from the lawn.
And somebody has lost the face
That made existence home !
And there are more contemplative moods,
often with the piercing epithet that may meet
one awkwardly, yet that did not meet
Miss Dickinson awkwardly :
Wild-flowers kindle in the woods,
The brooks brag all the day ;
No blackbird bates his jargoning
For passing Calvary ... '
Apparently with no surprise
To any happy flower,
The frost beheads it at its play
In accidental power.
The blond assassin passes on,
The sun proceeds unmoved
To measure off another day
For an approving God...
Look back on time with kindly eyes,
He doubtless did his best;
How softly sinks his trembling sun
In human nature's west!...
The fresh outlook of the book, the deep
feeling of it, the originality indebted to
none : these things make it valuable.
“ Poetry torn up by the roots, with rain and
dew and earth still clinging ” to it, says
Higginson aptly. And a heart that would
cut itself against the truth :
I like a look of agony.
Because I know it's true ;
Men do not sham convulsion,
Nor simulate a throe.
Quotation may close with this suggestive
little piece, which has already been welcomed
in anthologies :
I died for.beauty, but was scarce
Adjusted in the tomb,
When one who died for truth was lain
In an adjoining room.
He questioned softly why I failed l
“ For beauty," 1 replied.
“ And I for truth, —the two are one ;
We brethren are," he said.
And so, as kinsmen met a night,
We talked between the rooms,
Until the moss had reached oar lips,
And covered up our names.
THE MAORILAND MUSE
EXHIBITION Odea” have never been for-
tunate. Even genius might shrink from
the task of writing a poem on a set
theme for a prize, giving a certificate to
Industry and a testimonial to Commerce, and
omitting no item in the catalogue of patriotic
virtues that may win a vote. Kendall, a poet of
no mean gifts, attempted the task for Australia ;
and though he treated his subject with dignity and
clothed picturesque ideas in melodious lines, the
result is not to be counted among the happy
examples of his talent. But it is one thing
to fail, and another thing to fail without honour
and ignominiously. It is this latter disaster that
has befallen Mr. «T. C. Andersen, writer of the
prize ode for the Maoriland International Exhibi-
tion presently to be held at Christchurch. He
has achieved the feat of writing one hundred lines
more or less metrical and rhyming more or less
awkwardly, that are not merely not good, but are
destitute entirely of originality of idea or elevation
of sentiment. And his prize was won from sixty-
eight competitors adjudged his inferiors !
One would be sorry if these remarks give pam
to Mr. J. C. Andersen, who is doubtless an esti-
mable person in his way and degree, and who is
by no means to be blamed for endeavoring 'to gain
any reward that Maoriland may offer to incom-
petent practitioners in literature. But while the
recompense of poetry in Australasia is so scanty,
while the tribe of writers without skill and with-
out imagination is so numerous, it is incumbent
upon every person who reveres the Muse to de-
nounce the pretenders who crowd the avenues to
her temple. And since Mr. Andersen’s “Ode”
has been appraised by public judges as de-
serving to be uttered or chanted on behalf
of Maoriland on a public and ceremonial
occasion, it is worth while inquiring what are its
claims to such high honour. Incidentally the
inquiry will be not without value in admeasuring
the standard of Maoriland’s literary taste.
Mr. Andersen’s “ Ode,” as already said, con-
tains a hundred lines, and it commences thus :
Hail ! Hail! from Isles of the uttermost sea !
Coming from Continents hoary,
Grey with the passing of years,
History giving a glory,
A glamour made tender with tears—
Hail! Hail! —the Land with its future to be,
New Zealand, cries welcome !
It is obvious at the outset that Mr. Andersen
lacks poetic inspiration. He presents the most
obvious ideas in the most conventional way. But
his little trick of alliteration and his little trickle
of sentimentality—are these all that poetic Maori-
land has to proffer the nations of the
earth invited to her festival ? Possibly the
complaint is premature. Mr. Andersen’s inco-
herence leaves it doubtful whether the nations
have yet been introduced. Who come from “ Con-
tinents hoary”? The “Isles of the uttermost
sea,” answers Grammar decidedly. But after
study one may opine doubtfully that the first line
refers to Maoriland, and the next four to the
Continental visitors. Mr. Andersen has merely
omitted the subject, of his participial clause, trust-
ing that the intelligence of the Continental
visitors will rise superior to grammatical rules.
The stanza gives a fair criterion of the “Ode,”
which is never better, though occasionally worse.
The tautology of “hoary” and “ grey,” the use
of pleonastic words to make a rhyme, as
in “future to be” (can anyone comprehend a
“ future ” that is not “to be”?): these faults are
embedded in Mr. Andersen’s style.
His matter is monotonous. He has grasped
thoroughly the primary conception that “an
island is a piece of land completely surrounded
by water,” and the secondary conception that
Maoriland is an island or islands. Certain other
conceptions, as we shall see, he has grasped less
thoroughly ; I>ut his knowledge of Isles and Seas
is displayed to weariness. We have “ Hail !
Hail!” etc., in a third stanza, repeating three
lines; and this repetition, considering that there
are but one hundred lines in all, may be thought
unfairly economical. However, our complaint,
on the whole, is not that Mr. Apdersen’s Muse is
somewhat costive, but that she is not costive
enough.
J*
The second stanza contains a reference to
“ perilous foam.” The second movement of the
“Ode” relates how Maoriland lay long “in
isolated splendour,” with “seas her defences.”
Morn glorious rose, and even closed in tender,
Lorn lay this Eden fair, once lost, again revealed.
“Even closed in tender”—in “tender” what?
Mr. Andersen has forgotten to say. We shall
never know what “even closed in.” It was
“ tender,” whatever it was ; and to inquire further
were perhaps unkind.
In the next stanza :
See ! timorous ships, the white-winged ships of ocean,
Venture from northward through unfurrowed seas...
“ Ships of ocean ” are presumably what one would
expect to find upon “seas,” and why Mr. Ander-
sen should exclaim “See!” in that surprised
manner is not evident.
Eyes eager gaze, hearts thrill with deep emotion,
As the vast sea [encore “sea” !] lays bare, gives up, its
mysteries.
Presumably if it lays them bare, it gives them up,
in Mr. Andersen’s sense ; but as one is not sure of
Mr. Andersen’s sense this objection must not be
pressed too warmly. The “mysteries” are ap-
parently “the white-winged ships”; “the vast
sea” is certainly the “ocean”; so in four lines
the “ocean ” has floated Mr. Andersen’s ships,
the “seas” have carried them along in the same
old “ unfurrowed ” way, and “ the vast sea” has
given them up to make a Maoriland “Ode”
with. One can only say that it is very liberal of
the sea.
Five lines farther down the “ hoar” lands of the
preface come in once more—and more “ oceans ”
and more varieties of “Isles,” “Isles of endless
wonder” and “fruitful Fortunate Isles.” Still
further down there are other kinds of “ seas ” that
are really the same kind, but one’s conviction of
the geographical situation of Maoriland remains
unshaken. Away from “ isles ” and “ seas ” Mr.
Andersen exhibits a tendency to commonplace.
He points out to the Maoris, rather baldly, that
the gradual death of their race is not altogether
due to triumphant Maoriland :
Brothers !—less by this our shame,
Ye were dying tvhen ive came.
Shall we say that Mr. Andersen's rhymes ex-
hibit a certain parsimony? “If it were won
when ’tis done,” one imagines him saying, “then
’t were well’t were done quickly I”—and done
it is, over and over again.
Not unfought the Isles were won .. .
Strife must end and war be done ...
Pioneers have but done
What by Nature was begun ...
Ere a short century 7 lies on man’s labour,
See what his hands have accomplished and done ;
Welcome the leisure for viol and tabor,
Welcome the leisure that labour has won. . .
“Accomplished” and “done” mean the same
thing; but Mr. Anderson says it twice because
“ accomplished’’—though a good line-filling
word—unfortunately does not rhyme with
“won.” Similarly, the outlandish “viol and
tabor” are dragged in to make a rhyme for
“labour.” After this —all in 100 lines—
Here is shown what she has done...
Here is shown what may be won ...
comes sadly. “Done” is a good word; but—
“ cold mutton again 1 ”
Mr. Andersen does not mind. He knows what
an “Ode” should be, and his judges know. It
should combine the tourist bureau’s prospectus and
the weekly commercial report.
The lakes 1 the trees 1 the everlasting hills 1
The fiery 7 regions of the earthquake god ;
(The exclamations are Mr. Andersen’s own.)
The Sanatorium of the World (try Rotorua for
rheumatism) !
A land whose loveliness renews the breath,
And stays the hand, the ruthless hand of Death 1
And what about butter ? and frozen meat ?
The pastoral hills 1 the broad and fertile plains
Whose produce in the world finds welcome sure 1
The land that in the world’s wide market gains
A place that older lands cannot secure 1
That blessed word “produce!”—mark it, ye
denizens of “ Continents hoary, grey ! ” And the
motto is “Let ’em all come ! ”
Wide and wider fling the gate,
Who will aid may 7 enter :
Teacher, artist, man of State,
Artisan, inventor 1
This is near the end of the 100 lines, and the
Maoriland Muse, having made prodigious and
unwonted efforts, is flagging a little. Still, one
wishes Mr. Andersen had not let her boggle over
an easy rhyme like “gate.” What is meant by
“ man of State,” who fills the gap so ingloriously ?
J*
But one must not linger longer. The remaining
lines are possibly less faulty, but they are all on
the same level—all dull and misshapen, a botch-
work of versification. Still, Mr. Andersen knows
what is wanted, and the judges know, and appa-
rently they have got what they wanted. The
“ Ode ” closes with an invocation :
Praise to God for aid in younger days, and pray for aid
through glad maturity 1
Probably Mr. Andersen felt he needed aid.
The “Continents hoary,” assembled to listen to
his “ Ode,” will need it too.
OUR BLACK BROTUER
Dr. W. E. Roth, Q. Protector of Aboriginals,
issues the eighth of his valuable bulletins on
North Queensland ethnography, containing notes
on “government, morals, and crime.” Here our
Black Brother is followed into social life, and we
see how he behaves himself and makes other
people behave. “Under no circumstances,” for
example, “is fighting of any description allowed
in camp at night : if people want to fight they
must go outside, and, when necessary, kindle
fires to see by.” The aboriginal does not believe
in corporal punishment of children : “ Young
children, though certainly reproved, are but
rarely, if ever, slapped or beaten; this is espe-
cially the case with the boys, who, it is considered,
wouid thus develop effeminacy.”
The prime duty of food-getting falls upon both
parents. “The father’s duty is to keep the
family supplied with meat food (larger game and
fish), or, rather, those portions of it which he does
not want himself : the mother keeps it in yams,
roots, grass-seed, fruits, molluscs, and often
smaller fish.” If a wife is unfaithful the husband
or his brothers may publicly ridicule, maim, or
even kill her. The methods of ridicule are those
of the politician and the caricaturist. “ They vary
somewhat in different districts, from a public
slanging to cutting her life-size effigy upside down
upon a tree, or painting a more or less crude
representation of her upon a bull-roarer.” But if
she is a good wife she m a y be embraced or even
kissed :
Embracing would appear to be the commonest form of
welcome, especially with friends or relatives after a long
absence, to be immediately succeeded by a wailing with
the head lowered. It is rto uncommon thing for the
wailing to be transformed into actual crying, this being
often accentuated by a self-inflicted blow on the head
with any weapon handy : an extreme form of welcome by-
wife or mother on the return home of the long-lost hus-
band or son.
Kissing is fairly rare, osculation beinir rather in the
form of a rough blowing. On the Endeavour and Bloom-
field Rivers, during the caresses of their parents, infants
may be thus kissed on the mouth or back of the shoulders.
At Cape Grafton, a common greeting is a blowing on both
cheeks. On the Tully, a man may be kissed by a female
relative on his return after a long absence, this being
usually on the cheek, forehead, head : men here, as a rule,
only kiss men.
There must be a certain lack of social charm on
the Tully.
Jt
Coming to crimes against property, Dr. Roth-
says:
Theft and fraud can. hardly be reckoned as crimes, the
view generally taken being that it is the victim’s own
fault for allowing himself to be robbed or cheated, especi-
ally if the offender remains undiscovered. And even
when the culprit is known, he will as often as not come
forward to express contrition, and, with a promise not to
do it again, duck his head to receive a blow, and thus
settle things amicably at once.
It would be an agreeable procedure in the case of
Parliamentary land-agents—if only the blow were
hard enough to certify that one particular land-
agent would steal no more.
Dr. Roth deals in detail with message-sticks,
many varieties of which he illustrates. He
writes:
I am absolutely convinced that the marks on the so-
called letter or message-sticks do not convey the slightest
intimation of any communication, in the Ordinarily
accepted sense of the term, from sender to receiver ; this
view is based mainly on the grounds that the same mes-
sage may accompany different sticks, the same stick may
accompany different messages, and the stick may bear no
marks at all. I have been given a stick to take with a
certain message to another district, and purposely mislaid
it temporarily, in order to secure another specimen : the
sticks are not alike.
Again, “ second-hand ” sticks may be used over and
over again by strangers, who certainly have had no
knowledge of the original manufacturers. Sometimes a
broken twig is sufficient, without any incisions whatever
and I have often seen a piece of tea-tree bark, or even a
rag, just tied round and round with twine, to constitute
the so-called letter. To put the matter plainly, the
message is taken verbally, the stick serving only to
accentuate the bona fldes of the messenger; if the
messenger is known to both parties, no stick is sent.
Thus the message-stick would serve a function
something like that of a seal on a document.
THE DOILY
“A man’s meal is about the simplest thing a
housekeeper can give. You just have good things
to eat, and better things to drink, and no vases
they can knock over, or d’oyleys that can catch on
to them when helping themselves, and large salt-
cellars and sharp knives, and they are satisfied.”
—That, from Syd. Telegraph, wears such an air
of true wisdom that it is transferred to moderate
perpetuity.
( Voyleys seemed worth inquiry. The New
Eng. Die. justified one’s suspicion of erroneous
spelling. The correct form is doily, with less
tolerable alternatives _ doiley, doyly, doyley.
The word is captivatingly antique, and de-
rives from a draper’s surname of Doiley or
Doyley (possibly an ancestor of Conan Doyle,
Doyle of Surry Hills, and others of that
ilk). Budgell, in The Spectator No. 283 (1712),
says, “The famous Doily is still fresh in every
one’s Memory, who raised a Fortune by finding
out Materials for such Stuffs as might at once be
cheap and genteel.” The Pegge MS. (1750-1800)
says he kept a linen-draper’s shop in the Strand,
London.
At first the name was given to a woollen stuff,
“ at once cheap and genteel,” introduced for Eng.
summer wear in the latter part of the 17th cen-
tury. In this sense the word is obsolete. Arbuth-
not, wrote in John Bull (1712), “His children
were reduced from rich silks to Doily stuffs.”
J*
Presently came the Doily-napkin, a smalrorna-
mental napkin used at dessert—which is to-day’s
usage, though napkin has been dropped. A
modern authority explains that this napkin—
usually of linen or cambric or similar washable
fabric—is placed on the dishes with which light
viands are served —partly, it appears, to avoid
contact with metal or china, and partly to gratify
the feminine taste for ornament. The doily-class
merges in the mat-class, so that position to some
extent decides classification.
The older use was less restricted. Witness:
Swift, Journal to Stella (23 April, 1711) : “ After dinner
we had coarse Doiley-napkins, fringed at each end, upon
the table to drink with.”
1802. Sam Rogers in Clayden ( Early Life ; 1887):
“ After dinner [in Paris] she threw about her some ugly
and dirty English doyleys, which she also explained as
the English fashion, and of which I felt quite ashamed.”
There one would be content to quit the subject,
did not The Girls’ Own Paper, Jan. 25, 189(5, p.
271, allege that “a d’oyley ” originates from the
quit-rent linen tablecloth which one of William
the Conqueror’s knights, named Robert D’Oyley,
had to pay in return for his lands. “ They were
only used on State occasions at the Conqueror's
table, and were called ‘ D’Oyley’s linen ’: hence
the term * d’oyley ’ for fine linen clothes.” In
absence of verificatory reference, and in presence
of the N.E.D.’s precise authorities, one fears that
this little yarn must be held mythical. Pass the
doily.
MEMORANDA
Poultney Bigelow, who “ went to school with
the Kaiser,” and on a recent Aust. visit got notice
perhaps two sizes above his size, has met some
Amer. trouble by exposing Panama canal mis-
management after a day’s inspection. When
Govt, inquired, it was Bigelow who was exposed
(according to N.Y. Bookman).
No. 1, Yol. 1, of The Socialist approaches
timidly from Melbourne. Why not ?
In every Amer. magazine-photo Beatrice Har-
raden looks wilder-haired and unhappier than in
the last. We do wish an Amer. magazine-editor
would marry her and make her hair happy.
One isn’t exactly lost in admiration of R. W.
Chambers’ dexterity, but one is in admiration. His
Adam is the old Adam—with a U.S. distinction, and his
Eve the same old Eve—with an Amer. difference, and his
Eden belongs to Her + Him all the world over ; yet...
it must be the business of joining these sentimental fiats
that he arranges so deftly. Sometimes Eve drops from
a bough on pensive Adam beneath the tree, and some-
times the ground yawns under the feet of astonished
Eve—and: “ Landsakes 1 it’s Adam!”., .but how-
ever it is metaphorically done it is well done,
and in A Young Man, in a Hurry (bond., Con-
stable ; 2s. Grl.) it is done quickly. There are other young
men in a hurry through this bookful of short stories, but
on-the whole the young women are no slouches (whicn
was a good American compliment in Fenimore Cooper’s
time, anyway). Ten short stories, and six of them pass
time pleasantly : the others are passed. Quite an agree-
able journey-book, for a short journey—and H. C.
Christy’s hypocritical illus. don’t matter if you turn over
quick.
A.G.S.


RABBIT SKINS WANTED.
Also KANGAROO, WALLABY,
OPOSSUM, &c.
Consign to :
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Limited, Wool and Produce Salesmen, SYDNEY.
MICK SIMMONS. The Leading Sports Depot.
GOLF.
(Postage on one Golf Iron, 9d. N.S.W., Is. 2d. Inter-State.)
Drivers and Brassies cannot be Posted (too long).
Auchterlonie’s International Clubs
s. d.
Bulger Drivers 6 9
Cleeks, Mid Irons ..69
Driving Irons, Mashies .. 6 9
Bulger Brassies .. .. .. ..7 6
Straight or Bent Neck Patent Putters .. .. .. ..8 0
“8.G.1.” Celebrated Clubs.
“8.G.1.” “ FAIRFIELD ” Drivers and Brassies .. ..4 6
“ 8.G.1.” “ FAIRFIELD ” Oleeks, Jiggers, Mashies, Mid
Irons, Putters 4 6
“8.G.1.” Drivers and Brassies 8 0
“ 8.G.1.” Irons (all styles) 5 0
Spalding’s Golf Clubs.
“MORRISTOWN,” Cleeks, Mid Irons, Mashies, Putters,
Niblicks .46
“ MORRISTOWN,” Drivers and Brassies 4 6
“CRESCENT,” Cleeks, Putting Cleeks, Mid Irons, Lofters,
Drivers 69
Mick
Simmons
GOLF BALLS.
“BRAMBLE
HENLEY’S “
HENLEY’S “
s. d.
” Floaters .. .. 8 6 doz.
Ocobo ” .. .. 16 0 „
Melford” .. .. 15 0 „
s. d.
“Silverfcown” 15 0 doz.
“ Haskell ” (American) .. .. 30 0 „
•‘Wizard” .. 30 0 „
“ Eagle ” .. .. 30 0 „
(Postage on 1 dozen, 9d. N.S.W., Is. 2d. Interstate).
CADDY BAGS.
Postage on Bag, N.S.W. 9d., Interstate Is. 2d.
s. d.
Caddy Bag’s, Canvas, outside Pocket, leather bottom and sling .. ..4 0 each.
Brown Waterproof Canvas, outside pocket, leather bottom and sh ,g ..5 0 „
Same as above, better quality .. .. .. .. .. .. ..60 „
Same as No. 2, superior quality ■ 7 @ „
Same as No. 2, extra special quality .. 10 6 „
Solid Hide Caddy Bags, best quality, outside pocket .. .. .. ..150 ~
Same as above, extra quality <25 0 „
Young 1 America Revolvers, 22 R.F.,
7 chambered, double action, nickel,
2in. barrel, B}oz., 10s 6d (Postage 6d)
Young America Revolvers, 32 C.F.,
safety hammer, 5 chambered, 2in.
barrel, B|oz., nickel, 10s 6d. (Post-
age 6d)
S. & W. Pattern Revolvers, 320C.F.,
nickel or blued, automatic ejector,
3Jin. barrel, vulcanite stock, 13Joz.
(Post. 9d. N.S.W. ; Is. 2d. Inter-State.), 13s 6d
S. & W. Pattern Revolvers, 380 C.F., same as above, 3Jin.
barrel, 18oz. (Post. 9d. N.S.W. ; Is. 2d. Inter-State),
15s 6d .
Hopkins’ “ Forehand ” S.& W. Pattern Automatic Revol-
vers, 32 cal. 0.F., 3in. barrel, weight lib., a limited
quantity only. (Post, 9d, or Is 2d Inter-State), 17s 6d
Youngr
America.
LAWN TENNIS.
w
Hi
<—> _
beftft'Y Handicap Standard Ascot
3/6 51- 7/3 2/6
Postage on 1 Racquet, 9d N.S.W. ; Is 2d inter-State.
The above four lines of Racquets are absolutely the best value
in Australia, and are a new departure in the Racquet Trade.
F. H. AYRES’ RACQUETS.
Child’s .. 3s 9d, 4s 9d
Full Size .. 6s 6d, 7s 6d
Sandown .. .. 8s 9d
Handicap .. .. 12s 6d
A 1 .. .S ; .. 14s 6d
Cork Handle .. 16s
Champion .. .. 19s 6d
Central Strung- .. 24s
SLAZENCER’S RACQUETS.
Renshaw .. .. 13s 6d
Demon .. .. 18s
Whitehouse .. 25s
“E.G.M.” .. .. 30s
“Doherty” .. 35s
TENNIS BALLS. doz
Grey or Terra Cotta 4s 6d
Challenge, cov. reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s grey reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s cov. .. 16s
Ayres’ grey reg. .. 8s 6d
Ayres’ cov. reg. .. 9s 6d
Ayres’ Cyprus .. 12s 6d
Ayres’ Handicap .. 15s
Ayres’ Champion .. 16s 6d
MICK SIMMONS’ SPORTING GOODS
BOXING GLOVES.
Postage on 1 Set, Is N.S.W. ; Is 8d inter-State.
Boys’ Cloth, 5s set
Boys’ Chamois, 6s, 6s 6d set
Boys’ Tan, 6s, 7s set
Men’s Practice, Boz., 6s 6d set
Men’s Chamois, Boz., 8s set
Men’s Tan, Boz., 8s 6d set
Men’s Special Value “ C. 8.8." Boz. Fighting
Gloves, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 14s 6d set: 6oz
12s 6d set
Men’s Superior Gold Cape or Chamois, Champion
shape, Boz., 12s 6d, 14s 6d, 16s 6d, 21s, 25s set
Bryan’s Best Champion, 4, 6 or Boz., 19s, 21s set
Bryan’s 2nd quality, 6 or Boz., 15s 6d set
MICK SIMMONS
5 ID
X
The Great
Monte Carlo
Came.
Perfection of
Mechanical
Ingenuity.
Finest Quality Gun
Metal Case,
Superior Move-
ments (tested by
expert). Price—
-10/6
Only a limited
quantity on hand.
Next shipment due
in about 6 weeks.
\
\
■*«*/ ,
PUNCHING
BALLS.
Swinging- Ball, com-
plete, with best
quality Red Rub-
ber Bladder—7s 6d,
11s 6d, 15s, 18s, 20s,
21s, 255, 27s 6d.
As diagram, with
double rubber fit-
tings, complete—
15s 6d, 16s 6d, 18s
6d, 21s, 255.
Rubber Cord for fix-
ing ball, 2s yd.
Solid Tubular Rub-
ber (best), 2/6 ft.
Punching Ball
Swivels—ls 6d, 2s,
2s 6d, 3s 6d each
The “Bullseye” Rifle, 22 Calibre,
20in. Octagon Steel Barrel, rifled, Remington action, walnut
stock, open sights, weight about 3Jlb
Postage—ls 9d N.S.W. ;3s 2d Inter-State).
7s
Illustrated Fishing 1 Tackle, Sports, Tobacco Lists, Anglers’ Guide and Hints on Fishing—Post Free.
The Celebrated
“MAINE
RIFLE
'THE MAINE"
f?ifie
Sheu/inp Pifle Apart
fitted with Sporting-Rear Sights to 300yds., Bolt
Action, ISin. Blued Steel Barrel, Walnut Stock.
Shoots 22 Short, Long, or Extra Long Cartridges.
Weight, 2|lb.
PRICE 15/6
POSTAGE ON RIFLE—N.S.W., 1/3; INTER.
STATE, 2/Z EXTRA.
MICK SIMMONS.
WINCHESTER THUMB TRIGGER RIFLE.
22 cal., 20in. Blued Steel Barrel, bolt action, weight about 2flb
Postage : N.S.W., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d..
Winchester S.S. Rifle, 1902 Model, 22 Cal., R.P., peep or V
sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2flb.
■r. . Postage : N.S.W., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d
Rer J? c n w ß J fle ’ New ModeI > 22 Calibre, R.F., 20in. barrel, weight 3ilb. Postage—
N.S.W., Is 6d; Interstate, 2s 8d .. .. .. . .
13s 6d
18s Od
16s Od
Postage—2s 6d N.S.YV. ;
4s 8d Inter-State.
Harrington & Richardson’s 5.8.8. L Gun,
12-£auge, top action, automatic self-ejecting de.
carbonised steel barrel 30in., solid case hardened
breech, rebounding locks, pistol
grip, walnut stock, weight
about 6Jlb.
£1 7s 6d
MICK
SIMMONS
THE GLOBE
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 or 16 Gauge, top lever, twist barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks,left choke, patent
D. &E. fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. Postage, N.S.W., 2/9 ; Inter-State, 5/2.
40s
£3
Postage on 1 Gun, 2s 9d
N.S.W.; 5s 2d Inter-State.
n
National Arms Co/s
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, top lever, rebounding bar locks, Greener cross bolt Siemen'
steel barrels, left choke, pistol walnut stock ; weight, about 71b.
ISAAC
HOLLIS
& SONS’
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Real Twist or Steel Barrels, GrCener Cross Bolt,
Left Choke, Rebounding Locks, Snap Fore-end,
chambered for 2Jin. Cartridges. Guaranteed
for all Smokeless Powders.
Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
an
i i
m
m
it
The Reliable,”
£6 12s 6d
Mick Simmons
HOLLIS & SONS’ “THE RELIABLE” D.8.8.-L. - HAMMERLESS
GUN, 12-gauge, top lever, genuine Damascus or “ Siemen’s ” steel barrels,
both choke, side lock action, automatic safety bolt, extended rib,
Deeley-Edge patent fore-end, fitted with Greener cross-bolt, neatly eneraved ebamhei-pd fnr'
2fin. cartridges. GUARANTEED FOR ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, and’ absolutely the
flnnof rino'Ufv fin nin fVi a Qfqfaa Pnofn/va Oo Orl "NT CJ XAT • n,l T_. r ' mi "
finest-quality Gun in the States. Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
“ £l2 12s
u^XTnxrxTioi^r.
Gun Cartridges .
Cartridges can now be sent by Boat to any
Queensland Port at ordinary Goods Freight.
Pea Ftifie Cartridges.
?™m ET 5 I) No - 1 > 6d > 9(1 ; No. 2, Is 3d ; No. 3, Is 9d 100
SHOT No. 1, Is 3d ; No. 2, Is 9d ; No. 3,2 s 6d, 4s „
Rifle Cartridges.
WINCHESTER, 22 Conical
22 Short
.) 22 Long
» 22 Long Rifle
» 22 Extra Long
$lOO $lOOO
.. Is Od 9s 6d
.. Is Id 10s Od
.. Is 3d 12s Od
.. Is 6d 13s Od
.. 2s Od 18s Od
REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER.'"^WS
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney
■


Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO laEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand PT AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —Hon. A- W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape, Esq.
General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY OOMFBTITIOKT.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
“NEW RIVAL”
k®ws>
9
LOADED SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES
The “New Rival” is a grand good cartridge ;
good in construction, good because it is
primed with a quick and sure primer, and
good because carefully and accurately
loaded with the best brands of powder
and shot. It is a favorite among hunters
and other users of black powder cartridges
on account of its uniform shooting, evenness
of pattern and strength to withstand
reloading. A trial will prove its excellence.
ALL DEALERS SELL THEM
Sfce PLUM.
Gentlemen, —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered,
perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell, and never requires grinding.
Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of edge that
is required to ensure any easy shave, and, having had them in use for a
number of vears, can testify to their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH
RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “Plum” Razor Btropy, specially made for this Razor, 7/6.
“Razoleo” lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. Cake.
Price-
Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10'6< Pair, in beautiful
Morocco Leather Case, 21/-.
Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15 '• , Pair Razors, Ivory Handles,
in beautiful Case, 30/*
Registered and Sext Post Free to Any Part op the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country, and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agente—CßAlC & AITKEN, 654 CEORCE STREET, SYOMEY^
E
*
ENOS
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE,
FRUIT
BILIOUSNESS,
SALT.’
AND CONSTIPATION.
The effect of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt ’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.—£•• Capsule marked ENO’S 'FRUIT SALT/ Without It you hare a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Pnpartd only by J. O. ENO, Ltd., • FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS. LONDON. ENG.,
by J. O. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists,_&c., everywhere.
Consult HERR RASsllllsSEN,sp.«M S t
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Ouaranteed.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Weak Men ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Will Cure the Nerves, Debility, Lout Power, Restore host
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and KTerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
BLOOD CURE PILLS.
Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blood
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43/6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s.
His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6.
Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office: 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches: 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE;
481 HAY ST., PEftTH, W.A.; 111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z. HANS PETER RASMUSSEN.
Weak Women
m-x
m/ .
tm
SB
Sefedb
front a.
Granpwbras
Recoi‘d^fr&'
SionorC\WjOl)ANl
UNIVERSAL RECORDS
Of the World’s Greatest Artists, Bands and
Orchestras. lOin. and 7in. Records, will fit
any and every Disc Talking Machine.
ABSOLUTELY UNBREAKABLE.
NKOLEPHONES
TWO SPECIAL g The Colonial,
INSTRUMENTS The Sew Stanford.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE FREE on application.
W. G. KING,
AGENT.
316 George St.,
SYDNEY.
V.
There’s SECURITY In
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
\ FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
They TOUGH the
LIVER
Be Sure they are
Carter’s
NERVOUS PROSTRATION
A Remarkable Cure in Redfern.
THE CASE OF MRS. M. J. BUDD.
(BY A SPECIAL REPORTER.)
The time has arrived when it is imperative that the afflicted members of the community should
take steps to protect themselves against the evils which tend to render their lives unhappy ; ana, as
so many go on suffering year after year through lack of serviceable information, it is deeme
advisable to place before the public the story of Mrs. Mary Jane Budd, of 36 Young-street, Kedtern
so that a salutory lesson may be learned. What Mrs. Budd said to our special was this :
“It is now eight years since my husband died. I was born in Bourke-street, and have lived in
this locality all my life. It was not long after my great bereavement that I became a total wreck.
The blow nearly killed me, and for a good while I was really stupified with grief. lor some con-
siderable time my memory was completely lost, and it was impossible for me to concentrate my ™ in “
for a few minutes upon any subject. When my dazed condition passed away it was then that i
realised how terribly my whole system had suffered.”
“ What did your medical attendant say was wrong with you ? ”
“He told me I had taken my afflictions inwardly, and that my nervous system was in a very
weak state. I knew that well enough, unfortunately, for I could not even bear to hear the children
talking, their voices got on my nerves so, and if a tap came to the door, I nearly fainted with trig •
I hadn’t the least desire for food, and I think one of my greatest afflictions was my inability to get to
sleep. For four vears I did not know what it was to sleep properly for one mglit. It was usual
for me to remain awake till about three or four o’clock m the morning, and then doze ott tin
about half-past five, when I always awoke with a start, and would get no more sleep till next,
morning.”
“You must have lost weight during your illness ? ”
“0,1 was ghastly. My bones were almost protruding through my skin, and anybody seeing
me could not have thought otherwise than that I would never get better again. I really thougnt
I was doomed to die, and feel sure I would have been dead long ago only for Clements -Lome,
which was the last medicine of all that I took. A friend often used to say Why don t you try
some Clements’ Tonic?’ but I always postponed doing so; but at last I thought that as 1»
heard so much about it, and nothing else could do me any good, I would give Clements ionic
a trial. You must understand that I was quite incapable of doing any work, and that it was
a common thing for me to be in bed a fortnight at a time, utterly unable t
attend to anything that requires seeing to, so when Clements’ Tonic began to put a little me
strength into me you can imagine how thankful I was for it. And weren t my neighbors surprised
hear that I had taken a turn for the better ? My word, it was a matter that astonished the whole 01
Redfern But what a relief it was to have my headaches ease off after suffering so long with tneni.
And wasn’t I glad to feel that Clements’ Tonic was also doing good to my nervous system ! wny, i
had only been taking that remedy a few weeks when I could stand noises of any kmd w thom
wincing, and already I was getting more sleep than I had for years. Oh, I have tanked Cod
thousands of times that I was guided to take that remedy and I am so anxious sufferers
may regain hope by hearing of mv cure. But Clements’ Tonic served me well in other ways It pu‘
an end to the giddy feeling I used to have, removed the swollen feeling from my eyes and the suffo
eating sensations from my chest; then, finally, built up my strength so perfectly that everyone coul
see my health was thoroughly regained.”
“May I publish your remarks ?”
“ I gladly give you permission to publish them in any way.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
nnblish in any way mv statements—which 1 give voluntarily witnout receiving any pay menu , ”,
solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of (^ e / ) r^^ S J o^ h E bUDD '
Subscribed and declared at Redfern, this twenty-seventh day of August, one thousand nine hundred andfcur,
before me, ' *


Losing your hair? Do you bring
out a combful each morning? Has
it lost its natural brightness? Is it
beginning to look faded and dead?
Do you like this condition of things?
Certainly not. Then stop this falling
of the hair at once. Stop it before
your hair is thin, short, and lifeless.
Buy a bottle of
Mger’s
flair Vigor
and make your hair beautiful, glossy,
silky, abundant.
If your hair is gray, and you don’t
care to look at thirty as if you were
sixty, then you should use Ayer’s
Hair Vigor. It always restores color
to gray hair, all the deep, rich, beauti-
ful color it had when you were young.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Be sure you get AYER’S Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
His Majesty
The King and
Royal Family.
If you require a delicacy combined
with great nourishment, use
MOIR’S
“Mayfair”
Jelly Crystals.
NEW SEASON’S SHIPMENTS Just Landed.
EXCELLENT FLAVORS.
TRY . . .
MOIR’S
WORCESTER SAUCE.
It Is replacing all others on
account of Its excellent quality
and GUARANTEED PURITY.
JOHN MOIE AND SON, Limited
London, Aberdeen, & Seville.
SYDNEY AGENCY: 47 MACQUARIE STREET,
CIRCULAR QUAY. [1
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyeiia’l
(Regd.)
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
The Ideal
Material
for
Children's
Frocks,
& c.
From the
Leading
Drapers.
SEE THE LABEL ON THE SELVEDGE,
For Sunburn
fit* P Are* C
W S?
quick relief can be
obtained by the applica-
tion of the well known remedy,
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Ointment.
It has a good record of success for cure of
many skin ailments, itch, ringworm, piles,
etc. Minor mishaps such as cuts, bruises
or scalds will keep healthy and heal rapidly
with its use.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester
England.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages ; price, 4s. 6d.
a*
“For
30 Years
I have used Bonnington’b
Irish Moss for Coughs
and Colds, and any irrita-
tion of the bronchial tubes.
It always gives relief.”
That is a pfciin, straightforward statement.
We could supply hundreds such. Cough
remedies have come and gone, but
Bonnington’s
Irish Moss
the pioneer, is still the premier in public
favor. Strenuous advertising and pushing
of sales will not sell a remedy if it is not
endorsed by public opinion. When you
get BONNINGTON’S you are safe, you
have the best. Some dealers, for the sako
of a few pence profit, try to sell you an
imitation. Do not be misled. Look care*
fully for the name, and
TAKE ONLY
“ BONNINGTON’S.”
Waltham
WATCHES
12,000,000 of these
watches now in use.
All Waltham
watches are guaran-
teed by American
Waltham Watch
Co., the largest
watch movement
manufacturing
concern in the world.
mWVuTMoFWM
IVEL
AGRICULTURAL
MOTORS-
Nineteen Gold and Silver Medals awarded
in Great Britain, 1904-5.
Direct Haulage on Farm, Station or Plantation for
all kinds of Implements, and as a Stationary Engine
all the uses steam is now applied.
Full information from the Sole Agents—
HAM & OWEN, 17 Bridge St., SYDNEY
9
A
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Maonlander in England.
Alas ! In Kedar’s tents I live.
By Babylonian waters;
And if I err in speech, forgive
One of Zealandia’s daughters.
For when I speak of paddocks green
In sunshine or in shadow,
You stare, you English friends : “ D’ you mean,
Perhaps, that distant meadow ? ”
And when, forgetting time and place,
I prattle of a whare,
You murmur : “ What a curious phrase !
Is it a term May-orry 1 ”
And when, upon a summer day,
I speak of creek, unwary,
You answer : “That’s the brook; do, pray,
Consult your dictionary ! ”
And when, one morn, He came in view,
Told in our island’s story,
I cried : “ Tenakoe ! is it you,
Mine ancient friend so hoary ?
“I’ve met you where the Toe grows
Near Waiau’s gorges eerie ;
I’ve seen you on the plains where flows
The swift Waimakariri !
“ Were you on some up-country run
Once musterer, or dagger?
Ah, welcome ! Welcome ! wandering one,
My loved and long-lost swagger 1
“ But swagger, swagger, where, I say,
Are pannikin and billy ? ”
“ O come ! ” they cried, “ Do come away !
How can you be so silly ?
“ He doesn’t understand your joy.
And they’re in evil odor,
These horrid tramps —that village boy
Would call the wretch a roader .”
So if I err in speech, forgive
One of Zealandia’s daughters;
For now in Kedar’s tents I live,
By Babylonian waters !
ENGLAND.
DORA WILCOX.
Ploughing.
Ploughing three abreast,
Not a minute’s rest ;
Turning out the black soil, and the couch grass
turning in.
Pale against the skydine, blue gums tall and thin.
Rustle greeting to each other
While the daisy heads I smother
Underneath the warm earth buried, poor crushed
blossoms one by one,
One side of the furrow shadow, one side of the
furrow sun.
Ploughing three abreast,
Straining flank and chest.
Ah ! They are a bonny trio, chestnut, bay, and
darkest brown,
And they make their furrows straightly, like a
lady’s pleated gown.
All the air is crisp with spring
Where the dancing pee-wees wing;
Loud I whistle as I follow, till the morning’s work
is done,
One side of the furrow shadow, one side of the
furrow sun.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
The Dream.
I know not why I sit and weep,
And strive in vain to pray,
I only know that grey mists creep
Across the sunlit day.
I fear to kiss my mother’s cheek—
To call my father’s name ;
Down in my heart low voices speak
And whisper me of shame.
A huntsman came from the forest deep—
A huntsman straight and tall ;
A dream crept into my dreamless sleep,
I dreamed I heard him call.
Barefoot adown the darkling stair
I trod the thin moonbeam ;
I breathed the chill of the outer air
And shivered in my dream.
I saw across the dewy grass
The shaken shadows glide—
One shadow fell and did not pass,
And would not be denied.
His strong arm held me to his heart—
O rapturous embrace !
We were as they that dwell apart
In some most holy place.
Rifting the velvet dark —that made
An inmost shrine for us—
A bright star fell, and I—l prayed
To stay for ever thus.
Then, as my beating heart confessed
The secret ecstasy,
From the warm shelter of his breast
A snake peeped forth at me.
What shone from out those lidless eyes
I have no words to tell,
I think it was the light that lies
About the lip of hell.
I loosed his arm, I turned and fled
Beset by nameless fears —
I wakened in my narrow bed,
My face all wet with tears.
I wakened in my narrow bed—
Pray God a dream it be !
Yet this I know, a creeping dread
Lays its cold hand on me.
QUEENSLAND.
A. W.


£lOOO rn.± £lOOO
A Fortune for 1- A Fortune for //-
£lOOO for 1s
r FIRST
\ Great Prize
{£looo for Is
Or 12 Months * Trip Round the World, first-class, all expenses paid,
and £6OO In Cash for one person, or eight months for two,
And 129 Other Important prizes, ranging in value from £1 to £l5O.
Eight Hours Great Jubilee Art Union.
60 YEARS—-THE OLDEST AND MOST POPULAR- 60 YEARS.
Proceeds in Aid of the Hospitals and Public Charities of Australia .
Prizes will be delivered to winners free of all Charges. A list of winning numbers will be posted to any
person sending an addressed envelope to the representative, with stamp unaffixed.
Buy from the Local Agent, if any, or send stamps (with exchange added), Postal Note, or P. 0.0., direct
to the representative, Flinders Building's, 312 Flinders-street, Melbourne, at once for tickets, and secure a
chance in this ‘
Great Art Union, 22 TOr £1 ,11 fOT 10S., OT IS. GSCh.
All direct applications mint reach Melbourne before the date of drawing 14th May, 1906.
*w BE SURE to TRY YOUR LUCK. TMf
THEO. W. HEIDE, Representative,
Flinders Buildings, 312 Flinders-street, Melbourne, Victoria.
PASTORALISTS
SUPPORT THOSE
WHO HELP YOU.
The Pastoral Finance Assn. Ltd. (P.F.A.)
HELPS YOU.
This Company is freezing for Export over 4-0,000 carcases
per month —keeping up prices at Homebush Yards.
SUPPORT THE P.F.A.
by sending them your WOOL and PRODUCE for Sale.
Consignments should be advised to the Company at . . .
Head_ Office : 13t Phillip St., SYDNEY
Manager : T. C. BOYD.
VISITORS TO
The Old Country
Gloucester Roast, South KcrvsiiSgtorv , London, S.W.
THE MOST COMFORTABLE HOTEL IN LONDON
INCLUSIVE TERMS
FROM
12/6 PER DAY.
£ o Val Pt3>
SELF-CONTAINED
SUITES. PLEASANT
PRIVATE GARDEN.
FINNEY, ISLES & CO., LIMITED.
Our...
Famous
BIG BLOCK SUITS
Machine-made to Measure. In Pure Wool Fancy Tweeds and in Fox’s Indigo-Dye
All-Wool Serges. HONESTLY THE BEST VALUE OBTAINABLE.
Price 40/
THE
SUIT*
Trousers
1216
THE
PAIR
POST OR CARRIAGE FREE to Any Address within the Commonwealth.
' Send for Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms, which we shall
be pleased to forward POST FREE ON REQUEST.
Bi G T B E Lbbk Edward & Adelaide Sts., BRISBANE.
The “Globe” Cinematograph.
rpHE newest and finest
instrument ever
offered at the price. The
CINEMATOGRAPH is
a wonderful entertainer.
The Mechanism is on the
Star Wheel principle, of
sound construction, and
well finished.
The spools are 7fin. in
diameter, and will hold
600 ft. of Films. The
Body is made of Russian
Iron, and is large enough
for any size Arc Lamp ;
is mounted on a Polished
Ash Base, and it slides
over on metal runners to
bring the Condenser into
position with the Lantern
Projection Lens.
The Optics are first
quality, and consist of a
2|in. Cinematograph
Lens and an Bin.
Lantern Lens.
A Carrier is in-
cluded to act as
a cut-off.
The whole ap-
paratus is sent
out in a well-
made cabinet,
bound with iro
corners, an
iron handle.
P-fcJ
£lB 10s.
1
Price £lB 1 OS.
Write for Particulars.
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd.,
•MY OPTICIANS,”
Opticians and Electricians,
393 GEORGE STREET (facing lioyal JELotel) t SYDNEY.
«*’»££!» «=TU’*V»
t:
3
fir. Fisher Thwaite,
of Roma, Q., on
ANCHOR
FENCE.
E. RICH & CO., Ltd.,
SYDNEY & BRISBANE.
Copt].
Newlands, Roma, 3rd March, 1906.
Messrs. E. Rich & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
Dear Sirs,—l wish you to forward me 700 of your wire
droppers 42 inches in length, and 3000 clamps. Please find
cheque for £4 Bs. 6d. for same enclosed.
I had some from you nearly two years ago. / find they
make a much better fence than the ordinary fence, and are
very much cheaper.
Please forward to Roma railway station.
Yours faithfully, (Signed) FISHER TH WAITE.
“A MUCH BETTER
FENCE THAN THE
ORDINARY FENCE,
and . . .
VERY MUCH
CHEAPER.”
n
Zl h
22
ETtrr 1
l l
-H*
</
a
Sis
i//
m
iv-
«rt-.'
/// ✓.«
««.
sw
■a


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 27.-No. 1366.
THURSDAY, APRIL 12, 1906.
Prick Sd.
THE BROKEN IRONCLAD.
The Australian flagship has returned to Sydney in a crippled condition.
Australia ( considering things through telescope): “It seems to me that towage expenses are getting so heavy that it might be cheaper to
build a sound fleet of my own.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the A tistrulhnis.”
Printed and Published by William Macliood, of
Musgrave and McLeod Srreets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 o
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
Tty sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
How to Address Betters.
Correspondents to Tiie Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy.” Delay, and. even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
alivays is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications ivill be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. \will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood, that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Itlaole and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid,
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Cordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, No. 1 Broad-street Place.
South Africa. —The Central Neivs Agency, Capetown;
Messrs. B. A. Thompson & Co., 28 lliebeck Street, Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco.— lF. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., 22 Queen’s Road, Ilong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
A gents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6%in. x lffin.,
will be fonvarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
Tjfce, sxzlle&7i,
THURSDAY, APRIL 12, 1906.
THE DEBT PROBLEM IN VARIOUS
ASPECTS.
If, under those circumstances, the taxpayers were still to
be obliged by the needs of the Commonwealth to provide
the State Government with such a large excess of
revenue, it would then remain for Mr. Carrutiiers to carry
out some of the promises made previous to Federation,
when the people were told that if they had to bear an
unnecessary burden of Customs duties through the
operation of the Braddon clause, they could get relief by
the remission of taxation in other directions. As long as
we have an old deficit covered only by paper, of course
there is no real surplus ; but after this is got rid of, if the
Braddon clause is to stay, a large part of the direct taxes
now being levied on the New South Wales people cer-
tainly ought to go. —Sydney Telegraph (22/3/’O6).
A great surplus will make it possible to reduce taxa-
tion, and establish the State’s credit on an enduring
foundation. It should be less difficult also to put the
true business grip into the control of every department,
and with reduced taxation there will come still another
surplus. If we are to witness instead a mounting revenue
and an apologetic Premier the reform we need will become
impossible from him, and the Carruthers Government
will be a greater failure than its predecessor.—S.M
Herald (3/4/’O6).
Australia is enjoying a little run of good seasons.
Its luck, with good crops, good wool prices, and a
metal market which is balanced on a dizzy
pinnacle of affluence, has been so remarkable
that its banks and financial institutions
don’t know what to do with the money
that is pouring in on them. If this country
had a tariff like that of the United States, new
industries would be starting by dozens and hun-
dreds ; if it had a heavy Federal graduated land-
tax and a legal system which encouraged in every
way the cutting up of large estates, and rendered
impossible the aggregation of further large
estates, this time of cheap and abundant money
would be a time of land settlement on a vast
scale; and between the land we would have to
offer to agriculturists and the employment we
would have waiting for skilled artisans, immi-
grants would be pouring in at the rate of 50,000
or 100,000 or more per annum. For want of the
said tariff and the said land system the surplus
money is, to a great extent, lying uselessly in the
banks, or being lent out in London at an almost
invisible rate of interest, and the immigrants are
not coming to any great extent. But even a coun-
try that lacks the sense to get a respectable
tariff or a moierately wise land system might
at least be expected to take advantage of this time
of abundance to pay off some of its debt burdens.
And the country, if left to itself, might have suf-
ficient intelligence for that; but it goes a great
deal too much by the advice of its daily paper
evil genius.
* * + *
In this matter, there is little to choose between
them, though the Herald is rather the worse
specimen of the two. The Telegraph’s cry is
that the floating deficit should be paid off, and
then the so-called surplus should go in reduction
of taxation. This means
(1) That the £900,000 or £1,000,000 per annum derived
from land sales should still be used as revenue.
(2) That all reproductive public works should still be
paid for out of loans, even if they are only reproductive
to the extent of 1 per cent, per annum, and are built with
money borrowed at 3£ per cent.
(3) That many wholly unproductive works should also
continue tojre paid for out of loans, and that the heaping'
up of debt should go on indefinitely.
(4) That as regards the £83,000,000 or more which
N.S.W. now owes (of which fully £20,000,000 is wholly
unproductive and is unmitigated fraud and steal) the
State should just go on owing it.
(4) That there should be no provision made for depre-
ciation of loan works.
(6) In fact, that N.S.W., which borrows in bad times
because it is poor and needs money to keep its people
employed, should do likewise in good times because,
though it doesn’t need money, it is rich and can afford to
pay the interest.
That is the attitude of the Sydney Telegraph,
and it is difficult to imagine that any lower
depth is possible. Yet there is a lower depth,
and the awful Herald has found it. The
Herald’s idea is, apparently, to do all the sins
that the Telegraph advocates, and, in addition,
leave the deficit standing. Instead of reducing
the State’s incredible load of debt it wants “to
establish the State’s credit on an enduring founda-
tion ” so that it will be able to borrow still more.
The one good thing that can be said for the Car-
RUTHEHS Government is that it has a large sur-
plus—at least it will be a good thing if the surplus
is applied in the reduction of liabilities. But if it
doesn’t instead apply the surplus in reduction of
taxes the Telegraph and Herald threaten to
make war on it for its solitary virtue.
* ♦ * *
It is a common theory that N.S.W. has no need
to make any special effort to reduce its debt
because it has established a sinking fund. As is
usual in N.S.W. finance the statement is a lie
and a fraud ; N.S.W. has no sinking fund. A
sinking fund is properly a pile of money
that is set aside to accumulate at compound
interest for the extinction of a debt, and such is
the virtue of compound interest that if a State
borrows £1,000,000 a year for 50 years, at 3J per
cent, interest, and puts away £380,000 each year
for 50 years, to accumulate at 3£ per cent, com-
pound interest, at the end of the 50 years the State
will be out of debt. Though the new debt incurred
each year is £620.000 more than the sum put away
for repayment, yet the compound interest does
the rest. But if the State borrows £1,000,000 each
year, and simply repays £380,000 each year, at the
end of the 50 years it will owe £31,000,000. And
N.S.W. is doing worse than that; it is borrowing
at the rate of £1,500,000 a year, and repaying only
£300,000; the amount it repays doesn’t even
cover the amount it borrows for unproductive
works. And even the £300,000 that it re-
pays annually off its debt is all derived—that
and £600,000 more which is used as revenue—from
the sale of the public estate. The whole of
Carruthers’ prospective surplus is to be derived
from the sale of the public estate. Under these
dreadful circumstances—with the old deficit still
unpaid, with £20,000,000 of unproductive debt
still unpaid, with no real sinking fund, with
heavy borrowing still in progress both for pro-
ductive and unproductive works, and with no
surplus in prospect, even in the best period the
State has seen in 18 and 20 years, except such as
is derived from land sales and loans—the papers
which advocate the reduction of taxes are a public
shame.
* * * V
The best way out of the tangle of dishonesty,
liability and incapacity which the State Govern-
ments have created would be, of course, for the
Commonwealth to take over all the existing debts
and also to have it enacted that no State can borrow
in the future except from the Commonwealth,
with the Commonwealth’s permission, and to such
extent as the Commonwealth is prepared to allow.
The wholesale road to that end would be an
amendment of the Constitution transferring all
the powers, duties, assets, and liabilities of the
State Governments to the Commonwealth—in
short, Unification. The smaller and retail way
would be to pass through the Australian Parlia-
ment and submit to the people at the December
elections a Constitution Amendment Bill to this
effect:—
(1) The Braddon clause, providing for the return to the
States, or the setting aside, to pay interest on the State
debts, of three-fourths of the Customs and Excise revenue,
to be abolished immediately. (The clause, in any case,
is only fixed in the Constitution till 1911.)
(2) The whole debts and the accumulated revenue
deficits of all the States to be taken over by the Austra-
lian Parliament not later than three months from the day
when the Constitutional Amendment is accepted by the
people, the Australian Parliament undertaking to estab-
lish a sinking fund for the extinction of the liability, and
taking all responsibility in the matter of interest.
(3) All future borrowings to consist of loans made by
the Commonwealth to the States, and for these new
loans the States to pay interest to the Commonwealth
and provide a sinking fund.
It is just possible that that amendment would be
carried at the first time of asking ; it is equally
possible that it might be submitted at every
election for several years before it was
carried. At all events the experiment is worth
trying. If there is a favorable majority in
the Australian Parliament the measure could
be put through that institution, with a judicious
use of the closure, in three or four days, and
the reference to the people would happen in
a casual sort of way at the December elections.
And it must always be remembered that the
Commonwealth, if it cares to assert its just
authority, can force the States to agree to
this proposition by 1911, even if it cannot do so
earlier. In that year it can repeal the Br.addon
clause, refuse to return any more revenue to the
States, and lay down the alternative —either that
it will keep the tariff revenue and take over the
responsibility of the State debts, or, if the States
won’t hand over their debts, that it will retain
the tariff revenue in any case. There is no need
for any more foolish conferences with State
Premiers, like the one at Hobart a year ago
which produced 200 printed pages of debate and
did nothing, or the one a year previously which
did just as much after about the same quantity of
conversation.
* * * *
The Australian debt, if it were consolidated in
the hands of the Commonwealth, wmuld assuredly
carry a sinking fund, and the fact that the consoli-
dation hasn’t yet happened is no reason why the
sinking fund shouldn’t begin at once. Its imme-
diate establishment would be a proof that the
Australian Parliament was in deadly earnest, and
would put its sincerity beyond question. If the
Australian Parliament passed an Act requiring
banks, as in conservative old Canada, to hold 40
per cent, of their cash reserves in Federal paper
money, it would thereby gain command of
some £8,000,000 or more in gold without
interest, and even after establishing a reserve
fund of (say) £2,000,000 against its paper
issue, and setting aside a sum for the
establishment of a Federal Capital, it could
apply £5,000,000 or so to a sinking fund against
the State debts that are to become Federal debts
hy-and-bye. If it also enacted that even £250,000
a year should be added to the sinking fund from
the Federal revenue, and invested those t amounts
in the purchase of whatever State securities could
be bought most cheaply, and applied the interest
on those securities and the future revenue
contributions to further purchases of State
securities, it would have made a practical
move in the consolidation and repayment
of Australia’s liabilities: And this practical
move would be worth more than a thousand con-
ferences of State Premiers. It might be an
original form of finance to start thesinking fund be-
fore the debt was acquired—anything in the way of
financial foresight is original in Australia—but it
would have great advantages. However long the
transfer may be delayed, the State debts will be
handed over sooner or later if the Commonwealth
demands them ; and when they are handed over it
will be a great advantage, and probably an im-
mense saving in interest, if the Australian Govern-
ment can face its first big conversion operation in
London, not merely with the promise of a sinking
fund, but with a sinking fund already in hand.
• * * *
The Bulletin recurs to this subject for the very
manyth time in the hope that one day the Demo-
cratic elements in Parliament and in the com-
munity will awake to its importance. It is, with-
out exception, the greatest Socialistic question of
the day, bar (possibly) one. The repayment of
the public debt is the transfer from private
capitalists to the people of all Australia of some
£235,000,000 of property yielding an annual
income of over £8,300,000. It is the nationalising
of all that wealth—the nationalising of something
that is worth the whole much-talked-of tobacco
industry of Australia 70 times over. As far as
concerns the single State of N.S.W., the public
debt represents about £3,000,000 in interest, while
the wages paid in all the manufacturing
industries of the State represent less than
£5,000,000, therefore the public debt is at
least half as much worth nationalising as all
the State’s manufactures put together. If the
value of manufacturing industries is estimated
by the machinery and plant employed in them,
it is ten times —nearly eleven times—more essen-
tial to nationalise the debt of N.S.W. than its
manufactures. The debt is over £83,000,000, and
the whole plant and machinery of N.S.W. manu-
facturing industry is worth much less than
£8,000,000; and the proportions are much the
same for Australia in general. There is a great
deal said —and rightly so—about the necessity for
nationalising the private lands of Australia, but
though the privately owned lands of Australia are
worth £350,000,000, the public debt amounts to
£235,000,000, so the importance of nationalising
the debt is at least a good second to the import-
ance of nationalising the land. To restore to the
whole community the possession of the general
land assets is no more a process of nationalisation
than to take away from it the general liabilities,
and Socialism should be as much concerned about
the latter as about the former. As a mat-
ter of fact, there is one sense in which
Australia should be more concerned about
paying off the debts than about national-
ising the land. The land is mostly held by
Australians; the trouble is that it is held in
very unequal proportions, but still it is
mainly local property; and land nationalisa-
tion only means giving every Australian a share
in what now mostly belongs to a section of Aus-
tralians. The public debt is mostly held abroad.
Its extinction means giving every Australian a
share in what now mostly belongs to foreigners.
* * ir *
This table is appended as a concluding argu-
ment :
Estimated Net Value of
Value of Debt Land in Ex-
Private Lands. (1905). cess of Debt.
N.S. Wales .. £142,617,000 £83,662,000 £58,955,000
Victoria .. 112,396,000 53,990,000 58,406,000
Tasmania .. 16,488,000 9,524,000 6,964,000
S. Australia .. 34,080,000 29,099,000 4,981,000
Debt in Ex-
cess of Land
Queensland .. 35,887,000 41,786,000 5,899,000
Westralia .. 8,813,000 16,689,000 7,876,000
There are thus four States in the Commonwealth
where the bondholder is pretty nearly as great a
curse as the landlord, and two in which he is a
greater curse. There are four States in which it is
almost as essential to free the people from debt
monopoly as it is to rescue them from land mono-
poly, and two in which it is essential- to attack
the debt-monopoly curse first. And look-
ing at the situation it strikes The Bul-
letin as an amazing circumstance that the
land monopoly should agitate the Labor party so
much and the Cohen monopoly so little. Even
the petty tobacco business agitates the party more
than the Cohen monopoly, and in N.S.W. it
troubles more about the question of day labor in
Fitzroy dock than it does over a problem of
£83,000,000.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The End of the World.
A few days ago the Sydney papers gave a casual
mention, among paragraphs relating to suburban
aldermen and the like, to the end of the world.
The mention dealt with a theory set forth by Thomas
Steel, president of the Linnean Society, that the
end of the world would be a damp one. This globe
consists of a great mass of land or rock, covered
as regards most of its surface, with a thin film or
smattering of water. The fact that there is so
much earth and so little water is comforting, in a
sense, as regards probable extinction by drown-
ing ; still, when the earth flattens down there
will be enough water to cover it all to a depth of
two miles. Two miles of water may not seem
much compared to nearly 8000 miles of solid
globe beneath the water, but It would be
quite enough. And the earth is assuredly
flattening down. Every mountain range is
becoming lower as the rains wash its particles
down into the rivers, and the rivers wash them
out into the sea, and as the earth grows colder
and deader the great movements which once threw
up new mountain ranges to repair this waste have
practically ceased. And man helps the flattening
process by running sewage into the sea, by
throwing ashes and debris overboard from ships,
and by constantly losing vessels and cargoes in the
great deep. Every ship that goes down represents
so much taken off the land or dug out of the land
to help to flatten it down, and thrown into the
sea to help to fill it up, and drive it on to the
land; so does every lb. of sewage and every bucket
of ashes. On the other hand man does a little to
retard the process by catching fish out of the sea
and leaving their bones on the land to build it up.
But on the whole the sea has the advantage.
How great is its advantage can be noticed
by anyone who steams past the mouths of such
streams as the Ganges, the Brahmapootra, or the
Irrawaddy, and finds mud in his bath while he is
yet 50 miles off the shore, said mud being the
debris of the ever-wasting mountains in the
interior. Of course, it may be set forth that the
process is very slow, and has a tendency to be-
come slower. When the mountains have wasted
down, as the great range which is suspected to
have once existed in Westralia has already done,
there is less rain, and rivers shrink or dry up, and
the process of disappearance becomes infinitesi-
mally slow. That is consoling in a limited degree,
but it only suggests that most of humanity maybe
killed off by drought before the balance of it is
killed off by submersion, after spendingits last days
in building ramparts of sand round its last flattened-
out little island. Finally, at the back of all
things, there is a dim theological theory about a
final destruction by fire, but that theory is too
vague to enter into the calculation. Meanwhile,
however, the Australian birth-rate and immi-
gration rate are not quite'what theyshould be,
and the prospect of posterity being drowned is
too remote to justify us in neglecting these
matters. For the present the globe is holding
out, and Ahstralia is here, and, whatever its end
may be, it is its business to live as a great,
prosperous, progressive white community while
there is anything for it to live cm. The subject
of the end of the world is hereby adjourned for
future consideration.
♦
In the Matter of an American Life
Assurance Office.
Within the last few weeks there have been poli-
tical pronouncements from Deakin and Watson
and Reid ; Bruce Smith has held forth greatly,
with a cup of tea in one hand and a bun in the
other, to sundry small gatherings of foolish women
with expensive hats ; alsoJoE Cook has snarled,
and Bumpkin Smith has preserved a well-chosen
silence. But, among all the leaders who talked,
there has been no remark about a certain urgent
matter of plain business, and even Pumpkin
Smith’s silence seemed to conceal no thought
about it. The Commonwealth is now the only power
in Australia that can make laws dealing with bank-
ing and insurance matters, and it is to its disgrace
thatsofarit hasn’t been able to sufficiently accumu-
late its nund in one spot as to make any such laws
at all. There are no uniform Australian banking
and insurance regulations—simply the six old
divergent State systems, or lack of system.
Now one, at least, of the huge Ameri-
can life assurance concerns which do busi-
ness here proposes to withdraw. This is
the Equitable, a vast concern controlled by
a handful of shareholders, whose little drop of
capital is only a spot on the top of an ocean of
policy-holders’ money. These shareholders are
prohibited from taking more than 7 per cent,
dividends on their capital, and 7 per cent, isn’t in
itself an amount which makes Equitable stock
very much worth scrambling for. Yet in some
way there are vast indirect advantages, or profits,
or boodle, or loot, or kudos to be gained by the men
or party of men who hold a controlling interest in
this stock, and who have the right to deal with
the policy-holders’ money, and the scandals that
have lately gathered round the great Equitable
have been somewhat unpleasant. They are
not calculated to make the Australian people
feel any more confident about the Equitable
management even if their share of it is
under their own eye; and if the co. leaves
Australia, and (presumably) takes away its assets,
merely leaving behind it an agent to collect the
premiums on existing policies, they are likely to
feel still less confident. The Australian policy-
holders went into the Equitable because it was, in
a sense, a local company, with assets here which
the Australian Courts could make responsible for
the payment of claims in case of dispute. They
didn’t reckon on having, in case of dispute, no re-
dress nearer than New York, and no appeal, save
to a reputedly-corrupt Court, which the great cor-
poration can buy and sell. The plain duty of the
Australian Government in this matter is to see
that none of the local assets of the Equitable, or
■any other foreign office which is giving up the
pursuit of Australian business, leave this country
—to put in a receiver to collect the premiums on
existing Australian policies, manage Australian
assets, pay claims out of these assets till the last
Australian policy has matured if the local assets
will cover all claims; and finally either hand over
the surplus to the company or dun it for payment
of the deficiency. There ought to be an Aus-
tralian law under which this would be done as a
matter of course ; the fact that there is no Aus-
tralian life assurance law at all—only some old
straggling State enactments that are of no use in
such an emergency—is eminently discreditable.
It is even more discreditable that there is no
mention of an intention to pass any such law, and
no apparent understanding of the necessity for it.
Still as no State Government has done anything
in the way of urging Prime Minister Deakin to
move in the matter, it may be reasonably inferred
that things would be just as bad if the old State
control had continued. In fact, the old State
control practically left life assurance business to
run itself as it darned well pleased.
A Corner of the Earth.
The great daily which spoke of Fanning Island
as “an obscure corner of the earth” spoke
more truly than it thought. The situation which
lias arisen in regard to the island niay not be very
serious in itself, but it stands as an object lesson
to the whole world as an example of the possi-
bilities of private ownership in land. Fanning
Island belongs, Australia is told, to Messrs.
Gregg. That is, with the exception of a
small area leased for the use of the Pacific cable,
the whole of the island down to the water’s edge,
with every stream and vegetable and cocoanut upon
it, is to-day the property of the Messrs. Gregg. If
there are any aboriginal natives, they also belong
to the Messrs. Gregg for all practical purposes,
seeing that the Messrs. Gregg possess the right to
forbid them from taking water from the streams,
a cocoanut from the trees, or a yam from, the
ground. In fact, they have no right to stand on
the island that belongs to the Messrs. Gregg ;
and they are guilty of a trespass and liable to a
civil action for damages for leaving their feet on
the arable land owned by the Messrs. Gregg. The
whole of the boats are, presumably, the property of
the Messrs. Gregg also, but it is possible that
some enterprising nigger has a canoe made before
the Messrs. Gregg came along with the blessings
of civilisation. Assuming that it is not neces-
sary to trespass upon the wharf of the Messrs.
Gregg to get into the craft, and that the Messrs.
Gregg are kind enough to overlook his trespass
on their beach, that nigger (if there is any nigger)
may have a chance to get away and dodge the
sharks and the storms until he reaches another


island, which he will possibly find has also been
purchased by the Messrs. Gregg. The position
of Fanning Island is only the position, to a less
degree, of Australia and England, and every
other country in which the blessings of private
ownership in land prevail. The chief difference is
that the monopoly in most countries is in more
hands than on Fanning Island. Whether it will
always remain in more hands is problematical,
considering the vast organising skill which has
been developed by capitalism during recent years.
An endeavor is made to excuse the position on
Fanning Island by pointing out that there are
international as well as private rights, and Fan-
ning Island is a British possession. But how is
the British flag going to wave over the Island and
proclaim that a glorious era of Freedom has
been established if Messrs. Gregg demand a
ground rental for the land occupied for the
flagpole greater than the British Empire is
able to pay? Messrs. Gregg have pointed
the way to a new trust, and the corner m
the earth is probably something that Rocke-
feller and Morgan and the rest of them have
under consideration at the present moment. Con-
sider what a hilarious jest it will be when a big
syndicate does for the island of the two Americas,
or for the island of Europe and Asia, or for the
island of Africa, what the Gregg syndicate has
done for Fanning—buys up the lot, and comes
round to collect the rent of the globe every Monday
morning !
O
Defence.
Defence Minister Playford, whose indiscretions
will yet get the Deakin Ministry into serious
trouble, announces that he is against the National
Defence League proposal for universal citizen ser-
vice ; and calculates that all the defence forces
Australia needs are such as will be sufficient
to cope with an invading army of 20,000
men. This is in direct contradiction of the
Prime Minister’s attitude, which is one of
affable sympathy with the National Defence
League. How does the Cabinet come to speak
with two voices on such a vital question ? Either
Prime Minister Deakin is guilty of a gross hypo-
crisy in professing to believe in the necessity for a
much better defence organisation, and in showing
sympathy with the aims of the National Defence
League. Or Defence Minister Playford is guilty
of a breach of Cabinet discipline which calls for
an explanation, or for his immediate resignation.
Or the Cabinet, as a whole, thinks so little of the
importance of the Defence problem that it is
content for members to go their own way on
the subject, and allow utterly conflicting views to
come from different sections of the Government.
No one of these alternatives is honorable, and
friends of the Deakin Ministry will be glad of a
full explanation. And it is to be hoped that that
explanation will take the line of censuring Play-
ford’s views. For they are not only hostile to
Australian sentiment, and tp the publicly-
expressed statements of his leader, but also to the
Defence Act, which he holds office to administer.
Likewise they are in direct conflict with facts.
(But facts are things that politicians seem to
reckon they can safely ignore, so that point may
be allowed to pass for the present.) Assuming
that Mr. Playford is right in his estimate of
the extent of the probable crisis which Australia
may have to meet, what does he mean by adminis-
tering a Defence Act which enacts intcv dlia I
In time of war it shall be lawful for the Governor-
General, by proclamation, to call upon persons liable to
serve in the Militia Forces to enlist in the Militia Forces,
and thereupon such persons (other than those who are
members of the Defence Force) shall enlist in the Militia
F Tproclamation under this section may call upon all
the persons specified in any one or more of the classes
hereunder set out so to enlist.
Class 1 : All men of the age of eighteen years and up-
wards, but under thirty years, who are unmarried, or
widowers without children ; ,
Class 2 : All men of the age of thirty years and upwards,
but under forty-five years, who are unmarried, or
widowers without children ; ,
Class 3 • All men of the age of eighteen years and up-
wards, but under forty-five years, who are married, or
widowers with children ; and „ ,
Class 4 : All men of the age of forty-five years and up-
wards, but under sixty years.
If that means anything, it means that, in the
opinion of the Australian Parliament, a crisis
may arise which will call for all the defence
material that Australia can scrape together—all
its able-bodied manhood. Such a meaning, too, is
within the natural reason of things, for if Aus-
tralia avoids serious invasion it will be the first
country on earth to be so happy. Arguing from
experience man knows that he will die because
every man who went before him has died. Analo-
gously Australia will one day be invaded because
every country on earth-even the frozen country
of Greenland —has, at one time or another, felt
the armed heel of an invader. And if there is
any possibility of correctness in anticipating
the current of events, that invasion will
probably come very shortly - within the
life of this generation. The Australian Par-
liament showed an intelligent realisation of
facts when it provided that every able-bodied
citizen should be liable for active service in case of
invasion. But the logical complement of that
provision has yet to come-the training of every
man liable to active service, so that, if called to the
colors, it would be as a fighting unit, not as a sheep
to the shambles. Parliament, m providing for a
permanent, a militia, a volunteer and a reserve
force, and for compulsory service, may have
thought that the citizens, without further press-
ing, would qualify for one or other of those forces
and thus bring the defence scheme to its logical
completion. If that were the expectation it has not
been realised. After more than two years experi-
ence it has been shown that the citizen, who is
liable under the Defence Act to enlist to repel
invasion, takes no serious view of that respon-
sibility An infinitesimal portion qualifies tor
service.' The great majority is content to remain
as it was, helpless to resist, fit only to be
killed So the Commonwealth must go further.
Just as the Education Acts provide that facilities
shall be given for education and must be availed of,
so the Defence Act should provide, not only that
the citizen shall be liable for service but that he
must be trained for service. Universal training is
the inevitable complement of the existing Defence
Act as well as the necessary precaution to secure
Australia’s national existence. Defence Minister
Playford may be too stupid to recognise this.
It so he should retire from a Cabinet which,
through its leader, professes to have better sense.
Stealing our Neighbors’ Immigrants.
The Westralian Cabinet has elaborated, the daily
newspapers state, “ a comprehensive immigration
scheme.” Part of this scheme is :
Every effort to be made to secure the farmers in Eastern
States who are dissatisfied with their lot. ,
Distribution of luring literature in Great Britain and
the Eastern States. ...
A similar neighborly feeling shows m the immi-
gration efforts, whether slight or comprehensive, of
the other States. A main plank is always to
strive to capture an Australian citizen from across
a State border and drag him by the hair to a local
allotment. Thus immigration effort largely re-
solves itself into a question of shifting a tiny
portion of Australia’s tiny population from one
State to another. And that is of no advantage
to the Commonwealth. But it will continue to
be the method of the game whilst the matter of im-
migration is left in the hands of the States instead
of being given over to the Commonwealth. The
Australian Government, if it assumed the power
to deal comprehensively with immigration, would
naturally strive to attract population to all the
States. It would point to the general advantages
of Australia, and the particular advantages of the
various States ; it would rejoice for the immigrant
to come to Australia, and be careless as to what
State he came to. Certainly it would never
attempt to attract population from one State to
another—a mere shifting of money from the left-
hand pocket to the right-hand pocket which
brings no financial advantage, and causes some
wear and tear of the coin and the pocket.
♦
Over Sixty Millions.
The census of the German empire, taken on Ist
December, 1905, shows a population of over
60,600,000. This means an increase of more than
4,300,000 since Ist December, 1900. In the five
years which ended in 1885 the addition to Ger-
many’s population was 1,600,000 odd. . This was
when the Protectionist period had only just begun
and the empire was, industrially, in a mere experi-
mental stage. The next half decade saw an
addition of over 2,500,000. At the 1895 mile-post
the addition was over 2,800,000. Between 18Jo
and 1900 the population of Kaiser William s
dominions grew by 4,000,000 ; and the last five
years shows an increase of 4,300,000. Great and
wonderful is the growth of Kaiser Bill’s nation.
Within the recollection of people still compara-
tively young, Germany, in an industrial sense,
was a joke. It had few manufactures,
very little shipping, no naval power worth men-
tioning ; it was poor and unprogressive, and there
was nothing remarkable about it except its army,
and its people’s capacity for emigrating to any
country on earth so long as they got away from
Germany. There was little work m Germany,
and little pay, and it was a wonderfully good
place to be absent from ; so the German left it in
such numbers that the birth-rate, in many years,
barely kept ahead of the death and emigration
rate. All over the world there were Germans—
beer-selling in every American city, farming in
every American State, and in S.A. and Queens-
land, and Brazil and elsewhere, blowing brass
instruments in every street that seemed good for
the donation of a copper, and braying on hollow
implements in every Orchestra,. The dispersion
of the Germans seemed as if it might ulti-
mately rival that of the Jews. lhat was
in the last days of German Freetrade, before
Bismarck resolved that Germany should no
longer be the dumping ground of the English
manufacturer. Now Germany is a colossus. It
has almost ceased to send out emigrants—the de-
partures dropped from 221,000 in 1881 to 28.000 in
1904, while Britain, in 1904, sent away 2<2,000
of its best people, mostly to the Protectionist
United States. Germany adds over 8,000,000 to
its population in ten years ; the British isles, in
the same period, barely accumulate 2,500,000.
Germany has passed Britain in manufactures ; it
even exports to England, once the workshop of
the world, great quantities of sugar, silk .and
woollen and cotton goods, pianos, locomotives,
sewing machines, and many other etceteras.
It is fighting Britain for the mercantile
supremacy at sea, and it is the ever-grow-
ing German navy which has made .Britain
call in its fleets from the Pacific and the
South Atlantic, and do its remarkable concentra-
tion in its own waters. Yet with all its increase
of population Germany contrives to grow nine-
tenths of its own food supply, whereas Britain,
steadily laying its own lands waste so that they
may be turned into game preserves for the amuse-
ment of the idle rich, can only supply about one-
sixth of its own requirements. Germany grows
by adding nearly a million new Germans to its
population every year ; the British empire owes a
great deal too much of its population increase to
the perpetual annexation of new hordes of dirty
unclothed niggers. In the number of its white
population—and after all it is the white popula-
tion which counts in the end—Germany can
now outnumber the whole British empire,
and it is increasing faster than the whole
British empire. Yet there is nothing to account
for this amazing resurrection except the fixed re-
solve of the Government that there shall be pro-
fitable work in his own country for every German
who is willing to work ; that the German shall
come first and the foreigner a long way after.
Under his Protectionist tariff, his fairly en-
lightened land policy, and his old age pension
system, and other Socialistic institutions, the
German can now afford to be born, and he is born
—largely If he continues as he is doing there
will be 100,000,000 subjects of Kaiser Bills heir
by about the middle of this century ; if he takes
in German Austria and Holland there will be
more like 140,000,000, and his empire will straddle
right across Europe. There are great possibilities
for the making of history about these prospects.
♦
The N.S.W. Railway Inquiry.
The report of the Royal Commission appointed
to inquire into the disagreements among the three
NSW Railway Commissioners may be eminently
satisfactory to the Royal Commission itself, but it
is difficult to imagine that it will be so to the mass
of the public. The particular episode which
brought the strained relations of the Three to
light was the making, by the two junior Commis-
sioners, Kirkcaldie and Fehon, against the wish
of Chief Commissioner Oliver, of a ridiculously
bad bargain for the community in the matter of
coal contracts. The one thing that kept down the
price of coal on the Western lnie was apparently
the fact that one mine remained outside the
Coal Combine. The Combine offered to supply
to the Railway a large quantity of coal at a high
price, and a smaller quantity, to replace
the supply hitherto taken from the mine that
stood outside the Combine, at a much lower price.
It may be reasonably suspected that the idea was
to crush the small concern which stood outside the
Combine, so that when the contracts come to be
renewed again there will be nothing but the Com-
bine to deal with, and it may then charge what
it darned well pleases. The fact that Fehon and
Kirkc vldie were for the Combine and Oliver
against it placed the first two men in one camp
against the third, and when the long ripping-up
of large and small grievances proceeded this divi-
sion of forces was continued. And if the Court
wasn’t most absurdly biassed in favor of Kirk-
caldie and Fehon from the beginning it sometimes
gave way to a most unfortunate habit of looking
that way. The manner in which it struck this
paper, rightly or wrongly, was that from the first
the two imported men, who had begun their lives
in railway service, bitterly resented the exist-
ence of Chief Commissioner Oliver, a mere
Australian, who only commenced his connection
with railways 18 years ago, and that this attitude
had divided the Commissioners into two camps
all'along. All through the inquiry it was a case
of the two imported Commissioners handing out
wings and halos to each other by turns, and
pointing out how impossible it was to get along
with the chief, whom they apparently over-ruled
on every possible occasion. The public can t help
judging to some extent by the fact that the last
quarrel of all was over a matter in which
Commissioners Kirkcaldie and FehoN were
united (they seem to have mostly been
united) against Chief Commissioner OLIVER
to fix up a contract which looked like
an outrageously foolish and obstinate sacrifice
of the public interest. And the public will, to
some extent, judge the aged Commissioner
FeHON’s capacity for being unfair and disagree-
able by his description of Oliver’s witness
Kneeshaw (manager of the Sydney tramways), as
a person whom he met in Maoriland, in charge
of some exhibits at an exhibition,” and took a
fancy to—a mode of description which might
make people imagine that the Chief Auditor of the
Maoriland Railways—a man who, in the opinion
of very many, ranks miles above Mr. Eehon as
a railway expert —was a mere attendant at
a show, and that the great Fehon had conde-
scended to him, and lifted him up. And the
haste of Judge Rogers to state that lie didn t at
all admire Kneeshaw and another important
witness whom Oliver produced made some people
fancy that he had unconsciously got into a state
of mind in which he was unable to admire any
witnesses except those of Kirkcaldie and 1 ehon.
On the whole, the people of N.S.W. have got a
fair amount of dissatisfaction for their money out
of the Railway Inquiry. The dissatisfaction
appears to be the only thing they have got, but
perhaps it is better to have that than nothing.
The Logic of Anti-Socialism.
Though the Holman-Reid season has concluded
to the complete satisfaction of both the heavy
villain and the juvenile lead, the smart person
has begun to write letters to the papers saying
that it is doubtful if there were many converts
one way or the other, bur—and this is the smart
man’s point—“ let our Socialist leaders found a
colony, and show the world an example. It is
such a good suggestion that there is probably
only one better : Let our anti-Socialist leaders
found a colony and show the world an example.
The man who throws out the brilliant remark
that an ounce of practice is worth a ton of
theory reckons that his triumph is complete
when he bids the Socialist go out into the wilder-
ness and be happy forthwith in the simple com-
pany of his creed. Why the anti-Socialist
shouldn’t have the same invitation pressed upon
him isn’t clear; and it isn’t clear either why it
shouldn’t be reckoned as proof that he has no con-
fidence in his creed when he doesn’t go. Where-
fore The Bulletin urges G. H. Reid to go up to
Algebuckina or thereabouts and prove that anti-
Socialism is the great creed he says it is ; and it
he protests that Algebuckina is a long way on,
The Bulletin can only tell him that it isn t as tar
as Paraguay, yet the failure of an experiment in the
wilds of Paraguay (which wasn’t Socialism, any-
way) has been represented a thousand times as
proof that Socialism is impossible. In fact, there
is so much obvious reason in demanding that
George Reid and Co. should go forth and found
a purely individualistic State somewhere that
Sydney Telegraph rose in haste last Friday to
explain, in a leading article, why they aren t
taking any. It said
« a member of the Labor party of Australia offers this
morning a counter-suggestion that the experiment should
he made by individualists who could thus put into
practice their ideal of a society in which there are
no State-owned services. If individualists of this
pattern were available, the Northern Territory or the
hospitals forinsane would certainly he the,place for them.
Barring a European anarchist .here and there, however,
they wrnuld be difficult to find, that type having been ex-
tinguished, if it flourished so recently, in the Deluge-
which, as will be remembered, was only survived by those
who recognised authority a "d subscribed to itii pMfo.m
_c ;,,f io the Ark out of the flood. THE MODERN
INDIVIDUALIST’S POLICY IS TO ACCEPT INSTITU-
TIONS AS THEY ARE, AND HE IS EVEN WILLING
TC?CONSIDER AS IT CROPS UP ANY PROPOSAL FOR
ADVANCE ALONG THE PRESENT LINES.
This is terrible. After all the yelp and shriek
about the Socialistic legislation we have got al-
ready it seems the anti-Socialist crowd is not
only willing to accept everything that has been
done —to accept all the existing Socialism—but
to “consider, as it crops up,’ any proposal
“ for advance along the present lines. And the
present lines, according to Reid and Co., exhibit
a dangerous tendency, and they say we have
already gone too far, and they allege that progress
on these hazardous and dreadful lines must be
stopped. That is what they are in politics for
these times. Yet their principal press barracker
declares that the anti-Socialists are not only con-
tent with all that has happened so far, but are
willing to consider further proposals on existing
lines as they crop up. Even the Socialist doesn t
ask more than that. Among the things that have
cropped up are land nationalisation, graduated
land-tax, Federal tobacco monopoly, a Govern-
ment bank, a Federally-owned ocean mail service,
and a Federal note issue. The Socialist is con-
sidering these things. The anti-Sosh person, it
seems, according to the Telegraph, is also willing
to consider them. Can it be all a dream ?
+ —
A Plague of Pubs.
SOME recent remarks by a Melbourne magistrate
revives a question which has grown grey and hag-
gard through long waiting for an answer-When
does Melbourne propose to deal with its plague ot
pubs’ Nine-tenths of the suburban drinkeries
are mere beer-shops, where the workman who
wants to get on in the world spends his evenings
inspecting the bottoms of pewter tankards, there
being a legend to the effect that somewhere there
exists a magic tankard which has all the rules and
regulations for success inscribed upon its ceiling.
Places of that sort, although they have a deterio-
rating effect upon the Australian artisan, are
otherwise comparatively harmless. They seldom
or never run the XJncle-in Fiji racket as a side
line. That industry is almost exclusively carried
on in those smaller pubs, which lurk in the
narrow cross-streets of the city. -Flinders-
lane Little Collins - street, Little Bourke-
street, and Little Lonsdale-street are all in-
fested with them. King-street, William-street
at its northern end, Queen-street, Russell-
street and Exhibition-street are similarly dis-
reputable. A few hotels in these neighbor-
hoods are respectable enough in their hideously
stodgy way; the rest are blots on the
face of an otherwise decent-looking city.
Exception cannot be taken to the decent hotels in
the strictly legal portion of Little Collins-street,
where the business day ends when the firm of bix,
Eightpence and Co. sticks its papers m its bag
and rushes for its train. But there are other por-
tions of that locality and other kinds of pubs.
There are the dirty, frowsy apologies for hotels,
where, if you ring the bell at four in the morning,
a suspicious head will be thrust out of the door in
order to inspect you, and the look of it makes you
wish you had an axe to cut it off at ,u°!l e
swipe. If the head is satisfied that yo
are not a “trap,” you are adim **® d * J
go along the usual narrow and gloomy passage
until you come to the door of the bar-parloi. Ihe
head knocks with its right hand a cabalistic
knock upon the door-panel, and, m a fiOarse
whisper, mentions “’Sail right.” The
the inner temple is then opened ; and a vap o -
old beer-whiff and tobacco-smoke pours on .
room is full of gentlemen, most of whose faces
seem to indicate that they have left a large quan-
tity of broken commandment in their wake, lne
decayed cabman, the person looking for a job m
the garrotting line, the hairy innocent from Way-
back, the young fool who thinks he is seeing life,
the punter who lives on the pony-meets, the
“ bloke-who-keeps-nit”—all are there ; waiting,
with indomitable patience for someone to shoot.
Behind the bar-flap stands the weary and heavy-
eyed barmaid, half-suffocated by the beer-
whiff and the tobacco fumes, and usually three
parts drunk through the tremendous number of
drinks that she has taken with customers since
6 p.m. the day before. But little bar-trade is
done ; it is nearly all bar-parlor business ; and the
girl who brings the moisture is expected as a
matter of course to sit upon the knee of the tenth-
rate bookmaker when he feels that way, and the
capacity of the bookmaker for feeling tha w< y
prodigious. As a consequence, it is practically
impossible for respectable girls to work in such
places. If the licenses of all such plague-
spots were taken away in perpetuity, then
spieler and his first cousin, the “ schlenter book-
maker, would be reft of their lurking places ; so
would the fool who reckons he is seeing life.
No doubt a yell for compensation would arme
but it should be received with scorn. The btate
does not pay compensation to a filthy dairyman
when it roots up his typhoid-spreading premises.
Neither does it compensate the burglar nor the
coiner when it confiscates his kit of professional
implements ; and there is no better reason why it
should compensate forty-third-rate publicans who
do not supply either meals or beds to the com-
munity ; who are mostly destroying their cus-
tomers’ alleged brains with bad liquor; who are
living upon a community to which they render no
return service whatever ; and whose premises are
mostly plague centres.
The Gembrook Smash.
Re Tait’s railways,
The report ol the Court of Inquiry into the Gembrook
(Vic ) railway smash was presented last week. This court
was only appointed after railway boss Tait had made an
official statement to the press that the cause of_the_acci
dent was the excessive speed itwtaA the,
running He was next proceeding to hold a secret
departmental inquiry to find the driver guilty every-
body else, including himself, innocent, when the
Melb. Herald stood up and barked. Slowly the
morning papers followed suit, and in the ena
there was a special inquiry. It looked at the outset 1.1
the first duty of the court of inquiry was to whitewash
Talt and co. Solicitor Joe Woolf, who represented a
whole sheaf of the injured, was ignominrously lefused a
hearin<>\ The driver was represented, the Commissioners
were represented, and there was counsel to assist the
court Then the evidence was fetched along. It was so
damning, so clear, so unanimous (for expert evidence)
that even the most special kind of court could not
exonerate the Commissioner. The report leaves a
mountain of responsibility for the affair on the shoulders
of Tait. The causes of the accident are set out as two-
f°aV The condition of the permanent way.
(2) A speed greater than the maximum permitted on
the line. . t ~, ,
But particular stress is laid on the fact that the
highspeed would not have caused the atxidfiit iftlm
permanent way had been in good order. This argely
exculpates the driver, and lays the blame on the man
who was responsible for the state of the * n< * that
man was Thomas Tait. The Gembrook line was a
ierrv-built affair from the first. It was a light
line shot out into the bush to serve a few dozen
settlers. Gradually it became a favorite
route. When Tait took charge of the railways
he must have known that the line was suited
only for light slow traffic. And no one who had anything
to do with its construction had ever intended that it should
be anything else. The only chance of avoiding accident
to heavy excursion trains was to pay extra attention
to up-keep of the line. Yet- Tait not only
nut the heavy hurrying passenger traffic on the
flimsy narrow-gauge line, but he actuaffy reduced
the number of line repairers from 16 to six. Aevei
during the three years of Tait’s control has the Gembrook
line been in decent condition. The samepohcyof fals
economy has been pursued all over the State. Ana
engines and trains fall off the rails, and cut over poin s,
and do all sorts of eccentric things. So far with the
exception of the Gembrook smash, no one has been hurt,
and the public doesn’t seem to care how many pieces its
property- breaks into, so long as it isn t m die property
the moment.
A Secret Manifesto.
Brunswick (Vic.) “National” League held a
meeting the other night, at which extracts were
read from an alleged “secret Socialist manifesto
published in Sydney.” One of the extracts ran
Here in Australia nearly every man and boy lias a rifle
or a shot-gun, and, according- to our last census, therei are
nearly 1,000,000 men of the military age, from. 25 to 40
years? There is also a mighty force of 200,000 ■ women,
Australia’s daughters, who are prepared to do as much,
if not more, for freedom than the men, as women have
done in other revolutions. . . . Every working man and
WO man and even child, as we have seen lately, can carry
concealed about the person with perfect safety bombs of
dvnamite, or gun-cotton, or fulminate, all of which are
readily obtained by the workers, many of the men
having to use such explosives in their daily toil.
At these terrible sentences the good old ladies
cried “Oh!” beneath their breath, and looked
apprehensively towards the windows for fear J.
C Watson was outside with a bomb, and they
went home with terror in their boots (that is to
sav they had terror in their hearts and their
hearts in their boots), wondering whether they
would ever see the dawn of another day or would
be slain by the Socialists in their beds. There
has been something like a boom m secret mani-
festoes lately. The Bulletin has one before it
now, bearing no imprint, but issued by the anti-
Socialists (whoever they may be). Here are a few
extracts : ...
We have in Australia accumulations of capital, w-ith
which we can buy up every Legislature and every
Tribunal. It is only a matter of a few months, before we
can have the criminal code of all the States altered so that
Socialism shall be deemed a capital offence. Accord to
the Bill we have now drafted, suspected Sciciahsts may
be arrested on sight, and the burden of proving that they
are not guilty shall’ rest upon them. We propose to re-
move the present Judges from the Bench, and replace
them with persons who can be relied upon. Each, on
appointment, will receive instruction to hang every
Socialist brought before him. In addition, we intend to
repeal the Immigration Restriction Act, so as to enable
us P to import into the Commonwealth a body of. trained
thugs, there being no artisans of the requisite skill
obtainable locally. These operatives, who are hardy, in-
dustrious men, will be instructed to strangle the babies
of all suspected Socialists, so that they may not grow up
to become a menace.
There is added to this pamphlet a useful appendix
on “How to Remove Socialists, with detailed
instruction as to the best methods of introducing
strychnine into the water supply of democratic
suburbs. One extremely useful passage runs:
When it is necessary to cut the throat of a Socialist in
the drawing-room of any member of the National League
care should be taken to preserve the carpet. The offender
should have his or her head lowered into the coal-scuttle.


k
Beware of other brands
said to be “ just as
good/' There is no
brand like GALLAHER'S
GOLD PLATE TOBACCO
and CIGARETTES.
Although a London magistrate has decided
that patent still whisky is not whisky, this does
not alter the decision of every good judge that
D.C.L. is the best whisky. The fact is patent
still. And all judgment which is illuminated by
D.C.L. is the judgment of wisdom. It would
have been the judgment of Solomon had he lived
in whisky drinking times.*
A Matter of Spirits.
In spite of Liquor Acts there will be cakes and
ale, and eke whisky and soda, to alleviate the dull
moments of civilisation for many generations yet
in Australia ; so the matter of making the wine
(which is a mocker but which was recommended to
Timothy for the sake of his Little Mary, and
which is de rigeur at wedding feasts) and its
various related liquids—whisky, brandy, beer, and
the like—is of great national importance. Made
locally, they spell new wealth and more wages
for Australia. Made abroad and imported here,
they represent a huge drain on the country’s pro-
duction in other directions. In the one matter of
whisky. In 1905 Australia imported £1,664,967
worth of British spirits—mostly whisky. That
was for a population of 4,000,000. In the same
year Canada, with a population of 5,500,000, im-
ported only £646,497 worth, and exported an
appreciable quantity to Australia and other
places. The United States, with a population of
probably 82,000,000, imported £823,635 worth
of British spirits, and exported far more
than that to Australia and other places. The
small imports to Canada and America in
no way represent a successful Prohibition cam-
paign. In 1905 Canada made for itself
over 5,000,000 gallons of spirit, and enjoyed thus
its own home-made tot under its own maple-tree,
or snow-covered eaves, as the season happened to
be. During the same year the United States
made over 100,000,000 gallons of whisky. Aus-
tralia might have been making whisky too. It
had the plant all ready, but the works were
closed down, killed by a mongrel tariff. During
the coming session the Australian Parliament
should set itself to re-opening: those works. It
can only be done by a rigid Protectionist duty.
The foreign spirit-makers will fight desperately
to retain the Australian market, for it is the only
considerable market still left open to them in the
world. When last the spirit duties were dis-
cussed the decision was guided by the importing
firms and their hired lobbyist {vide the evidence
in the Aloysius Fox case, often quoted in The
Bulletin). Next time let Australian interests
have a chance of being heard.
♦
About Natal:—
The bumptious colony of Natal is making a little bit of
history. Natal hollers for British military aid oftener
than any other section of the empire, and it threatens
separation oftener than any other section. Its popula-
tion includes about 900,000 Kaffirs, 101,000 Indians, and
97,000 whites. The Asiatics were imported originally
as cheap labor ; but they are mopping up property and
trade so fast that the white man is beginning to think he
will be elbowed out. The white is the one moderately
reliable local fighting element in Natal, and if he can’t
increase much because his imported non-combatant
cheap nigger blocks the path of trade and industry,
Natal must remain weak. Its £16,000,000 of debt
represents £l6O per head of the white population, or £BO
per head of the white and Asiatic population, or about
£l4 10s. per head all round partially nude Kaffirs
included. Natal is just now doing wholesale executions
among its native population, the almost nude Kaffir
having been excited by new taxation, and having begun
to grow, restless. The executions are in many cases
ordered off-hand by court martial, and are of doubtful
legality—so doubtful that one butchery, where 12 men
were involved, was temporarily suspended bv order of the
British Government till it could be satisfied that Natal
had not gone off its head. The execution was allowed at
last, and there are to be a lot more ; but though Natal
got its execution, there were the usual threats of “ cut-
ting the painter.” Yet if the 900,000 Kaffirs do rise, as
they seem half inclined to do, Natal, unless it gets prompt
British aid, seems more likely to get its throat cut than
to cut the painter.
That easy-going cynic, Donald Mackinnon,
who nominally leads an alleged party of
so-called Liberals in the Victorian State
Assembly, has made another entertaining speech
at Pfahran. Mackinnon offers to join forces
with Bent —not stating terms, but appar-
ently with the idea that some of the
Parliamentary bread and prawns are to come the
way of his crowd of 11. The reason frankly given
by Mackinnon is that the Labor party intends to
oppose him and his remainder at next election,
and he believes that he will be safer
clinging to the scornful coat-tails of Bent
than facing the wind in isolation. So that is
the end of the man who was to be the leader of
Victorian Liberalism. Though theoretically full
of fine political ideas, and a strikingly pleasant
and entertaining speaker, Mackinnon has never
been of any force in Victorian politics. He and
Peacock between them have reduced to 11 men
the immense party which George Turner led ten
years ago. Should this party revive, the signs are
that it will follow not the pleasant and blameless
Mackinnon. There are some who think that
even the hollow bray and spreading tail of
Peagock are more likely to be in the van.
*
Democratic candidate Metz, since elected, told
the people of Launceston (Tas.) some staggering
things during his electoral campaign. A few
samples :
In the best agricultural regions of Tasmania, covering
Bothwell, Avoca, Hamilton, Lake River, Oatlands, Ross,
etc., 146 persons own 1,246,256 acres of land.
As showing how big estates lead to poor cultivation
and depreciation of values, in Bothwell district 176,856
acres (owned by 20 persons) pay tax on a value of £274,851,
or about 30s. an acre. In Franklin district 7579 acres
(owned by 233 persons) pay tax on £lOO,OOO, or about £l3
an acre. Yet the land is no better; it is only more
closely settled through there being no big landlords.
In the North-eastern district, owned almost wholly in
great estates, the taxable value of land was £6,461,000 in
1893 ; in 1903 it had dropped to £5,855,000.
In the Midland district, also mostly in large holdings,
values dropped from £4,518,000 in 1893 to £3,663,000 in
1903.
Just how much does Tasmania lose, in land values,
in tax-paying population, and in revenue, by its
besotted admiration for the big landlord who
blocks settlement, keeps the country lying idle,
Mid drives population out of the. State?
Heaven only knows. But this much we do know :
. ranee, with about 200 people to the square mile,
is a comparatively empty country, which is attract-
ing immigrants, while Tasmania, with seyen people
to the square mile, is an over-crowded country,
that is sending away emigrants, and the most
apparent reason for the difference is the island’s
big landlords.
♦
That regrettable little Astray-lian, Arthur
Robinson, M.P., at the Natives’ Shepparton (Vic.)
Congress of all places, wailed piteously when it
was proposed to “impress on the Commonwealth
Government the desirability of establishing an
Australian navy. Robinson almost wept because,
he said, it would cost £15,000,000 for a navy and
another £7,000,000 or £8,000,000 annually for con-
struction, outlay, and maintenance. Heaven
knows where Robinson got his figures, or who
manufactured them, but anyway they are rub-
bish. And if they were not rubbish, what a
miserable attitude for an alleged Australian
patriot to adopt ! Consider the population of Aus-
tralia and of some other lands, and consider, at
the same time, what Australia has done in the
matter of a navy alongside what these others
have done :—■
Population
about Navy.
Australia .. 4,000,000 Not worth mentioning.
Denmark .. 2,600,000 4 battleships, 33 other vessels.
Holland ... 5,400,000 8 battleships, 7 armored cruisers,
41 torpedo boats, 64 other
Chili .. 3,000,000 1 battleship, 2 belted cruisers, 5
protected cruisers, 6 de-
. ~ _ _ stroyers, 11 torpedo boats.
Argentina .. 5,200,000 4 coast defence ironclads, 5
armored and 10 unarmored
cruisers, 4 destroyers, 22
torpedo boats.
What is the matter with this precious Australian
Robinson ? Doesn’t he reckon himself as good as a
Dutchman ? And does he insist that he is a mere
miserable circumstance alongside the Chilian?
Digest of a Melbourne Age article by Senator
Staniforth Smith on Papua
The Commonwealth has had control of British Papua
since 1902. No roads have been made, though £3OO
would make a mule-track to the Yodda goldfield, and
greatly reduce the cost of carriage, now standing at the
enormous figure of Is. per lb. weight. The revenue is
decreasing, and now equals only half the cost of govern-
ment. In German Papua adjoining, there are fine roads,
and coffee, cotton, cocoa, rubber and other plantations—
all of which Australia’s Papua lacks. The land regulations
are absurd, and calculated to stifle settlement. Even the
cocoa-nut plantations of a former Governor (M'Gregor)
are being allowed to go to ruin. Cost of administration
js now £40,000 a year, as against £15,000 in M‘Gregor’s
time.
The results of British Johnny administration !
No stronger testimony oT the value of a land-tax
as a machine for bursting up large estates can be
provided than that given in Sydney Morning
Herald by its special reporter in his tour of the
A. A. Co.’s old district:—
Of late years, and particularly within the past 15 years,
since dairying came into prominence, repeated applica-
tions were made to the company to sell parts of the
estate, but those requests were almost all refused. The
company was getting fair interest on its money, and
was satisfied. The whole aspect of affairs was, however,
entirely changed when the Reid Government imposed its
land-tax.
The Reid tax was a very mild affair, and in-
tended only for revenue, but even so, it worked
towards the national ideal a scientifically
graduated land-tax has in view. The reporter
continues :
For some time Mr. J. A. McKenzie, then in business in
Stroud, and who had seen what dairy farming had
done for the South Coast and other parts, conceived the
idea that, properly handled, the A. A. Estate could be
changed from a blank to a well-peopled area, and he urged
upon the company the wisdom of selling. Till the land-
tax began to operate he could make no impression with
his ideas, but when shortly after that imposition of direct
taxation there rose a clamor for resumption for closer
settlement, the company placed the whole of its estate
under offer to the Government.
That is Labor-leader Watson’s case in a nut-
shell.
“S.R.”: Britain’s dependencies should read be-
tween the lines of the British naval programme to
learn their future prospects. Britain is drawing
in its naval forces from all parts of the globe, con-
centrating almost its whole fighting strength round
Britain. All the battleships have gone from the
China squadron ; the best ships have gone from
the Australian fleet ; and the South Atlantic
squadron has disappeared. Only a few weeks ago
the four best battleships and four of the first-class
armored cruisers were withdrawn from the Medi-
terranean fleet, all to be concentrated in the
North Sea. Last, but most significant
fact of all, Great Britain is almost ceas-
ing to build cruisers. Battleships are to
comprise her fleet of the future—battleships
and their accessories, destroyers and torpedo
boats. There is a lesson in all this—a lesson that
Australians, should take to heart and learn well.
Britain isn t at all sure that it can spare any
cruisers to save Australia when the shock comes.
Battleships, as a rule, are not given to travelling
right round the world upon emergency—though
they did that lamentable deed in Rozhdestven-
sky’s case. It was for distant service that Britain
built up its great armored cruiser squadrons.
Where are those squadrons cruising to-day?
Mostly in the Channel and the North Sea. Is it
not time that Australia took the hint, as Canada
has done? Australia, and Australia only, must
defend Australia. Like Great Britain we, too,
should concentrate our strength, and that
£200,000 naval subsidy every year represents some
strength of men and guns. Let us concentrate
that £200,000.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ Besieged in Port Arthur.”
Criterion “Beauty and the Barge,” “A
Village Priest,” ‘‘Quality
Street.”
Her Majesty’s “The Oingalee.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Prince Alfred Park .. Wirth’s Circus.
Palace Theatre West’s Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Tambour Major.”
Her Majesty’s “ Dorothy Vernon.”
Theatre Royal.. “ The Midnight Mail.”
Opera House Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
Athen/eu.m Hall Madam Titus—Leslie Harris En-
tertainment.
Town Hall Andrew Black.
* ■
At the moment of writing, Sydney mummers
are busy learning things to astonish Uncle John
and the boys with when they come down to see
the Show. There was a time when Uncle John
and the boys, when they did come down, were
packed tight into the kitchen, or the wood house,
or any other old place, and were assured that there
wasn’t anything worth looking at at the theatres,
and at 9 o’clock they were asked if the sea-air hadn’t
made them sleepy. But Uncle John and the boys
are having their turn now; their pocketsare bulging,
and if there are hayseeds in their whiskers— well,
what does it matter ; hayseeds are honorable after
three fat harvests. So Uncle John and the boys
will be cordially invited to go to all the theatres
there are (at Uncle John’s expense), and take the
usual bright-red crayfish home for supper after-
wards. It is really by way of compliment to
Uncle John that J.C. W. puts on “ The Cingalee ”
at Her Majesty’s (Sydney). Just as Australia
requires that the stamp of London’s approval
shall be upon things that are submitted to it, so
Uncle John requires the stamp of the city’s ap-
proval—and the stamp that the city put upon
“ Tlie Cingalee” was emphatic. Meantime “Paul
Jones ” continues his buccaneering, but leaves off
his bad habits on Thursday night; and on Satur-
day night Lauri will transpire as a Hindu who has
“been to England studying to be a bar-man,” and
who has even escaped with his life after joining in
the bloodthirsty game of cricket.
** * *
The Anderson co. will see out this week
at Sydney Royal with “ Lady Audley’s Secret.”
Next Saturday the Bland Holt co. opens with
“ Besieged in Port Arthur,” a great mili-
tary drama in which the Russians are mostly
ineffable scoundrels, and the British are all noble,
and the Japanese mostly so. In view of the fact
that Russia is just now backing up Britain in
being firm to Bill qf ; ?'Germany,; melodrama
should revise its statements and be a little more
kindly to the Muscovite. A friendly Bear de-
serves a crumb from the Bun of Encouragement.
Not necessary to remark that Bland Holt will
stage everything perfectly and that the theatre in
this military melodrama will look like an Easter
encampment.
* * * sfc
‘"Dr. Wake’s Patient” will have the
wounds in her arm and her riding'habit attended
to for the rest of this week at Sydney Criterion.
On Saturday and Monday nights “Beauty and
the Barge ” will be staged. Then that fine drama
“A Village Priest” ensues for two nights,
with two nights of “Quality-street” to follow.
Brough’s season concludes next week, and Sydney
should make the farewell nights memorable in
enthusiasm.
*# * *
The Brescians and West’s Pictures, which
have kept Sydney Palace Theatre well-filled o’
nights, don’t intend to let the Easter crowds go
empty away. The Town Hall has been secured
for next Saturday. Monday and Tuesday and per-
formances will be given there as well as at the old
address. On Good Friday a sacred concert will
occur, and the flickers will represent a run through
the Holy Land.
*# * *
The Wirths are still throwing in new acts
—on Saturday evening they threw in a team of
seven beautifully-trained Maoriland horses. The
brothers are getting so used to throwing in valu-
able articles in wholesale quantities, that they
will probably toss in a herd of moas, or a drove of
honest land-agents, before the end of the week.
The Herberts, Cormack the- diver, the tigers, the
jaguars, and others, are still doing their share
towards filling the big tents that are set up in
Prince Alfred Park.
** * *
In order that the uttermost parts of Aus-
tralia may have The Bulletin to comfort them
after they have eaten the hot angry bun that
won’t digest, this issue goes to press 24 hours
earlier than usual; consequently the behavior of
Sambo and Tambo at the Tivoli is adjourned for
investigation for one week. On the faithful word
of Rickards advt., they can keep more tambourines
spinning than any other two people in the world ;
and if that’s the sort of champion the Man on the
Land comes out to see, the Tivoli is the place he
needs to go to. Also, there are other things to be
seen, including three Lees, who tie themselves
into as many knots as the Daily Telegraph does
when it tries to explain what anti-Socialism is.
** * *
The Easter outbreak of shows in Mel-
bourne is to be exceptionally severe this season.
At Her Majesty’s the first Australian production
of “Dorothy Vernon” is billed for Saturday,
when Miss Brune will come to pass as the Dorothy
in question, and Kingston (whose front name is
Thomas) will figure prominently among the
attendant males. “Dorothy Vernon” sounds
like a gorgeously-costumed play of a period that
was rich in millinery, and much is expected of it.
Meanwhile, Camille continues to break up her
happy home at the suggestion of Duval, senior,
and her celebrated lung complaint is proving
fatal as usual. This being Holy Week the young
woman would seem out of place on any stage if it
were not for her melancholy smile and her sad ail-
ment. Her cough, in a measure, makes her sacred,
and, as it is aggravated by a tender yearning for
an Armand who chucks money at her, there is a
growing suspicion that the angels come and bear
her upwards when she’s gone. One of these days
an enterprising manager will introduce the apothe-
osis of Camille as a fitting conclusion to the play.
** * *
At the Princess’s a revival of “ Tambour
Major” will catch Melbourne in a comic-opera
mood. The Andersonian performance, which
lately boomed in Sydney, is a different matter
from the “ Tambour Major ” staged at the Royal
last year. The principals are mostly different,
and the chorus is stronger, and the present
management is proverbially lucky, whereas the
previous management (amateur) has been re-
gretting itself ever since. All things con-
sidered, the show at the Princess’s will
need to be a lot more charming than
the experiment -tyhat led to regrets. The
feast of melodrama and the flow of gore at
the Royal will be suspended on Good Friday in
favor of buns, but on Saturday the Anderson co.
is to resume practice in succession to “The
Fatal Wedding ” party. A whole year has passed
out since Miss Duggan defied anybody to do his
worst before a Melbourne audience. She will
arrive again in “The Midnight Mail,” accom-
Sanied by much the same Invincible Dramatic
'rganisation as before.
** * *
Melbourne Princess was packed to the
ceiling on Saturday, when Beatrice Miranda made
her appearance in opera. Eighteen months ago
the interesting Miss Beatrice gave a very clever
performance at the Bijou, and her success the other
night was a surprise only to those people who had
not previously seen her on the stage. She has voice,
commanding appearance, dramatic force and mag-
netism, and in the three characters of Lucia,
Gilda, and Martha she delighted her audience all
the time. The second scene from “Martha” had
to be omitted on Saturday, but the full pro-
gramme will probably be given in aid of a charity
before the end of the month.
HERR ADOLPHE BORSCHKE, the ladylike
Pianiste of the Andrew Black Concert Co.
Photo, by Falk Studios, Sydney.
In the sacred name of charity there was
perpetrated at Melbourne Princess’s, for one con-
secutive night last week, a play called “The
Wilderness,” a comedy of feeble dialogue and
hackneyed stage situations, its only glimmer of
peculiarity being supplied by two mechanical chil-
dren who had borrowed some mutton-bones from
a dust-box to feed the fairies with. The show was
under the sole direction of Mrs. Freeman Nott,
herself and “her company of amateurs” filling
the parts. The Bulletin’s opinion of “The
Wilderness ” is best expressed by a word begin-
ning with D, but from this brief criticism two or
three members of the company of amateurs may
consider themselves exempt.
* * Jif
Andrew Black, the “ Greatest Living
‘ Elijah ’ ” (except Dowie), will sing at Melbourne
Town Hall on Good Friday, with the Philharmonic
Society’s orchestra and chorus placed fore and aft
of him. On Saturday he gives the fifth and last
concert of the Melbourne series. Mr. Black is
gaining ardent admirers as he sings along. His
first appearance was his least successful one, and
his last is expected to attain the dimensions of a
faired-sized Triumph.
* *
The Athenaeum Hall is just now assuming
an air of the first importance, and a full column of
advt. has drawn attention to its re-opening next
Saturday (14th). Madame Yeamans-Titus, to-
gether with Fred J. Titus and the only Leslie Harris,
will appear on the date aforementioned in a music,
song and story entertainment, humorous and other-
wise. Madame Titus is already known to Melbourne
as a versatile monologue artist, who sings “ baby ”
songs inimitably, and is blessed with one of the
sweetest little voices under Heaven. Leslie Harris
brings a reputation for supremacy in the George
Grossmith line of business, and on the platform
where poor Mel B. Spurr was a prime favorite the
new man from Britain will be expected to prove
his title. The season is limited to thirteen nights
and a few matinees.
** * *
A troupe of Algerian jugglers, also a lady
who performs on a wire, are new-comers at the
Opera House. They may be described as wonder-
ful, on the word of the advt. pending publication
of fuller details. The Miles-Stavordale banjoists
are the newest of many other “turns,” the Eight
Primroses being the oldest as well as the most
numerous. Quantity and quality have never been
better represented at the Rickards establishment,
for there are just now twenty-one people employed
in four “turns,” and the welcome appearance of
Bluett is specially remarkable for his being only
one person at a time.
** * *
“The J.P.,” at Adelaide Royal, has been
responsible for some of the most hysterical laughter
ever heard there, and the public has taken
Dallas as a very-drunk to its collective heart.
Maud Chetwynd, grown plumper, scored best
in an interpolated dance. At present “There
and Back,” with its simple tale of three
husbands who were supposed to be in Sheol,
but were merely in Scotland, holds the
boards, The Sanford dramas are filling the
Tivoli at prices that run from 6d. to the giddy
height of a florin. The plays suffer from a chronic
tendency to call food “ sustenance,” and diamonds
“ gems ” or “ jew-ells,” but they are full of thrills,
and the comic relief threatens to be really comic.
The real-ice skating-rink has emerged from its
summer sleep, and looks like freezing on.


A CHARMING TONIC
Kola Cup
Strengthens the Digestion*
It soothes and nourishes outraged stomachs.
KOLA-CUP builds up the system and makes new blood.
A SURE ANTIDOTE TO DROPSY.
HIGHLY RECOMMENDED BY DOCTORS
FOR INVALIDS and CONVALESCENTS.
ALL CHEMISTS, 3/- and 4/6 per Bottle. All
Hotels & Clubs, with Lemonade, Gd per Glass.
A Most Wholesome Change from Strong Spirits.
Sole . . .
Manufacturers :
Fisher & Co.
Chemists, 337 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
J
s
AT POVERTY POINT.
“ True Protestant ” : I have just come across this advt.,
issued apparently by J. C. Williamson :
“THE CINGALEE.”
withdrawn last year in the height of its
success, owing to the departure of the
R.C. Opera Company from Sydney.
What is this Roman Catholic Opera Co., anyway, and
what business has it to be on the loose in a Protestant
country which returns Bill Wilks to Parliament regularly
Sydney Freeman’s Journal says that the new Maoriland
songstress, Nora Long, “ inherited her voice from her
father, a commercial traveller on the Maoriland coast.”
Charles Long, deceased, was a very handsome drummer
with 42 suits of perfectly-fitting clothes, but he had no
voice to bequeath to his daughter—at least it was quite good
enough for a song at a board-ship reunion of drummers,
and that was about all. The organ with which the new
singer makes a remunerative noise before the British
peerage 6ame down to her from her mother, who had a
voice-about as good—perhaps quite as good—as Nora’s,
and wasted it on amateur concerts in damp little
Dunedin. Those were the days before Maoriland had
begun to recognise that a local voice might be quite as
good as a foreign one.
“ T.D.” : Maorilandress Nora Long, who gave a concert
to a good London audience t’other night, has improved
the shining hour to'excellent artistic purpose since she
reached London. Her voice, though not quite as full
on top as it may yet be, lends itself specially to,the inter-,
pretation of French songs and German liederj and I have
heard little in the way of French singing—now the
fashionable rage—that could be called better than Miss
Long’s. She seems to understand what she is driving at,
a thing that most English singers fail in, because, how-
ever well they may acquire the parlez-vous language, the
French spirit is born, not made.
“ Melb.” : “ As a callow junior, on an emergency, I was
sent by the Age to criticise Bandmann’s Benedick, and of
course had to attempt some derring-do. 1 wrote that
Mrs. Bandmann was spoilt by Bandmann’s tuition in arti-
ficiality. Bandmann went about like a raging hyaena,
with “ Here’s a pretty cricket! trying to make dissension
between me and my wife.” He had handbills printed
with my criticism, and his disparaging remarks. He read
out the handbill from the Theatre Royal stage, in my
presence. Said the hairy one Oh, the rascal ! If I had
him here, I will show you what I would do to him. I
would treat him dot way (tearing the paper) und dot way
(tearing) und dot way (tearing) und Dot Way ! ” With
that he flung the fragments into the stalls. I was'
also in the theatre when he stabbed Mrs, Steele.
The play was “ Othello,” with Steele as the Moor, Band-
mann as lago, and Mrs. Steele as Emilia. When lago
drove his sword at Emilia, Mrs. Steele gave a fearful
shriek. The green curtain was immediately lowered, and
Bandmann came forward shouting “ Will somebody go
for a doctor ? * Mrs. Steele was stabbed in the left hip,
and laid up for three months. Capt. Morin Humphreys
told me a funny anecdote of how' he acted in Schiller’s
“ Robbers,” with Bandmann and George Leopold. Band-
mann said to Leopold at rehearsal, in a patronising way,
“ You can make your part of Spiegelberg a leetle
gomical.” Leopold'did so with a vengeance. In the last
scene he came rushing on the stage with “The soldiers
are upon us!” Bandmann: “How many', knave?”
Leopold: “As many'as the hairs of my head!” With
that he pulled off a red nightcap, and showed a bald
scalp. Bandmann suicided amidst yells. Leopold scooted,
you be bound. There was Bandmann running about be-
hind the scenes with “ Yah ! You call yourselves actors !
Yah ! Bah ! ” The only distinctly odious thing I can
remember agajnst him was striking Mrs. Rousby during a
rehearsal of “ Madeline Morel ” at the London Globe, in a
dispute over the ownership of the MS. of the play.
This came into court. Bandmann had the cheek to act
Rob Roy 7 in Glasgow. “My food’s upon my’ native heed,
my' name's Makrekka ! ”
The mail brings new'S of the divorce in London of Roy
Redgrave, recently playing in various Australian capitals.
He wrote to his wife : “ I have found a girl that suits me
better than y'ou do,” and this, taken in conjunction with
some compromising writing on a blotting-pad, led to
unpleasantness. Afterw'ards, Mrs. Redgrave was called
from her home by a bogus telegram, and, during her
absence, the respondent called, took away his clothes, and
left for Australia. Three other items are that Mrs. Red-
grave’s front name W'as Judith ; that she accused her hus-
band of assaulting her and rending her clothes ; and that
in 1900 the pair were playing at the Britannia Theatre,
Hoxton—the place described with such gloom in Besant’s
“Children of Gibeon ”
“ Hamer” : Douglas Gerrard, in sticking to his “ line.”
shares a peculiarity with actors of less self-importance.
Many very' tame mummers simply explode on receiving
parts outside their own particular line of character. I
remember the wrath of a veteran who had seen golden
days, as he suspiciously ran through an “old man”
part in a loosely-constructed piece. He read out some
passages in a dreadful voice, like an avenging angel pro-
nouncing judgment. “These are comedy lines, sir,
comedy lines ! I w'as on the boards before ever you were
born ! ! Do you expect me to be funny !! ! Do you
expect me to be funny !!! ” We didn’t ; but he was.
“ Pries ” : The object of the picture, “ The Light of the
World,” is to help the faithful to remember the words
“ I stand at the door and knock.” Spurgeon had the
same idea in his head when, one Sunday, he took for his
text the words of the Christy Minstrel song, “ Whose dat
knockin’ at de door ? ” His hearers never forgot that text.
Edwin Geach’s persistent following of the Taits
biograph advts. has been flattering in its watchful-
ness. As far back as January the Taits started the game
with “ Mighty Living London,” followed by a list of pic-
tures which included, by a typographical error, the line
“London’s 300 ” instead of “London’s Zoo.” Geach’s
advt. of the “Living London ” at Sydney Palace Theatre
gave a similar list of pictures with “ London’s 300 ”
among them, in the same place where it figured on the
Taits’ list. Presently the Taits’ catch-heading in Mel-
bourne was enlarged into “ Mighty, Throbbing - , Living
London,” and when the Geach bio. started a flying tour
of Queensland it added the “ Mighty Throbbing ” to its
ad., and copied a lot of inflammatory' matter from the
yarn with which the Taits had originally boomed their
show.
Tom Taylor’s old play, “’Twixt Axe and Crown,” is
having a revival in England. London Referee recalls
that it was in the earliest production of this piece, about
35 years ago, that George Rignold made his first big hit.
He had a small part with one strong line, where he dashed
in to defend the Princess Elizabeth, saying, “ Now, by the
rood, this shall not be ! ” Anyone can imagine big George
throwing all his meat and bones headlong on the stage,
and shoutyng that line in the huge voice with which he
used to blow down the French army in later years.
“Stargazer”: I see that the papers are still referring
to Jimmy Atholwood, now with Miss Tittell Brune, as
“that useful and promising young Australian actor.”
The first time to my recollection that Jimmy was printed
as young and promising was about 20 years ago, when he
was with George'Miln "at Melbourne Opera House. The
co. included a fine band of “ promising young Australian
actors,” marfy of whom are still young and promising,
although.a few have died —of old-age, no doubt.
MAUD THORNTON, so[?]rano, opening on
Easter Saturday at Melbourne Princess’s, as
Griolet, in “ Tambour Major.”
Photo, by Talma, Sydney A Melbourne.
One night of the “Romeo and Juliet” revival in Mel-
bourne Miss Brune came out after Romeo’s first exit in
the balcony scene, and prowling- cat-like from one end of
the place to the other, cried: “Rom-e-o-o-o : Rom-e-o-o-o !”
into the still night, with so suggestive an intonation that
the long, lingering “ Mee-ow-w-w ” of a Tom imitator up
in the gallery sounded exactly like the natural response.
Then someone else said : “ Mar-ia, may I come over your
wa-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-1?” and there was more unholy levity.
Why don’t we get comic law suits on the English plan
in Australia? Have we too much common-sense, or too
much sense of humor? The British court of King’s
Bench (no less) has just had an hilarious time with a
variety actress who wanted £9 from a bookmaker
over a bet. He replied (to her husband) that he
didn’t owe it, also : “ P.S.—Had I gone to the
Laurels the night she asked me outside the Alhambra,
as my pal heard, it would have been all right.” He
explained in court that this, of course, meant that over
supper and a game at cards the difficulty could have been
settled ; but she considered it meant something quite
different—something that only £5OO damages could
wipe out. Judge, counsel, and jury had a merry two
hours finding out what “ 10 bob each way ” meant, and
things like that. Then'they learned that the lady had
been to dinner and to the Alhambra with the insulter,
since the insult. So they allotted her one farthing, and
sent both sides away to pay their expensive lawyers.
There seems no end to the capabilities of the up-to-date
motor car. At the Children's Hospital Fete, at Princes
Court, Melb., Fother day, Mr. W. Warden, agent for the
“ Oldsmobile ” machine, drove a 7h.p. ear of that make
up and down the chute. As the structure is over 220 ft.
long, with a 1 in 3£ gradient, the time when you’ll drive
your elopement car up the wall to the girl’s window
doesn’t seem far ahead.
“ E.” : Can anybody give me a satisfactory explanation
of the great financial success of a play like “ The Fatal
Wedding”? Has anybody taken a drama of this kind
home, and analysed it carefully, seeking for the germ
that is breathed in by the people, and which causes them
to flock in thousands to see the play ? I admit it is bad,
and that badness is a great qualification, but it is not a
guarantee of success. What is the peculiarity of its bad-
ness—the peculiarity that makes one bad melodrama a
success where another melodrama, perhaps almost equally
bad, fails as calamitously as if it were really good ? To
my mind, “ The Fatal Wedding ”is very bad indeed. Its
badness amounts almost to perfection ; it would be per-
fection if it were not that a precocious child introduces
an element that is out of keeping with the solid founda-
tion and florid superstructure of badness. But the people
do not go to see that child ; there must be some peculiarity
in the badness of the drama itself that delights them.
What is it? My theory is that bad plays are epidemic if
what the biologists call the surrounding condition of the
badness is favorable. They are contagious just as typhoid
is. Possibly science will discover a counteracting serum
one of these days, and then we may introduce compulsory
vaccination to prevent the spread, but, till we do, these
outbreaks will continue to occur.
Mrs. Brown Potter, when last heaid of, was impersona-
ting “The Spirit of Love ” in some tableaux at the London
Coliseum.
“ Wurrym ” : I had an experience of the late Daniel
Bandmann in August, ’S3, or thereabouts. I was living at
a pub. between Bundaberg and Maryborough (Q.). Late
one Sunday night a draggled crew arrived in a four-in-
hand, declaring themselves “ lost,” and they looked
it. It was Bandmann, Louise Beaudet, and the
rest of the co. Dan’l had chartered a turn out
to drive from Bundaberg to Maryborough. They
had started without feed for the horses or food
for themselves, and had been 14 hours on the road—
the coach used to do it in 10. Bandmann acted as coach-
man ; he had missed the crossing of the Burruni and had
tipped his coach and company into 4ft. of salt water.
How he didn’t drive into one of the numerous shafts—
sunk thereabouts in the search for a payable coal-seam—
Lord only knows. I relinquished my sitting* room to the
women folk, the males being* turned into one of a couple
of vacant bedrooms. Later, I found that Daniel had
annexed my room and had changed his boots—they
reached well up his thighs and were full of water—for a
pair of my canvas shoes. He had the gall to ask me
' what. I would do with those shoes now that “ the great
Bandmann ” had worn them. I said I would burn
them He glared sourly at me, but soon recovered when
I told him he looked like Yuba Bill when he arrived.
Beaudet had fussed around meanwhile with the hotel
people, and a hot meal was got ready. When Bandmann
had filled himself with victuals, he opened -out on me
with his autobiography. “I haf played the Prince of
Denmark at least 12,000 times in all parts of the world,
and haf met the approbation of crowned heads, presi-
dents, and critics of all nationalities.” He wound up
with, “ You haf perhaps witnessed me in my great role ? ”
I regretted I had not seen him in that one.
“In which one, then, may I ask?” I was near the
open door as I answered, “ I saw you when you were de-
fendant at Bow-street charged with striking Mrs. Rousby
at rehearsal at the Queen’s Theatre, Longacre.” “ It’s a
foul slander,” he roared, arid came after me, but he was
handicapped by the shoes, which flapped horribly. He
calmed down, and I made a peace offering of some punch,
and then got away to bed before he could annex my camp
for the night. Next morning Bandmann got his great
vehicle under way, accidentally swept off the hats of three
actors with his whip, drove wildly against a stump, and
then disappeared down the road in a “ whoosh ” of mud.
That was the last I saw of Dan’l, Prince of Denmark.
The scene is a fashionable metropolitan restaurant.
Enter the elderly-youns? actor-man with the unfathom-
able eyes. Looking about with a fine dramatic instinct,
he chooses a table well in the limelight and commanding
the attention of the audience, and there lie seats himsell.
He poses with one elbow on the table and one finger on
his temple, and lets his unfathomable eyes float to the
ceiling. Presently he changes to the other elbow and the
other finger and temple, but still his dark eyes are com-
muning with imaginary skies. The waitress : “ Yes, sir.
Still he ponders deeply. “ Yes, sir,” says the waitress, a
little louder. No response. The girl presumes to shake
him, and the great actor comes back to earth with a start.
“ Ah, my girl,” he says, “ I was thinking—thinking. A
marvellous poet indeed is Shakspeare. No, young lady, I
have changed my mind. I shall eat nothing.” He rises,
and endeavors to make a striking exit, but is bailed-up by
the cash-taker at the door, who thinks he is trying to do
the firm for the price of a supper. It is a painful anti-
climax, and only when the waitress is produced and testi-
fies that the actor is really going empty away, is he per-
mitted to escape. •
Beerbohm Tree, by merely following the text of Ibsen’s
“ Enemy of the People,” caused commotion in London
during the recent election excitement. As Dr. Stock-
mann, Tree had to speak frequently of “the compact
majority,” and once of “ the damned compact Liberal
majority.” Some critics asserted that Tree had intro-
duced gross abuse of the Campbell-Bannerman crowd into
his part. Thereupon “ Loyal Liberal,” “ Anti-Ibsemte,
and other fossils poured a stream of shocked correspon-
dence into the newspaper offices, until Tree settled them
by quoting from the book the exact words he had spoken.
Then it appeared that the Hairy'One of Norway was the
responsible party, and Tree was acquitted. Otherwise he
might have been liung on the topmost branch of his own
name.
S.A. Criminal Court maybe supposed to
have finished with George Brown. After he had
been tried for gaol-breaking—when he broke down
the dock door in fighting with the warders, and
promised to kill Justice Homburg at the first pos-
sible moment —he chatted with his gaolers and ad-
mitted having shot a man while at large. The man
was not very badly shot, but Brown was taken
back to Court, where Justice Gordon created a
local record by having him bound and handcuffed
during the new trial. Brown erected another
record by refusing to plead, and a special jury
considered whether he was mute by the visitation
of God, but found him “mute of malice.” So
Brown, who has been in prison in every State,
received a life sentence. Exit Brown.
Weary litigation is still raging over the
question whether the Federal elector of N.S.W.
is to pay himself, as State elector, £5 10s. stamp
duty on the transfer of his own land, which he
recently sold to himself to be used as a post
office in which to post his own letters to
himself. The stake at issue must by this time
have reached £5lO in costs. The last phase of the
matter is, -that after a strong Bar had argued on
the question for two days, the learned J udges of
the High Court retired in disorder to chew the
cud of bitter reflection on the injustice of the
N.S.W. inhabitant to himself.
“ O.K. ”: A Bulletin reference to the case
of Harvey Patterson’s little brown servant, who is
now doing six months for making free with his
master’s portable property, omitted to mention
how magistrate Panton rose to the occasion.
Panton is about the staunchest Imperialist in
Melbourne, and before he undertook the painful
duty of sending the peculative Jap to chokee, he
was careful to denounce him as a shocking freak
of Japanese nature. “I expect you have been a
thief before you came here,” said Panton, P.M.
“You are certainly an exception to the gene-
ral run of your countrymen in similar
positions. I suppose it was in consequence
of the character of your countrymen that
Mr. Patterson had so much trust in you.”
Panton should be promptly decorated with the
Order of the Blue Chrysanthemum from Britain’s
boss brown ally, and with a piebald Australian
medalf rom old King Cole, of the Book Arcade.
Here was a typical case of Jap dishonesty which
should have been presented as a timely warning to
White Australia, but the autocrat on the Bench
adroitly applied it for the purpose of commending
the prisoner’s discolored countrymen to the con-
fidence of the community. Next time Panton
lias to deal with a villainous Indian hawker, he
will probably reprove Britain’s unfortunate black
subject for having fallen from his native grace
through the influence of bad Australian com-
panions.
The Melbourne Board of Works has been
having a great time at South Melbourne. The
Board ran its sewer-mains in such fashion that
there was no way of sewering No. 46 except
through No. 48’s back-yard. For some reason
No. 46 remained unsewered long after his neigh-
bors had had their yards dug up and asphalted
down again good and pretty. Then the Board
woke up, and decided to connect No. 46 itself,
and notified 48 that it was going to turn up his
yard to do it. And 48 objected. The Board
started to dig a trench, and 48 called in the police
and had the engineer escorted to the lock-up.
The Board notified that it still proposed to pro-
ceed, whereupon 48 erected ramparts and fortifi-
cations. Next morning the Board’s workmen
battered against the embattlements for an hour or
so, then retired in disorder, while 48 waved the
flag of victory and affixed barbed-wire entangle-
ments to his fence. But the Board was only
getting its wind. Next morning it assembled in
force, cut the wires, scaled the fence, routed
the sole garrison of the castle, and in a
couple of hours the trench was dug, the
pipes laid and the mullock put back again.
Meanwhile No. 48 was away seeing the police and
Bent, and trying to telephone to the Chief
Justice, and was thinking of cabling to England
for troops. In the old days Fitzgibbon used to
blarney enraged householders like No. 48 till they
would agree to anything, and his persuasive voice
is much missed.
The bottom is out of the attempt to fuse
the Country and the Tory parties of S. Aus. and
set them solidly against the Labor party. It has
done ex-Premier Butler a world of good to be
thrown into close company with the anti-
Socialistic ” crowd, represented mostly by ex-
Mayor Cohen ; and the split between him and
them is definite. Butler, who inherits many of
the old Kingston traditions, a good deal corrupted
by the bad company they got into, the other day
announced that, as leader of the Opposition, lie
proposed to review the situation ; and promptly
it was announced that Cohen was going to review
the situation also, and then go in for a vigorous
campaign.
Yietoria’s new State electric tramway—
from Brighton to St. Kilda—built by day labor,
has been constructed so economically that, though
electrical expert Bradford declares it to be the
heaviest permanent way construction in Australia,
an extra quarter-mile of line has been put on the
Brighton end without the estimated expenditure
(authorised by Parliament) being exceeded. That
quarter-mile of line practically represents the
saving made by the people through abolishing the
contractor. Instead of putting £4OOO or so into a
middleman’s pocket, they have saved the money
and bought a bit of extra tramway with it.
The new Protectionist organ, The Arhus,
thus speaks to Deakin on behalf of the new Pro-
tectionist leader, Gecrge Reid :
The Prime Minister has definitely promised that an
Opportunity shall be given to dispose of the tariff issue
this session, and he must make the attempt, relying upon
the promise of the leader of the Opposition that he will
be prepared to support the reasonable recommendations
of the Tariff Commission. . ..His overtures to the Labor
party to throw in its lot with the high tariff party meet
with no favorable response, and so he may be expected,
if there be any sincerity in his desire for tariff revision, to
make an effort to obtain it by the assistance of the Oppo-
sition.
They are keeping the dog dry in the hope that he
will grow large and fierce enough to bite the seat
of Watson’s trousers.
Melbourne just now is being incited to
Christian burial by a house-to-house distribution
of an illustrated book entitled “ Views of the
Necropolis at Spring Vale.” Some introductory
remarks are supplied by the chairman of the
Necropolis Trust, and after reading what this
Hind gentleman has to say the natural impulse of
every right-thinking person is to go and find a last
resting place at Spring Vale. Says the chairman :
The trustees have now provided the people of Melbourne
with a cemetery that has no equal in the Commonwealth.
The soil for burial purposes cannot be surpassed. No ex-
pense has been spared in providing a thorough system of
drainage, and the general plan of workings was adopted
after careful thought and inquiry. ... In presenting
this small brochure to the public, they hope it will be re-
ceived in the spirit tendered.
Obviously it is tendered in the purest business
spirit, and a reciprocating public will wish to “do
a line ” with the trustees as soon as possible.
Why remain alive whilst this attractive burial
ground is waiting for tenants? A photo of “A
portion of carriage drive, showing rockeries ” is
calculated to set one longing to ride (in a hearse)
at the head of a procession, with rockeries on
either hand and a picturesquely situated grave at
the end of the journey. Judging from a number
of other charming photos, one would, perhaps,
prefer the grave to have a northern “aspect.”
Nevertheless, the “ Artistic mound in the Metho-
dist portion” almost tempts one to become a
Wesleyan, or a Bible Christian, or something.
But it is beautiful to be buried in any part of the
cemetery, and no further time should be frittered
away above ground.
The remarkable Dr. and Alderman Haynes,
of Perth (W.A.), recently returned from a visit to
Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney, and declared
that the plague-sti’icken Westralian capital is the
cleanest and best of the lot. Even the Groper
members of the Council dissented, and the Groper
mayor almost had a fit. A couple of days after-
wards the Central Board of Health reported that
the sanitary arrangements of the city were in such
a frightful state that the local board (formed of
members of the Council) had to be superseded.
In Fremantle, matters are just as bad, or worse.
The seaport town is full of rookeries, and the most
central block has been the scene of three outbreaks
of plague—most of the cases having terminated
fatally. The shipping reporter of a Perth daily
was at work on Sunday night as usual—on the
following Wednesday he was dead from bubonic,
and the body was cremated by noon. Attention
was naturally directed to the unfortunate young
fellow’s environments, and it was discovered that
he and four others used to work in a filthy room
12ft. by 10ft., one door of which opened on a small
yard containing
a pile of decaving filth, 4ft. high and 7ft. or Bft. through,
containing scraps of decaying fish, putrid bones, old
rotten cloths and paper and rotten boots, shoes and old
socks, mixed up with decaying vegetable matter, forming
a stoeik of food on which a million rats could feed for a
vear. In the main right-of-way were wooden trough
drains simply choked with rotting filth of every descrip-
tion, and to "prove how long it was since they had been
cleared out, there were weeds growing in the drain which
have been allowed to become regular bushes from 2ft. to
3ft. high.
And, as the local paper remarks :
This state of affairs exists in the very heart of Fremantle,
within a few seconds’ walk of the office of the Health
Board.
Needless to add that the premises described belong
to a wealthy Groper family, and that, although
condemned several years ago, they are still stand-
ing—in the heart of the third most important sea-
port in the Commonwealth.
NE GRA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
At Melbourne Opera House Miss Olive Robinson has
thrown down her stocking; as a gage of defiance to Evan-
gelist Varley, and now dances in socks with bare knees.
—Neivs Item.
Pr«*y not, maid, we sigh,
Lest those dimples fly
Away.
Graces may grow stiff
Prematurely, if
You pray.
Injure not the trim,
Supple satin limb,
So fair,
Which we reverence.
Olive, sweet, dispense
With prayer.
Supplication warm
Oease, ere it your form
Devours,
But, if you must, please
Pray not from your knees,
But ours.
VIC.
C.N.


>
f
Education
BY
POST
Shorthand, Bookkeep-
ing, Engineering,
Drawing, &c.
“Home Study” Post Free.
STOTT & HOARE’S
Business College,
Moore Street, Sydney [2
Society
PENFOLD'S
WINES
It is cabled about the shooting of the 12
natives in Natal that—
Three of the head chiefs and 100 indunas witnessed the
execution, and appeared to be much impressed.
Australia’s first Governor, Captain Phillip, tried
to impress the natives about Botany Bay by
rounding them up to look at hangings when there
was anything large and special going in the way
of suspension. The scheme was a failure, how-
ever, and the only result was that the blacks
called his Excellency bad names. It requires
training in civilised ways to enable people to really
appreciate an execution.
“I wish you wbuldn't do your hiar on the top
of your head in that ridiculous fashion; it
looks most unnatural.”
ONE OF THEM
SPOKE.
“Alba ” : I was in a Sydney artist’s studio
t’other night, when a prominent black-and-white
man produced a photo, of Holman Hunt’s “ Light
of the World.” Scissoring the head, he fixed it
deftly on a piece of Bristol board, drew a robed
figure underneath, and filled in a scroll of parch-
ment in the right hand. Then lie painted out the
halo, and wrote underneath : “ Tiberius Agrippa
Demanding the Lives of the Little Children.”,
Wonderful effect. A professor .of phrenology
walked in later and regarded the picture critically.
“Who was Tiberius Agrippa?” he asked, absently.
The black-and-white man eyed him scornfully.
“Tiberus Agrippa was the emperor who went
. mad, sir, because the Homan multitude refused to
allow the slaughter of the innocents. Lotnbroso
mentions him in his ‘Degenerates.’”. The
phrenologist studied the picture with arms folded ;
then his eye kindled suddenly. “Eyes, mouth,
and jaw,” he said, half aloud. “By Jove, yes;
Lombroso knew that type above all others.”
About an acre of uncultivated silence followed.
The artist ploughed it by saying, “Yes, sir, it
would take a bigger colorist and draughtsman
than I to transform Raphael’s Christ into a
murderer.”
“ Hexham ” : Willis seems to be working
partly on the same lines as Jabez Balfour, ex-
British M.P. who, being wanted in London, fled
to Argentina over a dozen years ago. Balfour made
tracks into the interior, and with the assistance
of a knot of English-speaking men persuaded the
press of the provincial capital of Salta to make
him out an injured patriot, and published letters
in English papers of Buenos Aires to the same
effect. He also got mixed up with the starting
of a brewery, and his colleagues in that enterprise
tried to get the provincial courts to prevent him
being removed from the State until his financial
engagements were met. The British Government
showed as great lack of brains in this business as
did the N.S.W. Government in regard to Willis.
For. £lOOO cash the Buenos Aires police would
have kidnapped Balfour when in that city and
put him aboard of a British man-o’-war. It took
nearly 18 months and many thousands of pounds
to get hold of him in a legitimate way. Balfour
didn’t show much pluck himself or he need never
have been taken. He could have crossed the
mountains into Bolivia or Peru or Chili, and
dodged among the four republics till the four sets
of legal proceedings had tired Britain to death.
But he was fat and city-bred, and the idea of
being a picturesque outlaw didn’t appeal to him.
* • * *
Melbourne owns a ringer of the changes
who has been convicted about 30 times for per-
suading tradespeople that half-a-sovereign is worth
19s. Gd. He walked into a pub t’other day, shouted
for the landlord —who was an ex-sergeant of
police—and threw down half-a-sov. The land-
lord counted out 9s. Gd. change and the “ ringer ”
asked why and explained that he had meant to
put down a sixpence. The landlord produced
the half-sovereign, and the “ ringer ” produced a
sixpence. There on the counter was 10s. in
gold and 10s. in silver—half of which belonged
to the publican. The “ ringer ” then suggested
that the publican should take the lot, and give
him a sovereign instead, and the publican, as all
the other 29 publicans had done, handed over the
sovereign. The curious part of the business is
that the police have not yet been able to convince
the publican that he wasn’t taken down for the
whole sovereign. Curiously enough, one of the
Yic. Supreme Court Judges upset a conviction a
short time ago on these very grounds. He got
lost in the maze of figures, and held that the
accused had obtained a sovereign by trick—not
10s. ; and that the information was therefore back
When a Judge and an ex-police sergeant can’t
understand the mystery, what chance has the
simple-minded public ?
• • * *
Lady Northcote, in her useful position
of local industry supporter, lately ordered a
felt hat from the Austral Mills, Melbourne. Also,
Chief Justice Griffith has followed the example
of his learned brothers, Barton and O’Connor,
and the measurements of all three heads of the law
are now recorded in the Austral Mills’ order-book.
Waxellency Madden was crowned with a local hat
ere he set out for Europe, and the other Victorian
Judges, bar one, appear to be weaning themselves
from the imported article. The exception is his
Honor Molesworth, who is said to have bought
an English hat many years ago, since when he has
used no other. The relic is held together by good
Australian grease.
* * * *
Fresh cases of typhoid are still reported
daily in Melbourne, and at latest it had transpired
that the Preston reservoir, which holds two acres
of wa'ter, and whence Northern Melbourne draws
its water supply, is within a mile of the choice
farm whose 300 acres have for the past six months
been soaked in a top dressing of night-soil. North
Melbourne consequently isn’t drinking much water
at present, and it rushes for the doctor directly it
gets a pain in its waist-coat button. Meanwhile,
the Preston Council, which had its attention
dragged by the Board of Works two years ago to
the unclean practices within its jurisdiction, is
coming in for some insulting remarks which affect
it not at all.
* * * *
Advt. from the laboriously frivolous S.M.
Herald
"WOULD y. lady smiled at 2 getn. in Waverley tram
' ’ 4.30 Sund. write to T.J., Redfern P.Oi
Smiled at two of them ! This is Mormonism !
* * * *
Seaside Melbourne is waking up to the
fact that some of its baths, built many years ago,
are beginning to show signs of wear, and, in
some cases, tlmy differ from the open sea, in
point of safety, solely from the fact that
the sharks that get in can’t find their
way out again. One of these shark-
crates has been shut down, others have
been repaired by order of the authori-
ties, but it is only a matter of a very
short time before the whole baths ques-
tion will have to be dealt with. The
present system of leasing the foreshores
to private speculators is doomed, and an
idea is mooted to form a beach-trust
which will have control of all the fore-
shore around Hobson’s Bay. Another
excellent suggestion is to sweep away
the inner fences of the three unsightly
baths on St. Kilda beach, connect the
outer fences along the hack, and leave a
stretch of a quarter of a mile of fenced
sea for both sexes to disport in. Scotch-
byterian Melbourne has its doots about
sanctioning mixed bathing, but the prac-
tice is extending rapidly, and unless some
such provision is made there will, in the course
of a year or two, be big shark tragedies.
Melbourne Herald recalls the origin of
the city’s street names : Bourke after the Gover-
nor, Collins after the captain who (when aban-
doning the Sorrento settlement in ’O4) wrote King
that “no commercial man would be desirous of
visiting Port Phillip,” Elizabeth after Bourke’s
daughter, Lonsdale after the first police magis-
trate. Batman’s Hill and his swamp have both
disappeared ; only in a little Eitzroy street does
his name remain. Robbins, captain of the
schooner Cumberland, who discovered the Yarra
on Jan. 30th, ’O3, has no memento at all. But
the governors are there in dozens —Hotham,
Darling, Bowen, Barkly, Normanby, Canterbury,
Hopetoun, Loch; likewise the politicians—
Service, Berry, Grant, Francis, Gillies, Deakin,
Vale, Best, Dow, Munro, Coppin, Nimmo, etc.
Councillors’ names simply swarm ; most of them
would otherwise have reached oblivion long since.
Only three Judges have stood godfathers to
streets —Barry, Stawell, Madden. The Crimean
war designated roads in St. Kilda, finished about
that time ; similarly the departure of the Burke
and Wills expedition suggested names for a patch
in Camberwell. Aboriginal names, sad to say,
have almost disappeared, only a few, such as
Maribyrnoug, Orrong, Kooyong, Toorak, Dande-
nong, Bulleen, appearing on the street corners.
Geelong shows up better here. It has kept its
own native name, and the smooth, liquid sounds
used by the black man still distinguish many of
its streets.
A MATTER OF PROPRIETY.
UNCLE: “ Why did you tell me not to come in for a minute when I knocked?”
GLADYS: “ Murver told me it was rude to let gentlemen see me in my nightie , and I was just
looking it off.”
A Melbourne dealer lately got himself
viewed with suspicion through trying a new drink
cure on sundry mellow acquaintances. As he put
it— “ I fill a- bottle with beer and put one of my
powders in, and in about 10 minutes they go down
wallop, and can’t move. But they get all right in
a few days, and don’t touch beer again for
months ” As the powder contained 12'02 grains of
tartar emetic, of which Taylor’s “Medical Juris-
prudence ” says two grains is a full dose, the victim
in one case went down with so much wallop that
lie had to be rushed to the hospital. The Court
gave the benevolent dealer credit for good inten-
tions, and let him off with a caution.
'* * * «
The “ oldest inhabitants ” of Prahran
(Vic.), who lately celebrated the suburb’s jubilee
by a feed, had little to say beyond narrations of
the hardships of the. early days, when the place
was mostly a swamp. One man told how he took
a load of bricks to the. city in ’57 at 20s. for cartage
—when the roads were so bad that on arrival not
a sound brick was left in the cart. And bricks
were bricks in those days—they cost £l7 per 1000.
Prahran, aboriginally Poor-an—a place between
two waters—was first called Paisley; but some
early father had a glimpse of common sense and
saw the absurdity of calling the clean, virgin bush
after the grimy Scottish weaving village. Sargood
was its first mayor, while among defeated candi-
dates for its first council were Graham Berry and
Judge Skinner. , * »
Victoria is getting into the habit of endur-
ing just about anything from its railways. The
other night, a man assisted a child out of a rail-
way carriage at Footscray, and, before he could
get inside again, a porter slammed the door and
shore off an inch of his finger. He went placidly
on to his destination, and nothing more would
have been heard of the circumstance if someone
hadn’t stumbled over the end of the finger.
Some men, in some countries, would have spoken
firmly to that porter. But Victoria is being
trained to be different.
* * * *
Lawyer Purves got an unexpected reply
the other day from Bays Thomas Belson, who is
charging a gent, one,with fraudulent conversion of
trust funds. Purves : “Do you say that my client
is a thief?” “No.” “Then what on earth is
he?” “Alawyer. (Laughter.).” That “laughter”
was cruel.
* * * *
Extract from a Sydney daily re some recent
“ N.S.W. Military Orders ” :
“ With reference to the authorised rifle and firing
exercises, contained in the manuals in use by the dif
ferent arms, commanding officers will take steps to
ensure that instructors and others do not use any un-
authorised substitutes for the word ‘arms’ in the
commands ‘Slope-arms,’ ‘Order-arms,’ etc. The word
‘arms’ is to be correctly pronounced. The order is
ridiculed by almost the whole of the service. Referring
to it, one "officer said yesterday it would be almost
impossible to break the old soldiers off their quick,
snappy delivery of the executive word. Then, he said,
the act of correctly pronouncing “ arms ” u ould have the
effect of putting a brake on the men who are required to
spring to the order with a snap which is inspired by the
manner in which the officer at present raps out his
command.
Then there is to be no more “Awda —HUP.”
The question is, what will they do with the old
drill sergeant who can’t change the habit and the
yelp of a life-time ?
• • * *
At a Queensland police court, the other
day, a little girl, aged 11, was charged with steal-
ing from a dwelling a number of articles of
jewellery. Armed with a collecting card for some
school charity, she had obtained admission, and,
finding the mistress of the house absent, had
helped herself. Result, four years in the Re-
formatory. It transpired during the case that a
medal was offered to the school kiddies as a
reward to the one who “collected” the most. A
medal for the best beggar (or the best thief)!
Time that the various State Governments stamped
out this practice of sending children out begging
for charities—a practice which is rife in the State
schools. No charity is a good enough cloak to
cover the multitude of evils arising from the
practice. -
“F.M.” : Maybe my bump of veneration
is not sufficiently mountainous, but, when I go to
Ballarat I always laugh at the little place. They
have some small boys playing with electric trams,
and making a hideous row with the bells; they
call these little boys “officials,” “conductors,”
“drivers,” &c. : but they don’t look a bit like
that. The tram co. does not punctuate properly
either; one of the signs reads: “20 passengers
must not stand on the platform ; ” there is not
room enough for two passengers ; but, you must
understand, the “20” is the number of the car.
It reminds one of the Melbourne tramway notice ;
“Luggage must be put under the seat and he
accompanied by the passenger.” The seats
on the Ballarat tramcars are just about six
inches wide, and make you feel like a piece of
poultry on its roost. In the gardens round the
lake (that’s the lake where all the rural niceness is
spoilt by the eternal steam-whistling of those
funny little boat-things) there’s a Corporation tea-
room, where you must not ask for a menu, but
must bring your field-glasses, or a ladder, because
the menu is a wooden one, and is nailed away up
near the high ceiling ; and, holy smoke ! the list
of charges for saveloys and tea is signed by the
Mayor. I always laugh when Igo to Ballarat.
FISH AND LOVE.
HE: “ You won't have anything to do with
me. Why?"
S HE: “ 'Cause I don't like yer."
HE: “ Oh! Then what did yer mean by letting
me shout yer those prawns last Saturday
night?”
S HE: “I never said I didn't like prawns."
At the Newtown (Sydney) Police Court the
other day a whole batch of persons were dealt with
for attempting to poison the public in a wholesale
manner by selling sausages and other articles,
liberally charged with boric and sulphurous acid.
And the largest fine was a paltry one of £e.
Why is it not enacted that adulterators shall never-
more trade in any article of food or drink ? They
need disqualification much more than does the
mere cronk j ockey.
AFRICA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ The 12 natives who were condemned to death were
shot in tiie valley on Monday. The prisoners, who
belonged to the Ethiopian Church, spent the night in
prayer and in singing hymns. They confessed their guilt
to the vicar, who accompanied them to the place of
execution, and they expressed regret for the crime.
Three head chiefs and 100 indunas witnessed the execu-
tion.”
Through the valley the rifles rang,
And a hymn of glory the black men sang :
God of the white man, slay !
Mouth, O Judge, from the bench ;
Shovel our cold dead clay
Into the open trench ;
Lord, we have walked on a sinful track—
Rise and avenge us, God of the Black 1
God of the whites, forgive !
Weeping, we all repent;
Nay then, why should we live?
Why should your guns relent ?
God of the English, pardon all !
Brothers, wait / for our blood will call!
Look, where the parson stands !
Favor, 0 Lord, his face ;
Wash Thou his holy hands—
Clean of last night's embrace !
He shall ivalk through the valley that ive have trod,
And his heart and lungs shall be Thine, Our God !
Father, we kneel to Thee ;
Dying, Thy name we praise :
Brothers, forget not; we
■Shall be there when their cities blaze !
God of the conqueror, spit your hate !
God of the conquered, watch and wait !
vie.
PRIAM.


Proposed up North to establish a leper
station on Strad broke Island ; also, St rad broke
Island is to be the source of Brisbane’s new water
supply— when it gets one. Certainly, it is a good-
sized island; but the thought of an escaped
Chinese leper cooling his ugh !
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
VISITORS
TO THE
RACES
AND
ROYAL
EASTER
SHOW.
While in town I cordially invite you to
inspect my new and exclusive designs in
Tweeds for Autumn and Winter wear.
By allowing me to take your measure
for future reference, you can obtain a
perfect fitting suit at any time by dropping
a line to yours faithfully.
MERCHANT
TAILOR,
R. C. HA£ON.
KING ST., SYDNEY,
Three of the “Flying Angels,” a gang
that haunts South and Port Melbourne and way-
lays the drink-laden suburban father, attacked a
Scotch girl in a right-of-way, last week. The
lassie was returning home late. She defended
herself vigorously and screamed, and an accidental
constable hove along to her rescue. He caught
two of the “Angels” and tried to arrest them.
One got away, and the other put up a fight
worthy of a better cause. He tore the policeman’s
overcoat and scattered portions of his uniform all
over the country side. Meanwhile the Scotch lassie
joined in the fray. As the two men rolled about
the streets and kicked and bit and fought, she
would place a well-directed kick in the ribs of
the “ Angel,” or, dropping on her knees, land a
good, honest, oatmeal punch somewhere about his
jaw. All the while she cheered the bobby on.
A-group of comrade “ Angels,” whom the sounds
of tribulation had collected, were half-inclined to
interfere, but when they saw how the Scotch girl
was taking it out of their comrade, they decided
to take no risks. They just stood bv and watched
the “ Angel” fall. Next morning the other two
were arrested, partly for the crimes they were
supposed to have committed, and partly (it may
be) for their own safety. If they had remained at
large, the Scotch girl might have met them and
killed them on the spot. The “ Angels ” have
decided that no Scotch girls are to be attacked in
future.
* * * *
How many Queen V ictoria memorial funds
are lying in the hands of banks and treasurers
throughout Australasia? Every week or two Ihe
Bulletin gets word of a new one. The latest was
addled at Murtoa, a mostly-German township
that hangs on to the inner fringe of the Victorian
mallee. Nearly £lOO had been collected, when
codlin moth or red rust began to snort in the dis-
tance, whereupon the cookies forgot all about the
fund—likewise the storekeepers who keep the
cookies’accounts —and everybody rushed to defend
his crop. The other day someone recollected that
the £lOO was still lying in the bank, and the local
P. and A. Society casually opined that the cash
would be much better spent in building new pig-
pens or something at its show-grounds. Now
the committee is trying to get the authority
of the subscribers accordingly ; but some of the
latter are dead and awkward to get at without
either wings or an asbestos diving bell.
* * * *
“Lil”: Somebody inquires (B. 29/3/’O6)
“ Was there ever a shooting affray on a bowling
green?” Well, the sharper-haunted greens of
Charles ll.’s time seem to have been just the
places where such disturbances might have hap-
pened. In his “Memoirsof Grammont,” Anthony
Hamilton suddenly breaks off a discourse on the
“limbs of exquisite beauty” that atoned for the
ugly face of Miss Churchill to tell of Grammont s
bowling green experiences. At that time the
kind of undesirable person who nowadays puts
his trust in two-up or the pony course used to
frequent the greens. Betting ran high, and when
it was too dark to continue the game the crowd
adjourned to the liquor establishment attached, to
drink and lose large sums to the spielers at dice
and cards. But try as they would, asserts
Hamilton, the rooks could not took the mvincib!e
Grammont. Then Hamilton abandons his un-
expected treatise on sport to tell further tales ot
Lady Chesterfield's green stockings and the lair
Miss Stewart’s under-skirts.
A “PASSIVE
RESISTET."
Melbourne policemen are mostly of two
classes nowadays-the old, respectable, harmless,
superannuated cop who is always concealing his
snowy whiskers round the corner when duty calls
and the flashy farm-burner who hits people and
runs them in promiscuously. The
marine chief officer, who had had about two
drinks, asked a fresh young policeman the way to
some place. The officer volunteered to show him
the road, and led him as far as the police-station,
and there, it is alleged, he suddenly rushed him in
with a side movement, smote linn in various
places, and entered the charge as minting be-
havior. F.M. Pan ton, who is to some extent,
getting over his respect for the South African
war said things about the force on this occasion
that nearly made its helmet stand on end.
“T D” • The motor-’bus, as Londoners
now have it, is by far the most remarkable of
modern street develop-
ments. The other day I
stood in the Edgeware-
road for 10 minutes, and
during that time there
passed 18 motor-’buses,
larger and more comfort-
able in every wav than
the old horse-’l >u res.
Twelve months ago there
were about 10 motor-
’buses in the whole of
London, the pioneer line
selecting Edgeware-road
as its route. At that
time the vehicles were
about half the size of the
present ones, they had
no outside seats, and five
minutes inside were suffi-
cient to suffocate the
passenger with petrol
fumes. But one never
spent five minutes in-
side for the sufficient
reason that after about
two minutes the rattle-
trap broke down, and
somebody had to spend
half an hour under-
neath fixing it up
again. Also, t h e
ancient motor-snail
could only go a limited
distance, because it
couldn’t negotiate the
hills. At the present
moment there are
thousands of motor-
’buses ir. London,
and they take the
hills at a handspring,
lor do they stink nor
?ak down. And the
monopolistic General Omnibus Company,
which grinned contemptuously at the petrol cit
at first, finds itself outpaced by eight or ten rival
concerns, and it is spending the whole of its'time
placing orders (on the Continent, of course—this
is “Freefood” England) for motor-buses, and
finding new routes for old horse-vehicles that took
two hours or thereabouts to do six miles. Like-
wise it is revising its scales of charges in a
tremendous hurry, for you get an extra-sized
penn’orth when you take a motor* bus.
* • •
The last two great fires in Sydney have
been put down to “cause unknown,” but it is a
significant fact that on each occasion the clerks
were “working back” on the previous evening.
The city clerk does a prodigious amount of
“ working back,” for which he.is perhaps flung Is.
or Is. 6d. tea money, and the rule “ smoking pro-
hibited” is not always so strictly observed at
night as it might be. While the outbreaks may
not have been the fault of the over-worked clerks,
the underwriters will soon be raising the pre-
miums on those firms which have clerks “ working
back.”
* * * *
The Bulletin is informed by numerous
correspondents that the Melbourne home for lost
dogs (mentioned 29/3/’O6) was run, not by R.C.
nuns, but by an Anglican sisterhood. But the
mistake was a small one at the worst, for it
appears that the “sisterhood” was very High
Church, and didn’t give the dogs meat-bones on
Friday.
A Salv’army drummer was sent up for
trial in Melbourne, last week, on a charge of
larceny. The landlady at whose place the blood-
and-fire hero lodged missed the clothing, and
told him about it. He was sympathetic, and
said he would at once go round the second-
hand clothes shops and try to find the lost
property. “ Knowing that he played the
big drum in the Salvation Army band, the
landlady said in evidence, “caused me to
trust him more than I would otherwise have
done.” Another disappointed person said that
he was driving nails into the wall on a Sunday
morning when the Salv’army drum person entered
with a shocked expression, and pointed out that
every time the hammer came down it was hitting
the fourth commandment. Next day a lot of pro-
perty disappeared, and suspicion arose that the
drummer had made a pote of the weak points of
the premises while he was weeping over the
desecration of the Sabbath. That is the story
told by the drummer’s enemies, but on the other
hand it must be remembered that the man who
beats a horrid weapon like a drum is bound to have
enemies. The present writer-tries to tell, the truth
occasionally, but he would swear almost anything
against a big drum fiend, and anything at all
. against a man with a barrel-organ.
The selection committee of the Austral
Competition, Bendigo, has played an ugly trick
on Dyson, the poet; Dyson, who in veighed against
the Bards of the Tomb ; Dyson, who wrote “An
honest man alive is worth a million underground.’
For in their sets of chosen elocutionary pieces for
the next competitions, they have set Dyson’s
“ Rescue ” among a host of the most truly awful
pieces that ever were given from a public platform.
Try to picture an evening’s entertainment made
up of 33 repetitions of any of the following :
The Beggar Baby—who died.
The Death-of Napoleon—who died.
The Grasp of the Dead—who died.
Crescentius, who was beheaded —and died.
The Gambler’s Wife, who, with her husband and her
baby, in slow horror—all died.
King Claudius in “ Hamlet,” remorseful for his brother—
who died.
And this is the company in which Dyson figures.
Sydney Chamber of Commerce, which
lately took up the hobby of commercial educa-
tion for boys, stands aghast at the revelations in
some recent examination papers. The examiner
plaintively notifies that very few boys of the
superior public schools seem aware that
Australia has any native industries. Then-
written answers mostly stated that even
flour and corn and coal are of foreign
origin and only reach N.S.W. through the kindly
importer. But it is only the Chamber of Commeice
and its satellites that marvel. The Chamber’s
own cackling, the never-ending puffery of the top-
hatted indent man or commission agent, and the
slavish adoration of the Foreign-trade dailies give
kids no option but to think that whatever is good
has come from abroad.
During the past 10 years, says an English
paper, 103 clergymen were compelled to enter
pauper asylums or poor-houses. Yet the Arch-
bishop of Canterbury draws £15,000 a year
besides perks and palaces; the Archbishop of
York £lO,OOO ; the Bishop of London the same ;
and 31 other English Bishops draw £136,480
among them, with the usual additions of perks,
palaces, and (except in two cases) seats in the
House of Lords.
A. BLOTT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ I’m always up at the break of day,”
Said Ananias Blott, C.B.
“ To loaf in bed was never my way ;
No, never my way ! ” said, he.
“ There’s nothing in life that feels so prime
As a sharp, cold shower in the winter time,
And the cooler it is the more sublime,”
Said Ananias Blott, C.B.
“ Oh that is the thing for me,
On a winter’s morn, you see 1
I’m underneath the shower
For a quarter of an hour 1 ”
Said Ananias Blott, C.B.
There was no larger liar unhung
Than Ananias Blott, C.B.
And that was one of tfye lies he sprung
On Brown and Jones and me !
But when’tis cold, where’er you are
• You’re sure to find in every bar
Some animated whisky-jar
Like Ananias Blott, C.B.
“ Oh that is the thing for me !
An ice-cold bath ! ” says he.
You’ll find, if you inquire,
He is just as big a liar
As Ananias Blott, C.B !
tf.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.
DIVORCED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Cfwo couples are .drifting the self-
M same wag
M (Men of the world well know)
From the ballroom glare as the
night grows grey
(Men of the world can tell).
Many are round them who know, and
knew.
But men of the world are blind;
That couple in front has nought to do
With the couple that comes behind.
The woman starts on her partner's arm,
For a reason he could not te/l
She trips and she laughs the Society laugh,
That men of the world know well.
If she laughs too suddenly, talks too fast,
We are deaf as well as blind
’2’was wily the ghosts oj the girlish days
When she married the man behind.
He feels a pang where his heart had been
(For a reason he cannot tell),
A spasm that mars the cynical smile
That men of the world kno w well.
A spasm that's known in Society,
And by many men “ out of the hunt.”
•Tis only the ghosts of his boyish hopes
When he married the woman in front.
And the man in front, and the woman
behind
(Oh, Society's smile and bow !),
They are too well-bred to ask even in
thought
What has come to their partners now.
Bat the couples drift in Society's stream
To the kerb where the two cabs wait—
It was all because of what others had said,
And a word that was spoken too late.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.
WORN OUT WITH PAIN.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
“Six of the best doctors in Melbourne and
Ballarat gave me up as a hopeless cripple after 1
had suffered something awful for seven years with
Rheumatism,” said Mis. E. Maddaford, 101,
Skipton St., Ballarat. “ They said I would never
walk again. They could not even give me one
hour’s ease from my terrible torture. Night after
nio-ht I prayed to God for Death. I was worn
oat with pain. At last, an end seemed to lie
c lining to all my misery, for my legs swelled up
with Dropsy. Everyone was waiting to hear ot
in v Death. Yet here I am to-day as active a
woman as you can find in Australia. My cuie is a
positive miracle. I will never believe again that
there is any case of Rheumatism that Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills can t cure.
Mrs. Maddaford’s statement is so sensational
that it is well there is positive proof of its truth.
The main facts of her case are well-known to
everyone in the district-and her present health
is plain to anyone who sees her. Her story, told
in her own straight-forward words, is one ot the.
most interesting that ever appeared in print.
“Rheumatism first attacked me twenty years
ago,” Mrs. Maddaford began. “ I was then living
at Giralambone, near Bourke, N.S.W. My ankle
suddenly swelled up, and the pain was frightful.
1 got worse and worse, until I was an absolute
cripple. The swelling spread up first one leg and
then the other. I cannot find words to describe
what I suffered. The pain broke down my nerves,
aid wrecked my whole health. I had no appetite,
and my back was always aching. But, worst ot
all was my head. The least noise made my
temples throb again. Sometimes I felt the
terrible pain would drive me mad.
“ All this time I was growing worse and worse.
I hated the sight of food, and often went the
whole day without a bite to eat. I soon began to
lose all strength. For six years I never went
outside the house. Doctor after doctor said I
would never walk again. ~
“ No living woman ever suffered such agony,
Mrs Maddaford continued. “ Night after night,
I prayed to God for death. My case was a hope-
less one. 'My legs swelled bigger and bigger, it
must have been Dropsy. It spread to my arms
and then all over my body. Even my face was
puffed. I could hardly see out of my eyes. My
flesh was as soft as dough. When I pressed my
fingers on my legs I could actually bury them in
the flesh. I could not get my shoes on Walking
was out of the question. I could only craw l at
best. My life was one miserable round ot pain.
I saw nothing to live for, except misery and
wretchedness. . „ ,«■
“By this time I had given up all hope, Mis.
Maddaford went on. “Of course, I had often
read of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, but I only
smiled at the thought of using them. Ihen, one
day, when suffering more than usual, 1 read ot a
case almost exactly like my own. I read it over
and over again, getting fresh hope every time.
“ At last L sent to Palmer, the chemist, for my
first box of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. I fancied
that even that first box did me good. Certainly,
it gave me an appetite. I got more, and kept on
taking them. Little by little, the Dropsy in my
legs went down. The piercing pain eased m my
joints and muscles. My heart became sound and
strong. My nerves were braced up wonderfully.
In even a few-months, instead of looking like a
corpse, I got a clear skin and a fresh coloi. As
my strength came back, I was able to get up and
walk. Now lam in the most, perfect health. 1
just delight to keep going all day with my house-
work. There is no doubt that Dr. Williams Pink
Pills worked a miracle when they cured me.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills worked this miracle
by actually making new blood for Mrs. Maddaford.
They do just this one thing—but they do it well.
Thev don’t act on the bowels. They don t bother
with mere symptoms. They just strike straight
at the root of all blood diseases like ansenna,
skin trouble, biliousness, indigestion, liver com-
plaint, headaches, backache, kidney troubles,
lumbago, rheumatism, sciatica, nervousness, neu-
ralgia, general weakness, decline, consumption
(in its early stages), locomotor ataxia, and the
secret ailments that come to girls and women
when their blood becomes weak, impure, or
irregular. But, of course, you must get the
genuine Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. Sold by
retailers and the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
Sydney, at 2s. 9d. a box, six boxes 15s. 3d.,
post free. •


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
^ —♦- 1
The State Premiers, most of them Treasurers,
or with Treasurers at their elbows, are talking- over things
in Sydney ; and one thing that badly needs talking
over is thfe' form of the published Treasury returns. No
two of them are alike. Only N.S. Wales and Queensland
furnish complete monthly figures of revenue and ordinary
and loan expenditure. Victoria publishes revenue figures
only, though some belated expenditure returns are fur-
nished in the “ Quarterly Statistical Abstract.” Even
then no loan figures are given ; and the expenditure
returns that don’t mention loan money are liable to be a
fake and a three-card-trick. Westralia publishes only
revenue and ordinary expenditure figures; and
here a Treasurer can present a spurious look of
prosperity, with an eye on either a loan or a
general election, by passing his expenditure on
to loan account. . Tasmania issues only revenue
return's, which are practically worthless ; and tired South
Australia issues only a very gradual quarterly abstract,
which also doesn’t mention the highly important matter
of loan outlay. If only because of their vast number of
creditors, and the vast amount of re-borrowing the States
will have to do, it ought to be possible to show clearly and
succinctly, in one small table, the whole position of Aus-
tralian State finance at the end of every month. For that
purpose the Queensland return might very well be taken
for a model, though, if the dear, touchy old Ma State must
be humored, hers would do, though it is a shade less satis-
factory in the matter of details of expenditure.
At present any attempted summary of the Aus-
tralian State financial position must be unsatisfactory ;
but, as far as things go, here are the main results :
State Revenues for March.
Mar., 1905. Mar., 1906.
N.S. Wales .. £1,024,722 £1,084,259 Inc. £59,537
Victoria .. 669,495 690,836 Inc. 21,341
Queensland .. 257,609 289,415 Tnc. 31,806
Westralia .. 357,484 322,911 Dec. 34,573
Tasmania .. 63,945 65,905 Inc. 1,960
And for the period from July Ist, 1905 :
State Revenues for Year so far (9 months).
1904-5. 1905-6.
N.S. Wales .. £8,270,130 £9,007,362 Inc. £737,232
Victoria .. 5,523,468 5,738,793 Inc. 215,325
Queensland .. 2,516,919 2,689,487 Inc. 172,568
S. Australia .. 1,966,621 1,990,001 Inc. 23,380
Westralia .. 2,634,442 2,585,228 Dec. 46,214
Tasmania .. 642,106 661,854 Inc. 19,748
Though the foregoing looks complete enough, it has to
be remembered that no further S. Australian figures (ex-
cept revises of these) will be published till after the end
of the year. And the expenditure summaries are far less
uniform and complete :
State Expenditure for Year so far.
1904-5. 1905-6.
N.S. Wales (9 mos.) £8,793,312 £8,712,523 Dec. £80,789
Victoria (6 mos.) 3,801,235 3,725,805 Dec. 75,430
Queensland (9 mos.) 2,286,063 2,372,788 Inc. 86,725
S. Australia (6 mos.) 1,275,938 1,310,089 Inc. 34,151
Westralia (9 mos.) 2,692,601 2,549,911 Dec. 142,690
As to loan expenditure, every State except N.S.W. and
Queensland is as dumb as a prawn.
Reviewing the situation these things offer them-
selves for remark :
N.S. Wales.—
1902-3. 1904-5. 1905-6.
9mos. Revenue (gross) £8,234,702 £8,408,491 £9,139,416
9mos. Expenditure .. 8,974,458 8,793,312 8,712,523
Deficit.. .. £739,756 £384,821
Surplus .. £426,893
Doans .. .. 3,853,863 1,457,232 1,117,092
Real Deficit .. £4,593,619 £1,842,053 £690,199
Which movement is good, and deserves to be printed
up-and-down as well as cross-wise :
N.S.W. Real Deficits.
Nine months 1902-3 .. ..£4,593,619
„ „ 1904-5 .. .. 1,842,053
~ ~ 1905-6 .. .. 690,199
The only deplorable part of the business is that, in such a
year as this, when the State ought to be paying cash
down for every .dog-spike it buys, it is still stuffing the
baby’s cradle with I O U’s to the extent of nearly
£1,000,000 a year. The country is having as much of a
prosperous time as it is possible for it to have under its
mongrel tariff ; part of it is so prosperous that the man
who looks on the land sees things through green glasses
and pays up to £BO art acre for agricultural country. And
yet this country is piling up bills for its children to pay,
at the rate of £1,000,000 a year ; and even that is so much
of an improvement on what it has suffered under in worse
times that it passes for Reform. Under Carruthers and
Providence, N.S.W. is a reformed character that doesn’t
hit its babies with the poker or throw flat-irons at them
any more. It only hits them now with the broom and
throws scrubbing brushes at them.
Victoria.—The figures are presented in patches ; latest
expenditure returns available are to December last. For
the first halves of the last two financial years Victoria
shows up in this way :
/ Revenue. Expenditure. Deficit.
July-Dee., 1904 .. £3,530,812 £3,801,235 £270,423
July-Dee., 1905 .. 3,515,202 3,725,805 210,603
In Victoria, however, the first half of the financial year is
the period of slack revenues. What has happened in the
way of expenditure since then will be known in about
three months time. But the figures don’t, and won’t,
mean as much as such figures should. They mostly mean
that, instead of laying out money as he goes along,
Premier Bent starves railways," works, iSic., in order to
make a surplus, and then uses the surplus to do what
would have been done before if the glory of T. Bent
hadn’t to be considered. It amounts to a system of
deferred expenditure. The most cheerful feature is that,
though the first half-year’s revenue (which isn’t a thing
that can be so easily faked as expenditure) showed up
poorly, for the nine months the State has yielded
£215,325 more than it did in the same part of the previous
financial year.
Queensland.— Dealing with this in the same way as
N.S.W. was dealt with above :
1902-3. 1904-5. 1905-6.
9 mos.’Revenue .. £2,519,361 £2,516,919 £2,689,487
9 mos.’Expenditure.. 2,393,768 2,286,063 2,372,788
Surplus .. .. £125,593 £230,856 £316,699
Loans .. .. 714,288 158,197 196,901
Total Deficit .. .. £588,695
Total Surplus .. .. £72,659 £119,798
The surplus is, however, really the amount available to
pay the current half-year’s interest bill, which amounts
to about £127,500 a month. Charging interest up to
date, therefore, Queensland still shows a real deficit,
whiefi, however, is likely to be reduced by June 30.
S. Australia. —Expenditure figures for the past quar-
ter are not available; The position as far as disclosed is
this : For the first six months the expenditure (apart from
loans) exceeded that of last year by £34,151 ; while, for
nine months, this year shows an excess of revenue of only
£23,380. That doesn’t look cheerful.
WestraMA. —In pursuance of the boom-and-borrow
policy, it is officially announced that the March revenue
exceeded that of any previous month in the financial year.
It would look more honest if it were also announced that
that is a common feature in'Westralian finance, and that,
any Way, the returns were, no less than £34,573 short of
the March, 1905, revenue. What borrowed money the
State is spending is not disclosed ; and as iy things are
now being charged to loan that were formerly charged to
ordinary revenue, the alleged reduction of expenditure
means nothing. Westralia is, in fact, apparently enter-
ing upon a term of fake finance.
Tasmania.—No expenditure figures are given. The
revenue is nearly £20,000 better than the previous
year’s, in spite of a fall of nearly £14,000 in Federal
refunds. High metal prices, and the consequent mining
boom, are responsible for most of the improvement. It
won’t be Tasmania’s fault if it doesn’t have the usual
deficit. *
- * * *
An hour before Premier Tom Price, of S. Aus.
left Adelaide to meet Qarruthers and Bent in Sydney, he
fixed up matters with the Adelaide tram-directors—so
far, that is, as they can fix matters without reference to
the shareholders, and he without reference to Parliament.
The price is stiff —£280,000 —but it will be worth some-
thing substantial to Adelaide to get rid of companies
which have turned the city into a joke. The trams are
owned by five co.’s and C. Willcox ; the latter owns the
Goodwood and Payneham services. The market has been
valuing the co.s’ shares as follows
No. Market Market
Shares. Paid. Price. Value.
Ad. and Suburban .. 26,000 £5 £4 10 £117,000
Hyde Park .. .. 30,000 9/ 010 15,000
Mitcham ( 12,500 £2 2 16)
Mitcham .. .. -j 12 500 IQ/ 44,375
Hindmarsh .. .. 29,866 £1 0 5 7,466
Parkside .. .. {jjgjg ■ J “>} 22,000
This gives the five -company-owned trams a market value
of £205,841. Add £35,000 for the private lines ; and there
is a grand total of about £240,000. The latter, by the
way, was approximately the total value of the co.s’ shares
two years ago, when it seemed certain that Snow’s syn-
dicate would put the purchase and electrification of the
lines through. Premier Price, therefore, proposes to give
the cos. a handsome bonus on market values for the pur-
pose of getting rid of them. Further, they take, of
course, their cash reserves with them ; and that really
amounts to another bonus on market values. It evi-
dently pays, under some circumstances, to be frowsy and
lumbering.
What is to be done with the Adelaide trams
after they have been taken over? The proposal of the
local Stupid party is that the public should put up the
purchase money and then hand the matter over to a syn-
dicate. Seeing what private control has given Adelaide
in the matter of suburban tram and rail accommodation
(it was only just recently that the State got rid of the
Glenelg Railway Co. at great cost), the proposal looks in-
credible to an outsider. But S.A. hardlv knows what com-
fortable travelling is. The most disreputably-equipped line
in Australia used to be the Glenelg Railway Company’s ;
the State-owned Port Adelaide line has now taken its bad
pre-eminence. If S. Australia had been used to decent
travelling accommodation, it would have used an axe on
the man who proposed to bring back private control after
all the trouble it has had to get rid of it; as it was,
insteadofhittinghimwithanaxe.it sent a good many
of him to Parliament. Price, however, and his party and
his Government are not of the number. They all stand
for public ownership and control.
The question remains—State or municipal con-
trol ? Price, with no very decided vievys on the subject,
prefers municipal control. It is the best, from one im-
portant point 6f view. If a trust is formed to include
city and suburbs, and the loan, which unfortunately will
have to be raised to take over the lines (it is not a matter
of gradual construction, which could be done out of
revenue), is raised on the security of municipal rates, a
possible stumbling block in the way of the transfer of the
railways to the Commonwealth will be avoided. The
management of city and suburban trams is not the busi-
ness of the Commonwealth Parliament, which isn’t a
parish vestry ; and if those trams are heaped on to the
railway departments, it will simply provide something
else for the State parish politicians to talk about at
tremendous length.
* * * *
Germany, with its Protection and its trade
subsidies, wins again. The daily papers have been
prating for months about “ the solution of the zinc pro-
blem and the establishment of the spelter industry in
Australia,” and official reports have approved the mis-
leading yarn. The fact, as pointed out here again and
again, was merely that a co. had been formed to take
some of the dirt out of the Barrier “tailings,” as the
Sulphide Corporation and the Australian Metal Co. have
been doing for six or eight years, but had decided
nothing with regard to the production of spelter in Aus-
tralia. The mere production of zinc concentrates amounts
to very little. It costs the Broken Hill co.’s under 4s.
per ton to produce a silver-lead concentrate, and the
zinc concentration is likely to be done for still less.
Yet that is all that is assured to Australia ; the- vastly
more important work of zinc smelting, which, reckoning
in coal, coke, and retorts, means nearly £6 per ton, is to
be done in Germany'. This insignificant-looking para-
graph was printed a day or two back : —“ A satisfactory
contract has been signed by Mr. Francis H. Snow,
of Adelaide, agent for Aaron Hirsch and Sohn, and the
Zinc Corporation, Ltd. This contract provides for a
portion of the production of zinc concentrates from the
co.’s works. The quantities contracted for are 10,000 to
20,000 tons for the current year, 20,000 to 40,000 tons for
1907, and 40,000 tons for 1908, 1909, 1910, and 1911.”
Aaron Hirsch and Sohn are the people who for years
have been the principal buyers of Broken Hill
products for German smelters ; they have been
the principal agents in shifting about half of
the Australian silver-lead smelting industry' (which
ought to be a vast consumer of coal and coke) from Aus-
tralia to Europe. Now the process is to be repeated
with regard to zinc, which is a more serious matter in one
way, because of the larger amount of labor required in
zinc-production.
Australia isn’t going, then, to have a spelter
industry ; it is simply going to be an exporter of dirt in
order that Germany may continue to have a spelter
industry. After that, when, say, the Broken Hill Prop,
starts to make spelter on a small scale with the help of
Australian workmen, coal, and coke, the European metal
bosses will most likely use the Australian dirt to knock
out the new Australian industry—just as the’Murikans
use the ideas stolen from Australia to try to knock
out Australian harvesters. Against the German ship-
ping and other trade subsidies there is only one
way of fighting—with the same export duties on
raw products that Germany itself imposes. If Germany
is determined to have the Australian ores in order to
keep its furnaces, its coal-mines, its coke-ovens, and its
workmen going, then at least,it shouldn’t be able to get
them without paying something handsome to Australia
in the shape of taxes. If we must supply powder and
shot to the enemy, let us at least get in return enough to
buy ointment for our wounds.
* * * *
The Newcastle (N.S.W.) “vend” has been
completed ; and coal, which has for some time past been
selling at about Bs. per ton, will not be available at under
9s. The negotiations had been hanging fire for two or
three weeks, the main difficulty being the demand for a
concession, made by owners of mines turning out second-
grade mineral. But, so far as foreign trade is concerned
the vend more than half owns to itself that the scheme
must fail ; and when the terms of the agreement come to
be finally settled, collieries will be allowed some liberty as
to this branch of the business. And as the foreign trade
accounts forapproximately one-fourth of the whole output
the weak spot in the vend covers a very large area. The
position, boiled down, is something like this. The New-
castle collieries can effectively combine to put up the
price of coal in the Australian market, and thereby
increase the cost of Australian manufactures: but they
can’t effectively combine to put up the price in foreign
markets, where they have to compete with people who
are not in the combine, and the cost of foreign manu-
facture isn’t therefore affected. So, without a Protective
tariff, the combine works out to the prejudice of Australian
manufactures. No vend, combine, or anything of the sort
can take the place of high Protection. There is only one
market of which Australia can make sure, and that is the
Australian market; and there is only one way that
market can be commanded, and that is by high Protection
A combine without Protection simply has the effect of
choking the collieries’ Australian customers, and throw-
ing the collieries finally into the arms of the foreign cus-
tomer, who laughs at local combines.
Meantime the coal-miner is asking where he
comes in. At present it looks as though he just stays
outside. The agreement between the Employees’ Federa-
tion and the owners provides that the present hewing
rate shall be paid till the selling rate goes beyond 9s. ■
each shilling above that means 4d. for the miner. The
rise to 95., therefore, doesn’t affect the miner ; but he isn’t
inclined to silently accept that situation. He points out
that he had Something to do with bringing the combine
about, so in justice he ought to get some of the fruit
But, as there is no certainty that he will, he is now con-
sidering means of putting up the price beyond 9s. One
suggestion, to be laid before the Government, is that
every colliery should be obliged to close down at least
eight hours in the 24. From a sanitary point of view every
mine would be the better for having a daily chance to get
clear of powder fumes and smoke, &c. ; but the main idea
of the proposal is to improve wages a trifle ; it is on all-
fours with the idea of cutting down the working day to
four hours or so, so that the available jobs would go
further around. It is a fool of an idea, when, by high
Protection, the available jobs could be more than
doubled.
* • • *
As usual, when it was too late to do any good,
the ballot having been taken on the extension matter,
the S.M. Herald warned the A.M.P. that in life assurance
bigness isn’t greatness. To that the Society replies in its
last office Messenger. “ Even ‘ the unwieldiness of big-
ness’ is no obstacle to continued prosperity,” sa3’s the
A.M.P. management, “ so long as the true spirit of life-
assurance methods is adhered to ; for the North-Western
Mutual of America had in force on January Ist, 1906,
320,896 policies, assuring 764,266,187 dollars, with assets
of 208,417,073 dollars. Its net increase of assurances in
force for 1905 was 55,713,900 dollars, secured solely in the
U.S., while its percentage of all expenses and taxes to
total income was only 14 per cent, for that year.” The
A.M.P. management must be mighty hard up for argu-
ments to justify its folds' in going outside its own country
when it appeals to' t»e success of an office which, in
almost its own words, has achieved suecess by doing the
very opposite and sticking exclusively?!*) its own country.
But, anyhow, as might also be expected, the A.M.P.
management’s facts aje all wrong ; its capacity for
blundering, whenever it deals with this extension matter,
amounts almost to genius. For this American office it
quotes so approvingly, to justify its own attempt at
bigness, achieves th&ccomparatively low expense rate
quoted by the simple but highly objectionable process of
practically loading the policy with a permanent agency
commission. Working on the “ general agency ” system,
the North-Western reduces the charge for new business
by increasing the rate for renewals; so that, if it left off
taking new business, its expense rate would still be about
Tk per cent. In 1904 it paid 1,767,670 dollars in renewal
commissions alone. From two points of view, therefore,
the A.M.P.’s example is an unfortunate one.
* * * *
South Australian Brewing Co. (Adelaide)
Added Nominal
Profits. Dividends. Written to Re- Re-
Feb., off. serves, serves.
1897.. - £7,285
1898.. £20,244 7 p.c. =£17,500 £l7BB £956 8,241
1899.. 15,953 5 „ „ 12,500 3229 224 8,465
1900.. 21,233 5 „ „ 12.500 2083 ' 6650 15,115
1901.. 23,468 5 „ „ 12,500 3468 7500 22,615
1902.. 22,506 5 „ „ 12,500 1250 8756 31,371
1903.. 13,752 5 „ „ 12,500 750 502 31,873
1904.. 12,935 5 „ „ 12,500 750 31,558
1905.. 12,913 2J „ „ 6,250 2750 3913 35,471
1906.. 17,370 5 „ „ 12,500 2750 2120 37,591
With which figures read these others :
1898. 1904. 1905. 1906.
£ £ £ £
Debentures .. .. 200,000 200,000 200,000 200,000
Other debts .. .. 42,309 49,984 35,988 33,009
Freeholds, plant,
goodwill, &c. .. 438,983 478,102 478,886 477,161
Stock 31,358 13,115 10,182 9,905
Advances, &c. .. 40,746 47,306 41,391 42,534
Net Sales .. .. 29,141 22,438 27,225 30,393
Rents 12,057 13,719 12,349 12,633
Expenses .. .. 6,526 8,017 7,409 8,070
Depreciation (includ-
ing bad debts) .. 4,428 5,204 9,253 7,586
The amount shown in the first table as written off is ad-
ditional to the depreciation charged to profit and loss and
shown in the last line above. The year has given much
improved results. The low figures of the previous
year or two were, however, probably to some ex-
tent due to a change of management; the wise new
manager always wants to get the accumulated dead-horse
off the premises, and the extremely low profits probably
indicate that the cost of removal was in this case pretty
severe. On the other hand, this past year’s returns and
profits have been swollen by the Broken Hill trade, of
which this co. has the biggest share; Broken Hill is
a thirsty place, and its thirst always increases with the
price of metals. It isn’t too safe, therefore—as the metal
market isn’t a thing to rely upon—to accept this co.’s
figures for the year as normal. And, further, it has a
skeleton in its cupboard in the shape of a very strong
S. Australian anti-liquor party, which recently broke out
into rather general success at the polls. How much these
polls will affect the co.’s assets the directors say they
don’t know ; and the public certainly can’t tell them,
because in the balance-sheet freeholds, leaseholds, ma-
chinery, plant, rolling stock, goodwill, &c., are all
bundled into one unwieldy item.
* * * •
The troubles of M'Cracken’s City Brewery Co.
(Melbourne) have come to a head ; no arrangements
having been made to pay last half-year’s debenture
interest (£11,250), the mostly-English debenture-holders
have intimated that they will proceed to take complete
control of the assets. Nothing but a heavy re-
duction of debenture interest or a boom in Mel-
bourne property could save the' situation. For five years,
past the earnings have only averaged enough to pay £3
7s. percent, on debentures (£500,000); and the interest
payable is 4J per cent. The capital was originally
£500,000. In 1896 £250,000 was written off as lost, and
about £140,000 further was then called up ; so that there
is £640,000 of shareholders’ money in the business. The
losses have been made in the usual way—the beer-factory
wasn’t satisfied to sell beer on its merits, but grabbed
hotels at appalling boom prices in order to make sure of
the trade. In 1896 the co. held properties which cost
£900,065 ; even now, after heavy writing-down, they
stand at £680,000. In 1898 it was a question between a
further struggle and liquidation; and, as things have
turned out, it might have been better for shareholders if
the end had come then.
» * • *
Digging into the accounts of the N.S.W.'
Miners’ Accident Relief Fund, you find that your chance
of becoming a mangled remains is better as a coal-miner
than as any other sort of miner in N.S.W. Miners of all
sorts pay equally into this fund, which is then subsidised
by the employers and the State ; but whereas there was
not last year a single silver-lead mine at which the
miners’ contributions alone did not more than meet all
claims, there were many coal mines at which the subsidy
had to be drawn upon. By far the biggest employer is
the Broken Hill Prop. ; men’s premiums there amounted to
£2872, and the claims paid were £2024 ; after that come the
Central (Sulpide Corporation), premiums £971, and claims
£570 ; and the South, £794 and £605. The Newcastle Co. ’s
colliery employees paid in premiums £768 and drew £5BO ;
S. Bulli paid £562 and drew £427, Wallsend £547 and
£5OO, East Greta £5lO and £706, Metropolitan £449 and
£675, Seaham £426 and £248, West Wallsend £419 and
£204, Hetton £414 and £546. Mt, Kembla men paid in
£383 last year, but the mine cost the fund £2065; and
Wickham and Bullock Island, paying in only 6s. 9d., cost
£lol4—presumably pensions payable to men who were in-
jured when the mine was in full work, or to the
dependents of miners who were killed. Among mines
other than those of silver-lead and coal, the largest is the
Great Cobar and Chesney; workmen’s contributions
amount to £69o—which practically means that 690 is
the average number of men employed at these mines.
(The miner’s contribution is at the rate of £1 per
annum.) The benefits paid were £484. Mitchell’s
Creek premiums were £223, claims £279 ; Mt. Boppy £217
and £116; Lucknow'£2 and £6s—the last the worst
figures in the State', barring only those of Wickham and
Bullock Island. So far as one Can judge from the
accounts of this fund, the Western coalfield is by far the
freest from serious accident; while among metal mines
those of Wyalong appear to cost, comparatively speaking,
most in human life and limb. Both Neeld’s No. 1 and the
True Blue, the principal mines, cost much more than the
amount of workmen’s premiums.
* * * *
Lead : December average, £l7 Is. ; January, £l6
17s. 6d. ; February, filWOs: 4d.’;Mitih, £ls' 17s. 9d. ;
April, £l5 10s. The¥e‘is no telling"fbr certain what
normal is ; but it is probably somewhere about £l3. One
thing: the swing-back this time will probably not take
the price much below normal, because the boom was too
brief to do much in the way of opening mines and increas-
ing production. Only as late as last May the average
price was £l2 15s. 4d.
* * * *
Broken Hill Prop, has lately fluked what looks
to be a good thing, in a part of the mine where good
things have been very scarce, and if developments are
satisfactory, the neighboring mines, Block 14 and the
British—the former especially—should gain by it. A
couple of months ago a party of men were started stoping
on a bunch of carbonates on the 300 ft. level in the
northern end of Block 13, After working awhile they
came on to what looked like a well-defined wall; but a
shot in it disclosed sulphides behind it. They drove
through that and hit another supposed wall; then another
shot and still more sulphides. Now they have worked a
width of four sets (about 30ft.) and neither true wall is in
view yet. Sulphides being worked are very friable and
black, which usually means a high percentage of lead.
There is the same body 7 at the 200 ft. and the 400 ft., and
it is still going underfoot. What makes this find so
valuable is that it is a good distance off the main lode—
fully 200 ft. north-west.
* * * *
North Broken Hill has found its profits down to
£350 a week through the Junction fire, against last half-
year’s weekly average on working account of over £1350.
The output has had to be reduced by half during the
past month, and expenses could not be cut down
to correspond. But, though it is officially pointed
out that these things are responsible for the slump,
there are other causes at work. The average
of the ore mined last half-year was 19.1 per cent,
lead and 6'7oz. silver; in the early part of the half-year,
just after the new co. took charge, the mill dealt with
stuff averaging 20 per cent, lead, and 7'soz. sil-
ver. The averages for the past four weeks were
only 17’88 per cent, lead and 3'620z. silver, which is
an awkward fall, because it costs just as much
to mine and mill the poor as the rich ore. Two units of
lead and 2£oz. silver mean 12s. 6d. per ton ; and there is
more than that difference, at present prices, between
the ore that the new co. started on and issued
its first figures about nine months ago, and the
ore which is now being worked. And no Broken
Hill mine can afford to have twelve-and-sixpence.
clipped off its values. The net profit on B.H. North lass
half-year was, in fact, under this amount. (It isn’t to bt
understood that there has been a fall in values of 12s. 6de
per ton from the average of last half-year ; only from the
ore treated in the early part of the term.) Whether the
co. is getting out an average quality of ore now, and
raked out something above the average at the start isn’t
clear. But it looks very unlikely that the co. would go
out of its way to send up poor ore when the markets are
good. That is the time, as they all know, to rush the
metal out. There have been fine ore developments at
the North so far as quantity goes ; but the way in which
values are creeping down needs to be looked at hard.
• » * *
Myalls and Peak Hill (N.S.W.) reports and ac-
counts are out from London ; period covered is from
June 29, 1904, to Oct., 1905—rather over 15 months. The
result isn’t what was expected. Tests made at Peak Hill
led one to expect a cyanide extraction of about 10s. per
ton at a cost of ss. ; and that, after paying for adminis-
tration and wear and tear, promised something tidy on a
turnover of 6000 tons per month. Cyanide has succeeded
where the battery treatment failed through excessive
sliming ; but it has only succeeded to the extent of a 53 p.c.
recovery against an anticipated 70 p.c. recovery, while
costs, instead of being, say, 6s. over all, have only during
the past month or two been got down to near that figure.
Lately, since the l'eport was furnished, by crushing finer
with Cornish rolls—bringing the pulp to much the same
condition as in the original tests —an extraction of 80 per
cent, has been made. Myalls, though giving the better
financial results for the 15 months, has no certain future ;
Peak Hill has. Before paying its share of the cost of
administration, Myalls showed a profit of £3188; Peak
Hill, a profit of £719 ; total, £3907. Deduct £3901 for
general expenses, and £6 is left towards depreciation.
London office cost £1194, including £592 for the directors ;
and what they did to earn the money isn’t obvious. On
top of that the consulting engineer, who is also one of the
three directors, is paid stiff fees as such—which is about
as shocking an arrangement as can well be conceived.
Presumably he was put on the board because he
knows something of mining, or is supposed to; yet it
looks as though, when he gives the co. the benefit of his
mining knowledge, the co. has to pay extra for
it. To pay him as a director under those circumstances
seems absurd, or worse. The co., though apparently £6
to the good on the 15 months (some of the time spent on
construction), is accumulating a considerable amount of
dead-horse that will need shifting. Nothing short of £2OOO
a year should come off for depreciation. Also preliminary
expenses (£1674) are in the balance-sheet as an asset, and
that item needs wiping out at the first opportunity.
* •* * ‘ *
A Broken Hill man lately sent up samples of
tin ore from Euriowie and Waukaroo, the Barrier fields
over which a pot of money was dropped 15 years ago, to
John Moffatt, of Irvinebank. But the North Queens-
lander’s opinion was not encouraging. “At no place
where the tin ore so occurs has it yet proved to be pay-
able, though good pockets have been found."
* * * *
The English co. which has taken up the Conrad
(N.S.W.) mines is getting ready to do things on the usual
J. Bull mining scale starting, of course, with a
vast amount of surface hamper. A big mill is
going up, a fifth furnace of new design has been
added, “ and we shall soon have 500 men at
work,” say the local people. The Conrad problem
is metallurgical; and there is no certain proof that it has
been solved. The chances, in fact, are that it hasn’t been
solved, and that laboratory results will not be realised in
treatment on a big, practical scale. J. Bull would have
been a much wiser man if he had for the present planned
his surface gear half the size.
* * * •
Rare battling has been going on in Bendigo and
Melbourne between the Catherine United bulls and bears.
George Lansell was a big holder, and a firm believer in
Coakes, the manager, and looked for big divs. this year.
But Lansell is dead, and the market thought his shares
might come out for sale. Bendigo folk did not fancy
the stone south, though it is carrying gold. They., there-
fore, beat shares back badly, although Coakes went at them
with the statement that the mine has “a prosperous future
in front of it, below 2200 ft. as well as above that level.”
If better yields start and the stone continues good south,
the market will shoot away from the bears. Directly the
2100 ft. is opened up, says Coakes, look out for better
yields. And the old man is so sure that one is inclined to
back his experience.
* * # *
One sun is making a host of planets at Ander-
son’s Creek (Vic.). Caledonia is the sun, and the Consols,
the North and the South, to say nothing of the Blocks,
the Bocks and the Shocks, are flashing out already on
the Stock Exchange. Anderson’s Creek was one of the
forgotten goldfields near Melbourne. Schlichting, for-
merly of St. Arnaud, got the Caledonia, unwatered it,
and hit rich stone. E. Miller (of the V.R.C.) got into the
show with Millen (Briseis Clarke’s one-time partner), and
brought mining ideas to the property. The old school
that wanted divs. before the mine was proved tried to
beat the board at the poll, but couldn’t. Now', with
some cash in hand to pay for the battery 7, and some
stone in reserve, a battery has been bought. Mine
has cut a well-defined reef at 210 ft. ; stone crushed so far
has gone well on to 20z., but it can by no means be said
that there is anything like the market value of the mine
in sight. Shares are well held, and have been rushed to
over 405., which gives the claim a value of £30,000. Con-
sidering the underhand stoping done at No. 1 level,
neither £2 nor anything like it is proved. As for the
pups, the North seems about the best. Still, that is say-
ing little, for the faulting in the Caledonia makes Stock
Exchange valuations of the minnows entirely speculative.
One of the little loads of which Baillieu, Tom
Harvey and others were lightened by the Stoneham-
J. Bull crowd was the Duke United, Maryborough (Vic.).
Seeing the drift of the mine, they ought to now devoutly
thank their stars that they fluttered out so neatly. Last
half-year’s work landed the present co. in a loss of over
£3OOO. Wash dropped in value to 10£dwt., 4178 fathoms
giving 2185J0z. Worked out on a tonnage basis, this
means that the co. raised 32,729 tons of dirt and aot only
an average of ldwt. 7’lgr. per ton. No wonder it did not
pay. Yet the leeway was not so bad, considering the
water that had to be pumped and the dead work done.
What has killed profits has been the easting of the gutter
after its run due north from the old Duke North.
The lead has now made north-east from No. 7 branch ;
the co. has a level over 500 ft. ahead of that.
Prospects have been got from the bores here, but the
wash has to be entered before it can be said that any real
change for the better has occurred. At No. 7 branch
the run of gold was narrow. Such has been the experi-
ence right from No. 4 branch. This is the danger ahead,
for, with such narrow runs of gold, there is no hope of
profit. As a matter of fact, the last 800 ft. back from No.
7 level is miserably poor dirt, too ; yet one couldn’t
expect much gold in the lead when it was cutting over
the reefs at right angles. Now it is on its northerly
course again it will run parallel with them, and so will
get the benefit of any gold shed. The hope of the claim
lies in that, and it has no other. Sam Body’s view was
that the lead split where it went east, a portion of the
old river running north. Exploration, while disclosing
wash to the north, doesn’t expose gold. What won’t be
appreciated by J. Bull is that not only has he gone to the


MACHINERY AT ROYAL SHOW, SYDNEY.
The ATTRACTION OF ALL ATTRACTIONS- 11 ROBEY’S ” WORLD-RENOWNED machinery,
particularly the Latest “ROBEY” FAST TRAVELLING SPRING MOUNTED TRACTION
ENGINE for heavy loads, designed for “out-back” Australia, and specially
imported for the Show.
CENTRAL MINING COMPANY,
Machinery Avenue, or 64 Pitt St., Sydney. ARTHUR Managing Director.
The pumping difficulties which many mines
have to contend with sometimes develop into a scare which
tends to knock shares out of the market. The A. S.
Cameron Steam or Air Pumps, have saved many
precarious situations by their ability to handle water,
even gritty or aciduous without fear of the pumps getting
out of order. Broken Hill Mines, the Mt. Lyell, and other
leading- coys, have recognised the great value of Cameron
pumps in their simplicity, strength and durability undei
all conditions, whether driven by compressed air or
steam. W. and J. Lempriere, of Melbourne—the Sole
Agents—are continually supplying Boilerfeeding, Piston,
Horizontal, and Vertical Plunger Pumps from their
stocks. Mining requisites are specially catered for.*
Important notice to mine managers and others.
The High Court having decided that the Wilfley patents
are invalid, the threats held over buyers of concentrators
for so long are idle. Having at very great expense fought
the battle of the mining industry against monopoly, we
look for a fair measure of support from mill owners and
others, whose sympathy we invoke. All we ask them to
do is to satisfy themselves of the-superiority of the Card
concentrators and adopt them. The great merits of the
Card are now pretty well known, and the points of
superiority over every other Table understood. Anew
booklet may now be had, giving the latest information
and evidence of its superiority. N. Gcthridge, Ltd.,
263 George-street, Sydney ; Collins-street, Melbourne.
* * £
Although the Wilfley Coy. failed in their
attempt to get an injunction against the Card Con-
centrator, they succeeded by threats in frightening a
good many people, but they did not go beyond threats
because they knew they could never get an injunction
against the Card. Now that the High Court has unani-
mously, and in a very strongly expressed judgment
declared that the Wilfley invention was public property
when the patent was taken out and the patent therefore
invalid, they are no longer able to make idle threats in
the endeavor to block the use of a Concentrator, which,
in the opinion of experts, combines very important im-
provements in the’Concentrating art. N. Guthridge, Ltd.*
The most repulsive, sinister figure in modern
society is the defaulting trustee, and he would have been
destroyed long ago by legislation had the public seen him
in his full bulk. But for every miscreant who. is dragged
before the courts and punished for squandering the means
of the widow and orphan, unknown numbers escape, by
making some wretched and ineffectual attempts at
restitution. In all history there is no greater br more
horrible tragedy than that of- the widow and orphans
suddenly reduced to abject poverty through a careless
or dishonest trustee. The usual procedure has been for a
man to toil and deny himself and thereby accumulate
sufficient to keep his wife and children in comparative
comfort. It is always the life-long friend who is appointed
trustee, because the wife is so ignorant of business. And
the life-long friend gets into difficulties, and gambling
with the money of the widow and the orphan drags them
down with himself. Sometimes, it is not even dishonesty,
just sheer “ bad luck,” which is another name for incom-
petence, which, strange to say, often goes with good
nature and the best of intentions. The only way to make
proper and reasonably safe provision for those we love in
the event of death, is to leave the management of the
estate to a strong trustee firm, like the Perpetual Trustee
Go., Ltd., of 2-4-0 Spring-street, Sydney. Its subscribed
capital of £1,000,000 is security that estates will not be
squandered, or misappropriated ; and the volume of its
business enables it to employ the best legal service, and
to find Outlets for small amounts of capital which may be
left to it to invest for the best advantage of a family.*
„ * * *
From advices to hand we learn that the Mount
Morgan Gold Mining Co. who lately installed five Hornsby
“Upright” Water Tube Boilers representing 2500 h.p.
have their new plant under steam and a phenomenal
saving is confidently expected in their coal bill and cost of
maintenance. It is gratifying to note that the
“Hornsby” boilers are fulfilling all that the maker’s
claimed, and with the excellent results obtained, com-
petent engineers have no hesitation in recommending
their general adoption. The firm have already created
one engineering record with their well-known patent
safety oil engine, carrying, as it has, everything before it
in all parts of the world, and we have no doubt they are
on the eve of creating a second record with their
“Upright” boiler. R. Tlornsby and Sons, Ltd., Hay-
market, Sydney; Spencer-street, Melbourne.**
* * * *
The Curtin Davis Proprietary Company, No
Liability, is prepared to consider offers of approved
mining properties under working option of purchase for
cash. Full particulars to R. E. Tweddell, Manager, 31
Queen-street, Melbourne.*
The Cathcart Proprietary Gold Mine, Ararat,
was the first mine in Victoria to adopt electricity as motive
power for pumping, hoisting and puddling. This plant
commenced work in September, 1904, and has been in
constant and successful operation ever since. It consists
of two return tube boilers, 160 horse-power engine, 110
kilowatt dynamo, switchboard, an electric hoist capable
of lifting 800 tons in 24 hours, an electric three-throw
pump raising 25,000 gallops of water per hour and a 35
horse power motor driving the puddlers. The dynamo
also provides electricity for 40 lights by means of which
the surface and underground workings are lighted.
Experience obtained on this mine during one year’s
service proves that: (1) electricity makes an actual saving
in fuel amounting to about £350 per annum ; (2) the
dynamo and motors cost practically nothing to maintain ;
(3) the cost of lubrication is reduced to a minimum ; (4)
electric motors require much less attention than
steam engines; and finally (5) electricity is much
more flexible than steam power, permitting ready exten-
sion or change as mining conditions frequently require.
The contractors for this installation were the Austral Otis
Engineering Company Limited, corner of Hanna and
Kavanagh-streets, South Melbourne, Sole Agents for Ganz
and Company, Budapest, Hungary.* [1
• * * •
The British Austkalasian (London) July 14,
1904 ;—“ The strong position of the Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society is sufficiently illustrated by the figures
in the report for 1903. The addition to the funds during
the year, was £107,965, bringing the total funds up to
£2,814,795.”*
’ * * * •
Important Notice to Mine Managers and Users
of Concentrators, YVilfley Concentrate Tables.—The Wil-
fley patent has not been revoked ; the patent remains in
full force and effect. Judgment was given against the
Wilfiey Syndicate by the High Court, on the ground that
the invention had been anticipated in Victoria by a publi-
cation circulating in the State of Victoria, but theylupheld
the decision of the Supreme Court that the Card Table
was an infringement; the Wilfiey patents in other Aus-
tralian States are not affected in any degree whatever.
The Wilfiey Syndicate is appealing to the Privy Council to
have the decision of the High Court upset, and lead-
ing patent counsel have already been engaged to argue
the case in England. Mine Managers and others are
warned that actions will be taken against all infringers
of the Wilfiey patents, whether they be users or manu-
facturers.—The Austral Otis Engineering Co., Ltd.
The Royal Agricultural Show is now in full
swing, and the machinery section is more interesting than
formerly. Arthur Leplastrier shows his usual enter-
prise, and his exhibit consists of Robey’s latest improved
mining and agricultural machinery. The attraction of
all attractions is Robey’s heavy haulage traction engine
(to revolutionise fast haulage “ outback ” and main-road
work). Portable engines, oil engines, gas and steam
engines, thrashing machines, and machinery and appli-
ances of all kinds are there to be gazed at. Amongst the
machinery in motion is an interesting small patent flour
mill and dresser, whereby any grower or buyer of wheat
becomes his own miller. The capacity is 1201 b. of finished
flour per hour, and the brake h.p. required is only two,
consequently it is a most inexpensive and necessary
adjunct to farm or station. Cheap haulage is still one of
Mr. Leplastrier’s specialties, and, besides ttaction engines,
tramway material of every description is available from
dog-spikes to compound locomotives. Irrigation is a
question that is specially provided for, and, as competent
engineers are on Mr. Lepl&strier’s staff, all technical
matters will receive their proper attention. *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99a Queen-
street, Melbourne. Commission business only.
Agents everywhere.
The Zinc Corporation has taken careful advice
in connection with the large plant required at Broken
Hill, and has ordered Babcock and Wilcox water-tube
boilers with superheaters and mechanical stokers. This
order has been followed by the great firm of mining
engineers, Messrs. Bewick, Moreing and Co., placing
orders with the same boiler company, in connection with
the South Blocks, also at the Hill. These instances
further prove the assertion that, wherever economy in
fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed. This company stock boilers at “ Haymarket,
Sydney.* ...
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
\y e stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
' Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne. *
, * * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery 19 also
used for making boilers, fiuming, refrigerators, bolts, huts,
and every discriDtion of cast or wrought iron work.
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
* * * *
Charters Towers.—Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* * * *
The Queensland Smelting Company, Limited,
be«-s to hotify its clients that it has ceased purchasing ore
from the public for the time being. A resumption of
purchasing operations will be advised in due course.
» * * *
Cobar.—For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894.
’ 4 * *
The balance of Machinery and Plant at Block
14, Co. Works, Port Adelaide, is for Sale by Tender,
returnable 24th April, 1906. Lists on application to
Butterworth, Hancock & Co., Port Adelaide.*
* * * *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents ob-
tained. Collison and Co., 483 Collins-street,
Melbourne (and Adelaide.) Twenty-six years
practice. Write us for Inventors’ Guide.*
bad financially, but, even if he gets good wash north, he
must have a new shaft to work it profitably.
* * * *
The Coronation is one of the mostly-Gippsland-
owned shows which have been sending a small steady
stream into the pockets of their owners, who wear moleskin
pants in a good many cases. The capital of the concern
is only £2400, and £1420 of that is uncalled, leaving
£9SO paid ; on that £1915 was paid in dividends between
September and the end of February ; and there is a little
nest-egg of over £2OOO on deposit—in the Post Office
Savings Bank some of it, which shows the modest sort
of people the co. is made of. The directors’ fees are
a whole £25 a year, divided among them —w'hich recalls
the Vulcan tin directors (Herberton, N.Q.), who,
for 10s. a week, reckon it their duty to know as much
about the mine as the manager does, and discuss
things with him on terms of perfect equality. The Coro-
nation isn’t a patch, either ; and, though a little more
vigor in the matter of sinking wouldn’t be amiss, there
are still fair reserves blocked out. It doesn’t look as
though it has anything to fear from sinking, for the stone
going underfoot is strong and of close on to one-ounce
quality, which isn’t much below the mine’s average.
-* * * *
Cathcart, Ararat (Vic.), has a “possible” of
getting out of its troubles by selling practically half the
mine to Bewick-Moreing for £2500. It was either that or
liquidation. The co. was in debt £3633, of which £422 was
for wages ; and the people who supplied mining timber
demanded cash down, and the big shareholders declined
to part up calls. Of £5OO due in March only £6B was paid.
All the big holders stood off. The co. is in 80,000 shares,
and from first to last it has spent about £50,000, of which
£22,000 or so has come out of the shareholders’ pockets.
It started off with a heavy surface outlay, and when it got
on to the gutter couldn’t get it rich enough. At a couple
of points it looks probable that the co. may make a
recovery, and local (Ararat) people are sanguine enough
to go on call-paying ; so B.M. and Co. have got into a fair
risk at a dirt-cheap price.
• * * *
Campbell’s Creek, Castlemaine (Vic.), started
as a sluicing show in some of the best ground near the
tow'n. The plant as a pioneer was costly to work, and the
co. struggled on and on until it was decided to try the
bucket dredge. This brought divs., after wiping out the
overdraft ; and there is every reason (provided
the land owners down Campbell’s Creek don’t
stop the dredge) to look for continued profits, as there.is
some capital dirt ahead. From sto 7 acres are dredged
half-yearly. Costs run between £5O and £6O a week, and
of late the average has been about 30oz. a week. Worked
out, this means 2'94gr. per cub. yard won ; and expenses
amount to ligr. Castlemaine is divided into two camps,,
of which the majority votes for the local sluicing prac-
tice, because every bit of gold can be scraped out of every
crack and cranny, which the buckets can never reach.
Sluicing costs, however, are 25 to 50 per cent, over those
of the dredge, because of the army of men that have to
be brought in to clean up the paddock, and because of
the time lost in shifting the plant. The truth lies mid-
way betw'een the two parties. The sluicing plant is
suited to the higher ground round Castlemaine, but it
would never compete with the dredges at Bright. Each
has its sphere of usefulness, and experience alone caii tell
which is the best place to put either plant.
* * * *
“ East Coast Tasmanian ” further discusses the
Tasmanian tin-boom shows ■“ There is a wide difference
between ‘ Ray X ’(B. 8/2/’O6) and me as to Weldbrook tin
(Tus.). He says that the ground was not tried and found
wanting, because (for one thing) the tunnel was no good.
Tne tunnel was put through 16 or 17 years ago, and acted
quite satisfactorily. ‘ Ray X ’ takes average depth of 12
acres at 10ft. Apart from tunnel, the old Weldbrook Co.
could raise ground about 20ft. deep with hydraulic eleva-
tor ; so my previous statement that old co. could bottom
the ground comfortably is confirmed. His estimate of
£24,000 worth of tin on 12 acres of this property is wide ;
and, as to having capital in sight, I am satisfied the co.
will not raise 100 tons of tin altogether, as there are not
more than 10 acres of ground on this property that will
give 10 tons of tin to the acre. The balance is worthless.
Even if the co. get this quantity it will cost at least £6OOO
(without allowing for contingent expenses), leaving about
£4OOO, less liquidation expenses, to divide among 35U0
shares; or, say, £1 per share. This is putting Weldbrook
on the best possible wicket.
“ As to Mutual Hill, which is alleged to have a
formation similar to Briseis. The Briseis has a deep body
of rich tin drifts, whereas Mutual is nothing more than a
swill of the Ringarooma River into the bank ; and the ‘ tin ’
is even more rubbishy than that in Briseis Extended.
Even supposing there* is a deep lead running towards
Weldborough (which there isn’t), as opined by one of the
people who reported on the show, it w'ould be quite un-
workable for two reasons : (1) there would be no water to
command it, as it got away from main creek ; and
(2) it would not pay to shift, even if there was water,
3Joft. or 400 ft. of overburden, heavily timbered, and
Capped with granite-bouldered hills, in order to get at
7ft. or Bft. of ‘ pigeon egg ’ wash. The tributors referred
to in some of the reports on which the public were put
into the concern did not make tucker. I regard it as an
absolute certainty that shareholders in Mutual Hill,
Weldbrook, Gladstone, Cybele and Wyniford will never
receive any of their money back save in the first and final
div., as these shows are on all fours with Briseis
Extended.” #
; W.A. mines have declared the following divs.
payable in Aprillvanhoe, £90,000; Great Fiugall,
£62 500 ; Kalgurli, £30,000 ; Sons of Gwalia, £24,375 ; and
South Kalgurli, £20,000. This tots up £226,875 against
£327,013 for same month last year. The Golden Horse-
Shoe’has a div. due in April, but can hardly pay £90,000
as it did last year, as its net profit for four months aggre-
gates only from £85,000 to £90,000. Ida H. will probably
pay the usual £2700.
* * * *
The estimated values of W.A. mines’ ore re-
serves and the actual extractions make an object lesson for
investors and scrippers. On October 31 Red Hill said it
had eight months’ supply worth 31s. 6d. ; the February
extraction was 295. 6d. On November 1 Merton’s said it
had 44 months’ supply worth 285., and the extraction
dwindled to 21s. lOd. On July 31 Kalgurli had 61 months’
reserves of 61s. ; the February yield was 625. On Decem-
ber 31 Perseverance’s reserves were estimated at 25
months, worth 435. ; extraction showed 525. Other mines
on December 31 figure out as follows: —Golden Pole, seven
months at 1275. 6d., last result 665. 3d. ; Tower Hill, 12
months at 285., last result 28s. ; Great Fingall, 38 months
at 555. 6d., last result, 495. lid. ; Lake View Consols, 10
months at 31s. 6d., recovered 275. 9d. ; Great Boulder, 34
months at 855., result 695. Id. ; and Ivanhoe, 46 months
at 785., extracted 545. Bd. Northern Associated on
September 30 said it had 26 months at 945., and
i't extracted 91s. 7d. It will be seen that with
few exceptions the estimates are mere wild guesses. Kal-
gurli and Tower Hill come out very exact, while Northern,
Red Hill, Lake View Consols and Great Fingall show ex-
tractions of 90 per cent, or over, but most of the others
are hopelessly out. Perseverance is 20 per cent, under-
estimated ; and the ultimate result in that case is pleasing
to bulls but rather disconcerting for bears.
* * * *
Golden Pole (W.A. ) has issued an unsatisfactory-
report for the half-year to January 31. On July 31 last
reserves were officially estimated at 25,000 tons, worth
20z., or say 1605., a ton, and on that basis the public was
invited to get in. Since then 9000 tons, and the same
quantity of residues, have been treated for an average of
935. per ton only. During the period £5067 has been
spent on development; nevertheless, ore reserves have
dwindled to 9500 tons in sight, and 3800 tons more or less
“ in the air,” while the value has dwindled to 30dwt., or
120 s. per ton. That is the estimate, but, shrunken as it
is, the reality is worse. The January return, including
gold from a double quantity of accumulated tailings,
only panned out 775. 3d., and the February return was
745. 3d. per ton. At the meeting last September the
directors promised a renewal of divs. by December,
and said that the bank account had only been
overdrawn by some £6OOO to pay a div. then due.
But, as a matter of fact, so far from dividends being
possible, not only have the whole net profits of £17,921
for the six months been mopped up, but development has
been reckoned an asset for a further £978. The directors
say that they will have “ a reasonable reserve by the ena
of May, and “ that profits thereafter can be distributed by
way of divs.” This is probably all moonshine ; there are
no signs of reasonable reserves of either ore or cash. th e
Jan. profit was only £65, and the Feb. profit £290.
Moreover, the manager says of plant that the upkeep is
heavy, and to effect adequate alterations practically
means demolishing and re-arranging the entire plant.
Altogether the co. is in Queer-street, and there is no use
mincing matters. The ore “in sight ” and “in the an is
earmarked 9s. per ton for development, and, as the profit m
Jan. was only Is., and in Feb. ss. 2d. per ton, the position
on that basis is hopeless. It is onlj r fair to say that
directors J. W. Fimister and A. I. Monger only .mined the
board at last meeting, and the latter paid £lO,OOO tor
8000 shares, now worth £3600. Norbert Keenan, M.K.A.,
has been on the board since the start, but, though
reputed a smart lawyer, knows nothing of mining. ihe
remaining director, T. B. Birkbeck, should have known,
being a mining engineer, but, apparently, he did not, as
he lost his own money.
Great Fingall (W.A.) does not show much im-
provement in its No. 12 level. The north drive only
entered the pay shoot at 476 ft., where it was worth 98s.
per ton for sft. wide. After driving 30ft. it became poor,
worth only 20s. ; but again improved, being worth 675.
from 560 ft. to 600 ft. For the next 200 ft. it was unpayable,
and then for 60ft. averaged about 28s. and ranged up to
17ft. wide. It will be seen from this that the reef is very
irregular, especially after it splits at 600 ft. north. No. 13
level has been started at 1590 ft., and, as the last 330 ft. of
sinking on the reef was barren, and the shoot is pitching
north, the prospect is bad unless a new shoot is found.
The probable profits on present reserves work out at about
755., so shares at anything over that price are a gamble
on future developments.
Main Reef, Kalgoorlie, is not looking too well,
the small patch of rich ore cut at 1550 ft. being of little
account. New Manager Wauchope has a tough task in
front of him, as all the Boulder pay shoots appear to die
away going south. The only luck the co. has had for a
long time past was when it sold its tailings fox* £-6000.
They are still lying there untouched.
Golden Link, Kalgoorlie, which recently sold
its Link lease to L.V. Consols, is now devoting all its
energy to prospecting the Eclipse. Driving south at
500 ft. from the old Croesus Prop, shaft, the lode has been
followed for over 200 ft., and. ranges up to 7ft. in width
and 75dwt. in value. A fair amount of backs has now
been opened up; but, as a barren zone was met at
the junction of tha oxides and sulphides, it is
impossible to say how much ore is likely to be
found. The shoot in the oxidised zone was not very
extensive, and the 20-head mill soon settled it, so too
much need not be expected from the present find. Co.’s
financial position and control in London are not satisfac-
tory • the funds are “ invested ” in a fine litter, mostly of
wild-cats, including Ardilla Copper, Commerce Tin,
Foreign and Colonial Gold Recovery, Gwalia Consols,
New Chaffers Extd., Wheel of Fortune, Esperance Prop.,
and Bridport Water. The last may be appropriately
named, but none of the others has produced anything but
gaS ' „ „ *
Princess Royal, Norseman (W.A.), must lie get-
ting dangerously near its boundary, where it struck 2oz.
ore sft. wide in a winze below the 700 ft. level, as the
Central is working the same lode south-east at a depth of
760 ft. If the shoot dips south, as the previous ones did,
the Central should benefit by the find, and will deserve to
do so after the energetic way it has worked. Until this
strike, prospects of neither co. were too bright.
Princess Royal South is to be wound up. Co.
is so “ stony ” that it can’t agree to give the liquidator a
fee ; but if he can boil anything out of the concern, he is
made a present of it after the other debts have been paid.
Some half-dozen leases have been taken up
recently at Phillips River (W.A.) by Fred Morgan, on
behalf of a London co. controlled by Kaufman, floater of
Lake View Consols, Ivanhoe and Merton’s Reward.
Kaufman is expected to visit the district in May, and, if
he is satisfied, some big floats may result. His present
co. the Phillips River Gold and Copper Co., has a capital
of £200,000 in £1 shares, of which 100,000 are in reserve.
The best of the leases acquired, the Cattlin, has a lode
which, at 85ft., is 18ft. wide, and worth 7'3 per cent,
copper and 15dwt. gold per ton, or say about 180 s. Even
allowing for poor extraction, this means a big thing if
it continues. As Kaufman’s properties are scattered over
an area 14 miles long, they will probably be split up if
developments warrant it. The field has been known for
half-a-dozen years or more, but has been held back
because of its' inaccessibility, being 33 miles from Port
Hopetoun, and because of the ore being a smelting pro-
position with no furnace on the spot.
* * * *
The Gentle Polly, Kanowna (W.A.), adjoining
the late Tom Doyle’s once marvellous show, has cleaned
up 42 tons for 5260 z. Previous returns were 48 tons for
3640 z., making a total of 90 tons for 890 oz. Some very
rich stone is in sight, and a further crushing may be
looked for shortly.
* * * *
Queen Margaret, Bulong (W.A.), not satisfied
with the failure of its bantlings, South Gippsland and
Queen of the West, has launched a fresh baby, the Nine of
Hearts, at Malcolm. The reef at 65ft. is 4ft. wide, but
very little has been done to prove its value, as the pros-
pectors were flooded out. Neither the Queen Margaret
nor the South Gippsland is paying its way, and a third
drain on the co.’s slender funds will soon bring trouble.
* * * *
Queensland Menzies (W.A.) is dismantling the
old mine, and removing all equipment to the Goodenough,
four miles away. Like all the mines in the district the
Goodenough is patchy, so much so that Manager Hamil-
ton abandoned it on behalf of Boulder No. 1, after a six
months’ test. That sort of thing has, however, often
happened. A man with a good mine—and a good salary
—at his back turns down a property which another man,
with his old mine “ busted,” is subsequently quite satis-
fied to grab. And sometimes, putting the energy of a
desperate man into hisefforts, he wins.
A * * •
O.K. Copper (N.Q.) has jumped to the front of
the market, and in a fortnight has put on 55., or about
£85,000 for the mine,, making (at 255. per share) its
total value £422,312. There is nothing new in the
mine to account for the jump. Months ago 255. was
tipped as the price which the stock would reach before
Easter ; and the leap in the European copper market just
managed to bring this off. The co. is stili struggling with
transport difficulties ; 'there is no coke on’ hand, and
it will be weeks before the Mungana-O.K. track
will be fit for any heavy traffic. Abdul Wade’s
camels are alone saving the situation ; the traction
engines are, of course, stuck up.. On the mine there has
been a rather bad cave-in owing to the prolonged floods.
The job of building a line from the O.K. will be costly,
but it will have to be done, whether the mine lives down
or not. For a while it seemed most likely that the con-
nection would be at Biboohra; hut the preference is
swinging round now to the shorter connection with
Mungana—which will mean that all O.K. and district
traffic will have to go over the Chillagoe line. Even this
shorter line will take 15 months to get through. As. to
the mine, there is no doubt that there is fully £2 per
share in view if the stuff could be marketed promptly ;
the present gamble is, therefore, not so much on the
mine as on the copper market.
* * » *
At Gympie (Q. ), during March, 19,046 tons
were crushed for 10,5470 z. Dividends amounted to
£26,025 ; calls to £4654. Dividends show a falling away
of £5575 compared with corresponding month of last
year. Speculators are apparently hanging back awaiting
further developments ; hence the small amount of calls
paid. Following are the returns from chief mines:
Scottish Gympie, 8000 tons, 36570 z. ; No. 2 S. Great
Eastern, 5200 tons, 23310 z. ; S. Glanmire and Monkland,
2740 tons, 1051 oz. ; 1 South Oriental and Glanmire, 397
tons, 9160 z. ; 1 N. Oriental and Glanmire, 717 tons, 3710 z.
Scottish Gympie’s crushing was well up to the mark, with
an average of 9dwt. 3gr., while No. 2 S. Great Eastern
with barely 9dwt. stuff, is decidedly low grade. South
Glanmire and Monlcland is little more than P a J™?
expenses with 7dwt. stuff. No. 2S. Great Eastern paid
6d., and 1 S. Oriental and Glanmire paid 3d. as dividends
for month.
* * ♦
The Two-Mile section of the Gympie field (Q.) is
at last to receive a fair test, unless something unexpect-
edlv happens. A lease of 50 acres has been applied for,
and the Government will no doubt do something to help
the test through. The prospect is deserving of support,
for Gvmpie badly needs developments to alleviate its
depression. As far as can be gathered, the lease occupies
virgin ground, the nearest shaft being about a
mile and a-half away. The “Phoenix” or Upper
slates” are the objectives. These same beds in other
parts of Gympie have been the source from which the
very rich gold was and is obtained ; so if prospecting
comes up to expectations, Gjmpie will have a new lease
of life. According to geologist Bands, every condition
necessary for the presence of gold is to be found at the
Two-Mile end of the field, and the present lease wasn t
picked upon haphazard. * #
From the Northern Territory : General mana-
ger T. Dyson has made an estimate of the ore reserves of
J. Bull’s Northern Territory Mines of Australia, and puts
them at 43,000 tons sulphide and 5000 tons gossan.
Smelting commenced on Ist April, and will continue
three months, putting through 6000 tons, averaging £o
per ton. Picked ore this, mostly gossan. Coke landed
at the works costs £5 per ton. Mines general assay
goes to sdwt. gold, 12oz. silver, 5 per cent, lead, 5 per
cent, zinc, i per cent, copper. Lode at 200 ft. level
bulges to as much as 27ft., but pinches again to 3ft. 6in.
There is every prospect that the Kapunda
copper mine (S.A.) will soon be at work again, aftei
having been closed down for nearly 30 years—thanks to
the fact that it is on private property. By very primitive
methods, which could not work effectively below 300 ft.,
copper was got out that sold for £1,000,000. It was the
first copper mine in Australia, having been discovered in
1842.
Talking about “ first copper mines.” The Lynd-
hurst Syndicate—an English prospecting crowd—lately
took over the Summer Hill, which is said to have been
the first copper mine worked in N.S. Wales. It is expensive
and awkward to get at, and is on private land also;
nevertheless it should not have remained so long idle.
Practically nothing is, however, being done with it now ;
the English syndicate wanted some fluxing copper ores,
and took it up to supply them, but finds that the freight
kills that scheme.
A * » *
The Fountain Head Dredging Co., to operate
on 1920 acres of alluvial in the Territory, is a sweet pro-
position in 4000 shares of £lO each, of which half the
shares, fully paid, and £5OO cash go to vendors. Public
is offered 2000 shares at £5 on application, and balance in
calls of not more than £1 a month. A chief merit of the
prospectus is the modesty of the reporting “expert.”
He estimates the extent of ground proved at 37,000,000
yards, worth £3,700,000, or half a dwt. to the yard. But,
says he, “reducing this by one half, or to six grains
a yard, which is altogether too low an estimate, it
stiil leaves your property worth £1,850,000.” Further,
because treatment in Vic. and N.S. W. does not exceed
threepence per yard he doubles it, and yet leaves
a profit of £925,000. But the bigger he makes the figures
the more reason there was to explain something else—
why the Chow, with his keen nose for gold, has neglected
this 2s. dirt, lying on the surface, which is just the place
where the Chow likes to find his dirt. And then the ex-
pert is so beastly accommodating. By the way, it might
not be a bad thing, when the company law is being over-
hauled next, to make it necessary for an expert to declare
his interest (if any) in the property he is recommending.
The outbreak of typhoid now troubling
various parts of Victoria is dragging into the
upper air of publicity some hideous facts regard-
ing water supply and other matters. Certain
residents of Bairnsdale (Gippsland), for instance,
indicate in newspaper correspondence that numer-
ous corpses of pigs, slain by swine fever, were
thrown into the Mitchell River, which supplies
the town with drinking water. If the loathsome
Vic. farmer reported his dead pig, it would mean
inspection and the condemnation of his sick pig,
which he wants to sell in order that it may poison
the community for his own profit, so he prefers to
throw his dead pig into the town’s _ water supply.
Meanwhile his sick pig is languishing on the
river bank, preparatory to being killed and
porked, and while it languishes it is further pol-
luting the water supply. In matters of thie-sort
the farmer is much dirtier than his hog. _ When
the farmer dies, his hog doesn’t throw him into
anybody’s drinking water.


YOUR ENGAGEMENT RING.— We are from
London to supply you. That will explain why we can
interest and offer you more than most; We lead with
these unique gifts, and, moreover, facilitate your means
of immediate purchase if necessary by our novel and easy
plan of Monthly Deferred Payments. Our jewellery is of
modern, high-class and newest design. English Hall-
marked ISct. rich-carved half-hoop setting, purest gems
from 40s. to £6O. Deposit and terms are easy, and can be
privately arranged. Write or call for our illustrated cata-
logue of jewellery and plate, free. It will pay you to do
it now. The British Imperial Goldsmiths, 65 Pitt-street,
corner of Bridge-street, Sydney.
olfe’s Schnapps counteract the effect
of bad liquors, bad beer, bad water. It cures the
troubles they bring on. Wolfe’s Schnapps : A
pure extract of selected barley and the curative
Juniper berry, distilled in Holland.*
' T m u ■nd^lUiM,',. l WiTU.iJ*TT.T , «\<fg'M W.UIBMWMBOBiaKMi
FISHING NETS,
FISHING TACKLE.
Send for our Superb Tackle Catalogue—lT'S FREE.
EASTWAY BROTHERS, 409 SK 1 "
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resells Waverley Brewery, Agents.
Aboriginalities.
“Snell”: On the question of intense
-nells. I see that “Flabby Paul” (8., 22/3/’OG)
i-laims the belt for the very dead carpet snake.
‘ F.P.” means well, but is obviously not in a posi-
tion to j udge. The car pet snake—or any snake—is all
• ight as a bantam, but the heavy weight chainpion-
diip must go to the dead porpoise. The taint of
•he dead snake is only a local disturbance after
ill, whereas a full grown defunct porpoise well up
in the sands, with a hot sun and a favoring breeze,
tin pour an odor like the uncorking of the bottom-
less pit all over a State electorate. Once struck
'he outer edge of the atmosphere of a week-old
porpoise funeral on the north coast of Tasmania,
and after a heroic struggle three of us had to give
■ip a shooting expedition, and retire injured. We
heard afterwards we were not at any time within
a mile of the disturbed centre.
* * * *
“8.G.”: “Dave H R.” (B. 15/3/’O6) states
mad aborigines are the pets of their respective
camps.. My experience of mad niggers is that as
soon ,as they show even a whisker near a camp
they are chased by the whole populace until they
are a safe distance away, where they will not dis-
turb the domestic peace and dirt. Sometimes the
much-loved lunatic is lured into the camp, and
then dispatched with a couple of very hard knocks
on the cranium. If what “Dave H.R.” says
were true about allowing the loony one to take
anything he liked, there would be a great increase
in the number of black madmen. They are a
generous tribe, the Australian aborigines, and are
more likely to take the poor black crank down
for everything he has than to act the rich and
generous uncle to him.
UNDER THE MOVE-ON CLAUSE.
As Constable O’Rooke put it in court next day: “ Sure, ver Worships, th’ pris’ner’s a
notorious vagrant. When he saw me cornin’ he took to his heels, an’ afther chasin’ him fer
half-an-hour I arrested him fer loitering.”
ownnV y ifces: described (B.
2,i/d/06) how he was knocked out by a professor
of boxing. Here is an opportunity to get some
interesting descriptions of undesirable experi-
ence from those who have gone through it. I
was boxing with a hard-hitting mate, two stone
heavier than me, and he swung one that I didn’t
see coming. It took me on the point. I heard that
people so hit see stars. I didn’t. I saw one
little spot of light in the middle of a black velvet
firmament. Then, ever so slowly it seemed, it
began to grow, and I watched it expand into one
big, magnificent, golden star that became a sun
with lovely purple fringes round the edges of each
of its illimitable rays. It had just about filled up
the whole landscape when I discovered I was
bumping against the wall. I looked up like a
man coming out of chloroform and saw what had
happened. I had not fallen. I had just tottered
aside when I received the blow, and the whole
glorious illumination had occupied only the frac-
tion of a second. Though not “out” according
to the Markiss, I was absolutely unconscious dur
incr that brief moment *
ing mat Drier moment.
* * * *
“Mark B.” : Some two months ao-o I
visited the Blue Mountains of N.S.W. for the
first time, and was struck by the total absence of
bird life. Wandered through Nellie’s Glen,
Wentworth Falls, and all the principal places of
interest, but not once did I see a feathered song-
ster. My landlady hazarded an opinion that the
climate was “too tryin’ for th’ pore things.”
“Ho-hi”: In the art of cutting up an
intestate estate the average Caucasian lawyer
is not in it with the heathen Chinee,
“ which the same I will strive to explain.’
Some months ago a Chow of the St. Arnaud
(Vic.) camp took his departure from this vale
of sorrow. He was supposed to have some
belongings, and inquiries resulted in his mate
admitting that the deceased left £6 7s. in cash
and a 7dwt. nugget. The Curator of Intestate
Estates asked the mate to hand over the property
to the local police, and John replied by submit-
ting a statement of justifiable expenditure. Here
is his account done into English by Kew Ming :
Paid to Chinese Minister £lO 0
Paid to Maryborough Chinese Lottery (for
tickets owing by deceased) .. .. .. 018 6
Return fare from Maryborough to inform
friends of death.. .. 0 8 7
Undertaker 2 10 0
Luck money put in coffin 0 4 0
Washing deceased .. .. .. .. .. 060
Luck money to mourners .. .. ~ .. 012 0
Six cabs for mourners .. .. .. ~ 18 0
Cab for Minister 030
Ah Sing (money lent) 0 4 0
Drinks for Ah Shang (who was sleeping in same
bed as deceased when he died) .. .. 0 5 0
Drinks for six Chinese who sat up all night with
deceased .. .. .. .. .. .. 0 12 0
Tea for mourners .. .. .. .. .. 010
Tobacco for mourners .. .. .. 010
Chinese sugar for mourners .. .. .. 0 2 6
Cab to inform police.. .. .. .. .. 020
Luck money to Ah Fook (the deceased having-
died in Ah Fook’s bed) 0 2 0
Sundries 0 4 5
Total £0 4 0
Less cash and nugget 7 15 0
Owing to me .. .. • .. £l9 0
The mate was volubility itself in explaining the
absolute necessity of every item of the expendi-
ture to ensure a sound sleep and no ghosts. Asked
what was done when a Chinaman died without
any means, he said, “Chinaman dly poor, allee
same Eulopean, nobody care dam ! no fliend
come ; no luck money ; pleece belly him.”
* * * *
“Nulla”: Have never seen jackasses
rifling birds’ nest, but, lately, the story of a Long
Bay man has caused me to view the hilarious
chuckler with suspicion. The Long Bay man had
a jack as a vermin destroyer, also some young
guinea fowls. Guinea chicks are delicate, and
one of them died. In an evil moment the man
threw it to the jackass. Jack seized it eagerly,
and after bashing it about, braced himself firmly,
closed his eyes, and prepared for a mighty effort.
At the first try the chick disappeared. Thence-
after, Jack brooded about the pens like a grey
philosopher, thinking of the marvellous healthi-
ness of chickens in general, and those chickens in
particular. Finally, he determined to help the
course of nature, and chickens mysteriously
vanished. One day, however, the man, hearing a
commotion in the yard, went out, just in time to
see one of his beloved fowls sticking out of the
jackass’s throat. That bird promptly lost his job.
A moral magpie took his place. As the fowl
man says: “He’s death on centipedes and mice,
but won’t eat chickens. ”
“T.P.D.”: Re your item about rabbit
fences in Westralia and the destruction of emus
(B. 8/3/’O6). In the same way, a lot of young
plain turkeys are destroyed in Queensland. I
finished the erection of 15 miles of rabbit-proof
fence on Evesham-Corowa boundary (West Queens-
land) in March, ’97. Going back along it to put
the finishing touches to it, I found hundreds of
young plain turkeys both alive and dead. Those
that weren’t dead were on their last legs. When
they come to the obstruction the full-grown
birds fly over, and those that can’t fly hang about
the fence until they perish.
* * * *
As to beer-eaters :
At the Prahran (Vic.) court a Melbourne sewerage
laborer swore (and mates backed him up) that “ if a man
couldn’t take nine pints he wasn’t thirsty. If he (the
cross-examining lawyer) would pay for them, he would
get through 10 pints in half-an-hour, and go home sober.
It was common for sewerage men to drink from seven to
fen pints in half-an-hour.” The same witness gave a
graphic description of a “ trifling argument.” “ Red ’
gave Barry a tap with his fist on the jaw, and Barry went
to sleep.” It transpired that Barry slept for nearly four
hours.
All of which is very horrible and very coarse, no
doubt, and is calculated to make the right-think-
ing Fat Man ask what you think of your working-
man now. But there are just two things right-
thinking Fat might be asked—(l) Wouldn’t he be
the same sort of man if he were a sewerage
laborer? (If he weren’t, he would die in°a
month.) (2) How would he get along without
sewerage laborers ? He might find it more awk-
ward to do without them than, say, bank
managers.
WHAT WE MAY YET COME TO.
P.M.: “ What’s the charge, Constable?”
C OP: “ He's charged , y’ Worship, wid bein’ outside a public-house on Sunday, an’ lookin' as
if he hoped to (jet a drink.”
Ask the country school teacher what is
the coming Australian industry and he will
undoubtedly plump for the rabbit. Bunny upsets
the average attendance more than measles,
truancy and cricket matches all put together.
At one small country school there are 22 names on
the roll—boys and girls all told. One day the
teacher had only two present. The others were
taking Nature study on their own. The excuses
given for absence that day were as follows :
Fourteen were rabbitin’ ; three helping mother
(mother was rabbitin’); two played the “ wag ”
to go rabbitin’; and the remaining one had to
stay at home to mind the house, as mother had
gone to town. Mother had taken in a load
of rabbit skins to dispose of. The teacher inquired
what the fathers were doing, and 22 kids yelled
“ rabbitin’.”
*l*
The question of how to deal with the 1000
half-caste aboriginal children of Queensland is
troubling' the Cabinet.
None of the existing
institutions will take
them in, and they are
growing up at the camps
knowing only the things
that were better left un-
learned. Statistics show
that 90 per cent, of half-
caste women have gone
down. The Salvation
Army has offered to es-
tablish a home, but
Ministers have an idea
that if the public must
be tapped and the in-
mates sweated, the State
had better do the tapping
and the sweating itself.
Still something will have
to be done. In one
blacks’ camp there are
no less than 38 half-castes
under the age of 16 ; and
one of them has already
a child, perfectly white,
with fair hair and blue
eyes. The whole ques-
tion is wrapped up with
aborigine protection, which is one of the things
waiting for the Australian Parliament to deal
with when G. Reid and Joe Cook have left off
making a circus-ring of it for killing stuffed
tigers in.
* . * * *
“ Roaring Fifties ” : My father remembers
an epitaph in the vicinity of Jim Crow, Forest
Creek (Vic.), in the early fifties, that should not
be forgotten. It was carved on a rough cross,
and was brief and to the point:—
George I’ora;
In a Hell of a Hole !
* * * *
G-eraldton (N.Q.) takes a back seat for
showery weather. Blackbull, near Croydon, re-
cently had 12 inches in three hours, and followed
it up with 14 inches in 24 hours.
There was a well-known surveyor, in the
earl d of Maoriland, who christened many of
~, . , J
“ ie rlvers and mountains On the Vest Coast,
leaving his own name on one of the latter. He
once found himself near a Maori settlement, and,
i n exchange for value received, bestowed a shirt
~ . . . .
’ ipon a Maori woman. After his return to town
he was one Sunday escorting his wife to service,
when lie encountered his brown lady acquaint-
ance, who importuned him familiarly for two
sbiUlV and in rep ly to his haughty “Get away,
„ :
w 9 m . an ’. °pep e d her blouse and m-
crl™inating mien, wi th, You sayee dis shairt ?
and much.other playful inquiry. Ihe Maori did
not got the two slullm , but she left a burden of
painful explanation behind her.
PUTTING A DAMPER ON HIM.
THE PEST: “ But why do they call this dry-
blowing?”
THE WEIGHTCASER (dryly): “ P'raps becos it
don’t rain, and there ain’t no pub, and the
coves wot come ’ere blowing never brings any-
thing to make dry-blowing wet.”
“ Starr” : I have happened on the lady-
rabbiter. Two shy bush girls were recently made
orphans, and thereby the inheritors of a good
bunny-snapping outfit. They knock out a living
trapping for a station. They prefer their horses,
dogs, and freedom to taking service in the adjacent
township and pursuing the hot domestic avocation
in a galvanised iron kitchen.
AN OUTBACKSLIDER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘l’m the cove you a-plodding on the road
With a billy and a blanket for my load,
'You says, says .you, with pride,
Cos you’ve got a nag to ride,
-‘There’s another poor old swaggie on his way to the
Divide,”
Vet I’ve blewed a bit of lucre in my prime,
And I’ve sowed some oats, and wold ones, in my time ;
North I’ve been, and East and West,
<*ut the life that is the best,
Is the unattached existence w'ith its riot and its rest.
i chew the cud of mem’ry as I go,
And strange philosophies I get to know'.
'xperience teaches me
that the man who w r anders free
In the sunlight, and untrammelled, knows alone w'hat
peace may be.
I've humped the bloomin’ swag in every clime
i !t may be that I’ve done my bit of time) ;
: ve drunk my whack of beer !
\ nd, though lonesome it appear,
i t’s the only life worth living—where the sun shines all
the year.
N.S.W.
A.B.C.


WOLFE’S Schnapps
MEANS BUSINESS WHEN IT TACKLES
YOUR KIDNEY TROUBLES!
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
M.S. : Poor je5t....N.L.3. : Rather pointless....
Cardiff : When we came to the place where you “ lingered
oft at eventide,” we gave it up Pilgrim (Barfold): We
recognise three-fifths of your items as chestnuts. There-
fore we conclude they are all chestnuts, and put you on
the list of those whose copy is to be rejected every time.
Also, you have a habit of being deficient in your postage.
David Petrie: Can’t you Victorians remember that
your penny postage is only good in your own State ?
That eternal 2d. fine grows wearisome S. P. Brown :
You put two penny stamps on your letter. It was over-
weight, and cost us 4d. The Id. you sent for return
reduces the loss to 3d. Contents of letter gone into the
basket G.P. : “Stockman and New Chum” is very
crude verse C.S.K. : Four line poem declined
Organist: No, we reckon your occupation won’t become
extinct this century, nor next R. (Parkville): Sugges-
tion is a steal from Puck of some 20 years ago
Li-hin-Jo : When W. S. Gilbert made that joke he made
it much better than you d0....Nu11a: Your remarks
about not speaking evil of the dead lead us to hope that
you always allude kindly to Ahab and Cain. They are
dead T.I.M. :We don’t like the Salv’army, but that
yarn is probably a slander Prickly Pear : Far too com-
plicated to be answered off-hand. You’d better submit
the questions to the Income-tax Department. If you
have any doubt then as to the correctness of the reply,
take a good counsel’s opinion—which you needn’t neces-
sarily ask through a solicitor G.O. : Not up to the
mark C.J.K. : Picturesque, but human impression not
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
A.R. : “Merely Ornamental” isn’t even that.... .Manby :
Not near the mark.... J. Blumenthal: Not suitable....
Irak : Rather a dull frivolity... G. Lees : Pictorial night-
mare and delirium tremens to hand.
There is nothing better for killing all
infectious disease germs than Little’s Soluble
Phenyle. Try it in your bath; use it generally
throughout the household if you want comfort. No
vermin can live where it is used ; has 100 different
uses. Ask your grocer for a bottle.*
THE . .
LADIES’
“Fx&R” WATCH
At £6 6s.
Is a J-plate Lever, Has 15 Jewels.
Has a Ruby Roller Jewel.
Has solid heavy 14-carat double Gold Case.
Has Brequet Hair Spring.
Has Compensated and Adjusted Balance.
Is guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in order for
2 years (breakages excepted) without charge.
Will stand HARD RIDINC and KNOCKING ABOUT.
Is made in every style of case.
It goes with profound accuracy.
This is the same movement as is used by the Railway
Guards, only, of course, in a small size.
m
lot, £6 68
«ct. £7 7s
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street*
The use of soap, or the fat or oil which
exudes from meat or other substances that are
being cooked, grievously disturbs some of the hot
pools in the Hot Lake district of Northern Maori-
land. The pools are ordinarily quite tame, but
the grease produces geyser action, arid the placid
sheet suddenly erupts with all the fury of an
angry mother-in-law. The eruption is of a sudden
character, too, and if clothes are being washed,
or tucker is being boiled, the whole collection goes
sky high, and may not come back again. Why
the devil below should get so angry over a bit of
grease isn’t known. The soap rule has its excep-
tions, however. Almost every geyser seems to
answer to soap at first, but if it is soaped too often
a time comes when it refuses to respond. Then
there is nothing for it but to give it a long rest,
llecently, things had got so bad at Whakarewa-
JUSTICE.
MOTHER: “ You bad boy I Why did you hick
your brother?
BILL: “ Because he kicked me back.'”
rewa, near Rotorua, that there was only one
geyser which responded to the soap test; it used
to be soaped on Sunday afternoons, and it ex-
ploded in great style, recently, in the presence of
Paddy Crick. But some ot the old geysers, which
had been soaped into gloomy inactivity in past
times, have started to do their duty again, and
have blown off manfully since P. Crick left.
“ Eiram ” : I used to take keen delight in
watching the antics of emus. In addition to their
remarkable curiosity, they are endowed with an
extraordinary amount of intelligence. [1 he Bul-
letin has just received an item from a bushman,
who proves to his own complete satisfaction that
the emu is the prize idiot of the universe, and will
die of thirst while waiting for a wire fence to fall
down.] On one occasion I placed a brightly-
colored book on the window-sill of the schoolroom,
and in less than half-an-hour a flock of emus were
examining it. They strained their necks and eyed
it curiously, until one of my pupils allowed his
slate to fall on the floor. Upon hearing the noise
the emus ran away wildly. One became caught in
a wire fence and could not extricate itself. ' * hen
all was quiet several emus came back, and with
their beaks, slackened the wires from a corner
post until they were loose enough to admit of the
captive bird freeing itself.
* * * *
“ Janor ” : Saw a bull-ant, the other day,
stalking a bee in a low, well-flowered shrub. The
ant charged as the bee was preparing for its home-
ward flight, and got a firm grip of its hind legs.
The insect then put in some clever ground work
with its sting, but apparently the bee’s leg wasn’t
his vulnerable point. Bee stood on the defensive,
with whirring wings—now and again lifting its
opponent and flying several feet with it. Ant
countered by hanging on to a blade of grass by a
hind foot and biding its time. Seeing that it
would not have long to wait, I opened my pocket
scissors and neatly bisected it. The bee left
for home, flying slowly, with the of
the ant still hanging to its hind legs. The
language of the rear half of the ant when it was
left behind was terrible.
“ F.H.R.” : .The wind blew strong along
the wheel track, and the slow freight-ant that
was facing it had a hard row to hoe. The express
ant who ambled past with the gale behind his tail
scarcely threw him a glance, but in ant parlance
offered him a tow-rope. Then the wind put on a
sprint, and, picking up No. 1 ant, threw him high
in the air. After turning 13 somersaults, he
landed with an awful thud on top of the express
ant. Then the fastest fight on record happened.
It was so violent that, though I tried my best to
fill the office of referee, I could give no decision
whatever. Round one and last saw them get
straight into holts. Then the wind blew them
along the track for 10 yards. This unnerved
them some, so they let go for a second, when the
wind picked up the slow-freight ant, and threw
him yards away, leaving the express-ant blowing
up his muscles, and sharpening his claws, after
which he vainly searched for his sudden antagonist.
“ Werrimee ” :
Archie was a little,
bald-headed, grey-
iskered man, in
\v hose weather-
beaten face one
saw the stamp of
an old battler. He
had been on the
Cape River dig-
gings in its palmy
days, and had seen
some lively times.
Once, whilst dig-
ging in a shallow
hole, he was at-
tacked by two men
who wanted his
claim. One caught
him by the hair
and beard and lift-
ed him to the sur-
face, whilst the
other proceeded to
“ kick the stuffin’
out of him,” as he
put it. But Archie
was strong and
active then, and,
eluding his assail-
ants, picked up a
shor t-h a n d 1 e d
shovel and dealt
out stoush with
great vigor. In a
few seconds one
man was streaking
across the field for
his natural, whilst
the other was crawl-
ing away with a
battered face. So
he sai d. “ Yer
see,” he went on,
pointing with the
stem of his pipe,
“ onanewdiggin’s,
or on any big
field for the matter
o’ that, there’s all
sorts o’men. Some’s
on good gold, an’
some’s not gettin’ a
color ; an’ them as gets
nothin’ broods over the
other feller’s pile till
their fingers clutch in
their sleep. They begin
ter poke round an’ watch,
an’ if the bloke with the
money ain’t fly, he’ll be cold
meat in no time. Many a one’s
been done for an’ stowed away in old shafts, an’
never heard of, on them old diggin’s. Just a clout
with a pick or a stone when he’s below, an’ it’s all
over. Half an hour’s shovellin’, an’ who’s ter
know ? In rush times, when nobody knows who’s
who, a ’undred could be murdered an’ none of ’em
missed. I was follerin’ up a lead one day in
ground that’d been a bit worked before. All of
a sudden I come on to a hand —a man’s hand; an’
it was clutchin’ a pick. I sings out to a chap as
was workin’ near, an’ we roots ’im out. He was
an old digger, ’twas proved after, as used ter work
with a Frenchy. No one knew where Frenchy’d
gone, but it was plain enough he’d done for his
mate an’ cleared with the boodle.”
HOLDING HIS POST.
THE GENTLE INEBRIATE (after half-an-hour of this, breathlessly): “ Better look out, ladies 'n'
gen'l'men. I’m going to let it drop !”
The laughing jackass is getting himself
disliked in Victoria. At Cobden he has been con-
victed of eating chickens under remarkable cir-
cumstances. The laughing johnnie, when he sees
a hen with a young brood, watches his chance,
darts at the mother hen, and kills her with a single
blow on the head. Then he scoffs the chickens at
his leisure. Cobden chicken-farmers are agitat-
ing to have the kookaburra declared an outlaw,
with the object of making him laugh on the other
side of his beak.
* » * *
“Oliver” : Someone (8., 8/3/’O6) talks
about goannas. Have travelled most of N.S.W.
and a lot of Victoria with this result. I have only
seen small go.’s about Bendigo and Ballarat.
Along the Murray, near Gunbower, the biggest I
saw' were about 3ft. 6in. Along the ’Bidgee they
lengthen, and run to 4ft. South of the Lachlan I
have seen them about 4ft. 6in., while along the
Darling they reach sft. odd. In Bananaland they
are bigger still, and a six-footer is not uncommon.
* * * *
“ Maori Mac ” : Be 11 shicker ” (Bulletin,
15/3/’O6), would like to call “ Belter” a misguided
young kollykough. The slang word “shicker,”
signifying booze, or the glorious fact of being on
the booze, is derived from the Spanish-American
word “chica,” the popular drink of Peru and
Chili. The word was brought to ’Stralia by some
of the ancient wind-jammers which dodge about
the South Pacific, and soon became acclimatised.
Who ever heard of an Australian studying Hebrew
to find a name for “ tanglefoot ” ?
vivid enough Anonymous : Weak in both matter and
manner... .Cirrus: Style sloppy and inaccurate....
Premo : Prose sketches very crude, but not without “go.”
Verse beneath criticism A. West: Yes; basket was
their fate Stanna Lee: Well versified, but quality
indifferent Bryn Mawr : Ineffectively handled
Thor: Promised well, but petered out lamentably
D.C.L. : Rheumatic metre and impossible rhymes
P.B.H. : Not too bad, but you appear to have invented
your “ t’othersiders ” for the occasion. “ Gumsuckers ”
and “ cornstalks ” do not speak like English chawbacons.
W.H.W. : Quite unprintable F.O.K. : Prose sketch
has glimmers of merit, but the verses are very inferior...
Jack Blunt: In view of your candor and modesty, we are
sorry they do not get near the mark. . ..J.W.H. (Vic.):
Fervent of spirit but rather feeble of expression....
Tim W. : The third stanza ruins it Anturus : Not crisp
or breezy enough for the subject....B.D.N.: Thanks;
but it has been already dealt with.... J.H.W. : Terser
treatment required... .Proscit: Sorry it isn’t up to the
mark E.E.D. : Painfully pious and sentimental
Leo : Too many joints in its harness...,W. Brenta : Not
enough in it.. ..S.G.M. : Scrappy and enigmatical....
Nulla: Doesn’t quite score E.R.E.: An incoherent
jumble. Do you know what it means yourself? The
Mussel : Hadn’t the ghost of a chance Siva: A very
weak wail about nothing in particular.... J.D.K. : Carries
no conviction... .H.H.: You have the literary faculty,
but you grievously lack experience Lulu: “Fate”
well written, but rather cheap philosophy. Considering
suggestions.... A. J. W. (Tas.) : The verses, if they reached
us, were either rejected or they were accepted and paid
for. “ Ne’er-do-weel ” has been for years another writer’s
pen name. You have no right to annex it....C.C.8. :
The English-johnnie-craloot is a played-out literary prop
—except in stronger hands than yours... .Emblo : Trite
theme and tame treatment Belah : Too common an
experience to be worth recording... .EthelbertK. : Weak
and clumsy T.B. (W.A.): Sorry none of them are of any
literary value... .H.M.L. : Merely silly... .White Lie:
You handicap your stuff by slovenly writing. This item
not up, anyhow... .Parvo: No strength or 5ki11....
Bosthoon : Doesn’t get high enough Ronald B. : Not
bad of the kind, but we don’t care for allegories
Dora O. : Realistic, but too jerky and ill-finished
Reucille : Workmanship too inferior—J. Fletcher B. :
Not worth the 4d., short postage, paid on it Land-
owner : If you, as a landowner, pay 60 per cent, of your
income as a Id. in the £ land-tax, you must be making
poor use of your land, getting only lid. per annum
income on each pound of its capital value. The value
for taxing purposes is calculated on the assumption that
the land earns Is. in the £ (£5 per cent.) on its value
annually. If you only make your laud yield 12s. 6d. per
cent, annually you deserve to lose it... .Kaban : Hardly
snap enough.‘T.T.B. : Batch of chestnuts, quite useless...
Wusslean: Creaky humor.... Eros: Maoriland shows
good sense in making its prisoners do road-work, though
if a prisoner objects to the publicity why not let
him wear a mask out of doors? H.S.R. :If there
were not fines for deficient postage there would
probably be an enormous increase in the number of
insufficiently stamped letters....F. : Pretty minor
verse of which the supply far exceeds the demand....
J.R. : We’ve no fear as to Australian brains for defence-
provided there are gun factories and universal training.
The Hermit: Obviously, since you send us in April,
1.906, an account of a race meeting in April, 1905....
Kaffir Spirit: Playing ghost on a Maori is as silly and
humorless a game as playing ghost on a white. People
who pretend to be ghosts deserve to be ghosts
Unsuitable : W.E.L., N.0.P., A.H.
MY SWEETHEART.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My saucy cantatrice,
Among the gum-breathed peace,
The bushland intermezzo throbs through the evening
breeze
Most whimsically bright,
You black and white delight
Of liquid cadenced impudence amid the old gumtrees.
How came you, little rogue,
By that enchanting - brogue,
All tremulous with laughter, each semitone a jest?
Sure, Thalia every note
Of that florid gamut wrote
Which thrills among the ancient boughs my sweetheart
loves the best.
O clear as ringing horn
She wakens me each morn,
Her trills of sweet diablerie my heavy eyelids tease ;
And with her scherzo gay,
She’ll harmonise the day
In bars of bushland comedy among the old gumtrees.
E’en on the twilight’s wing
My lady’s quavers ring,
In coy diminuendo her quaint bush lullaby,
Till as the bright-eyed stars
Peep through the evening bars,
She hides her merry heart within the gumtree’s gentle
sigh.
The swallows come and go
As Spring and Autumn blow,
Their entrance and their exit is across the Southern Seas ;
I care not to what sky
These fickle wingsters fly,
While Maggie sings her happy songs among the old gum-
trees.
TASMANIA.
M. LEGRAND.


o«r> "tl^.
"Ib»s
oj-
jorter * v ee'id€.»+) | did fl«7d
lco, \irfT if” tviio'Vth'r 1?e four^
j)es«ril- i+*.
He
we, bWM
W& 2k
of v/er'e
to ill'll! tn hjoleskirj
&r
boofc^'.
•t
VljCw ''tije. Federal
Shows iii 'fi'teess -fb receive, .//rf
€*'fei-»d«d h*'/
Would be -f* 0
J)oli'fica k l Suicide''// '
(I£e. i»rej«r«SsV^ c M r C«/fckeo^
v/ow'T live lo*>o Q.*>ouph
'io Seiche »VGM ifll be
tyurd&r ' - ■
«
(Sen*feJ in ,/ A«JsM'* »s goiter
-% cuji (Hovse oj’fohli— -—-
Or Irl/ine.) J Cip^r
Here ,Vi l| you “fry iceberg?
T 5 IfM
will -fi/id
' selves less less
in wil^'Hje personal
life of fife old Country-’
[A^
\Vo„!"
4^_2o’ ? C«»l»ry, -^1
“the bio fellow .* " J
?
k L^|
Wnrmnr ~ I
a4Tkj;
~Tf7e Country i* 50 prosperous
So lot’s <\bo)i fion *
force i 5«. r
IPs «*»inece^r/
* [jc#tr fo A^gy^j
His Would Kernewier
'We wirev) njvt cW«n from
fys faceup be declined to
"but" now Ifo trjert %\IT
-jVflje WV' hbdgbtje down*
o?ev Renlou l).
Mo repress
Cx'oWn Solicitor <^-
V|elb 'to feofle
by CocKckov/iv^
CM
TOUCH
HIM
VICTORIAN FRIVOLITIES.


Bruce Smith is here seen in his laughable character of Gabiiel.
It has been scientifically announced
that In a few years (a mere few millions
or so) the earth will be washed into
the sea and disappear, as it were, from
off its own face. Our artist has here
feebly tried to depict what those of us
who survive may have to go through.
High Official of the Water and Sewerage
Department: “Thank Heaven 1 the
Prospect Dam is full at last I ”
Dill flacky will build an Ark with passenger»
accommodation for one.
7 C rtj / 0 >,
Attorney-tieneral Wade and his Never-Toucli-lt push get cold water enough
•for once in a way. ,
Chorus : “ It is damp—yea, even wet; it is cold, but we like it—oh, we like it!.”
Dissolution of the Lands Commission—there being
ho more land to concern itself about.
The last Pat Han (from sheer force of habit), to sole survivor of the Sub»
merged Tenth : “ <io on the land, young man—go on the land!"
FINAL BREAKING UP OF THE DROUGHT.-(See also "Plain English ” in this issue.)


Price 2/6 a bottle of Odol , lasting for several months (the half-size bottle 1/6 f Of All Chemists.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Just now the K.C.M.G. person is at a dis-
count. All the six State Premiers of the clay are
plain Misters—Eason, Carruthers, Kidston, Bent,
Price, and Evans. And Deakin, the Common-
wealth Prime Minister, is also Mister.
“He was a Protectionist in 1891, and a
Socialist. Afterwards, he became a Freetrader,
and joined a Freetrade Ministry. Lately, he has
become an anti-Socialist. Heaven kno-ws what
he’ll be next.” —Watson on Joe Cook, at North
Sydney.
Prahran’s jubilee dinner unearthed one
old lady of 82 who has dwelt in that suburb for
53 years —all through the gold and boom eras,
and while Melbourne grew out of wild bush into a
half-million city. The old dame is brisk and
lively at 82 ; and yet—has she ever really lived at
all?
George Miller, who pops up from his
pensioned retirement in connection with the
N.S.W. Public Service Board vacancy, held office
for over 40 years under N.S.W. Government,
while his father, also George, figured in the
Imperial service in N.S.W. in very far back days.
Public service seems to be hereditary.
Profit Dowie is a very forlorn thaumatur-
gist these days and has been denounced even by
his wife and his unkissed son for extravagance in
liis mode of living. They allege, too, that he was
inclined to be friendly with polygamy. Which
might be the reason why he kept his son out of
the game. With Gladstone in the field, Elijah
might have been left.
Personal journalism in the country—
Moruya (N.S.W.) Examinee (24/3/’O6)
Mr. William Cruikshank, one of our smartest and most
obliging postal officers, has been the central figureofattrac-
tion in town since he donned his nice new uniform. The
uniform is of a navy blue, with flaming red cuffs and collar
and white helmet. At a distance Cruikie looks like a
policeman, but when he arrives within delivery distance
lie looks more like a cross between a policeman and a
Salv’army officer.
C. H. Chomley, whilom editor of the
Arena, a little Freetrade squib which spluttered
feebly in Melbourne for a while, has now taken
up a very muddy occupation. He has become a
resurrectionist, and has set to work to dig up the
squalid remains of the Kyabramapootra league.
This aged fowl, beloved of Sammy Lancaster and
Ben Goddard and Irvine, is expected to get the
mud out of its crow in time for the Australian
elections next December.
A correspondent writes about a matter
that doesn’t really matter very much :
Apropos the first white born in Melbourne (B. 22/3/’O6).
If Henry Sullivan, now in Ballarat Benevolent Asylum,
be the first, what becomes of the claim of Fleming of
Flemington, the famous poultry-breeder, whose title was
undisputed for years? Also, in 'B7O, there was living on
a way-back station an aged blacksmith named Gilbert,
who claimed that his son, John Melbourne Gilbert, was
the first white born at Melbourne. This aged blacksmith
came over with Fawkner and party in 1835. Does anyone
know' John Melbourne Gilbert?
There is a discussion in Freeman’s
Journal as to the schooling of N.S.W. Premier
Carruthers. Carruthers’ own account is that he
attended a State school until he was 11, when he
entered a draper’s shop, and, as usual, the fluff
entered into his soul. But Mr. G. Metcalfe claims
that he taught J. Carruthers at Goulburn for 2\
years until Joseph reached the age of 13 years.
And probably Mr. Metcalfe is right. No man,
one would think, would stretch the truth to claim
such a pupil.
A TESTIMONIAL.
Professional Beauty: “Have used your soap
now for 70 or 80 years , and find it matchless
for the complexion.”
An old Sydney native, the widow of Daniel
Cooper, baronet and absentee, died in England
la*t week. The lady’s father, William Hill, was
a very early colonist, having arrived when the last
century was not even in its teens. She married
Dan. Cooper, then of the Waterloo Warehouse,
George and Market streets, in 1846, and is under-
stood to have been 90 years of age at her death.
Her husband helped John Campbell to represent
Sydney Hamlets in the first Parliament under
Responsible Government, and was elected
Speaker, which office he held from ’56 to ’6O. He
got his knighthood and baronetcy, not through
anything he did for Australia, but by contribut-
ing a lot of the money he made in Australia to
the Patriotic Fund at the Crimean War time, and
the Lancashire Cotton Famine Relief Fund. The
Coopers were absentees ever since 1861—and there
was no absentee-tax !
The Jewocracy of the Rand can have no
hope of “squaring” Campbell-Bannerman. His
income is estimated at £50,000 a year.
Premier Price, laying a foundation stone
in Adelaide lately, asked rather earnestly if any
money had been put under it, and was pleased
when he found it had not. Price is a mason him-
self, and says that in his young days in England
there was a sinful practice of turning the stone
over again as soon as the distinguished crowd had
left; then the coins that were to go down to pos-
terity went down in beer instead. Price is hostile
to beer.
“Tat” : So far, none of the obituaries of
the late George Coppin has mentioned a most
remarkable fact in his career. Though, owing to
his speculative habit, he was stony-broke oftener
than any other resident of Australia, he always
paid 20s. in the £. The story goes that once, in
Melbourne, long after an assignment, he gave a
dinner to his creditors, and each man found under
his plate a cheque for the balance due tohim. Some-
how commercial probity paid with Coppin. Still
I don’t advise other people to try it. It takes a
clever man to make honesty pay.
James Mailer, the claimant to the Scottish
titles of the Duke of Gordon, was born in Aber-
deenshire in 1858, and is an engineer by profession.
He arrived in Australia in 1877, and supervised
the erection of machinery at some of Queensland’s
sugar works ; then moved to Sydney and put in a
spell in the Works Department. Afterwards he
delved unsuccessfully at the Westralian gold-
fields, and, later on, started brick-works in the
Groper State, and did well. It is with the brick
profits that he is trying to build up a title to a
dukedom. He claims to have traced his connec-
tion with the Gordon family from 1050 to 1904,
and says that the titles were wrongfully conveyed
to the Duke of Richmond and confirmed by a pri-
vate Bill in 1876 —the conveyance being based
upon misrepresentations.
A tribute to an old ’tec. :
Detective J. O. Carter, probably the most popular
member of the Victorian force, has just passed into
private life through effluxion of time. Along, lean man,
with a straggly grey beard, Carter never cast off the
atmosphere of the Gippsland bush, where he spent his
early life, and his bucolic appearance was heightened by
his habit of wearing no tie to his collar. Many a spieler,
strange to Melbourne, fell into Carter’s clutches
through starting to tell him about his rich uncle
in Fiji. But Carter did not possess the tempera-
ment for an ideal detective. He was too good-
natured, and even a lifetime in the police force
did not serve to break down his belief in human nature.
A dozen years ago, he was one of a force which lay in wait
for a gang of burglars at the scene of their plant. When
the seizure was made one burglar made a dash for
liberty,' and Carter, firing his revolver at the new moon
to frighten the fugitive, was such a bad shot that he blew
a hole right through the accused. For a month that
perforated burglar lay in Melbourne hospital, and every
day Carter used to go along and take him flowers and
tracts and other little things that go to make a bur-
glar’s life happy. The patient was not out of danger
for three weeks, and at the end of that time Carter was
so thin that he wore holes in his seat in the muster room.
Finally the malefactor recovered and was tried, and
Carter’s appeal for mercy on his behalf failed to prevent
the Judge sending him up for a stretch of five. In
private life, Carter was a pillar of the Church in his own
suburb, and his only dissipation was in the local draughts
club, of which he was president. He had a brother who
was for some years in the Vic. Assembly, and by asso-
ciation with worse forms of crime than the detective met
with he became so hardened that he ultimately invented
a torpedo calculated to kill several hundred burglars in a
shot. Detective Carter is probably the only man in
Australia who was ever kicked on the back of the head
by the horse he was riding ; the accident occurred some
years back in Gippsland, in the presence of a number of
reliable witnesses.
The recent exercise of the Parliamentary
suffrage by a London woman, Miss Alwyn Bussey,
has brought to light another
woman, Mrs. Zephra Bernard,
of Carlton (Vic.), whose name,
with that of her husband, Abra-
ham Bernard, has*been on the
Assembly roll the last five years,
though she has not voted as yet.
In ’G4, through an error in the
Vic. Electoral Act, women were
put on the Assembly rolls, and
numbers voted ; but that time
only, for next session the error
was corrected —more’s the pity.
Richard Hodgson, whose
disembodied soul is said to be
re-visiting the members of the
Boston (U.S.A.) Psychical Re-
search Association, of which he
was president when in the flesh,
was a native of Melbourne. His
father was a well-known Metho-
dist lay preacher, and the son
graduated as Master of Arts
and Doctor of Laws before he
was 21. Afterwards he went
to Cambridge, and thence to
Germany to study under Haec-
kel, and later he passed to
America, where he died in
January last from heart failure after playing
handball. Hodgson, years ago, went to India to
expose Madame Blavatslcy.
John Ferguson, Queensland’s wealthy
M.L.C., only survived his old Rockhampton
friend and neighbor, Macdonald Patterson, for a
day or two. Ferguson went to England some time
ago to undergo a surgical operation, but his age
(76) was against recovery. Like most Queensland
public men of his day, he commenced by being a
municipal councillor. This was in 1870. Eleven
years- later he got a seat in the Assembly, to
which he clung for several years. After 1888,
having made his pile, he turned globe-trotter, and
spent but little of bis time in the big desolate
mansion he had built for himself on Athelstane
Range. The separation movement, which dis-
turbed Queensland, especially in 1889 and 1892,
aroused Ferguson to enthusiasm, and he went to
England as a delegate to plead the cause with the
British Ministry. Then the Federal movement
arose, and Ferguson threw himself into it heart
and soul, and put in a spell of service as one of
Queensland’s first Senators. His death creates a
vacancy in Bananaland House of Nominees.
THE N.S.W. LIQUOR ACT.
DEALER : “ Say , boss, can I give my horse a drink?"
PUBLICAN : “ You can if he's over eighteen"
The proposed London memorial to Robert
Herbert, who was Queensland’s first Premier (he
held office from 1859 to 1806), recalls a man of
many parts—all rather dull parts. It is as Per-
manent Under-Secretary of State for the Colonies
that Herbert is chiefly to be co*mmemorated, but
he worked directly for almost every State in Aus-
tralia one time or another. After he left Queens-
land he was open to offers of employment to help
any State in any capacity. He had the official
mind in red-tape perfection. As Agent-General
or locum tencns, or head of a deputation, or Under-
secretary, he was letter-perfect, but he never
imparted an idea of his own into any business.
“ Noggs ” : I have now before me a photo-
graphic group—Marcus Clarke, the novelist;
Aubrey Bowen, the oculist; and E. W. Haddon,
Argus editor, taken in 1868. The last of the trio
is just dead —Haddon. Clarke had nothing to
leave to anything or anybody—never had. . Bowen
left a lot of money to Melbourne institutions —
there is, for one thing, the “ Bowen Wing ” to the
Eye and Ear Hospital. Haddon also took a lot
of interest in charities ; but it was only as agent
for Edward Wilson's ostentatious perpetual be-
quests. This picture shows Clarke, Haddon and
Bowen as three handsome young fellows with
hair parted in the middle.
The tale of a peer :
The story of ho-.v the Marquis Townshend (not “ Marquis
o/Townshend,” if you please) came to be locked up as a
lunatic by his wife is not more remarkable than the story
of how he came to get his wife in the first instance. A
poor little wisp of a man, with a heavily encumbered
estate, he was taken in hand by the mortgagees and other
“ advisers,” who put him on the marriage market like a
Duke of Plazo Taro, and issued a sort of prospectus,
setting forth the social advantages appertaining to his
rather ancient title. A wife was secured for him on satis-
factory terms as to cash advances and marital settle-
ments, but soon after his marriage in August last, the
bridegroom was lured from home by two of his male
friends. He lived with them at Brighton, and parted
with a lot of money to one of them. When he returned
to London to see his wife and get some clothes, the
indignant bride made him captive, on the ground
that he was not fit to be allowed at large. Ap-
parently he is a weaker-minded “eccentric” than his
father; or grandfather, the notorious Marquis Townshend
of long ago. This “ ratty ’’ancestor was eternally figuring
in the London police courts as prosecutor or defendant
in cases concerning cabmen.
“Ifcan,” from Brisbane :
The whirling Joe Lesina, Bananaland’s political Ish-
maelite, has undertaken to follow Premier Kidston’s
ministerial tracks in the west, to denounce him and all
his works, and to throw mud at Home Secretary Airey.
The people who believe most in Joe are those who know
least of him. Not a single Labor member in Queensland, in-
cluding the other five Socialism-in-our-Time mem-
bers, hut denounces the Clermont man for his action. I
met one of the cleverest of the Labor members the other
day. He asked who had done most for the cause of
Labor in Queensland. Had any single public man done
more than Kidston? “I can never forget his attitude
during the 1891 strike. There were 19 of us lying in
Rockhampton gaol because we took a stand for our
rights against squatterdom. Kidston said, ‘ These men
must not eat gaol bread.’ He put his hand
into his own pocket, and getting the help
of other sympathisers, fed us all the time we
were there. Local people warned him that his open sym-
pathy with the strikers would ruin his business. What
did that matter? ‘Let it be ruined,’ he said ; and it was
ruined. But out of his Parliamentary pay, long before
he was a Minister of the Crown, he saved and scraped up
enough to make good the difference between the dividend
his estate paid and 20s. in the £. Nobody lost by Kid-
ston.” Although Joe Lesina has been telling - many things
in the country - towns, he has omitted to mention that
during last session he talked 250 columns of Hansard.
The time he wasted would have sufficed to put through
an Arbitration Bill, and there is nothing that Queensland
wants more urgently - . But Joe is more interested in the
task of party splitting.
“Father ” W. Dodery, of Tas. Leg. Coun-
cil, lately related how he was opposed only one*—
at his first Assembly contest in 1861. His
opponent was so disgusted at scoring only 29
votes that he got tight and ended up in the watch-
house. Dodery knows at least the relative im-
portance of things. That election and the fact
that his opponent got drunk were the only facts
worth mentioning in the long, flat, useless politi-
cal career of Dodery. In short, they were the
only matters worth Doddering about.
An old Bulletin correspondent writes :
Apropos William Charles Wentworth, the N.S.W.
statesman, of whom it was said (8., 29/3/D6) that he left
only one son (Fitz William). Wentworth married the
daughter of Francis Cox and had, according to “ Burke,”
six daughters and two sons—FitzWilliam, now of Vaucluse,
and D‘Arcy Bland, godson of Dr. Bland, a lieutenant in
the Bth Hussars, born in 1848, at Vaucluse, and married
in England to Lucy Anne Bowman.
The Bulletin “dunno.” Heaton’s “Dictionary
of Dates” (published in 1879) says Wentworth left
five daughters and one son. Mennell’s “Aus-
tralasian Biography ” casually mentions one son
(Fitz William) and says nothing about any five or
six daughters. The matter is adjourned.
“Snell”: A curious old personality in
Bendigo is just finishing a monumental job under-
taken many years ago. In the early days the
identity came to Bendigo seeking his fortune.
He found it and sent back to England for his
sweetheart. The girl died on her way out, and
was buried at sea, and the identity’s interest in
the world blew out like a candle. He was rich, and
there was no necessity for him to work, but in
order to occupy his time he started building two
large brick houses. This was some fifty years
ago, and now the second of the two houses is
just approaching completion. The lone man has
done all the work himself; no other has been
allowed to have a finger in it. Yet the houses are
well built and elaborately fitted. Throughout the
years in which he has been so occupied the iden-
tity has made no friends, and his communications
with others have been the briefest possible.
What will happen to him when his life’s work is
completed is a subject of interesting speculation.
Possibly he will start to dig a hole, to fill in his
last years.
“D.”: John Ferguson’s disappearance
beneath Nature’s avalanche once more arouses
interest in Mount Morgan. The old man told me
this story a year since of his Rockhampton
success:—
Fifty years ago saw me an emigrant for Australia from
my Perthshire home. The gold fever took hold of me
when I got to Sydney. I went to Lambing Flat and did
no good. Then Port Curtis field in Queensland appeared
on the horizon. I humped bluey to Sydney, took
schooner to the Fitzroy, and joined the rush. Men were
stranded there in scores. Being a carpenter, I turned
my trade to some account and soon made myself
right at Rockhampton. Every £ 5-note I got clear
went into land in the town. So when Mount
Morgan came into notice over 20 years ago I was
well off. I bought a one-eighth share in the mine
for £l5OO. For me the investment was not attrac-
tive, because it looked risky. So I divided half my share
into 13 lots, and unloaded them at a much bigger price
than I expected to get. Then came the million flotation-
representing a multiplication of many times what I origi-
nally gave, and the real inflation began, boom after boom.
I used to carry scrip about with me and sell it to anyone
who wanted it, generally at a price less than market quo-
tations. I kept selling till the proceeds amounted to
£256,000. Then the slump came, and shares went down
to 30s. But when the shares rose to £3 10s. again I
bought a big parcel or two. None have been sold by me
since.
The general opinion in Queensland is that Fer-
guson died worth nearly £500,000.


MEMORIES of «*• Marble Man
KM
===
4
The Discovery of the Marble Man.
are awakened by the publicity lately given to
75he Marble Quarries of New south Wales.
THE DISCOVERY, some years ago, by a POPULAR SYDNEY MEDICO, of Marble, in the FORM
of “A MARBLE MAN,” was doubtless a REVELATION, intended to stir up IHE SPIRII
OF INQUIRY.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS
are ENTITLED to be CLASSED among THE PIONEERS of
THE GREAT MARBLE INDUSTRY
that has brought MARBLE QUARRIED in NEW SOUTH WALES to the front and given work to
MARBLE WORKERS at their MARBLE WORKS at REDFERN.
OF COURSE, in the EARLIER STAGES of so YOUNG AN INDUSTRY it is NECESSARY for SOME CLASSES of work to use
IMrORTED MARBLE, but for all that, in the SPLENDID PRODUCTS of AUSTRALIAN QUARRIES,
Received in the Rough.
MARBLE OF THE
EXQUISITELY MARKED and wonderfully
FREE FROM BLEMISHES and flaws, is found.
WHEN, in years to come, the INDUSTRY GAINS STRENGTH, and
DEEPER QUARRIES are worked, it is not too much to hope that MARBLE,
fine as that of GREECE, pure as the SNOW-WHITE CARRARA which
CANOVA and MICHAEL ANGELO wrought, and beautiful as the
PARIAN MARBLE out of which
THe Famous X* X 9
Venus De Medici
was carved, will be RECKONED among the PRODUCTS OE NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Necessary for some classes of
work to use imported marble.
COLORED VARIETY
Meanwhile, at ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS’ WORKS at Red fern,
the MARBLE is RECEIVED IN THE ROUGH, and there are THE MEN
and the MACHINERY that helps them to cut the MARBLE, and POLISH
it. From there are sent the FINISHED ARTICLES in CLEVERLY
WROUGHT and HIGHLY POLISHED MARBLE, that are sold by
Anthony Hordern
and Sons
At the New Palace Emporium.
NO MIDDLEMAN INTERVENES to raise the PRICE ; the MARBLE
WORKS are ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS’ works, the SKILLED
WORKERS who labor there are the EMPLOYEES of ANTHONY
HORDERN & SONS, and thus it is that
ANTHONY HORDERN’S Famous Low Prices
ARE KEPT PURE and UNDEFILED.
ANTHONY HORDERN <& Sons
provider
PALACE EMPORIUM, SYDNEY.
e
z
5
0
C 5
i
loh
Grf«n
x'l
O
fe
F rt®
Jv/ff
n>r"£i
I'S
f" h
U<i
*S
Mii S(K
(«5s
5o«V)
O
Jpw»l
Am
ofil
Oy
Aft
fo«’
6
L 1 Bohem?
kij
m
«
4
\2
o
s/
M
-
v®
La
515
a
<£
=?>
X
ir\du
m if
»
rr
&
UL
i-d
(m
vs^V
2
Rose
Saran
ate
163 PITT <JT
wa
2is#
Trade Mark
2 9 Gramophone w|
Records by thejj
TtoSL riarvcllouj* &
Joprana of
the Age -
helm
Can he obtained
from all Gramo-
phone Agents &
flujical Dealers
>or
Full particulars I
upon. Application
t d>
ie Gramophone Co. ltd
Oydney.


f « '
rV ***
„ er \v,e
fo'f ,o tl
Under Vice-Regal Patronage.
MADAME MASSERAN,
CORSETIERE,
Of 9 Col/ins St., Melbourne,
OEGS to inform her Sydney clients that she will be
at the HOTEL METROPOLE from MONDAY 9th
to TUESDAY, 24th APRIL, both days inclusive.
PRETTY WOMAN fades early unless she gives
careful attention to the preservation of her complexion.
Every sign of wrinkle, sallowness, or blemish should be
arrested with the least possible delay. A few applications
of Dr. Lykuski’s great discovery— Valaze—removes all
imperfections and brings the lilies and roses of youth to
the oldest face. Is the most exquisite preparation for re-
moving wrinkles, freckles, tan and all other facial dis-
figurements. It is delightfully pleasant, and makes the
skin beautifully soft, white and smooth. A scientific
product of blended fragment herb essences and healing
balsam to promote the beauty of the skin. Specially use-
ful in allaying the dry and parchment-like-skin caused by
Australian hot winds. Price, 3s. 6d. and 65., posted 6d.
extra. New importations from Vienna. Comtesse
Potocka’s “ Voskpasta,” (3s. jar) to be used with “ Valaze ”
Herbal Soap, (2s. cake). A delightful preparation. Comtesse
Potocka’s “Creme Promenade,” for outdoor entertain-
ments, 3s. 6d. per jar. A wonderful beautifier. “ Valaze”
special Blackhead and Open Pores Cure” guaranteed,
3s. 6d. per jar. “Valaze” Massage Rollers, for use in
your home. Washington H. Soul, and Civil Service
Sydney, leading chemists all States, or Mdlle. H. Rubin-
stein and Co., 274 Collins-street, Melbourne. Guide to
Beauty Free
It is generally thought that there is no
cure for stoutness, because the usual treatments
only confine themselves to combating single
symptoms instead of attacking the root of the
disease. Pyrolene Pellets remove not only the
superfluous fat, but also'the internal deposits of
fat which hinder the action of the heart and lungs.
We ad vise a trial. Pyrolene Pellets improve the
breathing, give the heart freedom, and enable the
lungs to expand naturally. Sent free by post to
any part of the States on receipt of Postal Note
for 3s. 9d. or 135., according to size required.
Arnold’s Balsam Co., 3G4a Little Collins-street,
Melbourne.*
Superfluous Hairs Effectually and Per-
manently Destroyed. A lady self cured of this
distressing affliction has a wonderful remedy which com-
pletely destroys the roots of the hairs. After trying
depilatories, electrolysis and every so-called cure, she
discovered this simple home remedy, which succeeded
when all else had failed. This treatment does not burn
off, it kills the roots, and the most disheartened may
safely and successfully try it. It leaves no scar or mark.
Send Id. stamp for testimonials and booklet on treatment.
Remedy posted, Victoria, 4s. (id., other States, ss.
“ Tonic,” Central Chambers, 77 Swanston St., Melbourne.*
HIGH-CLASS COMFORTS.
BUCHANAN
OTARD-DUPUY
WHISKY
BRANDY
QUALITY and AGE.
nettes'
@>V RAINCOATS.
Are: the Ideal Fabrics
for
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, April 10, 190 G.
My Dear Arini, —
Last month Melba’s Australian friends got
alarmist reports about her health. An obstinate
cough—a tag from a cold caught when she was
singing in New York—still sticketh to her. She
was,. when the alarming letters came, at St.
Moritz, where there is a noted sanatorium.
Beauty mummer Maesmore Morris writes her
friends glowing accounts of her fiance, an African
millionaire, but not Beit as was rumored. She
bowls round in the smartest of electric motor
broughams, given to her by her wealthy adorer,
and describes her engagement ring as one oval
diamond, reaching to her first knuckle.
Some foolish person has supplied this State
with a new coat of arms, and with the well-worn
lion on it in place of the kangaroo. Surely this lion
is an over-worked animal. As far back as the
time of Edward 11., I have read, there were 225
lions in use on different English coats of arms.
Also, it rages on the arms of at least a dozen other
countries, and it has been officially decided that
there are 30 different kinds of lion—none of them
at all like the real animal —that can be used in
heraldry. Now the exhausted creature has a new
burden to carry, just when he is getting old and
might fairly expect a rest.
An Auckland girl, back from England, gives
some of her experiences :
The King is very popular in London, but the Waleses
are not—just the opposite. I stood quite close to the
Queen at a bazaar, and stared at her well. She is lovely,
but looks dull and bored. Princess Beatrice, who is
having the time of her life now, is exceedingly plump,
but she seems a good-natured old lady. Her daughter,
Ena, is remarkably pretty for a princess, but she walks
like a duck and gives me the impression that they are
putting back her age. Much the best-looking members
of the Royal connection are the young Duffs, who haven’t
the heavy German look that makes us feel most of the
, Royalties shouldn’t be drawing British pay. The Duchess
of Fife is intensely nervous. When she opened a big
bazaar in Scotland she could speak only in a whisper, and
she shook so dreadfully that we thought she’d collapse in
a heap on the platform.
We went one day to Warwick Castle—a beautiful old
pile—walls 15 feet thick and all that sort of thing. A dear
old man showed us round ; looked like an old retainer or
something, the kind of person who ought to have a deep
and awful admiration for The Family. We trailed through
yards of gallery and hall, where armor and old carvings
and Jap vases were all mixed up together in appalling
taste, and came to a portrait of the Countess. Somebody
gushed : “ Oh. how perfectly lovely ! Is she really so
beautiful as that ? ”
Dear old retainer scorned the idea. “ Not ’er. She
ain’t good-lookin’. That ain’t like ’er.” Girl who had
spoken said in a leave-me-one-ideal sort of tone, “But
she’s awfully clever, isn’t she?” “Clever! Not a bit!
She ain’t clever. She thinks she is ! ” 1 felt limp, but
managed to pass on. Truly, familiarity—or socialism —
scrapes the gilt off even the Old Retainer.
Recognised comedians have only to further
bash an already bashed silk hat in public to make
thirty thousand persons rock with laughter. At
least ’twas so at the Theatrical Charities Car-
nival, when Lauridon, Bantockdon (most of the
prehistoric creatures’ names seem to have ended
in don) and the rest of the Royal Comics plaved
the merry mastodon and the giddy labyrinthodon
pachynathus on the Cricket Ground. What a
polychrome sight were the grandstands ! Packed
with gay-hatted thousands who made a wonderful
colored-enamel effect. A thousand pounds will
be cleared for the charities. One of the
visitors to the ground made all who had
the luck to see her pop-eyed. She is said
to have taken first prize at an American beauty
show. The lady wore a violet cloth costume and
boxer hat with feathers. Her hair was dressed
all over the back of her neck, like a vast tea cake,
and was of the same color as a nicely-browned,
glazed, glorified, Good Friday bun.
A man said to me lately, “ The least interesting
thing to women is woman.” In the abstract per-
haps he was right. His remark recurred to me
after reading one of Angus and Robertson’s library
books that Sydney women are pursuing at such a
rate that you couldn’t catch ’em with a motor-car.
(I mean that if the race degenerated into a pro-
cession of three, with the book first, the women a
good second, and the motor-car a yard behind
the vehicle might as well retire from the contest.)
“ Time, the Comedian,” the work is named,
written by a woman and all around a woman. It
is not literature, but it is a simply-told, rattling
good tale. For curiosity’s sake I asked three young
women, who don’t move in the same orbits
at all, “Why do you like the book?” The first
replied, “O. all the little things are treated so
naturally. When Ruth leaves her bedroom to sleep
in her mother’s room she snatches up the scented
bag that holds her night-gown. That’s nice, isn’t
it ? I got wondering what scent she used and how
the mghtie was made about the neck.” Ruth, it
may be remarked, was going through the crisis’ of
her life, her heart was breaking, etc., but it was
the night-gown and bag that fetched this reader
The next interrogated said, “ All the Paris part of
the book is like that new picture, ‘ On the Roofs, ’
in the Gallery. The women and men dress so
beautifully, white silken muslins, fresh pink roses,
shadows of champagne glasses, costly hats weighed
down with plumes and roses and throwing shadows
over artistically ‘ made-up ’ faces. I do like a
book that tells you how the heroine makes up.”
The third girl interlocuted simply admired the
story because it told so much about the fashionable
Parisian complexion. “ Sydney women ” she
added, “are making frightful scenographs of their
faces trying to acquire that porcelain whiteness
that the French and the Americans in France have
got with such artfulness. I suppose the correct
cosmetics can’t be got here.”
This delicately artificial style of complexion is
described as a blending of massage, ointments
bleaches and powders. Every morning the
heroine (who is now slightly over 40) is attended
by a masseuse, who sponges her face and neck
with orange flower water and benzoin. The
face and neck are rolled with a rubber con-
trivance until the blood dances under the fine
skin. Then comes the application of creams, oils,
and perfumes from numbered bottles. These are
rubbed in by the woman’s velvet, practised, per-
fumed finger tips. The face undergoing repairs
looks at this point like freshly-ironed flesh with
the fire on it. Small pieces of ice are then pressed
to the muscles, and the lady looks like one in the
first redness of freezing. When the glow dis-
appears, her face is ready for the Parisian com-
plexion. A white paste is rubbed into the pores,
and most of it left on ; it has the appearance of
melted cream, which softly hardens by contact
with the air. A fine powder is put over it with a
piece of medicated cotton, and this is applied
deftly, delicately, until the effect is fine white
skin without any particles of powder showing.
Lashes and brows are cleaned with a tiny brush,
and a dark-brown cosmetic touched to them, the
lips are ruddied with cerise, and the ear lobes and
nostrils colored faintest pink. Then the work of
art is finished and ready for framing in a white
lace tea-gown.’
That charming singer Dolores returns to Aus-
tralia next September, guided by some of the
numerous Tait brethren. The same enterprising
folk have secured Clara Butt, the mighty deep
contralto who rolls on like Byron allowed the
ocean to. She is booked for Australia and Maori-
larid in the Spring of 1907.
You have only to say “ Quack, quack, ’ to any
person attached to a certain Sydney firm and he’ll
get an apoplectic seizure—no matter if he does
take a 14in. collar and is so thin that he has to
borrow a shadow. The firm made a piece of silver
for presentation to the Dux of a certain institution
and engraved it “Ducks.” Worst of it was the
trophy only arrived about the time the visitors
did, but even at that late hour it had to be sent
back to its nest to have some superfluous letters
pi ucked.
General Calthorpe, who, with his wife, has been
staying at Medlow, and, later, with the Governor-
General Northcotes, is a handsome old war-horse.
He worked at slaughtering in the. Crimean war
under his uncle, Raglan. Mrs. General was a
Mistress of Robes to the late Queen.
Australia has got another advt.,' according to
the cable :
Miss Annie Pendred, an Australian costumiere, has
recovered £450 damages for breach of promise of marriage
from Mr. Mervyn Smith, a wealthy widower.
This Miss Pendred was originally at Stainers’, m
Melbourne, and came from there to David Jones
and Co.’s Sydney house. She is a tall, slight,
middle-aged woman. When the Duchess of York
was here Miss Pendred sent her a lovely posy,
and got a pretty letter of thanks from Lady Mary
Lygon.
Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, late Minister for Works,
for several good reasons deserves the testimonial
that his friends and supporters are organising for
him. Circulars are to be distributed over the
State, and the presentation coin ought to jingle
in large round numbers.
How interested is poor humanity in psychic
phenomena ! All the people who did not
go to the motor-boat race or the Cricket
Ground on Saturday squeezed into Nicholson’s
music warehouse to hear Miss Harrison, a North
Sydney lady—a fragile little blonde pianist—
play music over which the audience was given
to understand she had no control. For an hour
and a half she played melodious, sometimes bril-
liant, odds and ends, none of which was supposed
to have ever been heard previously. Her
other self composed, and she interpreted with a
weird hand and arm action. A lot of persons
who cannot play for sour berries wished their
other selves would do something of the like kind,
but perhaps these people have no other selves.
The bushman’s billy has a special peg in our
national verse. The old black billy that has
boiled so often for Henry Lawson —I’m afraid,
after seeing it’s evoluted brother, that
the bottom is out of that kind. The new Jer-dan
Billy Can looks at first sight like our old
friend billy, but a prolonged stare shows it
to be a combination of billy, teapot, and kettle.
Its handle is a tin-opener and a corkscrew, and it
has a strainer and a tea-box. The tin miracle will
be on exhibit at the coming R. A. Show.
Hayward, of the Brescian troupe, who goes
about Sydney without a hat—he doesn’t own a
hat—is a cross between Prof. Anderson Stuart and
Joe Chamberlain. All he wants to complete his
correct afternoon get-up is a tall hat, but if he
came out in his pyjamas he couldn’t be more
stared at or laughed at. Policemen directing the
traffic, tram drivers, the great stupid public—all
become rubber-necks while Hayward is in sight.
In an advance copy of theProgramme of Songs to
be sung at the Annual Uni. Commemoration of
Asses Ears, there’s a really smileable little thing
called “ Music-made Milk.” It is rhymed around
Professor Stuart’s declaration (made before the
Arbitration Court) that cows gave milk of more
quantity and better quality if the milking were
accompanied by music. (Probably bagpipe music.)
The song inquires, among other inquiries—
Why feed the cattle on chaff or on oats
Which thrive just as well on melodious notes?
Hawkesbury Agricultural College is now, I
believe, going to try pianoforte solos on the laying
hen, to see if it will make the egg larger.
A smart wedding, to occur at an R.C. church
presently, will be that of Miss Maud Want to Mr.
Cape, the well-known solicitor. The Capes are
noted for their devotion to the R.C. Church. One
of the girls married the youngest of the Fairfax
men—Harold.
Elsie Moore seems to have fallen on her nice
little fat feet. She is playing principal girl in
“ The Earl and the Girl,” at the Casino Theatre,
Broadway, N’York, and on the opening night got
five encores for her first song, “ How Would You
Like to Spoon With Me ? ” Suppose the encores
meant that the encorers would like to spoon very
much.
One of the eight handsome girls who stood
around in “ The Shop Girl ” has married the usual
stage-struck young man. He gave her a cheque
for £2OOO on the wedding-day, and takes her on
a grand tour.
An error crept into the figures of last week’s
mention of the Daley matinee result. It put on
rubber soles and crept. Errors always do proceed
that way. The matinee was worth a bit over £3OO,
and—showing the skill with which the com-
mittee engineered the benefit—the expenses are
only about £4O, so some £2(50 will be available
for the poet’s widow and children. Promoters of
the benefit wish to thank Mrs. Aronson for her
strenuous work and Miss May Summerbelle, who
has given the copyright of her song (Daley’s
words), “Love is a Fadeless Flower,” entirely to
the fund. Three hundred copies were sold at the
matinee, and 200 are available at the music
stores.
The Motor Boat Regatta on Saturday was
somewhat dreary. The trouble was not with the
weather, which was charming, and some of the
boats travelled very fast—or seemed to. A little
boat travelling at 10 miles an hour appears to be
simply shooting through the water. The dreari-
ness arose from inability to see more than the
start and finish of the races. If the Motor Boat
Club wants to work up wild excitement over its
events it will have to run them over a circular
course, flagged off round the club steamer, or,
failing that, it must build high bridges over the
harbor on which the people can be seated and
watch the whole contest. Boats started off in a
straggly sort of way, and then after an interval
more boats straggled off, by which time the ori-
ginal race was forgotten. Motor boats were dart-
ing all over the water, and some of them, it
seemed, were the boats of the first race re-
turning by different courses. Later on I
learned from a weary-looking reporter that
someone had told him that something had
won the handicap, hut nobody took any notice.
The only person who seemed to be enjoying himself
was a man who put his feet over the railing, and
smoked Turkish cigarettes while he talked to a
lovely girl in a coat of white Sicilian cloth. Her
rosy face was framed in jetty hair and set off with
a hat that looked like a tuft of roses floating on
an inky sea. He said the racing was delightful,
but when asked what was going to happen next
confessed that his programme had fallen over-
board. Dr. Piers Hatton’s Lady Eileen remains
champion, but Mr. Lew. Davies’ Coo-ee 11., with
engines only half the Eileen’s horse power, was
but Ajinin. behind.
How they love one another ! It was at an “At
Home,’’ and one Rose Bayleaf had just told
another that her husband had got her to stand for
the figure in an artistic poster. “ I thought so,”
commented a third ’leaf, in an undertone. “ She’s
the figure in the ‘ bumping sale ’ poster.”
Since Miss Emma Temple played the curtain
raiser to “Little Mary,” Merely Alary Ann has
a new name for her missus—“My old bag o’
chips.” At a suburban registry office a Merely
was heard to tell another why she left her last
place. “She”—the employer—“was the driest
bag o’ chips I ever struck. She wanted her tea
at daybreak. I felt like firing the stove with her,
she would have been better nor any kindlers.”
A notable marriage is that of the widow of thelate
Justice Innes to Monsieur Biard d’Aunet, who was
Consul for France in Sydney awhile ago. The
bride, on account of her slight, youthful figure,
looked (at a distance) younger than her own
daughter. She has a family of eight grown-ups.
Bridegroom always carried himself with an air of
elegant dejection, and wore white spats.
The great fire that demolished Stedman’s candy
establishment has meant a regular bean feast to
the kiddies. After school they hasten down and
swarm around the burned-out premises like ants
about a fallen bees’ nest. When a cart, filled
with cremated lollie and scorched stick-jaw, pulls
out from the ruins the youngsters rush it with
joyful yells, like pirates attacking an East India-
man in mid-ocean. They charge and scramble
beneath horses’ hoofs when a shower of humbugs
falls from a passing cart; they joyfully hump into
stout, dignified policemen ; and they drive the
firemen to distraction for permission to scramble
in among the tottering masonry to gather a store
of fried honey-balls. I saw one driver trying to
fight a swarm of small boys off his cart whilst
driving down Barrack-street with a load of half-
melted lolly. He had to keep one eye on the road
to dodge the traffic ahead, and every time his head
turned one of the kids would dart in and annex a
lump of volcanic-looking matter, and make tracks
homeward.
Kind-hearted, handsome Emily Howard re-
signed on March3lst the matronship of the Thomas
Walker Convalescent Hospital, Parramatta River
after 11 years connection with the institution.
Committee, staff, and patients alike regard her
departure with regret, a regret which took the
practical form of many valuable presents.
New battleship Dreadnought was christened by
King Edward with Australian wine—which firm’s
wine the press deponent sayeth not. But it was
red, and the bottle was so thickly swathed with
flowers that the King’s first heave failed to break it
Yours Affectionately, Akknehi.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, April 10, 1906.
My Dear Yarrie, —
A pathetic trio these days is the tall, tired Tal-
bottle with two caddies to heel. At one of tlie
polo shows of the week he drew himself out of his
chariot to a weary perpendicular as if tired right
up to the summit, and looked querulously on the
gathering. It looked back as if it couldn’t help it.
Then the two aides worked their hinges and
assumed the upright feebly. Private Secretary
Hood looked weak and sad. A slight lisp imparts
pathos to his appeal to be dealt with gently.
Aide Crichton, brought up differently, would have
enjoyed a sense of humor. But only his hair curls
quizzically. Plis sweet little countenance is afraid
to lose its well-trained vacancy of expression.
The model aide regards all manner of facial
expression as a sort of impropriety. At
the gymkhana. Miss Stuart-Wortley alone looked
cheerfully animate. Her case excites commisera-
tion. She’s pretty, rather mischievous, rather
vivacious. But she appears to be always on Tal-
bottle duty, as though she were a she-aide.
An enthusiastic correspondent sends me this bit
of description :
The most delightful feature of the. Children’s Hospital
carnival at Princes Court was Miss Stuart-Wortley (imp.),
the latest acquisition to the Talbottle’s household. Miss
Stuart is as beauteous as a musical comedy girl, and her
fascinations are wasted at Government House. She is in
the heavyweight division and constructed according to
specifications left by the late Phidias, and on Saturday
she wore an elephant’s breath costume with harmonious
stockings of the trickiest design. Several hundred wor-
shippers followed Governor Talbottle respectfully around
the premises, gazing on the black hair and disconcerting
teeth of his dazzling guest, while his Excellency probably
thought it was a demonstration in recognition of the
greatness of the Empire.
When Hopetoun (now Linlithgow), who has
just fallen off and damaged himself greatly, was
Governor of Victoria, liis better half got a bad
shaking by a fall in the hunting field. The horse
was also severely bruised. A Toorak dame gave
mortal offence at Government House by varying
the ceaseless condolences with the remark. “Oh,
your ladyship, how is the poor horse ? ”
Miss “ Mignonette ” Clarke, daughter of ex-Vic.
Governor Clarke, has temporarily given up trying
for opera engagements, and is blossoming forth as
a concert singer in London, where she is to appear
at one of the big ballad concerts, She has lately
been making one or two provincial appearances,
and has earned considerable press praise. Miss
Clarke’s voice is not a very large and tempestuous
organ, but it is very sweet, and her manner of
singing is most artistic. London, of course, likes
very big voices if they can be got, but it also has
an opening for the singer of artistic resource, pro-
vided she has sufficient money to bide her time
and watch for real opportunities. Question is,
whether all the “biding ” that has to be done is
really worth the money.
Item from the ladies’ gush column of a Mel-
bourne sassiety paper :
Both Mrs. and Mrs. are evidently going to
England in the interests of their daughters. It would
never do for either of these young ladies to accept the
first Australian youth who presented himself. Eligible
husbands are few and far between in this country.
That’s the climax of the importing craze. We
must even import husbands for our fashionable
girls.
Polo interests this year have had a drop—short,
sharp, and sudden—accounted for by the sudden
flight to London of the Cream, The Skim-Milk
element is of very little use for Polo. It’s the one
fresh-air excitement that demands a swarm of
svvagger barrackers. Without them the men, the
sticks, and the small neddies figure in a dull field.
Wednesday’s Gymkhana was very desolate. In
former years these Polo sports brought a muster
running into a fat list of hundreds. This time
they only drew a sparse gross or so, and a frump-
ish gross at that. It seemed a competition in
dowdy clothes and plain Lenten looks. The
squatter class do not usually run to soft cherubic
countenances. The strenuous life leads to
barbed-wire nerves and brickfield complexions.
There were several of this strenuous type at the
Gymkhana rally. How much more satisfactory
to be a fascinating tray-maid in a tea-room, orin the
garter department of a drapery, than a moneyed
squatteress with a face like a penitentiary door-
knocker !
Strong efforts to look “in the picture” at the
Gymkhana were made by Mrs. George Chirnside,
Miss Purves, and Mrs. Grant M‘lntyre. No. 1
dame wore all cream, with a Paddy-green collar
to her dust-coat, and a new Georgian felt hat
flying four fine plumes. No. 2 Miss struck the
eye in an intense cornflower-blue turn-out, the
color spreading from crown to base. No. 3 ex-
perimented in fawn check tailorings and a bowler
feather headgear.
Mrs. Sumner, one of the veteran grand-dames of
the State, lies very ill at her big “Stony Park”
residence. Last year she made a wonderful
recovery from what the Faculty regarded as a
fatal illness. So she may, by grace of a vital
temperament and good luck, pull through again.
In consequence, however, of her precarious con-
dition, all the kith and kin absented themselves
from the Polo carnival and festivities of the week.
This made a big hole in the gathering, for the
Sumner clan comprise Osbornes, Chirnsides,
Grices, Fairbairns, Nashes, and the Collins-street
Ryans.
Federal Justice O’Connor donated a golf-cup to
the Melbourne Club, and the Links at Sandringham
on Saturday swarmed with competitors for the
trophy.


i Am
Axntr
i ana
aooj MKv
VW\fHVS
Every pot contains Public Analyst’s certificate.
Procurable at Sadler’s Pharmacy, 148 Pitt St., and their
so -urban branches, for 3s. ; or trial jar by post from
L. rd >n' & Nicholes, 3 Queen’s Place, Sydney,, for 3s. 3d.
mzm
u
PERFUME
DELICATE & PERSISTENT
WHOLESALE ONLY
MIDOOWS BROTHERS. SYDNEY
MELBOURNE BRISBANE PERTH & WELLINGTONrz
\X
//
11 Ufa
I
Drivmg
is doubly enjoyable when the
vehicle is fitted wifh
DunloptfeUy
Rubber lyres
NO NOISE. NO RATTLING
AND
NO REPAIR BILLS
Send for Illustrated Price Lfsl
IhcDiniOF TYRfO’of AUSN
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY. ADELAIDE. PERTH. BRISBANE AND
CHRISTCHURCH. N.Z.
DUNLOP
RUBBER
BELTING
is recommended lo Mine managers. Its
Efficiency and Durability under wet conditions
renders its use more economical than leather
belting. Made endless (without stretch), any
length, up to 60 inches wide.
SAMPLE AND PRICE ON APPLICATION.
DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO. ot AUST. LTD..
108 Flinders St.. Melbourne : 150 Clarence St..
Sydney : 117 Grenfell St., Adelaide; 268-270 Adelaide
St . Brisbane; 617 Hay St., Perth; 128 Lichfield St.,.'
Christchurch. N.Z.
!
►By doctors.
NEW PREMISES of DAVID BRAHAM & CO., Tailors,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Ivw
The bottom is always dropping out of the
Foreign-trade yam that distance is Protection
enough for the Australian. . Lately Queensland
has been trying to do a line in soft timber with
Wes trail a, but bumps against the awkward fact
that VY estraha can get neatly all the stock lots of
timber it wants brought to it as ballast in wool
ships from Europe and America.
Amusements.
TPHEATRE R OVAL, SYDNEY.'
Lfcssee J. O. WILLIAMSON.
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT, APRIL 14.
THE GREAT EASTER HOLIDAY ATTRACTION.
„, w t 0 Svdnt ‘.v of BLAND HOLT and his
FAVORITE COMPANY OF DRAMATIC ARTISTS
in a Complete Representation of the Up-to-Date
Russo-Japanese War Drama,
BESIEGED IN PORT ARTHUR.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s and is.
QR ITER lON THEATRE, SYDN E Y.
Direction of Messrs. Brough and Flemming.
LAST SEVEN NIGHTS of
The Grough-Flemming Comedy Company
LAST NIGHT of DR. WAKE’S PATIENT.
SATURDAY & MONDAY, APRIL 14 and 16, BEAUTY
AND THE BARGE. TUESDAY & WEDNESDAY.
APRIL 17 and 18, A VILLAGE PRIEST. THURSDAY
FRIDAY, APRIL 19 and 20, QUALITY STREET.
Prices as Usual. Box Office at Elvy’s. Matinees every
Wednesday.
LJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■■ Lessee and Manager .. Mr. .I. C. WILLIAMSON
EVENINGS, at 8. WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON, at 2.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY), LAST NIGHT of
Plan<;uette’s Most Celebrated & Melodious Comic Opera,
PAUL JONES.
SATURDAY, APRIL 14, for Six Nights Only,
THE CINGALEE.
Box Plan at Paling’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Direction of EDWIN GEACH.
“Theatre Packed to the Door Nightly” to witness
WEST’S PICTURES,
THE FINEST IN THE WORLD, in conjunction with
THE BRESCIANS,
Orchestra and Singers from the Royal Albert Hall.
Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales, White Rose.
HALL, SYDNEY.
For SEVEN NIGHTS and THREE MATINEES ONLY,
WINTON’S ENTERTAINERS,
Commencing EASTER SATURDAY, APRIL 14.
LIVING PICTURES, LIVING ITALY,
LIVING SPAIN, LIVING FRANCE,
LIVING BRITAIN, LIVING McGINTY.
In conjunction with JAY W. WINTON, and a Full
Company of Vocalists, Entertainers, &c.
PRICES —35., 25., Is. Plan at Paling’s.
"J" OWN HA LL, SYDNEY.
GOOD FRIDAY, APRIL 13,
GOOD FRIDAY, APRIL 13,
TO-MORROW NIGHT,
GRAND SACRED AND CLASSICAL
CONCERT.
COLOSSAL PROGRAMME.
COLOSSAL PROGRAMME.
GRAND ORGAN
GRAND ORGAN
(Mr. J. EDWARD SYKES).
VICE-REGAL MILITARY BAND (50 Performers)
VICE-REGAL MILITARY BAND (50 Performers)
(Conductor, Mr. L. De Groen).
A NEW AUSTRALIAN PIANIST.
A NEW AUSTRALIAN PIANIST.
Plan now open at Paling’s. The Hall will be open at
6 o’clock for Holders of Early Door Tickets.
J. EDWARD SYKES.
REAL ROYAL RECEPTION
OF
WIRTH BROS.’
GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
THE ONE UNANIMOUS VERDICT ENTHUSIAS-
TICALLY GIVEN—THE BEST AND GRANDEST
EVER SEEN.
PRINCE ALFREeTpARK, SYDNEY
(EXHIBITION GROUNDS).
Passengers by George and Pitt Street trams leave trams
at Railway Station, and go through Subway. Leave
Elizabeth-street trams at end of penny section'.
PRICES—3s, 2s, and Is. Private Boxes to Seat 5, £1
Plan at Paling’s.
SECOND GRAND MATINEE, SATURDAY, at 3 p.m.
CHILDREN HALF-PRICE.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
Great Success of TAMBO and TAMBO, Direct from
London. The Original and Only Tambourine Spinners.
Miss ALICE RAYMOND and Mr. JOHN KURKAMP.
HARRY CLARK’S RADIUM GIRLS.
THE THREE LEES, THE GILBERT SISTERS.
LAST THREE NIGHTS of BERT DANSON.
Mr. LES. WARTON. MADAME LEON CARON.
HARRY SADLER, BABY WATSON, BABY SUTTON,
ROCHFORT and HART, PEARL LIVINGSTONE, &c.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
O’NATIS TROUPE, Algerian Jugglers.
MDLLE. OMEGA, Queen of the Wire.
THE CATHEDRAL CHORISTERS, Part Singers.
MILES-STAVORDALE MUSICAL QUINTET.
THE CARMOS, Sensational Jugglers.
THE SCOTTISH MEISTERS, Comedy Glee Singers.
Plan at Allan’s. it3T PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
EW THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOUR iM E.
Lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
SATURDAY NEXT, APRIL 14,
Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION in
THE MIDNIGHT MAIL.
Reappearance of Miss EUGENIE DUGGAN.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand.
LJER (VIAJESTY’S THEATRE, M ELBOURNE.
*■ Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
THURSDAY, APRIL 12, Last Performance of CAMILLE.
SATURDAY, APRIL 14, MISS TITTELL BRUNE in
DOROTHY VERNON.
13?- Remember, the LAST NIGHTS in Melbourne.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EASTER SATURDAY EVENING, APRIL 14,
Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON’S GRAND AUSTRALIAN
COMIC OPERA CO. in Jacques Offenbach’s Celebrated
Romantic Military and Spectacular Opera Bouffe,
LA FILLE DU TAMBOUR MAJOR,
Box Plan at Allan’s.
The two daughters of solicitor R. S. Whiting
made a good display among the she-competitors
of Friday’s polo show. They are the cleverest
whips in this State, and have the kind of round,
piquant face that looks best under a riding
bowler.
A recent showy bride was, up to the time of
her marriage, an ardent worshipper at the shrine
of her own comeliness. She told cronies that her
neck was destined for diamonds, and averred
that, given a bower fitted up with full-length
mirrors, a girl with a figure like hers need never
feel lonely or depressed.
The eldest hope of Malcolm M'Eaeharn has
cultivated a wasp waist and allowed a few tendrils
to interrupt the intellectual expanse of high brow
that once bore the stamp of advanced studentship.
The golden-thatched mamma has also shed much
of her primness cf manner. JNo doubt himself,
when he returns, will shine with more prosperity
and scented soap than ever. «
“The Wilderness” charity show drew a large
multitude to the Princess on Wednesday, which
multitude creaked its starched linen and kept
its jaws in active exercise on cream walnuts
throughout the most poignant love-episodes
Now and then the multitude laughed at a bright
line in the lengthy dialogue. The smartest frook-
ing of the show was supplied by Miss Allie Rob-
son, a bright young amateur with any amount of
“stage address.” Also she spoke her lines in a
clear, cheeky treble that would have sounded at
home in a Brough comedy. Mrs. Freeman-Nott
is not a stage dazzler, and had harder work gain-
ing sympathy in a part built for tricky two-and-
twenty.
The tea-room siren went and saw some of Col-
lins-street’s Very Best People tray-carrying in
“ The Wilderness.” And the siren laughed. Not
all the dabs of paint, the puffs of powder, the
pinched waists, the polished and bevelled coiffure
could accomplish for the strutters the indefinable
something that renders the scone-server a kissable
adjunct at the local bun-retreat.
Miss Rose Mason, the second daughter of the
Vic. ex-Speaker, faces the altar after Easter with
an attractive rural partner—Mr. J. B. Hoban.
The bride-elect was very nearly being a notable
beauty, and is all but a fine singer. The Marshall-
Hall Conservatorium took charge of her top C for
a while, and prophesied large things. But the
owner of the promising top note lost interest in
the matter. Now matrimony provides a career.
The irony of reversed circumstances and a
Government’s ingratitude has entered the soul of
a retired soldier to such an extent that on his
fowl-run he sports his dress uniform, and marches
to the milking-shed in all the clank and noise of
his regimentals. It is his way of signifying his
“ regard ” for the uniform.
The Matrons’ Hop is billed for the Prahran
Town Hall on Wednesday, April 18. Miss
Alison Fairbairn, in order to sustain her reputa-
tion as a “sweet girl,” right to the marriage morn,
undertakes the cares and anxieties of hon. sec.,
Mr. F. B. Jenkinson being looked to to support
the lady in her secretarial duties.
Dr. and Mrs. Ryan have started off for a
grand jaunt. In Dublin he has kin, and in Paris
his dame has a host of pals, to whom she’ll show off
her excellently-preserved French accent with true
Hibernian gusto.
Free fights on the Port Melbourne pier marked
the departures of the Marmora and the Bremen.
Hundreds struggled on both departing occasions
to move up and down the gangways, and progress
being altogether suspended by the close packing,
groans and cries were freely uttered. Eventually
when something or someone gave way, the rush for-
ward and backward re-started. Rats were sent
skew-whiff, dress-tails were lost, blouses torn, the
presentation posy of roses was crumpled and
destroyed, elbows were bruised, toes stood upon,
and strugglers felt grateful to escape with their
lives. Both vessels bore away a mighty host of
Melbourne familiars, and the stay-at-home popu-
lace waved a damaged hanky with a bruised right
arm as they left.
The two after-Easter shows of most concern
here are the marriages of Miss Constance Army-
tage and Miss Alison Fairbairn. The former
bride-expectant faces the music with Captain
Fitzpatrick. One half of the family is for an extra
loud splash. The remnant votes for no fuss. The
tug-of-war goes on. There are four Armytage
sisters. _ The break-up of the quartette by matri-
mony is a shock tq the household. For the
Balmain-Fairbairn hitching-up the preparations
are of a royal character. The quality of the
brocade for the bridal tail, the length "of it, the
cut, lining, weight even, are points for discussion
by a council of Toorak authorities. Deep thought
is being given to the team of maid attendants,
concerning whose display the Northcote dame is
alleged to have given some hints. A shoal of
toilers are at work on initialing some wonderful
cobweb lace underwear. All the arrangements
are treated as if they were the plans for a
coronation.
A much-divorced Melbourne citizen has set off
for Europe in the forlorn hope of winning
to his vagabond heart the first wife of his
bosom that dame being now the moneyed
widow of a. No. 2. What iron nerve !
There’s a feast of beauty and a flow of fine cloth
and fur in the Buckley and Nunn autumn, 1906,
catalogue, just published. Anyone who wants a
real joyful Easter should stock a purse well with
money and then give careful study to this cata-
logue.
A bride-elect from the Western State, who had
her matrimonial plans suddenly upset by her
adorer, in a fury over some past and vanished
flirtations, has come to this city to take a
little wear out of the condemned trousseau. She
looks charmingly chic , has made a sensation with
her pretty clothes, and finds some joy in display-
ing the chiffons. A wound soon begins to heal
when it is well-dressed.
The romance .of a certain widow’s recent
marriage in London is only just to hand per
returned gossips. The elderly Romeo was at first
in love with a chubby young relative of his present
wife. In fact, the pair had a brief engagement.
Then Beauty wearied of the sere and yellow
Romeo. The hand was, in a way of speaking,
revoked. Then the widow administered consola-
tion. The grieving lover liked it and asked for
more. The gentle Grace gave more, until the ex-
Romeo sang “Abide with Me” or “Beloved,
thou art Mine,” or something to that effect and,
after the ceremony, she abided accordingly. It’s
a lesson to spinsters and sorrowing widows to be
ready with a scented hanky to dry the tears when
an eligible finds any young relative shying at his
offers.
The death of Mrs. Dinham-Peren has affected a
large circle, and several lots of relatives have in-
serted varying obituary notices in the dailies, as
if one were afraid the other would not convey to
the public exactly who the deceased was. Mrs.
Norman Armytage, a sister, was responsible for
one notice, three devoted sons for a second,
the husband for a third. The deceased dame
was charming, clever, and of splendid “deport-
ment.” Her life had not been blessed of late with
any great strokes of fortune, but she reared her
fine head proudly, and looked game to the last.
Her early death is a matter of much regret.
A small but lovely voice was tried in the raw
the other day at the Winter Tea Gardens, and the
gathering of musical authorities offered praise.
Miss T. Conn owns the melodious organ, and
infuses into it much warmth. Miss Conn has
warbled in London and Paris salons, so she sings
with experience and much knowing charm.
The rush to Sydney is of a violent nature. All
who are not going to London seem to be bound
for Syd ney. Messages came through last week
from all the intemperate establishments of most
renown to the effect that every peg on the hall-rack
was marked off and every pillow in the building
“ bespoke,” and the sculleries were already packed
with late-comers, and even the billiard tables were
over-booked. But the Bent populace steamed off
all the same to commandeer the spare wheel-bar-
rows in the vicinity of Circular Quay.
Ballarat lately has been troubled by a “ ghost”
of the kind that bobs up suddenly for the purpose
of scaring lovely women out of their wits. Needless
to say ghost-seekers, armed with weapons of
offence, are on the track of the despicable vision,
and will probably fail to do any business with it.
Search parties, in these cases, usually make the
old mistake of looking for a man in a white sheet.
A white-robed prowler would be pretty sure to
fall in sooner or later. But the modern ghost
doesn’t walk the earth in the guise of Hamlet’s
father, or anything like it. He’s a commonplace
looking citizen—or two citizens, more likely—
provided with a thin ghost “ fake,” which can be
squeezed into mere nothingness, and put out of
sight when danger threatens. The man, or men,
behind the ghost can give it an appearance of
springing over a fence, or sinking into the earth.
When the apparition has served its sinful purpose
and the shriek of a terrified female has brought
the local vigilance society upon the scene, the
ghost-maker with his sheet stuffed under his vest
or in his pocket, comes running towards the other
fellows exclaiming “ Did you see it!” and the
other fellows accept- the new arrival or arrivals as
having been likewise on the look out for spectres.
For the guidance of Ballarat it may be
suggested that the real culprit is apt to profess a
boiling indignation against the vanished “figure
in white.” The one who threatens the most
vengeance has probably got the Ghost concealed
about his person.
The local girl is endeavoring to adopt the she-
tourist’s habit of swinging a stick. Lately three
or four have sported dandy canes on the Block, but
with such disastrous results that they are not
likely to make the trial a permanent practice.
One was asked whom she was going to thrash, and
another was sweetly reminded that her fiances
medallion and ring ought to be sufficient reminder
without brandishing any more of his effects. So
there’s no more cane about just now.
A son of Maurice Brodzky (ex-editor of Table
Talk) was guilty of the illuminated address pre-
sented by the Australian colony in ’Frisco on the
final curtain-fall of the “Sweet Nell’’show in
that city. All the young Brodzkys (there’s a
mighty host of them) are dabbling in ink, or
crayon, or grease-sticks. One daughter, brought
up according to the rigorous training of the
Scotchbyterian Ladies’ College, is now flinging a
graceful limb in a vaudeville show. Leon,
who grubbed awhile for the local Herald,
is now negotiating a Continental tour on little
more than nothing a year.
The story of a Melbourne citizeness securing the
post of companion to a heavily-titled London lady
had hardly been digested by an eager set of
Toorakites than further word came to the effect
that the aristocrat was not quite the sort of em-
ployer the respectable kith and kin of the lady
would like. So the companionship had a brief
run, and the lady has now gone into the nail-
paring or hat-rigging business. I forget which,
but it’s a business without any objectionable pasts
or other tenses.
Yours Affectionately, Trypiiena.
H. B. Higgins, K.C., Home Kuler and
patriot, has been looking into his genealogy, and
discovers that he is a descendant of one of Crom-
well’s troopers who drove the Irish to Connaught
or hell, as the alternative stood at that date. It
must be historically admitted that Cromwell’s
troopers, taken in the large, were about the worst
body of ruffian soldiery the records of the period
mention.
Premier Carruthers, of N.S.W., is truly
great on the land question. A little while back
he was quite indignant because complaining land-
seekers didn’t rush some unpromising Crown
lands on the North Coast. Then he said there
was plenty of Crown land available for settle-
ment—a statement which brought Lands Minister
Ashton hastily on to both his feet to tell his
leader not to be an ass, because there wasn’t any
Crown land, or something like that. And the
other day, at Hawkesbury Agricultural College,
Carruthers got eloquent some more :
The Government could not go on year after year
throwing- open Crown lands. He advised them not to let
Crown lands be their goal; if he had half-a-dozen sons
he would not let one go on such land. There were con-
ditions about it which went against the grain.
It’s all very mixed, but one query sticks out a
mile. If “there are conditions about Crown
lands which go against the grain,” what is wrong
with Carruthers bettering those conditions ? What
on earth does Carruthers think the State pays him
his salary for ?


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNBY.
PROM LIFE for loveis of
beautvandchic. Illustrated
catalogue with 4S samples
and S fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/- Fine
assortments, XO/ and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, 89C. FBG St. Martin, Paris, France.
xV'
OKs
arsr&
Gi-O TO HBLiL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Nagei), Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Li3ts Grati3.
A SIMILE AND A MORAL.— “ What
the dustman is to the dwelling in which we live,
that Hunyadi Janos is to the local habitation of
the human spirit.” Thus writes a well-known
medical writer.*
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS
u
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENVER BROTHERS
281 George St.
(ovp. Hunter St.)
and at cor. Lonsdale & Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Argus timidly ventures the belief
that “a frank alliance between Mr. Reid and
Mr. Deakin is the best thing that could hap-
pen : ”
Iceberg Irvine (even Irvine) : “I do not
believe in buying our defence by paying to a
Government in which we have no representation.”
From the Commonwealth Gazette :
The Governor-General has been plowed to approve of
the disbandment of the naval forces at the port of
Mackay, from April Ist, 1906.
The Jap. will, no doubt, also be pleased.
The Yic. A.N.A. Conference, at Sheppar-
ton, has backed up the movement to establish an
Australian Academy of Sculpture. What —with
six State Leg. Councils already full of graven
images !
Freetrade in England gets some fine large
advertisements. On • of them, handed to the
Mayor of Liverpool, the other day, was 66yds.
long, and bore the signatures of 10,000 unem-
ployed.
Minister of Customs Lyne reckons that
the system of equal State representation in the
Senate will have to be altered, or there will be
bloodshed. Well, when Australia gets Unifica-
tion, there will be no need of any Senate, and the
shedding of gore from the nose will be averted.
“ B.” : The awful uproar of some grocers
the other day over the fact that under the Com-
merce Act tinned goods marked lib., which are
less than 16oz. in weight, will be liable to for-
feiture, made even a Chinaman laugh. “ Whaffor
you so mad ?” asked John. Now, why were these
merchants so mad ?
W. P. Crick has again appeared before the
N.S.W. Lands Commission and denied everything
with a completeness that makes the statements of
Peter Close to the same Commission seem very ill-
judged and superfluous. This difficulty of sorting
out Peter and Patrick is getting on the nerves of
the public. Suppose the Lands Commission were
to have another try at Peter ?
Richard Seddon says that Maoriland, with
a wealth of £304 per head, is now the richest
country in the world. He claims that since his
Government took office the public wealth has
increased by £70,000,000. And, by the way, the
public debt has increased by £35,000,000. A
country which is better off and yet £35,000,000
more in debt is an anomaly.
Thus Rupert Clarke, manager for im-
porters Holdsworth, Macpherson and Co., to the
Tariff Commission :
Since the duty of £5 per ton was imposed on shot there
had been no importation worth speaking of. . . Some
came from Tasmania and Melbourne, but the principal
sources of supply were the two factories in Sydney which
had been established since the tariff. The price was a
little cheaper now than under the old conditions.
H. St. George Caulfield, assistant Immi-
gration Agent and Polynesian Inspector, to the
Queensland Sugar Labor Commission :
He had learned authentically that the Tanna boys were
determined, if deported, to murder every white man on
Tanna.
Our gentle, civilised, Christian, desirable, colored
berruther ! He is only asked to keep to the
terms of his agreement, and he replies by waving
an axe.
The two British subjects in the New
Hebrides who are alleged to have become natural-
ised French subjects as a protest against “the
treatment of the Commonwealth,” are being used
by the parochial press as a handy rock to throw
at the Federation. But long before the Com-
monwealth existed British subjects in those
islands were in the habit of changing flags simply
to enable them to dispose of accumulated stocks
of liquor and firearms.
The Victorian railway strike is now nearly
three years away, yet this is the epitaph writer
saw scratched on an engine’s “cab” the other
day. It was in memory of a lately-deceased non-
unionist driver: —
There is a strike in hell, and has gone black-legging
at the call of .
No need for some Bulletin writers (as they did)
to fear that-the strikers would take the blacklegs
into their union ere long. The bitterness is more
pronounced than ever.
Various people who, like Jenkins, are
always encouraging someone else to “ do the thing
properly,” are beginning to tell Bent to celebrate
Victoria’s Parliamentary Jubilee “in a fitting
manner.” Since November ’56 the State has
elected 20 Parliaments. The shortest was the
tenth, which met on May 11, ’BO, and was dis-
solved June 29, thus lasting 49 days. The most
short-lived Administration was O’Shanassy’s first
(from March 11, ’57, to April 29, ’57). Turner’s
first term was, of course, longest—five years 69
days. Of the 32 Ministries Haines, Service, and
Turner captained two each, O’Shanassy and
Berry three each, and M‘Culloch four.
A small item from the Tariff Commission’s
doings last week :
Mr. Wamsley: Have not the marriages been more
numerous in New South Wales under Freetrade than in
Victoria under Protection ?
Witness : The area is greater.
What has area to do with work and marriages?—Well,
the population in New South Wales is greater.
“In proportion to the population,the marriages have
been greater in New South Wales,” said Mr. Wamsley.
A witness of more intelligence would have simply
told Mr. Wamsley.—whoever he may be—that
there never was Freetrade in N.S.W., but the
good old Freetrade lie has passed muster so long
that most people seem to take it now as a matter
of course.
The sentiment of the Australian Chambers
of Commerce, as voiced by president Knox, shows
no sympathy with the Protectionist sentiment of
the Chambers of Manufactures. Knox and co.,
with their eyes turned in the direction of the dear
old Ma country, resolved last week —
That the conference of delegates from the Chambers of
Commerce of the Empire, to be Held in London in July,
offers the opportunity of conveying to the Chambers of
the Empire a cordial invitation to hold their next confer-
ence in Australia, and that Mr. M’Arthur be empowered
to convey an assurance that everything will be done to
make a visit to Australia interesting and of advantage to
the Empire.
How these Freetraders love the sound of the
word “ Empire ” !
t|ew
hA-Ter^l
vittf his
(SyOOlt of -|f)e 'bjfnjleT
ife leyilel « brigVT
cl)ildM*^j—
% iiiWi*Vl>le [ je >|
Ck'MSt col"Jf, WI-ttTWPpUd
-tSe «“* ti"*?-. °l'...j£\ll/9
A"ji° sw<>»
' 'Jon do»> *
do your
■/oh frrajf— il! Sell
yo« "to Ch»ua», sts Sore as yournv*i«s
/An lf
iniswstt^
**. .
Concerted Ojow-jsy "Vy« % )»elf!ct' 1
I i Hlc li*l«. licfe 'fj>a It>< let; -fp r .
V^CC
- W karfcd/
od<
/ [ro^sn'f -
Iflelkoonjc A'i^T
Oor qrtftf jiU<d i fy i ./Z- U l‘JZ?*^
■fo editor bUij WM' d i: r K**
„\y. ij, * I)is v,.it /WW*' M* !
l ?11
N^+iVe^
AO.
-vU r Jo
hi WI *I ®"|-.
iiiife ■
On
!h*r in CW*£e<
% m
Gw&
£>■ G'Jj Wa °i 11^
•ijfs, litile tnglsjr n &K»J
" yiWkj A<e ?
" I ca,H ’itje.m A'Tgela,
stflt S»J« «t . clilliwi, "■•s+'fwjnfly firl*
*» CV-V
In LV“4
\§>un,
k» w r w
°" dorftiU Know!
Ks. fit off. (>»•*■' W%
dishonest" >oM
'tffe A.ds+'rjJivi HsOj- (VTe. in CVms,
will love "Is cloje Ips eyes (emedi'Kte
ees+akt'loe.lly on -fije of -ts*
Lilly S«IKt 'sfree-t-of- t|is fV off idnny
-n&five Und .'■
CONCERNING A PHASE OF THE HALF-CASTE PROBLEM.
It has been alleged that Australian-born children have been sold into Chinese slavery.
The conference of State Premiers an is
amoosin’ joint and several cuss. It meets to dis-
cuss and dispose of 49 questions, all in a few days.
Its decisions aren’t binding on anybody ; it hasn’t
to administer the laws it proposes because it never
does much except propose; and it hasn’t to find
the money to pay for the things it recommends.
So it recommends gaily. In the present case, 29
of the subjects deal with Federal matters. In
many cases they are matters over which the
States boggled for 50 years or more in pre-Federa-
tion days. And now, having no responsibility,
the State Premiers will probably fix these matters
up (on paper) in a week and say proudly :
“That’s the business-like fashion in which WE
do things. Just look at US.”
M‘Cutcheon, M.L.A., the hardshell Tory
who retired from the Yic. Chamber of Manufac-
tures because president Atkins favors friendly
relations with the Labor party, has been indirectly
notified that the manufacturers are well rid of
him. At last week’s meeting of the Chamber it
was unanimously agreed :—•
That the members place on record their approval of
the action of the president and council in approaching
the Protectionist Association and the Political Labor
Council for the purpose of obtaining a complete Protec-
tionist propaganda.
Whilst the Union Label clauses of the
Trade Marks Bill were being discussed, Conroy
and crowd yapped that manufacturers would never
steal a Union Label Just as well to record cases
as they occur. At Moline (Illinois, US.A.)
Ringquist, a shoe retailer, has been fined 100
dollars; Union agent Fred Lee, of Chicago,
prosecuted him for using a counterfeit Union
Label. Julius Cohen, second offender, in the
same line, got six months. A man whose name is
Cohen may be regarded as a fair judge of what is
worth stealing. Yet that wasn’t the impression
of the Union Label that the great anti-Socialism
party gave—on their say-so Cohen would be just
as likely to steal a dead loss or a disease.
The S. Australian Government has de-
cided to send an official to England to make a
market for the State’s produce. Another drum-
mer? But why, then, did Jenkins send himself?
Where, anyhow, is the protest of John Darling
and the anti-Socialist “Producers’ League”
against this State “interference” with private
enterprise? And when is some Australian
Government going to pay the salary and travel-
ling exes, of a drummer for an Australian factory ?
S. Australia has, for instance, a Lobethal tweed
mill, which turns out fine stuff that not one S.
Australian in 20 has seen to be sure of. Why not,
while the Government is about it, and if it must
find jobs for canvassers—why not send one or two
up north taking orders for Lobethal tweed suits ?
They begin to know these Labor Premiers.
Price, of S. Aus., isn’t quite such a block of grey
sandstone in the road of the log-roller as Kidston,
of Queensland ; yet when, the other day, a country
township (Lobethal) sent along a memorial asking
him to visit it and address it on “ Current poli-
tics,” it had sized him up well enough to add—
“ We promise not to make use of your visit to in-
troduce any deputation to you, and beg to assure
you that we have no axe to grind.” That sounds
like the beginning of intelligent politics and sound
Government. It also sounds like a mighty fine
compliment to T. Price.
J. P. Franki, representative of N.S.W.
Iron Trades Employers’ Association, to the Tariff
Commission :
To an extent it was true that the works were estab-
lished under a Freetrade policy, and the industry gener-
ally under that policy had been fairly flourishing. The
inference drawn from that fact might be, and undoubtedly
was, in some cases wrong. At that time mining was
flourishing, foreign freights were higher, and outsiders
had not realised what the trade of Australia meant. Since
then the outsiders (English, American and Continental
manufacturers) have gained a knowledge of our necessities,
and, owing to extremely low freights, they are able to
place things on this market at a price with which it is im-
possible to compete under the limited protection now
afforded.
Brisbane Daily Wail, which is quite sure
everything is going to the devil, sustained a hor-
rible disappointment the other day. It went to
interview Acting-P.M.G. Ewing, satisfied that
after the worry over the telephones he would be
feeling litnp and miserable. But, instead, he said
he was bubbling over with pleasure to find, from
personal inquiry, that the Wail’s stories of Queens-
land’s grave dissatisfaction with Federation were
all taradiddles. And that isn’t a bit the sort of
thing which even a Wail that is only happy
when it is miserable likes to be told.
The new British Government has started
on the short road to destruction. It has ordered
that the proviso “goods to be of British manu-
facture and material ” shall be dropped out of
future naval contracts, and quite a lot of people
who voted for Freetrade think they are getting
too much of it, and say that the navy shouldn’t be
made in Germany. Again, some great State
harbor works, which are to cost nearly £5,000,000,
were being built with English stone, but now the
source of supply has been shifted to Freetrade
Norway for the sake of cheapness, and the British
quarryman has learned with a shock that he will
have to take half his old rate of wages if be is to
have any chance of competing with the Nor-
wegian. He also says that this is a darned sight
too much Freetrade.
Melbourne Argus remarks (31/3/’O6) :
On board the s.s. Lincolnshire, at present loading-wheat
at Geelong, there are a number ot sailors who are for-
bidden to land in Australia by reason of the provisions of
the Immigration Restriction Act. The vessel has, for
nearly two years, been visiting no ports save in countries
where similar legislation is in force. The result is that
there are several men among the crew who have riot set
foot on land for 21 months.
Apparently Australia is, after all, quite a com-
monplace sort of land where the immigration
restriction laws are merely copies of similar laws
to be found in a dozen other parts of the world.
At all events, here is a ship—and a steamship at
that —which has roamed the seas and skirted the
shores for 21 months without striking a port
where the immigration laws were any different
from ours. O Petriana ! O Six Hatters ! ! O Six
Potters !!! Has it come to this ?
“Dave H. R.” writes :
I attended the opening night of the Reid-Holman talk
about Socialism, and driving the capital out of the coun-
try, and the sanctity of the marriage-tie, and other
trifles, and this is my somewhat blurred recollections:
Holman rose, a little nervously, and said he was quite
sensible of the honor of being opposed by Mr. Reid, and
he represented the Labor party. Then Mr. Reid rose
with bland urbanity, suggesting a full, but pale, moon
climbing slowly from a pine-clad mountain top, and said
he was surprised at what Mr. Holman had said, and he
was sure everyone would see the utter ridiculousness of
it, and, just as he had got through this, the bell for
“ knock-off ” rang, and he blew a gust of relief that made
me think of the whirlwinds that wander about the other
side of Nowhere. Then Mr. 1 iolman rose and said some-
thing or other was a curse, and Mr. Reid awoke and arose
and remarked that anti-Socialism was the Millennium, and
Socialism was the place down the street. Then they con-
tinued to awake and arise successively, and said that he
thought what the other said was very funny, and he
couldn’t help wondering how the other could hold such
ideas ; and when the meeting was over everyone wonde.ted
if they were both related to Mark Twain.
Sydney Telegraph, which in March de-
clared solemnly that all the State Upper Houses
were quite amenable to the will of the people, and
that there was no need of a Federal graduated
land-tax, for if the people wanted a graduated
land-tax the State Assembly and State Leg. Coun-
cil would supply it, printed this on April 4: —
The Government will have the Legislative Council at its
back. The Tasmanian Legislative Council is the most
Conservative in Australasia, and its position in practically
unassailable. Its members are returned on a property
qualification, and hold their seats for six years. There is
no provision for deadlocks, and the chances of getting the
Council on the side of what has lately been hammered
into the people as “progressive” legislation is very
remote.
From Perth :
Westralian Civil Service Commissioner recently toured
the eastern States in search of a Government Printer, the
screw for which person is £5OO a year. Out of 40 appli-
cants he could not find one up to the mark—his mark.
Whoever drew up the conditions must have known as
much about the printing business as a myall knows about
the Ten Commandments. Among other things, the suc-
cessful candidate is required to know all about bookbind-
ing- and stereotyping, the chemical properties of printers’
inks, the mechanical details of printing presses of ail sorts
and sizes, and the various branches of the stationery and
paper trades. Also, he must possess a practical knowledge
of type-setting in every form. Tn addition to these and
other qualifications, the successful candidate must have
successfully conducted a printing business of his own. All
this for £5OO a year ! The Public Service Commissioner of
the Sandy State occupied six weeks over his trip, which
was fruitless, but apparently the conditions will he modi-
fied in the interests of some good old Groper, whose know-
ledge of the printing trade has been gained in some Perth
jobbing office. In addition to a Government Printer, it is
proposed to appoint an Inspector-General of Forests at
£750 a year, so that probably another trip of a couple of
months will be necessary in order to find a man with an
impossible knowledge of vegetables.
The old Federal capital lie once more —
from the S.M. Herald (6/4/’O6): —
We know what it means to have to fight for our rights
in the matter of the Federal capital, and even now we are
not sure that we shall get what was definitely promised
by the representatives of the States in conference when
Federation was in the balance. A feeling of bitterness
has been steadily rising on this side which has the seeds
of strife and hatred in it, and it only needs a little more
of the folly which has been characteristic of the first
Governments of the Commonwealth to produce a crop of
evil which a generation of subsequent care will not
eradicate.
Two lies in one sentence. Federation wasn’t “in
the balance” when the capital question turned
up, for in every State where the question was put
to the people they had accepted the Federal
Constitution, though the N.S.W. Parliament had
had the outrageous treachery to nullify the
acceptance so far as it concerned N.S.W. And
N.S.W. has been offered freely everything that is
in the bargain—a Federal capital in N.S.W., over
100 miles from Sydney, and located on a Federal
territory of at least iOO square miles. The fact
that it allows its disagreeable infant Carruthers
to refuse the offer is its own affair.
This Deakin is a traitor vile,
A slave of Labor too is he,
A man of democratic guile,
Who treated Reid most shamefully.
And, as for Reid, he still may own
Some faults it’s needless to recite,
And yet this pair should now unite,
Since ’tis by Argus logic shown,
Two wrongs may always make a right!


This Shoe 12J11
OR
POST FREE
13/6
■ ■
ANYWHERE IN THE
COMMONWEALTH, INCLUDING W.A.
IN FINE AMERICAN GLACE KID, WITH STYLISH PATENT
LEATHER CAPS, AND THE FASHIONABLE COLLARETTE.
TRY ONE PAIR NOW!
This is the kind of Shoe upon which a lady only
needs to look once to be satisfied. There is I
a trim air about it that appeals successfully to the j
eye of people who know a good shoe at first sight. J
BOOTS
EXCHANGED.
MONEY
REFUNDED.
Read Opinions;
“ Thanks for Evening Shoes, which are quite satis-
factory.—R.P.W., Melanesian Mission, Norfolk Island.”
“ Parcel with Ladies’ Shoes came safely to hand. They
are satisfactory in every way.—H. F. T., Charleville,
Queensland.”
CALLAGHAN SHOES & BOOTS,
395 GEORGE STREET , SYDNEY .
Every kind of Modern Boots and Shoes fully described and
illustrated in our Style-Book. We send it post free for asking.
n
%
*
V
The Good AlFround Kodak
for general work with either
Films or Plates.
Tbe No. 3 FOLDING POCKCT KODAK
PRICE £4 7s. 6d.
ALL WORK WITH FILMS (including Development) DONE IN DAYLIGHT.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AOENTS FOR KODAK LIMITED,
PREMOS, &c., AND ALL DEALERS* SUPPLIES ....
BAKER & ROUSE Tu*’:,,
375 * 377 GEORGE ST., SYPNEY.
“ The Block,” 284 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
78 Queen Street, BRISBANE. 37 Bundle Street, ADELAIDE.
Refiners and
Sole Manufacturers of
ESTABLISHED 1884.
SAN FRANCISCO, and 117 Pitt St., Sydney
P. & B. BUILDING PAPER
NOT THE SAME AS OTHER PAPERS.
HAS NO
thought ever struck you about the ad-
vantages of lining a slate, tile, or
shingle roof or weatherboard walls
with P. &B. Paper ? No other can
EQUAL
P. & 8., because it’s the only paper
that has the mineral basis which makes
it waterproof, insulating, and practi-
cally everlasting.
If It is not seemly, do it not; if it is not true, speak it not.”— Marcus Aurelius.
WILLIAM BALDWIN
W. S, FRIEND & 00.,
JAMES W. JACK,
NORMAN & CO.,
E. T. HARRIS,
HEDLEY BUTTON,
BRISCOE & CO., LTD.,
Aast. Rep.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Wellington, N.Z.
Adelaide, S.A.
Townsville, Q.
Launceston, Tas.
Melbourne, Vic.
JAMES McEWAN & CO., LTD., Melb., Vic,
JAMES SANDY & CO., Sydney, N.S.W,
JOHN BURNS & CO., LTD., Auckland, N.Z.
G. L. DENNISTON, Dunedin, N.Z.
WILLIAM SANDOVER & CO., Perth, W.A.
EDWARD REECE & SONS, Chch., N.Z.
E. L. YENCKEN & CO. Pty., Ltd., Melb., Vic.
THOMSON, BRIDGER & CO., LTD., Invercargill, N.Z.
THE N.Z. LOAN AND MERCANTILE AGENCY CO., LTD., Brisbane, Q.
Have Yo(i a (jran>opl)oi>c ?
If so, what are you paying for Records ?
Columbia 10in Disc Records
are unequalled for Smoothness, Purity
of Tone, and Durability.
Price 3/6 each.
They are made of the very best Black
Composition, and will fit all Disc Talking
Machines. We Exchange Old and Worn
Records. Write for Particulars and
Latest Lists to—
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO. (Genu
Australian
Headquarters
25 Ash St., Sydney, N.S.W.
(211)
/
<ar°~s
W
The McCormick Harvester is
“ WITHIN AN ACE ** of Perfection.
qp
So near it in fact, that it’s extremely difficult to detect
the difference.
It makes the best sample.
It runs the lightest.
It is the most convenient, and easy to operate.
It’s “within an ace” of absolute perfection.
28-page catalogue with particularly useful information
for Harvester buyers now ready. Send for it.
• -0-1
International Harvester Company of America
Agents throughout Australasia*
Trisbane, Sydney,
Melbourne, Adelaide,
Launceston and
Christchurch.


“M OTA ” brand
Motor Car Spirits
Are the finest power spirits the world produces.
Sold by all Motor Manufacturers,
Importers, Repairers, etc., or of
The BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD.,
Agents, Adelaide, Melbourne & Sydney.
At Rand wick, on Anniversary day, the seventh
horse in the book won three different events. 777 is
the number of Tattersalls’ golden pen. Try your luck
with one when you order your sweep ticket. Box of
eighteen for sixpence anywhere, or send eightpence in
stamps to 777, Box 98, G.P.0., Sydney.*
Cable Address —
PASTIME, SYDNEY.
Biliousness and Indigestion.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills Taken at the
First Indication Will Save Much Suffering.
Biliousness and indigestion are most distressing
complaints, and nothing'tends to make the victim
more irritable or weaken the whole system than
constant recurring attacks. Much suffering would
be averted by keeping a bottle of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills at.hand, and at the first indica-
tion to take one or two. Read what Mrs. Alice
Bowden, 349 Balmain Road, Leichhardt, Sydney,
says :—“ For some years Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills have been our family medicine. At one
time I was frequently attacked with biliousness
and indigestion, and could find nothing to give me
relief. Now upon the first indication of any of
the symptoms I take a couple of these pills, which
at once put me all right, and correct my system.
I am always putting in a good word for Dr.
Morse’s Pills, which, I am sure, are the best
remedy for general complaints, and I always keep
a bottie in the house.” Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills are a safe, sure, and reliable remedy, and will
prevent many of the ailments so common if taken
occasionally to keep the system in a healthy condi-
tion. They are purely vegetable, and will be
found a perfect medicine for every member of the
household. They are a positive and permanent
cure for biliousness, indigestion, constipation,
headaches, sallow complexion, liver and kidney
troubles, piles, pimples, boils, blotches, and for
female ailments.*
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
M- J. MOLONEY,
TattersaSß’s Club,
SYDNEY.
+
COMMISSIONS Executed.
S*“
LONGEST HARKET RATES
GUARANTEED.
TEL. 1542 or 251.
Write or wire for Quotations.
Price Lists forwarded on Application.
«.
Telegraphic Address—
MOLONEY, Tattersall's,
SYDNEY .
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE.
NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents-Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
, A.J.C. Autumn meeting commences at Rand-
wick (Sydney) on Saturday. It is the custom in news-
papers to tip the horses that are likely to win, and as the
newspaper man usually knows no more about it than
Sunday morning’s bacon knew of its grandfather,
the custom is somewhat foolish. But the scribe
gets round the difficulty in characteristic style.
Of a field of seven he writes like this: “Al-
though B ran excellently in the Lightweight Stakes
and is carrying two pounds less weight in the fixture
under notice, 1 aizz still of opinion that when the nunzbers
go up A will be found at the head of the list. Therefore
I would place thezzz as follows. A first, with Bas a saver,
and D as having more than a possible ; for second place,
B if it doesn’t run first, in which event A, and D as a
saver, or, for an outside chance G. For third
place I tip E or F, as if none of the foregoing
has stamiiza enough to take first or second place it
will certainly 7 be found at the tail end of the procession.”
It will be noticed that in this sort of tip the judicious
writer carefully mentions every horse but one ; and the
wise punter, if it is possible that a wise person would
be a punter, will carefully plank all his money on
O. With regard to the Doncaster Handicap and Sydney
Gup the writer advises as follows (if aizyone is fool
enough to follow the advice, the loss be on his
own head): Maniapoto is in bpth races, and this
writer firznly 7 believes the brute can win both races
if he wants to. But the question is what nzood will
the animal be in. As hinted last week, the znan
who backs Maniapoto for anything ought not be allowed
to handle his own money. This horse carries 9st. in
the Doncaster and Bst. 101 b. in the Gup. Nevertheless,
this writer tips him for the Doncaster ; and, in spite of her
failure in the Hawkesbury Autumn Handicap on Satur-
day, Noreen (6.7) carries the money that the office would
speculate on the Sydney Cup if it was fool enough to bet.
No reasons are given for this choice —nor is aiqv explana-
tion givetz of any apparent discrepancy in the tip. Ozzce
a znan starts to give reasons he shows his ignorance.
« * * •
Among other things that the sudden irruption
of the Ascot pony club was responsible for last week was
the transference of the ancient “ ’Oxbery ” meeting frozzz
its quarters at Clarendon course to Rosehill. It was the
best meeting the club has had for many a long day, for,
at its old stand, the glory had departed from the Hawkes-
bury Club, which, under any other management than
that of the energetic and enthusiastic Mr. Guest, would
have given up the ghost long ago. But on Satur-
day, with charming weather, a more accessible course,
and the best of going, the first-class attendance had a
first-class race-meeting. In the Hawkesbury Autumn
Hatzdicap, Noreen, a stable companioiz of Marvel Loch,
was easily first favorite, and a scared Mosesdozn laid no
more than 6to 4 against. On the other hatzd, it cheer-
fully laid Bto 1 against Heracles. At the start Gilmore
took Grafton Lad to the front, but was proizzptly joined
by Heracles, carrying Callinan. St. Modan and Tatter-
detnalion flew alongside. St. Modan cracked up, and so
did the Lad, but Tatterdemalion was full of steazn, and a
struggle ensued, Heracles winning by a neck. Noreen
cazzie very fast at the finish, taking third place easily.
* * * *
A sermon upon a “ Tatt.” sweep. In a recent
chapter of Melbourne Age the following was printed :
“ The Newcastle Cup, one mile and a quarter, will be
run this afternoon. A great deal of interest is being
taken in the race, as several good performers, whose
owners have been tempted by liberal offers front lucky 7
drawers in Tattersall’s sweep, will start. A syndicate of
four working men drew Gladsome in one of the sweeps,
and, probably 7 fearing that, with her inzportant Randwick
engagements irz view, she would not be a starter, they
offered the mare’s owner 75 per cent, of the prize money.
Mr. Green replied, stating that he would be quite satisfied
to give them £lOO for half the prize money, which offer
was, of course, accepted. The transaction reflects con-
siderable credit on Gladsome’s owner, who, as shown,
might have secured much lzzore advantageous terms —50
per cent, more—without giving the £lOO which he offered
voluntarily.”
Here is the strongest possible argument, dear friends,
against the foolishness of buying tickets in one of
“Tatt.’s” “little” sweeps— i.e. , sweeps on races which
have no large sum of stake money to nzake thezzz worth
winning without regard to other induceznents. The
Newcastle Cup is a paltry £lOO race, which would be
confined to low-grade racers but for the fact that
“ Tatt.” runs a sweep on it. Owners of good horses are
tempted to enter them for this precious Newcastle Cup
with a view to getting “ a bit to nothing’”—and a big bit
to nothing—about their respective nominations, not for a
win only, but for a place as well. The points to con-
sider are that no “ lucky ” drawer in the No. 1 Newcastle
Cup Sweep was likely to get a run for his luck unless he
canze to terms with the owner of the horse. There were
two sweeps on the race, and possibly the No. 2 sweep
operated wholly for the benefit of its pz-ize-drawers. Pro-
bably it didn’t. This protest is confined to the No. 1
matter, in which 50,000 tickets at ss. 2d. each were sup-
posed to have a chance of winning one or other of the
first three prizes. On paper those prize chances were
worth £6OOO in all to the speculative public. They were
actually worth half the money, or thereabouts, presuming
that the second and thii’d horses were run under the same
inducement that brought Gladsozzie to the fore. Now, if
“ Tatt,” who distributes £10,687 10s. out of the £12,500 re-
ceived for a Newcastle Cup sweep, were to deduct another
£3OOO, the public would soon tire of pay'ing so dearly 7 for
their gamble, yet it is all the same to them whether “Tatt”
or Sol Green reduces the value of the big prizes by one-half.
The big prizes are the odds that tempt the sanguine
punters, and it rests with “ Tatt.” to prevent his patrons
from being much more heavily taxed by hungry horse-
owners than they are taxed by the Taszzzanian Govern-
ment. In advertising sweeps on such small events as
the Newcastle Cup the pi’omoter practically invites
owners to enter their horses for the purpose of being
bribed with “ Tatt.’s ” money. It is a case of “No bribe,
no start,” and we are soleznrzly assured by the AGE that
Mr. Green, or Mister anybody 7 else, deserves great credit
for accepting £2OOO, instead of £3OOO they were willing
to give, from four working men who had fairly earned
their luck, on consideration of his letting them be lucky.
The Tasmanian law, which permits “Tatt.” to carry on
sweeps, could partly rectify this abuse by decreeing that
all prize-moneys must be paid direct to the purchasers of
winning tickets in any State, and that all deeds of trans-
fer, assignment or promise to pay between ticket-holder
and horse-owner, or the agent thereof, shall be invalid in
Tasmania at least, if they can’t be made invalid in other
States. The interests of “Tatt.” and the Tasmanian
Government are the interests of the public at large, not
of a group of turfmen.
•» » * *
Judging by the relative attendances at Epping
on Friday and Ascot on Saturday, the scrap between the
Sydney pony racing ring and the club promoted by the
Pony and Galloway Owners’ Association is going to end in
favor of the Ascot Club. Of couz-se, a large number of
people may have rolled up to see what the new
animal was like, but considering the opposition the
fresh club had in the Hawkesbui’y Clzzb’s meeting at
Rosehill, the attendance was very 7 encouraging-. The
Ring has announced its unalterable decision to disqualify
all owners, trainers, jockeys, bookmakers and even book-
ing clerks taking any part in the insurrectionary meet-
ing. In fact it is a general disqualification znore sweeping
than the curse of the Ai’chbishop of Rheinzs, and may at
any moment be extended to the Tramway department
and the people who print the tickets.
If any citizen wants to understand exactly the
utter foolishness of the wheeze that horse-racing im-
proves the breed of animals, let him hie to a Sydney pony
course. Writer went out to one of the numerous pony
meetings through the week, and saw some of the queerest
human beings and horseflesh ever let loose on a suffering
planet. Crowd was not large, but its output of blasphemy
was marvellous, and had blasphemy been a marketable
product (the absorbing power of the police courts is
limited) that afternoon’s output would have liquidated
the public debt. Also, the proportion of criminals
present was huge—if they were not criminals they
looked such, and the worst thing that ever happened them
was the gift they received when faces were distributed.
As for horses—there wasn’t a decent horse on the course.
There were gradations of weeds, from the ordinary pony
down to things about the size of a Newfoundland dog.
Writer would suggest that the pony clubs, in order to
lend a little brightness to their blessed shows, should in-
troduce bullock and goa" races—they would, at least, be
humorous, and you can gamble as well about a bullock
as about a pony that would barely fill a dinner dish.
* * *
Sydney has too much pony racing altogether,
and as there is not the slightest danger of the pony
clubs z-educing the quantity themselves it ought to be
done for them. Saturday last saw ozze meeting at Ascot,
Monday found another in full blast at Rosebery Park;
Kensington Club had its usual weekly day out on Wednes-
day, and to-day, Thursday, is cursed with the Epping
Club’s show at Kensington course. Besides these pony
fixtures there are other races and trots ; with all these
zzzeetings being run for the improvement of the breed of
horses the animals will be so big shortly we won’t be able
to mount them without the aid of a flight of steps.
* * * *
“F.” : A racing club in the N.E. of Victoria
(Rutherglen, I think) is calling a conference of neighbor-
ing clubs, one of the objects of which is “ the purification
of the sport.” If the conference intends to “purify ” to
any extent, it should arm itself with a repeating rifle and
half-a-dozeiz axes. Country z’ace meetings are simply
reeking with corruption. I went to five szzzall meetings
lately, and I only; saw two races that even appearedjto be
run on their merits. The air was thick with dead ’uns,
horses were rung in, declarations were the order of the
day, protests were as numerous as ants, and fights were
going on all the while. The chief swindling races are, in
the order named, the trot, the pony race, and the hack
race. In four out of the five hack races I saw there was a
fraud worked, to my knowledge. Heaven knows how many
swindles there were of which I didn’t hear. I saw a
hurdle race, with five horses, in which all but one were
dead. The one, unfortunately, ran off at the first fence ;
but the other four all ran off at the second fence, and
wandered so long in the scrub that the live one got home
all right. There was no inquiry—there very seldom is.
* * * *
Judging by the three preliminary Rugby
matches at Sydney Sports Ground, University and South
Sydney have plenty of men, and, better still, men in good
ti’aining. The chances are that these two clubs will go
away with a rush at the beginning of the competition,
unless the other fellows polish up considerably during the
practice matches. The votaries of the Australian game
have been practising for several Saturdays past, and have
attained considerable efficiency, although the season does
not open officially till this coming Saturday.
• * * m
During the Maoriland footballers’ tour in
America the thing- which most impressed the natives,
even lzzore than their brilliant passing, was their overture
to the game. Yale’s “Rah Rah,” Princeton’s “Sky-
rocket,” and kindred ’Varsity bawds were supposed to
lick the earth, but when the bloodcurdling Maori W'ar cry
rent the air the most ardent ’Murkan barracker turned
green with envy.
* * * *
The result of Saturday’s cricket in Sydney w ”
to leave Burwood still at the head of the poll, Glebe still
running second with 16, one point less than Burwood.
Waverley 7 having been beaten b3’ Balznain by 211 runs orz
the first innings, fell far back, and is third with only nine
points. This was an occasion in which the Waverley
policy of sending the other side to the wickets first did
not come off. Balizzain stayed there so long and piled up
such an amazing score (368) that the Waverley men got
their tails down, and responded with only 158. Burwood
continued its slaughter of Middle Harbor, closing its first
innings with no wickets down for 309. Middle Harbor,
which, it will be remembered, made only a miserable 88 in
its first innings, did slightly better in the second, and
knocked up 160, so Burwood, wdthout the loss of
a single w-icket, won by aiz innings and 61 runs.
This is the most painful thing that has happened
in Sydney first grade cricket for quite a long time.
Glebe’s triumph over Sydney was almost as good as re-
gaz-ds results, and in some respects more creditable.
It was playing a desperate game to keep close on
Burwood’s trail. Sydney had made 189 first attempt,
and Glebe, to try and score a three-point win, closed
its innings with eight wickets down for 282. This meant
that Sydney had only to get 93 to avoid a first
innings defeat, but Bowden took seven sets of sticks
for 26, rziaking a ghastly gap in S3 T dne3'’s chances
of getting that precious 93. Cotter took two more for 31,
and Grounds bagged the remaining one for seven, thus
ending the innings for 73. It was bold play azzd good
generalship—and it came off.
* * * *
In the latest round of Sydney first grade cricket
Finneran, of Bahzzain, did yeoman service for his team by
taking five wickets for 61, and thereby fetching about the
lzziserable ruin of Waverley. The boss bowler of the
round was Bowden, of Glebe, whose performance is men-
tioned elsewhere. Wordsworth, of Redfern, took five of
Gordon’s tiznbers for 45. Connolly, of Central Cumber-
land, got away with four University 7 wickets for 39, while
Cranney, of the sazne team, took one for two.
* * « *
Victor Trumper’s speculative tour through
North Queensland —the party 7 is to get 75 per cent, of
the gates—is interfering with the last round of the inter-
club competitions. The Glebe will be without Cotter and
Bubb, and Waverley without Carter and Newell. Loy 7 alty
to their clubs should have kept these men in Sydney, but
75 per cent, represents tempting terzns. The New South
Wales Cricket Association is threatening tz-ouble, and its
hands will be strengthened by the fact that the tour is
being undertaken in defiance of the Queensland Cricket
Association.
* * * *
The girl swimmers of Sydney recently amalga-
mated their clubs into a Swimming Association. This
body held its first annual chaizzpionship carnival at
Lavender Bay baths on Saturday last, and a good carni-
val it was. Talk about the gardens of Olyunpus—they
weren’t in the sazne street with Lavender Bay baths,
when the Sydizey girls showed their dainty forms amidst
sunlight and sea-green, struggling vimfully for the
honors. The 100yds. Ladies’ Chaizzpionship Of N.S.W.
brought out four competitors. Miss Dorothy Hill, of
East Sydney, streaked home 4yds. to the good in
lnzin. 19 2-5 sec., which is equal to Miss F. Carr’s world
record figures put up at Brisbane. The Ladies’ Breast
Stroke went to Miss F. Durack, a well-known Sydney girl
swimmer. The Association is certainly entitled to put
on frill, considering that it .managed to equal the world’s
record at its very first meeting ; and this paper ventures
to predict (which is a vice it is not given to as a rule) that
the next few carnivals will see a whole stack of new
figures put up for ladies’ world championships—always
supposing that the girls stick to.the sport.
* * * *
The “country week” swimming carnival opens
in Sydney on Saturday, when 59 of the speediest country
swimmers will make an effort to take the city swimmers
down at their own gazzze. Altogether nine country centres
will be represented; and the nzoveizient of the N.S.W.
Amateur Swimming Association is certain to create
greater interest in the art of hurrying by water in the
baclcblox. The carnival is an experiment; but since
football, cricket, and other sports nzake “ country week ”
a success, there is no reason why swimming shouldn’t do
likewise.
* * * *
First round of this season’s suburban golf com-
petition was played on Saturday, and the indications are
that Killara will retain the supremacy. With several of
the best men away, each play'er in both grades beat his
opponent, which, up to date, is a record for the compe-
tition. This year, two important departures have been
made—the clubs meet on neutral links, and the method
of scoring has been altered.
* » * *
The Manly (Sydney) Sailing Club still ventures
down to the harbor in sailing craft, notwithstanding
that the days are shortening, and the voices of the
footballers are heard in the bars, and the lacrosse men
go about with weird instruments over their shoulders.
On Saturday six of the club craft started in a consolation
race, but the fates were against them, and only one
succeeded in getting over the course. It was called
Cutty Sark, and was steered by one A. Orkney.
» * *
Sydney saw another motor boat regatta on
Saturday, but nothing like the same proportion of Sydney
rolled up as on previous occasions. There were five races
on the programme, but it was rather haz’d to follow them
from the club steamer. The interesting feature of the
afternoon was the championship race, which carried with
it the Albert Cup and Gold Medal. Dr. Piers Hatton’s Lady
Eileen was the holder of the honor, having won it on the
Parramatta under the name of Standard 111. Against it
came Mr. Davies’ 12 h.p. Coo-ee 11, and Mi 1 . Chaz’lie
Relph’s Invincible, which carried 60 h.p. engines. The
Lad3 r Eileen’s engines are 25 h.p. The Invincible is
painted a bright green, and is a lovely boat. Its engines
were made by its owner, and from forefoot to stern-tip
it is Australian - built. The start was very bad,
Lady Eileen getting off the mark like Duffey in a
sprinting match, while Coo-ee and Invincible must have
lost over 200yds. in the start, and Invincible more still
by erratic steering. Away they streaked towards Manl3 7 ,
disappearing in the trembling haze. Lady Eileen came
home first, and four minutes later a fearsoizze roar
and clatter told that the Coo-ee was approaching. It
is the noisiest boat on the harbor. Invincible’s engines
had run hot, and had to be stopped twice, so the Eileen
won easily. But when the Invincible gets those mighty
engines working properly the reign of the Lady Eileen is
over—and the sporting doctor will promptly discard it,
and take unto himself another love ; for he has sworn to
hold the championship of the harbor while he has any-
thing afloat.
* * * •
John Searle did not catch the falling mantle of
his mighty brother Harry, and when, after some finessing,
he and John Mitchell did get properly started in their
sculling contest on the Parramatta River on Saturday,
Mitchell went to the front with a bound. Searle steered
badly, wobbled some, and went home by the longest way
round. Mitchell got away from him and maintained the
lead easily enough, and poor Searle’s efforts were so
hopeless, so pool’, as to be absolutely pathetic. An
urgent necessity at sculling races on the Parra-
matta is a clerk of the course armed with a gun
loaded With salt, with which to blow large holes in
the hogs who, for some unknown reason, will always
persist in joining in these races. Saturday’s match
was considerably "interfered with by the unauthorised
participants, and if some friend with a motor launch
would kindl3' run over this sort of fool, he would confer
a boon on a suffering country. Fogwell, of Ooralti
(N.S.W.), will row the winner for a stake of £l5O.
* * * *
In the U.S.A. they have unearthed a wrestler
who travels under the name of Charles Hackenschmidt.
The Christian name of the “ Russian Lion” is George,
but he is so generally spoken of as Hackenschmidt that
this unknown Charles is able to make a good thing out
of his name resemblance. The only fl3' in the ointment
is that Charles seems to get thrown as regularly as George
throws the other fellow.
* * » •
A combined smallbore team of S.A. beat an
“England” team, shooting by arrangement, each on its
own range, on the same day (March 31st). The ten S.A.
shooters were the picked representatives of seven clubs,
and included two women ! The selection of the two
women caused much discussion, but one of them actually
made the top score at the short range and the other at
the long. The husband of one finished in the 9th place,
his wife being 2nd. The shooting ground at Adelaide
was in an immense abandoned “pug-hole” in the brick-
making district of Hindmarsh. The orifice gives a
sheltered range of over 100yds.
» * * *
Teaman Tom Lipton is about building another
“ yot” with which to compete for the American mug.
Champion professional athlete A. B. Postle has
been putting up some startling performances in Wes-
tralia, if the clocking has been accurate. He shot over
1263'ds. in 11 9-10 sec., and followed it up by covering
75yds. in world’s record time of 71-ssz.-. Just now Postle
is on velvet, and even Bigjohn gets into the shadows while
Postle is standing in the limelight.
* * * *
The swift, inevitable approach of winter was
marked by the commencement of hurling in Sydney on
Saturday, and weird-looking individuals carrying fero-
cious clubs, huge frying-pan-like gloves, diaphragm
shields, and face-cages, proclaimed silently that the base-
ballerwas “on the job.” Last winter the’bailers had a
most successful season, and they are looking forward to
an even better one this year. The Champion team of
Victoria is coming ovei’, and it is hoped that the game
will be put on an inter-State footing, holding champion-
ship meetings in each of the great capitals alternately.
Which is a high pedestal for what is, after all, merely
glorified rounders.
* * ■» *
Gunner Moir, who visited these shores as a
wrestling partner of George Hackenschmidt, and dui’ing
his stay proved a good husky boxer, recently defeated
champion heavyweight Irishman, Jim Casey, in a 15-
round glove contest for a £250 purse, at the National
Sporting Club, London. The “Gunner” got all oyer his
man, pushing him several tinzes to the boards. At the
seventh round the referee stopped the contest and de-
clared Moir the winner. A meeting has now been fixed
betweezz Jack Palmer and Moir, to decide the heavy-
weight suprezzzacy of England.
William Smith, the long, hard-looking, sinewy
Sydney 7 sider who is credited with having taught Willie
Squires all he knows of the noble art (by the way, there
are several other claimants), met Melbournian Preston at
the Olympic Club’s coliseum on Tuesday, the 3rd, and
accounted for him in six active rounds. Art —even the
art of stoush—is long, and Preston looked very short.
Worse, he looked very tubby. He is clever, but has run to
an invincible roley-poley figure of late years, and simply
can’t get sufficient weight off to make a long fight. There
was altogether too much Preston, and although he easily
outpointed the Sydney Smith in the first four rounds,
capering gaiiy away from the latter’s attacks and getting
in most of his own, excess of matter told after that, and
Smith punched the breathless man to a finish in round
six. The moral of this mill is that although there may
be wisdom in a multitude of councillors, there’s no sense
in a big corporation.
* * » *
The most obvious feature of the Cripps-Black-
more fight at Sydney National Sporting Club was Cripps’
unbounded dread of Blackmore’s obscene right and dirty
left. He fought a defensive fight all the time, and showed
a most extravagant haste to get out of harm’s way.
Blacltmore exhausted a dreary succession of rounds trying
to break down an invulnerable guard and get in a knock-
out blow. Of course, he got in sundry w allops, but they
were not man-killers. For 14 rounds Blackmore hurled
himself against that solid defence, and finally, according
to his own yarn, dashed his condition to pieces on it, and
finding himself unable to continue an aggressive battle,
retired from the contest. The few occasions on which
Cripps did let himself go, indicated very emphatically
that he was more than a match for the
man from the Rocks, and could have outed him
with comparative ease. But he was afraid of the random
knock-out, and too much caution makes a fight very
dreary. The only remarkable incident in the scrap was
its conclusion. Both men had gone to their corners look-
ing fit and strong enough to fight another 20 rounds.
Suddenly the towel w'as whirled into the air from the
Blackmore corner, and the audience sat dumbfounded.
So far it was as much Blackmore’s scrap as that of the
other man, w'ho was playing the tortoise game. Black-
more had made all the fighting, and would probably have
won on points even had his condition, as he was under-
stood to say, given out; Cripps was so full of respect for
him that he would not force the fighting for fear of falling
into a trap. This sort of thing emphasises the need for
some governing body which could punish such conduct as
Blackmore’s with six months’ disqualification.
* * * *
The Royal Sydney Agricultural and Pastoral
Show' opens the largest bag of tricks on record to-day
(Thursday). Already the city is full of people who have
come down to take part in the record-breaking. As
before mentioned, there will be some excellent trotting
and jumping, and the way some of these country girls
take their horses over the fences is worth travelling far
to see.
* * * *
The holding-back of the A. J.C. Spring meeting
until the first week in October should add a measure of
uncertainty and sporting interest to the Caulfield 'and
Melbourne Cups, by preventing the appearance of any
N.S.W. “cracks” in the opening events of the Vie.
“carnival.” When the big meeting at Sydney was fixed
for the second week in September, or thereabouts, the
N.S.W. candidates w'ere sent along to Melbourne in time
to be ready for action on Caulfield Guineas Day, and the
relative chances of the local and visiting horses were
pretty well sized-up before the Caulfield Cup fell due.
Under the new arrangement the period of the Spring
racing fever will be shortened and the interest
strengthened by condensation. Better to have the agony
piled-up than long drawn-out.


sisir
*3
€ i
[( UwvaV
N
Kl ■" I"
r
Finest EAST Indian Tobacco is the Most
Costly in the World .
We want to impress this upon you. The finest EAST Indian is now more costly than the finest Havana.
We dare not make this assertion unless it was strictly true. The above fact is not generally known, as it is
only in recent years that tobacco of such fine quality has been grown in the EAST Indies ; so most smokers
look upon Havana, still as the best. But we assert, as tobacco experts, and can prove it up to the hilt, that
this is not so. Finest EAST Indian is by far the best Tobacco—also the most costly. Ninety per cent, of the
imported Havana cigars are the greatest rubbish—the tobacco of which they are made being really only fit for
the pipe ; and such cigars would have no sale at all, only for their past reputation. Continental countries
have recognised the superiority of EAST Indian Tobacco, and it is only a question of time when England will
follow suit. Old Havana cigar smokers are astounded on smoking their first Marsuma.
¥®u have never experienced to perfection the
strange indescribable delights of smoking unless
you have smoked a “ JVIARSUIVSA.”
SOLE AGELTTS r
FELDHEIM, GOTTHELF & CO., Sydney, N.S.W.
POTHERGILL & CO., Fremantle, W.A.
MR. DAN REDDAN, Fitzroy, Melbourne, Victoria.
Messrs. AULD & SONS, Adelaide, S.A.
Messrs. WHITE & CO., Hobart, Tasmania.
Mr. P. A. 0. BYRNE, Launce3ton, Tasmania.
Mr. DUNCAN McLEAN, Greymouth, N.'Z.
MJNKUNG’S
WATCHES
Are Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee Is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronographs
No. I—Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Guaranteed 2 Years,
* £2 lOs, post free. With Silver Case, £3 15s.
No. 2—Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, with Minute Re-
corder (as illustration), Guaranteed 3 Years, £3,
post free. Silver Case, £4 10s.
No. 3—Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
25 Jewels, Split Seconds, with Minute Recorder,
Guaranteed 3 years, £7 10s, post free. Silver
Case, £lO, Open-face or Hunting.
Warranted to be the Best and Most Serviceable
Racing' Watches made.
Sent Post Free and Duty Paid to any Address in
Australia.
W. DUNKLING,
315-317 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
Auctions.
THURSDAY, MAY 17th -
PRELIMINARY ADVERTISEMENT.
Kyogle Estate,
RICHMOND RIVER, NEW SOUTH WALES.
PTFINAL SALE.
'T'HE balance of the above Estate, containing 9,400
* Acres, to be sold by Public Auction at KYOGLE on
THURSDAY, 17th MAY, at 12 o’clock, together with the
Third Subdivision of KYOGLE TOWNSHIP, containing
127 Allotments also 17 Suburban Blocks of from 3J acres
to 17f acres each.
Terms up t 0.20 years for the FARM BLOCKS.
Terms up to 10 years for the Suburban Blocks.
Terms up to 5 years for Township Allotments.
10 per cent. Cash Deposit. TITLES FREEHOLD.
Full Particulars in future advertisements.
Plans now ready, obtainable from the Auctioneers—
HAMILTON, GROOM & CO.,
117 William St., Melbourne.
J. B. McDOUGALL,
Casino, New South Wales.
A POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d; Posted, Bd.
SPIRO Powder SPIRO
A BOOM FOR HOT WEATHER
KILLS ALL ODOR OP PERSPIRATION.
NO MORE SORE AND ACHING FEET.
DOES NOT STAIN ANYTHING. EASILY APPLIED.
1/3 per box to any part of the State.
Grand Views of Niagara Falls Given
Away to Purchasers.
Australasian Agents AMERICAN HYGIENIC
AGENCY Ltd., 177 Liverpool St., Hyde Park,Sydney.
Distributing Agents for Victoria —Grant, Bradlev &
Co., Fulham Place, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Distributing Agent for Queensland —Alfred Moon,
37 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Distributing Agents for West Australia—P. Falk &
Co., Ltd., Henry Street, Fremantle.
FREE SAMPLES, ALL STATES, ON APPLICATION.
I TRIED every known treatment and device without
1 help. Finally I cured myself by Galvanic Electricity.
If you are deaf, or have head noises, don’t waste time and
money as I did. Write me, mentioning this paper, and I
will send you full information FREE. Address—
MU. LEWIS VERNON. 64 Hunter St., Sydney.
• HE
ents
of the
n
PIPE
are many, and its principle is the
most successful ever invented
for the benefit of smokers.
Nicotine is absolutely pre-
vented from entering
either mouth or pipe
bowl. E'ery pipe is
guaranteed.
A
“M\Sf A”
smokes cool
and dry and to
the end o» the
tobacco. The
bowls are made
from flawless biiar-
wood, well-seasoned.
To be had in three
qualities from all tobac-
conists throughout the Aus-
tralian Con monwealth. Whole-
'a’e only from FILDf E M,
PtOTTH r .T> U CO., Sydney.
TEN DAYS’FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
Money in full refunded without, qui stion
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
cycles, warranted six years.
LATEST
MODELS
£2.10 to £6
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or Clincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Kim
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
Packed and Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee safe
delivery.
Second-Hand Cycles
good as <®
Great factory clearance sale at half factory pricet.
~~ ' taking orders from sample
machine. Active Agents
wan' ed in each district. Large profits easily made. Write at once for
free catalogues and our ipeciatoffer, using sufficient postage.
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, &c -.hat f pricet.
MEAD CYCLE CO . Dept. *39
LIVERPOOL, LONDON AND CHICAGO.
200
EAR* A CYCLE
Visitors to Melbourne
WILL FIND
THAT . . .
Neale’s Temperance Hotel
(Tankards)
LONSDALE STREET (Next Law Courts;
is the handiest place to stay at. Being close to Railway
Stations, Theatres and Wharves ; and three minutes’ walk
from G.P.O. Bedrooms on Ground Floor if desired.
Board and Residence, 4s. 6d. per day; or from £1 per
week. Telephone 1640.
MOTHERS FRIEND.
PEDIC POMADE for the Head,
Strikes infesting: vermin dead ;
On all hands it is confessed,
Surest, finest, foremost, best.
Destroys vermin; kills nits; heals sores.
By post—Small 1/2, large 2/3, extra large 3/6.
Manufacturer—P. KXEESATTEL,
Traralgon, Victoria.
E. T. WALSH,
Practical Tailor,
Expert Cutter,
NEW FOUR-GUINEA SUITINGS.
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS.—Send your name and I will send my illustrated Style Catalogue,
also Samples and Measurement Chart and Outfit for measurements.
If you don’t like the Suit when you get it—YOUK. MONEY BACK.
Experienced Cutter from Bond Street,
London, employed.
NO FACTORY WORK .
359 6 EOR6E STREET, SYPNEY.
0J&!
CJ>
Q
IDtesd
c_b
3a
*5
ar*
«5
♦
&
Blogg Bros. Proprietors.
Hmvfrth»WCutcte.,
Nindooimba
Dairy
Farms
A djoining
TAB RAG ALB A, Albert River,
Queensland.
Estate
The First Section,
The Kerry Paddocks,
6092 acres
in areas from 118
to 1223 acres.
Situated 51 miles from Brisbane, 4 miles from Beaudesert Railway Station by good
level road. Rainfall, 43fin., well distributed. Splendid water from Albert River and
Kerry Creek. 'Considered the best Dairying and Agricultural land in the famous Albert
District, having alluvial lucerne flats nearly a mile wide.
TO BE SOLD BY AUCTION
At Beaudesert, on MONDAY, 7th MAY, 1906,
At Three o’clock.
Magnetic Terms: One-Tenth Cash, Balance to 20 years
At 5 per cent.
Write for
Illustrated Pamphlet to
Isles, Love & Co.,
AUCTIONEERS, BRISBANE,
s»f!KP5!!!»
EST? 1782~|»
PHCENIX
Assurance Company of London
H 7 PITT SL, SYDNEY (Falmouth Chambers), WILLIAM IM. FARMER,‘maxagkb.
J
a
I
INCREASED
By the New “ Clease-Extensor ”
Method a Rational and Scientific
System of increasing height from 1 in li to
. J inches with added Strength,Health
and Bodily Beauty. The invent o i £
Mr. F. Meredith Cleave, Pli. L.D , lnte
Director of Exercises to Haileyb ry Coll-
ege, and the outcome of 17 years of • on-
tinuous study of the Physical side of Life.
It vastly improves awkward and ungainly
men and gives to Ladies a Beauty of
Figure and Natural Grace of Move-
ment unatt unable by other methods. Mr.
Chase’s System has no connection or
similari y whatever with any other form of
i-od ly exercises whether it'be for heal li or
incr< asing the height lhaf. is being artver-
tised. If you are Too Short, or hive
Round Shoulders, Flat Chest,
Narrow Chest, Weak Back,Weak
Chest. Stomach Trouble, Lung
Trouble, Curvature of Spine, Un-
gainly Walk, Prominent Hips,
Superfluous Flesh or are Too Thin,
wri e i-ud mdica’e your physical require-
ments, 1-ud Mr. Cease will send FREE
Explanat'ry Booklet and Person il Adwce. All 'correspon-
dence strictiv Confidential. (M ntion Paper)
F. Meredith Ciea.se, Ph. L.D.,
74, New Bona Street, London, Eng.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11/-.
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
Wholesale Agents:
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
25 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.. SYDNEY.


A. SAUNDERS.
Sterling Silver-Mounted
Crystal Glass Stamp
DAMPER, 4s 6d.
S-SWSt
Mi*
mESLm
JSyKsei-rsfai
i-Av
(Ji.m
A. SAUNDERS.
3-Bottle Luncheon CRUET,
Pure Silver-plated, 12s 6d.
Others, 10s 6d, 15s,
17s 6d. 20s.
Latest Fashion
Leather. 6s
A. SAUNDERS.
WAIST BELT, Pure Silver-plated Mounts, Crocodile or Russian
6d. Wider, 7s 6d. Other Styles, Open Straps, 5s 6d, 6s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
C.E. or R.C. Hymn and Prayer
BOOK, Morocco Leather, Pure
Silver-mounted, 10s 6d.
Extra Heavy, 12s 6d, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Toilet Pomade
JAR. Solid Silver
Mounts. Hobnail Cut
Glass. 6s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Cherub Design Toilet MIRROR, Solid Silver, Bevelled
Glass 20s.
Other Styles, 255, 30s, £2, £2 10a., £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Doeskin Tobacco POUCH,
Best Rubber Lining.
Pure Silver Shield, 4s 6d.
Other Styles, 5s 6d, 6s 6d,
7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Collar Button BOX, Pure Silver-
Plated, 7s 6d.
Similar Styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ HAIR BRUSH, Pure Silver, Extra
Long White Hand-drawn Bristles, 20s.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Special Value 4 o’clock Cake
Pure Silver-Plated,
in Silk-lined Case, 6s 6d.
Oilier Styles, 7s 6d, XOs 6d,
12s' Cd. 15s.
GIFTS.
Our fine Illustrated
Catalogue of
Xmas Gifts
and Novelties.
Sent to any
address, Post Free.
A post card
will bring you
a copy.
We prepay
express charges
on all goods.
BBCJ J
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Leather Travelling ROLL, Fitted with Every
Convenience, 20s.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 21s, 255,
30s, 355, 40s, 50s, 60s.
SHOPPING
BY MAIL.
No matter where
you live,
you have the
same opportunity
in choice and price
that you would
have if personally
selecting in our
extensive showroom.
A. SAUNDERS.
ent.’s Concave Military HAIR BRUSHES,
Solid Silver, Extra Long White Bristles,
in Solid Leather Case, £3.
Other Styles, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Seal Lea'ther Purse and Card CASE,
Sterling Silver Mounts and Lock, 21s.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
£4 4s.
A. SAUNDERS.
TEA AND COFFEE SERVICE, Pure Silver-Plated, Hand Engraved, Butterfly Design, Gilt
Lined, comprising Four Pieces, Al Quality, Sheffield Manufacture, £4 4s.
Other Styles, £5 ss, £6, £7, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O, to £75.
£4 4s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Cigar CASE, Seal Leather, Sterling
Silver Mounts and Shield, 16a 6d.
Other Styles, 5s I'M. 7s 6d,
10s 6d, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Specimen VASES, Pure Silver-plated on
Nickel Silver, in 3 sizes: sin, 5s 6d;
6Jin, 7s 6d; 71 in, 16s 6d.
Solid Silver, 12s 6d, 16s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, Amber-tinted Glass,
Pure Silver-Plated, 12s 6d.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d. 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Sugar SCUTTLE, Pure Silver-
plated, Handsomely En-
graved, 255.
Others, 16s 6d, 20s, 30s, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
Presentation INK STAND, 2 Crystal Cut-glass Bottles,
Pure Silver-plated, £2 ss.
Other Styles, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s, 355, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Shaving STROP, Automatic,
Self-rolling, Pure Silver-plated,
Handsomely Embossed, 13s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 15s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted Porcelain
China Shaving MUG, 5s 6d.
Pure Silver-plated, 13s 6d,
15s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Butter Dish, Knife and Toast Rack Com-
bination, Pure Silver-plated, 20s.
■Other Styles, 15s 6d, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Handkerchief BOX, Pure Silver-plated, Handsomely-
Chased and Embossed, Silk Lined, Size Bx 7, £3.
Glove Box to Match, £3, or £5 10s pair.
KBS
mmm
9*4m
wm
mSSSS
t ßnyefigi
'S&STi
mmm
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Military HAIR
BRUSH, Fine White Bristles, 20a
Others, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Head SALTS, Pure Silver-Mounted, Crystal
Hobnail Cut-glass, 8s 6d. Larger Size, 10s.
Other Styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Spirit Flask and Cup,
Morocco Covered, Pure
Silver-plated, Patent
Top, 20s.
Others, 10s 6d, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Shaving TIDY and Mirror, Pure Silver-
mounted, Morocco Leather, 255.
Other Styles, 7s 6d, 15s, 20s, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Fern POT, Pure Silver-plated
Handsomely Embossed, '
4in high, 15s 6d.
Others, 20s, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
. Ladies’ Solid Silver Manicure and Toilet SET,
Hobnail Cut-glass Bottles, in Silk-lined Morocco
Case, £3 10s.
Other Styles, £2 ss, £4 4s.
A.
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER, J
SILVERSMITH, and OPTICIAN,
809, 811, 813, 815, 817
GEORGE-STREET,
Opp.
Railway-
Station,
Sydney.


'■ 'ip'’-- 1 -- ■:■*£;•< ■ .-.v'.:^'
SKP*B
MteMs
,-■ ' ■:■;
i
jg £
*35
pBEg. *
Sw?!S
•>.v,..
ft it
. ’
■
GSSB - -
~*'.ft' '•• ”f f ' "■ '.-...
” ■ •• . vw-- * .'. •. " -'__ ,
.-. „fsSlspsf® ’■^" A "'
SM
ftftft-'T’.
im
'°wMM
■M
fseg®
p* :.^.\.v
•#§Ml
'Vfe-' ■ftj- -
.
* ft
ft. ~- ‘ .-.\,;r .-.
■ ft '. v
' ■ "3> -ftT;
■ •••'-."•
‘ ft£WJk. ,
, , «' v „ ' .-^
* f - ■* H. ':
V
Skswaßh
H '3
W V -..•-• •
■ ft
4
H
V--" - ' . . £
ft V-' .'V* ' ‘ V- ' / - ‘ -
j •Z 1 . ’•*
/ v fe'
.
/ft"
H
V**"
ft**K
<<Jr
w
a,
a-
kssss
B
*
«CS
'* """
■ “* s
■
BH
Wi
gftf
|gig
mm*
wm ms ..
* *?'- >
i*r >
a &3
;••* •. •'
fi
P®
...... .-.w w--; ■.. ... - ■- -. "•-:
vS
mm
k
?£SRW:S
'
•'‘.i -'■•'''
0 s *
t- % • «* •' • •
.
V '
“.Z * >..* . ' - *
rnMwx
m
mm
•...“ ■-■
ms,
■
m
-r' r ; ’
■
Three Castles Cig'arettes
Are Treasure Trove.
“There's no sweeter Tobacco comes from Virginia and no better brand
than the ‘Three Castles.' ”
Thackeray. _<« The Virginians.»


Bucßley &, Nunn, Ltd. Melbourne
LATEST MODES IN MILLINERY.
'
iiassas
laa
Mmi
msm
-
.
mm
iV :
'MM*
. •
31
Wm
m
'
« *:-s
/
/
V-:
m
*
m
V
1*
mm It:
mmm
Wk:
ut
m
A BEAUTIFUL ILLUSTRATION OF MODELS.
No. I —A charming Toque of Fur, to be worn with sables. This me del may be had as illustrated,
or may be had with clusters of shaded red roses and violets for the reasonable figure of 84/=
No. 2—This is a very smart and most up-to-date little Hat in soft violet felt, with high bandeau at the
back, giving it the desired tilt forward, with lovely ostrich feather. Price 58/6
No. 3 —This most becoming and lovely Picture Hat, with its up-standing feathers, in black velvet and
satin, the quillings and black velvet forming a feature of the trimming. This same model might
be carried out in any of the many lovely shades that are worn this season with equally good
results. Price 78/6
No. 4—ls a lovely Model in plum-colored velvet, with white fur crown; a beautiful ostrich feather and
tortoiseshell buckle completes this model. Price 59/6
The above is a specimen page from our AUTUMN FASHION BOOK off 24 pages,
beautifully- illustrated, and representing all Departments of Fashion. £?
A COPY BE FORWARDED POST FREE ON RECEIPT OF CARD.


JosHua Brothers*
“SPECIAL OLD
IISTKUIU WHISKY
ONLY NEEDS TO BE KNOWN TO BE
AS WELL LIKED AS THEIR FAMOUS
“ Boomerang; ” Brandy.
It is made by the same people, with the same skill and thorough=
ness and the same careful ageing in wood before bottling and
that is more than half the battle!
AT PRESENT, the Chief Obstacles are
The Silly Prejudice Ag'ainst all Australian
Productions, coupled with the
Opposition of the Importing' Interests.
We overcame both in the matter of Australian BRANDY,
and we shall certainly do the same in the case of Australian
WHISKY, and by the same means, namely,
AGE and QUALITY.
JOSHUA BROS.’ “Special”
Old Australian WHISKY
(IN AMBER BOTTLES ONLY)
IS AN AGED and EXQUISITE SPIRIT.
If your Dealer can’t supply it, please write to . . .
JOSHUA BROS. PROPTY. LTD., of Port Melbourne,
OR
S. HOFFNUNG and COY., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane
And they will tell you how you can have a Bottle SENT to you.
IT IS AS GOOD AS THE VERY BEST IMPORTED TRY IT I


p
p
A
o
i':;.'-". 'f
iEH
i
m
! S •;
f 1 $
!: 1:U
\ «»*
m
m
:
/
2
■3
1
w
?
mm
*
■
Y
-jf
6
WE hold a magnificent stock of made-up Furs, which are such a feature of this Season’s fashions Wb illivd-wito . r u . . , „
»„d particulars will be forwarded ou application, aud goods, if uot approvedTwta^veTwm^‘ill *•*«"• <*»***“
quantity of cheaper goods, in such Furs as Hare, Rabbit, Baum, Foxeline, Grebe, &c. ' ran e money re uuc e . We may add that we have a large
No. 1. SEAL MUSQUASH NECKLET. We can do a fine collection of these in all the newest
shapes, in prices from 7s. 6d. to £6 6s.
yVo - 2.—SKUNK NECKLETS. A magnificent lot of these in all the newest shapes, in prices from
£3 3s. to £l5 15s.
No. 3. —JAP SABLE NECKLET. A splendid assortment of these in prices from £2 2s to
£l2 12s.
4. MARMOT NECKLETS. A choice collection in all shapes, prices from 4s. Gd. to £3 Bs.
No. 5.-SMART SABLE NECKLET. A splendid assortment of Sable Necklets, in prices from
£4 4s. to 40 guineas.
No. 6. BLACK POINTED FOX, A fine lot of these in all shapes and prices from 475. 6d.
to aC; 7 17s.
No. 7. BLACK PERSIAN LAMB NECKLETS. A smart collection in prices from 30s. to £9 9s.
WHEN ORDERING, PLEASE QUOTE NUMBER AND CUT OUT ILLUSTRATION.
BALL & WELCH PTY. LTD., 180-188 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE.


A
A
mm
a
;■ *■
IS?
, > : ;
a
Ml
§s '
1 .Vi
0
« 1 i
/<s
Up
! fi ii
SlSSfie
r
■
I
/9
ill
§m
Si
m
ft;
*'««»
im
181
is
7sr
#!
■v .;.-
SSii
ru?
No. B. —MARMOT MUFFS in all shapes, prices from £s. Gel. to £,3 3s.
q SABLE MUFF. We have a good stock in all shades, shapes, etc., and prices from £,5 to
£.20.
No 10. STONE MARTEN MUFFS. A choice collection in prices from £3 3s. to £l5 15s.
No. 11.— GREBE MUFFS. A fine assortment in all shapes Iron) 6&. 6c. to £3 3s.
No. 12. WHITE FOXELINE MUFFS in all shapes and prices from is. 6d. to 21s. ; also
in Urey. . , ...
No. 13.- WHITE THIBET NECKLETS. We have a splendid collection, also in Black and Grey,
...in all'shapes and prices ranging from 4s. 6«f. to 555.
No. 14. STONE MARTEN NECKLET. These we have in all the ne.west shapes, including new
throwover Necklets, in all prices from £>4 4s. to £2O.
No. 15. —GREBE NECKLET. A large assortment in smart shapes from 4s. 6d. to £3 3s.
No. 16.— WHITE FOXELINE NECKLETS. A splendid collection of these in all shapes and prices,
ranging from 3s. 6d. to 30s. \ also in Baum and Grey in prices from ss. 6cC. to 255.
No. 17. —NUTRIA NECKLETS. We have a nice range of these in all prices from ss. 6d.
to £6 6s.
No. 18.— MINK NECKLET. A fine collection of these in all prices from 3to 22 guineas.
No. 19 WHITE FOX NECKLET. A choice assortment, also in Grey, Smoked, and Mottled and
Black, in the newest shapes worn. Prices from £3 3s. to £3 Bs. MUFFS to match.
WHEN ORDERING, PLEASE QUOTE NUMBER AND CUT OUT ILLUSTRATION.
BALL & WELCH PTY. LTD., 180-188 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE.


It sounds big and manly and the essence
of fair play to decry class legislation, but can any
country decently pretend to put down class legis-
lation when it lives contentedly under such a law
as the N.S.W. Masters and Servants Act? That
Act provides that a master can insert his servant
into gaol for breiKh of agreement, but if the master
commits the breach the servant can only proceed
against him by civil process. Down with class
legislation by all means, but let the press that is
now crying that shibboleth begin with its dear old
Masters and Servants Act.
A letter from Seddon Land :
Maoriland Tourist Department, which is costing- an
abnormal amount of money just now, is continuously
sending officials over the country spying out fresh places
of interest for the allurement of the British travellers.
Fresh bits of scenery are planted by the roadside which
was previously a howling wilderness, new geysers are
poked up with sticks, placid lakes are formed out of
artesian wells, stage snow is spread on the mountains,
and all that sort of antimacassar work. All tourist
routes, old and new, are watched over with paternal
care, lest the man in the West of England tweeds should
get his anatomy bruised. Meanwhile, in hundreds of
places in both islands, pioneers are clamoring into deaf
ears for roads of any kind. A good while ago the Govern-
ment appointed a Scenery Preservation Committee to
travel round, inspecting gorgeous bits of landscape and
recommending their acquisition. The expenses are now
close on £3OOO, and the pilgrimage isn’t half through, so
Seddon has decided that the Land Boards in each district
must do the work for nothing, and the joyous holiday of
the Scenery Preservation Committee is to be cut as short
as the hair of the prisoner who is in the middle of a long
sentence.
The birching of boys in the British
navy has been abolished, but “caning” has been
retained—a reform which does not seem revolu-
tionary. The general mass of the slowly-awaken-
nig British public is beginning to ask why there
should be any flogging at all, but the crowd
which supports the flogging of Chows in S’Africa
is wailing piteously that the navy will go to the
devil unless it is walloped copiously in its youth.
It is surprising that nobody has yet suggested
that the British navy should be manned by
Chows. They would be much cheaper, they would
never get drunk, and they might be whaled suffi-
ciently to gladden the heart of any Tory.
INSOLVENT ESTATE of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
GUNMAKERS,
Corner of LITTLE COLLINS and ELIZABETH STS.
MELBOURNE.
rpHE TRUSTEES offer to the public, the whole
of their stock :
10 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, top
action, walnut stock, with cartridge machine,
cleaners, complete; usual price £5 10s., re-
duced to ~ ~ q
6 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib bar and rebounding locks, left
barrel full choke, right modified, pistol grip,
cartridge machines and cleaners, complete :
usual price £lO, reduced to £5 0 0
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Hammerless
Guns, walnut stock, bar and rebounding locks,
treble wedge fast cross bolt, special No. 1 pistol
grip, choke bore, unequalled for quality, with
cartridge machines, cleaners, complete; usual
price £l5, reduced to £7 10 0
6 Single-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, Hammer-
less, steel barrels, complete with cartridge
machines and cleaners; usual price £3 5s
reduced to £1 12 6
6 Single-Barrel Muzzle-loading Guns, twist bar-
rels, walnut stock ; usual price 255., reduced to £0 12 6
12 Folding Collector’s Guns, 410 gauge—a splen-
did gun for orchards; best steel locks and
barrels ; reduced to £1 10 0
Winchester Pattern Single Shot "Bolt ’ Action °
Rifle, 1904 model, 22 short or long, reduced to £0 13 6
Remington Pattern S.S. Rifles, reduced to £0 10 6
40 Baden-Powell Saloon Rifles, fires No. 'i
Bulleted Cap.. .. .£069
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge, Green, ss. 100
„ Smokeless, 7s. 6d. 100
„ 22 Short, lOd. 100
~ 22 Long, Is. Id. 100
SHOT, 2d. lb.; CAPS, 2d. box ; WADS, 3d. box.
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts Cheques or'Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
Send for Catalogue, Post Free. All orders delivered
carnage paid to any State and New Zealand.
“ Is superior even to meat and oi
Inestimable value as a food.”
Virchow .
PLASMON
Dr. Robert Hutchison says:—
“ A diet rich in proteid MAKES PHYSICAL as
MENTAL ENERGY. To growing children a
deficiency of proteid is especially dangerous."
V
I,
DANDRUFF MEANS BALDNESS
95 per cent, of men who are bald owe their
present deplorable state to the neglect of
ridding the scalp of Scurf or Dandruff.
Dandruff clogs the scalp pores, strangling
the growing hairs and eventually causing
complete baldness. OAPILLA Hair Tonic
cleanses the scalp of all impurities such as—
Dandruff, Scurf, Itchiness, Eczema, and all
scalp eruptions by its medicinal antiseptic,
curative and healing properties. It revives
and stimulates the starved hair roots, giving
them food and renewed life.
£lOOO Given Away
£lOOO will be paid to charities by the Inventor, W. Oliver Richards, if Capilla fails to grow
hair on any head—no matter how bald—providing a slight down still exists on the scalp.
Sold everywhere, 1/6 and 2/6 per bottle. Posted, free from observation, direct from the
Capilla Proprietary, 166 Pitt Street, Sydney, on receipt of 1/9 or 3/-. Advice
on all hair troubles free of charge. Correspondence invited.
For “THAT BALD SPOT 1
use
S<"
Hair
Tonic
‘A Necessity- for every Toilet Table.”
OSTRICH PLUJTES
FROM OUR FAMOUS FARMS IN SOUTH AFRICA.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 15 inches).
This style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
10/6
POST FREE
to any address.
The Feathers we offer you cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house. They are the Best Value in
Australia. Write to-day. Send Postal Notes or Money Order
payable to John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
NATURAL OSTRICH FEATHER BOAS, 21/- Length, 1* yds.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Streets, MELBOURNE.
Beautiful Home Decorations
r*
3L
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
“OUR FAVORITE” GOH» JI.VAMEL (Washable) -Kich and
durabie as real gold. Withstands wear and tear, handling and washing
without tarnishing. For Furniture, Frames, Lamp and B Gas
class gilding enamel. Inexpensive; easily applied.
eolors F< F Ae S omting the brilliant white and
eolors. A beautiful china gloss surface for Furniture, Metal Beds and
any otner article.
•‘SAFOMVOBATH TUB MAMEI. In White, Bose, Ivory
and Nile Green. Withstands hot water. Porcelain finish, which will
not come off. ror sale at all up-to-date dealevs ■ Avoid imitations*
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
s GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of JAPANESE GOLD PAINT, "SAPOLIN ’* FLOOR
STAINS, “SAPOLIN” ALUMINUM ENAMEL, Etc.
S/NGLE T O N ’ S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
restores eyelashes.
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL BYE TROUBLES.
IN EVER FAILS.
Ask youp Chemist fop the Little Book •
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES ”
CURED
WILL ANDRADE »• BOOKS
AND
■^ M °uJbX L ™S ERS ’ ? enuin e edition, Is ; post Is
3d. BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Marri-
aoe Guide by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition, hardcovers im-
proved. Magic Up-to-date, Is. Horse and Cattle
Doctor 6d. Donelly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, Is. Maria Monk, Is
6d. How to Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot : Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court op London Series, 2s.
Little Folks Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous
Dialogue Book, 6d each. Nigger Stump Speeches
is ; post. Is 3d. All Nat Gould’s Novels, 6d each,
posted Bd. Devil in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads
etc., Is. House Painting and Papering, 1/3. How
to Play Billiards, Is. Georgette, Is : post Is 3d
The Cuckold, Is ; post, Is 3d. Britain for the
British, 6d. I‘reemasonry Exposed and Ex-
plained 1905 edition, with key to all degrees, Is.
Cycle Building and Repairing, new edition 190
illustrations, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Train-
ino. Is. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood 5s
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the First
Night, 1/3. How to Write Signs, Tickets and
Posters, Is 3d. Staining, Varnishing and Polish-
ing Wood, Is 3d. Electric Bells, 1/3. Boot-
making and Repairing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise ■
Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal
Gustave, Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano is
Piano Tuning and Repairing. Is 3d. How to Make
Love, Is. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card
Games, Is. Picture Frame Making, Is 3d
Poultry Keeping, Is. Dream Book, is. Every
Man His Own Builder, Is and Is 3d.
NOVELTIES.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, Real Photos, 200
Kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s.
ZINCARA GIPSY FORTUNE TELLINC CARDS, LOVE, BUSI-
NESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions, Is; posted 1/3.
Free Catalogues:
; No. t—Plays, Reciters,
Make-up, etc.
' No. 2—Conjuring-Apparatus
and Books.
No. 3—French Novels in
English.
No. 4—Books for Presents.
No. s—Useful & Mechanical
Books.
No. 6—Books for the
Married,
No. 7—Advanced
Literature.
Confessions of a Melbourne Barmaid, illus., Is 3d.
Gay Life in Melbourne, illus., Is 3d. Hoffman’s
New Conjuring Entertainment, Is 3d. How to Bet
and Gamble, Is 2d. Kropotkin’s Fields, Factories
and Workshops, Is 3d. A Midnight Mystery, Is. A
Left-Handed Murder, Is. God and My Neighbor, 9d,
p. Is. ENGiNEER’sPRAC'HCALTESTiengines, boilers,gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6. How to Make Up, Illustrated
Guide to the Stage, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is.
Sandow, 3s. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 124 S pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Midwives’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is. Building Model
Boats, ls3d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phrenology,
Is. Blacksmith’s Work, 1/3. Lover’s Letter. Writer,
Is. Photography, Is. Monster Song Books, 3d,
6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post. Age of
Reason, Is 3d. Ingersoll’s Works, 9d. Irish
Song Book, Is. _ Lightning Calculator, Is. Min-
strel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is 2d.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to anv address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
GLEASON S GREAT HORSE BOOK
t,IS5 r ?S?.S E SIS ,< 2u» fi» OTT «<IS HOUSE. Fully Illu,t,«toJ. De.l. with breeding,
K ’ bu -' , ”£> selll Pjy te,lln " age, racing-, etc. Diseases—their causes, how to know
how to cure them. Worth £lO for its information, but oKorea for 7/6.
breaking,
them and
508 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE
VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE ST
MELBOURNE.
AIDS DIGESTION.
BRACES THE NERVES
PLASMON
„ „ COCOA
J* non-neating. One cup contains
more nourishment than 10 cups at
any ordinary cocoa.
ASK FORI
AND
REFUSE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROULLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address —
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
S3r:D:c>r:E3r-
WHAT IS CATARRH?
I
MEDICATOR.
Catarrh is inflammation of.
the lining membrane of the’
nose and adjoining 1 passages
If this inflammation is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the
sight and hearing, destroys
! he sense of taste and smell,
renders the breath offensive,
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? If so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache,Neuralgia,Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
Price,complete with4months’
treatment by mail, 10s.
Write for Booklet, free, or send order direct to
Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
JO SQNVSfIOHJ.
PEOPLE have been and are being
CURED
by Dr Langston’s Perfect
Combined Treatment.
No Pain, Operation, or Detention from
Work. Immediate Relief, and Certain
Cure. Convincing Testimony and Refer-
ences from nearly every town in Australia
sent with my Valuable 800k —
“RUPTURE, ITS HISTORY 4 CURE”
FREE.
Posted. 2 Stamps.
the LANCSTON INSTITUTE
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE. j
RHEUMATISM.
GOUT
PILLS
Are recommended by doctors with confi-
dence as one of the valuable results of
medical science, and the only remedy
ever discovered for these disorders, in
that they not only rapidly cure but pre-
vent the recurrence of the malady.
Of Chemists and Stores, 1/1J and 2/9 per box.
Proprietors— PE.OUT & CO., 229, Strand,
London, England.
THE LAST OF SIX
(Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co.)
Price 6d. Post Fbee.


/a
rjt*
m
m
m
€
m *
-gig
‘ -. “
@• ■■ ■ i
gBSf
: g - A Afeji; • - 1
■
.4H, w *,V-
-f !?-*f;-!.- :
is
-■ .
-.‘•'.s' ♦ .
1
S*BSiiS!SIS
■
' 4 ikm
A ♦ • *>' --c
Y
wis
1
.La
■ 4^^
Ji ■-!
■
,»J2
fc ’
I:.-. ;
I
P 5
«
£v
: .A
-4
'*%v- i
m
*
pa
■■ 'V V - . -. ... ■;
>\ % «&. ,. >• .... :.■:
V
'.J
hfrgj
i
v :
i .;. - !
•' ■
W M
f if, m
', •' ’■••■■: Y, V '••' -Y ,'v '■■ ■■•;.■: \» I '■ ■':"’-,£-" ■** **
• V •" ■ '**'x'/*' * ~ ~ ‘ */'*/’ K l > U
\*r.
es
.
mmm
.
mm
\
■MS
fc
ges
V-i>w.
#«
II
>
■
SISKS®
412 M&
.. ' H
■
!
: Y"
■I: 5
■
:
•■■■
K
35
m
mm
bi
II
m
BA
. . ' \
? ; .y-
-mm
rm
iiS
,sm
mm
V
■
0+
y.sy
5


Complete External and
Internal Treatment
Consisting of
to cleanse the skin of
crusts and scales, and
soften the thickened cuti-
cle; Cuticura Ointment
to instantly allay itching,
irritation, and inflamma-
tion, and soothe and heal;
and Cuticura Pills to cool
and cleanse the blood.
A Single Set is often sufficient
to cure the most torturing, disfig-
uring skin, scalp, and blood
humours, eczemas, rashes, itch-
ings, and irritations, with loss of
hair, from infancy to age, when
all else fails.
Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Pills are sold throughout
the world. Depots: London,27 Charterhouse Sq.; Paris,
5 Rue de la Paix; Australia, R. Towns & Co., Sydney)
Boston, U. S. A., Potter Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props.
C3~Send ior “How to Cure Humours.’’
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Everything.
Australian Users now num-
bered by the hundreds.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH
Colonial Mutual Building 1 ,
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Victoria, S.A. and Ta 3.—
NORMAN BROS.
58 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth.
Of course you have System
in vour office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER 1
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Write for Catalogue.
IOHN SANDS, 374 George St«, Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
s. SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
PAMPA’
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BEST.
all first-
class stores
in Australasia.
No. 2-BLADE
“PAMPA,”
Cocoa Handle 1/6
Buffalo Handle - 21-
Stag Handle - - - 2/6
No. 1, 3/6, post free.
Our Beautiful Ladies’ Rolled Gold Muff Chains.
Having imported large supplies direct from Amer-
ica, we are in a position to offer these goods at
specially low prices. They have all the appearance
of a solid gold chain, are equally as well made, and
wear well. As an inexpensive present they are just
right, being useful and pretty. Full length (double)
is about 2z inches-fitted with sliding neck adjust-
ment, which keeps the two lengths of chain together.
The most convenient form of chain for a watch, and
reaches to the waist. Send postal note for 3/6 or
4/6 for either style, or the two together for 7/6, post
free anywhere. STAR NOVELTY CO.,
Box 466. G.P.0., Melb.] 229-231 Collinß St.. Melb.
No. 2, 4/6, post free.
HEAVY,
LIKE LEAD,
Is the way Mrs. Leigh’s food lay
on her stomach, all due to
INDIGESTION.
SHE WAS CURED BY
MOTHER
SEISEL’S SYRUP
“I was long subject to severe
attacks of indigestion, preceded by
dreadful headaches, and followed
by languor and depression of
spirits. The little food I was able
to eat would lie heavy like lead on
my stomach. My system was so
run down that I became wasted and
too weak to do my work. Fifteen
months back I first used Mother
Seigel’s Syrup and from the outset
got great relief. By the time I had
used three bottles I was quite
cured ; all my pains had gone and
I have been well ever since.”
Mrs. M. Leigh, 25, Ross Street,
Forest Lodge, Sydney; letter of
July 25, 1905..
IT CURES ALL
STOMACH TROUBLES.
Missing: Friends.
OROUDLOCK. —Wanted the present address, if living 1
* (or place of interment, if dead), of THOMAS
PROUDLOCK, who left Gateshead-on-Tyna in 1886 for
Australia, and was at Maryborough, Victoria, in Septem-
ber of that year. Write DAGGETT & GREY, Solicitors,
Newcastle-on-Tvne, England.
T7-EWISH, GEORGE, formerly of Post Office, Mel-
-**- bourne, write to R. KEWISH, Leongatha, Victoria.
To your advantage.
FEED
Your
Thinßer
Brain (and other nerve matter) wastes
away exactly as other portions of the
human body give out—a little every hour.
Unless this waste is repaired the brain
gets weak and brain-fag and nervous
prostration sets in.
This waste is restored naturally by Al-
bumen and Phosphate of Potash found in
Grape-Nuts
All worn-out, broken-down brains can
surely be rebuilt by the use of GRAPE-
NUTS, the most scientific food in the
world.
If you are a thinker your brain wastes
away in proportion as you use it. It can
be kept KEEN on GRAPE-NUTS.
Look for the little book, “The Road to
Wellville,” in each pkg.
There’s a Reason
HOULDER BROTHERS & CO., Ltd.
Passengers Booked to STEAMSHIP OWNERS, FREIGHT CONTRACTORS,
All Parts of the World. SHIP, INSURANCE & CHARTERING BROKERS.
THE HOULDER LINE STEAMERS.
Passengers, General Cargo, Frozen Produce, &c.
To and from AUSTRALASIA, AFRICA, LONDON, LIVERPOOL, GLASGOW, &c.
Steamer. ' Tons.
HORNBY GRANGE 3,750
OVINGDEAN GRANGE 3,700
URMSTON GRANGE 5,600
LANGTON GRANGE 9,200
DRAYTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) 10,000
ELSTREE GRANGE 6,000
ROYSTON GRANGE 6 330
Steamer, Tons-
BEACON GRANGE .. .. 6,300
RIPPINGHAM GRANGE 9,200
OSWESTRY GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10,000
THORPE GRANGE 6,350
HAVERSPIAM GRANGE 11,200
EVERTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 11,000
SOUTHERN CROSS 7,300
First, Second and Third Saloon Cabins situated Amidships. Excellent Cuisine. Electric Light.
For full particulars, apply at the OFFICES OF THE COMPANY, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
12 Pall Mall, S.W., London. 14 Water-street, Liverpool. 30 Gordon-street, Glasgow. 337 Calle.Quyo, Buenos
Aires. 446 Calle San Martin, Rosario, Gran Dock, Ensenada, La Plata. Capetown and Durban, South Africa.
Head Office: 146 Leadenhall-street, London, E.O.
WELSBACH
MANTLES *
Made in Australia by Australians for Australians.
iff
?^ii
<m
mm
&
sT*>
*8
■’Vi} ■; f' 5 -•ss VsJJS iij
M&l
wsps
V : \\£'t
•i&m
e
igM.
:V
mm
wis
mm
ysa
I*3
rse
!?S
. 'V:
“The House that Jack built.”—No. 4.
‘ These are the burners upside down;
They are the talk of all the town,
And give the “ Welsbach” great
renown
Inside the house that Jack built.”
Look for the Trade flark
on every article.
WELSBAGH Mantles
and Fittings can be
had of all Ironmongers
and Plumbers.
£
\SV
W
•5:
G
-i
The UJelsbach Eight Company
Have Showkooms at . . .
441 Kent Street, Sydney
230 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
Harrold Colton & Co*, Adelaide
Perry Bros*, Brisbane
Levi Green, Perth, W.A.
The Inky Way.
The S.M. Herald blundered into contempt of court a
few times in its career, but on one occasion went in with
eyes open. That was in consequence of Justice Innes and
a jury awarding one Anderson £450 damages for an
alleged libel on Anderson’s college or refuge for boys at
Middle Harbor. The law costs were very heavy—Owen,
Manning and Smythe being for plaintiff ; while the
Herald people had Dailey, Darley, Pilcher and Bruce
Smith, and the paper went straight to its ink-bottle for
satisfaction. The Echo and Sydney Mail helped in the
fray, and Judge Innes was smacked with numbers of old
slippers. That was not an Arbitration Court affair, and
the Fairfaxes were duly cited before Martin, Faucett and
Windeyer. Martin not alone supported Innes, but went
for the Fairfaxes on his own account, and the Full Court
fined the firm £250.
* * * *
“ Wurrym ” : A recent reference to “Wingy” Smith,
by Randolph Bedford, reminds me. I met Smith one day
in Hay-street, Perth. “ Oumanavadrink,” he said.
“I’ve only got a sprat; do you mind having beer ?” (In
Perth beer can be got for 3d., but whisky runs to 6d.) I
didn’t mind having beer. Just as we neared the Sham-
rock a pressman, notorious in every city in the Common-
wealth for his monumental thirst, rushed up. “ Gilbert,
lend me a bob,” he said ; “I haven’t smelt it since 9
o’clock.” “ I’ve only got a sprat,” said Smith, “but you
can have that.” “ That’ll do,” said the Dry One, and,
gripping the coin, he instantly became invisible. Then a
penniless Smith remembered he had asked me to “ have
one.” I never saw a man so utterly embarrassed. I
couldn’t help seeing the humor of it, so I accepted his
apologies, and we went round and borrowed a
shilling from the court orderly. “ Wingy ” was shot in
one night for being rather frequent and free with his
walking stick in a bar. He was fined 30s. or a certain
number of days, and, of course, had to go down. ' Some
of the inky wayfarers made a collection, but couldn’t get
within 15s. of the total. After the court rose a Hindu
who was known to have plenty of stuff was inveigled to
the top of the building and told he was required to cheer-
fully subscribe towards the Gilbert Smith release fund.
We had to keep him locked up for two hours before he
gave cheerfully, and then we were ss. short. However,
when we put the cash and the case before the P.M. he
completed the amount and telephoned for Wingy’s release.
The old chap was hugely grateful. “By , you
fellows, it only just saved me from the most hideous degra-
dation. Why, in another five minutes I should have been
pressed into the sanitary service of my country.”
* * * •
With a happy knack of always looking at the sunny
side of things, Sydney Watchman welcomes all events,
from a street dog-fight to the latest bowl-out of Woolls
Rutledge, as victories for “ the cause.” Even the return
of the Liberals in England, a party pledged to Irish
Home Rule, was hailed as a great triumph for Orangeism.
•***•*
Veteran journalist Buzaeott, who has been editing Bris-
bane Daily Wail with great pessimism since the Tory
sheet’s birth, a couple of years ago, slips down to the post
of advisory editor, and sub-editor Stumm runs the show
on trial.
* * * *
“ Australis ” : The announcement of the failure of the
attempt to launch Progress as a democratic daily recalls
the death struggles of that plucky but ill-advised effort,
the People’s Daily. The moving spirit was that valiant
old comp., G. L. Vogt, who fills in his spare time presid-
ing over the birth of various country journals, and some-
times incidentally witnessing their funerals. The paper
was launched on a capital of £6OO borrowed on a pro.-
note. How some person unknown persuaded the well-
known brewer who endorsed that note to commit the
rash act, is a mystery. We were all enthusiasts. Our
staff consisted of an editor, sub., two reporters (who were
also proof-readers), a couple of machinists and 26 comps.
Right from the start our baby didn’t pay for her ink. We
grafted 19 hours a day, and had a general meeting on
Saturdays. Oh, those meetings 1 Our manager used to
go right off his head, and rave and tear his hair when we
mentioned wages.
The original idea was, I believe, to persuade the Trades
Hall to adopt us, but we never had a ghost of a chance.
Things went from bad to worse. From motives of
economy we all grew beards. Even Nell Fowler at the
Bobbie Burns Hotel didn’t seem to love us like she used.
The staff began to wear a hungry look. One by one the
comps fell off, but we kept going—often hungry ; some-
times (how sometimes) drunk.
Work started at 10 a.m. Most of us slept on bundles of
old papers on the premises. Our landlords simply
wouldn’t take copies of our journal in lieu of rent.
Then the Russo-Jap war broke out. War cables must
be got, and the treasury had a week before cut out break-
fast as superfluous. Next morning the Age had an early
customer and how we grafted to set those cables in time
to catch the trains. You couldn’t have wrapped a single
sausage in our copy of the Herald by next morning or of
our Age either for that matter. But we had our cables.
Yet the worst was to come. Our paper merchant began
to exhibit a mercenary spirit and a desire to be paid for
paper before delivery. Shares didn’t sell, and our outlay
on railway freight stamps grew painfully small. One of
our reporters deserted. Our machinist went over to the
enemy. He was fat and should have starved better.
Then came the grand finale. M’Eacharn, smarting
under his defeat by Dr. Billy, issued a writ for libel. The
Age and Herald began to grow curious about those
cables. The Gas Co. expressed a desire to do business on
a cash basis. A couple of visitors called, and seemed to
like the place so well that they took a list of its contents.
Still we published fiery issues at a job printer’s. Then
kind oblivion desc, nded on us. We were foolhardy;
perhaps we were bad journalists ; but, damn it, we were
g*me.
An Adelaide paper recently received these ex-
plicit directions re the insertion of an advt. : —“I write
this note to you as my dughter sent the Rong one, and
in Closed Pastel Note with it this is the one I want you
to Put in as the other one dont say. When she had
Pasted the other one this is the one she had to send you
will find the other is Rcng but you got the Pastel Note
in the Rong one you look and you will se it Rong but put
this one in Monday morning Papper dont forget please
will you. Put this one in Please dont forget will you
take the pastel note out of the other Letter you will get
2 letters but this is the one the other only half sheet of
Papper with 3s. Pastel note. Now I will look in Monday
morning Papper and se dont forget to put it in will you
this one not the other the 3s. Past Note Pay for this one
as it was A mistake of my Dughter Putting the Rong one
in. I wrote this so as you could understand what 1
meant as the other one was Rong and this, is,Rite, (lake
the money out of the othei letter and will PaJ r
one this is you will se when you open it the other life's* - tiie'‘
money in it.”
THE EDITOR’S STAIRS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Upwards from the glare of the street,
Worn into farrows by thousands of feet—
Dusty and dirty and lacking repairs,
Wind the dark curves of the Editor’s Stairs.
Weirdly they creak ’neath the tread of the throng,
Backwards and forwards that hurries along—
Gay or dejected, in youth or grey hairs,
Breasting the flights of the Editor’s Stairs.
Perky young pressmen like newly-broke colts,
Spavined old “ hacks ” who have long shot their bolts,
Poets and artists, caressing their wares,
Trudge down the steps of the Editor’s Stairs.
Lit’rary “guns” in their frock-coated pomp,
Rubbing ’gainst shoulders of printer and comp.
Wild-eyed reporters that spring from dark lairs,
Rush like the wind down the Editor’s Stairs.
Clattering “ linos ” the copy are storing,
Down in the basement the presses are roaring ;
“ Hell take the hindmost and mend his affairs ! ”
Hums their refrain up the Editor’s Stairs.
Lives flicker out ’neath the strain and the stress,
“ What is a life in the maw of the Press ?
What are a thousand, for nobody cares ? ”
Roar the machines up the Editor’s Stairs.
n.s. w.
HORACE HALLOSAN.


\
/
This Watch was manufactured specially for
us by the Waltham Factory, and we can re-
commend it to anyone requiring a reliable
and serviceable watch. The hunting cases
are strong and of sterling silver. The move-
ment is a jewelled f-plate one, with exposed
winding wheels, Brequet spring and compen-
sating balance. Guaranteed for three years.
Price £3 lOs. Better Grades, £4 lOs.,
£6 10s. With Gold-filled Cases, £6 lOs.
We supply this Watch in four styles at
these prices : Crystal Front, Polished Steel
Case, 25s ; Hunting Polished Steel Cases,
30s ; Crystal Glass, Solid Silver Case,
35s ; Hunting Solid Silver Cases, 40s.
The lever movement of this watch is
highly finished, has fourteen jewels, patent
screw balance, exposed winding wheels,
reliable keyless work, and we can recom-
mend it for the use of men or boys.
This shows a really dainty little
Watch, popularly known as the “Prin-
cess.” Although we sell many of these
every year, we seldom have a com-
plaint reach us, and this should be a
good guarantee that it is a reliable
article. We make with silver or gold
engraved cases in open face and full
hunting. The movement is keyless
and properly jewelled. Guaranteed
for two years. Price : Crystal Front,
Silver, £2 ; Hunting, 50s ; Crystal
Front, 18ct. Gold, £4 10s ; Hunt-
ing, £5 /Os.l
This is a 14ct. Gold Keyless Hunt-
ing- Cased Watch, suitable for
young .ladies. It has a reliable
jewelled movement exquisitely
engraved solid 14ct. gold cases
strong, keyless work, and altogether
is a sound and serviceable watch.
It is possible to sell a gold watch at
a lower price, but as the timekeep-
ing and construction is not such as
would give lasting satisfaction to
our customers, we do not stock
them. Price £4 10s.
DO YOU WANT A WATCH ?
These Watches we have tried and found satisfactory. They are offered at prices why^fend 6 your
quality can be bought for elsewhere. Our eight big business houses in we'noct it FfUE
order by mail. We will give it prompt attention. For other Grades see our Special Watch Book. We PQ-t it m.t.
saws
V
This shows our Lady’s Keyless
Defiance Watch, hundreds of which
have been sold, and have given
unbounded satisfaction. It is a really
reliable watch and priced very reason-
ably. The case is a solid silver one,
beautifully engraved. The movement
is J-plate, jewelled and carefully
finished in detail. Open Face,
£/ lOs ; Hunting, £1 17s 6d.
This shows a dependable
small size Lady’s Crystal Front
Watch. The movement is a
keyless and jewelled, the dial
is of pretty decorated opal,
the case is polished steel, and
we And them to be excellent
little timekeepers. An ideal
girl’s watch. dS 12s 6d.
This is our Lady’s Waltham Lever.
The movement is of solid nickel, is
jewelled, has compensating balance and
Brequet spring. The hunting cases are
of solid silver, nicely engine turned and
engraved, with shield in centre, after the
style of the picture shown here; Price
£4. Guaranteed for 3 years.
Our
Watches
are
Honest
Watches.
“THE NONPAREIL.”
We have advertised and sold this
Watch wherever the English lan-
guage is spoken, and surely no other
has given such universal satisfac-
tion. Best Keyless Movement, 18ct.
Gold Cases. ‘Hunters, £7 lOs.
Crystal Front, £6 tOs.
This Watch, for either gentlemen or youths,
is a Triumph in quality over any other low-
priced watch already in the market. It has a
very fine-finished, full-jewelled keyless short-
winding movement, and the case is made of a
very hard nickel, beautifully polished, and fitted
with unbreakable crystal glass. Price 18s 6c#.
With Silver Case, 30s. Steel Case, 18s 6a.
■ ■
H
This is the famous
ull-capped English
J-plate “Excelsior”
Watch. Solid Silver.
Hunting Cases, fine
fully jewelled
movement. Price
only £5 108.
HEALTH
APPETITE
DIGESTION
STRENGTH
ENERGY
VITALITY
I
Disease-Breeding
Uric Acid.
Uric acid is the predisposing cause of Gout,
Rheumatism, Nervous Debility, and Mental De-
spondency.
Uric acid checks the efficient filtering power of
the kidneys, and leads to the development of
Gravel, Stone, Lumbago, Diabetes, and Bright s
Disease. <j*.
Uric acid, again, is one of the chief causes of
constipation, that arch-thief of health.
In short, excessive uric acid is-a well-known
blood poisoner, which infects brain, nerves, tissue,
and muscle.
The grandest remedy in the world for kidney
trouble and all uric acid diseases is undoubtedly
Kutnow’s Powder.
The leading physicians of London, Paris, Berlin
and New York have tested the power of Kutnow’s
Powder as a natural solvent and eliminant of uric
acid.
The result has been a veritable triumph for
Kutnow’s Powder. They not only prescribe it in
their private and hospital practice, but use it
personally as a guard against serious disease.
PROF. F. H. GRIFFIN, M.D., wrote: “I
only wish every soul in the world used Kutnow’s
Powder. They would experience great benefit.”
Kutnow’s Powder is a most delightful, refresh-
ing health draught, nerve-bracing and exhilarating.
It is absolutely free from ■ sugar, pleasant to the
taste, and always gives entire satisfaction. A
nation’s wealth is a nation’s health. Those who
value health take Kutnow’s Powder.
The Loss of Nerve-Power and
the Remedy.
The nerves are connected with all the organs and tissues of the body.
When, therefore, the stomach, liver, kidneys, bowels, and gall bladder are
disordered or diseased the nerves consequently are bound to suffer, and the
brilliant, energetic, shrewd and busy man gradually wanes in mental and
physical capacity. The dyspeptic individual is invariably of an irritable or
nervous nature; his digestive organs being impaired are gradually depriving
him of nerve-power and laying up a source of trouble and life of misery foi
the future. Little do people think when they complain of nervous headache,
neuralgia, restlessness, insomnia, that the trouble arises in the stomach. The
question is how to regain this nerve-power. The answer is by using the one
remedy which is now endorsed and prescribed by all the leading physicians
in both hemispheres, and also most highly praised in the British Medical
Press ; and this remedy is Kutnow’s Powder.
IMPORTANT CAUTION I
All respectable Chemists sell Kutnow’s Powder, but there are others who,
for the sake of a little extra profit, will attempt to foist upon you some cheap
imitation of their own. It is well known that these cheap concoctions are
highly dangerous, and in the case of delicate, sensitive persons, capable of
inflicting permanent injury. Kutnow’s Powder is pure, painless, palatable,
free from sugar, and absolutely harmless. See that the fac-simile signature,
“ S. Kutnow and Co., Ld.” and the registered trade mark, “ Hirsehensprung,
or Deer Leap,” are on the carton in which the bottle is packed, and also on
the label on the bottle. This signature and trade mark will alone insure your
obtaining the
Genuine KUTNOW’S POWDER.
PROPRIETORS:
S. KUTNOW & CO., Ltd., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C*
Proprietors in U.S.A.: KUTNOW BROS., Ltd., 853 Braodway, New York.-
Frequent Reports of
Success.
A LEADING PRACTITIONER WRITES l
“Columbia Hospital, Chicago, June 10th, 1904.
“ It gives me pleasure to state with what satis-
faction I have used Kutnow’s Powder in my
practice. I find that it is a gentle laxative and
gastric sedative, which overcomes the most dis-
tressing symptoms so often remembered by patients
with so much dread. It soon controls the gastric
distress, keeps up gentle peristalsis and laxity, the
importance of which, surgeons appreciate.
“A. A. O’NEILL, M.D.”
KIDNEY TROUBLE RELIEVED.
“5, Sarsden Buildings, Wigmore Si, W»
“ June 17th, 1904.
“For some months past I have suffered very
considerably with my kidneys, and at times the
swellings have been very bad, but I am thankful
to say Kutnow’s Powder has always relieved me,
and by its regular use keeps me in perfect health,
thus justifying every word in your advertisement.
“E. G. STEPHENS.”
REV. CHARLES RHODES WRITES:
“ Florence Cottage, Old Fletton,
“ Peterborough, May 31st, 1904.
“ After a more extended use of
Powder, I can testify to its efficacy. I have been
taking it for about a month for sluggish liver, and
it has done me more good than anything else I
have tried. It is the least expensive in the end.
“ (Rev.) CHARLES RHODES.”
RADICATES CONSTIPATION
f4-ro


snipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
*Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Week thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
.or Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
national j}ank,
LIMITED.
I%eorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,240 15 0
Reserve(inGovt. Stock, £43,435) 48,000 0 C
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors.— Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Calian, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
THE TRUSTEES. EXECUTORS
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP . £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £20,000 0 0
Directors: F. It. Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
—THE—
CITY MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
(Established 1879.)
Head Office— HUNTER & BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life Office
in Australia.
GEO. CROWLEY, Manager.
Agents Wanted.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of laondon.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
■Bright & Co.), Sir John See, Lt.-001. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd;). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clynk ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlank ; Brisbane, A. Hamilton Hart ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus 131 Pitt St.. SYDNEY.
'-TJiii-%
Colonial Mutual I>ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLI MS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,920,210.
Policies Issued 98,461 —Assuring £29,270,925.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,503,272.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
- Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon. J. F. Bures, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Servants Wanted.
MINE MANAGER.
APPLICATIONS will be received by the
undersigned up to 12 noon on Tuesday, the
first day of May, from persons competent to fill
the position of GENERAL MANAGER of THE
HAMPDEN CLONCURRY COPPER MINES
LTD., at Cloncurry, Queensland.
Applicants must submit testimonials and state
age, experience and salary required.
A full knowledge of mining engineering essen-
tial. A liberal salary to a competent man.
By order of the Board,
EDWARD. H. SHACKELL, Secretary.
FREE TRIAL!
NOT A PENNY DOWN
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and wa will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved high grade EI.ECTkIC
BELTS FREE.
the DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and oomplete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back, Kid-
ney, Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all Weakness of Men and 'Women,
lutrom aloe 1m r“ h rtC.
to us one oopy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
men and women. If you are weak in any way
delay no longer, but write to-day for our
splendid Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
m COLLINB STREET, MELBOURNE, Via
Please mention this paoer.
Shipping.
ixr. d. l.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
&& Naples, Genoa,
Ade-
laide
2 p.m.
May 5
June 2
June3o
July 28
Aug:. 25
Sept. 22
*T\vin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
S ™?EY Every Four Weeks, via NEW BRITAIN,
NEW GUINEA and MANILA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
*WILLEHAD, 4761 tons .. .. 14th APRIL.
*PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons.. 12th MAY.
*PRINZ SICISMUND, 3300 tons.. 9th JUNE.
♦Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
THE ONLY CERTAIN
MOUSTACHE PRODUCER;
CAPILLARINE
Posted (flnder cover) to any part (
of Australasia or New Zealand.
Sou Agents— PRICE 10/6
CRAIQ and AItKEN,
N. 8. W. fiirWi Supply House,
654 Q*org» Street, SYDNEY
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
T-win-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
SUEVIC, to Sail on or about
12th APRIL,
PERSIC, RUNIC, MEDIC,
and AFRIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown ... .. £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SALAMIS
SOPHOCLES
•MILTIADES
A. Douglas, R.N.R.
R. M'Killiam
T. P. Spalding- ..
Noon, April 21
Noon, May 19
Noon, June 2
•Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company , Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
QCEA.NTIC S.S. 00. -A.. & A. LIIXTE (via SAN FRANCISCO).
THREE-WEEKLY FAST MAIL SERVICE run in conjunction with the Most Luxuriously Equipped Trains
and Atlantic Steamships in the World.
SHORTEST LINE FASTEST TIME TO
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN AND EUROPE.
FARES TO ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-CLASS LINE.
R.M.S. SIERRA, 6200 TONS. SAILS MONDAY, APRIL 30.
For Full Particulars and Illustrated Matter , send or apply to —
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
SOUTH SEA
ISLAND
CRUISES
Do you know what charming
trips can be made among the
Islands of the Western Pacific? Are you aware that
our steamers will carry you comfortably round the most
interesting of the Island Groups, with your home always on board, at an average
cost of about Ten Shillings a Day —that is less than your hotel expenses alone
would be on your usual holiday. May we have the pleasure of mailing you our
new illustrated descriptive matter ?
BURNS, PHILP & GO., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—-
FAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
3ST.S.-W.
Iflont de pete
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
and 17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The Royal Rank of Queensland
LI 31 IT IS I). “
Capital Paid-up £457,538 10 0
Reserve Liability op Shareholders .. 175,812 10 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 66,000 0 0
„ , £699,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE : 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
17 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £1,996,490.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
NEXT SAILINGS—
April 16, May 14, June 11.
The Turbine Steamer,
MAHENO,
SAILS 16th APRIL.
A Luxuriously Appointed Vessel.
Spacious Promenade Decks.
Roomy Cabins. Up-to-Date Baths.
LST Send for Illustrated Pamphlets Furnished Free.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT. General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG, V
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter),
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Sheet of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
FIRE HAS NO TERRORS!
CAPITAL, £1,800,000.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £500,000.
ANNUAL REVENUE, £300,000.
Fire has NO terrors that Fire
insurance cannot quell.
Fut the South British on quart!!
GEO. 11. MOORE, Manager.
CHAS. T. METCALFE, Assistant Manager.
T J? e South British
PIRE and MARINE INSURANCE CO.,
12 Bridge St, Sydney .
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian.
Viotorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANOE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Yongala, April 14.
S.S. Wollowra, April 20.
S.S. Gran tala, May 2.
BBISBANE, 1
MACK AY, I
TOWNSVILLE, >
And Ports North to Cairns. I
S.S. Marloo, April 14.
S.S. Grantala, April 25.
nest and Cheapest Jtoute to Goldfields
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office
G. S. YUILL. & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritiines
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS
Steamer
YARRA
NERA
SYDNEY
AUSTRALIEN
Ade-
laide,
1 p.m.
April 28
May 26
June 23
July 21
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY? £26 to S
including- table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney. ’
Principal Agent.
Hotels.
PETTY’S HOTEL.
SYDNEY
N'EWLY decorated, remodelled and re-furnisljed
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will"be
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed,
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET
C. W. CUPIT, Manager.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every omtor and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS.
Queen’s Mansions, !f to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
T H F; an< * Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach,
cnarges much lower tbanlicensed hotels. City, i-hour
Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
THE (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con*
venient and Healthy Locality,
Hodern Appointments. noderate Tariff.
ahhu
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
IMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
* ” Kilda Rai way Station and Cable Trains. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 101,3.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
°f Various Sizes Supplied.
Banking, Public Companies, See.
The Sank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Offioe: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
CAPlTAL—Authorised .. .. .. £700,000
Paid-up .. £lOO,OOO
Uncalled .. .. 250,000
Reserved Fund .. 1 20,000
(Invested in Government Stock) J £370,000


There was once a school of writers who
ended their stories: “ And they married and lived
happily ever after.” Now there is a school of
writers who begin their stories: “ They were
married, and straightway things began to go to
the devil.” — C. S. Brooks in the New York
Critic.
The Scot, especially the variety that hails
from the Highlands, has a splendid notion of his
own importance. In a recent issue of the Oban
Times, a writer, dealing with historic poetry and
fiction, says : “Many of our greatest authors took
liberties with historic facts, including such men
as Shakspeare, Scott, and Mr. W. Mac Alpine.”
A respectable M.L. citizen had a shivery
experience; the other day. He was a highly-
respected and respectable wig-artist, and was on
his way to his business premises on the afternoon
of the weekly half-holiday. A large, fat lady
approached, and blushingly confided to him
that her feet were cold, that she had invested in a
pair of warm footwear, but, being a stranger
in the town, did not know where to go to put them
on. He remembered the Good Samaritan, and
put his “studio” at the lady’s disposal, and,
told her to make,a “lightning change” for the
benefit of her icy feet. After waiting for 15
minutes in a back-room, he heard a fair imita-
tion of a Maori war-whoop issuing from his
“studio.” He rushed inand got a hurried glimpse
of a large, fat lady in the “ altogether,” dancing a
haka in front of his best mirror, while she waved
a square bottle. He closed the door, and through
the keyhole implored her to remember her coid
feet, and cover them up as soon as possible, and
restore the circulation in them by moving them
rapidly along the sunny side of the street. The
only reply was: a gurgling noise, followed by more
haka. His mention of police was received with
scorn and derision. He went out, whispered to
his friend on the beat, and they tiptoed in again.
Their entrance was received with more haka and
whoop and waving of square bottle. It was
clearly a case for strategy. The back-door, which
led to'a right-of-way, was placed very wide open.
Then two worthy subjects of King Dick hurled
themselves at the wobbling mass of haka , and
with a forward charge; that would have swept
even a Welsh 15 to destruction, rushed the heap
of gurgle, whoop, bottle, “altogether,” and cold
feet into the right-of-way. In another moment
they had heaved a collection of mysterious gar-
ments after her, slammed and locked the door,
and hurried round' the block. At the entrance to
the lane a casual group was gathered. “What’s
up?” said the wig-artist, innocently. “Oh,
nothin’,” said , a casual bloke, “only a female
dressin’herself up near your show.”
dean White
mean sound teeth, fit for their
1 Ct Lll wor g i the.eondition they are kept
in by the use of
CALVERTS
Carbolic Tooth Powder .
It is made for cleaning the Teeth, and
does it, too, pleasantly, thoroughly and
gently,. Without scratching or injuring
the enamel. That is why it is in such
constant demand all over the world.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Maneheater,
England.
MELBA ACCORDEONS
: ■
3
Produce the
most . .
delightful
music.
They are
easily learnt
No know-
ledge of
music being
required to
become a
skilled
performer.
NEW 1906
MODELS
With 1,2, 8, or 4 sets of reeds, six, eight or ten
fold double and triple Bellows with metal bound
corners, and alllatest improvements.
Prices from 7/6 to 26/9.
Packed and delivered free to any Post Office or
Railway Station ip Australasia.
Ask for our 1906 Illustrated Catalogue. We
will send it Post Free.
ALLAN & CO. Propy. Ltd.
276-278 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Coghlan’s “Wealth and Progress of N. S.
Wales ” has disappeared, and ‘'‘The Official Year
Book of N.S., Wales, takes its place. W. H.
Hall, who for years past was at Coghlan’s right
hand, has charge of the publication ; and he gives
all the men who have helped him the credit for
their work. Numerous new tables are pub-
lished ; but the principal difference between the
old “ Wealth and Progress ” and the new “Y ear
Book ” is that the Year Book publishes a number
of special articles—on Arbitration by Gr. C. Addi-
son, on N.S.W. Fauna by E. R. Wgite (of the
Museum), on Meteorology by H. A. Hunt,
(acting-State Meteorologist—why don t they drop
the “acting,” and make Hunt, who seems the one
live man in his line in Australia, a whole
Meteorologist?) and others on Vegetation, fac-
tories’ Laws, Fish, Timber, &c., by State ex-
perts. "
The Collie (W.A.) S’Array settlement is
taking from the local cockie his two hours sleep.
Government subsidises each child to the extent of
Is. 1 id. per day, and gives other allowances tor the
staff paysheets beingofcourseunknownquantitie3.
Cookie finds that he is unable to compete
with Booth’s unpaid and subsidised labor in milk,
meat, fruit, vegetables, or anything else. Booth
is about the most menacing of Australia s Cohens.
SOME BOOKS
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
m
n
HOME cyclopedia
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
BY DR. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
TT , TQ FRO m TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
ffItdSSSS SEVENskiffiNOS AND SIXPENCE.
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, new 1905 edition,
2s 6d posted. llowtoGetßich, Is posted. 1)R. Lam ar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book d.v De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Aola s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tiie
Horse 1 Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
date Comic Reciter Irish Comic Reciter. Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist latest edition, 3s, 6d ,posted. Gleasons
Big Horse Book and How to Train tiie
Horse; Is 6d. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is bd.
Stolen Sweets, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is; post, is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. Tiie Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All Tiie Bulletin series. Dr. Carver s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beautys
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
E fortune T P lh«o cards, Cove, Business,
Futurity, &c., with full directions, Is posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. M etal-woriung for Ama-
teurs Soldering, Brazing, Gas-I'itting, etc., Is 3d
post. ’ How to Play Billiards, illustmted. Is post
titat Gustave Is \ post Is od. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing' Is 3d. Modern Etiquette Is. Hoyles
Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry' Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
nosted EVERY Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own. Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australi an Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Ui-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts Public
Speaking Made Eas.v, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and poi traits, Is,
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Cd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His ° wn S ci ;°° lmas ‘ e “-
Is nested. Cabinet Makers Handybook, Is od. Mac-
fldden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science 3s 6d On Our New Selection, 6s 6d. A Life
OF PLEASURE, IS 6d. LUNG COMPLAINTS, Isfld . FRENCH
Self Taught, Is 2d. All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying more,
rnmnare mv oriccs with others and
save^y our cash. I* - Established SO l'ears.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT
«
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bdsii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6u.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan s
Freemasonry, Exposed 1906 Edition, Is posted.
\est Pocket Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology,
7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Ingersoll’s
Complete Works, 2s. How to Read Heads
(•.las. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 'hs 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, oyer 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. How to
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound my price, 15s post paid. Moore s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
hound \9s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Drivers Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood,
ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is po v ' d. New Tricks with
Coins, Is posted. A Mode.. Siren, Is 6d.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
ILLS
N
&
&
A#;#
■3
THE PILLS
'nave gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
nutting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion. Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as “ run-down ” cr “ out of sorts. _ Females
of every age find Holloway’s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords mo** welcome relief
in a very short tima.
A
5F
❖
A
* # v
*
v>
S>
AND
JOSEF LAGEK
Superior
to
All Others .
ANTI-
BILIOUS
PILL
-1 do not hesitate to say it is the best made pill in the kingdom.”-DR. G. F. Collier, in the Pharmacopoeia of the Royal College of Physicians of London.
FAMED AS A FAMILY MEDICINE FOR A CENTURY. Invaluable to every Mother of afamily. £
Jl\e Xaqcei describes it as—
“ Mr. Benger’s admirabltf
preparation.”
Vtje British jVieclical Journal
says —
“ Benger’s Food has by its
excellence established a
reputation of its own.”
GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION. LONDON.
FOOD
For INFANTS,
INVALIDS
» nd * Ke AGED.
Benqer's Food is sold in Tins
by Chemists, &c. everywhere, j


TATTERSALL’S CONSULTATIONS.
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
NOW OPEN
ADELAIDE CUP, Adelaide, S.A., May 9 100,000 at 5/2 each.
PRINCE OF WALES STAKES, Randwick, N.S.W., Prince of Wales Birthday ••• 50,000 at 5/2 each.
BRIGHTON PLATE, Brighton, Tasmania, June 4 ••• ••• ••• ••• 50,000 at 5/2 each.
MELBOURNE CUP, Flemington, Victoria, November 6 100,000 at 5/2 each.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2dm on each
5Sm Ticket, and 4dm on each 10s m Ticketm Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. Parcels may be forwarded through any PARCELS
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
Booking Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
S>
V
*
N>
5V
is
Sr
Av
k 3
<0
Sr
&
/
S?
/ /
X
IjTiTi]
mm
w
Table
■F is the
FMONARCH
" • • OE •
Billiard
Tables.
For Kangaroo and Big Game }
mmc.
.44 C.F.W. Cartridges are known by all experienced
sportsmen to be reliable. They are specially
adapted /or, and tested in, Marlin, Winchester,
Remington and other standard rifles. When pur-
chasing cartridges, specify those made by the
UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE COMPANY
BRIDGEPORT. CONN., U. S.A.
DRUG HABIT
HAVE YOU FAILED THROUGH
DRUNK
ENNESS
DON'T DESPAIR.
OR. LANGSTON’S VEGETABLE CURE.
A Home Cure which never fails.
It is safe, sure, absolutely certain, and
inexpensive. A few doses produce a won-
derful change. The craving for all
intoxicants will be destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for food will
return, refreshing sleep ensues. This cure
will surprise and delight you. May be
GIVEN SECRETLY.
Thousands of Cures; here is one :
Ravensthorpe, W.A., 23-9-04.
Have finished the half course , which has
effected a cure. J have no desire for drink,
in fact, have a repugnance to the very idea
of it. Yours faithfully ,
Write for Treatise No. 5. Posted Free.
The Dr. Laipton institute,
12 9a COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
LIQUOR HABIT
TOBACCO HA BIT
Hearne’s Bronchitis Core.
the famous remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soieness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on tlie Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
foiting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OP COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
TERRIBLE COUGH CAUSED BY MEASLES.
IMPROVED IMMEDIATELY AND QUICKLY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send me by return post
one large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, for which please
find payment enclosed. I had a terrible cough caused by
measles. It was tearing me to pieces. I chanced to have
a small quantity of your Bronchitis Cure, took one dose,
and improved immediately. I like to always have some
on hand. It is well worth a testimonial on account of
what it has done for me, and you are at liberty to make
use of what I have written. This is not the first time it
has done me good,—Yours truly,
G. R. HOOK,
“ Hilslea,” Clyde, Victoria.
ASTHMA.
TWO CHILDREN IN ONE FAMILY CURED TWO
YEARS AGO BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
IN THE BEST OF HEALTH NOW.
HAVE NEVER HAD A SIGN OF THE ASTHMA SINCE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir,—lt is with pleasure I can say
that my two children, whom you treated two years ago
with your medicine for Asthma, are keeping in the best of
health. They have never had a sign of the Asthma since.
I always keep a bottle of your invaluable Bronchitis Cure
in the house now.
(Mrs.) L. EDGELL,
Smeaton, Victoria.
BRONCHITIS.
A SUFFERER 73 YEARS OF AGE
THOROUGHLY CURED BY TWO BOTTLES OF
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CUKE.
IMMEDIATE RELIEF—EFFECT WONDERFUL.
Mr. Hearne. Sir, —I have been very ill with Influenza
and Bronchitis. A friend of mine persuaded me to try
your Bronchitis Cure. The first dose gave me immediate
relief, and after taking the second bottle I am thoroughly
cured. Its effect on me has been most wonderful. lam
73 years of age. I trust you will make use of this state-
ment by publishing it for the benefit of humanity
generally. Yours most respectfully,
THOMAS R. TREZISE,
Reedy Creek, Victoria.
DRY, HACKING COUGH FOR TWELVE MONTHS.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED BY
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
OTHER TREATMENT TOOK NO EFFECT.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir,—For twelve months or more I had a dry, hack-
ing cough on my chest that used to trouble me terribly
at night-time. I was told it was a touch of Bronchitis. I
tried different sorts of medicine, which took no effect, so
I tried your Bronchitis Cure, which, I have much pleasure
in informing you, relieved me at once. It has completely
cured my cough. lam sure anyone can depend on your
medicine for a thorough and immediate cure.—l remain,
yours truly, DAVID MATTHEWS,
Modewarre, Victoria.
INFLUENZA AND BRONCHITIS.
TEN YEARS SUFFERING WITH A TERRIBLE COUGH,
AND WASTING AWAY.
COMPLETELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —Twelve years ago I had a severe attack of
Influenza and Bronchitis, and for ten years was suffering
with a terrible cough and was wasting away. I had
medical attendance, and tried various medicines recom-
mended, but without success, until, on my daughter’s
recommendation, I used Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, with
the result that it completely cured me, and I am per-
fectly free from any cough now.
E. ASTALL,
116 Shields-street, Flemington,
Melbourne
BRONCHITIS.
A SUFFERER FOR YEARS CURED BY ONE BOTTLE
OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
NO OTHER TREATMENT DID ANY GOOD.
Mr. Hearne. Sir, —My daughter, 12 years of age, had a
very bad cough that had been a trouble to her for years.
I tried every cough remedy I could get, but not one of
them seemed to do her any good. Then I tried one bottle
of your Bronchitis Cure, and she has never coughed since
she finished it. lam glad to say the effect has been won-
derful.—Yours, etc.,
J. BATSEN,
Homebush, Sydney, N.S.W.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you about the wonderful
cure your medicine has effected in my case. About three
years ago I began to cough. At first the cough was not
severe, but it gradually got worse, and I became very
weak and troubled with night sweats, pain in my chest,
and great quantities of phlegm. On several occasions
there was blood in the expectorated matter. I had been
treated by a doctor, who pronounced my case to be
consumption, and various other treatments had been
tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage that I
heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for a
course of the medicine. When it arrived, I was* too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
for which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR,
Westminster-bridge Road, S.E., London.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH FOR
TWELVE YEARS.
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
Sir,—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from a most
distressing, suffocating, dry cough, that could not be
removed or even eased by any remedy, doctor’s prescrip-
tions, and patent medicines having been tried ; but I am
happy to state that the cough, pain in the chest, and
difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by the
fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure. I remain, sir, yours
most respectfully,
WILLIAM CROCKETT,
Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, N.S.W.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE CURED BY ONE SMALL
BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. I am more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without
it.—l remain yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
SEVERE BRONCHITIS.
COMPLETELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE.
IT ACTED LIKE MAGIC.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —It affords me very much
pleasure to give you an unsolicited testimonial as to the
great merits of your wonderful Bronchitis Cure. I can
say without hesitation that as a chest medicine it has no
equal. Having had Bronchitis in a severe form it com-
pletely cured me, and now in the Winter months if I at
all contract a cold on the chest it gives me instant relief.
I have also proved its efficacy with members of my
family, whom it has always cured of coughs, colds on the
chest, also sore throats. It has acted like magic. Sir,
you are deserving of the best thanks of the community
for introducing to suffering humanity such a valuable
medicine.
I remain, gratefully yours,
W. DUNCAN,
23 Normanby Street, Windsor, Victoria.
ASTHMA. 1
RELIEVED BY TWO DOSES OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Having been a sufferer
from Asthma, I have much pleasure in stating that your
Bronchitis Cure afforded me great relief after taking
two doses only. I have since proved its efficiency in
quickly curing a bad cold, and altogether my chest feels
stronger. I can strongly recommend it as the best medi-
cine for chest complaints and coughs, as I have tried them
all. Thanking you for the benefit that I have received.—
I am, Dear Sir, your faithfully, D. BEATTY,
Hume’s Buildings, 65 Willis Street,
Wellington, New Zealand.
COUGH.
DISTRESSING AND HACKING COUGH COMPLETELY
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Last winter my youngest
son, Herbert, who is rather weak on the chest, had a dry,
distressing, hacking cough which troubled the poor little
fellow very badly at night time. I tried many so-called
panaceas, without any appreciable effect. But after
using less than a bottle of your Bronchitis Cure I am
pleased to say that the child was cured and is now quite
well, all symptoms of the cough having entirelv dis-
appeared. I have had much pleasure in recomn.- "ding
your magical medicine to my friends.—Believe nit co be,
yours very gratefully, R. SHERIDAN KNOWLES,
“ Lillieslea,” Union Street,
Windsor, Victoria
HE ARNE S BRONCHITIS CUBE—Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Large Size, 4s. 6d.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA
FORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
BRA " c "°" OT ~ Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.


Musbands !
Make it your business to
see that a bottle of
SCOTT’S EMUL-
SION of cod liver
oil and hypophos-
phites of lime & soda
is always in the house, and SO6 that
the wife takes it the moment she
feels a chill, or a cold or cough coming
on, or is over-tired, out of sorts, a bit
“ low,” sleepless, or has lost her appe-
tite, or in maternity or nursing, or after
exhausting illness. Her health and
spirits wit* return as if by magic.
Wives! ci»e
SCOTT’S to your husbands
to stop chest, throat, skin or blood
troubles. tfl Town Hall Buildings,
Payneham Road, St. Peters, South
Australia, 28th July, 1904. I con-
tracted a heavy cold, which settled on
my chest and lungs, causing a continuous
hacking cough both day and night. My
chest was inflamed and very sore, my
rest broken and appetite gone. The
first few doses of Scott’s Emulsion gave
relief, and my cough disappeared,
my chest and lungs were soothed and
healed, my appetite and rest began to
return, and I improved in health and
strength. I found Scott’s palatable
and easy to retain.” H. E. Wood.
Mothers J
Give Scott’s to your babies
to stop whooping cough,teething troubles,
bronchitis, colds, weakness or wasting.
While you think of it,
write to us for a free trial bottle of the
original emulsion of 30 years ago, since
constantly improved and still far the best
for its results. Enclose 4d. for postage
and mention this paper. Scott & Bowne,
Ltd., 483, Kent St, Sydney, N.S.W.
GOOD,
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD GOOD GOOD
GOOD GOOD GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
i GOOD 1
SUnligHT
LAUNDRY SOAP
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
Good in the laundry,
Good in the kitchen,
Good alloverthehonse
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
6000 GOOD GOOD
GOOD GOOD GOOD
WOUNDS AFTER OPERATION.
ZAM-BUK'S Wonderful Haling Properties,
N°
more conclusive evidence of the wonderful healing and antiseptic qualities of
Zam-Buk could be found than illustrated in the £a^Rychf
Mr F Bellineton by profession a gardener, residing in Buffalo Koaa,rtyae,
near Sydney —“ Two years ago, while following my occupation, I scratched my
leg with ablLXrg thorn, a J took L notice of it. A fortnight
set in, and ran right up to my knee; my leg was *swollen and as dack as ink.
doctor whom I consulted advised me to at once go to 1 rlnf ;«A' Hospital
which I did. I underwent an operation, and the doctor opened up my
the knee but the blood-poisoning spread and ran right up into the gr ,
S&TSiSffl » further operatic!.. In til, the due-tors opened no my leg
in 23 places, and inserted 14 tubes. Even then the
doctors were not satisfied with the state of the leg,
and were on several occasions on the point of ampu-
tating it. But this I was strongly against, preferring
to.die with my limbs intact, than live minus a leg.
For six months I was thus undergoing treatment m
the hospital—at times in a comatose condition. lor
several weeks the hospital staff were very uncertain as
to whether I would pull through. When I left the
hospital the blood-poisoning had been practically re-
moved, but owing to the sinews of my leg being
contracted through being in an iron cradle tor 11
weeks, I was forced to walk on crutches for three
weeks, and subsequently used a stick. Ihe leg
appeared to be doing nicely when I accidentally gave
it a knock. The results of this were dire. All the
wounds broke out again, and the leg became very
much inflamed, and swollen. I applied several
treatments, but the results were not satisfactory,
and hearing Zam-Buk so well spoken of, I decided
to give it a trial. In less than 24 hours after the
first application of Zam-Buk I found great relie .
The swelling and inflammation subsided, and the
wounds were soothed. I continued the Zam-Buk
treatment for a fortnight, by which time the wounds
were completely healed, and the inflammation re-
mnvpd and I was able to go back to work. -M-y
s now as sound as it ever was, so much so, that I attended several dances last season,
to the astonishment of my acquaintances who were aware of the prtv.ous state of my
leg! e f l fee I*deeply* gr at ef u 1 for what Zam-Buk has done for me, and will never lose an
opportunity of recommending it to all.’
7AMRTTK is a PROVED CURE for PILES. ECZEMA, BOILS, RUNNING
SORES SORE LEGS BARCOO, RINGWORM, RHEUMATISM, L W BAGO
?HWA etc. As an EMBROCATION for STRAINED MUSCLES and
TENDONS’ ZAM-BUK rubbed well into the parts affected, is UNEQUALLED. As a
HOUSEHOLD BALM for CUTS, BRUISES, BURNS, PIMPLIH, BLACKHEADS,
SOLE CHEST, and
SORE FEET, ZAM-
BUK is INVALU-
ABLE. From all
Medicine Vendors at
1/(1, or 3/G Family Size
(containing nearly four
nnn.nt.itv).
RLffltO
OSP I
i >
bm-Bu
RUBITIH!
Getting Better.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN you’ve been for weeks
a-bed
With a fever in your head,
All your nerves a-rack with gnawing teeth of
pain,
Only physic had for drinking,
Over sins been busy thinking,
Oh ! it’s great to get a move on once again.
Great to change, for good and all,
Forms grotesque upon the wall,
Grinning faces in the paper of your room,
For the spring air soft and sunny,
Now the bees are making honey,
And the gum-trees and the wattles are in bloom ;
Greater still to stroll at ease
’Neath the red-tipped pepper trees,
Free from every bursting throb of heart and
brain,
And, through all the wild birds’ singing,
Hear the great glad chorus ringing—
“ You will soon be well enough to work again.”
How the long nights seemed to last
When the crisis once was passed,
And your weakness weighed upon you like a load ;
How your heart was agitated
With the deep, exaggerated
Gulfs of grief that lay in every pound you owed ;
And the good old pals and kind,
Who left little things behind
When they found you hadn’t wherewithal to pay,
How you chafed at each one’s coming,
As the ceaseless thought kept drumming
That the load of debt was growing day by day.
But your troubles all take wing
On the golden breath of spring,
As you fashion from the bush-bird’s joyous strain,
Seated calmly, convalescent.
In a garden warm and pleasant —
“You will soon be well enough to work again.”
Life seems ever worth the living
When the gods are freely giving
Unto you and yours a goodly store of wealth ;
But the world a sweeter place is
Seen reflected in the faces
Of the women who have nursed you back to
health.
And the joy of other days !
Oh ! I’ve trod some wonder-ways
In the land beyond the mountains of Desire ;
Quaffed the honey-sweets of pleasure
From the loving-cups of leisure
In the dells where youth and love are all a-fire.
But the greatest joy I’ve known,
Through the few years that have flown,
Is the message in the wild birds’ glad refrain,
As I linger, convalescent,
In this garden warm and pleasant—
“ You will soon be well enough to work again.”
n.s.w.
E. S. EMERSON.
Beachcombing.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Van Diemen’s Gulf, June 4,
COMRADES, —The beach has got me at
last. I have worked in shops and big
city warehouses for ten years. Want of
sun and rest from the murderous glitter of incan-
descent lights sent me here.
Civilisation with its boss, its foreman, its shop-
walker, and its glass-eyed managers turned my
thoughts at first to bayonets, and then to open
air. From 8.15 a.m. I worked till 7 p.m., seeing
nothing but the foreman, the boss, the incan-
descent light and the glass eye. At 26 I wore
spectacles ; at 30 I was advised to wear a green
lamp shade over my face. At 40 they might
have put a shade round my body, but they didn’t.
Comrades, there are tragedies in the Australian
cities, and there is comedy with paint on its nose.
Promethean despair is reached when a live man
sees blindness waiting for him at the end of
another ten-mile lane.
There were other offices ready to employ me,
but it meant swapping one hell for another.
They offered me an 8 x 10 cell, they desired to chain
me to a stool with an incandescent crater or an
electric wire swinging in front of my eyes all day.
I used to swallow my breakfast at 7.30, catch a
ferryboat at 8, and a tram at 8.10, which allowed
me 30 seconds to arrive at the office in good time.
The boss was a vulture for those 30 seconds, or
any other seconds I had to spare.
Did this for 10 years. Was never a moment
late, never a minute early. I was on time. I cut
a furrow of punctuality that would have
reached from Sydney to the South Pole. Then
one morning I missed my boat; it caused me to
be 15 minutes late. The boss didn’t pretend to
be angry— he was amazed. For a whole month
he maintained a frosty silence. Then he burst
out. “ How, in God’s name, did you manage to
be late ? ” he said.
He was a flat, humorless business man, and the
hall-mark, of worry stood like three hatchet
strokes in the centre of his brow. I said it
wouldn’t happen again. It didn’t.
The following day found me on board the
Arawatta, bound for Queensland. Sydney is not
a good place to beachcomb. A half-blind man
needs to break the neck of an instinct that is
always prompting him to look for a job.
After ten years in a 10 x 8 pit, I wanted vast
stretches of beach-sand and coco palms, lagoons,
wild fowl, a burning mountain in the distance, or
a deep mangrove-skirted inlet where alligators
could camp comfortably, just to put a touch of
heathenism into the perspective.
The name Queensland suggests a ball-room
idiocy flung at the head of a magnificent continent.
Never saw a queen in its life except an oleograph
one. Why not Maranoa or even Cunnamulla ?
Thousands of intelligent men have tried to be-
come beachcombers. Thousands have failed, and
returned to the city to die in fever wards or gaol
hospitals. A beachcomber must face the stars,
and their music is always a key too high for most
men’s civilised nerves.
The old sand-sleepers of Booby and Thursday
Islands were a mixed lot. Travelling from shell-
bound Pera Head to Hannibal Island, and round
by Cape York to Trinity Bay, I failed to chum up
with a real beachman. There are dozens of men
wlio bask within sound of the big surf all day,
fishing, snaring, cadging, dollying for Chows, but
at first sign of dusk they make a bee-line for some
flea-infested shed or hovel. These fellows are
worse than the city slum-dwellers. They never
get over the roof disease and the four-wall com-
plaint.
The roof disease never leaves black or white
men in the tropics. From Cape York to Cairns
the climate on the beaches at night is invariably
delicious. The air is as soft as distilled perfume.
A lightly-dressed infant might be placed all night
in the white sand and be none the worse.
After sunset, Chows, Japs and Manilamen
retire to their hot beds of stink. The white
dosser doesn’t leave the pure air so hurriedly,
but his bones and his instincts call for a plaster
ceiling to cover him from the night, a floor to hide
the grass from his feet.
If you seized the average man by the neck and
condemned him to pass the night in pure, unadul-
terated air, he would die of shock or oxygen.
In Townsville, where the main street is built
under the lee of a hill, the sea breeze is shut out,
and night settles with a Gehenna-like temperature
over the town. Une midnight I left my bed r oom
and staggered to the beach. Was met by a cool
invigorating breeze. Lay down and slept com-
fortably till dawn. Then returned to the hotel
and ate my breakfast. Met a man who occupied
a bedroom next to mine. He was sick from want
of sleep. Asked him to try the beach, and he
froze me with a glance from his sick eye. The
Queensland bedrooms killed him.
Have met beachcombers with expensive outfits;
waterproof tents, ropes, pulleys, and a relay of
boarding-house pots and pans. They buy the
morning paper, and carry beach-slippers inside a
swag.
I do not advocate getting drenched with tropic
rains or camping near swamps and fever holes.
In hot and cold countries man has got to use his
30-ounce brain to keep himself dry. The Chows and
the Japs will prevent you being overcome by the in-
stinct of looking for a job, but they can’t stop you
from taking fish from the sea, or a quail from an
inland lagoon.
How few of the earth’s stagnant millions have
heard the voice of the ocean surf at midnight—
the low thunder from distant capes and reefs !
The beachcomber, rising on his elbow, beholds a
star-blazed sky sloping to immense sea-levels.
Then, out of the dumb hollow comes a light; a
masthead lantern winks for a mile or so along the
horizon and dips into the unknown. At dawn
the wind beats cold about his ears. The air is
thick with salt.
The complete beachcomber must own a boat.
They cost money, says someone. Well .. .
I got a boat. It was beached at the mouth
of the Batavia River. Two things were in
sight, desolation and the boat. The boat won.
Time and wind took us to the Paterson River.
It is fair to say that Gulf currents in June and
July will bend the nose of an ironclad. There is
a nor’-easterly set that might land a boat-thief in
the Gulf of Papua, or in the arms of the police-
man at Thursday Island. His name is Joseph
Patrick Mulligan.
The greatest drawback to beachcombing is a
well-filled purse. At first sight of bad weather
the ’comber with the money-affliction makes a
dash for the nearest pub. The beach won’t have
him afterwards.
One day, lying face down on a sand-ridge—ib
was 50ft. high, and from the sea it resembled a
piece of flesh sprawling in the sunlight—l saw a
cloud whiz down from the north, and wag for a
moment on the horizon like an elephant s ear.
The sun took a sudden bath of blood; the sea
grew vellow and sick at the edges. In a flash I
saw the black ring of an old Chow typhoon licking
the 50-mile horizon. Then a roaring, invisible
wheel seemed to grind the sea in halves until it
hummed and cried like a thousand electric wires.
The beach quaked as the first mastodon surf-line
broke upon it. My face and bare feet were basti-
nadoed with sheets of flying sand. With the
house and homing instinct upon me, I ran, because
I wasn’t sure whether the cyclone would hustle
the ocean bed on top of me.
I arrived at the nearest hotel and clung to the
bar with hands and voice. In ten seconds the
cyclone got in its dirty left and punched the roof
away. The barmaid cried “ Bailiffs ! ” and before
she could turn off the beer-tap, it blew her against
a horse standing outside.
A sugar-planter with a No. 2 paunch jumped on
a bench, and said that any attempt to interfere
with the Kanakas would ; and the cyclone
blew him and the wood heap into the Baptist
church; then it opened all the hymn-books and
blew them on top of him.
I can prove that every well-organised cyclone
downs the pub. and the church in the first 10
seconds. North Queensland would be a firmer
place if China consumed its own cyclones. At
dawn the air grew calmer. No sign of wreckage
appeared along the coast, until the sun revealed a
bright belltopper drifting out with the tide.
I chose beachcombing to escape an 8 x 10 office
and blindness, and I grew limber and long-
sighted. Shopmen, clerks, thieves, editors and
kings fear open spaces just as prisoners dread the
clamorous street after years of confinement. I or
the man who feels the office walls pressing upon
his heart and eyes the North has a bed of white
beaches, unutterably clean, and sheltered with
many purple nights.
From time to time one hears a voice complain-
ing of the lack of novelty in the far North. Be
sure that the billiard-playing instinct is calling
that voice South, to the gas-lit tables and the
beer-stained cloths. In the solitudes of Cape
York and the Jardine country, I have heard the
call of the southern cities, but it was the call of
the sick and the blind.
ALBERT DORRINGION.
Ole Joe Green.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
HE was an old man, a big man, a
foreigner, whitehaired, decently groomed,
and with a foreigner’s ampleness of
both mane and moustachios. He didn’t slouch or
lean in his seat, but sat square and upright, with
chest out habitually, taking his full share of room
in the carriage, and having altogether the de-
meanor of a lord of creation.
He spoke with weight and assurance, and an
occasional display of dignified explanatory ges-
ture.
The talk had been of music.
“I tell you, you talk about your Poniatowski,
your Leschetitzky, Sarti, Maschinka, Grieg,
Wieniawksi, and the rest. It is as nothing. Ihe
men of the grand music are the men of the long
ago, even as your own ancient Shakspeare is the
great of the great, and the great Bach, and the
great Handel —why, they are still up a tree-top.
“It is the same in opera. All that is worth in
the old school is most that is worth in the new.
“ Why, in my time, the music of Milan, of Paris,
of your Covent Garden —it is the music now uhen
you yet it.
“Take old Joe Green—he was one of our idols
then.”
“Joe Green ?”
“ Certainli ! ”
“Joe Green ! ”
“Joe Green—why, of course —you ought to
know him—but, no ! —perhaps not. You still
sing him, mind you ? O yes—ven you want some-
thing good. But talk of him! —no; all our tdlk
shall be of Giordani, of Thomas, of Mascagni,
Puccini, Leoncavallo —because it is the fashion ;
but in the hearts of the people is ole Joe Green—
Green, Green, all the time abiding.”
About seven people spoke at once.
“Never heard of him ! ”
“ Who can you mean ? ”
“ What did he do ? ”
The old man stiffened, and his two expostula-
torily spread-out arms seemed to take up the
whole carriage as he stared in amazement.
“Joe Green!—not know Joe Green? Not
know la—la —la —la—la-la-la and la—la —la—la—
la-la—la la . . . ? ”
“ Verdi!” we all screamed.
“It is the same—Guiseppe Verdi; but with
you I talk the English—Joe Green —the same as
you go when you do to Rome as Rome goes. But,
Dio mio ! what is the matter ?. Have you all got
the sudden asthma?”
G. BRON.
“ Jeach ” : Said that the demands of Aus-
tralia’s military and naval forces would not keep
an arms and ammunition factory going. Well,
what’s the matter with manufacturing for the
public ! Surely even the Government stroke
could weld a barrel equal to the cheap Belgian
fool-killer, or make cartridges that wouldn’t
shoot a Kanaka.


the
Swan
an
The man with kidney trouble is cheerless in expression, sallow, and heavy-eyed. He is
easily irritated, excited, and worried over trifles, and nervous. His back troubles him
day and night—spoils his sleep, and makes him dizzy and faint after the slightest
exertion. He is rheumatic, dyspeptic, and hopeless. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
make the Kidneys well; they are the one medicine that is especially for kidney and
bladder troubles the one medicine that cures men and women to STAY cured, and pro-
tects them against such advanced kidney complaints as Bright’s disease, diabetes, dropsy,
rheumatism, &c. Bead the following cases of Sydney people who have been cured-
SYDNEY TESTIMONY.
FROM WA TSON’S BA Y.
Mr. James Fotheringham, Watson’s Bay, late
6th Imperial Bushmen, writes : “Whilst in South
Africa with the 6th Imperial Bushmen, through
constant exposure to all sorts of weather, sleeping
in wet clothes, etc., I got a very severe attack of
lumbago. I was so bad that I could not get up off
the ground—let alone mount my horse. Two
military doctors had a go at me. One blistered
my back until all the skin was off; and the other
gave me medicine, but neither of them did me
any good. Fortunately, a comrade came along
with a box of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and
before I had finished the box I was as right as ever
I was in my life. Since then I always keep a box
of the pills handy in case of the lumbago return-
ing, but, so far, I am glad to say, I have had no
necessity to take them. You may make whatever
use you like of this, as I consider Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills a boon to humanity, and I shall
always, recommend them.”
FROM REDFERN.
Mr. W. B. Lewis, Viscount-terrace, Young-
street, Bedfern, says There is no more satis-
factory and really beneficial anedicine that I know
of than Doan’s Backache' Kidney Pills. Much
sickness and broken time would be avoided,
especially by those who, like tnyself, are occupied
at outdoor work, if these pills were better known.
One of the many advantages in taking Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills is that they may be taken
with safety at any time. Having suffered for
some time, I was recommended to try them, and
found great relief. All of my friends to whom I
have spoken of their excellent effects speak in
similar terms of them. I have no hesitation in
saying that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are the
most comforting and the most certain to give relief
that I have ever used.”
Two years later, Mr. Lewis says :—“I still use
the pills—just a dose or two occasionally—and
they keep me quite right. I have recomfnended
this remedy to many, and they are praised by all
who use them. For my part, I would take no
other medicine.”
When the Kidneys are Hi, the Whole Body is ill.
Kidneys Purify the Blood because they Filter it.
V
£
’S'
kj>
r*
>s. <?©
•«=
Every Picture
Tells a Story.
IM&NCHL
VIMEXVUS
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
are sold by all Chemists and
Storekeepers at 2s. 3d. per box
(six boxes 15s. 3d.), or will be
posted on receipt of price by
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-
street, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Tryst.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THERE is a region vague and dim,
Where ghostly shadows dwell—
Vast formless Things and Phantoms grim-
The March of Heaven and Hell.
On one grey rim up-gushes far
And fierce, a fiery flood,
Too deadly red to be a star—
It seems a Rose of Blood.
And on the other border gleams,
Right glorious to behold,
A splendor in the dusk that seems
To be a Rose of Gold.
But this dim Realm of Mysteries
Must lie aloof, alone,
Between the Two Eternities,
Nor God nor Devil own.
The Seraph swift may dare the glooms
Of thousand worlds destroyed,
But never dares to spread his plumes
Within this awful Void.
The Demon who from star to star,
Like lightning leaps, may tell
Of travels wide, but leaves afar
The March of Heaven and Hell.
There uncreated lawless Things,
From blind, black Chaos bred,
Move round and round on viewless whin's—
Half-living and half-dead.
Yet here they met. Her rosy plumes
Drooped wearily, her hair
Celestial bright was damp with fumes
Of that malefic air.
He hid her ’neath his night-black wings,
All lined with scarlet flame,
And glared defiance at the Things—
The Things without a name.
Then she began to lose her fear
And whispered low—“ Behold,
Beyond this place of darkness drear,
Yon shining Rose of Gold !
“ That is God’s City, and my Home,
Would it were also thine !
As lamps beneath its crystal dome,
A million suns do shine.
“ Its walls are gold without, within
It has a sea of glass,
And you can see the worlds therein
Like shoals of fishes pass.
“ And once I caught, for simple mirth,
So quaint it looked and queer,
A little star-speck called the Earth
And hung it in my ear.
“ Then I grew tired, and this was how
I threw it far away ;
’Tis in a sick old system now,
The Star-Archangels say.
Those proud Archangels, every one,
l’ve seen them o’er and o’er,
Each holds his head as if a sun
Upon his neck he bore.
In scarlet robes, with boughs of palm,
The haughty martyrs go,
All chanting their Eternal psalm
The only one they know.
“ The Virgins, in their robes of white,
Walk singing loud and clear,
With sweet Cecilia playing light,
And Dorothea near.
“ We sing to one sweet simple air
Which never changed may be ;
Then leave the City of Despair,
O Love, and come with me ! ”
The tender Demon heard her tale,
His smile was fond, but bleak.
He said, “Your revels, cold and pale,
Would kill me in a week.”
Then, pointing to the verge of space,
Where gushed the lurid foam,
He said, “That is my Dwelling Place,
My own Beloved Home.
We have no shining seas of glass
To please the Cherubim,
Wherethrough the swift white systems pass,
And stars like fishes swim.
“ We do not care, in gilt bazaars,
At childish games to play,
Eor we can bathe in burning stars,
When comes their Judgment Day.
“ O you should see our shrieking streets
All red with bloody foam,
When Alexander Caesar meets
In triumph riding home.
“ And, when across the burning plain,
Great Scipio’s name resounds,
Then Hannibal and Tamerlane
Let loose their battle-hqunds.
“ But Hell for me grows far too hot
When great Napoleon—
I like him best of all the lot—
Meets one named Wellington.
“For all the captains of great wars,
In war-paint of renown—
Blood-red like Iloman conquerors—
To us have all come down.
“ And all those mighty men of war
I’ve named—you’ll smile to hear—
Come from the little spitfire star
That trembled in your ear.
“ But other stars had other wars ;
We have their captains, too,
And now and then Barth’s warriors
These captains beat to glue.
“ But you should see the might}' streets,
All arched with flaming stars,
When Helen Cleopatra meets—
Each throned on burning ears.
“ There is no day of all the days
In red Eternity,
But brings a change to us. Our ways
Are not as yours, you see.
‘ Then leave your city with its thin
Pale, foolish joys, and learn
The joy of Fiery Life within
The Land of No Return.”
* * *
W ill any reader, grave or gay,
A simple answer make
(I can’t myself) to this: Which way
Did those strange lovers take?
VICTOR J. DALEY.
“Art” Photography.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ -\TO," I said. “ It’s very pretty,” but
| it isn’t me.”
The photographer sucked his teeth.
“ If you don’t mind my saying it,” I continued,
“you’ve got me looking too holy—too beautiful.
One doesn’t mind flattery, but this come,
now ! I know that lam lantern-jawed ; I have
crow’s feet round my eyes. My eyes are of the
slit variety, through being, as Hamlet puts it,
much i the sun.’ Observe ! You have rounded
my cheeks, you have removed the tell-tale
wrinkles, you have given me lovely goo-goo eyes,
with delicately pencilled brows. It won’t do —it
really won’t.”
“ Now and again,” said the picture-maker, “I
have such complaints. Once in three months,
perhaps. You, sir, are a beauty ; it warms my
heart to meet you. But, for the rest—l have to
live. Wherefore these marks—out of tone, out
of value, out of nature. But you want an un-
touched portrait. The retoucher lies, the camera
cannot. Well, you shall have it. We call them
‘ Art Photos,’ and charge double price. You see,
I am frank, but we must do it for our own pro-
tection. You will show it to your friends—they
will read our name on the card, and remember it.
When they want their photos taken they will go
to Jones, down the street. Will you sit now?"
As he screwed me down, he sighed. “Ah, sir,
if you only knew the trials of a photographer.
The women ! —God bless my soul!—come to me
with portraits of Melba, and Mrs. Maesmore Morris,
and Nance O’Neil. Sometimes they bring angels
and things cut out of the Family Hbhald. You
know the sort of thing. * Make it as much like
that as you can, - ' they say. Why, I’ve had three
this week asking me to give ’em Nellie Stewart
mouths. If you’d only seen theirs ! And one
very thin one, who asked me, in effect, to fill her
up a little.
“I remember, not so long ago, a very short,
thick lady coming to me with a series of photos of
the Greek marbles. ‘I want,’said she, ‘an arm
like that.’ She handed over the Niobe. Then
she asked for the—er—bust of the winged Victory,
and the neck of the Artemis. ‘Yes, madam,’
I said, ‘ but I hope you want something less—er—
classical in dressing. I wouldn’t like to give our
Studios a bad name !
“She was annoyed a whole lot. She wanted
all those charms in evening dress. You ought to
have seen the picture ! It nearly made me cry.
“Yes, it's wonderful what the retoucher can
do. See this ? ” He hauled out a rubber thing
from a corner and blew into a mouthpiece. It
swelled and swelled, taking at last the form of a
very fat baby.
“There,” he said, “that is little Reginald
Robinson, who was fed on our Patent Non-
corrosive Food from the age of one week. Or it
is Willie Smith, or Freddy Brown, or Daisv
Harris, depending upon specification—and the
retoucher. Yes ; it’s quite an art. Er—well;
I’ll not retouch the negative this time, sir,”
A few days later I called to see the result of this
second sitting. When he showed me the photo
I did not recognise it at first; took it for a study
of a land-agent, or a humorous effort.
“It’sa good likeness,” he said.
“ Yes ?” I answered innocently. “ I thought it
was a fake —didn’t know there was anybody on
God’s earth like that. But where’s mine ? ”
“ Why, that’s yours.”
“ Look here,” I said, “ don’t you be rude.”
“It is, though, and a very good likeness.” He
dodged nervously. “ The camera, sir, can’t lie.”
“Yours,” I returned, “is evidently an excep-
tion.”
“But”
“ But ine no ‘ buts.’ ”
He called the countess who lolls in the recep-
tion-room. “Miss Smythe,” he said, handing
her the horror, “ what d’ you think of that?”
“Not much,” she answered contemptuously.
“Why, it hasn’t been retouched.”
He was amazed. “How clever of you to find
that out ! But I don’t mean as a work of art. I
mean as a likeness.”
She shifted her chewing-gum from one cheek to
the other. “Who of?” she asked. These girls
who spell their names with a “ y ” are, at times,
careless of their grammar.
I laughed. “ There you are,” I said trium-
phantly.
“ Wait a bit,” he answered. He called a news-
boy in out of the street. “ Who's that, sonny?”
he said when the lad had examined us suspiciously.
The boy looked puzzled, then a light dawned on
him.
“ Johnny Coleman ? ” he hazarded.
I laughed some more.
Just then arrived a friend of the operator. He
took up the photograph in that uninvited manner
which friends use. “Ha! ” he said. “ Been ex-
perimenting, Jim? Art photo., eh? Don’t you do
it; it don’t pay. It’s not a bad likeness, though.”
The photographer chortled ; the friend examined
it closely.
“No-o! Not bad. But it don’t flatter you,
Jim.”
“ The camera,” said I, “cannot lie.”
HOWARD ASHTON.


An Adelaide lady sends her photograph, and writes:
K
“I used to have terrible
feelings come oyer me. The
doctors could do me no good.
I could not sleep, my appe-
tite left me, and I was a
most miserable woman in-
deed. Having read of Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla I thought I
would try it. To my great
surprise, after taking only
two bottles I found myself
very much better in every
way. After taking six bot-
tles all my disagreeable feel-
ings left me, and I was completely cured.”
If your appetite is poor, your digestion imperfect, and
you feel nervous and weak, you ought to take
AYER’S § arsaparilla
It expels all impurities from the blood and gives strength
and vigor to the nerves. A thorough course of treatment
with it makes rich and red blood, brings the old color back
to the lips, fills out the cheeks, and gives the glow of per-
fect health.
A good appetite—a good digestion—a healthy liver—
an active brain and strong nerves; these are better than
great riches, and Ayer’s Sarsaparilla will help you to
obtain them.
Prepared by DR. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., TT. S. A.
There are many imitation “ Sarsaparillas.” Be sure you get AYER’S.
Ayer’s Pills, sugar-coated, for constipation. In glass bottles.
EH
H EALTH!
WEIGH perfect health
against the price it
costs, and the result
is always in favor of health. . .
“ Health at any price ” is
heard on all sides, but we say
to you, “ Health at only a
fair price, and real robust
health for the price. . . For
years we have been teaching the public
the lesson of health, and how to recover
it when lost. We have sold twenty
thousand Health-Givers in Australasia,
and have published thousands of Australian testi-
monials. . . You cannot be strong and robust when
your organs are weak and suffering from insufficient
nerve life. Nerve life is the vital spark in the
body. It is created by the Natural Electrical
Generation through the system. When this is at
low ebb it means that your electrical force is weak, and in
order to regain it you must force outside Electricity into
your nerve centre and organs.
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt carries a current of
Electricity into your body for hours at a time. It saturates
every nerve and tissue, stimulates the circulation, destroys
unhealthy or worn-out tissue, and creates new life. This
wonderful appliance will restore a weak man to his full normal vigor in
three months. It will make you as vigorous at fifty as you were
at thirty. If you are weak at thirty it will restore your vitality.
Worn regularly for ninety days it will cure your weakness
so that—under normal conditions—it will never come on again. . .
We want you to use this appliance because there are no doubts about the
results. Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt is guaranteed in every case
undertaken, and cannot fail if our advice is followed.
Let us send you, post prepaid and Free, our illustrated Book, which
describes our remedy in detail; it also gives the names and addresses of
hundreds of cured patients. . . . Call, if you for Free Consultation
and advice. Get the Book and study our method. You are placed under
no obligation to take the remedy unless your judgment prompts you to
do so. Write or Call without delay. Hours : 9 a.m till 6 p.m.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co. ROOKWOOD, N.S.W.
Sirs, —It is now four months since I purchased your Belt, and previous to this I was a great
sufferer from Rheumatism, not being 1 able to walk or use my limbs without suffering great agony 8 and
was compelled to give up work. Six months during that time I used any amount of Drugs and ’Lini-
ments, which gave relief for the time, and after a day or two the pain returned with greater violence
than before, which completely exhausted me. I have now been wearing your Belt four months and
am happy to be able to say I have not the slightest trace of any pain, and can do a good day’s work
without inconvenience. You may use this testimony in any way you think fit, so that some poor
afflicted one will take courage, for relief is within reach. F
I remain, gratefully yours, THOS. WILSON
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.,
lOOW. MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
90 WILLIAM ST., PERTH, W.A.
167 E. SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
54 WILLIS ST., WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Please send me your Free Book.
Name....
Address.
hum man tuvmi
12/4/6 B.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
L OR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headaches
1. Giddiness, 1 ulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath. Cos iveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL <> 1 V E RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and rtey will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECH A M’S PTLLS, taken as directed, w cuickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of tae system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud ok Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are facts admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that, fieerham’s Pills have the Lara tit Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he wond. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENOLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is l*d, and i!s }>d each.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address :
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Oastlereagh
Street. Sydney.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
QS RX CORO’S
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St., Melbourne ; F. H. Fauldingr & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
INSTRUCTION FREE! I
You can become a Hypnotist in % few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
sway the minus of others, control friendship
ami affection, cure disease and bad habits,
gratify your ambitions and produce amuse-
ment by the hour. My mammoth Illustrated
Lesson or Key to Hypnotism which I send
free cf charge and postage paid, will tell you
allabout thi < marvelous science. It contains
be utiful and artistic engravings, and shows
you just what Hypnotism is and
what it will accomplish. Send for
it and learn to Hypnotize. Remember, this wonder-
ful book costs you nothing. If you men-
tion this I will also include a large
packare of other valuable, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance of a lifet.l »•'»«.
Wiite to-day. Address—
Prof: R. H. BARRADEN, 39 Pitt St., Sydney*
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in 48
hours without
incon-
venience.
Each Capsule bears the name wr
fIIDY
ASTH MA CURE
ERIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIHAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR.
El TES. Bod hi all Chemists.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
f HLOROPyNE
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUCHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, <fcc. bears on the
Government (Stamp the name of
the Inventor
Pr. J. COLLIS BROWN€
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 181)5, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I.should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Qhlorodynk. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-dav.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
BLOOD POISOO.
FOR MORE THAN TWENTY YEARS
we. have made the cure of blood poison a
specialty, Primary, Secondary or Tertiary
Blood Poison Permanently Cured. You can
be treated at home under same guaranty.
Capital 500,000 dols. We solicit the most
obstinate cases. If you have exhausted the
old methods of treatment, and still have aches
and pains, Mucus Patches in Mouth, Sore
Throat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spots,
Ulcers on any part of the body, Hair or
Eyebrows falling out, write for proofs of
cures, roo-page Book Free.
COOK REMEDY Co..
1102 MASONIO TEMPLE, Chicago, U.S.A.
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no mailer of
■how long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St„ Melbourne
DR. MARTIN, M.D.,
The Only Medical Author and Doctor of Medicine Practising as a Specialist
in Australasia, and holding the Highest Qualifications Conferred by British
Universities.
MEN AND WOMEN SUFFERERS,
If you have failed to find relief elsewhere, if you are despondent, and despair of ever being- cured, CONSULT
DR. MARTIN. He is the Best Authority on all Diseases of Men and Women. His successes in Chronic and so-
called Incurable Cases have gained for him the LARGEST CONSULTING PRACTICE in the Commonwealth.
DR. MARTIN’S long experience as a CLINICAL SPECIALIST in the Hospitals of Europe has made his judge-
ment infallible on Private, Nervous, Blood and Skin Diseases. He has NEVER FAILED to permanently Cure
any Case he has undertaken.
Sir T. GRAINGER STEWART, M.D., F.R.C.F.E., Physician-in-Ordinary to
Her Majesty the late Queen Victoria, says:—
“ DR. MARTIN, Bachelor of Medicine and Master in Surgery, is well-known to me as an able and intelligent
Practitioner. He was a Distinguished Student in the classrooms and in the Wards of the Hospital, and must
take his place as a LEADING PRACTITIONER wherever he may settle.”
Dr. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK: “THE DISEASES OF MEN AND WOMEN
AND THEIR HOME CURE.”
Specimen pages of DR. MARTIN’S Famous Medical Work POSTED FREE to all on application. The Book
contains 700 pages, over 500 prescriptions, 193 illustrations, and colored plates. A Medical Handbook for general
use, and is invaluable for those living in the country. It is entirely different to the many so-called Medical
Books that are advertised FREE to the public. Price to Patients, 3s. Write for this Valuable Book to-day, or
send for specimen copy—FREE.
“ELMLEY HOUSE/' 151 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY;


Asbestos ...
Boiler Covering;
Has Proved its Economy times without number.
PACKED WET, ready for use, in 3cwt. casks,
75., Bs., 9s. cwt.
PACKED DRY, in Bags, each lewt., 145., 165.,
18s. cwt.
IT SAVES 25 PER CENT. IN FUEL.
Perdriau Rubber Co.^
270 George St., Sydney.
Estimates given for Covering Boilers & Steam Pipes.
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water 1
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air
[eat
>
CATALOGUES FREE
application ‘ '
SIMPSON
olicy for the Commonwealth:
Price
Posted Bd.
: »
'
1-
TINTARA
WINES. .
Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide.
700 Prizes.
THE COCOA OF THE OLD COUNTRY,
It is the purest aad most economical
cocoa inuse It’s nicest too. <af' '
‘7'fif JJUiCff sa/s •- "Cadbur/s as the tandard of h iqhest pun h
•Gr I*’ 1 *’
m\ lies
IP
** * * •••• •
Every Pump Guaranteed.
“There is No Better Pump
than the ‘KNOWLES.’”
KNOWLES PUMPS for every kind of service
kept in stock. SINGLE and DUPLEX, VERTICAL
and HORIZONTAL.
Boiler Feed or Pressure Pumps, Double Acting Plunger Pumps,
Tank or Light Service Pumps, Vertical Sinking Pumps,
A’r Pumps, Circulating Pumps, etc. ,/
PARKE & LACY CO., w«„
60 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
Melbourne Selling Agents : Bevan Edwards Propy., Ltd., Latrobe Street.
NOTICE
To sufferers from G out, It he him at ism. Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingijkstkk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Hoad, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. <fc Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstrk & Tkuman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
ms
iigKiSM I I
05 DI
mm
m i
RANGES
and STOVES
Manufacturers in N.S. Wales,
South Australia and West
Australia^
All influential, storekeepers act as
our agents and stock our Stoves.
HEAD OFFICES :
558 George St., Sydney.
142 Ruhdle St., Adelaide.
William St., Perth.
A NOVEL PRESENT.
ANreceipt,of IPO 0.
V- forward to any
of our HANDSOME
HOUND WIRE
or M.O. for 5/- we-wil
address in Australia on"
Set. GOLD-FILLED
Name or Three Initials, liell, Heart, Anchor or Cross
Pendant,, guaranteed The same quality as brooch; and
without pendant, 3/6. In 15ct. fcr.F. Twisted Wire,
8/6 ; without I’eridant, 6/6. Illustrated Catalogues
sent Free. All letters carefully addressed to R. SIMS, Gold
Wire King, Cole’s Booh Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler ,
371 George Street,
syX33XT3S3'3T.
BOVRIL
An appetising and nutritious soup
is quickly made by the use of
Bovril and it renders Curries and
all made dishes palatable and
strengthening.
DINNEFORDS
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDSj
MAGNESIA)
-
. V- /■
The Finest Book of
Illustrations ever
issued in Australia.
2l Si
* :
Hundred of “Hop’s” Pictures, superbly produced.
