

R. G. WATKINS «S& CO.,
107 Kent Street, sydLney,
Minings and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS tup GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW AMD SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
HOBAHX.
—«fs.—
(jadleysgrientfiotel.
RothwelTs yi
Only Addrsss,
Edward St., Brisbane,
Manufacturers of Masonlo
Regalia. Bast Quality Blue
Apren and Case, £1 Is. [*.
GIBSON, BATTLE & GO., 7 Bent Street, STBNET
HAVE IN STOCK AND TO ARRIVE—
Centrifugal Pumps, Ram Pumps, Turbine Pumps, Duplex Steam Pumps
FOR LOW, MEDIUM or HIGH LIFTS.
IRRIGATION PLANTS OF ANY CAPACITY .
MEPHAN FERGUSON’S SPIRALLY RIVETED PIPES .
Illustrated Lists and Particulars sent
on Appli
it back,
I must have
HUTTON’S
CHII
LOc
Ks
THE ROYAL
EDISWAN LAMP.
Economy in Current.
Equality op Light.
THE
EDISON & im
United Electric
Light Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
16 Carrington Street
Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY.
Queensland Depot:
Commonwealth
Buildings,
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE.
€z££ p
m
Bathurst to Sydney, Great Wallace Continental, Road Race.
\ D. M‘Mahon
F. Al/sop
tk.
Continental Tyres.
127 Miles without Puncture.
r for these Famous Tyres
for Motor Car or
All Cycle Agents and Continental Tyre Depot, 225 Clarence St., Sydney.
YOUR GROCER FOR
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS!
<sr
<r
ASK
FOR
STANDARD PALE ALE
UNRIVALLLED IN QUALITY. ttvt BOTTLE. ~TU
ms
m
OIL
No Other in
the World .
ENGINES
EQUALS
‘SIMPLEX’
IRRIGATING PLANTS SUPPLIED.
ABSOLUTE
In
Reliability
Simplicity
Efficiency
Durability
Economy.
[No Worry or Trouble
NO LIGHT wanted.
IGNITION is
AUTOMATIC.
No Carbonization
whatever.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
All Sizes.
Stationary & Portable.
Send for Illustrated
Catalogue.
E. Coulson
116 a’Beckett St.,
MELBOURNE.
USE . .
DELMO BROS.
“VESUVIO” MACARONI
VERMICELLI
SEMOLINA
79-81 GOPPIN ST.,
RICHMOND,
VICTORIA.
HF! inOM SPA
(tOLLIN & Do.- A OF,NTH.
The Bulletin
Vol. 27.—N0. 1360.]
[Thursday, March 8, 1906.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.,
Salsebv, “ Ethics ” and “ Spiritualism,” each Is 3d, p. 3d.
Conyers, author of “ The Boy, Some Horses, and a Girl,”
Cloth v. Silk, 3s 6d, post sd.
The Horticultural Note Book, leather, 9s, post id.
Thomas, Ventilation of Dwellings, 6s, post 4<i.
Richards, Economies of Mining, 10s Oci, post 6d.
McCabe, Origin of Life, R.P.A. Series, 8d posted.
Academy Architecture, Part 28, 4s, post 9d.
The University Review, Jan., 1906, 9d, post 2d.
Clerke, Modern Cosmogonies, 4s, pest sd.
Collingridge, Discovery of Australia, 2s (id, post 6d.
Reeks, Dis. of the Uorse’s Foot, 12s 6d, post Pd.
Prof. R. K. Duncan’s THE NEW KNOWLEDGE
A popular account of the New Physics and the New Chemistry in their
relation to the new theory of matter. Cloth 7s fld, post 9d.
71 Casttercagh-street, Sydney, and at Melbourne, Adelaide , Brisbane and London.
FOR THE LUNGS, THE THROAT, THE VOICE.
The Great . .
ANTISEPTIC
REMEDY
For the Curb of
Bronchitis !
and Influenza I
anti the Prevention
of Consumption.
o
A. The Larynx, or organ of voice.
B. The Trachea, or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the
‘AUSTRALASIAN
MEDICAL GAZETTE”
says
1 Of great service in
affections of the
HUDSON’S EUtVIENTHOL JUJUBES *W
(Registered). CONTAINS NO COCAINE OS OTHER POISONOUS DRUG. Sold by all Chemists, in tins, 1/0, or
from the Manufacturer, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland, post free on receipt of stamps. Sydney
Depot : 5&7 Queen’s Place. Agencies in all Australian States and N.Z., and at 320 Regent Street W., London.
* ' ' ..... M ..... ~ 1 V’
THE RED PAGE.
HIS CHILDHOOD.
I dare not sing of childhood’s days
But that I feel iu their far ways
Old age’s fancy fondly strays
Its joys to reckon ;
And so I make for him who knows
The fragrance purer than of rose
Scenting that time, and ever goes
With farewell beckon.
There wonder met my waking eyes
In suns that always seemed to rise,
Sweet angel-gold, on richest dyes
Of patch-work hoary ;
And though the silk was frayed and torn.
Showing beneath dim words forlorn.
Yet still it gleamed bright with the morn,
And edged with glory !
I heaped my playthings on my bed :
My horseman’s plume of white and red,
The fan for beauty long since dead,
The rose and azure
Of quaintest china—sure the lad
Lonely with these old heirlooms had
Dim murmurings that made him sad
For Time’s erazure.
For Sabbath eventide alone
The child and mother made mild moan,
Close clasped, for grandeurs past and gone,
And cold to-morrow ;
And in her lap the dreamer sighed
. To hear how gentle Jesus died,
With blood-drenched nails and streaming side,
To save us.sorrow.
But, O, that morn at Trinity—
The golden glass where Heaven must be.
The organ-thunders rolling free.
That made him shiver ;
Delight of pricking blistered paint,
Of southernwood the odour faint.
The face of mother, sweetest saint,
And sleep’s full river !
Joyful it was with parchments old,
Last testaments of those ininould.
To play upstairs in sunny gold
From noon to fading ;
But when the candlelight was clear,
The staircase was a place of fear,
Giving on regions waste and drear,
Life’s glory shading.
But sunrise bathed in amber flame
The old park gate, whose globes of fame
Were set for climbing, at the game
Our young strength tasking;
And through the endless summer day
We flew our kites, or joined in play
At marbles, whipt our tops, or lay
On hot flags basking.
What serious businesses we made
Of reeded waters ! Unafraid
We chased the minnows, loved to wade
The crisping shallows :
The wild deserted garden near
Old Roger’s lodge was still more dear,
Though Jenny Greenteeth —mother’s fear—
Lurked in the mallows !
A thousand secrets, sad and sweet,
Mournful as dim enchantments, meet
In one dear name that I repeat
In sacred dreaming:—
Old Penwortham with trees so talk
Grey church and graves, and low worn wall,
And neighbour well witli soft low fall,
To Mary streaming.
But winter, too, had its delight
With hide and seek at close of night,
And scrap-book, screen, and hearth red-bright,
With winds a-blowing;
And druggists’ bottles green and gold,
And crimson, yellow—to behold
Unfailing joy ; and stories told
While skies were snowing !
And through the streets so wild with galesj
The lamplighter left golden trails
Of stars and dreams and haunting tales
For graver-lover ;
Who, as he saw the curtain wave,
Painted his pantomime, or brave
Dark band of pirates in a cave,
At heart a rover.
O, the deep stain of Prussian blue,
Of crimson lake the luscious hue !
My lips with rainbow splashes too
Were thickly tinted :
Both clown and pantaloon were mine,
I felt, and daubed them rich and fine,
But harlequin and columbine
Of something hinted. -
Ah, could I light upon some spell
To summon from each memoried cell
The fairest image I could tell
Of primal pleasure,
Old faces still should live awhile.
Again I’d climb the meadow stile
And yearn-for home, the twilight mile,
And heart’s pure treasure !
On earth’s green lap I used to lie
When buttercups were waving high
And summer flies went floating by
My leafy cover;
And when this round of life is o’er
And I approach that lap once more,
I’ll lay me down as once before,
Sweet earth’s true lover !
T.
J.H.
THE OTHER POET
EOBERT BRIDGES puts forth volume
after volume steadily. The new one,
his sixth of Poetical Works (Smith,
Elder ; 65.), holds two plays—one
“ The Feast of Bacchus”—a pleasant comedy
adapted from Menander through Terence.
Maybe the content is less significant than
the manner. Bridges, who is a learned
authority on English versification, has
adopted “aline of six stresses”—which he
commends as a comic metre that will admit
colloquial speech without torturing it.
Whether the metre is verse or prose is, as
he suggests, not precisely clear. A line or
two may show :
Chr. Good ! son , for though a wife
Is an evil, she is a necessary evil, and one to
which
You will <?et accustomed in time. ’Tis more
respectable too
To he married ; and the Only cure for a temper
such as yours.
With a rest at. “time” and “cure’’the
last two lines come fairly, but the second
seems problematic. However, thus is
raised a new point of Art : which (if one
cease to meditate seriously Life and Death)
is still the only .thing worth thinking about.
The second play is a second part of
“ Nero,” a drama with noble passages that
needs only to be dated from Elizabeth to
earn classic reverence. The plot turns
round the conspiracy of Piso, and exhibits
Nero and Seneca as characteristically as one
inky conceive them, closing with the latter’s
death. Here the metre is traditional, and
Bridges gives it a stately gait. He has the
English heat, and finds a warm body for his
dream. Lines like these ai’e said with an
air :
I ask you, Quintian, as a man of culture and
erudition, what do you make of it ?
The pale Parnassian reptile, that hath ne’er
Moistened his leathery tongue in Hippocrene...
, Nero. —Tell me, Seneca,
Can a good man be happy on the rack ?
Vat. —Not if the rack be good.
Nero’s dream of a new Rome,
Beautiful, incombustible, Neronic !
The ideas of “ Petrouius, a gentleman of
Rome ” (or of any daily paper’s sub-editor) :
... You little think
\\ hat charm the witching night hath for her
lovers;
How her solemnity doth deepen thought,
And bring again the lost Hellenic Muse
To sing from heaven : or on moonlit swards
Of fancy shadows in transfigured scene
The history of man.—Thus, like a god,
I dwell; and take the early morning cries
For calls to sleep; and from divinity
Fall to forgetfulness, while hustling day
Ravages life ; and know no more of it,—
Your riot and din, the plots and crimes of Rome—
Than doth a diver in Arabian seas,
Plunging for pearls beneath the lonely blue :
But o’er my slumbering head soft airs of dream-
land
Rock their wild honey-blooms, till the shy stars
Once more are venturing forth, and I awake.
Bridges, by the way, drops the capital for
adjectives of races : english, latln, Christian.
♦
The Golden 1 Vest is title of a well-illustrated,
badlv-printed account of Westralian mines, men,
and odd matters : nearly 100 pp. folio (R. C. Spear,
Perth, 1,9.) Much labour has been spent upon the
pamphlet, yet much that Interests is hidden
rather than displayed. The illustrations include
portraits of Arthur Bayley,' the Forrest exploring
party of 1869, and others less notable. J
No. 1 of The Gadfly, a 28-pp. illustrated weekly,
appeared in Adelaide on Feb. 14, and delighted
its proprietary syndicate of young journalists by
selling the first edition in the first hour. There
are plenty of pictures and paragraphs in the new
paper ; and certainly Adelaide has room for it if
the advertisers will do their manifest duty.
A second book of verses by Will Lawson, of
Maoriland—with the title Between The Lights— is
announced for publication presently.
Thomas E. Spencer, the last recruit, is a
Londoner just turned sixty, and king of the poets
of “free and accepted masons.” Their odes are
chanted to his inspiring words—their grandmasters
are installed with his exhilarating anthems.
Easily seen how he nourished his humour.
In Feb. Smart Set J. L. Williams reprints and
extends his “Stolen Storydoubtless “the
finest ” newspaper “ story in the world.” Though
written and printed as narrative, it is dramatic
rather than literary : the play it holds should run
a hundred nights in any sensible city. This
character appears more and more in Ameri-
can fiction : which attempts rather to be
life than literature—endeavours to find words
that will give direct contact with the fact, rather
than those that will mirror it beautifully or
fully. In the effort style goes, and...style comes.
Lynch heaps and hurries his words at the crisis as
■ if they were soldiers he was bringing to attack the
reader’s mind. And since he conquers, he must
be conceded military art at least.
R. S. Ross, first editor of Barrier Truth, who
leaves after three years’ service, is son of R. M.
Ross, an old Q. journalist. He made his little
Labour paper one of the most readable in N.S.
Wales, by dint of shining sincerity. 1
The late G. J. Holyoake’s encounter with the
British newspaper stamp laws Was memorable.
By sending out in 1854 30,000 copies of an un-
stamped penny paper called The War Chronicle, he
made himself liable to fines amounting to 600,000 k
Summoned to the Court of Exchequer, he sug-
gested that he should be allowed to clear off the
penalty in “ weekly instalments” ! In the follow-
ing year the stamp duty was repealed. Ilolyoake,
by the way, was the last person tried before an
Eng. jury for blasphemy (1842).
QUIPS AND CRANKS
death of M. Grant Duff sets afloat a
I new cargo of the anecdotes that he col-
JL lected for the entertainment of nations.
One :
When Lord Ampthill was 3 r oung he kept a collection of
much-cherished serpents in a room which opened into
his mother’s. “ But don’t you,” someone said to Lady
William, “find that very disagreeable?” “Oh, yes,”
she replied, “ very disagreeable indeed ; but I like dear
Odo to have home ties ! ”
The speaker’s relationship separates this from
the type of blunder or gaffe (such as the Greek
master’s remark to his class :
-Next louo, I wash ; middle, Imsom-ai, I wash my rself—
but this is very rare . . .).
,si3aid by another, it might be sarcasm as neat as
Porson’s for Gibbon :
His industry is indefatigable ; his accuracy scrupulous ;
his reading (which is, indeed, sometimes ostentatiously
displayed) immense ; his attention alwa.ys awake ; his
memory retentive; his st.vle emphatic and expressive;
his periods harmonious. He pleads emphatically for the
rights of mankind, and the duty of toleration, nor does
his humanity ever slumber, unless when women are
ravished, or the Christians persecuted.
Porson, however, was rather heavy than keen.
Compare this delightful touch from a character of
Scotland in that treasury of good things, The
Harleian Miscellany:
Some are of opinion that, when the Devil shewed our
Saviour the Kingdoms of the Ear.th, he laid his Thumb
upon Scotland, and that for a Twofold Reason : o’irst
Because it was not likely to be an,y Temptation. Next
Being part of his Mother’s Jointure, he could not dispose
of it during her Life.
One cannot heat that. Wilkes’s smart retort i 3
ordinary by comparison :
“JVlay I have your vote?” “I’d sooner give it to the
Devil!” “ But if your friend does n’t stand? ”
J*
Another of Grant Duff's stories reminds of
O’Dowd’s verses “God in History,” in which he
tells the fate that has befallen Egypt, Greece,
Rome. Tyre, Carthage, Holland, Spain, for doing
the deeds tha.t Britain does—and tells no more.
What is the name for that figure of omission ?
O’Dowd knew none. It comes again here :
Disraeli went with Dean Stanley-tcta service at West-
minister Abbey. The crowd was great; but the Dean was
recognised, and managed to get his companion a seat
upon the top of a tomb. — : — was preaching. After
listening for a while, Disraeli said, “ It seems to me to be
a very remarkable discourse, but do you think I could
get away?” He was assisted down. “Good-bye,” he
said, “the multitude, the lights, the darkness, the
courtesy were most interesting. Good-bye.”
J*’
The following story came years ago as a
Bulletin paragraph, and was subsequently written
by W. T. Goodge into a rhyme for Attorney
Magee, of Millagadee, who would n’t give a
receipt to Chinaman Lee :
Grant Duff’s version refers the yarn to J. R.
Lowell, so probably the original parentage was
American :
Lowell told this morning a story of an American who
was fined for being drunk. When he had paid his money
he asked for a receipt, which was refused as being quite
unnecessary. Again he asked, and it was carefully ex-
plained to him that the amount he had paid was entered
by the judge’s clerk in the court books, and that he would
never hear anything more about the matter.
“ Judge,” said the man, “do 3-0 u believe in a day of
judgment ? ”
“ Yes,” replied the judge ; “we all believe in that.”
“ Well,” rejoined the other, “ on that day it will be
said to me, ‘Jahez Smith, you got drunk.’ ‘Wes, Lord,’
I will answer, ‘ and 1 paid my fine. ‘ Where’s your
receipt?’ it will be said ; and do 3'ou think it reasonable,
judge, under these circumstances and on such a day that
I should be obliged to lose my time by going down to hell
to look for 3 T ou and your clerk?” -
4,
An Athenceum writer says the new Oxford
edition of Blake is the first correct text to be
printed. Yeats’s version is alleged more faithful
than Rossetti’s, “but it rearranges the material
with freedom, omits and emends many poems, and
contains numerous inaccuracies.” It will be seen,
says the Oxford editor, “that scarcely a single
poem or even epigram has been suffered to remain
as Blake wrote, it.”
“Mrs. Flora Annie Steel, having considered
the beasts that perish, has come to the conclusion
that all dogs are better than any man, and that
most men are worse than any pig.”
According to George Braudes, in his last volume
of Main Currents, “ Heine was at one and the
same time a passionate lover of liberty and an
out-and-out aristocrat. He had the freedom-
loving nature’s thirst for liberty, pined and
languished for it, and loved it with his whole soul;
but he had also the great nature’s admiration for
human greatness and the refined nature’s nervous
horror of the rule of mediocrity.”
T.H.A. requests a reference to verses called
“ After Years,” published “five or six years ago,” com-
mencing, “ I met her in a ball-room, all arrayed in silk
attire.”
They tell it of Browning — lbsen—Henry
James; but it has a germ of truth for whomever (of
those kinds) it is told ; and indignant remonstrances on
behalf of Henry-James will not be printed. As Ibsen is
sick and cannot retaliate, it will do to tell of Ibsen—and
Tolstoy. Tolstoy, then, was asked if he understood
Ibsen. “ No,” he didn’t say-, “not his plays ; but then
Ibsen does n’t understand his plays himself. They are
written—yes, it is clear that they are written—and then
Ibsen sits down and waits. Presently come his disciples,
and his commentators, and his critics, and argue about
the meaning. After a while they settle, at least, what
the plays do not mean, and they tell it to Ibsen. Then
he knows.”
In a study just published by Blackwood (6s.
net.) Charles Whibley pays eloquent tribute to
William Pitt the younger. He takes the Tory
side, as Macaulay took the Whig side ; and makes
good his advocacy. His final chapter, “The
Statesman and the Man,” is a summary finely
written. To Pitt’s eloquence and high ability
others have testified ; but one does not remember
seeing Pitt’s practical statesmanship urged as
strongly as Whibley urges it. In truth, he urges
so well that the defence might read like an
attack. “The measures that he passed were
always opportune...” “He even surrendered his
principles, ..69 the exigence of government.” “No
minister has ever employed spies on so vast a
scale or to so good a purpose.’ And in the fol-
lowing passage there is a historical contrast
between writer and statesman that is of perma-
nent application—even in Australia.
But there is another trait in Pitt's character which his
enemies could not forget or forgive. lie lived in a meta-
physical age, and he did not confuse the craft of govern-
ment with metaphysics. There exists a sketch of Pitt,
the joint production of Coleridge and Hazlitt, which
reveals, in its own despite, the strength and restraint of
the great Minister. These two philosophers complain that
Pitt has not left behind him “ a single memorable say-
ing—not one profound maxim—one solid observation-
one forcible description—one beautiful thought—one
humorous picture—one affecting sentiment.’’ They
declare that “ he made no addition whatever to the stock
of human knowledge.” Even if this were’true, it would
convey no reproach to Pitt. It was not his business to
increase the stock of human knowledge, but to govern
the empire. It is not of a statesman that we should
demand “ humorous pictures ” or “ aftetiflg sentiments.”
And Coleridge and Hazlitt plainly showed the bias of
their mind. They regarded him " exclusively from a
literary point of view. They pondered his speeches, and
they found in them no general ideas, no vague plati-
tudes, no kindling phrases, no cheaply made epigrams.
And so confusing a facile management of words witli
policy, they contrasted him to his discredit with tire
leaders of the Whigs. But they overlooked, in their
anxiety to belittle a great man, the true purpose of
government. In their eyes it seemed Pitt’s disgrace that
“ his talents were exactly fitted for the situation in
which he was placed.” Missing in his speeches the “ high-
wrought imagination ” of Burke, the “ vehemence ” of Fox,
“ ease, brilliancy, and acuteness ” of Sheridan, they argued
erroneously that he was deficient in the qualities of true
statesmanship, wh.ereas his modesty of speech proved his
capacity. Fox and Burke and Sheridan could beguile an
audience more cunningly than any of their contempora-
ries. But-had they been placed at the bead of the state
in a time of danger, all their exquisite verbosity would
not have helped them to save the country.
Pitt, on the other hand, was a man of action. Words
were his servants, not his masters. He used them when
they helped him to gain his end ; he did not submit to
their domination in idle vanity. And he was acutely con-
scious of the limits which Coleridge deplored, and which
he deliberately imposed upon himself. He refrained from
“ general ideas,” not because they were beyond his reach,
but because they were not to his purpose. What the
philosophers deemed Iris weakness was, in truth, strength.
His mind preferred induction to deduction. “The
merit of the British Constitution,” said he in a character-
istic phrase, “ is to be estimated not by metaphysical
ideas, not by vague theories, but by analysing it in prac-
tice.” That Coleridge should have thus misunderstood
the genius of Pitt is not surprising. He lived in a dream-
land of speculation, and at the outset was more than half
a Jacobin. But Hazlitt, despite his Jacobinism, knew
the prize-ring and the tennis-court, and ho might have
remembered that statesmanship, like sport, has more
need of deeds than of words.
(Follows one of Baudelaire’s “ Little Poems in Prose,”
trails, by Arthur Symons.]
Be always drunken. Nothing else matters :
that is the only question. If you would not feel
the horrible burden of Time weighing on your
shoulders and crushing you to the earth, be
drunken continually.
Drunken with what? With wine, with poetry,
with virtue, as you will. But be drunken.
And if sometimes, on the stairs of a palace, or
on the green side of a ditch, or in the dreary soli-
tude of your own room, you should awaken and
the drunkenness be half or wholly slipped away
from you, ask of the wind, or of the wave, or of
the star, or of the bird, or of the clock, of what-
ever flies* or sighs, or rooks, or sings, or speaks,
ask what hour it is; and the wind, wave, star,
bird, clock, will answer you: “It is the hour to
be drunken ! Be drunken, if you would not be
martyred slaves of Time; be drunken continu-
ally ! With wine, with poetry, or with virtue, as
you will.”
A.G.S.
But Chinaman Lee propounded a plea :
“Suppose you no give it leceiptee,” said he,
“ Me die, and you see,
The Lord askee me ;
‘ You allee same Clistian in Millagadee ;
You got it clean sheet.be ?
Nobody .you cheatee ?
You got it leceiptee Horn Missee Magee ? ’ ”
Said Chinaman Lee to Attorne.v Magee :
“ Me sa3' you no give it leceiptee for fee !
The Lord He tell me
1 Go lookee for he ;
No halo can get till leceiptee me see ! ’
No iikee Him tellee
Look all over hellee
With devils and law.vers for Missee Magee ! ”
HIS SEPULCHRE.
With book and friend let me grow old,
And draw a quiet breath,
As shadows lengthen and the slope
Runs down to dusty death,
Witli open eyes for those pure forms
Haunting the heart of things,
And ears for secret charities
That float on angel wings.
(So pass my life until there come
From far the last sad call,
And understanding I will go
From library and stall,
From sunny pavement written o’er
With names of friends at rest,
To watch through woodland glades the deer
Speed to the mountain breast.
Then after long farewell—the last!
And parting with the sun,
With bird and flower and noble tree,
In calm of labour done,
Within the solitary hills,
By lonely churchyard gate,
And low embattled tower and wall,
God’s kindly time I’ll wait...
There sheep would feed around my grave,
The scythe flame in the corn,
The lark rise singing to the blue,
The peewit call forlorn :
O, nameless there would I be laid
In that green quiet place,
Not without tears —and so farewell
Mute unresisting face.
T.
J.H.


RABBIT SKINS
Write to us for
Particulars.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Limited, Wool & Produce Salesmen, SYDNEY
And all Kinds of BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE. "•«
WINCHGOMBE, GARSON & GO., Ltd.
Absolutely the Best Salesmen. v^SYDNEY.
MICK SIMMONS.
Pistols and Revolvers
Derringer Pistol.
Mick
Simmons
Pocket
Pistfel.
Pocket Pistols, No. 1, nickel-plated barrel, fires bullet or shot, cartridges, weight 3£oz. (Postage 3d.)
Derringer Pistol, 22 calibre, nickel-plated, self-ejecting, length 6Jin., weight 4foz. (Postage 3d.)
StAvanQ’ Tartrot i/iotni hlnpil steel barrel. 22 cal., self-eiectinir. 6oz. (Postag'e od.) ..
4s 6d
5s Od
12s Od
Stevens’Target Pistol, 3jin., blued steel barrel, 22 cal., self-ejecting, 6oz. (P „
Stevens’ Diamond Model Pistol, 6in. blued steel barrel, 22 calibre, self-ejecting, weight 90z., fitted with
globe and peep sights, length 6d.) _ ; * 10g 6d 12s Od
Vest Pocket Revolvers, Hammer, 22 R.F., blued or nickel, weight 4joz. (Postage 4d.)
Vest Pocket Revolvers, Hammerless, 22 R.F., nickel, weight soz. (Postage 4d.) .. ..
Vest Pocket Revolvers, Hammerless, 22 R.F., nickel, weight 5 _>z., pearl handle (lostage 4d.) ..
Bulldog Revolvers, 320 C.F., 5 chambered, double action, nickel, weight 9|oz. (Lost 9d. N.a.wi. ,
Is 2d. Inter-State) .. .. .. •• . •• •• , /X >„_V
Bulldog Revolvers, 320 0.F., 6 chambered, double action, nickel or blued, lOJoz., horn handle (lost.
9d. N.S.W. ; Is. 2d. Inter-State) .. .. ... , . •• , , . ”
Bulldog Revolvers, 380 C.F., 6 chambered, double action, nickel or blued, weight about lib. (1 osta„e
9d. N.S.W. ; Is. 2d. Inter-State) .. , .. •• ' ••
Bulldog Revolvers, 450 C.F., 5 chambered, double action, nickel or blued, 18oz.. (Postage 9a. N.S.W. ,
Is. 2d. Inter-State) .. .. .. •• •• •• •• ••
Young America Revolvers, 22 R.F., 7 chambered, double
action, nickel, 2in. barrel, SJoz.... .10s 6d ; blued, 13s 6d.
(Postage 6d.)
Young America Revolvers, 22 R.F., same as above, with
4Jin. barrel, 9Joz nickel, 12s 6d; blued, 15s 6d.
(Postage 9d. N.S.W. ; Is. 2d. Inter-State.)
Young America Revolvers, 32 C.F., safety hammer, 5
chambered, 2in. barrel, BJoz., nickel, 10s 6d. (Postage 6d)
8. & W. Pattern Revolvers, 320 C.F., nickel or blued, auto
matic ejector, 3|in. barrel, vulcanite stock, 13ioz. (Post
. 9d. N.S. VV T . ; Is. 2d. Inter-State.)
8. & W. Pattern Revolvers, 380 C.F., same as above, 3Jin
barrel, 18oz. (Post. 9d. N.S.W. ; Is. 2d. Inter-State)
Hopkins’ “ Forehand ” S. & W. Pattern Automatic Revolvers,
32 cal. C.F., Hin. barrel, weight lib., a limited quantity
only. (Postage 9d., or Is. 2d. Inter-State.) ..
13s Od
10s Od
5s 6d
7s 6d
9s 6d
10s 6d
_rx
a fm.
13s 6d
15s 6d
17s 6d
Young
America.
The “Bullseye” Rifle, 22 Calibre grooved,
20in. Octagon Steel Barrel, open sights, Remington action,
walnut stock, weight about 3Jlb. (Postage Is 9d N.S.W. ;
3s 2d Interstate).
7s
The Celebrated
“ MAINE’’
RIFLE
fitted with Sporting- Bear Sights to 300yds., Bolt
Action, ISin. Blued Steel Barrel, Walnut Stock.
Shoots 22 Short, Long-, or Extra Long Cartridges.
Weight, 2Jib.
"THE MAINE
PiFle
PRICE 15/6
POSTAGE ON RIFLE—N.S.W., 1/3; INTER-
STATE, 2/2 EXTRA.
Mick
Simmons.
WINCHESTER 1902 MODEL.
“Winchester “JSingle Shot, 1902 Model, 22 cal. R.F., peep
or V sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2Jlb.
(Postage. Is 3d N.S.W. : 2s 2d Inter-State).
18s 6d
Winchester
1904
Model*
“ Winchester ” Single Shot Rifle, 1904
Model, for 22* short or long: rim tire cartridges,
21in. heavy round steel barrel, plain trigger, bolt action,
adjustable rear sight, length of rifle over all 37£in., bead front
sight with patent alloyed tip, which will not
tarnish, weight about 41b. (Postage, Is 9d
N.S.W. : 3s 2d Inter-Statej.
25s
MICK SIMMONS
D*>
\N
\AU
THUMB TRIGGER.
Winchester Thumb Trigger, Single Shot Rifle, 22 calibre, same
description and finish as the 1902 Model, but, as the name indicates, the
trigger (which is located on the upper side of grip at
rear of bolt) is operated by pressing down with thumb
(Postage, N".S.W. Is 3d ; Inter-State 2s 2d).
13s 6d
Stevens'
Little
Kragr.
Stevens’ S.S. “Little Kra.g,” bolt action, blued steel round
20in. long, walnut stock, steel scroll trigger guard peep sight, but
may be had with V sight if required at 6d extra, length over all
36im, weight about 3£lb. (Postage, Is 6d N.S.W.; 2s Bdlnter-State)
21s
Stevens’ “Favorite.”
Stevens’ S.S. “Favorite,” 22, 22 W.R.F., 25, or 32 cal., rim
fire half octagon 22in. barrel, case-hardened frame, solid breech block,
take down action, open front and rear sights, weight 4jlb. (Postage, Is 9d N.S.W. ,
_f S ” 22 or 32 cal. R.F., fitted with beach combination, front sight, open
S rear anf vernier, ehtlame as iXo. 3 (Post., K.S.W. Is 9d ; Inter-State, 3s 2d ■, ..
" Illustrated Fishing Tackle, Sports, Tobacco Hints on Fishing—Post Free.
£1 10s
£2
The Leading Sports Depot.
Lest on
Daly
Coy.
D.8.8.L.
Gun
as
m
MICK SIMMONS
12 Gauge, top lever, steel barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks, left choke, pistol stock ;
weight about 71b.
As above, but with Greener Cross Bolt, 459. Postage on Gun, 2s 9d N.S.W.; 5s 2d Inter-State.
35s
MICK
SIMMONS
THE GLOBE
40s
Leston
Daly
Coy.
D'B.B.L.
Gun
MICK SIMMONS
12 Gauge, top lever, steel and twist barrels, rebounding bar locl;s, left choke
As above, but, with Greener Cross Bolt, 50s. Postage on Gun, 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
40s
£3
m
Postage on 1 Gun, 2s 9d
JSf.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
National Arms Co/s
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gaug-e, top lever, rebounding bar locks, Greener cross bolt; Sietnen'a
steel barrels, left choke, pistol walnut stock ; weight, about 71b.
ISAAC
HOLLIS
& SONS’
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Real Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt,
Left Choke, Rebounding Locks, Snap Fore-end,
chambered for 2|in. Cartridges. Guaranteed
for all Smokeless Powders.
Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
1
“The Reliable,”
£6 12s 6d
Mick Simmons
HOLLIS & SONS’ “THE RELIABLE” D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
GUN 12- gauge, top lever, genuine Damascus or “ Siemen’s ” steel barrels,
both ’choke, side lock action, automatic safety bolt, extended rib,
Deelev-Edo-e patent fore-end, fitted with Greener cross-bolt, neatly engraved, chambered for
23in. cartridges. GUARANTEED FOR ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, and absolutely the
finest-quality Gun in the States. Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State ..
£l2 12s
a. m: muktixio nxr.
Gun Cartridges.
per 100
6s Od
6s 6d
6s 6d
6s 6d
8s 6d
10s 6d
11s 9d
11s Od
uarlriages can iiuw no oom. mj
Queensland Port at ordinary Coods Freight.
Pea Rifle Cartridges.
BULLETED No. 1,6 d, 9d ; No. 2, Is 3d ; No. 3, Is 9d 100
SHOT No. 1, Is 3d ; No. 2, Is 9d ; No. 3,2 s 6d, 4s „
Rifle Cartridges,
WINCHESTER, 22 Conical
» 22 Short
• > 22 Long
•i 22 Long Rifle ..
i» 22 Extra Long..
$lOO $lOOO
Is Od 9s 6d
Is Id 10s Od
Is 3d 12s Od
Is 6d 13s Od
2s Od 18s Od
remittance and freight must ACCOMPANY ORDER.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney


Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand PT" AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing' Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Wincheombe, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape, Esq.
General Manager ami Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPESTITIOKT.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
WHS
mmk
mi
mm.
M
RIFLE AND PISTOL CARTRIDGES
Winchester Rifle and Pistol Cartridges of
all calibers are loaded by machinery which
rizcs the shells, supplies the exact quantity
cf powder, and seat..' the bullets properly.
By using first-class materials and this
up-to-date system of loading, the reputation
of Winchester Cartridg ' for accuracy,
reliability and excellence Is maintained.
They cost no more than inferior makes.
Ask for them, and insist upon getting them.
THEY SHOOT WHERE YOU HOLD
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach. Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA,
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and Most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate F emales,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
ENOS
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE
‘FRUIT
BILIOUSNESS,
salt;
AND CONSTIPATION.
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.— Sot Captule marked ENO’S 'FRUIT SALT;' Without It you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Pr*par*a only by J. C. ENO, Ltd... * FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, ENO.,
by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists , &c., everywhere.
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEN,
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
... , __ TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Weak Men
ALF ALINE VITALITY PILLS
Will Cure the Nerves, Debility, Lost Power, Restore host
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
BLOOD CURE PILLS.
Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
. Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blood
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43 6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s.
His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
Ulfß'ilr IjUnman
■wvSdt& ”■ UIIIB.II
Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6.
Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA FILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches : 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE ; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE ;
481 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.; 111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
HANS PETER RASMUSSEN.
mm
t-wm&n
m m
S'/'cliaM MtST
from alt wk V
GranpWeras T\
Ji.r etv-clc- .
Includi
Sionor&RLObANI
FIT,
NICOLE,
UNIVERSAL RECORDS
Of the World’s Greatest Artists, Bands and
Orchestras. lOin. and 7in. Records, will fit
any and every Disc Talking Machine.
ABSOLUTELY UNBREAKABLE.
NICOLEPNONES
TWO SPECIAL
INSTRUMENTS
The Colonial,
The New Standard*
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE FREE on application.
W. G. KING,
Asm.
316 George St
SYDNEY.
i
V
m.
m
'/A
//
(208)
4s an EGG
is full of Meat
So is an “AMERICAN” GRAIN DRILL
full of good, practical points points
that make seeding a pleasure to those
who use them
With them you can sow AN UNUSUALLY SMALL QUANTITY
of grain or fertilizer, and sow it evenly.
The adjustment of the quantities sown is closer than on most
other drills; that is, if, for instance, you want to sow more than
sixteen quarts of fertilizer you don’t have to sow twenty-four
quarts. A simple shift of a lever enables you to sow twenty quarts.
The “American ” is liberally equipped with roller bearings, and
hence the draught is of the very lightest.
If space permitted we could go ofi indefinitely enumerating its
virtues, but if you will send for our illustrated pamphlet, it will
give you many particulars that we haven’t room for here.
Don’t forget to specify the size you want. Ask for prices and
terms; you will find them SURPRISINGLY FAVOURABLE.
International Harvester Company of America
Agents throughout Australasia*
Brisbane i Sydney
Melbourne :: Adelaide
Launceston, Christchurch
HARROW ESTATE
(Adjoining 1
Eton Vale)
Cambooya, Queensland.
NOW OPEN FOR SALE in Farms ranging from
20 to 500 ACRES, all ready for the Plough.
The very pick of the Darling Downs, and right on the main railway
line from Sydney to Brisbane, and close to Toowoomba.
The best of Wheat, Lucerne, and Dairying"country.
Factories on the Estate. Well watered by permanent Rivers.
Rainfall over 30 inches per annum. Climate cool and bracing.
Prices range from £4 to £5. Terms exceptionally e:«sy.
Purchasers will receive return of steamer fare and cost of Queensland
rail ticket on payment of first deposit. Survey free.
Over £150,000 distributed last month by Dairy Factories within
a radius of 20 miles. Write for Priced Lithographs—
The Manager, Harrow Estate,
Cambooya, Queensland.


Don’t neglect yor c cough. Sto pit
at once and drive away all thought of
consumption. Begin as early as pos-*.
sible —the sooner the better—to take
Mger’s
'Cherrif Sectoral
the most effective remedy for coughs
aD d colds of every kind and in every
stage.
One of the m st annoying coughs
is a throat coug 1, where you have
that constant tick-
ling in your throat.
J comes on worse
at night, k' ,eps you
awake, and makes
you have that
smothtved feeling
in the chest. Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
quiets the cough,
makes breathing
easy, and heals the
lungs. Jhero is no other remedy so
surely u> no relied on.
There aro many substitutes and
imitations. Beware of them and of
so-called “Genuine Cherry Pectoral.”
Be sure you get AYEIi’S Cherry
Pectoral.
Put xip in large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Aver & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S. A,
r-
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
His Majesty
The Kin<; and
Royal Family.
If you require a delicacy combined
with great nourishment, use
MOIR’S
“Mayfair”
Jelly Crystals.
NEW SEASON’S SHIPMENTS Just Landed.
EXCELLENT FLAVORS.
TEY . . .
MOIR’S
WORCESTER SAUCE.
It is replacing all others on
account of its excellent quality
and GUARANTEED PURITY.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, Limited
London, Aberdeen, & Seville.
SYDNEY ACENCY : 47 MACQUARIE STREET,
CIRCULAR QUAY. [1
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
DAY AND
NIGHT
WEAR.
Economical
because
Durable.
From
Leading
Drapers
The Queen says :—“ You can wear it for
night dresses all the year round.”
SEE THE LABEL ON THE SELVEDGE.
CAUTION.-TATTo
ASK FOR THE “No. 4” EAU DE COLOGNE,
which is known in all parts of the world under
the lawfully registered label here shown
■Jbuo
Cl
The Public are warned against many spu-
rious imitations under the name of Johann
Maria Farina of my genuine Eau de Cologne
labels. Every bottle of my original Eau de
Cologne is labelled Johann Maria Farina,
Julioh’s Platz No. 4. The addition of the
address JULICH'S PLATZ No. 4 alone war-
rants genuineness of my Eau de Cologne.
JOHANIN MARIA FARINA,
JULICHS PLATZ No. 4, COLOGNE O/RH
PURVEYOR TO H.M. the KING EDWARD VIL
does not forget when ordering the household goods to include a bottle of “ BONNINGTON’S
IRISH MOSS.” She knows it is advisable to have this medicine in the house, as it is a
certain remedy for troublesome Colds, Bronchitis, and Chest affections generally. It never
fails to cure if you obtain the genuine article,
BONNINGTON’S IRISH MOSS
(OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.)
WHO GROUND
BEST
ENGLISH
MANUFACTURE,
R
IN BLACK & IVORY HANDLES.
(EACH RAZOR IN A CASE).
PROTECTED 1 BY REGISTRATION UHDERTHE TRADE MABK PROTECTION ACTcrlB83
ID D
REALGERMAfk
'LWWGROVND
Refuse
Imitations
See that the label an the Razor Case is exactly as above.
I Wholesale: OSBORNE, GARRETT & Co., London, England.
Beautiful Home Decorations
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
“SAPOLIM” FLOOR STAIAS stain and Tarnish with one operation.
Brilliant, rich, permanent hardwood colors produced on Floors, Borders,
Woodwork and Furniture where extreme durability is desired.
“BAPOLIW” AIiUMIAIIM ESAMEI gives unsightly Pipes, Boilers,
or anything made of metal, wood, etc., a durable, untarnishable silver finish,
in or outdoors. Simply brush it on.
JAPANESE GOLD PA lAT (Ready Mixed). Unequalled in lustre and
ease of application. Adheres to any surface. For all decorative purposes,
economical and satisfactory. ....
.For sale by all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of -OUR FAVORITE” GOLD ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” BATH
TUB ENAMEL, Etc.
CIGAR SMOKERS! Try
KING of All K. & B.
HIGH LIFE CIGARS
'K .adlum and full Strength, 17 6 per box (100); postage
X* /tra. Send for Is. worth as sample—posted free.
A^ams—CßAlG & AITKEN, 654 GEORGE- ST., SYDNEY
fl
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT »
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
0
0
V
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A 2/6.
MOSQUITOES. Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Agents—El liott tiros., Sydney; Felton, Grimwatle & Co., Melbourne.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed.
Pens.
Prize Medals.
,#T»]
Works s
Birmingham, England
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. 1 hey glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Seres.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Tasmanian Idyll.
O, Apple-land o’ leisure,
Here’s a patch o’ rustic pleasure
That my fancy deems unequalled in this Garden
o’ the Seas;
And Contentment is the maiden
Who owns the orchard laden
With the blossoms that Pomona stole from Eden’s
apple trees.
Sweet Phyllis, for your buckle
There’s the quaint old honeysuckle ;
I stole it for your girdle from the self-assertive
bee;
O, and marigolds for asking—
In scented sunbeams basking—
’Mid infant grasses tesselate a ruddy path for me.
O, it’s sweet and isolated,
And with perfume it is mated;
Each butterfly is drunken with the od’rous nectar
brew ;
While zephyrs light are skimming
The cream just over-brimining
Those cups Perfection chisell’d when old Paradise
was new.
O, Apple-land o’ leisure,
To this patch o’ rustic pleasure
Would the Lotus-eater, blase of Contentment, ask
the keys;
Within her bower o’ dreaming
He’d see thro’ blossoms gleaming
Elysium located here among the apple trees.
tas.
M. LEGRAND.
The Laggard.
To-morrow I will comfort him ;
To-morrow I will soothe her pain ;
Then on the tide I idly swim
And do not think of them again.
His sorrow goes uncomforted,
Undried the sad tears that she shed.
To-morrow I will rule the world ;
To-morrow I will conquer Fate ;
Then I forget the challenge hurled
And dally idly at the gate ;
And so the world knows not my name
Nor will Fate recognise my claim.
To-morrow I will turn to God ;
To-morrow I will sin atone ;
So do I dream until the sod
Hides vain resolves and deeds undone,
Ami jtiea' . and Earth withhold their grace
From me, the la. "ard in the race.
N.s.w.
DOROTHY M'CRAE.
A Complaint.
I lounged beneath the wilga’s shade
And judged the poet’s stock-in-trade—
The emerald glade, the gay cascade,
The crumbling shrine, and hedges green.
Antique and sere, their metres lack
The dash of winds across the track
Of vanished tides, whose saline wrack
Still marks the ebb of errant seas.
Unknown to them, the sparkling hue
Of Southern skies, whose circling blue
Seems striving e’er to gird anew
The far-flung plain’s infinity.
The brolga’s call at break of day,
The subtle scent, the gentle sway
Of eucalypts when breezes play,
Await a newer minstrelsy.
Our world is new; no mouldering shrine
Nor ruined fane our ways align ;
No sated vaults do undermine
Our faith in human potency.
Our world is young ; the winds of God
Untainted, with the sunlight shod,
O’er pathless wild and plains untied
Bring messages of mystery.
On lands of moor and fen and wold,
Where earth is nought but carcase-mould,
The shaft that fairly strikes the gold,
With us, has sped the bow in vain.
Alas ! the poet’s stock in trade—
The hedges green, the bosky glade—
Reviewed beneath the wilga’s shade
Suggests a mild futility.
n.s.w.
A.P. ROGERS.
Respite.
Here, where the night is cool and gracious,
The earth-scent keen on the dewy air,
One may dream that the world is spacious,
All tracks rose-bordered and smooth and fair.
A surge takes hold of his blood and marrow,
And thrills his pulses and charms his brain,
And bids him forth from the byways narrow,
Where men and women grow old in pain.
He knows the call that the birds have chorused,
He understands what the winds would say ;
He sees far off in an ancient forest
A hand that summons his soul for aye.
He turns once more (as a stream diverted
May turn again to the course it ran)
To God-made ways that his feet deserted
To tread ways made by the hand of man.
He dreams of a camp-fire red and lonely,
Where, head on arm, he awoke to hear
A low cry sound, and a low cry only,
Of some wild lion that prowled a-near.
A far clock strikes, and the dreamer’s vision
Returns to earth at the warning sound ;
The forest fades, and he seeks his prison—
A toiler tired of his daily round.
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.


uanz Electric Mine Locomotive,
Electric
Mine Haulage
Equipments..
Have been specially designed to
meet Australian mining conditions,
and have been brought up by
many years’ experience to the
highest degree of perfection.
Sole Australian Agents—-
% AUSTRAL OTIS ENGINEERING CO.
telephone Cr. Hanna and Kavanagh Streets, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
No. 331. [3
The Peerless Aperient,
The Lollie-Like Laxitive,
The Gentle Regulator,
Not a Violent Purgative*
The Favorite Family Remedy*
Equally good fpr Adults & Children*
Sold by All Progressive Chemists.
One Shilling a Box of 25 Lozenges.
REVOLUTION IN TALKING MACHINES.
THE MARVELLOUS SOUND-MAGNIFYING
COLUMBIA GRAPHOPHONE
Reproduces the Ordinary Gold-Moulded Record
SIXTEEN TIMES LOUDER than any Phono-
graph. MARVELLOUS IN ITS VOLUME
and DISTINCTNESS.
The Very Latest Invention, embodying absolutely New Princip es never before
made public. Write for full particulars to—
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO.,
Australian
Headquarters
25 Ash StSydney, N.S.W.
BOVRIL
Adds nutriment to Soups, Curries, etc.
There is nothing like Bovril to makg a
man feel fit. It makes him as fit as he
feels.
5
mt
w
THE WORLD’S STANDARD QUALITY.
% Nestle’s Milk Food
FOR CHILDREN.
..The ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE for MOTHERS’ MILK.
(Wild'll,Jl
LBifc
ss
HOTEL
METROPOLE
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
c
/
Sold bv
All Jewellers
WHO CAN SHOW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES.
FIRST THROUGHOUT THE EMPIRE.
MEDALS WHEN-EVER EXHIBITED.
7\ Certificate Given With Each Watch.
I 8
«.E<?
ONfl
'8 62
\e^'
1992
ROTHEtHAMS
££
Esfab-
-1750.
FLEXITE
GREEN
I
m
jw
FLEXITE
FLEXITE BLACK
FLEXITE RED
FLEXITE OLIVE
FLEXITE GREEN
METAL PRESERVATIVE
PAINTS
Impart a highly lustrous coating, retain their gloss
after long exposure, and ensure the absolute
exclusion of moisture and destructive gases.
Iron Railings, Ornamental Fences,
Boiler Fronts, Smoke Stacks, Iron
Roofs, Iron or Steel Bridges, Cars,
Trucks, and all Marine Work.
One Gallon covers 600 square feet—nearly double
the space of any other metal paint—and the color is
a permanent one.
TO BE OBTAINED FROM ALL STOREKEEPERS.
Wholesale
Agents :
E. RICH & CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY &
BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vo r 27.—N0. 1360.
THTLRSi)AY. MARCH 8, 1900.
Phick 61).
WILL THE LINE HOLD THIS TIME?


The Bulletin.
The National Australian Newspaper,
“Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ~. ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tim Bulletin Office Tioenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every iVeek for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
llotv to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tiie Bulletin ivould oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager, 'l’o send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Sjiecial Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with A uslralian sub jects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 8000 ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is fomvarded ivithout stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Jtlaele and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical draivings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and,
Gotcli, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Offce, No. 1 Broad-street Place.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Messrs. R. A. Thompson & Co., 88 lliebeck Street, Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco.— W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egyit. — The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong.— Breiver and Co., 88 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai.— Breiver and Co.
A dents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6§in. x lhin. ,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY. MARCH 8, 1906.
FEDERAL LAND TAX, OLD AGE
PENSIONS, &c.
Next session the Australian Parliament is ex-
pected to commence dealing with some financial
problems of considerable tonnage. Two of them,
at least —the Federal Land Tax and the Federal
Old Age Pension system—are matters in which
the Democratic party is deeply interested, and if
that party wants to make a good showing it requires
to glue its eye hard and early on the ways and
means of the case. The Conservatives of the Aus-
tralian Parliament are under no such necessity.
They don’t advocate a Federal graduated land-
tax, therefore they don’t require to consider how
it would interfere with existing State land-taxes
or other branches of State finance; and they don’t
seriously propose any system of Australian old
age pensions, therefore they are under no obliga-
tion to show how the money for these pensions
can be raised. The Conservatives are in the easy
position of being able to sit back and criticise,
and—should the chance be allowed them—scoff a
proud, superior scoff about the financial ignorance
and incapacity of their opponents. The Demo-
crats, who advocate both the Federal old age
pension system and the Federal graduated land-
tax, have on their hands the heavy job of con-
structing a financial scheme into which these two
things will fit.
* * # *
A Federal old age pension system, run on fairly
generous lines, will certainly cost more than would
a State system run on equally generous lines. The
Federal system will make so many years residence
in the Commonwealth an essential condition,
therefore it will take in thousands of nomads who
have not qualified for a State pension by the
required length of residence in any one State. A
Federal old age pension system will probably in-
crease the financial load a little as regards N.S.W.,
though that State has the most generous pension
system in the Commonwealth. It will greatly
increase the burden as regards Victoria, for that
State has an impossibly mean system, under which
an old age pension is rather an insult than an
assistance. And it will impose a completely new
burlen as regards the other States. Two of
these—Queensland and S. Australia —have no old
age pension system because they are the most
deeply indebted States, per inhabitant, on this
earth, and are too “stony” to consider any new
expenditure at present. Tasmania has none
because it is rather poor, very much mismanaged,
and doesn’t want to lay any adequate tax burden
on its big landlords. Westralia has none because,
though it is rich, its incredible extravagance
leaves it in a state of constant deficit. The
Bulletin offers these figures as a rough estimate :
Cost of Probable Cost
Present Old of Federal Old In-
Age Pensions. Age Pensions. crease.
N.S. Wales £508,000 £600,000 £92,000
Victoria.. .. 205,000 480,000 275,000
Queensland .. Nil 210,000 210,000
S. Australia .. Nil 149,000 149,000
Westralia .. Nil 98,000 98,000
Tasmania .. Nil 72,000 72,000
£713,000 £1,609,000 £896,000
These figures are arrived at by making what is
thought to be a reasonable allowance for the in-
crease in the N.S.W. old age pension expendi-
ture, through the inclusion of the old nomads who
would be qualified by residence in the Common-
wealth, but who are not qualified for the State
pension by sufficiently lengthened residence in
the State; and then charging the other States
according to population on the same scale. The
figures show the folly of the easy-going assumption
put forward as one way of shirking the financial
difficulty, that there is no serious need to provide
funds for Federal old age pensions, because it is
merely a question of turning a State liability into
a Federal one.
« * * *
The proceeds of a Federal graduated land-tax
are much relied upon to provide the means for
paying old age pensions, but even this source of
income under present conditions isn’t all it seems.
Assuming that the Australian Parliament does its
work properly, it will impose a tax that will cover
the whole ground—not a mere trifle that can be car-
ried as an addition to existing State imposts, but
a tax which will compel the States to repeal their
existing imposts. It would be mere waste of men
and office expenses to have two separate land-
taxes collected by two separate authorities. That
tax will yield a large income to begin with, but if
it is properly devised, and if it does the work for
which it is chiefly intended by breaking up the big
estates, it will be a declining income, and will be-
come small by degrees and beautifully less. It
will even tend to become beautifully nil. Mean-
while a question will arise about recompensing
certain of the States for the loss of their State
land-taxes, and if so much of the land-tax derived
from any one State is returned to that State, then
a similar refund will be demanded by all the other
States. Let it be supposed that a properly gradu-
ated land-tax, with something extra on absentees,
and with a fair exemption as regards the small
owner, yields £625,000 a year in N.S.W. ; this is
probably all—perhaps much more than all—it will
yield after the breaking-up process has fairly set in.
And let it be supposed that it yields, in proportion
to population, a similar amount in the other
States —a very rough mode of calculation, but one
which may prove reasonably accurate after all—
these would, be about the results, based on Cogh-
lan’s figures for 1903-4:
Present
- Land-tax Federal
(about). Land-tax. Increase.
N.S. Wales .. £322,000 £625,000 £303,000
Victoria .. .. 106,000 500,000 394,000
Queensland .. Nil 220,000 220,000
S. Australia .. 77,000 155,000 78,000
Westralia .. .. Nil 102,000 102,000
Tasmania .. .. 50,000 75,000 25,000
£555,000 £1,677,000 £1,122,000
These figures probably show things in too favor-
able a light, but taking them as they stand they
produce some curious results. S. Australia,
for instance, is the most beggared, the most
barren, the most involved, and the most drought-
cursed of the States. Its present State revenue
leaves no margin for old age pensions or anything
else, and it has a right to claim that the Austra-
lian Government, if it insists on paying the pen-
sions, shall also find the money. Also, its State
Treasury can’t do without the proceeds of the pre-
sent land-tax—in fact, it requires a great deal
more land-tax to keep it solvent. Yet if S.A. is
Compensated out of the Federal land tax, the other
States will demand a similar allowance, and will
doubtless get it; Tasmania, which is in the same
financial hole as S.A., will coibunly make its
demand very strongly. And if S.A. gets bade
half its share of the Federal land-tax to save it
from bankruptcy, and the other Slaics receive a
similar allowance, then the biggest land-tax that
there appears to be any hope of collecting isn’t
likely to more than half cover the cost of old age
pensions. Yet if the appropriation for old age
pension purposes of the entire proceeds of land-
taxation by the Federal authority left S.A. and
Tasmania insolvent, Sheol itself wouldn’t hold the
row that would ensue.
* * * *
Very little can be done at present in the way of
finding money for old age pensions out of Customs
and Excise duties, for, while the Braddon clause
lasts—and it lasts a good while yet—to raise even
£500,000 in this way to aid the pension fund
would necessitate raising £2,000,000, and giving
£1,500,000 back to the States—both those that
need it and those that do not. And yet, in deal-
ing with the difficulties in the way of raising the
money for old age pensions, only one difficulty has
been touched upon. It is just as necessary to
raise at least another £1,000,000 or more per
annum for defence as to raise £1,600,000 a year
for pensions, and the raising of £250,000 or
£500,000 a year in reduction of the public
debt is as essential as any of them.
The trouble is that every time the Aus-
tralian Government tries to do anything large
and urgent the shadow of the Poorest States
(which are also the Most Indebted States) falls
upon it—to say nothing of the shadow of the
Richest and most Cantankerous State. And even
when the Braddon clause expires, and the Aus-
tralian Government is no longer legally bound to
keep the Poorest States afloat by returning three-
fourths of the tariff revenue, there will be a great
moral necessity to keep them out of bankruptcy,
because if one State ever gets bankrupt the con-
sequent panic in London, and the consequent flat
refusal to renew any more Australian loans, will
mean general insolvency. The Poorest States,
mostly through their own past and present bad
management, can’t easily afford to pay their share
of old age pensions or of a proper defence system.
Yet if part of their share of these outlays is re-
mitted and returned to them to keep them out of
bankruptcy, there wili be corresponding demands
from other States, including the Most Cantanker-
ous State, which don’t really require the money,
but which are agitated about their State Rights.
These things are calculated to paralyse any
attempt at doing something large and energetic
for the good of Australia —at least while there is
a painfully affable Government in office.
* * * *
The short way oat of the difficulty is to cut all
connection between Federal and State finance.
That could best be done by an amendment of the
Constitution authorising the Commonwealth to
take over all the State debts bodily as they stand.
Such an act would end all refunds of Customs and
Excise revenue. It would enable the Common-
wealth to retain the whole revenue raised by new
tariff imposts, and to turn a deaf ear to all demands
by the State Governments for a share of the Federal
land-tax or absentee-tax or any other tax. At
present the Commonwealth is always liable to be
bailed up by the Poorest States with the cry : “If
you do this or that the reduction in our
State revenue is liable to make us insol-
vent. If we are even seriously threatened
with insolvency the chances are that London, in
its panic, will refuse to subscribe the money to
renew the loans of any Australian State ; and
even the most solvent of them—even N.S.W. and
Victoria—will go down like a stone if its loans
are not renewed in London.” Of course, the fact
has always existed that the default of one Austra-
lian State would pull down the rest, but until re-
cently there was no Australian Government which
could be blamed for this State muddlement, or on
which the responsibility could be shifted. Now
there is an Australian Government, and every
time it attempts to do anything large and neces-
sary it is liable to stumble over the corpse of the
Poorest or the Most Muddled State, which thinks
it can’t afford to pay its share of the defence ex-
penditure or the old age pension expenditure,
which wants its share of the money they will cost
to keep its debt and its incapacity afloat, which
is liable to burst if it doesn’t get the money,
and which will pull down all the other States if it
does burst. Of course, even if the Commonwealth
took over the existing State debts, that wouldn’t
pre vent the States contracting new debts, but for
these the Australian Government need take no
responsibility, and their renewal wouldn’t affect
this generation, at all events.
* # * #
If the Constitution were amended to allow the
State debts to be taken ove. 1 bodily on a date to
be fixed by proclamation, N.S.W., where the debt
per head is just about the s&ne as the average
debt per head of the Commonwealth, would hardly
gain or lose anything. Queensland, S. Australia,
and Westralia would gain by the general levelling
up; Victoria and Tasmania would lose. (The
Northern Territory has such an incredible debt—
several hundred pounds per head —that it is only
included in this proposition on the assumption
that the whole Territory would be handed over
along with its liabilities, as an estate in liquidation.)
There is a fair chance that a majority of the States
and a majority of the total electors would assent
to the required alteration of the Constitution.
And, as a matter of fact, it is probable that very
little injustice would be done, despite the
apparent discrepancies. Tasmania, for instance,
owes only £53 per inhabitant against Queensland’s
£79, and just now a combination of the two debts
would make Tasmania a loser. But Queensland's
population is growing fast, and that of Tasmania
is not, and by the time the increase of population
had , educed Tasmania’s federated debt to £4O a
hea i that of Queensland might easily be down to
£3O. And if the Australian Parliament chose to
adopt the Canadian banking system, and raise
£8,000,000 or £10,000,000 in gold, free of interest, by
compelling the banks to hold at least 40 per cent,
of their cash reserves in Federal notes, it could
found, with the proceeds, a sinking fund which
would steadily reduce the debts till they vanished
altogether. Even the State which lost most at the
moment by the consolidation of the debts, and by
sharing the burdens of its poorer neighbors, would
be more than compensated by getting its debts
ultimately paid off at no expense whatever.
* * * *
The consolidation of the State liabilities is
really the first essential in Australian politics. It
comes before the Federal old age pension law and
before the Federal graduated land-tax. In a
sense it even comes before the defence question.
Australia should certainly make a very early com-
mencement at founding its arms and ammunition
factories, training its men, creating its ship-build-
ing yards, building its fleet, and establishing its
iron-works, but it should also set about the con-
solidation of the State debts and the establish-
ment of a sinking fund before the bills for new
defence works begin to come in heavily. Other-
wise it will be hampered at every turn by the
cry of the Poorest States, which are also
the Most Indebted States, and generally the
Most Muddled and Incompetent States. It has
to consider their poverty and incompetence lest
they become bankrupt, and create a financial
panic which will pull down their neighbors.
When it considers them it has to consider the
other States equally, or else the spectre of State
Rights will arise an,' glare at it like a buggy lamp
on a dark night. L. has to go slow in all its
financial dealings, so , hat the lamest member of
the expedition can keep up. If it cut off all
financial connection with the State Governments,
and made it impossible for them to raise the
bogey of insolvency by leaving them no State
debt to go insolvent on, the Commonwealth would
have to face an interest bill which would at first
absorb most of its Customs and Excise revenue.
But it could always raise what money it wanted
by increased duties, by graduated land-tax,
income-tax, absencee-tax, or any other means.
The increased strength and prestige of the Com-
monwealth when it was freed from the irritating
and aggravating financial dictation of the State
Governments would, in itself, be worth paying a
great deal for. And the State Governments,
with their railway and land revenues to depend
upon, could potter away peacefully in the back-
ground and say nothing. Hitherto they have
been saying a great deal too much.
THE TRAGIC N.S.W. LANDS MUDDLE.
For a few brief moments during its recent sittings
the N.S.W. Lands Commission got away from the
squalid atmosphere of bribes and corrupt conces-
sions to take a glimpse of the tragedy be-
hind all the minor incidents—the great
tragedy of the muddle which has made the
land history of Australia, and of N.S.W. in par-
ticular, so deplorable. When N.S.W. was first
settled there was ample knowledge available to
guide the original colonists to a sensible land sys-
tem. Without presuming that they should have
had a knowledge of the land problems which had
vexed Jerusalem, Athens and Rome, they at least
knew—or should have known —of the evils which
had afflicted Britain through landlordism, the
consequences of which were just at that time so
apparent. In France the “single tax” had been
already long discussed, and the Revolution had
swept the land titles of the nobility into the
dust-bin. All Europe was seething with discus-
sion of the land question. But even dim echoes
of the discussion do not seem to have reached to
the far-off convict colony in Australia, where
flogged and floggers, prisoners and their warders
festered in a common sink of brutality. As
soon as civilisation in any . real sense
began to dawn the Government of the new
country began to perpetuate the worst evils of the
landlordism which nad afflicted Europe, and
which had but recently drenched that continent
in blood. Any land in Australia for which there
was a demand was parcelled out among the friends
of the administration. With pathetic fidelity to
the old kingly traditions of William the Con-
queror and other such royal freebooters, one area
was given to a vigorous fighter, another to a
skilful flatterer, this to an importunate priest,
that to a disgraceful woman. Convicts shared
in the division; those who had shown
special slavishness to their warders, or
who had displayed skill and industry as
hangers and floggers rejoiced in grants. Thus
early a grotesque band of landed proprietors was
formed (soon to seek, through one of their number,
official recognition of their land-wealth by being
dubbed peers !), and the quaint rabble quickly
added to its gross .Rabelaisian humorousness by
the recruits it attracted. Many soldier or
convict grantees disposed of their broad acres
to publicans for enough rum to see them over
the Styx, and the publicans joined the ranks
of “landed gentry.” Other worthy squires
found their titles in marrying the leman of
some person in authority, and the complaisant
husband of a “Red Rover ’’female “founded a
family.”
• * * *
Begun thus worthily, the N.S.W. Lands
administration has never lost a savor of disreput-
ableness. But as the free population increased
and the old convict stain was rubbed out, many
honest settlers crowded to the rich acres of the
new continent. Along the river flats the ploughs
of honest farmers began to cut the soil. Across
the inland plains crept the flocks of the pioneer
pastoralists, “squatting” where they listed. Soon
the first call came of lack of land. Would-be
farmers found their way blocked by the “squat-
ters,” and cried out for land reform. Had there
been a statesman in N.S. Wales then, the bold
reform of undoing the mischief which had been al-
ready done, and nationalising all the land of the
State to hold it for the benefit of the people, would
have suggested itself. Resumption of what had
been already alienated would then have been a very
easy matter, and would have made possible an or-
ganised development of the agricultural and pas-
toral possibilities of the country. But folly and
the desire to pander to popular clamor swung the
politicians in exactly the opposite direction. Far-
mers were clamoring for land. The squatters,
holding huge areas on lease, would not open up to
the small settler. So the whole State was practi-
cally thrown open for “ free selection.” On a
leasehold area any person might select a farm.
* * * *
The effect of this disastrous bit of politics was,
in truth, far worse than that of the early gifts—■
disgraceful as they were. The great bulk of the
State was at the time only suitable for the grazier.
But every grazier was put at the mercy of the
selector, who might come and take away from him
the vital areas of his run, thus making the rest
useless. In self-defence the grazier employed
“dummy selectors ” to take up land on his behalf.
Thus began the sordid tragedy of land dishonesty.
With each succeeding Lands Act the old iniquity
has been patched a little, reformed a little, but
always left in the main intact, because vested
interests had so grown under it that a giant reso-
lution was needed to grapple with the problem on
really honest lines. The effect'of the “ free selec-
tion ” legislation may be accurately represented by
a typical concrete example. Squatter A. had origi-
nally 100,000 acres on lease, for which a fair rent was
£2OOO a year. After a degrading struggle with
selectors, dummies, and Crown land agents, he
emerges with h’s 100,000 acres freehold and a
debt of £BO,OOO. Some of the money has gone to
the State in “free selection” instalments, and
has been spent on riotous living; much of it
has gone to blackmailers, dummies, corrupt poli-
ticians and civil servants, and in interest to
money-lenders. Now Squatter A., with his land
secured at a price which is really above its true
value, is practically only a caretaker for some finan-
cial institution. All that he has got out of the
struggle is his bread and butter and a nasty taste
in the mouth as he thinks of the maze of perju-
ries and corruptions through which he has
wandered.
* * » *
Since that first “free selection” Act there has
been much land legislation in New South Wales
—most of it designed to ameliorate the condition
of the man on the soil, or the man wishing to
get on the soil, but all having practically the
same effect of making the supply of land to
the intending agriculturist mostly a gamble,
and of forcing the pastoralist into a fresh
series of briberies and evasions. What has
never been recog uised is that there is plenty of
room in the Sta< j—and will be many generations
hence —for botii grazier and agriculturist. The
politicians have always persisted in representing
the two as mutually hostile and the blackmailer
has fleeced both in turn. The position calls for
sympathy for the squatter, deeper sympathy for
the agriculturist forced out into the droughty
country to grovel for a living in the dust, for the
unhappy land-hungry man who wanders from
ballot to ballot in search of a farm, and for this
misfortunate country which finds its land wealth so
woefully mismanaged.
* * * #
Imagine if, at the time of the John Robertson
Act, the sensible, instead of the most absolutely
senseless, action had been taken. The bulk of
the State’s area was then on lease. The trouble
was that most of the known good land on the
coastal belt had been grabbed by monopolists,
who were holding “for a rise,” and thus blocking
settlement. If the small area then in private
hands had been resumed—at a fair price—and
room found for the farmer on the coast without
disturbing the pastoralist in the interior ; if, then,
the area of agricultural settlement had been
slowly extended as the demand grew, county after
county being devoted to the farmer as need
arose—the land position would be now this.
The pastoralists would hold their areas on
lease, not freehold ; would have been spared the
enormous expenditure in “ dummying,” and con-
sequently would have been able to spend more
on improvements. Agricultural settlement would
be thick in a few districts instead of thin in many,
and in the bulk would be enormously greater than
now, for the prospect to the young farmer in a
thickly-settled, fairly-fertile district is vastly dif-
ferent from the prospect of holding an outpost in the
waterless interior. The administrative expenses
of the State would be very much less, since there
would be no remote settler to follow up with a
public school, and a road, and a policeman. What
mighfc- have been done then could be still done
now, though with enormously greater expense
and trouble ; and, probably, will have to he
done one day, when private ownership of land
has been proved a failure. Certainly with every
effort to make things better with a new Land
Act, the situation is made worse. Free selection,
“classification,” the opening of half the pastoral
areas to selection, exchanges, repurchase for closer
settlement, improvement leases, all the great
“reforms” have led only to new swindles. The
man on the land is still harassed for backsheesh.
The man who wishes to go on the land still finds
his path blocked.


THE MORT’S DOCK PROBLEM.
The Mort’s Dock Co., Sydney’s biggest ship-
repairing concern, and also its biggest concern in
many other lines, recently made, through its
manager, a complaint that should set the public
thinking considerably. The co. builds little
vessels—vessels that are too small to be sent out
here ready-made—and builds them as well as any
shipbuilding firm in Europe or America. It has
Protection in that line of industry; Cape Horn,
and the Cape of Good Hope, and the Bay of Bis-
cay, and the Great Australian Bight are each
equal to 500 per cent, duty on small vessels. It
does a good deal of repairing ; if a ship is too
badly battered to do the voyage to Europe or
America, it has to be repaired here, for repairs
can’t be imported. As regards the building of
large-sized vessels, it finds it can do nothing at
all. There is a miserable per cent. Protec-
tion on some machinery, but in view of the fact
that the labor employed in making machinery
.costs about 87 per cent, more in Australia
than it does in England, it is only in special cases
that there is anything to be done in the business. As
regards the ships themselves, the imported vessel,
Ibuilt in Britain or Germany or France or Japan
or America, and purchased for service on the
Australian coast, comes in free. Therefore, while
skilled labor employed in building ships costs
Bd. an hour in England, and Is. 3d. an hour in
Australia, the prospects of this industry are abso-
lutely nil. In this respect it is like a good many
other industries.
* * * *
Under these circumstances it is reasonable to
ask the Freetrade section of the Labor party if it
really wants to prevent new industries arising in
Australia. There are three political parties in-
volved in the discussion, and anyone who con-
siders them can see at once why the Freetrade
Laborists are singled out as the people to be ques-
tioned in this fashion. The parties are
(1) The Tory Freetraders who want to create manufac-
tures without Protection by cutting down wages.
(2) The Protectionist Labor men and other Protectionist
Democrats who want to keep wages up, and to make
manufactures possible by levying sufficiently heavy duties
on products imported from low-wage countries.
(3) The Freetrade Labor men who want to keep wages
up, and who yet demand that this country shall compete
on even terms with imports from low-wage countries ; in
-other words, the men who demand an impossibility.
There are therefore two sections of the com-
munity which propose a remedy for the pre-
sent industrial stagnation. One proposes to
find a remedy at the cost of our own people ;
the other at the cost of the foreigner. The
Labor Freetrader alone doesn’t propose to
find any remedy, and thereby he brands himself
as one of two things —a fool or a public enemy.
Also he has already branded himself as a shuffler
of a very bad order. There was a time, under the
old State regime , when the mostly-Freetrade
Labor party held the balance of power in N.S.W.
Parliament, and dictated to a professedly Free-
trade Government in office, and kept that
professedly Freetrade Government in office.
In those days it affected to believe, just
as it does now, that high wages, short
hours, and Freetrade are compatible things,
and that it is not only possible for the
country to exist under them, but that they will
lead the country to prosperity. But if it had de-
manded, and secured, the abolition of the Protec-
tion granted to the great sugar, wine, beer, and
-tobacco industries they would simply have disap-
peared, and it apparently knew this so well that it
•didn’t attempt to apply its doctrine of Freetrade,
.high wages and short hours to these industries.
And it apparently knew that if it had succeeded
in applying its doctrine of fair wages and reason-
able hours to the N.S.W. farming industry, and
.had also secured the abolition of the huge bonuses
•or rebates or surreptitious Protection granted to
'that industry by the carriage of its products on
'the railways at far less than cost, the agricultural
industry would mostly have crumpled up; so it
left the agricultural industry pretty much alone.
It kept things going in certain industries by
winking at high Protection with one eye, and at
long hours and poor wages with the other. That
kept both its eyes busy winking.
* * * *
It is a reasonable thing to ask the Freetrade
Labor section to do definitely one of two things.
If it really believes that Freetrade, respectable
wages and fair hours can go together, it should
act accordingly. It should go solidly in Federal
politics for the removal of all duties that can be
spared, and demand that those which are neces-
sary for revenue purposes shall be balanced by
equal excise duties on local products, so that they
shall cease to be protective. In State politics it
should demand that the surreptitious Protection
given to the N.S.W. farmer by carrying his pro-
duce on the railways at a mere fraction of the
rates charged on most other goods, and at much
below the real cost of carriage, shall be abol-
ished. and that agriculture shall no longer be
subsidised at the public expense. And it should
try to find out some way of securing for the farm
worker—the worker in an unprotected agricul-
tural industry—something approaching as good
wages and hours as the city artisan enjoys. Also it
should put some restriction on the enslaving of the
cocky’s small son as an unpaid toiler on his
father’s farm, seeing that there are severe restric-
tions on the employment of child labor in trades.
If it succeeds in doing these things, and the in-
dustries involved keep progressing, it will have
proved its case to a very fair extent. But if it
hasn’t the courage to attempt these things, then
it should either join the Tory Freetraders, and let
city industries progress, as agriculture does, by
long hours, low pay, and a little surreptitious
Protection; or it should join the Protectionist
Democrats and admit that a high-wage country
can’t progress unless it shuts out the competing
products of low-wage countries.
* * * *
The Freetrade Tory party is, in this matter,
but in another direction, j ust as great a fool as
the Freetrade Labor party. The latter professes
to think that free imports, high wages and pro-
gress can go together. The former fancies that
free imports, low wages and high rents can
go together. If the Freetrade Tory got the
low wages he craves after, the low wage artisan
would begin to live with his family in one, or at most
two rooms, as his luckless brethren have to do in the
-British Isles. The four-roomed cottage would
R’ 0 li t u° ° r tliree or f° ur families instead of one.
I ully half of each Australian city would cease to
be wanted, and rents and valuations would slump
oO per cent., and property-owners and mortgagees
ruld have to write off half the value of their
holdings as a bad debt. And the slump would be
permanent, not temporary, for when new build-
ings could be put up by the new cheap artisan at
4s. a day the old buildings, put up by the artisan
at 10s. or more per day, would have to be written
fi? W m ln va^ue to the new level. But the folly of
the lory Freetrade cheap labor individual is a
side issue. He is an incurable case, and has to be
.treated as such. The Freetrade Labor person,
it is hoped, is not incurable. Still, is is up to
him to answer four questions :
(1) Is he prepared to apply his doctrine of decent
wages, fair hours, and Freetrade —real Freetrade, that
is—to all industries, with a firm belief that it will lead
to progress and prosperity ?
(2) Or, is he willing to give to every industry the same
liberal Protection that he has winked at so persistently
in the case of wine, beer and tobacco, and to give the
Australian manufacturer the same surreptitious aid in
the way o' "heap railway freights that he has not objected
to in the case of the farmer?
(3) If he is going to continue winking at long hours,
low wages, ai.d cheap child labor in the agricultural
industry, will ne wink equally hard in the case of manu-
factures ?
(4) If for some reason he imagines that nc should strain
his Freetrade and Labor principles to keep up the wine,
beer, sugar and tobacco trades and the agricultural
industry', yet that he should not strain them to found
shipbuilding and other industries, then will he explain the
reason of the different - > A difference of that size calls
for explanation.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Where the White Can’t Live.
John See, E. W. Cole, Bruce Smith, and their
friends of the White-men-can’t-live-in-tlie-North
party, ought to study a book, lately issued in a
hard, official blue cover, and branded “ Vital
Statistics, 1904: Queensland,” much, if not most,
of Queensland being in that north where the poor
white man can’t live. In 1904, says the Govern-
ment Statist, the death-rate was very satisfac-
tory ; and it would have been a lot more satis-
factory if Cole’s colored friends, who are supposed
to simply revel in that climate, had not insisted
upon dying in rather startling numbers. Dividing
the population into the streaks of which it is com-
posed, this was the death-rate: —
Kanakas .. .. 20’49 per 1000
Chinese .. .. 10 ‘l4 ~
Other Asiatics .. 10'03 ~
White people .. 9'84 ~
So the white people who can’t live in the north
have a mortality experience three times more
favorable than the Kanaka, who is represented
as being the very man for the place and the job.
Put in another way, it means that in 1904
one in every 38 Kanakas died; while among
white people only one out of every 102
died. And even that doesn’t represent the
full extent of the superior suitability of the white
man for life in Queensland. The white popula-
tion there is, to the usual extent, an infant crying
out for the moon and milk ; and everywhere the
infant’s hold on life is feeble. But the Kanaka
birth-rate is small; in 1904 oidy 43 infants were
born, or 5‘2 per 1000 of the Kanaka population,
while the white race birth-rate was 28'12
per 1000. The “white” death statistics
should, therefore, be much worse than the
kanaka rate, because of this vastly larger
proportion of white infants hanging on to life by a
thin thread that a curd of sour milk may break
yet, as a matter of fact, the “white” death statistics
are nearly three times better than the Kanaka
statistics. The same rule ought to apply to the
Chinese and other Asiatic figures; the “white”
figures, because they include the large infant mor-
tality, should be worse in both cases. And yet
they are better; given the white infant in-
remembering how handicapped it often is by the
remoteness of its parents’ homo from medical and
nursing skill—the white population has three or
four times a better and firmer hold upon life in.
Queensland than the Kanaka or the Asiatic.
Which looks like a pretty strong tip from Nature
that not the yellow or the black but the white is
the man for that country, unless it is Nature’s
idea that the right man for a place is the man who-
has the best chance of dying there.
«
The New Australian Plague.
A Melbourne hair-worker died last week from-,
anthrax. He was handling some bullocks’ tails,
and feeling some irritation from a scratch on his-
chin, he rubbed it with his hand and was inocu-
lated with anthrax. A malignant pustule deyel-
bped. He was taken to the Melbourne Hospital
on a Saturday morning and died the same evening.
That form of the disease—the malignant pustule
form —is comparatively rare in humans. The
other form, known as wool-sorters’ complaint, is
much more common. There the spores of
the bacilli are inhaled and the lungs are
attacked. Anthrax is a dreadful disease, and
is incurable in the lower animals and in human
beings alike. The cause of it reaching human
beings is mainly the carelessness and avarice of
the man who grows sheep and cattle. All
animals that die from anthrax should bo carefully
cremated. This is the only way to destroy the
germs, which are most resistant, and will live in
damp ground for years, 4’naturalists and far-
mers, however, cannot bear to burn a good skin ;
so diseased anrials are skinned and the hides
sold. The disease is thus carried round. Every-
body who handles the hide is liable to be infected.
Even when the hide is made into leather infection
clings round it. These facts have only been dis-
covered after exhaustive experiments, but no care
has been taken to make them public. The mouse
and the rat are particularly liable to infection,
and are splendid mediums for the propagation of
the disease. There have been several out-
breaks in Australia. At Corowa (N.8.W.)
two or three years ago some men were in-
fected ; it was shown that they had been
inoculated by flies, which luA carried the
bacillus from diseased cattle. The matter is
one of supreme importance. It is, in a way, a
greater question thaa that of the bubonic plague,
for anthrax, if it once gets hold of a country, will
devastate it and carry off man and beast alike.
It is claimed that the sixth plague with which
Moses is alleged to have bounced Phabaoh was
anthrax, and it see s. s probable enough. Anyhow,
this country ougbo to wake up and say that it
isn’t going to have any anthrax. The importation
of foreign bones and bone meal should be rigor-
ously prohibited unless it can be shown that they
were sterilised before f »port. The beasts, skins,
leather, hair, wool and ..orns of every country in
which anthrax is known to exist should be pro-
hibited from importation. Then heavy penalties
should be imposed for not cremating bodies of
animals that have died from the disease; or for
selling, or allowing to be sold, any portion
of any diseased animal. Plenty of farmers, when
they see a cow or sheep sickening, kill it, and sell
flesh, hide, hair, bones, and everything else.
Anthrax should be made a reportable disease.
At present, in Victoria at least, doctors are not
required to report cases of anthrax, and patients
die in their homes, which are not fumigated, and
retain the infection virtually for ever. So little
attention has been paid to the disease in human
beings that the ordinary medical practitioner
seldom diagnoses it. There are probably hundreds
of deaths set down to tuberculosis and other affec-
tions of the lungs and heart that are really due to
anthrax. The reportable diseases are for ever in
the medical practitioner’s mind. He looks for
them first, and they overshadow everything else.
If he were required to report every case of anthrax,
and such cases were at once isolated and proper
plague precautions taken, the risk of wholesale
infection would be reduced to a minimum.
♦
An Australian Hat Invites Attention.
A letteb from Melbourne:—
To a sincere advocate of local manufactures there is
nothing more irritating than the fact that Australian-
made goods are freely purchased by an unpatriotic public
not for what they are, but for what they are thought not
to be. It is a common occurrence for a native-born Aus-
tralian—the pupil of an unteachable imported father—to
ridicule the pretension? of local industries, boasting
openly of his faith in Eng u«U and American material and
workmanship what time be is wearing a suit of tweed
loomed at Geelong or Marrickville, a hat from one of the
Melbourne nulls, and boots that are even more completely
Australian than the hat. Both his prejudice and his
ignorance have been forced upon him. If he attributes
his smart “Johnnie” appearance to the foreign origin of
his clothes, it is because those local products were sold to
him under false pretences. Thus far, in the history of
all, or nearly all, Australian manufactures the
retail traders have done their best to discour-
age them by invariably truckling to customers
for whom the term “ imported ” carries a
charm. Manufacturers’ have hitherto been mostly
content to feed the very prejudices against which they
were fighting. Instead of branding their goods as Aus-
tralian they have given them any non-committal trade
mark that would enable the shopkeeper to introduce
them to the public as “ Best imported,” &c. The effect
of this trickery as regards the trade in boxer hats has
been very advantageous to the actual importers of Eng-
lish makes, for it stands to reason that every mock-
imported but vaguely branded hat which, on its merits,
gives satisfaction to the wearer must serve to strengthen
the old prejudice in favor of imported hats.
With the hope otenlisting Australian sympathy for his
lighting policy the manager of the Austral Hat Mills, Mel-
bourne, has decided to stamp the name of its birthplace
upon every hat manufactured at the mills. There can be
no deception about the nationality of a “ boxer” or a soft
felt “sombrero,” branded “Austral Hat Mills” on the
lining. The retailer can’t enlarge upon the glossiness of
its surface, and the smartness of its binding and
get-up, for the purpose of declaring that “you
never get the same finish in an Australian
hat.” The “ Austral ” hats, hitherto sold under various
disguises, will now challenge comparison between the
local and imported article, and inasmuch as the mills are
controlled by an independent co., not by a ring of whole-
sale houses, the hats can be supplied direct to retailers at
prices which will make the comparison fair. Hitherto
the Melbourne manufactured hat has been burdened with
the profits of two middlemen.
Was there ever any reason for the local prejudice
against the local product? Several of the struggling
Victorian manufacturers may have been open to
scornful criticism from unthinking people 20 or 30
years ago. Prejudice against the word “Australian,”
as applied to a felt hat, was possibly founded on the
demerits of the goods offered to the fathers and grand-
fathers of the present generation. The young man of
to-day cherishes, without reason, the prejudice for which
his ancestor may have had some reason in the dim past.
The early manufactures were necessarily crude. The up-
to-date manufactures are first-class, and all they need is
honest recognition from the public and sufficient Protec-
tion to safeguard them from the onslaughts of the foreign
sweater, if the price of European labor were suddenly
raised to the Melbourne standard the Austral Hat
Mills would not say another word about the tariff.
Felt hats are made of rabbit fur in the better qualities,
and wool in the lower qualities. This country is full of
rabbits and sheep, and its hat factories use good raw
material, where an Italian manufacturer is disposed to
use shoddy. But the Italian worker toils 70 hours a week
for a wage of £l, whereas the unionists at the Austral Hat
Mills earn from £3 to £5. And any imperial-minded
supporters of good old English articles for good old Eng-
land’s sake will be interested to know that the imported
soft felt hats are coming more and more from Italy.
Sweated-labor conditions in Italy being much more aw-
fully pestilential than in England, a new danger threatens
misguided persons who pay as much as 15s. for a large,
limp specimen of foreign headgear.
Fully £200,000 worth of hats, a large percentage of
them being felt, will come to the Commonwealth this year
from abroad. Locally manufactured hats, to a large
amount, will be sold as imported goods. The idea is to
convert this stupid unpatriotic prejudice into a just
appreciation of an Australian brand as a guarantee of
merit. Therefore good luck to the Australian brand 1
♦
The High Commissioner.
The Deakin Government lately contrived, in five
sadden days, to appoint Captain Collins to an
mnnecessary post in London —a post for which he
can’t be said to have any special fitness, because
the job is so vague and uncertain that it is impos-
sible to say what kind of fitness is required—but
is still unable to make up the vast recesses of its
mind about the appointment of a Federal High
’Commissioner. The billet is kept open, and
serves, so long as ib is _ open, to keep
about a dozen aspirants in a respectful
attitude on the Ministerial doorstep. If it
were filled the man who got it might cease to be
respectful, for the world is full of men who are
not nearly so civil after they have gob a thing as
when they are applying for it; and the eleven
men who didn’t get it would almost certainly be
much less civil than they are now. Either for the
sake of stringing on all the large number of pos-
sible Commissioners, or because the Ministry can’t
make up its mind, or bocause the different minds
of the Ministry won’t make up the same way, op
through sheer laziness and procrastination, nothing
is done. Meanwhile the press amuses itself on
slack days by inventing imaginary Commissioners.
It invented J. C. Watson the other day, ami
then filled an '••rherwise blank space in the paper
by printing his assurance that he had never heard
even a rumor about the matter. No doubt J. C.
"Watson would make a first-class High Commis-
i.jner, but there are not so many straight and
capable men in Australian politics that he could
be spared, and he certainly doesn’t want the
position. The High Commissioner will probably
be appointed with a rush when Parliament is
about to expire, and “bait” is no longer wanted,
and when the twelve applicants on the Ministerial
doorstep grow angry and unmanageable. Mean-
while Captain Collins goes to England as a sort
of temporary apology for a Federal representative,
with no powers in particular, and a status which
isn’t anything definite.
“ C.E.T.” writes :
In your article on “The Hebrew Navy’ (3. 22/2/’O6)
you entirely ignore the Zionist movement, v.hich has for
its object the final gathering of the Chosen to East Africa
instead of Palestine, which the sons of Israel regard as
“ unsuitable to the growth of a vigorous nation.” The
granting by Lord Lansdowne, some little time back, of
20,000 miles of fertile country in Uganda is held by many
of the Chosen in various parts of the world to be the ful-
filment, with extraordinary exactitude, of a Biblical
prophecy uttered in the dim and distant ages 3500 years
ago. It is here that Ikey Mo and the rest of the race are
to establish the New Jerusalem promised to the children
of Israel by Isaiah and the other holy prognosticators.
A man who reads his Bible tells me that the Book fore-
tells that after the destruction of Jerusalem by the
Romans the Israelites shall be established by the ruler of
Egypt in a land bordering on Egypt. Lord Lansdowne,
the late British Foreign Minister, is accepted as the ruler
of Egypt, on the southern border of which mysterious
country Uganda is situated. The Zionist Committee,
which has gone to “spy out the land,” describes the
country as ideal for their purpose, and the whole proceed-
ing is said to be wonderfully like the start of the occupa-
tion of Canaan by the Israelites of ancient days. Little
has been heard of this Zionist movement lately, but I
presume the scheme of gathering in the Chosen from the
pawnshops and racecourses of the world is still in opera-
tion. Dr. Theodor Hkrzl is the head herdsman in the
gigantic mustering, and he has the active support of such
men as Israel Zangwill, Max Nordau, Francis Monte-
fiore, and other Hebrews of note.
The Bulletin, as a matter of fact, didn’t think
the Uganda Zion worth mentioning. The new
State, if it ever starts, will be devoid of all tradi-
tions and associations. It won’t be the restoration
of a nation, but only the founding of a very
petty settlement. And, by the way, there is
surely something wrong with the theory that
Palestine is “ unsuitable to the growth of a vigor-
ous nation.” Didn’t it grew a vigorous nation—
about the most vigorous one on earth ? Also, it
requires a tough struggle to consider Lansdowne
as the ruler of Egypt, and Uganda , n’t on the
border of Egypt—it is away beyond Nubia, and
Ivordofan, and even far past Abyssinia.
» .
The Westralian Government has already squan-
dered over a quarter of a million on rabbit fences,
but the money might just as well have been
thrown into the Indian Ocean. The first attempt
to check the long-threatened rabbit invasion was
made after bunny had got a firm grip on the grass
lands west of the goldfields. He had successfully
negotiated the wide strip of sandy desert between
the goldfields and the South Australian border,
and had found a land of plenty. Outback pros-
pectors and miners welcomed him, and tinned
dog was supplanted by savory rabbit with onions.
Then the Lands Department lazily started to
keep bunny back, but it was too late. A fence
was run right up from the south coast for several
degrees, but it either broke down or was covered
with drift sand, and the rabbits scampered across
it with the greatest ease. Then a second fence,
near the coast, running parallel with the first one,
was erected, and now the rabbits are on both
sides of it also. Squatters in the far North —on
the De Grey and Fitzroy rivers, and even on
Sturt Creek —are already threatened, and
they blame the Lands Department for the clumsy,
half-hearted measures adopted. Although useless
for checking the rabbit invasion, the fences have
brought abo”t a totally unexpected result in the
wholesale destruction of the emu. During the
winter months emus flock in tremendous num-
bers to the wide, open plains east of the gold
fields, but as summer comes on they are driven
back again, following up the drying soaks and
waterholes. They are silly birds, and have not
the cunning of the rabbit, so when they bump up
against any section of the fence that may be erect,
they retire to a little distance and wait for it to
fall down. A boundary rider recently found 300
dead emus along one section of 60 miles, so the
annual destruction of these typical Australian
birds in the course of a year must be very great.
> — .■
“S.R.” on Australia’s Gun :
Australia must at once lay the foundation-stone of
national defence by setting up its own gun factories.
The obstacle in the way, says Lieutenant-Colonel Irvink,
is that the number required is too small to warrant the
outlay. Well, better men than Colonel Irvine, in the
year 1791, set up a gun factory at Springfield (U.S. A.). At
that period the population of the States did not exceed
Australia’s. To-day America possesses one of the best
arsenals in the world. Time Australia began. The state-
ment that the number required is so small is bosh. At
the last extremity Australia should be able to find at least
1,000,000 men capable of carrying rifles. .So Australia re-
quires to have on hand 1,000,000 up-to-date rifles. I’ll
warrant many an up-to-date small arms factory in Great
Britain wouldn’t make good the deficiency in a year or
two. The Yank thinks it good policy to give his army
a new weapon every eight years, and Australia
would also require to keep its rifles up-to-date.
As for artillery, Australia has, for all practical purposes,
none whatever. If you swept up all the position guns on
our oo.ist defences, from Thursday Island to Fremantle,
you couldn’t arm one decc.it oruiser. Thursday Island,
Russia.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Fourteen hundred persons have been executed without
trial.— Russian cable.
The sword of tyranny is raised,
Reeking, in Russian air ;
The revolution burned and blazed,
Its ashes smoulder there.
The Czar rides safe ; in every street
His panoply is spread;
But pale ghosts whimper round his feet
Of fourteen hundred dead.
His judges march in gory tracks,
More cruel hour by hour ;
The hangman’s noose, the headsman’s axe,
Their instruments of power.
And Russia’s lips have ceased to sing,
And Russia’s eyes are red ;
But they await their reckoning,
Those fourteen hundred dead.
A phantom army, they assail
The Czar’s embattled corps ;
They burst the locks of fort and gaol
And steel-bound palace door ;
From their still corpses hatreds bud,
And blossoms overhead
The flower of vengeance from their blood—•
The fourteen hundred dead.
The great Red Army, uncontrolled.
Shall march through Russia’s land,
As over France, in days of old,
It swept its crimson hand ;
Then Czar and prince shall shrieking fall,
And in a mist blood-red
Shall see the ghastly mouths of all
Those fourteen hundred dead.
vic.
PRIAM.
A Waggon and a Star.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Australia has hitched its waggon to the Star of
Unity.” —Prime Minister Deakin.
Yes, we’ve hitched it to a star,
This, our old Australia,
And we’re rushing thro’ the inky realms of space ;
But our craft is steered by Cohen,
And we don’o know where we’re goin’—
On to glory, or to ruin and disgrace !
And another says : “ We’ll drift
Till the shades of Isaac lift,
And our leader’s dazzling lights displace the gloom;
But till then we well might shudder,
For there’s no one at the rudder,
And we’re drifting slowly, surely t; our doom ! ”
But I’d venture to surmise
That we’ll never reach the skies,
Nor along the Milky Way aspire to soar;
For our hopes are cold and cankered,
We are braked, and sprayged, and anchored
To a luring th, ee-ball sign at Coesn’s door ?
N.S.W.
GILROONEY.


0
V- (Navy Cut.)
MI NS
™ (EVERY TIME
oh account of its natural
aromatic flavour.
GALL-AHER L T .° BELFAST- BELONG TO N° TRUSTor COMBI ME
P R|ZE Scheme for 1906.
J 0250 £N Cash Prizes
RANGING FROM £,S DOWN TO 5/-
to Collectors of Outside Wrappers
from Caillers ChocolaHes.
£, 62.10.0. EACH QUARTER
MchSl^JuneßO^.SepSO^DeclS™
ALL SIZES,I?INCLUD£D.ARE VALID.
Post your Wrappers to
\cu££&r’’jd i P.0.80x /36, Sydney.
Townsville, Brisbane, Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne,
Hobart, Adelaide, Fremantle, all require big 12in. guns
that can keep off warships. And of Tin. and 4in. guns and
torpedo guns we require stacks. Modern warfare is
largely an artillery struggle. Note the great masses of
artillery which Japan and Russia put into the field.
Time Australia set the furnaces roaring and the anvils
ringing. Thus we will get more guns, better guns, and
more ammunition to practise with. And the fact of these
articles being made in Australia will be an object lesson
to the young Australian. He will realise more readily
that he has a duty to perform, the defence of his country.
Make a rifle for every man, teach every man how to use
it, and compel every man to fit himself for the task of
holding Australia against the world. Then may come the
four corners of the world in arms, and we shall withstand
them—or make a good attempt at it.
The daily press found it easier to shove the Boy
on to the stage as evidence of the tyrannous
selfishness of Labor unions than to keep him
there. The Boy simply bolted when the lime-
light of fact was turned on him. It is not the
Labor unions that keep him out of apprenticeship,
but certain employers who find the unions insist
on the Boy getting fair play. The trades
in which the Arbitration Court has fixed the
ratio of apprentices to journeymen see that the
Boy receives wages and is taught his trade. To
get out of doing both has been the study of many
employers. The dailies no sooner posted the Boy
on the stage as a victim of Labor tyranny than a
father instanced the case of his son, who agreed,
in the old pre-Arbitration Court way, with a firm
for five years’ service, the first year without wages.
Next year, when wages were supposed to com-
mence, the son was knocked off, and there the
agreement, under various spurious pretexts, was
ended. The unions have brought about a
schedule of rates, which must be paid,
and a term of apprenticeship, which must
be completed, with adequate teaching through-
out. Bosses who object to the ratio simply wish
to have more boys than men for wages sheet
purposes alone. Boys kept at special lines of a
trade may become fairly proficient in those lines
without knowing the trade as a whole, and an
employer with a shop full of such boys does not
want men at all. It is for the sake of the men of
the present, and equally for the sake of the men
of the future, that the unions insist on their
conditions.
“Locust” makes some remarks up in his tree :
The Britishers have' again gone bald-headed for their
old fetish, Freetrade, at the elections. This illustrates
a good trait in their character, honorable to their ’earts,
but discreditable to their ’eads. Apropos —did you ever
go into that queer place, the Savage Club, somewhere in
Arundel-street, London, near the Embankment, on one of
their festive evenings, and hear the old favorites of the
club get up one by one, and by unanimous request sing a
song? For 50years, at precisely half-past ten, it has been
the custom to call for Blank or Wash to sing “ The Old
Battered Muffin,” or “ The Old Mill Wheel.” He gets up and
sings it. His voice is a trifle cracked, the song is of the old,
rugged, sentimental order of a bygone day; but the
singer and the song are received with deafening applause.
It may be that, tortured by conscience, this old and
popular Englishman determines to try something new.
But the moment the pianist strikes up the innovating
tune, shouts of protest are raised —“ Give us the ‘ Old
Fire Shovel ’ Blank ! ” until he has to hark back to his old
song. So it is with politics. For over 50years the British
public have been accustomed to have the “ Old Fire
Shovel ” of Freetrade sung to them, preached to them,
and printed for them. When any political leader gets up
and tries to sing a new economic song he is received with
amazement, and requested to sing the ballads of yore.
If he refuses he is regarded as an innovator, and there-
fore dangerous. Balfour’s mistake was that he tried
to sing the new song of Protection to the old Freetrade
accompaniment in a different key, and the two tunes did n't
harmonise. He is at last beginning to sing Protection,
but in a plaintive falsetto in minor modes. Joe Cham
berlain’s deep bass will make itself heard eventually.
Either that, or the nation must wait till the generation
which “ has been Freetrade, man and boy, fur fifty year
as me fayther was afore me,” has died out, and a new
generation will be convinced either by its brains or its
stomach that Protection is the only policy which leads to
economic salvation.
♦
After an interval, more deaths in Sydney
are reported as the result of eating oysters pur-
chased from hawkers at the door, and some of
these oysters have been traced to the rocks of
Middle Harbor. At Long Bay, near Folly Point,
there has been for some time a scandal which
probably no other civilised community would
tolerate. At the head of the bay the Water and
Sewerage Board has placed septic tanks, and
these, through inefficient working, are a public
danger. On close summer evenings the in-
habitants about have to close doors and
windows in order to shut out the stench,
and the waters of the harbor thereabouts
are polluted by the effluent from the tanks. The
Water and Sewerage Board airily denies that there
is anything the matter; but, one afternoon, a
couple of years ago, the members of the Fisheries
Commission took a trip to the place on a launch.
They saw and smelt, and, before the boat was
back at Circular Quay, an order had been drawn
up closing the waters of that part of Middle
Harbor against fishing. That order still stands,
but the Water and Sewerage Board, in spite of
numerous reminders, keeps to its policy of inac-
tivity, and, as a result, typhoid germs are carted
in bottles about the streets.
♦
The Bent Government Court of Inquiry into the
cause of a recent accident on the Bent Govern-
ment’s railway line turns out to be an even more
audacious job than was expected. The Court con-
sists of Judge Box and two other inquirers, who
will add to the expenses. Bent’s Railway Com-
missioners are represented by a barrister, who gets
his instructions from a Mr. Clarke, of the Crown
Solicitor’s office, and on the other hand there is
barrister W. H. Williams (ex-M.L.A.) instructed
by Bent’s friend, W. H. Croker, who at first
were said to “represent the public,” but
are now described as “assistants” to the Board.
These legal persons will get their fees from
the Treasury, of course, for conducting what is
practically a mock trial of the Government Rail-
way Department, the finding of the court all the
time being a foregone conclusion. Before the cur-
tain was raised on the farcical performance, Bent
gave his word that lawyer Woolf, representing a
number of upset passengers who have put in
claims for compensation, would be permitted to
appear on their behalf and elicit evidence re the
cause of the accident. Woolf would have cost
the Treasury nothing, whereas Williams and
Croker will cost a lot. First thing the court did
was to disallow the appearance of Woolf on the
ground that he wasn’t needed in the public interest.
The engine-driver and fireman have a lawyer on
the job, likewise the Transportation Society of
the Railways, and these are the only two legal
persons employed on the inquiry who are not
getting paid by the Treasury. As to the length
of the Bent proceedings there are various conjec-
tures. The Inquiry is the softest of fat things for
the participants employed by Bent. They can
sit and sit, and talk and talk, with the fullest
assurance that their fees will be paid. And the
result, as aforestated, is a foregone conclusion.
Last Friday, in an article entitled “ Small Settle-
ment and Large Owners, ” Sydney Telegraph set
out to define its cheerless attitude towards the
man who is to go on the land. This was the atti-
tude :
(1) To break up the large estates which now block
settlement by means of a graduated land-tax is sinful
robbery. It “would have a confiscatory effect by com-
pelling owners to either over-supply the land market to
escape the tax, or pay the value of tlieir holdings in taxes
while waiting- for fair prices.”
(2) “There is only one legitimate way of getting land
for settlement, which is to buy it. ... If the era of
deficits should return, or exceptional expenditure crop up,
there will he no money to spend in buying estates for
close settlement. Even if there was plenty, experience
of this method is not wholly encouraging.”
Put shortly, the ’Graph holds: (1) That people
should go on the land. (2) That the big estates
shouldn’t be broken up by a graduated land-tax,
to supply them with land to go on. (3) That the
repurchase of big estates to furnish the people
with small farms to go on is not advisable. (4)
That there should be no graduated land-tax to
prevent such farms as now exist being bought up
and consolidated into more big estates, whereby
people woidd be driven off the land instead of put
on it, because the graduated land-tax has a “ con-
fiscatory effect.” (5) All the same, people should
be settled on the land. Is it worth while running
a large, damp, inky paper in order that the edito-
rial staff may wander round in a circle like this,
and arrive nowhere, and then charge a penny for
its wanderings ?
♦
Beatrice Grimshaw, who is “doing” the New.
Hebrides for Sydney Herald, thinks that there
is trouble ahead for the whites in Tanna, and
that this year will probably see its arrival. She
writes :
The bush tribes are absolutely reckless as to the de-
struction of white men’s property when they start out to
burn each other’s gardens or villages. They are also
quite careless as to any danger that may result to white
people from their very free firing propensities. Tommy
Tanna, furthermore, as he comes back from Queensland,
makes more and more trouble in the land. The Queens-
land Tanna-man is notoriously the worst sort in Tanna,
always at the head of tribal fights, usually amongst those
most strongly opposed to the missions, and generally dis-
posed to make as much trouble as possible. . . . Tommy
Tanna, of Queensland, full of civilisation’s vices, sharper
and more knowing than his followers, yet a savage to the
tips of his fingers, joins the Conservative party of the
island—the older chiefs, who hate the white man and all
his doings, and the younger and more savage savages,
who are beginning to take alarm at the increasing power
of the missions. Tanna is working up for trouble.
This is rather rough on those good Church people
who, a little while back, protested against the de-
portation of the gentle Tommy Tanna, on the
ground that he had become highly Christianised
and civilised while in Queensland, and it was
rank injustice to send him home to be eaten up by
his savage countrymen.
In “ Litanies of Life,” by Kathleen Wat-
son, now of Australia, all the sentimentality that
lurks in every woman’s heart is expressed with a
poetical fluency and candor which should carry
the little book far beyond its present popularity.
Some years ago, when the “Litanies” were first
published under one cover, in London, they drew
a characteristically glowing notice from T. P.
O’Connor, and to-day it seems that they only need
to be talked about to find a host of new admirers
among men and women hereabouts. Regarded as
works of imagination, the quintette of romantic
yarns are merely commonplace in plot. Many
another woman writer has pictured herself in one
or more of the “Litany” situations, and has
pitied herself as freely as Kathleen Watson did.
But the charm of this book lies in the complete-
ness of the assortment of sorrows, and the delicacy
of the authoress’s art. Though it is the same art
in each story, it gains rather than, loses effect by
the repetition. Up to the limit of five “ Litanies ”
—l6O wide-margined pages in all —the reader’s
appetite grows with what it feeds upon, or is at
least unconscious of satiety. Enquiries for the
book from Melbourne, where the married authoress
is now a quite old-established resident, may have
accounted for the recent re-issue. The matter
can’t be allowed to rest at a third edition. Here
is balm of sadness for the yearning soul of
youthful maid, hopeless spinster, unwedded wife
and tearful widow. And, for the menkind, a
charming reminder that women were self-
deceivers ever.
Does G. H. Reid bait that Anti-Socialist
trap with some of the lollies he is so fond of
sucking ? Those wiser politicians who reinforce
their mental forces with well regulated “ drafts”
of D.C.L. whisky, may well laugh at poor George,
and wonder when he is going to seek inspiration
at its source. D.C.L., the whisky that makes
dullards wise, and wise men wiser.*
SUNDRY SHOWS
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Palace Knight-Jeffries Co.
Her Majesty’s “ The Shop Girl.”
Theatre Royal “La Fille du Tambour Major.”
Criterion. “ Little Mary.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “Sindbad the Sailor.”
Her Majesty’s “ Leah Kleschna.”
Theatre Royal “The Prodigal Son.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
There is a mistake of a letter in the title
of the new piece at Her Majesty’s, Sydney. It is
advertised as “ The Shop Girl ” —which holds an
“h ” too many and an “1 ” too few. There have
been Girls of all sorts in musical comedy, but this
one obviously comes out of the ready-made, hand-
me-down slop department. “ A peautiful fit,”
says Yacob. “Isn’t two inches of shirt rather too
much to show ? ” you suggest, looking down at an
equator between vest and the other things. “Oh,
my tear sir,” the pained Yacob tells you, “ you
hafn’t an idea how much this peautiful material
stretches. But till it stretches—Mr. Bantoclc, for-
vart ! Hang four jokes on to this vais’coat—you’ll
find some jokes in the yart mit the old hoop-iron.”
“But the pants, Yacob —they seem to stop too
soon.” “My tear frent, the peautyof them. You can
use them for pants, or your v’ife can use them for
mixed-bathing in. But if you vant them a leetle
longer—Rosie, Rosie Musgrove, forvart ! Hang
a song unt tance on to dese pants.” And when
you point out that the last gentleman who tried
this suit on was evidently a person of cir-
cumference who burst the arm-holes—“ Mr.
Lauri, forvart ! Pin a prilliant stump-speech on
to this peautiful vaistcoat so that nobody’ll look
at the coat to notice that the armholes vant a
stitch in’em.” So you get “fitted” at Yacob’s;
and so you get “fitted” these days at Her
Majesty’s.
* * * *
The piece was played some years ago, but
is old and poor enough to have been long since
forgotten. There is little music in it of any con-
sequence, and the humor of the dialogue is for the
most part banal. On to this unpromising founda-
tion, however, the Comic Opera Co. hangs a num-
ber of presentable items ; and there are a few
lyrics proper to the piece itself which set one
wondering how they got there. Fortunately, with
one or two exceptions, the principals of the co. are
not wasted upon this Girl. Miss Margaret
Thomas drops in promiscuously late in the even-
■ ing, and sings a welcome song quite foreign to the
tawdry.“atmosphere.” She is really having a rest
from the hard work she has been doing, to prepare
for the better work she is going to do. Haigh
Jackson makes only a late appearance, too, most
effectively disguised behind an American million-
aire’s long white goatee whiskers. The ancient
millionaire sings one song; beyond that, he has
little to do, but his acting—not the fine baritone’s
Strong point—is justabouthisbest. Lauri, beginning
as a shop-walker in Hooley’s universal providery,
drifts into a number of disguises in a succession of
music-hall turns ; and Miss Rose Musgrove, ap-
parently some sort of a shop-walkeress to start
with, keeps Lauri company in the subsequent
quick-change-artist business —hanging the afore-
mentioned song and dance and stump-speech on
to the reach-me-down clothes in order to hide
their deficiencies. About the hardest thing
one can say of “The Shop Girl” is that
these music - hall tags are the most popu-
lar part of the performance. Some of them
are popular enough to be called for three or four
times. There are really two shop-girls—Miss
Clara Clifton and Miss Florence Young ; both of
them are foundlings, and one of them a million-
airess. Hooley, of the shop, gets an inkling of
it, and marries—the wrong one. That is the
plot. Miss Clifton knocks a good deal of fun but
of her foundling, and has the “ fat” of the songs
proper to the farce; and Miss Young struggles
with a part for which she isn’t suited. This is
Time’s fault, not Miss Young’s. Fred Leslie is a
deplorable French count, John Doran a passable
medical student who is going to marry the real
millionairess, and Percy is the usual johnny.
sie * *
“The Passport ” is si'll in evidence at
Sydney Criterion, and will continue until Friday
night to develop unexpected complications on the
Russian frontier. After that the Russian frontier
will be taken to pieces by the property man and
stored away till wanted again. ‘ 4 Little Mary ”is
due on Saturday, and is described as “ an Uncom-
fortable Play in three Acts, by J. M. Barrie.”
However uncomfortable Polly may be, the fact
that Robert Brough—the Brough who, as a
humorist and a fine versatile actor, stands without
a rival in Australia —is to re-appear as the Earl of
Carlton ensures it a good reception.
** * *
The other day a Sydney somebody, at the
resumption of studies at a certain school, gave the
young Australians a piece of plain language out
of his own head. He told them they had “ neither
enthusiasm nor endurance.” Writer saw some of
the elder pupils while witnessing the resurrection
of “Monsieur Beaucaire,” at Sydney Palace
on Saturday night, and they at least didn’t lack
enthusiasm, however short they might be in
endurance. They simply revelled in the glowing
love-story of the Prince whose hair glistened
yellow in the candle-light, and the haughty Mary
of the red roses. It was merely a chance that
Beaucaire and Mary chose a cool night to
resurrect. Had it been a sweltering eve
the packed audience of mostly young and young-
old persons would have had a chance to display
endurance as well. Julius Knight and Maud
Jeffries appear in their usual curtseying, bowing,
and elegantly artificial roles. G. P. Carey is the
Duke of Winterset, and the remainder of a long
c ist fits its parts well enough. “ Beaucaire ”is not
a work of art. It ambles with an unreal glitter
through an unreal atmosphere of pomp and
jewelled aristocracy, and it has a painful rever-
ence for persons belonging to the royal family.
Also the story, before the dramatist fitted it with
the conventional happy ending, was shockingly
illogical, for the Prince refused to marry Lady
Mary, whom he loved, because she wouldn’t have
him till she knew he wasn’t the plebeian he was
originally supposed to be, and went away to marry
a French relative whom he didn’t love, and who
would probably have been more shocked at the
idea of marrying him if he had been a plebeian
than Lady Mary was. But all the same, “Beau-
caire,” largely on account of its knee-breeches,
seems to have got a solid hold on the great heart
of the public.
* *
To-night (Thursday), “ The
Sign of the Cross ” is to ‘ Wee'p at the Palace by
general request, and Mercia in her long white
garment is now taking running exercise up and
down the furniture, so that she may keep ahead
of her leggy Roman admirer in the crisis of the
play. Also, the lions are sharpening their teeth,
and are getting up their tail muscles so that they
may lash the caudal appendage in the arena.
The fine old “Silver King” follows for four
nights, and then two samples of the “Lady of
Lyons ” will close the Knight-Jeffries season.
# * *
At Sydney Royal “ Tambour Major ” is in
its third week, and William Anderson’s luck is
still going strong. “Tambour Major” is pretty
old nowadays, and belongs to a class of comic
opera that, when Gilbert was in his prime, almost
seemed to have gone out of date. But by the aid
of a good company and lavish mounting, the
management has proved to the public that the
old show is almost as good as new. Solomon in
all his gold and weariness was a back number in
the matter of gorgeousness compared to W.
Anderson when that manager is really resolved
to do the thing handsomely, and Belshazzar, with
his diadem on his cranium in Babylon, was
only an unimportant blot on the surface of events.
Gold and tinsel, and military decorations,
and the pomp and fluff and circumstance
and proud cocked hat of war, and the glitter
of flags, and the rumble of ironmongery, and the
blare of music—all these effects rage through the
old play, and the back-cloth has been laid on with
a lavish hand. “Let there be scenery,” said
Anderson, when he ordered the play, and there
was scenery—the same as in Genesis. If ‘ ‘ Tambour
Major’’was ever done much better in its youth
than it is this time, it is an opera with a joyous
past to look back upon. On present appearances
William A. could make almost a record run with
it if he felt so inclined.
** * *
Newcomers to the Sydney Tivoli this week
include the Miles-Stavordale quintette, who may
best be described as trick musicians, getting out
of harp and zither or banjo, effects which come
within reasonable distance of the notes of the
human voice. Making their first appearance in a
sheaf of well-known selections from Irish airs,
they made themselves sure of a vociferous wel-
come, anyhow—and they got it and deserved it.
It would be a number deserving kind words even
if it weren’t advertised as “ Songs Without
Singers.” The Marionettes, the trio of trick
cyclists, and the Scotch Meisters build up a bill
of unusual variety.
«& * *
Probably the Melbourne chances of “ Leah
Kleschna ” are improved by the fact that it comes
a few months after “In the Bishop’s Carriage.”
The argument is the same in both dramas, and to
a great extent the characters, scenes and order of
events in the one play are reflected in the other.
Seemingly the story of “ The Bishop’s Carriage ”
was published as a novel before “Kleschna ” came
to light, whereas the latter was a popular play
ere the former was dramatised; but as to
whether “ Kleschna ” was a burglary from
the book, or both of them were stolen
from a foreign source, there is no convincing evi-
dence. This question of originality is a small
matter to Melbourne just now compared with the
question whether the drama at Her Majesty’s is a
better thing than the one Nellie Stewart and Co.
played at the Princess’slast year. Undoubtedly it is.
The points of resemblance and difference are all ini
favor of the present show. Leah, the daughter of
a sophistical criminal, Kleschna, has a more
genuine appearance than Nance, the pupil of Tom
Dorgan, a mere orthodox burglar, who was
supposed to love her for her chastity. Paul
Sylvaine, the politician with a taste for
criminology, is a less unreal preacher than priggish
Mr. Latimer in “ The Bishop’s Carriage.” Raoul
Berton, the contemptible young man about town,
is worth more to this story than any half-dozen
minor characters were worth to the other story.
In fact, “ Kleschna” most of the time is a stirring
melodrama, not so prosy at its prosiest or so weak
at its weakest as the drama of inevitable com-
parison, which was stagey nonsense all the time.
* * * *
Inconsistencies in character and plot are
obvious enough. Kleschna, the brave, brainy
burglar, shows too much of a disposition to stoush
his daughter the moment she angers him : also
he is blind to facts which his mild accomplice
Schram has accurately guessed. The dramatist
offers no reason why Raoul should coolly offer the
dishonor of his “protection ” to Miss Kleschna in
her father’s presence when they are supposed to
be decent people. Neither does the dialogue
in the first four acts seem to justify Sylvaine’s
proposal of marriage to Leah in the last act. The
girl’s reverence for him is explained. He was her
hero, the man with his photo in shop windows,
who turned her maiden heart from thoughts of
burglary, and made her so penitent that she went
forth and worked her sin away in a reformatory
market-garden. But her conversion doesn’t ex-
plain why Sylvaine, from Paris, should come
along to the remote cabbage-patch after a lapse of
three years for the purpose of picking Leah off the
soil and making her his bride —in England. It is
a silly last act, yet not so nauseating as the end of
“The Bishop’s Carriage” where Nellie Stewart,
in the garb of a ministering angel, spun her little
yarn about a Pot and a Pipkin.
* * * *
There are important changes in the cast
since “ Kleschna ” was staged in Sydney. Gaston
Mervale plays the heavy Christian politician in
place of Douglas Gerrard, and although Mervale
has always the manner of an actor, and a slow
tragedian at that, he is weighty and effective in
this part. Girls of the Leah sort are struck on
actors, anyhow. Harry Sweeney plays the very
young man character of Raoul, in succession to
Mervale aforesaid. Sweeney puts evidences of
talent and plenty of energy into his performance,
and the faults of enthusiastic inexperience may be
forgiven him for the sake of his brightness in the
first act. Incidentally, Maurice Dudley may
be commended for his lively sketch of the
conventional stage Frenchman in the first act.
His vivacity appears foreign to the surroundings,
because all the other French characters are played
on English lines, but such incongruities are the
salt of melodrama. Miss Brune, Roy Redgrave
and Atholwood are the firm of burglars, as before


Atholwood overacts his small part. He strikes
one key, and he strikes it too heavily. Redgrave,
on the other hand, has a large part in which he
gives only clever suggestions of a character which
might be more passionately expressed. And Miss
Brune, as she strikes the present commentator, is
not more than satisfactory in the name part. All
the droning dulness of her voice and enunciation
is brought out in her attempts to put strong
pathos into weak bits of dialogue. The character
doesn’t keep her tuned up to concert pitch. She
shows the same want of naturalness —plain, ordi-
nary, simple naturalness—that Nellie Stewart
shows. A strenuous actress striving to get the
right effect in the wrong way !
*# * *
A panto, at Melbourne Princess’s, sand-
wiched between intensely moral melodramas at
the Royal and Her Majesty’s, is practically
doomed to success, even in March, when the fes-
tive season is no more and the clown should be at
rest: The Anderson panto, represents frivolity
at a premium. Its arrival is opportune, and a
“Sindbad ” that grabs opportunity by the throat
is bound to squeeze a bit of money from
its victim. Anderson’s “Sindbad” is not
a brilliantly humorous nor a specially gor-
geous entertainment. The Interior of the
King’s Palace falls about 15 miles short of one’s
wildest dreams of magnificence, and there are two
or three fairies in the ballet who would look all
the better for a new face apiece. But “ Sindbad ”
will meet public requirements for a fortnight. It
goes very well, with the assistance of a new prin-
cipal “boy ” (Miss Marie Campbell) and the old
comedians, Fred Graham and Bert Bailey, of
whom Bailey will be remembered for his per-
tinacity in inviting other members of the panto,
to kiss Georgey. On Saturday night the “Sind-
bad ” proceedings were unduly prolonged, but the
audience mostly stayed to the finish and took out
its full money’s worth.
* -:tf * *
At Melbourne Iloyal, the success of “ The
Prodigal Son ” has reached the border-line where
a policeman prohibits further sale of tickets at the
door, and Bland Holt restrains himself with diffi-
culty from singing “Hallelujah.” Hall Caine’s
drama will carry the season to a crowded termi-
nation next week, after which Meynell and Gunn
will get an innings with “The Fatal Wedding.”
Meanwhile, the sorrowful Prodigal (Albert
Norman) is returning home in a new wig, not so
white as his previous head of hair, but a distinctly
better fit. In other respects than Norman’s wig,
the presentation of “ The Prodigal Son ” is less
glaring than at first. The co. is dropping to the
requirements of a drama that is not essentially
“ melo.”
** * *
Nothing in particular happened to the bill
at Melbourne Opera House last week. The Legs
in the Air are maintaining their former attitude
towards the atmosphere. Miss Raymond, Crim-
mins and Gore, the Two Tambourines, the Two
Bells, Fanny Powers and Others proceed as usual,
Others being a numerous performer of uncertain
merit.
** * *
Adelaide Tivoli has been re-opened by
Rickards, with manager Marcus in charge. The
little house has had a lot of money spent on it;
an asbestos curtain being put in, and new ap-
proaches provided for the stalls and circle. In a
strong mixed co., Talma, Leroy and Bosco are the
stars. They are almost as good as their own
picture-posters, and those are the cleverest on local
record. The Royal perseveres with its flicker-
films, having done especially well in Show week
with no, opposition running. The photographer
appears to have been close to both Nelson and
Charles Pearce when each of these historical
heroes met with a fatal accident.
The “first white woman” is very much in
evidence just now. Last week’s obituary con-
tained the name of a Mrs. Cooke, who died at
Kiama, aged 75, and whose friends claim
for her the honor of being the first female white
child born at the place where Parkes raised his
famous ghost. Kiama and its Blow-hole have a
lot to answer for.
Hans Heysen, a promising young South
Australian brush-wielder, has sold his picture,
recently exhibited in the A.N.A. Exhibition, to
the Melbourne National Gallery for £l5O. Hans
is not a master yet; but he paints the Bush with
honest observation and proper enthusiasm, and
some day, if he doesn’t rush to Paris, he should do
notable work.
One of the chief objects of civilisation is
to extract pleasure from the ordinary necessities
of life, hence the improvements in the art of
dining, the practice of sleeping, and so forth.
When Rome was at its highest the fact was made
evident in the artistic way the people washed
themselves. But our civilisation has taken (a
wider sweep, and cut deeper into the original
rough plan of things. Now-a-days the most
trivial details of life have been made luxuries.
If you want to dine in an atmosphere
of beauty, luxury, and quiet comfort, de-
corate your breakfast and dining tables with
silver and electro - plated ware from the
premises of Messrs. W. Mammat and Sons,
Empire Chambers, 93 York-street, Sydney. The
choice is unlimited, and the prices are all that can
be desired. This energetic firm has made a luxury
of shaving, which is one of the latest developments
of civilisation. Whatever the Roman may have
had in his marble halls and scented baths, he cer-
tainly never had a hollow-ground razor, and the
best of all razors is the Abbot, which while re-
moving the hirsute growth imparts a delightful
sensation. And while you are selecting the
electro-plate for the table and the Abbot razor for
the toilet bureau, have a look at the office, pocket,
and yachting knives. They are worth gazing
upon.*
The Continental C. and G. Rubber Co. Prop.
Ltd., of 225 Clarence-street, are making a change in the
management of their Sydney office. Mr. J. P. Wallace,
the Managing Director, arrived in Sydney during the
week together with Mr. George F. Hill, the new manager
for this branch. The progress of the Continental
Company has been very marked during 1905. The increase
in actual business over the preceeding year amounts to
over half a million pounds sterling, naturally Australian
business comes in for a share of this and the progress
made by the company in every State is of the most satis-
factory character. Motor and cycle tyres naturally are
the trading lines of the Continental Company.*
Artist Percy Spence, on the eve of his return
to London and steady graft, after what has been virtually
a twelve-months holiday in Austral sunshine, is disposing
of a charming collection of oil paintings, water colors,
and character sketches in various mediums. The collec-
tion, which includes much of the craftsman’s best work—
work which it i 3 improbable that he will ever excel in
freshness and grace—is at present on view at the galle-
ries of Walter Bradley and Co., 324 George-street, Sydney.
Since Spence originally left Australia he has mixed with
some shockingly bad company from a democratic stand-
point, and his collection of impressions of kings and other
large social and political dogs is numerous. People who
are interested in this sort of fry have a unique oppor-
tunity to gratify the vice.
AT POVERTY POINT.
v 'Y/hK Fo^?”
"WHFxFOR!!!”
CHINA'S ATTITUDE ; YESTERDAY AND TO-DAY.
“J.W.”: I witnessed a very touching scene at the
A.N.A. Exhibition (Melb.) the other night. Three charm-
ing young damsels stood in front of a dairy pioduce stall
smiling on the crowd and offering it dainty plates of
cheese to sample. Behind them hung an imposing
placard This is the stall at which Sir Reginald
Talbot stopped this morning and sampled some cheese
from these very plates ! ” The people were falling over
one another to sample the cheese, which, of course, did
not hold out very long ; and when it gave out, some
fervent loyalists kissed the plates. Others, I hope, kissed
the girls.
“C.M.G.”: Gaston Mervale, supporting Tittell Brune
and others, has a quaint mannerism. Gaston is usually a
very'composed actor, and there is a sort of .Government
stroke about his methods, but, when it is absolutely
necessary for him to wake up and get his emotions going,
he shakes the words out of himself just as a damp dog
shakes the water off his hide. In the stress of great
excitement, Gaston’s shake becomes so excessive that one
expects his clothes to fly off him into the orchestra.
Said that Bland Holt made an effort to get hold of that
jewel, Knight, and Miss Maud Jeffries for places in his
rendering of “The Prodigal Son,” but manager J. G.
Williamson had all rights reserved, and he asked a rental
for sub-letting Julius and Maud that put a sudden stop to
the negotiations. (This report will probably be contra-
dicted next week.)
Williams, the hypnotic subject who was fined for
furious driving in Ballarat, put up rather a record. He
somehow forgot to pay the fine in Ballarat, and got away
to Geelong. There a warrant of commitment was sent
after him. The policeman who had to arrest him arrived
just as Samuel (his name is Samuel Williams) was being
hypnotised. Sammy hurried up and got into the trance
in record time. The bobby was nonplussed. He stood
scratching his head and exclaiming “ But he’s my
prisoner,” in art injured tone of voice, while Samuel was
lifted away from under his very eyes and solemnly buried
about 6ft.'underground out of his reach. Bobby spent
the next week, during which Samuel remained in the
trance, hovering between Samuel’s grave and O’Calla-
ghan’s “ Plain Hints to Policemen,” which plain volume,
however, said nothing about how to arrest a live corpse
that has been buried.
“ Hiphen ” : J. C. Williamson, I congratulate you ! You
are a judge of human nature. You know to a nicety how
much strain your audience can stand per square inch.
You know more ; you know how to relieve that strain.
It was a brilliant—nay, humane—idea on Wednesday
week night, when La Tosca was carving-knifing the villain
with the convulsive name ; when the bouse was shudder-
ing and the ladies up above were breathing loudly, and
the lemonade bottles were slipping from their nerveless
grasp on to the stalls below, to introduce that low-comedy
cat, which leapt lightly before the footlights, walked with
dignity across the stage, and disappeared in the wings.
’Tis the light, humorous touch at the right tragic moment
that spells genius.
The Holman Hunt picture, “ The Light of the World,”
is travelling the globe at its owner’s expense, and the
English Johnnie-boy in charge, who has a lot of nice
clothes and an aristocratic lisp, has a very soft snap. He
receives a decent salary and all expenses to carry “ The
Light ” from place to place. The intention of Booth, the
owner, is not the encouragement of art ; his object is en-
tirely religious, and he regards the painting as a sort of
sermon on canvas, which turns men’s thoughts from
worldly things, and makes them think of their end.
Thinking of one’s end is an uncomfortable form of reflec-
tion, but the truly pious person’s highest ambition is to
turn our thoughts in that direction. This is what Mr.
Booth and the young man carrying “The Light’’aim at.
The mission movement comes to Sydney, thence to Tas-
mania, and then does the inland towns before going to
Maoriland and America.
“ Melb.”: We are having a row over policeman Curran.
This gentleman disdains - the trivial round of the blue-
bottle, copper, trap, or slop, and has developed a genius
for managing the police fetes, which are so popular.
They set the populace roaring over a mock robbery at
Prince’s Court, and then comes intelligence of some real
garrotting, bank robbery with violence, and what not,
executed with impunity. Commissioner Tom O’Oal-
laghan, Superintendent Mahony, and the other heads of
the force, get an idea that Curran’s genius is rather
demoralising to the force, and that he ought to keep his
nose to the grindstone on his “ bate,” and capture the
disorderly pushite. I’ve a notion that Curran is too good
for that work, and will yet be found running a circus or
an opera co.
“ H.L.” : Going home in the train last night I heard a
little, pale, fair child say to her mother, “Mother, when
• Sindbad the Sailor ’ is on, will you take me to see it,
instead of giving me a birthday present?” And the
mother, in pained, righteous tones, said, “I could not
take you to see that class of play, my dear, but if the
‘Sign of the Cross’is played again, perhaps your father
and I may take you, if you’re a good girl.” And, some-
how, I felt so sorry for that little kiddie.
Herman Merivale died the other week. He narrowly
escaped brilliancy as a dramatist and litterateur, but
seemingly he was an ill-ballasted vessel. Of late years he
got among the breakers. Perhaps it was a misfortune
for him that he grew up among scholars and writers of
the heavy sort, and so acquired the same early taste for
bohemiaiiism that comes just as naturally to the sons of
parsons. His father, the original Herman, was professor
of political economy at Oxford University before he
became permanent Under-Secretary for India, and his
uncle, Charles Merivale, was also a scholar who published
histories of Rome and the Romans. The late Herman
Merivale made his first mark as a playwright (in collabora-
tion with Palgrave Simpson) when he was stiff on the
sunny side of 30. Some years later he wrote “ Forget-
me-Not,” and “ All for Her,” the latter an adaptation of
Dickens’ “ Tale of Two Cities.” “ The White Pilgrim ”—a
poetical play—was his finest work, and there were others
more or less successful, all written before he was 45.
“ Forget-me-Not ” will doubtless be revived from time to
time in the future by actresses who have pretensions to
follow Genevieve Ward in the name part. The English
version of “ Fedora,” Merivale’s most lucrative job,.will
continue to keep his name before the public if theatrical
managers gave it a line on the bill which, as a rule, they
don’t. His knowledge of French and German—he wrote
graceful verses in both languages—was a deterrent to
Merivale’s talent for original composition. Having made
money easily by turning foreign plays into English, he
was easily discouraged by the comparatively poor finan-
cial results of his harder and better labor.
The actress scatters her real self in shreds over her im-
nersonations.
Oscar Asche, the ex-Australian, pitching another
romantic story to a London interviewer: “I had a good
deal of open-air life when I was ranching in Australia.
I spent my childhood at Geelong, in Victoria, and I well
remember when at school near the Dandenong Ranges,
seeing four horsemen gallop past. It was the famous
bushranger Ned Kelly" and his gang, escaping to the
mountains, with the police only a few hours behind. But
I had always intended to be an actor ; the ranching was
merely a preliminary.” Asche onght to collaborate with
Melba in a book of 'Australian reminiscences. Probably
Melba would remember that her father, “ the colonel” of
modern magazine fiction, was acting as leader of the police
who came galloping after Ned Kelly, at a distance of only
forty miles, what time Oscar, the future rancher, was
watching the mad career of the fugitives as they dashed
past the Dandenong Ranges. But why did Oscar forget
to mention that the bushranger, digging the spurs into
his foam-flecked steed, shouted : “ Ride like h—l boys,
we haven’t six hours to spare ! ” ?
Another advertisement for Australia ! Nellie Stewart,
in a letter to her sister Docy (Mrs. H. R. Harwood), says
that she received congratulatory telegrams re her Ameri-
can success from the Governments of New South Wales
and Victoria. If she had been a Maorilander, Seddon’s
telegram of congratulation would have run to half-a-
column.
Melbourne University Jubilee should be made thrilling
by a professional product, aGreek ode, “bookand lyrics”
by Prof. Tucker, “ music” by Prof. Petersen. This medi-
aeval custom, resurrected to give tone to the exciting
ceremonial, threatens uncanny results. Because the in-
stitution has lingered on for 50 years, that is no reason
why a hvmn and harmonium virtuoso should paddle in
music, and an erudite but uninspired philologist rejoice
in discreet verse (luckily, it’s Greek; the Professor’s
superior English verse seldom, if ever, condescends to the
publication level). The classic concoction seems likely to
amuse the ignorant even if it doesn’t instruct them.
Statement (received from London) in The Bulletin that
comedian George Giddens would be with the forthcoming
firm of Willoughby and Ward'is now said to be erroneous.
“S. ”: “ Prodigal Son, ”as produced at Melbourne Royal,
represents tbe joint effort of Mr. “ Haul” Caine and Mr.
Arthur Collins, which latter gentleman runs a thriving
melodrama foundry in London. There is a spell of prob-
lem in the play, and some little feverish effort at Neitz-
schean talk, borrowed from the German of Sudermann,
but the mixtureis by Collins, who is incapable of raising
Caine, and consequently the dead level of the thing is
below par. It is necessary to kill off the Prodigal in the
third act, and so a hairy and hoary medical inventor dis-
charges a pistol in the gambling hell. The lights are all
on, and as they come in all the people declare aloud that
the Prodigal has shot himself, but as there is no corpse
anywhere available, it must be assumed that the
Prodigal, after shooting himself, carefully removed his
own body, and hid it in the dust barrel. This magni-
ficent disregard for detail is in the best melodramatic
vein of the indefatigable Collins. The moral appears to
be that the prodigal son of our time, if he likes fat veal,
must carry his own calves, for the cupboard is bare when
Hall Caine’s prodigal returns. Bland Holt’s mounting is
good enough for anything, which means it is much too
good for Caine and Collins.
“Melb.” : I found the Cycloramaa wonderful sight at
the last Sunday night concert. Over 2000 people there.
An immense, circular, whitewashed place, with the crowd
heaped up in tiers nearly all round. A good orchestra
was prettily embowered in artificial chrysanthemum
flowers of pink, white, and blush red.
A modest person is George Bernard Shaw. He has
written to London Eka stating that he never gave Henry
Irving the offer of any of his plays, and adds : “ If I had,
and Mr. Irving had refused the offer, it would now be
very difficult to convince the public that such a refusal
was not a gross error of judgment.”
“ Hiphen ” : I want that pious person, Varley the Vir-
tuous, to refund me 3s. I read of the emotions roused in
him by the Primroses at Rickards’ show, so went to have
3s. worth of similar emotion. I didn’t get it. They are
very tame little wild flowers indeed, with artificial-look-
ing stems. The show is as wildly immoral as the action
of a household fly in walking on the ceiling. First they
stand on their feet and wave their heads. Then they
stand on their heads and wave their feet. The only dif-
ference is that one method is more restful. The very
name “ Primrose ” exudes modesty. But even if they
called themselves “ Scarlet Runners ” it wouldn’t matter.
Doesn’t the poet say, “ A primrose by any other name
would wave its feet,” or something to that effect?
Yon der Mehden, bandmaster of Fitzgerald Bros.’
Circus, who is now on a holiday in San Francisco, writes :
“ Musgrove has surprised the Americans with his Nellie
Stewart Co. He put the piece on splendidly, and had the
largest orchestra that had ever been known for a dramatic
show. The people here are crazy over Nellie’s acting,
and the papers say that the Australians have astonished
Americans with their stage settings.”
The Melbourne inquiry into the Gem-
brook railway disaster, which was apparently not
intended to elucidate much, has uninten-
tionally stumbled—or been pushed—on to some-
thing that nobody suspected. The Board went up
to Fern Tree Gully to inspect the damaged loco-
motive, and there ah interfering person named
Hulse—one of the most prominent committee-
men at the time of the strike, but now
out of the department—drew Engineer Ker-
not’s attention to the fact that it wasn’t
altogether the state of the track or the speed
that was responsible for the trouble, but chiefly
the engine itself. This remarkable machine,
which Tait used for taking heavy loads of
humanity for an airing, was in such a state of dis-
repair that “one left hand wheel was carry-
ing cwt. more dead weight than the right
hand one. The flange of one of the wheels was
very much worn and the bearings had worn
down to such an extent that the body of
the engine was riding on the frame instead
of on the springs. The centre of gravity had so
shifted that travelling on a curve was necessarily
dangerous. A driver had reported that the
engine was running low, and a solid steel plate
had been inserted, which would have the effect of
aggravating instead of remedying the defect.”
The board went home pondering deeply. Mean-
while a lot of departmental persons are wishing
that interfering people like Hulse would mind
their own business.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) ivlU be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. ivill be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Rosamund : Pretty good, but we like something
more cheerful than dying-child literature Drummer:
“ Remnant ” very gruesome and only' moderately artis.
tic G.W.P. : “Tragedy” has good points, but the
large-busted woman who is married to a pale, colorless
man always goes one road Koala: “Hunted” and
“Phyllis” just miss the mark Reader: Note passed
to Dorrington Gumleaf : Rather too slight R.G.D. :
Well, in-breeding may suit Herefords. Judging by
results it doesn’t suit royalties.... A.S. (1) Verses to
Lady N. too slobbersome. (2) Agree with you that the
householder who employs nigger labor deserves all he
gets in the way of assault and battery The Hack:
(1) Verses just miss. (2) As to the chemist, one swallow
doesn’t make a summer. In N.S. Wales at least most
of the retail chemists are “tied” to the big
wholesale houses, and make but a poor living....
Michal: Sorry, but though your stuff is generally
good in staple you never get finish enough into
it Bert: Weak and unskilful C.G.C.: Haven’t
quality enough A. M‘C. : Well intended, but your
hand isn’t strong enough Adlim : Quite unsuitable for
B Pannuck : We’re doing our best to wake Australia
to the need of colonising the Northern Territory....
Saphead : Show a good rhyming facility ; too crude for
publication... .M.C.: The small boy who said cotton was
derived from the cow was only a rudimentary' humorist.
Ny 7 m : Your bulky letter about the A.N.A. cost us
tenpence (lOd.) for deficient postage. Some of y r ou Vic-
torians seem to think that your purely local penny post-
age will carry' anything. Stuff not read... .Postulate :
Your theory seems to be that nobody who draws a horse
has any chance unless he lays the owner something
to nil —in other words, that without a slice of
the sweep money no horse will start in any of
the big races on which Tattersall has sweeps. It
is a great idea, and you ought to bray about it :..
Moth: Too conventionally sentimental Cam: Varies
from strong to very weak.... Drifter: Neither quite
good enough G. : “Bush Building” falls rather
flat.... A.Z.A. : The “situation” required more spirited
handling Norman S. : Nothing in that... .T.R.D. :
Too long in the wind... .F.P. :We are w’eary of tearfully
erotic verse Arthur 0. : Same old lack of skill
Lombard: You’re so good-humored, sorry to have to
basket you E.A.B. : Confused jumble of ideas....
J.W.D. : Your aspirations are more commendable than
your verse Skeleton D.: One badly told, t’other a
chestnut Water-beetle : Seems to have been a lunatic*
pure and simple....G.B. : The humor of one is con-
strained, the other hasn’t interest enough for its length.,.
Cuthbert W. : “Arise yee Australions ! ” will never arise
in print Alick P. : Not nearly good enough Morris :
Feeble and commonplace C.8.A.: Weak and wordy...
Jonquil : Cleverly' conceived, but needlessly' elaborated.
Good effects are always simple... .F. M‘l. : Such a subject
requires a lighter touch thanyours. .Will H. : You strangle
yourself with your own logic. Can’t you see that without
conventionality there could be no unconventionality ?
Ce Cile : No wish to “ crush ” you, but there’s not enough
in it for print N. Grace : Sorry it isn’t even now up to
the mark Alf. S. : Merely Sheiley'-and-water.... W.H. :
“ Ambition ”is dangerously near to doggerel. The other
is better, but not quite good enough.... Jas. C.: A feeble
effort.. ..Les. L. : We pay for anything we accept, but
your screed doesn’t get near that mark.. ..Sydney P. :
Beautifully obscure; and that isits only merit H.M.K.:
Pretty album verse; if we had a 2004 page Bulletin
might find room for it B.A. : Your boarding-house
poem drearier than any hash-house we’ve met... .S.G. :
That Napier (M.L.) rag hardly worth noticing. Why
doesn’t it barrack for the unlimited entry of the
Hindu to M.L. if it believes so firmly in colored
labor for Australia?... .A. W.J. (M.L.): Thanks..,.
A. J.H. : (1) In spite of what you say, there is absolutely
no doubt as to the power of the Commonwealth to impose
a land-tax. The question was fully argued before the ’9l
Convention. The ’97 Convention negatived amendments
suggested by the N.S.W. Legislative Council to curtail
the taxing powers of the Federation. (2) Probably a
Commonwealth Land Tax could not be collected on lands
owned by the States ; it would not need to be, since its
main purpose would be economic and not fiscal Ada
B. : Rather pretty, but the wattle, as a subject, is
severely “ off.” Josephine R. : Fairly good in places,
but never quite reaches the mark Geo. B. : Decent
verse, but the idea is inadequate... .Bryn Mawr: Rather
weak and undistinguished Kate: Too many blemishes
in sty'le... .C.T. J. : Indefinite and unreal Drifter : But
the “ Cornstalks ” do not “ foot the bill ” in that case
Vonda: Dangerously near to doggerel Gava : You
have the poetic feeling, though you lack skill W.L. :
We wouldn’t dream of inflicting that on our readers....
C. Evelyn : Falls a little flat... .C.H.R. : Pretty fair, but
hardly compact enough Hugh H. : Hasn’t quality
enough Mallarapoonie : Don’t care for it Bena : A
rough piece of work Wang : Factory-made humor....
Lillias G. : Strong, but inartistic and unpleasant Phil
Gar: Rather feeble and mechanical T.O.M. : Not
quite “ class” enough Harvey K.: Hardly of sufficient
general interest Vindex : You have no verse-gift, and
your prose is hopelessly ungrammatical D.T.W. :
Trebly barred—because you write abominably, use both
sides of the paper, and roll your MS. tightly
Vicus : That story about the mean man of Parramatta is
the oldest chestnut outside of Sheol C. T. Brooks : You
ask : “ Supposing Australia, by the happy combination
of a Protective tariff and internal industry, had developed
all those industries for which the country was fairly well
adapted. Further, suppose that the home market was
fully supplied, and that each year the producers and
manufacturers were left with a considerable surplus on
hand, how would it be possible for the forced hot-house
products, so to speak, of Australia to compete in foreign
markets with the dumped products of cheaper labor?”
Well, it would be possible just the same way as it is
possible for the hot-house products of the United States.
J. G. Mac. : Lacks incident and action... .Gil Roden :
Deficient in graphic power Arthur: Feeble “fine
writing,” flavored with moral claptrap.... Hamer: “ Waif ”
reaches the level of “not quite.”....Sally B. : You
are a painfully cocksure Sarah. A little physiological
reading would show the absurdity of your views
Erratic 0. : Your thoughts are a lot stronger than your
sense. Specimen:—
Pariah: Rather too wordy and rhetorical Doris
H. ; Yes, there is great promise in it. Try again
M.E. : The second stanza spoils it.... Tyro: Weak, and
one barely decent.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
H.O. : “Called to the Bar” jest has seen much hard
service in various forms H. Bradley : Picture of a very
shapeless girl making an imperceptible joke.... O’Sullivan:
Like an illustrious namesake you borrowed the joke ;
and —again there is a similarity—you don’t put it to the
best use R.N. Jackson : A drawing declined ; you send
no address for return T. : Show promise, but not up
to mark A.B. : Too scribbly Cipher: Cannibal
picture only declined because Hop has pretty well ex-
hausted that subject for B. readers Dick Hartley:
Work very promising. Some returned mostly because of
poorness of jokes Phil A. : Some promise ; a shade too
crude as yet W. Nelson : Two accepted. Please send
name arid address (which should be endorsed on
every drawing submitted) to accountant Perce S. :
Too small a joke Will K. : A good deal of
promise, hut you obviously lack training O.P. :
None of the illustrated “jokes” is at all jocal
H.B. : Sketch no good—in fact, worse than that
Macdonald: Drawing simply inhuman. Figures like
nothing on earth or elsewhere J.C.B. : Idea (“Mikado,
K.G.”) is pretty good, but the execution is very moderate.
Jim Dick :' Three declined. One may serve as sugges-
tion 8.W.8.: The native who wanted to “make te
drunk come quick ” has been - intoxicated in many lands
and languages Benson: Just failed Rep.: Good
work, but requires too elaborate an explanation. A
picture needs to mostly tell its own story Les. B. :
You haven’t a sure enough hand for that type of work
yet.... P.B. : Drawings strangely unequal. A good figure
is put beside a quite wooden dog, and so 0n... .Unsuit-
able: G.P.H., Bert S., V. 8., C.L., R.L.N.G., F. Weld,
W.J.C., J.P., Ted C., Harry J., 1.M.N., S.T., Truro,
J.S.McK,
Don’t care a cuss what other folks say;
Carve out your own dominion !
There’s many fine personality lost
On the rocks of Public opinion.


Taught by Post.
Stott & Hoare’s
Business College
MOORE STREET,
SYDNEY. [S
Your Holidays are in View.
DON’T FORGET THE GUN !
You might see something to shoot !
DON’T FORGET THE LINES!
You might catch some fish !
DON’T FORGET THE CAMERA !
You’re sure to see some pretty girls,
pretty scenes and interesting incidents!
Haven’t you exclaimed : “ I’d give a £ for a photo, of
of that! ” One Shilling added to the £ will purchase
one of . . .
HARRINGTON’S CAMERAS
Price
21/-
THE UNION Folding Hand or Stand CAMERA. Simple
to operate. Takes photos. 4|in. x 3|in. Folds neat and
compact. Complete with printed instructions.
LATEST MDDEL CAMERAS from 5/- to £5O. Illustrated Catalogue—FßEE.
386 GEORGE ST., ££a SYDNEY, a™ 93 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
Society
PENFOLD'S
WINES
The elusive treasure on board the sunken
Elingamite has apparently gone for ever. Wel-
lington (M.L.) hotel keeper Gow, who equipped a
second expedition to secure the £17,000, was
sorely disappointed. The hull of the wrecked
vessel had been completely shattered since the
first expedition examined it, and it it had been
burst up with dynamite it couldn’t have been a
greater wreck. There was not the slightest trace
of the money, which was in wooden boxes, en-
closed in an iron tank or strong room. It has
been suggested that a couple of Americans, who
h id a boat on a fishing expedition in the locality,
may have happened to get near the Three Kings
where the buried treasure lay, and having, by a
queer coincidence, a diver and all appliances
aboard, fished up the money, then blown up the
wreck to conceal the fact. At any rate, the
money is gone, the wreck is gone, and the two
Americans are gone, and hotel-keeper Gow, cf
Wellington, has a gone feeling at the pit of the
stomach.
WHAT MIGHT HAPPEN TO A KING
IN AUSTRALIAN.
During: a thunderstorm near Brisbane yesterday a large
number of young fish fell with the rain.’ They were all
alive.
With the fussy vexation of a wet hen,
N.S.W. Divorce Court Justice Simpson lately
condemned the Act which allows a Judge of the
District Court to hear evidence in divorce cases,
and to send the depositions on to the Divorce
Justice for a verdict. The idea is to save expense
to parties in country towns which are visited by
District Court but not by Supreme Court Judges.
Justice Simpson snorted : —
The District Court was an inferior court, whereas the
Supreme Court was not, and the District Court must be
kept within its jurisdiction. Whether lie would ever
send important issues to be tried by District Court
Judges was another matter. He liked to see the wit-
nesses himself. Deception was practised over and over
again, especially in cases of desertion.
N.S.W. Supreme Court Judges are just now
rather often politely snubbed by the High Court
Judges. They seem to like to pass it on to the
District Court men.
* * * *
Victorian woman moves. One of her
wrote to the Melbourne Herald the other even-
ing asking that paper’s tame lawyer how long she
must have deserted her husband before she could
claim a divorce.
The man behind
the camera was ’most
always a superfluity,
but his latest freak
gives him an honored
place among the
Fiends. He operates
now with what he
calls the “ revolver-
camera ” —a murder-
ous-looking imple-
ment that closely re-
sembles a six-s.; < :ter.
Occasionally, while
practising his mac-
hinations in places
where he is not
wanted, he strikes
trouble. Recently,
in a nicely-sheltered
spot in the Gardens,
a couple were rudely
interrupted in their
fond observations by
a sharp, clicking
sound. On looking
up, they beheld a
man covering them
with what looked
like a revolver. The
lady instantly, and
without any diffi-
culty, threw a fit.
Not so the man ; he
jumped, and that
jump landed him on
the surprised neck of
the photographer, who,
for the next two minutes,
wondered what particular
part of him was getting hit
most. After finding out that
he was not quite dead, the
camera-man explained, and the
explanation caused more strife;
this time he concluded that he
had better be dead.
Choice and significant ad.
from recent English papers :
Royal Army and Navy biscuits, left over from the
South African war, for sale. Intact, in strong waterproof
boxes. Delivered in Plymouth, 4s. 3d per box. Excel-
lent for dogs !
"* * * *
Nobody ever seems to have the least diffi-
culty in escaping from Victorian lock-ups; and
since it has become known that alleged prisoners
who escape before they are sentenced are guilty of
no offence, the pastime may become a favorite one.
Two energetic young men a few months ago carved
their way out of South Melbourne lock-up with
an old pocket knife. They subsequently got out
of a country gaol by means of a bootlace. They
were experts. A week or two ago a woman walked
out of Little Bourke-street lock-up. The door was
left on the chain ; the man who put the chain on
had been used to plump women, and this woman
being thin, squeezed out and strolled off. A few
days later a thief in Collingwood lock-up waited
till the door was opened, then he darted off, and
is still going. The only remarkable feature about
these escapes is that they happen so seldom.
With the exception of the Bourke-street West
establishment, there isn’t a lock-up in the metro-
politan area that is worth shucks. A sober,
ingenious man could get out of any of them. They
were built for drunks, and only a very drunk mail
need stay in them. They are flimsy where they
should be stout, and stout where it doesn’t matter.
They are dirty, evil-smelling, ill-ventilated, and
inhuman. Still, Thomas Bent won’t spend three-
halfpence in improving them. That is the way of
Thomas.
* * * *
The garrotte has, after some years ab-
sence, been once more installed as one of the
terrors that walk by . night in Melbourne’s un-
lighted, unpoliced suburban streets. A city mer-
chant was garrotted at 11 o’clock on a recent
Saturday night, a few hundred yards from the
main street in Kew, in a well-populated resi-
dential street. He was carrying home the day’s
takings, and though the garrotters got away with
£lO, he managed to slip 16 sovereigns between
his vest and shirt while they were dealing with
him, and they went away £l6'short. The merchant
lustily bellowed for help ; but none came. The
garrotters drove in a buggy quietly through the
streets of Kew, with the merchant racing and
roaring flOyds. behind ; but no one stopped them,
and there were, of course, no policemen about.
The suburbs of Melbourne are ridiculously under-
patrolled by police. Most of the suburban beats
take four hours to walk round, and none take less
than two hours. Every criminal knows that when
a bobby passes a certain point he won’t return for
two, three, or four hours, as the case may be, and
consequently the criminal gets ahead in his work
free from all worry on that score. All the crime
of any note that has been done in Melbourne for
the past year has been worked in the suburbs.
It is so easy.
* * * 9
Waxcellency Madden missed two beautiful
texts last week, just through not being there.
One couple was married, took a furnished room in
Fitzroy, and luxuriated in wedded bliss for three
whole days ; then the bridegroom departed to a
ploughing job at Werribee. Apparently he
struck an endless furrow, or ploughed himself in,
or something, for that was the last seen of him. In
the other case the husband was so paralysed by joy
over his marriage that he started a wild course of
tanglefoot that lasted, with a few brief intervals,
for 12 months. Then the bride wearied, and took
a billet, while her husband congratulated her on
her pluck in doing so, and faded away to parts
unknown. And if only Mr. Madden "had been
there he would have spread himself at great
length and to no purpose, and so filled a gap in
the weariful scheme of things.
* * * *
The proposed conversion of Princess Ena
of Battenberg to Roman Catholicism to qualify
her for the well-paid billet of Queen of Spain
recalls the fact that royalties are the prize religious
turncoats of the world. Take the British royal
family as a sample. King Edward’s sister was
converted to the Evangelical State Church to
qualify for the job of being Queen of Prussia.
His daughter Maud Charlotte suddenly saw the
beauties of Lutheranism when she married Karl of
Denmark. Two of his nieces, Sophia and Alex-
andra, saw that the Greek Church was the only
square thing when there was no other way of
getting a royal job ; and now Miss E. Battenberg
proposes to be honestly and sincerely converted to
Roman Catholicism, seeing that there is a rich
marriage hanging on to it. The person who is
Head of the Church seems to acquire from too
great familiarity with the institution, a great and
horrid contempt for the Body and Tail of the
Church, and among royalties apostacy becomes a
fine art. Britain may yet see one of its princesses
turning Buddhist to qualify for marriage with
the royal family of Monkeydom.
A VAST UNDERTAKING.
“ Yes, my hoy, I intend, to make a decent thing
of that before I’m done.”
“It seems to me you’ll have a job.”
One S. Australian member of the Federal
Parliament, anyway, is beginning to wander
whether there may not be two sides to
the weary old row between his
State, Victoria, and N.S. Wales re-
garding the rights to the Murray
waters. The Joe Carruthers brand
of officials in N.S. Wales and Vic.
say that the water in the stream is
theirs—anyhow, they and Queens-
land own it, for it is their rain
that makes the river flow. And
S. Australia says that you can’t
divide rights in a stream like that,
and that the man who owns the
bottom end of a river has a right
to some water. The vast row
over that point which has been
brewing for years, and is just
beginning to feed the lawyers,
is having a sort of dress re-
hearsal on a small scale. It
seems that President Baker, of
the Senate, owns a place at
Morialta, in the Hills outside
Adelaide; and on the same
creek above Morialta Tom
Playford, who represents the
Deakin Government in the
Senate, hashismarketgarden.
The season has been dry, and
the tomatoes of Playford and
his neighbors (though Play-
ford’s own specialty is cher-
ries) have been calling for
more water than usual, and
It. 0. Baker has had to go
short ; so in the row which
has resulted, Senator Play-
ford has been N.S. Wales,
and President Baker has
been S. Australia, and, as
remarked previously, Play-
ford, having regard for his
wilting vegetables, is begin-
ning to wonder whether there
isn’t something to be said for
N.S. Wales. But as the law-
yers haven’t been called into the business, there is a
much better chance of the dispute being settled
promptly and equitably than there is in connec-
tion with the inter-State row.
* * * *
A Wagga (N.S.W.) decision has upset the
notion that clergymen have any special privileges
in speaking of other folks’ characters. A Sydney
cleric, while crossing over in a ferry boat, met a
Junee cleric and asked after a certain family. He
was told that a member of it had got a gaol sen-
tence in Westralia, and so, later on, condoled with
the man’s sister. The information wasn’t correct,
and the Junee clergyman, action for slander being
taken, was struck heavily in the eye by a person
called Damages.
The trustees of a Melbourne suburban
cemetery are finding out what a magnificent mess
a really energetic messer can make in a cemetery.
The messer in this case was the secretary, now of
parts unknown. The trustees knew things were
bad; but the depths and heights of the tangle
didn’t occur to them until, the other day, a local
citizen who had bought an 8 x 4 allotment years,
ago proceeded to bury a relative, and was stag-
gered to find that the grave was already filled with
promiscuous and unknown dead. The deceased
was accommodated with a temporary home while
the trustees poked around trying to discover an
empty grave that was really empty, while the
citizen himself went to the Minister of Works and
unloaded a bagful of insulting remarks. But the
trustees are a calm, casual set of gentlemen, who
have decided to view the disturbance dispassion-
ately from a distance, and they disclaim all
responsibility.
* * * *
Apropos N.S.W. policemen’s revolvers.
Even the so-called “escorts” are supplied with
weapons that would probably do more harm to the
shooter than to the party shot at The coach from
Wilcannia to Broken Hill (which has been robbed
of valuable opal at least once) carries a policeman
armed with an old Winchester and an ancient
Colt. And what hope has Constable X. of
hitting anything, anyhow ? They hand him six
cartridges, and tell him he mustn’t use them except
in the execution of his duty—and it isn’t his duty
to practise hitting things. Also, as if the Depart-
ment knew that the things are not worth using
anyway, the N.S.W. policeman must wear his re-
volver on his left hip, where a man, a mounted man
especially, can only reach it with difficulty. The
best thing would be to issue an order to bobbies to
always wear their shooters above their kitchen
mantel-pieces.
* * * *■
It isn’t good to fall under suspicion of the
law in Brisbane. Just transpired, during a police
court case, that while he is in the cells awaiting
trial the prisoner’s fare consists simply of dry
bread and water —and Enoggera water at that.
Yet the law assumes that he is still perfectly inno-
cent, which is more than can be assumed of Bris-
bane’s water supply, anyhow.
• * * *
Victoria is quite up-to-date in health
matters ! The other day a female patient was
conveyed from Mirboo, in Gippsland, to Sale hos-
pital, in a railway van wherein cream, vegetables,
and other eatables- are carried. She was subse-
quently found to be in the last stages of typhoid,
and died the following day. Thereupon, there
being now no possible doubt about the disease, the
bedding and clothing were carefully returned in
the same van!
THE FLY FLATS.
JOHN THE YOB: “B' gosh, they're offerin' thirty
t ’ one on Legiron now."
S UE: “My word, we better hurry 'n' put five
bob on afore he's scratched."
According to evidence given before the
N.S.W. Arbitration Court, some of the children
under the care of the State are boarded out to
dairymen, who are actually paid for their keep
whilst enslaving them to the cow Joss. Dairying,
as regards children, is a noxious trade, and no
State child should be subjected to the risk of
being put through the miserable mill in which the
cow-man so often grinds his own children’s lives.
THE MONUMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“ I served with the Vic. Contingent in South Africa,
nnd have my name sculptured on the monument in
svdney Road." — Plea of contingent,er in Melb. City Court
■ii’ ien P.M. Panton added another 13 months to his list
of convictions.
Some are gone to gaol—we’ve missed ’em,
Some are going, and we claim
That the finger-printing system,
Opposite each hero’s name
Should be used ; then we’d be wary
When We saw why he was sent
To confinement solitary—
Saw it on the monument.
For this scroll of fame of his’ll
Be a record perfect when
To the sculptor’s cheerful chisel
We have joined the warder’s pen.
Where the sentimental tear rose
New significance is lent
In the records of our heroes
Graven on the monument.
When the glory’s all departed,
And that pompous sculpture falls
Into gibbers that are carted
To be pounded into spalls,
All the pris’ners, as they fret, ’ll
Weep upon each load that’s sent,
As they smash their names to metal—
Smash that famous monument.
vie.
C.D.


Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
DINING IN COMFORT
There is no doubt the pleasure and comfort of
dining is greatly enhanced by our .
SILK-
LINED
DINNER SUIT
Price - SLS ss.
R. C. HAGON,
Merchant
Tailor,
129 KING ST., SYDNEY.
Just to show what the Victorian railways
really can do, the special train that took the
Inquiry Board up to the scene of the Gembrook
disaster, dashed into a trolly manned by two
repairers, and knocked it to pieces; and on the
return trip the train pulled up only a few feet
short of a wood-carter’s team, placidly dwelling
on a level crossing. Also, a train went off the
line and bruised T. Bent.
• * * *
A man with no small opinion of himself
advertises in Melbourne Age :
■DEFINED handsome gentleman, 24, unapproach-
-*-b able character, with good prospects (but no
means of employment at present), desires to meet
affectionate lady under 40, with means or has own
business, view above; strictly confidential. Unity,
Age Office.
Unapproachable character !, Well, there are some
people who are able to approach anything with
the bare nose. Others breathe through a hand-
kerchief.
* * » *
The foolishness of rushing into law has
been brought home to two residents of the
Hastings River (N.S.W.). Plaintiff holds an
oyster lease, and, in order to afford board and
residence for his oysters, he dropped into the
water a choice collection of bricks, kerbstones,
and other boulders. The river is shallow, and the
defendant used to bump his boats on these locks,
and scare the oysters out of their wits. Further,
the sawdust from defendant’s sawmill fell
into the water and gave the shellfish indiges-
tion. This was the plaintiff’s case. De-
fendant answered that the boulders among
the oysters were menaces to navigation,
and that he didn’t ask the wretched fish to steal
his sawdust. The parties hied them to Sydney
with a perfect cloud of witnesses, the district
being torn in two over the question. Five bar-
risters, including two K.C.’s, were engaged, and
the Judge, after hearing all these expensive
people, merely said in effect that it was a fool of a
case, and the parties had better go home again.
Which they did, after paying the cloud of wit-
nesses, and the five barristers, including the two
K.C.’s.
* * * *
The Gembrook (Vic.) train accident has
brought forth some fine large specimens of con-
tradictory evidence from railway experts :
William Blinkhorn, guard of the train that was derailedt
estimated that the train would be travelling at the rate
of not more than 10 miles an hour.
Harold Waters, porter, stationed at Upper Fern Tree
Gully, stated that he was riding in the guard’s van of the
train that was derailed. The train at the time seemed to
be going at a good speedi-faster than usual.
John Lajme, porter, who was riding in the guard’s van,
estimated the rate of speed at about 10 or 12 miles an
hour between Belgrave and the level crossing.
Neil M'lnnes, a superintendent road-master on the Vic.
railways, said he was in the van of the train on the day of
the accident, as a lt had been going 27 miles
an hour at the level crossing. It was not contemplated
that any train on a narrow-gauge line would ever be run
at that speed.
William Hambley, relieving porter, said he was in the
fifth or sixth truck from the engine. The rate of travel-
ling did not seem in the least excessive.
Lawrence Kenny, line repairer, deposed that he was in
the van of the wrecked train. For the last 500yds. he
thought they were travelling about 30 miles an hour. He
remarked, “ She is bolting.” Never before had he gone
down the gradients on the line at such a speed.
Some railway “experts” are like most jockeys,
seemingly “ deficient in the knowledge of pace.”
* * * *
To be “ found ” on licensed premises may
be an offence under N.S.W. Liquor Act. But
what is the meaning of being “found ” ? A Bow-
street magistrate decided lately, in a London case
brought into court under a similarly worded sec-
tion, that a man whom a constable saw going into
a public-house and whom a sergeant saw coming
out, was not found on the premises. And a Bow-
street magistrate is somebody these days.
NEXT BEST THING.
“ We were so sorry to be out when you called
with the children yesterday .”
“Oh, it didn't matter in the least. I took them
to the zoo, and they enjoyed themselves
immensely.”
At Gembrook, the scattered Gippsland
(Yic.) district where the notorious switchback
railway ends up against a gum-stump, the Protes-
tant residents have been toiling on without a par-
son for many years, but the long felt want has
become unbearable at length, and the godly set-
tlers have set about building themselves a church.
The church is well advanced, and now applications
are invited for the position of resident sin-shifter;
but the miki of Gembrook are frugal souls,
and seek to kill two birds with one stone.
The district is also urgently in need of
a doctor, mainly for the purpose of assist-
ing at local increases, and so what the dis-
trict demands is a doctor who can preach or a
preacher who can doc. In return for the services
of so gifted a creature, a certain number of
settlers guarantee to place 6d. in the plate every
Sunday, shine or rain, and in addition the minis-
tering angel is allowed “ all he can make.” It is
stipulated that the 6d. a week does not cover
medical expenses, and it is also understood that
in. the event of a little stranger needing the
doctor’s services, the congregation will excuse the
parson.'' The' little'stranger is to have precedence
every time.
Allen Taylor, Mayor of Sydney, has called
a meeting of all the public and private bodies
which have a statutory right to tear up the city
streets, and he hopes that some arrangement may
be arrived at among them. At present, no sooner
has the gas person finished digging up a footpath
than the water people decide to put a water main
in the same hole ; but they don’t think of it until
the gas gentlemen have filled up their hole. And
when the water-pipe is down and the pathway
mended the telephone department arrives to dig
it up again. And then when the hydraulic
people, and the electric lighting people, and the
sewerage people have all come and gone, the gas
people are about due again. In between times
the corporation steam roller goes up and down.
» * * *
“Lil”: What a farce is the use of the
word “ solemnise ” in connection with many
marriage ceremonies ! A
reverend gentleman in my
suburb used to auction
second-hand clothing and
furniture in the intervals of
solemnising marriages. He
would just as soon solemnise
a pair of moleskin pants or
an alarm-clock as the knot
that many of his customers
have since sought to cut in
the Divorce Court. Both
brought in the shekels, and
his supposedly facetious pul-
pit stories served to advertise
either business. Then con-
sider the solemnity of the
marriage shop and the Voice
that Breathed o’er Eden
breathing over the counter.
Even when the chief of the
matrimony shop is not a
clergyman, there is still the
tame parson, eager for his
fee, lurking about the pre-
mises, ready to “ solemnise ’’
marriages between the
over-youthful, the drunk,
or the imbecile, and not
too scrupulous about unit-
ing a white girl to a Hindu
or a Chinaman.
* * *
The long-suffering boarder
revolts at last, as witness this
advt. :
"DOARD wanted where the Landlady has seen Worse
Days. Nobody who has seen Better Days need
reply.
N.S.W. Railway Commissioner Kirkcaldie
complained at the Railway Inquiry that Chief
Commissioner Oliver had not shaken hands with
him more than twice in four years. Whereupon
Judge Rogers: “Pooh, I know plenty of people
with whom I don’t shake hands that I like much
better than those with whom I have to.” Which
was a rather neat Rogers for his Oliver.
Justice Holroyd somewhat staggered his
audience at the Ballarat Court last week by-
sentencing a man to three years hard labor for the
crime of sending a murderously worded letter to
W. B. Grose, a former M.L.A. for Creswick (Vic.).
The prisoner’s foolish ness was incid en tal to a mining
matter concerning which he felt very mad, and the
jury accepted his statement that he had never
seriously thought of killing Mr. Grose. He merely
talked w'ildly on paper. The Law allows 15 years
for such things, but because the accused dian’t
mean it Holroyd let him off with three. Moral:
If you have no intention to kill a man, don’t put
your empty threat into writing. A verbal promise
of murder is a comparatively venial offence, and
can be done through a telephone.
* * * *
“ Yanco ” : T’other day saw a near-sighted
kid, about five years old, wearing huge glasses,
perched like a cat on the parapet of a city pub.
The top of the parapet was about 15in. wide and
sloped outwards, and then there was a sheer drop
of about 80ft. on to a hard pavement or a passing
pedestrian. The mother was reclining on a lounge
close at hand, and when I suggested that possibly
it was a dangerous position for the goggled infant
to occupy, she merely said “Yes, it isn’t very
safe. I told him that before.”
« * * *
"Two Drinks"
For the Bulletin
y vmo • they •pAjrcr ufes> leaded hoes
V\f»TH <£pUsE»'* GLEFsnS
rYN© HCTAnORPHOSE BIUOOS VIEWS
°yO ROSY DREF\r-\S .
I Avrn , ir>* soree _
PISTRE-Vj,
gowto DOWN OR
ir* SONE. STIWT OR
—
T SUP OOT HFWE-
(nont or lxss) /
ywo [ -
J QUMFF, JVHD THEN
THE.VVOR.LX>
LIGHTS OR*
J TREP'tJO'N NR- *
yhERES IN
THE WINE
COP*
rfHWT STRPXNGLE.S
<L-FsTRE .
TWO -DRUNKS *. THE
301s SNUV.ES DOWN
f\ N D w/rs<s >
THEN C\tu THRT3 S*\T> AsTND SQRD6X> SltNKsS
A J ov HER F\Rri MINE ENUNKS —
rpwo Urines •
"DRIF TER"
A QUESTION OF PREJUDICE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On Thursday last Sir Reginald Talbot, 0 ">\ ernor of
Victoria, spoke of an apparent prejudice in favor of
foreign-made goods. On Saturday a Sydney daily paper
asked : “ What leads his Excellency to suppose that
people are prejudiced in favor of goods made in other
countries ? ”
Perhaps it’s just a funny little notion of his own
That woollens might be woven even where the wool is
grown i
Perhaps there’s someone told him that a prejudice exists
In favor of behaving as distraught philanthropists !
Perhaps he isn’t deaf and dumb ; perhaps he isn’t blind !
Perhaps lie’s not afflicted with an over-addled mind !
'Tis just a supposition, an assumption, or a guess—
Perhaps he got tiie notion from the Sydney daily
PR KSS !
N.S.W.
W.T. GOODGE.
BOUGHT A GUN.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
“ Only things in the shape of guns.” —Tariff Commission
evidence.
The young man outward hieth,
In the grinning noonday sun,
While the pretty parrot flieth
And the raiding rabbits run ;
He sees their quick tails twinkle
And remarks, “ I’ve got a wrinkle ;
Here’s sport for me—l think ’ll
Buy a gun.”
Our Ernies, Willies, Harries,
They are thrifty in their fun,
For the gun each sportsman carries
Is a thirty-shilling one.
So our Willies, Harries, Ernies
Come not backward from their journejs,
And the verdict we return is—
“ Bought a gun.”
VIC.
L.
Her Health Wrecked.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
“Four years ago I started to vomit blood,”
said Mrs. Mary E. A. Peek, of Blende : st.,
North Broken Hill. “The doctor said my
stomach, liver and kidneys were all diseased.
For the next three years life was one round of
misery. I went from bad to worse. At' last a
kind of paralysis settled in my right arm. I was
as good as crippled. Many a time I prayed to
God to let me die. But, in the end, I was cured
for good by thirty boxes of Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills. They actually saved my life.
“ For a long time my health had been wretched,
said Mrs. Peek. “ Every few days I had a bilious
attack. Headaches came on just over my right
eye—and then shot through to the other side of
my head till I wanted to scream. My nerves
went to pieces, and I jumped with fright from no
cause at all. I could not get out of my head the
thought that something dreadful was going to
happen. I was so down-hearted that I took no
interest in anything. I fairly hated the sight of
food. I had no energy for my house-work. An
hour’s ironing left me gasping for breath. Every
week I grew paler and thinner. My cheeks fell
in, and great dark circles came under my eyes. I
looked the picture of bad health. I was as weak
as a kitten. One day my head suddenly started
to swim, and the next thing I was laid out in a
dead faint. After that I had these fainting fits
every few days. When down town I often felt
the sudden turn coming on, and I would have to
go in somewhere to lie down till the fit passed off.
“Early that winter I caught cold, and every
bone started to ache. There was a sharp pain
between my shoulder-blades that cut right into
my lungs. Every time I breathed something
stabbed me in the right breast. The pain from
my shoulders soon settled in the small of my back.
Sometimes it was a dull, dragging ache—sometimes
it was like a red-hot brick burning into my flesh.
Day or night I was never free from it. In bed I
lay first on one side and then on the other—but I
could get no ease. But the worst pain of all came
in the pit of my stomach. A few days after, I
started to vomit blood. That gave me such a
Shock that Mr. Peek sent straight for the doctor.
As* soon as he saw me he said my stomach and
liver were in a bad state, but they were nothing
to my kidneys.”
‘ ‘ Why, doctor, ” I said, ‘ ‘ It can’t be my kidneys.
My back aches fit to break—but I have twenty
other things worse than that.”
“ Oh, backaches aren’t the only sign of kidney
disease,” he said. “Ninety-nine backaches out
of a hundred have nothing to do with the kidneys
—and many a person dies from kidney disease
without ever having a backache in his life.”
“The doctor understood my case all right,”
Mrs. Peek went on, “but his medicine did me no
good. My skin was dry and hard, but often I
would break out in a cold sweat. Every week I
grew weaker and sicker. The fainting fits came
on more often, and every few days I vomited
blood. God only knows how I went through it
all. I would have welcomed death with all my
heart. The strangest thing of all was the queer
feeling in my right arm. It would be all pins and
needles one day—and the next day it seemed to
go dead. My fingers grew numb, and my whole
arm was useless. It would stay like that for two
or three weeks at a time. Everyone said it was
paralysis.
“I had given up the last atom of hope when
Mrs. Kern, of Hindley-st., Adelaide, made me
get some Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. I owe my
life to them. The first box gave me a great
appetite, but I was well on with the tenth box
before I stopped vomiting blood. After that the
headaches and backaches eased up. When I had
finished twenty boxes I was a different woman.
Everyone told me how much better I looked. I
kept getting more pills from Temby and Lower,
in Argent-st. When I had finished the 30th
box there wasn’t a healthier woman in Broken
Hill. Never again will I waste my money on
doctors. Whenever I see any of my friends in
ill-health, I tell them that half-a-dozen boxes of
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are worth all the doctors
in Australia,”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills don’t act on the
bowels. They don’t tinker with mere symptoms.
They contain just the elements that actually
make new blood. That is why they are the surest
cure for all blood diseases like anaemia, biliousness,
indigestion, rheumatism, lumbago, kidney and
liver troubles and skin troubles like pimples and
eczema. And, for just the same reason, they are
the greatest help in the world for growing girls
who need new blood, and for women who are
troubled with irregular health, especially those of
forty-five or fifty, when the blood becomes de-
ranged again. But you must get the genuine
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People—price
2s. 9d. a box, six boxes 15s. 3d., from all chemists
and storekeepers, or direct by mail from the Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Co., Sydney. If you are in
doubt about your illness, write to the same
addressfor free medical advice.
common type of informer was bowled
ou f recently in Melbourne. He was a grocer, and
f ie wr ote to the Factories Act officials complaining
that his loathsome contemporary in the same
street frequently did business on the statutory
half-holiday. An inspector called unannounced
on the next holiday. He found the accused
person’s premises clear, but the complaining
grocer was serving half-a-dozen customers in his
back-yard.


CENTRAL
64 Pitt St., SYDNEY appliances prop |_Tp>
& TRAMWAY
504 Little Collins St., MELBOURNE
TRAMWAY MATERIAL.
Stocks STEEL RAILS, TIPPING TRUCKS,
Portable Engines, Vertical & Horizontal Engines, High Speed Engines
for Electric Light, &c., &c.
EXPLOSIVES and MINING REQUISITES generally. CONCENTRATING MACHINERY.
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER, Managing Director.
ROBEY
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The end-of-summer rains have been good oyer
the bigger half of Australia ; and, given nothing specially
Outrageous in the way of hot weather during the next few
weeks, the winter should be well grassed ; and for the
sheep-grower there are few things more important than
a well-grassed winter. Things, therefore, continue to
look extra-good for Australia, and the Treasurers ought to
he so flush of money that anything in the shape of a loan
would be viewed as an insult. In Victoria and Queens-
land the Treasurers do take something of that view of
the matter ; but N. S. Wales has J. Carruthers for its
Premier, and J. Carruthers apparently hasn’t a soul above
borrowing even in a time of extraordinary affluence. S.
Australia and Tasmania have no very definite views on
the subject; and Westralia hasn’t yet woke up to the fact
that its affluence is fading, and that it will probably soon
find itself lying out on the wood-heap or under the water-
trough, with its cheque “busted” and its credit “ex-
ploded.” But cheque and credit hang out so far, and it
is still drinking hard.
The past month’s revenue figures have been
particularly satisfactory :
State Revenues for February.
1905. 1906.
N.S. Wales .. £1,066,237 £1,148,409 Inc. £82,172
Victoria ;. 636,886 774,493 Inc. 137,607
Queensland .. 224,524 236,676 Inc. 12,152
Westralia .. 278,387 278,323 Dec. 64
Tasmania .. 57,381 63,379 Inc. 5,998
And for the year so far the figures show still better than
they did in the year before, though last year was reckoned
a time of unusual prosperity
State Revenues for Financial Year, so far.
1904-5. 1905-6.
N.S. Wales (8 m05.)..£7,245,408 £7,923,101 Inc. £677,693
Victoria (8 mos.).. 4,853,973 5,047,957 Inc. 193,984
Queensland(B mos;).. 2,259,310 2,400,072 Inc, 140,762
S; A.ustralia(6 mos.).. 1,190,585 1,181,273 Dec. 9,312
Westralia (8 mos.).. 2,276,958 2,265,317 Dec. 11,641
Tasmania (8 mos.).. 578,162 594,949 Inc. 16,787
In S. Australia the Leg.: Council cut off part of the land-
tax, and the new Government was not able in the early
part of the year to take steps to make good that Ipss by
other means. Therefore, leaving- S, Aus. out of the
count, Westralia remains the one State which is drifting
backwards, and is hiding the fact by charging to loans
things which used to be charged to ordinary account.
An ostrich could do that much in the way of finance.
As for the other side of the book
Expenditure for Financial Year so far.
1904-5. 1905-6.
H,S. Wales (Bmos.) £7,611,345 £7,518,270 Dec. £93,075
Queensland (Bmos.) 2,121,455 2,202,829 Inc. 81,174
S. Australia (6mos.) 1,275,938 1,310,089 Inc. 34,151
Westralia (Snips.) 2,378,391 ,2,251,838 Dec. 126,553
Except for the sake of frill arid peacock-strutting there is
no particular reason why N.S. Wales should show this
decreased, expenditure. There are heaps of works that
need to be done, and when the next annual accounts are -
issued it will be found that thousands of pounds of loan
money has been spent on works which should have been
paid for out of revenue. Carruthers, however, continues
to pile up the loan bill and curtail the ordinary expendi-
ture ; and four months from now he will draw attention
to his vast surplus—-and the fact that the surplus is all
rubbish, seeing that over £1,500,000 will have been
borrowed, won’t he noticed. Probably something of the
same sort is happening elsewhere ;■ but that can’t be -
said for certain, because only two States furnish current
loan figures:— ■ , v ( . - : .••
Loan Expenditure for Financial Year so far.
. . . 1904-5.■ 1905-6: ..
N.S.' Wales (8 mos.). .£1,186,626 £l,o33,oS7'Dec. £153,539
Queensland (8 mos.).. 155,543 183,210 Inc. 27,667
Victoria is not borrowing for new works ; wherefore
Bent’s “ fake ” .differs from Carruthers’ in this respect—■ .
Carruthers pays for things with loans, and builds up a
surplus that way ; while Bent holds off necessary public
works, and, instead of paying for them as; he goes along,
builds up a surplus, makes a splash, and then proceeds to
spend the money. It's" poor, , cheap fireworks; but,
anyhow,-, it hasn’t the evils of Carruthers’ system.
The situation, so far as the wretched returns
furnished by some States allow it to be stated, is some-
thing like this: —
;N.S. Wales : We don’t hear quite as much lately about
the blasting influences of Federation upon this State ; but
the yarn has probably only 'been packed away,in some
handy place, for use again when politics grow a little
brisker; wherefore this brick, showing, the expansion of
N.S.W. revenue under Federation, is heaved at it in its
hiding place (the figures are for the July period
of each financial year) :
1900- .. .£6,965,026 1.1903-4 ... ; £7,368,518
1901- .. 7,085,903 1904-5 .. 7,372,023
1902- ... 7,286,281 | 1905-6 .; 8,043,895
These figures are irrespective of certain refunds, of which
no account used to be taken in.the monthly returns. Or,
again, showing the position as at Feb. 28 : —•
1902- .. ... Deficit .. £688,093
1903- .. .. ~ .. 573,583
1904- .. .. ~ .. 213,467
1905- .. .. Surplus .. 404,831
This shows an improvement, compared with four years
back, of £1,092,924. And yet, though matters have im-
proved at the rate of over £1,500,000 a year, Carruthers
quite virtuously chirps that he thinks he-will be able to
get along with only £1,500,000 of borrowed money this
year !
Victoria : Only revenue returns are published ; and
under the circumstances they are very little good. Last
year Bent contrived a surplus of just over half-a-million ;
"his revenue this year, so far, is £193,984 ahead of the pre-
vious year’s. But whether extra expenditure has mopped
up that gain there is no way of telling, though it doesn’t
seem likely.
Queensland :
Feb., 1903 Available for 1-year’s interest £23,088
„ 1904 ■ „ „ 122,498
„ 1905 „ „ . , 137,854
„ 1906 „ „ 197,443
But that doesn’t fully, express the improvement. In the
last days of the old Continuous Ministry, when the country
was scared off the Labor party because it didn’t consist of
“business men,” the things paid for with the Biggest
Debt on Earth were shockingly neglected, and hundreds
of thousands of pounds’ worth of buildings, &c., were
perishing. Having got things fairly shipshape in the
Treasury, Kidston is now spending a little on works and
in preparing land for settlement; in these two depart-
ments, Works and Lands, £96,906 has been spent this
year, as against £75,760 last year.
S. Australia : Quarterly returns only.
Westralia : This State shows a surplus so far of £13,479.
But it doesn’t set out its Joan expenditure ; and it has a
Premier and Treasurer whose policy is borrow, and borrow
again. Its apparently improved position is solely due to
fewer works and services being charged to ordinary
account; its revenue, which ought to be increasing along-
with the population, is absolutely shrinking.
Tasmania:.No expenditure or loan figures;, but the
revenue returns are a shade better than the previous
year’s.
* * *•.*-.
The Savings Bank of N.S. Wales
Interest Writ- .
Net paid to ten To Re- Re-
Dec., Earnings. Depositors. Off. serves. serves.
1901 £175,263 3£ p.c. = £158,693 £9B £16,472 £276,062
1902 185,493 3J ~ „ 166,146 19,347 295,409
1903 189,245' 3£ „ „ 167,819 21,426 316,835
1904 194,745 4 „ „ 190,175 4,570 321,405
1905 196,366 4 „ „ 193,917 2,449 323,854
The amount of deposits on Dec. 31st., 1905, was £5,545,367,
an increase of £276,690 during the year. The list follow-
ing shows how these deposits and the reserves have been
invested at different dates :
189 S. 1903. 1905.
Loans to Government £2,314,258 £871,025 £254,414
N.S.W. State securities' 5,059 2,375,731 2,883,108
Other N.S.W. stocks ..' 162,204 243,680 326,182
Loans on mortgage .. 883,880 889,478 1,099,915
Loans to Banks .. 1,258,269 1,191,072 1,238,844
“Other N’.S.W. stocks” consist of city and suburban
municipal debentures. The funds, apart from £71,225 in
“land and banking houses,” are distributed in the
following way : —Lent to State, 54 per cent. ; to munici-
palities, 6 per cent. ; to private borrowers on mortgage,
19 per cent. ; and .to banks, 21 per cent. The reserves
consist of a formal reserve fund, £270,660 ; mortgages
depreciation account, £45,049; and undivided profit.
No net reduction of the mortgages depreciation fund has
taken place since 1901; and that account is now in credit
to the extent of 4 per cent, of the total amount of the
advances on mortgaged. Though the Savings Bank of
N.S.W. is to the public still “ the Barrack-street bank,”
it steadily extends beyond that city and suburban con-
nection to which it was once almost wholly confined. The
deposits are now derived —
From Sydney £3,498,694
~ Suburban branches ... 1,158,920
~ Country „ .. 887,753
Four country branches were opened last year ; one of
them, at Broken Hill, has 1836 depositors already—a
number exceeded only by Newcastle among the country
branches.
The worst feature of the accounts is the extra-
vagant size of the loans made by the Savings Bank to the
private banks. Instead of lending to the mortgagor
direct, the Savings Bank lends a million and a quarter to
the banks, which in turn lend to the mortgagor, and
make, of course, their profit on the transaction. So a
quite unnecessary middleman is dragged into the busi-
ness ; and it is the sort of middleman that manages to
pay 10 and 12 per cent, on its capital. The people’s sav-
ings entrusted to a people’s bank ought to be used to
help the people—the farmer to acquire a farm, the
mechanic to acquire a home—and not to puff out
the profits of big financial concerns which do
pretty well without that little bit of help. If
Australia had a decent tariff, and thriving manufactures,
the private banks wouldn’t worry so much about this
mortgage business ; they would fin'd their own profitable
work in financing industry. Mortgage business would be
left to concerns like this savings bank and the insurance
offices. The latter, indeed, are at present cutting this
business so close that it is hardly worth while the banks
touching it—and yet in a country which has G. H. Reid
and Joe Cook, but no manufactures to speak of, what else
is there for them to touch? Big life offices are actually
lending money on Sydney property for 4 per cent., and
some banks are paying that much for some deposits;
so that field is about exhausted —even a bank which
sweats its clerks can’t make a profit by lending 4 per cent,
money at 4 per cent. The people who want the A.M.P.
to take risks in Johannesburg, Pietermaritzburg, and
other distant places, allege that something must be done,
because the society’s interest? earnings are falling so, and
bonuses must, therefore, fall too. Well, there is some-
thing that might be done : Throw over Freetrade, bring
in a tariff that will establish industries and provide an
outlet for capital, and then Si'dney wouldn’t see the
touching spectacle of General-managers French, of “ the
Wales,” and Dibbs, of the Commercial of Sydney, and
Teece, of the A.M.P., and Garvan, of the Citizens’, all
struggling to capture one meek little 4 per cent, loan on
a city freehold.
* * * *
A.M.P. policy-holders interested in the pro-
posal to take risks outside Australasia are reminded that
the meeting of members will be held to-morrow (Friday)
in Sydney Y.M.C.A. Hall, at 2 in the afternoon.
* * * *
The New York Life Insurance Co.
Total 1 ' Total Added to
Income. Expenses. Claims. Outgoings. Funds'.
Dec., £ £ £ £ £
1895 7,796,763 1,619,244 3,455,459 5,074,703 2,722,060
1896 8,053,407 1,628,670 3,803,214 5,431,884 2,621,523
1897 8,599,400 1,728,702 3,993,715 5,722,417 2,876,983
1898 9,348,131 1,847,549 4,427,956 6,275,505 3,072,626
1899 10,775,980' 2,168,393 4,569,337 6,737,730 4,038,250
1900 12,122,329 2,421,921 4,805,725 7,227,646 4,894,683
1901 14,568,426 2,751,748 5,680,944 8,432,692 6,135,734
1902 16,255,708 3,355,544 6,287,031 9,642,575 6,613,133
1903 18,138,196' 3,755,931 7,110,905 10,866,836 7,271,360
1904 19,909,847 3,996,274 ' 8,298,338 12,294,6i2 7,615,235
1905 21,089,255 3,890,944 8,299,894 12,190,838 8,898,417
The co. has not yet issued its report in British money,
or its accounts in the form in which they are presented
in Australia and Britain. In the foregoing the American
figures are reduced to. sterling at £1 = 4-8665 dollars;
and presumably at this rate they will agree with the
figures in British money which the co. will' issue in a
month or two. Curiosity to see how a big American
office would show up last year, especially in the matter
of new business and expenses, justifies this rushing of
matters —as far as you can rush anything which is built
up on four places of decimals.
The figures are probably much better, so far as
new business goes, than most people would have expected;
the total income is over a million greater than it was in
1904, and twice as great as it was seven years ago. The
premiums, on new business, including consideration for
annuities granted, amounted to £2,924,827; in the pre-
vious year they totalled £3,315,282, and in 1903,
£3,397,234. This shows a falling away, certainly,
but to no very . alarming extent. In 1898 the
figures were £1,584,548, so that the new business
done last year was very nearly twice as great as that
done seven years ago. Taking into account the substan-
tial reduction of expenses, last year’s figures show very
clearly that the tremendous attacks made on these offices
—this office at least—have not destroyed confidence in it.
And the new business hasn’t been done only where the
news of the row hasn’t reached. A schedule is issued
with the American report showing paid-for business in
New York only. Policies assuring-£7,530,000 have been
taken out. in the year ; the total number issued was
17,294, and'the total number which ceased (through
claims, lapses, &c.) was 9530.
The gross assets in 1904 totalled £80,275,405;
on Dec. 31st, 1905, £89,555,195. The interest earnings for
the year amounted to £3,528,520, which on. the mean of
the gross assets works out at £4 3s. Id. per cent., an im-
provement of lOd. on the 1904 return. Most Australian
offices show more than this ; some show less ; but very
few English offices show as much. There is no certain
way of telling if the assets are inflated or not.
But one may assume from this very fair return that
the balance-sheet is not, anyhow, stuffed with, dead and
unprofitable securities. Also, realisation of securities
gave a net profit of £48,000, in addition to about
£BO,OOO “ realised from sale of assets not taken
credit for in balance-sheet, December, 1904 ; ” and if that
means anything it means that the securities are in the
books at less than market value. The officers’own claim
is that securities are worth in the market £1,121,000 more
than they stand at in the books: and, if it is so, it repre-
sents a solid internal reserve. There is no apparent reason
why it should not be so.
It’s a question, no doubt, whether the certificate
of the New York State Insurance Department is worth
much ; but in view of the ructions it is hardly likely that
the superintendent would give any rash certificates just
now. The department accepts the value of assets as sworn
to ; its business (it holds) is to value the co.’s obligations.
It finds, that, at December 31st, in onjer to pay its policies
and reversionary additions, the co. should have had
£77,074,000, whereas, after' paying general liabilities, it
actually had £10,857,000 in excess of .that amount; and
this amount is available forbonuses-and for contingencies.
Probably even that vast surplus won’t be sufficient to pay
bonuses of the size the fancy of some American-office
drummers has pictured ; but if the New York Life can’t
pay its policies and liberal bonuses to boot there is
something very wrong with the official valuations, which
can’t be detected on analysis.
The American offices’ weak point has been in
the matter of expenses ; they have paid too big a price
for their glittering figures. The course of the New York
Life for a few years past:—
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1896 .. £2O 4 5 per cent. I 1901 .. £lB 17 10 per cent.
1897 .. 20 2 1 ~ 1902 .. 20 12 10
1898 .. 19 15 '3 ' „ | 1903 .. 20 14 2
1899.. 20 2 5 „ 11904.. 20 1 5
1900.. 19 19 7 ~, i. 1905 .. 18 9 0 . ~
The figures for 1905 might easily have been made to lock
still better; over £120,000 has been written off, repie-
senting the value of certain printing plants used in the
offices, furniture, and agents’debit balances. Even allow-
ing for this, however, the rate is still-excessive. On total
income, the A.M.P.’s rate is £8 16s. 7d. per cent. But a
comparison of that kind is very deceptive. An effort has
recently been made to estimate the cost of acquiring new
business by various offices. First, renewal premiums
have been charged 5 p.c. ; then consideration for
annuities 3 p.c. ; and the difference between the total of
these items and the total expenses has been reckoned as
the cost of new business. Applying this method to the
New York Life, it is found that £2,539,000 of premiums
on new business cost £3,023,000 to get, or 119 per cent.
This, compared with Australian offices, is not by any
means appalling; the A.M.P. rate is 112 p.c. ; the
National Mutual’s 121 p.c. Yet, though it costs approxi-
mately the same to get new business in the A.M.P. and
the New York Life, one has an expense rate of £iB 9s.
p.c. of total income, the ‘other of only £8 16s. 7d. p.c.
The explanation lies in this : the New York’s new pre-
miums (which cost 119 p.c. to get) are about one-seventh
of the whole income, while in the A.M.P. they are only
one-nineteenth. This is what the rush to get big figures
means—while it lasts its costliness is a drag on the office,
and the bigger the new figures in proportion to the old,
the bigger the drag while the rush lasts.
* * * •
The Metropolitan Mutual Permanent Build-
ing and Investment Association, Ltd. (Sydney):—
Loss
iLoss on on Pro- Total Written Re-
Dec., Business, perties. Loss. Off. serves.
1896 .. £3,683 £462 £4,145 £3,356
1897 .. 2,945 398 3,343 13
Deficit.
1898 .. 2,254 133 2,387 2,374
1899 .. 938 878 1,816 4,190
1900 .. 1,890 1,854 3,744 £75,250 83,184
Reserves.
£103,898 capital written off.. .. .. 20,714
Profit. Loss. Net Profit.
1901 1,597 500 1,097 21,811
1909 J 538 385 1531 „ .
lauz .. -j Forfeited share capital 18/ “ “'’9B2
1903 .. 2,223 591 1,632 23,614
1904 .. 2,019 1,041 978 2500 22,092
1905 .. 1,217 743 474 22,566
This co., with a paid capital now of £42,138, sells pro-
perty on terms ; and part of its reserves is a mortgagors’
contingent account, to meet possible losses on the
sale of properties whose purchasers have de-
faulted. From this it appears that the co. takes
credit for its profits before they are fully
earned. This contingent account is now reduced to
£2490 ; on the other side, however, defaulting mort-
gagors’ balances have been reduced to £7060 ; and so late
as 1902 they reached £19,559. During the past year the
net total has been reduced by £3403, involving a loss, as
shown above, of £743 ; and in three years the reduction
has been £12,499, at a loss apparently of £2375. In addi-
tion to the outstanding mortgages in default, the contin-
gent account presumably covers the risk on £3230 of
current mortgages ; and there is another item of a similar
character, “ Balances due on land account, £8663.” Apart
from these,(items and £20,752 in deposits and cash, the
co.’s assetsnonsist of various estates (£112,769), against
which it owed on Dec. 31 on debentures and mortgages
£87,093, or £4577 less than it owed' 12 months before.
This reduction was mostly on account of Glebe property
debentures, a further instalment of which has since been
paid off. In 1900 they stood at £53,600 ;on Dec. 31st last
at £39,560. Under present arrangements no dividend
can be declared till these debentures have been paid. It is
impossible, of course, to tell the future of a co. whose busi-
ness it is to job in land ; but the foreclosed-propertiesitem,
which amounted to £23,109 in 1901, and which.has been
a serious drag on the co., is fast being got rid of; and
when that is gone, things will begin to look a shade
better—-though nothing in the-shape of real cheerfulness
can reasonably be expected from a co. which has thrown
two-thirds of its capital overboard. Still, its biggest
estate (held on a long, lease) is bringing in 9 per cent.,
and even its biggest farm-land estate shows 3| per cent. ;
so, though its debts are heavy, it isn’t in the"position of
the cold concern which borrowed to buy barren allot-
ments that return nothing but local-rate notices.
* * * *
The Queen Permanent Building and Invest-
ment Society (Adelaide)
To Re- Re-
Profits. 1 Dividends. serves, serves.
Oct., 1903 ..£355 4J per cent. = £4lO £654
April, 1904 .. 429 4£ ~ ~ 414 £l5 669
Oct., 1904 .. 401 4i ~ „ 367 34 703
April, 1905.. 349' 4-J ~ ~ 331 18 721
Oct., 1905 ..285 41- „ „ 309 697
The society’s turnover is now too small to show satisfac-
tory results. Even only two years ago there was £19,827
of shareholders’ capital in the business, apart from
reserves; now there is only £14,547 ; and current ex-
penses are practically the same. The assets are nearly,all
mortgages ; and, mainly through the operation of the
State Bank, the rate for small loans to buy a home with
is so low in S. Australia that it doesn’t pay a society
like the Queen to go out and borrow in order to lend
again. So the Queen, though at present it looks sound
and solid enough, appears to have little hope of anything
better than a small, drab future.
* * * *
The Darling Downs Permanent Building
and Investment Society (Toowoomba, Q.) :
Dividends and To Re- Re
Dec., Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
1897 .. £8 4 per cent. = £7 £1 .£1
1898 .. 87 4 „ „ 76 11 12
1899 ... 220 5 „ „ 175 45 . 57
1900 .. 485 5 „ ~ 339 146 : 203
1901 .. 778 5 „ „ 481 297 . '5OO
1902 .. 1223 6 „ „ 935 288 788
1903 .. 1657 6 „ „ 1220 437 1225
1904 .. 1867 6 „ „ 1471 396 1621
1905 .. 2390 6 ~ ~ 1888 502 2123
Some of the figures for the last co.uple of years are, to an
extent, an estimate. The dividend is 5 per cent., and a
1 per cent, bonus is paid ; but borrowers in certain cases
get this bonus as well'as shareholders, and the amounts
received by the two lots of people are not shown sepa-
rately. The estimated amount received by borrowers is
in the foregoing deducted from profits. Advances now
total £38,868 (£32,344 the previous year), while on the
other side overdrafts and other debts' to the public have
been reduced to £1760. Generally a strong, sound,
healthy state of things is disclosed. But the society will,
for all that, need to keep hard at work building up
reserves. It has now £38,868 out on mortgage—£3B,B6B
that is liable to be struck by all sorts of disaster—and the
reserve to meet that liability as yet amounts to less than
6 per cent, of the total risk.
* * * *
The. Northern Tasmanian Permanent Build-
ing Society (Launceston, Tas.) : ,
Writ- To
Profits. Dividends; ten Re- Re-
Dec., Off. serves, serves.
1899.. £lBO2 About 7 p.c. =£1347 £455 £14,051
1900.. 1782 „ „ 1335 447 14,498
1901.. 1595 „ „ 1462 '— 133 14,631
1902.. 1745 „ „ 1633 112 14,743
1903.. 1733 „ ' „ 1613 ' 120 14,863
1904.. 1612 „ „ 1501 111 14,974
1905.. 1453 „ ~1341 £2236 12,850
There is a further shrinkage in deposits and in share-
holders’ capital ; necessarily therefore advances also have ■
shrunk. In 1901 mortgages totalled £80,006 ; they stand
now at £43,538. During the year, values of securities have
been overhauled and properties in' possession written
down by £2236. The total of these foreclosed properties
is not stated ; in fact, there is no hint in the balance-
sheet that there are any properties in possession—they
are all included under “Advances on Mortgage.” The
present turnover is still capable of paying the regular 7
per cent, dividend or thereabouts, but it gives now very
little margin for contingencies. Though 7 per cent, is 1
paid, it is only done by the grace of the reserves-; the paid ;
capital alone can’t earn it. In fact, on the whole of
shareholders’ funds the return barely exceeds 4J per cent,
—largely because the expenses have remained almost .
stationary while revenue has shrivelled up.
Toohey’s Limited, of the Sta-ndard Brewery,
Sydney, which started with a deficit of £,90,605 (pre-
liininarv expenses £5605, and a goodwill itein of
£85,000): —
In Reduc-
Net tion of
Profits. Dividends. Deficit. Deficit.
£90,605
July, 1902 ..£11,416 £11,416, 79,189
Jan;, 1903 .. 25,606 6 p.c. = £10,500 9,106 70,053
July, 1903 .. 18,603 6 „ „ 16,500 2,103 67,980
Jan., 1904 .. 17,233 5 „ ~ 13,750 3,483 64,497
July, 1904 .. 10,440 4 „ ~ 11,000 65,057
Jan., 1905 .. 15,554 4 ~ „ 11,000 4,554 60,503
July, 1905 11,842 4 „ „ 11,000 842 59,661
Jan., 1906 .. 9,930 4 ~ ~ 11,000 60,731
The rush of the public to share the riches which the
bloated brewer coins out of the woes of the people (vide
temperance tracts) has had a disastrous result. And the
harder you look, the less pleasant it looks :
1903. 1904. 1905. 1906.
£ £ £ £
Sundry creditors .. .. 59,683 53,720 48,392 41,925
Brewery plant, properties,
goodwill .. ..* 423,404 442,108 449,935 455,956
Stocks 67,442' 50,021 48,078 37,424
Sundry debtors .. .. 151,846 145,312 134,176 134,093
Cash.'. 1,916 3,033 4,699 2,220
Profits on brewings, &c... 58,176 -45,723 41*040 34,856
Rent, interest .. .. 7,934 7,814 8,237 7,171
Management .. .. 36,997 33,803 30,724 29,598
Run down the list to the line “ Profitss on brewing, &c.”
(in the balance-sheet this appears as “ Profits on brew-
ings, sales of wines and spirits, malt house, &c., after
making provision for bad and doubtful debts and trade
discounts”). In the half-year to Jan., 1903, this profit
amounted to £58,176 ; in the past half-year it was £23,320
less. Meantime management expenses have been out down
by only £7399; so there is a net falling-away on this account
of £15,921 —enough to pay nearly 6 per cent, on capital.
Beyond that the published accounts disclose nothing on
which to hang an opinion. The simple fact is that though,
in addition to the amounts written off, £57,000 has been
put into plant, properties, etc,, since .July, 1902, the
profits from brewings and sales are £15,921 less than they
were three years ago. In the table at the head of this
it will be seen that the net profits; have declined from
£25,606 at January, 1903, to £9930 at January, 1906.
But, as a matter of fact, the position is worse than
that; for whereas at January, 1903, £3507 was written
off for depreciation of plant, etc., latterly only £2500 has
been charged, notwithstanding that certainly over
£67,000 has been spent in additions to plant, properties,
&c., which should mean a heavier allowance for deprecia-
tion. The composite item into which almost all the
assets are bundled includes leasehold properties ; and
there is no indication that anything has been written off
these. Taking l the whole item, less £85,000 goodwill, the
amount charged against profit on depreciation account
has been less than l£ pel- cent, per annum ; and that cer-
tainly looks wholly inadequate. If it is, then even the
profit shown above has not been really earned.
A month ago Toohey’s shares were selling at
12s ; lately they moved along briskly to 13s. 6d. Some-
body apparently had heard that conscience or something
equally serviceable had smitten the trustees Of the two
Toohey estates, and that they proposed to do the hand-
some thing. Undoubtedly the business, when the public
rushed it, was over-capitalised ; and yet in that first full
half-year (to January, 1903) it showed a return at the rate
of £9 6s. per cent, on capital. How it made that much,
and why it can’t make it now, are matters which share-
holders might very reasonably like to find out. But as the
business evidently can’t make it now, the Toohey
estates, which are said to hold two-thirds of the
capital, propose to surrender £50,000 of their capital on
condition that the total capitalisation is written down a
further £lOO,OOO. First the Tooheys surrender £50,000 ;
then the co. (in which the Toohey estates hold about two-
thirds of the stock) writes off another £lOO,OOO ; so the
Toohey estates’ share of the £150,000 reduction will be
about £116,000, whereas if there were a proportionate re-
duction all round, their share would be only £lOO,OOO.
Practically, therefore, they make the other shareholders
a present of £16,000. Written down to £400,000 it would
require £lO,OOO to pay a half-year’s dividend of 5 percent,
per annum; and, apart from the question whether
enough has been written off for wear and-tear, the past
half-year’s profits could not have paid it., It is said
that the new Liquor Act, involving higher licenses,
means a smaller capital value of hotels ; wherefore
the need for this writing-down. , On the past full year’s
figures it is perfectly clear, however, that, presuming the
best use has been made of the assets, the latter were
much overvalued, and should have been written down by
at least £150,000. If they had been written down that
much they would still have barely shown a 5 per cent,
return. If the new law has further depressed the earning
power of the securities, a further writing-down below
£400,000 seems to be called for.
* * * *
The Mutual Store, Ltd. (Melbourne)
To
Written Re- Re-
Profit Dividends off serves serves
July, 1900 £1967 3| p.c. =£1875 £6844
Jan., 1901 2448 3* „ „ 1875 £573 7417
July, 1901 2062 3J „ „ 1875 187 7604
Jan'., 1902 2083 3£ „ „ 1875 208 7812
£12,500 Capital written off.
July, 1902 2583 .5 „ „ 2500 £5054 2841
Jan., 1903 3214 5 ~ ~ 2500 147 567 .3408
July, 1903 2584 5 „ „ 2500 —. 84 3492
Jan., 1904 2604 5 ~ ~ 2500 -- 104 3596
Aug., 1904 2513 4 2-7 „ 2500 300 3309
Feb., 1905 245 2£ ~ „ 1250 2304
Aug., 1905 1639 3J ~ ~ 1666 2277
Jan., 1906 2736 6 ~ ~ 2500 236 2513
Apparently this co. has gone back to the old practice of
January and July balances; so the present accounts
cover five months only, and the dividend, nominally at
the rate of 5 per cent., works out for the shorter
period at an excessive 6 per cent, Apparently an attempt
is now to be made to ease the co. of some of
its heavy load of debt ; £3813 has been shifted in the five
months, yet mortgages and overdrafts still total £70,152,
and the interest charge for the five months was £1514,
or at the rate of £3636 per year. Recent improvement
in the look of things has been mainly the result of a
tighter rein being put on general expenses; they were
£12,805 in the half-year to February, 1905, but have now
been cut down to £9926 for five months, or at the rate of
£11,911 for a half-year. But sundry debtors (including
customers’ accounts) now stand at £19,836, against
£17,120 as at February, 1905 ; and that increase isn’t a
satisfactory feature, though it is stated that provision has
been made for debts considered bad and doubtful. Even
if sufficient provision of that sort has been made, this co.,
with its large interest-bearing debt, can’t view with
satisfaction such a pile of outstanding accounts due, upon
which it gets no interest.
* * * *
Castlemaine Woollen Co. (Vic.)
Written To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
June, 1902.. sp.c. = £l3OO '—- £2034
„ 1903.. £2214 4 „ „ 1078 £4OO £736 2770
£lB9O of Reserves transferred to Capital .. 880
~ 1904.. 2155' 4 p.c. = 1156 750 249 1129
■„ 1905.'. 1320 3i, „ 900 420- -1549
Dec., 1905.. 187 nil 187 1736
Accounts are made up every half-year ; but as the divi-
dend is paid only once a year, the figures for the two
terms are brought together in the foregoing. If things
go like this there will be no div.. this year at all. Last
year a poor little 3 per cent, was paid, but nothing what-
ever was written off for wear and tear of plant; and at 5
per cent., which looks a moderate allowance for machinery,
£l4OO a year should be provided. For a few terms after
G. H. Reid, Joe Cook, and the N.S.W. Freetrade crowd
cut down the Victorian tariff, the co. was able to do
just moderately ;it even paid a 5 p.c. dividend. But
that was simply because, for the moment, wool happened
to be very cheap. As soon as the wool market firmed
again profits started to shrivel, and there can be no doubt
whatever that, allowing a fair charge for depreciation of
plant, they haye now entirely disappeared. The fact that
one or two of these woollen eo.’s paid moderate —very


Three Friends
.
The Best
Tobacco
on
£arth.
376 George St„ Sydney
28 Hunter St, Sydney
177 Oxford St., Sydney
A. A. MARKS, Sole Agent.
The pumping difficulties which many mums
have to contend with sometimes develop into a scare which
tends to knock shares out of the market. The A. h.
Cameron Steam or Air Pumps have saved many
precarious situations by their ability to handle water,
even gritty or aciduous without fear of the pumps g e tti g
out of order. Broken Hill Mines, the Mt. Lyell, and other
leading 1 coys, have recognised the great value of Cameron
pumps in their simplicity, strength and durability under
all conditions, whether driven b y compressed air or
steam. W. and J. Lempriere, of Melliournc—tlie Sole
Agents—are continually supplying Boilerfeeding, Piston,
Horizontal, and Vertical Plunger lumps from^ their
stocks. Mining requisites are specially catered for.
It is interesting to note that the Hornsby
patent safety oil engine has sustained its world-wide
reputation for reliability and economy. During t , he h .P^ t
vear hundreds of squatters, recognising their adaptability,
have been using them for their shearing and general
motive power, and as they are specially suitable for
mining, electric lighting, pumping, etc., mine managers
have shown their appreciation by installing them on some
of the leading mines. The latest type of engine will run
at a cost of less than a farthing per brake horse power per
hour, and are manufactured by the well-known
» Uprio-ht ” Water Tube Boiler firm R. Hornsby and Sons,
Ltd Hay-street, Sydney and Spencer-street, Melbourne.
* * * *
Important Notice to Mine Managers and
Users op Concentrators. —In the recent action for In-
fringement Wilfley v Card the decision of the Supreme
Court of Victoria did not merely refer to a Card top
which was altered without authority, but it did refer to a
Card Concentrator manufactured and worked at the New
Chum Consolidated Mine, Bendigo, under the supervision
and control of N. Guth ridge Limited, and to a Card Con-
centrator exhibited at Long’s works, Footscray, which
was officially pointed out as the true Card construction
durin°* the trial, and which defendant used for exhibiting
to customers and making tests, and on which they gave
exhibitions to witnesses for the purposes of this trial, ine
Judge specifically decided that the substance of the
Footscray table and of the No. 38 (New Chum Consolidated
Table) was the same as that of the plaintiff Wilfley and
were infringements. N. Gilthridge Limited were ordered
to pay damages and costs, the costs were taxed and the
Sheriff seized the goods of N. Guthridge Limited in Mel-
bourne and Sydney, but as they were all claimed by the
receiver for the debenture holders the execution was re-
turned unsatisfied. Bankruptcy proceedings have been
instituted in the Supreme Court of N.S. Wales to wind up
N. Guthridge Limited. As N. Guthridge Limited are still
offering to indemnify purchasers, take notice that all
users of Card tables which infringe the Wilfley patent will
be proceeded against .* The user is liable to an action as
well as the manufacturer.*
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99a Queen-
street, Melbourne. Commission business only.
Agents everywhere.
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne.* # *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.
* * * *
The British Broken Hill Silver Mining Co.,
after careful consideration of all types of boilers, have
placed an order with Babcock and AVilcox for three large
boilers, each of 500 h.p. Superheaters, chain grate
mechanical stokers and economiser have also been
ordered from the same firm. This now makes 40 boilers
of the Babcock and Wilcox type supplied to the various
mines and industries at Broken Hill. Wherever economy
in fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed. Hence the recent unanimous decision of the
Expert Admiralty Committee to install Babcock boilers as
the standard for'the British Nav.*
* * * *
In spite of all that is said to the contrary, the
Wilfley Co. did not get a general injunction against the
Card Concentrator. The judge’s words are “It is pro-
bable that the table as imported from America is not
open to \ny objection ; that I need not decide.” All the
Card tables in use are of this unobjectionable type.
Winding up the company will not affect the status of the
Card, which does not infringe any patents. The Card is
very largely installed in America, but no attempt is
made by the owners of the Wilfley to stop it. Mr. Wilfley,
we are told, thought it wise to sell out his interest. He
himself declared that the Card did not in any way infringe
his patents. N. Guthridge Ltd.*
* • * •
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt,, Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
&ny siifu of dccziy, find 11 ifiy lust lopjjf Spiled
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming 1 , refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and everv discretion pf cast or wrought iron work,*
* *
Golden BeNDIGQ.— I The safest and best field fop
investment, fullest information gladly given, Geo. A,
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).* , , „
Send us your address and we wifi post you a,
pamphlet gratis how to purify acetylene gas. Brandt
Bros,, Pitt-street, Sydney, and Eiizabettpstreet, Mel-
bourne.*
*f■ * *
Charters Towers,—Mining speculators would
do well, to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on tbe field,*
* * » *
The Queensland Smelting Company, Limited,
begs to notify its clients that it has ceased purchasing ore
from the public for the tim v e being, A resumption pf
purchasing operations will be advised }n due course,*
t * * *
Cobar.— For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M, Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894.
' * lr * *
The Register (Adelaide), of Ist June, 190.5 :
“ The report of the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society shows that the Society has had a prosperous
year. The increase iti the volume of new business trans-
acted is large, having been practically £lOO,OOO more than
in 1903. The rate of interest yielded by the funds shows
a substantial increase, which is particularly gratifying.”*
* * * *
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Grim-
wade and Co., Melbourne. Fourth edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Post free on application.*
• * * •
Tbe Curtin Davis Proprietary Company, No
Liability, is prepared to consider offers of approved
mining properties under working option of purchase for
cash. Full particulars to R. E. Tweddell, Manager, 31
Queen-street, Melbourne.*
Commonwealth and Foreign patents .ob-
tained. Collison and Co., 483 Collins-street,
Melbourne (and Adelaide.) Twenty-six
practice. Write us for Inventors’ Guide.*
moderate—dividends after the Federal low tariff was intro-
duced has been put forward as proof that that tariff didn it
destroy the manufacturer’s profit; whereas the .whole
explanation is that profit would have forthwith shrivelled
almost to nothing if it had not been for the extra-cheap
wool just then available. Like almost every woollen
manufacturing co. in the Commonwealth, the Gastle-
maine is heavily in debt; besides £2900 of debentures, it
has now an overdraft of £11,255 —an increase of £444- in
six months, though the greater part of that is represented
by goods on hand. In the past two years this co., handi-
capped and crippled as it has been, has paid over £lO,OOO
in Australian wages directly, and as much more in
Australian wages indirectly; the question simply is
whether Australia wants to go on earning those wages.
If it does, it is plain enough that it must do something ;
for aco. already far in debt can’t go on drifting like this
co. is doing. It must shut down some time.
* Ht #
Curious to notice how cheerfully people let other
people make their fortunes out of C.S.A., Cobar, now.
There have been two or three law actions over the litter.
In one (when it came out that J. C. Williamson hadn’t
been sticking closely to his book, but had partnered Frank
Gardner in his Cobar spec.), some of the Great Cobar
Syndicate wanted to be also declared partners in the
business. But, as partnership consists now, as far as one
can see, of the privilege of helping to pay a large sum for
a block next to a mine from which most of the bottom
has dropped out, the enthusiasm with which the
plaintiffs didn’t pursue their action was really touching.
They loved Frank Gardner like a brother, and they
seemed to almost feel ashamed of themselves for ever
wanting any of the claim. All that they would ask was
that he shouldn’t bring any action against them—in other
words, that he shouldn’t insist upon them having a share.
But Gardner and Co. wouldn’t agree to forego their right
to be generous. In the other case, in Melbourne, an
interim injunction was granted preventing the C.S.A.
Block 10 Co. from carrying out an alleged contract with
Everard Browne, as promoter, for the sale of the leases.
Grounds were that secret profit had been made, or would
be made, by Boldrewood, jun., and Co. As Boldre-
wood, jun., is to be prevented from making
secret profits, it might be expected that he would
put up just as vigorous a fight as he did in that
famous meeting with A. G. Hales many years ago, and
insist on the contract being carried out. But, up to now,'
there isn’t any fight; in fact, Browne’s friends’ worst fear
seems to be that the co. will carry out its contract and
supply him with the alleged secret profits alluded to.
Coppabella Co. (M.S.W.) has had its first half-
yearly meeting in Melbourne, with chairman Henry Gore
nearly as optimistic as ever. There was no reason, he
said, why they shouldn’t reckon they had 107,000 tons of
ore developed ; but cutting it down to 50,000 tons (which
takes in the lode exposed in workings—the other includes
scuff up to the top of the hill), that would give them
10,000 tons of concentrates, which, at present prices,
would show a profit of £36,634. But to base estimates on
present metal prices looks very like deliberately jumping
into a bog. Lead is quoted at £l6 7s. 6d., silver at 2s.
6|d.; and prices have got down to these points in the
past five years > v
Lead. Silver.
1901 .. £ll 0 0 .. 2/15-8
1902 .. 10 2 6 .; 1/911-16
1903 .. 10 18 9 .. 1/911-16
1904 .. 11 0 0 .. 2/0 7-16
1905 .. 11 18 9 .. 2/1 7-16
Coppabella concentrates are estimated at 60 p.c. lead and
lsoz. silver ; and chairman Gore says they should be
worth (at £l6 for lead and 2s. 6d. for silver) £ll ss. per
ton. “Deducting 15s. per ton for mining and milling,
£2 ss. a ton for freight, and £4 15s. for smelting and
charges, it made a total expense of £7 15s. per • ton,
leaving £3 10s. a ton profit, or a total of £36,634 on the
ore actually proved on three sides.” The ore is to be con-
centrated to one ton in five ; therefore to make a ton of
concentrates the mining and milling costs will be five times
15s. =£3 15s. per ton of concentrates, instead of, the 15s.
mentioned in the report; and even that will be low —it
cost the Broken Hill South last half-year £4 ISs. 9d. per
ton. Apart from the tremendous risk of basing estimates
upon present prices of metals, there thus seems to be a
big enough hole in the estimates for practically all
the contemplated profits to fall through. If that is the
best the co. can look forward to, then the thing had better
be given up as a bad job.
The Coppabella proposal is to issue 30,000 fully
paid shares in lieu of present issue, and offer share-
holders another 30,000 at Is. apiece, which will bring in
£l5OO. Further idea is to use this in buying some sort of
a concentrating mill. But obviously the proposal ought
to be carefully checked. Take the concentrates, as
stated, to average 60 per cent lead and 15oz. silver (the
silver contents seem low, by the way). Take then fair
average prices—£l3 10s. for lead and 2s 3d. for
silver. Total value per ton of concentrates £9 15s. 9d.
Deduct costs —mining and milling (at same rate as
Broken Hill South, about the cheapest-worked Barrier
mine), £4 13s. 9d. ; freight, £2 ss. ; smelting and charges,
£4 15s. (frequently higher); total, £ll 13s. 9d. Loss,
£llBs. per ton of concentrates, or 7s. 7d. per ton of ore.
The cost of mining and milling may, under the circum-
stances, probably be reduced, but by no great amount.
The concentrates, if they go only 60 per cent, lead and
15oz. silver, would be low grade ; B.H. South concentrates
go about 70 per cent, lead and 20oz. silver. Further, in
the estimates made nothing has been allowed for smelting
losses and deductions : and soz. must at once come off
the silver on that account.
« * • *
“Bromide”: Whatever the origin of the
Broken Hill mine fires, this fact remains—that had the
provisions of the Lead Prevention Act been complied
with, and water laid on underground, one at least of the
two outbreaks could have been extinguished soon after
discovery. But in most of the Barrier mines water is not
laid on ; consequently, by the time water was brought
from the surface, the fire had obtained a big hold. Co. ’s are
supposed to supply water and hose to minimise the dust,
and thus check “‘leading ” ; but in some cases not even
drinking water is supplied.
* * * *
The B.H. North may blame itself for its stop-
page. It should have had its boundary tight before the
fire ; for years past everybody has admitted that every
Broken Hill mine should be cut off in this way from the
others—that the mines on the line should be just like the
water-tight compartments in a modern ship. But the
grab for dividends stood in the way of what everybody
knew ought to be done. Even after the fire started, the
North dawdled. Airways might even then have been
blocked with bricks ; but the co. waited till the workings
were filled with gas, and the.n the work became dangerous
and costly. It is because of the danger, and because it is
certain that, in spite of the danger, the work will have to
be done whenever a fire occurs, that the Mines Depart-
ment should take a hand and insist upon these barriers.
It may not be the department’s business to check the
companies’ rush, for divs. ; but it is its business to look
ahead and compel the co.’s to do things in safety which,
if neglected, will have to be done [at great risk of life
later on.
The Sulphide Corporation (N.S.W.) shares that
Australia deals in are almost exclusively ordinaries. Aus-
tralia leaves the pref. shares to J. Bull; and that shows
what sort of an ass Australia is. The Sulphide Corpora-
tion’s is one of the best mines on the Barrier ; if it doesn t
rank next after the B.H. Prop., it ranks third on the
field. And Australians, who ought to know better, buy
these Sulphide ordinaries at high prices on the strength
of these good reports ; and without stopping to see what
shares of this class are loaded with. First, there is
£79,600 of 5 per cent, debenture stock, redeemable in
1907 at 105. Then there is £550,000 of 10 per cent, prefer-
ence capital. Then there is the directors’ percentage
bite. All these must be satisfied first. On top of that
there is the fact that the management in England is
almost exclusively in the hands of the pref. shareholders
(Australia having the ordinaries) ; and, in order to keep
the 10 per cent. pref. dividend steady, huge lumps are
written off for depreciation whenever returns are extra-
good. Nothing has come the way of ordinaries, therefore,
since 1900, in spite of recent high metal prices. And now
there is to be another barrier for profits to climb over
before thev reach ordinaries. The subsidiary co. that is
to be formed (mostly in London) to handle the co.’s zinc
concentrates is to be guaranteed 5 per cent, during the
first 10 or 12 years. In other words, what amounts to a
new lot of 5 per cent, cumulative pref. shares are to be
created. Certainly the ordinary shareholders may them-
selves take up some of these shares, but the prefs. will
get the larger proportion. So the prospect of divs. for
ordinary Sulphides fades into the still dimmer distance-
in spite of the quality of the mine.
Prospects of Etheridge (Q.) railway are causing
a little stir. Einasleigh Co. is moving its debenture
holders to grant a strong Adelaide coterie an option,
under which, if it were exercised, close upon £40,000
would be spent on the property Unlikely the debenture
holders will refuse ; also it is unlikely that the money
will go up until the wherewithal to build the Etheridge
railway is in hand. * , »
Sydney papers have had a new crop of hifalutin
paragraphs about the “great Shale Co.” that has been
formed in England with an £BOO,OOO capital to develop
“ the greatest deposits of shale in the world at Capertee
or thereabouts, where, for 30years past, the N.S.W. Shale
and other co.’s have been struggling for a crust. The
panjandrums of the business, it is mentioned, have
arrived from London, and called on the Acting-Prenner ;
later on, of course, they were interviewed. After wan-
dering about airily amongst millions, the interview seems
to have taken a twist. A great deal, it was hinted,
depends upon labor conditions. “It may be necessary to
get concessions.” Watch the cat! If, in order to make this
thing pay, it is necessary to “get concessions” (which
apparently means cheap labor of some sort), why did the
co. pay this huge sum for the property—as much as
£250,000 has been mentioned? There are scores of shale
deposits in Australia that would show a profit on the
same terms ; but nobody sells them for a quarter of a
million, and turns them over to co.’s with £BOO,OOO capi-
tal. This “ may be necessary to get concessions ”is the
first hint of what is coming. The bloated concern, is
doomed to failure ; and when it does fail the bricks are
going to be thrown as usual, not at the promoters, but at
Australia and its laws.
By the way, in the published interviews about
this shale business it is again said that it is “ a semi-State
enterprise.”. In London, the ill-advised remarks of
Premier Carruthers, whooping about “ the introduction
of British capital,” have been scattered broadcast, pre-
sumably to convey the same impression. As, on the lines
on which the co. is worked, the thing must be a fiasco,
the sooner the N.S.W. Government makes it plain that
shale mining at Capertee isn’t a semi-State enterprise the
better. J. Bull is being drawn into just a plain private ;
gamble; and if the Mines Department isn’t game to ex-
press an opinion about the prospects of that gamble, it is
somebody’s'duty anyhow to see that the State doesn’t
have to stand any of the racket when the collapse happens.
* * * *
The Victorian Mines Minister threatens to
forfeit the Sebastopol Proprietary lease, Ballarat, and
there is a wail from the dress circle, while the gallery
chuckles. Analyse the situation, It is pleaded that the
Proprietary put up £16,000 for works before it handed
the claim over to the tribute co. This isn’t so, however,
as a good deal of that £16,000 is a mere book
entry on account of the mine, and means nothing.
Take the way the Central Plateau Co. was treated.
Royalty had to be paid on all gold that came up the
shaft ;'and Gilpin used to enforce this outrageous condi-
tion, even when gold was got from outside the tribute area.
Money was also made by charging a higher rent than
was paid bv the leaseholder to the State, and the royalty
was high. ‘ The tribute ought for every reason to be
quashed with as little mercy as one would show to
a toadstool. It serves no good purpose, and is best out
of the way. But to that add a word of caution. An
attempt may be made to boom Star of the East, Central
Plateau and Sebastapol Plateau No. 1, on the Minister’s
decision. At present there isn’t one of these mines on
stone that would pay for mining and hauling even if there
were no royalty.
* * * *
Brvant, who has gone to manage the Charlotte
Plains Consolidated Mines, Carisbrook (Vic.), isn’t having
his first experience with the claim. He was in charge
years back, before J. Bull was brought on to the scene to
nurse the baby. Since then, Bryant has travelled. He
went to the M’Evov, at Eldorado, and he came thence to
the Main Leads North. This he made a success, beating
his detractors, and pulling the Harvey crowd out on the
right side of the ledger. Bryant’s one brother is a Balla-
rat broker, his other is at the Glenfine South ; so they are
all used to underground mining. Further, it will be a
great help to him to have known Drysdale Brown.
“ Dredger” : If you judged by what they give
you to read, you would suppose there is one bucket
dredge in Bright district of Gippsland (Vic.). The Tewks-
bury has certainly done well, having paid 60 per cent, in 10
months, but the Kia Ora, Phoenix, Junction, Persever-
ance Altona, and others have done almost as well for
several years. And the Enterprise at Bright, owned by a
syndicate of 10, broke all Australian records last year
(1905) Although only working 48 weeks (owing to an
accident which cost the syndicate £400), it paid 150 per
cent on the capital of £4OOO. The Enterprise had weekly
returns of 130ioz. and 1090 z., and many others from 80oz.
to 920 z. Enterprise shares are mostly held by Araluen
(N.S.W.) “grafters.”
■ * * * *
“ Qiiidam ” : Re Lady Nelson Extended, St.
Arnaud, Vic. (8., 22/2/’O6), Manager H. R. Oroyden is a
sanguine soul ; at the same time the sincerity of his belief
that the gold will come in at a depth is proved by a large
portion of his income going back into the L. N. Ex. in
calls Further, Croyden’s belief is shared by most work-
ing miners of St. Arnaud. As to the management of co.
outside the manager, The Bulletin was not condemna-
tory enough. If the shares held in St. Arnaud could
speak the directors would go out on their heads instanter.
Unfortunately, their still small voice cannot make itself
heard till next August, by which time judiciously aimed
3d calls, and the withholding from sale of the forfeited
shares (already nearly 9000) will probably have shifted
the balance of power from St. Arnaud to some place
more in touch with the present directorate. St. Arnaud
probably possesses a few' shows besides the old Lord
Nelson which will come in again at a depth, and a
majority which won’t; but if the sanguine part of human
nature is to be entirely eliminated, mining in the locality
will soon be as defunct as anywhere else under similar
conditions. The two shows about which local opinion is
most sanguine are Lord Nelson North and Lady Nelson
Extended, and it will be a big lift to the field if either is
tested and not found wanting.
* * .* '
North Queensland has had a drenching. Even
the Irvinebank tin smelters had to shut up, supplies of
fuel being blocked. Further out, 0.K., having got over a
labor trouble, found its flux bins empty ; and the traction
engines have given up the job in despair and settled down
for a long spell. There are 1500 tons of 48 per cent, matte
on the mine, awaiting either the converter (now nearly
readv) or drv weather. Developments below are satis-
factory • o-ood grey ore has been found in a crosscut from
the bottom of the main shaft. So far as O.K. m con-
cerned, the copper market, in fact, is the risk not the
mine. » , * .
Next North Queensland float will probably be a
group of silver-lead shows, Some of which the indefatig-
able O K. director, E. B. Torpy, has been working. Chief
of them is the Crooked Creek, where there is a concen-
trating mill that has been more than paying for itself.
Longbottom, of Melbourne, has this little lot m his bag.
Vulcan tin (N.Q.), finding the public still on
the feed, splits its 44,000 shares into fives.
Just to encourage Laurence Wilson in bolding
up the big end of Ravenwood (N.Q.), the Grant is turning
out some good stuff, and the Grand Junction Consols also
“has a chance.” But what has become of the Beeps,
meanwhile? It’s about time something was heard of tne
prill ore that went to Aldershot. Indications are that
the Sunset reef has not yet been tapped, or, if it has, then
it loses its gold at depth.
* * * "
New Ravens wood (N.Q.) appears to have picked
up a rich shoot in the Grant, which is crushing for well
over 7 oz. to the ton. This makes the Grant and Sunset
Extended chances interesting, and returns from the
present crushing of 170 odd tons are anxiously awaited.
The parcel was sent to Charters Towers to be crushed.
Why not have sent it to Gympie, or, for that matter,
Bendigo? Economy be hanged !
* * * *
Digbv Denham, Queensland’s new Minister for
Railways, states that the Richmond-Cloncurry line must
be carried right through to Cloncurry. Denham is enthu-
siastic ; also he is right, probably for reasons that he does
not see just yet. The Hampden-Mt. Elliott people pio-
pose to go right ahead with a north and south tramway,
for which the necessary leases are being obtained. Witn
this constructed, and the mines producing, and WillcocKs
people smelting, either the Government will have to
build to Cloncurry or private enterprise will connect per
tramway lease, and snap the traffic, for a tramway lease
confers all the privileges of common carriers upon the
holders. No wonder the Hampden-Mt. Elliott people,
with whom the name of Knox is associated, are not
frightened to go ahead. . . #
North White Feather, Kanowna (W.A.), is
approaching one of its periodical collapses. The ore
above the 500 ft. level is nearly depleted, and the 600 ft.
level is too poor to pay. While prospects were good,
scrip was boosted, but since the reef was cut in the shaft
at 575 ft., in August last, and proved to be only bin. wide
and worthless, a discreet silence has been observed. Un-
likely that the mine will be heard of much in future, as
its neighbors (White Feather Main Reefs and Reward)
both petered out at comparatively shallow depths, ihe
last two monthly returns have been : December, 1770 tons
for 10460 z., and profit £2100; January, 1570 tons foi
7810 z., and £3OO loss. No need to enlarge on that.
* * * *
Golden Ridge (W.A.) has had a rough time of
it lately, and holders have been getting rather scared of
the result. Recent developments have, however, been
encouraging. Trouble hitherto 'has been that develop-
ment has always been starved through the grab for divi-
dends as soon as ever a bit of profit was made.
* * * *
Amid all the disappointment and heart-burn-
ing over Tasmanian tin co.’s, one of them pays steady
divs., and mocks at those who think that puff and bounce
and share-mongering make a mine. This is the Pioneer,
managed by Cecil G. Ryan, brother of Plevna Rj an,
the Collins-street surgeon. Shares are hardly ever asked
for, and more rarely dealt in, save in lots of 5 or 10,
because they are well held by people who believe in
the mine and who hate Stock Exchange sharking.
Dividends to date aggregate £68,625, 9s. P er
share having been paid during the past half-year.
Since 1900, 1,565,600 cubic yards sluiced have averaged
2*2141b. of stream tin, at a cost of a shade over per
ton. Last half-year, however, 222,000 cubic yards went
only 1'8751b. per cubic yard, the mine cost being close up
to £42 10s. per ton. The poorer average arises
from the plants having had to tackle the upper
drifts, but next six months should see them
down into lower and better-grade dirt. As the
mine workings have extended costs have gone up,
and it seems improbable that they will come niuch below
present rates. Still the high price of tin more than com-
pensates for any increase in expense. Briseis Extended
plant is a duplicate of the No. 2 Pioneer ; and the fact
that the lift is about 80ft. indicates that, it the latter co.
wants to work the'ancient drifts about which so much
has been heard, it will require a second plant. With
only 5£ tons for over two months’work, there is not
much chance of that being got without calls.
* * * *
When manager Baudry went from the Briseis
Extended and Williamson came to it from the Briseis,
Langford and Turner were cocksure there was to be no
more trouble about yields. But Williamson seemed un-
able to escape the fatal influence of the claim, and soon
set to work sending off reports. Some of the wise birds
flew' on to another perch to look on out of harm s way, like
the crow when the gunner is about. When Williamson
talked about a record yield, the bull party joined hands,
and with a joint heave-ho, got shares out of the quag-
mire into which they had fallen. Now they are back
there again, and are, in fact, a good deal deeper in the
mud. The yield was, truly enough, a record yield, but it
was not the right sort of record. It was the lowest yet got
five tons against the previous 12. As sluicing has been
goino- on since December, it would be interesting
if the directors let shareholders behind the scenes
as to the financial standing of the show. Now the
has been lowered, and Northey s ancient drifts
are to be washed down. So far the ancients seem to have
had the best tin out of the mine—the old miners knew
more about tin than they got credit for. W hat with the
narrowing bottom, and the poor outputs, there won t be
much call for Briseis Extended shares in the future. The
best advice to give is to avoid the whole family—Weld-
brook, Mutual Hills, Sarah Ann, Mary Ann, and the rest
of them—until at least one has shown that it deserves
the name of a mine.’ #
John Dwyer, of St. Helens (Tas.), who, with
his brother, used to own the much-discussed Transit tin
claim tells The Bulletin that the two of them worked
150vds., and that it averaged about 31b. to the yard
which is something considerably better than a correspon-
dent recently mentioned as the result of previous
attempts on ‘this claim. The Dwyers, however, didn t
stick to the ground, and have ho interest in it now. >
* * * *
An item of £425 was dropped out of the City of
Newcastle Gas Co.’s profits as reckoned up for a para-
graph in B. l/3/’O6. Previously the Insurance Fund had
been included as a reserve ; this time the doubtful item
(£425) was dropped without remark, thus reducing the
half-year’s net profit from £3544 to £3119.
... *
A recent Customs prosecution let a little
glint of light on the deceitful ways of middlemen. It
appears that for some reason the importer often desires to
conceal his identity in entering goods at the Customs,
and iti obedience to instructions, a Customs agent made
an entry that certain goods were imported by one Smith.
On the fact being questioned, he grew quite enthusiastic
about Smith, and made a solemn declaration about
S nl ith. Whereupon a magistrate fined him £5 and £3
costs. Now, why does the importer want to disguise the
fact that certain goods were consigned to him ?
* ■ * * *
Melbourne suburban councils are looking at a
proposition to build and run ai) electric tramway from
Kew through Malvern, Hawthorn and St. Kilda to the
beach. They have obtained figures (partly supplied by
experts) purporting to show that a profit can be made
(after £2 17s. 6d. per cent, sinking fund, 4 per cent,
interest, and working expenses are paid) if revenue equal
to 10s. per head of the population can be obtained.
Melbourne, Sydney and Fremantle trams are all quoted
as yielding ’ over 18s. per head, but the comparison is of
little use as regards' the proposed line, which is purely
inter-suburban or “ railway feeding,” The biggest
tramway revenue always comes from a working
population moving to and from the city, so as
a business proposition this tramline looks doubtful.
But the most distressing part of the proposal
is the organised attempt to hand over the streets to
“private enterprise;” The last conference was evenly
divided between municipal construction and private ex-
ploiter. A proposal from Malvern (which seems to find
favor) is that the municipalities should guarantee U per
cent profit to a private company, with an agreement to
share with the company all profits over 6 per cent. So
the councils are to take all the risks, possess none of the
assets, and have in prospect only a minute share of the
profits.
Instructive freights (for same loading) quoted
-o the Tariff Commission :—Melbourne to Penang, 655. a
ton; London to Penang, 20s For certain boilers-
London to Fremantle, £96; Melbourne to Fremantle,
£2OO Yet the Freetrader tells Australia that it doesn’t
need a tariff, because its distance from the European
workshops and markets is huge Protection in itself.
* * * *
Miner • Can’t advise ; would have to know all
the facts,' and then it would be merely a matter of
opinion. You’re in an Equity tangle through having no
agreement.
“ P X” : I own a share or two in the Broken
Hill Prop., and I’ve just got a circular from my secretary
containing the views of Mr. Hungry Pattersoni on colored
labor and things. I want to know why 1 should Wto
scatter Mr. Patterson’s views on coiored labor any more
than his equally eccentric views on the diuning-rod.
What has his absurd idea that white men can tv
mines in the north of Queensland got to do with the
working of the Broken Hill Proprietary mine ? Will Mr.
Patterson please stick to business? #


■r;:;
pxfm
W&M
m
V .-v -:,w
H
t-rAto
im
|c Kill Rabbits
Wwrxere. 4 Everywhere
All ika^&rßound.
Wrife Us.
OMING,SMITHS
_ MANUrACTURERJ,
. or manures fc*
MEL»qURME.
FISHING NETS,
FISHING TACKLE.
Send for our Superb Tackle Catalogue—lT'S FREE.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
409 & 411 George St.
SYDNEY.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resells Waverley Brewery, Agents.
Aboriginalities.
MAKING A SONG OF IT.
SWAGGIE (reading): “‘Mrs. Ryan's hot.’ Well, what 'n thunder cud she
ixpect on a day loike this?”
“Two Seas”: “ Olim ” (B. 8/2/’O6) says
cats prefer starvation to rabbits. Which reminds
me that I was once told .by an observant new-
chum that horses wouldn’t eat corn, because he
saw a stable-fed horse leave corn to bite at green
grass. Have six cats of my own, and would
much prefer that they hunted mice or snakes, as
their habit of leaving the skins and paws of
rabbits all over the premises is a nuisance in fly-
time. Cat didn’t acquire her taste in this coun-
try either. On the Allanbank Estate, in Ber-
wickshire, we used to cut the tops off the ears
of all the house-cats to prevent them visiting
the rabbit-warrens in the early morning. Noth-
ing enrages cats more than to get water inside their
ears, and when going through the long dewy grass
they always depress their ears to keep the wet
out. Hence the reason for cutting off the tops of
the ears. The cats I’ve'seen couldn’t be trusted
even with tinned rabbit if there was a tin-opener
handy.
“ Ancle ” : Re “ Yia’s ” par (B. 28/12/’O5)
on a goanna. The late Prof. M‘Coy says in his
Zoology that the lace lizard, or go. (or any
other name that the loathsome coal-black reptile
with the sickly yellow stripes goes by) averages
sft., while he iias heard of some of 7ft. and Bft.
Five years ago, in the Whipstick district (north
of Bendigo), I saw abush man kill one (swung it
over his head by the tail) that measured 9ft. We
disregarded the inches and fractions—just laid it
along a panel of fence, and it stretched from post
to post. The local people merely remarked that
it was a big go., but nothing unusual, which
led me to believe the beast occasionally ran to the
size of a whale or thereabouts. Nobody seemed
to get hysterical or think he had been drinking
and saw an alligator or crocodile. The largest
ones seem to belong to the Murray districts. In
South Gippsland they seldom go over 4ft. 6in. ;
but they are an awful nuisance. Thev like sugar,
and go through the bags for it. and they delight
in milk and cream. Most of the people are dairy
farmers, and the South Gippsland go. trains
for sprinting. In wheat country the farmers wel-
come the go. because of his mice-eating pro-
pensities, but strictly warn him off the chicken
coop and nests.
“P.P.M.”: “ Mallet ” in reply to “ Wur-
rym ’ (B. 18/1/’ofi) is ridiculously wrong. From
South Perth to Guildford the banks of the Swan
River present almost one unbroken chain of vege-
table gardens—mostly Chow ; and at West and
Fast Perth, Leederville, Wanneroo, Northam,
Bunbury, etc., etc., vegetables are produced in
abundance. Was on the Northampton railway
station, about three months ago, when a local
preacher received IS. 6d., in stamps, over expenses
—freight and commission—for a ton of vegetables
he had sent to the fields. Would advise “Mallet”
to visit the various shows, so that he may get rid
of the delusion that a dejected turnip-shop at
Katanning is the source of W. A.’s only vegetable
supply.
5 “ Sil Dik”:
I’m not after the
Humane So-
ciety’s life-sav-
ing- medal, but
I hasten to write
to The B. in
the interests of
anybody who
might be foolish
enough to try
“ W y n n y’s ”
method (8.,
8/2/’OG) of get-
ting rid of an ob-
j struction in a
I rifle-barrel.
Have had a big
experience in
fire-arms, and
can say that the
only safe way of
firing out a rag
or other obstruc-
tion is to fill the
barrel with
water between
rag and breech,
and then to fire
a blank car-
trid g e. The
other method
(without the
water) will be
I costly, if not sui-
cidal.. Not gen- •
erally known
that a thin disc
of clay, picked
up by accidental
contact of a gun-
muzzle with the
soil, will cause a
burst anywhere
from muzzle to
breech; or, if the
gas is not strong
enough to burst
the barrel, it will
! remain until the
breech is open-
ed, when the
gas will blow out
the car trid ge
shell backwards,
to the probable
damage of the
opener. Re the
doubtful '303
ammunition ;
wouldn’t it be
better to weigh
all ammunition,
in search for two-bulleted cartridges, than to
destroy all made in the suspected year ?
* • • •
Moocher : The Jap bitterly resents
being taken for a Chow, Once got a Jap cook.
John rolls up with his baskets, looks at Jap, and
bursts out, “My countleeman ! yoki! hoki! my
wud ! cheeawdollayikoyaugtzekiang. . . The
Jap turned green with rage and bashed John
hard on the mouth with a tomato out of his own
basket. Chow rushed out into the yard spitting
out tomato and bad language— “ You plully cow '
vah ! come on ! you Wantee fi’ ! I fi’ you ! ” But
he did a fine exhibition run when the Jap accepted
theinvitation. Again, a big railway porter said,
Hullo,, John ! ” to a chrysanthemum friend.
Ihe J ap s tactics were those of his brethren in the
war—he made war first and declared it after-
wards. He took a flying leap on to the porter’s
neck and kicked and bit and scratched worse than
a tiger-cat. When they pulled him off, the
porter was mostly blood and rags.
NOT IMPRESSED.
SQUATTER JUMBUCK : “ I’ve just brought Lord Shotover over to see your blood stock .”
SQUATTER MACPHERSON : “ Shotover ! Shotover! Why, I once new a chemist named Shotover!”
Recent reports of a number of cows dying
at Benalla (Vic.) through eating poisoned rabbits
raise further doubts as to the Danysz system of
rabbit-extermination by disease. The cows were
well-fed animal's, and would apparently have
attacked diseased rabbit corpses out of sheer
cussedness, just as readily as they did phosphor-
lsed bunny. It looks as if things will be only
middling for users of cow products (which means
everybody) if Danysz gets fairly going.
* * * *
“D.H.R.”: It, is surprising how easily
pie-melons grow, and to what a size. If, by any
accident, a solitary pie-melon seed gets left in
the middle of a scalded plain, and there
isn’t any sign of rain, next year will
reveal a vine extending some ten or twenty
yards on each side, and containing dozens of
big melons. Travelling once on the Maranoa
River, I suddenly came upon a pie-melon
patch of some hundred acres or so in extent,
beveral of the melons must have weighed
considerably over a hundredweight each.
Another time, on the Burdekin (Q.), I was
riding along with a nigger, wondering 011
which side lay civilisation and flour, when
suddenly I was surprised by seeing green
stretching out in front of “me as far as
the eye could reach. On approaching, we
found it to be a large area of pie-melon
vines, thick with melons. We had been
lost for five days, and during that time had
only discovered one iguana; so the pie-
melons were received with open mouths.
As this part of the country was then very
little frequented by whites, the origin of the
plot is a mystery. “But most likely a bird
carried a single seed, which had grown and
multiplied. Pie-melons are a God-send to
many folks at the back of the last storm
and between the last two bush-fires,
being the only thing in the shape of
fruit they ever see; and when made
into jam they are a welcome change from
“butter,” i.e., bullock-fat.
“ Bug ” : Be vine-caterpillars (“ Orthos,’'
B. l/2/’OG). The insect referred to is probably
sEchalia schellembergi , a well-known enemy of
the vine-moth-grub, and of the larvse of the fig-
leaf beetle. The insect is described in “Nates
on the Hemipteria,” N.S.W. Agricultural
Gazette, March, 1902. It would be difficult to
propagate it, though, where the eggs are plentiful
they might be collected.
• * * *
Some of the west country of Queensland
is so flooded that a resident of Warbreccan, 100
miles from Longreach, had to ride 230 miles to
get to that town. Provisions for the far West are
being carried many miles in boats, constructed
principally of galvanised iron. And yet, only a
few weeks ago, the residents had almost forgotten
what rain was like ; while children several years
old had never seen anything more in that line
than an occasional light shower.
U Tinbilly ” : I once came across a hessian
camp on the Westralian goldfields, occupied by a
busted publican, who had one side of his sleeping
compartment entirely covered (inside) with dis-
honored cheques and promissory notes. I O U’s
and wild cat scrip. Said it reminded him of
ie good old days 5 to have them all round him
and by the build of some of the signatures, the
old days were good enough in a drinking sense.
Ke intended lining the other side with tote and
latt. s sweep tickets, and had one leg of an old
pair of pants full for a start. He seemed to abso-
lutely love those relics of his one-time glory.
CRUEL SPITE.
The Gippsland Bush Fires Relief Fund is now assuming
gigantic proportions. —News Item.
SWAGGIE (who has been refused tucker): “If I
see the bush fires cornin’ your way it’ll serve
you right if I puts ’em out, you stingy old
wretch.”
“ W.P.8.” : Augustus St. Clair, living in
a bark hut next to me, used to let his chickens
[ oa , m ad over the shop, and Toby, my bow-wow
aq p^ tlallty for Poultry, and took it neat. So
bt ' °, ne day s P lu ttered angrily: “Next
taim ® youl ; beastly dog attacks my fowls I will
Sloot hl , m .' 1 stood U P on my back feet and
®° j reamed m on e breath, “ You shoot my dog and
111 My dog’s registered, your fowls
are *?ot. Ihe argument was conclusive and
Cussie retired discomfited. ’
ON GARDINER’S GREEK.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
,' SP °i fc w s? re Gardiner’s Creek junctions with the
ilmh r 8 & ° ld house of Gardiner, the first over-
lander from -Sydney to settle on that side of the river,
r Slte of the first cattle station in Victoria.
iner s run extended over a large area of red-gum
country, and included the district of Boroondara S
A mound of earth half-buried in the grass,
Where piscatorial youths and sweethearts pass ;
There’s nothing else, though one might search a week,
Of old John Gardiner’s homestead by the creek.
On every side suburban villas stand ;
There’s been a steady rise per foot in land,
And speculators with unblushing cheek
Long since cut up the homestead by the creek.
Twas heieabout the long-horned cattle strayed,
Or chewed the cud beneath the peaceful shade.
’Twas here black joeys played at hide and seek,
And queer old lubras dwelt beside the creek.
Beneath his broad verandah, at his ease,
Old John looked out among the red-gum trees ;
He -watched the drovers herding cattle sleek,
And saw his goods increase along the creek.
He saw the rich flats burgeon to the plough ;
He felt Arcadian peace descend—but now
We have our Queen Anne villas, and the reek
Of passing- motor-cars by Gardiner’s Creek.
I sometimes wonder as I wander past
If John thought his Arcadia could last—
While summers burned and winters whistled bleak
He prospered kindly by the shady creek.
They say old John’s bright sky at length grew dark—
He shifted camp and went to Mooroolbark ;
He found the old place crowded, so to speak
Three other squatters came to Gardiner’s Creek.
VIC.
KOALA


By
Royal
Warrant
to
H.M. KING EDWARD VII.
Cerebos
TABLE SALT.
Every grain of food is made more
nourishing by using it in the
kitchen and at table.
Wholesale Agents: —Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
“Gr-D.M.” tells his troubles through
“ going on the land ” :
I caught the microbe of going on the land through
daily reading the probates of wills of dead farmers, none
ever under £3OOO. Got a lease of 30 acres while under
crop. When the hay was shifted a splendid self-sown
crop of poverty weed became visible. This won't want
any cultivation, and I hope the market price of weeds
keeps up next spring, as my hired assistant says they’ll go
3 tons to the acre. Bought a pony with a weak set of
bowels, 20 years old by the rings on the two teeth left.
Gave him a bundle of green maize ; he got at the water
himself. He was as big as a Clydesdale when he died that
night, and the stable boy said his temperature was 200°.
Rabbits ate my turnip tops, and I set three traps. The
first night my neighbor’s dog walked away with a trap,
singing like Marshall Hall’s lyric orchestra attacking the
Yalkyrie. Next night we lost our best hen. Then suc-
cessively we caught a prize Australian terrier, a brace of
chickens, a kitten rabbit and two ducks. Never thought
trapping was so easy to learn. A fox took our turkey
chicks one pale blue moonlight night, and then our cow
died through eating half an Australasian. We cart
water three miles, but only have half a mile to go for
beer, which is some compensation. I’m beginning to
think better 50 years in an East Melbourne boarding-
house than a cycle “ on the land.”
Householders will find that for universa-
use Little’s Phenyle Disinfectants are unsurpassedl
The Soluble Phenyle is a powerful insecticide, it
kills bugs, cockroaches, fleas, &c., and is one of the
best washes for all domestic animals. Sold by all
chemists, grocers, storekeepers, through Aus-
tralia.*
AUSTRALIAN
GEM RINGS
We make from various Gems—
Sapphires,
Tourmalines,
Whole Pearls,
Zircons, Opals, Rubies,
“Fx. & R.”
Diamond Half-Hoop
Ring, £5 ss.
A Marvel of Value.
Exquisite Golden.
Sapphire, with Blue
Sapphire, with small
Olivines, 18ct. Gold
setting, £8 Bs.
2 Choice Sapphires, X
Tourmaline, with small
Olivines, £lO 10s.
We cut the Gems from the Rough. We make the Rings in 18ct. Gold.
We set the Gems in our Workrooms.
As actual manufacturers, selling direct to the wearer; there are no intermediate profits, and our Prices
are one-third less than in London.
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street,
“F.”: “ A.S.” (B. 12/2/’O6) is in trouble
about keeping his pet kookaburra fed. If, as I
gather from his screed, “A.S.” is a respectable
family man, with a stake—in the shape of a
garden—in the country, the solution of the pro-
blem is easy. Let “ A.S.” put in an hour, morn-
ing and evening, digging his garden properly.
Let him take the kookaburra to the scene of
operations, and, show him the resultant worms,
grubs, beetles, &c. He won’t have to show
them more than twice. Jacky will be on time
every night and morning, and will probably end
by waking “ A.S.” up if he sleeps-in any morning.
I kept a Jack for a long time by this process, and
the bird got so eager that I several times nearly
shaved his head off with the spade.
• * •
“Melb.”: Having at one time been two
years buried in the Bush, I have an eye for the
Bush bride, and see her here nearly daily, with
her rig-out of the Noah’s Ark store. To-day I
met the Bush mother in this Babylon. Quite a
girl, tugging four children. This mother stepped
right out of Lawson’s pages, in “Joe Wilson and
his Mates.” She was tall, thin, angular, looking
like a Bush paling, or the wild Yankee girl’ im-
personated by Rosa Gore, of Crirntmns and Gore,
at the Opera House. Her hair seemed to be com-
posed of several birds’ nests. Her voice, when
she called incessantly, “Come along, Maggie,” or
“Where’s Susy?” was like the silk lash of a
bullock-driver’s whip on Poley’s hide.
THOUGHTFUL.
“ I say, Bill, I think you'd better pay me that 'alf-quid before you get on that ’ere ’orse.”
“F.C.”: Can anybody say which is the
most “ overpubbed ” township in Australia? I
don’t pretend to know which holds the record,
, . . . , • ,tt- , ,
but, just for a stait Castlemame (Vic.) has a
population of 5703 and boasts 49 hotels, the statu-
tory number being 11. Lancefield and Romsey
(Vic.) between them carry some 1019 souls, who
periodically drain the beer from 16 hotels. Probably
the droughty West can show better figures.
“X. 0.”: Re the cremated ant (“Krex,” B.
28/12/’O5). At a Darling station the bread-
oven had collapsed, and as the composition of
ant-bed is of a glutinous nature, the boss thought
the stuff might serve as mortar in repairing the
oven, so Pat and I were despatched with a
horse and dray to annex a portion of the per-
forated mound the ants call home. We made a
large heap of wood and leaves on top of the nest
and set it alight, whereupon half-a-dozen warriors
rushed out on the roof to find out where the sun
had fallen. They soon retreated again to the
cellar. When all was reduced to ashes, we started
disturbing the ant architecture, and then up
poured the black army, seeking fresh air and
vengeance. We had got a few shovelsful on the
dray, and I was endeavoring to arrest a battalion
that had trespassed upon my person, when the
horse suddenly started off like mad. The ants
had crawled along the shaft, and got to work
upon the moke’s carcase. We raced two miles
round that paddock to stop the astonished equine.
The ants drove him over logs, across stumps, and
into tlie dam. The temperature was 108 in the
shadowed parts of nature when we got the animal
out, minus the wheelwright’s handiwork ; that
had been mislaid somewhere in the scrub. The
quadruped gazed sadly at us with his bleared
optic, and wondered mournfully what would be
the next item on the bill of fare.
•Jr***
Thus “ Lionel Kelly ” :
The reason why the big sugar-grower in Queensland
prefers the kanaka to the white —apart from the question
of wages—is precisely the same reason that makes the
rice-grower in India prefer the servile plains man to the
bold, free, colored circumstance from the hills. He can
boss him and give him a flogging occasionally if he is
annoyed with someone else whom he isn’t game to flog.
Not long ago I spent four months on a big cane-grower’s
place as overseer. One day the boss, who always poked
about in the field, had a row with a neighbor, and got the
worst of it. Returning he marched into the field, boiling
with rage, and walloped the most adjacent nigger with a
thick green-hide belt. Several times during my four
months’ stay I witnessed similar instances. Once when a
native’s back was allowed to remain unattended to till
flies and heat caused it to become dangerous, he had to
be admitted to the hospital, and the boss was afraid of an
inquiry, not being on good terms with the police. So he
gave Tommy a bottle of whisky and half a pound of to-
bacco and said, “ You fall it on wire-barb fence, Tommy.”
“ Ya-as, boss,” said Tommy.
Which reminds a Bulletin man of the frank con-
fession of ati Orient steamship captain who used
to make the smoking room a misery by taking the
floor at all hours of the day and night, and holding
forth about the iniquity of the Labor party in
opposing the employment of black labor. It con-
cerned a crew of nigger stokers and a scarcity
of steam. The engineer briefly informed the
“serang” or boss nigger of the difficulty. The
boss nigger said brightly, “What? You wantee
steam ? ” Then he fled down below with a stick,
and presently there were howls of anguish from
the stoke-hole—and there was also more steam.
The fact that the white stoker can’t be walloped
like that accounts for a good deal of the prejudice
against him.
* * * *
One of the coming curses of coastal Queens-
land, the pretty water hyacinth, has got such a
hold in the Brisbane River that the small steamers
can only get to Ipswich with great difficulty. The
local authorities are hoping for a flood to do the
work they have systematically neglected.
* * * *
“Aorangi” : Re the journeys of horses.
A Maoriland half-draught, harnessed to a light
tip-dray with Gcwt. on board, left Wellington at
3.30 a.m. ; arrived six miles beyond Palmerston N.
(distance 93 miles) at 9.50 p.m. Horse had two
feeds on the road.
“ Timbarra ” : Re bush telephones. I was
on a station in N.S.W. where they had telephones
to "J 1 the " a^ s ’.
used to ring up the man in charge of each out-
station, make a through connection on all lines,
then fix the switchboard transmitter near the
mouth of a gramophone and reel off the latest
records. They transmitted very clearly and dis-
tinctly, and the “concerts’’ were greatly appreci-
ated by the poor lonely devils.
THEN CONSCIENCE DAWNED.
ENRAGED HOUSEHOLDER: “ What, you scoundrel — stealing?"
HEN-HOUSE HARRY: “By gum, boss, you're right! I never looked at it in that ere
light afore."
“ W.S.G.” : A Chow used to be a rarity
in Mildura; now he’s an important personage
there. New owner of block was making channels
between his trees for the expected watering,
when a Chinaman got off a bike on the road and
called: “Hi, you —where Smith?” “Smith!
Oh, he’s not here now, John.” “You wulkin’
tis block, t’en ? ” “Yes.” “ Well”—preparing
to mount—“you can take the water on Thurs.”
“ Take the water on Thurs. ! What the blazes
has the water to do with you?” “Oh! I’m the
water-ganger,” replied the Celestial, smiling.
“You be blowed ! Green’s ganger on this sec-
tion.” “ Him ! No feah ! He only put on when
I too busy.”
* * * •
“ Moodier ” : Re starting bush fires.
“ F.C.’s ” explanation (B. 15/2/’O6) only accounts
for a small part of the trouble. In the Riverina
and Western country stations pay 255. per 24
hours to fire-beaters, and in one case, on the
’Bidgee, this year, 265. was paid. That's where
fires start. Incendiarism is a fine art among the
dead-brokes. A few of the methods : Fires were
started lately round Narandera by throwing about
bits of dough containing phosphorus. Another
trick is to make a hole 2in. or 3in. deep in the
ground where grass is heavy ; floor with loose
grass, and set firmly on this a piece of lighted
candle, which, when it burns down, fires the grass,
the contriver being by that time miles away,
having a beer and creating an alibi for emergen-
cies. Another dodge is to cut the bottom off a
bottle and stand it over a bit of candle on the
grass ; as before, candle burns down and does the
trick. But the most ingenious plan is to place a
tin full of water, which leaks slowly through a
hole in the bottom ; in the water is placed a bit of
phosphorus ; and loose grass is strewn around and
over the tin. When the water has leaked away the
phosphorus is left dry—and there you are ! Then,
when the fire is going strong, Bill arrives in a
hurry, and, after 24 hours’ heroic loafing, draws
the price of a decent drunk.
* * * *
The English game-preserving landlord,
who tramps with a gun in his hand over the
crops of his tenant, farmer Hodge, has arrived in
Australia. Two squatters who own an estate at
Terang (Vic.) have sent out a circular in these
terms to the grovelling agricultural worm who is
permitted to scrape a livelihood off their acres at
a high rent: —
Mr. Tenant. Dear Sir, —As the shooting season for
quail opens on Ist March, I shall be obliged if you will
strictly preserve the shooting on your farm for myself and
friends.
A good part of the early population of Australia
was sent out for taking Squire Bloggs’ hare on a
moonless night. Now Squire Bloggs has pursued
the expatriated population, and is making a row
about his blessed quail.
• * * •
An ostrich feather expert told the Tariff
Commission that the Australian-bred ostrich ran
to more stalk and less plume than his S’African
progenitor—he developed too much quill. Herein
the fowl seems to resemble the Australian gums—
a good, solid stem, and precious little foliage.
“ Drifter ” : Re “ Spring’s ” par (B.
8/2/’O6) telling of a goanna that climbed a youth
in a treeless paddock, when chased by his dog,
and his horrible experience in trying to fight the
reptile off. “Spring’s” youth hadn t a grain of
resource. Once I met with an exactly similar
experience. Was crossing an arid area when my
fox-terrier fiercely attacked a big go. As I
was the only perpendicular object handy, the
startled reptile raced up on to my shoulder and
commenced poking borak at the leaping terrier s
impotent attempts to seize him. Did I strive to
pull that go. off by the tail, and get my soft,
white flesh scarified by his claws ? No ! With
commendable presence of mind, I threw myself
upon the ground. Thinking the tree had fallen,
the chagrined go. made tracks, only to be assassi-
nated by the terrier before he had galloped 10ft.
from my form. I mention this simple dodge so
that any bushman climbed by the sinister-looking
go. will immediately know how to act. Lie down
and roll. The same treatment is efficacious if
your whiskers become ignited.
* • * •
“Gum-Boot”: Re Lionel Lindsay’s pic-
ture, “ASluicer’s Troubles’’ (B. 8/2/’O6). Why
not give the old chap a proper sluice-fork, with
eight or 10 prongs ? Have done a good deal of gold-
digging, but never saw anyone forking in a box
with a potato-fork.
* * * *
In a Q. north-western district during the
late wet week 30 inches of rain fell in 24 hours.
The other day Lucinda Point; (Q.) had a gentle
shower of nearly 14 inches in 24 hours.
SHEEP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Of wild deeds done in crowded yards, where high the
red dust flew,
You know, who worked the west with me from Mae’s to
Timbaroo.
We’ve sniffed, across the southern breeze, the sheep-
smell, strong and stale.
And breathed the scent of blanky skins that stained the
post-an’-rail
Around the woolshed paddock where the waters fell and
died,
We’ve waded in the trampled tank to rob a rotting hide.
Or sweated in the water-holes among the hollow stock —
A hundred weaklings done to death beneath the straining
flock—
And, though we cursed them in the bog, and cursed
their dying cries,
We wept with rage to see the crows pick out their plain-
tive eyes.
We’ve soused the swimming wethers as they passed the
crutching-plank ;
We’ve sorted out the blooded rams by horn and greasy
flank ;
And, napping at the gates, have crashed among the
purple stars
That fall when plunging “studs” are fain to break their
drafting-bars.
So, all day. long, among our pals inside the swarming
yard,
Or out across the droughty run, knob-kneed and saddle-
hard,
We toiled—with no fat cheque in view, no cattleman’s
renown,
Just dust and sweat and blood and grease until the sun
went down.
From Miser Mac’s to Timbaroo, from Gothog to The Blow,
We’ve worked the long, slow, scattered line from dawn
to dark —and know !
VIC.
FRANK HENTY.


*/\ Dowieite. dclivct'ir7£ >
S^^adifoiiijt - in h«lb were talf} W "(».
-■['or' cruelty "/o l/orjee .
V
is ttdi fcttougH 'to cull 'it’s
spron l 'ttje trj^rKe' oj tffo. World . (Ar
|
" Wofs «J>* *r)3in . I
" &«en
wot'K, bt'o'tfjer •
’ Rfclj 1
no for if]
Ij.cs 2\
J.O.U ) Seen (
r JS j)ocK & f •
"Tf»e Socialist's upwards \
•fljc kvellino j>roc«ss
o —All** n'ift,».n H.R
C Vit )
o ve 2® miles 'for A
V/ho was found So i'jf C^S C ,/N
, wv, h d«»H' JV ih -Hie 4
wljcirMse<i *$ A W -
WihrjlYjftnj
opened its
\ f>Ai gh
\ ESS e> >do*».
(s€vcr<'v)
BencKßf jTftV •*
coax't"
& Sfe:-
'’Veil,.MV» SWI I level you
or down, lt e y . |
M/en f sfyftd My girl.
golden! I+* S'tice
R€d “fe -fry Vi fig^on!!^
Beof on Its
'giid.
Oticz *V)ore. nr>y t?Mur*)
“IteSicU you &we Wok Id
'\o%<isie.\rCi2orp<i j
At Melbourne the ladies of the Brighton Ladies’ Swim-
ming, Club have always persistently held the opposite
sex aloof from their Saturday afternoon carnivals. The
blind.band plays there no more, and on Saturday last a
Brighton combination performed in its stead. < The ladies
took no chances, however. It performed outside the
lenclosure.
"Tfje (*o»7c _
Our i$ A sxf" & tand
'fo l?e cW»*7«d "is ifje. duty.
BY YARRA’S BANK.


WHAT HAPPENED.
An interview took place yesterday between the State Premier and Mr. G. H. Reid. Mr. Carruthers explained that a number of matters of interest were discussed, but not of public importance.— Hem. Item.
GEORGE:IOSEPH:{ “ D O YOU THINK I CAN MAKE THIS ANIMAL WORK?”


I
I
The Worlds
Dentifrice
*•••:
✓
Price 2! 6 a bottle of Odol , lasting for several months (the half-size bottle 1/6)- Of All Chemists.
So Its ffcpresentat/i/es fo»* Austrctlasfn ). ROBERT H. BARBER & CO.. LTD., GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mr. F. W, Haddon, consulting editor
Melbourne Argus, is reported seriously ill. Mr.
Haddon, who was born at Croydon (Eng.), com-
pleted his 77th year on the Bth ult. He became
editor of the Australasian in 18C5, and of the
Argus in 1867.
At Brighton (Vic.), the other night, T.
Bent, Premier, had been gassing about himself
and his magnificent performances in private and
public for a solid hour. At length he had finished,
and was backing towards his chair, when a mourn-
ful voice arose : “And now, Mr. Bent, please do
tell us something about yourself 1”
Vic. Chief Justice Madden, before he left
for Europe, acting as Chancellor for Melbourne
University, conferred the degree of bachelor of
laws on his only son, Guy. The son has been
articled to his uncle, the Speaker, and, when
“ father comes home,” he will duly instal Guy as
a member of the Devil’s Brigade.
Delohery, of N.S.W. Public Service Board,
flits to Europe on six months holiday. Of the three
Commissioners, Delohery is the one who obtrudes
himself least, and he is generally called the
“Chorus” in the Board’s inquiry work. When
he gets as far as “Do you really think so, Mr.
Barling?” those present wonder why “old
Delohery is so argumentative this morning.”
An old, long-forgotten Sydney identity
died near Southampton (Eng.) lately at the age of
85. Mr. Francis Webb Wentworth Shields, C.E.,
came to Sydney in 1843 and practised his profes-
sion at 174 Elizabeth-street, near where Went-
worth Court now stands. He was shortly after-
wards appointed City Surveyor, and has the
credit of, having designed the first railway
built in New South Wales. He returned to Eng-
land in 1851 and became resident engineer at the
Crystal Palace.
DOUGLAS GERRARD, actor, the hero of a
hundred ladies’ letters.
Adelaide’s oldest doctor is Surgeon-Major
Hinton, who served in India at the time of the
Mutiny, and now draws a military pension.
Although 93 years of age, he travels about the
country without any attendance, taking long
coach journeys by himself. He is father-in-law
of Under-Secretary Sholl. Recently Dr. Gun-
ning, aged 88, visited the old veteran, and as he
left, Dr. Hinton put his hand on his colleague’s
shoulder and said, “ Now, take care of yourself as
you cross the roads. Remember you are growing
old. Shall I come and see you safely to the tram ?”
Parson-politician-pressman Harold Rylett,
visiting Australasia in the interests of a new British
Liberal newspaper, was treated to some disrespect-
ful and much-needed language in Maoriland.
Having just finished an agreeable interview with
Premier Seddon, the British person was feeling
quite as large as the big man himself when some-
one introduced John Rigg, the Labor M.L.C.
Said the visitor, looking down patronisingly,
“ What you must do is
to foster your agricul-
ture ; you see, you can
never be a manufac-
turingcommunity.”
“ Do you know the
value of our manu-
factures, at the
present time '! ”
meekly inquired
the local man.
“ Web, no, but ”
(with a super-
cilious sniff)
“itmust neces-
sarily be very
small.'” Then
John Rigg
blew out.
“We meet a
demlot of your
tribe in these
States. Before
you leave, you
might get a
few figures on
the subject.
They will save
you from mak-
ing an ass of
yourself when
you get back
to England.”
Henry
Parkes, whose
immigration
card was re-
cently facsimiled
in The Bulletin,
lectured at Bir-
mingham on the ad-
vantages of Austra-
lia, and ome got a
very bad reception.
“Don’t believe him,
mates,” cried a hulking
descendant of toil; “Vs
gammonin’ us. ’E’s paid a thousand a year
to draw us to Horstralia.” “It’s a lie,”
replied Parkes. Great uproar followed, the lie
being bandied about freely. At last, to allay the
trouble, the chairman asked Parkes if the state-
ment that he was getting a thousand a year was
really a lie. “Hit his,” shouted Parkes (Aus-
tralia’s lovely old G. Washington) “for Hi ham
getting twelve ’undred.”
An old identity “along the wharves”
joined the great caravan “on the other side’’
last week when William Short, of Ashfield (Sydney),
died after having seen 91 winters. He came to
Sydney in 1838 from Cornwall, and worked his
way up to be a large ship-owner and wharf-
master. His wife died three years ago at the age
of 91. He kept on until he overtook her years,
and now he’s gone to join her.
All the Australian battlers are
not out on the tracks of the Never-
Never or on the Stock Exchange. One
of them, a young Australian, is manager
of a farm labor-home, which has
branched out from the Blind and Deaf
and Dumb Asylum of Adelaide. A
while before he died, J. H. Angas,
finding an unworked farm of about 200
acres, 15 miles from Adelaide, on his
hands, gave it to the asylum trustees;
and the latter, chronically hard-up as
most such bodies are, didn’t well know
what to do with it. But one of the
teachers, who years ago had come off
a farm to go into the asylum as a pupil
teacher, undertook to wrestle with /the
new gift; so he walked out driving an
old cow and a pig. Now, though that
is less than half-a-dozen years ago, the
place, which is used as a home for
maimed and halt blind, or deaf and
dumb, is rally self-supporting. Prac
tically there isn’t an inmate who hasn’t
some other misfortune on top of his
blindness or his muteness; and yet,-
on the farm, this young Australian
manager Cox finds something for every
one of them to do.
W. E. Slade, Assistant-Engineer
of Harbors,lat Adelaide, who died re-
cently at Fremantle (W.A.), aged 49,
did one very useful piece of work in his
latter days. He was sent to England
to purchase machinery for making large-
sized cast-iron pipes at the Glanville
(Adelaide) workshops, of which he was
superintendent. He reported to the
Premier that he had decided to buy less
than half of the plant in England, be-
cause what he had seen there convinced
him that S. Australia could manu-
facture the rest itself. Slade had no
Stinking Fish tendencies about him.
J. Pumpsaint Jones is the name of the
pastor of Westralian Welsh Free Church. Pump !
Saint ! ! and Jones !! !
A train on which Tommy Bent was travel-
ling broke down on the Gippsland line the other
day, and gave Thomas a bad shock to the system
and a bumped elbow. “The condition of the
road is blamed for the sensational occurrence,”
but it must not be forgotten that everything on
which Tommy travels breaks down sooner or later
—cabs, steamers, motor-cars, and now a train. It
is reasonable to assume that it is the country’s turn
next.
THE SUFFERING SEX.
AMELIA : “ True for yer, Surer, us women ’art
a ’ard life.”
Alan Major Millard’s appeal to the Full
Court on points of law having been disallowed,
his name has been removed from the roll of N.S.W.
solicitors. Millard still retains his seat in the
N.S.W. Assembly, and intends, it is stated, to
hold it until his appeal to the High Court is
determined.
Among those left out of the new British
House of Commons is Baronet James Ferguson,
who was Governor of S. Australia from ’69 to ’73,
and of Maori land from ’73 to ’74. His (second)
wife is a South Australian. Ferguson was
first elected to the House of Commons for Ayr-
shire in 1854, when he was with his regiment in
the Crimea. He is now 74 years of age, and was
within two of being father of the House when the
deluge struck him.
For this week Victoria’s Bent can't re-
member any new thing to say about himself
except that he used to be a j achtsman and a
mariner. Once he owned the Fleetwing, with
which he used to run stone from Spottiswood to
Brighton. But someone cut the hawser one day,
and the blessed vessel drifted into the Sandridge
baths, and it cost £5OO to get it out. After that
episode the Fleetwing and Thomas parted, and
Thomas went cabbage-growing. , Cabbages don’t
frisk as ships do.
“The Mussel”; Detective O’Donnell is
the best pistol shot in the Melbourne police force.
When his sofa was perforated with bits of bomb,
he told this to the Argus
Yes, I reckon I can smash a jam-tin every time out of
ten or upwards—that is to say, a real jam-tin—not a cor-
rugated iron tank.
To the Age he said :
Yes, it’s 33yds. across this street. Now, you put up
half-a-crown on the fence, and I’ll fetch it nine times out
of ten.
Then the NhillFree Press rose to the occasion
Detective O’Donnell is the crack revolver shot of the
detective force. His aim is absolutely deadly, for he can
be relied upon to hit a sixpence at 100yds.
“ W.” writes
A. W. Howjtt, who explored some, and made a book
about blackfeilows and other Australian peculiarities, has
pitched his last camp on the slopes of Lake King (Gipps.
land Lakes, Victoria), and may be seen most days dissect-
ing native timbers at a big wood pile and moving surplus
geological and botanical specimens from the front garden
with a bunch of ti-tree. Howitt, who is a doctor of
something or other, draws a pension like a P.M.’s salary
all the time, and draws water at intervals. He is tough,
even for an aged pensioner, and when the steamer brings
his box of groceries along, wheels the garden barrow
a quarter-mile down a steep hill to the jetty and trundles
the whole outfit up the hill again to his diggings. For a
man who buried Bourke and Wills 45 years ago this is
pretty good work.
The busiest little lady in Adelaide is Mrs.
Ennis, secretary of the Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals. Her husband is Professor
of Music at the University, but she spends her
time in looking after horses with sore shoulders,
starving dogs, misused cows, and other trpdden-on
quadrupeds. Last week she was up at 5 one
morning and stopped about all day to succor cer-
tain sheep which had been neglected in the park
lands and some of which had broken limbs. On
the hottest summer days she is about the streets
to see that horses and other animals aEe properly
watered and looked "after. Human beings often
think her a nuisance, but dumb creatures recog-
nise her as a benefactor.
Robert Gemmell, teller at the Bank of
Australasia, Creswick (Vic.), lately fell in over
about £lBO shortage in his cash. He had been 22
( years in the service of the bank, and had risen
gradually to the dazzling salary of £145 a year
£2 15s. 9d. per week. And the Bank of Austral*
' asia, that stupendous British financial sweater’
makes over £lOO,OOO each half-year without turn-
ing a hair. But it turns its employees’ hair-
grey.
The widow of Hugh Lewis Taylor, for
some years manager of the London office of the
Bank of Victoria, died iri 1004 intestate, leaving
an estate valued at £51,084. As no relatives can
be discovered, the estate reverts to the Crown
the good old absorbent Crown, which takes in so
many things and disgorges so few. The Crown is
like a quicksand—it gives a heave and draws a
deep breath, and unclaimed estates go down—
down—-down.
Frederick Hermann Gray, late teller of
the Bank of Australasia, Bendigo, was, in the end,
convicted last week on two charges of larceny,
and four charges of falsifying the books, and
sentenced to 32 months “hard.” Gray has been
tried till he is the most tried man in Australia;
but the Bendigo juries always seemed to include
one of his personal friends, and no agreement
could be reached. The final trial was in
Melbourne, and the jury ran in verdicts of guilty
at an astonishing speed. This is the first defeat
barrister Maxwell, the man who looks like the
descendant of a Jew who was wrecked on' the
Scotch coast in the Middle Ages, has had for a
long time.
Another .claimant has set up for the “first
white womanship ” of Melbourne. Mrs. A’Beckett,
relict of W. A. C. A’Beckett, M.L.G (Vic.), who
died last week, was born in Melbourne-in
her father, John Mills, being one of the buyers at
the first land sale in the. previous year. His pur-
chase was a half-acre in Elinders-street,-between
Elizabeth and Queen streets, for which, he paid
Auctioneer-Surveyor Hoddle £35. In 1888 the
half-acre was valued at £llB,BOO. The buyer im-
mediately behind him, Flinders-lane separating
the lots, was Michael Pender, who gave’ £l9 for
the half-acre on which stands (or stood) the
Criterion Hotel, valued in ’BB at £198,000. This
area is nowin the possession of the Union Bank,
which paid, in ’77, £33,000 for that portion on
which the hotel stood. Mr. W. A. C. A’Beckett
arrived with bis father (afterwards Chief Justice
of Victoria) in Sydney in 1838, and migrated with
his people, when his father was appointed Resi-
dent Judge at Port Phillip in 1846,
A rumor is current in Melbourne that
Thomas Bent will probably be made a knight
next time Edward VII'. is scattering round a bag-
ful of Imperial “honors.” The Bulletin gives
the idea its moral support and trusts that the
rumor is true. It is difficult to imagine anyone
who would do more, in a bear-like and humorous
way, to reduce knighthood to its proper level as a
complicated joke than Bent. He is calculated to
make other knights realise where they have, got
to, and if knighthood requires another shove on
the path to its natural home in the monkey
department of the Zoo, there is no one better
qualified to give it. that shove. The B.ulletin
has for years ignored Australian titles*; but it
would feel inclined to make an exception in
Bent’s case. Thomas the Bulgy, as the man
whom the King delighted to honor, would be a
thing to be kept before the public. He would
tend to undermine the monarchy with two per-
petual conundrums : (1) What kind of king can
it be who admires Bent ? (2) What kind of Bent
can it be who admires a king who could admire
Bent?
“Plkn” : Legislation is urgently wanted
to compel all the McKay family to' spell their
names the same way. During the past month, I
have come in contact with persons who sign
themselves by the varying forms of McKay,
M‘Cay, McKie, Mackay, Mackie, Mackey,; and
McKey. This.was bad enough, but I went home
earlier than usual, the other day, and found a
yellow clansman at the back
gate selling cabbages from
a barrow bearing a name
plate with the device
Muck Hi.
JEW-DICIOUS PUNISHMENT.
"See here, Ikey, if you don't pehaves yourself
any pedder I'll just send you straidt off to
Russia.”
Edward MacFarlane, N.S.W. Undersecre-
tary for Lands, begins to loom up before the
Lands Commission in a way that leaves him not
far behind Willis, Peter Close and Crick as an ob-
ject of public interest. Of late he has been so
much in the witness-box that he might almost as
well'bring down his bedding and sleep there, and
his explanations have been numerous and interest-
ing. Even when he declared that he had had a
certain Gazette in his hand before midnight on a
certain date—it was essential, if a lot of things
were to be legal, that that Gazette must be pub-
lished before midnight—and an official from the
Government Printing Office declared he couldn’t
have had it, for the paper wasn’t ready till about
2 a.m., two hours after the legal hour—even then
Mr. MacFarlane was able to explain.
JOHN BULL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A Chinaman named John Bull was charged”
Xews Item.
John Bull was once a yeoman
Who stoutly toolr his stand,
A harrow and a hoe-man,
In merry Engle-land.
John Bull was once a white man
Beside his salt North Sea ;
If not a very bright man,
Yet great and strong was he.
Now Bull’s became a fellow
Of every alien clan ;
His blood runs brown and yellow
Cross-striped with black and tan —
A harlequin and trickster,
A clown in cap and bells,
A mad and motley mixture
Of undesirables.
Bull cuts a curious figure
With lineage askew,
White man and brown and nigger,
Jap, Kaffir, German Jew ;
Pig-tail and yellow label
Now crown his chequered brow,
This last recruit for Babel—
John Bull, colonial Chow.
VIC.
L.E.


HOUSEHOLD CROCKERY & GLASSWARE
AT
FAMOUS
LOW PRICES
THE ASSORTMENTS here detailed have been made up with a view to CONVENIENCE AND ECONOfIY.
The range of Price is such as to fIEET THE POCKET of almost everyone, while a glance at the
DETAILS in each ASSORTMENT cannot fail to show how comprehensive the arrangements are.
No. 1-COTTAG2
CROCKERY
White Granite Wear,
ss.
6 Dinner Plates
6 Dessert Plates
6 Cheese Plates
Meat Dish, 121 inches
Meat Dish, 14| inches
2 Vegetable Dishes
6 Cups and Saucers
Slop Basin
Milk Jug
Water Jug
Ewer
Wash Basin
Chamber
Brown Teapot
2 Pudding Bowls
2 Pie Dishes
6 Tumblers
Glass Dish
Pair Salts
Glass Butter Dish
Glass Sugar Box
Lamp
k: '
T
* }
IO
r - m.
A
rfir* I
WZ
• -», i i..,
■■.■RPJPJ
THE ILLUSTRATION SHOWS No. 2 ASSORTMENT £2 ss.
No. Ia—COTTAGE
CROCKERY.
White and Gold China.
*.l 15s.
■6 Dinner Plates
6 Dessert Plates
6 Cheese Plates
2 Meat Dishes
2 Vegetable Dishes
Gravy Boat
Glass Butter Dish
Glass Sugar Box
Set (3) Jugs
Pudding Bowl. Pie Dish
6 Breakfast Cups and Saucers
G Breakfast Plates
Bread and Butter Plate
Slop Basin
Cream Jug
Candlestick
Toilet Set for Washstand (6
articles)
6 Tumblers
Teapot
Kitchen Bowl
Pair Salts
Mo. 2 (as Illustrated)—COTTAGE CROCKERY. ss.
No. 3-COTTAGE CROCKERY. £.4.
White and Gold, or Pink, or Celeste Band Gilt China
6 Dinner Plates
6 Dessert Plates
6 Cheese Plates
3 Meat Dishes (IU, 14], and
15J inches)
2 Vegetable Dishes
Gravy Boat
Toilet Set for Washstand
(6 articles)
White and Gold China.
Glass Sugar Box
Glass Butter Dish
Set (3) Jugs
China Candlestick
6 Tea Cups and Saucers
6 Tea Plates
2 Cake Plates
Slop Bowl
Cream Jug
6 Engraved Tumblers
Water Bottle and Glass
Teapot
Kitchen Bowl
2 Pudding Bowls
2 Pie Dishes
Pair Salts
Lamp
12 Dinner Plates
12 Dessert Plates
12 Cheese Plates
6 Soup Plates
5 Meat Dishes, assrtd. sizes
2 Vegetable Dishes
Sauce Tureens. Gravy Boat
Glass Sugar Box
Glass Butter Dish
Set (3) Kitchen Bowls
Set (3) Pie Dishes
Set (3) Jugs
Toilet Set for Single Wash-
stand
2 China Candlesticks
Teapot
12 Tea Cups and Saucers
12 Tea Plates. 2 Cake Plates
Slop Bowl. Cream Jug
6 Egg Cups. 6 Tumblers
6 Wine Classes. Decanter
Set (3) Glass Dishes
Glass Jug (2 pints)
Pair Salts. Pickle Jar
Water Bottle and Glass
China Cruet. Pair Vases
Lamp
Anthony Hordern and Sons,
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS
PALACE EMPORIUM, SYDNEY.
ASK YOUR GROCER
For a 21b. Package of M.O. Raising
BUCK WHEAT
Hakes DELICIOUS PANCAKES. H.O. BUCKWHEAT is used in all good American Homes.
Use neither Salt, Yeast, nor Baking Powder. If your Grocer has not got it, send to
Fresh stock received by each Boat. 437 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Missing Friends.
MEALLIN. —Information is required concerning-George
Meallin, who left England in May, 1874, and who
was last heard of in ISSS at Silvert'on, New South Wales.
He left England in company with Charles Douglas Singer
(better known as Charles Singer), and is supposed-to have
at one time held a Government Schoolniastership at Sloatn
River, Queensland. Please address any communication
to Messrs. Sandford' and Linibert,. 32 Waymouth-street,
Adelaide, South Australia ; or to Messrs.. Frank Richard-
son and Sadlers, 28 Golden square, Regent-street, London,
England. ■ - . '
QlNGER.—lnformation is required concerning Charles
Douglas Singer (better known as Charles Singer),, who
left Exeter, England, in 1874 in company with' George
Meallin, and is su.sposed to have been at Silverjsen, New
South Wales, in 1888. Father is dead. The .said Charles
Singer will hear of something to his advantage by at once
communicating with Messrs, Sandford and Limbert, 32
Waymouth-street, Adelaide, South Australia; or to
Messrs. Frank Richardson and Sadlers, 28 Golden square,
Regent-street, London, England.
A harmless-looking individual walked into
a Queensland barber’s shop t’other day, after the
early-closing hour, and asked for the loan of a
razor to shave himself. He obtained the imple-
ment, and then proceeded tocut histhroat. The bar-
ber interfered. “ Look here, ”he said, “ you don’t
do that with it for less’n a bob. It’s worth a bob
to cut any man’s throat.” But there was no
business.
“P.D.” turns a sidelight on to an old
subject:—
The deuce of a fuss made by Baptist parson Sharp, of
Goulburn (N.S.W), over the removal of his teacher-wife
to Arihidale, alleging' sectarian (Anglican) influence, has
ended in smoke. But it has given Director of Education
Peter Board a chance of dealing with the married-woman
teacher; and the inevitable consequence of a strong
mail’s wrestling with that matter would be the shunting
of the wives of Parson Sharp and others,' I have known
women earning £lBO per annum, and thereabouts to marry
men with salaries of £3OO. Result: Single women unable
to secure promotion, and (this is what I want to say in
particular) no increase in the birthrate. In some case§,
children have arrived, but on account of the admittedly
severe physical strain of teaching, the short leave of
absence granted at such times, and the almost unavoid-
able neglect of the offspring, the new arrival has been a
very temporary young Australian. I know a mistress of
infants who married, and continued teaching. She has
had four children. Three died at under 12 months, the
other at tvi»> years. To deal with future possibilities, a
regulation could be framed making, marriage per se an
act of resignation on the part of a woman teacher.
On theotherhand, consider the case of Ermyntrude,
who would be quite willing to do her duty to her
country of great empty spaces if only she were
allowed to hang on to her job, and so eke out with
her own screw Edwin’s wage of 30s. a week ? Cer-
tainly, the real reform is to make the country so
prosperous (with-J-rotection, etc.) as to allow
Edwin to get at least 50s. olf his own bat.
German Prof. Klaatsch, who lately rum-
maged amongst the Queensland blacks for the
missing link, is now in Java, looking for further
traces of the man-monkey. He is also comparing
the Java mountain dog with the Australian
dingo.
Mills “Political Economy,” book V. chap,
iv.:—
A country cannot be expected to renounce the power
of taxing foreigners unless foreigners will in return prac-
tice towards it the same forebearance. The only mode in
w'hich a country can save itself from being a loser by the
revenue duties imposed by other countries on its com-
modities, is to impose corresponding revenue duties on
theirs.
This should be read slowly and very distinctly to
persons like Bruce Smith, who, when they en-
counter a Protectionist, glare at him and ask sternly
—‘‘You must be grossly ignorant of political
economy. Why don’t you read Mill?”
“ Itan ” : A feature of the artesian bores
in Western Queensland is that, around, the marshes
which the surplus water creates, huge reedy growths
spring up, 10ft. or 12ft.. high. There is nothing
to show where the seeds come from, for within
white men’s memory no such weeds grow natur-
ally in the west, even in the wettest season.
Where irrigation is applied the blue Mitchell
grhss disappears. It is the great, stand-by of
those vast stretches of country, but will not
flourish if the season is too moist. It wants about
12 inches of rain in the year, split into three
parts. When mature, this grass is spoiled by an
inch of rain, for it then rots off and blackens.
The common coastal grasses have been found to
be useless as ensilage, .for they crumble away
under the most scientific packing, but the blue
Mitchell opens" out of the stack or pit as sweet as
lucerne.
Not long ago some of the heads of the
Anglican Church in Australia solemnly rebuked
Australians for wanting to exclude the colored
brother. They get no sympathy from the
Guardian, their own press organ in England. It
writes: —
The danger that Asiatic immigration would create a
racial penumbra—such as the half-caste population which
exists in Natal, and is a source of endless difficulties to
the educational authorities —and injure the morale of the
dominant race, is another argument on which men of all
Australian parties lay emphasis. . . . That Australia will
continue to exclude all non-European elements is an
absolute certainty. We have no doubt whatever she is
following the course of wisdom and justice in refusing to
allow the immigration of racial types which cannot be
absorbed and assimilated by a white people born into
Occidental civilisation.
Education Minister Sachse, of Victoria, is
hatching out the egg of an idea for. a system of
free, circular and movable education. He pur-
poses reaching those youngsters in the back-blocks
who are too far removed from State schools by
sending teachers round to them in vans. The
perambulating school is to be about the size of a
furniture van, and is to carry a teacher, a small
boy assistant, and all necessary means and appli-
ances. This vehicle is expected to bring enlighten-
ment to the back doors of settlers in the Dim
Distance, giving small doses of the Three R.’s to
one family, then whipping up the neddy and
passing on to the next. Difficulties by flood and
fire and on bush roads that would bog a mosquito
and engulf an elephant, Minister Sachse expects
to overcome one way or another. But he hasn’t
decided yet what to do with the bad boy who’re-
quires to be kept in. The school has to move on,
and can’t wait to keep bad boys in. Perhaps the
defaulting scholar will be tied to the tail of the
trap and dragged behind till his sin is expiated
by bitter concussion with the hard road.
In re-naming Vic. railway stations Com-
missioner Tait appears to have studied brevity
without any regard to shock. The little back-
yard stopping-place known colloquially as Sydney
Flat—a few steam-whiffs from Eaglehawk—he
has gazetted to be henceforth known as - ‘ Sydney.”
In agricultural implements, S. Australia,
which uses a lot, seems determined to be its own
customer. Inter-State imports fell in 1905 from
£32,000 to £5OOO, and over-sea buying from
£lOO,OOO to £48,000. S.A. has had a record har- .
vest, and all local implement factories are
now working overtime. Martins, of Crawler,
have 500 men going (as against 300 a year ago),
and are making a lot of machinery for Broken
Hill and Westralia, and even a little for Queens-
land and Tasmanian mines.' • >


*o tho
&
Ut3^
Ask Your
Husband
V
If he has bought
that, bottle of
CAPILLA yet. The
longer he delays
the purchase of a
bottle, thp larger
“that bald spot”
will urrow, ran til he
gradually becomes
quite bald. Pro-
viding a “down”
exists on “ that bald spot,” the Inventor of CAPILLA
will positively guarantee, or forfeit £lOO, that the
proper use of CAPILLA will make that “down ” grow
into strong, healthy hair. All Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia sell CAPILLA HAIR TONIC,
2/6 a bottle. Full course of 6 bottles posted (under
cover) for 17/6 from THE CAPILLA PROPRIETARY,
166 Pitt Street, Sydney.
CAPILLA
HAIR
TONIC
“ as COOP FOR WOMEN A** e »R MEN.”
All women have an instinct for dress, but if you
have artistic instincts you will pay attention to
the details of dressing. It is the little things
that count, and Kleinert’s Featherweight Dress
Shield counts for more than its weight in gold,
because it is as light as thistledown and will save
your costly and fragile dress from destruction by
perspiration.*
It is a significant fact that S.A. Audit
Office has never yet gained a conviction in any
Crown prosecution in which it has been engaged.
No doubt this is partly due to the fact that the
counsel for the defence is generally Josiah Symon
—a legal terror who rarely loses a case. Symon
has something of an uncanny reputation in this
respect. After a particularly flagrant case, in
which the jury returned a verdict of “Not guilty,”
someone asked a juryman how he managed to
arrive at the amazing conclusion. He said : “Do
you think when a clever chap like Symon says
he’s innocent, I’m going to say he’s guilty ? Not
much.”
New Premises. —The latest scientific dis-
covery in House' Cleansing. The prodigious
growth of this business has made it necessary to
secure more extensive premises. The address is
now—The Vacuum Cleaner Company of N.S.W.,
Operating Booth’s Patent, Margaret Street, oppo-
site Pfahlert’s Hotel. Ernest J. Bickford,
Manager.*
The beauty of Valaze is that its use is
such a very simple matter. Just before retiring
it should be rubbed well into the skin and allowed
to remain on during the night. “It works its
wonders while you sleep.” It is a pure natural
herbal food, goes straight into the skin, feeding
and nurturing the delicate tissues. It eradicates
freckles, wrinkles, pimples, tan, sunburn, and
leaves the face fair and soft and beautiful. Its
purity is assured. . It is the best skin-food known
to medical science to-day, and the only genuine
imported complexion preparation in Australia.
Try a jar; prove, .its worth. 3s. 6d. and 65.,
posted 6d. extra. New preparations—Blackheads
and Open Pores Cure, guaranteed to cure the most
obstinate cases, 2s. 6d. box; posted 35.; Valaze
Herbal Complexion Soap, one cake lasts six
months, 2s. cake, postage 2d. Valaze Face
Powder, absolutely pure and hygenic, 2s. box,
three tints, postage 2d. Washington H. Soul,
160 Pitt-street, and Civil Service, Pitt-street,
Sydney. All leading, chemists, or direct from
Mile. H. Rubinstein and Co., 274 Collins-street,
Melbourne. “ Guide to Beauty ” free.*
It is generally thought that there is no
cure for stoutness, because the usual treatments
only confine themselves to combating single
symptoms instead of attacking the root of the
disease. Pyrolene Pellets remove not only the
superfluous fat, but also the internal deposits of
fat which hinder the action of the heart and lungs.
We advise a trial. Pyrolene Pellets improve the
breathing, give the heart freedom, and enable the
lungs to expand naturally. &>ent free by post to
any part of the States on receipt of Postal Note
for 3s. 9d. or 135., according to 1 size required,
Arnold’s Balsam Co., 364 a Little Collins-street,
Melbourne.*
HIGH-CLASS COMFORTS.
BUCHANAN .# OTARD-DUPUY
WHISKY BRANDY
QUALITY and AGE.
TRADE
Dress fAßßies
Are Stocked by the
L r. Leading Drapers.
maVkTHE varnished board
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Mr Dear Arini, —
Sydney, March 6, 1906.
The Girl who Doesn’t Mind the Weather joined
ime, Clammy One, in a tea-room as pre-arranged.
She came in with three women whom I did not
know, talking as usual, and left them in the
middle of a sentence. “They,” she explained,
'“are great friends of mine. I call them the
Three Declensions, because they droop and wane
as the summer waxes. I found them just now in
George-street, looking in at a shop window, and
they were so moist, not to say wet and exhausted,
that I offered to give them first aid to the
apparently drowned. As they seemed of-
fended I changed the subject, and asked
them if they’d seen the Irish crochet in
the other window. They hadn’t, and brightened
perceptibly. Some of the lace was lacey-looking.
Other pieces were more like cordage—ropes of
white cordage welted into artistic design. This
sort, I told them, was the newest thing for trim-
ming yacht sails. Every yacht that thinks itself
a real bird—an albatross—has this gigantic crochet
•on its pinnies—sails I mean. Now, would you
believe it, those three Declensions didn’t know I
was talking “guff.” They fell on me as one
female and insisted that that sort of crochet lace was
used on dresses—linen dresses and twills. They
had seen it. In fact, the youngest Declension, who
had waned more than the others till she looked like
the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire,
was having made a white, washing serge outrigged
with just such lace. I gave in, and +v> ey were so
flattered at having taught me something that they
told me where I could get a floral silk, ivory white
ground and delicate tracery of grey with tiny pink
buds, for a shilling a yard. Screw your head
around, Clammy One, and look at the second
Declension. She’s trying to drink soda ice through
a straw and reskewer her hat at the same time.
Notice the yoke of her blouse?”
“ It seems to have spots of rose and turquoise
on it,” I answered. “Anyhow it’s very pretty.
So’s She.” “The yoke is pretty,” assented my
neighbor, “and the wearer is an artful little
dodger. I was with her when she bought that
lace, a pretty enough thing in oriental. In the
design was a detail like—like the nail of your
littlest finger. Well, she herself worked up the
yoke—painted the lily, so to speak. Into the
little half circle receptacles she inserted bouquets
—Titania bouquets, of colored ribbons. Some girls
can gerrymander with their clothes so successfully.
Don’t let us talk any more drivel. Clammy One.
Take the cover off the teapot and let the tannin
cool. Heavens, why, when I was in the pride of
my youth and beauty, why did I not form a
platonic affection for some Chinese or Indian
duke, so that I might to-day get presents of
tea— tea! Sydney is swamped with the sweep-
ings of the foreign markets. Can’t you say any-
thing, Clammy One ? Cheer up, dear girl, you’ll
soon be dead. Most people are dead.”
“I had such a disagreeable dream last night,”
I replied, “ and your mention of ‘ drivel ’ reminds
me of it. I dreamt I was walking by the shore of
a sinister-looking lake, or sea, and discussing a
Great Thought with a dream companion. The
whole scene was as distinct as our present sur-
roundings. A carnation and grey sky in the west,
a mighty cloud the color of gun metal in the east.
I was walking with my thumbs stuck in my belt ”
“ What kind of a belt ? ” asked the Girl Who
Doesn’t Mind the Weather, eagerly. “Just a white
kid with an enamel buckle —oh, I don’t know ! It
was any old belt. What does it matter ? ” “ I’m
so literal,” she apologised. “ All the same, I can’t
imagine your discussing a Great Subject with
your thumbs stuck in your belt.” “It must have
been through reading an article in an English
paper,” I said, “telling that during the recent
English elections the feminine nobility and gentry
who helped their husbands’ electioneering took
that attitude while telling the voters who to vote
for. I must, in my dream, have been copying
the duchesses, countesses, and other titled
spokesses. The dream does not interest you ? ”
“ Hurry up then.” “ We walked by the dark water
absorbed in our talk when, suddenly, there
on the calm surface we saw the dead body of a
young man in evening dress. He was floating
upright, only half submerged—and how do you
think he affected us ? We stood, and calmly
gazed and criticized his tie and studs, and
wondered at which of the Pointer houses he’d
been dining ! I tell you the drivel habit is in our
marrow—more, it’s reached our dreams.”
The Girl Who etc. had half risen, and was
looking at me with horror. “O!” she said,
presently. “You, you, you thing on the
ham-pot!” We all of us know the trade-
mark on devilled ham. It was a horrid impu-
tation, and I said, coldly, “ You are no true
lady.” She burst into peals of laughter ;
then: “Forgive me, Clammy One, but your last
remark reminds me that this morning I looked at
a book called ‘ Saints in Society,’ a hundred-pound
prize novel by a woman. Opened it at the fatal
statement, made quite seriously by one of the
characters, that ‘ a true lady always obeys her
husband.’” She pealed some more, but I wasn’t
going to please her by duetting, and as a local
mummer says somewhere, there were “shrieks of
silence” from me. But in a few minutes we
resumed tannin relations, and the Girl began
to justify the use of fluff in conversation. “Did
you see ‘The Shop Girl’ on Saturday night?
Remember Lauri’s gag of ‘Excuse me—a
bit of fluff ’ as he seems to pick a fraction of
cotton wool off each customer’s clothes and
blow it into space? Well, we must have
bits of fluff on our mental clothing so our friends
may have the fun of picking them off. My dear,
talk about color ! Don t those dresses worn by
the eight tall girls ‘of the Syndicate Theatre’
make a garden of heart’s delight ? That old rose
of Georgie Musgrove’s—with its blouse of cloth-of-
silver and skeleton zouave of the old rose silk
patterned Greek with gold thread ! And the
Undine green with rose du Barry velvet, worn by
another charmer. Clara Clifton’s gown—by
the way, Clara was Ada Smith in the piece, and
the name reminds me that a recent writer
objects to Smith being called a common
name. Most of the people who originally had
it made armor. It is a frequent name, not a
common one. Well, Clifton’s gown of pearl grey
satin and silver star dust is a peach, fits her like
the skin on a peach, too. Say, I saw a very tall,
plump girl trying on that dress for .Miss Clifton
who couldn’t come for a fitting, and the fitters had
padded out the understudy with the whole of'an
ironing blanket.
“ Didn’t notice anything specially new in the
dressing of the audience. A stallite had one of
those new pelerines, a regular maze of chiffon and
swansdown. Saw one in a shop window to-day,
but the down was tinged a beautiful lotus blue.
Perhaps the swans had been swimming among
blue water lilies. Have you got a spare hairpin ?
Thanks. I’m off. Just look if the back buckle
of my belt is over the centre knob of my spine.
If it’s not it makes one look so out of drawing.”
She went, and a great peace settled over the
dusty face of things.
When some months ago Miss Nora Long, the
M.L. soprano, slipped into the place left vacant
by the absence of ex-Governor Clarke’s daughter
at a concert, she grasped unconsciously the skirts
of happy chance. Said concert was at Lord
Methuen’s house, and so pleased was the section
of music-loving peerage present with the soprano’s
work that-it raised its coronet to her, and said
that as soon as she liked to give a recital on her
own it would take all the higher-priced seats. The
recital occurred last week, and the cable says the
success was artistic, financial and unmistakable.
Which, as Mr. Pepys would say, “is very nice.”
Miss Sylvia Blackston’s recital, given after her
Bechstein Hall ballad concert, seems to have been
a success. Critics of five leading dailies say
pleasant things of her present and hopeful things
of her future in song.
Ferdinando Karoly is the romantic-sounding
name of the romantic-looking young musician who
has been deported to Australia to prove to us
what a wonderful invention as a piano player
is the claviola under skilful management.
Ferdinando and his hyacinthine curls held
a sort of combined concert and At Home
at Paling’s last week, and showed how
the charm was worked. There .is a great
demand these days, when the world is more and
more in a hurry, for royal roads to the cardinal
arts. The claviola seems to be a direct and very
royal avenue to Beethoven, Chopin, and the other
musical immortals. They became immortal by
hand. Nowadays you press a button and become
immortal by machinery.
Next Thursday evening Mr. Samuel Turner,
F.R.G.S., an Alpine climber and explorer, will
speak on “Siberia Revealed” and “Mount Cook
Explored.” The colossal revelations will be illu-
strated by lantern views. The advantage of
climbing a mountain in a lantern view is that you
get up in less time, and if you fall off the top of
the peak in the illustration you don’t suffer so
much damage.
Miss Ruby See, second daughter of ex-Premier
John See, of Randwick, is to marry Mr. John
Meeks, of Auburn, Melbourne. The bride-elect,
who looks well in a smart riding habit and white
helmet, has been about considerably on horseback
with her future owner. All engaged couples who
go. a-riding acquire a fancy (if they’ve not already
got it) for that poem of Browning’s, “The Last
Ride Together.” When this daughter is married
the paternal See will have only his Lily maid and
a couple of young sons at home. The ex-Premier,
it may be remarked, has shaved off his beard, and
looks what the Yankees call “a Society Shine.”
The summer stagnation of the waters of society
life shows signs of breaking up. Yesterday
Mayoress Allen Taylor stirred the pool a little
when she held a reception in her enlarged and
re-decorated rooms at the Town Hall. And the
Governor-General North Cote will come here
towards the end of this week, and abide with us
during the falling of the leaf, which doesn’t fall in
Australia unless the leaf was imported. Now it
behoves all absentees •in Maoriland, Bowral,
Katoomba, and elsewhere to come right home on
pain of forfeiture of their cell in the society ant-hill.
“ Many inventions ” (as the Bible and Kipling
have it). Last week at Mrs. H. L. Jones’s fare-
well ladies’ luncheon at the Australia, the menu
cards were fashioned after the style of the dandiest
little deck-chairs. The- list of choice eats was
written on the canvas of the chair, and each guest’s
place was indicated by a miniature life-belt in-
scribed with her name. If you didn’t know your
neighbor you just exchanged life-belts and became
acquainted. About half the large party was wife
of the American male colony in Sydney—very
pleasant, well-dressed Aunt Sams they were. The
hostess, herself an American, is wife of the
American vice-Consul here. She goes to Denver
with her husband and infant to regain her physical
condition —salted by too much of our nor’easter.
A son of the Randal Careys was married last
Saturday to a Manly girl named Brown, grand-
daughter of the late Mr. Alexander Dean, and a
big slice of the wedding party took the centre of
the horseshoe at first night of “ The Shop Girl,”
and put its posy on the rail. All the blessed
damozels leant out over the wooden bar above in
the gallery, and asked “Is them the Gov’nor’s
crowd ? ”
The trustees of the National Art Gallery are
not likely to hang the travelling “ Light of the
World” without guarantees of its authenticity.
Meanwhile five out of every six of the population
of other States seem to have visited or to be.
visiting it. Holman Hunt got enormous prices
for his pictures. “The Scapegoat”—the real
original old Scapegoat—is a little water color,
and its price sounds like the war indemnity paid
by a conquered nation. Talking of pictures:
The new acquisition of the Gallery, “A Snow
Scene in Northern Italy,” an oil, hasn’t sent
the trustees mad with joy. As for the public, it
goes and stands opposite the "picture and says “I
wouldn’t give ten bob for it.” A solitary dingy
figure of a woman plods through pale violet snow
that has evidently been laid on with a trowel and
then curry - combed. Bleached - violet snow
stretches back of the figure and lies on the
mountains almost to their summits, where it turns
to dirty white snow. Apologists for the picture
say Maggi, the painter, knows his scene of action,
and that we do not. We have not studied snow
scenes in all their moods and tenses. Send a
typical Australian picture to England, and the
English ask patronisingly of the color-soaked
landscape “Is your country really run on so
chromatic a scale ? ”
There must be some sort of upheaval at the
historic Goldsbrough-Morts. Six managers of
departments have quit there and started as wool
brokers. Another, Mr. Ivan Fraser (he is married
to a daughter of the late George Maiden) is about
to start a monthly paper to be called Australian
Country Life.
From the School Music Review, condemning
the forcing of children’s voices:—
The infant school was led in its little songs by the
superintendent, a young woman of energetic tempera-
ment. At the preliminary rehearsal her constant exhort-
tation to her unhappy charges was : “Children, sing out
more ! You are not half singing—sing out ! ” The con-
sequence was that the unfortunate infants, instead of
using the sweet but delicate tones natural to childhood,
roared out “We are Jesus’ little lambs” like so many
little wolves.
I wonder why people do not alter the usual
wedding-present, which takes the monotonous
shape of a cruet or a butter-dish ! A friend on
the Richmond River, up Lismore way, writes to
me that they do things sensibly there. Amongst
the list of wedding-presents one sees “Mrs.
Gubbins, a cow; Mrs. Cowper, a poddy calf;
Mr. Piggen, a creamy pony ; whilst Mrs. Saltbush
gave the happy pair a brace of turnips, etc.” —at
least something like that. If people can’t do that
sort of thing in town, they might hand over a
ham, or a sideboard, or 12 pairs of boots, or
something equally useful.
Perhaps the tallest school-girl in Sydney is a
granddaughter of Mrs. Tyson, of North Sydney
(Mr. Ernest Tyson’s mother). The young lady
lives with her grandmother, and, though only 16,
is over six feet in height.
A girl writes me this: —
I had a fad. I wanted to earn my own living. I
wanted to prove to people that girls who would accept
ss. as lady helps when they could get 15s. as general ser-
vants were snobs and duffers, and I started out to prove
it. I wasn’t anything in particular—only a petted girl
whose father had once been rich and now was poor. So I
went to service and told my people I was governessing. I
stayed less than 24 hours. It wasn’t the work—it was, as
I sobbingly told the bewildered and wronged lady who
had engaged me when I tore off her carefully goffered’cap
and went to my room to don my old tailor-made, the feel-
ing. To take my dinner off the hacked joint in the half-
litkitchen, tobecalledby my Christian name, patronisingly
by the minx of a daughter, and familiarly by the dirty
oid man who milked the cow—to wear a ridiculous cap
that added ten years to my age, to listen to the company
chatter in the distant dining-room, to be cast into outer
darkness and sentenced to solitary confinement near the
kitchen sink, it was these things that gave me “ the
feeling.” And I sobbed and sobbed till my basket was
strapned and I was outside the gates, and then I nearly
yelled for joy. After that I tried being a lady help. I
went to a farm, where I arrived at daylight. Light rain was
falling, and the curlews curlewed dismally, and some
bird or other lamented bitterly in a swamp. My new
employer spoke quite shyly to me. She took me to a
blazing fire, and gave me tea and toast, and made much
of me, but best of all she talked to me as an equal.
The work was hard—too hard for a girl delicately
brought up—so in six months I came away a wreck.
Had to be carried in and out of the train. I got ss. a week
—as a general I would have got 15s.—but now I know why
girls who have “ come down ” prefer being lady helps to
being general servants. To feel that people respect one a.
bit—that one isn’t a worm crawling on the kitchen floor
—that makes all the difference.
But in all the households of my acquaintance,
including mv own two-person one, where only one
maid is kept, she, the general, is a female poten-
tate, and dominates the plan of campaign.
Missuses are so afraid of her quitting when she is
fairly competent that it is they who do the worm
apt. The average serving damsel has a better
time and more respect than the average governess.
As for the “ ridiculous cap,” nurses and waitresses
don’t look specialised and coquettish until they
put on their caps, and Merely Mary Ann’s cap is
very like theirs and just as becoming as theirs.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
Education-director Tato> Of Victoria
to be coming into his reward. Parents ’ Seems
are writing to the papers pointing t n J Wa y.
public school and University honors Sute'Ti'
trained boys and girls leave hopelesslyW°°J
those who come from the private prS.fe' l
lishments. The average private nrJ™
school is, in truth, run by a marm
to make, but who, poor woman, has usu-illv ?
much idea of the philosophy of teaching as “ C a?
has of fishing. Alongside her, even Tate’s mA ‘
paid, half-trained school-marms are finished pro'
fessors of education. pro ‘
TWO OF A TRADE.
BISHOP : “ MOO! Why, some of our
parsons don't get that a year.”
ARCHITECT : “Ah! I dare say, but
you see I’m a bishop in my pro-
fession.”
At a big N.S.W. country town, some
years ago, a man was found guilty of murder, and
sentenced to be hanged. The execution was fixed
for a certain date, and, the day before, “Nosey”
and his assistant arrived from Sydney. That
night, a public ball, in aid of some local charity,
was being held. Amongst the throng of dancers
was a fine-looking, athletic man, who had no diffi-
culty in getting introductions to numbers of nice
girls. They all voted him a good dancer, and
“ hoped he was going to stay in Slowtown for
some time.” Suddenly a change came, and little
groups were seen hurriedly taking their departure.
In a quarter of an hour the ballroom was empty.
A whisper had gone round ; the hero of the even-
ing was the assistant hangman. . -
“ School Miss ” wails from Broken Hill:—
It is 112° in the shade here at Broken Hell, with a hot
wind filling the air with blinding red dust. The Pro-
prietary and Junction North mines are on fire, and have
been burning for some days. The engines play on them
with steam, so you can imagine how close to Sheol we
feel. People are praying for a copl change—but not for
rain. A good dust storm is what we want to kill the
awful heat. Bain would most likelymean typhoid to all
not yet acclimatised. The summer climate here is simply
demoralising. • I get home to the boarding-house each
afternoon with no brain power left, and just sufficient
energy to bath myself. Then I lie down and swelter
till a badlv-cooked dinner is ready. Afterwards the
whole household flops into the balcony chairs and doesn’t
move till the bed procession starts. It is a spectacle to
meet 30 people, each person shouldering a mattress and a
bundle of bed clothes, and all making for the open air.
We have a comfortless, broken sleep for an hour or two,
then day breaks again over the town of Broken Sheol,
and the weary-eyed, haggard procession returns to the
bedrooms. At 7 o’clock comes tea, for which we are
craving, and with it the day, far, far worse than the
night. I have to wade backward and forward through
half-a-mile of red dust to the school twice a day, and most
times arrive with all energy absolutely at its lowest ebb,
Oh, for a dust-storm to cool this inferno ! I am writing in
a bath of perspiration, and the glare outside is something
terrible. I would give 12 months'of my life to feel a hiss-
ing, white-capped Manly breaker burst over me at this
present moment.
Yet the man' who writes this tag to “School
Miss’s ” wail is prepared to swear that he never
felt as limp during many long summers spent in
Broken Hill as he has in this last Sydney summer.


post
FREE
THE IDEAL FACECBEAfI
.VEIN FOOD
Every pot contains Public Analyst’s certificate.
Procurable at Sadler’s Pharmacy, 148 Pitt St., and their
suburban branches, for 3s. ; or trial jar by post from
Gordon' & Niciiolls, 3 Queen’s Place, Sydney, for 3s. 3d.
9
DELICATt a PERSISTENT
WHOLESALE ONLY
IVUDDOWS BROTHERS. SYDNEY
MELBOURNE BRISBANE PERTH & WELLIHGTONnz
Amusements.
Professor Skuthorp’s
“ Boys from the Bush.”
UNDER ROYAL AND VICE-REGAL PATRONAGE.
OPENING SYDNEY,
Hay market HIPPODROME,
Under arrangement with the Lessee, E. J. Cole,
SATURDAY, MARCH 24.
PRIZES FOR RIDERS AND HORSES.
Professor SKUTHORP offers the following prizes :
£loo—£7o first, £2O second, £lO third, for the best
Roughrider. Open to all-comers.
£2o—£ls first, £5 second, for the best Buckjurrper pro-
duced. Open to all-comers.
CONDITIONS. —For Roughriding Contest are :—The first
round to be ridden in ordinary roughriding or stock-
man’s saddle ; second round in a 4in. kneepad rough-
riding saddle ; third round, 3in. kneepads ; fourth
round, 2in. kneepads. All horses to be balloted for
by each rider each night. All horses to be ridden
with a bucking rope. This applies to both contests.
In the event of horse falling or tackle breaking, the
rider to be allowed another trial. None of Skuthorp’s
employees allowed to compete in either contest.
NOMINATIONS, £1 (riders producing own horses free),
to be made with the Secretary, Skuthorp’s Show, Hay-
market Hippodrome, on or before TUESDAY, 20th
March, at 4 p.m. Approved nominations genuine buck-
jumper’s fare will be paid to distance 150 miles ; also
stabling accommodation and feed.
Two Judges and one Referee to be mutually agreed
upon.
Nominators are respectfully requested to nominate
early.
Country Nominations must be in by the 15th MARCH.
For further particulars, apply to the Secretary.
Professor Skuthorp is prepared to buy all champion
buckjumpers produced. Price no object.
The Germans have discovered a new word
for “entente cordiale.” It is “ sympatbiekund-
gebungen.” Merely that.
Amusements.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
■ Lessee .. .. J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
For a LIMITED NUMBER OF NIGHTS.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
Specially Organised Australian Comic Opera Company-
in Offenbach’s Grand Celebrated Spectacular
Military Opera,
LA FILLE DU TAMBOUR MAJOR.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s and is.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction of Messrs. Brough and Flemming.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
The Brough-Flemming Comedy Company
in the Immensely Funny, Farcical Comedy,
THE PASSPORT.
SATURDAY NEXT, MARCH 10, LITTLE MARY.
Prices as Usual. Box Office at Elvy’s. Matinees every
Wednesday.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manairer .. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVENINGS, at 8. WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON, at %
EVERY EVENING, Mr. Williamson’s
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY in the
Famous Farcical Musical Comedy,
THE SHOP GIRL
Box Plan at Paling’s. j® - PRICES AS USUAL.
DAL ACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
r Direction of J. 0. Williamson.
FAREWELL TO AUSTRALIA and LAST VISIT TO
SYDNEY of THOSE EMINENT ARTISTS,
MISS MAUD JEFFRIES
and
MR. JULIUS KNIGHT.
Box Plan at Paling’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mu. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
Great Success of the MILES SAVORDALE QUINTETTE.
BARNARD’S MARVELLOUS MARIONETTES.
FRED. BLUETT, Australia’s Greatest Comedian.
MDLE. ADA CERITO. THE SISTERS WARNER.
THE SCOTTISH MEISTERS, Highland Comedy Quartette
and Comedy Glee Singers.
LOTTO. LILO, and OTTO, Comedy and Trick Cyclists.
LEONARD NELSON. BABY WATSON, HILDA LANE
ItOCHFORT and HART, ETHEL PRESTON,
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
TAMBO and TAMBO, Tambourine Spinners and Comedy
Artists. GEO. JONES, Comedian and End Man.
ETTIE WILLIAMS, Serio Comic.
SISTERS GILBERT, Serio Comics and Dancers.
EIGHT ENGLISH PRIMROSES.
TWO BELLS, Vocalists, Dancers.
CRIMMONS and GORE, Eccentric Comedy Artists.
ALICE RAYMOND, Cornetist and Bugler.
JOHN KURKAMP, Conductor.
Plan at Allan’s. &W PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
New theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee BLAND HOLT.
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS OF SEASON.
BLAND HOLT and his Popular
Combination of Commonwealth Dramatic Favorites in-
Hall Caine’s Dramatisation of his own Great Work,
THE PRODIGAL SON.
For the First Time in Australasia.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Business Manager, Mr. C. SIMONSENS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
GREAT SUCCESS EVERY EVENING,
Australia’s Favorite Dramatic Star, MISS TITTELL BRUNE,
—in—
LEAH KLESCHNA.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. WM. ANDERSON.
GREAT SUCCESS of Mr. ANDERSON’S
Gorgeous Spectacular Comic Operatic Pantomime,
SINBAD THE SAILOR.
SINBAD MISS MARIE CAMPBELL,
Principal Boy from London Theatres.
PRICES—Ss., 35., Is. TEfi Plan at Allan’s.
Music, * *
Phonographs,
Violins, Etc.
vO>
EDISON
PHONOGRAPHS. Cash.
OEMS £2 10 0
STANDARDS.. £5 0 0
HOMES £7 10 0
VIOLINS £2 10 0
ACCORDEONS £2 0 0
ANGLOS £2 10 0
ORGAN ETTES £3 0 0
AUTOHARPS.. 12 6
Weekly
Pay-
Terms. Deposit, ments.
£3 0 0 10s 2s
£5 15 0 20s 5s
£8 10 0 30s 5s
£2 15 0 10s 2s 6d
£2 5 0 10s 2s 6d
£2 15 0 15s 2s 6d
£3 10 0 20s 5s Od
15 0 3s Is Od
Packing Free to any address.
Edison Gold-Moulded Records
(Cash only), price 1/9 each. Catalogues Free.
ALBERT & SON,
137 King Street, Sydney.
Manufacturers of the famous
BOOMERANG MOUTH ORGANB.
8.8 £
Royal Agricultural Society of N.S.W.
ROYAL
EASTER
SYDNEY
SHOW
11th to 19th APRIL, 1906.
ENTRIES CLOSE— Wine, March 7 ; Horses, March 14; Cattle, Sheep and Pigs, March 15 £
Poultry, March 16; Pigeons and Canaries, March 17; Hogs, March 19; Farm and Dairy
Produce, March 20 ; Miscellaneous, March 21.
PRIZE SCHEDULES and ENTRY FORMS ON APPLICATION.
H. M. SOMER, Secretary,
Royal Chambers, 3 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, March 6, 1906.
My Dear Yarrie.—-
Every smart and hopeful girleen in Melbourne
turned out to peer at the union of Miss Frankie
Oliver and Mr. Frank Murray. A wild desire to
get away from the conventional prompted the
bride to go pink-trimmed to the rails, and to do
so in a rose-pink atmosphere. For once, chiffon
was introduced into the church. It fluttered
flippantly from arch to pillar of the solemn
fcMliiis-st; kirk, and pink blossoms played ring-a-
firig-fl-rbSy overhead. Above the rails, doves
■vkith outspread wings prepared for flight down
the pathway of the piously-joined. True-love
knots added a further note of sentiment in the
blush-pink scheme. The bride’s decollete rig had
a train as long as a sigh of dejection. Dawn-pink
and moonlight-silver gleamed from the ivory gar-
ment, and vaporous chiffons rolled languidly oyer
the paradoxical effects. A posy of pink orchids
and stephanotis added to the blushfulness of the
decoration scheme. A quintet of girleens fol-
lowed the star—Misses Maud Fenner, Alison
Fairbairn, Marjorie Levey, M. Manifold and L.
Kerr. These looked too picturesque for a church
ceremony in their Mary Carlyle rigs and head-
caps with curls a-dangle. Coquetry in chiffons
reached the absolute limit in their case, for they
had all let their hair down in comic-opera style.
The Oliver guests included the cream of Mel-
bourne. Their decorations ran to hat-streamers
and ear-drops. Every alternate She sported coral
or diamond ear-pendants. Mrs. Jack Fisken led in
a marvellous shape, sporting an immense buckle
and full peacock tails, other streamers of heavy
green-shot crepe hanging like a portiere to the
rear. The dame really looked like a peacock’s
funeral, with the dead bird, a band, and a pall.
Mrs. Willie Manifold went into velvet black
streamers of a deadly character. No dame looked
as well as the bride’s brilliant mamma. She wore
biscuit and hyacinth blue. Mrs. Oliver even now
is a more gorgeous Grace than her much-boomed
daughter. Of the younger fry Miss Lesly Madden,
in her old Cup chiffons, cut the greatest dash.
The canary and cream creation has a Parisian
finish, and the dicky-bird tails to the coat carried
out the canary notion. A cafe-chantant hat had
a riot of gay roses. Miss Vera Clarke topped a
109‘-in-the-shade, flowered frock with a lO’-below-
Fahrenheit hat. Banker Urquhart’s dame sur-
passed all the opulent in a display of gems,
antique and modern,
Jewels formed a large portion of the Oliver
wedding gifts, The bride’s passion for trinkets
led to a wholesale offering of earrings, neck gew-
gaws and sundry illuminants. She wore some
presentation diamonds in her shell-like ears at the
matrimonial rails, and sparkled some more on her
exposed chest area. ' .
Brighton supplied a final February flutter in
the hitcliing-up of Miss Ivy Webb and Mr. Stan-
ley Hammond—both popular young people in the
salt suburb. The bridal gear had a startling
decoration of silver roses and some covetable
Limerick lace. It was otherwise a subdued affair.
Pancake Tuesday saw a frantic rush to the
Church rails. Some couples, discovering at the
last moment that the close season for Church-
mating was at hand, hustled along to the
ecclesiastic joiners with the ring in one hand and
the vow in the other, before the Lenten shutters
dropped. One parson tied five knots in one warm
February noon. That stands as the record of
years.
It’s time the bride protested against the papers
that publish her photographed smile all awry and
her eye on the turn—“skew-whiff” I have heard
it called. Grotesque effects have been produced
by inconsiderate and careless printing. Last week,
one of South Yarra’s loveliest lassies appeared in
a paper with an uncanny squint which suggested
that one eye had a suspicion it was being pursued
by a dog.
One of the loveliest of Melbourne’s greying
spinsters has her considering cap on while a
woolly adorer waits on the mat. The affair is
being breathlessly discussed. •
A Western widow, Mrs. E. Bushcombe, com-
mits martyrdom for the second time—the aider
and abettor being one Knighton Stephens, with
the letters R.N. to the back of his name. She
goes to the Cold Country for the purpose. All
last week, a feminine following in this hub w r as
passing her the glad hand and the silver souvenir.
The trumpets are on the blare and che drum-
mers are pounding: the sheepskin implement to
E reclaim the engagement of Miss Alison Fair-
aim to the chief caddy of the Governor-General’s
staff—Captain Stewart Balmain. The Aide has
the right of sporting the 15th Hussars regimen-
tals, and boasts a soldiering record. On the
present staff he glories in more energy than there
is demand for, and has a spry manner of carrying
out his microscopic duties like an ant hurrying
home loaded with nothing. The Miss is the only
hope of M.L.A. Fairbairn, the richest member of
the clan, and the one who raises the best wool in
the Western district. She’s a good sportswoman, a
good chum, and a beauty.
A small flutter rises by reason of the tidings of
another newly-clinched engagement —that of Miss
Bona Syme and a Sydneyite—Mr. Eric Chapman.
Miss Rona is the plump, cheerful daughter of the
Balwyn York-Symes and the niece of Yes-No
Reid. She used to take but an indifferent interest
in her mamma’s hundred charitable schemes.
It was the ease of Dickens’ Mrs. Jellyby and her
Caddy all over again, except that Miss Syme
wasn’t inky like Caddy. Even the news that the
biggest savage at Borrioboola Gha hadn’t a bell-
topper to his name never roused the ycung lady to
any great excitement.
There was an early autumn nip in the air on
Saturday that vindicated the wearing of the new
cold rigs at Flemington, but sufficient warmth
remained in the sunshine to give excuse for a last
turnout of the November chiffons. Becoming as
one of the last Roses of Summer, in powder pink
and fleecy white, was Miss A. Fairbairn, making a
triumphal tour of the Flemington tiles with her
vice-regal attache. In autumn tones of royal and
cornflower blue, Mrs. Norton Grimwade achieved
her usual dress sensation. The dame of drug
wealth takes a loud, gay glory in forward fashions.
Mrs. Willie Manifold, queening it over a dressy
detachment from her woolly quarter, was ahead
of the lot in a mauve basin-crowned bowler top-
piece with a brush at its sporty side. A peram-
bulator-dealer’s young wife was one of the ser-
pentine summery figures on the strut. She wore a
dress fitting like a glove, composed of many miles
of narrow Val. Probably the lace drawn out to
its entire length would cover the distance from
this city to the Apple Isle.
It upsets the Cream to have a Commonwealth
Ex. that gets lost in the crowd, At Flemington
on Saturday the G.-G. arrived. Everyone knew
by the equipage and the guards. And he left.
All knew that. But among the crowd during the
day he was lost, stolen or strayed. They saw him
for a little while, and then no more.
Ex-Private-Secretary Fitzpatrick revolves again
about Toorak. He begins to lose his band-box
look, and now has the swarthy air and surging
gait of the man on the land. The Carpentaria
promontory seems the best place for losing the
fashionable crease of the Vice-Regal habit. The
temperature leads on to the neglect of hat-gloss
and fancy socks.
Simultaneously with the return to the Bent
State of a gadding sport pops up the most noto-
rious young charmer who has ever startled the
Flemington flock. Last Saturday she caused a
thrill through the whole gee-gee throng by her
autumn magnificence.
The first of Menzies’ tea and music junkets
started on Monday. As a way of using up the
off-days of the gee-gee week, this muffin and
music notion is reckoned tip-top. The private
entertainer is becoming an unknown quantity here.
In fact, she is mostly away on the heaving deep,
and her Chippendale suite is in its bib and pinny
during her jaunt.
The Ogilvie family mounted the P. and O. gang-
way last Tuesday. A shoal of chums swept over
the decks in a tidal wave of farewells.
Mrs. W. Manifold, whose daughter made her
first long-skirted appearance at the Oliver wedding,
takes the great gad abroad before long with her
pretty fledgling.
The Banker Urquharts are due to lay out a
large order for cabin trunks and deck-chairs.
They go with their flock to the Cold Country
before the Government starts its winter fires.
Hundreds of farewell wafers and parting cups
of popular cheer have been got through by the
Cliveden people and their friends at the various
headquarters of Charity and Culchaw. Even the
newsboys swelled the farewell chorus, and helped
to persuade the dowager she was something
higher than an Excellency. And all through the
flattering sprees, she wore a two-inch smile, with
a spray of wired exotics pinned over her palpi-
tating heart. The florists really lose a valuable
customer in the dowager. She never attended a
sewing-bee, presided at a mothers’ lamentation
meeting, or chaired a bush-blaze committee with-
out the bosom-spray of wired blooms, and her
orders for table blossoms were a nice fat item.
Mrs. Nial and her chick, whose gamps have
been hanging on a Menzies’ rack for many a
month, start for crowded London in the wake of a
large Toorak contingent. All the hopeless marms
with cash and girls to spare are off on the track.
Tommy Bent has damaged his funny-bone.
That may stop a lot of his clowning ; but it won’t
stop the barrel Premier visiting the theatres.
He’s one of the circle regulars, and cuts a wonder-
ful figure in an immense area of fried shirt and a
coat that doesn’t meet soon enough, while above
his blunt, whiskered countenance his specs, are
balanced on the bump of variable temper. The
Bent Premier generally brings a niece along, and
gets her to repeat any of the applauded jokes he
has missed. It must be trying to be niece to a
fat politician whose attention wanders.
A Melbourne pair has cut the marriage
tie in the land where they who seek divorce
shall surely find it. This time it’s the Comic
Opera tripper Mrs. Eric Neill, who always footed
it under her original title—lrene Outtrim —on the
Williamsonian stage. Captain Neill had served
in the Victorian Contingent among the kopjes
before Irene, of the “Florodora” gentle maidens,
decided that as she must love someone, it might as
well be he. In Uncle Sam’s country subsequently,
he turned from active captaincy to Inky pursuits,
and traversed Dollar Land for copy and distrac-
tion, while his liege Missus twirled her toes in
vaudeville. The Outtrims form a large clan about
here and are mostly given to music and church
choirs. Even Deputy Postmaster Outtrim pedals
the organ magnificently and glories in a capital
basso-profundo voice. His only son was the
second member of the clan to take to a career of
grease, abandoning pulpit ambitions to raise his
melodious voice in opera bouffe.
There has been a to-do at one of the recent
salt-dip competitions over a candidate who caused
a sensation, after a splendid double-somersault
dive, by appearing in as much paper-covering as
ordinarily suffices for a bag of sweets. It seems,
before throwing herself into the brine, she posed
as a paper sunflower, but after conflict with the
waves her petals were no more. As she had to
come up for the third time and stay up, the Purity
Brigade raised a cry of horror even though the
child would only have represented a toy Venus.
Young “Mac.” Sharwood, the Central Queens-
lander who died in London t’other day, un-
attended by a doctor, and thereby brought his
landlord and fellow-Christian Scientist into the
ken of coroner and jury, is the only brother of
pretty little Mrs. Steve Fairbairn. Said dainty
pocket-charmer was formerly Miss Nellie Shar-
wood, of Aramac (Queensland). Her father, the
late Sydney Sharwood, was a well-known mid-
Bananaland identity, and when his motherless
girl and boy grew up, the former kept house for
Pa, and shone out such a chic little bit of Dresden
China among the sordid surroundings of the
western town that in no time she was wooed and
married by Mr. Stephen Fairbairn, a neighboring
station-owner, and a scion of the well-known Vic-
torian pastoral clan. Her bridegroom, tall, dark,
handsome, and an ex-member of the Cambridge
Eight, was, prior to his marriage, regarded as the
best parti of the hour in Melbourne society.
When Sharwood pere died, his son spent most of
his time with the Fairbairns, followed in his
brother-in-law’s footsteps at Cambridge, and, like
him, rowed in the Eight. He was the first
Bananalander to volunteer for the Boer war,
saw the fighting through, and, altogether, was the
last man one would have expected to die of “ fatty
degeneration of the heart, brought on by per-
nicious anaemia.”
Some readers of Nellie Stewart’s recent letters
from ’Frisco to her sister here are surprised at. the
unconventional Helen’s fondness for religious
phraseology. But Nellie at all times revels in
religious sentiment. ’Board ship she yards in her
daughter every Sunday and imparts theological
instruction. On her father’s tomb in Kew (Vic.)
cemetery, Nellie, served up in white marble, is
depicted as a praying angel, and on at least one
occasion she took the floor as a preacher and
moral teacher, and while handing a riding-whip to
Rupert Clarke’s jockey treated the boy to an un-
expected slab of pious eloquence. The versatile
Nellie is a model mother, and when other travel-
lers’ children are making nuisances of themselves
on board ship, her one ewe lamb is tied to
mamma’s apron-strings and trained in the way
she should go.
In consequence of the evil weather and other
things, the annual tournament —usually the sum-
mer swan-note of excitement—is postponed till
dewy April, when the remnant of Sassiety here
will rush the gymkhana revels.
The she-bowlers of South Melbourne and Albert
Park —twin suburbs devoted to perambulatory
habits—had a tournament the other day and tried
conclusions at the round man's thirstiest game.
As the South Melbourne players persisted in look-
ing nice and wearing their straight-fronts with the
usual pull on the girth-strap, they lost the game
ignominiously. The other team went without
stylish appointments, and let its waist gang its
ain gait.
The long-haired, girly pianist, Adolph Bortscke
(it sounds something like a cat when it is angry),
still lingers, though the Stirling season is long
finished and done with. At the “ Leah Kleschna ”
show on Saturday he wore his long locks in the
raw. They’re only worn in the fricasseed or scal-
loped state for the platform.
On one of the recent hot days, the ArtGallery offi-
cials fainted so badly that they gave up confiscating
brollies at the door, and women took them inside,
and used them to prod small children out of the
way, and rested them on the corns of their fellow-
creatures, and pointed excitedly with them at the
“ Light of the World.” No woman drove her
gamp through the “ Light,” but such a thing may
happen if the whalebone object is allowed to
accompany its owner as a regular thing. Some
women are very bad judges of distances, and
shockingly bad shots with an umbrella.
Yours Affectionately,
TRYPHENA.
“Ralph Rodney”: It seems very appa-
rent already that the N.S. W. Liquor Law is not
to be pressed home to the inconvenience of the
lover of the late cup that beers, &c. This is to be
sadly regretted, for the city breath cleared wonder-
fully in those few brief weeks during which the
Act lived and bit round regardless. But what is
really wanted is an Act to render shouting illegal.
That would bring drinking within the range of
sanity, and drunkenness would soon be a thing of
the past. Nowadays a man of 70, riding into town
on a raw day. feels, on reaching his destination,
that a drop of spirit would do him good. As he
enters the bar he is met by Jack, Tom, Dick, and
Harry. “Hello, Jimmy,old son.” “ Hello, Harry,”
“ Hello, Tommy,” &e. &e. Then he feels com-
pelled to say, “What are you going to have?”
And bang goes half-a-crown. Then Tom realises
he must shout. Harry next, and then Dick and
Jack. Finally old Three-score-and-ten struggles
out flustered and foolish, and the publican rattles
five half-crowns into his till. It’s time the shout
was made punishable with three months hard and
bitter “jug.”


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . DurabiliJy Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE. STREET, SYDNEY.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/- Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GFNNIiRT,ByC. FUG St. Martin, Paris, France.
GrO TO XXSLX.-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nag€i?, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
SHIRTS^
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
6. MOUNTGASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
Wolfe’s Schnapps counteract the effect
of bad liquors, bad beer, bad water. It cures the
troubles they bring on. Wolfe’s Schnapps : A
pure extract of selected barley and the curative
Juniper berry, distilled in Holland.*
*sain
TvDldliaV
j?
We make them on the premises.
We make more than any other firm in Australia.
We also import them from the famous American
firm, A. A. Marks.
Every kind of Artificial Limb supplied at reason-
able prices.
Send for Free Book on Artificial Limbs.
DENYER BROTHERS,
Surgical Instrument
Makers,
281 George St., Sydney (opp. Hunter St.).
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Q. Premier Kidston favors the establish-
ment of'a State insurance fund for the civil ser-
vants in connection with the Workers’ Compen-
sation Act:,
A Sydney traveller on the Mildura (Vic.)
railway complains of the bumping of trains, and
threatens to start another “secesh” movement if
N.S.W. men are not treated better.
Patronising local industries isn’t a strong
point with Auckland (M.L.) Hospital Board. It
is sending all the way to Paris for two skeletons
to train the nurses on. Yet the dead Maorilander
has as many bones as anybody else.
W. N. Willis—the eternal W. N. Willis—
has been re-arrested in Natal, so the struggle over
the extradition question begins afresh. A time
may yet come When the N.S.W. parliament will
pass an Act' declaring that there is no W. N.
Willis and never was one, merely because it feels
it will go mad if it hears the name any more.
“S.R.” : Haul Holman off. What the
devil does he mean by playing into Reid’s hands
like this? Reid’s a clown, a political buffoon,
one to be ridiculed and gibed at. No self-respect-
ing politician should lower himself by taking
Reid seriously, and as for taking the arena with
him in debate, well, I’m surprised at Holman.
George Reid magnanimously declares that
“he will join forces with the Protectionists,”
with the object of fighting Socialism.
Sydney Benevolent Society gives further
proof of how that city is being “ruined by
Federation.’’ In 1905 an average of 563 cases of
poverty were relieved per week. In 1904 the
average was 730 cases. In 1903 902 cases, which
was about the average of the previous years. So
there’s a decrease in two years of 339 cases—or
over 33 1-3 per cent.—in the poverty of the city.
Press item :
The Federal authorities have been in communication
with the State Governments over the transfer of some of
the State documents under the copyright law. One of
the States has objected to handing over its records. This
may necessitate Copying the documents.
Can anyone indicate that contrary kid in one
guess—the futile snarler that makes extra Federal 1
expenditure necessary, and then howls at the
bill?
THE RECRIMINATIONS OF COOKING
UTENSILS.
Reid says Deakin is a seeker after office and a wobbler.—
Vide Daily Press.
THE POT TO THE KETTLE: “ Hullo , old smutty
face!”
Melbourne Tramway Company is doing
well in its fight to have its present monopoly ex-
tended beyond 1916 —the year in which the muni-
cipal trust is supposed to take over the business.
The company has met the cry for penny sections
by suggesting an extension of its lease in return
for this “ concession ” ; and, instead of demanding
that the State should exercise its right and compul-
sorily revise the fares, one council (Port Mel-
bourne) has already empowered its representative
on the Tramway Trust to grant “reasonable con-
cessions ”if the penny section is established. Other
councils seem likely to follow suit.
The N.S.W. Labor Council has again de-
clared for free primary education, and now the
Labor party should try its band at forcing the
Government into action, A majority of the
Ministers are committed to the principle, but will
wriggle out of giving effect to it, if they can.
A private member’s bald resolution re the expe-
diency of the thing counts for nothing. Ever
since 1.883, when Teece, M.L.A., carried such a
resolution, the Assembly has been “resolving” in
favor of free education, but has never taken the
slightest notice of its own resolutions, though it
has yelled in its own ear almost annually.
Be land nationalisation. Away back in
the early ’sixties, “ P&ddy ’’O’Sullivan, then one
of the West Moretoh hunch. ‘made'an attempt in
that direction in the Queensland Assembly. The
first Land Bill ;was going through, : and O’Sulli-
van moved that the whole of the Darling
Downs be leased and not alienated. He
found two supporters—Tames-Morgan- and
William Henry Groom —out of a House
of 36 members. Then the work of
“ consolidating” the runs Was com-
menced— dummying, and
every known device for embezzling \
the people’s property, were resorted
to. Every available rood "of the r
water-frontages was thieved, and '
bona-fide selectors were thrown back
on stony, waterless ridges. Later on,
the cry for room went up, and the
“Continuous Ministry” started to
repurchase from big syndicates, into
whose claws a majority of the large
estates of the Downs had gravitated.
As high as £4 10s. per acre was paid for
Gowrie, and over £3 per acre was passed
over for Glengallan, Toolburra, and Head-
iagton Hill. Selling land at 10s. per acre
and buying it back for £3 per acre would
be set down as a silly piece of finance in private
enterprise, but the State seems to live on that
kind of business. In fact, Queensland has had
one long, continuous drunk on it; but when
it has to pass its horse, saddle and bridle over to
publican Cohen, and hump bfuey over a new
track, the day of wrath will be mighty adjacent.
Kaiser William of Germany has again been
waving his mailed salary-hook, and talking
threateningly about what the Germans did in
1870. Some day, perhaps, Europe will get tired of
this sort of thing, and set out to remind Germany
of what it did in 1806, when it set an example of
fast running to all Europe. This year is the cen-
tenary of Jena, and Kaiser W. is waving the
mailed extremity with an energy which makes
Europe think of the fact.
From a last week’s cablegram about the
obliteration of some missionaries in China
On learning of the massacre the Empress Dowager and
the Court fell into a state of collapse.
Presumably the empress flopped, and then the
court fell down insensible to be in the fashion.
And doubtless, when the news spread, the army
and navy fainted, and the civil service sent in a
medical certificate that it couldn’t get down to the
office by reason of nervous prostration.
A Melbourne wicker-worker witness told
the Tariff Commission that two Victorian wicker-
work perambulator bodies were sent to China by
a Melbourne firm, and that China is now sending
back hundreds of copies of these samples. Even
Labor Freetraders woke up at that. These illogi-
cal persons have enthusiastically excluded the
Chow ; and when it was thus plainly put to
them that, so long as they admitted the Chow-
made article duty free, the country would actually
be a trifle better off had they admitted the yellow
aliens themselves and put them under some sort
of restraint as to working conditions, they began
to think there was something wrong with their
fool theory.
Brisbane’s Board of Waterworks is
marked for extinction, having earned that
fate by many sins of omission and commis-
sion. Brisbane Council has power to take
control of the water supply. It is doubt-
ful, however, whether such a change would
improve matters. The city has to face the
problem of a new water supply early, and
to grapple with some sort of a sewerage
scheme. That means increased taxation, and
the aldermen, elected under .a conservative
franchise, who would talk about raising the
rates would go out next election.. The water
supply would be much better conducted by
an expert board of three commissioners until
such time as Parliament passes an Act
widening the municipal franchise.
Justice Cooper, of Maoriland, lately
quashed an indictment in which a man
was charged with incest, the female being
his step-daughter. He said that although
the crime was a matrimonial offence under
the Divorce Act, it wasn’t a criminal
offence, cognisable in Maoriland in a court
of law. In England it was not only a
matrimonial offence, but also an ecclesiastical
offence, punishable by ecclesiastical courts
where their jurisdiction existed, by penance.
In Scotland it was a criminal offence.
There was no tie of consanguinity between
step-father and step-daughter here, so there
was no crime disclosed. As several cases
of this kind, have happened in M.L. lately,
it’s about time the Act was amended, or
added to, or something.
A pathetic circumstance at the Australian
Manufacturers Exhibition in Melbourne was a
show-case full of beautiful rugs and tweeds, ex-
hibited by a city firm which had bought the rem-
nant stock of the Australian Woollen Mills, at
Footscray. They were splendid specimens of
workmanship, superior to any imported shoddy
or mungo; but the day the Exhibition opened
the Bank had closed on its mortgage, and the
factory was lying idle and empty —killed by the
mongrel tariff that George Reid fought for, and
the Freetrade Laborites weakly helped him to
get.
According to the evidence evoked so far
as the inquiry has gone, the three N.S.W. Rail-
way Commissioners have long been divided—
the two men who had been trained in railway
service against Commissioner Oliver, the man
who came from the Lands. The two sections
didn’t shake hands, they didn’t eat together, they
drank separately, and the only amenities which
passed between them seem to have been bricks.
But amid the endless tales of their personal
squabbles, which seem often very like the anger
of two old women over the back yard fence, there
is a tendency to lose sight of the trouble that
began the shindy—the very remarkable deal in
coal whereby Commissioners Fehon and Kirkcaldie
gave such a very remarkable lift to the Lithgow
Coal Association. The public wants to hear more
about that, and less about the personal disagree-
ments which made it impossible for Commissioners
11. and 111, to hang their hats alongside Commis-
sioner I.’s hat without feeling degraded by
proximity to the hat of Commissioner I.
ASTRONOMY FOR SOUTHERNERS.
Agfiiri last Friday the S.M. Herald per-
formed, the remarkable ieat of turning out an
enthusiastic leading article on the progress of
Canada, without saying one word about its manu-
factures or its' high. Protective tariff. And it
urged Australia igo- and do likewise without a"
single hint that Australia can’t do likewise with-
out going in for high Protection, and kicking the
Herald’s shoddy .Toss into .the gutter. It i§ won-
derful the things these Freetrade papers can omit
when they try.
The cult of the gun is now appealing’
strongly to Premier Seddon. In future all cadets
entering the Maoriland Civil Service are to join a
volunteer'corps ■ apd-,serve three years. Cadets
who are already in the. service are to be - urged to
get on the inside of < a .uniform ; and the men
soldiers are to be allowed off duty whenever there’s
a parade,, a camp, or any other military function
on hand. The idea has a great deal to recommend
it, but why shouldn’t the bank, insurance and brick-
laying cadet he similarly treated ?
If the nationalisation of the tobacco indus-
try lie taken to,cover production as well as manu-
facture, the N.SiW; Mongolian is likely 1 to come
off his tobacco pedestal. Practically the tobacco-
growing of N.S.W. is at present a Mongol indus-
try. The British-Australasian Tobacco Company’s
prizes for the best N.S.W.-grown tobacco panned
out thus : First prize (£10), won by Bow Lung ;
second prize (£5), Won by Ah Sing ; additional
prize -of £5 won by Ah Clioon.
Camperdown, one of the little
hanky boroughs around Sydney, has
decided, so far as a five to four vote of
its miserable aldermen can decide the
matter, not to amalgamate with the
Sydney Council, and thus give a small
start to a Greater Sydney consolida-
tion. Camperdown is a bankrupt
municipality, with a receiver in charge
of its cash-box, and presumably it will
now sit in frozen dignity, with its
bailiff in its mortgaged Town Hall.
It won’t even be able to take him out
for a walk; for the Camperdown streets
are so badly kept as to be dangerous to
traffic; they are mostly holes, and
grass, and debris, and bush. An Act
is badly wanted to take the question
of consolidation out of the hands of
pottering little mayors, aldermen, town
clerks, and similar small human
truck, and to let the people have a turn
at it.
Vie. M.L.A. Fairbairn gave the
gag about capital being “drivenaway”
a new application at a recent meeting
of Women’s Leaguers. “Capital,” he
said, “was rapidly accumulating in
Victoria because capitalists were afraid
to invest it in consequence of the enact-
ment of Socialistic legislation.” “Yes,
sir,” says the poor fellow as he looks at
his swelling bank-book ; “ yes, sir, this
Socialism’s ruining me. Last year I
had £2o,ooonow. I’ve accumulated
£25,000. If. I don’t stop, I’ll have
£30,000 soon., The country’s going to
the dogs, sir—going to the dogs !”
Queensland’s discredited ex-Premier Philp
has no policy except borrowing. At the cheap feed
provided for him recently by the Toowoomba
Chamber of Commerce, he expressed a desire to
see a big loan floated to encourage immigration.
Oneensland has already borrowed more than all
Queensland lias already borrowed more tnan au
the other States put together to encourage lmmi-
gration, and hasn’t made much out of it. But the
old Loan Brigade is incapable of learning by the
awful experiences of the past.
Though Brisbane Board of Waterworks is
obviously doomed, it talks now of importing a
Yankee engineer to prepare still another sheaf of
plans for an improved supply. Almost enough
money has been spent already on reports about
the Stradbrooke Island and other schemes to give
the city a decent service; but the reports and
plans have only beenby Australian engineers, and
the Australian engineer isn’t good enough for the
Brisbane Board. The last time the same crowd
imported a Yankee engineer he pocketed his fee
and then sold the State three expensive machines
which were a dead failure from the start. But the
Brisbane Board of Waterworks has a memory like
a sieve for some things.
“Single Judges do extraordinary things.
They get a notion into their heads that they are
there to administer justice and to hang the law.”
■ —Queensland J ustice Beal on the Full Court Bench ,
Vic. Railway Commissioner Tait may not
be able to do much towards preventing derail-
ments and other accidents—there have been
5343 persons injured on the Victorian lines
during the last 10 yeats as against 3073 dur-
ing the previous 10—but as 'a' color-expert
he shines with the brilliance of a Leighton.
He lias had the huge Spencer-street
offices stained a charming ginger-pink,
and the locortlotives he has altered from
their former green to a sweet chocolate-
brown. Now he has noticed that some
of the luggage-porters and other small
fry deck themselves in neckties of gor-
geous hues, and forthwith he issues an
edict that in future “in all cases black
ties only should be worn.” Tait is, per-
haps, anticipating the mourning that will
presently be Worn when the starved and
neglected lines cause ’ a big smaSh. By
the way, it now transpires that whereas
there used to be Hi permanent way men on
the Gembrook line—where the last disaster
occurred—there are now only six ! 1
According to experts, the British Admiralty
is trying to work off another swindle on Australia
in" the fleet provided on loan for the Naval
Tribute. The Euryalus was a type of the vessel
to which Australia was entitled (on loan). It was
withdrawn and the Powerful substituted, an
enormous hulk of much inferior fighting power.
Australia protested and the Monmouth was
offered —which is an inferior boat to the Powerful !
Withal Australia is only getting the treatment
that a people which hires its defence must expect.
The drollest feature of Bent’s Railway
Accident Inquiry thusfar has been the Court’s
picnic trip to Gembrook (Vic.) for the purpose of
inspecting the delinquent engine. The engine lay
neglected on the place where it fell for a whole
week after the accident. Then the Railway De-
partment suddenly remembered that it was pos-
sible for this important piece of evidence to be
tampered with leisurely by any unknown persons
who anight care to come along and do it. So, to
,make amends for its strange oversight, the De-
partment sent three men —at the end of the week
—to keep guard over the engine. They covered
it with a tarpaulin, and each man in turn sat upon
the blessed thing for eight : hours, whilst his mates
filled in time looking for snakes and 1 old bird-
nests.
The unspeakable Brisbane Courier is the
first Australian newspaper to advocate inter-
marriage of the Jap with the white race !
Not until the Japanese enter into a closer relationship
with the people of the West can these barriers be
removed. ‘ Inter-marriage is the only permanent means
by which the peoples of the East and West can expect to
bridge the great natural gulf that divides them.
“The great natural gulf,” i.e. , the gulf fixed by
Nature or Providence or God —whichever you
prefer to call it. Well, the person who goes fool-
ing with great natural gulfs generally falls in.
ONLY IN THE PLAY .
The electors are not desirous of any recasting of the Tariff.— ARGUS.
“ Hurry up! What comes after that, George?”
Thus G. H. Reid, on the Tobacco Com-
niission > s report in favor of fche nationalisation of
. W
tne industry:
The smoker would be a very convenient lemon to
squeeze whenever the Commonwealth gets into financial
troublej by putt ing down the quality of the tobacco, and
putting up the price. The monopoly being a Common-
wealth one, no man could compete to give the public
cheaper or better tobacco, as he would be a criminal
under the law if he tried to do so.
Railways tramways, post and telegraph services,
water and sewerage, &c., are all Government
monopolies against which it would be unlawful to
compete, yet who ever heard of those Govern-
ment monopolies being used as public lemon-
squeezers by hard-up Governments ? And, any-
seeing that tobacco consumption is general
throughout Australia, any Government, after
the httle game Reid suggests, would pro-
~abJj b .l id its chance of return about as minute as
G ' H - Reid s aie at P resent -
Fat Georgie’s pleased to let them know
That they may raise him up again
To Ministerial power. Just so.
The weight “joins forces ” with the crane !


< HI
" * f ;
Vr
i
oia on
EasxTcrms
. L-hi'
BRING
■SUNSHINE
INTO EVERY HOME
Our Great Agencies L.
STEINWAYLIPP
RONISCH -victor
■ :<
LeasfMon
Send dor Illustrated Catalogues Free by-Post
■■■■i ™ 558 GEORGE ST.
• •
TTHE
(GRAMOPHONE
2
i
\
The Talß of the Town.
GRAMOPHONE and GRAMOPHONE RECORDS.
HARMONIST, Esq .: Did you notice in the GRAMO-
PHONE the entire absence of that metallic
sound so noticeable in Talking Machines ?
ENTHUSIAST, Esq.: Talking Machine! The
GRAMOPHONE is no longer considered a
Talking Machine. Why, the musical world
has long since placed it in the front rank of
musical instruments.
CRITIC, Esq.: And such records ! Melba, Caruso,
Harrison, Lauder, our old friend Florrie Forde,
and the others. How wonderful they are !
NEW CHUM: Oh ! I say, dear boys ; marvellous,
isn’t it ?
APPLY TO THE
AGENT IN YOUR
TOWN
♦ ♦♦♦♦♦
NONE GENUINE UNLESS
BEARING THIS
TRADE , IMARK
OR FULL
PARTICULARS ON
APPLICATION TO
THE GRAMOPHONE COMPANY, LTD,,
i
163 PITT.STREET, SYDNEY.


“M OTA ” brand
Motor Car Spirits
Are the finest power spirits the world produces.
Sold by all Motor Manufacturers,
Importers, Repairers, etc., or of
The BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD.,
Agents, Adelaide, Melbourne & Sydney.
Dreadful Headaches
Yield to the Corrective Influence of Dr.
Morse’s. Indian Root Pills.
Many women habitually suffer from headaches
and a general derangement of the system, which
make life a daily purgatory. If men suffered with
headaches as women do, business would be at a
stand-still. The truth is that women’s headaches
are mostly due to womanly
causes. For these ailments Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills are
invaluable, as is fully proved
by the following case Mrs.
Mary Macey, of 24 Hartley-
street, Rozelle, Sydney, says:—
“ For a number of years I have
suffered from sick headaches,
indigestion, and biliousness,
which made my life a misery.
I could not take any pleasure
in my work, and was in a state
of despair, I tried many so-
called remedies, but of no avail,
mntil one day, about six months ago, a lady friend
itold me the benefits she derived from the use of
:Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills for these complaints,
:and I decided to give them a trial. After taking
:about two bottles I found that the headaches had
■entirely left me, and that I was better in my
■general health than I had been for years previous.
I consider them a splendid family medicine. You
■can make whatever use you like of this, hoping it
-will be the means of inducing other sufferers like
■.myself to give them a trial.” Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills are a perfect blood purifier and a
positive and permanent cure for biliousness, in-
digestion, constipation, headaches, sallow com-
plexion, liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples,
boils and blotches, and for female ailments.*
Mrs. Mary Macey.
(from a photo.)
MOTHER S FRIEND.
PE DIC POMADE for the Head,
Strikes infesting vermin dead;
On ail hands it is confessed.
Surest, finest, foremost, best.
Destroys vermin; kills nits; heals sores.
By post—Small 1/2, large 2/3, extra large 3/6.
Manufacturer—P. KLEESATTEL,
Traralgon. Victoria.
RESCN’S SEL
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives.
Bkkweky axd Offices:
BOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Pendant’s capture of the Newmarket Handi-
cap, from whatever point of view it may be regarded,
points to the conclusion that the mare was either lucky
in getting a very straight run, with the inside rails to
guide her as soon as she reached the course proper, as it
is called, or she had a merely moderate field of horses to
run away from. Naturally the Pendant backers cried
“ What-did-I-tell-you ? "—after the race. All the week
she had been talked of as a “certainty.” The
two popular certs, were Lachlan and Pendant, and
at the start they were equally first favorites.
All the same, the horse offered much the stronger case
for a special pleader, and it still remains to be proved that
the astute Leslie Macdonald had made a mistake in think-
ing that Lachlan, given a favorable run, couldn’t be
beaten by anything carrying more than a nine-stone
burden. Pendant had two sets of “ form ”to recommend
her—one ancient and the other modern. Her modern
“form” dated from the beginning of February last,
and it had to be finally judged by her running
in the Futurity Stakes a week previous to the
Newmarket. In the Futurity Stakes (seven fur-
longs) she led by not more than a length, until
Gladsome came out and smothered her. She finishes
a trifle behind Duke of Melton, with Lachlan a head behind
her. And in the Newmarket she had to meet Duke of
Melton at the same difference in weight, and Lachlan —a
big, long-striding novice, likely to be greatly favored by
a straight course—on 121 b. worse terms than before.
Pendant’s ancient “ form ” included a second to Mairp
for the Newmarket of 1904. She was then a 5-year-old
carrying 9.12, and the race was the slowest for 15 years.
It has to be noted that last Saturday’s time was I.IOJ.
Pendant has been winner and runner-up in the two
slowest Newmarkets run during a long term of years. This
year’s field was supposed to be rich in fliers, but somehow
it happened that they didn’t fly.
Pendant, the Newmarket heroine, had run only
seven times in two years (without scoring a win) previous
to her present visit to Flemington. She was not favor-
ably handicapped, except in comparison with Mairp, who
beat her two years ago, and had been growing very old
since then. But Pendant also began to be “ aged ”on the
Ist of August last. It is a remarkable coincidence that
she and Mairp are the only two aged animals that have
won a Newmarket. Only one of the other winners—Sedi-
tion, in 1889 —was six years old, and in all three cases the
time was slow. The most slippery winners on the list
were Sir Foote, Amiable, Playaway, Cranbrook, Carlton,
Laundress, and Chantress, all of them getting over the six
furlongs in 75 seconds or less. Sir Foote’s 1.13} is the
record. Within the last fifteen years eight of the winners
have been mares.
» * * •
One of the many good points about Tartan is
his bloomin’ moniker. By Lochiel—Colors, he is one of
the most aptly named racehorses in the business.
* * * *
Unsatisfactory to find Blue Spec starting at
33 to 1 offered for the Essendon Stakes last Saturday,
whilst Scot Free was backed at 5 to 1 to beat the “ dead
bird ” Tartan. In last Melbourne Cup there was only a
neck difference between Scot Free and Blue Spec at level
weights. On Saturday the Spec was giving only 31b. to
the horse he beat last November, and he hadn’t a backer.
» * « *
A Maoriland nag named Jack Pot, owned by a
native, carried recently 4st. 21b. dead weight in a race at
Wairoa, the mannikin being perched on top of a couple of
sacks of ballast. Result was that the jockey and his horse
were utter strangers, the lad not being near enough to
his mount to get a winning gallop out of him. In fact,
he was so high above his horse that he should have had a
speaking trumpet with which to say “gee up” to the
remote beast.
* * * te
The unco guid may say what they like about
citizen J. Wren’s management of Melbourne unregistered
racing, but since the tote man took over the busi-
ness there’s been a tremendous exodus of the unre-
gistered tribe from Sydney to the city of the Yarra. The
fervent wish of Sydney is that Wren will, like Moses and
the locusts, draw ’em all that way. They will be missed
joyfully !
* « * «
The impending arrival of Professor Skuthorp’s
buckjumping show in Sydney calls to mind the slim, deaf
horseman’s celebrated repetition of the crack-brained
Lindsay Gordon leap near Mount Gambier, in South
Australia—a fence sft. 4in. high, with, on the far side of
it, and a couple of feet below the level of the bottom of
the fence, a ledge 9ft. wide, and then a clear drop of
450 ft. of sheer precipice. To negotiate this leap safely it
was necessary to jump the horse over the fence, and
actually turn him round while in the air, so as to land on
the 9ft. ledge below. If the horse played up or lost his
balance when he landed—sudden eternity. Skuthorp’s
friends were wildly anxious to tie a rope round his waist,
so that in the event of the horse failing to drop on the
ledge, or rolling over after he had landed, Skuthorp might
have a chance of life. The Professor declined the rope J
he had an idea that it would get tangled up among the
horse’s legs and lead to the very disaster it was intended
to mitigate. He went at it at a gentle trot, and
the steady horse rose like a bird, clearing the fence
by several inches. As he rose clear the Professor leaned
over and, with a tremendous wrench, tried to swing the
horse round. The animal, looking down that awful depth,
screamed, and, with a great muscular effort, swung him-
self as desired, landed on the ledge, and stood trembling.
The Professor gave the reins a shake, and his steed,
reckoning the ledge a good place to get clear of, trotted a
few yards and then leaped the fence once more. It was
a great performance, and in its way unique. There have
been other marvellous jumps, but that was about the
narrowest landing space ever jumper negotiated. Away
back in 1811, at Cairo, when Mehemet Ali had trapped
the Mamelukes in the citadel, one of the beys jumped his
horse from the ramparts and made his escape. Some
accounts say that the horse was killed under him, and he
fled on foot; others that the noble brute carried his
boss off triumphantly through the shower of bullets
that the murderous Albanian soldiers poured round him.
There’s no sporting instinct or spare chivalry about an
Albanian, for that was a sheer drop of 80ft., and even after
the bey had negotiated it; Mehemet’s blood-shedders didn’t
reckon that he had'fairly bought-his life. In 1889, Mark
Hilliary, a celebrated Canterbury horseman, rode on to a
bridge on the Mt. Peel (Maoriland) road. A landslip had
carried away the supports, and the bridge was just hang-
ing, and as Hilliary rode on to it the far end. went down
suddenly, tearing the rest with it. Hilliary, afraid of
being overwhelmed and crushed in the ruin, swung his
horse round and jumped him over the railing on to the
shingle 40 odd feet below, man and horse escaping with
only a few bruises. There are several other remarkable
jumps on record. Writer disremembers them at present,
but none of them save that of Gordon and Skuthorp
ended on a 9ft. ledge. The Professor Still has the horse,
now old and toothless, pensioned off in a quiet paddock
on the Darling Downs, Queensland.
**, * »
A bad wind and intermittent showers which
made the track dangerous for fast travelling did not pre-
vent the Sydney Thousand meeting opening on Sydney
Cricket Ground on Monday night last. Five heats were
run off, and considering,the greasy, state of the track .the
front-markers should have swept the board, but the back
men apparently took big risks and went for their lives in
more ways than one. Fifty-seven started, and of these,
owing to a tie for fifth place in the third heat, 26 qualified
for the sehn-finals on Wednesday night. Of the heat-
winners one started from the 90yd. mark, one from the
105, two from the 110, and one from the 145. The lowest
handicap was 70yd., it must be borne in mind, and of the
26 placed men the 14 men between 70 and 100yds.
inclusive supplied no less than seven, including
one heat-winner. The men on the next 30yds.
supplied 14 more starters, three heat-winners,
and seven more placed men. The men between 135 and
165yds. supplied 17 starters, one heat winner, and six
placed men. The last group (170 to 190yds.) comprised
12 starters and six placed men. So, in spite of adverse
conditions, the back men kept their end of the log up
fairly well. The Killara Five Mile scratch event brought
out 19 starters. At nine to go Arnst, Pye, Horder and
Goodson broke away, but the field came up in a lap rush.
Then Levey went away on his dead own, and kept in front
for four laps before the field caught him with his boiler
badly burst. At two to go the strong ones started to break
up the weaklings by making the pace. At the bell
Mutton, Arnst and Pye were in front, Horder, Goodson,
and Farley in the centre, and Brook, Rutt and Mayer
bringing up the rear. At the shilling stand the red
jersey of Pye streaked to the front, big Farley bent down
and fairly lifted his wheel off the ground, and the foreign
cracks were cracked right up in that final rush. Fast as
Farley flew, little Pye shot away from him and won by a
length, Brook third. Then all bunched together came
four more, and Mayer’s dope, piebald legs, devil’s num-
ber, and all the rest of his bag of tricks could bring him
no nearer than seventh.
* » * *
N.S.W. League of Wheelmen proposes to spend
£5OO on road-racing during the coming winter. The
League reaps no harvest from ibis branch of cycling, but
road-racing illustrates the real value of the bike as a
means of locomotion. The League, by the way, has 87
clubs, 1086 racing men, and a financial membership of
2700—a very prosperous outlook. #
Sandberg, winner of the Austral Wheel Race,
last week took a sudden dislike to cycling, and scratching
himself for Sydney Thousand, announced his “definite
retirement” from the business, or, as some people prefer
to call it, the sport. The push, which is always loose in
its pronunciation, calls this gentleman “Sandbag,” which
is wrong.
* * * *
What is the exact difference between the secre-
tary of a League of Wheelmen and the secretary of a
union of Hebrew hod-carriers y In N-B-W. the League of
Wheelmen was nearly rent to ribbons deciding who was
its lawful secretary, and now the Westralian League is in
the same quandary. In W. A. two gentlemen are claiming
to be the lawful secretary, and wasting money on legal ad-
vice ; and in the meantime the weary cyclist who has to
pay is cursing both secretaries. There must be something
faulty about the constitution of these leagues when this
crazy dispute can occur to more than one of them.
* * * •*
Royal Yacht Squadron’s annual race for the
Rawson Cup on Saturday was a humorous affair. The
punch bowl has to be won three times before anyone can
take it home and drink out of it. Heather and Scotia
have both owned it fora year, and Saturday’s win was the
second in succession by Bona, so one more victory by Mr.
Binnie will see the cup permanently lodged on his
sideboard. The wind came from the south-east, and the
grey, overcast sky and greyer water gave things a wintry
aspect. As time allowances were to be adjusted at the
finish, the yachts came up in a cluster, manoeuvring for
the flying’start. Just on the line ancient deep-keeler
Oithona crashed into Magic, and seemed to lift her out
of the water, and hurl her over on to the starter’s float.
The starter’s boat caved in and sank with a rush. The
way that starter and his companions scrambled aboard
the yacht was beautiful to see. The agility of the
lady ’ who changed horses midstream was nothing
compared to it, and it takes rank with the “ now you see
it —now you don’t ” performances. The disgusted Magic
had to transfer the officials to the steainej, and then,
with a protest flag flying, rushed away after the yachts
that were careering towards Manly'. Bona was not
careering—her topsail halyard had carried away.
Down by Middle Head one of the Scotia’s forward hands
fell overboard, and was nearly drowned through the
desperate attempts of two yachts to rescue him. Even-
tually his own lugger got him aboard again. Then Fleet-
wing’s ballooner split, something else carried away, and
the yacht drifted out. of the race. Petrel damaged her
gear rounding the buoy at Manly, and she, too,
drew out. Crossing the Heads, Scotia and Sun-
beam both fell overboard, or something, and de-
cided that it was too wet to continue in the
contest, and started for home (on the way, Scotia
had a narrow' shave of being piled on Middle Head). Cul-
w ulla’s captain, forgetting for the moment which flag he
.was sailing under, successfully rounded the Prince Alfred
Club’s buoy, and the time be lost going about to round
the Squadron’s mark probably cost him the race. After
that, there was no more excitement. Bona, which was
in front, kept there, and none of the others got close
enough to make their time allowance of any value. The
second and third boats were Oithona and Oulwulla.
Bona and Rawhiti will sail another match this
coming Saturday, presumably over an inside course.
What writer would like to see would be a race outside
with half a gale blowing—then there would be excite-
ment.
* ■* « »
A drab sky and grey light on Sydney wickets,
on Saturday afternoon, with faint intermittent showers
thrown in, were not conducive to brilliant cricket. The
solitary century of the day was A. B. Clarke’s 122, for
Gordon District against Middle Harbor. The next best
batting performance w 7 as that of W. E. Pite, who made 87
for Sydney District against Redfern, before Wordsworth
bowled him. Consequently the bowlers had a day out:
Fisher, of the University, bowled two overs against Pad-
dington and took two W’ickets for no runs ; Penman took
three for 23 ; Mcßeth, of Sydney, took two of Redfern’s
wickets for no runs at all; Gregg, of Burwood, took five
of Balmain’s stumps for 28 ; KeeJe,of Waverlcy, absconded
with four of Central Cumberland’s for 19. These are tall
figures, and speaks volumes —for the state of the light.
At Waver ley (Syd.) the local captain having
won the toss, suddenly displayed the slimness of the ser-
pent, and sent his weak opponents in on a wicket
that still showed traces of the morning rain.
As anticipated, Central Cumberland struck disaster
at once. Newell gathered five of its wickets for 52,
Fuller one for 4, and lleele took the other four for 19
terminating the innings for a miserable 77. When stumps
were drawn Waverley had only eight wickets dow'n for
193, which means that, barring miracles, Waverlev’s
position at the head of the list next ■ Saturday is quite
safe. Neither does there seem much chance of Burwood
falling from the second place, which it shares with Glebe,
and the latter also seems fairly safe for its position in
double harness.
* « * •
In the Great Public Schools Premiership tussle
(Sydney), St. Joseph’s College passed on its own unholy
walloping of a week before to Scots’ College, which it
defeated on Saturday by an innings and 63 runs. The
Josephs didn’t make any centuries, the nearest approach
thereto being Brown’s 71. At Parramatta, Newington
College broke up King’s School by 155 on the first
innings, the highest score on the part of the victors being
Pawley’s 89. Sydney Grammar School had no hope against
the Church of England crowd, which has evidently gone
in for a very muscular brand of Christianity, and beat the
seculars by an innings and one run.
* * * *
There was a time when they flattered them-
selves they could play cricket in Canterbury (Maoriland),
but on Saturday the district team was beaten by the
Melbourne C.C. team, the margin being nine wickets.
There is something fatal about the number nine for the
Maoriland cricketers —Auckland, Manawatu, and Canter-
bury were all beaten by nine wickets. The Melbournians
beat Wanganui by an innings and 59 runs, and Wellington
just escaped the fatal nine wickets by two —but that was
probably an oversight, or else the Melbourne men got
bogged in the Basin Reserve.
♦ * * *
Apparently the Melbourne C.C. has sent all its
big guns to Maoriland The same day that the invading
team beat Canterbury by nine wickets another team from
the same club only made 55 against Richmond (Vic.).
W. J. M'LEOD, winner Prospect-Sale Road Race.
Still, Richmond had nothing' to get wildly elated over, for
although it won the matoh it only managed to make , 80.
Why this was so it is not easy to understand at this dis-
tance, for the weather was fine and cool, although a.
rather gusty wind may have interfered with the bats-
men.
* # # *
Clem Hill will be 29 years old on March 18.
His wife, who rejoiced to see him play cricket before she
married him, is stated to be anxious that he shall now
retire on his laurels. The influence of friends is, how-
ever, being exercised to persuade him to help his own
State and Australia generally for some time longer.
George Giffen (who will be 45 on March 27) would like to-
go on playing in first-class cricket till his last tooth falls
out, but the selectors are averse.
■* * * •
The latest row in cricketing circles is a hulla-
baloo over the action of the N.S.W. Cricket Association ini
returning to Victor Trumper accounts for £1 and 28s.
respectively with the request that he will get the people
who received the money to sign receipts for it. “The
players” are indignant, and talk of forming a,
rival association, or league, or something, which
will give the the players “justice.” The blessed,
players know the conditions under which they
draw expenses from the Association, and if they
are not prepared to abide by those conditions they should
not ask for expenses. It is quite a relief to learn that
there is at least one sporting body which does keep its
accounts on a business-like footing.
• * * *
Blake, the Victorian long distance runner, who-
goes to Greece to compete in the race from Marathon to
Athens, wilj thereby take a hand in the most classic event
on earth. It Was first run in an accidental sort of way
2396 years ago, when a breathless Greek covered the
distance in a time which wasn’t put on record, with the
news that the Persian army had been licked on the sea-
shore, and that a White Greece was still possible. If a.
White Australian wins the 23-mile event it should be a.
good omen. So far as is known no Persian has entered.
* * * *
The Half-Mile Swimming Championship of
N.S.W, was among the, problems set down for elucidation,
at the Watson’s Bay Club carnival (Sydney), Saturday,,
the preliminary heats having already been decided in the
windy suburb’s baths during the week. Six had qualified
for the final, the brothers G. and R. Healy, T. Tart-alcover,
R. R. Craig, L. McQueen and O. Dickman. It was a fore-
gone conclusion that it was easy for R. Healy, but the-
bunch was still with him at 200ydS., when the two
brothers went to the front and put up a desperate
struggle for several laps. Behind, Dickman and McQueen
swam neck and neck till 300yds. were covered, when
Craig retired. The feature of the race was a brilliant-
spurt made by McQueen at the finish, but Healy was too-
far ahead and too strong, and, although the clever Fort-
street boy made up a lot of-leeway, he had no hope of’
gaining even second place. R. Healy beat his brother by
22yds., and the brother left McQueen about'lsyds. further
behind. It was a race of great effort, and the fact that-
the winner took llmin. 59 4-ssec. to cover it as against
Kieran’s llmin. 11 3-ssec. proves what a marvellous;
swimmer Kieran was.
* * ■ * •*
Swimmer Cecil Healy left Sydney last Tuesday
by rail to overtake the R.M.S. Mongolia at Adelaide en
route for Athens, and, provided the money is forthcoming,
for England later on. The appeal of the Swimming
Association for funds to enable Healy to go to Athens was
not very well responded to., and but for the donation of
£5O by the Phriedphish Government the sprinter would
have had to rest content with Australian laurels. As it is
a further sum of £63 is required to enable him to' proceed
to England with a view to claiming the shoes of dis-
qualified champion Billington.
1 The girl swimmers of Sydney are now running
their carnivals absolutely “ on their own,” and the super-
fluous male has no voice in the matter. Out at Coogee,
or some other outlandish spot, last week they bungled
things sadly, and made the competitors swim some scores,
of yards more than necessary. Also, it is said said they
scrambled among themselves at the last minute, and that
the carnival was distracted by two sets of angry ladies
issuing diametrically opposite instructions. But the slur
on feminine management is understood to have been
wiped out by the smooth working of the Balmain Ladies’
Club, which went with the easy motion of one of Pinero s.
plays. Afternoon tea was handed out to the visitors, and
the Rechabite Band (!) discoursed sweet music. The girls,
swam well, and some of them showed a good turn of speed.
* * * *
Although the N.S.W. Lawn Tennis players
scored heavily against the Victorians on Friday and
Saturday last, winning 263 to Victoria’s 165 g'ames, it was
not due to any combination in their play. Fortunately
for the Cornstalks, the Victorians were even more dis-
jointed, and the contests were pure tests of individual
prowess wherein the Walers were, man for man, far
superior. Heath and Howitt were the only players Vic-
toria had. Heath is a player whom it is a pleasure to
watch, and Howitt has a greased lightning serve. It
consists of a drive of high velocity, in the making of
which the racquet is drawn across the ball in a manner that
makes it slither along the surface of the court without
rising. The receiver is driven right back to the edge of
the horizon to take it, and then the annoying Howitt
just screws it over the top of the net. In any case it is a
heart-breaker, for if the receiver does catch it just
as it strikes the ground he only manages to knock it
half-way between glory and Kingdom Come.
» * * *
Both Manly and St. George are wildly anxious
to have first grade Rugby football clubs of their own, but
the Union is not at all enthusiastic on the matter. Re-
membering what happened to the Eastern Suburbs when
Sydney District Club was created, many members are
advocating a reduction of the number to eight instead of
an increase to ten as proposed. However, a committee is
to be appointed to thresh the whole subject out and
report to the council, and general opinion has it that
there is a slight majority in favor of the increase.
\ * * *
The paltering of Attorney-General Wade over
the bowlers’ final drink exasperates some of the clubs.
His latest ukase is that, as bowling is a daylight business,
it will break the law for a club to serve drinks after dark.
“ Bosh 1 ” exclaimed one club man, “ we’ll lay on the
electric light.”
* * *
Maorilander Jim Griffin, ex-amateur champion
of the continent, made his second appearance in the pro-
fessional ring last Tuesday week night at Sydney
National Sporting Club. He’s a hard hitter and a pretty
fighter—as long as he is allowed to stand off and come in
and back out as he likes, but when the other fellow
stands in close and bangs heavily about the body, Griffin
loses his head and wastes his strength in wild swipes that
would seriously damage an elephant—and break Griffin s
arm and fist—if they landed. Another weak point in his
fighting is his tendency to chop dow n on to his man, and
some of Australia’s professional pugs have frightfully
thick skulls, whereby James Griffin stands to get badly
damaged about his smiting machinery. On the Tuesday
night in question he found himself up against Sydney
Russell, and although the husky young blacksmith
doesn’t pretend to be in the front rank, he
had the ex-amateur champion perilously near being
beaten. In fact, had Russell stood in close right
through, instead of trying to play the elusive shadow and
always keep just out of reach, the course of history might
have been altered. The first round Griffin attacked, and ,
his blows were clean and crisp, and a pleasant, meaty
sound emanated from Russell when they landed. That
full, rich sound tells that the blows are of the sort that
count. Then Russell, back on the ropes, stood in close
and rained blows about the body, but the Maorilander
stood off and shot a series of pretty lefts in the stomach
and on the neck, varying any' approach to monotony
bv a neat chop on the ear with the right. The
second opened by Russell stopping Griffin’s left
with his nose. With a snort of pain he bored in
close and whacked his right twice on the Maorilander s
body' before the latter could jump away. But like a flash
he came back and raised a lump over Russell’s eye, spoilt
the outline of his mouth, and was inflicting other damage
when Russell fell on his commissariat quarter with both
hands and great fury. Griffin sprang away and whirled
:his fists like a propeller out of water ; in fact, he whirled
them so fast that‘ Russell was temporarily' deprived of
light, and groped about in a species of gloaming, bashing
at his enemy’s stopiach, till the Maorilander went down
crash. The uproar and excitement were tremendous,
ibut the agile Maori lander sprang suddenly' to his feet, and
Russell lumbered about trying to finish him in grampus-
like fashion. Writer doesn’t know what a grampus is,
but belifeves. it looks as Russell did trying to finish
Griffin. The Maorilander was saved by the gong. He
came up wonderfully recuperated, and in the wild work
that followedone blow caughtßussellacrossthe back of the
head, and must have nearly' stove it in. But perhaps
it isn’t hollow ! Still, Griffin’s stock was sinking, and
men who had laid 6 to if against Russell were now offering
even money ,bn him. He had proved that if he kept to
in-fighting he had more than Buckley’s chance. On the
other hand, his condition did not seem so good as
Griffin’s. The fourth round saw Russell suddenly grow
weak. That wild blow across the back of the head was
probably beginning to tell, and in the middle of a strenu-
ous rally Griffin managed to get off at arm’s length and
land a whole shower of blows which sent Russell to the
floor. The fifth found him a beaten man. He was
obviously' afraid of the Maorilander, and apparently ex-
hausted. He hung on at times and tried to keep out of
reach at other times, and when Griffin cornered him and
'let fly a whole book of Euclid about his thinking-box he
lay down —licked. Referee Beckett drew a veil over the
sad scene by declaring Griffin winner. All the same,
Griffin has a lot to learn yet.
* * * *
Sydney Gaiety Athletic Club, which has been
running a 9st. “tournament,” brought the thing to a
lurid finish on Saturday night, when the two survivors,
Murray and Doyle, met in the final. Neither regarded
the other as a sticker, and each waded in to knock his
foe out in short order. Result: Five rounds of sensa-
tional slogging, warm enough to satisfy' the most hardened
bruiser. Then both parties to the disturbance suddenly
developed a sincere respect for the other’s hitting power,
and grew cautious. Both were very tired, and Murray
seemed quite exhausted, so when the ninth round sav
him prone three times, Doyle was declared conqueror.
* * * »
He was littie and shrivelled, old and sardonic,
and he stood on, the platform of the Watson’s Ba,y baths;
watching the Healy brothers plunging through the half-
mile championship. “ Very fast, very fast,” he muttered,
•expectorating with great accuracy* “ but, good Heavens,
there’s no style about this new-fangled way o’ swimmin’.
In my day, s\yimmin’ was a graceful sport, but this here
■dog-paddle sort o’, stroke is the ugliest thing I’ve ever
seen.”. And, without a doubt, the modern stroke is any-
thing but graceful.


w%u
m
4i
Pat t “ Bedad, O'ire been using Bodox, and the place
is aloire wid dead ra bitii ”
The Safest and
by far the most
deadly . . .
Rabbit
Destroyer.
LARGE
TINS
2/-
Per
Tin
INTER-STATE
DISTRIBUTORS.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Messrs. C. Markell & Co.,
O’Connell St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND :
Messrs. Webster & Co.,
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Mr. L. P. Lawrence,
King William St., Adelaide
VICTORIA :
Rocke, Tompsitt & Co.,
Melbourne.
RABBIT KILLER
m
%
&
m
ms
*«• %
® c Denton Hats
Made in Australia for Australians.
Smartest Shapes Best Values.
DENTON HAT MILLS.
of *» K,n '* B of Men''
FELT HAT8 hd Chl,dron ’e
MELBOURNE
QUALITY and COLOR GUARANTEED.
SAML.
I. I
To be Obtained from —
McCARDLE, 407 Collins St., Melbourne.
*. BROWN. Box 494, Wellington, N.Z.
GILLETTE RAZOR
s*!
Shav*
A
Horsibac
ms
calf
\ v «> v
iV
M*-.fcS
S> .0
*****
-»‘r
O
rj/£
o
Bend for Descriptive Circular. 30 Days’ Trial riven.
Money refunded if not aatisfaotory.
82 Margaret Street, Sydney.
RO. Box 148* Melbourne. Box 494. WUiiagtoo, N.Z.
W. MOONEY, Queen Street, Brisbane*™
ED. H. LINDSAY, Charters Towers.
HEAD OFFICE:
FRANK COFFEE, 52 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Hatting Your Head.
EVERYONE wants their head hatted. If they’ve
the right kind of head they’ll want the right
kind of hat. A hat that will wear well, fit
well, and look well as long as worn, ought to
be good enough.
The Austral Hat Mills
at ABBORTSFORD, VICTORIA,
are turning out just such hats. They’re made of the
best winter rabbit fur—no shoddy about them. This
fur is first sterilized, and then goes through every
process that modern Hat-making knows of. You can
get AUSTRAL HATS from most leading Hatters,
Outfitters, Mercers and Storekeepers throughout the
Commonwealth. Every high-grade hat of their
making has their name branded inside it—look for it.
If you can’t get them in -your district write to the
Austral Hat Mills direct, and they’ll arrange with
your local Storekeeper to stock them. You might as
well mention his name when waiting. Remember,
Austral Hats are Australian all through. You’ll find
them better than the foreign shoddy dumped to the
tune of £200,000 a year on to this tired Continent.
They are obtainable in either stiff or soft Felts—any
style, any shape you like—and very light and com-
fortable to the head. Mind you ask your dealer for
an “ AUSTRAL ” Hat—and get what you ask for.
Tuesday, 13th March, at 11 a.m .
IMPORTANT AUCTION ANNOUNCEMENT
TO CONNOISSEURS OF ART AND THE
GENERAL PUBLIC.
Attractive and Interesting Sale
by Public Auction, at the
FINE ART GALLERIES
OF
Walter Bradley & Co.,
324 George Street.
The Percy Spence Collection
of Oil Paintings, Water
Colors, and Original
Character Sketches .
The collection embraces some of this accomplished
Artist’s best London work, including' several Royal
Academy Exhibits, Autograph Character Sketches of
Prominent Statesmen, including Lord Selborne and Mr.
Chamberlain, Charming examples of Water Color Paint-
ing, Oil Painting of Bush Life, The Boundary Rider, and
other subjects typical of Australia. Portraits of Promin-
ent Australians, including the late Sir George Dibbs in his
workshop.
WALTER BRADLEY AND CO.
have been favored with instructions from Mr.
PERCY F. S. SPENCE, who is returning to London, to
conduct the above sale.
Catalogues ready early next week. Application for
same will have prompt attention.
Mr. Spence has been in Sydney for the past twelve
months’ recuperating his health after seven years’ active
work in the Great Metropolis, and is now returning to
carry out some most important commissions. Arriving
in England in 1898 he was at once at work illustrating a
story for The Gentlewoman, and then spent two years
working for the Graphic, Harper’s Magazine, Pall Mall,
and other leading journals. Then two years were spent
with The Sphere, during which period Mr. Spence was
entrusted with many important commissions, spending
three weeks on H.M.S. Trafalgar at the Naval Manoeuvres.
He attended the Coronation of King Edward in West-
minster Abbey for The Sphere, and was sent to draw His
Majesty at Homburg. During his engagement with the
Illustrated London News Mr. Spence was commissioned
to draw many great functions, including the Reception of
President Lo'ubet at the Guild Hall, and also the King of
Italy. He was the only artist permitted to sketch at the
War Office Inquiry, and he had the honor of a special
setting from H.R.H. the Prince of Wales at York House.
As a painter, Mr Spence scored a number of successes,
having exhibited four years at the Royal Academy, was
twice placed on the line, and has exhibited in Water
Colors at the Gonnil Gallery.
COLLECTION NOW ON VIEW.
16,000
DUNLOP TYRES
are so/d in
Australasia every month,
.se'vsa't
m
o 9
”009
,°ops
9Po
)OOcSoJ§O
rKucw
feo
0Po?
oP?o5
Po
PrPO
°PoS
Po
OVO
o9;qo
ooSP
Po
<>e
Po
OoPO
oo„oo
OPP
'op,
oo~c
bP
!003
THK DUNLOP PNKtUUTIC TVHB
nwm. Sydney. IdeWde. Perth Brisbane and Chrtxtchurt
Vulcanised
Tor Comfort 6-
Durability.
Guaranteed for 12 Honihs.
Beware of Imitations.
Trade
Mark.
clearly demonstrating
their popularity with
Cyclists for
hard riding on
AUSTRALIAN ROADS .
At Albury (N.S.W.) a man, recently con-
victed of false pretences, had shown against him
an extraordinary list of convictions. The
Victorian police records show that he started
in 1865 at Bendigo, and practically the whole
41 years since then he has spent in gaol. The sen-
tences varied from nineyears down to one year, and
totalled 61 \ years. They were all for forgery and
uttering. A man who forged and uttered so badly
that he was always falling in like this must have
been a very dull person not to realise that
he was a hopelessly poor forger, and an utterer of
no account at all. Most men would have regarded
611s years’ gaol as a hint, and tried some other
walk of crime.
The predicament of a lawyer before
N.S.W. Supreme Court last week was unusual. A
question of liability under the Moore-street
Improvement Act was being heard, when plaintiffs
counsel suddenly realised that the point at issue
had been decided against him by the same court
a year or two ago. He nobly saved the Law from
any chance of making an exhibition of itself, by
asking that his own case should be dismissed, with
costs against his client. The court dismissed it
promptly, but it would have been more to the
client’s satisfaction if the lawyer had made his dis-
covery earlier.
A Miss Sloan, who writes patriotic songs,
sent samples of them to the Duke of Abercorn.
The lady received the following reply from his
Grace :—
Madame, —I am requested by the Duke of Abercorn to
say that he is much obliged to you for sending him copies
of your songs, hut he feels so aghast at the result of the
present election that he is unable to take any interest in
patriotic songs. I therefore beg to return them with
thanks. —Yours sincerely, Hamilton, secretary.
Another case of the blessed country being lost.
George Reid on the proposal bo nationalise
the Tobacco Trust:—
I have just as strong an objection as any Socialist to
monopolies where they are proved to be unfair to the
public. The difference between the Socialist and myself
is this My remedy would be by dealing with the mono-
polist, so as to enable the currents of competition to
resume their normal strength and freedom.
It is a neat little platitude, but there is no infor-
mation in it. Ereetrade wouldn’t “enable the
currents of competition,” &c., for the tobacco
octopus spreads pretty well over the earth ;
besides George never attempted Freetrade in
tobacco —he always went in for heavy Protection
as regards that industry. And what other remedy
would he propose? Apparently, only a faint
wobbling of vague remarks, and a loose wandering
of polysyllables over the face of the earth.


A. SAUNDERS.
Sterling Silver-Mounted
Crystal Glass Stamp
DAMPER, 4s 6d.
sasillkfe
KM£imjrw&)
A. SAUNDERS.
S-Bottle Luncheon CRUET,
Pure Silver-plated, 12s Gd.
Others, 10s Gd, 15s,
17s 6d. 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Clierub Design Toilet MIRROR, Solid Silver, Bevelled
Ql ass 20s
Other Styles, 255, 3(te, £2, £2 ,10s, £3.
Latest Fashion
Leather, 6s
A. SAUSDERS.
WAIST BELT, Pure Silver-plated Mounts, Crocodile or Russian
6d. Wider, 7s 6d. Other Styles, Open Straps, 5s 6d, 6s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Doeskin Tobacco POUCH,
Best Rubber Lining’.
Pure Silver Shield, 4s 6d.
Other Styles, 5s 6d, 6s 6d,
7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Collar Button BOX, Pure Silver*
Plated, Vs 6d.
Similar Styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
C.E. or R.C. Hymn and Prayer
BOOK, Morocco Leather, Pure
Silver-mounted, 10s 6d.
Extra Heavy, 12s 6d, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Toilet Pomade
JAR, Solid Silver
Mounts, Hobnail Cut
Glass, 6s 6d.
Larger Size, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ HAIR BRUSH, Pure Silver, Extra
Long' White Hand-drawn Bristles, 20s.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, las, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Special Value 4 o'clock Cake
FORKS. Pure Silver-Plated,
In Silk-lined Case, 6s 6d.
Oilier ibtyies. 7s Od, 10s Cd,
12s 6d. 15s.
XMAS
GIFTS.
Our fine Illustrated
Catalogue of
Xmas Gifts
and Novelties.
Sent to any
address, Post Free.
A post card
will bring you
a copy.
We prepay
express charges
on all goods.
Gent.’i
Other
A. SAUNDERS,
s Leather Travelling- ROLL, Fitted with Every
Convenience, 20s.
Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 21s, 255,
30s, 355, 40s, 60s, 60s.
SHOPPING
BY MAIL.
No matter where
you live,
you have the
same opportunity
in choice and price
that you would
have if personally
selecting in our
extensive showroom.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Concave Military HAIR BRUSHES,
Solid Silver, Extra Long White
in Solid Leather Case, £3.
Other Styles, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Seal Leather Purse and Card CASE,
Sterling Silver Mounts and Lock, 21s.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Specimen VASES, Pure Silver-plated on
Nickel Silver, in 3 sizes: sin, 5s 6d;
ejiri, 7s 6d; 7Jin, 16s 6d.
Solid Silver, 12s Cd, 16s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Sugar SCUTTLE, Pure Silver-
plated, Handsomely En-
graved, 255.
Others, 16s 6d, 20s, 30s, 355.
n
Ur
wm
IP?
£4 4s.
A.- SAUNDERS.
TEA AND COFFEE SERVICE, Pure Silver-Plated, Hand Engraved, Butterfly Design, Gilt
Lined, comprising Four Pieces, A 1 Quality, Sheffield Manufacture, £4 4s.
Other Styles, £5 ss, £6, £7, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O, to £75.
£4 4s.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, Amber-tinted Glass,
Pure Silver-Plated, 12s 6d.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d. 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Presentation INK STAND, -2 Crystal Cut-glass Bottles,
Pure Silver-plated, £2 ss.
Other Styles, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s, 355, 403.
A. SAUNDERS.
Shaving STROP, Automatic,
Self-rolling, Pure Silver-plated,
Handsomely Embossed, 13s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 15s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted Porcelain
China Shaving MUG, 5s 6d.
Pure Silver-plated, 13s 6d,
15s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Handkerchief BOX, Pure Silver-plated, Handsomely
Chased and Embossed, Silk Lined, Size Bx 7, £3.
Glove Box to Match, £3, or £5 10s pair.
A. SAUNDERS.
Cigar CASE, Seal Leather, Sterlin
Silver Mounts and Shield, 16s 6d.
Other Styles, f>«s fi' 1 7s (id,
10s 6d, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Butter Dish, Knife and Toast Rack Com*
bination, Pure Silver-plated, 20s.
Other Styles, 15s 6d, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Military HAIR
BRUSH, Fine White Bristles,, 20a.
Others, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15a.
\<Y*
ft?
It
B
in ■
to
)£KCSZ
£l
MV
Shw
iPj
«a
4f. SAUNDERS.
Head SALTS,. Pure Silver-Mounted, Crystal
Hobnail Outclass- 8s 6d. Larger Size, 10s.
Other Styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Spirit Flask and Cup,
Morocco Covered, Pure
Silver-plated, Patent
Top, 20s.
Others, 10s 6d, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Shaving TIDY and Mirror, Pure Silver-
mounted, Morocco Leather, 255.
’ Other Styles, 7s 6d, 15s, 20s, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS,
fern POT, Pure Silver-plated,
Handsomely Embossed,
4in high, 15s 6d.
‘ Others, 20s, 255, fX"
as
'JVB
lama
A. SAUNTERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver Manicure and Toilet SET,
Hobnail Cut-glass Bottles, in Silk-lined Morocco
Case, £3 10s.
Other Styles, £2 ss, £4 4s.
A, SAUNDERS
j SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER, j
| SILVERSMITH, and OPTICIAN, j
809, 81 I , 813, 815, 817
GEORGE-STREET,
Opp.
Railway-
Station,
Sydney.


mk
•*W' -1
M
v ■
■ ’>
ililfe
riss
n*?
&■
r
**«*?
-
MS
■ :.
toW
■
/
i
t,
w.
m
»■
s
iSaSE
•I
®ssi
4-^ : '
m
■
*-4
_-a
*S>
<&5
“For Heaven’s sake, save the Cigarettes, Bill«
They’re CAPSTANS ! ”


/*-- ijr V
; jjyyy
•‘'.Jr-.t •; siflKl-.'tfe
v
w
NO PRESER
h<
lO^r
&V*
♦•i
PE
(MttMMMM
*'. ;*^ 5 i '** S' s*s?f!
\*
«
£«£&
fig
«•£}?s#
rW>>*-
-
7®
5T
ftg
£
,/
DYASON. Son ta^ 5 meubou
MANUFACTOR
>IE
r t
«s
'/ /Vi * f*
&
7N
6
<c
la®
jfS&STi
IB
S 8
i
&5
*»'
'Ks
h?
S/'VS
U
’l2
m
£3
OMATO
puld be kept ir\ every


.Revised version, in. case Biitain should
have to talk war again :
We don’t want to fight,
But by Jingo if we do,
We’ve got the men, we ve got the ships,
We’ve got the Monkey, too.
1 Land For Sale.
TASMAKTIA.
North West Coast.
Land to fbo Lot or Sold
THE VAN DIEMEN’S LAND COMPANY are now sub-
dividing their Hampshire Hills and Surrey Hills
Estates into sections of from 100 acres upwards, which
they offer ON LEASE at low rents or FOR SALE on very
advantageous terms extending over 14 years. These
estates, which are well served by -the Emu Bay Railway
from Burnie to Mount Bischoff, Zeehan, and the West
Coast mining field, consist principally of rich basaltic
soil abundantly watered, and are well suited for dairying
and stock raising. The Railway, which passes entirely
through the estates, connects the land to g'ood markets
on thfe North West Coast and Mainland and on the West
Coast mining field. Other portions of the Company’s
estates are also For Sale and To Let on Lease. Full par-
ticulars will be supplied on application to —
A. K. McGAW,
Manager.
Burnie, Tasmania, 23rd February, 1906.
Missing' Friends.
Letter for BRUN ELY'S,
G.P.Q.,
Sydney,
EWISH, GEORGE, formerly of Post Office, Mel-
bourne, write to R. KEWISH, Leongatha, Victoria.
To your advantage.
Business Announcements.
FEATHERS
Gil YEN AWAY
2000 Ostrich Tips,
nine inches long,
will be given away
this month to
advertise our
F eathers from
South Africa.
Write For
Coupons.
\S4
Miller’s Feather Shop.
Corner STRAND ARCADE, PITT STREET',
SYDNEY. (Mention The Bulletin).
THE fIOOOBPEON for Country Residents.
I * ».ftii ij'fy V._
iissas*.®;
5&
«L
irterft "
'Xiy,
®
We don’t believe any Accord eon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated:. .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by ste.el .corners 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Potary Celeste Stop.
Price £l.
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 seta of Reeds,. Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £ 1 7s 6d;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Aecordeons from 7/6 to 100 -
HEMORFF BROS.
Importers of Pianos anil all k ruls of Musical Instruments,
watcher, jewellery, Etc., 210 ssMeen St., Brisbane
THE INKLESS PEN
BT WRBTES . .
WBT&3 WATER
Sixpence
each, Two
Carriage Paid.
for Ninepence, Three for One
Extra Nibs 2/- per Dozen, fit any holder.
Shilling,
One Dip of Water will write 200 Words. Copyable. Absolutely Non-Corrosive. Cannot leak. Pen turns into Holder
when not in use and can be safely carried in waistcoat pocket. The Pen is one-thiid larger than the illustration.
Stamps of any State accepted. .These Pens are obtainable only from
THE UNION MANUFACTURING & AGENCY COMPANY,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
IS
East
m
if
W
•m
M§*
»**
-r%
■ "•■ ■ ■-
ML
.
mm
E.®A.
Mail Line,
Via QUEENSLAND,
FORT DARWIN,
TIMOR, and
MANILA.
*
Space for Frozen Cargo.
Saloon Accommodation amidships. Large
airy two-berth cabins all on the upper
deck, and fitted with electric fans.
Through booking at Special Rates to
Canada, United States of America and
Europe.
n
§]
£
m
Particulars of Passage Money, Ports of Call, &.C.,
forwarded to any address on application.
Yes! In hard soil or ligl\t ground it’s all the same Perfed WorK and Finish.
mmmmm
-
O
jt
; • :
X* 1 '
ili.l
J
A i
*
..
*
Si
■
•• •
D
o
0
tas
■
o
■
H. V. MeKAY, Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide.


CITIZENS’
Life Assurance Company
LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE:
CITIZENS’ BUILDING, CASTLEREAGH AND MOORE STREETS, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
BRANCHES:
NEW SOUTH WALES : CITIZENS’ BUILDING, CASTLE-
REAGIT AND MOORE STREETS, SYDNEY.
VICTORIA : CITIZENS’ BUILDING, 281-3 COLLINS
STREET, MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND : CITIZENS’ BUILDING, 381 3 QUEEN
STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA : CITIZENS’ BUILDING, 131 KING
WILLIAM STREET, ADELAIDE.
WEST AUSTRALIA: 241 ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE,
PERTH.
TASMANIA : LIVERPOOL AND MURRAY STREETS,
HOBART; 66 ST. JOHN STREET, LAUNCESTON.
NEW ZEALAND : LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON.
UNITED KINGDOM : CITIZENS’ HOUSE, 24 AND 25
KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON, E.C.
The Company's Consulting Actuary, Mr. R. P. HARDY,
F./.A., F.F.A., in his Report on the 1904 Valua-
tion, says:—
M The Directors are fully entitled to claim that the Security
they offer, both to the present Assured and to the Public
generally, for the redemption of their contracts is of the
highest possible character.
* They should use every means to educate the Public to
appreciate, not merely the great protection afforded by esti-
mating the Liabilities upon the basis of only a 3 per cent,
yield, but, further, that such prudential course has the
additional advantage of providing a Bonus fund that will grow
as the Company grows in age, and will enable compensation
to be made to those longer livers whose contributions will
have helped to build up the Company.”
The Company’s
Funds at end of year
increase in Funds for year
Income for year
increase in income for year
Paid Policyholders since inception...
Record for 1905.
... £1,538,372
... £191,766
£454,555
... £18,229
£999,378
... £107,788
to Policyholders since inception ... £461,278
Paid Policyholders in 1905
Profits in the form of lieversionary Bonuses allotted
Profits in the form of Reversionary Bonuses allotted to Policy-
holders for 1905
£65,753
THE CITIZENS’ EXPENSE RATE is lower than that of any 1 dustrial
Life Assurance Company in the World, save one—The Prudential of
England, which is fifty-seven years old. The total amount of expenses
was £20,948 less in 1905 than in 1902, although the revenue was
£68,443 greater.
THE MORTALITY EXPERIENCE of the Company lias been light
throughout its whole career.
THE RATE OF INTEREST earned by the Funds is steadily increasing
year by year.
A SURPLUS OF £50,645 (exclusive of £20,572 written off securities) in
the Ordinary Branch alone, was revealed at the end of 1905, upon a
valuation basis of Hm 3 per cent., which makes the reserves of the
branch unequalled in Australasia.
OVER ONE THIRD of the Total Assets are held in Government and
Municipal Debentures—Liquid Securities.
ON £1,500,000 OF INVESTMENTS at the close of 1905, there was not
One Penny of Interest outstanding.
OVER 42 PER CENT, of the Total Income last year was added to the
Funds.
FOR EIGHT YEARS IN SUCCESSION the New Assurances in the
Ordinary Branch alone have totalled over One Million Sterling,
some: pre:ss opinions
“Sydney Morning Her aid,” 20 2’06
Altogether the report and balance-sheet are most satisfactory. There
is not only evidence of capable management, but there is a patent desire
to have expenses kept down to a minimum. The cautious character of the
management is clearly indicated by the fact that the company has no out-
standing interest due, no foreclosed properties in its hands, no mortgaged
properties in its possession, and this despite the fact that it has £587,964
loaned out on mortgage. It also has £515,939 invested in Consols, Aus-
tralian Government and municipal securities.
The Melbourne “Age,” 2212/’O6 :
The Company appears to be progressing in the right direction at a
s itisfactory rate. ”
The “Daily Telegraph,” 1/31*06
We have received from the Citizens’ Life Assurance Company its record
of seven years’ progress, which has certainly been highly encouraging.


Most rabbit fences erected now are punctu-
ss * —>s ~“-
S ” „ed bunny crouches lop-eared, mating
large eyeu J resentful goannas, sur-
stoically side by snakes. The
prised porcupines from afar> as its
stench of the pit-tiap assaxu y , itch .f ork 1S
victims often die be ore em carcaseS) which
s„rMo f “ &sfia -sr^ss
“S''theTn.T’oTvugrunts that the winds chase
over the plains.
“ T.D.” from London :
The British elector is still appealed to most y
by the piffle poster. On y elect ionby either party,
Srttrt2%TiSTwpch have ton lolled
s-KarsiSs
we» ‘t“ f‘e'nb; three ~re.
cow,” his allegation that be would create a wmce
S* Africa ” his ciuite abandoned scheme f
fi."" aid, ot oJSSe, hie Pr.terenti.l Trad, .dew Wh.
ssctsa^Ss
continent!
“ H ” : After tea went on the St. Kilda
beach in the gloaming. An ever-increasing crowd
also gloamed. I became popular at once, ihe
girls were particularly friendly. Several said,
“ Good-night, Jack ! ” quite nicely. Sometimes
they called me Billy. One sweet thing mvited
me to take a stroll. The crimson blushes of my
frank, open countenance were painful when a
fairy beach-comber called me Ducky .
waddled off and sat on a vacant seat to recover.
Three well-dressed, light-hearted virgins sat beside
me. They grew quite at home with me. I cou a
smell violets. It was ravishing. How nice and
friendly the Melbourne girls are ! They were
nice. Suddenly a vision of loveliness threw her-
self into my arms, and then they all rail away
laughing. 1 got quite a thrill. I had no idea the
beach was so friendly. I thrilled home. In my
room I liad more thrills. My watch and chain
and a sovereign had vanished. Thirteen guineas
worth of gloaming ! Blow the gloaming . Blow
afternoons off ! Blow the girls ! Blow every
thing ! !
Hop beer affects some people in curious
wavs. One individual in South Canterbury
(M“L.) has a mania for stopping runaway horses
that aren’t running' away. His first circus hap-
pened without any previous advt., when he rushed
out and yelled “ Whoa, whoa !” in an excited tone
to a moke that was dead asleep, and couldn t be
any more “whoa” than it was alreadythis
didn’t cause much comment, and it wasn t until
he had stopped four other similar runaways that
the passing public manifested any interest in the
proceedings. His next victim was a farmer who
was driving down the street full tilt in a gig. this
time the eccentric person was spilled all over the
road, and there was much crimson language and
orders for a doctor; but the man merely got up,
shook himself, and strolled off, saying, ‘ Well, I
stopped that cove, anyhow.” Within a few
minutes he tackled a perfectly innocent moke that
was discussing a nose-bag, but the owner was
ready for him, and after a violent set-to the
Stopper was secured and tied up m the cowsm'd.
“ Tanjil ” from Mauritius :
Am an Australian. Have spent some time in Mauritius,
also in Kata], also in Madagascar. Have seen much of
colored races in those countries. Feel certain Australia
is doing right to exclude color. Port Louis is now a
stinkpot—too full of plague and Indian filth for Euro-
peans to live in. Not one residential hotel there. Indian
shopkeepers, clerks, etc., have elbowed out the European.
Met one intelligent white youth; he had left school a
year, and could not get office employment of any
kind; pleaded with me to take him off the island. The
cheap-living- Indian youth had supplanted him. iNatal is
drifting into the same state as Mauritius. Durban is
full of Indians. Many own land in the pnucipal streets.
A good many businesses and occupations are monopolised
bv them, indian youths are educated by the State ;
result is many solicitors and others are employing them
as clerks to exclusion of the European. To-day s Mercury
publishes a complaint by “ Tailor ” that the big European
tailoring shops are letting out work on contract to the
cheap coolie. Same rates.to whites would mean starva-
tion. In a few years the probability is that Indians will
very greatly outnumber the whites. Then Mauritius
over again. [“ Tanjil ” makes an error here; Indians
already outnumber whites in Natal.] My experience of
black 'countries is that the white by contact becomes
deteriorated; the energetic become less energetic, the
lazy become lazier, the vicious become more vicious.
Know an Australian in Madagascar who lives, or rather
pigs it, with a Malagasy woman. She supplies the
“shalcoff” that keeps his miserable body and soul
together. Pray God Australia will continue to keep far
from the smellful colored man and his abominable filth,
diseases, and vices. Yet Bruce Smith, Pulsford and Co.-
limited let us hope—want the country opened to the
“gentleman” of color.
A Panama
Bargain jZ?
a
■
i
.
Every man loves a bargain just as
much as a woman, and it’s no use
denying it.
Here’s a rousing Panama Bargain
that will set the men a-talking.
We’ve got a few 25/6 and 28/6
Panamas left over, and we’re going to
shoot ’em out at a Guinea a-piece.
25/6 and 28/6
PANAMAS at 21/-
POST FREE ANYWHERE.
There’s a lot of hot days to come
yet—look sharp, if you want a look in
at these snaps !
MURDOCH’S
. . . IN . . .
PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
“WHERE THE GOOD HATS ARE.”
If you haven’t had our Catalogue and Special Map,
write for one to-day—they’re FREE.
Stomach at
Odds with your food ?
Better
look into
The Food
If the food is right the stomach will
soon be right. That’s certain, and
Feed Right, Feel Right, Think Right,
all follows as a matter of course.
Doubts about it ? Well we won’t argue
it, make a 10 days’ trial of
Grape-Nuts
The pre-digested food that is •'•utri-
ment and yon will probably learn enough
in that short time to pvt you on the road
to health. Cut cut the improper foods
and use GR.APE-.ci Vl’3 two or three
meals a day and see the improvement in
health that q.nckly follows.
Fact! Easy proved.
Grape-
Nuts
There’s a Reason.
Get the little book, “The Road to
Wellville,” in each pkg.
1
Hotelkeepers, Fruiterers & Caterers
CAN PRODUCE
100dOZ. AERATED WATERS for 30/™
WITH AN
AUSTRAL AERATED
WATER MACHINE
and very little labor.
The only machine used by the Officers’ Ward Room of the Australian Squadron and Victorian
Railway Refreshment Rooms.
NO STEAM POWER required to work it. Easily erected, and occupies very little space.
The “ GLACIER SODA FOUNTAIN.”
A Beautiful Marble Fountain for Chemists and Fruiterers. The most
economical fountain ever manufactured, outrivalhng all American pro
For further particulars write for our Illustrated Catalogues.
NOTE.—We are Sole Agents for the “ ELWORTHY ” Aerating Ma ®W ne ®> °*
Manufacture, for domestie use and small consumers, from £l2 ana upwa
ECKERSLEY & SONS, Sole Manufacturers,
i W.A. Agents:
E. H. Fothergill & Co., Fremantle.
214-21© Queen Street, Melbourne.
These TER POTS njakc a
SPLENDID CUP OF TER!
BUY one for home use or as a Wedding Gift. Nowadays there is
such a demand for Novelties to give at a wedding that the
Everyday Useful Article is quite left out in the cold, and now.
instead of getting half-a-dozen Tea Pots, the probability is the Bride
does not get one. Think of these when next you want a Wedding
Present. They are good value—every one of them. We post them
Free anywhere, on receipt of remittance. Write for our Catalogue.
No. F 1285. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, 16s 6d
No. Fll6l. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot,
£1 15s
No. E 3763. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, £2
No. F 5099. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, £2 10s.
*
No. E 3792. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, £2 2s.
No. F 6136. Heavy Solid Silver Tea Pot,; Full size,
Handsome Design, £l5 10s. In Best Plate, £2 10s.
w n P 6135. Massive Solid Silver Full-size Tea Pot,
Richly Ornamented, £l3 10s.
No. G 879. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, 17s 6d
bt
m
No. E 7134. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot,
32s 6d
No. 367. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot,
No. F 4387. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, £2 10s.
No. 368. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, £3 3s.
No. E 7690. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot,
£4 10s.
No. F 0137. “Louis Quatorze” Tea Pot, Ver
Massive Solid Silver, £22 10s.
Address all
Your Orders
to . .
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Auckland, Wellington
Christchurch, Dunedin, London.


‘"Kerani”: Witness the rush of the
squatter to grab roads and reserves before local
government arrives in N.S. Wales. Much of the
(government Gazette at present is occupied by
notices to the effect that “applications have been
received for the closing and purchase of roads
separating portions 2A and 48, and portions 2B
a,K J 4A, parish of Pyaka, county of Timbuctoo,”
and that “unless valid objections are lodged”
within a given date the application will be
granted. This highly illuminating statement in
the widely-read Gazette, with sometimes a notice
to a similar effect in the local paper, is all the
warning the general public gets that its rights and
privileges are being bartered away by a short-
sighted Administration.
Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
•• wxu v . av. jjxuuitj, ;ivia
*Twin Screw. fCalling at Hobart.
And Regularly every Four Week thereafter.
LONDON .. .. __ £52
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
~ Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON' & CO
111 William-street.
- Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO
B? ls r 1! AN E Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
'—THIS—.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street. Sydney.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.O ' ‘
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M. P.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,920,2J0.
Policies issued 98.401 assuring £29,270,925,
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,503,272.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eouitably distributed.
Head Offioe:
419 Sc 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
national gank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 186 S.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,240 15 0
Reserve(inGovt. Stock, £43,435) .. 48,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors.— Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Caban, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
The Bank of ||ortli Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
CAPlTAL—Authorised ~ .. £700,000
Paid-up .. £lOO,OOO
Uncalled . .. 250,000
Reserved Fund .. ( 20,000
(Invested in Government Stock) /
£370,000
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Coliins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP ... £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND-(lnvestedin Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £20,000 0 0
Directors: F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
—THE— ~
CITY MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
(Established 1879.)
Head Office—HUNTER & BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life Office
in Australia.
Agents Wanted. GEO. CROWLEY, Manager.
Bank of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office— GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital ... 2,000,000 0 o
Reserve Fund 1.425,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
Total ... .. ... .. 5,425,000 0 0
Directors :
The Hon. Charles K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.,
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Hon. Sir Normand MacLaltrin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
Auditors :
Harrington Palmer, Esq. Frederick W. Uther, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea-
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through-
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks ; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the world.
J .RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. VV. Meeks, M.L.CJ. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John Sub, Lt.-001. Burns (Burns,
Pfailp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jkssop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, J). Clynb ; Adelaide. VV. N.
M'PAttLANE ; Brisbane. A. Hamilton' Hart ; Perth, A. VV.
Farquhar. J. J.ALLEN General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Sbipplng.
nxr. id. l.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mai! Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
‘Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via NEW BRITAIN
NEW GUINEA and MANILA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
*PRINZ SICISMUND, 3300 tons.. 17th MARCH
‘WILLEHAD, 4761 tons .. .. 14th APRIL.
*PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons.. 12th MAY.
‘Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to tlie Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
the only certain
MOUSTACHE PRODUCER.
CAPILLARINE
Posted (under cover) to any part £
of Australasia or Near Zealand. ’
SdLii Agents— PRICE 10/6
CRAIQ and AITKEN,
N. S. W. Barber's Supply House,
684 Ooorgtt sireit, SYDNEY
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Nataly Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
NINEVEH
•MARATHON ..
SALAMIS
A. Robb
N. Allan
A. Douglas, R.N.R.
Noon, Mar. 9
Noon, April 3
Noon, April 21
•Twin Screw. Calling at Hobart.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
. ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH and LONDON' via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
AFRIC, to Sail on or about
23rd MARCH,
SUEVIC, PERSIC, RUNIC
and MEDIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown .. .. £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation’
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dnlf/eti y and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
QCEAKriC S.S. Co. A. & A. LINE (ma SAN FRANCISCO).
THREE-WEEKLY FAST MAIL SERVICE run in conjunction witli the Most Luxuriously Equipped Trains
and Atlantic Steamships in the World.
SHORTEST LINE FASTEST TIM E TO
THE UNITED STATES OP AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN AND EUROPE.
FARES TO ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-CLASS LINE.
R.M.S. SONOMA, 6200 TONS, SAILS MONDAY, MARCH 19.
For hull Particulars and Illustrated Matter, send or apply to—
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS. SYDNEY.
SOUTH SEA
ISLAND
CRUISES
Do you know what charming
trips can be made among the
Islands of the Western Pacific ? Are you aware that
our steamers will carry you comfortably round the most
interesting of the Island Groups, with your home always on board, at an average
cost of about T en Shillings a Day —that is less than your hotel expenses alone
would be on your usual holiday. May we have the pleasure of mailing you our
new illustrated descriptive matter ?
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Banking. Public Companies, See.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—-
FAIR INTJBREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
$
&
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
CAPITAL. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
3XT.S.-W.
(float depete
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
and 17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The Royal Rank of Queensland
j LJ Ml TIC It. **
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £457,538 10 0
Reserve Liability op Shareholders .. 175,812 10 0
Reserve Fusp(lnvested in Government Stock) 66,000 0 0
£699,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Kdwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., VV. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
17 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government • . .. 1,000,000
Preference Shares issued to the Crown in
terms of Bank of New Zealand Act
(N.Z.), 1903 .. .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital „ .. £2,000,000
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
NEXT SAILINGS—
March 19, April 16, May 14.
MOANA Sails 19th March.
A FAVORITE VESSEL ON THE PACIFIC.
The New Triple Screw Turbine Steamer,
M A HE NO,
SAILS, APRIL 16, 1906.
No Vibration.
No Seasickness.
itgf Send for Illustrated Pamphlets Furnished Free.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM., STITT, General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. V
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter),
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling' Nail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Shee; of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure),- the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
FIRE HAS NO TERRORS!
CAPITAL, £1,900,000.
AJCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £500,000.
AhNUAL REVENUE, £300,000.
Fire has NO terrors that Fire
Insurance cannot quell.
| Put the South British on guard!
GEO. 11. MOORE, Manager. %
CHAS. T. METCALFE, Assistant Manager. ft
T £ e South British
FIRE and MARINE INSURANCE CO.,
12 Bridge St, Sydney .
SUpplng.
THEAQELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Vlotorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Marloo, March 9.
S.S. Yong-ala, March 2JL
BRISBANE, ’i
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE, f
And Ports North to Cairns. I
S.S. Yongala, March 14.
S.S. Marloo, March 17.
Best and Cheapest Itoute to Goldjlel.ds.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
* r . e T n °“ callin B' at MELBOURNE, ADE-
POBT I «frn EM M, I I TL |’ COLOMB °. BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
w noinuay, incua, China.
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75
including- table wines. ’
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney. ’
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
Hotels.
PETTYS HOTEL,
SYDNEY
decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will be
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed,
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET
C. W. CUPIT, Manager.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
the (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
flodern Appointments. Hoderate Tariff.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every omror and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, -i to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
Sl'. HILDA.
THE Largest and best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower thanlicensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
W ln ? P ?V E ’ S G f ORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
ww Kilda Rai way Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift-
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day! or from
2 Guineas,pp,r Week.
Henry Skinner,
CJarendoH-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10AS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
STAR EYE OINTMENT, the Golden Remedy for In-
flammation, Sandy Blight and Weak Eyes. Price
only 2/- Post Free to any address in Australia, Tas or
N.Z. Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne


ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF
Tb€ HAMPPCN CLONCURRY COPP€R MIN€S, Limited
(REGISTERED UNDER THE VICTORIAN COMPANIES ACTS).
CAPITAL ----- £200,000 in 200,000 Shares of £1 each .
100,000 Shares fully paid to £l, to be allotted to the Vendor Company—The Hampden Copper Mines, No Liability.
*50,000 Shares of £1 each to be offered to the pubiic at £1 per share'’, payable Ten Shillings per share on application, and Ten Shillings per share withinLm v^flret'offered in Australasia^and IToOO r^ervetfforLondon.
of the company. The company pays no brokerage, the whole of this issue having been underwritten. Of these 50,000 shares, 25,000 will be first otteied in Australasia ana reserveu
50,000 Shares to be held in reserve.
200,000
DIRECTORS:
Hon. WILLIAM LAWRENCE BAILLIEU, M.L.C., of 375 Collins-street, Melbourne, Investor.
HERBERT JAMES DALY, of 60 Queen-street, Melbourne, Mining- Engineer.
WILLIAM JOSEPH LORING, (Representative in Australia of Messrs. Bewick, Moreing and Co.), of Equitable
Building, Collins-street, Melbourne, Mining Engineer.
HARYEY PATTERSON, of Equitable Building, Collins-street, Melbourne, Investor.
Hon. WILLIAM KNOX, M.H.R., of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne, Investor.
WILLIAM ORR, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne, Investor.
HERMAN HENRY SCHLAPP, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne, Metallurgist.
(The three latter are Directors of and Shareholders in the Vendor Company.)
NOTE. —Each of the Directors has agreed to take 300 Shares in terms of the Prospectus.
BANKERS : THE UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA, Limited. THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, Limited.
SOLICITORS : Messrs. BLAKE and RIGGALL, 120 William-street, Melbourne.
BROKERS : Melbourne—Messrs. E. L. and C. BAILLIEU, 375 Collins-street; Messrs. TOLHURST, KEATS and
GUMMING, 54 Queen-street. London—Messrs. LIONEL ROBINSON, CLARK and CO., 24 Throgmorton-st.
SECRETARY : EDWARD HERBERT SHAOKELL. HEAD OFFICE : 375 COLLINS-STREET, MELBOURNE.
AUDITORS: R. E. TWEDDELL, A.1.A.Y., 31 Queen-street, Melbourne; G. S. DAVIES, F.F. I. A., 31 Queen-street,
Melbourne.
AGENT, CLONCURRY : S. W. DONNER.
LONDON SECRETARY : E. HABBEN, Palmerston House, Broad-street, London, E.C.
This Company is being formed for the purpose of acquiring from THE HAMPDEN COPPER MINES, No Lia-
bility, whose Registered Office is at 31 Queen-street, Melbourne, Mineral Leases Nos. 244 and 245, in the Oloncurry
Mineral Field, North Queensland, comprising 40 acres, and including the whole of the 40 chains along the line of
lode held under the original Reward Claim, and situated about 47 miles from Cloncurry. An additional 200 acres
has been applied for on behalf of this Company, making 240 acres in all.
Herewith is a report on the mine furnished to the shareholders of The Hampden Copper Mines, No Liability, by
Mr. F. Stanley Low, 8.0. E. (now General Manager of the Broken Hill Proprietary Block 10 Company, Limited), when
he was manager of The Hampden Copper Mines, N.L.
It will be observed that Mr. Low estimated the qnantity of ore in the mine (exclusive of pyritic bodies below
water level, and the ore from the No. 1 cut northwards) at 116,000 tons, of an average value of 15 per cent. Copper,
or a total gross value of £1,260,000.
Mr. A. E. Savage, who in September last inspected the Hampden Mine and reported under date February 2, 1906,
says in regard to the estimated quantity of Copper ore disclosed in the mine above water level
“. . . the kaolinised part of the lode will measure about 600 yards long by 40 yards wide, and 17
yards deep, containing a total of 408,000 cubic yards of ore-bearing ground. This at 9cwt. per
cubic yard will yield 183,600 tons of 11 per cent, ore, containing 20,000 tons of copper, allowing for dis-
carding some of the poorer ore to make tip the difference in grade ; this practically confirms Mr. Low’s
estimate of 116,000 tons of 15 per cent, ore, containing 18,560 tons of copper.”
The richness of the higher grade ore is exemplified by the fact that the vendor company despatched 538 tons of
ore to the Wallaroo Smelting-Works, which averaged 36 per cent, of copper, and realised £10,561, after deduction
of smelting charges.
It will also be seen from Mr. Savage’s report that there are 8227 tons of lower grade ore already stacked on the
mine.
The richness and great extent of the copper deposits in the Cloncurry district have been known for many years,
but active development and commercial treatment of the ore was not feasible until direct railway communication
with the seaboard was assured.
The Queensland Government recently authorised an extension of 90 miles of the Townsville railway from Rich-
mond to Eddington, towards Cloncurry, and an assurance has been given that the line will be extended without un-
necessary delay for the remaining 81 miles to Cloncurry.
Connection with Cloncurry, which will be the terminus of the Government railway, can be secured by an exten-
sion of railway south for about 47 miles, over a route of an easy grade, and presenting no engineering difficulties. A
company is now' being formed having as one of its objects the carrying out of this work of extension if the necessary
authority from the Queensland Parliament is obtained, application for which has already been made. With this
accomplished, the hindrance to progressive mining will disappear, and a bright future for this hitherto neglected dis-
trict may be confidently anticipated.
REPORT ON THE HAMPDEN MINE, by Mr. A. E. SAVAGE, formerly Manager of the Sulphide Corporation,
Limited, Smelting Works at Cockle Creek, and now Resident Manager of the Australian Smelting Corporation, Limited.
THE HON. W. L. BAILLIEU, M.L.C., Collins-street, Melbourne. Elsternw'ick, February 2, 1906.
Dear Sir. —I have the honor to present the following report on the Hampden Mine, Cloncurry, Queensland :
SITUATION.—The mine is situated about 47 miles by road, or 38 miles in a straight line nearly due south of Clon-
curry, the nearest town. A town site has been surveyed on Crown lands about half a mile south-east from the mine,
and is now partly occupied.
LEASES.—The property originally consisted of two leases, each 20 chains square, enclosing 80 acres in all, and 40
chains along the lode. In order to reduce rent and number of men required to fulfil labor conditions, these leases
were recently cut down to 20 acres each, by relinquishing a strip on each side, parallel to the lode, thus halving the
area held without sacrificing any ground likely to be of value, as the lode stands almost vertical. Their numbers are
Southern lease, formerly ML37, now ML244 ; Northern lease, formerly ML3B, now ML245. lam advised that additiona
area has been applied for on behalf of the company,
TOPOGRAPHY. —The surrounding country consists of flats or undulating ground, traversed by ranges of low
hills, usually running north and south, though over a small area to the westward they have an east and west trend
The country generally is favorable to the formation of tramways or roads, free from steep grades or long detours for
the carriage of timber, firewood and fluxes, or ore from neighboring mines for treatment at a central smelting works
TIMBER. —The flats and lower hill-slopes are well grassed and lightly timbered with gidgea and several varieties
of small gum suitable for firewood and small mining timbers, while along the rivers and larger creeks gums and ti
tree grow of sufficient size to furnish large timber suitable for structural purposes in any quantity likely to be requires
for the building of works.
WATER SUPPLY. —The average rainfall of the district is from 25 to 30 inches per year, though, in common with
other parts of the interior, droughts are not infrequent. Nearly all this falls during the wet season, from January to
March inclusive, so that it will be necessary to rely on conservation for water supply during- the greater part of the
year. Natural conservation occurs in drift forming alluvial flats near watercourses, from which a supply can be go;
by sinking wells, and in depressions, either open or filled w'ith drift, in the river beds. The former often yield a large
quantity of good quality ; and as a well on the bank of the creek near the mine has afforded an ample supply for loca
domestic and stock purposes throughout some very dry seasons, the practicability of obtaining sufficient water at leas
for domestic and mine steaming purposes by sinking further wells should be tested before undertaking a more expen
sive scheme. With regard to the second form of supply, only the largest holes survive a dry season, but in the drift
water is practically permanent and often in large quantity.
The nearest considerable supply of this sort is at a gorge from 6 to 8 miles distant South-west on the Cion
curry River, at a place where it has cut a narrow channel through a rocky ridge. For some distance above am
below this ridge the river bed is very wide and filled with drift, though formerly a large open hole existed jusi
below the bar. By constructing a concrete or wooden dam on this bar up to the level of the surface of the drift
the natural conservation could be largely increased, while the effect of checking the movement of drift down the
river, combined with the fall of water over the dam, would l;e to more or less completely re-open the large hole
below, and thus further add to the water conserved. This hole is regarded as one of the most reliable sources of
water supply in the district, never having failed in the longest drought, though considerable demands have been
made on it for watering stock. By sinking a well on the bank and driving into the river bed, the water con-
tained in the drift can be brought within reach of pumps for delivery through a pipe line to the Mine or smel-
ters. The track between the two points traverses flats favqrable for a pipe line, with a maximum difference of
level probably not exceeding 100 feet. A further source of supply is the Mine itself, from which a certain quan-
tity of water suitable for furnace purposes, if not boilers, will be obtained. The quantity is at present small,
but with several shafts open and deeper sinking will increase. Generally, the neighborhood of the Mine is not
favorable to artificial conservation in dams, the natural depressions being too shallow to permit of a sufficient
.depth of water being retained to withstand the high evaporation due to the hot, dry climate.
ELEVATIONS. —The Mine lies about 1200 feet above sea level, while, speaking from memory, Cloncurry is;
about (jflb feet. -
GEOLOGY. —Geologically, the country consists of almostVyertical beds of Silurian age, having a general
North and .South strike, and consisting, near Hampden Mine, of slates and quartzites, in which occurrences of
diorite and trtrp rock more or less comformable with their bedding are common. The lode is of the bedded type,,
consisting of mineWJigpd slate up to 200 feet in width, forming the central part of a much wider belt of the
same rock enclosed betVetm diorite on the west and quartzite on the east. It stands almost vertical, and strikes;
about 20 degrees East of North.
OUTCROP. For about half a mile South of the Hampden Leases the position of the lode is marked by a low
ridge consisting.mainly of indurated slate, with occasional patches of quartzose rock, carrying outcrops of jasper
and ironstone, showing more or less copper but no ore bodies of any size. This ridge rises gradually Northw'ard cul-
minatino- m a prominent outcrop of quartz and gossan on ML 15, about 50 yards South of the South boundary of the
Hampden Leases, then falling rather abruptly on to flatter ground, which slopes Northward for about 80 yards within.
Lease 244. Here it joins a low flat, extending a further 120 yards to the foot of a mass of quartzite which rises boldly
to a capping of quartz and gossan about 80 yards further on. From this capping the surface falls rather abruptly to
the West but more gradually to East and North, joining flat ground just beyond the boundary of Lease 244. Within
Lease 245 the surface is low in the Southern part, rising slightly to the North, where the surface is a little more
broken, but on the whole the surface of this lease is devoid of prominent features. Though the richest outcrops have
been removed by open cutting, numerous occurrences of carbonate and oxide of copper can still be seen chiefly
associated with small quartz and gossan outcrops, which occur on all but the lowest parts of the surface, where a.
thin deposit of alluvium hides the original surface. Northward beyond Lease 245, diorite seenis to cut off the
lode formation, though in places small seams of ore can be seen. No signs of faults dislocating the lode were-
observed.
CHARACTER OF ORE CONTENTS.—Both above and below water level the ores are essentially copper ores,,
the small quantity of gold and silver contained being not worth the cost of separation from the copper, while metals-
deleterious to the quality of the copper, such as lead, antimony, and bismuth, seem to be absent, also zinc in any
appreciable quantity.
ORE DEPOSITS. —Above water level the richesst portions of the lode underlie the flats, and consist of a com-
paratively soft kaolinised slate, permeated in all directions by seams of cuprite and glance of great richness, measur-
ing- from a fraction of an inch up to in some oases several feet in thickness. From the central part of these seams,
which is often almost pure cuprite or glance, the percentage of copper falls as the ore merges into the inclosing
kaolin, the centre of the richest seams forming the first grade ore, while the outer parts and the poorer seams form
the lower grades. There seems to be no order or method in the occurrence of these ore bands ; they are not usually
continuous for any great length, and only occasionally outcrop, while they do not seem to be confined to particular
areas or zones, but may be found more or less closely distributed through any part of the kaolinised slate. This has;
been proved by shafts to extend downward from 40 to 60 feet, while on the surface it is in places 200 feet wide, and
seldom less than 100 feet. Excluding the elevated Northern portion of Lease 244, about 600 yards of the lode within
the property consists of this formation. In the elevated silicious portions of the outcrop the ore is comparatively
low grade, consisting of oxide and carbonate of copper, associated with seams of gossan a,nd as impregnations of'
quartzite, but the quantity so far opened up is small and unimportant. In the following estimate this portion of the-
lode is regarded as blank. In the absence of systematic blocking out no ore can be said to be in sight, but the fol-
lowing estimate of probable ore is submitted, based on results from open cutting under Mr. Low’s management. The-
result of later work is not included, because this has been distributed over a number of small openings of which no-
record of yardage excavated is available.
Front Nos. I and 2 open cuts 3500 cubic yards were excavated for the following yield of ore
lsts .. .. 40% copper 21- cwt. per cubic yard.
2nds .. .. 13% ~ 9J ~ ',, ~ ~
3rds .. .. 6£% „ —s| ~ ~ ~ ~
Average .. 11% „ —17 J „ ~ „
As the richer parts of the lode have been worked in these cuts, the yield of the ore from the bulk would pren-
babl.y be lower, say, about i or 9 cwts. per cubic yard, excluding blanks, the kaolinised part of the lode will measure-
about 600 yards long by 40 yards wide and 17 yards deep, containing a total of 408,000 cubic yards of ore-bearing
ground. This at 9ewt. per cubic yard will yield 183,600 tons of 11 per cent, ore, containing 20,000 tons of copper,,
allowing for discarding some of the poorer ore to make up the difference in grade ; this practically confirms Mr.
Lowe’s estimate of 116,000 tons of 15 per cent, ore, containing 18,560 tons of copper. In addition, a certaim
quantity of ore suitable for smelting will be obtained from the silicious masses regarded as blank for the purpose-
of the above estimate. Below water level the lode consists mainly of slate, impregnated with finely divided ironi
pyrites (marcasite), more or less cupriferous. In this slate marcasite. also occurs in the massive form, but whether in'
defined seams or bodies of irregular shape is not clear. I was unable to enter the lower workings of No. 12 shaft, ini
which some of these bodies have been exposed, as they were full of water, and have therefore to rely an an in-
SDection of the dumps at this shaft, and the accounts of others for information as to their size and character.
The cupriferous material in the dumps consisted chiefly of the impregnated slate too poor tc'.be
suitable for smelting in its raw state, but probably amenable to concentration by ordinary wet dressing or to one of
the newer processes, such as the Elmore Oil process, &c. Owing to the tendency of marcasite to oxid *e to suh
phate in the air, that on the dump after some years’ exposure carries much oi its iron and copper in a form
(sulphates) soluble in water, so possibly this portion Of the lode may be amenable to a compaiativelj inex-
penlive process such as that used in the Tharsis Mine in Spain for the extraction of copper
Buried under one part of the dump lay a quantity of marcasite in masses which must have come from a
body of some size Superficially these had decomposed and showed copper freely in oxidised forms; internally they
consisted Tmarcasite with more or less chalcopyitte disseminated through it. It was only possible to reach a few
of these lumps, and no representative samples could be got. I have, therefore to rely on past record for an estimate
of its copper contents The Company’s books show a number of assays of this material, ranging from sto 20 per
cent of Copper Discarding the higher results as due to enrichment with secondary ore, I estimate the average con-
tents of theunaltered sulphide at about 7'5 per cent, copper. In view of the nature and great extent oflode
horizontally the uncertainty as to whether this ore occurs in seams or lenses, and the small amount of de\ elopment
work done on it, a forecast of the probable quantity is impossible, but as the rich ore in the upper levels must have
been derived from the decomposition of these sulphides, it is certain that pyntic bodies of some sort underlie^ all the
kaohnised parts°of the lode, J,d probably extend Tinder the central silicious portion of the ou crop,. so. buch oUhe
massive pvrite as I was able to see was free from gangue or other foreign matter and very suitable for.pyntic smelt
ing. Even if not obtainable in sufficient quantity to enable smelting on a purely
would in lesser Quantity he a valuable addition to the furnace charge, inasmuch as, by supplying iron flux ana a
certain'amount of'fuel (sulphu'r), it would lower costs, and also facilitate the working of the furnace, and allow of
lower e-rad e ore beins- trCcittd profitably as compared with smelting- to black copper. ... , , , ,i*
MINING In the past mining has been chiefly confined to working the richer parts of the lode by open cutt g
to the maximum depth (about 30 feet), which the small size of the openings and the, absence of steam power per-
mitted As the woTk his mainly been done on tribute, and none but the highest grade ore could'be profita fly sold
only the richest parts of the lode were followed ; the open cuts are consequently without system, and of all shapes
and sizesi The ore wori was sorted into four grades, the following figures representing the copper contents and
tonnage of each grade mined up to August of last year :
Grade.
Ist
Tonnage.
936
2nd 2,691
3rd 3,260
4th 2,276
Assay.
40%
13%
9% /
64%
Copper
Contents.
374 tons.
350 „
293 „
148 „
1,165
Total 9,163 Average, 12-7%
Deducting the first grade, which has been sold, there remains on the mine 8227 tons of ore, averaging 9 - 6 per
cent and containing 791 tons of copper. In addition to open cuts 12 shafts have been sunk to various depths up to
135 fe’et and some driving and crosscutting done, but practically no stoping ; the quantity of ore from these workings
is therefme | ire a rich, ore bod -s at
nrpspnt beinjr stored at a depth of about 40 feet and some sinking below 100 feet in .No. 12 shaft, nothing nas neen
done below the open cuts since the end of 1900. The work done previous to that date is fully described in Messrs.
Low’s and Cameron’s reports, the latter containing a plan showing the position of shafts and principal open c t.
FUTURE WORK.—For winning the ore above water level, open-cutting appears to me to be the bes y - •
The great width of the ore-bearing formation favoring this method, while the wide arid erratic . < lstrl t
ore through the lode makes it the only one by which the whole of the ore can he won with certain t.\ , the tact tnat
practically no timber will be required and that labor can he more efficiently utilised than underground are also
important factors in its favor in a locality where timber will be scarce and labor dear. Open cutting will necessarily
involve moving a good deal of waste material, a part at least of which can be sent down through passes into the sul-
phide stopes, and utilised as filling to the advantage of both systems of mining. should he carried
With efficient tramming and hoisting plant, open cutting work, including sorting of I the ore, should be cat ned
out for 5s per cubic yard. Taking the yield of 16 per cent, ore at 7cwt. per cubic yard, its cost will be 14s 6d- per
ton—sav delivered at smelters 15s. per ton. In the future it will he advantageous to raise the value of the lower
gradTs of ore by more c^eful selection than has been done in the past, when only first grade ore was of value,
thereby, without material loss of copper, reducing the quantity of gangue to be smelted with a proportmnate in-
crease of profit As the permanency of the Mine must depend on its sulphide ores, and these are of ?
reducing Sing cosS?t is most important thati theirdevelopment should .h« t -|o‘pusly earned out With
end in view, I would suggest sinking Shafts Nos. 5 and 11 in Lease 244 and Shafts Nos. 1, 12, and 6 in Lease 240 to,
say 200 feet deep, cross-cutting from these for the full width of the mineralised slate at each 50 feet, from 100
down. Any orebodies met with could then be followed up, and their dimensions and value ascertained. It will be
advisable to cross-cut the full width of formation, as in a lode of this character deposits may occur in an> pait of t
which^otherwiselight be missed The system of mining to be adopted in the lower levels will largely depend on the
rize and I form”of Ere bo“ut in whatever plan is adopted, provision should be made for utilising as far as
-nn<i<?ihle filline* in place of timber, and thus make use of the waste from the open cut above.
SUPPLIES.—The supply of firewood near the mine being- limited, it will be advisable to reserve it for 01. ers,
usinff coke onlT for smelting purposes, Firewood will cost about 30s. per cord, and coke, with rail to the mine, about
£4 10s per torn limestone deposits exist within a few miles of the mine, so that fluxes should not be
6XP C (JONCLUSIO —Summarised^th e position oUhe Mine is that with 8227 tons of 9‘6 per cent, ore at grass there
are further laree Quantities visible in the workings, but insufficiently developed to be deemed in sight, though
“^robablTore^’ 6 above wate/levef is estimated at from 183,600 tons of 11 per cent, ore containing 20,000 tons of
copper to 116 000 tons of 15 per cent. ore. containing 18,560 tons of copper, the latterprobablybeingtbemorec -
rect P estimate ’ with a further possibility of developing in the lower levels pyntic ore bodies, which will be of great
value in lowering costs of smelting the silicious surface ore, thereby increasing profits and enabling lower grade o
robe treated - while if these bodies prove of large size, and equal in grade to those partly opened up, the} can be
alone, thereby expending the fife of the Mine size and -te^treatment.
TJFPORT ON THE HAMPDEN COPPER MINES BY MR. F. STANLEY LOW, 8.C.E., ITS LATE MANAGER,
EE S NOW GENERAL MANAGER OF THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY BLOCK 10 COMPANY, Ltd.
The Chainnan the Board of Erectors, THE HAMDEN COPPER MINES NO LIABILITY Melbourne
h Sir —1 have the honor to submit to you the following report on the Hampden Mine. The Hampden Mine, con-
istino-of three blocks of 80 acres each, is situated 47 miles south of Cloncurry, and about 50 miles west of Mackinlay.
inspection of the Mine Plans made by Mr. Thos. Fraser, C.E., will show that the copper-bearing belt is one of slate
vine in diorite country. This slate belt is 550 feet wide at the southern boundary of Block 37, and spreads out to a
vidth of 1000 feet at the north of Block 38. Within the slate area occur well defined outcrops of copper-bearing
Material showing a width between in many places of 200 feet. So far, prospecting work has been confined to ground
ving between these outcrops, and in all calculations these have been taken as the bounds of the ore body. There is,
lowever no reason why the ore should not, on further exploration, be found to extend through the whole slate belt.
The Sections have been prospected and worked by means of 24 main trenches, 12 shafts, and 3 open cuts, as
veil as of many smaller trenches and minor shafts. At No. 6 Shaft, situated at No. 1 Trench in the northern part
>f Block 38, a short grade has been made with a view to future open-cutting. No. 6 Shaft is sunk m ore to a dept i
if 20 feet and the crosscuts in the bottom, as far as they have been driven, show the solid ore body to be 30 feet
vide. The grade to meet this ore body has, so far, been made only for a length of about 56 feet, and has a maximum
lepth of 7 feet; nevertheless, from this small excavation, 7 tons of 40 per cent., _S tons of IS per cent., and 3 tons
if 6i per cent, ore have been taken. High grade ore has been left underfoot for the whole length of the g> ade.
Crenelles Nos. 23, 2, 22 and 21 show ore close to the surface, having a large and varying width. No. 7 Shaft, sunk to
l depth of 544 feet, shows a large body of ore. From this shaft, in the sinking, have been taken 12 tons of 40 per
sent?and 72 tons of 13 per cent. ore. ‘Large bodies of ore have also bee "
shaft. No. 12 Shaft during the past few months has been carried down to a depth of 110 feet bl feet below water
eve]. Very important results have been obtained from the sinking of this shaft. At a depth of 50 feet the slateis
‘ontainino- Oarbonate of Copper gave an assay value of 9-4 per cent, of Copper. At .i 9 feet pyrites associated with
mssan was struck and gave an assay of 6‘5 per cent. This continued down to a depth of 72 feet, where the pyrites
issaved 27’4 per cent. ; two feet lower a vein of copper glance gave the extraordinary high value of /3'7 per cent, of
lopper. At7si feet the pyrites assayed 22-4 per cent., which fell to 21 per cent, at 824 feet. At 97 feet the copper
•ontents were 6’2 per cent., nt 107 feet the value w&s 4.2 per cent. . ~ n
The discovery P f the pyritic body is of great importance to this Mine, and, in fact, to the district generally.
The existence of payable ore bodies well below water level has now been proved, and although of lower value tha,n
;he verv rich deposits of oxide and carbonates near the surface, they may be expected to extend to great deaths. It
nust also be borne in mind that the advanced methods of smelting now in vogue make the treatment of pyntic ores
1111 Proceeding southwards, No. 2 Open Cut is reached. This cut, which had but little outrop to indicate the hidden
veaßh beneath, has now reached a length of over 200 feet and a depth of about IS feet. From this excavation have
ieen taken 20C tons of 40 per cent., 364 tons of 13 per cent., and 11S4 tons of 6J per cent, ore, and throughout the
vhole length of the cut ore of high grade has been left going strongly underfoot. The face of the cut is now within
i few feet of No. 1 Shaft, and the splendid outcrops of high grade ore here displayed. The outcrop of the ore body
.nr. now he traced through No 8 Trench into No. 37 Block till it bursts out into a large and solid outciop at No. 2
fhaft. At the foot and to the skuth of this hold outcrop is No. 1 Cut. No. 12 Trench and No. 3 Shaft, with its under-
ips! hflH shown that a lar°-e bodv of verv high grade ore was situated about this spot. An excavation vai,> mg- from
.l to l 7 feet in depth made, and high grade ore broken across the deposit for a distance up to the present
line of'2oo feet. 280 tons of 40 per cent., 15CK) tons of 13 per cent., and 5o tons of « per cent, ore have, so far, been
laken from this Cut, and work is still progressing. It is perhaps worthy of mention that a vein of copper glance or
ffialcocite about a foot in width is now supplying ore in this cut of a value of .5-. per cent of copper. lioni N . 1
" , nt to the Southern boundary of No. 37 Block, well defined outcrops show a width of ovet 200 feet. In the sinking of
Nm 4 Shaft bodiesof Wgh grade ore were encountered, and 13 tons of 40 per cent., 28 tons of 13 per cent., and 197
tons at 6J per cent, ore were classified and stacked. No. 5 Shaft was sunk in ore to a depth of 45 feet. Assays made
from the dumps round this Shaft show the values of their copper contents to be 10 and 23 per cent.
From what has been put forth, and with the assistance of the Mine p.ans, it willl be seen that the ore bodies can
be traced from within a chain of the Northern boundary of Block 38, through Block 3/, a distance of about 39 chains
through the Hampden Company’s property. In the absence of railway communication and consequent high rates
of freight—rates which have been more than trebled in many cases on account of the severity of the drought it has
been fmind expedient to work only such parts of the deposit as will give payable quantities of very high
within easy reach of the surface. Only such ore as will bulk 40 per cent, and over has been sought, but in excavating
this high grade material the lower grade ore has often to be taken with it. This, in turn, is classified into second
a-rade of 13 per cent., and third grade of 64 per cent. Very great care is exercised that a proper sample is taken of
every truckwhich leaves the Open Cuts. The marvellous richness of the deposits can best be demonstrated by the
resets gffined in the short timeduring which the Mine has been worked. With only enough men to fulfil the con-
dtuonslf the Mining Act, and notwithstanding the severity of the drought and other deterrent circumstances, ore
to the value of £45,957 wks raised and stacked on the Mine up to 15th October, 1900. Most of this ore was raised
dnrine the 15 months preceding that date, and is made up as follows .-—First Grade, assay value 40 per cent. 543
fonl -Second Grade atoav value 13 per cent., 2316 tons ; Third Grade, assay value 64 per cent., 1762 tons. Of this
onlv B & tons had then reached the snmlters, where the return given was 42-25 per cent, of Copper. Since 16th October
1900, the following additional amounts of ore have been raise d, viz-- 82 tons First, 3t5 tons Second, and 514 tons Third
Grade rnakin" a total of 625 tons First, 2691 tons Second, and 2276 tons Third Giade. . . .
Af’ter fulf and careful consideration, I have estimated the value of the ore in the Hampden Mine as being
£1 260 000 bein'-- made up of 116,000 tons of ore of an average value of 15 per cent, copper.
This estimate does not take into account the pyrite bodies which have recently been discovered below water
leve rdo l ndiide Re ore contained in that portion of the Mine extending over a length of about 320 feet,
storting from No. 1 Cut, and running northwards. What little work has been done on this part of the Property shows
ft to contoffi ore but to what extent lam at present unable to judge. The ease with which the whole ore body can
it to contain o , means of open cuts, and the kindly nature of the ground for working-, are some of the
be simultaineous y * . a frain the purity of the ore for smelting*, the absence of all refactory material and
deleterious property to the metallurgist. It; is yet too early to decide
deleterious matter nlaced near the Mine or at the sea coast. The country surrounding the Mine is
whether the smelters si - f ra ji W ays or light tramways ; large supplies of water may be obtained either
for^the ° sfficaf calcite-are close kt hSnd in large quantities, and the supply of
ttS th.'HvSpleStul “Km 6b«ll e nt Servant, F STANLEY LOW, 8.C.E.. Mtn. Manager.
- “* reh ' - 01 °“ “


Sores Covered Neck and Cheeks
Itched Day and Night Nothing Did
Me Any Good—Was Growing Worse
Immediately Relieved, and
SPEEDILY CURED BY
CUTICURA REMEDIES
Miss Nellie Vander Wiele, of Lake-
side, N. Y., writing under date of April
18, 1904, says: “I do wish you would
publish this letter in the newspapers,
so that others suffering as I have may
see it and be helped. I suffered for
many months with an awful skin disease,
sores covering my ears, neck, and cheeks.
Scabs would form and they would swell,
and itch day and night. Then they would
break open and blood and matter run out.
I had tried many different remedies, but
none of them did me any good. I was
growing worse when I tried the Cuticura
Remedies. The first application helped
me, and when I had used two cakes of
Cuticura Soap, three boxes of Cuticura
Ointment, and three bottles of Cuticura
Resolvent, I was completely cured.”
TORTURING, DISFIGURING
Humours, Eczemas, Itchings,
and Chafings Cured by
Cuticura
The agonizing itching and burning of
the skin, as in eczema; the frightful
scaling, as in psoriasis; the loss of hair
and crusting of the scalp, as in scalled
head ; the facial disfigurement, as in
pimples and ringworm; the awful suffer-
ing of infants, and anxiety of worn-out
parents, as in milk crust, tetter, and salt
rheum, all demand a remedy of almost
superhuman virtues to successfully cope
with them. That Cuticura Soap, Oint-
ment, and Pills are such stands proven
beyond all doubt by the testimony of the
civilized world.
Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Pills are sold throughout th®
world. Depots: London, 27 Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 5 Rue de
la Paix; Australia, R. Towns & Co., Sydney. Potter Drug&
Chem. Corp., Boston, U. S. A., Sole Props.
t&T Mailed Free, 44 How to Cure Skin Humours.*'
Hautbaway’s
Peerless
Gloss
puts a permanent gloss on boots and
shoes—a shine that outshines all other
shines; a brightness that is not dulled
by a little damp, but remains as long as
actual dirt and mud can be warded off.
It is this great and special quality that
that makes it worthy of its name—
“ Peerless ” ; that is, absolutely without
an equal. Famed for forty years, it is still
pre-eminently the best shoe polish that
has ever been invented. It adds to the
life of a shoe by its preservative qualities,
moreover, and is so easy to use that it
is but the work of a moment to apply it.
Sold by all Boot & Shoe Dealers & at all General Stores
IMPARTS A SPLENDID BRILLIANCE.
C. L. HA UTHA WAY &* SONS, 346, Congress St.,
Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH
Colonial Mutual Building,
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
NORMAN BROS.
58 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building-, Perth.
. Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
.SYSTEMS for Correspond-
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
; SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
: SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
; SYSTEMS for Indexing.
; SYSTEMS for all Records.
:SYSTEM for Everything.
.Australian Users now num-
bered by the hundreds.
' Of course you have System
in vour office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER l ,
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra’
lian States.
Write for Catalogue.
JOHN SANDS, 374 George St., Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent
POLICY fok thk COMMONWEALTH,
Price, 6d.; Posted, 8d
ACTS GENTLY, ACTS PLEASANTLY, ACTS
BENEFICIALLY, ACTS TRULY AS A LAXATIVE.
m
OF
An Aqrceabfe
Efficacious
Laxative*
Gentle
yet Prompt
B
Action,
California
Syrup of Figs
permanently overcomes habitual consti-
pation and the many ills resulting from a
weak or sluggish condition of the Kidneys,
Liver and Bowels. California Syrup of
Figs is the most perfect laxative of the
century, and is the preferred medicine
among physicians and in millions of
families.
01 Chemists and Stores, 1/3 and 1/11. Depot— 32 Snow Hill, London, Eng
Australian Branch: 7 Barrack Street, Sydney.
FINNEY, ISLES & CO., Limited.
Our Great SUMMER CLEARANCE SALE is Now On.
INURING the Sale ALL SUMMER GOODS, without exception, are being' CLOSED OUT at Plainly-Figured
Prices, showing VERY SUBSTANTIAL REDUCTIONS on Ordinary Rates, and there is from end to end
of our warehouse, an even more irresistible array of Bargains than we have ever before offered.
The HOUSE that has the Best Goods, the most of them, and the greatest variety AT REGULAR PRICES
must, it stands to reason, be the HOUSE that can offer the Best Bargains, the largest number of them, and the
greatest variety WHEN PRICES ARE REDUCED. By comparing Goods and Prices, purchasers will have
proof that the above description
FITS NONE BUT FINNKY'S.
THE SALE OF THE SEASON in Quantity, Variety, Excellence, Up-to-dateness, Freshness, and Low Price
of all goods offered is Our Summer Sale, which will not, we venture to predict, be a Sale of the dragging
sort that “lags superfluous on the stage,” but of the lively-footed kind that dances quickly across in a kaleido-
scopic whirl of Bargains. Send for Samples of our Household Drapery Goods, clearing at Sale Prices (mentioning
those you wish to see particularly), and for our Sale Price Lists of Ribbons, Laces, Embroideries, Gloves,
Hosiery, &c., &c. Kindly mention, when ordering Goods during Sale, whether, in the event of anything ordered
being sold out, we are empowered to substitute another article, stating price limit. Goods cut out so rapidly
during Sale that this provision is strongly recommended. Where it is necessary to substitute, the best judgment
will be exercised in sending the nearest goods of similar or better quality to those selected. Remittances should
be sent to cover cost of orders, and made payable to
Finney, Isles & Co., Limited, The Bi g Block, Brisbane.
INVIGORATING & SUSTAINING-,
m.
£
' j?
Absolutely
Pure
The remarkable Strength-glving, Stimulating
properties and perfect Digestibility of
CADBURY'S COCOA
make it an invaluable Food-Drink.
" Absolutely Pure.” —The Analyst .
“ The Standard of Highest Purity.”— The Lancet.
CADBURY’S COCOA is therefore the BEST Food-Beverage obtainable.
“A truly delightful Thirst Queucher.’' 4
The Lancet writes :—“ Lime Juice is, particularly during the
summer, afar more wholesome drink than any form of alcohol.”
“ Montserrat ” is obtained solely from the celebrated
Lime Juice Plantations in the Island of Montserrat.
To obtain the genuine, specify “ MONTiSERRAT.”
OF ALL STORES AND CHEMISTS.
>4
I
r Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
I FURRED TONGUE.
I
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION. j
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
There’s SECURITY In
tfi
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
They TOUGH the LIVER
Be Sure they are
Carter’s
SORE
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORB AND WEAK BYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES'
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
never fails.
Ask your Chemist for the Little Book:
HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
Said the Horse-Planter.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT makes me smile to see all these young
follows running about just now looking for
graft. When they do get it, what is it?
Thirty bob a v/eek and find themselves. Why, I
can make three times that ar.y night when I’m at
work. And no bullocking, either.
Of course, my trade’s not much use except
where there’s plenty of rich people. Farmers are
no good to me; they won’t give any reward for
a missing horse. Ask them a quid to find one,
and they fall down. Besides, their old crocks
aren’t much use to sell again, if they don’t offer a
reward.
Dealers are the same ; all they ever do is to put
the police after me. A fat lot of good that does,
even when I haven’t got them squared. The
average trap knows as much about brands as I do
of running a newspaper.
The flash carriage and sulky horses —that’s where
I make my profit. And family cows. The people
that own these have plenty of cash ; when a 30-
guinea horse or £TS cow gets lost, what’s a couple
of quid for finding them ? Nothing at all; and it
only means me putting them away in a safe place
for a few days. Besides, the spell does them good.
I keep a lot of hands going. Live at Parra-
matta myself, on the Western road. I find it the
most central place for business. I can see what
stock goes up and down nicely from there. It is
handy to all my planting paddocks, too. I have
a ring of these ; the first one is at Bankstown, the
next at Smithfield, the next at St. Mary’s. Then
one at Pitt Town, then at Ryde. Lately, I have
put another on at Hornsby, to cope with the busi-
ness from the Milson’s Point line. A terrible lot
of toffs are going up that way now.
These paddocks take in about all the country
worth working ; they are small and scrubby, and
poked back well out of the way. I keep a man to
look after each. Anything he picks up in his
district he shifts round into the next one. If the
owner makes much of a fuss, that particular
animal is shifted round a couple more paddocks
to be safe. There it stops till I get my reward
for “ finding ” it.
How do I pick them up? Very simple ! Each
man works his own district. Anything likely he
either collects straying about, or else persuades
out of the paddock when no one’s looking. Rides
about every day he’s not busy, looking for busi-
ness ; always carries a couple of halters with him,
besides a good heeler running behind. Some
horses are terrors to pul] back without a good
cattle dog to nip them up. Cows are generally
lifted at night; those fat, old family things travel
so slowly.
I always attend to the bazaars and Camperdown
myself, note the buyer’s address when anything
choice is sold, and follow it up later. Advertise
when things are a bit slack ; find out good sorts
that way. You can quieten any horse in a stable
with a “twitch,” and make him lead anywhere
with a half-hitch under the jaw.
How do I get the reward ? Wait a day or two
after the ad. comes out; then send someone to
them to find out what reward is offered. If suit-
able, send a man in with the lost property. He
pitches a tale that he found them making back to
Bathurst, or Bulb, or somewhere distant. As a
rule they stump up gladly. Some of them grumble
a bit sometimes.
Mostly I get £2 for each horse, £1 for each cow ;
depends on their value. When you reckon the
hands I keep, paddock rent, and my own time, it
doesn’t seem much ; but you must remember I do
a big turnover. Besides, there’s pickings. Very
often it’s safe to resell a £2O horse for £l5 ; and he
only costs me a week or two’s grass and minding.
What happens if they don’t part up ? Well,
they can’t get them, that’s all. I’ve got my living
to make, the same as everybody else. Any of
that sort I send over to a mate of mine who keeps
a pound. He pounds them for me ; as they’re
always pretty good, he puts them up at an off
time, and buys them in for me cheap. Once I’ve
got the pound title for them, the devil himself
can’t take them from me. So I get my profit on
them anyway.
I have one grievance against the pounding sys-
tem. If gazetted in the Police Gazette, any-
thing lost can’t be sold out of a pound in the ordi-
nary way. The pound-keeper must notify the
advertiser, and keep the animal till he comes for
it. So I can’t pound anything gazetted, but have
to keep it paddocked, sometimes for weeks, till
the owner finally offers a reward. This gazetting
is the worst drawback in my business ; I think
the law ought to be amended. If they raised the
gazetting fee to £2 (it is only 3s. at present), it
would suit me nicely.
I find it best to shift stock about between
1 and 5 a.m.; there is never anyone about then,
and they travel better. Anyone constantly at it
develops eyes like a cat; but, of course, sleeping
so much in the daytime you miss the sun glare.
I know of nothing pleasanter than poking along
in the starlight behind a valuable lot of horses
or cows in the warm summer fore-mornings, the
dew fresh on the grass, and the rest of the world
asleep.
Can’t use whips in my business ; always have a
real good, silent biter instead. My old dog Bluey
knows every road and cross-lane this side of the
Mountains. If you skinned him alive you couldn’t
get a whimper out of him. If there is anything
suspicious ahead he runs back, and jumps up
against my stirrup to warn me. The old horse I
ride is just as good and knowing as a Christian.
See him sidle up innocently to a strange horse ;
he will take you alongside so you can whip a
halter on it before it knows what’s coming. And
see him after stock in timber ; you can cut out on
him Without a bridle. I wouldn’t take £lOO for
him old as he is.
Where I made a lot of money was in the Boer
war. Raked the whole State over for horses;
fixed up their brands and marks, gave them a
week’s spell, and put them off on the buyers.
Simply coined money whilst it lasted. And the
best of it was none of them ever came back. There
were a dreadful lot of people looking for lost
horses that time. I slipped some fair outlaws in
amongst them too. Ah, I’d like to see a fresh
war every twelve months !
I am thinking of selling out of this business, as
times aren’t what they were. What with motor-
cars, bikes, and the Labor members, hardly
anyone keeps a horse worth planting nowadays.
I have been trying ringing-in racehorses lately,
and find it a very payable business so far. I have
discovered a permanent dye and bleach at last;
can make piebalds, white stockings, or any color,
to order. So think I will put this business on the
market. Will sell it out in one line for £5OO
cash —plant, goodwill, and all.
FALDER.


DYSPEPTIC DEBILITY
A Harrowing Tale of Suffering and a
Thankful Tribute from Ultimo.
The Case of MR. V. BORWICK.
(BY A SYDNEY REPORTER.)
Mr. Victor Borwick is a storekeeper who has his business premises and residence at 286 Crown
Road, Ultimo, and although he could have been found at this address at any time during the past
11 years, it was not till lately that a reporter had occasion to pay his establishment a visit, “the
reason for calling,” as the scribe explained, “ being to get some information respecting a widely
known recovery that happened to come within hearing.”
“Ah ! It is six years ago now since I got all right again,” Mr. Borwick remarked, “and I think
it was about up to me to have a change of luck, considering that I had been suffering for fully three
years. The pains that ran along my gums and reached up to the top of my head were something
terrible, and half my time I did not know what I was doing.”
“ Is that the only ailment you have had ?”
“ Indeed, no. All the time the neuralgic tortures were at me I had other troubles to deal with,
for my digestion was just as bad as it could be. Both from want of appetite, and also owing to the
pains about my jaws, eating was almost out of the question ; but what was still more unfortunate
was the fact that the little I did force myself to take to keep body and soul together had the unhappy
habit of disagreeing with me. And you must remember that I was getting no sleep. Neither night
nor day—for weeks at a stretch sometimes —could I get any rest, and, as you may well imagine, the
result was disastrous. I got so terribly weak that ultimately I had to give up my work altogether,
and my body was so denuded of flesh that my clothes hung about me like a sack. It was through
reading somebody’s testimonial that I decided to give Clements’ Tonic a trial, and my earnest hope is
that other sufferers, for their sake, will be so influenced when they read mine, and then I shall
consider I have performed a valuable service to the community. I can give Clements’ Tonic a special
word in respect to its invigorating influence over my nervous system. It cleared every trace of ner-
vousness right way, and as an appetiser it was simply marvellous. Eat ! Why, when once I got
going I hardly knew when to stop, so no wonder I soon filled my clothes out again. But it was all
good, sound flesh I put on, plenty of strength and vigor behind it, and after using several bottles of
Clements’ Tonic there was hardly an ache anywhere to mar the wonderful cure I had made. What
little discomfort there was left after using my first lot of Clements’ Tonic was soon dispersed by my
continuance of the same remedy, and if anybody doubts the completeness of my recovery, all they
have to do is to drop in and see me, and I will give them my experience verbally from end to end.”
“And in the meantime may I circulate your story ?”
“You are at liberty to publish it in any conceivable style you wish.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, VICTOR BORWICK, of 280-288 Crown-road, Ultimo, in the State of New South Wales,
Commonwealth of Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have read the annexed
document, and that it contains and is a true and faithful aocount of my illness and cure by Clements’
Tonic, and also contains my full permission to publish in any way my statements—which I give
voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously
believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
(Sgd.) VICTOR BORWICK.
Subscribed and declared at Ultimo this twenty-third day of August, one thousand nine hundred
and four, before me, W. J. KYLE, J.P.
Visitors to Melbourne
WILL FIND
THAT . ..
Neale’s Temperance Hotel
(Tankards)
LONSDALE STREET (Next Law Courts;
is the handiest place to stay at. Being close to Railway
Stations, Theatres and Wharves ; and three minutes’ walk
from 6.P.0. Bedrooms on Ground Floor if desired.
Board and Residence, 4s. 6d. per day; or from JJI per
week. Telephone 1640.
X
SV
.V
J) i'S
&
S
fV
<3;
A/
<0
K 1
55
fv
1
u
r \
//
MEMORY.
A COURSE OF
THE PELMAN-FOSTER SYSTEM
OF
MEMORY TRAINING
will increase your power of thought-concent ration and
cure the habit of mind wandering. The best positions in
every business and profession are filled by those with the
best memories: therefore, if you wish to succeed, TRAIN
your memory.
The Pelman-Foster System
Scientifically trains the natural memory, and enables
anyone to remember names, faces, facts, figures, business
details : to speak without notes, to follow lectures and
conversation.
It is easy and interesting, and the oldest and youngest
can learn it. No matter what your life work may be,
THE PELMAN-FOSTER SYSTEM will make you more
successful.
WRITE for a FREE explanatory booklet, “ MEMORY,
AND HOW TO IMPROVE IT.”
The Secretary, The Pelman-Foster
School of Memory Training,
Box 402, G.P.0., Melbourne.
ENGLAND : 4 Bloomsbury St., London, W.C. FRANCE :
109 Avenue de Neuilly, Paris. SOUTH AFRICA : Lynn
Buildings, Durban. AMERICA : 901 Whitehall Building,
New York. GERMANY: Prannerstr 13, Munich.
LINOLO
CLEANS, SHINES, POLISHES
Linoleums, Wood Floors,
Furniture, Harness,
Boots and Shoes, &c.
THE FINEST AMERICAN POLISH
YET PRODUCED.
All Grocers, Ironmongers, &c.
Australasian Agents—-
AMERICAN HYGIENIC AGENCY, Ltd., 177 Liver-
pool Street, Hyde Park, SYDNEY.
Sole Victorian Distributing Agents—
J. J. MADDEN & CO., 58 Queen St., MELBOURNE.
Sole Queensland Distributing Agent—
ALFRED MOON, 37 Adelaide St., BRISBANE.
FREE SAMPLES any State on application.
WILL ANDRADE >« ROOKS
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition, Is ; post Is
3d. BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Marri-
age Guide by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition, hard covers, im-
proved. Magic Up-to-Date, Is. Horse and Cattle
Doctor, 6d. Donklly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, Is. Maria Monk, Is
6d. How to Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous
Dialogue Book, 6d each. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat Gould’s Novels, 6d each,
posted Bd. Devil in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads,
etc., Is. House Painting and Papering, 1/3. How
to Play Billiards, Is. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d.
The Cuckold, Is ; post, Is 3d. Britain for the
British, 6d. Freemasonry Exposed and Ex-
plained, 1905 edition, with key to all degrees, Is.
Cycle Building and Repairing, new edition, 190
illustrations, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Train-
ing. Is. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptamkron. and many
others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the First
Night, 1/3. How to Write Signs, Tickets and
Posters, Is 3d. Staining, Varnishing and Polish-
ing Wood, Is 3d. Electric Bells, 1/3. Boot-
MAKING AND REPAIRING, 1/3. HOW TO MESMERISE :
Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal
Gustave, Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
Piano Tuning and Repairing. Is 3d. How to Make
Love, Is. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card
Games, Is. Picture Frame Making, Is 3d.
Poultry Keeping, Is. Dream Book, Is. Every
Man His Own Builder, Is and Is 3d.
NOVELTIES.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, Real Photos, 200
Kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s.
ZINCARA GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS, LOVE, BUSI-
NESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions, 1s; posted 1/3.
n
&
V
7t.
Free Catalogues:
No. I—Plays, Reciters,
Make-up, etc.
No. 2—Conjuring'Apparatus
and Books.
No. 3—French Novels in
English.
No. 4—Books for Presents.
No. s—Useful & Mechanical
Books.
No. 6—Books for the
Married.
No. 7—Advanced
Literature.
Confessions of a Melbourne Barmaid, illus., Is 3d.
Gay Life in Melbourne, illus., Is 3d. Hoffman’s
New Conjuring Entertainment, Is 3d. How to Bet
and Gamble, Is 2d. Kropotkin’s Fields, Factories
and Workshops, Is 3d. A Midnight Mystery, Is. A
Left-Handed Murder, Is. God and My Neighbor, 9d,
p. Is. Engineer's Practical Test: engines, boilers, gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6. How to Make Up, Illustrated
Guide to the Stage, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is.
Sandow, 3s. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Midwives’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is. Building Model
Boats, Is 3d. New Tricks with Coins, ls. Phrenology,
Is. Blacksmith’s Work, 1/3. Lover’s Letter Writer,
Is. Photography, Is. Monster Song Books’, 3d,
6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post. Age of
Reason, Is 3d. Ingersoll’s Works, 9d. Irish
Song Book, Is. Lightning Calculator, Is. Min-
strel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is 2d.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
GLEASON’S GREAT HORSE BOOK
EVERYTHING WORTH KNOWING ABOUT THE HORSE. Fully Illustrated. Deals with breeding, breaking,
training, sheltering, buying, selling, telling age, racing, etc. Diseases —their causes, how to know them and
how to cure them. Worth £lO for its information, but offered for 7 /?.
508 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE
VICTORIA MARKETS)
201 BOURKE ST.,
MELBOURNE.
MELBA ACCORDEONS
Produce the
most . .
delightful
music.
They are
easily learnt
No know-
ledge of
music being
required to
become a
skilled
performer.
NEW 1906
MODELS
With 1,2, 3, or 4 sets of reeds, six, eight or ten
fold double and triple Bellows with metal bound
corners, and all latest improvements.
Prices from 7/6 to 26/9.
Packed and delivered free to any Post Office or
Railway Station in Australasia.
Ask for our 1906 Illustrated Catalogue. We
will send it Post Free.
ALLAN & CO. Propy. Ltd.
276-378 Collins Street, Melbourne.
§ - EW
T
W. Watson & Sons
ARE AGENTS FOR . . .
PAUL’S
AN IMATO GRAPH.
PRICE LIST GRATIS.
The
Best
Living:
Picture
Machine
Extant.
Large
Stock of
Newest
Films
Always
on
Hand.
W' WATSON & SONS,
78 Swanston Street,
MELBOURNE .
1 AIDS DIGESTION.
BRACES THE NERVES
PLASMON
COCOA
It non-heating. One cup contains
more nourishment than 10 cups at
any ordinary cocoa.
To soothe
the Skii,
smarting under the heat of a
burning sun. and to remove the
effects of perspiration,
CALVERTS
Prickly=heat Soap
is specially adapted. Though indispensable
in eases of Priekly-heat (whence its name)
and other irritation of the skin, it is also
popular for general bath and toilet use, being
pure, antiseptic, and refreshing.
Sold by all local Chemists and Stores,
in bars and tablets. '
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
England.
y
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in 48
hours without
incon-
venience.
Each Capsule bears the name EO~
BLOOD POISON.
FOR MORE THAN TWENTY YEARS
we have made the cure of blood poison a
specialty, Primary, Secondary or Tertiary
Blood Poison Permanently Cured. You can
be treated at home under same guaranty.
Capital 500,000 dols. We solicit the most
obstinate cases. If you have exhausted the
old methods of treatment, and still have aches
and pains, Mucus Patches in Mouth, Sore
Throat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spots,
Ulcers on any part of the body, Hair or
Eyebrows falling out, vWte for proofs of
cures. 100-page Book Free.
COOK REMEDY Co..
1102 MASONIO TEMPLE, Chicago, U.S.A.
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OF SELF-CURB, Will
forward the same, free oZ charge, to any-
one Interested,
Address: A.MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
The reward of merit. The fishermen of
Gloucester, U.S.A., concerning whom Kipling
wrote in his “Captains Courageous,” look upon
him as a Jonah. Of all the vessels of the fleet of
which he wrote in his book only two remain. The
others have, one by one, gone to the bottom.
The trial, at Adelaide, of Brown, the
alleged criminal lunatic who recently led the
police a wild whirling dance through the hills,
was of an exciting character. Brown had
previously been serving eight years in the
Stockade for house-breaking, but had either
shammed insanity, or acquired the real article,
and been sent to the asylum. Thence
he escaped about Christmas time, and having
stolen some raiment outside, he proceeded to whirl.
When caught, he nearly destroyed a policeman,
and at his trial he wrecked several more police-
men, kicked a door off its hinges, and insisted
upon standing on a chair in the dock. He got 10
years, and promised quite coherently to murder
Justice Homburg when he came out.
“ Nil ” about an episode :
I was sitting with an iced whisky and water late at
night during a heat wave.
She came to the open door and looked at me shyly.
She was dressed in the al—.
I looked at her—but not shyly. Slowly, demurely she
drew nearer, still smiling. I did not know just what to
do, so I went on reading. Nearer. I wondered. Then,
with a swift movement, she was on my knee and making
seductive pats on my shoulders.
Naturally, I was' embarrassed. I said “ Hem ! ” and
looked at my iced whisky and water. Also, I felt for my
pipe. You see, my wife had gone to bed. Daudet is
good at these situations ; I am not.
Her eyes were half shut and gazing languorously into
mine. I could feel her heart beating against my open-
work singlet. What next ? Would she go to sleep ?
It is not easy to go on reading, with someone on your
knee, looking unspeakable things into your eyes, and whis-
pering intoxicatingly into your ear.
“You really shouldn’t,” I murmured. She sighed.
“ What would say if she saw you ? ” I asked, inanely.
It was 2 a.m. The gas was nearly finished (carbide I
burn), and with a supreme effort I took her by the waist,
lifted her off my knee, carried her to the window, and
threw her out.
It was tue cat.


THE ZOBO.
. . . ANYONE CAN PLAY IT.
The Zobo is a new invention, made on the same
principle as the Kazoo. It has a rawhide disc on the
inside, and by singing in and against this disc won-
derful music is produced. Anyone can play any tune
upon it ; imitates fowls, bagpipes, animals, etc. Very
popular with singing clubs and societies.
ZOBO BRASS CORNETTO
A Baby with the Voice of a Giant.
Is. 6d. Each (is. Bd. post free); 2 for 3s.
A more unique merry-making- and fascinating: little novelti
would be exceedingly hard to find. It possesses real merit. It
is an intensely amusing: article for adults as well as for children.
It is not a mere toy, as many might suppose, being: substanti-
ally constructed and easily operated. The *sweet and varied
tones possible to be produced with this little device are incred-
ible. No tune ever composed that cannot be accurately pro-
duced. It is just the thing- for duets, quartettes, chorus,
carnivals, masquerades, serenades, parades, etc., It.may.be
accompanied with various other instruments with very pleasing
effects, and never fails to make a hit. Remember, that if you
do not obtain satisfactory results the first minute, it is no fault
of the instrument. Read over the directions, and persist a
little, when you will be delighted with the results. Best article
to be had for the money.
DIRECTIONS.
Place the stem against the lips, or hold between the teeth as in
the act of smoking. Simply HUM the air of Anv Tune into the
stem. DO NOT BROW. The notes are produced by vibra-
tion, the voice alone causing the vibratory diaphragm to act,
reproducing and modifying any sound emitted against it. The
tones thus produced resemble those of various instruments, such
as the Cornet, Clarionet, Saxophone, Bagpipes, and many others.
Very little practice is required by even a child to master the
instrument; there is a little “knack” to it, that’s all.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
229-231 Collins St., Melbourne.
(Mention this paper.)
Buy Your Phonograph
BY MAIL!
We sell hundreds of Edison Phonogbaphs
by Mail.
Our patrons all over Australia simply send
the money and we send the Phonograph
—we will refund money to any dissatis-
fied customer.
F,DISON<sr
Phonographs
are the finest in the world, and we sell
them at American prices.
The Edison Gem, £2 10s.
The Edison Standard, £5.
The Edison Home, £7 10s.
RECORDS, Mr, 1/3 and 1/9 each.
wcnru
vs*
m
PHOMO6
Write for FREE CATALOGUE*
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd
“MY OPTICIANS
Importers of Phonographs and Records,
393 GEORGE ST. (facing Royal Hotel), SYDNEY.
SOME
SOLD
BY
ROBERT!
k
HOME CYCLOPEPm
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
. IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and sliows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lanyuaye, a thou-
sand questions that occur to.the minds, of .young- and old, but aoout
which thev feel a delicacy in consulting- their physician. Uiapteis
are devoted to innumerable interesting- subjects concerning- mar-
riage. which makes it a superior guide to the action ot men and
women both in and out of, marriage. No man or woman w.ho
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information -embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition-just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete,. unabridged, ■
cloth-covered edition of.this great work. It will be posted to.
•ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, now 1905 edition,
2s 6d posted. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book D.y De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-
Date- Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s How
to Train the Horse, 1/6. Casanova’s Love Stories, 16.
Stolen Sweets, Is (id. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miner s’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Ciiiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
How to'Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Flay Billiards, illustrated, Is post..
That Rascal ,Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Fia.no, Is. , Piano Tuning- and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoylrs
Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. , Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Eisy, Is. posted. Kelly. Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers Handybook, Is 3d. Mao-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. On Our New Selection, 6s (id. A Life
of Pleasure, Is 6d. Lung Complaints, IsOd. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. .S? Jl/Stcibtislied 30 1 cuts.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
tE GOT FROH THIS ADVT
i
r
Write for my
gig Illustrate! Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
' How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Caros, Is. ■ Saiti/Oj genuine,
is. 010 Bush Songs, Is ;id Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6a.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret H istory Court of England, Is ;)d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is posted.
All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s Freemasonry,
l|s -posted. ' "Vest Pocket ' Dictionary, 8d posted.
Toxology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances; 2s.
Ingersoll’s: Complete • Works, 2s. GipsT Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, &c., with
full directions, Is..posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates); Is 3d posted. > Chevassk’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s (id posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest ls 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappiio, Is/ Bread and Biscuit. Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 25.6 d, The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits op Philosophy, Is post. The
Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post. 100 New
Recitations-and Readings, Is 3d.' 'Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1000 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets qf Clairvoyance*
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted.' The Age of • IfEAsoN, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. Wannax’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood,
ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne,, Is posted. New Tricks with
Coins, Is posted. A Modern Siren, Is 6d.
SIR RO
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
Peter’s
Original
fllilk
Ghoeolate
“Oh! So good for
Little Mary.”
‘44
The first
Essential
for the preservation of the
teeth is to keep them clean by
constant attention at least every morning
and evening.
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Tooth. Powder
makes the work of your toothbrush so much
more complete and satisfactory* because it
perfects the cleansing and also supplies the
necessary antiseptic properties.
It is also delightfully flavoured and
refreshing to use.
Sold by local Chemists and Stoves.
Made by F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
This
Trade
Mark
mo aNon
X3IH3V
on
every
Garment.
AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR
Shirts, Pyjamas, &c., &c.
Shirts matfe to measure from 5/6.
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
UNDERWEAR and other garments in stock and
made to measure, in Cottons, Lisles, Wools, Merinos
and Unions.
FABRICS BY THE YARD.
PAMPHLETS AND PRICE LISTS POST FREE.
Sole Agents in N.S.W.:
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.
REMOVING TO
94 King Street, Sydney,
BETWEEN GEORGE & PITT STREETS.
✓ %
*
$
* Y es
%
'r*
to
All Others .
Jlje Xaqcet describes it as—
“ Mr. Benger’s admirable
preparation.”
Zh e B r ‘ftsh Medical Journal
says—
“ Benger’s Food has by its
excellence established a
reputation of its own.”
gold medal awarded
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
*
#
FOOD
For INFANTS,
INVALIDS
* nd the AGED.
Benqer’s Food is sold in Tins
by Chemists, &c. everywhere.
“Roma ” : Lately came across a lady who
is growing in an abnormal way. Up to 36 years
of age she was of medium build and figure, took
4’s in boots, and 6’s in gloves. After that age,
she commenced to grow in every way. Now she
can’t get ladies’ boots large enough to fit her—B’s
are nowhere; her hands have lengthened and
broadened to correspond, so that women’s kid
gloves are out of the question. She is several
inches taller than formerly, and very masculine in
appearance. The doctors can do nothing for her
so far. One Melbourne doctor says he heard of
one other similar case. The poor lady
in question is afraid that she will outrival
Abomah. She denies herself all but the barest
necessaries in food, but still she grows in length
and width.
“Old Octopus,” so Melbourne people,
who are not shareholders, name the Tram Com-
pany. “Old Octopus” he is, and with feelers
running into a good many places besides the
public streets. Never a council meeting or con-
ference of councils to consider tram construction
but “Octopus” or his agent is in the midst of
them, glorifying the beneficence of private
enterprise, proclaiming the disaster which
must follow on Government or municipal enter-
prise in those matters. In the newspaper offices,
with one hand ready to clap on any impertinent
fellow’s mouth, “Octopus” holds his own well, and
gives us-to-day just the one penny ride he was
compelled under the Act to give four-and-twentv
years ago. “ I’m poor, nowadays, ’ says Octopus,
‘‘can’t afford to even think of penny sections.”
He stands thus, as a matter of fact96o,ooo
shares £1 each, paid up to 10s., £480,000 ; present
value at 265. 3d. a share —£1,260,000. Profit
annually divided £60,000, equal to 24 per cent,
on the real capital, because of the paid capital
of £480,000 no less than £230,000 has been
provided out of profits. And, in addition,
reserve funds accumulating, which will more than
suffice to pay back all the shareholders’ money
when their time expires. Those same shares in the
land boom time touched over £lO each.
“F.J.L.” : An old fellow at Devil’s Hole,
thinking he was about to die, threw what money
he had into the river, dug his own grave, and
burnt down his humpy, with his belongings. He
then lay down in his grave, and was greatly
annoyed next morning to find himself still alive.
Went olf in a rage to the nearest pub. to get on a
spree, but found he’d burnt his credit. Then
tramped to Glen limes, applied for, and got, the
Old Age Pension.


Look for
jr the name \
WOOD-MILNE
moulded on the face of youi
rubber heels.
These splendid rubber heels re-
duce fatigue and jar in walk-
ing, prevent worn-down heels,
and make a pair of boots last
twice as long. Smart and
economical.
WOOD-MILNE SHOESHINEB KEEP
BOOTS POLISHED FOR DAYS.
On sale at all Shoe and
Rubber Stores.
Sole Wholesale Agents for Australia—
D. and W. MURRAY, Ltd., Adelaide,
South Australia; Perth, Western Aus-
tralia; Kalgrorlie, Western Australia;
Melbourne, Victoria; Launceston, Tas-
mania; Brisbane, Queensland; Towns-
ville, Queensland; Broken-hill, New
South Wales.
n'a'aH
H'aaami
'aN.aiw
-aoo/A
DUNKLING’S
WATCHES
4#*© Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chmnograph.
%
■rjHURLUIG
NCEBOttMB
Gunmetal Open Face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Minute Re-
corder, and all the newest improvements.
Guaranteed for 3 Years. Post Free to any
part of Australia.
Warranted equal to any £lO 10s.
Chronograph made.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Australian Depot for ZEISS and
GOERZ FIELD GLASSES.
W. DUNKLING,
315-317 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
Js allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
Money in full refunded without qw stion
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
cycles, warranted six years.
LATEST
MODELS --
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or <- lincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Him
Drakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
Packed and Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee safe
delivery.
aaa Second-Hand Cycles
ZUU ail ™ kCB ' £1 to £2.10
good as new,
Great factory clearance sale at half factory prices.
taking orders from sample
machine. Active Agentß
wanted ineacii district. Large profits easily made. Write at once for
free catalogues and our special offer, using sufficient postage.
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, &c., halt prices.
MEAD CYCLE CO. Depn 839
LIVERPOOL, LONDON AND CHICAGO.
£2.10 to £6
EARN A CYCLE
BEST PRESENT FOR
THE BOYS!
mHE New Wizard Gy-rotary Top.
-L Spins in any position, upside-down,
sideways, on the pedestal, or runs along |
a wire. Complete with pedestal, string,
and full directions; only 1/- carriage
paid. Send stamps of any State.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
7ARD
SIZI
1W
■^su
SDIatSTIVETA^J
VEGESALIS
TABLE SALT
| WHICH JS SALT
With Vegetable Virtues.
! DOES HOT BLACKER SILVER.
- Does not Cake.
E USE IT WHEN COOKING
= VEGETABLES instead of
E OBJECTIONABLE SODA.
E Wholesale A^enta-
r WEST AUSTRALIA-
- WATSON BROS., Fremantle.
r victo-ia—
- ROBERT NELSON Sc CO., Melbourne.
= NEW SOUTH WALES-
~ W. H. ARIELL & CO., Sydney.
- QUEENSLAND- _ „. ,
d. d. VERNEY & Co., Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND—ELLIS Sc MANTON, Wellington.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—dAMES ROBIN Sc CO.. Adelaide.
[The Rea! Thing i
At Lastr
FUSSELLs
PURE RICH
GOLDEN
BUTTERFLY
BRAND.
J
FUSSELL’S
CREAM
Is NOT a Makeshift NOR a Substi-i
tute but PURE Mountain Pasture
i CREAM. Guaranteed free from Pre-
-1 servative find put up in Sterilized
I Tins.. Keeps good IN ANY CLIMATE
I FOR MANY MONTHS. On sale
I almost everywhere, but if any difficulty
' in procuring it, apply to special repre-
sentative for the district —
F. Lassetter & Co., Ltd.,
George Street, Sydney.
j
Mill
mmealtm
SI
*M li!i
mm
pisi
S??r p; a«]
Hill
m
lillil
Ifliil
ii'll
ill'll
W",I
ii-aiiii
!:!;w ii
’i'll!
mu
. > ■
m
liu:
'Mi
1
WJfsU
mm
///7 y '
m
llHfe
Use
Our Belt
if you
want
Health
and
Strength.
It is a
Natural
Cure!
Our
FREE
BOOKS
will tell
you how
to regain
your
Vigor
and
Vitality.
ufE KNOW that no one remains a Weakling because he want to. We are sure you want to
** overcome any symptom of early decay that has shown itself on you, and we know that
if you have a reasonable foundation to build upon we can make you a Strong, Healthy, and
Vigorous Being. We want to send you the names of many who, when they came to us, were
Physical Wrecks, and who are now among the Finest Specimens of Physical Manhood. We have
cured thousands of men and women who were suffering from a Weak and Wasted Condition
of both Brain and Body, and other troubles.
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt
is the only Natural Cure for Rheumatism, Weak Back, Loss of Vital Power, Nervousness,
Sciatica, Lumbago, Varicocele, Indigestion, Dyspepsia, Stomach, Liver, and Kidney Troubles,
etc. It gives back to the system the element which, when wasted through Excesses, causes
most of the Ailments that Men and Women suffer from.,
SCIATICA, RHEUMATISM, AND LAME BACK.
DRAKE, via TENTERFIELD, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs.—l have much pleasure in informing you that your Belt has given great satis-
faction. Before I got it I was very had with Sciatica, Rheumatism, and Lame Back, was
unahle to walk, and could not stoop to lace my boots. I could not lie on my back without
losing the power of my arms and legs, and could not get sleep for the pain. But since wearing
your Belt I am a different man altogether, and when people ask me what has made the change,
I tell them that the Dr. McLaughlin Electric Belt did it all.
Thanking you for your kindness and advice, I am, Yours truly,
E. H. HERTRAMPF.
FREE!
Write to-day for our FREE BOOK. It is full of facts, proofs, and items
of interest relative to the marvellous curative and invigorating powers
of our Belt and Attachments. It contains 96 pages of Sound Advice and
Information about the many ailments Electricity cures, and, also,
50 illustrations, showing how we apply the current to the limbs or body where there may
be weakness or pain. We will send you one FREE and POSTAGEPAID on application.
We Specially Invite You
to avail yourself of our FREE CONSULTATION and
ADVICE. Call, if you possibly can, and person-
ally examine this Wonderful Appliance. Our Offices are Open Daily from 9 a.m. to 8.30 p.m.
If you cannot call you should take advantage of our SPECIAL DIAGNOSIS SYSTEM, which
enables us to treat you as well IN YOUR OWN HOME as if you visited our Specialist.
Surely our treatment is worthy of the consideration of every ailing man and woman.
It must be right, that’s certain, when we can produce thousands of letters from cured
people. Every man and woman that has used our Belt praises it, and so would you 1
the McLaughlin go.,
100 W. MARKET ST., SYDNEY.
AKD AT 167 E. SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
90 WILLIAM STREET, PERTH.
54 WILLIS STRSST, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
William Charles Crau'fori
*3?
ns
SK. FOR
Himself Cured.
“HEAR SIR,—I have been cured of Weakness and
Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and
will be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers.
I do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURST,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
WHAT IS CATARRH?
medicator.
Catarrh is inflammation of
the lining' membrane of the
nose and adjoining passages.
If this inflammation is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the
sight and hearing,' destroys
i lie sense of taste and smell,
renders the breath offensive,
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge,passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? If so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia,Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
Price,complete with 4 months’
treatment by mail, 10s.
Write for Booklet, free, or send order direct to
Star Novelty Co., 220-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
_ THOUSANDS OF
RUPTURED
I PEOPLE have been and are being
CURED
by Dr Langston’s Perfect
Combined Treatment.
No Pain, Operation, or Detention from
Work. Immediate Relief, and Certain
Cure. Convincing Testimony and Refer-
ences from nearly every town in Australia
sent with my Valuable 800k —
“RUPTURE, ITS HISTORY 4 CURE
FREE.
Posted. 2 Stamps.
the LANBSTON INSTITUTE
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
RHEUMATISM.
GOUT
PILLS
Are recommended by doctors with confi-
dence as one of the valuable results of
medical science, and the only remedy
ever discovered for these disorders, in
that they not only rapidly cure but pre-
vent the recurrence of the maUdy.
Of Chemists and Stores, 1/1£ and 2/9 per box.
Proprietors— PßOUT & CO., 229, Strand,
London, England.
THE LAST OF SIX
(Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co.)
Prico 6d. Post Free.


TATTERSALL’S CONSULTATIONS.
(George Adams, Hobart,
NOW OPEN NEWCASTLE CUP, Newcastle, IT.S.W., March 31
DONCASTER HANDICAP, Randwick, N.S.W., April 14
SYDNEY CUP, Randwick, N.S.W., Anril 16 ...
ADELAIDE CUP, Adelaide, S.A., May 9
Tasmania.)
... ... ... 50,000 at 512 each.
... ... ... 50,000 at 5 2 each.
50,000 at 5 2 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d. on each
Ticket, and 4d. on each 10s. Ticket. Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT lias AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. Parcels may be forwarded through any PARCELS
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK, in Australasia.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING & MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
Tne Milk Foods closely approximate in composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant
They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns-
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys" Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys” Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
ALLEN & HANBURVS Ltd., LONDON, # Bridge #Loftus Sts., Sydney
fr
For Racing,
Polo, etc.
BREEDING STOCK
. OF _
thoroughbred Ponies
FOR SALE.
Registered in the General Stud Book and
| Polo and Riding Pony Stud Book. *
Col. E. N. HEWRIQUES
Invites correspondence and inspection at
Mursley Stud, Winslow,
Bucks, England.
I “Is superior even to meat and oi
,k 1 Inestimable value as a food.”
—Virchow.
PLASMON
Dr. Robert Hutchison says:—
•* a diet rich in proteid MAKES PHYSICAL ft
S— MENTAL ENERGY. To growing children a
dciic'enoy of proteid is especially dangerous,”
Heame’s Bronehitis Cure
THCE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANT CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs'’ have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BI3WARB OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A COMMERCIAL TRAVELLER SUFFERING IN-
TENSELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
HAS SINCE CAMPED OUT AND TRAVELLED
MUCH WITHOUT CONTRACTING A COLD.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —In 1898, I was for four years previously in
Queensland travelling: representative for a mercantile
house. Having' contracted a heavy cold, I placed myself
under a medical man, and used all kinds of chemists’
prescriptions without avail. I was then staying'at Hayes’
Terminus Hotel, Brisbane. The manager did all possible
for me, for which I shall always feel grateful. Mr. Duncan
Currie, at that time acting manager for the New York
Life Insurance Co., came to see me daily, and he advised
me to try your Bronchitis Cure. I was' about done for,
could not eat, or scarcely swallow ; in fact, used to nearly
suffocate a dozen times a day, suffering' intensely. Guess
of ; my thankfulness, when Mr. Currie brought me a bottle
of your Bronchitis Cure. A few doses actually cured me.
I Stook another bottle away from the city with me, and
part of it to,a young girl at Southport, and it also
saved her life. The balance I gave to Mr. T. McMillan,
Tweed River—three persons cured by your valuable
nfedieine. Although I have camped out and travelled
about 10,000 miles since my illness, I have not contracted
a cold since.—l atn, Sir, your best well-wisher,
THOS. ROSS,
Labasa, via Suva, Fiji.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A QUEENSLAND RESIDENT CURED BY HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
IT MADE A NEW MAN OF HIM.
NO SHORTNESS OF BREATH SINCE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l had Bronchitis several
times since 1898 in Victoria, Western Australia, and here,
and had paid many pounds away in medicine ; but when I
arrived in Cairns in 1900 from" Western Australia, I was
induced to try your Bronchitis Cure. I took five bottles,
and it made a new man of me. I could afterwards run a
mile or climb up and down a vertical shaft without any
feeling of shortness of breath. No medicine for Bronchitis
that I have ever taken has afforded me such relief as your
Bronchitis Cure. —Yours faithfully,
« RICHARD COLLINS, Mine Manager,
Irvinebank, via Cairns, North Queensland.
BRONCHITIS.
A SOUTH AUSTRALIAN STOREKEEPER TESTIFIES
TO THE EFFICACY OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE,
A SUFFERER 70 YEARS OLD CURED BY IT.
WELL AND HEARTY NOW.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir.—l am a storekeeper,
living- in this township for the last 20 years. One of my
oldest customers has been subject to Bronchitis for a
number of years, and has been in the hospital with it
several times. Hearing of your valuable medicine, he
tried it, and found that it gave him great relief. One
bottle was sufficient to put him right. This gentleman is
over 70 years of age, an old bushman, who has been in
these parts for the last 30 years, and is well known. He
makes my house his home when , here, and got the
medicine- from me. He is at my place now, and he says
that this winter is the freest he has had from Bronchitis
for a number of years, and he wishes to return you thanks
for your valuable Bronchitis Cure. He is well and hearty
now. You are quite at liberty ,to publish this or any part
of it ,vqu like, as it may be of great benefit to other people
suffering from Bronchitis.—Yours truly,
M. GOGLIN, Storekeeper,
Yunta, South Australia.
BRONCHITIS.
A FOURTEEN MONTHS’ SUFFERER IN
QUEENSLAND.
COUGH SO DISTRESSINGLY BAD COULD NOT GET
ANY REST.
CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
AFTER OTHER TREATMENT HAD FAILED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I write to add my testi-
mony to the wonderful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I
suffered for 14 months with a terrible cough. It was so
distressingly bad .at night that I could not get any sleep.
I consulted doctors to no purpose. I saw your medicine
advertised, and sent for a bottle, which has taken the
cough clean away, and I feel a different man. You may
depend on illy making your wonderful medicine known.
I have sent fo,r another bottle to keep by me in case it
may return at any time. lam writing this, as lam sure
there arg a gf-eat many people out this way that if they
knew the wonderful effect of this medicine they would
send and procure it at anv price.—Yours faithfully,
J. P. BOYD,
.Contractor, Torrens Creek, North Queensland.
SEVERE COUGH.—A FIVE YEARS CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
“ Dear Sir,—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during- that, time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and can’t be licked.—Yours sincerely,
“W. TREMELLEN,
“ Modewarre, Victoria.”
ASTHMA—A SEVENTEEN YEARS CASE.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes : —“ After suffering from asthma for
seventeen years, and having been under a great many
different treatments without benefit, I was induced to try
Hearne’s Medicine for Asthma. After taking three
bottles of this medicine, I quite got rid of the Asthma,
and since then, which was the beginning of 1883—fifteen
years ago—l have not had the slightest return of it. The
medicine quite cured me, and I have much pleasure in
recommending it.”
Writing again two years later, he states :—“ I am
keeping- very well. Never have the slightest return of
the asthma.
GRATITUDE AND APPRECIATION.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN CIRCLE.
The Scientific Australian Office,
169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who, during the last few years, has been repeatedly
working for and singing- the praises of Hearne’s Bron-
chitis Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
This gentleman some three years ago was recommended
to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, accountant,
Collins-street, and the effect that it had was so marked
that he has ever since been continually recommending it
to others.
We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintances.
Believe us always to be,
Yours most faithfully,
PHILLIPS, ORMONDE '& CO.
BRONCHITIS.
TWO PERSONS IN NEW ZEALAND CURED BY ONE
BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
ONE OF THEM HAD BEEN SUFFERING FOR
TWELVE MONTHS.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l had a very bad cough, so I
bought one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, and used about
one-half of it, which cured my cough in two or three days.
My daughter, who had been troubled with a bad cough
for the past twelve months, then used the remaining half
of the medicine, and it cured her also. I think your
Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful remedy.
I have lived on my farm at Bombay for about 36 years.
You are at liberty to use this letter in any way you
please.—Yours respectfully, CHAS. WOOTTON,
Bombay, Auckland, New Zealand.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A SUFFERER FOR YEARS.
IMMEDIATE RELIEF AND COMPLETE CURE BY
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I feel in duty bound to express
my gratitude first to you for your marvellous Bronchitis
and Asthma Cure, next to Mr. Cheshire, Chemist, North
Brighton, for having so valuable a cure in stock. My wife
being a sufferer for years, I purchased one bottle of your
Bronchitis Cure. It gave immediate relief, and, con-
tinuing it as directed, it effected a complete cure. My
wife and I recommend it to all our acquaintances who
suffer with the same. You can use this letter for publi-
cation if you wish.—Yours sincerely,
F. A. CUTTEN,
Elsternwick, Victoria.
BRONCHITIS.
A SYDNEY RESIDENT, CURED BY HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, EXPRESSES APPRECIATION.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Deal- Sir,—Accept my testimony to the success of your
Bronchitis Cure. I was very ill last February in Mel-
bourne, and was recommended by a friend to' try your
Bronchitis Cure. After three doses, I felt immense' relief,
and the cough vanished before the first bottle was finished.
Before leaving Melbourne I obtained three bottlesof it, as
I would not like to be without wonderful a medi-
cine.—Yours faithfully,
N. KILMARTIN,
Darling-hurst, Sydney.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Large Size, 4s. 6d.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G.HEARNE Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA
FORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
branchuepot- Qffi ce i No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.


GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD GOOD GOOD
GOOD GOOD GOOD
GOOD
6000
GOOD
GOOD
SUnuckT
LAUNDRY SOAP
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
Good for tlie clothes
Good for the hands
that wash the clothes
GOOD GOOD GOOD
GOOD GOOD GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SGRUBB’S cIoudy AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, ttc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the 9 0l^ u . r *, t ? Car P ets ‘
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SGRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
STYLE QUALITY
FIT 8 FINISH
Are the Elements of the
MOST POPDLAR CORSET
OF
THE
DAY
They are thE
LEADERS»f FASHION
BEST SOAP for. BABY
WRIGHT’S
COAL TAR SOAP.
IT IS DELIGHTFUL IN USE 1
IT IS ABSOLUTELY PURE.
IT PROTECTS FROM ALL INFECTION.
6d. per Tablet. Box of 3 Tablets Is. 6d.
Posted Missing!
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
HERE’S a black cross a-marking of her
I name upon the sheet,
The underwriters’ features they are any-
thing but sweet.
Their grief is not excited for the safety of the
crew—
They’re adding up the premiums on the barque
that’s overdue;
And a far wind’s blowing,
And a lone sea’s flowing
On a black and barren shore ;
But the sailormen so cheery,
And the captain and his dearie,
They are “ missing ” evermore.
There’h a young gal a-waitin’ in a house beyond
the hill.
There’s aye mg gal a-waitin’ and a-hoping, hoping
still,
They were married as he left her, but afore her
baby’s born,
He’s lyin’ quiet somewhere to the west’-ard of
Cajse Horn.
With a long wash breaking,
When the west wind’s making,
He’ll be restin’ evermore,
By his messmates dreaming,
While the pale light’s streaming
Through green fathom's to the floor.
There’s a gray widow weeping in a house beside
the Quay—
A rover’s chair is empty and for evermore
’twill be—
There’s a gray widow weeping, though she,
struggles hard to pray,
For the lad who made the sunlight in her cold,
winter’s day.
Oh, the sea-birds, flying
From the long Night, crying,
Are the only ones that know
Where a lost ship’s waiting
For her Dead Men’s freighting
To the Port where Lost Ships go.
'I 1 was a mornin’ fair and sunny when we took an’
towed her down
Phst the pretty harbor places to the gates of Syd-
ney town,
With her thousands’ worth of fleeces, a 3 we laid
her on the track—
’l 1 Was “A safe and happy voyage!” and “A
pleasant passage back ! ”
But the Long Night’s found her,
And the sea growth’s round her,
In a silent mourning wave,
And the fish, with eyes of wonder,
In their shining shoals down under
Dart and gleam about her grave.
Did a cry of danger wake them in the watches of
the night ?
Did they see the darkness redden with a great
fire’s growing light ?
Did the white squall strike them blindly with the
quickness of a sword,
Did she lay a-leak and wounded like a poor death-
stricken bird ?
Did a mad surf roaring
O’er-her rent decks pouring
Choke the lost crew’s hopeless cry,
Where the wheeling seabirds only,
On some barren coast and lonely,
Saw the last strong seaman die ?
An old man sadly musing in a house behind the
trees,
A gray wife sitting brooding on such hopeless
thoughts as these,
A childless widow weeping by an ever-waiting
chair,
A young girl playing softly with her orphaned
kiddie’s hair —
When the Night drifts forward,
And the rain sweeps shoreward —
With a salt breath, fresh and free—
Through the raindrops slowly falling,
They will hear the distant calling
Of the Voices of the Sea.
There’s a black cross a-marking of a ship’s name
on the sheet
In the little room at Lloyds, where the shipping
merchants meet;
They’ll reckon up their money on the barque
that’s posted “Lost,”
Regret the lack of salvage, and bewail the sordid
cost —
But a lone wind’s blowing,
And a far sea’s flowing,
And ’tis blithe to be ashore ;
But the long, long Night shall cover
Aye the husband, son and lover,
And their good ship evermore.
N.S.W.
E.J. BRADY.
The Story of Hans.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SVEN owned der schooner, Shling
' Olsen vas mate, und Borka, de Finn,
rushed de cedar aboard out ob de bush.
We vas all partners in de leedle sawmill on the
flat. We tink ob nodin’ but cedar, de corned
beef cask, und rum.
Borka talk a lot about England, und vat a great
island it vas, until we all got sick ob de cedar
trade und de grog shop down de river.
“Let us go to dis England,” says Shling.
Und eferybody says, “Yes, let us go! Let us
go nord vere de geese vas trailin’ up der fiords
und der ice vas boomin’ in der Belt.”
Und so we lay in stores und a new rig-out, und
avay we goes. We make good weather to der
Leu win und Kerguelen. Den we meet de Cape
birds und der green seas, und der vind get hold
ob us like a big Englishman mit wet hands.
Den one day Sven hit de compass a blow mit
his fist. “Vere vas we now, do you tinks?” he
says.
“Someveres bv Finisterre,” I says, for we haf
left der tropics m.der our feet und fetch der grey
skies und Channel rain.
One day we see a big black ship come from de
sky-line. De smoke about her vas like a,town.
“We are in her way,” I says.
“Veil, stop der ondil she speaks.” Und Sven
stood for’rd mit a rusty chronometer in his hand.
De big ship begin to blow und hoot like a howlin’
lion. “Out ob de way! Out ob de way!” she
screams. I read “Campania” on her hull, und I
knew we vas someveres between Liverpool and
New York.
“Cap’n,” says Sven, “oblige us mit de time ob
day, und vich vay vas id to England ? ”
“East, east, you blackguards ! You vas goin’ to
America,” he says. “Kybuclc,” says Sven, und
we go about quick und lively.
We did meet anoder Yankee ship, und de cap’n,
mit a big cigar in his face, poked de borak at us.
“ Ver vas England ?” says Sven.
“Id vasn’t dere ven I coom past,” says de
Yank. “I noticed id vas a bit muddier in de
Nord Sea. Did id haf a gatepost at de corner und
a garden in front ? ” he ask.
"Dot man vas jokin’,” says Sven. “England
vas dere alride.” We keep de schooner east by
east for anoder week ondil we sight de rocks of
England. Sven went ashore, in de dingy, und-a
man mit a sheepskin coat walk along de beach
und ask him what he want.
“We want England,” savs Sven’ “Vere is
id?”
“ Dis vas Skye,” says de sheepskin man. Den
Sven sit on a rock mit Borka, und drink rum.
“Go avay, Sheepy,” says Sven. “Go away.”
Sheepy would nod go avay. He sit by und
look at de rum. “Come on, den, Sheepy,” says
Sven. Und Sheepy sit by, und when Borka
drink Sheepy drjnk, und ven Sven drink Sheepy
make a noise. Sven look hard at him. “Go
avay,” he says. '“Sheepy, go avay. ”
A leedle while und Sheepy come back mit a big
red-haired woman. She look ’at de Finn and ask
him to fight her. “I cannot fight a woman,”
says Borka. “ I will fight your husband.”
“ Fight me,” says de woman.
“Yes,, fight her,” says Sheepy. “She vill gif
you plenty.” Borka und Sven rowed back to de
•schooner.
We go nor’-nor’-west until we meet grey skies
und squally winds. “Dis vas England,” said
Sven. “ Shoost listen ! ” He stooped low und
blew on his fingers. “I can hear de bells ob
London ring.”
Der vas a smell ob fried fish in de fog, und Sven
told us dot it coom up from der Mansion House.
Borka und Shling vas by de wheel, und dey
looked hard at de sky und de grey water, und
sneezed. “Id vas like de Baffin Sea,” dey said.
“Der vas seals not far avay.”
Sven looked away Nord ver a grey mountain
vas movin’ from the sky-line upon us. He sprang
to de wheel mit a roar, und set de schooner’s heels
to de movin’ mass.
“By Shimmy ! ” said Shling. “ Der Nord Pole
haf broke loose ! ” We look troo der mist und see
de iceberg plunging upon us. Id vas covered mit
snow, und it vas de size of a cathedral.
“We vas a corpse alride,” said Sven to me.
.“ Der schooner vill not answer de wheel.”
De ice-hill came upon us. De sudden cold
pinched de spine und stiffened our hands. I
heard de leedle schooner shake und cry as de ice-
wall slammed upon her sides.
I vas after de Finn like a shot. A narrow
ledge run like a counter around de waist of der
berg. Id struck us amidships, und I jumped
mit der Finn und held to der big holes dot der
sea made veil it shoot up troo de bottom. Shling
und Sven came after us.
By crikey, id vas cold. Der vas a black tunnel
troo de berg worn away by de wind und sea. De
horrible cold slammed in our face, und bit our
hands und feet like acid.
De Finn, mit his teeth clackin’, says: “My
fader told me always to keep under de lee of a
berg. Dis vind vas from de Baffin Sea. By
cripes, Australia vas nod too warm after all.”
We crawled around de ice-hill after de Finn
und we had to hold by de frozen drip overhead.
Den we get anoder smell ob fried fish und
gravy. Borka stopped on de ledge of ice holdin’
up his finger.
Round de sharp corner vas a big room worn in
de ice. De ceiling vas adrip und an’ oil smoke
came out dot nearly blind us. De floor vas covered
mit ships’ battens. Und we see a leedle old man
Jew sittin’ in de middle eatin’ de Hsli. His back
vas round, und his beard ran to his hips. Der vas
no one else in de room und we hear.i de old man
breathe efery time he swallowed de fried fish.
“ Good efenin’, fafter Abraham ! ” said Sven.
“Vas dis 1)1 ace der British Isles? Vas der a
r.iilwav about here, do you know ? ”
De Jew jumped mit a scream, upsettin’ de pan
of fisli.
“ Id vas alride, Abraham,” said Sven quietly.
“Dis British Isles of yours haf knock a hole in my
schooner. We to drouble }’ou.”
De old Jew grabbed his pan, und he looked
sideways at us. “You vas poor sailors to bump
de front ob mein house,” he say. “ Eferyting •on
dis iceberg vas mine. De pots und kettles ;de
stores und de bed clothes.”
“ Vere in hell vas you makin’ for?” asks Sven.
“ Vas you runnin’ de Arctic Loan Office?”
De Jew grew hot in de face. “You moost nod
swear on de berg,” he* said. “Der vas tree Ger-
man sailors here last month who nearly melt de
house mit der language. Dey vas dead now.”
De Finn und Sven sit round de fryin’ pan,
but old Abraham fly into a rage. “ I cannot keep
you for nodings,” he said. “Vere vas your
money ? ”
De Finn shook his head und stared at de Jew
mit red eyes.
“No fish out of dis pan ’till I see de money,
said Abraham. “Dis iceberg vas r TnVr Der
ment. I bought id from a Greenland whaler. D
deeds vas in my box.”
Sven, after hagglin’ mit de Finn, gave de Jew
ten shillin’. ,
De Jew said id vas alride und we all go for de
hot fish in der pan.
“ Shentlemen,” said old Abraham after dinner,
“dis vas my iceberg. Id vill pe a long whiles
pefore a steamer bicks you up. Vill you pay me
efery veelc in advance ? ”
“Efery veek,” says Sven. . „ •,
“ Der vas a goot room to shleep in, said de
Jew. “Und I find beds und food. Den he
rubbed his nose und looked hard at Shlmg und
B< “ Id vud come cheaper,” he says, “if you could
buy a bit of der iceberg for yourselves. I vill sen
you a nice corner block cheap, shentlemen. Up
i piece dot faces America vas a nice suitable posi-
tion. You buy de block und der vas no more rent
to pay.” . . ,
Sven thought de block dot face America vud
melt next week. He said dot ice vos not real
Abraham swore und lifted his hands. He said
de ice at de Poles vas burstin’ mit mortgages. He
would gif us a guarantee dot de berg would keep
hard all de summer. Den he offered billing a
corner block for ten bob.
So we travel mit fader Abraham on de berg for
tree long weeks, und de weather get warmer und
warmer. De ice begin to drip und fall avay in
lumps. One nide a big crack boomed across de
middle, und Abraham rushed mit his clothes und
furniture to de larger half of de berg. All day he
vas carrying stores over de crevasse, und ven he
finished he asked us to buy de piece we stood on
for a song ; id vas a good chance, he said, to get
an iceberg of our own.
At mid-day de sun broke troo de fog, und de
berg begin to talk und groan. De noise of a thou-
sand hammers came from beneath. “ Look out !
cried Sven ; “ she will go like an avalanche ! ”
A cannon-shot seemed to burst up from do sea-
sri£f?;S»?“ broken
m y." C d.«» de smaller half. Abraham
h tYa,:kee a J-W«pM»»»P- Hetoldusdot
fader Abraham vaf de Ilyin' Pawnbroker an
dot’Abrnham'J.S a harmless fool.
But we nefar found England. Borka und Slilmg
bHII belief id vassomevere in de Word Sea.
SvS does not tink so. He says de British Isles
vas a joke invented by de Yankees. Sven vas a
great navigator.
ALBERT DORRINGTON.
“PEN”:I crave permission to remark
a thing or two in your impartial cuss of a paper
About 12 years ago John Cribble, autnor oi
“Black but Comely,’’founded the
sion settlement near Cairns (Queensland ).
abundantly blessed, dying by inches, as his diary
shows, under the stress of labor there
Then his son took up the work, and, in spite ot
storm and shipwreck and hard times, built schools,
and a church—in fact a unique and complete settle-
ment for the niggers. He fought himself m
nremature old age in the battle for tne
T'erruth. As a special token of appreciation
for these labors in the black Vineyard a special
hurricane came on to him recent y, ,
single night, destroyed the results, so far as pro
oertv is concerned, of 12 years’ devoted labor.
was dying of lung disease when
the hurricane came, and Ins comrades, black and
white, had to hang on to wires and ropgtokeeg
a bit of roof over his dying head. He passed
away in the yell of the storm. Now, I want to
know what these things mean ? I shouldthinkif
they mean anything, they are a mark ofspecial
disapprobation of the whole missionary business.
I appeal to your impartial cuss of a paper for an
opinion.


SUMMER-END FAG.
AT the end of Summer, the body, run down by Summer’s heat, needs to be
toned up and prepared to withstand the trying Autumn and Winter
seasons. The liver and digestive system are deranged by Summer’s
heat, and their imperfect operation gives rise to that weakly “ tired-
out ” feeling, which is now so common, and may be called “Summer-end Fag.”
Bile Beans act directly on the liver and stomach, and by thoroughly stimulating
them, tone up the body and prepare it for the coming season. Thousands of
cases prove this. Here is one : —Miss Cecilia Monaro, formerly of Albury, now
residing at 10 Lackey-street, St. Peter’s, Sydney, says : * ‘ Twelve months ago
I began to suffer from intense depres-
sion, severe headaches and tired feel-
ing. For days I was utterly pros-
trated, hardly able to move, and in
no way capable of attending to my
usual duties. The most racking pains
were in my head, and at times I
thought I would go mad. My joints
ached continually, and I was very
bilious. While living in Albury I
consulted doctors, but their medicines
failed to afford the slightest relief.
For about six months I persevered
with their treatment, but it was of no
avail, and I was, if anything, worse
than ever. I wasted away to a mere
skeleton, and my parents became
alarmed at my condition. Seven
months ago we came to Sydney to live. One day a book bearing upon Bile
Beans was placed under our door, and I glanced through it out of mere curiosity.
I noticed the names of two or three friends of mine who testified to the virtues
of Bile Beans, and I determined to give them a trial, and was overjoyed, after
using nearly a box, to find a decided improvement in my condition. Six boxes
completely restored me to health, and those of my city and country friends who
see me now are astonished at the change. lam at present in the enjoyment of
the best of health, am vigorous in mind and body, can eat heartily, and indulge
in refreshing sleep. I have not the slightest hesitation in declaring that my
present state of health is entirely due to Bile Beans, and I shall have the greatest
pleasure in recommending them to my acquaintances. Every word I say can be
substantiated by.relatives and friends in Albury and Sydney.”
m
£
\
r*
BILE.
BEANS *
f° f BBHI
BILIOUSNESS
BILE BEANS are a SAFE and
SPEEDY CURE for BILIOUSNESS,
HEADACHE. INDIGESTION,
STOMACH TROUBLES, CONSTIPA-
TION, PILES, DEBILITY, FEMALE
WEAKNESSES, NERVOUSNESS,
BAD BLOOD, BAD BREATH,
ANAEMIA, DISTURBED SLEEP,
LOSS OF APPETITE, SUMMER FAG,
and, in fact, all ailments that owe their
origin to defective Bile Flow, Assimilation
or Digestion. Obtainable generally at
Is. l£d., or 2s. 9d. LARGE BOX (contains
three times the Is. size).
A. <& F.
PEARS,
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Hotice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
Sea Nymph.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HVT a K&uze o’er her charms was laid,
[X Save the white of the frothing sea,
As she danced, knee-deep, where the
wild surf played,
And laughed in her maiden glee.
And over and over the wide seas rolled
And, holding her fetterless so,
Threw her a kiss for her hair of gold,
And a kiss for her breast of snow.
Yea, morn on morn, with the East afire,
They smiled on her sunlit face
As she sang old songs with the headland choir
And danced with an infinite grace...
A Pagan came in an artist’s guise
And the world has been glad since then—
For the Sea-Nymph lives with her loyal eyes
Deep down in the hearts of men.
And over and over the wide seas rolled
And, holding her fetterless so,
Threw her a kiss for her hair of gold,
And a kiss for her breast of snow.
Then a preacher came, as a lover clad,
And oh ! but his face was fair;
And oh ! but her virgin heart was glad
As she gave him her life to share.
And over and over the wide seas rolled—
Old friends of the dawn they came—
And still with a kiss for her hair of gold,
Dut—she covered her breast in shame.
The night sleeps deep on the ocean ways
A-roek with the restless stars ;
And, ever and ever, a Pagan strays
To the bounds of the headland bars.
“ Sea-nymph ! Sea-nymph ! ” Do'you hear the call
Oh ! ledges so broad and bare ?
“Sea-nymph! Sea-nymph!’’—when the breakers
fall
Is it wbeds that are golden there ?
N.S.W.
E. S. EMERSON.
With Camels.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WE took Long Bill under protest.
Wade lost the camels every day for a
week, in the hope of a better man
coming along and taking the job; but the store-
keeper’s patience was exhausted at last, and he
sent the musterers out to bring them in. Had
old Mac., the ; manager, been home at the head
station we wouldn’t have got that week’s grace ;
for Oordillo was nearly out of rations, and in
the middle of that awful drought. But the
camels could face the track. We had six weeks
to go 400 miles in, and were timed to arrive on
Christmas Eve. Our first hundred miles was over
fairly hard tableland country. Wade was inithe
lead, Long Bill in the middle, and I brought up
the tail. The .weather kept moderately cool, so
Bill, with occasional help, bumped them along till
we got to the Lake.
Then troubles commenced. The bore water went
about five pounds of salt to the gallon, and there
was none other for the camels. We knew we
wouldn’t get much pulling out of them next day,
with hot weather and salt water. It was only a
short six miles to our next camp at Box Flat, but
in between lay the dreaded Lake ' Crossing and
the Cobbler Sandhill.
Wade took the crossing first, and went over in
good style. He was a champion with the whip,
and could whale a beast from the wither to the
rump in one cut. He didn’t have much time for
crackers. The bare green-hide was enough for
him. When he lifted his whip his camels would
bellow like Joe Cook and his crowd when the
closure was applied, and get into the collars
without any loss of time. He didn.t liit ’em very
often, but when he did they knew it.
Well, Wade got over and took 'a pull at the
waterbag and a blow on the other side. Then
Bill’s lot got fair into the crossing and stuck.
They turned round and looked at Bill, who had
apparently run amok. He was prancing from
the leaders to the polers and back again, waving
his whip wildly, and hitting himself as often as
the camels. As I came up I could swear old
Hocket, the leader, turned round and winked at
Darky in the pole. He straightened up a bit,
though, when he caught sight of me with my per-
suader. I was not a champion flagellator like
Wade, but I had an idea that a nice length of
trace chain on a 4ft. pole was a good thing in a
tight place. I sort of reckoned that I would have
many a job like the present before I reached Inna-
mincka, and that I’d better make a good impres-
sion so that Hocket and company would know me
when they saw me again.
“ Now, Bill, you reckless long streak, get around
there on the off side and wave your blanky whip
and yell when I’m ready.” I started on my
jingling, and did more hard work in the next
ten minutes than was warranted by my
wages for a whole day. To make matters
equal I started on the polers, and went up
one side and down the other. I let ’em
stand for a, minute, so that the impression
should sink in, like. Then I stood back by the
polers and whistled. They went into it like
horses. We were nearly across when off came
Bill’s whip. Camels stopped, of course, to see
what was the matter. They always stop if any-
thing happens. You’ve only got to start and fill
your pipe, when you’ll see seven or eight blasted
long necks turned in your direction. Bill’s whip
had a bad habit, of coming off at every tight place.
Then he’d get up on the waggon and tie it on,
while Wade or I flogged his team,through for him.
The slavery of that day I won’t forget for a life-
time. The air was fairly sizzling with heat. If
vou belted the camels too much it meant they
would he down and sulk. If you didn’t belt ’em
they wouldn’t gee. The best way was to frighten
them by brandishing the whip. And that’s not
a cooling operation on a hot day. We used
to bump ’em on a bit, and then get in the
shade of the waggon and. pant and drink
water Bill, of course, must drink too much and
get the cramps bad in his tucker box. I was glad
to see the long fool get up on the waggon.
He was out of the road there, at all events.
However, the longest day must close. We got to
Box Flat that night, and half my troubles were
forgotten when Wade said : “Can you do a nip,
Charley?” We had three apiece, and knew no
more till daybreak.’
Next day we spelled. Bill had recovered, and
was starting in to give us some hints on cam el-
driving, when Wade arose, and, tucking up his
sleeves a little higher, squared off and remarked,
“ Come on, you blanky paper-seller, or whatever
you are! Come on!” he repeated; “I’ll teach
you camels.” Bill was six foot two, and big in
proportion, but as soft as the middle of one of his
own dampers. He didn’t come on. The gleam
in Wade’s eye was bad. Bill apologised, and said
he knew nothing about camels. I seconded his
remarks in good sound colonial.
We flogged our weary way along gradually.
Wade got bad with Bill’s cookery, so we put Bill
on camel-hunting with him in the morning, while
I took a spell at the dishes. It didn’t last long,
though. After losing Bill two or three times,
and having to track him up again, we allowed that
our stomachs would have to stand the strain.
Our feet couldn’t.
We pulled in to Innamincka up to time, with
only a hundred miles more of our journey to do.
There we met with “Whistler,” who had left
Cordillo, and was making south with a cheque.
He was a real good fellow was Whistler, and when
we told him our sad case, he agreed to come on in
Bill’s place. The camels were easier after that.
C.X.G.
The Boots of an Actor.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I WAS furious with Footlite, and could
not help letting him see it. At the best of
times the man was distasteful to me, but
when he came to me with his infamous proposal,
I could hardly keep from striking him. Fortu-
nately I have a wonderful command of my
temper.
“ How dare you ! ” I cried, as soon as I under-
stood from his hints what he wanted. “ How
dare you make such a cursed suggestion ! ”
“ But I want the engagement,’* he pleaded, and
I saw the tears well up in his foolish, watery <|yes.
“I must have the engagement, and I can’t go in
these ! ” He pointed despairingly at his broken
boots, and pulled out his handkerchief.
It sickens me to see a man weep. “Bah!" I
said, “be a man, my friend—try to be a man ! ”
The creature had no spirit at all. He wrung his
hands and asked me what he was to do.
“Go to him,” I said ; “go to him yourself like
a man and ask him to lend you the boots.”
“No, no,"-he wailed, “it would be useless.
Ever since that wretched dispute he has never
given me a civil word. The man hates me !”
“ Has he ever told you so ? ” '
I saw him wince. “ You heard the fellow
threaten me the other night,” he muttered, and
fell to pulling at one of his frayed heels.
I laughed.
It seemed to madden him. He jumped up, and
strode up 41 id down the room like a lunatic.
“80,” he hissed, “you refuse—you absolutely
refuse- to help me ? ”
“l‘clo.”
“You won’t do ”
“No,” I said. “I won’t do it. You have the
infernal impudence to ask me to steal ”
He raised a protesting hand. “Not steal, my
dear sir. I didn’t ask you to steal the boots. I
merely ” ——
“Enough!” I cried. “Do you think I have
no memory ? You came to me last night and
asked me—as a favor—to obtain the loan of the
boots for you. I tried to do so; but, as I have
already told you, I failed. Kesterton refuses to
lend his boots to anyone.”
“ But,” moaned the creature, “he owes me
fifteen shillings, and he promised me two,weeks
ago—before the disagreement—that he’d leind me
the boots.” ■ '
“ Well,” I said, testily, “ all I know is that he
now objects to doing so.”
1 “ But he promised ’’ r
“ That, my dear fellow, is no concern of mine. ”
.“It is!”'he cried. “It,is a ‘concern ’ of
;yours!”
, I stared at him. “ What do you mean?” I
‘ demanded. “ Explain yourself.”
: He actually shook his fist in my face. “ You
owe me money yourself!” he shouted. “ You
owe me ten shillings. If I had it I could go out
and buy boots.”
“My dear fellow,” I said, “ don’t be alarmed.
You shall be paid immediately I get an engage-
ment—perhaps to-morrow. lam sorry,” I added,
“ very sorry indeed that I ever borrowed money
from you. I Can assure yoh, however, that I will
never do so again.”
“You won’t get the chance ! ” he yelled. “ You
won’t diddle me a second time ! ”
It was all I could do to keep my hands off him.
“ Oh, confound your insolence,” 1 cried, anyone
wpuld think I was a swindler the way you yell at
me. I suppose you think because I owe you a
few paltry shillings I’m going to steal the man’s
boots for you so, that you may go and secure the
very engagement ”
“ It’s a lie ! ” he shouted ; “ a lie ! ”
I managed to keep my temper.
“ That will do," I said coldly, “ I don’t wish to
hear anything further.”
Then I withdrew. I heard him using some
most abominable language as I went out.
For what happened the following morning I
have only my own clumsiness to blame. I knew
of course, when Kesterton refused to lend me the
boots, that he had the Koyal engagement in view,
but as he had owed me half-a-crown for six
months, and having obliged him in a similar
matter of foot-wear some time before—a service
for which he had not made any return—l felt
fully justified, in view of his brutal refusal, in
doing what I did. •
I had secured the boots by crawling across the
floor and wriggling in under the bed, and had just
succeeded in putting on the right one,, when,
turning to pick up the left, I lost my balance and
fell with a thud to the floor.
In a second that ungrateful wretch was out of
bed grappling with me and shouting for help. I
had almost wrenched myself free, when in
bounded Footlite, and the two of them set on to
me like wild beasts. Between them they threw
me to the floor and tore the boots from me, and I
had the mortification of being hustled out on to
the landing attired only in shirt and trousers, and
with my nose bleeding profusely. The scoundrels
had beaten me.
I regret to say that Kesterton got the engage-
ment.
Kodak.


We take pleasure in publishing the following in*
teresting letter from Mr. James Sumers, who also
very kindly sends his photograph:
L
St;
W:
/U
“Indigestion and liver complaint
troubled me greatly, and tbe money I
spent on various medicines was only
wasted, as they did me no good. A
friend asked me why I did not take
AYER’S
Sarsaparilla
I thought that if I did the result would
be the same as with the other medi-
cines; but, to my great surprise, after
taking a fow doses I felt really better,
and I continued until I had taken, in all,
seven or eight bottles. I was then able
to digest my food, and it made me feei like a new man. I now always
have with me a supply of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.” James Sumers, Xorth
Terrace, Adelaide, S. A.
Of course you cannot enjoy good health if your stomach gives out.
You must have an appetite, must digest your food, and must keep
your liver active. Muscular strength, nervous strength, desire to be
active, and a feeling of general good health may be yours by keeping
your liver active and your blood pure. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla strengthens
the stomach and aids digestion.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla will do all this for you, but
you must insist upon getting “AYER’S,” for it is
stronger, contains more valuable ingredients, and
cures more quickly than any other kind.
Prepared by DR. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., IT. S. A.
Ayer’s Pills keep the liver in a healthy condition.
VUi
m
&
FREE TRI A' !
NOT A PENNY DOWN
Simply drop us a post card with y ur nam 3
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure al l cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back, Kid-
ney, Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all Weakness of Men and Women.
Ult thill Slot
to us one copy t our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
men and women. If you are weak in any way
delay no longer, but write to-day for our
splendid Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
DRUG HABIT
HAVE YOU FAILED THROUGH
DRUNK:
ENNESS
,DON'T DESPAIR
DR. LANGSTON’S VEGETABLE CURE.
A Home Cure which never fails.
It is safe, sure, absolutely certain, and
inexpensive. A few doses produce a won-
derful change. The craving for all
intoxicants will be destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for food will
return, refreshing sleep ensues. This cure
will surprise and delight you. May be
GIVEN SECRETLY.
Thousands of Cures ; here is one
Ravensthorpe, W.A., 23-9-04.
Rave finished the half course, which has
effected a cure. 1 have no 'desire for drink,
in fact, have a repugnance to the very idea
of it. Yours faithfully,
Write for Treatise No. 5. Posted Free.
tub Dr. Langston institute,
12 9a COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
TOBACCO HA BIT
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the World.
Dr. Rlcord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
Bt., Melbourne ; F. H. Fauldingr & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of ‘‘ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
OR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUCHS, GOLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c. bears on the
Government Stamp the name of
the Inventor
Pr.J. COLLISBROWNC
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with rue, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Ohlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
BALLET GIRL
A
mm
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and N<
Madame Panza,
Box 913 , G.P.0., SYDNEY.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
Hie
OEM
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no master of
[how long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
IP YOU WISH
TO EAT WELL,
SLEEP WELL,
and WORK WELL,
Take
You will Eat Well
Because, by their specific Action on the Digestive
Organs, BEECH AM'S PILLS remove the sensation
of fullness and oppression commonly experienced,
give the appetite “edge,” and restore the Stomach
to healthy and natural function.
You will Sleep Well
Because BEECHAM’S PILLS gently calm irri-
tation of the Nervous System, while by their stimu-
lative and cleansing action upon the Liver and
Kidneys, Digestion proceeds with normal regularity
so that at night the tranquilized mind and body
are prepared for “ Nature’s sweet restorer”—peaceful
slumber. Should one feel restless after an exciting
or convivial evening, a dose of BEECHAM’S PILLS
will quickly induce refreshing sleep.
You will Work Well
Because BEECHAM’S PILLS bring about the
proper assimilation of the food taken, give tone to
the Stomach, purify the Blood, invigorate the Nervous
System, add force to the muscles, and thus endue
the worker—mental or physical—with renewed
energy and power.
Sold everywhere in Boxes, price Is. l|d. (56 pills) and 2s. 9d. (168 pills).
[2.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
is.
Post Free.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GIUMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold by all Chemists.
LEARN to HYPi
INSTRUCTION FREE!!
You cau become a Hypnotist in a few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
sway the minus of others, control friendship
and atlectiou, cure disease and bad habits,
gratify your ambitions and produce amuse-
ment by the hour. My mammoth Illustrated
Lesson or Key to Hypnotism which I sena
free *>f charge and postage paid, will tell you
all about thi s marvelous science. It contains
be utiful and artistic engravings, and shows
you just what Hypnotism is and
what it will accomplish. Send for
it and learn to Hypnotize. Remember, this wonder-
ful book costs you nothing. If you men-
tion this paper, I will also include a large
package of other valuable, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance of a lifetime.
?rof. R> H. BARRADEN, oa Pitt St., Sydney.
POLICY foe the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d; Posted, Bd.
YOU OUGHT TO
WRITE at once for my new book (illus-
trated), “ Mens Sana in Corpora
Bano.” Valuable information FREE for
EVERY MAN. The following- subjects are
dealt with and thoroughly explained—Marriage,
False Modesty, Culpability of Parents, Blood
Poison, -Loss of Vitality, Varicocele, General
Debility, Rupture, etc., etc.
The book is written for sufferers to under-
stand, and points out the way to a permanent
cure. It tells you what you want to know,
and what you ought to know. Neurasthenia
and various other Nervous Disturbances arising
from neglected Varicocele are fully explained.
Posted FREE.
My Electro-Regenerator
(Patent Secured)
is the result of the Latest Scientific Achieve-
ments in Electro-Medical Therapeutics. It
builds up the Nervous System and sends a
Curative Wave of Electricity throughout the
entire organisation
WRITE TO-DAY.
129 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Dr. MARTIN
M.D.,
Gold Medallist, Formerly Medical Superintendent
and Visiting 1 Surgeon to Four of Australasia’s
Leading Hospitals ; Government Medical Officer ;
Medical Officer in Charge of Troops, South
African War.
M. 8., 0.M., L.R.C.P., E., L.R.C.S., E.,
L.F.P.S.G.
A Serious Question.
Where can I obtain relief ? After so many failures,
whom can I trust ? Who is the most thoroughly
experienced and reliable physician and surgeon in
Australasia ?
The above qualifications, gained from the World’s
Most Famous Universities, should be an all-sufficient
answer to the question. Therefore, if you are ill, or
suspect the existence of some latent disease, why
not sit down quietly at home, and drop a few lines in
plain, simple language to Dr. Martin, describing as
thoroughly as possible the symptoms you experience.
He will, on receiving such an account, write you
plainly, telling you exactly what is the matter, and
the remedy to obtain to effect a thorough cure.
Always bear in mind : Dr. Martin has cured thousands
who have been duped and drugged by so-called
specialists by advice alone
AND WITHOUT CHARGING
A FEE.
Dr. Martin’s New Book, “Diseases of Men and
Women,” 700 pages, 500 Prescriptions, 193 Illustra-
tions and Colored Plates. All Booksellers. FREE :
A 60-Page Specimen Copy, showing what the great
Book is like
SENT FREE TO ALL.
Remember, should you decide to correspond with
Dr. Martin, you will be writing to one who will prove
your friend. Be you rich or poor, do not hesitate to
write to the Doctor, who will give your case personal,
careful attention.
Address all Communications—
Dr. Martin,
ELMLEY HOUSE,
151 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
(Please mention this paper when writing.)


Your Garden
Wants a Hose.
That is, if it has n't grot one
already. It ought to have
a Garden Hose if you want
good crops. You can’t better
the best. You ’ll get it at . .
Perdriau RuSiiier Co.lS
270 George St., Sydney.
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
‘ PAM PA j
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BIST.
Sold
by
all first-
class stores
in Australasia.
No. 8176* 2-BLADE
“ PAMPA,"
Cocoa Handle J/6
Buffalo Handle - 21-
Staa Handle • • • 216
WORTHINGTON PUMP GO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
MARK.
CoHF
Jl
WOLF
uOT
AX
f'SZ
2SP
J. & J. JHAXFIELD, Propra., SHEFFIELD.
At tho Showrooms—
EMPIRE CHAMBERS, 93 YORK-ST.,
SYDNEY
Also St—
"THB BLOCK,”
Collins-St., MELBOURNE
Showrooms re-arranged with additional cases and entrance
fitted with ISiectric Elevator.
A Policy for the Commonwealth:
Price 6d.
Posted Bd.
“There is no Better Pump
than
the .
CC >”
kVa
Every Pump Guaranteed.
KNOWLES’ PUMPS for every kind
of service kept in stock. Single and Duplex,
Vertical and Horizontal.
%?/'*Lf I? Pr essure Pumps, Double Acting
c"T^ S ' Z ank ° r Ught Service Pumps,
Vertical Sinking Pumps, Air Pumps, Circulating
Pumps, etc.
& LACY CO. Ltd,
60 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
NOTICE
To anfftrora from Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
Tho Old Rallable English Remodg.
PATERNOSTER'S PILLS.
Prepared by Poinquksthe dt Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
TRUMAN'S NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
■OLD IN TWO SIZES, 9d. A Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poinqdkstrb A Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, Loudon, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
jmjTTurmni u
e
©tiers & Co,
RANGES
«- STOVES
nvrniHßi mwvnmmmnmmmmmKmm
Manufacturers in N.S. Wales,
South Australia and West
Australia.
All influential storekeepers act as
our agents and stock our Stoves.
HEAD OFFICES:
558 George St., Sydney.
142 Randle St., Adelaide.
William St., Perth.
A NOVEL
PRESENT.
AN receipt of P. 0.0.
v forward to any
of our HANDSOME
ROUND WIRE
or M.O. for 5/- we will
addressin Australia one
Oct. COLD-FILLED
BS_ H - BROOCHES, with any
Name or Three Initials, Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross
Pendant, guaranteed the same quality as brooch ■ and
without pendant, 3/6. In 15ct. CLF. Twisted Wire
8/6 ; without Pendant, 6/6. Illustrated Catalogues
sent Free. All letters carefully addressed to R. SIMS, Cold
Wire King', Cole’s Book Aroade, Melbourne, Vic.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYD3NTEY,
TO YOU
Silver Watch.
/
Ssd
'T'O introduce our Catalogue into as many homes as
* possible, we have deckled to give away 1000 Solid
Silver Watches to persons of either sex who send in the
correct solution of the following puzzle :
OXE WXXOXXS AXE XXE BXXT.
The only condition is that, if your answer is correct,
you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains to
wear with the watch. We make this condition because
we want our Catalogue to get into the hands of reputable
persons only. These watches are not toys, but Solid
Silver, and Fully Guaranteed. Early application is neces-
sary. Forward your letter, and enclose a self-addressed
envelope and 2 penny stamps for reply, so that we may
inform you if you have won the watch.
Address: Puzzle Competition,
ARTHUR PRYME & CO.,
Wholesale & Retail
Jewellers, Etc.,
A.F. PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S. W.
tohe PLUM.
Gentlemen,— This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered,
perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell, and never requires grinding!
Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of edge that
is required to ensure any easy shave, and, having had them in use for a
number of years, can testify to their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH
RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “ Plum " Razor Strops, specially made for this Razor, 7/6.
“ Razoleo” lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. Cake.
Price-
'Single Razor, in strong Leather Case. 10'G; Pair, in beautiful
Morocco Leather Case, 21/-.
Single Razor, in ivory handle, IS'., Pair Razors, Ivorv Handles,
in beautiful Case, 30/-
Registered and Sent Post Free to Any Fart op tiif. World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country, and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agerite—CßAlC & AITKEH, 654 CEORCE STREET, SYOMEY..
HARDY’S
TINTARA
WINES. .
700 Prizes,
Sytlnay, Melbourne, and Adelaida.
New Zealand Loan * Mercantile Agency Go.
S YD ICSJ 3E3 "ST,
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
AIJ Consignments of SHJEPSXINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL
SKINS are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered
promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
