

4k ***—*
THE SUPERB
STIMULANT.
k. CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Milling and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Mining
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS ado GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALW
;;V.
HOBAItT.
[jadlegs Orient ftotel.
-7"
W PIONEER
LEATHER
PBELTIN
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Soa, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 7 Bent St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Sole Agents for Ruston, Proctor & Co.’s Portable and Fixed Steam and Oil Engines.
p um p S , Irrigation Machinery, Columbus Oil Engines.
Moffat-Virtue Sheep Shearing Machines. Pooley’s Weighing Machines.
For Illustrated Lists and Particulars apply to GlBSOl^^^^TTlj!E^&^^o4^7^^ENT^^Tu^SnrDNEY
\
Take it back,
I must have -
HUTTON 5
Fine-Apple Brand
HAMS S
BACON.
Cks
dIAIVI
Jr*:
feVK
/ ik
m-mm
lik '
m m
m JlllfSl
H
RS
Economy in Current.
Equality of Light.
THE
EDISON a m
United Electric
Light Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
16 Carrington Street
Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY.
Queensland Dep6t:
Commonwealth
Buildings,
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANB.
Op*, oM, ld<zU(&u) u -a* fat.
k
“TO THY SPEED ADD WlNGS.”— Milton.
CONTINENTAL TYRES
Are the Wings that
give Speed to the
Twentieth Century
Motor or Cycle.
SYDNEY
225 Clarence St.
ķ
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR M C INTYRE BROS
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS!
wry
mM
I
I
FOR
0
STANDARD PALE ALE
UNRXVALLLED IKT QUALITY- PT I3XT BOTTLE
ĸ
No Other in
the World
oil;
ENGINES
EQUAI.S
‘SIMPLEX’
IRRIGATING PLANTS SUPPLIED.
ABSOLUTE
in
Reliability
Simplicity
Efficiency
Durability
Economy.
[mo Worry or Trouble
NO LIGHT wanted.
IGNITION is
AUTOMATIC.
No Carbonization
whatever.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
All Sizes.
Stationary & Portable.
Send for Illustrated
Catalogue.
E. Coulson
116 a’Beckett St.,
MELBOURNE.
USE . .
DELMO BROS.
99
KWH
VERMICELLI
SEMOLINA
V,O ‘OMOWHOIU
‘US NlddOO 18-61
HELIDON
gDA Absolutely the BEST TABLE WATER.
SQLT.IKT & CO. Agenta.
The Bulletin
Vol. 27. —IW 136?. j
[Thursday. May 3, 1906,
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NOW READY, SECOND EDITION REVISED
ENLARGED.
A CUMSUCKER ON THE TRAMP.
Fitzgerald, Sir Henry Irving, illus., 10s 6d, post Bd.
White, Wireless Telegraphy, “Scientific Series,” Is 3d, p. 3d
Brooke, Motor A.8.C., illustrated, 6s, post 6d.
Greenly, Alodel Steam Engines,' Bd, postage 2d.
Inge, Studies in English Mystics, 7s 6d, post Bd.
The University Review, March, ’OB, Bd, postage 2d.
Boucaut, Sir J., Letters to My Boys, 6s, post 6d.
A Humorous Travel Book, by If. F. SPIELVOGEL
wrapper Is, postage 3d. ’
The Modern Home, fully illustrated, foolscap size, paper
covers bs, cloth 9s, postage 9d. F F
Watson, Blacksmith’s Tables, 3s, postage 6d
Dyson, In the Roaring Fifties, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, post 6d
Oxenham Chant Circumstance, 2s 6d & 3s6d; post sd.
Marston, Wishing for Pleasure and Catching It, 3s6d p 6d
Hund, Science in Public Affairs, 6s, post 6d. ‘
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP. LTD., 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR
THE THROAT,
The Great . ,
ANTISEPTIC
REMEDY
For the Cure of
Bronchitis !
and Influenza !
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
o
A. The Larynx, or organ of voice.
B. The Trachea, or windpipe.
O. The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
THE “AUSTRALASIAN
MEDICAL GAZETTE”
says:—
“ Of great service in
affections of the
voice and throat.”
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES *WI
,). CONTAINS NO OOGAiNE OR OTHER POIBONOUB DRUG. Sold by all Chemists, in tins, 1/6, or
Manufacturer, O. HUDSON., Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland, post free on receipt of stamps. Sydney
7 Queen’s Plaoe. Agencies in all Australian States and N.Z., and at 320 Regent Street W„ London.
THE RED PAGE.
CONSECRATED BY A KISS
BRANDER MATTHEWS, writing “On
the publishing of plays,” declares that
“ theatric art may be sufficient unto
itself without the aid of literature.”
Invention and construction, the appeal to the eye and
to the ear, the ingenious utilization of contrast, climax
and suspensethese qualities are essential in the theatre,
and in the theatre they may suffice for our pleasure with
little or no aid from literature.
Adopting Matthews’ view, the Rev. T. H. Tay-
lor, asked by Mr. J. 0. Williamson to base a
religious drama upon Wagner’s opera of Parsifal
—with a “star” part for Miss Brune in the
character of Kundry—has subordinated literary to
dramatic interest, and has made of the legend a
play that is playable—with how much success the
gods may presently decide. The drama of four
acts and many tableaux is written in regular
blank verse; there is plenty of action; and neces-
sarily much of the action is composed of Kissing.
The symbolic strife of Good and Evil in the
legend finds practical expression in the crucial
Kiss which Parsifal gives Kundry. That tre-
mendous Kiss is the test of Parsifal’s purity of
soul, and a guarantee of Kundry’s salvation.
Parsifal triumphs through the ordeal in Act 111,
Sceneii— “The Gardens op Temptation.
Mr. Taylor has developed the Kiss lusciously.
“Upon banks of fallen blossoms recline in lan-
guorous attitudes, clad in diaphanous raiment,
the Sirens.” They explain that Kundry is wait-
ing for “ a pure, cold Kiss”—and laugh horridly.
Parsifal enters, and the Sirens “sway in voluptu-
ous movement.” Parsifal tells them that he has
never kissed anybody but his mother, and he will
even risk Kundry. Then their chaperone
addresses the Sirens indignantly :
Your charms have failed. Go— I Dance—display them
more!
Fill all the air with bodily vibrations 1
(Jusb here the audience stop talking and lean
forward in their seats for the “ Temptation Danoe
OF Sirens.”— aha!)
They swirl around Parsifal ; then with Kissing action
advance on him like waves and retire quivering like
foam.
During the last “movement ” of Dance, Parsifal
shivers—the sword shakes in his hand—he opens his
eyes—and looks at the Sirens. As the dance grows
more and more furious, he suddenly stands up and,
sheathing his sword, veils his eyes with his hands;
then, turning, goes up to Terrace, followed by the
dancing Sirens. As he reaches the bank of flowers,
he turns again and looks at them, and then wards
. them off with his hands. 4s the last note sounds
with a loud finale, and the Sirens stand with arms
outstretched, he raises his hands to Heaven.
Parsifal : Christ! Help me I—l am tempted 1
(Turns, and falling on one knee buries his face in his
hands.)
Fortunately Parsifal is able to resist the tempta-
tion to Kiss a Siren ; and Kundry enters with an
attractive song :
On joyous wing,
The song I sing
Shall greet my glorious King of Light,
Beneath whose glance
My blood shall dance,
And Body following Soul shall spring
A flying rose of blushing charms,
Into the Heaven of his arms ;
There —there to cling
Through, heat of noon,
In a swoon
Of bliss—-
And Kiss—and Kiss 1
Kundry explains to Parsifal that now she sees
his eyes she knows he is really good and pure, not
like those other naughty knights whose kiss
Was such pollution, that I always bear
A fresh red rose—to Kiss (Kissing it;—and Kiss again.
Hoping its sweetness may remove the stain
From these pale lips, pining for One Pure Kiss.
Here there is some uncertainty as to whether
Kundry’s kiss will prevail over/Parsifal’s kiss, or
vice versa ; and the chaperone urges the magician
to excite Kundry’s kiss to its highest or lowest
capacity :
Zana (clutching his arm) : Thou must!—thou SHALT 1—
by Satanas thou shalt !
Cause her to dance till all his senses whirl—
Then LEAP into his arms—and kiss—THE KISS 1
(The intense capitals are the author’s.)
(Klingsor proceeds to make great hypnotic gestures,
using Spear as a wand. Zana signs to those Sirens
who are visible. These commence to sway sloivly to
the music, which now begins very softly, increasing in
power and intensity.
Parsifal : Princess, Christ keeps me pure. Come, let
me Kiss.
Still Miss Kundry Brune hesitates coyly, until,
possibly perceiving signs of fatigue in Parsifal,
she invites him to “(very sweetly) heal me too —
with one sweet Kiss ! ” Parsifal attempts to take
her at her word, but she says
Ah, wait 1 Bliss grows by contemplating bliss
(beginning to dance quietly around him and throwing off
outer robe),
And like a butterfly before it sips
Some honeyed flower, I will flutter round
Until I dart on thee with thirsting lips—
(clasping Parsifal.)
And all my body clings to thine—like this 1—
And all my soul melts into ONE LONG KISS !
(Kisses Parsifal.)
All this pother about a Kiss! Still, one may
imagine that the skilful delay has roused wild ex-
citement in the audience, who are seen by the eye
of imagination clutching their chairs hard, and
heard by the ear of ditto breathing loudly and
emotionally. .It is really a highly dramatic Kiss;
and, if the Sirens do their voluptuous duty, that
scene alone should make the play.
Act IV is to some extent an anti-climax,
following on the great crisis of the Kiss. How-
ever, it rounds off the religious aspect of the
drama, which closes with all the characters kneel-
ing on the stage, while Parsifal alone stands
behind the altar.
He bears a distinct resemblance to the Christos; and
slowly elevates'me, Holy Grail, from ivhich streams
a great rosy radiance that gradually spreads over all.
Parsifal. Yet growing daily more and more—
LIKE HIM !
Mr. Taylor has accomplished a difficult task
well. He has made a coherent story with many
good acting episodes, which need only to be
handled adequately in order to touch the great
religious soul of the people, not to speak of the
great kissing body. Of Miss Brune’s adequacy
as Kundry one is moderately assured. But
Parsifal ? Who will interpret Parsifal ? The
shade of Wilson Barrett stretches vague, im-
ploring hands from the farther bank of Styx.
Alas !
ANOTHER GAY GOSSIP
OLD Isaac Pitman, being dead, yet liveth in
the considerable London firm of Sir Isaac
I ltman and Sons, Ltd., which has recently
commenced in the general publishing
trade. In On the Queen’s Errands, by Philip
Wynter, they give a really diverting book of
gossip that one can recommend gaily. Capt.
Wynter born a 839, wasson of a Vice-Chancellor
of Oxford University. He joined the army, went
to India, and served through the Mutiny.
Losing health, he returned to England, and
took employment as Queen’s messenger,
carrying despatches for thirty-five years at
a salary of 4CKM. a year and 11. a day expenses
w l , e '? , He tells the incidents of his
public life brightly and fluently, and can be read
throughout three hundred pages without a page
of tedium. His book presents good portraits of
~, Ly° ns > Hobart Pasha, and others, and has
a full index.
_
Wynter begins by regretting that his father
was no exception to the rule that all good clergy-
men have large families. “My father married
twice, and lam the eldest of twelve children by
his second wife.” His boyish reflections exhibit
the curious English selfishness by which notable
families are preserved intact.
I know that it is the opinion of some thoughtless
people that it is an advantage to have sprung from a
fertile stock and to be one of many. I cannot share this
feeling. I have a vivid recollection of the gloomy
apprehensions with which I viewed the repeated prepara-
a fr ® B . h arr >val, foreseeing too clearly that each
addition would curtail our luxuries and diminish my very
small share of patrimony. My brothers and sisters con-
tinued to succeed each other like the waves of the sea—
preceded always by the advent of a stern, tyrannical old
woman who required continual nourishment in the shape
of port wine, soup, beef steaks, etc. She seemed to take
entire command of every servant, and was (except as to
morals), a domestic Catherine 11.
After a time, I looked on her visits as a matter of
course, and when I sadly enquired why so many infants
should appear, she assured me they were sent as blessings
from heaven, and that they were a proof of the approba-
tion of the Almighty, and a reward for the piety of the
parents, and instanced the countless offspring of the
Hebrew patriarchs, who were the objects of a special
Divine favour. I learned, when older, that these same
patriarchs were hardly models of conduct, and observed
that, however pious people might be, they seemed rather
to repine than to rejoice as their children multiplied.
Anyhow, the old woman’s theory was doubted by me
at a very early age, and I ceased to consider myself as a
prize awarded to deserving parents.
The rest of the book expresses the author’s
opinions just as bluntly, and he is even mildly
“ O-shokking ! ” His garrulity is full of good
stories. He tells how an Archbishop of York
was out riding when he noticed a fox crossing the
road.
Looking round he saw, some fields off, the huntsman
casting his hounds, but owing to a bad scent, huntsman
and hounds were quite at a loss. His Grace, observing
this, waved his hat and gave a loud view halloa. The
huntsman came galloping up to the road, and seeing
from whom the sound came—recognizing the Archbishop
of York—he blew his horn and the hounds hit the line at
once. The huntsman muttered to himself, “That’s
Gospel, by G —d 1 ”
When Wynter lived at Oxford the Duke of
Wellington was University Chancellor, and had
the duty of. reading out at Commemoration the
honours awarded to various scholars; the list
being in Latin.
Thus, the Christian name of those christened
Charles was, of course, Carolus, with a short o. The
Duke persisted in reading this name as Carolus, pro-
nouncing the o long, until at last some Official, shocked
at his ignorance, broke in with “I beg your Grace’s
pardon, but at Oxford we always call this word Carol us.”
“Oh, very good, said the Duke, “I’ll remember in
future.”
Presently the name Jacobus occurred, which the Duke
boldly read as Jachbus, pronouncing the o short. Again
the don interposed. “ I beg your Grace’s humble pardon,
but we prefer to call that Latin name Jacobus.” “No !
damn it 1 ” said the Duke. “ You can’t have it always
your own way! If your reading of Carolus is Carolus,
Jacobus must be JacObus.”
Wynter has a soldierly penchant for a little
wholesome cursing. He says that at his first
school he had such a passion for learning that he
used to dream of the Latin grammar, and in a
somnolent state between sleeping and waking he
tried to decline the noun “dominus.” A stupid
nurse, overhearing the first syllable of this sub-
stantive, mistook it for the well-known British
expletive, and reported to his father that he was
damning her and the rest of the young family.
He refers to the slackness and want of enthu-
siasm shown by his senior brother officers in
India. As to Indian missions :
In common with the majority of those who have lived
among Orientals, 1 was never sanguine as to the result of
missions to Mahommedans and heathen being such as to
justify the enormous sums subscribed for them at home •
the converts being few, and not worth the trouble and
expense of their conversion. At any rate I am satisfied
that no real progress is ever made by married missionaries
or by those who become missionaries for a livelihood, and
to give them an income to marry on. . . . But the English
missionary societies continue, and will always continue,
to publish rose-coloured accounts of the progress of
Christianity, in order to obtain the subscriptions and be-
quests of large sums, which had much better be expended
in converting the heathen population of English towns
Wynter refuses to waste the patient reader’s
time :
I always think of the first Lord Ellenborough’s wise
move. He was sitting in the House of Lords listening to
a dull, wearisome harangue when he suddenly started up.
His neighbour said, “You are not going, are you
“ Yes,” said Lord Ellenborough with a sigh, taking up
his hat, “ I am answerable to the Almighty for the use of
my time.”
An anecdote of the late Lord Yalentia :
No ipan was more popular or had a kinder heart but
he had a very old-fashioned and highly spiced vocabu-
lary, and his language was of the strongest even when
wishing a friend good morning. Among his other pecu-
liarities was his dislike to tramps, and the story used to
be told of him that one day one of his daughters looking
out of the window at Bletchington, saw a begssai ap
proaching the house. She rang for the butler arid told
him to order off the mendicant before Lord Valentia
should catch sight of him. The butler drew himself up
and replied solemnly, “ Is Lordship ’ave damned ’ini
already, miss.”
Wynter knew Charles Lever, whose “conversa-
tion was so overpowering! y amusing that I was
literally tired with continual laughter.”
Lever told me that one day, having nothing to amuse
him, he strolled into a Dublin police court. A man was
being tried for stealing a watch, and on being asked what
answer he had to the charge, he simply sighed and said
\our honour, it is a very sad business, and the less we
say about it the better.”
Lever also related that when attending a funeral in
Ireland—the mourners being assembled in a dining-room
before the ceremony—the footman burst in, and address-
in" his master said, “Your honour, the Carpse’s cousin
would like a word with you 1 ”
J*
Wynter is satirical at the expense of people’s
ignorance regarding the duties and privileges of a
Queen’s messenger. After all, it is a rather tire-
some job. No matter how fond you are of travel-
ling, you get a little too much of it. Friends and
acquaintances are apt to add to the official
burden:
A gentleman once wrote to me evidently in perfect
good faith, “ What a calling is yours ! What an oppor-
tunity for spreading the light of the Gospel among less
enlightened Christians ! Will you accept a few tracts of
deep interest, and some copies of the Holy Scriptures for
distribution in Prance, Spain, and Italy, and thus gain
for yourself the glorious title of an evangelist?”
I answered him at once, thanking him for his offer,
but added that I had never heard or read of more than
four evangelists, and greatly feared that I had neither
the talents nor devotion needed to make a fifth.
Wynter didn’t mind taking charge of boys
going to and from school, as they were generally
well-behaved, and spent the time in sleep or (less
often) in subdued sobs when returning to their
melancholy fate ; but he always steadily refused
to take charge of a dog, though often asked in
very sweet tones. He also refused to take charge
of a Crown Princess’s midwife. One of his col-
leagues, being very anxious to stand well with the
Foreign Office, undertook the job of conveying
eight canary-birds as a present to the Sultan of
Turkey.
The Foreign Office official went on to say that my friend
would be further entrusted with a bag of birdseed, a
bottle of tonic, and a brush to clean out the birdcage. I
suppose (though he did not so inform me) that he was
further charged with a penny whistle for the enlivenment
of the songsters, and “ a little bit of sugar for the bird.”
... I never heard how the cages were cleaned out—but
perhaps this was done by francs offered to a deputy.
The canaries unfortunately could not be packed
in the usual Foreign Office sack, which, after four
or five years’ service, becomes plastered over with
polygpt railway labels, and is at once recognised
by foreign railway porters.
My late colleague, Capt. Haworth, used to affirm that
his sack, if properly packed and propelled by a sound
kick on its protuberant curves, would arrive at St. Peters-
burg without any traveller to look after it, provided that
he had previously whispered to it its destination 1
Occasionally Wynter quotes, and neatly. He
quotes Sarah Bernhardt’s compliment to Blowitz
in sending him a present with the message “La
plus fine de corps au plus fin d’esprit.” He quotes
Sydney Smith’s attractive alliteration: “The
same passion which peoples our parsonages with
chubby children animates also the Arminian and
burns in the breast of the Baptist.”
One receives the impression that Turkey, as
well as being a misunderstood country, is a country
where one is misunderstood.
I will conclude my remarks on Turkey with an account
of a distinguished English lady receiving a perfectly unin-
tentional insult from the Sultan. She was presented to
His Majesty, and won his heart by her praises of Turkey
and its capital. The monarch when taking leave pressed
into her hand a small case, begging her to wear its con-
tents in remembrance of her visit.
When outside the door, she opened the case and saw an
order with an unintelligible inscription in Turkish. Meet-
ing a Court Official on the stairs, she showed him her
treasure and asked for particulars. The functionary, with
a profound bow, explained that it was the “Star of
Chastity ” of the second class. The lady naturally felt
aggrieved, and pointed out to her husband that of such
order she was entitled to be a first class member, and she
could not understood the meaning of degrees in such a
distinction, and I am sure that it is equally puzzling
to me.
The Oxford of to-day Wynter never enters
without a mental shudder. He cannot get over
the complete change in the aspect of Oxford and
its population. The poetry of the place has
departed since (among other things) the introduc-
tion of the married fellow and the consequent
accompaniment of an endless procession of per-
ambulators, “varied only by the number of
female students now to be met with in the Uni-
versity precincts, some with spectacles and some
without, many of them badly dressed and worse
shod, whose learning hardly seems to me an
excuse for their appearance. ”
J*
A gruesome note. Palmer, the Rugeley poi-
soner, executed in 1856 for the poisoning of Cook,
had a brother who one day met a turf-handi-
capper, who tells this story :
Ue said to me, “ Mr. Merry, you are passing my house,
won’t you step in and take some refreshment?” In I
went and was offered some biscuits and sherry. Just as
a bit of fun I sniffed at the glass ana said, “ I hope it’s a
right ’un this time, Palmer.” You would hardly believe
what he looked like. I thought he’d have had a fit, and
he bustled me out of the house like a dog. He never
could have been able to understand a joke.
Some horsey stories. A gentleman going to
Symonds’ livery stables at Oxford had a large
number of horses paraded for inspection.
To every hunter that was brought out, this would-be
customer made some objection. One horse had upright
shoulders, another slack loins or curby hocks, or brittle
feet, till at last Symonds took the gentleman into his
office, and, placing him in front of a blackboard, offered
him, with a bow, a lump of chalk, saying, “ Now, sir, if
you will be kind enough to sketch the sort of animal you
require, I will try and find him for you.”
William Nicholl, the Nottingham bookmaker,
was an easy prey to subscription hunters.
Amongst others, one of those devoted women, the
Sisters of Charity, visited Nicholl, explaining to him her
object and soliciting his help. His sympathies were at
once roused, and in his rough northern accent he replied,
“Thou shalt. have a bit at once, I’ll give thee a pony.”
The religious lady, in her ignorance of turf slang, said dis-
appointedly, “That would be very kind of you, Mr.
Nicholl, but a pony would be of small use to us. We have
nowhere for it to stand, no one to look after it, and could
not afford to keep it. Now, if instead of a pony, you
would put your name down for ten pounds, we should
indeed be grateful.” “Doon with you, miss,” replied
Billy, as quick as lightning, remarking to a bystander,
“ See, I’ve shot the old silly for fifteen quid.”
Major Dixon was starting a large field of horses at
Punchestown, when owing either to the misbehaviour of
the horses, or the eagerness of the riders, there were
several breaks-away before the horses could be got off.
At last a jockey, to whom these delays caused the
greatest anxiety, shouted out to Dixon, “ Oh ! for the
love of God, Major, dhrop the flag. Sure the whisky is
dyin’ in me iverv minute.”
Capt. Wynter is excellent company.
MEMORANDA
John Murray publishes a third edition in one
volume of The Creevey Papers (10s. 6d. ), which
had such a success of entertainment upon their
appearance in 1903. The new issue makes a
handsome Bvo. with a score of portraits, and may
be commended again for the delectation of elderly
gentlemen and younger connoisseurs in literature.
In its present form no country library should miss
it. Everywhere you dip you meet some quaint
and charming reflection of our hard-drinking,
hard-living, hard-swearing ancestors —from the
lady whose husband broke open her boxes and
found twenty locks of hair, with a label on each
containing the name of the lover to whom it
belonged— to Sam Whitbread, who wrote :
My Dear Creevey,
To the usual occupations of hanging Mad Dogs,
swearing Bastards, convicting Poachers, and such like
country performances, has been added the amusement of
Hunting, which I have resumed to the great benefit of
my health, and the complete fugitation I hope, of all
critical Deposits in consequence of high living—
and a few years after cut his throat with a razoy.
Very few books nowadays are packed so full of
native human interest.
Possibly it is worth noting that Zadkiel’s Al-
manac and Ephemeris for 1906, published Dec.,
1905, at London, prophesies on p. 67 that
At San Francisco Mars and Saturn are on the fourth
angle or lower meridian. In the vicinity of that great
city underground troubles—probably a serious earthquake
—will be destructive about Christmas Day or the latter
half of February. The winter will be stormy and colder
than usual. Otherwise, the quarter will be a prosperous
one for California.
Now, if people believed in astrology—as people
do !
An agreeable commentator in Syd. Telegraph
revolts against the expression of “ Platonic friend-
ship ” applied to those disinterested alliances be-
tween persons of opposite sexes. “ How did the
absurd expression ever gain currency ? ” Well, it
originated with Plato. In his famous “ Banquet ”
the guests devote great attention to a love which
is not that of the senses—a celestial love —and
Plato as the editor of the speeches has been
credited with approving this, as no doubt he did.
In Shelley’s translation, Pausanias tells us :
Thus, not all love nor every mode of love is beautiful,
or worthy of commendation, but that alone which excites
us to love worthily. The Love, therefore, which attends
upon Venus Pandemos, is, in truth, common to the
vulgar, but presides over transient and fortuitous con-
nexions, and is worshipped by the least excellent of man-
kind. The votaries of this deity seek the body rather
than the soul, and the ignorant rather than the wise,
disdaining all that is honourable and lovely, and con-
sidering how they shall best satisfy their sensual necessi-
ties. This Love is derived from the younger goddess,
who partakes in her nature both of male and female.
But the attendant on the other, the Uranian, whose
nature is entirely masculine, is the Love who inspires us
with affection, and exempts us from all wantonness and
libertinism. Those who are inspired by this divinity seek
the affections of those who are endowed by nature with
greater excellence and vigour both of body and mind.
It will be, perceived that the cant usage has
adapted Platonic dogma to modern conditions,
and the width of Plato’s applications would
probably shock most of those who refer to him.
Probably the narrowness of modern applications
would surprise Plato.
The accidental death of Pierre Curie—crushed
by a dray in a Paris street —is the whole world’s
scientific loss. Possibly he was cycling (he was
an ardent cyclist)—and Paris boulevards are very
slippery after April showers. He was still some
years from fifty, and much was hoped from his
research. Now that is left to Mme. Curie, quite
as clever a chemist as was her husband.
“ Bowed by the weight of centuries,” The Man
With The Hoe leans no longer except in reproduc-
tions—his original destroyed by the San Fran-
cisco fire. This is another regret,; for from the
liberal harvest of pictures few such masterpieces
are gleaned. By the way, will Edwin Markham,
or another devotee of the Californian Muse,
recollecting earthquake emotions in tranquillity,
be able to display to us the tremendous destruc-
tion in which Millet’s canvas was a pinch of ashes?
J. S. Henderson, in The Athenceum , rectifies an
old error. Matthew Arnold and others have made
Heine the butt of Goethe’s remark about a poet
unnamed who “had every gift, but wanted love.”
Henderson proves that it was Count Platen whom
Goethe spoke of.
Bret Harte’s daughter says her father w'as half
a Hebrew—the son of a Jewish father and a
Christian mother. Then it must have been the
Jewish half that wrote the stories, and the Chris-
tian half that spent all the money and died cent-
less.
April Scribner's reproduces a series of interest-
ing etchings by Seymour Haden... “Mr. and
Mrs. Jack London are going around the world for
The Cosmopolitan in a 40ft. sail boat ’’—and to
Australia?... Ambrose Bierce pleads for a Ra-
tional Anthem, and indeed we need it.
Woods Hutchinson, in April McClure’s , has an
article to be studied by all food-cranks not per-
manently blasted. Hutchinson, of course, is a
first-rate authority, and not ten per cent, of his
argument can be controverted. He is that rare
swan in a region of quacks—a doctor who unites
experience, imagination, and sense. His con-
clusion is that “ so tnfCny varied elements and sub-
stances are needed in the ‘ perfect diet ’ that an
intelligent omnivorousness is our only safeguard.”
In reaching that, he demolishes delusions by the
score. For example:
Last of these delusions is the breakfast-food fad.
Pompous and pestiferous as its attitude is, it was born of
humble and highly respectable parentage, namely, Scotch
oatmeal. Its birth and conception would appear to have
been somewhat in this wise-: “The Scots are a great
people ; oatmeal is their principal food : therefore, oat-
meal is a great food.” It has nothing to do with our
argument, but it may incidentally be remarked in passing
that there is a fatal error in this syllogism. videKcit , that
the most convincing proof the Scotch have given of their
greatness has been their abilitj' to live on oatmeal at all.
The secret of their wonderful success, both mental and
physical, lies in the fact,that any nation trained to sur-
vive a diet of oatmeal and the shorter catechism, could
survive anything and flourish anywhere.
A.G.S.


RABBIT SKINS WANTED
Also KANGAROO, WALLABY,
OPOSSUM, &C.
Consign to :
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Limited, Wool and Produce Salesmen, SYDNEY.
MICK SIMMONS.
The Leading Sports
Pistols and Revolvers,
Derringer Pistol.
Mick
Simmons
k
Fockei
Pistol.
Pocket Pistols. No. 1. nickel-plated barrel, fires bullet or shot, cartridges, weight 3Joz. (Postage 3d.)
2s fid, 3s,
Derringer Pistol, 22 calibre, nickel-plated,, self-ejecting, length s|iu., weight 4foz. (Postage 3d.)
Stevens’Target Pistol, 3£in., blued steel barrel, 22 cal., self-ejecting, Ooz. (Postage (id.) .. • •
Stevens’ Diamond Model Pistol, 6in. blued steel barrel, 22 calibre, self-ejecting, weight 90z., fitted with
globe and peep sights, length 9Jin. (Postage 6d.) .. .. ..
Vest Pocket Revolvers, Hammer, 22 R.F., blued or nickel, weight 4£oz. (Postage 4d.) .. 10s od, 12s ocf
Vest Pocket Revolvers, Hammerless, 22 R.F., nickel, weight soz. (Postage 4d.) ..
Vest Pocket Revolvers, Hammerless. 22 R.F., nickel, weight 5 z., pearl handle (Postage 4d.)
Bulldog Revolvers, 320 C.F., 5 chambered, douDle action, nickel, weight fiijoz. (host 9d. N.S.W. ;
Is 2d. Inter-State) .. .. .. .. .. •• •• ••
Bulldog Revolvers, 320 C.F., 6 chambered, double action, nickel or blued, lOJoz., horn handle (Post.
fid. N.S.W. ; Is. 2d. Inter-State) .. .. .. .. ..
Bulldog Revolvers, 380 0.F., 6 chambered, double action, nickel or blued, weight about lib. (Postage
fid. N.S.W. ; Is. 2d. Inter-State)
Bulldog Revolvers, 450 0.F., 5 chambered, double action, nickel or blued, 18oz.. (Postage 9d. N.S.W. ;
Is. 2d. Inter-State) .. .. .. .. .. .. ••
4s 6d
5s Od
12s 6d
13s 6d
16s 6d
5s 6d
7s 6d
9s 6d
10s 6d
Young America Revolvers, 22 R.F., 7 chambered,- double
action, nickel, 2in. barrel, Sjoz., 10s Gd : blued, 13s Gd.
(Postage 6d)
Young America Revolvers, 22 R.F., same as above, with
4jin. barrel, 9Joz., nickel, 12s Gd; blued, 15s Gd.
(Postage, OdN.S.W. ; Is 2d Inter-State.)
Young America Revolvers, 32 0.F., safety hammer, 5
chambered, 2in. barrel, BJoz., nickel, 10s Gd. (Postage 6d)
S. & W. Pattern Revolvers, 320 C.F., nickel or blued, auto-
matic ejector, S.jin. barrel, vulcanite stock, ISoz. (Postage 9d. N.S.YV.;
Is. 2d. Inter-State.), 13s Gd
S. & W. Pattern Revolvers, 380 C.F., same as above, 3Jin. barrel, 18oz.
(Post. 9d. N.S.W. ; Is. 2d. Inter-State), 15s Gd
Hopkins’ “Forehand” S. & W. Pattern Automatic Revolvers, 32 cal. 0.F.,
Sin. barrel, weight lib., a limited quantity only. (Post. 9d, or Is 2d Inter-
State), 17s Gd
Young 1
America.
k
The “Bullseye” Rifle, 22 Calibre,
20in. Octagon Steel Barrel, rifled, Remington action, walnut
stock, open sights, weight about 3Jlb
Postage—ls 9d N.S.W. ;3s 2d Inoer-State).
7s
The Celebrated
“MAINE’’
RIFLE
fitted with Sporting- Rear Sights to 300yds., 801 l
Action, ISin. Blued Steel Barrel, Walnut Stock.
Shoots 22 Short, Long, or Extra Long Cartridges.
Weight, 2Jlb.
"THE MAINE
Pifie
PRICE 15 6
POSTAGE ON RIFLE—N.S.W., 1/3; INTER-
STATE. 2/2 EXTRA.
iSa
IViick
Simmons.
WINCHESTER 1902 MODEL.
“ Winchester ’’(Single Shot, 1902 Model, 22 cal. K.F., peep
or V sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight aflb.
( Postage. Is 3d N.S.W. ; 2s -H rnt"r-Stat.pV
18s
Winchester
1904
Model*
ķ
“Winchester” Single Shot Rifle, 1904
Model, tor 22 • short or Ion,"-rim lire cartridges,
21in. heavy round steel barrel, plain trigger, bolt action,
adjustable rear sight, length of rifle over all S7£in., bead front
sight with patent alloyed tip, which will not
tarnish, weight about 4lb. (Postage, Is 9d
N.S. W. ; 3s 2d Inter-State).
24s
REMINGTON, NO. 6.
Remington, S.S. Rifles, New Model, 22 Calibre R.F., 20in. round blued steel
barrel, weight 3Jlb. —16 s with sliding sights, £1 Is (Postage, Is 6d
N.S. YV. ; 2s 8d Inter-State.)
k
Stevens’
Little
Krag.
Stevens’ S.S. “ Little Kragr,” 22 Calibre, bolt action, blued steel round
barrel, 20in. long:, walnut stock, steel scroll trigger guard peep
sight, with V sight if required 6d extra, length over all 36in.,
W'eight about (Postage, Is 6d N.S.W. ; 2s Sd Inter-State).
21s
Stevens’ “ Favorite.”
Stevens’ S.S. “Favorite,” 22, 22 W.R.F., 25, or 32 cal., rim
fire, half octagon 22in. barrel, case-hardened frame, solid breech block,
under lever action, open front and rear sights, weight 4jlb. (Postage, Is 9d N.S.VV. ;
3s 2d Inter-State)
Stevens’ S.S. “ Favorite,” 22 or 32 cal. R.F., fitted with beach combination, front sight, open
rear and vernier, else same description as above (Post., N.S.W. Is 9d ; Inter-State, 3s 2d ..
£1 10s
£2
a. 3vc ivflcxTJxrx-rxonxr.
Gun Cartridges.
per 100
Cartridges can now be sent by Boat to any
Queensland Port at ordinary Goods Freight.
Pea Rifle Cartridges.
BULLETED No. 1,6 d, 9d ; No. 2, Is 3d ; No. 3, Is 9d 100
SHOT No. 1, Is 3d ; No. 2, Is 9d ; No. 3,2 s 6d, 4s „
Rifle Cartridges ,
WINCHESTER, 22 Conical
„ 22 Short
~ 22 Long' .. ..
~ 22 Long Rifle ..
„ 22 Extra Long,.
*l3 100 $lOOO
Is Od 9s 6d
Is Id 10s Od
Is 3d 12s Od
Is 6d 13s Od
2s Od 18s Od
Illustrated Fishing- Tackle, Sports, Tobacco Lists, Anglers’ (Suide and Hints on Fishing—Post Free.
Postage—2s 6d N.S.W. ;
4s Sd Inter-State.
«*<!w
Harrington & Richardson's 5.8.8. L Gun,
IS-yauge, top action, automatic self-ejecting- de-
carbonised steel barrel 30in., solid case hardened
breech, rebounding locks, pistcl
grip, walnut stock, weight
about 6JIb.
£1 7S 6d
Leston
Daly
Coy.
D.8.8.L,
Gun
m
MICK SIMMONS
12 Gauge, top lever, steel barrels, e:.tension rib, rebounding locks, left choke, pistol stock ;
weight about 71b.
As above, but with Greener Cross Bolt, 455. Postage on Gun, 2s 9d N.S.W.; 5s 2d Inter-State.
35s
MICK
SIMMONS
THE GLOBE
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 or 10 Gauge, top lever, twist barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks,left choke .Patent
I). &E. fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. Postage, N.S.W., _/J , I - >' I-
40s
Lesion
Daly
Coy.
D. 8.8. L«
Gun
ķ
MICK SIMMONS
12 Gauge, top leve:', steel and twist barrels, rebounding bar locks, left choke
As above, but with Greener Cross Bolt, 50s. Postage on Gun, 2s 9d N.S.W.
5s 2d Inter-Stale.
40s
£3
i
m
* »
Postage on 1 Gun, 2s 9d
N.S.YVV; 5s 2d Inter-State.
National Arms Co/s
D.B.R.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, top lever, rebounding bar Jo<ks, ■Owner cross bolt, Sienen’s
steel barrels, left choke, pistol walnut stock : weight, about 71b.
ISAAC
HOLLIS
& SONS’
sss
D 8.8. L. Gan, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Beal Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt,
Left Choke, Rebounding Locks, Snap Pore-end,
chambered for 2Jin. Cartridges. Guaranteed
for all Smokeless Powders.
Postage. 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
*‘The Reliable,
£6 12s 6d
PRICE
■ Bs
m
Mick Simmons
HOLLIS & SONS’ “THE RELIABLE” D.8.8.L. HAWIMERLESS
GUN, 12-gauge, top lever, genuine Damascus or “ Siemeri , s : ”.steeT’barrels,.
both choke, side lock action, automatic safety bolt, extended rib,
Deelev-Edge patent fore-end, fitted with Greener cross-bolt; neatly
2fin. cartridges. GUARANTEED FOR ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, and
flnest-quality Gun in the States. Postage, 2s 9d'NfS.W. ;5s 2d Inter-State.-
chambered for
absolutely the
£l2 12s
REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MUST ACCOMPANY O RDER.-^SKH
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney


Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties! or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand SPF* AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; James Bums, Esq. ; The lion. K. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq. ; Hollo A. Cape, Esq.
General Manager and Actuary * Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S S
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Seci otary.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMIPETITIOiXr.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
■ V-
For Kangaroo and Big Game
cpvc
.44 C.F.W. Cartridges are Known Dy all experienced
sportsmen to be reliable. They are specially
adapted for, and tested in. Marlin, Winchester,
Remington and other standard rifles. When pur-
chasing cartridges, specify those made by the
UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE COMPANY
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U. S. A.
™eFraifjMic§
er
ee
based uponthe well known‘Hqntserrat”lime fruit juice.
ENO’S
FRUIT
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE,
AND CONSTIPATION.
BILIOUSNESS,
9
SALT
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.-5M Capsule marked ENO’B 4 FRUIT SALT/ Without It you hare S
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Pnparad only by J. C. ENO, Ltd., * FRUIT SALT 1 WORKS, LONDON. ENG.,
by J. O. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
lilt HERR RASSMUSSEI,
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Mon and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Bn J. U I 1 n. oravmui I.
IM®S alf aline vitality pills
Will Cure tine SMerv <I®, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Dost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Seif-Coniidenee, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
Gravel Sores. U rinary Troubles, and all Blood
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43/6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6.
Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches : 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE ; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE ;
481 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.; 111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE ?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N. 2.
HANS PETER RASMUSSEN.
BLOOD CUBE FILLS.
uauioM sieajw
A CASE at MARRICKVILLE
A Very Convincing Narrative*
THE CASE OF MRS. C COOPER.
(BY A SPECIAL REPORTER.)
In an interview with a representative, Mrs. Caroline Cooper, of No. 3 Fitzroy-street, Marrickville. gives
some information to the afflicted, which should help them considerably. Her statement runs as follows :
“ My health is altogether different now to what it was some years ago, as there was a time when I was nothing
but a total wreck, and now people are always telling me how well and strong I look. Yes, I am not like the same
person at all, for now lam always contented and happy, instead of being intensely miserable like I used to be. But,
heaven knows, I had enough to make me so, for the pains in my head were so great that for many a day I hardly
knew what I was doing. In each temple there was a nasty beating sensation, which caused me so much agony that
often I thought I would surely go mad.”
“You would welcome the arrival of bedtime, so that you could sleep and forget your afflictions for a while ? ”
suggested the writer.
“ One vvould naturally think so, but I didn’t, for the simple reason that I could seldom get any sleep : and, oh,
how those hours of wakefulness used to wear me out. Truly, when I got up of a morning, I felt worse than if I had
not been in bed at all, and I always had a bitter taste to make me feel sick for the rest of the day. Sometimes I got
so thoroughly exhausted that it would have been impossible to walk had I tried to, but knowing how weak I was I
used to stay indoors to be on the safe side, for when one is like that it is such an easy thing to meet with a serious
accident. And, another tiling, I was accustomed to taking fits of giddiness, and often I went right off, and did not
know anything that was going on, so you see I had to be careful. And wasn’t I nervous ! Goodness, I only had to
hear a little shout or a whistle and I’d actually jump again, and it would be a long time afterwards before my nerves
would steady down a bit. Why, my mind was so unhinged through excessive nervousness that I was afraid to be
left alone, and would not have stayed in the dark for a fortune'; besides, if I closed my eyes for a few seconds all sorts
of ugly faces could be seen, and those were the kinds of hideous sights I usually witnessed in my dreams.”
“ Have you any idea what caused your head pains and other ailments ? ”
“ I think it was all through receiving a sunstroke when a girl at my home in Goulburn. I can say with truth,
up to. the period when I purchased some Clements Tonic through a friend’s advice, and then, for the first time during
my long illness, I learned what it was to get some substantial ease from my torments. At first I thought the relief
would be only short-lived. It seemed too much to expect anything else after the disappointments of the past; but
Clements Tonic softn put an end to that pessimistic idea by making me feel better and stronger every day, and when
I realised that my improvement was making such regular strides, my heart was overflowing with gratitude. Con-
tinuing with Clements Tonic I lost the burdensome feelings that affected me after taking food, and soon the windy
spasms that had often doubled me up were quite cured. My eyes had always felt dull and swollen, and I used to be
irritable and anxious from morning to night, fearing that something was going to happen; but, strange as it may
seem, after using a few' bottles of Clements Tonic, my mind became as free from anxious thoughts as a babe’s. lam
glad to say that Clements Tonic left nothing undone, for it gave me a digestion that has remained sound for many
years past, and, in regard to nervousnf js, well, I hardly know how to express myself. At all events, I can say that
my nervousness was soon overcome, and if anybody suffers from sleeplessness there’s nothing in this world they need
take but Clements Tonic, to make their nights peaceful and refreshing. That remedy succeeded in giving me perfect
health, and I would rather have a bottle of Clements Tonic in the house than anything else. Well, I hope others in
need will read my story ; so you may publish it as you feel disposed.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Caroline Cooper, of 3 Fitzroy-street, Marrickville, In the State of New' South Wales, Commonwealth of Aus-
tralia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully read the annexed document, and that it contains and
is a true and faithful account of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full permission to pub-
lish in any way my statements, which I give voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and I make this solemn
declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
(Sgd.) CAROLINE COOPER.
Subscribed and declared at Enmore this seventeenth day of November, one thousand nine hundred and four,
before me.
F. A. DRURY, J.P.
A
BATH HEATERS
Send por Catalogue. "TKI
For use with
Gas,
Kerosene
or Wood.
BRANDT BROS., 236 Pitt st„ Sydney
and 197, 422, and 424 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
ĸ
We don’t believe any Accord eon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent .Rotary Celeste Stop.
DuiAn jp -f Postage to any Address
w * • in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price JSI 7s 6d;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS
Importers of Pianos and all xinds of Musical Instruments,
Watches, Jewellery, Etc., 210 Queen St., Brisbane
&
VA
There’s SECURITY in
BARTER’S
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
r Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER,
iFURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
They TOUCH the LIVE
Be Sure they are Carter's


For coughs and colds.
“A friend in need is a» in-
deed.” Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral is just
Such, a friend. Never be without it.
it will prove a good friend when you
have a fresh cold, bringing immedi-
ate relief. You will find it equally
true in old colds, bronchitis, whoop-
ing-cough, asthma.
If you will use
Mger’s
'Cherry Sectoral
for an irritable throat or weak lungs,
you Will find it “the best friend in
the world.” It acts as a strong tonic,
clearing up the throat, giving tone
to the relaxed tissues, and greatly
strengthening the lungs.
There are many substitutes and
imitations. Beware of them and of
so-called “ Genuine Cherry Pectoral.”
Be sure you get AYER’S Cherry
Pectoral.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J.C. Ayer & Co., Lowell. Mass..U. S. A.>
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
k
His Majesty
The King and
Royal Family.
MOIR’S
New Season’s Centime
“SCOTCH” OATMEAL
This Meal contains special fattening and
nourishing powers not obtainable in any
other. Scotch Oats are world celebrated.
In hermetically sealed packages. TRY
IT, and you will never use any other.
MOIR’S
WORCESTER SAUCE.
EXTRA SUPERIOR QUALITY
IS PURE AND GENUINE.
JOHN MOIK. AND SON, Limited
HERBERT J. SOLOMON, Agent,
47 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
ķ
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
The Ideal
Material
for
Children's
Frocks,
&c.
From the
Leading
Drapers.
SEE THc. LABEL ON THE SELVEDGE.
CAUTION
—IT IS NECES-
_ _ . SARY TO
ASK FOR THE “No. 4” EAU DE COLOGNE,
which is known in all parts of the world under
the lawfully registered label here shown
The Public are warned against many spu-
rious imitations under the name of Johann
Maria Farina of iny genuine Eau de Cologne
labels. Every bottle of my original Eau de
Cologne is labelled Johann Maria Farina,
Julicn’s Platz No. 4. The addition of the
address JULICH’S PLATZ No. 4 alone war-
rants genuineness of my Eau de Cologne.
JOHANN MARIA FARINA,
JULICHS PLATZ No. 4, COLOGNE O/RH
PURVEYOR TO H.M. the KING EDWARD VIL
3
“For
30 Years
I have used Bonxinqton’s
Irish Mess for Coughs
and Colds, and any irrita-
tion of the bronchial tubes.
It always gives relief.”
That is a plain, straightforward statement.
We could supply hundreds such. Gough
remedies have come and gone, but
Bonnington’s
Irish Moss
the pioneer, is still the premier in public
favor. Strenuous advertising and pushing
of sales will not sell a remedy if it is nob
endorsed by public opinion. When you
get BONNINGTON’S you are safe, you
have the best. Some dealers, for the sake
of a few pence profit, try to sell you an
imitation. Do not be misled. Look care*
fully for the name, and
TAKE ONLY
“ BONNINCTON’S.”
THE
BEST SOAP for BABY
is
WRIGHT’S
COAL TAR SOAP
IT IS DEEIGHTFUL IN USE
IT IS ABSOLUTELY PURE.
IT PROTECTS FROM ALL INFECTION
6d. per Tablet. Box of 3 Tablets Is. 6d.
mm
GROUND
best
V 5
ENGLISH
MANUFACTURE,
fWER jj.
k
ĸ
IN BLACK & IVORY HANDLES.
(EACH RAZOR IN A CASE).
LABEL IS PROTECTED BY REGISTRATION UMDER THE TRADE MARK PROTECTION ACTorIBB3
||li m IDMgJW BM
HOLLOW-GROUND
Refuse
Imitations
Wholesale:
See that the label on the Razor Case is exactly as above,
OSBORNE, GARRETT & Co., London, England.
wsraramfii
CIGAR SMOKERS! Try. -
KING of All K. & B.
HIGH LIFE CIGARS
Mild, Medium and full Strength, 17/6 per box (100); postage
9d. extra. Send for Is, worth as sample—posted free. i
Agents—CßAlG & AITKEN, 654 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
1
Beautiful Home Decorations
m
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
“SAPOEIN” FLOOR STAINS stain and varnish with one operation.
Brilliant, rich, permanent hardwood colors produced on Floors, Borders,
Woodwork and Furniture where extreme durability is desired.
"BAPOEIN” AliOtl.Vltl ESAMEL gives unsightly Pipes. Boilers,
or anything made of metal, wood, etc., a durable, untarnishable silver Tinian,
in or outdoors. Simply brush i t on.
JAPANESE GOIiO PAINT (Beady Mixed). Unequalled in lustre and
ease of application. Adheres to any surface. For all decorative purposes,
economical and satisfactory.
For sale by all up-to-date dealers■ Avoid imitations .
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of “OUR FAVORITE” GOLD ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” BATH
TUB ENAMEL, Etc.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Prize Me« ln, “
Works i Birmingham, England.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention s also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Seres.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the People are Gray by the Sea.
Oh ! it hurts me to be by the murmuring sea,
When mosquitoes are looking for gore,
And the infants all yelp ’mid the weed and the
kelp,
While their parents prance round on the shore
In an infantile game with a suitable name,
In which Bert is allowed to kiss Flo—
Which they play when they roam—which they
wouldn’t at home,
And it’s much to their credit I know.
Then they sigh, and they nag, as they haul from
the bag
All the food that they’ve dragged from the train,
And they take off their clothes and repose on
their nose
In the sand—which is very inane.
But the missus, so cross, and the boss, and the
hoss,
They have sorrows enough, you’ll agree ;
And they toil and they fret through the year, so
they let
All their intellects rest by the sea.
It no doubt gives relief, and it soothes all their
grief,
And it leaves them with no one to thank,
Though it tends to annoy when I see them enjoy
Having all their minds perfectly blank.
Which I’m certain’s the case, for they’re able to
race,
Though they’re old, in the scrub, with great glee;
And they now and then sing, or play kiss-in-the
ring,
Which is really quite mournful to see.
But the shark winks his eye at the gay octopi,
And they drift closer in to the shore.
For the fish who is wise he may snap up a prize,
And the bather may feel very sore.
So the shark does his best, and he tries to digest
What he gets—but I wish to remark
That the infant so rough is a great deal too tough,
And I feel very much for the shark.
Then as Shakspeare, who’s dead, is alleged to
have said
In a play that he wrote : “ There’s the rub ! ”
When a couple that wrangle waltz round in a
tangle
Of kids —all their own —in the scrub.
And they pant and they bound and keep spinning
around,
While they threaten the that will squall
Like “a (something) young Turk”—and it’s very
like work,
And I wonder they do it at all.
’Tis a whimsical thought, though its value is
naught.
That the things I despise they enjoy,
And the things that / prize are the things they
despise,
And that each does the other annoy.
So I think I’ll retreat in the holiday heat
To a cave in a hill far away,
For it’s dreadful to be by the murmuring sea,
When the people take pains to be gay.
VIC.
KODAK.
At the Fall of the Leaf.
lii the solemn Autumn time, when the birds were
flying,
And about my pathway the red leaves fluttered
down;
Thus methought I heard a maid, and one to her
replying—
(lt was mournful Autumn time, and all the earth
was brown).
“Oh minstrel, minstrel, fold thy wing, and rest
beside my portal,
Sorely have I missed thee, ah, whither hast thou
been ?
Once thou sang’st me magic songs of youth and
joy immortal.”
“ That was long and long ago, when all the leaves
were green.”
“Minstrel, tarry yet awhile, and wake for my
recalling,
Silver streams that tell anew of joys we two have
seen ;
Summer days and springing flowers, and rosy twi-
lights falling.”
“ That was long and long ago, when all the leaves
were green.”
‘ ‘ Minstrel dear, hast thou forgot a nest amid the
branches,
Where thy mate sat peacefully through sunny
days serene ?
Still thy nest awaiteth thee, and still the sunshine
dances.”
“ That was long and long ago, when all the leaves
were green.
“ See’st thou not around thee, sweet, the withered
blossoms falling ?
Never comes the summer back, nor banished joys
I ween,
All I loved are thrown away, gone beyond re-
calling ;
I must seek another shore, where all the leaves are
green. ”
So he spread his wings for flight, and I, my tears
down-stealing,
Prayed, as on my pathway lone the red leaves
fluttered down :
“Oh, ye gods of Time and Change, list to my
appealing,
Of your pity call me hence ere all the earth be
brown.”
S.A.
A.M.B.R.


2Y
PRIZE
I
fjHftT is your Cue”
When ordering Billiard.
„ requisites or
Athletic goods
OF ANY DESCRIPTION
For over fifty yoars the name “Alcock”
has been closely associated with Sporting
Requisites In every part of Australasia,
until to-day its appearance on Athletic
Goods has precisely the same meaning
as the hall mark on silver. Our Stocks
represent the very highest standard of
excellence, and our facilities for manufac-
turing High-grade Goods at reasonable
prices are unequalled.
melbourne.Sydney.Perth.
Wellington London .
Bilra-ffiJMJJiliii
ainra:
11
IMS
mmm
HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
THE SOOTHING INFLUENCE of tbe . . .
EDISON PHONOGRAPH !
Music is a solace to the tired brain—it
soothes—it cheers—it enlightens. We
are selling the finest EDISON PHONO-
GRAPHS at American Prices.
The Gem Phonograph - -£2I Os
The Standard Phonograph - £5
The Home Phonograph - -£7 \Os
FREE.
Cut this out and post to us, and we will send you
our Catalogue and full particulars.
%
Name
Address.
r--
IWBBC.
, rtS
20,000 RECORDS to Select from—ls, Is 3d, Is 6d & Is 9d each.
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd.,
“MY OPTICIANS
Importers of Phonographs and Records,
393 GEORGE ST. (facing Royal Hotel), SYDNEY.
k
Have YoCi a (SiranjopboOll
If so, ivhat are you paying for Records ?
Columbia Ioin Disc Records
are unequalled for Smoothness, Purity
of Tone, and Durability.
Price 3/6 each.
They are made of the very best Black
Composition, and will fit all Disc Talking
Machines. We Exchange Old and Worn
Records. Write for Particulars and
Latest Lists to —
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO. (fieri.).
Australian
Headquarters ;
25 Ash St., Sydney, N.S.W.
THE-
OLDSMOBILE
A Good Investment.
7 H.P. TOURING RUNABOUT.
7 H.P. STANDARD RUNABOUT.
More healthful out-of-doors enjoyment can be had from the OLDSMOBILE
RUNABOUT than from the same money spent in any other way. All the
annoying automobile uncertainties that may have prevented you from buying
a machine have been overcome to the smallest detail in this strong, handsome,
reliable car.
Costs practically nothing for repairs with intelligent handling. It has been
strengthened and built up to the highest point of efficiency, and is as well
adapted for touring as for city use—as the successful trip of two of these cars
across the* American Continent, and the 3000-mile endurance run in England,
and the 30-day Continental trip, have proven.
Send for Catalogue showing the Oldsmobile line ; the lowest prices for the
highest- efficiency.
7 H.P. Standard 7 [).P. 20 H.P. 10 H.P. 16 H.P.
Runabout. Touring Runabout. 2-Cyl. Touring-Car. Light Tonneau. Commercial Car.
OLDS MOTOR WORKS, DETROIT, MICH.
AGENTS:
SYDNEY MOTOR GARAGE, 253 Elizabeth St„ Sydney,
cnet
Sold bv
All Jewellers
WHO CAN SHOW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES.
FIRST THROUGHOUT THE EMPIRE. A
MEDALS WHEN-EVER EXHIBITED. M
7\ Certificate Given With Each Watch. [MI
'8S S
»E»
oru/o
'Bs,
1892
Estab-
-1750.
%
<**
s,
m
FLEXITE
greem
FLEXITE
FLEXITE BLACK
FLEXITE RED
FLEXITE OLIVE
FLEXITE GREEN
METAL
PIIMTS
PRESERVATIVE
Impart a highly lustrous coating, retain their gloss
after long exposure, and ensure the absolute
exclusion of moisture and destructive gases.
Iron Railings, Ornamental Fences,
Boiler Fronts, Smoke Stacks, Iron
Roofs, Iron or Steel Bridges, Cars,
Trucks, and all Marine Work.
One Gallon covers 600 square feet—nearly double
the space of any other metal paint—and the color is
a permanent one.
TO BE OBTAINED FROM ALL STOREKEEPERS.
Wholesale
Agents :
E. RICH & CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY &
BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 27.—N0. 1368.
THURSDAY, MAY 3, 1306.
Prick Go,
TRYING TO GET IT ALIGHT AGAIN.
An ex-farm-burner wrote last week to the S.W. Herald suggesting the despatch of a contingent to help Natal to slay its nigger.
There has been a great silence since.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ A astral in for the A list rut inns."
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £■l 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... OIS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director,
llowto Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige, the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be ref used.
The contents of this papier are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tiie Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To A matears In lllach on A. white.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, bat unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, No. 1 Broad-street Place.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Messrs. B. A. Thompson Jc Co., 28 lliebeck Street, Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco. — W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
HongKong. —Brewer and Co., 22 Queen’s Road, Ilong
Kong.
Shanghai.— Brewer and Co.
A vents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6%in. x l/,in.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY. MAY 3, 1906.
Gr. H. REID’S ANTI-SOCIALISM.
G. H. Reid has at last been ill-advised enough to
announce the platform of his anti-Socialist party.
It was a foolish burst of candor, for it showed
with absolute conclusiveness that he knows
nothing of what Socialism means and couldn’t
identify anti-Socialism if it was in the witness-
box before him. There is a case for anti-Social-
ism. The general mass of civilised humanity
recognises that the social problems which
the quick rise of modern industrialism created
can best be solved by community action. They,
therefore, believe in Socialism—to a greater
or less degree. Opposed to them is a smaller
band, of which the main strength is recruited
from the descendants of the old CoBDEN-ites, the
brutal believers in the doctrine of laissez faire.
They admit—must admit—the evils which afflict
life; how so many toil merely for bread to give
them strength to toil to morrow for more bread ;
how yet others struggle feverishly, despairingly,
for even that much kindness from life; how all
beauty and poetry and grace of existence is denied
to millions that a few may wallow in barbaric
sensuality. They see these things—must see them,
for they exist, and cry every day to Heaven for re-
dress. And their remedy is : “ Let things be. In
time, matters will adjust themselves. Those who
must starve will starve. The surplus population will
be removed. The unfit will be eliminated. Let
things be. Freetrade and Individualism are
above all things—immutable laws which must not
be broken.” Allied in purpose, though not in
sympathy; with these soulless wretches are a few
visionaries of too much soul—generally men who
dream dreams, live on nuts, and wear their hair
long. They believe that jf Individualism or
philosophic Anarchy were established, at once
human nature would be transformed ; and, freed
from the shackles of compulsion, man would
do always the square thing by his brother
man. These two classes form the genuine anti-
Socialists.
* * * *
But Reid represents neither school. He has not
the brutal courage of one, nor the imagination of
the other. As an anti-Socialist, he is a more
glaring Yes-No than he was as a Federalist.
His Melbourne platform divided itself into two
sections —platitudes and suggestions for more
Socialism. Putting aside one or- two timid pro-
posals to repeal existing Acts, or parts of Acts,
Reid’s working platform, as announced, is this :
Platitudes.
To fight to the death against Socialism. This means
nothing. A general statement that G. H. Reid is
strenuously in favor of dishonesty, or is an uncompro-
mising opponent of fair play, would have just about the
same practical value as a political pronouncement.
The removal of the distrust and irritation existing
between the State and the Commonwealth authorities.
This is another large, shadowy platitude which assists
nothing in defining G. H. Reid’s position. He might be
in favor of removing distrust and irritation—presuming
that they exist, which it is not necessary to presume on
Mr. Reid’s mere Yes-No—by the Commonwealth giving
way to the States on all points of difference. Or again,
he might favor the States giving way to the Common-
wealth. He doesn’t say which, or how. He might also
want to split the difference, but he doesn’t sav where it
should be split.
A fiscal trace. This fiscal-sinking idea Mr. Reid has
stolen from the Labor party—the only difference being
that they wish to “sink the fiscal issue” in order to
do something' else ; he, in order to do nothing else. It is
not a policy, but a negation of a policy.
The substitution of peace and goodwill between labor
and capital for the existing lamentable state of strife and
ill-will. This platitude means, in brief, the Millennium.
But it doesn’t suggest anything practical.
Thoroughly efficient national defence. To this might
be added, as a political principle, thoroughly good bread
and lots of beer. There’s no need to be anything but
generous when throwing benefits around in this large,
vague way.
Socialistic Proposals.
Extension of the Braddon clause to admit of the imme-
diate establishment of old age pensions. Old age pensions
are rank Socialism ; and Mr. Reid follows the example of
many other Socialists in being careless as to the
means by which he finances his Socialism, for the
extension of the Braddon clause won’t supply any more
money than there is now.
Strenuous efforts to introduce Australian products to
the world's markets. More platitudinous Socialism. In
the individualists’ creed it is not the business of the
Government to interfere in such matters.
Strenuous efforts to encourage immigration to Austra-
lia. (It takes a very fat man to offer to be so strenuous.)
Again Socialism.
Formation of a great Agricultural Bureau. Socialism
with the name blown in the bottle.
Uniform Australian laws in regard to banking, in-
surance and insolvency. Socialism 1 The Anti-Socialist
should declare robustly against any such State inter-
ference.
The use of the powers of Government and Parliament
to promote Private Enterprise instead of destroying it.
Again Socialism. Anti-Socialism would decline to use the
powers of Government to either help or hinder Private
Enterprise. Its attitude is always “ let alone.” Private
Enterprise that leans on the State ceases to be private.
The establishment of Courts of conciliation to supple-
ment the Courts of Industrial Arbitration. Once more
Socialism. Always Socialism 1
Imitation of Canadian immigration methods in
developing the resources of Australia. Those methods
are radically Socialistic and comprise Government sub-
sidy of immigration ships, and general regulation of the
settling of the new population. An anti-Socialist’s im-
migration policy should be to let the immigrants come if
they want to, and stay away if they r want to, without
any State encouragement or help.
Resumption of the Northern Territory and a vigorous
policy of introducing European settlement and develop-
ing topical agriculture. Still Socialism 1
* * * *
So the anti-Socialism programme of G. H.
Reid boils down to five platitudes, and eight
proposals for more Socialism ! It takes the con-
summate impudence of Yes-No to put that for-
ward seriously. But Mr. Reid and Mr. Reid’s
followers recognise that there is no importance to
be attached to platforms or pronouncements so
far as their propaganda is concerned. Theirs is
the policy of stagnation, and, if possible, reaction.
They are prepared to support Reid, no matter
what Reid professes, for they have the Reid as-
surance that, if he succeeds, he will stand in the
way of the desire of the Australian nation to fill
the factories and till the fields of this
Commonwealth under conditions giving freedom
and fair reward to all. And, the pity of it, there
is, on the other side, as yet, no man who is stand-
ing out as the pronounced enemy of that policy of
stagnation on all points. The anti-Socialists, or,
rather, anti-Australians, are united and effe'ctively
organised. They will vote blindly for Reid, no
matter what his professions—Freetraders, Insect-
arians, Land Monopolists, all are united
by a common purpose. The Australians are
divided between a Labor party, which has no
fiscal faith (without which all other good works
are useless), and the Deakin party, which is only
beginning to definitely profess any strong faith
at all.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Again, the Federal Capital.
A member of The Bulletin staff gets this letter
from a Monaro man :
I write to ask you if you can throw some light upon the
discussion of the Premiers’ conference upon the Federal
capital question. The Herald and Telegraph give only
a short and confusing report of same. They say that the
Premiers laid all the blame for delay and possible extra
expense upon the Federal Government, and that it was
“ stated” that the Federal Government would and could
have the matter settled when and where it choose.
What does all this really mean? In the face of the
refusal by N.S.W. Parliament to give the land at Dalgety,
do they mean that the Federal Government should
acquire by purchase, or is it that they could settle it by
backing down to Sydney ? The paragraph also says that
the feeling of the conference was adverse to the bush
capital, but would not recommend an alteration of the
Constitution. If you could give me some more definite
information regarding the meaning of the remarks made,
and who made them, I would feel obliged, as you know
I am very much interested, and I wish to know what
Deaiiin said, and if it is likely that anything will be done
next session to settle it. As the report is so brief, and
the Sydney dailies are without comments, it seems as if it
did not please them ; Tun Bulletin should give something
more intelligible about it.
Which is of sufficient importance to call for a
public reply. First, to produce the press report,
which read (exactly the same in both Sydney
papers)
The Conference discussed the question of the site of the
Federal capital, and there was a general expression of
opinion that the responsibility for all the delay and any
duplication of attendant expenses rested on the Com-
monwealth Government. It was stated that the Federal
Government would, and could, settle the matter where
and when it chose.
The feeling of the Conference was generally against
the present provision for a “ bush capital.” The Premiers
did not, however, feel it competent for them to suggest
an amendment of the Constitution.
The Conference ultimately decided upon a course of
action which means waiting developments.
As to whether The Bulletin can throw more
light on that report, it is doubtful. The Premiers’
Conference did not condescend to allow the public
to know how it conducted its business. Its
sittings were secret. The press had to rely
for its reports upon what Joseph Carruthers,
or some instructed minion of Joseph Car-
ruthers, told it. What the statements made—
by Joseph or Joseph’s minion—really amount to
is simply a sample of fiction which is not even in-
genious. The Australian Government, in the
first instance;' implorbd the State of N. S. Wales
to choose a capital site and offer it. N. S. Wales
steadily refused. Then the Commonwealth asked
for a number of sites that it might pick out one
for itself. N. S. Wales offered several, including
Dalgety, and reserved from sale the State Lands
around those sites. The Australian Parliament,
after making exhaustive inquiries, selected. Dal-
gety, which happened to be within gunshot of the
site which a N.S. Wales Royal Commission had
reported as the best. Now N.S. Wales refuses to
give up Dalgety, and is waiting for Deakin to
give up his affability and take it. That’s the real
position. In the inspired statement to the press
the Commonwealth is first blamed for the delay
(which is a lie, though a common enough lie in
Sydney). Then the opinion is expressed against a
“ bush capital.” If the Conference was averse to a
bush capital—the only one which the Common-
wealth is allowed by the Constitution to build-
why should it blame the Commonwealth for the
delay which prevents a “bush capital” being
built ? Anyhow, the “ bush capital ” can only be
averted by an amendment of the Constitution,
and these amazing Premiers don’t recommend an
amendment of the Constitution. Their sour
grumble only sets forth that they agree
to be dissatisfied, but do not agree on
any remedy for their own dissatisfaction.
It is possible that just what is reported represents
a true account; on the other hand, it is for many
reasons improbable. It is improbable that the
version of Joseph, or Joseph’s minion, is a
true one because it i 9 so inherently self-
contradictory. It is a branded-on-the-brow
lie—a sort of triangular Yes-No-perhaps-Yes
yarn which makes no straight statement and
is horribly mixed in its navigation. If it repre-
sents the actual truth of what the Premiers said,
then The Bulletin thinks a good deal worse of
Kidston and Price and—yes—it. thinks worse of
Bent. After a struggle, it finds it cannot think
worse of Cauruthers.
♦
Not Quite So Affable.
Prime Minister Deakin’s promise—at least it
sounded like a promise—made last week at Cam-
perdown (Vic.), that his Government will fight in
real earnest this coming session for a genuine Pro-
tectionist tariff is good news. It represents
Alfred minus his customary eloquence, diffuse-
ness, affability, circumlocution, and tendency to
ambie in pleasant circles round and round his
subject. It reads for once like the declaration of
a fighting leader, and if Alfred calls Parliament
together early, gets to work promptly, and puts
his foot down hard on every semblance of obstruc-
tion, then he must win. But to win he must
tread down obstruction as it was never trodden
before. The session will necessarily be short, for
this House of Representatives dies in December
at latest, and members from remote parts want to
get away by October in order to fly into the
uttermost parts of the backblocks and see their
constituents. There are many things to do in
about four months, and if anything is to be
effected in tariff matters it will be necessary to
explain clearly to the Parliament that all that can
be said on the subject has already been said
twenty times over, and that this time it must be
a matter of votes, not of talk. The majority must
rule; and it is as great an outrage on Responsible
Government if the measures that the majority
desires are talked out by the minority as it would
be if they were blocked - by physical violence.
Minority rule, whether it is imposed by a jaw-
bone or a club, is the same public injury, and the
same public disgrace. If Pumpkin Smith and
Wilks, and Fuller, and Johnson, and Kelly,
and all the rest are remorselessly cut off in the
bloom of their ditfuseness, after three minutes’
conversation, and debate is sawn off at the ground
every time to allow of the question being put,
and Parliament swears off talk and tattle, and
sticks to the only thing that really matters—the
work of discovering by a vote what is the will and
decision of the majority—then a great deal is
possible even in a session of four months. A
great deal may also be done to facilitate progress
if the Government introduces half its measures in
the Senate, and thus keeps both Houses busy from
the first. But the great essential is to lay the axe
to the root of the tree, and the tree is Gabble, and
the root of it is mostly Pumpkin Smith,
A Boundary Question.
Melbourne Age has lately thrown a bomb
or a clod or something into the middle of the
problem re the division of the Murray waters, by
raising again the question as to the boundary
line between N.S.W. and Victoria, and the Bent
Government seems inclined to take the matter up.
This problem lias simmered more or less in an
unofficial way for half a century, but it has never
yet been brought into court, though Irvine, in
liis cold, glacial fashion, was thinking of taking it
there just before he fell from the Premiership.
Bent possibly will take it there. Bent is a
fighting man ; he has fought with cabbages,
banks, building societies, drainage and manure
problems, land companies, liquidators and muni-
cipal councillors, and he is the most likely Pre-
mier Victoria has ever had to bring the matter to
an issue. The case seems, so far as all the known
evidence goes, sufficiently uncertain to provide, if
it comes into court, a very large fight and a very
great deal of costs. Victoria is commonly sup-
posed to be the old district of Port Phillip under
a separate State Government and a new name,
and the old district of Port Phillip certainly ex-
tended as far north as the Murrumbidgee. The
official description of Victoria in the Act of
Separation passed by the British Parliament was
this :
Bounded on the north and north-east by a straight line
drawn from Cape Howe to the nearest source of the Eiver
Murray, and thence by the course of that river to the
eastern boundary of the colony of South Australia.
South Australia, by the way, never was a
“colony”; it was, officially, a “province,” which
small detail shows the British Parliament’s loose
way of doing things. The N.S.W. authorities
were entrusted with the execution of this British
Act, and they drew the line from Cape Howe to
the Indi River (a distance of 110 miles)
and left things at that. The Indi is really
the uppermost end of the Murray. But the
distance from Cape Howe to the Eumeralla
River is only 75 miles; the Eumeralla is
really the top of the Murrumbidgee, and the
Murrumbidgee is a tributary of the Murray ;
therefore, if it were merely a question of taking a
bee-line from Cape Howe to the nearest tributary
of the Mutiny, and then following the water as it
flows, the problem would be quite simple, and
Victoria’s claim to the Riverina would be indubit-
able. And Britain has kept on officially describe
ing the boundaries of Victoria in the same words
in subsequent documents, which is something by
way of corroboration. On the other hand, how-
ever, there is the difficult statement (for Victoria)
that when the boundary has found the nearest
tributary of the Murray, it is to follow “ the course
of that river ” to the S.A. border, and this doesn't
seem to quite fit in with a that would
be about three-quarters Murrumbidgee and only
one-quarter Murray. Such a line would follow the
Murrumbidgee much more than the Murray. The
Victorian theory, in reply, is that the Upper Murray
wasn’t the Murray in the days of separation,
but the Hume; that the Murray only started
where the Hume and the Murrainbidgee joined ;
and that a line drawn from Cape Howe to the
nearest tributary of the Murray (the Murruni-
bidgee), and following that river all the way,
would also follow the course of the Murray so far
as there was, at the time the Act was passed, any
Murray to follow. Here the question seems to
get tangled up with the hideously careless nomen-
clature of early Australia. Certainly the Upper
Murray was once the Hume, and the alternative
name is not yet quite dead. Even on the map
which the N.S.W. .Railway Department hangs up
in its first-class carriages to-day the upper
river appears as the “Murray or Hume.”
Also part of the upper river was occa-
sionally the Goolwa. Also part of it was, and
still is, the Indi. And, apparently, there was no
fixed or definite date when the name Murray
spread up the river and partially superseded
the name Hume. In a N.S.W. publication of as
recent date as 1877 the great river is called the
“Gulba or Murray” away down near the S.A.
border; it is plain “Murray” between
Echuca and the mouth of the Murrumbidgee ; it
is “ the Goolwa or Murray ” between Echuca and
Albury; then it becomes “the Murray or Hume” ;
then “the Indi or Murray ’’; then nothing in par-
ticular. That showed the name “Murray” as
predominant but no more. It hadn’t a monopoly.
Heaton’s “ Dictionary of Dates ” speaks casually
of the Hume as “the boundary between N.S.W.
and Victoria,” and adds “ the name of the Murray
was subsequently given to its western portion,
which was discovered by Stubt.” There is no
date attached to this statement, but the book was
published in 1879. It is a horribly mixed river
and a horribly mixed case. If Victoria goes to
law, it must fight on the main issue that the boun-
dary was to begin with a line from Cape Howe to
the Murray’s nearest tributary, and on the side
issue that the old district of Port Phillip,
which was supposed to be made into Vic-
toria, did extend up to the Murrumbidgee. And
it must make the best case it can out of the awk-
ward proviso that the boundary line was to follow
“the course of that river” (the Murray), by
showing, if it can, that the Murray didn’t then
crawl any higher than about Euston. As for
N.S.W.’s 55 years adverse possession, and all the
vasttangleof State and Federal Acts of Parliament
and official doings which implied a recognition
of the present boundary, they will have to be
explained away as best Victoria can—with Costs.
There is a stupendous vista of Costs in view.
Speaking in a gambling spirit, and going to a
great extent on the fact that long possession
counts for a lot, The Bulletin just at present is
inclined to bet that the event, if pursued to a
finish, will end thus :
Costs 1
New South Wales 2
Victoria 3
After all, so long as the Riverina remains in
Australia, it doesn’t seem to matter much what
State it is in.
Labor Perfidy.
Sydney Wokker publishes, with an air of pride,
a special report of the lamentable proceedings of
the recent Victorian Political Labor Conference,
at which it was decided to oppose, with as much
resolution as the stolidest Tory, those men who
stood to the Labor party in its need, and kept the
Watson Government alive. The decision was,
without mincing words, infamous. Recall the
circumstances ! Watson had taken office with a
LabQr Ministry, to which was added Higgins
(whose throat now is to be cut by the Labor
Leagues, if they can), having the direct support
of about a third of the House, and assured of a
general sympathy from the Deakin party. Very
soon Deakin fell under the spell of Reid and
took up an attitude of armed neutrality towards
Watson. Thereupon certain members of
Deakin’s party took the bold step of break-
ing away from him and practically joining
Watson lsaacs, M auger, Hume Cook,
Crouch, Lyne, Chanter and Groom being
the most notable. These men, especially the Vic-
torians, by cutting themselves away from their
own party, exposed themselves to the bitter
hostility of the Tory interests in their electorates,
and to their opponents became “as bad as the
Labor members.” It was only reasonable that
they should expect, therefore, that to their friends
they should be “as good as Labor members.”
They didn’t stipulate for so much as direct Labor
support at the polls in return for the direct sup-
p at they had given to Labor in Parliament; but
it was arranged between them and J. C. Watson,
acting for his party, that they should have im-
munity from Labor opposition at the next elec-
tions. The arrangement was in every way
equitable, and was of such a nature as any party
leader was entitled to come to on his own authority.
But Watson took the precaution of consulting
the executive of the Labor League and securing
its approval beforehand. He further reported the
agreement to the last Inter-State Labor Con-
ference, and it endorsed that alliance whilst
deprecating future agreements of the sort. Now
the Victorian Labor League Conference decides
to repudiate the Labor leader’s action, to repudiate
all the endorsements which were given, and to
turn perfidious arms on the men who have come
into the Labor camp as friends and allies. There is
no other word but “ infamous ” for this. And the
Victorian L.L. Conference, as if to aggravate the
offence (if that were possible), came to its
decision with a cheerful and airy insolence. To
quote the Worker report
Mr. J. C. Watson’s appeal to give “consideration” to
certain men who stood to the Federal Labor party in its
hour of need was listened to attentively, its very impres-
siveness and, above all, its clearly-cut sincerity, demand-
ing for it weighty deliberation. That was fully given.
The great admiration which the men of the conference had
for John Christian Watson rang out in fervent phrase,
frequent and free, but
But they decided to put him in the position of
breaking his word. They admired him fervently,
but they would not observe the arrangements
which he had made. They loved him, but they
pilloried him as a disgraced and censured leader.
To quote the Worker again :
Mr. Watson was not present on the following day when
the vote was taken, but he came in shortly afterwards.
The decision was formally communicated to him. He
pointed out the seriousness of the position to him as a
leader that the decision involved and how his personal
honor had been at stake when he had promised certain
men who had stuck to the party all the consideration he
could get for them. He felt that he was at perfect liberty
to do so, inasmuch as he had had the executive’s sanction.
The conference had decided otherwise. Then Mr. Watson
spoke in words of tense earnestness. In a few phrases
he made it clear that the resolution was in the nature of
a knock to him, but whatever might happen in the future
he would never be found voting against the party. Such
a statement bore only one interpretation, and the hope
was generally expressed that Mr. Watson would not do
anything that savored of an extreme course as the result
of an honestly-arrived-at verdict by the conference. To
show that they still trusted Mr. Watson, the members
carried unanimously a resolution approving of his able
leadership.
They “approved of his able leadership,” but they
left him in a position in which it is difficult to


see how he can remain leader of the party and
retain his personal honor. The loss of J. C.
Watson is the logical outcome of the decision of
the Victorian Labor League Conference. The
Bulletin trusts thatsuch a calamity will beaverted
—it would be acalamity, for Watson stands highest
among the public men of Australia for capacity
and earnestness —but it is difficult to see how he
can find an honorable way out ot the present posi-
tion, and this paper believes Watson will not be
satisfied with any but an honorable way. It is
not surprising to learn, by way of P.S., from the
Worker report, that this Conference of faith-
breakers was much given to singing. The trail of
the “Awake, arise ! shake off your chains !” was
obviously there. The Conference, it is stated,
sang everyday, and one of its favorite songs ran:
Then, after trying to make “warning” rhyme
with “dawning,” it proceeded with its deeds of
perfidy.
4,
The Understanding That Wasn’t.
The Tory press lie that there was an “under-
standing” among the makers of the Federal Con-
stitution that the Commonwealth Parliament
should not impose direct taxation, except in case
of such an emergency as war, is so mischievous
that it cannot be refuted too often. Herewith—
for the use of those who may meet the lie
and wish to refute it — a few references
on the point from the Convention debates. At the
Adelaide session of the Federal Convention on
April 17, 1897, clause 50, sub-section III. of the
Draft Constitution was proposed. It provided
,(customs and excise taxation had already been
(dealt with) for—
Raising money by any other mode or system of taxa-
tion ; but so that all such taxation shall be uniform
throughout the Commonwealth.
'The clause was passed without division. No one
hinted that there was any understanding that
tthese powers of taxation should lie in abeyance.
At Sydney (Sept. 22, 1897). an amendment sug-
gested by the N.S.W. Legislative Council that
the sub-section should be omitted was con-
sidered. Whereupon Mr. Barton, leader of the
-Conference, said: —
This is another matter in which the Legislative Council
•of New South Wales was under the impression that too
much revenue-raising power would be given to the Com-
monwealth, and that the result would be over-taxation.
1 urged without avail that if the Commonwealth had to
•raise a certain amount of money, if it had not the right
•to raise it by other sources of income than Customs, it
would still raise the same amount, and the aggregate of
taxation would be the same, but that argument did not
prevail.
On this statement there was no debate, no
suggestion of an agreement not to use the power
to impose direct taxes except in casesof emergency.
But the amendment of the N.S.W. Legislative
Council was thrown down the stairs with such
emphasis that it only bumped once on the way.
Later (Sydney 7/3/’98), Mr. Barton again spoke in
the Federal Convention on this point:—
My desire is that the Federal Parliament should be
unfettered in the exercise of its taxing power if it has to
use any direct taxation at all. Whatever my own
opinions may be as to the way in which that power
should be exercised, it is necessary that the authority to
which it is confided should have the power in full force.
And from the same debates scores of other
remarks can be gathered—some of them referring
directly to a land tax —which remarks show that
it was the deliberate and unanimous intention of
the members of the Federal Convention to give
the Commonwealth Parliament unfettered powers
of direct taxation. The lie that there was an
“understanding” to the contrary is hopeless. It
hasn’t even a toe to stand on.
«
Our Lamentable Defences.
Colonel Antill, who has the look of a good
soldier and the record of one, has retired from
the Commonwealth service—he was one of a small
band of permanent instructional officers—and, at
a farewell dinner, gave his comrades the reasons.
They were, in short, that the Commonwealth
treats its military servants with disgusting mean-
ness, and that the Defence system, under the
present regime, is drifting into chaos, so that
there is no hope either of making a good living or
•doing creditable work by staying in the service.
•Unfortunately, what Antill says is quite true—an
•under-statement of the truth, if anything—and the
persons who are responsible for military adminis-
tration are making a characteristic effort to dodge
the questions brought up by this public statement
•of unpalatable truths, by raising a point of dis-
cipline. There is to be a great pow-wow as to
whether Antill had the right to speak so boldly
on retirement, and as to whether his brother
officers should not have gagged him with the table-
cloth, or drowned him in the port, or left the room,
rather than listen to his “treason” against the
military administration. But Australians gene-
rally will refuse, if they are wise, to be
drawn aside from the discussion of the main
issue by any such triviality. It is not of real
importance whether Antill technically shook off
all the bonds of discipline when he spoke, or
whether officers, in uniform at a friendly dinner,
are actually “on duty” and under discipline.
What is of real importance is that the statements
of Colonel Antill should be fully discussed, for
they touch closely the vital problem of national
defence. In the first instance, the charge of mean-
ness in the treatment of professional soldiers must
be held sustained. The Bulletin favors a militia
system of defence which will abolish the
absurdity of paying a man to do what is his
elementary duty as a citizen—train for defence ;
but it recognises that there will always be need of a
small instructional cadre. And the men who are
entrusted with the work of instruction need to be
of the best type, and need to have the feeling
that they can safely devote their lives to the
Commonwealth. To ensure that, the instructional
officer should be well paid, and should have
pension rights on retirement. At present he is
ill-paid, has no pension rights, and is arbitrarily
retired, not when he is unfit for work, but when
he has reached a certain age, no matter how
efficient he may still be. Arl instructional officer
in the Australian service, a keen, capable man,
has a Son whom he designs for the military
life, and who will have the advantage of his
father’s store of knowledge. But the son is marked
for the British, not the Australian army, for,
incredible as it may seem, in spite of all its
traditions of extravagance and snobbery, the
British army offers a better “career” to the
professional soldier. The best the permanent
soldier in Australia can hope for is a living wage
until he is too old for any other occupation ; then
the sack without pension. Antill moves out
whilst he is still capable of getting into another
groove. He sees, as an awful example of staying
in, a well-known N.S.W. colonel, who, after
giving his life-time to the service, was summarily
retired without pension, and so far has
been refused even the small mercy of a
minor civil post under the Government to
keep him from poverty. If the Commonwealth is
to keep able men for the important work of
military instruction, it must pay them better.
Further, it must give them better opportunity of
doing good "work. Many a man is willing to do
responsible, trusted work at £5OO a year who is
not willing to lick stamps under an exacting boss
for £6OO. The present military policy of the
Commonwealth (initiated during that disastrous
time when G. H. Reid was Minister) is to
centralise all authority in a Board, which is
mostly made up of incapables, and a Minister
who in his present day is pathetically incapable.
In the service are some excellent men (Finn, for
example, who has won every step by merit
and force of character), but they have no real
Eower; they are hobbled and heel-roped and
altered. Their energies are wasted in conform-
ing to a harassing routine and chafing against an
intolerable red-tapeism. It is safe to say that,
even with the most generous pay, men of character
and ability would not be comfortable in the Aus-
tralian Commonwealth forces as at present
governed. Since the pay is not generous, is not
even adequate, hardly an officer is contented,
though many ape content for different reasons.
Colonel Antill has done a public service in
bringing these facts to the fore. The Bulletin
hopes that their discussion will not be stifled by
any petty row about the etiquette of the position.
4
The Sydney Tramway Muddle.
The conclusion to which the Sydney tramway
management was driven by its Easter holiday ex-
periences, that it will soon be necessaiy to dupli-
cate the tram lines along Pitt and Castlereagh
streets, is a deafening commentary on —among
other things—the foolishness of Owk’Sullivan’s
immense, unfinished railway terminus at far-off
Redfern. One great reason why the railway
should be brought into the city, with a central
station at Wynyard-square and arrangements for
a future continuation across the harbor to North
Sydney, is that a great deal of traffic would thereby
be taken off the streets. Then branch lines could
be constructed to the eastern and other suburbs,
which would take a lot more traffic off the streets
just where it can be best spared. A branch line
which dropped its passengers at Wynyard-square,
or at side stations on the way thither, would be a
great relief, but nothing can be done by means of
a branch line connecting the eastern suburbs with
a remote, bulky monstrosity at Redfern. The
business people who rush in every morning, and
rush out every evening, don’t want to go to Red-
fern any more than they want to go to Newtown
or Eveleigh, and if they did go to Redfern they
would simply have to load into another set of
trams to get back into the city, and there would
be the same old congestion. In the absence of a
city railway station, and a network of city and
suburban branch lines, there is nothing for it save
to build more and more and still more tram-lines.
But there is practically no place for any more
tram-lines to go at the city end except Circular
Quay, which .is already a tangled waste and
wilderness of lines, and about the best place for
suicide in the Southern Hemisphere. It is more
dangerousthanaSouthAmericanrevolution. There
are practically only the two old outlets at the
other end —the congested bottle-neck in Oxford-
street, and the still more congested bottle-neck at
Redfern. There are no streets to lay more lines
in except Pitt and Castlereagh streets. These are
both narrow. If they have to carry double lines
then heavy dray traffic must leave them ; and as
George-street and Elizabeth-street are already full
of tram-lines, the only streets available for heavy
traffic are College-street and York-street. But
College-street empties into the congested bottle-
neck at Oxford-street, where the tram-cars are
already as thick as flies on a hot day at Bourke,
and York-street empties into the bottle-neck
at Redfern, where tram-cars are as thick
as good resolutions in Sheol, so that the
alleged remedy is no remedy after all.
Some desperate attempts are being made to
ease the pressure by constructing little side tracks
to connect one main tram-line with another, but
that only means shifting part of the traffic from
one over-loaded street to another over-burdened
street, and adding new complications, new cross-
ings, and new possibilities of eternal smash. The
utter lunacy of the Owe’Sullivan railway idea,
which left the increasing traffic to be carried by
the narrow city streets just as of old, is glaringly
revealed before even the Owe’ person’s garish
station is more than half built, and the trouble is
already so bad that it would probably be worth
while to pull down that pretentious structure, and
write it off (out of revenue) as a bad debt, and
carry the railway straight into the city after all.
4
The Yic. Farmer and the Vic. Railways.
Pbesumably to show that he is really doing a lot
of work for his money, Victoria’s imported Railway
Commissioner Tait has just issued a new Rate
Book. And an amazing thing it is. Simplicity
ought to be the guiding principle in goods classi-
fication. A plain and business-like system, with
as few divisions as possible, would enable the
Department to trade with the minimum of trouble
to itself and the maximum of convenience to the
public. But Mr. Tait has taken sweet Sim-
plicity by the neck, and strangled her fatally
dead. The classification is a phantasmagoria.
There are classes M, AP, AP special, A,
B, C, 1,2, and 3—a book full of
them. Asphalt in bags is in one class, asphalt
in blocks in another. Sheet zinc is in one class ;
if there are holes in the sheet zinc it is in another ;
and a great gulf yawns between clothes pegs and
clothes lines. Also, what is A when there are six
tons of it, is KZ when there are two tons of it,
and it is OY or PQ when something else happens.
But, through it all, the old swindle sticks out—
the vast, unrecognised subsidy to the Great Natu-
ral Industries, the farmer and the squatter (whose
representatives say that Protection isn’t needed
and that Socialism is scandalous) being fed by the
Socialistic railways at the e> pense of the manu-
facturer and the city taxpayer. Take a case, on a
plain, through line, where the rates to Melbourne
are unusually low, evidently with the object of
preventing any of the trade going to the out-
ports :
Freight Between Melbourne and Conlaii (Westfrn
District), 213 Miles.
Wheat, oats, barley, cha' T , straw, potatoes,
onions, per ten . . .. .. .. £0 14 4
Buckets, clothing, harness, tea, most groceries
furniture, per ton 2 0 0
Or another case, in a district where Melbourne
hasn’t to be protected from the poor struggling
little outport
Freight Between Melbourne and Natimuk (Wijimera),
241 Miles.
Wheat, oats, barley, chaff, straw, potatoes,
onions, per ton .. £0 14 4
Buckets, clothing’, harness, tea, most groceries,
furniture, per ton o u
So the unfortunate Natimuk hayseed has a mere
trifling “pull” of £4 lid. Bd. per ton over the
carrion storekeeper who supplies him with his
boots, harness, clothing, furniture, tinware, etc.
The Argus howls itself out of its boots at the
idea of giving preference to the brand of unionist
who carries a hod. Now let it do a different
shriek, anent the appalling injustice of giving a
bloated preference of 91s. Bd. per ton to the brand
of unionist that sits on the harvester seat. And
still nothing has been said anent the special
manure and wool rates charged on the Victorian
railways. No mention has been made of a score
of other reduced rates, simply because it would
take acres of paper to show all the different pre-
ferences that the country producer receives. It
is not argued here that the farmer has no right to
obtain any preference. But it is argued that he
has no right to a preference so huge that other
customers of the Railway Department are forced
to literally bleed money in order to square Tait s
ledger. It is argued, also, that about half the
clerks at Spencer-street could be given productive
work to do if the present ridiculously unequal
rates and complicated classification were abolished,
At present, the Department’s customers are lost
in a wilderness of tariffs ; and no man knows
what he will have to pay until the Department
sends in its insane bill.
A Fire Insurance Matter.
Tiie mention of State fire insurance, a subject
which has cropped up pretty often in recent years,
has always aroused a superior smile on the
countenance of the private enterprise insurance
“expert.” On these occasions he explains, in
simple words which he reckons are suited to the
limited comprehension of his hearers —people who
suggest such a thing as State insurance being
necessarily of limited comprehension that it
wouldn’t do. Fire insurance, the expert
laboriously expounds, depends for its success on
“ a wide diffusion of risks a far wider one than
can ever be secured in any one State; so State
insurance, being confined to one State, would
necessarily fail. The financial editors of the Tory
papers back up this explanation, and express their
sorrow for the limited intelligence of persons who
can’t see the point, and their leading columns
speak rather in grief than in anger about
the ignorance and incapacity of a certain class
of citizen. Meanwhile San Francisco is still
smouldering, and the New Zealand Insurance
Co., which went in for “a wide diffusion of
risks,” is wondering whether its loss will be
£250,000 or £350,000. The shock isn’t so bad as it
might be, because this co. recently took over the
N.Z, Accident Insurance Co.-—a concern which
didn’t go in for a wide diffusion of risks, and
didn’t lose its money paying for unforeseen
accidents to Bulgarian insurgents and the like—
and the combined funds of the two companies run
to very large dimensions ; still the bill is a heavy
blow. Most Australian companies at one time or
another took a hand at doing a great foreign busi-
ness, and those that did fall naturally into three
classes—the ones that were killed by the foreign
business, such as the once great Pacific Co. ; the
ones that got out of their large foreign business in
time and got back on the road to prosperity, such
as the Colonial Mutual and the North Queens-
land ; and one or two that are still in the foreign
business, and are feeling bad just at present over
its possibilities. With English companies the
experience is just the same as with Australian
ones. There is probably not one among the
British fire insurance companies that have
died in the last 30 or 40 years through
being burnt out (some, of course, have died
through never having had any business, but those
were swindles from the first) which didn’t perish
through its foreign business. The burning of St.
John’s, of Chicago (damage £39,000,000), of part
of Boston (damage £15,000,000), and the latest
San Francisco shock —these, and not the local
losses, represent the sort of thing which crumples
up the British fire insurance co. Just now three
English offices are looking gloomily at aggregate
losses of about £3,500,000, a sort of thing that they
couldn’t have met with in England since 1666, and
many others are struck as heavily in proportion.
It is at these times that the office which keeps all
its business close under its eye in one country—
especially if it is a country which hasn t earth-
quakes, revolutions, volcanoes, or shoddy wooden
cities—feels best. It may not be so bloated in its
figures as the one which is liable at any time to
be combusted in five continents, but its profits are
generally larger in the end. The superior insur-
ance expert rises to state now and then, as a reason
against State insurance, that the existence of an
insurance institution is impossible without foreign
business, b'ut the most steadily progressive offices
in Australia give that expert the lie in every bal-
ance-sheet.
♦
The Imitation Icebeig.
A correspondent finds out that Irvine is only
an imitation Iceberg after all:
As I listened to Irvine my mind raced back to Robes-
pierre. The same cold, repellent, envious face ; the
same asperity, slowness of utterance, harshness of voice,
want of animation. I saw him, the Incorruptible One, as
he came up from Arras, where he had resigned his position
of Judge-Advocate, because his precious conscience would
not allow him to pronounce a death penalty, as enjoined
by the existing law. I saw him come to Paris, to be shel-
tered by Pktion, Roland and Brissot ; and to subsequently
return the favor by proscribing the first, driving the
second to suicide, and guillotining the last. I saw him
refuse —like Irvine recently—the proffered office of Public
Accuser ; because he aimed solely, like Irvine, at gaining
the reputation of being an incorruptible patriot. And
how gloriously did he succeed ! His former protectors
quivered in alarm whenever the great man’s corpse-like
eye rested on them. Everybody who disagreed with him
was a bad citizen. His own popularity he founded on the
blind passions and limited views of faction. His was the
faction of the sansculottes ; Irvine’s of the Federated
Fats. Marat, that terrible but far-seeing fanatic, had
but to see him once to sum him up. He found
Robespierre surrounded by busts and pictures of him-
self ; all portraying him as a calm, strong man, who alone
could save France. Marat blinked, then dragged himself
hastily-away. “ A nobody, sans ideas, sans everything
except the capacity for unlimited worship of self. He
certainly is not the man for whom I seek.”
Marvellous is the re-incarnation of character. After the
affair of the 10th of August, when the putty-willed Louis
XVI. surrendered theTuilleries practically without a blow,
the Incorruptible One howled harshly for a special tribunal
with sufficient latitude to reach everyone, and threat-
ened to bring all Paris roaring round the Legislative
Assembly, if the decree were not immediatey granted.
That was in 1792. In 1904 Irvine howled for a Strike
Suppression Act, to indiscriminately gaol and punish all
those who found no favor in the eyes of the latter-day
Incorruptible One. And, as Robespierre terrified the
Parliament of France into acquiescence, so Irvine bullied
the Victorian Parliament into placing such a perfidious
weapon in his hands. Robespierre declared that h.s
tribunal should be without appeal ; so also did the cold,
callous Irvine. Robespierre set up the guillotine, and
chopped off heads. Irvine set up h'.s Act for die-
franchising the civil servants, and chopped off votes’.
“No trial!" Robespierre screeched, horrified by the
possibility of the result being: favorable to a person
whom he saw fit to accuse. “ No trial, cried Irvine t
the railway men. And when the Labor party voiced the
wrongs of the railway men, how Irvine yearned for a
power to silence their tongues ! He indeed had one such
weapon. Public opinion, that shoddy creation of a
shoddy Press, was his to use as he might please. He
did please to use it; and clods of public reprobation smote
every mail who cried out that Justice had been muideiei .
How we forget, we Australians ! Here conies
the Incorruptible One again, seeking a place in out
National Parliament. Here he comes preaching Robes-
pierre's old gospel, that the mob can do no wrong.
Robespierre meant the Lean Mob; Irvine means
the Fat Mob. Covetous of flattery, lie has a swell fol-
lowing of women. So had Robespierre. Robespierre s
women made a god of him. His superannuated mai-
chionesses crawled at his feet. The National Women s
League crawls after Irvine to-day, imploring him to be a
calm, strong man some more, and stamp out this plague
of progress. So Irvine walks before all; holding con-
verse with none of his partners in bygone outrages ,
wholly wrapt up in the contemplation of his miraculous
self. His Society-cwm-political females fawn on him as
he goes. “ Dear Mr. Irvine, do stand. We will help you
into Parliament. Money, the press-every instrument is
yours.” The idol of the old women of both sexes,
he meditates in serene aloofness, pondering which
Federal electorate he will honor with his candidature.
Thiers put it well, when he said that a “ good ” reputa-
tion is requisite for fooling the orowd. But will any
crowd of electors, in Victoria or elsewhere, allow them-
selves to be fooled by Irvine’s cold, passionless, tomb-
stone-like reputation ? One wonders. Are we Austra-
lians the champion forg'etters of all time ?
Victoria’s Railway Accidents.
Looking back at that wonderful record of Vic-
torian railway accidents in the first quarter ot
this year (31 accidents were recorded by the press,
and it may have missed some ol the small ones),
27 seem clearly traceable to the awful economy ot
the man with the cigar in his mouth who came to
Victoria to “make the railways pay. there
were 15 derailments in the three months, to begin
with. All but the Gembrook affair were officially
investigated in secret, and a secret inquiry was
getting ready in the Gembrook case when the
press forced a public investigation. In most
cases, so far as is known, the road was proved to
be decayed at the scene of the accident, or the
points out of gear, and it seems that generally
some small railway servant was offered up as a
burnt sacrifice. But Tait, who has cut down the
maintenance staff so heavily that a general state ot
disrepair is only to be expected, was never the
sacrifice. In eleven other cases of accident the
engine broke down, and in one case a truck broke
up. These matters were also inquired into
officially and in secret, and presumably someone
was found responsible for not repairing the
vehicles, but the secret inquiry never seems to
have sacked Thomas Tait for cutting down the
cleaning and repairing staff to a degree that made
it almost certain that tja© rolling stock must
degenerate into a herd of rattletraps clattering
down a decayed permanent way to probable
destruction. Of course Tait was brought in “to
make the railways pay.” He hasn’t ventured
to make them pay by adequately increasing the
rates on the farm produce of the pampered
agriculturists of Kyabram and other places
—the men who got their produce carried
for next to nothing, and swindle the State
out ol its irrigation rates as well. If he did
so, rents (and land values) would have to go
down, for rents are already as high as the farmer
can afford to pay, even when he gets his produce
carried at a great loss, which loss used to make the
annual railway deficit. And if rents went down
owing to Tait, then Tait would become unpopu-
lar with the House of Rich Landlords and others.
Another way to make the railways pay would be
to reduce the debt against them—to pay off out
of revenue the loan money which represents mere
swindles done by the great landlords of Victoria
when they sold their property to the State tor
railway purposes at three to six times its value.
But if Tait proposed that, and mentioned these
swindles, he would again become unpopular.
The easiest way is to economise by euttmg
down repairs; but as the money saved
by lack of repairs comes off the capital
value of the railways—sometimes £1 saved
in repairs knocks £2 or £3 off the capital
value of the property —this following of the line
of least resistance is calculated to end in loss
rather than profit. The great bill for belated
repairs is almost due now, and when it arrives
jjf, Tait will certainly be unpopular. Mean-
while, he is pretty unpopular to go on with. „ But
he was imported “ to make the railways pay. In
the end, he will probably make the country pay
through the nose. Meanwhile, Tait talks through
the nose.
o-
G. H. Reid, at Forbes (N.S.W.) :
If there is a monopoly which is injurious to the com-
munity, I am for strenuously putting it down ; but the
Socialists want them to continue as State monopolies, just
a substitution of one form of the evil for another ; and
whereas a private monopoly may be wiped out, a btate
monopoly is indestructible.
How is a State monopoly indestructible ? If a
State monopoly became “injurious to the com-
munity,” what is to prevent the community ( i.e .,
the people who own and direct the monopoly and
injure themselves by it) wiping it out ? And when
everybody has a share in a monopoly, how is it a
monopoly? And how does Reid propose to put
down the private monopoly that is injurious ex-
cept by the State taking it over ? Will he show
his draft of a Bill that will put down a monopoly
otherwise ?
+
Poor King Peter of Servia receives a lot of at-
tention in the cablegrams these times. He got to
the throne through the brutal murder of King
Alexander —the last of the Children of the Pig-
Dealer—and his wife. Now some of the Great
Powers won’t speak to Peter until he dismisses
the officers who butchered his predecessor, and
Peter dare not do this, because if he mentioned
such a thing those individuals would butcher lnm
also. Meanwhile they threaten to butcher him,
anyway, on the suspicion that he has a desire to
get rid of them, and propose to crown
Peter’s eldest son, aged about 19, in his stead.
The son may have been a respectable young
man before he became heir to a throne, but now
he is a drinky weed whose pursuit of Flossies at
night in his father’s capital has become a scandal ;
and it is commonly understood that he doesn’t
care much what becomes of poor old Pa so long as
he himself reaches the throne promptly and gets
the royal revenue to go on the tear with. Ihe
group of officers who murdered Alexander and
his queen have started a paper, and presumably
have put the new king on the free list so that
he may be kept posted up in their views.
King Peter has got together a small force of his
very own to guard his palace o nights in case
the officers who slew his predecessor should lead
his own army against him and leave another
bloodstain on the palace floor, but the reliability
of the new force is doubtful. Meanwhile the
ghosts of Alexander and Drag a are said to
haunt the royal building; and it must be a dreary
time for Peter Karageorgrvitch, shut up with
the spectres of his predecessors, not daring to go
out at night, and painfully aware that his
heir is whooping things up in the city out-
Hark, the battle-cry is ringing-.
Hope within our bosoms springing,
Bids us journey forward singing—
Death to tyrant’s might.
Though we wield no spear or sabre,
We the sturdy sons of Labor,
Helping every man his neighbor,
Shrink not from the fight.
Tyrant hearts take warning,
Nobler deeds are dawning,
Heroic deeds, sublimer creeds,
Shall herald Freedom’s morning.


-vv;
6
TOBACCO
THE BRUTE.
Her: “You n-ver find me taking-a night off because it's my birthday."
Hnvi : “ You!—a night ? Great Scott, you take a year off."
Wqlfe’s Schnapps, as good for women as
for men—Buy bottles with wrappers intact; Get
what has been known for 70 years. Don’t be
deceived, get Wolfe’s Schnapps.*
-Ar
'J'
Prize Scheme for
£250 in Cash Prizes
RANG!NO FROM <£S DOVift TO 5/-
TO Collectors of Outside Wrappers
FROM CAILLERS
J062. 10.0. EACH QUARTER
Mch3l^,Ju W e3o^,Sep3o^.Decls^
ALL SIZES,I?IKCLUDED,ARE VALID.
you ft Wrappers to
{oLi££&r r ’*x i P.0.80x/36, Sydney.
side, and that the paper of his probable
murderers is just going to press. Peter’s
ancestor, the tremendous Black George,
would have gone down personally to the regicide
paper office and slain everybody, and before he
was finished waving the blanky axe there would
have been a great silence among his enemies.
But the Karageorgevitcii family has degenerated
in recent years.
“Itan”: Yes, the cedar forests of the N.S.W.
coast are practically exhausted. There are a few
trees left in the Dorrigo, but the end is in sight,
for that belt is soon to get into the hands of the
settler. What applies to New South Wales also
stands good for Queensland. The only country now
carrying cedar in Queensland is the rich stretch
of upland lying inland between Ingham and Cairns,
but the timber-getter has long been scouring even
those last reserves, and he has reduced the available
supply very considerably. The Government has
made an attempt at re-afforestation on a small
scale, but its little efforts look pretty hopeless.
If the cedar growths of many centuries along the
coast of Australia can be depleted in a few years,
what chance would a spot here and there have of
coping with the demand ? The cedar takes a
good many years before it is of any commercial
value, and it requires to be raised in a scrub to
force trunk growth or it will branch nut and give
nothing of a barrel. The Atherton country in
N.Q., however, is so rich that settlement is sure
to commence in dead earnest before long, and then
good-bye to the remaining cedars. Fortunately,
however, Queensland has a large number of soft-
woods in its list of 700 varieties of timber, which,
if planted out, would soon become of great com-
mercial value. A good deal might be done in the
western districts of Queensland and N.S.W. by
planting belts of timber, utilising prison labor for
the work, as is done in Maoriland. It would be
more elevating work, too, for prisoners than
making brushes and boots while huddled up in a
gaol.
' —♦ ——
It must appear that some branch of the Stinking
Fish family has now got down very close to plain
forgery in its anxiety to slander Australia and its
legislation. In this case the Western Morning
News (published at Plymouth, England) seems
either to be itself the forger or to have lent the
forger a hand. The paper lately issued a solemn
warning to the people of England to beware of
the Bannerman Government’s tendencies towards
secular education, and pointed out many alleged
horrors to which the secular system had led in
Australia. Some sample horrors come by cable-
gram :
The experiment has been tried in Australia. As a
result, the State schools are not merely un-Christian, but
anti-Christian. Another result is the empty cradle.
People here have no conception of the conditions pre-
vailing among Australian young people. Modesti’and
refinement have vanished. Australian girls and young
ladies are very different to those of the motherland.
The streets are filled with larrikins, who have no morals,
and who are a danger to the community.
A mighty revolution is setting in in the colonies.
Parents are demanding-a referendum in favor of definite
religious instruction in schools. Wherever this referendum
has been granted a threefold majority in favor of such
religious instruction has been obtained.
The Plymouth rag declared that this article
(including the incredible lie contained in the
last sentence of it) was the work of an
Australian Agent-General (name and ad-
dress not given). Thereupon all the Agents-
General repudiated it with emphasis, but appar-
ently they didn’t demand to know—as they
should have done—which of them had had his
name used for nefarious purposes, either by
the Western Morning News or by some corres-
pondent of that ill-conducted organ. The case
ought to be one in which some Agent-General, or
the Agents-General collectively, could get heavy
damages and thus make an example of the
malicious fool paper which gave one of them as
authority for its lamentable collection of English
lies. Mere repudiation of the authorship of the
story is a very weak expedient in such a case.
Some little time ago this paper expressed its
pleased astonishment at the fact that, so far, no
new lie or myth of any consequence had been
invented by the Tory party for use during the
approaching Federal elections. The Victorian
Female National Ass., however, has resurrected
one of the old myths, and finds it still in good
order. At the annual conference of the Farmers’
League, held a few days ago in Melbourne, Mrs.
S. T, Staughton —who possibly wouldn’t recog-
nise a farm if she fell over one—made a speech,
and this is part of what sh% said :
The Socialists found the healthy moral tone permeat-
ing the great mass of the people of Australia was not
capable of absorbing the monstrous proposals made on
the platform, and in their publications, issued and sup-
ported by the Labor Socialistic party. The Women’s
League had not lost sight of the original attacks on reli-
gion and the married state.
It would almost seem as if Mrs. Staughton, who
is a squatteress and a “ right-thinking ” person,
had lost her temper, or, at any rate, mislaid her
memory. It was an anti-Socialist lecturer who
made the attack upon “the married state,”
by a declaration that wages were not neces-
sarily meant to be high enough to enable
a man to marry. If Mrs. Staughton knows
of any statement, in the way of an “attack
upon the married state,” made by any of the
Labor leaders in Australia, The. Bulletin will be
pleased to reprint it. If she doesn’t, then she is
a delusion and a snare, and also a bearer of false
witness (which the “ religion ” she is championing
expressly condemns). The Tory cause must be in
a shocking state when such mouldy, old, decrepit
slanders have to be dug up for fresh use.
A quaint yarn from Melbourne :
The “potting” of Cornelius Crowe on a charge of
attempted blackmail is a queer story of criminal prosecu-
tion. Crowe is the Melbourne ex-policeman who for
years has been crankily attacking the force he formerly
belonged to, publishing, at his own expense, charges of
rascality and corruption against police and detectives,
and incidentally endeavoring to bring the “ tote ”
scandal to a head. Now, the odd thing about this
prosecution of the man is the fact that it wasn’t set afoot
by G. H. Bennett, M.L.A., to whom the allegedly
blackmailing letter was addressed. Mr. Bennett
certainly took the letter to the detective office,
but he had no deliberate intention, he says, of laying a
charge against Crowe. The summons against Crowe was
obtained in the name of a gentleman named “ Walker,”
and the expenses of the police-court prosecution (barristers
Purves and Coldham being briefed for it) were appar-
ently chargeable to the same Walker.” Bennett,
appearing as witness at the instance of “ Walker,” stated
that he had not wanted to get Crowe into trouble for
putting what appeared to be his signature to a type-
written letter. Crowe denied that he ever signed the
letter in the first place, or posted it. He stated that after
getting a draft letter type-written at a well-known office,
where other people than the typist were bound to see it,
he left it with a friend—unsigned—not having made up
his mind to post it to Bennett. Anyhow, it ivas signed,
either by Crowe or by some one else, and it got to
Bennett through the post.
Seemingly the prosecution saw possibilities as to
Crowe’s alleged “sending” of the document, for there
was a second charge in the indictment the
charge of “uttering.” The jury found Crowe not
guilty of sending but guilty of uttering, on the J udge’s
direction that the prisoner had been actually an utterer
if he left the unlawful letter on a friend’s table without
giving instructions for it to be posted. This definition
of uttering remains to be further considered as a special
case before the Judge’s sentence of 12 months’ hard labor
is confirmed or cancelled.
—
After pretty well every annual Easter Show,
Sydney Kvening News prints anything up to a
column reporting something that it alleged it
overheard in front of the prize pig or elsewhere.
It never mentions the names of the parties to whom
id plays the eavesdropper ; as for Blushing to print
what it has got hold of by hanging round and
“overhearing” things—well, it’s the Evening
News. This year it admits that it was lout
enough to listen while an alleged Australian was
saying to a friend what an alleged American said
to him when he was in Chicago or somewhere
lately. The reputed Australian told the alleged
American that in Australia a man wasn’t allowed
to work more than so hard ; the law' wouldn’t
let him, and there was a court provided to
see that every man loafed as much as
his neighbor. Whereupon the alleged American
said he reckoned Australia was a dodgasted fool,
and gave it a quantity of good advice—all of
which the Evening News printed without once
hinting that the alleged Australian was a beauti-
ful liar who, on his own confession, went round
the world traducing his country and filling the
foreigner with rotten notions about it. Still, when
an alleged Australian paper apparently thinks so
highly of the Stinking Fish liar of this sort as to
wander round a show ground after him, and listen
when he talks to a friend, and then rushes off to
print his remarks, there isn’t much to choose be-
tween the original liar and the paper that circu-
lates his remarks.
*
Just how well T. Bent and T. Tait have
managed the Victorian railways was shown by
the matters which the Amalgamated Society of
Railway Employees set down for discussion at its
annual conference. There were 25 notices of
motion. Of these, eight expressed a desire for
more pay, demanding a minimum of 7s. a day for
adult men. Five motions asked for a decrease in
the excessive work set the employees by the
department, and the removal of the penalty
which abolishes holidays in order that this work
may be finished somehow or other. Three reso-
lutions embodied requests for the classification
which has been constantly refused to railway men,
though approved by Acting-Commissioner Fitz-
patrick four years ago. Other notices requested
the restoration of travelling privileges, such as
even greedy private companies allow all the world
over. Then there was one motion on each of the
following subjects : Full pay for men suffering
from injury caused in the execution of their duty ;
inquiry into the extent of boy labor; permission
to the poorly-paid employees to help themselves by
selling milk and butter ; the restoration of the full
Parliamentary franchise ; provision for the safety
of travelling permanent-way men by giving them
tricycles with mirrors, so as to know when one of
T. Tait’s bolting trucks is swooping down on
them. These complaints and protests charge
Tait and Bent directly with sweating, injustice,
and tyranny. When the Victorian people can
spare time from reading thrilling newspaper
stories of the trains which fall off the line, they
might turn to examining the evidenco which lies
behind the 23 charges contained in the Amalga-
mated Society’s balance-sheet. The facts of
sweating and over-work are easily enough learned ;
the results, when the trains run along the sleepers
instead of the rails, are even more easily seen—
and felt.
“S.R.”: The average Defence Force man gets very
little rifle practice to make him proficient with his
rifle. Sixty rounds of ball cartridge are allowed
him free for practice in the year. In addition, he
must put in his course of musketry every year.
This makes about another 60 rounds. A grand
total of 120 rounds or so is an absurdly small
ration of cartridge. Is it any wonder that the
rifle club man (who for sport spends his hour
or two each Saturday at target practice) can
beat the soldier out of sight at shooting ?
I followed up rifle shooting for about four years,
and contrived in that time to accumulate a hearty
contempt for the shooting capacity of our soldier.
I found that the Lee-Metford rifle barrel was barely
capable of standing one year of steady practice
shooting. After that it became erratic, and its
owner would have no chance against the man
with a sound gun. From my experience I can
say that little or no care is taken in the testing
and proving of military rifles supplied to Aus-
tralia. In the American arsenal at Springfield
every rifle issued must have five shots fired at the
targets by the sighting staff to prove sights
correct, and in addition several shots are fired
from each rifle with times the usual cordite
charge. This is to find out any flaws in the
barrels. But America has a national arms factory,
and one doesn’t expect the Private Enterprise of
Brummagem (England) to take that amount of
trouble.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “The Prodigal Son.”
Criterion..,.. .. “The Fatal Wedding.”
Her Majesty’s “The Orchid.”
Tivoli . Rickards’ Co.
Prince Alfred Park .. Wirth’s Circus (last three nights).
Palace Theatre “A Moorish Maid.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Dorothy Vernon.”
Theatre Royal “The Midnight Mail.”
Oi’ERA House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Town Hall “ Living London ” and the
Meistersingers.
Athen.-eum Hall Frank T. Bullen.
It is more than a thousand pities that
Greek so rarely meets Greek when a composer
and a librettist agree to send forth yet another
comic opera upon a world blown upon by popular
airs and overgrown with the jocular chestnut tree.
The composer is often born—Mr. Alfred Hill
is a born composer—and the librettist is
mostly made. Sometimes he isn’t even that
much. In “The Moorish Maid,” produced for
the first time in Australia at Sydney Palace on
Saturday night, Mr. Youlin Birch is responsible
for the lyrics and guilty of the libretto—he is
guilty only so far as the development of the plot
is concerned, for he deserves congratulation, and
a banquet winding up with “For he’s a jolly clever
fellow ” upon his fashioning of the plot; but he has
used the screw-wrench and the lever to develop his
humor. Mostly he has gone out to the high ways,
and bye-ways, and street corners, and ’bus-tops, and
lassoed his jokes, and dragged them in shrieking
from their comfortable old carpet-slipper-like ruts
saying, “ It’s all right, my chestnut; wait till an
old hand like Edward Lauri cracks you, and nary-
one of the audience save those of the wry-faced
citrus family will see that the moths are in you.”
And he says truly. Audiences frequently welcome
old jokes' as they do old friends seen in a
strange environment.
* * * *
Outside the palace of a Moorish princess
named Hashma the opera starts amid a blaze of
cruel orange, brown, and crimson. The place is
the market square of Sis, in Morocco, where the
recent diplomatic ruptures come from. The prin-
cess is about to be married to a neighboring
prince named Omar, who has rescued her from
brigands. The bridegroom is impersonated by
his steward Gastro, and marries the lady, but
that’s a trifle in what the Americans call “kammic
appera.” He doesn’t suffer * the picturesque
penalty of Death by a Thousand Oats, or
any other such horror. His comic master
merely tells him to leave the city for a week,
his absence securing the bride a divorce for deser-
tion. As he is going into elegant bachelor exile
the brigands seize him, under the delusion that
he is Prince Omar, whom their chieftainess,
La Zara, desires to marry. The second
act occurs in the brigandess’s marble halls
in the hills, and the tail of the opera badly wants
curling. It seems to have been bitten off, leaving
a precipitous stump. But each man gets the
damsel he wants, and the damsel herself is satis-
fied, though the precise basis of her satisfac-
tion might be more clear. Mr. Hill’s music
has all the brightness, freshness, and freedom that
lived in his former productions, “ Hinemoa ” and
“ Tapu.” Miss Rosina Buckmann, a new soprano,
has found in the part Of Zara a niche into which she
fits most songfully. Experience will do much far
her. Miss May Beatty, as a French prima donna,
is in capital form ; Miss May Garstang, Edward
Lauri and Charles M'Naughton deserve this ink-
drop of praise ; and one of the finest bits is Miss
Roland Watts Phillips’ outburst as Zuleilca.
** * *
Esther Kahn, who looks as if she’d been
fed on coffee and chocolate creams, so dark is she,
gave a concert in aid of Croydon Children’s Home
at the Centenary Hall on the 24th. She was
assisted by a number of good artistes, Mrs. C.
C. Lance and Miss Sara Hendy of the Brescians
being particular favorites. Miss Kahn played
her own Etude de Concert with Miss Nellie Kay,
and surprised her hearers by her originality, and
dainty and forceful playing.
** * *
It seems as safe to revive “ The Orchid ”
as it is to pour a moderately thick dressing of
praise over it after it has been revived. Saturday
night at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, facing the stage
was such a house as one might have expected if
the flower had been new instead of having
bloomed week after week, week after week,
only twelve months ago, while J. C. Williamson
was straightening out the tangle over the
authorship of “ The Cingalee.” And, though the
spidery bloom is, after all, only a pretty shallow
pretext on which to hang a variety programme,
there are four-and-thirty elements of a good-
sized success in it—about four-and-twenty of said
elements being in the chorus and the ballet. Some
of the other 10 are the music, which ripples
well enough ; “ Little Mary,” still sung with just
tbe right expression by Miss Evelyn Scott, and
better understood now since poor Robert Brough
jxpounded it at length (it was the last thing he
played in); Miss Florence Young, who (consider-
ing the matter from the outside, with the mind of
the mere man who knows little of these things,
certainly) will probably be glad when “The
Orchid ” has wilted, and she can get into
something looser ; and Miss Clifton, who, largely
because the whole house never misses a word of
her ditties, is obliged to hold at least four verses
up her sleeve, and pour them out drop by drop
after the main performance. Connie Milne is an
element, too, but the house misses all her wards,
and' pets her only for her sprightliness. John
Doran is the cheerful ass who gets married by
mistake to the right girl, and is an improvement
on the previous ass; but Lauri and the rest are
the same rest as previously.
“The Fatal Wedding” has proved a
fascinating title for playgoers, and the Sydney
Criterion some nights can hardly hold the audi-
ences. Under the circumstances naturally no
change is suggested.
** * *
At Sydney Royal on Saturday “ The
Prodigal Son,” by Hall Caine, will be staged
under Bland Holt’s auspices. And Bland Holt s
auspices are good things for a playwright to have
about the premises. The Caine drama is one of
much sensationalism, and of highly impressive
gloom. It is said to beat “Bast Lynne for
really interesting murk and weep. Bland Holt
will, without a doubt, do full justice to the spec-
tacles—of which there are many—and the Fatted
Calf and other properties will be on a scale of un-
paralleled magnificence, and the swine, which the
Son left to take care of itself, will doubtless be
seen inquiring about its missing husk in the dis-
tance.
** * *
Wirth’s Circus leaves Sydney this week,
driving its herd of elephants before it. Its de-
parture will create that blank which the country
paper always mentions when an alderman dies,
and will shed a gloom over a community which
is just recovering from its Easter, bun
indigestion, and has enough gloom in its
stomach without extraneous darkness falling on
it in this fashion. A bereaved community will
start to bear up as best it can next Sunday morn-
ing. Until then its camel will not be finally torn
from it, but unless that hairy baggy animal can
be persuaded to alter its arrangements the painful
separation can’t possibly be postponed any further.
** * *
Brescians and West’s Pictures are located
in Sydney Town Hall since Saturday night, and are
doing business in tune with their large environ-
ment. The fact that their ten nights of Town
Halldom will cost them £2OO rent hall-marks
them as popular successes.
#* * *
Miss Elizabeth Cash gave a concert at the
Y.M.C.A. Hall on Friday night, when the only
coin was in the cognomen of the young soprano.
She is a pupil of Miss Edward Deane. Miss
Cash has a good concert appearance, and though
her voice was a trifle hard, she sang intelligently
and in tune, which is not a common occurrence
with young singers. Miss Deane also sang, and
Miss Carr Boyd, a nervous but very acceptable
pianiste, played Liszt’s Polonaise and a nocturne
of Chopin. The concert amounted to a distinct
success.
#* # *
Homer B. Mason and Marguerite Z. Keller
are the only events of any consequence that have
happened at Sydney Tivoli since last week ; and
they have happened in a quick-time sketch in the
American style amidst great and mostly-deserved
applause. The lady's name is only plain Mar-
guerite on the bills; but as this paper, on
a preliminary inspection, thinks nearly as
well of the lady as of the musicianly burglar
who plays with her, it doesn’t see why Homer B.
should have the 8., while his partner has no
buffer, so to speak, between her Marguerite and
her Keller. Larola, who is nearly a whole music-
hall play-bill in himself, and Miss Raymond who
tootles, and numerous little ladies who dance
better than they sing, drop in between the items
that are printed in the big letters.
** * *
The charms of a sfcoushing match at the
Exhibition Building seemed to distract more
people from “Tambour Major,” last Saturday,
than from any of the other Melbourne shows.
From which it appears that the appetite for
comic opera of the Offenbach order is largely
associated with a thirst for blood, and the thirst is
mightier than the appetite. “ Tambour Major ”
quits Melbourne for touring purposes after Friday
night, but the favorable impression made by its
principal girls will not disappear so soon. There’s
a good deal of youth and winsomeness about the
girls, also they are genuine Australian products,
whose native worth deserves as much
encouragement as though it were imported.
In last year’s revival of this opera at the local
Royal, the Stella and Claudine were strangers
from abroad, and it may be remarked that Miss
Addie Campbell and Miss Birch, both of this
country, are distinctly brighter than their prede-
cessors in the same parts. As for Miss Thornton,
she is the same blithe and legsome Griolet as
before, with a somewhat improved voice. She
doesn’t look a very probable member of Napoleon’s
musical forces, but even a Maud Thornton may
have happened in a French army which was con-
ducted into Milan by twelve she- male lieutenants.
** * *
“ Dorothy Vernon ” continues to prosper
exceedingly at Her Majesty’s, Melbourne. For
the next few weeks the performance will rise at 8,
and set some time before 11 every evening.
## * *
“ The Midnight Mail ” will run till further
orders at Melbourne Royal. On Wednesday of
this week there was to be another matinee of the
Andersonian melodrama, at the instance of
General Desire. It remained for Anderson to
discover the fact than many people are prepared
to go and get a “ shocker ” in the afternoon.
*****
At Melbourne Town Hall a revival of
“Living London,” likewise the “Romance of a
Railway ” and other up-to-date biograph pictures,
will transpire on Saturday and until further
notice. This time the Taits’ show is to take a more
musical turn than before, and a quartet of Meister-
singers will warble whenever the lights go up.-
** * *
Frank T. Bullen, the nautical novelist and
lecturer, arrived in Melbourne from Adelaide
last week. He is just now talking of “Romance
and Reality at Sea,” and the Whales that Didn’t
Swallow Jonah, and other marine subjects. With
Bullen on,the. platform, and R. S. Smythe’s name
at the bottom of the advt., it seems probable that
the Athenaeum Hall will be full of business during
the,brief season.


Flsher'c
1 2/6 *
fflHfc
The Old Man : “ I am going to get up now ; I feel quite well.”
Tiie Old Woman : “ Indeed, you won’t, you old fool ; you
must ; stop in bed until the medicine is finished, for
which I paid two shillings and sixpence.”
The Old Man : “ Oh, Christinas ! Arid only ten drops at a
time ! ”
FISHER’S
PHOSPHERINE
AGAIN !
Always Reliable.
A FAMOUS REMEDY for
Indigestion, Headache,
Muscular Rheumatism,
Nervousness, and Sea-
sickness »
All Chemists—ls. per Bottle;
Four Times the Quantity, 2s. 6d.
“ The Radium Dance ” has been added to
the Opera House programme, but the patrons of
Rickards are not deeply moved by that alleged
novelty. An audacious ’Murkan man with a
hideous nasal accent imparts an undne importance
to the Radium Dance by desiring the audience to
retain their presence of mind whilst the theatre
is plunged into blackness. Subsequently five
vague figures in white baggy pyjamas frivol
amidst the gloom, and when they have done
nothing that can be called graceful dancing they
go away, and the darkness disappears. Alto-
gether it is the sort of “turn” which might be
expected of the Voice that introduces it. In other
respects, the Rickards show is not disappointing.
The Meisters retired this week, bnt the banjoists,
the Carmos, and various other well-defined per-
formers are there, including Martinetti and
Grossi, whose musical instruments are mostly in-
corporated in a bicycle.
## * *
The Knight-Jeffries partnership has been
so well supported at Adelaide Royal that a special
performance of “Everyman ”is arranged. “The
Sign of the Gross” has been staged as a kind of
preliminary to the Morality play. Another bill
was made up of “ David Garrick ” and “ Comedy
and Tragedy,” giving about the finest possible
chance that actor and actress respectively could
have. The rest of the season is to consist of
various revivals. Frank Bullen (with the useful
assistance of limelight illustrations) dealt with the
Mighty Ocean from all points of view till his
departure. The Sanford Co., at the Tivoli, has
proved an unexpected success, and melodrama
reigns indefinitely.
AT POVERTY POINT.
The movement to raise a substantial fund for little
Leila Doubleday has drawn a fine testimonial from
Marshall Hall, Melbourne’s musical oracle, who rarely
speaks so warmly of a child performer. “She has a
musical temperament and talent astonishing in one so
young, and which deserves the most careful cultivation.
No more gifted child has been heard here since Percy
Grainger. I trust the efforts in her behalf will be
especially successful,” says Marshall Hall. Mrs. Double-
day, unfortunately, is just now an invalid, and can
take no active part in the arrangements for her
daughter’s concert on the 16th, but a big suc-
cess is promised by the working committee. After
the damsel has made her Melbourne appearance in
the double capacity of violiniste and pianiste (her share
of the programme will be five long numbers) she is to give
a concert in Sydney and another in Adelaide before leav-
ing for Germany. The note of interrogation in Leila
Doubleday’s case should make her an interesting subject
for musical criticism and public curiosity in each city.
Ought she to prefer the violin to the piano, or vice versa 1
Which ever way the public verdict goes, the cognoscenti
will probably find reasons for thinking differently. They
mostly think differently.
“0.K.”: Re the story told.in M.A.P. as to the founda-
tion of Frank Gardner’s fortune. Many years ago-—prior
to Carbine’s victory in the Melb. Cup—it was commonly
reported that Gardner had made a big rise by investing
in Broken Hill Proprietary shares. The mining story is
probably true. As for the racing yarn, that Gardner
landed a “ huge stake ” by backing Vengeance, The
Admiral and Carbine for the treble event, its improba-
bility lies in the fact that no such wager was recorded in
the sporting press of 1890. Which bookmaker or ’makers
did the huge stake come from ?
Melbourne Sporting and Dramatic News published a
wild misstatement of the names of Brough’s first comedy
co., mixing up some of the people who retired from it in
the ’Bo’s with others who joined it in the ’9o’s, and intro-
ducing other names that never belonged to it at any
time. The first Brough-Boucicault Comedy Co. con-
sisted of the two managers, Royce, Everard, Geo. Lash
Gordon, E. B. Manning, Miss Trevelyan (Mrs. Brough),
Miss Boucicault, Miss Bessie Major, Miss Wyndale, Miss
Florence Harcourt, Miss Emma Temple, Miss Romer and
Willie Warde, quaintest of dancers. All these people
(bar Boucicault) played both in comedy and burlesque,
and even Fanny Robina, the “principal boy” of the
burlesques, took an occasional part in comedy. Tither-
adge and A. R. Lawrence were later members of the B.
and B. Co. ; then Anson and Cecil Ward joined it some
little time prior to Pattie Browne’s engagement. The
first lady whom B. and B. imported from England after
they were a going concern was Miss Lilian Gilmore, a
charming actress of the light sentimental order, who
married and retired from the stage.
A Melbourne journalist makes known a small adven-
ture with Robert Brough. The man of letters had
written a play. He thought it a particularly fine thing
in the way of plays, and, after several attempts, succeeded
in arranging an interview with Brough, at which the
actor-manager was to sit in the operating chair, and have
the comedy read to him without gas. The playwright,
who was known to the people about the theatre as a
newspaper man, called at the appointed hour, and the
stage-doorkeeper told him that Mr. Brough would be
available presently. “ He’s just dodged out,” said the
faithful servitor, “ but I expect he’ll be back in a few
minutes. He’s giving the slip to some johnnie who wants
to read a play to him 1 ” The playwright said he’d call
again, and didn’t.
_ “Stargazer Julius Knight assures aS. Australian inter-
viewer, who put the question in the interests of the un-
attached Australian girl, that he is a bachelor, and
always has been. He leaves the future to speak for itself.
He tells the same inquirer that David Rossi in “The
Eternal City,” is the character he likes least. “ I have no
love for those talking Socialists. I am very conservative.”
But then the actor men who are not very conservative are
rare birds. The stage peer and the stage king and
the footlights “jook” wear much nicer clothes than the
stage working man, and generally get more applause,
and the actor pretends to be a member of the old nobility
till he almost thinks he really is one. If the English stage
were a vital reflection of the times and manners, it would
be more concerned with the aspirations of the democracy,
and actors might be radicals. As it is, they share their
conservatism with the mummy of Raineses and the
marble man.
The proposed drinking fountain to the memory of late
actor Brough will be a mistake. There is not a memorial
or public drinking fountain in Sydney or suburbs that is
in perfect condition. The gun-metal cups are broken off or
stolen or they mysteriously disappear, and other damage
seems to happen spontaneously. The Frazer fountain
and the Levy fountain in the Botanic Gardens are stand-
ing evidences, unless they have been “ re-cupped ” very
recently.
“ A. 8.” : Ran across an old, yellow English paper of the
seventies, the other day, and found in it a preface to Hol-
man Hunt’s “ Light of the World.” The paragraph told
how Hunt originally painted the picture to represent
“The New Diogenes”—the philosopher of latter-day
civilisation, garbed in plush and jewels, instead of rags ;
but, all the same, still intent on his old quest for the
honest man. Hunt, the journal alleged, had practically
completed the picture when Dante Gabriel Rossetti—him-
self a keen business-man, with all his pre-Raphaelism—
visited the studio and pointed out to the artist that
Diogenes, as a payable proposition, wasn’t a circumstance
to some subject which would reach the great heart of the
religious public. For a long time Hunt refused to alter
his canvas ; but eventually Rossetti’s logic prevailed, and
Diogenes was converted into Christ at the eleventh hour.
Julius Knight, moralising on stage hero-worship, says
that it is very much more pronounced in Australia than in
England. Nobody worships J. Knight in England. But
Julius does not claim that his divine talents and high
attributes provoke the adoration he receives. He says
the notoriety is due to the great amount of personal
journalism which exists in Australia, andwhich supplies
much gratis advt. to the actor. Mr. Knight says he gets
scores of letters from young ladies asking - for his photo-
graph. He used to sell his autographed photo, for half-a-
crown a-piece,- the money going - to a distressed actors’
fund, but “ found it was a lot of bother.” Which means,
probably, that the demand was too enormous for a busy
man to cope with. Julius Superbus settles all disputes
re his much-discussed understandings by admitting that
he measures “fifteen round the calf”—not round the
waist. These interesting particulars furnish more pabu-
lum for that personal journalism which won’t allow the
poor player to escape his weary not ricty.
MISS ROSIN A BUGKMANN, now singing at
the Sydney Palace Theatre.
Photo, by J. Browill, Wellington (M.L.).
“T. O’Fipp ” : Doting as I do on the antique, I am glad
to find that Haddon Hall, Dorothy Vernon’s ancestral
abode, is one of the oldest mansions in the Cold Country.
Any stray duke who goes about Britain boasting that his
particular Stately Bile was erected in the days of
Bill the Conqueror is soon silenced at Haddon.
In that hallowed spot even the cow-shed is of
the purest Saxon architecture (very much in the
style of that sweet ruin, the Melbourne City Court).
But the most touching fact of all I find recorded in a
“Sovenir from Derbyshire : For a Good Girl,” which the
vicar’s wife presented to my landlady before she migrated.
Haddon Hall’s “ State bed ” is still furnished with bedding
made by Dame Eleanor Manners in 1487. Several centu-
ries after that date George IV. slept in it. Say what you
will against George, I must after this believe that there
was something of the calmly heroic about him.
Gentleman pug O’Brien, of Philadelphia, is now ap-
pearing on the stage with sparring partners, and
pocketing 200 dollars per week by way of compensation
for loss of his valuable time. He travels with a valet, and
his wardrobe is a thing of beauty, and a joy for all
eternity. Recently the gentleman fellow from Phila-
delphia has grown somewhat bumptious in his treatment
of his sparring partners on the stage, and has bashed
them rather unmercifully. One of them grew suddenly
tired recently, and landed a shower of blows in the
middle of the gentleman fighter’s beauty that laid him
out, and did it so effectually that it u'as all he could do
to crawl on to his feet inside the ten seconds limit. The
sparring partner didn’t know' that he was to be sacked
instanter, or he would probably have laid O’Brien right
out immediately he resumed the perpendicular. In the
meantime O’Brien has been fluting in a marvellous
manner. If Mr. Jeffries should come back to the ring,
Mr. O’Brien. will be only too pleased to meet him. He
has his own system, and he is confident that it is good
enough to lay the mighty boiler-maker right out. His
system, it may be mentioned, is lightning-like speed of
foot, and he reckons he is light-toed enough to keep out
of Jeffries’ reach, and hit the ex-champion just whenever
he likes. There are no winged insects on Mr. O’Brien’s
opinion of his own prowess.
One night recently, according to a yarn pitched to a
Bulletin man by a door-keeper, a woman was found
sitting on the foot of the stairs leading to the gallery of a
Melbourne theatre. She was shedding copious tears into
a large handkerchief, and refused to go away. When
spoken to she sobbed hard enough to shake her hat off,
and declared in heart-broken accents that she wanted to
go in and see the play. She hadn’t the money to pay,
but, oh, she .wanted to see the play so much, and she
cried harder than ever, and implied that existence
wouldn’t be worth living if she didn’t see that play.
She said the play was just the story of her own sad life.
At this juncture a person in authority was called in, and
he was so touched by the woman’s dampness and her
genuine emotion that he let her have a seat in the back
stalls for nothing. Afterwards the woman is reported
to have worked off the same damp jest at other
theatres, and as long as she kept to houses where
tragic shows were being produced it was all right. But she
met her Waterloo when she let down her hair and wept
at the door of a theatre where the most irresponsible
musical comedy on record w'as being produced. When
she said she wanted to go in because this large-hatted,
short-skirted revel of mirth and song and champagne and
dance and jewellery w'as just the story of her own sad life,
the management said curtly that it reckoned she had
had a pretty good tinie and didn’t need sympathy.
J. 0. Williamson has mislaid a theatrical co. amid the
San Francisco earthquake. The Collier Company was
about starting for Australia under engagement to him,
but when last heard of it was a routed combina-
tion, and had lost all its baggage, and was exceed-
ingly glad to have saved itself. Its only chance
of reaching Australia in time lay in catching the Van-
couver steamer last Saturday, and as Friday found it still
trying to get its second wind at Oaklands (California),
four days’ train-ride from Vancouver, and with nothing
but what it stood up in, the case was hopeless.
“L.”: The recent acquisition of titled husbands by
tw'o more London actresses suggests a backward glance
at the British stage peerage. Omitting the informal
brand of blue-blooded match exemplified by Nell Gwynne
and many others, a chronologically-arranged list, so far
as I can discover, of actresses who have allied with titles,
and incidentally their mostly unintelligent human appen-
dages, runs like this: Anastasia Robmson, Countess of
Petersborough (1724); Lavinia Fenton, Duchess of Bolton;
Elizabeth Farren, Countess of Derby; Louisa Brunton,
Countess of Craven ; Mary Bolton, Lady Thurlow ;
Elizabeth O’Neill, Lady (1819); Susannah Paton,
Lady William Lennox; Harriet Mellon, Duchess of St.
Albans (widow of millionaire banker Coutts, who was
grandfather of Irving’s financial backer, Baroness Burdett-
Coutts) ; Maria Foote, Countess of Harrington ; Katherine
Stephens, Countess of Essex (1838): Louisa Mordaunt (or
Nisbett), Lady Boothby; Helena Faucit, Lady Martin
(1851); Miss Robinson, Lady Smith (good old Smith) ;
Emily Sanders, Lady Don (acted with her husband in
Australia in the sixties) ; Miss Fortescue, Lady Gardner ;
Belle Bilton, Countess of Clancarty (1889); Connie Gil-
christ, Countess of Orkney (1892) ; Fanny Stirling, Lady
Gregory ; Mary Augusta (“ May ”) Yohe, Lady Francis
Hope (1894—since divorced); Rosie Boote, Mar-
chioness of Headford (1901); Anna Robinson (can’t
remember title) ; Eva Carrington, Lady de Clifford (1906);
Frances Belmont, Lady Ashburton (1906). Mabel Scott,
who married Earl Russell, had not been on the stage up
to the time of her marriage (1890), but afterwards got
variety engagements on the strength of her title. Then
she divorced her husband and married a flunkey, who
had made her believe he was a prince. She has since
divorced him also. So Britain has known at least 25
titled actresses—three in the 18th century, 18 in the 19th,
and four in the 20th. Three of them were probably
driven to the rash act of titled matrimony in the endeavor
to escape from the name of Robinson, but it is hard to
account for the unwisdom of the others.
“ T.D.” : While the Australian concert artist in England
usually finds it convenient to drop any mention of Aus-
tralia, people on the halls evidently find it a very paying
thing to declare that they are Australian-born, whether
they are or not. Went last night to the Metropolitan in
the Edgeware Road, where one item was supposed to be
given by “ the Australian comics.” Their accent would
have been welcomed with delight by any denizen of the
New York Bowery. A little later “ the Australian tenor ”
came along, and proved to be a full-blooded buck nigger
from way down in Dixie or some other old place in" the
States. I fled in case the next item might also be Aus-
tralian, and next day learned sorrowfully that I had just
missed about the hottest Continental turn (by a smart
little Spanish lady) that has been seen on the London
boards for years.
“Hamer”: The mistakes that pass on the stage un-
noticed by the audience are marvellous. I once staged a
piece, under necessity, at short notice, and from the jump
things became mixed ; but, being all fairly experienced,
we pulled through. Whenever a “wait” became immi-
nent, the hero informed the villain that he’d see him
d d first, or the leading lady announced that she would
rather seek a grave in yonder river (there was no river)
than yield to his terms, or the villain shrieked that he
would be even with them all yet. The audience cheered
these confused proceedings. It was the last act that
caused the most trouble. The hero had asked me hur-
riedly what became of him, and, mistaking him for the
villain, I told him to get off and kill himself. He rushed
off and banged a stick on the wall to represent a pistol
shot ; the old man announced that he had stabbed him-
self, and was arrested by the comedy policeman ; the
leading lady, who should have married the hero, but
couldn't as he was dead, annexed the soubrette’s light-
comedy sweetheart ; and then the villain muttered
“ Foiled !” for the last time, and the faded curtain came
down to considerable applause. Yet that night several
individuals informed me it was “ all right.”
“Roma”: Heredity is hard to combat. A friend of
mine had a nursegirl who was highly recommended to
her as being religious, retiring, etc., etc. One day, she
went out, leaving her baby in charge of the treasure. On
her return, some hours later, she found the treasure gone
and the howling infant almost in convulsions. On the
table was a note:—“ Exkuse me leavin’ yer so sudden
like but ’ive gorn to jine the cirkus wich come to-day, me
mother before me eld a igh persishun in the cirkus an
when the band played to-day i new it was in my blud
w'hen ’ive ris in the cirkus ill come an see you som day,
with love, Mary Ann Smith.”
“ O’F.” : A considerable number of Bendigonians bask
in the reflected glory of relatives who have achieved a
certain amount of vocal fame. Inquiry as to the reason
why some chit puts on an extra amount of swagger in the
Saturday night promenade down the Mall usually results
in the information that she is the cousin of the young lady
who was highly commended for the over-18 soprano solo
at the competitions some years ago. One inhabitant of
the “city of wonderful (sometimes fearful and wonderful)
voices” ran up big accounts (he afterwards scooted and
left them unpaid) on the strength of the allegation that
a world-famous vocalist thought his granddaughter’s
voice “ might do credit to Covent Garden.” After hearing
the voice in question, I believe that if the great singer did
utter this opinion, she made a mental reservation to the
effect that it was the watermelon department of Covent
Garden she was thinking of.
“ A.S.”: Over 20 years ago, when the old Paddy’s Market
Square (Sydney) used to be filled with side-shows on Satur-
day nights, there was always present a curious performer—
Prof. Kolb, snake charmer. Kolb always worked with
Australian snakes, and he contended that in handling the
Australian varieties he was dealing with the most deadly
snakes in the world. I was interested in his work, and
frequently went to his house to see him feed his pets.
Kolb used to handle the tiger and black and brown snakes
with the greatest freedom. Kolb was bitten many times,
but he didn’t let the public know' anything about that.
He had his reputation as a charmer to keep up. He said
snakes with their teeth drawn were no good to him. They
didn’t eat or digest their food well, and became too
sluggish for show purposes. So he preferred to take the
risks. The worst bite he ever got was on the tongue,
while putting a tiger’s head in his mouth —a thing he did
every Saturday. His tongue swelled to immense pro-
portions, and hung down to near the bottom of his waist-
coat, but he never lost consciousness, and in the end
pulled through. When the markets were altered and the
show's w'ent elsewhere, Kolb and his bag of reptiles
drifted aw»ay.
One Australian theatrical manager has been heard to
ascribe the dull times in theatrical business—meaning
the dull times in his own business, of course —to “ the
increased drinking habits of the men.” He says that
men are no longer satisfied with long intervals for
drinks. They want it to be all interval.
A company playing “ Ghosts ” struck Nevada (U.S.A.)
recently, and there was a serious outburst from the robust
local press. “The play is certainly a moral hair-raiser,”
said the critic, W'hodescribed Mr. Aveling as a “spavined
rake ” and Mrs. Aveling as a proud beauty who keeps her
chin in the air and “gives an old tar 300 plunks to marry
the hired girl whom Aveling gets gay with.” The critic
continued : “ Oswald, the mother’s only boy, is sent to
Paris to paint views for marines, and takes kindly to the
gay life of the capital, where the joy of living is the rage;
and families are reared in a section where a printer run-
ning a job office solely on marriage certificates would hit
the poorhouse with a dull thud.” The incident of Regina
and Oswald is mentioned. “Pastor Manders has a spasm,
and Egstrand, w'ho runs a sort of sailors’ and soldiers’can-
teen, sets fire to an orphanage, and the boy, who has inheri-
ted a sort of mayonnaise-dressing brain from his awful
dad, funs amok, tears about the stage a spell, breaks some
furniture, and upsets the wine. He finally takes rough-
on-rats, dies a gibbering idiot, with his mother slobbering
over him and trying to figure out in her mind that he
was merely drunk and disorderly'.” It is remarked that
the company “ handled the sticky mess as well as could
be expected, although Miss Rozeto built up her bustle too
high.” The critic concludes: “As a sermon on the law
of heredity the play is great, but after seeing it we are
glad to announce that Haverley’s minstrels will relieve
the Ibsen gloom on Monday night.”
Mildred de Grey, an American, who dances with bare
feet, has lately' heen taking the eye of London theatre-
goers. As the idea will probably be imported to Aus-
tralia, another shock is in store for good, kind evangelist
Varley.
The Imperial Federation Defence Com-
mittee (whatever that may be) got at the ear
of John Forrest—John’s ear was in London at the
time—with a scheme
whereby the Empire would have one fleet, every part
contributing- to its support, and being represented on
Imperial Councils which could be arranged on a mutually
satisfactory basis.
But the Imperial Federation Defence Committee
didn’t offer any sample of a “ mutually satisfac-
tory basis,” so we are no further forward.
“ O’F.” : The jubilee of Melbourne Uni-
versity brings into prominence once more the
name of its first chancellor, Redmond Barry.
Among all the gossip about him there is no men-
tion of the curious fact that the chief villain of
Thackeray’s “Barry Lyndon ” is called Redmond
Barry. It would be interesting to learn how
Thackeray came to use the uncommon double
name.
A REAL PICK-ME-UP.-“ Talk about cham-
pagne,” said Byron, “there is nothing which
cheers your spirits up like a dose of salts.” But
had he known Hunyadi Janos he would certainly
have preferred this, the best and safest natural
aperient.*
An English barrister named Roth has
been appointed fourth Supreme Court judge in
Westralia. If Westralia can’t grow its own
Supreme Court judge, there are stacks of good
local men in Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney and
Brisbane—men who know much more of Aus-
tralian law and conditions than any freshly-
imported person is likely to do. But Westralia
has got the British Johnny disease in a very bad
form.
The extended litigation between E. P.
Field, barrister and street preacher, of Sydney,
and late general secretary of the English Evan-
gelical Alliance, and Lord Kinnaird and other
bosses of the Alliance, has been ended. Mr. Field
gets £5OO and a written assurance that there is no
charge against him beyond incompatibility of
temper; in other words, either the ex-street
preacher or the Alliance is too cantankerous.
Last Tuesday (May 1) Richard Seddon
entered his 14th year as continuous Premier of
Maoriland. It is a record that will probably not
be reached again in this century. As a general
thing five years is regarded as a very long spell of
office without a break, and only nine Australasian
Ministries have turned the critical corner into the
sixth year. Here is the list up to this day of
publication :
Years. Months. Days.
Seddon (Maoriland).. ..14 0 2
Forrest (Westralia).. ..10 1 17
Kingston (S. Australia) .. 6 5 15
Herbert (Queensland) .. 6 1 22
Braddon (Tasmania) .. 5 5 28
Fysh ( „ ) ..5 4 18
Turner (Victoria) .. .. 6 2 8
Reid (N.S.W.) .... 5 1 10
Stafford (Maoriland) .. 6 0 10
A cry from “ D.H.R.” :
I wish to inform you of the utter absurdity of your re-
marks about importing a railway commissioner from
Canada or Britain when Japan is so close, and we all know
what gallantry they displayed during the recen i war with
the Russians, and your idea of employing an Australian
is consummately preposterous, and, I suppose, is the out-
come of your Socialistic ideas. Anyhow, about Socialism
7- don’t you see what dire calamities have lately 7 occurred
in Italy and San Francisco ; and to any 7 reasonable or
thoughtful man or woman, there can be no doubt that
those calamities are the result of the hideous machina-
tions of the Labor party. I hope that these matters will
cause you to see the error of your ways, and that from
this 1 ut you will cease to be a Socialist and advocate the
Brotl erhood of Man, and when the gentle Chinaman
takes your eldest daughter, you will present him with
your second one, and that you will advocate the sending
forth of armies to redeem the poor black person from
heathenism, and not hunt capital from your country or
violate the sanctity of the marriage tie any 7 more.
N.S.W. railways were launched, so to say,
under a Board of Three. Ward, Barker, and
Keinp were appointed Commissioners in 1854 —
Ward with the style and title of Chief. He and
his associates pulled together indifferently, and
Ward resigned after a seven months’ struggle.
It was then thought better to have a single Com-
missioner, and Captain Mann was given the job.
He barely met expectations. IN ext, engineer
Martindale was invited from England. He was
the first imported railway genius, but he was the
worst disappointment of all, and returned to
England after three-and-a-half years. Then the
authorities fell back on John Rae. It was the
custom at that period to call on Rae when any-
thing of moment went wrong with the public
service. Rae stuck to the job for 17 years, and,
although better as a Town Clerk, was yet a very
successful Commissioner for Railways. When Rae
moved off Goodchap stepped in as sole Commis-
sioner. After him came Eddy, with Oliver and
Fehon, and next Oliver, with Fehon and Kirk-
caldie. Now another arrangement impends.
What could more eloquently support the
contention that the world’s spirit of progress
waxeth stronger than the fact that more than 12
million gallons of D.C.L. whisky are distilled
every year? Inasmuch as it is’true that the
wisdom of the imbibers increases at the same rate
as the consumption of D.C.L. there is some hope
for this old world yet. Man is what he drinks.*
Justice G. B. Simpson (N.S.W.) invites
the public to help him when they know,
or think they know, anything which would,
if known by him, prevent him granting a
divorce. During the reign of the Judge’s pre-
decessor an individual who took that public
duty on his shoulders had a very bad time
with the presiding Judge. But the applicant for
divorce on that occasion was a prominent
politician.
“ A. D.” :. Earthquake and volcano sites
have a peculiar, fascination for the human build-
ing ant. Passing over a lava-strewn gutter on
my way from San Guiseppe to Vesuvius, once, I
asked an old guide why so many villages were
clustered within hen-crow of the crater. “Can’t
they find a more solid resting place than the rim
of a volcano ? ” I demanded. The old man snarled
at me over his shoulder as though a slur had been
cast upon the quaking, breathing hell-heap.
Then in wrath he asked what I considered a good
place for honest people to live. “Dio mio !” he
rasped, “ the voice of Vesuvius will never drive us
away. We love her—the pulsing monster. She
groans and roars to us. It is good to feel the
earth belch and quake at night, to smell the
crater-smoke at dawn. By Cristo ! you English
think you are safe on your wet island. The sea
will smother you some night—mark, Signor, it
will smother you in Atlantic mud and dead fish.
Then we shall see Jim Bull looking for a hencoop
m the Bay of Ireland.” In the same locality I
met an Australian chemist sniffing the crater
fumes. He was certain, he said, that a month
spent within the lip of the volcano would cure
phthisis in an elephant. Up to date I haven’t
seen any bottled Vesuvius on sale at the local
chemists’.


STUDY
Money-Making
Subjects.
Send now for “ Home
Study,” post free.
STOTT & HOARE’S
Business College,
Moore St., Sydney. [5
'
a?
HARRINGTON’S
A
Supply ths Best of Every-
the "World produces
in
CAMERAS
and
Pibiot ©-Supplies.
LENSES, MOUNTS, PLATES, FILMS, CHEMICALS, PAPERS,
ALBUMS, and EVERY CONCEIVABLE PHOTO REQUISITE.
AMATEURS’
Plates and Films Developed. Printing-, Enlarging,
Mounting, Framing, &c.
The Largest
Fhotographic
Emporium in
the Southern
Hemisphere.
CAMERAS
from 51- to *5O.
Illustrated
Catalogues Free.
HARRINGTON & CO., Ltd.
Photographic
Merchants,
386 GEORGS ST. (Near G.P.0.), SYDNEY;
93 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Society
PENFOLD'S
WINES
“ Lil ” : A swaggering young Greek, in his
curious national costume (apparently a new
arrival), attracted attention the other day in the
neighborhood of the numerous Swanston-street
(Melb.) fish and fruit shops run by his country-
men, The Greek found loose thereabouts does
not often show off the red cap, white ballet-skirt,
and tightly-pinched waist which even the brick-
laying Theotokis Plasteropoulos displays in his
native country. It is doubtful whether Constan-
tine Barracoutos doffs his petticoat in Australia
because'his long hours leave him no time to laun-
der it, or because the beauteous Highland soldier
threatens to prosecute him for infringement of
copyright. Anyway, he still seems to view his
greyhound waist with pride. I heard one floun-
deraserver boasting to another that he never wore
braces or belt, as bis big hips and record-breaking
small waist filled the bill ! Don't talk of female
vanity while the Grecian fried-fish hero is about.
A MIDNIGHT HORROR
“Billy, of chap, feel shure m' wifsh maitin’ up
f' me.' Tell me, 'shmee hat on shtrait?”
“ Blow’d fi know; hut if it is, your face is shon
crooked. ”
Thus the wily Jap attempts to improve the
shining hour, according to an advt. in Brisbane
Courier
‘Jji A M I N E IN JAPAN
WILL YOU HELP?
The Proprietor of the Fuji Laundry offers the
Citizens of Brisbane an opportunity of Help.ng the
Sufferers from Famine in Japan. Ten per cent, of
the money received for all Washing'which is accom-
panied by a Card will be devoted to a Special Famine
Fund, atid if sufficient money is received it will be
handed to the Editor of a daily newspaper, or to a
public officer. Cards now available.
S. IMA, Fuji Laundry.
It is about time this country had an Australian
washery which devoted one-tenth of the proceeds
of the boiled collar to reducing the Australian
public debt.
* * * *
The headmaster of a Maorilancl school—
the Whangarei technical college—the other day
got the shock of his life along with a letter from
the scholar who had won the prize in the English
Literature class. In the course of a lengthy essay
on the effects of corn petition, the youngster told the
superintendent that “prize-giving is calcul ited
to foster a mercenary spirit—the spirit of doing
your work only for what you can get.” Therefore
the youth’presented his apologies and declined
the prize. Now one wonders whether the youth
who won the prize played that essay off his own
little bat, or. whether in the background of the
great self-denying ordinance there was a Stern
Parent with ideas and a rod.
“ Albert D.” : The recent unforetokl
earthquake at San Erancisco has cast a depression
over the seer and the clairvoyant. Not one of
them ever had the power to predict an ordinary
fall of gaspipe at the right moment. I called on
a Sydney “ second-sighter ” the night after the
Californian cataclysm, and found him in a state
of rum and dejection. Waving me to the medium’s
chair he breathed into a half-empty bottle and
wept. “Don’t speak to me about ’Frisco. I
saw it all here, in this room, at 7.30 t’other
night. I felt there was something in the air,’’
he continued; “a grand momentuous uplifting
of the spheres. Closing my eyes, I took a grip of
things, and let myself into space. Then I felt a
hot sea wind blowing over my naked body as I
was hurled through the Starry Way. The earth
lifted and quaked, my friend, like a whale’s back.
I saw myself in a strange city, shut in by tall sky-
scrapers and a mountain-locked bay. The air was
full of crashing walls and the groans of the
dying.” The “second-sighter” sat up in his
chair, and put a silent grip on my wrist. “ Why
didn’t you publish your experience?” I ventured.
He glared at me like a sheep with toothache.
“ Publish h 1! I couldn’t locate the place,” he
cried. “At first I thought it was Lisbon, then
Sydney or Teneriffe. 1 saw Chinamen flying
here and there ; I saw the looters at work among
the dead, saw the soldiers firing upon the gangs of
robbers prowling among the ruins of warehouses
and banks. I was afraid to publish my vision
because my geographical bearings are not sound.”
He raised the bottle with the air of a man who
had missed a bonanza. I departed into another
office in the same building, where my friend Ram
Singh carries on business as crystal reader and in-
spired spook. Before I could say “Frisco ’ lie
began to claw the tablecloth with his yellow
fingers. “Ah, dam!” he shouted, “I lose one
bletty gold mine ! My dead father gif me the
office only the other night. ‘ The bletty world is
all up, Ram,’says lie to me. ‘Smash! Bang!
to-morrow at 5 o’clock.’ Then I tie myself in
the chair and get my pencil to work. ‘ What part
of the world goes bang first, my father?’
I say to him. And I hear his body movin’
among the banyans of Brahm. ‘ Molong
and Parkes,’ he say in a far, far away
voice. Then I feel to myself that someone
had pulled my father from the highest Mahatma
on to a pile of potatoes.” The Hindu stood up
suddenly and wrung his hair. “ All my bletty
information goes bang whenever dat bletty Jew
upstairs goes past hero with Iris beer bottle. I
call cm my dear father again to tell me where the
earthquake was going to open, and he only answer
‘ Crojingolong and Jimmy Kawolski.’ Then I
send a circular to my clients, telling them that all
the bletty sheep and sand would be shaken off the
back, of Molong and Parkes.” The Hindu beat
his breast. “ See how 1 fall in because the dam
peoples carry the beer over me when I speak with
my father !” 1 left him. There were other seers
and spielers in the same building who mistook the
great earthquake for something else.
* * * *
Re ignorance of Australian geography and
history, referred to by “Ped.” (B. 15/3/’O6). Most
of the blame for this can justly be debited to the
account of teachers of private
schools. Many of them are
English, Scotch, or Irish born.
Their knowledge of Australian
geography is the limited amount
contained in a printed-in-England
text-book, compiled by an English
geographer; and Australian his-
tory is a subject of which the
greater number of them never
heard. It is quite common to
meet private school pupils who
know every county in England.
Ireland, and Scotland, and are full
of information regarding Transyl-
vania, Andalusia, and Mesonota-
mia, but who are quite ignorant
of the whereabouts of the chief
Australian towns, except, per-
haps, the State capitals. They
know the names of all the English
nionarohs from William the Con-
queror to Queen Victoria, with
dates of accession and death, and
don’t know the name of the Pre-
mier of their own State. A know-
ledge of Australian geography
(very thorough) and history (very
fair) is imparted in N.S.W. State
schools; but it is possible for
teachers in these schools to pass
their exams, without answering a
single question upon Australia.
Also, the Sydney University
junior history paper should include
Australian history, a branch totally ignored by
the Uni.
“The Government should he ready with
generous assistance ” (S.M. Herald, 24/4/’O6).
And this appeal for Government assistance is in
behalf of a memorial to a dead person. When a
bonus to establish an industry is suggested, the
Herald yells about “pampering,” “pauperising,”
See., &c. An industry helps to keep a live person
alive ; a memorial doesn’t make a dead man any
deader. So why not give the “generous assist-
ance” to the living? And why pamper defunct
persons with tombstones and pauperise cadavers
with blocks of granite ?
* • • »
“ The Light of the World ” picture—like
its great subject—is quickly dragged down to
business purposes. A circular which reaches The
Bulletin :
“ Thf. Light of The World ! ”
By W. Holman Hunt.
A sp endid reproduction of this beautiful picture
Is Now On View
for a short time only
in the window of
The Universal Store
(A. M. Ptigsley, Deakin Avenue).
This Masterpiece of Holman Hunt was visited by as
many 35,000 people a day when on exhibition at the
National Art Gallery, Melbourne, and a steady stream of
as many sightseers still crowd around it at the Sydney
Art Gallery. The splendid reproduction on view at t'.e
Universal Store, although giving- but a faint idea of the
wonderful beauty and power of the original, is in itself a
remarkably fine and powerful reproduction, and should
be seen by all who have not been fortunate enough to see
the original.
Whilst looking at the outside, visitors are asked to step
ins de, where will be found a pleasing and choice stock of
new seas->n's goods in drapery, millinery, etc.
Undoubtedly the Best Establishment for right stuff
at right prices 1
Our Motto —“ Anybody for mere cheapness, but
- Pirgsley alone for cheapness and quality.”
Th ■; Only Universal Store, Deakin Avenue.
This choce thing comes from Mildura.
Shall hacking cough my rest destroy,
And all my pleasure here alloy ?
Are pains that cut me like a knife
To make a misery of life ?
Shall bronchial troubles wear me out?
No—never, all are put to rout
By best of medicines, simple, pirn,
W. E. Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
ANOTHER BIRTH-RATE ITEM.
THE REGISTRAB (forgetting the date): “Let me see , this is the tenth."
THE MOTHER (indignantly): “The first!”
On April 12th, Charlotte Bernard, aged
54, was knocked down by a cab in George-street,
Sydney, and was removed to Sydney Hospital.
Two stitches were put in her head, and she was
then taken off to the Central Police Station on a
charge of “drunk.” A little later she appeared
very ill, and was hurried off to the hospital again,
and placed in the observation ward for some hours.
Next morning she was fined for being drunk, and
turned loose. That night the long arm of
the Law saw her acting rather strangely, and
sagaciously ran her in once more as a
“drunk.” Next morning the matron at the lock-
up had a look at her, and, growing suspicious,
packed her off to the hospital for the third time.
Then she was brought back to the police station,
and locked up till next morning, when the Court
remanded her for medical observation. At the
gaol hospital the Government Medical Officer,
Dr. Paton, examined her, and diagnosed, not
alcoholism, but a brain injury, and sent her to
Sydney hospital some more. By this time she was
getting quite used to being sent to the hospital.
There she died on the 19th, and a post mortem re-
vealed that the cause of death was a fracture of the
skull received in the cab accident on the 12th.
Now, will the Law do the honest thing by the dead
woman’s memory, and change the police court
record to read that Charlotte Bernard was fined,
not for being drunk, which seems to be a lie, but for
having a fractured skull? Even if it does nothing
to the ridiculous people who seemed to think fine,
imprisonment, and frequent and furious cab
exercise from the gaol to the hospital and back
were the best remedies for a broken head, it
might do that much.
* * » *
The British House of Commons will
shortly be asked to consider a Bill which will
make it a felony on the part of any trader or
manufacturer to stick the royal arms, or
any other emblem of the English or any
other reigning family, on his labels.
The Bill will also suppress the testi-
monials from the Princess Olga of
Dad bag about sending at once six
more bottles of your invaluable pre-
paration for removing hair, or the
like. This sort of public deception
has become very rife lately, and so
many things are on the markets of the
world with the royal arms of some
State emblazoned on the labels, that
people are beginning to wonder how
many millions of royalties there are.
In Australia the use of the big cat
and the spiked horse has become an
abuse, and one class of time-payment
fiend has put the royal arms on top
of his final notice threatening to im-
prison people who have not paid up or returned
the clothing in the same order and condition in
which they received it.
* * * *
A highly-academic crowd of persons sat
down to eat a University dinner in Melbourne
Masonic Hall on Tuesday night last week, and
when filled with good wine soared into the regions
of lofty culture, and made'academically-satirical
remarks about “ the practical man,” and bee line
merry over the beastly ignorance that prevents
him from accepting the culchawed enthusiasts at
the valuation of their own vanity. Bent, with
his chin arranged in two or three folds on his
chest, waited till everybody had finished, ai.d
then bellowed: “Let me tell you that if tie
practical men hadn’t come forward with their
money, you wouldn’t be able to say all these
pretty things about yourselves to-night.” Then
the vain ones began to wonder whether polit#
learning hadn’t marie them forget politeness.
Romeo was up before Melbourne Magis-
trate Panton last week—Romeo Trudo. He
desired Juliet Gwendoline Frances Smith, or
Brown, or it may have been Jones, to con-
fine her affections to him alone; Juliet
Gwendoline was not so disposed; wherefore
Romeo promised to shoot her, or, failing that,
“to get all the blackfellows in Melbourne to get
her out of her abode and then to saw her in six
pieces with an axe.’’ Magistrate Panton, who
begins to be a tired old man and regards all these
“ love ” episodes as mere spasms of cucumber or
insanity, remarked that it was a trivial case, fined
Romeo 405., and bound him over to keep the
peace towards his Juliet Gwendoline. So Romeo,
instead of having it out with the fiery Tybalt, will
doubtless proceed to raise the 40s. by pawning his
revolver with the fiery Cohen.
•* * * *
“The Manor House” is now be-
coming a fairly common residence-title in such
places as Victoria’s Western District, where the
land-grabber lurks when he is not spending his
Australian revenue in London. A standard dic-
tionary defines “manor” as “lord’s estate in
lands kept for own use.” Now, how’ long has, say,
Mr. Percy Chirnside (who keeps a “Manor
House”) been a lord?
This constant effort to
ape the squire and the
bucolic baronet, and to
look like a sort of bush
peer, is a very dreadful
thing.
AT OUR LODGING-HOUSE.
“ Whit's the matter with the tanks, girl t With-
out exaggeration I had to bathe in a teaspoon-
ful of water this morning."
The deadly finger-print again gives away
the housebreaker —this time in Bruns wick-street,
Melbourne. Joseph Foster incautiously handled
sime bits of glass in a draper’s shop he was looting,
and so left his name, address, and “record” be-
hind him—unless the Law has mistaken some one
else’s record for Foster’s.
TO PASS TIME MERRILY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Said OoVienstciii to Abrahamths :
“ Ah, Ithic, ve are growing old,”
“ That’s true, hut I don’t care two damths ! ”
Said Isaac gaily as he sold
A pin of burnished brass for gold.
“ How ith it, Ikey, you can he
Tho happy veil your hair is vite,
Und veil wit dimmer eyes you see
How kvick der day succeeds der nighd?
I veep o’er Time’s remorseless flight.
“ Bud you don’d veep, you laugh mit joy,
You caper all aboudt der sdore,
You chortle like a leedle hoy,
Und ven der year has gone vonce more
You tance a preak-down on der floor.”
Said Father Abrahams : “Yes, vot
You say vos true, I’m feeling prime.
Der man who bills of sale has got
Grows old mit pleasure kvite sublime—
Dere’s money in der flight of Time ! ”
vie.
EDYSON.


THE BEST PROOF
that B. 0. HAGON’S Clothing carries the merit that is claimed
for it is THE INCREASING- REMAND which year by year
has brought new customers from every part of the Commonwealth.
k
WINTER
SUITES
3s.
QUALITY and STYLE! have told their tale and satisfied
customers, by the hundred, have testified that for FIT and
FINISH there is no one better than
R. C. HAGON,
Merchant
Tailor,
129 KING ST., SYDNEY
The British hired fleet in Australian
waters is certainly ruled with very little sense.
Time and again the use of a warship has been
refused to search for a missing vessel—though
this is a recognised part of a warship’s business in
limes of peace—and last week the request that
one of the vessels should help in the Captain
Cook celebration was denied. Seeing that the
warships are always ready to lend themselves to
ceremonial pageantry on behalf of any British or
foreign royal festival, it would have shown tact to
havs helped along this Australian celebration.
PUSH MATRIMONIAL ITEM.
THE BELLE OF THE POSH : “ I’m splicing Stoucher
next week, Puss! ”
PUSS: “ Yes I 'card 'e was lookin' fer a
sparrin' partner."
“K.” : Surely it is time Bendigo Easter
Fair committee obliterated the Chinese element
from its procession. For many long weary years
the yellow person has dragged through the public
ways his long uninteresting dragon with the same
eternal invariableness. It always looks much the
same dragon. Ahead of it slouches a disorderly
crowd of pig-tailed brethren. Behind it there
potters and shuffles and toddles and slithers along
another disorganised mob of pig tailed heathenism.
Here and there in the scramble is a tom-tom.
Here and there is something like an ice-cream
cart possessed of a devil. Here and there a
banner hangs anyhow. This year, a Chow
herbalist, in a buggy, decorated the procession
with a group of white girls walking in front
and another behind. That made me tiled. For
the rest, there were the dragon, the ice-cream
cuts, the tom-toms, and the shambling mob as
usual. lam told that the Chow procession gets
£5O or -£7O appearance-money for its paper wild
beast and its barbaric din. If this is so, Waffor?
♦
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
“N.S.F.” : The relative importance
of matters to the female mind:
Thompson’s horse bolted, and
he was thrown out on his head
on a hard metalled road.
Several men rushed to
his assistance, and as
was on horseback, I
rode after the bolting
horse and trap. Near
Thompson’s house
I met Mrs. Thomp-
son running to her
husband. Later
on I told Mrs.
Brown—a great
friend of tho
Thompsons—
of the acci-
dent. She
showed little |
interest till 1
I mentioned
meeting Mrs.
Thompson,
when she asked
eagerly, “ And
how was she
dressed?” “How
was she dress-
ed?” I gasped,
“ What on earth
has that got to
do with it ? ”
“Oh, I heard
she had got a
new jacket and
skirt, and I
thought she might
have had them on.’
Another time I had
just heard that Mrs.
Jones had been killed
by lightning, and seeing
Mrs. Brown (who was a
friend of hers) in her front
garden as I passed, I stopped
and told her of the occurrence.
“The electricity bad apparently
passed right through her, as there was a hole
burnt in the crown of her hat and her boots were
all blown to pieces.” “Good heavens!” ejaculated
Mrs. Brown. “ What sort of a hat was it l ”
* * « *
Victorian Railway Commissioner Tait has
replied to the judgment of the Court of Inquiry
into the Gembrook smash. The Com t said the
accident was due to the bad state of the per-
manent way, and that a subordinate cause was
the rate of speed. Tait says that driver Sheehan
will be dealt with at once, and so will the ganger
in charge of that section of the line. He neatly
avoids the obvious inference from the'judgment—
that he, T. Tait, is the responsible man, because he
set six men to do maintenance work that could not
be done by sixteen. He passes that phase of the
question over entirely. And there is no hint that
the maintenance of the road will be any better in
the future.
“ Tam bo ” : Re par. anenfc Devonport,
Tasmania (B. 5/4/’0(5). It is quite correct as
regards the success of the town’s Socialistic muni-
cipal undertakings ; yet so inconsistent
is the average Devonport man that he
would faint in horror on the bank of his
river at the mere whisper of the word
Socialism. Devonport, however, does
not look on Launceston as a “devil of
a place”—at least, not in that sense.
Similar feeling exists between Laun-
ceston and Devonport as between Mel-
bourne and Sydney, and about once
a month Launceston and Devonport
newspapers (tlie latter town runs two
dailies) get on the subject, and the way
Potts of Devonport speaks of Laun-
ceston, and the way Slurk of Laun-
ceston alludes to Devonport, is some-
thing terrible and insidious. No two
towns on earth are more grieved at the
other town’s backwardness. Launceston
papers have a pull over Devonport, as
they supply the Tasmanian correspon-
dence for the mainland dailies, and they
take care that that correspondence
never mentions Devonport except as
a bygone and a backslider. Yet Devon-
port is the second port in Tasmania
(Hobart is first), and its outward trade
last year ran into nearly a quarter of a
million. An important piece of infor-
mation, which Launceston carefully
suppressed and is still sitting on hard,
is that Postmaster-General Chapman
is considering the advisability of
changing the centre of Tasmanian mail
distribution from Launceston to Devon-
port. Poor unfinancial Tasmania is
paying £ll,OOO per annum for a fatt
mail service, .which it doesn't get
because the much-talk ecl-of turbine
steamer Loongana encounters fogs and
low tides in the forty odd miles of
winding Tamar, and can’t keep its time-
table in consequence. Devonport is
much nearer Melbourne, and the Loon-
gana could make an extra trip per week
by running there. The feeling at
present points to civil war if the change is
made. Hobart, which doesn’t love Launceston
either, never loses an opportunity of barracking for
“ the city of the Mersey.” Launceston is think-
ing of going over some day and burning cobble-
stoned Hobart.
* * * *
“ Melb.” : One thousand being the mem-
bership of Tom Mann’s Social Questions Com-
mittee, it is becoming a factor. After being
turned out of its cellar, it is turned cut of the
Queen’s Hall, Bourke-street, on Sunday nights.
Whereupon it leaps to the Bijou Theatre, at £6 a
night. The red flag is adopted. Mrs. Mann
renders assistance as choir leader, with Labor
hymns. An orchestra is formed. Funds are
coming in. For a little thing, the society cleared
£lO net profit from a bit of a coffee stall at
the Eight-hours fete. Members of the Political
Labor Council, associated with the Trades Hall,
are taking steps to prevent its members
from joining Mann’s society, and there
will be a fight. The society has propaganda
open-air meetings in the various Melbourne
suburbs on Saturday nights. Mann is sedulously
training speakers, both men and women, and quite
a number are learning his own style of splasl y-
whirling, irrelevant oratory. The Sunday pro-
paganda is as busy as it can be. Open-air meetings
in the morning where they can be fixed. Sunday
afternoon meeting at Yarra South Bank, the
familiar pitch below Government House. Sunday
nights, Bijou Theatre. Every night in the week
is occupied. Of course the prospective election
Euts the society in a hurry. Two numbers have
een issued of the society’s paper, the Socialist,
price one penny.
SIC TRANSIT.
IST MUSICIAN : “ How's your new piano going,
Von Bibbler ?”
VON BIBBLER: “Got in Himmcl! he went off
yesterday. The deni bailiff got ’im!"
In Melbourne the Law is getting itself
into a frightful tangie over the matter of extradi-
tion. In November last a man was arrested on a
charge of getting away from Natal with h s
creditors’ money, and P.M. Panton ordered his
extradition. lie appealed on the ground that
Victoria was not a British possession, but only a
part of one, and therefore Panton, being only a
Victorian P.M., was not competent to commit
him. After grappling strenuously with this
point, the Full Court decided that Victoria,
though only part of the Commonwealth, was still
a jewel in the blessed Crown, and upheld the P.M.
Now the man from Natal appeals to the High
.Court. All this bother might have been avoided if
some Federal Ministry had passed an Order-in-
Council appointing State police magistrates to
be Commonwealth officials. Another case, that
of Smith, or Griffin, is even more tangled
up. Smith was arrested in Albany (W.A.)
on August 11, 1905, charged with forgery,
alleged to have been committed in Natal.
That charge was abandoned and another,
of falsification, substituted. He was committed,
but appealed, and was discharged. In Adelaide
he was re-arrested on the old forgery charge, and
once more discharged. He thought he would be
left at peace in Melbourne, but again the old fal-
sification business was brought up, and P.M.
Panton ordered his extradition, but delayed the
execution of the warrant to permit of an appeal.
Naturally Smith is asking whether this Australia
is one country or twenty.
* * * *
The beneficial effects of the “Light of the
World ”at length become manifest. Last Satur-
day a Palmerston North (M.L.) man journeyed
to Palmerston to see Holman Hunt’s canvas.
Afterwards he went out and shot his wife dead,
and then tried to kill himself. The same day, at
Auckland, a man shot himself dead while listening
to a Salvation band—instead of slaying the band.
* * * *
Fitzroy (Vic.) police court, with its bench
of ancient honoraries, was knocked endways last
week by the incomprehensible action of a Quaker.
The Quaker was a hawker, and while he was
round at the back of a house saying “thou ” and
“thee” to the householder in his own broad-
brimmed language, a heathen with a record of 15
prior convictions walked off with his outfit. The
police recovered the stolen property and arrested
the thief, and the honoraries gave him three
months. Then they started to make out an order
for the restoration of the property, but the Quaki r
explained that his conscience would not permit
him to take back an article that bad been stolen
from him, and the magistrates could do what they
liked with the truck, vegetables, and scales. The
magistrates gasped and fell against each other,
but in the end they told the sergeant to act as he
thought best. The sergeant accordingly presented
the truck and scales to an industrious old chap
aged 74, who had yearnings after the bold, free
life of a hawker. The Quaker went out to buy a
second outfit.
A ONE-SIDED SUGGESTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The ■‘Householders’ League,” London, announces that
if certain considerations are shown by the Australian
Governments the League will send out hundreds of
voung women. The desire of the young women is to form
k settlement round the towns and raise poultry, fruit,
arid other agricultural products. The? will also be
WILLING TO MARRY.
A remarkable message ! nor is it too clear
It will please the sagacious minority l
There's a fear
The idea
May appear
Pretty queer,
Though it comes on the highest authority 1
And, moreover, ’tis plain
It has managed to gain
A position approaching priority ;
And, to judge from the various rumors we hear,
It might possibly please the majority I
The majority, that is to say, of young men.
’Tis an outrage no lady could palliate 1
We may possibly find
It will make them inclined
To directly and promptly retaliate 1
For it isn’t a matter to palliate,
And on every ground
To be possibly found,
They are morally bound
To retaliate !
Do these impudent Londoners really suppose
A young Austral maiden’s timidity
Would dispose
Her to those
Who might close
If they chose
On her palpable rights with avidity?
If they do they will find
She possesses a mind
Of a clear and surprising lucidity 1
For she isn’t the sort to be led by the nose
As a person of arrant stupidity I
The Commonwealth damsel possesses a vote ;
Is a force in this model community ;
Competition to bring
In her sphere is a thing
That is not to be done with impunity 1
No, it’s not to be done with impunity 1
For the sake of Imperial unity
Send a lad with eacli lass
And the project may pass
As a very first-class
Opportunity
N.S. \V.
W. T. GOODGE.
HEALTHY GIRLHOOD.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
Healthy girlhood is the only path to healthy
womanhood. The merging of girlhood into
womanhood lays a new tax upon the blood —and
nothing can pay that tax but Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills, for they alone contain the elements that go
to make new blood. It is the overtaxing of the
scanty blood supply that makes growing girls suffer
from all those headaches, backaches and sideaches
—all that paleness, weakness, and weariness—all
that languor, fainting spells and nervousness—the
perverse appetite, the despondency, and the
constant ill-health.
Unhealthy girlhood is bound to lead to un-
healthy womanhood and a life of misery. No-
thing but the blood-building qualities of Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills can save a girl when first she
undertakes the tasks and trials of womanhood.
That is the time when Nature makes new demands
upon the blood-supply. But Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills actually make new, pure, rich, red blood
which meets those new demands with ease. In
this simple, scientific way, Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
fill a girl with overflowing health and strength.
Without them, no young woman can be fully
fitted for the duties and delights of wifehood and
motherhood.
“Soon after I turned 14, my health began to
fade,” said Miss Roughley, 422 Jones-street,
Ultimo, Sydney. “My face was pale and sickly,
and my lips and gums were almost bl ue. Round
my eyes were heavy, black rings. When I held
my hand up to the light you could almost see
through it. I had hardly any blood at all. I was
too weak to dust a room. Someone had always to
be kept in the house to do the work that I should
have done. I always wanted to be lying down. I
couldn’t be bothered with anything or anybody.
“I grew to hate the sight of food,” Miss
Roughley added. “Every mouthful lay on my
chest like a weight of lead, and gave me a terrible
cutting pain. Night was what I dreaded most.
Often I would lie awake till daylight. When it
was time to get up I had not the energy to dress
myself. I sat on the bed for an hour or more,
trying to struggle into my clothes. Every day I
grew worse. My feet swelled up as bad as if I
had Dropsy.
“ Every day I went from bad to worse. I
was irritable, and everything got on my nerves. I
couldn’t bear the least sound. I would cry my
eyes out for nothing at all. If I walked a hit fast
my heart felt as if it were coming up in my throat
—and, for two or three minutes, my breath was
gone. If I went as far as the grocer’s, a terrible
pain caught me in the back, and a horrible faint
feeling came over me. I felt so weak and dread-
fully ill that I used to wonder how ever I would get
home again. At last I got so bad that I bad to go
to the Hospital in Sydney. They did their best
for me there—but I came home as bad as the day
I went in.
“As the weeks slipped by, I grew weaker. I
thought I would never be strong again. Then one
day I read how Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills had
cured a young girl suffering almost the same way
as I was. I sent straight to Pattinson’s for some
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. After a box or two I
felt a little better, and picked up heart,” Miss
Roughley concluded. “Everyday I noticed the
difference in my appetite. Soon I was eating as
well as anyone in the house. Gradually the blood
came back to my lips and cheeks. My old energy
and spirits returned, and I gained in weight. I
have been well and strong ever since I finished my
last box of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills—and that was
three or four years .ago. Since my cure. I have
not had one hour’s pain or sickness. Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills saved my life.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills don’t tinker with mere
symptoms. They don’t act on the bowels. They
do only one thing, but they do it well—they
actually make new blood. They won’t cure any
disease that isn’t caused originally by bad blood.
But when Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills replace bad
blood with good blood, they strike straight at the
root and cause of all common diseases like head-
aches, sideaches and backaches, kidney trouble,
liver complaint, biliousness, indigestion, anaemia,
neuralgia, sciatica, nervous exhaustion, failing
powers, locomotor ataxia, and the special secret
troubles that every woman knows but that none
of them like to talk about, even to their doctors.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are sold by re-
tailers and the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
Sydney—2s. 9d. a box, six boxes 15s. 3d.,
post free. Medical advice free.
N.S.W. Divorce Justice Simpson has made
many couples uneasy with his declaration that
only a conscientious objection to being married
by a clergyman legalises marriage by a Registrar.
Hundreds of people get married by the Registrar
as a matter of convenience, though they have no
objection to being married by a parson. But, of
course, any little irregularity, such as a false
declaration of conscientious objection or a neglect
of the Registrar to ask for a declaration, would
not in any way invalidate a marriage. Angelina
has her Percival still tied as firmly as before.
Public policy, however, should recognise tl e
Registrar’s marriage, and only the Registrar’s
marriage; it should make all couples go through
the civil ceremony, leaving them at liberty to go
through any church parade they please afterwards.
Such a reform would, amongst other benefits,
abolish the disreputable business of the broken-
down parson who runs a marriage-shop on cheap-
and-nasty lines.


TIN and GOLD SLUICING PLANTS
As supjilied in the Tin Districts of N.S.W. with great success.
Robey Portable Engines, Centrifugal Pumps, Etc. Apply—
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER, 64 Pitt St., Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Somebody writes again to the papers complain-
ing- of the life insurance offices’ charge of 7 or 8 per cent,
interest on overdue premiums. The usual reply is made
most of the amounts are so small that it would not be
worth while charging up less. All the same, it is ridicu-
lous to be charging one’s own members 7 or 8 per
cent, on absolutely protected loans, while the public
is being lent money for as little as 4 per
cent, on security which involves more or less
risk. Take the A.M.P., for instance. Even of its mort-
gages 75 percent, carry under 5 per cent., and only 6
per cent, carry 6 per cent, and over ; yet of the loans on
policies and overdue premiums no less than 48 per cent,
carry 6 per cent, and over. The objection that most of
the amounts are small, and that it wouldn’t be worth
while charging them up if the rate were made, say, 5 or 6
per cent, could be easily got over by making a minimum
charge—whatever the management thinks is necessary to
cover the wear and tear of the staff’s intellect.
♦ * * *
The Bank of Adelaide :
. . To Re- Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. serve. serves.
1896 .. £31,225 7 p.c. = £28,000 £3,225 £167,514
1897 .. 31,047 7,, „ 28,000 3,047 170,561
1898 .. 33,401 7 „ ~ 28,000 5,401 176,962
1899 .. 33,026 7 „ ~ 28,000 5,026 180,958
1900 .. 38,413 8 ~ ~ 32,000 6,413 187,401
1901 .. 48,097 8 „ „ 32,000 16,097 203,498
1902 .. 45,925 8 ~ ~ 32,000 13,925 217,423
1903 .. 52,317 8 ~ ~ 32,000 20,317 237,740
1904 .. 47,337 8 „ „ 32,000 15,337 253,077
1905 .. 47,876 8 „ „ 32,000 15,876 268,953
1906 .. 46,286 8 „ „ 32,000 14,286 253.239
Though this bank’s net profits st ill sag, most of its other
figures show a large increase:—
Mar.,’os. Mar.,’o6.
Notes in circulation. £129,968 £157,846 Inc. £27,878
Bills in circulation, &c. 291,398 486,636 luc. 195,138
Deposits .. .. 2,334,238 3,145,970 Inc. 811,732
Liquid assets .. .. 1,668,129 2,506,275 Inc. 838,140
Advances .. .. 1,700,946 1,913,016 Inc. 212,070
Premises .. .. 71,483 70,299 Dec. 1,184
The growth of deposits is something extraordinary ; they
have increased during the year by over one-third, and
there have been large increases of other liabilities like-
wise. The accounts do not distinguish between deposits
bearinj; interest and those not bearing interest; but
there it no doubt that the increase of deposits at interest
has been vastly greater than the increase of advances;
and as the accumulated mone3' has either been put out at
short call in London, at a very low rate of interest, or
kept in the vaults, a shrinkage of profits is easily accounted
for. Nevertheless, the business has been so profitable
during the year that it would show' even better
results than it did in the previous vear but for the
writing-down of premises by £2OOO. Going on its
figures alone the Bank of Adelaide is one of the surprises
and puzzles of Australian banking. It show's a profit
(after writing off £2OOO from premises) at the rate of
£6 18s. 4d. per cent, on shareholders’ funds; and yet it
maintains in liquid assets no less than 66 per cent, of its
liabilities to the public. The possible explanations of
how the thing is done are several. (1) S. Australia is
pretty clannish, and has a very good opinion of its own
honesty ; and the Bank of Adelaide is itself. More than
a third of all the bank-notes in S. Aus. are issued by the
Bank of Adelaide. (2) It has about 1000 shareholders—
small people mostly, and not professional investors, and
they are, therefore, so many unpaid canvassers for the
bank. (3) It doesn’t poke round into corners of the earth
that it knows very little about; but of the State to which
it confines itself no body of men know more than its
directors. For investment, the fact that the bank works
not under the limited liability Act, but under a charter’
prejudices the shares. And, no doubt, the larger the
popularity of a bank, and the more deposits it can get
the bigger the risk of shareholders in case of a slump!
But the Adelaide directors, recognising this, maintain
what under other circumstances would be an absurdly
needless proportion of liquid assets ; and correspondingly
they so limit advances that the w’hole of the latter could
slump 36 per cent, before the shareholders’ funds would
be exhausted. The dread of something unknown hap-
pening because the co. isn’t “ limited” hasn’t, therefore,
for the present, anything very solid to go on. All the
same, it is something that makes it necessary for share-
holders to keep awake. Yet Adelaide, in spite of the
risk, never lets the shares go begging. On the present
dividend they return under 5 per cent., and even a rise
of dividend to 9 per cent, would show on present prices
no more than £5 6s. per cent.
* * ■* • •
The Bank of Australasia
Written Re-
Profit. Dividends. Off. serves.
Oct., 1899.. £119,871 8 p.c. = £64,000 £20,C00 £846 153
Ap1.,1900.. 133,422 9 „ „ 72,000 20,000 887 575
Oct., 1900.. 151,466 10 „ „ 80,000 20,000 939 041
Ap1.,1901., 145,119 10 „,, 80,000 35,000 969’160
Oct., 1901.. 140,077 10 „ „ 80,000 20,000 1,009,237
Ap1.,1902.. 144,468 11 „ „ 88,000 16,000 1,049,705
Oct., 1902.. 136,943 11 „ „ 88,000 14,000 1,084 64S
Ap1.,1903.. 157,705 12 „ „ 96,000 30,000 1,116 353
Oct., 1903.. 151,598 12 ~ ~ 96,000 25,000 1,146’951
Ap1.,1904.. 150,934 12 ~ „ 96,000 25,000 1,176 885
Oct., 1904.. 140,066 12 ~ ~ 96,000 14,000 1,206 951'
Ap1.,1905.. 136,153 12 „ ~ -96,000 10,000 1,237 104
Oct., 1905.. 137,451 12 „ ~ 96,000 11,000 1,267,555
This great bank, whose worst fault is that its profits are
mostly distributed outside Australia, continues on its way
of solid prosperity ; nevertheless, like most of the rest of
them —especially those that are not inclined to take up
business that has only a speculative bottom to rest upon
it shows the effects of a glut of money and a lack of
means to profitably use it. Take this comparison
Oct., 1904. Oct., 1905.
Notes .. .. £471,783 £450,854 Dec. £20,929
Bills, &c. .. 2,011,391 2,319,698 Inc. 308 307
Deposits .. 15,186,394 16,329,565 Inc. 1,143,171
Liquid Assets.. 5,897,931 7,483,788 Inc. 1,585 857
Advances., .; 14,368,061 14,294,304 Dec. 73 757
Premises .. 306,527 285,581 Dec. 20,946
Thus in the 12 months there was a net increase of
£1,430,549 in the public’s money held by the bank ; on
the other hand, advances actually shrank £73,757, thus
throwing altogether £1,504,306 into the hands of the bank.
Of this amount over £600,000 is in quite unproductive
specie ; another £BOO,OOO is out on short call in London,
probably at 2 per cent.—lent out to the banks that lend
to the men who either lend back to Australia, or else
make the goods that Australia ought to be making for itself
with the help of the same money, without all this finan-
cial circumlocution.
It is an amazing tiling under the circumstances
—with over an extra million and a half doing either
nothing at all or very little—that the Bank of Australasia
should sustain its profit even as it does. But how does it,
or any other Australian bank, doit? By cutting down
interest on deposits ; by charging high rates for accom-
modation to farmers and others; by, competing with
insurance offices, trustees, &c., for gilt-edged mortgage
business which is hardly banking business at all; and by
under-paying its staff (though in this respect less com-
plaint can be made of the ’Asia than of some other banks,
albeit the standard of bank-clerks’ pay at the best is
wretched). The absurd idea that only the artisan would
benefit by the establishment of effective Protection, and
the establishment of Australian industries—which would
mean Australian securities—dies hard, nevertheless. By
clipping and competing in the ways just mentioned, the
Bank of Australasia has been able to keep its profits (on
the basis of shareholders’ capital and reserves) as fol-
lows
Apr., 1902.. £ll 1 5 p.c. I Apr., 1904.. £lO 19 9 p.c.
Oct., 1902.. 10 6 9 „ | Oct., 1904.. 10 1 9 „
Apr., 1903.. 11 15 0 „ I Apr., 1905.. 914 0 „
Oct., 1903.. 11 8 3 „ | Oct., 1905.. 913 9 „
But, in spite of all that the bank hgs been able to do, the
fall in earnings from £ll 15s. per cent, to £9 13s. 9d. per
cent, is pretty severe; on the present funds it means
£59,142 a year. In other words, if this bank could make
profits at the same rate now as it did at the end of 1902,
it would be making, on its present funds, £59,142 a year
more than it is doing. The three fine seasons which Aus-
tralia has had, along with the record metal outputs at
almost record prices, should have made business hum.
Instead, however, of being a blessing, the extra money
has been actually, in a sense, a burden to the banks—all
because the industries that ought to have spurted, and
called for more capital at good rates, have been carried
on, not in Australia with Australian money, but in some
foreign country with foreign money—helped a little by
Australian money, shipped away, and lent out at ridicu-
lously low rates. Under such circumstanees the strain
to pay a 12 per cent. div. is liable to become severe ; and
it.isn’t altogether wonderful that acting-superintendent
Cowper lately declined to take on the job permanently.
The Bank of Australasia has now in liquid assets 39 p.c.
of all its liabilities to the public ; and, though that is a
heavier holding than is necessary under anything but
very special conditions, still many other Australian banks
find themselves with a much larger accumulation. The
debts to the public total £19,100,117; liquid assets
amount to £7,483,788 ; so there remains £11,616,329 of
public debt to be covered by £14,294,304 of advances and
£285,581 of premises—book-value ; the reai value is cer-
tainly greater. In view of the manifest quality of the ad-
vances (the earnings prove that), it is a position which
ought to give the depositors much comfort.
* * *
The National Bank of Australasia (Melb.):
Dividends. Added
Profits. Ord. Pref. to Re- Re-
-3 p.c. 5 p.c. serves. serves.
Sept., 1899 .. £19,245 £7644 £11,601 £113,718
Mar., 1900.. 22,152 7644 14,508 128,226
Forfeited Capital added to Reserves 4977 133,203
£68,000 written off Reserves .. .. 65,203
Sept., 1900.. 27,065 £17,887 7644 1534 66,737
Mar., 1901 .. 28,44 S 17,887 7644 2917 69,654
3£ p.c.
Sept., 1901.. 32,050 20,868 7644 3538 73,192
Mar., 1902.. 34,394 20,868 7644 5882 79,074
Sept., 1902.. 35,038 20,868 7644 6526 85,600
Mar., 1903.. 34,660 20,868 7644 6148 91,748
Sept., 1903.. 34,874 20,868 7644 6362 98,110
Mar., 1904 .. 36,233 20,868 7644 7721 105,831
Sept., 1904.. 36,950 20,868 7644 8438 114,269
Mar., 1905 .. 36,130 20,868 7644 7618 121,887
4 p.c.
Sept., 1905.. 36,104 23,849 7644 4611 126,498
Mar., 1906 .. 41,144 23,849 7644 9651 136,149
This is a very fine improvement, and comes opportunely
to block further remarks regarding the management’s
rush to put up the dividend six months ago. But con-
sider this comparison before going any further :
Mar., ’O5. Mar.,’o6.
Notes in circulation.. £243,939 £260,523 Inc. £16,584
Bills in circulation ..1,154,448 1,793,870 Inc. 639,422
Deposits at interest .. 3,853,245 4,012,427 Inc. 159,182
Other deposits .. 2,593,776 2,849,759 Inc. 265,983
Liquid assets .. .. 3,138,882 3,811,687 Inc. 672,805
Advances .. .. 5,660,354 6,123,436 Inc. 457,082
Bank premises (cost).. 450,533 446,925 Dec. 3,608
Other real estate .. 238,258 200,395 Dec. 37,863
These undoubtedly are good figures ; but most of the
gain in profits looks as though it might have come from
foreign exchange business, and that, to a great extent,
isn t a business that sticks through good seasons and bad.
Note, as to this, the very large increase in “bills in circula-
tion ” ; andamong theliquid assets “ billsand remittances
in transit” account for £1,403,708, as against £923,603
twelve months before. The National has been so ex.
tremely fortunate (or well-managed possibly) as to be
able to make profitable use of money at a time when
others have seen it accumulating; at the same time, from
all appearances, the National’s money has been in use in
operations which don’t necessarily mean the same sort of
business or profits for the future. It isn’t, therefore,
safe to regard the recent rate of profits as normal ; still
less safe would it be to expect the rise to continue. Cer-
tainly, it is possible that previously the bank was steadily
writing down bad and doubtful debts, and that it hasn’t
need to do so now ; hence the sudden spring. But there
is no sign that it is so. On the contrary, it is pretty
certain that this bank can still find very good use for
surplus profits in writing down book values; the line
“Bank premises (at cost to the bank)” doesn’t, for
instance, look as though the last possible word had been
said on the subject of writing down. And the return on
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves) is low enough
(considering the size of the deposits) to support that
view :
Sept., 1901 .. £4 1 9 p.c. Mar., 1904 .. £4 10 10 p.c
Mar., 1902 .. 4 7 7 „ Sept., 1904 .. 412 1
Sept., 1902 .. 4 810 „ Mar., 1905 ..4 9 7,”
Mar., 1903 .. 4 7 7 „ Sept., 1905 .. 4 9 1 ”
Sept., 1903 .. 4 7 9 „ Mar., 1906 ..5 1 3 ”
But if on its books the bank still has over-valued assets,
the public’s position is comfortable enough, the liquid
assets representing now about 43 per cent, of all public
liabilities ; while all non-liquid assets might shrink in
value 24 per cent, and still leave the public’s money
intact. The position certainly has not been visibly
strengthened as it ought to have been during the
past five prosperous years, chiefly because the
lay-by has been far too small, proportionately. In
the half-year after the last locked-up deposits were
got rid of in 1901, the shareholders’ funds represented
nearly 26 per cent, of the non-liquid assets (in other
words, those assets could shrink 26 per cent, and leave
the public money intact) ; the figure for to-day, as shown
above, is 24 per cent. From the depositors’ point of
view, the movement, such as there has been, has been
the wrong way; but still the National seems to offer
ample margin of safety.
* * * *
. The Colonial Sugar Refining Co. (Sydney):
To Re- Re-
Brofits. Dividends. serves, serves
Mar., 1900.. £89;414 10 p.c. = £89,255 £159 £420 635
Sept., 1900.. 89,389 10 „ ~ 89,344 45 420 680
Mar., 1901.. 93,608 10 „ ~ 93,537 71 420’751
Sept., 1901.. 93,930 10 „ „ 93,610 320 421 071
Mar., 1902.. 100,199 10 „ „ 99,776 423 421 494
Sept., 1902.. 100,352 10 „ ~ 99,959 393 421 887
Mar., 1903.. 100,298 10 „ „ 100,000 298 422 185
Sept., 1903.. 100,316 10 ~ ~ 100,000 316 422 501
Mar., 1904.. 100,412 10 ~ ~ 100,000 412 422 913
Sept., 1904.. 105,111 10 ~ „ 104,608 503 423’416
Mar., 1905.. 155,322 15 ~ ~ 164,705 414 033
Sept., 1905.. 112,343 10 „ „ 109,965 2378 416’411
Mar., 1906.. 112,042 10 „ ~ 110,000 2042 418,453
How much has been written off for depreciation and
charged to revenue is not disclosed. Improvements have
recently been made at the refineries, and other works are
constantly in progress ; yet refineries, mills, lands &e
are in the balance-sheet at £2,461,999 as against £2 474 165
as at September, 1905, and £2,561,231 as at March, 1903.
Possibly some few farms have been sold meantime’; but
they don’t amount to anything worth mentioning. That
means therefore that more than enough is now being
written off and charged to current revenue to pay for all
the additions and improvements and purchases
not to mention the heavy law expenses which
the co. has incurred in losing a fight (which
didn’t end till it reached the Privy Council)
against the Commonwealth. For practical purposes it
isn’t therefore much use working it out that the earnings
on shareholders’ funds are at the rate of £8 11s. 3d. per
cent, per annum, because it is a mere guess what the real
earnings are. More or less apropos this, chairman Kater
M.L.C., whose remarks were not Quite as mournful as
usual, read out at the meeting some figures to disprove
that the co. consists of a few fat monopolists. He showed
that there were over 1300 separate holdings of shares
700 of them in the interests of widows, children, and such
like; professional men (113) owned £120,000 of stock-
business men (375) owned £305,000 ; and the Fat Man (05)
the capitalist not m a trade or a profession—owned
only 23 per cent, of the stock. What all this proves
isn t clear. Most times the widow and the orphan
don’t, admittedly, make much out of the monopoly.
No 10 per cent, comes their way. They buy £2O shares
for £5O, and get a return of 4 per cent. The co. is then
expected to earn a fair 4 per cent., not only on the £“>o
which it has received, but also on the £3O which some
speculator has received ; and, squeezed itself, it squeezes
the farmers, &c. That is where dealing' with the State
has the advantage. The State sinks a capital of £1,000,000
in an undertaking ; and even if it succeeds wonderfully, the
amount on which it attempts to earn interest remains at
£1,000,000 —it isn’t forced up to £3,000,000. The people
who put in the million get all the interest they bargained
for ; while the State’s customers (the people who have to
provide the interest) get the advantage that in the other
case flows to the speculator in shares. It may be owned
up at once that the private concern is often better
managed than the public concern, though there is no
reason why it should be ; but even so the public which
the private concern serves doesn’t get the advantage.
• * * *
Tooth and Co., Ltd., brewers (Sydney):—
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
Mar., 1900.. £37,979 7 p.c. =£31,500 £6,479 £110,844
Sept., 1900.. 36,451 7„ „ 31,500 4,951 115,795
Mar., 1901.. 39,898 7„ „ 31,500 8,398 124,193
Sept., 1901.. 37,269 7„ „ 31,500 5,769 129,962
Mar., 1902.. 41,536 8 ~ ~ 36,000 5,536 135,498
Sept., 1902.. 40,768 8„ „ 36,000 4,768 140,266
Mar., 1903.. 41,209 8„ „ 36,000 5,209 145,475
Sept., 1903.. 39,053 8„ „ 36,000 3,053 148,528
Mar., 1904.. 43,414 8,, „ 36,000 7,414 155,942
Sept., 1904.. 37,570 8 „ „ 36,000 1,570 157,512
Mar., 1905.. 46,964 8 ~ ~ 36,000 10,964 168,476
Sept., 1905.. 37,394 8 ~ „ 36,000 1,394 169,870
Mar., 1906.. 46,532 8„ „ 36,000 10,532 180,402
“ After making provision for bad and doubtful debts
and depreciation,” £5OOO per half-year is appropriated
for “ depreciation of plant and machinery.” How much
the former provision amounts to can’t be said —
the published profit and loss account is a mere
skeleton. It is probably something substantial, though.
Tooth’s, according to common belief, have added more
than a trifle to their holding of properties during the past
few years ; certainly they have made large additions to
plant. Yet 10 years ago brewery, plant, freeholds, and
goodwill were valued for book-keeping purposes at
£619,946, and to-day at £631,167, or only £11,211 more.
Six years ago the item stood at £647,831. Making the
same appropriation for depreciation in the two years, it
is found that in 1895-6 the earnings showed £6 15s. 4d.
per cent, on the whole assets at the middle of the year ;
in 1905-6 they showed £7 9s. 6d. per cent. Moreover, a
larger proportion of the assets is at present in public
securities, &c., which give only a low return. Possibly
brewing is a more profitable business now than it was 10
years ago, though it isn’t supposed to be. A more likely
explanation of the improved rate of profits is that a pro-
fitable internal reserve has been built up through the
severity of the writings-down. But it is Impossible to
say for sure whether the same severity is now being
practised. Some other details :
1900. 1906. 1906.
Debts to public £16,763 £29,302 £16,139
Properties, goodwill, plant .. 647,831 629,719 631,158
Public stock and deposits .. 92,896 158,015 161,264
dash balances 51,727 26,847 30,716
Stock 53,956 73,408 77,620
Sundry debtors 216,195 251,149 236,783
Profits on brewings, rents, &c. 132,377 137,624 137,829
Management, wages, &c. .. 91,898 85,660 86,297
Practically all the undivided profit (so far as it is dis-
closed) is going into public securities and deposits ; in six
years the latter have increased £68,368, and the un-
divided profit has amounted t0.£69,588. Even, therefore,
if something hard and heavy hits the brewing business,
this co. is accumulating something handsome to console
itself with. “ Sundry debtors ”is still a heavy item, but
has been reduced a trifle during the last three years—
another satisfactory feature of accounts which, in fact,
passing over their scrappiness, don’t present features of
any other sort.
* * * «
Illawakra and South Coast S.N. Co.
(N.S.W.): —
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
Sept., 1900.. £2098 8J p.c. =£2490 £27,114
Mar., 1901.. 2777 8| ~ „ 2490 £287 27,401
Sept., 1901.. 1590 8} „ „ 2490 ‘ 26,501
Mar., 1902.. 2392 8$ ~ ~ 2490 26,403
Sept., 1902.. 2508, „ „ 2490 18 26,421
Mar., 1903.. 3060 8J „ „ 2490 570 26,991
Sept., 1903.. 2319 8| ~ ~ 2490 26,820
Mar., 1904.. 2692 8} „ ~ 2490 202 27,022
Sept., 1904.. 2192 8| ~ ~ 2490 26,724
£19,224 reserves transferred to capital, and
£21,050 other assets written down or ap-
plied to capital, increasing latter from
£49,797 to £74,695 7,500
Mar., 1905.. 3562 7 p.c.= 2614 948 8,448
Sept., 1905.. 2086 7 „ „ 2614 7,920
Mar., 1906.. 3062 7 „ „ 2614 448 8,368
In addition to the reserves shown above there is a “Re-
pairs suspense and contingency account,” £2500. Of the'
other reserves £7921 is insurance, and that isn’t the most
sure sort of reserve, if it is a true reserve at all. Apart
from the amounts added to this insurance fund, and
necessarily reckoned above as profits, the profits for the
past 12 months have been £4728, and the dividends have
been £5228, or just £5OO more. It is clear, therefore,
that dividends are being paid out of the fund which is
supposed to be put aside to cover losses by shipwreck,
&c. That being so, the 7 per cent. div. is excessive. Before
the capital was increased some time ago, the 8f per cent,
div. had been barely earned for some years; and a divi-
dend in the same proportion on the increased capital would
amount to well under 6 per cent. As no new capital
was brought in, and as the old rate of dividend was barely
earned, and as the writings-down presumably had not
been excessive (anyhow, it was found necessary to have
some special writing-down), it seems clear enough that
even a 6 per cent. div. would have been too much for the
re-constructed co. to begin with. Certainly it is possible
that the co. is writing-off so much for depreciation that
it is establishing a hidden reserve—-in which case the 7 per
cent, dividend, would not be so objectionable. But it
isn’t likely. Why should a co. write off more than a fair
thing when by so doing it reduces its visible profits'below
the amount necessary to pay its regular dividend? The
co.’s financial position is strong; besides ship and free-
hold and leasehold property, it has £44,303 in public
securities, deposits, and cash balances ; its ship property
(completed) amounts to only £39,800. It isn’t surprising
that the co. seems unable to rightly pay the present 7 per
cent, div., seeing that more than half the assets areearn-
ng an average of only perhaps 3J per cent.
* * * *
The City and Suburban Permanent Building
and Investment Society (Brisbane)
Dividends Writ- Added
and Dividend ten to Re- Re-
Profits. Tax. off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Dec., 1896 .. 4076 3 p.c. = 2953 7 928
Dec., 1897.. 4110 3 „ ~ 2797 366 947 8 875
Dec., 7898.. 4681 3J „■ „ 3125 102 1454 10,329
Feb., 1900 .. 5914 4 „ ~4007 231 1696 1 2,025
Feb., 1901.. 4937 4 „ ~ 3221 556 1160 13,185
Feb., 1902.. 477 S 4,, ~ 3221 1,417 140 13,325.
Feb., 1903... 4502 4 „ ~ 3219 1,392 91 13,416
Feb., 1904.. 4547 4 „ ~ 3159 1,353 35 13,451
Feb., 1905.. 4381 4 „ ~ 3185 10,380 4,267
Feb., 1906.. 4142 4 „ ~3190 463 489 4,756
Something over 12 months ago the society had a cleaning-
up, and wrote down its assets, consisting mainly of ad-
vances, by £10,380. The immediate result of this piece
of honesty was, as might have been expected, a consider-
able withdrawal of deposits ; in 1903 they totalled
£73,700, and in 1905 they were down to £57.903,
And one result of this again was that a com-
fortable credit balance at the bank was changed
into an overdraft of £1768 ; but certain fixed deposits re-
mained at £14,926. During the past 12 months, though
in Brisbane there must have been many calls for advances,
the society appears to have set itself‘the task of wholly
restoring confidence. The overdraft, therefore; has beeii
wiped out and a credit of £1596 established ; the loan
which was contracted a few years ago to build new pre-
mises has been reduced to £2400 ; and the fixed deposits
have been increased from £14,926 to £16,641. Twelve
months ago money held on deposit was down to £57,903 ;
it is on the up-grade again, and the total stands at £61,431.
On the other hand, with a view presumably to strengthen-
ing the position, the advances have been reduced from
£122,254 to £120,617. The interest earnings show
within a small fraction of 6 per cent. _on
the average of total assets. For a building society
whose assets are nearly all advances (£'20,617 out of
£146,350) the rate is by no means high ; the advances
themselves appear to earn 7 per cent, on the average.
But the deposits carry 4 per cent. ; and, as the manage-
ment costs are about li per cent., the margin for profit
and bad debts is not large. No doubt through proper
salary increments, the expenses have been slowly mount-
ing up while the advances have been steadily slipping
down ; in 1901 the advances were £147,921 and the ex-
penses £l7lO, while now the advances are £120,616 and
the expenses £1917. The situation seems to call either
for more business or less expenditure.
» * * *
The Heddon-Greta Coal Co. (N.S.W.) :
Deficit
Total (apart
Coal Land charged to from
Sales. Sales. Develop- Develop-
ment. ment).
Mar., 1902.. £504 £1,798 £1961
Sept., 1902.. 2,983 £668 4,888 1241
Mar., 1903.. 4,290 1686 6,692 621
Sept., 1903.. 8,699 94 7,573 380
Mar., 1904.. 9,927 209 9,881 1520
Sept., 1904.. 11,898 278 11,017 2054
Mar., 1905.. 11,986 12,450 2054
Sept, 1905.. 6,956 13,961 3406
Mar., 1906.. 12,420 14,323 3538
So, reckoning in with the expenditure the money spent
on development, the half-year shows a loss of £494. The
co. seems now, however, to have about readied the turn.
It has had a lot of bad luck. First, it didn’t get
quite all the capital it should have had. Of
80,000 shares only 42,573 were got off. That
meant, among other things, the hiring of plant,
which is a costlv business at the best of times.
With the help of £lO,OOO of debentures (nearly all held by
the Clift family, which owned the property at one time,
and kept the largest interest in it) the co. might never-
theless have pulled through if it hadn’t been for a fire
which broke out in the north side workings in February
last year. That not only cut down the output when a busi-
ness was being worked up, but cost money for sealing,
and for development which could otherwise have been
deferred. Four or five months ago matters reached more
or less of a climax, and to save the situation 25,000 pref.
shares had to be created; practically the whole of these
have been issued, except 4000, which are in reserve to meet
£4OOO of debentures due early next year. Six months
ago the co. owed (including debentures) £21,431 ; as the
result of the new share issue it has added £7450 to its
Elan t (doing away with the hiring), and its debts have
een reduced to £10,782, including the £4OOO of deben-
tures before mentioned. It isn’t such a fair start as could
be wished ; but as the sealed workings are being gradually
opened out, and developmentis finished, the co., handling
a coal of excellent quality, should be able to pull through.
But in the matter of the old ordinary shares, which are the
only ones on the market at present, the man who may
feel inclined to look that way will find it of interest to
first read the articles and consider the privileges attached
to the pref. shares.
* * * *
Mount Morgan (Q.) is now fairly going as a
copper producer. It had the great advantage of having
its furnaces, etc., designed by R. Shepherd, who has had
a wider Australian experience in this class of w T ork than
probably any other man, and, though an engineer to
begin with, can now be reckoned also among the front-
rank Australian copper smelters. The first furnace was
blown in towards the end of January, and the adjust-
ments w'ere practically complete and a smooth run
obtained before the end of March. An output of from
320 to 360 tons of blister copper per month can now be
maintained. There are three furnaces, each with a
capacity of 5000 tons a month, and it is already safe to
say that that tonnage will be exceeded. Only two of
them will, however, be kept in blast; the third will
be a stand-by—for the present, anyhow. As to
costs, nothing has, of course, been yet made known ;
but, as nearly as can be judged, they will pan out
at from 255. to 275. per ton over all, of which
mining and delivery will account for a trifle over one-
third. This would bring out the cost of producing blister
copper (charging nothing for the gold contents) at about
£44 per ton. At Mt. Lyell (Tas.), whose blister copper
output last half-year for which accounts have been issued
was 4306 tons, or just about double the expectation from
Mt. Morgan, the costs (mining, smelting, and converting)
ran to £32 2s. 6d. per ton. At Australia’s other big copper
producer, owned by a public co., the Wallaroo and
Moonta (S.A.), the mining, dressing, and smelting costs
ran to £59 19s. 4d. per ton of fine copper. But the Wal-
laroo and Moonta's costs for mining and dressing are, com-
paratively, very heavy, being two and a half times
greater than the Bmelting costs. At Mt. Lyell,
mining costs only ss. 2d. per ton; smelting and
converting 7s. 2d.—a total of 12s. 4d. per ton. As
to values, since the present Lyell co. started
(Aug., 1903) the average value of the ore has been—
copper 2’35 per cent., silver l - 840z., and gold a minute
fraction over ldwt. Mt. Morgan copper ore available
is estimated at 1,100,000 tons, containing 3J per cent,
copper and Bdwt. gold. At the rate now provided for,
this ore would last about nine years.
* * * *
With copper at £GO, and a recovery of 3 per
cent, of that metal and 6dwt. of gold, Mt. Morgan
should, from its new works, show about £12,000 a month to
cover refining, realisation, depreciation, etc., and provide
profits. Every £1 per ton for copper above that should
mean, of course, an additional £320 to £360 per
month.
* * * *
Mt. Morgan new works are, so far as one can
judge now, a credit both to the men who designed them
and the mostly-Queensland firms that supplied them.
They are a model of ; compactness. The blast furnaces
are the central feature in a_ building 350yds. long. On
one side are the blowers; on the otliertlie converters. The
bin accommodation runs to 10,000 ton#, and the sampling
is automatic. A feature of the furnaces is the vaporiser,
designed mainly to economise water—a matter of import-
ance at Mt. Morgan, where they know what it is to have
to cart water by train. The blowers are worked (as most
machinery is now at the Mount) by electric motors,. The
matte (copper, iron and sulphur) is passed into a furnace-
well, with the possible addition of a little of the most
silicious ore. The electric crane is the striking feature
of the converter house. It works a travelling ladle, with
which the matte is taken from the furnace-well and
emptied into boiler-plate Bessemerising drums, Bft. by
6ft., with a 2ft. lining of silica, to slag out the iron, which
is tilted out, and a blast of air is forced through the mass
in the drums to get rid of the sulphur. The copper (and
gold) are finally poured off, and the silica lining is re-
placed as it is lost—a process in which the crane is again
an economiser. The fumes pass off in a chamber, with a
rise of 115 ft., and the stack rises another 250 ft. A furnace
which belches sulphur fumes has its disadvantages ; but
Mt. Morgan 00. has done more than most owners to get
rid of the worst of the nuisance.
* * * *
O.K. copper mine (N.Q.) is still busy on its new
converter plant, which ought to be at work some time
next month. The job has been much delayed through
want of bricks, due to the wet season. Meantime the
other furnaces are closed down, as there is a large
accumulation of matte already awaiting the converter-
say, £40,000 worth ; and the co. has also a thousand or
two cash in hand.
Opinion is divided as to what the O.K. Co.’s
policy should be pending the building of the badly-needed
railway ; but there is no doubt in the directors’ minds—
they ought to go straight ahead, and turn out. all the
metal they can while the market is up where it is ; and
this they will do. As for the railway, nothing has been
decided as to the route or the means by which the line is
to be paid for. There are two proposals as to both things.
As to route, a line could be laid about 45 miles to Mun-
gana, on the Ohillagoe Co.’s line, which would mean a
fine lot of traffic for the Ohillagoe Co. ; or it
could be laid about twice the distance to Biboohra,
which would join the Cairns line below the
Ohillagoe Co.’s terminus. The Biboohra survey is
not finished yet; but as far as it has gone no
great difficulties have been struck ; moreover, this line
would run alongside the Mt. Molloy, which is a- good deal
in its favor. Nevertheless, if the Ohillagoe Co. comes
along with any reasonable freight proposals, there is
little doubt that the Mungana route will be adopted. As
for the means, the co. will soon be a big profit-earner
again, and it is most likely that a good part- of
the money will be put into the line; the accumu-
lated matte will be a large help in this way.
The immediate effect of this will be to depress the
market for the shares ; but in the end it will probably be
better than to issue enough new shares to build the line.
The idea of a Queensland co". which as yet isn’t more than


Three Friends
r
* *
The Best
Tobacco
on
Earth.
376 George St., Sydney
28 Hunter St* Sydney
177 Oxford St. Sydney
A. A. MARKS, Sole Agent.
Excuse Insufficient! If you deny yourself the
opportunity we are g-ladly offering you to choose what you
will and most desire in the way of possessing a handsome
solid gold hall marked albert, or a reliable lever gold
watch, ora good signet or diamond ring, or a gem-set
dress or engagement ring, or a choice chain or cable
bangle, or a diamond pendant, brooch, or any other
trinket, gem or jewel of treasure and value. Excuse
insufficient! when you can now obtain any one of these
or other articles on the simple and popular plan adopted
by the (London Times) plan of easy monthly payments.
Write or call for illustrated catalogue and terms. British
Imperial Goldsmiths, 65 Pitt-street, (comer of Bridge-
street), Sydney.*
a baby paving for 40 odd miles of railway out of revenue,
?« h tn make the old Queensland school of boomsters
nrn infheir gmves and that’s something to its credit,
anyhow. But still it will probably be found necessary in
the interests of rapid construction, to send some of the
reserved shares The Lionel Robinson-Bew.ek
Moreing crowd made an offer for the lot some time ago,
and an offer for the-same number came from another
London crowd last week. w *
There is, though, the question whether O.K.
directors should yet build a railway at all. If pheno-
menally rich, the mine is shallow, with perhaps four
years’ work in sight. If there is no ore to speak of below
the present workings, then the co would have no more
than about three years’use of the line, even if the work
were rushed through ; and when a cu. has to write off
about a third of the cost of a line per year, the carriage
comes expensive—even a camel could do it cheaper. The
chances are, however, that low-grade ore occurs under-
neath. If so, a railway will no doubt be necessary. But
it most certainly is not safe to take any N.Q. mine on
trust. . ,
The starting of the desulphurising process which
the Chillagoe Co. (N.Q.) is installing wili re-open a few
more mines in that district; for hitherto, when silver-lead
sulphides have been struck, there has been no option but
to quit, as the Chillagoe Co. hasn’t been a buyer of sul-
phides. The Kuddigore will at once re-open now that
this has been changed. Kuntze, formerly of Tasmania,
being now in charge of the co.’s metallurgical depart-
ment the Huntingdon-Heberlein desulphurising process
has of course, been adopted—which, boon as it has been
to Australia, is a pity, seeing that in the Carmichael-
Bradford process Australia has a method of its own,
proved capable of doing at least equal work.
Ravenswood Deep Mines, Ltd. (N.Q.), which is
mainly Bull, and nearly all of the Cohen branch of the
family, tapped Premier Kidston for a prospecting vote
durin"- his recent northern tour. Lawrence Wilson
urged°that the co. had spent £25,000 in development; and
Kidston, confronted with the surface Work, was im-
pressed. Wilson, however, did not stop to explain how
much of the £25,000 had gone in buildings and plant,
so his modest request for a State advance of £5OOO or
£lO,OOO fell on sympathetic ears. Kidston’s sympathy is
all right. He believes in State organisation and State-
aid and such Socialistic things. But how can the share-
holders square the request with their anti-Socialism ?
At latest report water in Bennion’sshaft, Croydon
(N.Q.), had been lowered to within a fathom of the reef.
Early this month, therefore, some work should be done
on the stone. Efforts to overcome the water difficulty
have been so prolonged that many of the local theorists
have ceased to take a breathless interest in the discovery.
. * *
Glanmire Reserve Tribute, Gympie (Q.), had a
shareholders’meeting' for a novel purpose on Thursday
evening, 48,000 shares being represented out of 60,000.
The meeting was called (1) so that directors might explain
why the miners’ wages had been reduced, and (2) to con-
sider changes in the board. Directors replied that the
reductions were made because other companies had made
them. As that was all they had to say, the meeting
ordered the wages to be raised to the original rate of
£2 10s. per week. Then it was moved that one director
be removed from the board. This was done ; and Gym-
pie’s senior M.L.A., who had been the moving spirit in
the meeting, was elected in his stead. This show some
time back looked rather promising, with a reef formation
of 3ft. to 4ft., carrying fair gold ; but more recently the
discovery has not come up to expectations.
The Commonwealth Oil Corporation, Ltd., has
got another inspired column in the papers ; if it can’t
produce oil, it can turn out gas at any rate. “ The pur-
chase, concluded this (last) week, of the properties and
stocks of the N.S.W. Shale and Oil Co. gives to the pur-
chasing co. the basis for an immediate commencement of
operations.” Then follow particulars to show what a
great and profitable concern the N.S.W. Shale and Oil Co.
has been : “ The purchase price was £35,000, the Oil Cor-
poration taking over all stocks at cost as at March 31,
from which date the properties have been worked as for
the Oil Corporation. The New South Wales Shale and
Oil Company has won aggregate profits of £330,000, ex-
tending over a period of 32 years. Until 1902 those profits
were earned by Hartley Vale shales, which then became
exhausted ; the profits derived during 1904-s—roughly,
£lO,OOO per annum —were earned from the Torbane mines,
west of Capertee.” Now, who is pulling the public’s leg in
a scandalous manner—in plain Australian, who is shame-
lessly lying to the public, and what is the object V Anyway,
here are the facts. From June, 1903, to June, 1904, the
N.S.W. Shale and Oil Co. made, according to its own pub-
lished accounts, a gross profit of £3827, of which £3OOO was
written off for wear and tear, leaving a net profit of £827.
From June, 1904, to June, 1905, the co. made a gross pro-
fit of £5172, and £6OOO was written off for depreciation,
leaving a net loss of £B2B. Therefore, for the past two
years (to June 30, 1905), the gross profit was £8999, or an
average of £4499 per annum, and the net result was a
loss of £l. Yet in the interests of this huge London
blister, the Commonwealth Od Corporation, Ltd. —it is
printed in Sydney, where the facts could easily be ascer-
tained, that “the profits derived during 1904-5 were,
roughly, £lO,OOO per annum.”
The Bulletin has previously stated the history
of this Commonwealth Oil Corporation (capital £800,000),
and has proved its utter hopelessness in the conditions
under which it proposes to work; and its general
character can most likely be judged from the foregoing.
The figures and statement made in general regarding it
have been just about as accurate as those pointed out
above. And its conclusions have been just as danger-
ous. Consider the remark —“The N.S.W. Shale
and Oil Co. has won aggregate profits of £330,000
extending over a period of 32 years.” That
statement doesn’t hint that in the past six years, during
which it has been continuously at work, with the ex-
perience of over a quarter of a century behind it, instead of
making one farthing profit, it has made a net loss of £904.
What the co. was alile to do years ago isn’t of much con-
sequence ; its profits (though the figures quoted are
probably wrong) only prove that the co. knewits business
and could make money out of shale while the shale and
the market lasted. What it hasn’t been able to do for
six years past is of vastly more consequence.. And that
damning fact isn’t mentioned. Again it is mentioned
that the purchase price is £35,000. The paid-up
capital of the co. is £85,000. But at June 30
last the co. owed £36,147. Possibly that has since
been reduced a trifle. Clearly, then, though the pur-
chase price is £35,000, if the oo.pays 20s. in the £ it
won’t have a penny left for itself. In other words, share-
holders lose their whole capital of £85,000. And that is
the concern upon the strength of which the Common
wealth Oil Corporation, Ltd. (capital £800,000), is
boomed, and its purchase “ gives to the purchasing
co. the basis for an immediate commencement of opera-
tions ! ” Gradually, no doubt, shares —boomed on the
strength of such yarns as these—will be let out to J.
Bull. Later on, when J. Bull finds out things, he will
say more things about Australia. And for its almost
universal silence on the subject, Australia will almost
deserve what the angry Bull will say.
* » * *
After water had been pouring into the northern
Broken Hill mines for over a week, some Sydney share-
holders, pricked by Palmer and Sons, woke up,
held a meeting, and asked, among other things, if
the flooding was necessary. So they proved over
again that the capacity of Sydney mining specula-
tors for waking up after the ’bus has left is amazing.
The meeting decided, however, to be there at the start of
something, anyhow. It had heard rumors about an
amalgamation with the Junction, and it decided that the
Junction North “ should be worked as a separate pro-
perty by the present co., which is possessed of the neces-
sary money to make any repairs required to the present
shaft, or even to construct a new shaft, if necessary,
the mill appliances being in a highly satisfactory
state, and the ore bodies disclosed being of large
dimensions and high value.” Money, highly-satisfactory
mill, big and rich lodes—what more do shareholders want?
Dividends, perhaps. But don’t mention such things.
Just 20 years ago the Junction North was taken up, Zeb.
Lane being its first barracker. Off and on it has been
worked ever since, never being wholly neglected ; and all
it has done in the way of dividends in those 20 years was
4s. per share, paid in 1896 and 1897, out of a bunch of rich
ore, which has now been worked out. Not a cent has been
paid in the past nine years, though during that period
there have been two metal booms. The process (mag-
netic), on the strength of which the shares were lifted out
of the mud 12 months ago and made popular, failed ; yet
the stock did not fall back into the mud again. . Possibly
it didn’t deserve to fall back to quite where it had been ;
for ore developments have been satisfactory, and even
without the magnets the mill looks as though it should
make profits. But, on its record, Junction North share-
holders are not entitled to hold their tails quite as high
as they did at this Sydney meeting.
« * * *
Part of the market had been expecting a half-
crown div. from the Broken Hill Prop. ; but the usual
quarterly eighteenpence comes instead, and the balance
can be debited to the fire. If the mine can’t pay more
than eighteenpence, it is overvalued at even 725. Six
shillings a year—-that means a return of S.\ per cent,
only ; and 8£ per cent, isn’t good enough when the eo.
has to swallow itself in order to earn it, leaving finally
nothing but a name and a hole in the ground. And the
market can’t be kept sky-high for ever on the strength
of what the zinc is going to do. The co. is treating
already about 5000 tons of zinc material a week ; and
even if, at some time or other, more may be put through
and a better recovery made, that is likely to be offset by
a weaker zinc market, for the present prices are quite
abnormal.
* « • •
Pinnacles mine, Broken Hill, despite appar-
ently reliable reports to the contrary, is still in statu quo.
Twice during the past two years it has been announced
that a newly-formed London co. would take over
the mine, and erect a concentrating mill to satis-
factorily deal with the ore. The new co. has not
loomed up yet, however, and a valuable ore body
is having its eyes picked out in the interests of the
Queensland Smelting Co. The hand-dressed ore no
longer goes to Aldershot; it is being sold to the B.H.
Prop. Co. Meanwhile, mine-development is suspended,
only enough men being employed to comply with labor
conditions. Recently there was registered in Sydney a
mortgage of the Pinnacles mine from the Queensland
Smelting Co. (which is an English concern) to Hon. N. C.
Rothschild. This does not look as though a new co. were
insight. # „ . *
Expected that the big deal over Great Cobar
will be settled up within a fortnight or so from now. Also,
it is said to be unlikely that the Cobar Gold Mines will be
included in the pending transaction. The co. didn’t feel
inclined to take the 10s. a share or so offered. Expert
Rolker has been commissioned to examine mine and
report as to best means of treatment.
Result of the assay of borings from the C.S.A.
has not outwardly shaken the new-found faith of Cobar
shareholders ; they say, “ Wait till the shaft goes down ”
and pass remarks about drills, which would have been
very well-timed if they have been passed when bores
were first mentioned. But to pretend that the bores have
not disappointed them is rubbish; if they had had a
ghost of an idea that the drills would have given these
results, the drills would never have gone down. Some
barrackers talk now as if bores were always misleading.
Well, that is comforting, but it isn't true. When Mt.
Morgan (Q.) found out that it had copper in the bottom,
manager Richards was worried by the drilling people ;
and with their concurrence a test was agreed
upon. Bores w'ere put down in a _ straight line,
then a drive was run through in order to
ascertain both the deviation of the bores and the
real value of the drillings. The drive proved the varia-
tion immaterial, and an average of the drillings gave
practically the same results as the sampling of the drive.
On that result Mt. Morgan was satisfied to go in for
wholesale boring ; and, by the way, it was to a great ex-
tent that experience at Mt. Morgan which lately decided
the O.K. copper people, in North Queensland, to presently
go underfoot with bores. No doubt the bores at C.S. A.
can’t be accepted as conclusive ; the mine still has a faint
hope of holding other rich shoots ; but to pooh-pooh the
bores altogether is ridiculous.
Shareholders in Queen Bee, Cobar (N.S.W.), by
a majority of 33,220 votes, vetoed the proposed sale to an
English co. on the terms offered. Directors, on this
decision, will now set to work to get in more plant and
increase the output. Bee South, a syndicate-owned
show with gambling chances, has lately reached encourag-
ing country ; and its shares have jumped. Queen Bee
North has got on to the market—a little float, 120 shares
of £l5 each. It is a long shot, but the locality is popular,
and that will probably pull the float through. Unfortu-
nately, popularity doesn’t pay mining dividends, though.
The purchase monev (£1750) for three blocks
south of C.S.A. Central (N.S.W.) has been divided among
the first little syndicate. The deal was contracted for in
December last; Frank Gardner is supposed to be the
most interested party.
* * * *
South C.S.A. is still pushing down a shaft, and
has some promising-looking stuff on the footwall, so
shareholders are not altogether disheartened.
• * » *
Birthday Co., Mt. Boppy (N.S.W.), has had a
cleaning-up, or cleaning-out, and starts with new direc-
tors and legal manager. Work resumes this week. It
has been a very tired c oncern so far.
* * * .*■
' Will some good soul please put the stopper on
Vic Geologist Dunn before he does any real harm ? His
fads over saddle formations existing from the Grampians
to Cape Borda can be passed by ; but when he scampers
out in the following strain, because a single lot of quartz
taken from the formation at 4524 ft. in the New
Chum Railway Mine, Bendigo, went an ounce to
the ton, it is time for some cold reasoning
to come in “ This remarkable specimen of auriferous
quartz is evidence of the vast stores of wealth in gold
possessed by the State. It is a guarantee of the stability
and progressive prosperity of Bendigo that such rich ore
exists at such great depths. The winning of such ore
from a vertical depth of over three-quarters of a mile from
the surface is an achievement of which Bendigo miners
maybe j usoly proud. To the last sentiment everyone takes
off his hat. But when a scientist and a practical mining
man writes that a small crushing provides evidence of the
stability and progressive prosperity of a field, then—rats !
Prudence should have suggested waiting till the New
Chum Railwav “ saddle ” had been driven on, and proved
to be of extent and payable. Even when that is done, it
is not irrefragable testimony in the direction he indicates.
One mine does not make a field. Good as Bendigo is,
there is no need for it to go about with a swelled head, in-
duced by metropolitan press puffing, and Dunn’s
“ illimitable ” spread-eagleism. Let anyone who wants
to establish the fact that Bendigo so far has
given very profitable returns below 3000 ft. take the
mines that have sunk beyond that depth, and see what
they have paid in divs. Let him also work out the cost
of getting the gold won below that level, and he will have
something that will effectively-dispel the least tendency
to such frothiness as Geologist Dunn’s.
Alex. Jobson, who was formerly the A.M.P.’s
actuary in Melbourne, and, later on, the Equitable’s
actuary for Australasia, has, upon the scattering of the
Equitable’s staff, gone into business as public accountant,
auditor and actuary in Sydney ; and The Bulletin doesn’t
know anybody who is better entitled, by training, ex-
perience and natural bent, to hang out a signboard to
that effect.
The recent progress of the old Long Tunnel
Mining 1 Co. (Vic.) out into the light again :
Loss. Dividends. Deficit.
Sept.,-04.. - £s4o3
Mar., ’O5 .. £7,251 47,654
Profit.
Sept., ’O5 .. 3,815 ■ 43,839
Mar., ’O6 .« 16,554 4} per cent. =£l2oo 28,485
Mining co. balance-sheets are strange fish. The Wickham
and Bullock Island Coal Co. (N.S.W.) keeps a worked-out
and abandoned mine in its balance-sheet as an asset
against the figures £Bl,OOO ; the Long Tunnel Co which
five years ago took over a mine that had paid
in di'vs. and looked good for a fine lump more after some
more development had been done, and which last half-
year made a profit of £16,554, or £11,171 after paying all
capital charges—this col has its mine and plant (apart
from electric pumping plant) in its balance-sheet at only
£4389. As to its liquid assets the Long Tunnel has im-
proved this way:—March, 1905, net overdraft, £3902;
September, 1906, credit, £1153 ; March, 1906 (before pay-
ing the dividend), credit, £13,860, of which £1024 was put
aside to wipe out the balance due on the pumping plant
contract.
The Long Tunnel manager’s report of stone
crushed gives instructive data, as it illustrates what a
bump-up was given to the finances through the last
crushing of 2145 tons, averaging over 22dwt. The highest
point touched before that was 16dwt. in February,
while for the first three months in the half-
year the dirt went only 9dwt. The improvement
has come from the upper stopes; but the old
practice of relying on dish prospects makes it impossible
to say if the increased yield really represents the average
of the stone in sight, or is only a rich leavening. There
is a delightful piece of disingenuousness about the state-
ment of the stone in sight. What is said is : “ A total of
10 972 tons of quartz has been added to that developed,
without calculating any of the stone above the
1900 ft. level.” If this means that the co. has only
10,972 tons in its southern ground, apart from
that above 1900 ft., there is not much to justify shares
being at £7 ; for with the battery crushing 2000 tons each
month, there is in that case less than six months’ supply
in sight. In six months the co. will probably have got to
the north-west stone through the 2625 ft. crosscut. Accord-
ing to the old estimate, there is about 60,000 tons of
9dwt. stone in the stopes there. These latter figures
must, however, be taken with some reservation, as the
crush’ings prior to work being stopped had gone down
gradually in value. Therefore it is not wise to count on
much margin of profit coming from that quarter. Never-
theless, throwing the stone in, there is nothing like ten
years' purchase in sight, although, that is the market
rating of the co.’s shares. Considering that the co. has
only just got back to divs., it was rather a grab on the
part of the board to accept a jump-up in fees from £2OO
to £5OO without shareholders having prior notice.
* * * *
Duke of York, Meredith (Vic.), looks as sickly
and as sad as another Duke of York used to do. Like that
other one, too, it had a vigorous youth, and early reached
manhood. Then it had a little scandal over the famous
“corner.” Both are alike in the sense that they are
supported by the money of the State but the human
Duke of York is thrifty, and, no doubt, has a bit in the
bank • whereas the other Duke of York can only show
a balance ,on the wrong side. It is a very solemn fact
that the fashion of naming mines after royalty or the
“aristocracy” has been punished. At Meredith, from
the Duke of York and the Duke of Wellington down,
there isn’t a dividend-payer. At Maryborough the
various Duke shows are as feeble as the Lord Brassey
mines at Newstead ; and the Prince of Wales group, at
Bendigo, despite a little spurt, have never put up much
of a ...
East Eingall, Day Dawn (W.A.), was much
boomed some months ago, and gaudy reports were pub-
lished about alleged developments. On the strength of
these varns, it was stated that the 241,585 reserve shares
had been placed at par, which meant £60,000 odd, and that
the co. was in a very strong position financially. In
November last crosscutting was started at 500 ft: to find
the reef which in the shaft at 413 ft. was said to be worth
61dwt. lOgr. for a width of Sft. Since then they have kept
on groping in the dark, but nothing better than ldwt. to
2dwt ore has been found, except in a miserable leader
6in. wide. The people who run the show are also in-
terested in the Murchison Associated, a wild cat of many
years’ standing, and about which glowing reports periodi-
cally appear. Anyone who loves his money will keep off
both of these.
* * * *
Cosmopolitan, Kookynie (W. A.), seems doomed.
During March the value of the ore treated was only
21s. 7d., and costs panned out at 21s. 9d. per ton, leaving
a loss of 2d. per ton, or in all £5O. For months past only
a few pence have separated profit from loss, but the lower
levels have proved so poor that co. appears to be beyond
salvation. For some inscrutable reason 8., M. and Co.
have not acquired a fresh property to take the place of
the present derelict, as was done in the case of the Oroya,
which is now pinning its faith to the Oroya Junior at
Black Range.
' *
The March yield of Westralia Waihi, Davy-
hurst was 1010 tons for 4120 z. bullion, worth £1242, or
only £3 per oz. On this basis the ore averaged 245. 7d.
per ton, and costs 355. 7d., thus registering a loss of
11s per ton, or £570. Co. has now been in existence five
years and has merely drained the pockets of shareholders,
and seems likely to continue to do so. The lenses of ore
are so short and erratic, and so liable to cut out at any
time that it is impossible to count on them, and the
country is so hard that working is very expensive.
Manager Watt did fairly well, but, as he gave it best, it
is hardly likely that his successor, Davenport Cleland,
who jogged along complacently at Bayley’s, will set the
Thames on fire.
* * * *
Very little attention is devoted to mining news
by the Perth (W.A.) newspapers. In their issues of
16/4/’O6 the morning papers had just 12 times as much
turf news as mining - , which suggests to outsiders that
horse-racing is of very much more importance than the
goldfields. The West Australian published IS mining
items, all but a couple being reprinted from outside
papers some of them more than a month old. One of
the two allegedly original items was a message con-
cerning a Kalgoorlie mine, cabled to the London directors
six weeks before; and this ancient scrap of dead
intelligence was also reproduced in the Herald. The
latter paper had a stale article from a London financial
publication, and only three pars under “ Mining.” The
proprietors of both papers never did take kindly to
mining, which they still regard as something to be
viewed with suspicion. A big haul of turnips or a hefty
catch of cabbages, or even an unusually large c od of
earth, is much greater in their eyes than all the
dazzling wealth of the Golden Mile.
Blue Tier (Tas.), which was to restore Mt. Lyell
to all its former glory, was evidently worked out during
the Commission that sat in Hobart to find out who ought
to have it, as it, so far, only employs Luke Williams, two
men and a boy.
* * • w
Hobart (Tas.) proposes to do- something more
for the tourist whom it mentions in its prayers in the
place where most men mention their daily bread. The
something more is a railway up Mount Wellington—the
mountain whose top can only be reached at present by
an effort that is beyond the fat tourist with the most
money. Between throwing Bills upstairs and downstairs
and finally into the dust-bin, the Tas. Parliament last
session gave a gentleman named Wertheimer a con-
cession, and the gentleman named Wertheimer is now
promoting.a co. with a paid-up capital of £13,125, ana
striving to show how, charging 3s. 6d. for the ride up and
down, shareholders will make 9 per cent. Most pro-
moters show how anything from 67j to 219 per cent, can
be made, and his 9 per cent, is something to the credit of
Wertheimer and his scheme, anyhow. Otherwise it
doesn’t look too captivating.
“Itan”: There is something more against
Queensland doing- business in soft woods with Westralia
than “ the awkward fact that W.A. can get nearly all the
stock lots brought as ballast from Europe and Amenca ( •
21/4/’O6). The inter-State freights at present asked for are
about 6s. per 100 ft.! But Director of Forests MacMahon has
hopes of such concessions, combined with an mcreasea
duty on imported woods, that Queensland will be able t
supply all the wants of Westralia and every other Aus-
tralian State which has now got the habit of looking
abroad for soft-wood supplies. If the Australian Parlia-
ment can’t And time to raise the tariff, Queensland sees
the alternative of helping the timber people by wiping
out the harbor dues, as it did lately with coal cargoes
of 500 tons and over. This plan is working very well, and
Kidston is the man to extend an idea when he sees the
State getting an advantage. „
One of Victoria’s under-valued shires—Upper
Yarra—is just now struggling to get away from the anti-
cipated bailiff. A contractor lately broke into a council
meeting, and remarked that the council’s cheque for £iO
had been dishonored, and that he would like to hear
reasons why the municipal fathers should not be g a °l e< *
for passing valueless cheques. Investigation showed that
this precious shire council had drawn cheques for £L>9,
to meet which there was only £3O in the bank ; that the
overdraft had reached the legal limit, and that nothing
more would come in till June or thereabouts. It was re-
solved to go down to the pawnshop and plead earnestly
for another loan. Yet this shire values itself at less than
6Ad. per aore ; it already has loans of £9OB, besides the
bank overdraft, and it levies on itself the ponderous rate
of Is. 2d. in the £l—equal probably to about 2d. on the
honest value. _ .
* • * *
Aerial tramways or conveyors undoubtedly
afford the cheapest means of transport, especially when
thev are worked under a system which is entirely
automatic. The largest manufacturers in the world in
this particular line are Adolf Bleichert and Co., of London,
represented in Australia by W. and J. Lempriere, of Mel-
bourne. Delivering ore automatically from the mine to
the mill over almost any distance at a cost of about one
penny per ton, is far ahead of all other means of transport.
Automatic systems are in vogue for the cheap discharge
of tailings. Automatic weighing and counting of loaded
cars is also assured under Bleichert’s system, thereby
nothing is left to assumption or imagination^
Although the Wilfley Coy. failed in their
attempt to get an injunction against the Card Con-
centrator, they succeeded by threats in frightening a
good many people, but they did not go beyond threats
beeause they knew they could never get an injunction
against the Card. Now that the High Court has unani-
mously, and in a very strongly expressed judgment
declared that the Wilfley invention was public property
when the patent was taken out and the patent therefore
invalid, they are no longer able to make idle threats in
the endeavor to block the use of a Concentrator which,
in the opinion of experts, combines very important im-
provements in the Concentrating art. N. Guthridge, Ltd.
The Curtin Davis Proprietary Company, No
Liability, is prepared to consider offers of approved
mining properties under working option of purchase for
cash. Full particulars to R. E. Tweddell, Manager, 31
Queen-street, Melbourne.* t
It is interesting to note that the Hornsby
patent safety oil engine has sustained its world-wide
reputation for reliability and economy. During the past
year hundreds of squatters, recognising their adaptability,
have been using them for their shearing and general
motive power, and as they are specially suitable
mining, electric lighting, pumping, etc., mine managers
have shown their appreciation by installing them on some
of the leading mines. The latest type of engine will run
at a cost ot less than a farthing per brake horse power per
hour, and are manufactured by the well-known
“ Upright ” Water Tube Boiler firm R. Hornsby and Sons,
Ltd Hay-street, Sydney and Spencer-street, Melbourne.
• * * *
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of F elton, Crim-
wade and Co., Melbourne. Fourth edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Post free on application.*
Financial News (London), July 15,1904, writes
with regard to the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society Limited:—“lt is especially creditable to the
management that a steady rate of progress has been
maintained during the last few years, when general con-
ditions in all the company’s fields of operations have been
unfavorable.”* * * .
Important Notice to Mine Managers and Users
of Concentrators, Wilfley Concentrate Tables. The Wi -
fley patent has not been revoked ; the patent remains m
full force and effect. Judgment , was given against the
Wilfley Syndicate by the High Court, on the ground that
the invention had been anticipated in \ictoria by a pubh-,
cation circulating in the State of Victoria but they upheld
the decision of the Supreme Court that the Card Table
was an infringement; the Wilfley patents in other Aus-
tralian States are not affected in any degree whatever.
The Wilfley Syndicate is appealing to the Privy Council to
have the decision of the High Court upset, and lead-
ing patent'counsel have already been engaged to argue
the case in England. Mine Managers and others are
warned that actions will be taken against all infnn B ers
of the Wilfley patents, whether they be users or manu-
facturers.—The Austral Otis Engineering Co., Ltd.
* * * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99a Queen-
street, Melbourne. Commission business only.
Agents # „
The Zinc Corporation has taken careful advice
in connection with the large plant required at Broken
Hill, and has ordered Babcock and Wilcox water-tube
boilers with superheaters and mechanical stokers, inis
order has been followed by the great firm of mining
engineers, Messrs. Bewick, Moreing and Co. placing
orders with the same boiler company, in connection with
the South Blocks, also at the Hill. These instances
further prove the assertion that, wherever economy in
fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed. This company stock boilers at Haymarket,
Sydney.* ...
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne.* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
» » * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of dec-ay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at W anganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, ref rigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discrintion of cast or wrought iron work.*
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).* .
* . * *
Charters Towers.—Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* * * *
Cobar.—For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894.
’ •* * * *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents ob-
tained. Collison and Co., 483 Collins-street,
Melbourne (and Adelaide.) Twenty-six years
practice. Write us for Inventors’ Guide.*


WATSON’S WHISKY.
Rescli’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
FISHING NETS,
FISHING TACKLE.
Send for our Superb Tackle Catalogue—lT'S FREE.
EASTWAY BROTHERS, 409 B t"
Aboriginalities.
“Nulla” : There is a plant with a small
greenish white flower, something like clover,
which, without such adventitious aids as varying
degrees of deadness, ranks high in the category of
smells. It “fumes” in the spring, along creeks
in the near West, and is, in my opinion, responsible
for many haunted camps, cattle stampedes, etc.
We had a cattle dog which accidentally bumped the
odor one day. He was not delicate, and used to
collect natural history specimens, etc., but this
was too much. He bit the air fiercely three times,
and then retired to disinfect himself on the car-
case of a wallaby. I have heard different names
for the plant, but I’m not sure as to their scientific
accuracy.
* * ♦ *
‘ ‘ Dik Thawne ” : In haste I write from
Hobart to nominate a goanna for the light-weight
stink stakes. Also to urge that “San Remo’s”
whale be disqualified. Fancy running a whale
against a carpet snake and a goanna ! Let “ San
Remo ” tackle something his own size or else com-
plete in the heavy-weight class. I also claim for
my goanna (if this is a handicap event) a few
yards start, because “Flabby’s” carpet snake was
dead but my goanna is alive. You can’t expect a
live reptile to start off the same mark as a dead
one. Nevertheless if you won’t give my goanna a
handicap I shall still start him. But if “San
Remo’s” whale is allowed to stand in I will enter
our Upper House and he won’t have a possible.
But my goanna starts anyhow, and I can find a
man to back him up in the contest if he needs it.
What is the first prize for this competition, and
when do nominations close? Mind you keep that
whale out or I will send along the Tasmanian
Upper House, and the deficient postage and
fumigation fees you will have to pay will break
The Bulletin’s record.
SAME AS WHITE PHELLER.
LADU VOSOTPR : " Just now I hearit you laugh
long, long time, Jacky. ”
JACKY : "Yes, Missy, Jacky hearurn plumy
funny story.”
L.V,: “ But other black fellows not laugh
Jacky.”
JACKY : “Ho, Jacky tellum it that story.”
“ Platman ” : If fish is not “off,” I would
like to add the tail to fc>an Remo’s ” whale yarn
(B. 5/4/’O6). That dead whale didn’t explode, but
the outraged Rockhampton citizens ordered the
syndicate to remove the horror, on pain of being
compelled to sit on it for 25 minutes. The syndi-
cate thereupon chartered a launch, manned it
with a crew of hardened ruffians, and had the ex-
hibition whale towed down the Fitzroy to the open
sea. I was on the Burwah going up the river the
the The vessel became unmanage-
rrbt“^;/„re;efr‘ir s extp c^u h ,?
mind n iSJ?&”^ omeBiok - Hes * idi ‘“-
4 ; * * *
, T ; ' Jiave no dead whales about me,
but 1 have a recipe for a good artificial stench. Get
six quarts of green prawns (dead). Soak them
well in sea water; empty them in the yard, and
allow to remain in a hot sun for four days ; then
»tir up with a clothes prop.
•ii lll , ier ” : A congregation near Mur-
willumbah (N.S.W.) has been seeing things re-
ntly. I reading on the tail of other similar ex-
periences, it found a snake hanging from the roof
over the local preacher’s head. Snakes do get
into queer corners. Also queer corners get into
snakes. Once met a man who was running a side-
S *!u'v.~^ n amnia l freak —at country agricultural
exhibitions. He asked me to go in and have a
look at it. I went in, and saw a fine specimen of
snake with a contented look in its eye and a bulge
on its side. It had swallowed the freak. That
snowmans language was shameful. Still it is
a distressing thing to go into a tent and find that a
snake has swallowed, your living.
* * * *
Jimmie Pannikin ” : Waiting wearily
once for the ramshackle shanghai at Port Poon-
cane, I noticed a local blackfellow (Jacky Emu-
legs) walloping his gin (Ruby Gwendoline) in a
most vigorous fashion. R.G. was very drunk. I
remonstrated with the mere male. He said:
Gh ! yez, Ruby plurry good gin in the before,
no plurry good in de just now.” Evidently the
iacly had deteriorated sadly; but really Port
1 ooncarie (I have seen as much as one boat at a
time tied up to the huge log locally known as
the wharf ”) would make almost anybody lose
grip m the just now.
* * * *
“ Haloh ” ; Have known aborigines suffer
from appendicitis long before King Ned received
tiie patent rights. On Thurlagoona, Susan, the
laundress, one day became seriously ill with
cramps. Neither mustard nor castor-oil relieved
her sufferings, and the case seemed hopeless. In
the night the niggers started chanting their
dirges, and we expected to receive obituary
notices in the morning. Next day we got a
surprise. There was Susan, back at the tub,
splashing flakes of white clothes and foam about
.nothing had happened. I inquired for the
physician. “My word,” she replied, “ that
preller Cagie berry klever. Him bit take it jam
tin alonga bingy. Pain all go.”
* * * *
“Elmore” : Another crime the fox is
guilty of is possum killing. I once noticed a lot
of headless ’possums lying under trees in the
State forest of N.E. Victoria, which is alive with
the brown curse. On -inquiring the whyfor was
told it . was foxes. It seemed improbable, but I
went out m the moonlight and saw for myself.
Reynard watched patiently under some scrub till
the possum came down. One rush and it was all
over. The ’possum seemed stupefied and fell an
easy prey.
* * * *
At far-west Birdsville (Q.), which is
within sight of The Edge, Justices of the Peace
are regarded as special creations of the Governor-
General “in Melbourne.” A shearer who had
been doing some vermilion painting in the town,
found himself paying up to the order of a “beak”
who sniggered at the drunk and treated him
with disrespect. So when clear of the court, and
without waiting to get a pick-me-up, he dashed
oft to the telegraph office and wired to the
jrovernor-General: “ Man here calling himself a
"; L • says lam drunk. Who is he ? Wire imme-
diately and have him sacked.”
The Prooshan ” : My cat recently pre-
sented the household with a litter of seven kittens.
Hearing an awful row one midnight, such as only
cats and the Salv’army can make, I rushed
out armed with a walking-stick and a desire
for blood. As I entered the kitten quarter
a large tabby Tom, their reputed father,
fled like a scattered devil, leaving two
infanticided kittens bleeding in the
laager. Next day the mother dragged
the five remaining katlettes into
the dining-room for safety, she
having egress at night through the
window. Well, about the hour
that ghosts take healthy pedestrian
exercise, I was awakened .by the
most awful screams of blue and
green murder in that room, and,-
darting in, caught the murdering
parent at his work. The brave
mother’s tail was out as stiff as a
rolling pin, while the four unmur-
dered kittens stood with bristles
up, spitting out a constant protest
of “fut, fut, fut! ” On seeing me
the Tom-cat, as is usual with T.
cats when cornered, started sky-
rocketing up the wall in about
nine places at once, rattling
among wine glasses and silver in
fine style. As I concluded he
might next try a dash up my
legs, I opened the door and let
him pass out. At 4 a.m. he got
in and killed two more, and now
I’m waiting with revenge in one
eye and the sight of a rifle in
the other for that unnatural father.
But, if this is the custom with Toms, how the
mischief do kittens find a slant to become cats ?
* * * *
“R. Hap” : What have boots and a hat
to do with Christianity ? Why does the allegedly
humane missionary insist on Tanna squeezing his
expansive feet into a No. 8 shoe, and planking on
his head an atrocious “bowler” that looks like a
walnut on a doormat? Wouldn’t Tanna be just
as good a Christian if he remained bareheaded
and bootless ?
* * * *
The shepherd roaming o’er the plain.
The stockman on his lonely run,
The teamster with his bullock wain,
The sportsman out with rod or gun,
The digger on gold-bearing reef—
While firm to duty’s call they stand—
For coughs and colds they find relief
With Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure at hand.*
THE LAST STRAW.
TRAVELLER (soliloquising) : “It's near midnight
It's rainin’ like blazes. I dunno whether
this, is the road to Goolgilgarabone or Sheal.
An I comes across a sign-post, an’ I tears
my pants climbin’ up it, an' I lights my last
match, an' the dashed thing’s an advertise-
ment tel tin’ me to drink some dashed cove’s
dashed tea at [?]teenpence."
Janor : Re the density of the black-
fellow s skull | and his insensibility to pain. In
dfys the Bay of Islands (now
Russell) Maoriland, was a port of call for the oil
ships which lost many of their seamen there
through desertion. One of these deserters was a
huge negro, and when his ship cleared out he
came forth like a black
sunrise from his hiding
place in the hills over-
looking the harbor, and
started a “ bender ” in
the town. But, for some
reason, the vessel re-
turned to the Bay in
a few days, and the
captain spotted his
man in a hotel. The
“spot” was mutual.
The black dropped his
glass and escaped
through the back door,
pursued by the skipper
and a boat-steerer.
Ham found himself in
a yard enclosed with a
close fence eight feet
nigh. The gate of lin.
kauri pine was locked,
but the nigger just
dropped his head and
hurled himself with all
his strength at it.
There was a crash fol-
lowed by the disap-
pearance of our brother
Ham. The impact of
his skull had smashed a hole through the pine
boards large enough for the balance of the black
cyclone to blow through. When the pursuers
got through they saw their man going for the
hills at a great bat. He got there likewise, and
was never recaptured.
* * * *
“Roma”: These three events happened
in my own South Gippsland district. They repre-
sent what the people call “ ’ard moz ”
A South Gippslander was offered £3 10s. for a nine-
months-old calf ;he wouldn’t sell under £3 12s. 6d. Two
days afterwards the calf had a blow-out on wet lucerne
with the usual result. (Dead calf.)
Another man in the same locality had a number of
mining shares which he had been hanging on to for some
time. Being pressed for the needful, he sold out :00 at
9d. each. Next day the mail brought news that the shares
had risen to 6s. Sd. each. (Fearful language.)
A young couple were trying to find a suitable name for
their first infant. They couldn’t quite decide between
Hortense Daphne and Estelle Genevieve. While they
were hesitating, an unexpected maiden aunt, who might
do something for the infant later on, settled the question.
Susan Hectorina Jane was the awful result. Very ’aid
moz for the infant. The aunt died soon after, and left
nothing to Susan Hectorina Jane, which was still ’arder
moz.
“D.M.”: Re par by “Priv.”
(B. 29/3/’O6). The first steamer to
navigate the Murray, as far as
Echuca, was the Gemini (Captain
Randell), a twin boat—two hulls
under one deck, with paddles be-
tween the hulls. Capt. Cadell fol-
lowed in Randell’s wake, in the
Lady Augusta, and reached Albury.
Cadell received the bonus offered
by the S.A. Government to the
navigator who should first reach
Albury, but Randell was the real
Captain Cook of Murray navi-
gation. Captains Mace and Jack-
son cannot be regarded as pioneer
navigators of the Murray in any
sense, for there were several
steamers running on the Murray
and Darling long before they
arrived. All they did was to intro-
duce the stern-wheel method of
Eropulsion for steamers. The Lady
•aly and Lady Darling were both
stern-wheelers. I was at Lake
Victoria station (owned by John
andD. McKinley at the time) when
the Lady Augusta stayed there a
night on her second trip up the
Murray, and all hands were drunk
for a week afterwards, except my-
self ; but I was very young then.
Captain Cadell was a poor naviga-
tor on land. Remember the time
he started out from Tapio station
on the Darling to find the Ana-
branch, distant about 40 miles,
taking a nigger with him. This
was in the middle fifties, and at
that time the Anabranch had no
well-defined channel, as now; in
many places it was only a series of
cane-grass and box flats, and it was
at one of those spots that Cadell and
his nigger struck it. The nigger said
it was the Anabranch, but Cadell said
it was not, and kept on his westerly
course. After wandering about in an
// aimless way, for two or three days, during
/ which a horse was killed for subsistence, and
the nigger tied to a tree every night for safe
keeping, Cadell found himself on the Murray at
Overland Corner. Have often questioned the
nigger re his experience of that trip, but all I
could get out of him was —“ That one Cadell
plurry fool.”
“ Edyson ” : My Gippslander is to the
fore again. A few weeks back he noticed that a
dilapidated stranger was camping in one of his
paddocks. The man had a camp-fire going, and
some washing hanging on a cord stretched between
two saplings, and a capacious hollow served him
for sitting and bedroom. The landed proprietor
took no notice, assuming that it was a mere
temporary arrangement, but when a week had
gone, and the camper was still there, and the
Gippslander discovered that his uninvited guest
was making himself more at home, he sauntered
across to give notice to quit. He found the man
rolling another hollow tree up alongside his dor-
mitory. “ How long do you intend staying
here?” asked the Gippslander. “Dunno,” an-
swered the camper. “I can’t have you making
your home here. Why are you shifting the logs?”
“Oh, I was just puttin’ in another room.” “You
needn’t trouble, then; you’ll have to clear.”
“Have ter clear?” “Yes.” “You’d turn a
feller out of his home?” “I would.” “Well,
I’m blowed ; an’ I was just thinkin’ of gettin’
married.”
SCATTERED HAMLETS.
HORATIO ANSTRUTHER (of a dislocated dramatic
co.): “ Prithee, good friend, can’st tell how
far I must journey to the next hamlet? ”
SON OF THE SOIL : “I passed one about five mile
back. You're the third I've met on the road
to-day."
“F.Y.7” : “ Itan ” (B. 8/3/’O6) has had
his leg pulled very hard by someone re “blue
Mitchell grass in VV. Queensland. He might as
well write about a horse-cow. Blue and Mitchell
grasses are two distinct varieties, the latter
greatly predominating. It is quite right to say
that it will not flourish if the season is too
moist; an alleged grass that does not exist won’t
grow in wet weather, or any other weather. It is
also news to me (and I have had years of experi-
ence with bore water) to hear that irrigation will
destroy the grass. “ Itan ’’ cannot name a place
where this has happened—in Queensland, at any
rate. 3
BACK TO WORK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the holidays are over
And the coin is nearly done,
And you’ve spent a heap o’ money,
And you’ve had a heap o’ fun ;
When you’re fillin’ up Matilda
With a pile o’ dirty shirts,
There s a pullin’ at your heart-strings
And it somehow sorter hurts.
And you’re feelin’ sick and sorry
And inclined the graft to shirk,
When you’re leavin’ Maud and Florrie
And you’re goin’ back to work.
0, the glory of the Races
As you strolled upon the lawn !
And the women’s lovely faces
That were fairer than the dawn !
O, the green and shaven grasses,
Where the band made strains divine !
O, the clinkin’ of the glasses
As the ice danced in the wine !
But there ain’t no ice at Yarran
On the other side o’ Bourke,
And the plains are dry and barren
Where you’re goin’ back to work.
O, the glory of the ocean,
And her breath so fresh an’ sweet,
As the climbin’ rollers tumbled
In their grandeur at your feet!
And the girl that sat beside you,
Whilst above the heaving verge
The great red moon came sailin’
In her beauty o’er the surge.
But there ain’t no tumbling water
On the other side o’ Bourke,
And you’ll meet King Billy’s daughter
Where you’re goin’ back to work.
X.S.W.
HORACE HALLORAN.


By Royal
Warrant to
H.M.
King Edward Vlh
All must eat salt
Then why not choose the
only one—
By Royal
Appointment to
H.R.H. The
Prince of Wales.
Cerebos
SALT,
which both seasons and strengthens the Food,
Wholesale Agents :■—Harrison & Attwood, Sydney
the latest
J€W€LL€Ry
is shown in our cases a month after its adoption
by Society in London.
Our London Buyer is shown each novelty as it
appears. . . ,
We extend an invitation to visitors to wander
through our Showrooms.
No one is ever solicited to buy.
The newest goods are shown. ,
The Lowest Prices iharked —ALL IN plain
FIGURES.
Fairfax & Roberts,
Plain Figures.
Strictly Cash.
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
Gold & Turquoise,
12/6
Plain Gold, 6/-,
7/6 to 10/=
Various Designs.
15ct. Gold and Whole Pearls, in
full size, 46/-
“Bromide” : Be the effect of pyroligneous
gas caused by the burning of timber in a mine
(B. 5/4/’O6). • Some men go down to it very
quietly ; others laugh like maniacs. A few cry,
and some go fighting mad. It’s a sad thing at
any time to be called from work to take out a
“gassed” man. Very often there are crushed
drives to go through, long ladder roads to take,
&c. • even if your man is flat out and quiet it s
hard graft to get along with him, but when he’s
“got it fighting,” and when you find you want a
man for every square inch of his body or you
can’t hold him—then it’s just perdition. In the
old Broken Hill Block 12 fire a pair of men got
snapped on the 200 ft. level. Twenty of us were
sent to get them out, with orders to take them to
the old stables, where they would be attended to.
We got them out all right, but, when the job was
finished, of the 20 rescuers eight were insensible,
and the others were so weak they could hardly
stand. We were sitting about feeling pretty
rocky, when all at once one of the insensibles ran
amok, squealing like a pig. We rushed him, but
were too weak to hold him. What a sight that
underground stable must have presented that
morning ! A couple of men laid out, to all appear-
ances dead ; a couple more laughing like demons ;
one in the corner crying; another singing a
pathetic ballad, and stopping to “shoo” because
no one would chorus with him ; and in the middle
a group of sweating, straining, cursing men, some
with bleeding faces, one with an eye in mourning,
and hardly a man with a flannel on. Now, one
would hop out of the ruck and dance about on one
leg—he’d been kicked by a bigr hob-nailed toe-
plated blucher, propelled with all the viciousness
that a madman could put into it. A little later
another would go down with the blood streaming
from his nose —he’d stopped a “ dirty right.’ Oh,
ves, there’s humor in watching “ gassed ” men on
the surface (vide “Fitful,” 5/4/’06); but get ’em
underground and the humor falls very flat.
* * * *
“ Hamer ” : Occasionally there is an out-
break of statistical fact about the aboriginal
population, and an official breathing of regret that
it is dying out. Yet isn’t it a desirable thing that
the inferior races should die out in a quiet way as
soon as possible ? There isn't so much spare room
on this earth for even the best races, and the
careful preservation of the worst ones is foolish.
Even the Maoris, who are among the least unde-
sirable of colored races, could well be spared. It
is a very false and inverted humanitarianism that
sighs over the diminishment of such peoples—a
sort of humanitarianism that would find joy in
the preservation and multiplication of imbeciles
and lepers and consumptives.
HE HAD THE BEER.
ANGRY WIFE : “ You're a beauty to go an errand, ain't you? It’s an hour
since you left this house, and you've forgotten the beer, after all.
CHEERFUL HUBBY: “No, me dear, I've on'y forgot the jug."
“Q.”: Ben and me are camped at Enn-
gonia. Three weeks ago we killed a moderate-
sized goanner, 13ft. 7in. long. As soon as we
get a proper receptacle to put the remains in we
will send the specimen down to you so you can
judge for yourself. When you have finished with
it you may leave it in Bridge-street, on the side
opposite the Lands Department. That’ll prevent
Bridge-street being as lop-sided as it was the last
time I was in Sydney.
Jacky was a witness at the Normanton
(Q.) Supreme Court, the other day. “You
tell ’m true, Jacky.” “Yes, boss.” “No
tell ’m lie.” “No, boss.” “You know
what happen you tell ’m lie, Jacky.”
“Yes, boss; me go alonga gaol.” The
Judge told the jury that as the charge
was murder he thought it wise to im-
press the witness something extra, and
then he started afresh, and again
asked Jacky if he would tell the
truth. Jacky fidgetted and nodded.
“You no tell’m lie, Jacky.” Jacky
shifted from one foot to the other,
drew a deep breath, and shouted in a
voice that blew the Judge backward :
“No blanky fear, boss ! Me no blanky
liar ! Me blanky well tell um truth !
Me blanky ”—— He was suppressed
before he got any further. But it is
wonderful liow eloquent a nigger can be
when he is allowed to say blanky, and
how silent he is when his blanky is cut
off.
“ Kola” : The summer just past was re-
markable, in Western Victoria, for the number of
common or stubble quail. These quail come south
in the early spring, and breed all over the district.
The crops were full of quail, and their nests were
everywhere. The hen quail is a great layer, eight
or ten chicks being hatched at a time; and she
usually manages to raise two clutches in the
season. The quail are now protected until the
end of February, so that the young ones have a
chance to mature. This season, as soon as the
protected period expired, there was a tremendous
onslaught made, and thousands of the toothsome
but harmless little things were slain. To shoot
them successfully a couple of good dogs are an
absolute necessity, as the quail, with a natural
dread of hawks, refuse to rise unless really
compelled to do so. The shooting season lasts
only a short time —from the first of March to the
first heavy rains. If the heavy rains come before
the first of March the shooting is largely spoiled.
But even with a close season there are not, many
points about being a quail.
* * * *
“ The Prooshan ” : An old trainer sang me
this little tune on the “ Worga ” days :
Them wuz the times, be cripes—w’ips er money, y’
know, ’n’ tarybil good ’orses in them days. It’s all pritty
well spielers ’n’ crook bizness now ; wouldn’t go the
lenth er me arm to see racin’, blode if I would. Yorter
bin in Worga time er the Free ’Andicap, wuth a thousand
quid y’ know. Tarybil good cuttin’ ’n’ tarybil big crowds
too Bill Yeomans wuz in ees prime ’bout that time, ’n’
yoo'ster ride fer Erklis Robison reglar. Tom ’Ales wuz on
the job, too ; tarybil nice rider Tommy ; took a tarybil
pretty seat ’n a
’orse, but, pore
feller, ee yoos-
ter suffer tary-
bil with th’
asthma, ’n’ ee’d
pop over to
Melbourne or
Adelaide fer a
change alius
on the go, Tom.
Bill wuz tarybil
strong, like a
little bulldog ;
tarybil good
with a ’ard
’orse. S’pose
yer don’t re-
member the
time ’im ’n’
Jack wuz
runnin’ Black-
ball. Jack knew
the mare orter
’bout win com-
f’able, un ee’s
goin’ fer a skin-
ner, ’n’ blode if
Bill ain’t ridin’
one er S’Erk-
lis’s ’orses agin
er, ’n’ beats
Blackball b y
harlv a ’ead,
’n’, by cripes,
’ow did Jack
pufform!
’N’ no wonder.
But ee orter
known wot
Billy wuz—ee
couldn’t ride a
crook race. It
wuz no good
torkin’ ter Bill ;
be cripes, ee’d
jump down yer
throat; tarybil
quick. Bill wuz,
no mistake. I
see the Ten
Mile Race in
Worga too. Old
Jim Gormly rid
in that. ’Ee wuz
up on The
Camel. Tarybil
good time it
wuz run in—-
somethin’ over
23 minutes, I
think. One
squatter bloke
ran a ’orse as
fat as mud ;
reckoned ’e
must ’ave a ton
er condition on
’im to last ten
miles. There
wuz tarybil fun over another bloke. ’E was ’bout two
mile behind at th’ finish, ’n’ ’bout two minutes after
the race wuz over ’e’s cornin’ round into the straight, ’n’
’e don’t see th’ others drored off ; they wuz nearly all
’bout blind with dust ’n’ sweat, ,’n’ the crowd yells ’n’
cheers like ’ell, ’n’ ’ere ’e comes, floggin’ tarybil ’ard, an’
blode if ’e don’t think ’e wins it, but acourse Yeomans won
it’ an’ carryin’ a tarybil great shot belt on ’im, an’ a dose
er lead in ’e’s clothes fer dead weight; reckoned it wuz
easier on th’ ’orse that way. Ah, them wuz the days—
tarybil good. Tarybil pity it ain’t like that now. Yeo-
mans wuz a tarybil good man at the finish, but Tommy
tuk a pretty seat on ’n’orse.”
AFTER THE EXPLANATION.
VOICE FROM OUT-STATION : “Send wire to
Mr. Brown, Snake Vajlley, dam you-”
OPERATOR : “ You must not use bad language on the line."
OUT-STATION : “Dam you”
OPERATOR: “ I'll report you if you insist on employing these dreadful and insulting expressions.”
OUT-STATION : “ Dam you-”
OPERATOR : “If you repeat that fearful and degrading remark you will be discharged.”
OUT-STATION: “ Oh, have a bit of common. I want to wire to Mr. Brown , ‘ Dam usually
empty at this season now overflowing.'”
“Namoi”: Be “Remo’s” inquiry (B.
5/4/’O6) as to the longest period for which sheep
can exist without water. Once, on Euroka
station, owned by Dalgety and Co., in the Wal-
gett (N.S.W.) district, there were 17 sheep un-
claimed at a general muster. They were put into
a yard of about a quarter-acre area, pending
investigation. Next morning business called the
manager (the late F. Y. Wolsely) to Sydney, and
as no one else on the station knew anything of the
matter, the sheep remained in the yard until his
return, nine weeks and four days afterwards.
They were found all alive, but very thim The
yard, which had been well grassed at the time of
their confinement, was quite bare. Probably they
could have existed for months without water in a
sufficiently large paddock. A sheep man told
me of an instance of sheep doing without water
for thirteen weeks on Piedmont station, owned
by Capel Brothers, in the Bingara district
(N.S.W.). A black boy had locked a small mob
in an isolated and little-used yard, for some pur-
pose or other. That night he was killed by a fall
from a horse, and it was not until thirteen weeks
later that the overseer, riding that way, dis-
covered the disconsolate jumbucks—all alive, but
very poor. The idea that sheep sometimes do not
drink for weeks in a good season is correct. I
have known instances myself. Sheep are about
the laziest animals in the world, and when de-
pasturing any distance from water, will not visit
it till their thirst becomes unendurable.
» * * *
“ Quandong ” : Be bucolic names borne by
ancient N.S.W. country inns (B. 29/3/’OG). About
half a century ago the Durham Ox was the only
pub. at Casino, and the Flying Horse was a way-
side shanty on the Casino-Gfrafton road. Both of
these are now memories of the past. This peculiar
nomenclature of inns was a survival of a 17th cen-
tury English custom. Ability to read being the
exception rather than the rule in that century,
shops and inns were distinguished by picture signs
of animals, heads of Turks and other aliens,
ploughs, ships, anchors, &c. Cattle of various
breeds and colors, horses in striking attitudes, and
ploughs were generally the signs of country inns.
The spread of education, the lettered sign, and
the modern system of numbering buildings in
populous localities gave the picture-sign its death-
blow. The names, however, survived for a while.
Many of the N.S.W. innkeepers in the early days
were imported, and brought with them the Spotted
Cow and the Swan with Two Necks. Now that
they have gone the term inn lias largely disap-
peared into the limbo of almost forgotten things.
The veriest one-liquor shanty is now an hotel.
“T.G.F.” : Can any of your fifty-cat
power bush liars answer the following questions :
(1) Why, looking north at a certain time of the
day, on a plain out Moree way, sheep, at a
distance of two miles, are magnified to the size of
cattle ? (2) Also, why sheep, half a mile away in
an opposite direction, are decreased to the size of
rabbits? (3) Also, why black lettering three
inches in height can be read easily at a mile and a
half with the naked eye? [The Bulletin offers
these replies as its theories : (1) They aren’t.
(2) They aren’t. (3) It isn’t. (4) It being un-
necessary to account for the existence of the thing
that doesn’t exist, the matter may be dropped.]
A * * *
“ O’F.” : The task of providing material
for State school “nature study” is not easily
fulfilled by some city scholars. The country boy
can readily visit the nearest waterhole and snare
a yabbie when the teacher’s next demonstration
is to concern that crayfish (a frequent subject), but
the town j lad is warned off most of the available
patches of water. I recently heard a policeman
at Melbourne University warning quite a crowd
of boys who had invaded the grounds that they
were liable to all sorts of dire penalties for
E caching crayfish out of the lake. Some mem-
ers of the party were also trembling as they
realised the guilt of their attempt to catch for
school nature study the butterflies that the
professors preserve for their own shooting or
something. So the school boys in that quarter
have to choose between being kept in for failing to
produce specimens and receiving some such sen-
tence as transportation to the Cold Country for
annexing the University’s strictly-preserved
yabbie.
* * * *
This advertisement, inserted by an Afghan
— The Bulletin describes him thus at risk of
being struck heavily by a person named Damages
—appeared on April 17 and 20 in the Tweed
Herald (Murwillumbah, N.S.W.): —
CAUTION.
mHE undersigned hereby cautions the public of the
Tweed against annoying him by describing him
as a Hindoo, Cingalese or Kanaka, or in any other
manner. Legal proceedings will be immediately in-
stituted should reason be given. '
JIMMY KHAN, Bilambil.
* * * *
“ Janor” : “The Prooshan ” is right re
the ingratitude of the cow (B. 29/3/’O6). Also I
have known for long that the cow’s half-brother,
the bullock, is tarred with the same brush. Some
years ago I found one on Benambra Station (Vic.)
very much attached to a tree. This tree, a big
white gum, was hollow—a mere shell, with a rift
like an Ain one side- Bullock had put his head
through the wide part of the opening to lick up
the fine charcoal lying on the ground inside —
cattle on sour country like charcoal. Throwing
up his head before withdrawing it, he had wedged
his neck in the narrow portion of the slit, and
jammed his horns, and got into a general: tangle.
Tramped over to the camp —four miles through
Bin. of snow—got the axe, returned and chopped a
chunk out of the edge of the opening, large
enough to free his head. Immediately he yelled
at me through his great damp nose and charged
with his horns and half a ton of beef to back them
up. I dropped just in time, and the whole box
of tricks passed harmlessly over me. Hei turned
quickly and came again, but I was then inside the
tree, where I sat for two hours listening to his
threats and insulting remarks. Then he left for
reinforcements; but I wasn’t there when the
ungrateful beast returned with three more
bullocks. Since then, if I find any of the species
in a tree, I’m a strict vegetarian.
* * « *
There is nothing better for killing all
infectious disease germs than Little’s Soluble
Phenyle. Try it in your bath ; use it generally
throughout the household if you want comfort. No
vermin can live where it is used ; has 100 different
uses. Ask your grocer for a bottle.*
THE WOOER’S LUCK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Times you’re sinking, sinking, sinking, or, it may be,
simply drinking
(You are bound to find the bottom be it shaft or be it
tank),
And it seems as if some devil working at a lower level
Twists the country so that always you shall strike a
mullock bank.
Now the parsons, after praying—from the Book there’s
no gainsaying—
Read that Providence treats all alike without regard to
rank,
But I haven’t heard it mentioned that an old Judge who
is pensioned,
Goins- to the pay-clerk’s window ever struck a mullock
bank.
Whilst sinking, sinking, sinking, I was dutifully thinking
If my.hole should prove a golden one, the Lord I’d
humbly thank.
Now will some good Christian tell us who the flaming
forge and bellows
I’m to thank that I have bottomed on a barren mullock
bank ?
VIC.
JEEAICH.


of^±‘ 10 "‘- HO ! fSe,,t,,JerS ’ Lea * ue ’ ls desirous
" g^ e e ™' on o{ women to countries
winch have the advantage of •• women’s rights”
"> s * Kh as Australia, M.L., and Finland. *
The League would send out hundreds of young women ,„»„v
ssss&r
{'inland Is not, perhaps, an ideal climate for growing potatoes
or poultry; but there are votes and husbands to be had there—of
sorts. In the above picture a Finnish nobleman Is laying his
heart and blubber at the feet of a fair but disappointed poultry-
raiser.
Of course, these young
women would teach their
hens to crow.
~ , a . A , d s l p “ tation of tEle • s,n ? ,e Women’s Union, affiliated with the Ancient amt
aga Cons ‘ l,ab,e Widows, waits upon the PrimT Minlstefto prote.J
gainst the scheme. “ Australian Men for Australian Women ” Is the cry.
* oultey. agriculture, and the franchise
are the ostensible objects of these more
or less young women; hut, listen!
“ ,f young Australians are in need of
| wives,” the league adds, “many of
* these young women would be willing to
give up their poultry and settle down to
connubial happiness.”
- '• ■ ~ - ■ .
The woman with a hoe—and a vote.
Or course, this poultry business is only a blind to
_ ’ ce “' thc objects of the husband-hunters
. -tr t
SSE?ict u t a,iaQ youth) t 0 tbe a,tar —«2S/3
A HEW IMMIGRATION DODGE.


In the beginning, Australia •
.was Reid—and Australia was
without form- and void*
Reid said
“Let there be
* light,’’ and there
was, and he made
a ferment to divide
the waters under ttet
ferment from the waters
above the ferment, as It
were.
And Reid said: “ Let Australia appear and bring forth her
great natural resources.’’ And It was so; and there were,
two great lights, one for day and the other for night. Reid
saw this was good..
And Reid created" things tnat creep on the earth In Aus-
tralia—things that sting and make the noise of buzzing.
And Reid created great whales and things in the waters*
winged fowl* every beast of the field of Australia* and MAN
AND MAN WAS THIN.
And on the sixth day ( Arbor Day), Reid
made dry-dog for man’s benefit.
S=rFii
the seventhday** " d *° he rested
Others Invented farming, yv
ea> s*lv e ?i
And while Reid was asleep, wicked
started looking round and working >
"""
r sft.
,j A X>*°*
a\P
And married, and gave in marriage.
And tinned occasionally, and feasted and derided Reid.'
/*'
//
//
/ A v
<> a
/f/
<?
Until the people pulled themselves together and said • /
“ vVhy, bll’me 1 wot are we all ruanin’ for? is not this*
George Houston, the East Sydlte ?_the eon of ?
the son of ? Bill him! ’* And they biffed.
THE CREATION: A POLITICAL VERSION.


\Y
Tn e Worlds •
Odol not only
cleanses the teeth,
but also insures
them against decay.
Price 2/6 a bottle of Odol, lasting for
several months (the half-size bottle 116)
Of all Chemists.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The first John Norton "who took root in
Australia was a native of Leatherhead, England.
He sailed for Sydney with a big family in 1819,
and the clan throve amazingly. James Norton,
M.L.C. is a descendant.
Henry Tennent Donaldson, politician,
journalist and civil servant, accidentally killed in
Sydney G.P.O. lift, belonged to the same Donald-
son clan as N.S.W.’s first Premier. The present
Anglican Bishop of Brisbane is also of the flock.
“Dutchy” Neitenstein, who takes De-
lohery s place on N.S.W. Public Service Board, is
German on the father’s side and English on the
mother s. The late Parkes gave him his first
chance and pushed him on on various occasions.
And a little push sent ‘‘Dutchy” a lons' way.
A strange fate appears to pursue the
holder of the billet of steward to Wellington
(M.Li.) hospital. Three have suicided. The
latest cut his throat in the institution, and, though
his attempt was ineffective, he died from pneu-
monia while in the middle of his recovery from
the other trouble.
The late William M'Lellan, ex-M.L.A.
(Vic.), “the Dove of Ararat,” when Minister of
Mines in the M'Culloch Cabinet, offered in the As-
sembly to eat his hat if anyone ever showed him a
ton of marketable Victorian coal. He relied on
the opinions of distinguished geologists. The
mines of Outtrim, Korumburra and Jumbunna
came afterwards, but the hat was never eaten.
9 ar P en ter J. 11. Wood, the Wangaratta
() mail who, some years back, made his own
coffin, and then, as he had no immediate use for it
in the usual way, utilised it as a cupboard, has
grown weary of seeing the grisly thing hanging
round. He auctioned it, the other day, to a local
undertaker for 12s.
Edward Joyce, of Little Plain, Monaro
j i )’ who . was said to be 105 years of age,
died last week in Cooma Hospital of senile decay.
Nominally, Edward Joyce went one year better
just-deceased Edward Dumaresq, of
Tasmania, who was credited with 104 years. But
the age of the old pioneer who pegs out in a
hospital generally rests largely on local tradition.
The late Captain Edward Dumaresq, of
Tus., had been a J.P. since 1828, and reckoned
proudly^that he was the senior J.P. of the earth.
It wasn’t much of a distinction, but it was some-
thing. The fact that Dumaresq belonged to an
old family might be gathered from the fact that
he pronounced his name as it wasn’t spelled—
Dumarek. The only really old name that is pro-
nounced as it is spelled is Smith.
THE CONVERTED
NIGGER.
The revolted niggers in
South Africa are said to he
mostly members of the
Ethiopian Church.
The Orotava took away for a trip to Eng-
land, Charles Sanderson, ex-police Superintendent
at Bathurst (I\.S. W.), and nowretired upon a well-
earned pension. Mr. Sanderson joined the police
force in 1855 and was a sergeant at the time of the
Eugowra escort robbery in 1862. He so closely
followed Gardiner and mate that they abandoned
their pack horse, which was secured by Sanderson,
who found on it four bags of the stolen gold,
weighing 1200 to 1500 ounces.
Talk about the new woman ! Hezekiah
Parker, aged 81, and a Victorian of 55 years’
standing, a pioneer of' Bendigo, who claims to
have sunk the first shaft on that field early in
December, 1851, says that on arriving at Bendigo
Creek the first miners he saw were two women
who were cradling dirt in the bed of the stream.
Who were those two she-pioneers—those early
washerwomen ? Parker also claims to have
bottomed the first holes at Golden Gully (Forest
Creek) and at Spring Gully (Fryer’s Creek) in the
Roaring Fifties. And how those Fifties did roar '•
The late William Bailey, of Ballarat, who
passed out recently, aged 79, owned such well-
known turf-fliers as Annersley, Metford, Coil,
Cocos and Hautvilliers. Also, he owned the
distinction of being called “Weeping Bailey.”
When Learmonth accused Bailey of wilfully mis-
managing the Egerton mine, so as to induce him
to sell the splendid property for a song to Bailey’s
own syndicate, Bailey, so Learmonth said, “pro-
tested his innocence with tears.” Hence the
“Weeping.”
Dr. Murphy, R.C. Archbishop of Tasmania,
celebrated, on Friday, the 40th anniversary of his
ar -n V u on T^ e * s l an( h He is 91 years of age—or
will be on Waterloo day, June 18—and has been
oo years in the ministry. At one time he was the
youngest bishop in Christendom; now he is the
oldest.
Acting-Chief Justice Holroyd retired from
the Victorian Bench on Saturday. His Honor is
the son of a Judge in Bankruptcy, and grandson
? Judge of the King’s Bench. He is in his
/9th year, was called to the bar in 1855, and
arrived in Melbourne in 1859. In 1881 he was
raised to the Bench, after twice refusing a
judgeship. It is anticipated that the senior
Puisne Judge, A’Beckett, who is 70 years of age,
will be Acting-Chief Justice while Madden and
his wonderful moustache are away.
Governor Rawson sends a son to Sydney
University, which may possibly stimulate some
old local parties to follow his example. But one
reason why so many descendants of the old
families, that made money here when cattle-brands
were less distinct than they are now, go to English
universities is that the exams, are easier there
than in Australia. The Australian who goes to
England can get through in quicker time and with
less application than if he attended a local uni-
versity.
The chairman of the Tariff Commission has
given an order to help on a new local industry.
When the Commission was sitting in Adelaide,
a German, one Kumnick, of Lobethal, gave evi-
dence as to his thriving little bat-making enter-
prise, the willow as well as the labor being
Australian. Now John Quick has ordered one of
Kumnick’s best bats. Why should Australia
flog an English-made cricket ball with an English-
made bat ?
Rangi Singh, on whom Judge Rutledge
poured scorn at Croydon (Q.) for pleading an
appointment with the landlady when larceny from
a dwelling was charged against him, was a very
different British subject from the white man who
got into trouble a few years ago in a very high-
toned Sydney suburb. The white man had an
appointment with a lady, and when found on the
premises he saved her good name by passing him-
self off as a petty larcenist, with rather serious
results—in the way of gaol.
In an article on the jubilee of Responsible
Government in N.S.W. Sydney Telegraph states
that, in accordance with instructions under the
Constitution, Governor Denison sent for Stuart
Donaldson to form the first Ministry. As a
matter of fact, Edward Deas Thomson was first
asked to form a Ministry, and when he failed
Donaldson became a stop-gap Premier. Donaldson
was such a makeshift that he only lasted 80 days,
and he never got another chance as Premier,
though Premier Parker made him Treasurer once
for 11 months.
Died in Westralia, “ Bob” Gibson, best
known in these later days as manager, director,
and a while ago largest holder of the Golden Pole
(W.A.). It’s a pity, for the sake of the other
work he did, that his name couldn’t be remem-
bered bv some other business. Trained as a
manager in Victoria, on the Barrier (he managed
the Pioneer, which was worked years before
Broken Hill was found), and at Zeehan, he later
was in charge of the Great Fingall. Leaving there
he went to Kalgoorlie, and stood behind more
prospecting ventures than probably any other
man in the State.
The British magazine-writer finds it hard
to keep King Edward’s head out of his articles.
A twaddlesome London Magazine article on
“Some Great Naval Families” actually claims
the present monarch as an eminent navigator.
Further
The Royal Family of England is a typical naval family.
Vice-Admiral the Prince of Wales is following in the
footsteps of a long line of distinguished naval ancestors.
That eminent seaman, James 11., was appointed Lord
High Admiral of England when a little boy of five.
The London Magazine seems to half believe that
Salt-horse James achieved command of the British
fleet at the age of five by his own unaided efforts.
The late George Coppin is said to have
introduced, in conjunction with Brooke, the first
white swans ever seen in Australia, and that firm
was certainly the first to land “the ship of the
desert ” upon Victorian soil. Some of the camels
imported by Coppin and Brooke, after seeing
much service in carrying juveniles about in the
Cremorne Gardens, were purchased for the pur-
pose of carrying Burke and Wills to the Gulf of
Carpentaria, but, like most of the arrangements
connected with that grossly bungled expedition,
the purchase of these camels proved a failure.
After a close overhaul, they were condemned as
medically unfit to undertake such a journey, and,
consequently, had the luck to be left behind.
The recent announcement of the silver
wedding of Ezekiel Alexander Baker recalls to
mind that almost-forgotten and ordinary N.S.W.
politician of the seventies and early eighties. He
held office in three Governments. In Robertson’s
third Ministry he succeeded Thomas Garrett as
Secretary for Lands. In Robertson’s fourth team
he again succeeded Garrett at the Lands —he
seemed to have had a habit of succeeding Garrett
at the Lands ; also he took a turn at the Mines. He
bossed the Mines Department for eight months in
the third Parkes Government—the only Govern-
ment in which Chief Justice Darley tried his hand
at what Parkes called “hoffis,” if being Vice-
President of the Executive Council could be called
“ hoffis.” Then Baker dropped out —that was 25
years ago—and he has been out ever since. He is
now somewhere about 86.
Passed out recently, aged (so far as is
known) 104, Captain Edward Dumaresq, who
claimed to be Tasmania’s oldest resident. He
came to the island in 1828, and was appointed by
Governor Arthur Surveyor-General, also Police
Magistrate at New Norfolk. He purchased the
Mount Ireh Estate, near Longford, in 1835, and
died there. His father was Colonel John
Dumaresq, whose services in America were re-
warded by the British Government with a Sand-
hurst education and army commissions for his
three sons. Edward’s eldest brother, Henry
Dumaresq, served through the Peninsular war,
and rose to be colonel at Waterloo. Captain
William Dumaresq, another brother, also saw
Peninsular service. Edward himself joined the
Indian army, but resigned to come south. His
son, H. R. Dumaresq, who represented Longford
in Tas. Assembly for some years, is a youth of 80.
“ N.”: Re par (5/4/’O6) about Joseph Capel
Smyth, the silent member of Queensland
Assembly. There’s no need to go so far
back as the ’Bo’s for another example.
Robert Dunsmore, member for Maranoa,
was a very speechless man. He might have
finished his political career without publicly
opening his mouth had not someone proposed
to abolish the refreshment room, whereupon
Robert rose hurriedly to say it was a dashed
shame or words to that effect, and spoiled
his record.
From “Maori Mac,” who writes one of
those fists that look like a fallen tower :
Publican Gow, of Maoriland’s capital city, who recently
organised two unsuccessful attempts to recover the
Elingamite’s lost treasure, is a man of many parts.
For years he was a fireman, and then an engine-driver, on
the Christchurch-Dunedin express. He gave up the foot-
plate for the bar, and settled down for a time to a life of
beer and skittles. He weighs 18 stone, and his vast bulk
and his elephantine motor-car are amongst the sights of
dreary Wellington. Publican Gow grew tired of settling
down, and took to treasure-hunting as a side line. The
first attempt—a very hopeless one—to recover the sub-
merged loot was made in a small schooner with a crew of
five, including the stout publican and a professional
diver. It is alleged that Mr. Gow occupied the exact
middle of the vessel to prevent it tipping up. Next, the
s.s. Pelican was chartered in Auckland and a second
attempt made. All went well this time till the diver
went below, when he discovered what a vast place the
nethermost ocean is, and what a small affair is a three-
year-old wreck. Incidentally he reported that the engine-
room telegraph read “full speed ahead,” which might or
might not settle a lot of nautical discussion. As for
treasure, there was none to be found. Alexander M. Gow
is back at the beer-pump in a cheerful spirit.
Locomotive driver John Brazier, of
Ballarat, leaves the footplate, having failed to
pass the last sight test. Brazier has driven the
Adelaide and Melbourne express train almost
since there was an Adelaide and Melbourne ex-
press—nearly 20 years. He has run, roughly,
600,000 miles, and has never had a serious acci-
dent. Of late years Brazier has been driving
engine 552Aa, and it was “ the pride of the road ”
in his hands. It is said that he spent all his spare
time while standing at Melbourne and Stawell
(three or four hours in each case) in cleaning and
polishing up his pet, and it certainly looked like
it. It is hoped that “commercial ” management
will not prevent a little sentiment here, and will
give a faithful servant an easy billet for the
remainder of his railway life. “ Groom to 552Aa ”
seems an appropriate job.
The reminiscences of “ F.W.” :
Re Fanning Island. I knew the reputed owners, Messrs
Gregg, well. The old man was a hard-headed Scotchman,
who married a Polynesian woman from Monahiki and
settled on Fanning Island about 1865. Prior to his occu-
pation it was uninhabited. Gregg employed a few natives
of Rokohanga and Monahiki to gather the copra, which
was fairly plentiful, and found a market for it in Hono-
lulu. The island is small (about 10 miles in circumfer-
ence), with a lagoon in the centre. Anchorage on the lee
side is fairly safe during the prevailing trade winds. The
Greggs throve and prospered exceedingly. Four boys
and two girls were the issue of their marriage. They
were all educated in Honolulu and San Francisco. Willie
Gregg, the eldest, was fined $25,000 for complicity in an
alleged revolution planned by a few ill-advised sympa-
thisers of poor Queen Lilliokilani, and his pa paid'like a
trump. A daughter died of consumption in Honolulu in
’92. Another daughter married Captain Reid and with
him visited Sydney in 1594 in the brig Douglas. The
vessel was sold to an Auckland firm and re-christened the
Indianopolis, and was lost in Bass Straits during its first
voyage under the new name. Captain and Mrs. Reid
stayed some time in Australia, Mrs. Reid giving birth
to a child in Sydney. She was a very beautiful woman
with quite a regal carriage ; she dressed well and had the
longest hair I ever saw.
“ Melb.” : Maoriland’s Robert Stout is a
stately gent, with the body of a Fysh and the
visage of a Socrates. At the Public Library
shivoo, the other day, he fetched it in neatly that
every institution is the shadow of a man, thus
referring to Redmond Barry’s statue in front of
the edifice, with its gaze to the University. The
busts of illustrious men, which line both sides of
the reading-room, gazed wonderingly down upon
a gathering of fashionable popinjays and pea-
cocks, the sort that flaunt on the Cup lawn, and
care about as much for literature as an old hat.
Premier Bent spoke of Redmond Barry having
helped to make Him, in an educational way, so
that he is not altogether a self-made man. A good
many remember Barry, upright on his brown cob,
with his peculiar straight-brimmed belltopper, a
trifle sugar-loafy, in the French style. His house
was where the Children’s Hospital is, and he
luxuriated in a swimming-bath there.
“ Hexham ” writes
Australia takes little interest in southern hemisphere
celebrities outside of the English-speaking area, but the
death of “ The Honest Man ” of South American politics
should hardly pass unnoticed. Soldier, poet, journalist,
General Bartolomei Mitre was in the sixties and seventies
the best known man south of the line. He was of another
class from the Castros and Blancos. After the battle of
Pavon (in which one of the Mulhalls, either the statisti-
cian, or more probably his elder brother, was his aide-de-
camp) he had Argentina at his feet, and might have made
himself dictator, but patriotically refused. He left the
presidency as poor as he entered it. He wrote much,
and translated many of Longfellow’s poems into Spanish.
His “ Una Limosna por Dios” is a favorite school piece
throughout southern Spanish America, and has lines that
stir even a gringo’s blood. On retiring from office he
started La Nacion in Buenos Aires, and made it about
the freest and most independent high-class daily in South
America. So independent was Mitre that, by opposition
to the Government, he risked and lost the subsidy usually
paid to influential journals in that part of the world.
Would the proprietors of the D.T. or Herald do this ?
Emilio Castelar was one of La Nacion’s European corres-
pondents for many years.
SAMUEL GILLOTT BENT’S ATTORNEY-
GENERAL.
The Rev. Fitchett, orating at a “Royal
Society of St. George ” shivoo in Melbourne, the
other night, said that the man of English stock
who could think of the old land without his blood
growing warm deserved to belong to a Peace and
Humanity Society. The Rev. Fitchett is a pro-
fessed follower of the meek and lowly Nazarene,
the preacher of peace and humanity, but the par-
son in him is overwhelmed by the author of
“Bleeds that Won the Empire,” in which book
all the heroes of peaceful victories are overlooked,
and only the blood and the horrid remains are
chronicled. The Bulletin, on the whole, prefers
the man who sheds the blood to the man who
spends his years sedulously stirring up the pool
with his shepherd’s crook. Anyhow, it is time
Fitchett gave up living a double life—howling for
blood and cannon and battle, yet hiding his own
personality behind the clerical rig-out which saves
him from the risk of even having the gore of his
nose shed by the push in the battlefield of Bourke-
street. Let him at least become a policeman, if
he isn’t equal to being a soldier. Then, if he
cared to be hypercritical, he could run himself in
on suspicion of annexing other people’s writings
to fill his lamentable publications.
Of William Bailey, of Ballarat, who went
to his long home last week, it should be written
on his tombstone that lie managed the Egerton
mine. The Egerton in its young days was the
property of a confiding citizen—one Learmonth—
who took on Bailey as manager, and trusted him
implicitly. Bailey persuaded the boss that the
outlook down below was unpromising, and that
Providence had sene along a syndicate of san-
guine Jugginses to take the show off his hands.
80 Learmonth closed with an offer of £13,500. In
consideration of Bailey’s assistance in the trans-
action, the vendor presented him with £6OO.
Presently the mine began to give splendid
returns, and it transpired that the syndicate of
confiding Jugginses consisted of Bailey mostly.
They got £300,000 in divs. from the non-
paying Egerton which Learmonth sold for
£13,500, but whilst they were piling up their
riches Learmonth went to law for a recovery of
the property on the ground that Bailey had ob-
tained it by false pretences. The suit absorbed
£BO,OOO in costs. The lawyers prolonged it for
two years. Learmonth lost the battle, lost his
health in fighting it, and went back to Scotland
to spend his remaining days in cursing. Bailey
went on and prospered in partnership with Martin
Loughlin. After the death of that kindred spirit
nearly 20 years ago, Bill Bailey put his money
mostly into sheep stations, and became a fine old
representative opponent of land taxation.


f*
A Milliner,
Says a Modern Writer,
“Is Born, Not Made.
99
-
m
m
9 9
'
Mm
"■
m
m
V
wmm
... »
*og
r
*
'Mu.
mm
m
m
i ■ ■ .
■ ■.
mm/-
% wm
No. 108 —Lady’s
Japanese Marmot
Fur Toque, trimmed
Neapolitan Violets
and full Brush
Osprey, 22/6
No. 77—Fur Toque,
Cream Silk Crown,
Chiffon Ends, Toque
Feather Mount,
42/-
Modes for
Moderns.
No. 105 —Marmot Fur
Toque, knots of Chif-
fon, full Paradise
Osprey, 4-2/-
Then IF THAT BE SO, MILLINERS have FIGURED among THE BABIES for ages, for a HISTORY of
MILLINERY would go back to ANCIENT TIMES. MOTHER EVE no doubt WAS A MILLINER After FIXING
UP her FIGLEAF COSTUME in graceful folds, she would hardly forget a HEAD-DRESS, and FLOWERS, and
FOLIAGE from FOREST and DALE would SUPPLY THE NEEDFUL. True, there were no MIRRORS then m which
to study POSE and EFFECT, but NATURE is KIND, and there were PELLUCID POOLS in Eden.
HOW WELL they would serve, all who remember the BEAUTIFUL PICTURE of
Psyche at the Well
can testify.
Since time was, WOMEN’S HEAD ATTIRE has been a MATTER of MOMENT in the WORLD of FASHION, and,
indeed, the LADIES of TO-DAY cannot claim ORIGINALITY in their desire for ATTRACTIVE MILLINERY.
ANTHONY HORDERN ®. Sons,
PALACE EMPORIUM, SYDNEY.
3
Don’t Starve
Your flair!
ss Capilla*’ is the one great hair food that the
Medical Faculty like to recommend, because it contains
every necessary nourishing element to build the hair up
to its former health, strength and beauty.
“Cap ill a** is not a coercive or artificial treat-
ment, it simply assists Nature —and Nature at times
needs assistance —but that assistance must be given in a
common sense manner. “Capilla” IS a common sense
hair treatment that will absolutely and positively cure
baldness, scurf, scalp irritation, falling hair, premature
greyness, etc., etc. I guarantee to forfeit
£lOOO if I fail to prove that
CAPILLA
will cure baldness, providing a “down exists on the
scalp for it to work on, or if I fail to prove that any ot
the many testimonials published by me are not bona-fide
extracts from the client’s own letter.
Incredible as many of these statements taken
from the letters may seem, they represent only what is
occurring: daily as a result of the proper use of Capilla
Hair Tonic.
I Invite investigation as to my statements re
“Capilla’s” hair-growing properties. I want you to
satisfy yourself that you are not wasting money on an
out-of-date greasy mussy or oily preparation which would
only tend to aggravate your hair troubles.
is a germiscidal medicinal hair treat-
ment that will give you back the glorious hair of Youth.
All Chemists 1/6 and 2/6 a bottle. Posted (under cover)
1/9 and 3/- from The Capilla Proprietary, 166 Pitt-street,
Sydney. Correspondence invited. Advice free.
99
“ CAP ILL A
For that Bald spot.
«r
\n \y*K
t^BO6S , 5*UC^
X
} A
m
y/
u/» /%
»»
it
with
The S.M. Herald (9/4/’O6) on “ Immi-
-1 are thousands of splendid emigrants to be col-
lected in England, Ireland, and Scotland if they could
only be got at and told of what Australia has to offer.
We will he told that the land is not immediately avail-
able—that our own farmers’ sons are looking for holdings
without too much success. But that cry must not be
permitted to stultify the immigration movement. It
cannot be accepted as an answer. We know the land is
there we know how much of it has become locked up,
and public opinion has decided that it must be made
available.
And then, just when the Herald might have
mentioned that it was in favor of a graduated
land-tax to compel the owners of the locked-up
areas to make them available, it changed the
subject.
‘‘Snell” : Is the Confucian played out ?
I find that in the Chinese and Japanese laundries
in my Melbourne suburb (St. Kilda) practically
the whole of the work is done by white girls, and
where, a few years ago, you might see half-a-
dozen Chow washermen (I was going to say pers-
piring washermen, but Chinamen never perspire),
toiling at the ironing tables of the boss heathen,
you now discover as many girls pushing the box-
irons for the wages of Ah Sin. The washing, too,
is done by European women. The most lament-
able feature of the business is the fact that these
girls do not seem to think it beneath their dignity
to work for an orange-colored Asiatic. What
about a vaudeville Chow singing a localised ver-
sion of the coon song—“ I’ve got a white woman
workin’ for me ” ?
“ A. Z.” : Pressmen will miss lawyer Kane,
from Melbourne City Court. I have known him
to defend thirteen larcenists, drunks, thieves and
other lawbreakers, inside an hour and a half, ,and
rattle his fees as he wished Panton, P.M., “good
morning.” Remember him once being asked if he
appeared for defendant. “One moment and I’ll
tell you,” replied Kane, for the fee had not been
paid in advance. Then somebody handed him
something, and without a smile he added-“Oh
yes, I appear for the defendant.”
’ , .
se that yarn (8., 5/4/00) about the old
British ship Silberhorn which 1 iv and mouldered
for four years in San Francisco harbor waiting a
charter at an acceptable rati-, it seems that the
vessel in question was by no means an exceptional
case. The “old Britishers John Bull’s old
sailing vessels which wouldn’t load with wheat till
the freight rates went up, and which saw the
years drifting by while freights flatly refused to
go up - " Were for a long time quite a feature of the
Golden Gate. One of them has roosted and rotted
there for four years, and is still, on hand. The
crews were discharged, the captains brought out
their wives and families and started house-keeping
on their lonesome craft, and advertising agents
came on board with insulting offers of money if
they Were allowed to paint American pill adver-
tisements on the hulls of John Bull’s old ships,
As much as £2O a month is said to have been
offered by a pill fiend and refused with bitter-
ness. The dignity of the laid-up British marine
bad to be maintained.


CHARLES
HEIDSIECK’S
CHAMPAGNE
ķ
DELICATE
WHOLESALE
MIDDOWS BROTHERS, SYDNEY
MELBOURNE BRISBANE PERTH & WELLINGTON*z
PERFUME
& PERSISTENT
ONLY
HIGH-CLASS COMFORTS.
BUCHANAN # OTARD-DUPUY
WHISKY BRANDY
QUALITY and AGE.
k
Dress Fabrics
Are Stocked bv the
_ Jg — .. Leading Drapers. m
™m A VkTHE varnished board
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, May 1, 1906.
My Dear Arini,—
Miss Grace Palotta is back in Sydney after a
five years interlude, with not a shadow of a
change in face, hair or figure. “ Whom the gods
love live young.” Grace, in a sky-blue silk
kimono embroidered with white silk butterflies,
says, It is just too sweet of you to say that/’ and
when I declare myself butterfly-struck she turns
herself to let me see ‘‘the big as a bird one”
between her shoulders. And she has just
washed her hair and is letting it dry,
watching the India the while swinging at
anchor opposite where she’s staying in Elizabeth
® a y* Apologies are made with the engaging
candor of a child and go well with the innocent
white butterflies. “ Eef as you say I am not
altered it must be from never worrying, never
being sick, a lot of hard work and—perhaps milk.
Directly I got off the India to go to a friend’s
place in Melbourne I made a sortie on the milk.
I am ashamed to look a cow between the norns.”
Someone said “Frocks ! ” and Miss Palotta, as
the frockiest frocker we know, told that most of her
dresses had been made in New York. “The
leading dress designers of America go to Paris
and Vienna, take whatever hints those capitals
have to offer in the way of artistic dressing, and
returning put their own cachet upon the styles,
altering and improving them in their own original
way.
“New York is as good as any place in the world
now to get clothes. Yes, a few of my gowns are
corselets, but I wear them with a deep belt, and I
have more radium satins than chiffon velvets.
Radiums are best for stage wear. A friend who
came to see me this morning told me that she had
her new grey cloth corselet costume in a cab at
the door, and she was on her way to its maker to
get her and her assistants to rivet it on her. Her
own maid and the maid from next door had tried
to put it on so as to get the seams all straight, and
at the tenth attempt the lady began to cry and
the pair of maids sat down on the floor and
wept also. But, talking of America: It is most
curious how there are no old ladies there. I do
not know how they do it, but they have stopped
in age at what looks like well-preserved 45. Their
hair is very often grey, but their faces are never
lined, and their figures rarely bulky. I think
their determination has a lot to do with it—
keeping Time outside the door. And they go in
for face massage much, and get such a gloss on
their hair, and tilt their hats so artfully. At the
fashionable dining places I used to see at night
some lovely Restaurant hats of black or white
costly lace, with plumes or huge flowers. They
wear what suits them, and a debutante will say,
‘ I look best in black, and my coming-out frock
shall be black,’ and she will come out all black,
and pearls and fair hair, with perhaps scarlet
shoes.”
Somebody mentions as attractively-named the
20-minutes playlette “Grace Palotta and Her
Millinery Maids.” With many swift undulations
of arms from which the kimono sleeves fall away,
showing rounded elbows with the dimples in the
right place, the artiste describes the turn as “O,
so clevaire.” It was written as the result of many
sage heads in council, by a well-known composer
and librettist. Midnight in a millinery store and
from the orchestra twelve o’clock strikes
out. The maids by “ arrangement ” and mirrors
show only bust view, and wear beautiful big
hats. They are supposed to be milliners’
dummies, and begin to talk, complaining of the
weariness of being stuck there year after year.
One says moths have eaten her eyebrows and the
white ant is in her lower supports. The stage is
lightened and Madame (Grace), the milliner,
comes down in glittering black and a picture hat
and sings, “All Is Vanity Here Below.” The
dummies ask her permission to be human until
daylight, and the rest of the turn is singing and
dancing in various costumes. Dawn, striking
through the windows, finds them dressed as Kate
Greenaways and singing the praises of the old-
fashioned big bonnet, and then they scurry back
to their unexciting wooden existence in the hat
parlor.
According to other conversational bones thrown
out by the artiste, the Australian abroad must be
a warm-hearted fellow. He would balance up to
her wherever he niet her in foreign parts, take
and shake her hand without waiting for its ex-
tension, saying he had seen her play in dear old
Australia. Also, she reiterates her joy at getting
back, and asserts that in all her travels she has
seen no view like that one which looks out on
Elizabeth Bay. Which is something for the
Elizabethans to go on with. Miss Palotta is stay-
ing with Miss Pearl Faithful, at “ St. Anne’s!”
The mansion owners about there must be a haloed
set. “ St. Monans” (Mr. J. C. Williamson’s) is
next door, and there are other canonized resi-
dences in the neighborhood.
Apropos of Miss Ena Battenberg’s expected
accession to the throne of Spain, it is noted
that for over 500 years the Spanish Queen has
been sent to bed, as a matter of royal etiquette, at
10 in summer and 8.30 in winter, and has been
locked in till morning. Spain started to go down-
hill very early ; any country whose queen was put
to bed at 8.30 like a spanked kid might be
expected to do so. The end of the trouble will be
that the British fleet will be sent to demonstrate
off Bilbao to secure Ena the right to sit up till
10.30. y
The Governor-General and Lady Northcote’s
garden party is now, of course, mediaeval history,
but a few memories of it blossom in the dust of
seven, days. One of them is of a gown (Mrs.
Burdekin’s) of white chiffon painted around the
foot of the skirt with great mauve blossoms and
baby-leaf green foliage. It looked as though it
might have grown a natural product, all in a
garden fair. An American visitor-journalist,
Miss Krout, who has been writing in the dailies
about ’Frisco, was present, sponsored by Miss Mar-
garet Windeyer. She was the lady chosen by a
syndicate of newspapers to represent them at the
Queen s jubilee. Someone did a two-step up to
the lady and said cheerfully, referring to the
xrisco calamity, “Well, so the Almighty’s been
at it again. Mrs. Philip Morton made her first
appearance after her Asiatic airing in pale blue
silk muslin. r lhe Jap Consul’s wife was “the
pet of the party.” She was Frenchily corseted to
a tiny waist and obvious, round little hips, and
her royal blue radium satin trailed a yard behind
her. She doesn’t look more than 18 or so. A
Portuguese countess trod the Governor-General’s
grass. She has come to visit a sister, Mrs.
Gordon, who is living about Point Piper, and
is young and awfully pretty. Some allur-
P 1? . l ace over-skirts helped to decorate the
brilliant autumn landscape. The W. P. Manning
lady had a whole robe of black Spanish lace over
white silk. Very few corselet gowns were abroad.
What has become of all those the swell shops
were making right up to Easter ? Perhaps the
owners, sick of the hard labor of getting into them,
have already handed them over to the ladies who
invite the attention of those “having left-off
clothing of every description.”
All the one-time Australians resident in San
r rancisco _ seem to be safe. The Rennies, of the
Mutual Life of N.Y., have lost their house and
furniture, but rescued their lives out of the debris.
Tittell Brune’s house and effects are gone, but her
husband is safe. By the way, Mr. Brune was
play-acting here a wee bit while ago with a not
first-star company. At that time he was said to
be a lawyer; now he is a bank man. Amaz-
es people the Americans ! Our one-time French
vice-consul, the handsome Count Peretti della
Rocca, had his consular residence in Market-street,
where such awful damage was done. His friends
here await news of his safety. A Wellington
(M.L.) belle. Miss Rena Butt, who lately married
Dr. Napier Maclean, landed in ’Frisco the day be-
fore the ’quake and put up at the Palace Hotel.
She has still to be heard from.
Mrs. Harry Henderson, who has returned to
the dramatic stage under her maiden name,
Maggie Knight, has been engaged by Bland Holt
for the part of Anna in “The Prodigal Son,” to
be played here Saturday week. I don’t know
what Anna does in the play named after the cove
who fled from the pigs to the veal, but she’ll be
fortunate to get versatile Maggie for an exponent
anyhow.. All Maggies are nice girls or women,
and audiences will be glad to see such an old-time
favorite as this Maggie smiling behind the foot-
lights once more.
Mr. and Mrs. Donne, of Wellington (M.L.),
arrive by the Moeraki to-morrow (Wednes-
day), and will anchor at the Australia. He is
head of the Tourist Department of M.L.—that
extraordinary, octopus-like (this is writ compli-
mentary-like) institution that has “feelers”
lying all over Europe to tap the tourist imagina-
tion. When the Department has button-holed its
tourist it just makes a long 1 breathing sound like
a blow-hole and inhales him, and next thing he
knows he is thrown out on the decorative islands
as if he were Jonah and the Department the
whale. Mr. Donne recently returned from a long
trip in the Old and New Worlds, where he was
studying how the old and new fellows run the
scheme of things in those parts. Taking him all
round, tourists who have done the sights and
fished, and shot, and boiled themselves in the
springs declare him to be Necessary. So few per-
sons are really Necessary. Mrs. Donne, who was
Miss Jean Ramsay, was a fellow student with
Ada Crossley in London, but she merged a beauti-
ful voice in early matrimony. Government busi-
ness connected with the Exhibition and the plant-
ing of tourist branches in our capitals brings the
Donnes over. Mr. Owen Cox is also a returner by
same vessel.
Colonel Antill, by his resignation and his
denouncement of his superiors, has soaped that
very important and beautifully-tailored geyser,
the Military Board, and it is spouting indig-
nantly. Some three years or so ago handsome
Jack Antill married a Sydney beauty, one of the
daughters of squatter Wills-Allen. 'The An tills
will go on the land—which, as Cicero says, is the
only life for the wise man. But then Cicero
didn’t know Australia. Still, if you do go on the
land it is well to choose your.father-in-law wisely.
Colonel Antill’s reason for retirement is partly
that there’s no career ahead of the professional sol-
dier in Australia. And he’s about right, as girls who
are inclined to marry young subalterns in the glow
of their first pay might note. The subaltern in
Australia is very well paid ; he starts off with a
very fat salary for a youngster. But the future
has no charms. Promotion is slow; the highest
step possible is really only a low one; and the
“steps” carry very small increases of salary.
Practically, the permanent soldier in Aus-
tralia can at the best hope to finish his
military life as a major. The salary for a major
is of the minor order, and the retiring age is
low, and there is no pension. With luck a man
may come to be Lieut.-Colonel, but even then his
salary will be nothing like the income of a fourth-
rank barrister or doctor.
The trouble is that Australia has imitated
partly and not wholly the British system. In
England, so that young officers may hope for pro-
motion, an arbitrary retiring agehas been arranged.
As a subaltern you must retire at, say, 35. But if
you have risen to be a major you can keep on until
say 50 (I don’t kno.w the exact ages, but you’ll
find them in the Army List). If you have become
a general you may continue on almost whilst you
have a tooth left, and can climb on to your war-
horse with the help of a flight of steps. We’ve
imitated all that, but have stopped short at grant-
ing pensions, which retiring officers in England
draw. Also, in Australia a soldier can’t become a
general—if Napoleon * were in the Australian
army he couldn’t climb higher than a colonel
unless he made a revolution or something—and
has generally to be satisfied with becoming a
major. Add together poor salaries, early retire-
ment, restriction of promotion, and no pensions,
and you have the total that the soldier is not a
desirable parti, except for the girl with a ddt.
“ The hand of the vandal ” is a telling phrase.
State Premier Carruthers liked it so well that he
used it several times in his speech at the Captain
Cook anniversary celebrations at Kurnell on
Saturday. Pity Henry Parkes was not about, for
he would have talked of The ’And of the ’Un,”
which would have been much more picturesque.
The trip by special tram to La Perouse, with an
aide-de-campish trafficofficer aboard, was a delight,
running as it did past the ladies’ gaol, the ceme-
tery whither the Devonshire graveyard bones
were taken, the labor farm, sweet Lilyville, the
aborigines’ camp, green scrub, white sand, and
indigo blue sea. The wives of two Queens-
land Ministers—Mrs. T. O’Sullivan (Works) and
Mrs. Denham (Agriculture) —took the trip, and
so did the local E. W. O’Sullivans and Mrs.
Moore, wife of the Minister for Agriculture, and
two daughters ; one of the latter was the belle of
the gathering—as golden a girl as any Le
Gallienne ever quested.
Mr. B. B. O’Conor, as Minister for Education,
ought to edit the inscription that lies in brass on
the wall of the trustees’ cottage at Kurnell: —
Under the auspices of British scientists, these shores
were discovered by Janies Cook and Joseph Banks (the
Columbus and Maecenas of their time).
Australia was mapped two or three hundred
years before Cook and his wig landed. As we
haven’t much history, Excellency Rawson couldn’t
talk about “our glorious dead on a hundred
battlefields,” like the Yankee orators, but he
is always trenchant, and his facts are given
pleasantly, buttered side up. He spoke, and
unfurled the flag, and a minute later the irrelevant
band was playing “ The Rajah of Bhong.” Those
two royal vegetables planted by the Dukes of
Clarence and York some 20 odd years ago on the
“Discovery” ground are now high enough to
tickle the clouds.
No one “ was in their gaudy,” as Mrs. Brook-
field says, writing of her Circle. Patriotism and
plain clothing go together—mostly. Only Mr.
Harkness, the State Premier’s private sec., may
he said to have worn confections in the way of a
hat and boots, and Mrs. Harrison-Smith, wife of
Sir Harry Rawson’s private secretary, had a
sweet early-Autumn get-up of yello wing-leaf
embroidered silk.
Signor Steffani will be back here soon. His
return does not surprise those who know how
badly his wife stood the English winters. He had
fot up an extensive voice-training connection in
iondon, and his break-away must mean a financial
loss.
What a hail of au revoirs and good-byes are due
for the Royal Comic Opera strutters ! Margaret
Thomas (whom rumor has been engaging to a local
K.C.) is flicking the silverfish out of her Saratogas,
Rose Musgrove is nearly ready to be sea-sick, and
Doran and Haigh Jackson are manifesting a
readiness for the cradle that the deep sea rocks.
The fashionable padlocking of the Easter season
in Sydney was the marriage of Miss Lily Watson,
a daughter of Mr. James Watson, to Mr. Dyke
Acland, a barrister of Christchurch (M.L.). The
Dyke Aclands and Acland Hoods are all related,
and fancy themselves enormously, as do most
persons whose names are in the beerage and
baronetage. Bride is taking all the furniture for
her new home from this city. The paternal
billiard-room was filled with her presents, for the
dark Lily is a great favorite. Presents from the
Ewen Frazer family were extra fine, but a family
with something like £lB,OOO a year can afford to
give extra-finely, especially to an extra rich bride.
Miss Emma Muriel Glasson, of Manly, daughter
of late Rev. Gustavus Glasson, member of a well-
known squatting family, was married last Wednes-
day night at St. Matthew’s Church, Manly, to
Charles Palmer Copland, of Dalby, Queensland,
grazier. I never was at Dalby (Queensland), but
a friend of mine struck the town one dry, dry
December, and if it is always like her description
I wouldn’t be “of” it for a reconstructed over-
draft.
George Willoughby, the actor, who is to appear
with Grace Palotta and Hugh Ward in “The
Man from Mexico” on Saturday week, arrived
by the Sophocles on Saturday, and yesterday
(Monday) he married at St. Patrick’s R.C. church
Miss Rosina Kenna, of Orange. Artist Alf.
Vincent and Hugh Ward were at the wedding.
Miss Kenna is a tall, slight, fair woman, and a
noted dresser. She is related to Dr. Kenna and
to the singer, Pat “Bathurst” Kenna, now in
London, and is said to have £lOOO a year of her >
very own.
A local mercantile firm is advertising for a lady
clerk used to billing. Perhaps the firm undertakes
to teach her cooing itself.
The widow of the late statesman Henry Parkes,
with one of the latter’s daughters, was at the
Governor-General’s garden party, sitting apart
and watching the brilliant crowd spread its train.
AVord as to the identity of the fair fat lady passed
round, and she was observed with interest.
Miss Rosina Buckmann, the soprano of “The
Moorish Maid,” is (like nearly all the good singers as
well as the great singers) fairly fat and wide and
short, with a strong neck and face She reminds, in
appearance, of Amy Castles, and is fair, with that
charming speaking voice peculiar to the Maori-
land maiden. Her acting has jagged edges, and
is amateurish as yet. But her voice is a Voice —
in fact, it might be almost called a VOlCE—and
is well-trained. She was born at Blenheim and
studied singing in Birmingham under well-known
teachers. Also she has reached the fetching age
of 22.
Mr. A. G. Ralston, whose tail is now lengthened
by the letters K.C., is married to a daughter of
the late Justice Windeyer. She has the
unusual qualifications of good looks and brains
(they are unusual, that is, when embodied in one
person), and her presence on charitable com-
mittees always made for the success of the charity.
The tragic death of her student son some i 8
months ago was a shock from which she yet
suffers —to the great loss of many benevolent com-
mittees.
Two old N.S.AV. colonists have gone to the Cold
Country per the N.D.L. liner Scharnhorst, Mr.
Julian Salomons, K.C., and one-time Chief Jus-
tice of N.S.W., and Mr. Fred Lassetter, of
Lassetter and Co.
Darling Point, Potts Point, Point Piper (why
isn’t there some place called Pins Point ?), and
other more inland spots whose residents are also
on the Government House list, sent each a small
galaxy of persons to Herr Franz Degen’s two
violin recitals at the Centenary Hall. These
people would tell you, on oath, that they adore
music of the kind that Beethoven and Chopin
wrote “at the zenith of their musical creative-
ness ” (what they really appreciate is a cakewalk).
Amongst the exceptions were the T. H. Kellys—
he is a real musicker —and the W. P. Mannings.
Mr. W. P. is president of the Philharmonic,
and wallows in the kind of music that gives the
average person vertigo. And the Lachlan Beatons,
of course —he also can take a fall out of the
most occult sonata or symphony ever composed.
The remainder of the audience consisted of violin
enthusiasts, student or graduated. Franz Degen,
with his cataract of sdky dark-brown hair and
captivating smile, has great talent. His tones are
full and pure, with an emotional result that pro-
phesies for him a place among the leading
violinists of the future. He has strongly im-
pressed the unprejudiced musical critics of
Sydney ; and on his second recital, when he was
in splendid form, he was encored again and again.
Herr Degen will tour Maoriland in about a
month’s time.
Mrs. Brady Sampson, only child of the late Dr.
Clune, of Sydney, who was presented at the
Dublin Castle Drawing-room recently, would
seem, by Irish notices of the function, to have had
a white orchid kind of gown—cloth of silver,
embroidered, with cascades of chiffon and lace.
Mrs. T. A. O’Farrell, who presented the young
Sydneysider, is a sister of Lady Darnley who, as
everybody knows, was a Miss Morphy, of Victoria.
From a London correspondent :
The Agent-General and Mrs. Coghlan have very com-
fortable quarters in London now—at Albert Gate Court
Mansions. Their flat is furnished throughout in old oak,
the color scheme rose and white—a bright, warm-
looking combination much in favor just now. The
Agent-General’s pretty wife is a great favorite socially.
She is to present a Sydney girl, Miss Coles, at the next
drawing room.
Mrs. Coghlan is always at home to Australian friends
on Monday afternoons, and one comes across many well-
known faces. “A sweet thing in babies” was the attrac-
tion last Monday—a mite in blue and white, whose
mother ;(n£e Miss Hordern, of Sydney) had motored over
from the Langham, where she is living. England agrees
with Mrs. Walford, and while grumbling for the want of a
little Australian sunshine, she acknowledges the advan-
tages, in a complexion sense, of English drizzle.
I saw Miss Muriel Rich, the Queensland beauty, dining
at the Cavalry Club last week with General and Lady
Hutton. She had been rusticating at two successive rec-
tories in the country. One notices the great proportion
of pretty Australian women in London. Later on Miss
Rich joins Mrs. Conran (nee Miss Molle, of Queensland)
at her chalet in the Grindeiwald.
Lady Jersey, in black crepe-de-chine and rather weary
black toque, opened the new rooms of the Austral Club
in Dover-street last week. What otherwise might have
been a pleasant affair was spoiled by the crush. Vainly
did the committee try to clear a way for the countess and
the John Forrests, the Coclcburns, Mr. Reeves, and other
Anglo-Australian lights. Finally, these folk had to get
in through the area, or the kitchen, or something.
Sydney singer, Ada Colley, has just essayed matrimony
for the second time —if you will remember she was left a
widow at 28 with one little child. She is now Mrs. Leo
Dryden, Leo being a vocalist also, and they have a
pleasant house at Streatham. Ada was in grand opera in
Germany, but finds music halls more paying. She is at
the Tivoli just now.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
The British Australasian may now be
secured at The Bulletin Office. Price 6d. per
copy.
This advt. from the Perth (W.A.) Sunday
Times is a whole essay on the bitterness of the
struggle after “the above” : —
A VERY ATTRACTIVE MAIDEN, 42, Protestant,
refined, medium build, active, business ability,
little means, desires introduction professional gentle-
man view to the above.
And very often marriage, when it is achieved,
turns out so badly that it should rather be called
“the Below.”
Imitation may be the sincerest form of flattery,
but at times it must be very annoying-, as in the case of
“ Valaze ” the wonderful Russian skin-food. Three years
ago it was introduced to the public of Australia by Mdlle.
Helena Rubinstein, and so speedily were its good qualities
recognised that quite a big demand sprang up almost
immediately. Instantly dozens of imitations of “ Valaze ”
appeared, got up to closely resemble the Russian skin-
food. Often the food bore a name so nearly resembling
“ Valaze ” that it deceived buyers. All this was very
flattering, but at the same time decidely aggravating, for
often not only worthless, but positively harmful so called
skin-foods were trading on the reputation of “Valaze."
The nourishing, restoring, soothing and healing qualities
of the genuine “ Valaze ” are widely recognised. There is
scarcely a dressing table where the simple, but dainty
little white porcelain “ Valaze ” pot is not found. Price,
3s. 6d. and 6s., posted 6d. extra. Comtesse Potocka’s
“ Voskpasta,” (3s. jar) “Valaze” Herbal Soap, (2s. cake).
Comtesse Potocka’s “ Creme Promenade,” for outdoor
entertainments, 3s. 6d. jar. “ Valaze ” special “Black-
head and Open Pores Cure” guaranteed, 3s. 6d. jar.
“Valaze” Massage Rollers, for use in .your home from
8s. 6d. Washington H. Soul, and Civil Service, Sydney,
leading chemists, or Mdlle. H. Rubinstein and Co., 274
Collins-street, Melbourne. Guide to Beauty Free.*
Superfluous Hairs Effectually ant! Per-
manently Destroyed. A lady self cured of this
distressing affliction has a wonderful remedy which com-
pletely destroys the roots of the hairs. After trying
depilatories, electrolysis and every so-called cure, she
discovered this simple home remedy, which succeeded
when all else had failed. This treatment does not burn
off, it kills the roots, and the most disheartened may
safely and successfully try it. It leaves no scar or mark.
Send Id. stamp for testimonials and booklet on treatment.
Remedy posted, Victoria, 4s. 6d., other States, 5s.
“ Tonic,” Central Chambers, 77 Swanston St., Melbourne.*
It is generally thought that there is no
cure for stoutness, because the usual treatments
only confine themselves to combating single
symptoms instead of attacking the root of the
disease. Pyrolene Pellets remove not only the
superfluous fat, but also the internal deposits of
fat which hinder the action of the heart and lungs.
We advise a trial. Pyrolene Pellets improve the
breathing, give the heart freedom, and enable the
lungs to expand naturally. Sent free by post to
any part of the States on receipt of Postal Note
for 3s. 9d. or ,13s., according to size required.
Arnold’s Balsam Co., 3G4a Little Collins-street,
Melbourne.*
CIRCE THEN AND NOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Still Circe lives with us, and though
To swine she turned the fellows then,
She’s little changed, for now we know
She’s making asses of the men !
8,8.


TT''. -
Mi
PSP
We Recommend . . .
FEATHERWEIGHT
or GEM
For your Ball Dress.
ambassador
For Outdoor Costumes.
ke
IMPORTANCE 7 FIGURE
AWell Dreyed L&dy Mvyt
H&vk a Good Figure •••••,
Eivji/relhij by\fe*rirv§ I
Oniv ll
i
*
V
m
o
m
1
K 2.
OS'
ft.-!.':
SK
0
9
Hr ASK
rfOR THEM
•see®
THAT YOU
L GET
kTHEM.i
w
m
&
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, May 1, 1906.
Mr Dear Yarrie. —
The little Governor-General does a hustle now
and then. He was landed into this city by
the Sydney express and a body-guard, one
day, and landed back in Sydney the next
—having snatched a bath, a sleep, and
an hour or two at a ’Varsity function
(some degree-conferring business) in the mean-
time. Nothing slicker than that is on the Aus-
tralian Vice-regal record. In this State we have
an Ex. of great longitude, who takes a week to
make up his mind for a mere glance at the weather
or any other matter of equal consequence. But
Lord Hopetoun was a prompt sort. Even a fall
in the,track of the hounds was a matter of celerity;
his bones were adjusted with despatch, and he
speedily resumed the sport. He didn’t know how
to idle, or saunter, or dally, or leisure. Governor
Clarke was the only one of his successors with any
idea of time-value. The Brassey, Tennyson, and
Talbottle type has the sprightliness of a camel and
the hustling capacity of a silk-worm. It rather
takes pride in its noble and elevated apathy.
The Grey Dame of Stonington sampled “The
Wasps” performance one night last week, as if
she hadn’t enough show of sting and tail from her
Tooraketty neighbors all the year through. Lec-
turer Darnley Naylor, who mostly worked up the
production, is the one distant connection of. the
Apollo Belvedere in the University. When he
first bachelored here and serenaded the Toorak
Tortoise-shells, femininity exclaimed, “A second
Charles Byley!” But he married, and the
serenades were rung off. the llyley
compliments—the highest Toorak knows—came
to an abrupt finish. For a beautiful He to marry
wealth and live happy ever after is a crime past
all forgiveness.
A sensation and a scandal in “’igh life” at last
—after a long depressing immunity from all wicked
excitements ! The principals are a leading Mel-
bourne man and an extra-sweet footlighter. No. 1
principal has a wife—a fact that lends all the
romance to the runaway escapade—the pair having
tripped off to a cosy corner somewhere out in the
wide, wide world. Possibly a divorce is wanted
and the elopement is staged to bring it about.
Another footlighter has landed a golden prize—
Miss Bertham, of the Boyal Comic ranks, a pretty
young thing who had been footlighting for only a
brief season or two. A gilded man offered his
hand and heart and motor and fortune to the
beauty, and on Saturday they faced the Eden
chant m Sydney. The happy pair landed in this
city to board the outgoing liner. It’s up to J. C.
Williamson to charge a premium to the chicks
who flash for a moment on his stage and move the
rich stall-johnnies to prompt proposals, and then
vanish; 2J per cent, on the johnny’s fortune
would be a fair thing. The fashionable Toorakite
grinds her borrowed molars with envy as one
eligible after another is swept into the vortex of
matrimony by charmers from the limelight. The
stage, alike here and in John Bull’s land and in
Sambo’s country, is the surest road to matrimony.
Ihe universal cry of the Birth-Rate promoter is
now, “Go on the stage, young woman ! ”
From latest accounts, artist Longstaff waxes
portly. He is drifting into the middle-age spread,
and loses his early lines of grace. Time was when
the Victorian dauber had only to blink a lid to
have some eye infatuated. Not that he was out
to infatuate. Not in the least. But he had the
eye to coax and command had he been inclined.
He keeps on longing for the Australian sun, and
comes along presently to warm his art at it.
The last appearance of Miss Eileen Castles,
the third of the boomed sisterhood, was faithfully
promised for last Saturday. The young songstress,
who is a slenderer Miss than the other two, with
all the comic opera sister’s dimplesomeness and a
degree more hustle than either Amy or Dolly,
goes to join the fortunate Amy in the Cold
Clime.
From Mr. H. Ward’s account, the performing
daughter of ex-Governor Clarke is going to catch
on as a drawing-room singer of great price. The
voice is not a big one, but it’s packed full of
music, and the little lady called Violet has eyes
to match. They look as melodious as any Men-
delssohn “ Song Without Words.” She always had
those melodious eyes. Tuition was only needed
for the voice. With her maid, Miss Clarke has
been flatting it along with Miss Amy Castles, and
the tuneful young things love each other dearly.
“ A charming pair,” says H. Ward, and he under-
stands the term.
Canon Tucker, of the flowing whiskers, con-
tinues to advance the cult of Muscular Christianity
at South Yarra. In Christ Church and the
adjacent building a young man is supplied with
those things that are requisite and necessary as
well for the body as the soul. If he forgets to
take his weekly allowance of religious exercise he
can do some extra devotions in the gymnasium and
billiard-room. Christ Church celebrated its
jubilee last week in holy rivalry to Melbourne
University and the Eight Hours movement, so
Lord Mayor Weedon, Donald Mackinnon,
M.L.A., and other people assembled and
met together around the genial Canon, and a
new athletic hall was formally added to the
premises of the Church Club. The Tucker in-
stitution is highly estimable in a one-sided way.
It is a^ comfort for anxious mothers to know that
when Tom and Beggie stay out after ten they are
improving their biceps under the immediate
sanction of the church. But if Christian athletics
are intended to benefit humanity in general they
ought to be “mixed,” like the bathing at Frank-
ston. Under present conditions the horizontal
bar distracts young men from the matrimonial
snare, and from the point of view of spinsters who
stay at home with mommer it is almost as danger-
ously alluring as the bar where yellow-haired
sirens pass the bottle. The true social duty of
the Church is to bring about a commingling of the
sexes in gymnastic sports, and make the achieve-
ment of matrimony a graceful muscular effort on
the young woman’s part.
Talking of South Yarra, rumor states that c’d
Mr. Buckhurst, who suddenly departed this life
with a cigar in his mouth the other Sunday after-
noon, has dedicated his stucco mansion on the
Toorak Road to the purpose of a Convalescent
Home (for Melbourne Hospital patients) in the
dim future. Meanwhile, it is to be the home of
the second Mrs. Buckhurst, and as the widow is
still on the youthful side of life, her influential
neighbors are not likely to get excited over the
convalescent question for many years to come.
Whenever chis question may arise, the hospital
trustees will probably be persuaded to take it
into court, and get permission to sell the gaudy
mansion and build with the money a more
suitable and rural place for convalescents. The
late Buckhurst was always so unphilanthropic
in word and deed, that he is naturally sus-
pected of an unpleasant motive in bequeathing
Goodrest ”to the hospital. Not being a man
who loved his neighbors as himself, he may
have rejoiced in the thought that his home
for convalescents would depreciate the pro-
perty of the folk next door. Seemingly the
aged citizen took a delight in disappointing the
hopes of everybody except his young wife, who,
according to rumor, will get the great bulk of his
real and personal estate. He was 70 when he
married the lady (within a year of her predecessor’s
decease) and he rightly reckoned himself a lucky
old gentleman in the transaction ; nevertheless he
couldn’t refrain from “ taking down ” the parson
whom he had engaged to perform the ceremony
at his domicile. As soon as he was made a happy
man the beaming Buckhurst turned to the reverend
officiator and asked “What is your fee?” In a
congratulatory tone of voice the gentle shepherd
replied, “ Whatever you please, Mr. Buckhurst.”
Ihe blissful bridegroom chuckled, and said, “ Oh,
then I suppose I can give you a cigar, for your
trouble.” Again the parson murmured, “ What-
ever j 7 ou please,” whereupon W. P. Buckhurst,
Rsq., took a cigar from his vest pocket and pre-
sented it with a mocking bow—“ There is your
fee.”
Madame Summerhayes and daughter Gertrude
are giving three concerts at the Pianola Hall,
under the patronage of the Talbot dame, who
acknowledged the receipt of the prospectus by
a PP ] ying for tickets. The second concert is fixed
for Thursday (15th) evening, and the third (June
2nd) will be a Saturday matinee.
people are frightfully particular. A
Melbourne woman of 3G lately applied to his
Honor Holroyd for an order to have her birth
registered, her father haying forgotten the arrival
of the new baby at the time. She didn’t explain
why she wanted the registration made ; possibly
she wanted her name put on the electoral rolls,
and the registrar said she didn’t look old enough!
But really she needn’t have troubled Justice
Holroyd, who is an old gentleman with a lot of
work to do. I know 20 women of 36 who would
gladly give away their birth certificates any day.
A wildly - theatrical international incident
cropped up at a Melbourne University reception.
Bittle Russian Dr. Vasilyev pitched himself into
a stream of eloquence, to finish with a passionate
declaration of the cosmopolitan character of
science, and to “ extend the hand of friendship to
my Japanese colleague.” Japanese Ishikawa—■
still smaller than Vasilyev—wriggled like a little
brown streak between the stomachs of fat doctors
of divinity to seize the Russian by the hand and
jerk his arm enthusiastically up and down. It
was the fitting moment for two supers, to unfurl
the Jap and Russian flags, and Professor Peter-
son s orchestra to start two national anthems at
once. But no stage-manager was present, and a
fine tableau opportunity was lost.
How the ’Varsity kept the flag flying is a tale
of some routine afternoon sprees and a few
Arabian-like nights. The ’Varsity Jubilee pro-
vided a week’s wassail, through which one small
Monkey-land curio kept up a nodding that looked
suspiciously like an active outbreak of St. Vitus.
-Every white attention, introduction or comment
set the brown curio on the nod. Some of the
Cream played round, and called him Prof.
Itchycaw, which was as near Ishikawa as they
could get. One ’Varsity wag offered to take on a
few coats of varnish and oak polish if the flutterers
would nutter about him in the same coy manner
The suggestion annoyed the fair things, and
wasn t carried out. The one local nodder on the
precedence roll-call was missing. Vice-Chancellor
Wrixon was laid low with lumbago or some other
souvenir.
The Stonington Dame is wearing glad garments
again. The second period of her mourning has
come to a purple end. At the recent shivoos her
Itx. shone forth in gay habiliments. Her dress
for the University Vice-Chancellor’s tea-fight was
‘h plum-colored velours cut in the new
giddy corselet style a style that commends itself
to an embrace. No fashion has ever suggested a
loving hug in the same eloquent form. There’s
no waist-belt and no pins or buckles. It’s a skirt
built up to the line immediately below the bust
and the waist stands clearly out—well-defined
smooth, inviting. Many a willing maid has lost
an impromptu hug through her perverse fashion
of wearing belts with daggers pointing at a man,
or buckles with stabbing points flaunting deadly
threats. But the corselet rig, leaving the waist-
line free of all obstacle, showing it up in all its
inviting spanfulness, ought to help the marriage-
rate a lot. And it’s quite good form (in more
than the dress sense) since the aristocratic Dame
of Stonington favors it ; though probably she
doesn t favor it for the reasons that occur to the
younger generation.
At that Wrixon party from which t he academic
host was missing a flock of the frou-frou species
aired fresh chiffons. They were mostly cold-
season samples, borrowing tiie hue of the beaver,
the bear, the zebra, and other thick-coated
beasties. Winter apparel is at best a dull matter.
Any vivid material aiming at temperamental
optimism is reckoned “ flash.” It is the thing to
look dull and warm, with just a fleecv tucker at
the neck as a concession to the cleanly effect in
the complexion neighborhood. The hostess tried
hard at a bright result, and got it out of a corn-
flower glace rig, with much whipped cream giving
a trifle effect to the dress-top. But the one miss
of the Wrixon household went right into a dingy
blue, and a black hat only increased the dreari-
ness. Mrs. Clement Vallange and Miss Lesley
Madden were of the house-party, as it were, and
helped to revive bored guests with cherubic smiles.
The dame wore the Lenten hue, with sable as a
substitute for aslicloth. Miss Madden was turned
out in material of rich soil color ; half a rosella
parrot perched on her brown hat. It relieved
things rather.
Mrs. Bevan, the one social twinkfer in this
firmament who never wears an extinguisher of
any millinery shape or form, struck the ’Varsity
spreers as a “ Picture of a Lady” roaming among
the common or garden mortals without her gal-
lery frame. Her laces had been freshened up for
the junkets and were furled and twined round
her head and shoulders with more than usual
care. The vanity of a grey dame who drapes her
snowy top with the vaporish Maltese mesh, and
exercises the utmost discretion in bringing it over
her lovely old shoulders, is excusable. It’s a fair
thing' for beautiful old age to pretend it’s the
Portrait of a Lady ” escaped without its frame
from the gallery collection.
A Ballarat divine—Dr. Cairns—cut a high dash
at the ’Varsity proceedings. He’s one of the
longest of the Cloth in or out of the Anglican
diocese. He has supplies of good humor and
vigor in proportion to his stature, and Ballarat is
proud of all his dash. A little dash is a dangerous
thing. But Dr. Cairns goes in for much dash
and stands a winner.
A rather dowdy section stood sponsor for the
State Government when its turn came along to
keep the ’ Varsity flag flying. There were Tommy,
the round Premier, Mrs. Bleazby (Falstaff’s bona-
fide niece), Dr. Tay Pay M‘lnerney in a Picador
red mantle (a color that fought with his hot north-
wind thatch), Mr. Davies, Mr. and Mrs. Sachse
and Prof. Spencer. These all extended paws to
the company and made the Government of the
country responsible for the shake and the lumbago
caught on the damp lawn.
One family was in mourning for the fetes owing
to the death of Charles Francis, brother of Mrs.
I rank Madden. The deceased was the eldest
son of the late politician who Premiered in the
early ’seventies.
The ’Varsity Sports hop gave students and their
girls an opportunity for a fling. It was the one
giddy spree of the Jubilee outbreak. The hall
had a thousand lights and the hop 32 debutantes.
-No fresh knickerbocker parties arrived to watch
the girl bevy, so the bald-headed Councillors did
dancing duty,. Thirty-two fresh young things
gaily tripping into that small tragedy of the social
bfo the wall-flowered ball-room ! Perhaps when
the programmes slowly filled up with the wobbly
initials of old age some of the 32 realised the
sorrow in store for the hopeful social Miss.
Prof. Peterson’s dame dressed her conductor’s
part for the recent Conservatorium outbreak in
glistening black coat of mail, while the canaries
wore vestal white. The new mistress of the baton
wielded it in white kid gloves, and the pale music
produced suggested kid-glove themes.
A notable dress is in the possession of Miss
x lorence Young. It is a marvellous Limerick lace
triumph valued at three figures—and running well
mto the hundreds at that. It arrived too late for
exhibition at Hand wick, so is to be musked and
lavendered for the Oaks. Fancy wearing a chiffon
treasure of such value and having no fear! It
suggests a fresh field for the pickpocket, who
might pop on the wearer suddenly as her partner
backed a nag, and wrench the £3OO dress clean off.
The Frisco calamity served in a dismal, weird
way as a kind of resurrection event, bringing
back to knowledge the existence of long-forgotten
plat formers. JYliss -Ama/ndst Corcoran is an in-
stance. Nine years ago she took a benefit and
left Australia. Nothing more was heard of the
sovereign-headed warbler (she ran to gold towards
the roof) till the ’quake, when a cable announced
Goldtop’s safety. Only a very few' can recall the
nervey, excitable, fine strummer. This is a clime
of the perpetual benefit, and the send-off is so
habitual that the names of the departers are a
mere blur in the memory.
The wages of wealth, when the end comes, is
trouble. One of the Dives race has been dying
for some weeks, and members of a large mercen-
ary leading family are fighting each other at the
bedside.
The old nobility is so impressive on the stage
that it pains one to learn how differently it some-
times shows in real life. English writer J. B.
.torth, who has been studying portraitures of
winsome” Dorothy Vernon and her relatives,
records that “Dame Dorothy’s face betrays no
sign of beauty, and it is difficult to associate
romance either with her or her melancholy-look-
mg spouse. Her face is peaked, shrewish
even ; one would say, to look at her, that
she ruled her household with a sharp tongue,
fohe is a thin-clieeked, hard-visaged, Calvinistic-
looking woman with tight lips.” Also, the
romantic story of Dorothy’s love affair and elope-
ment seems to have no foundation but the fancy
of a gushing early-Victorian lady novelist,
x urther, the tantrums of the stormy damsel
< a ff ran< 3son who was plainly mad.
‘ That fact is whispered with bated breath,” says
Firth. “ ‘The poor young gentleman, if I may
say so, was not quite right in his head.’ So
spake one of the caretakers to some visitors not
long ago, with a furtive glance around, as though
she were uttering treason to the House of Rutland.
I his respect for even the remote ancestors of the
great family of the neighborhood lingers still in
English country districts.” Even a dead lordling
who was addled in the head is immeasurably
superior to a sane living worker.
A strike of choir singers is an Australian possi-
bility. “We are worse treated than softgoods
apprentices,” said a tolerable shrieker the other
day; “ we’re promised something after a while,
but we never get it. Just a couple are paid (not
a great deal, either), but the rest go on the long
finger and pay-day never comes round. We were
to share in a collection for the choir last Easter ;
but it was the same story as at Christmas—after
paying - two or three at the top, the balance was so
small that we were told it wasn’t worth dividing.
Yes, we have the satisfaction of showing off, no
doubt—the Sunday Miss F. took the high C she
had an offer of marriage on the way home. But
you tire waiting for such chances.”
The fact that Melbourne University Jubilee
people exhibited, among other congratulatory
addresses, one from Tokio University, which was
put on view upside down, is said to have been
paralleled by a Sydney leader of society who, for
months after the departure of the Jap Admiral’s
fleet, displayed a framed capsized letter in
Japanese thanking her for various kind attentions
A couple of Japs who saw the letter thought its
inverted attitude was intentional and carried
some social significance, and forbore to remon-
strate. It was only their struggles to get upside
down and peruse the document that at length
caused suspicion to .-Lf in 1 1- 6
The local girleen is just now keen on working
out chords and threads of melody from the ivories,
and when she does this she calls herself a com-
poser. One of her has broken out with alleged
waltzes, but forgets to put the time in. Now if
ouly called the composition “Wallflowers”
or ‘ Sunset, ” or “Ma Honeycomb ” all would be
well. As long as she doesn’t dub it waltz or
polka, the uninitiated are none the wiser. But
give an effort the waltz label, and the smallest of
the bib-and-tucker or knickerbocker tribe says :
Ices, but where’s the time?” The next girleen
who works out a tune on the ivories, marking
this, should christen her effort vaguely a “Chan-
son ” or a “ Rondo,” or merely “Melody in L.”
Yours Affectionately,
TRYPHENA.
Calculated that Britain spends every year
£18,000,000 on foreign pork, Freetrade and land
monopoly having brought the country down to the
point at which it can’t even keep its own hogs.
“Lone Female”: I am disappointed in
J. C. Watson. He is not at all the sort of person
1 imagmed a Socialist Labor member should be.
Why he looks far more like a gentleman than Mr.
Keid ! He speaks more correctly than Mr. Reid.
He doesn’t say, “ Will yer ” and “ pianner,” like
■^ r * Perhaps when Mr. Reid lectured us
poor bush women on the horrors of Socialism, he
just spoke like that to put us at our ease—like the
beautiful anecdote of Our Gracious King eating
peas with his knife to make his poor ignorant
guest feel at home. Nevertheless, the fact re-
mains that Watson looks, speaks, and acts like a
perfectly respectable and well-conducted member
of society. And if he is the rabid monster who is
to tear from private enterprise its hard-earned
gains, shatter the marriage tie, and profane the
sanctity of the home, he ought to be compelled by
Act of Parliament to look more like the character.
Papua has already cost the Australian
Government £300,000, and the only “satisfaction”
we have got for the money is to see an English
Johnny administration spoiling the chances of the
Possession.
The A.N.A. is frenziedly crying out for
the establishment of an Australian school of
sculpture. Its patriotic young members might
stop and ask themselves what the sculptors are to
do when the school has turned them out. There
are already plenty of capable sculptors in Aus-
tralia who cannot make the wages of day laborers
from the sale of statues. The majority of them
live by teaching drawing to hopeless infants, or
instructing fashionable damsels how to burn
pictures on bits of wood, or to punch sheets of
brass into something resembling flowers. One
of the best earns a living cooking chops
m a Melbourne restaurant. Not only has
the Australian sculptor a hard row to hoe in
regard to commissions, but the State galleries do
not give him even the slight encouragement they
give to painters. There is not one production by
a local sculptor in the Melbourne National
Gallery, though £5OO of the Felton money would
go a long way towards getting some excellent
works representative of local men. Douglas
Richardson’s “Octopus” and Gilbert’s “Nautilus”
are worthy to grace any gallery in the world, but
the Vic. trustees didn’t even consider the question
of their purchase. Mackennal is, of course, repre-
sented, but, then, he is not an Australian any
longer. He has received the stamp of Hinglish
approval, and become an Englishman in resi-
dence, sentiment, and everything. To reach the
heart of the Gallery trustees it is necessary to
speak through the ultra-Hinglish ear of director
Bernard Hall, and nobody who doesn’t wear the
trousers of his art turned up at the feet of his
intelligence can do that.


POLICY-HOLDERS in the AUSTRA-
LIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT Society
should vote for ARTHUR GRAHAM WALD,
the South Australian Candidate, who has
had 18 years of practical experience of Life
Assurance in Australasia, and favors: —The
Election of Local Boards by each State; an In-
dependent State Audit of the Accounts; a Reduc-
tion in Interest on Overdue Premiums from 8 per
cent, to 5 per cent. The Interest on Loans on
Policies to be Reduced to a Uniform Rate of 5 per
cent, per annum ; the Status of the Canvassing
Staff to be Greatly Improved, and whilst favoring
the Extension of the Society to the United King-
dom and British South African Colonies, would
strongly oppose any further extension.
m
OO TO HEILIi-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Nag€Q, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/- Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Fall satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, 89C. FBQ St. Martin, Paris, France.
shirtsT"
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A ustralia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
It was Lever, the Sunlight Soap man, who
moved in the British Commons the resolution
that members should be paid £3OO a year. The
motion was carried by 348 to 110.
What is N.S.W. Government doing about
its 500 or so kanakas said to be scattered round
the northern rivers ? The bulk of those who have
crossed the border to N.S.W. would, if in Queens-
land, be deported this year.
An Australian navy finds favor anywhere
except among a certain foaming section of “loyal”
Australians. Admiral C. P. Fitzgerald (it is
cabled) urges in the National Review the en-
couragement of locally-controlled navies in all the
British countries.
The latest Chow prosecuted in Melbourne
under the Factories Act, was ironing shirts at 2
a.in. Said he didn’t know the time, but had got
up to make an early start, and that he was ignor-
ant of the law. All the same, the innocent
heathen gave a wrong name.
An old farm-burner wrote to the S.M.
Herald last week to suggest the despatch of an
Australian contingent to help Natal to shoot its
nigger. But the contingenting fire burns very
low just now. Even vigorous blowing hardly
raises a spark among the ashes.
March 31st saw the end of the first three
months’ experience of the new N.S.W. Liquor
Act. The Act was supposed to reduce drinking,
but the quarter’s liquor revenue was considerably
more than that of the first three months of 1905.
As a result, there is a certain amount of gloom in
Cold Tea circles.
The joke of the month has been a written
offer made to the Victorian Government by a per-
son in England, who is willing to “ lay out a new
sea-side town.” All he asks is_ rations, a few
tools, a hut to live in, and a few acres of land
“from Port Phillip heads to the boundary of
N.S.W.” Premier Bent has burst two waistcoats
with laughter.
For 30 days Nicholas Hart’s case against
the Australian Government for alleged wrongful
dismissal from the post office was before Justice
Real and a jury at Brisbane. The wealth of
detail was bewildering. The jury came back to
court with a verdict for the Commonwealth. The
bill of costs looks heavy enough to swamp a bank.
J ury fees alone run to £2OO.
THE BEGINNING OF THE END.
The Labor party has announced in its own brutally
picturesque language its final determination to “put its
mercenaries to the sword.” —Daily paper.
GEORGE : “ Well , that’s a breather, anyhow.”
L.B.M.: “ Only for a little while. You’re next.”
The Commonwealth has dropped the silly
idea of appointing a Crown Solicitor in Sydney at
£4OO a year, with no right of private practice.
Now it is running after the almost-as-silly idea of
getting the N.S.W. Crown Law Office to do the
work. Surely the Commonwealth knows its
Joseph, and knows what sort of service it
would get from a man controlled by Carruthers ?
George Reid has evidently only seen the
Ten Commandments in the distance. When he
was taunted recently with having a purely nega-
tive policy, he replied that the Decalogue also con-
sisted of negatives. Which it doesn’t —not quite.
Most of the commandments begin with “ Thou
shalt not,” but there are exceptions—including
the commandment against making bad jokes on
Sunday.
William Redmond lately asked Winston
Churchill in the House of Commons if the coinage
of silver would be allowed in Australia. The
answer given was, “ The question of the intro-
duction of a special silver coinage in Australia,
which has been under consideration for some time,
will be further discussed verbally with Mr. John
Forrest who recently arrived m England.” We
don’t seem to be getting much further forward.
“Itan”: The Bulletin
rose in a disorderly way and
remarked the other day that
the Brisbane Daily Wail was
only happy when bathed in
woe, and that its pall was
always rugging it closely; also
that it seemed to have no large
quantity of hope stored about
the office. Wrong. A ray of
brightness entered its soul
quite recently. It discovered
that it was quite common, as
proved by history, for people
to go back with enthusiasm to
politicians they had rejected,
and to yank them again into
power. So it saw a chance for
I’hilp. After that, stirring
leaders appeared about the
“handwriting on the wall,”
and stating that Kidston’s
Government was “discredited,”
that its members were
“doomed,” and a large number
of other slops to the same
effect. Nothing happened, but
there is still a labored cheer-
fulness in the Wail office about
Bob Philp’s prospective return
to his lost job.
Premier Bent has placed,
besides others, these Bills on
his list for the comingsession:—
Indeterminate Sentences,
Boiler Inspection, Scaffolding
ditto, Criminal Law Codifica-
tion, Butter Export Grading,
Met. Board of Works Reform,
Agricultural College. After
which, when the Assembly has
shaped the measures m a fairly
democratic fashion, the House of Fat can be
trusted to knock them end-ways, as usual.
The Russian Government is a humorous
animal. It has just finished a disastrous war, and
is still in the throes of what may yet be a revolu-
tion ; and yet it finds time to send Australia a
quiet note to the effect that it is willing to ex-
change official publications relating to land
matters, agriculture, and the treatment of the
cow. A Government that can keep as cool as that
while the empire rocks under it will take a lot of
shifting.
Dr. Graham, once a prop of the N.S.W.
Foreign-trade party, has returned to Sydney after
a trip to the Cold Country. His opinion of the
late British election is that the electors went to
the polls with a settled determination to down
the Balfour Government, first, because of the
Education Act, and, second, because of the im-
portation of Chinese into Africa. Freetrade did
not, apparently, occur to the doctor as worth
mentioning.
In his recent speech at Parkes (N.S.W.)
Yes-No Reid made two striking statements. One
was that he “ favored closer settlement, but on
condition that a man’s land should be honestly
and straightforwardly taken, and paid for fairly.”
The other, a little later, was that he opposed
Labor-leader Watson’s proposal to buy and pay
for big estates, because “it would cost an enor-
mous sum, and he couldn’t see where the money
was to come from.”
Natal Government, yelling that the British
Empire is in danger if Bambaata be not captured,
has offered £5OO for the body (alive or dead) of that
warrior, who is an open enemy in the field ; and
£2O apiece for the heads of his followers. It was
because “ the Empire was in danger” that the
Boer children died like flies in the concentration
camps. For the same reason now an open enemy
is to be fought with blood-money. Oh Empire,
what crimes are committed in thy name !
One of Joey Carruthers’ reasons for seces-
sion seems to have died a natural death. The
reason was something about the Governor-Gene-
ral’s tenancy of Sydney Government House —-
either he was there and shouldn’t be, or he wasn’t
there and should be ; anyhow, Joey threatened
violent ejectment, and breathed long blue flames
through his nose. The tenancy, however, has
been renewed by peaceful agreement, and on this
matter, at all events, Joseph snorts no more.
N.S.W. Deform Leaguer Stinson has
been talking again. His latest yelp is to
tbe effect that the destruction of the mar-
riage tie, the battering down of the sanc-
tity of the home, and the blowing up of all
respect and love for parents, is the natural and
logical outcome of “Continental” Socialism.
Apparently poor old Stinson is mixed up between
Continental Socialism and Continental bathing,
and knows little of either.
After a brief career, mostly devoted to
hard borrowing, Cornthwaite Hector Rason has
decided to fly from the Westralian Premiership
and appoint himself to a reasonably “stiddy job”
as Agent-General. Probably no one save himself
would have dreamt of Rason as an Agent-General,
and he had great luck in getting the Premiership
by accident and thus securing the chance to point
out to himself his own eminent fitness for the
A.G.’s position. With the exception of Coghlan,
of N.S.W., who went to England on his merits,
the A.G.’s nowadays are mostly rather lamentable
politicians who were badly in want of a “stiddy
job ” and got it by the pulling of wires. Newton
Moore (rather a barren Moore by all accounts) is
expected to get the Westralian Premiership if he
can reach up to it.
It is beautifully easy for irresponsible
State Premiers to give advice to the Prime
Minister, and then wonder why he doesn’t follow
it. At the recent conference, it was decided by a
majority that the Federal surplus should in future
be divided among the States according to popula-
tion. The majority consisted of Queensland,
S.A., and Tasmania—the three States that would
profit by the new arrangement; the minority was
N.S.W. and Victoria, which would lose by it.
Westralia wasn’t represented, but it would also
lose by the proposed system, and it has tele-
graphed a red-hot curse on the subject. The
trouble now is that the three States which formed
a majority at the Premiers’ Conference, and ex-
plained so cheerfully how things should be done,
are a poor little minority in the Australian Par-
liament, where things are done. So the advice
they gave to Deakin is of very little use to that
gentleman. Nevertheless, the State Premiers
went home proudly saying, “See how quickly
We can fix things up when We get on the job.”
THE DUBIOUS RELATION.
If I explain what Socialism is, and then tell you I’m
Anti, the thing’s as clear as daylight.—Reid at Dubbo.
“ Don't you know me ? I’m your anti-Sosh! ”
N.S.W. anti-Sosh M.L.A. Dan Levy is
just now making a determined effort to have the
Darlinghurst-Potts Point line of Government
motor ’buses, recently withdrawn as unpayable,
reinstated. But where is good old private enter-
prise? Why doesn’t it step in and give Levy’s
constituents the benefit of its superior manage-
ment. By the way, where are all those motor
’buses that were going to settle the trams in one
act ? Are they all waiting to see how the Govern-
ment ventures pan out ?
Thus Senator (until next election) Drake
in his electioneering rag, which he has the
effrontery to call the Commonwealth :
At the solicitation of certain politicians, who wanted a
couple of years in office, and were willing to barter their
political souls to get it, Mr. Deakin “ come-hither’d ” the
Labor party.
“ Come-hithering ” is a subject that Drake should
understand. He was “come-hither’d” from
Queensland Liberalism into a Tory pro-Kanaka
Ministry ; from that into a White Labor Protec-
tionist Federal Ministry ; from that into a black-
and-tan Freetrade Federal Ministry ; and, next,
he is going to be “ come-hither’d” into the politi-
cal dust-bin.
Magistrate Panton, of Melbourne, has
long been regarded as a judicial humorist, and
his professed ignorance of the Aliens’ Immi-
gration Act can only be put down to the
aged gentleman’s curious brand of wit.
When the Crown Law officer explained the
statute, Panton indignantly demanded : “ Is
this corner of the British Empire allowed to
exclude British subjects who have been living
here, on their return, if they should go
away?” Being informed that such was the
law—a fact which Mr. Panton should have
been perfectly well aware of, that august
Rhadamanthus burst out: “It is a position
which no British subject should permit to
exist. Such an Act should nevek have
RECEIVED THE ROYAL ASSENT.” And yet, till
this hideous indiscretion showed him in his
true revolutionary, red-Republican colors,
everybody regarded Panton as a right-
thinking pillar of the Throne and Person. It
is understood that the news that Panton has
disapproved of his action in assenting to the
Bill will be carefully concealed from King
Ned.
The recent Australian Manufacturers’
Exhibition in Melbourne having wound up
with a profit, the promoters promptly
returned to Treasurer Bent the £l5O uncon-
ditionally granted towards financing the
show. So much for the ways of the manu-
facturing interests. Now, did anyone ever
hear of the primary producer, in the shape
of the agricultural show, handing back the
amount of the State subsidy which it had received,
when the show turned out a profit ?
Something extra in the way of chilled
cheek transpired t’other day during an interview
between Chief Secretary Hogue and representa-
tives of the N.S.W. Nurserymen’s Association,
concerning the trade of Lord Howe Island. The
graceful Kentia palms are indigenous to the
island, and Sydney seedsmen had been giving
12s. fid per bushel for seeds of the plant. Lately
an English firm stepped in with an offer of from
£2 to £2 10s. per bushel and secured a monopoly
of the trade for seven years. Hence the deputa-
tion, introduced by that staunch barracker for
Private Enterprise—Broughton, M.L.A. The
monopoly it was stated would kill the N.S. Wales
export trade—not the Lord Howe Island export
trade, be it noted. Mr. Hogue in reply remarked
that the people principally concerned were the
islanders, numbering about 100. The sale of the
seed was their source of livelihood, and they
were quite justified in selling their produce to the
best advantage. He thought the seven Cyears
arrangement would have to stand, as he knew of
no power to break it.
“Hal”: I was sitting beside a parson,
waiting for the beginning of the Reid-Holman
debate, and he started talking fiscalism. “Are
you a Freetrader?” I asked. “ Why, of course I
am,” he replied, in a surprised way. “lam a
Christian , and a Christian must be a Freetrader .”
The statistics of the two “ Made in Aus-
tralia ” exhibitions, in the two largest capitals,
give some sort of idea of Sydney’s stupid bias
against Australian goods. Melbourne receipts
totalled £6369 ; balance after paying all expenses,
£3003. Sydney received but a paltry £328, leaving
a deficit of £1676.
Cablegram from London :
The Daily Mail has published a contributed article
alleging that secular education has caused a great
increase of crime in Victoria, and that the results
throughout Australia are deplorable and absolutely
shocking.
After all, great daily journalism in London seems
to be more ignorant and incompetent than a good
deal of the journalism one meets in the second-
rate towns of Australia. Anyone would expect an
editor, when he had a large statement like that
contributed to him, to look up, either personally
or by deputy, one or two back numbers of, say,
the Statesman’s Year Book, and find out whether
his contributor spoke the truth, or whether, as in
this instance, he was merely trying to use the
paper as a vehicle for scattering huge, virulent
lies in order to discredit the secular education
proposals of the Bannerman Government. Ap-
parently the Daily Mail is run by cheap incom-
petents, who never think of a simple precaution
like that.
“Priam,” from Melbourne :
Victorian Railway Commissioners have perpetrated a
piece of the coolest possible insolence with regard to the
Gembrook railway smash. After that instructive event
the Government appointed a court, consisting of a Judge
with expert advisers, and that court decided that the
permanent way was in a dangerous condition,
expressing an opinion that the maximum speed allowed
was excessive. Bent “ formally ” submitted these find-
ings to the Commissioners, and they replied with a
long report, in which they set at defiance the
decision of the court, and loaded all the blame of
the accident upon the engine-driver by declaring
themselves “ firmly convinced ” that he drove the
train at express speed. The Court observed that the-
maximum speed allowed by the Commissioners (15 miles
an hour) was risky considering the state of the line. The
Commissioners reduced the speed temporarily, but now
announce that thev will revert to the old velocity. Such
insolent flouting of the instructions of a properly-consti-
tuted Court on the part of persons who are practically on
trial in the matter, should not be tolerated.
The statement by the Western Morning
News (England) about how, owing to secular
education, crime and vice are leaping forward
with grand strides in Australia, represents a lie
that is especially frequent with the clergy (“I
find clergymen more disingenuous and unreliable
even than women in the witness box” is the
dictum of a well-known barrister ), but it has not
an atom of real foundation. On the contrary, as
Mr. Coghlan has pointed out in London, with the
spread of secular education there has been a
marked decline in Australian crime. Most serious
crime in Australia nowadays is committed by im-
ported criminals, or by natives who have not come
under the influence of the secular schools; and
the religious schools compare very unfavorably
with the State schools in the way of turning out
criminals.
REPAIRS BADLY EXECUTED.
LABOR : “ This is no good to me; it won’t work.
I must ask you to get it fixed up properly.”
j s p ro p oSe( j j n Bananaland that part of
the miex pended “ Patriotic ” Fund (£10,000)
should be used to re-import some of the misguided
farm-destroyers who went back to South Africa
after the war under the impression that they had
burned a land flowing with milk and honey, and
that it was just beginning to bloom again. The
hag itg J pointg ? 1000 returned exiles scattered
Australia and disseminating in every public-
houge a strong> vigorous> C urseful opinion about
Qj dnese ] a j )or would do a lot of mission work in a
coa b w But the Brisbane Hospital
alsQ wants the money, and behind all stand the
t t who say the coin was subscribed for
Jingo pu J rpo ses, and musfc be used for
U- - y 5 1 1
» * +
° f^o, oldSe that monarch croak.”
To save the Queen from catching one,
sir Walter spoilt his cloak,
But had she ruled us now, you know,
For very trifling payment,
A bottle of Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure
Would save poor Raleigh’s raiment.*


Roniscli
Pianos at
Paling’s.
Pianos
with a re-
cord Hard
to equal.
Their
sterling
qualities
are well -
Known.
*' Tli ey
stand liße
rocks.”
Come and see our
new models.
Catalogues Free.
***
Sole Agents--
Paling'*s,
338 George St.,
Sydney.
57
If you are
not satis-
fied with
your old
Piano, why
not ex-
change i t
for a new
one from
Paling'’s.
Call at Paling’s, who
will tell you how to
xnaKe an exchange,
and, at the same
time get a Catalogue.
*
Paling'*s,
338 Georg'e St.,
Sydney.
34
Estey
Organs
at...
Paling’s.
We are Sole Agents
for these celebrated
Organs.
They are made in a
large variety of models,
ranging in price from
£9 to
You can buy them on
easy terms if you wish.
Every Estey Organ
we sell is fully guaran-
teed against bad work-
manship or defective
material.
Over a Quarter of
a Million Estey Organs
made and sold.
Catalogues Free.
Old Organs taken in
exchange.
Paling’s,
338 George St.,
SYDNEY.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
1
SCRUBB’S oIoudy AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
RemfvJe o+ d - Clear \ sl "g Preparation for the Hair.
a " d . Grea se Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Invigorative Yn Hot fir* 3 ** 0 " caus „ ed by Mosquito Bites,
vigoratmg in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carnets
. Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water. P
o Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
ARTIFICIAL
LIMBS.-*-
ĸ
We make them on the premises.
We make more than any other firm in Australia.
We also import them from the famous American
firm, A. A. Marks.
Every kind of Artificial Limb supplied at reason-
able prices.
Send for Free Book on Artificial Limbs.
DENYER BROTHERS, Surgic Ma I k n e s r t s r 1 ument
281 George St., Sydney (opp. Hunter St.).
Also at Melbourne.
MELBA ACCORDEONS
k
ķ
Produce the
most . .
delightful
music.
They are
easily learnt
No know-
ledge of
music being
required to
become a
skilled
performer.
NEW 1906
MODELS
With 1,2, 3, or 4 sets of reeds, six, eight or ten I
fold double and triple Bellows with metal bound
corners, and all latest improvements.
Prices from 7/6 to 26/9.
Packed and delivered free to any Post Office or
Railway Station in Australasia.
Ask for our 1906 Illustrated Catalogue. We
will send it Post Free.
ALLAN & CO. Propy. Ltd.
276-278 Collins Street, Melbourne.
LINOLO
GLEANS, SHINES, POLISHES
Lino/eums, Wood Floors,
Furniture, Harness,
Boots and Shoes, &c.
THE FINEST AMERICAN POLISH
YET PRODUCED.
All Grocers, Ironmongers, &c.
Australasian Agents—
AMERICAN HYCIENIC AGENCY, Ltd., 177 Liver-
pool Street, Hyde Park, SYDNEY.
Sole Victorian Distributing Agents—
•l. J. MADDEN & CO., 58 Queen St., MELBOURNE.
Sole Queensland Distributing Agent—
ALFRED MOON, 37 Adelaide St., BRIBBANE.
FREE SAMPLES any State on application.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) ivill he taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. ivill be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
H.A. : The experience was certainly amusing l
but not well enough told.. Your ghost yarn has
already been told in this paper, and told somewhat
better. . . .M.1.G.: Like Solomon, we’re sick of love—
unless it is unusually well done, and 3 T ours isn’t.. Dat
«red PU L r diny rthi F r G a V‘.--v- B - : “ Ga »otted " gave us a
tirea feeling. ..F.C.S. . Your wearisome yarn about
SDection lfe This TT T u §' h bein £ closed against in-
spection. This sort of thing makes us angry, when the
nromnthf d VI6r T" t l ie P acka ge, and your document was
promptly dropped into the W.P.B Bricky: Squalid
beHowdrammer. The way a ciowd of you write one
is° U the t “ 1 *'-'1 onl £ sub -i ecfc in the world
* 8 f he ruined girl, and that the girl who
„oes wrong starts to lose her beauty at that par-
ticular hour. Which is rot: Many of them only
start to develop it then-it becomes an asset Also
more of you seem to imagine that the girl who °- o es
wrong has only two possible ends, the street or suicide
As a matter of fact she often settles down a property-
owner, and drives round in a pony carriage trying to
thhLs h tnn U v try from th ® , Socialists - Write about’the
who Did TmVT e f V don ’ fc kn °w the Girl
wno Did J.M.U. . Another yarn about the neglected
oman—a real wife this time. Why don’t womerT make
themselves more attractive than the other cat, and the
bilhard saloon, and all the rest of it ? The trouble with
lA th l af rr thp V W ° men iT th ® sfc . ories that come to this office
virtnpc th rV V ar< i, all , from the Sev en Deadly
in tre»tm' C i n ' - Good idea and atmosphere, but too rough
OWM “’t J.°- U ' vant a , lot of study and practice. ...
has ’L ‘T® onl -X one in the collection that
na s ? nG ?' No address given N.E. : *■ l Love Storv ”
Th d f A K 6 ’ ! )oth bave the m elancholv-tomb complaint
this office’ U w eSS tre f a^ d frivolousl 3’. at a discount in
rnm W want tbe mausoleum to caper like a wild
ram on the mountains if we must have mausoleum and
the is fresh andirreverent
but rocky otherwise.. ..E.IG: «Eu£d IJe’’"expounds
a rather aged grievance... .Ivan R. : “At Night’Tom
tarns several metres and much gloom-the “ Groat
fh/Ti >* „ wee P l . n B' she-oaks,” “dead dreams,” “wailing
“ crosh of inp eqU ' em ’ * c ’ l he °" ] y cheerful thing is th!
of the universe, and it doesn’t crash much....
A fact gdy ? 0t ade qnafcely dealt with C.W. :
prinf’ b J F G Ur ‘P leasant so . r t of fact not suitable for
print... .J.F.C. .Faint yarns in faint blue pencil declined
D'SS'wiT f the Nlln l her ” just mTed ":
comes up K USe Wh6n the c > uestion "ext
comes up Herbert K. . Sorry none suitable Kabar ■
Cemetery yarn anticipated.. ..E.H. : “ Mulligan’s Te
Mok ”oT to ° uueveuiy Anonymous :“ Painkiller
Sessed CT- T !| a ' aSsa:Good ideas lamely
O.T. JX L EnlkCeT''' T " afa
unprobable way WhTdidThe /ThVreTendTbj a
Ttt-“ FvpTT:? : C ° W / arn is hea vy humor.... F?
WjjSsaffia&Kßa .w
r? s&?rr * waowss
thanks 8 AnH wlTv'■ S ’ B ' P ’ : 3d. received with
was the'soiif of Jo : .\°' lr assurance that the Jap
So' soul . of commercial honor till Europe contamin-
ated him received with gloomy sniff. It wasn’t Europe
that taught him to sell his daughter, anyhow^
ronTTTT 0 / sendin ff specimen copv of \he Aus-
tralian edition of London Punch. Otherwise it mightn’t
have come under our notice for years HSR ,Yp f
° f l eficient Postages' aS' mitter-
tngfai more than the fine brings in. (2) Why not
save all this confused writing- and consult the Bible itself ?
ingersoll was a very poor guide on matters of fact. Your
argument that he couldn’t have been “because he was a
lawyer is surely meant for humor Bounder- No
good bounding so softly on G. H. Reid. That wind-bag
needs to be jumped on with elephant feet.... Treble :
lhe King s Counsel ” business is mostly bunkum : the
Crown is supposed to have the first claim on a K.C.’s ser-
vices ; also a K.C. is supposed never to appear
in court without a junior and not to undertake
certain Chamber work. But the conventions—
especially the first—are not always observed
Moona: Inconstant” is a moan Overlander : With
a little practice you will evolve a good yarn. At present
you straggle C.I.R. : “Child-Link” pure bellow-
drama Bendeineer: Just too awful ED • If
Experience ” is really your first effort, keep on ; 'only
remember a short story is not supposed to be a novel in a
nutshell. Experience” contains material enough for
at least two reasonably long short stories K.P. :
Queen of the Earth” rather mechanical C. Mois ’
On further consideration “Love” went the way of the
rest Humpybong: We don’t profess to acknowledge
pars. It would take 10 columns of correspondence
weekly to do that. Lysans : Haven’t the least idea what
animal it was, but the individual who goes round
with three dogs killing strange animals is a mur-
derous wretch. Glad one of the dogs is dead. Hope
to hear of the death of the other two. Hope to hear
of your death S.O.C. :It isn’t permissible. It was
simply a dashed swindle....Cobar: Did you really
expect us to print that ?... .Mrs. A. : Neither iWh good,
mwfi ' li Th ® re J wa , s no “terrible hostility.” (2)
That firm doesnit deal in birth-prevention dodges.
(3) Pars mostly chestnuts, and as such first batch went
to the w.p.b. Sorry you had the trouble of re-writing
™ P ars are not acknowledged as a rule....A. Borig!
Why adopt a don’t-shoot-ril-conie-down policy off-hand ?
Best to try to defend our own country with our own
arms before appealing to some foreigner to take us under
(1) F t or » ivun the deficient postage.
(2) Dads best cattle-pup has been killed in mistake for a
bunyip dozens of times already J.R. ;i n The But.tf-
tin s humble opinion, if a policeman, in the execution of
his duty is rushed by a man with an iron bar, he is right
in threatening to shoot, even if the man is a betting-
t 'i " R ? bert s - : H’s merely beating the afr
to combat Holman s statements about Protection and
trusts. He s the sort that can’t understand that, if a
tiger and a marble clock are found in the samp
room, the clock didn’t necessarily make the tiger..
Curlew: Faint little sketches with not enough sand’to
justify publication....B.S.H.: Barred out because you
want cash with your girl. That’s making matrimony a
business; see our advertising rates John E • Afraid
we 11 have to give up the problem of “ Lost in the Bush ”
and Dennis Ryan.”.... J.G. J. : Fact that Maude has
Oilihird* 0 « o of y ° » 13 not Sl j fficien t excuse for verses....
Gillbird . Sleep gone to its long rest R.G.T.:
Picture of man asking- for celery hopeless... HM • Too
amateurish Unsuitable : Locke M., Yessof.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS
James A. :No g00d... .F.G. : Three sketches—(l) Mid-
T,’ ruinous....H.A.W. (Melbourne):
Sketch of old lady consuming medicine declined....
Hellas : Old as sm J. Blum : Suffer from a lack of ob-
ln the joke, and are artistically hopeless
MickOD. : Picture of a drunken woman who wanted a
tooth extracted is declined....R.M. : Difficult to tell
ls J he old aunt and which the young niece
Figures improbable—not to say impossible!!!!
V.P. (Melbourne): Paralytic drawing Lou W. : “Old
tot * ns i? n ” P‘ cture °ast a gloom over the premises .
1 1 : Drawmgsfffiot nearly U P t 0 the mark and humor
too labored. Sheldon: Picture based on old chestnut
and girls legs would make it rather doubtful anyhow
‘ hee:‘ Monkey’s father” idea very— very (missing
worn; L.D. : If you are as young as we suppose, then
you have some artistic prospects with training. You
haven t reached publication level yet, though—and we
recognise the jokes.... Cyril D.: Painfully artificial idea.
Unsuitable : Marba, F.W., J.Y.A.
N. _: Ought not the Australian Natives’
Association to shut up or change its name’ lam
not putting this unkindly, for I have a high ap-
preciation of what the A.N.A. has done, but
surely such a society can only be ephemeral. It
belonged to the time when the white native was
rare and wanted to celebrate about himself An
American visitor said : “It is a paltry thing.
What would you think if we had an American
A a TVT V A S SSoCla^lon •’ ’ Thirty years ago the
A IN.A. was needed in Victoria, when S. V.
Winter used to write spirited articles in the
Herald as “Australian Native.” There was a
tardiness in making room for the men who had
got to come. Now we have the Australian Prime
Minister. So I say—shut up, or down.
Mussel : What have I done to deserve
this ?:
, testimony whereof we have caused this our Grant to
be sealed at Melbourne with the Seal of the said Colony.
Witness our trusty and well-beloved The Right Honor-
lnan u Loui ? Earl of Hopetoun, Viscount
I ar l ? n H , ope ln th f Peerage of Scotland, Baron
Hopetoun of Hopetoun and Baron Niddry of Niddry
?f' e ’ n the forage of the United Kingdom, Knight
Mirhili T^ 0 Most Extinguished Order of Saint
Michael and Saint George, Governor and Commander-in-
Depend n encies. oVer C ° lony ° f ViCt ° ria and its


Pratt’s Motor Car Spirit
Highest Grade
American . . .
OET T O g
■ Ea I IT\ W’EUi
ALWAYS UNIFORM IN QUALITY.
In stock at the Kerosene Stores of the COLONIAL OIL
COMPANY.
At all the Leading Centres of Australia and New Zealand.
“M OTA ” brand
Motor Car Spirits
Are the finest power spirits the world produces.
Sold by all Motor Manufacturers,
Importers, Repairers, etc., or of
The BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD.,
Agents, Adelaide, Melbourne & Sydney.
LADIES,
The Secret op a Good Complexion is Good
Digestion.
The story of a great deal of the unhappiness of
women is a story of lost health. Women wonder
how it is that little by little their forms lose
plumpness, the cheeks grow hollow and sallow,
and they feel tired and worn out all the time.
In a large proportion of cases when women are
weak, run down, and falling-off in flesh and looks,
the root of the trouble can be traced to indigestion
and other stomachic disorders which undermine
the general health. Health alone can produce a
fair skin, which is the secret of beauty. If your
digestion is bad your complexion must suffer. If
your digestion is perfect your complexion will
need no artifice to hide its imperfections. There-
fore it behoves every woman who regards her good
looks with that jealousy characteristic of her sex,
to study her digestion. Properly assimilated
food yields the maximum of nutriment which goes
to make new blood and replenish the, blood cells
of the skin. Indigestion causes all manner of ills
that taint the blood with decayed matter,
interferes with the circulation, and consequently
does not impart to the complexion the influence
of pure and healthy blood. Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills purify the blood and aid in the digestion
and assimilation of {food, whereby the system is
nourished and replenished with new blood, rich
and red, which circulating through the veins gives
the complexion a fresh and pure appearance,
causing the cheeks to glow with the ruddy tint
of perfect health.*
SELECT STOCK ALE &
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE . NO PRESERVATIVES .
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Bbeweky and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDEERN, SYDNEY.
■
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The struggle between Glebe and Burwood for
the first-grade championship of Sydney metropolitan
cricket was resumed on Saturday amidst keen excite-
ment. Glebe was exercising its skill on University, and
Burwood was using Waverley as a block on which to chop
out its destiny. At the close of play the previous week
University had been dismissed for 127, and Glebe had
rushed up to 76 for the loss of one wicket only. Last
Saturday saw Glebe resume its place at the sticks punc-
tually, and play with feverish energy. The balls could
not come quickly enough, and Bardsley batted in baresark
style, rushing out to meet everything that came along,
and endeavoring to hit it to Hades. His partners were
just as enthusiastic, but a lot less effective, and it was
Bardsley’s 104 that enabled Glebe to close its innings
with seven wickets down for 220.' With the exception of
Buckle, who made 22, none of the other batsmen reached
a score. Glebe bowling was as savage as Bardsley’s
batting, and University’s second innings began with
disaster and ended in collapse. The first four wickets
went for nine runs, and after that they fell at 42, 49, 63,
67, and 72, thus leaving Glebe winner by an innings and
21 runs. This three-point win was due to the bowling of
Bowden, who took eight Uni. wickets for 32 runs.
* * * *
Burwood was not so successful in its struggle
with Waverley : the chopping-block was ever so much
harder. The previous week it had got rid of Waverley for
154 and had lost two wickets for 72. Sunny Jim Mackay
played the Goliath in the Burwood batting, and his
smacking up of 158 (not out) was a mighty performance,
without which Bin-wood’s address would have been No.
13 Queer-street. The only other batsman to shine was L.
P. Deane, who made 45. With 261 for nine wickets
down, the Burwood captain determined to risk it, and
declared his innings closed. Now came the crisis. If
Waverley could be summarily disposed of before scoring
107, the premiership was won—otherwise it might be a
ease of losing it to Glebe next Saturday, or sharing the
honor. Sid. Gregory and H. Carter opened for Waverley,
and lashed out in fine style ; 69 were scored before Carter
was caught by Prentice off O’Connor, and Alphabetical
Mackenzie joined the great little Sid. Mac., too, was in
a slogging- mood, and banged 10 fives and a six.
Gregory’s 56 included nine fours. At the drawing of
stumps Waverley had scored 142 for the loss of one
wicket, thus leaving Burwood winners by 101 runs on the
first innings. But Waverley went home satisfied—it had
prevented Burwood scoring a three-point win and getting
the premiership.
The direct result of Burwood’s failure to score a
straight-out win was to place it and Glebe level at the
head of the competition list with 19 points each. The
second place on the list is held by Waverley with seven
points, and behind it Redfern and North Sydney toil with
five and four respectively. The other seven clubs are all
something less than nothing, Middle Harbor being at the
bottom of the list with 12 below zero. What will happen
is not known at time of going to press. Owing to the
difficulty of securing a ground for the play-off it is
possible that Glebe and Burwood may share the premier-
ship ; but a decisive struggle between the two leading,
clubs would be much more satisfactory.
* * « •
Wicket-keeper Carter made a fine effort
against Burwood, stumping four batsmen, and allow-
ing but eight sundries to be recorded against
Waverley. Carter’s form throughout the season has been
decidedly good, and generally gives the impression that
the Australian XI. billet will fall to him. The only
thing against Carter is that he is small and the bumping
of wild trundler Cotter is likely to lay him out; still in
inter-State matches he outshone all other “ stumpers.”
* * . » *
A feature of the just ended cricket season was
the slumping of Noble and Victor Trumper. The former
did not score a single century, his highest being 69 ; and
Trumper only managed one meek little century, which,
for a man of his rank, was trumpery indeed, although
there are others who declare that it was anything but so.
* * * *
An inspection of the first-grade cricket averages
for the past season shows how unreliable these stereo-
typed statistics are. Of the leading dozen in the batting
list, only three—Mackay, Diamond and Trumper—were
thought good enough to be picked for the match against
Victoria. Two men with averages of over 60 were passed
by, and also half-a-dozen in the 50’s. The position of
Mackay is extraordinary—l 2 innings, 972 runs, 3 not outs,
and an average of 108. Should he score a few in the
return match against Glebe, he will have made 1000 in
grade matches alone. He only wants five to notch 2000
in all matches for the season ; and if he scores 50 he will
defeat Trumper’s present record for N.S.W. grade cricket.
In bowling, the season’s averages also belie the selection
committees. Of the leading 10, Garnsey is the only inter-
state trundler to get a place.
* .* * *
Sydney football of all sorts is just now in the
uninteresting stage—like the egg that is being sat upon
by the prosaic barn-door hen. Practice matches are
being played every Saturday afternoon, and the cubs are
getting somewhat licked into shape. This metaphor is
mixed but so is the football ! As far as Rugby
is concerned there seems to be a woeful lack of proper
instruction, and although Soccer men and Australian
gamers are to be found practising in little groups in the
open spaces in the early mornings, there’s never a sign of
Rugbyites practising passing and dribbling. And yet
Rugby is the one game in which hard individual practice
and good tuition are indispensable. In the days when
Otago dominated Maoriland football a horde of savage
instructors would have the lame ducks of their clubs out
at day-break on a muddy field, racing them up
and down through the slush with the wind
and sleet in their faces, • bellowing admonitions and
curses at them as they ran. Writer worked on a mountain
survey once, and climbed hills like the slope of a Gothic
gable with the camp-oven wrapped in his blankets,
strapped to his shoulders. But even that was child’s
play to the way a savage old Highlander, in kilts and a
“ bonnet,” used to make him toil on those awful morn-
ings on the Asylum Ground. Granted that the mornings
in Australia are hot for that sort of practice, with a day’s
graft sticking- up beyond ; but it is not necessary to do it
more than three mornings a week for a month or so.
And it is the royal road to success at Rugby. At present
all the club practice seems to be carried on at nights, and
to consist chiefly of running and physical culture. It is
good, no doubt, bub steady practice in the light at pass-
ing charges and dribbling rushes is infinitely better, and,
as far as this writer.can ascertain, University Club is the
only one that is having daylight training.
Sydney Metropolitan Rugby competition starts
this ensuing Saturday, and the clubs that seem likely to
get off the mark with some suddenness are South Sydney,
University and Glebe. The University men have been
going in-for a lot of out-door practice in the afternoons
and evenings while the sun was hovering over the tops of
the Moreton Bay figs, and the result is that they have
combination. On the other hand the South Sydney team,
with its legs strengthened by ploughing its weary home-
ward waj r through the sandhills, is a formidable rival;
and on top of the lot comes the tomato-tinted jersey of
Glebe, which represents solid weight, a pretty turn for
dribbling rushes, and speed that is not by any means to
be scoffed at. The new system under which the competi-
tion will be conducted causes much more interest to
centre in the first games of the new season than in
previous years, for these early games will decide in which
class a club will play during the second part of the
season.
Vic. Football League, besides trying to popu-
larise the Australian game in States where Rugby has
hitherto been the rule, is starting on the long road that
leads to international contests and tours abroad. Besides
drawing Roosevelt’s attention to the beauties of the
game, as played by Collingwood and “ South,” it ha*
circularised 69 universities and colleges in America to that
effect. In the circular the League modestly remarks that
in nearly every department of sport its countrymen have
achieved fame—cricket, rowing, running, tennis, boxing,
&c. If that doesn’t cause the Eagle to scream, then the
bird is moulting.
•* * * •
Melbourne University Sports Union, after much
travail, has gathered together a football team and become
a unit in the Metropolitan Juniors, where some of the
best football in Melbourne is played. The ’Varsity team,
however, aspires to something higher, and in a lett.er
to the Victorian Football League requested that body to
graciously admit its team into its fold. The League, some
years ago, pitched out all the weaker clubs and reduced
itself to eight. Since then its gates have been phenomenal,
and the League has never been stronger than it is at
present. In the circumstances, the University’s request
was regarded as humorous, and was unanimously refused.
The only point the University could urge in its own favor
was that the team would be strictly amateur—a rather
peculiar inducement to offer the Victorian League, which
is notoriously professional. When the University has
built up a big football fund, and can buy the best players
in the League ranks, and beat the best teams in the League,
it can come and knock at the door again, and perhaps it
will be opened—but only if the Uni. team is too strong
to be kept out. What close corporation ever willingly
admitted an outsider to share in its spoils ?
* * * *
The country football teams, hitherto well treated
by the N.S.W. Rugby Union, won’t have such a good time
during the coming winter. The country will be divided
into five districts, which means that only five country
teams will be brought down to Sydney. Considering
that the combined country team more than held its own
against the city last year, this whittling away of the
“country football week” isn’t deserved.
■*•*•■*■*
The unexpected victory of Ireland in the last
Rugby international of the British season robbed Wales
of a record. If Taffy had won, he would have scored all
the internationals for two seasons running ; and that has
never yet been done. However, he has the win against
the Maorilanders as consolation.
* * * it
‘•Jimmy” Duncan, coach of the Maoriland
football team, has been talking about referees to inter-
viewers in M.L. “ Referees in England will never im-
prove. .. The referee comes on the field of play in white
shirt and collar, and cannot, and does not, follow the
players about. That is the reason the Maorilanders
were disallowed the try scored against Wales.” Accord-
ing to Jimmy, the haw is an awful thing in English sport;
and the football referee evidently regards a spotless
white shirt and collar as the most important part of the
match.
«-*•»*
“ J. Shay ” : Printed that the football players of
the local British fleet have had enough of the tars of the
U.S.S. Baltimore. In a match, the Yankee Doodles
played American Rugby, which consists mostly of rushes,
“like mad bulls at a gate,” and wild plunging, trampling
performances of a deadly description, all boots, breast-
bone, wooden head, and elbows. When a big American
footballer “ bucks centre ” he is expected to trample on
somebody’s ear, and the side that tramples on the most
ears wins. There is a story of an American footballer in
South America who broke up a dangerous and very
influential conspiracy against the Government—he was a
friend of the President and wanted to do him a good turn
—by uttering his college yell and rushing the conspiracy
on football principles. When he had finished yelling,
bucking, elbowing, butting, kicking, dancing, and
trampling, the astonished sedition hadn’t a leg left to
stand on, except the two with which its chief was light-
ing out for the horizon,
Maoriland is making another spasmodic effort
to grapple with the elusive crook who infests the pro-
fessional running paths. At present sports grounds are a
verdant field for the fleet-footed stranger from afar. One
of him turned up at Gore recently, carrying on his
person indications of a preparation unknown among
maiden runners. The local peds. did not feel equal to
winning, so they decided to instruct their friends
accordingly, and without acquainting the visitor of their
intentions. After gathering in all the available cash, the
bookmakers made it clear to the visitor that it would
be infra dig. or something to beat these honest Maori-
landers on their own fern-flat. The stranger jumped
away like a kangaroo, and in a few strides had ten yards
to spare. He then dropped back for company, and
allowed one of the others to pass him. Nearing the tape
the leader fell. The visitor courteously stopped to pick
him up, while the other competitors gathered round to
inquire if the fallen man had broken his back or his front
or something. The judges are still waiting for someone
to breast the tape.
* * * *
Inter-’Varsity sports at the University C.G.
(Melb.), on April 25th, provided some interesting contests
among Sydney, Adelaide, Tasmanian and Melbourne
students, especially in'the quarter-mile. French (Sydney)
won that eventall the way, beating Norman Barratt (Vic.)
by 4yds. in 511-5 sec.—excellent time on heavy going.
Sydneyite R. G. Waddy captured the mile from E. P.
Oldham (Melb.), with Byds. to spare, in 4min. 41see. The
100yds. fell to O. R. Dowdy (Adelaide), and the half-mile
to Barratt (Melb.). For the Inter-’Varsity championship,
Sydney won with three points, Adelaide second with 2£,
Melbourne, with lj came third, and Tasmania was nil.
Moyes (Adelaide) and Lawton (Melb.) provided some.first-
class jumping, making a dead heat at sft. BJin. Both
failed at. sft. 9Jin., after a plucky exhibition. Welch
(Sydney), Australasian amateur champion, failed early.
• * * *
Either A. B. Postle is Duffey in disguise, or
there is something grievously wrong with Westralian
clocking. The “ Kalgoorlie Pet” has just smashed
another world’s record by covering 130vds. in 12sec., in
a handicap at Menzies (W.A.). Postle’s challenge
to the world is bringing out Englishman B. R.
Day, and a match, for a £lOO purse and £lOOO side wager
will be decided at Kalgoorlie in August. Somehow, The
Bulletin cannot help reaching for the salt when that
£lOOO side wager is mentioned.
* * * *
Professional athletics are booming in Sydney.
The N.S.W. Athletic League has 105 clubs and 1393 peds.
nestling under its wing. The League recently held a con-
ference on its rules, and started the end of the boom by a
. senseless rule inflicting a fine “ not exceeding £2, with the
alternative of disqualification for 12 months” for offences.
It would be a mild piece of “stiff” running that
wouldn’t repay £2 with interest. Ikey Mo. is also to
■ be permitted to aid the cronkness for registra-
tion fee of ss. A better way to keep the sport clean
would be to provide for compulsory wiping out not under
12 months for offences, and to restrict betting as far as
possible by a higher annual fee upon Ikey Mo. At pre-
sent, there are too many “ books ” who pay the ss. fee,
and too many books enlarges the competition to have the
favorites “ in the bag.” The more bags there are the
more competitors are likely to be in them.
* * ♦ *
Although the Australians at the Olympic
Games are not setting the “ City of the Violet Crown ” on
fire, they are at least figuring among the front-rankers.
Cecil Healy finished second in his heat of the 100 metres
(about 110yds.) swimming championship of the world, but
in the final was unable to stay with Yankee streaker O.
M. Daniels, who won, or de Halmay, the Hungarian, who
shot home second. Still, even third in such distinguished
company is no disgrace to the Australian representati e.
It was nearer than the Englishman, Derbyshire, could
In the running, Nigel Barker was not up to his local form.
He was third in the final of the 100 metres foot race, but
woke up in his heat of the 400 metres, which he won in
53sec. He left the track favorite for the final, which had
not been decided when this issue went to press. The 400
metres is just a trifle less than a quarter mile, and
Barker’s record for that distance is 48£sec., so either
Nigel was not seriously pushed and took things easily,
or he has gone off. Meanwhile the brethren are re-
quested to pray that it was the former.
Hackenschmidt has evidently got rid of the
housemaid’s knee on his elbow, for the cable tells that
Madrali, the “Terrible Turk’’ and the “Russian Lion
met at the Olympia Hall, London, last week, in the
presence of 4000 people. The Russian commenced with
his usual hurricane act (which he always lets loose
when he means serious business), and after ljmin.
wriggling the “ Terrible ” was overthrown. Either Hacky
tired himself somewhat in that first rush or Madrali
learned something, for in the second act it took
the Russian 4min. to place the Turk’s shoulders
against the mat. Still Mahomet got there. Hack, is
now undisputed champion of the world ; even
the Rev. Oarkeek won’t deny it any longer. The
present contest is a much more satisfactory one
than that of 1904, when Hack, beat Madrali for the
first time. Then the Turk agreed to wrestle Grseco-
Roman style rather than forego the contest, and was
whirled off his feet, and bashed down on the floor
with an injured arm before he had time to think.
This time Hackenschmidt, who had become pro-
ficient at it in the intervening years, met Madrali at
his own style, and the Turk proved to be but little better
at his old catch-as-catch-can game than he was at his new
Graico-Roman.
* * * *|
Stanbury has at last agreed to row Towns for
the championship of the world, and incidentally for £5OO
a-side. The distance has been fixed at 3 miles 330yds.,
the date July 30th, and Michael Rush and A. H, Fitz-
hardinge have been agreed upon as umpire and judge
respectively. The only detail that has not been settled
is the course—that will be fixed when the gentry who own
the foreshores have been brought to terms. Both Towns
and Stanbury are determined that the ’longshore pro-
prietors who make money by charging for a sight of the
race shall shell out pro rata. And both Stanbury and
Towns are determined fellows where the boodle is con-
cerned.
* * * *
So far there is no word of the authorities having
declared the Ancient Scullers’ Match, which the Sydney
Sunday Sun is promoting, a dangerous performance ; and
as anybody who hints that it is unsafe is immediately
challenged by some one of the old buffers to run ten
miles, or fight the buffer 20 rounds with bare knuckles,
the chances are that it will eventuate. The ancients are
understood to be feeding on raw meat and beef tea, and
taking preliminary training ; and if they keep at it long
enough, no doubt the thing will be run off without any-
body bursting his aged and honorable boiler. One thing
is certain—no other part of the world can put up such a
crowd of so famous has-beens in the sculling line. The
contest, if it eventuates, will be unique in rowing history,
and is likely to remain so for the best part of the current
century. Up to the present £65 2s. 6d. has been received
in contributions for the prize fund.
« * * *
The United States warship Baltimore’s crack
rowing crew is to meet the Fire Brigade crew on May 9,
for a match over the Shark Island course in Port Jackson.
The Yankee crew numbers a dozen, and as we don’t keep
that sort of boat in Sydney, there were difficulties in the
way of a match. However, the Yankees agreed to row
under Sydney conditions, and just now are busy taking
odds against themselves. Whichever team wins is to be
challenged by a crew from the Powerful.
-r * * *
His Britannic Majesty’s fighting ship Powerful
is a regular hive of sports. On Saturday last it sent a
team of soccer footballers out to Wentworth Park, where
it downed Ultimo soccer club by three points to two.
There are some dandy boxers aboard, and at rowing and
big gun marksmanship the Powerfuls reckon they are as
good as anything afloat.
* * » *
“Ramoth Gilead”: Apropos of the Engine-
street, Sydney, two-up school raid. Doesn’t it seem
rather mean of the authorities to wait till a holiday
season, and then, when William James, from the Barcoo,
has left ring-barking and tank-sinking for a few weeks
hard-earned holiday, and has been lured into the two-
up den, to make a raid and grab the simple waybackite,
and pocket his coin ? I met one victim in a coffee-stall,
shortly after the raid on the Engine-street school. He
had just been bailed out, and, in giving me an account of
the affair, he said there were many “ bushies ” in the cap-
tured gang, and it had “ cleaned him out ” and left him
without means to return to his plains and gumtrees.
* * * *
Some 40,000 people in all swarmed to the Eight-
Hour fete at Melbourne Exhibition on the shilling “ art-
union ” ticket, which is seemingly the only means of
enticing a crowd to witness cycle racing nowadays, even
when MacFarland, Rutt and co., are on the job. The
Druids, deprived of the old gamble, are said to have lost
£2OO by their recent Gala meeting, run on the same lines as
the A.N.A. affair. MacFarland won the £lOO wheel race,
but the performance was brilliant on paper only—for
various reasons. The most attractive item turned up in
the mile foot race, won by J. T. Leonard, ex-Footscray
harrier, in the fast time of 4min. 22 4-ssec. The usual
crying of odds was silenced under the Betting Suppression
Act.
* * * *
The atmospheric depression that swept over
Australia last week was, no doubt, due to the homeward
rush of Henri Mayer and Floyd MacFarland, who started
off for their native soil by different routes. Poor old
Mayer felt that he must get back to his bier and sauer-
kraut and big appearance money, and MacFarland has
business at the six days contest at Madison Garden, New
York. Mayer swears he will never return. MacFarland
promises to come back for next season. But nobody cares
a tinker’s benediction whether they do or not.
* * * *
Mighty cyclist George J. Farley has gone into
the summer drink and confectionery business in Claren-
don-street, South Melbourne, and the wheel is likely to
know him no more. Presumably there were times when
he was whirling round the track that George felt he
would have given his soul for a long lemon squash, and
when he decided that racing was vanity and vexation of
flesh he went into the business where he could realise his
dream all day long. Well, he is an acquisition to the
business, and the track could have better spared many
other men. Peace to his thirst.
* * « *
Some 30 members of the Sydney Motor
Boat Club have signified their intention of taking part in
that Ocean Reliability Contest between Sydney and
Newcastle. Providence has been playing up lately, and
in addition to wrecking- San Francisco, has been stirring
up rough seas along this side of the Pacific. So the
chances are that the reliability contest will not take place
till June brings its soothing atmosphere. Which is a
pity, for June is a mighty cold month at sea. _ However,
when this contest does come off it will be an interesting
event, and, as far as this writer knows, it will be the
first of its kind to take place in a, full-blown ocean. Most of
the European ones have been in the Mediterranean,
which isn’t quite so open as the Pacific, and even there
the usual result has been disaster to the boats. So if the
Sydney Club can bring its 62 miles rush through the
Pacific to a successful ciose it will be an event
worth shedding whisky over. There is a general
impression that the motor boat is only fit for
darting about landlocked waters, like those of Port
Jackson, but that is a mistake. During one of the
attempted French runs from Toulon to Algiers the flotilla
ran into the father of all Mediterranean gales, and the
people on the following warships were astounded at the
manner in which some of the larger cruisers with whale-
back fronts ran through the trouble. One motor boat,
steered by a lady, showed no signs of being m difficulties
till a steering line broke, and then it drifted round broad-
side on, was caught by a curler and buried. The plucky
raadarae, who was wearing a cork jacket, was picked up
by a gunboat, the crew of which saluted her with frantic
enthusiasm. The Sydney Club hedges its contest round
with conditions that will keep out any boat that the club
thinks unfit to participate in the struggle, and this will
render a fatality improbable.
* * * *
That freak motor boat, the Baby De Dion,
in which secretary Whatmore, of the Sydney Club,
put up 15 miles an hour at the recent regatta,
was throwing up the water of Port Jackson in
great style last Sunday. The Baby is a mere
shell, fitted with an 8 h.p. engine, and pants like
an animal when travelling at top speed. The water curls
up above the slope of its whale-back, and on Sunday it
was observed to be travelling at what looked about li
miles an hour. Writer has his doubts about the light
shell being best for racing purposes, and is firmly of
opinion that stronger frames, giving more rigidity, would
produce better results with the same horse-power. What-
more is importing a 30 h.p. Mercedes, which he proposes
to fit into another freak craft of his own design in time
for the opening of next racing season.
A recent inventor has discovered a simple and
effective method of doing away with the objectionable
stink from the petrol exhaust of the motor cars. And as
soon as the method was proved a success the French
Government passed a law inflicting fines upon motorists
who carry the old stink-pot. In Holland a law has just
been passed confining the use of the tooter to the motor
car and motor bike. Now, when the trembling pedestrian
hears the soul-stirring toot, he’ll know for certain there’s
a space-annihilator behind it, not a kiddy with a pram, or
a doddering cyclist doing six miles per hour. And that
pedestrian won’t stop to look round ; he’ll jump like an
express kangaroo pursued by a devil.
There is no further need for the Sydney man
who has had a row to tell his wife lies about a tram
accident —the second grade hurling competition started
on Saturday, when Redfern downed St. James’club by 34
points to two. Other games were played all over the
suburbs, and the evening found quite a number of happy,
exhausted Irishmen going home covered with bruises and
contusions from the hurleys of the unlicked cubs. The
hurling game wears a new aspect in Sydney, for
whereas, even as late as last season, nearly every
hurler was either Irish or Gaelic, this season
finds long-legged Australians, beefy Maorilanders, and
bull-faced Englishmen swinging the crooked stick.
It will be next season before the first-grade clubs get the
full benefit of the inrush of new blood, although straight
away they will be able to draw more liberally on the
better second-grade players. A pleasant feature of out-
door sport tins season is the increase in numbers all
round. Hurlers are quite numerous, lacrossers are twice
as plentiful as formerly, and footballers seem no less —in
fact the soccer crowd has puffed out to the dimensions of
a horde. Looks as though the bulk of Sydney young men
had suddenly grown tired of paying to watch sport, and
were going to take to it instead. Which may be bad for
the gate, but it is splendid for the community.
The unpleasant mob which amuses itself by
shooting pigeons out of traps and gambling on the
results, and by coursing hares which have no chance of
escape, is feeling uneasy. Hitherto it has posed as being-
very haughty and demn’d exclusive, doncherknow, about
whom it admitted to its grounds. The exclusiveness
was prompted, perhaps, by the fear that some person
with ordinary humanity and decent sporting instincts
would gain admission and lay an information against the
gang for cruelty to animals. The English portion of the
mob is just speechless at present through finding on the
business paper of the House of Commons a Bill for the
Suppression of Spurious Sports, and it is said that similar
Bills are in preparation in N.S.W. and Victoria. The
design of the proposed English Act is to suppress sport
that has degenerated into downright cruelty. No bird
or animal may be shot at, or hunted by either
animals (animals include birds) or human beings unless it
has been at large two months at least. This
knocks out in one act the repulsive business of
the carted stag, the bagged fox, the pigeon and sparrow
in the trap, and the pheasant that is turned out from the
hatchery the night before the shooting party, and walks
about in a perfectly tame state. Knowing that he has to
deal with a class to whom money is no object and fines no
determent, the author of the Bill has thrown in terms of
imprisonment among the penalties, and the millionaire
trembles in his rage and declares that the country is going
to the devil. In Australia the majority of the bird mur-
derers are a frowsy lot, mere whisky-soaked gamblers
who would die of scare if a pigeon turned on them. Their
shooting is of no value to the community ; at least none
of the gang that writer has met would be any good in an
invasion, except for picking the pockets of the dead. It
is to be hoped that all Australia will wipe out both them
and their horrible pastime. They are at large only owing
to an oversight of Parliament.
1, * w *
The Lacrosse colts were very much in evidence
in the Sydney parks and grounds on Saturday, and the
day being on the warm side, they found it about as
pleasant as navvying. The Canadian game doesn’t look
as ferocious as football, but it is just as hard work, and
the young fellows who were out of condition were
ready to drop. This game seems to have suddenly caught
on, and some one has apparently put in a lot of time in-
structing the colts how to wield their sticks, for even the
colts seemed to handle them with an ease and a cheerful
fluency of motion that were very absent at the beginning
of last season.
* * * *
Some names from the new English crop of two-
year-olds (names are carefully chosen and criticised oyer
there): Bubble and Squeak (by Mincemeat out of Music),
Hill Climber (Wolf’s Crag—Mercedes), Lark (Common —
Merry Echo), Sham Fight (Music —Fireaway), Sailor’s
Hornpipe (Sailor Lad —Polka), Second Best (Best Man —
Too Too), Perusal (Persimmon —Ouzel). A Carbine colt
out of Briar Root is to be called Bushranger, though
Routine might have been better.


ARE PROUD OF THEMSELVES.
AUSTRALIA is only just beginning to appreciate
** itself. For so long we’ve made a fetish of “ made
abroad,” “made in Germany’’—made anywhere, in
fact, out of our own sunny Australia—that manufac-
turers have been timid to launch out with a purely
Australian article and let the world know it sucli.
But we’re sure Australia has grown beyond its infant
stage. We’re staking our hard cash on this belief-
have big vested interests of the “ Calico Jimmy ”
type to contend with—but if you help us we can win.
Our Hats are made wholly of the choicest pure
Australian Furs, worked up by Australian workmen
—paid full union wages and working 48 hours a week
—with every latest appliance to help them. They
come in both Hard and Soft Felts—in every shape,
for City and Country wear. They are very light and
durable—the colors fast dyed—and will give you
better satisfaction than any hat on the market. Thev
are sold throughout the Commonwealth by Drapers,
Tailors, Mercers and Storekeepers at Half-a-Guinea
and Twelve-and-Sixpence.
The Governor-General, Lord Northcote ; Sir Regi-
nald Talbot, the Governor of Victoria; Sir Samuel
Griffiths, the Chief Justice of the High Court of Aus-
tralia ; Sir John Madden, Chief Justice of Victoria-
are wearing them, and admit them to equal the
world’s finest headwear.
, Every one of our Hats has our full name, “ Austral
Hat Mills Pty., Ltd.," stamped on the inside
leather ; without this stamp none are genuine. Look
for it when you buy. Ask your dealer for a hat with
our full name on the leather. If he can’t supply you
write to us, giving his name and address. We’ll
arrange for his doing so, and refund your postage.
AUSTRAL HAT MILLS PROP. Ltd., Abbotsford, Vic.
THE HOME PRINTING OUTFIT
The Cheapest Set of Rubber Type Ever Sold.
Complete with Three Alphabets,
Ornaments, Punctuation Marks,
Spaces, &c., Type Holder, Tube
of Ink, Inking Pad and Tweezers.
Will save its cost the first
time you use it. You can
mark linen, books, papers,
envelopes, cards, &c., as well
with this as with the most
costly outfit. 1/6 posted.
UNION MANUFACTURING & AGENCY CO.,
359 and 35l Collins Street, Melbourne.
33
MOTHER’S FRIEND.
PEDIC POMADE for the Head,
Strikes infesting l vermin dead ;
On all hands it is confessed,
Surest, finest, foremost, best.
Destroys vermin; kills nits; heals sores,
By post—Small 1/2, large 2/3, extra large 3/6.
Manufacturer—P. KLEESATTEL,
Traralgon, Victoria.
ĸ
k
B. MOUNTCASTLE
SONS
Missing' Friends.
(ROBERT), left Horncastle,
“ “ Lincolnshire, for New Zealand, in
October, 1876 ; last heard of at Dunedin, Otago,
1877 (or children, if dead). Inquirers, Executors
of Ann Seymour (aunt), c/o ANDREW and
THOMPSON, Solicitors, Lincoln, England
A Fountain Pen for 6d.
MOST WONDERFUL
VALUE EVER
OFFERED.
WAVING just received a large shipment of splendid FOUNTAIN PENS, we have decided to sell them at
11 cost price in order to secure fresh customers for our various other goods. The Fountain Pen we offer is
not a toy. We guarantee it to be as effective as any higher-priced Fountain Pen on the market, and it has
this great advantage over all other Fountain Pens that when the nib is worn out, it can be replaced with any
other. Our Pen has thus all the advantages of a Fountain Pen, and an ordinary Penholder combined. It will
hold sufficient Ink to last for a month ; WILL NOT LEAK, and does not corrode the ink. Beautifully
mckelled, and, at the ridiculously low price, is positively the best bargain ever placed before vou. Write straight
away and secure one. The price is ONLY 6d., postage Id. extra, complete in box with Filler and directions
complete. The Filler alone is worth 9d.
Anyone ordering not less than a dozen we will give one of our beautiful Nickel Combination Out-
fits, consisting of Pen, Telescopic Pencil and Folding Rubber Stamp with your name, with self-inking Pad, com-
■■IL. UMitea
isL)
plefce. Ordered separ-
ately the price is Is. Gd.
posted.
All other makes o!
Fountain Pensin stock,
including the “ Swart,”
“ O&lican,” Watfet-
tnan,” “ Balog,” &C.
A. J. SMITH & CO., 6 Moore Street* SYDNEY *
m
)
U f.
S'
I'l"
.22 calibre cartridges can:
be relied upon to help;
clean Out the rabbit pests.,
U. M. C. -.22 short and long
cartridges, loaded withblack
°r smokeless, powder,
are accurate, sure of fire, and have great killing power.
Furnished with ungreased bullets, also made with hollow-
point. bullets which are, very effective on small game.
UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE COMPANY
■!ll!Jll l : ! ;i!!!||n., BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U.S. A.
:• * •
V:
*, * t vV •;
DUNLOP
RUBBER
BELTING
Is recommended lo Mine Managers. Its
Efficiency and Durability under wet conditions
renders its use more economical than leather
belting. Made endless (without stretch), any
length, up to 60 inches wide.
SAMPLE AND PRICE ON APPLICATION.
DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO. of AUST. LTD.,
108 Flinders Si.. Melbourne : ISO Clnrenee Si '
Sydney : 117 Grenfell Si.. Adelaide; 268-270 Adelaide
St.,Brisbane: 617 Hay St., Perth; 128 Lichfield SL.'’
"V Christchurch, N.Z.
Dunlop
Packings
Are Recommended
in all cases where
good wear is required
You will find the Quality
and Price right. Sample
of any class of Packing
on application.
THE DUNLOP TYRE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
108 Flinders Street, Melbourne; 150 Clarence
Street, Sydney; 117 Grenfell Street, Adelaide;
268-270 Adelaide Street, Brisbane; 617 Hay
Street. Pertb; 128 Lichfield Street, Christ*
church. N.Z.
Sydney City Council proposes to erect spacious
swimming baths in Woolloomooloo Bay—an offer from
the Sydney Harbor Trust to lease the water frontage for
42 years being accepted. Provided the plans already con-
sidered are finally carried out, the straight-away stretch
of water will be over 100yds., and a long-murmured
grievance about the want of a sensible championship
course will be remedied. Some fast times should be put
up in Woolloomooloo Bay. No sane swimmer would stay
in that water a fraction of a second longer than necessary.
The N.S. W. Pony and Galloway Association
has defiantly replied to the sentence of sporting outlawry
passed on it by the Associated Clubs by declaring that it
will not race against any owner, trainer, jockey or horse
competing at any of the ring’s courses. Everybody
knew before that the Pony Association was behind the
Ascot Club, but hitherto the Ascot course was open to
any man who liked to leave the Associated Clubs. That
period of grace expires at the close of the present week
and after that it is war to the knife, and the devil take the
weakest.
* * * *
Bookie Colman’s action against the V.R.C.j
questioning its right to charge him £75 instead of the
former £5O for the privilege of betting “inside” at
Flemington, was last week decided in the club’s favor by
Justice A’Beckett. His Honor reckoned the committee
had control of and was responsible for the proper
management of the course, and could make regulations
to that intent, subject to the veto of the Governor in
Council; and that, racing being possible without
betting, and betting being possibly a nuisance, the V.R.C.
had just as much right to prohibit it, if it felt so dis-
posed, as to prohibit the hawking of commodities.
Colman now threatens an appeal to the High Court, but
his chance of success doesn’t look too rosy ; A’Beckett’s
judgments have a way of sustaining themselves. Anyhow,
the dictum that the raucous yelling of Ikey Noses can be
considered a nuisance is distinctly soothing.
* * * *
At Melbourne Exhibition Building, last Satur-
day, a sensational hammerdrama, entitled “Squiresand-
murphy,” was performed under the management of
Citizen Wren. Prior to the punch de resistance, seven
couples of light-weight young men took it in turns to
assault one another in a harmless manner, thesepreliminary
proceedings lasting until 9.30. Then came an interval for
suppressed excitement, after which Bill Squires and Tim
Murphy took the stage, and the vast audience settled
down to- enjoy a roaring time. Bill’s intentions were
understood to be strictly violent, whereas Tim was ex-
pected to dodge his adversary at the outset, with a view
to taking the offensive later on. But Tim—the taller and
lighter actor of the two—had no distant future before
him. The moment the prompter cried “ Go,” poor
Timothy’s plan of campaign was ruthlessly shattered by
the awful Bill. Bill smote him on the “jor.” He
biffed him on the body and bruised him outside the
soul. Within the first three minutes Tim suffered five
knock downs, and was palpably knocked-up. In the second
act the unhappy man fell only once. He even distin-
guished himself on one or two occasions by biffing Bill
but as a rule he was getting severely punished for his
rashness in being present. In the third act Bill’s task
was easy. He hurricaned into Tim, and that declining
pugilist came to grief as before. The referee went to him
and suggested that he had had enough, but seemingly he
wanted a little more. So Bill gave him a little more, and
down he went for the eighth and last time. Whilst Tim
was trying to collect his thoughts the referee spared Bill
any further exertion by declaring him the hero of the
entertainment. It had lasted eight minutes, exclusive of
the pauses for breath. Then the spectators (some of
whom had paid at the rate of fifteenpence a minute for
their joy and rapture) went away declaring that Bill
Squires was the noblest work of God.
* * *
The Sunday papers each gave a different esti-
mate of the number of people present at the Squires-
scrap, and the figures ranged from 20,000 to
10,000. Then the morning papers on Monday gave fresh
figures ; and, last of all, John Wren, having counted the
tickets and the cash, gave the actual numbers as 14,748
and the gate just a few pounds snort of £2OOO
» * *
According to Mr. “Barney” Reynolds, who is
supposed to be Mr. John Wren’s conscience, Mr. Wren has
noble aspirations regarding boxing. In his opinion ex-
pressed to a Melbourne Herald man, too many of Aus-
tralia, s best boxers have been compelled to leave Australia
in order to find new countenances to hit. So Mr. Wren
decided to come to the rescue. Bill Squires, as the best of
the present Australian bunch, is to be kept in his native
land. American boxers are to be induced to come to Aus-
tralia to hit Bill Squires for the fat purses Mr. Wren will
offer. The Californian earthquake is a special arrange-
ment between Providence and Mr. Wren in order to
further these patriotic efforts. San Francisco, the home
of the pug, is in ruins. Why, therefore, should not the
t 0 Mr ’ Wren > wil o is not in ruins ? Echo says
Why i m a loud voice.
X * *
Bob Fraser, middle weight, and Bill Lang,
heavy weight, rival Melbourne footballers, fought 20
rounds under the Olympic club’s management at the
Cyclorama, Eastern Hill, on April 20. The fight was a
repetition of traser versus Nelson of a week earlier, with
the difference that on the previous occasion Fraser was
the man who took the battery ; on this occasion Fraser
was the man who dealt it out. Bob was just about as
much too clever for Bill on the 20th, as Ted was for Bob
PPJL- , a hhough the big man fought a game,
pushing fight till the last stroke of the gong, he never
looked nke getting ahead of his shifty and more scientific
enemy. Meanwhile Fraser was busy scoring points, and
-Liang s face was the scoring board. When time expired
freely marked, but not badly damaged, and
referee St.okesbury had an easy task in summing, up and
passing ludgment—“Fraser on points.”
* * * *
, ?°b Quigley gave a display of
boxing at the Sydney National Sporting Club, last week
that interested and amused the audience without hurting
the two boxers. Both showed a pretty talent for avoid-
ing punishment, and kept the pace fairly fast for a 20-
contest. The ducking was superb, and so was the
Something seemed to have gone wrong with
s hating power, for in the sixth round he bashed
Quigley on the jaw again and again, but Quigley just
novpfs wPnf’ h v e drunken sailor in the nautical
novels written by fellows who have never done more
than go fishing in a river boat. At the end of the scrap,
which arrived by effluxion of time, the referee, in simple
English, declared Mr. Nelson the winner on points
* * * *
White Australian Dick Porter met Hindu
Gunga Brahm in a catch-hold style wrestling match at
y w rama Buildin ? (Melb.), t’other Wednesday
mght, before a smattering of spectators. Conditions
were best two out of three, pin falls. Contest to start
at 9 p.m., and if only one fall was secured the winner of
it to take the stake. A side bet depended on the result,
Gunga laying odds of £4O to £2O. Porter and Co. showed
the dark-skinned citizen a few points. Instead of the
n =vi C sfcart mg at 9 p.m. brother “ Fred ” occupied some
considerable period by putting up a “ weight ” an un-
necessary number of times, and later in the evening the
lights went out for eight minutes, which resulted in only
one hour 20 minutes activity instead of two hours’
Gunga was top dog from start to finish, keeping his
opponent close to the mat throughout. Porter got out
of several tight corners through no fault of his own.
t" aS to bring his advantage to finality,
and Referee Mitchell declared a draw at 11 p.m
* * * *
. Mussel ” (whose recollections are given
th6y are . worfch ) : “ Suss ” (B. 15/3/’O6) says
some things concerning Hackenschmidt, and asks, “ Did
51\ von ,® ever * e ? hlm throw Rennert?” Well, I think I
rl! d '. T ' vas during Hack.’s Melbourne season, so far as
the facts maintain an upright position in my intellect.
A huge amount of meat came out on the stage, and it
ri^htTv r 0 H 1 ! , Ce ] d f b u the i lame of Rennerfc , if I remember
rightly. Hack, followed, as far as I can recollect. The
tiU close on fche bniit
i the a£ore said meat was whirled
around a j? d , bit the carpet with a dull audible-
ness, and remained there for the stipulated time. Did
you ever hear your butcher 'dash a pound and a half of
wav Rennert df b t f ° f the Argus ? Weil > thafc ’ s the
lf vv ! asn fc somebody else) hit the carpet.
th< j a PP la 2 se was uproarious, so far as I can
th u tu , rn ” more sensational, Rennert,
f my remimsences haven c got mixed, came forward on
and mad ? an indignant speech in some wild un“
known tongue, but was -finally coaxed off by one of the
to th , e conclu si°n chat Rennert
" as on ;y P af t of the showman s baggage. Anyhow, if the
° f n leat , was not named Rennert, then someone must
lU f ged refresh ments .during the interval. I
ean almost swear I was there that night.
A Wyalong (N.S.W.) publican has success-
fully appealed against a conviction under the
Liquor Act, whereby he was fined 20s. because
live persons were found on his licensed premises
on a Sunday. Mr. Public-house had gone to
church, carrying the key of the bar in his pocket,
and he fell in despite this precaution. Fortu-
nately for the race of church-going publicans, the
conviction was upset. If it had stood, hotel-
keepers would have to spend the blessed Sabbath
defending the bar door with a battle-axe to con-
vince the law that their intentions were honorable.
Says an angry Argus correspondent, re-
ferring to the Natal insurrection :
Christianity (Ethiopianism) and sedition go hand in
glove, and it would have been better for South Africa if
the first disciples of the Ethiopian Church from America
had never been permitted to land in the country ; if they
did land, then not to exist. The creed of the Ethiopian
Church is “Africa for the Black Races.”
The only God recognised by John Bull is the one
that bears the special Imperial brand. No sedi-
tious deities need apply.
Last week it was announced: (1) That the
Garruthers Government had decided on its course
of action as regards the N.S.W. Railway Com-
missioners ; and (2) that it hadn’t yet fully con-
sidered the l eport of the committee of inquiry re
the astounding coal contract entered into by
Kirkcaldie and Fehon against the wish of Chief
Commissioner Oliver. That coal contract was
the cause of the big disagreement which brought
things to a head. It represented a ridiculously
bad bargain made by the two junior Commis-
sioners ; and any Ministry which has decided
what to do with the Commissioners without con-
sidering this principal item of evidence is a fool of
a Government.
One of the mysteries of modern commercial
life is the “ agent ’’—the person with no capital,
no stock, and very little furniture in a very small
office, who somehow makes a precarious living by
hanging on to the tail-end of Commerce and skir-
mishing at the rear of Trade. The Bulletin
thought it had heard of all the different kinds of
agent, but it finds it was wrong ; a perfectly new
kind of middleman or go-between was casually
mentioned last week, when the White case was
being heard in Sydney. White, a Gentleman
One, was imprisoned and removed from the roll
of solicitors, some time ago, on a charge of stealing
certain documents. Shortly after his release the
authorities in Sydney received a letter fromMor-
sen saying that he, and not White, had taken the
documents. Then the law fell on White with
the new charge of having invented an imaginary
Morsen with a view to deceiving the Law and,
presumably, of getting back on the roll of solicitors,
and, in the course of the proceedings, someone
mentioned the alleged Morsen as an alleged person
who made his humble but unblemished crust by
being “a private law and engineering agent.”
There is no reason why he shouldn’t do so, for
there are plenty of agents who sound more absurd
than tha,t, but The Bulletin is beginning to
wonder if there is any room in Sydney for a
theological agent. There seems to be already
every other kind of agent.
The jubilee of the now highly-respectable
and Arg us-sanctioned Eight-Hours movement,
celebrated m Melbourne April 21st, recalls that
the stodgy lory of 1856 was just as blatant and
wearisome an ass as the anti-Socialist of to-day.
W hen, fatty years ago, the first procession carried
the now worn and faded blue-and-red banner
through Melbourne streets, the Eat party
moaned;—
Every industry would be ruined, the working classes in
Apparently the question whether Cap-
tain Crouch did or did not surrender during
the recent Victorian military manoeuvres is a
serious one, and not the joke it at first appeared.
The original idea in many quarters was that
Captain Crouch was mentioned as having been
captured by way of a hilarious witticism, and
that his denial published in the Age was part of
the mirth and comic opera, and that the whole
thing ranked with the girls who wave their legs
in the air at Rickards’ show. But it now appears
that the alleged capture was a serious military
proceeding, and that Crouch’s denial of the story
throws a blot on the other fellows’joint and several
escutcheon. So a military inquiry has been
ordered, and a barrel of sworn declarations has
been prepared, and a shocking row may be looked
for at any moment.
Melbourne, last week, had to swallow a
heavy overdose of University skite, and anv
public or private mention of the word “ Uni-
versity ” for the next six months should be
treated as a misdemeanor. Every sort of gather-
ing of caps and gowns has something of pretentious
puerility in it. The wearers have dressed them-
selves in a little brief importance of their own
making. Pedants demand reverence for their
mere scholastic acquirements, and students manv
The rowdyism which pretends to be just an
outbreak of high spirits in a Brotherhood
of P rain3 13 really a display of vanity, like the
a P^ lcs of a child who is “showing off” before
v . lslfc ors. After a whole week or more of Univer-
sltY funetioneering, one begins to ask whether it
w °uldn t be advisable to turn the hose of common-
®ohse upon such conflagrations. Too much Alma
Mater finds its way into the newspapers,
a . University education is too largely an
education in snobbishness. At the annual Com-
held in Melbourne Exhibition-
building last Thursday, a learned professor de-
glared, m other words, that the prosperity of a
radiated from its University. When a
schoolmaster talks in that strain, it is to he
expected that his scholars will have some trouble
their caps without the aid of a
shoehorn.


YOUR OPPORTUNITY FOR CHOICE IS GREATER THAN EVER.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Black Open Face
KEYLESS WATCHES,
Os 6d, 20s, 255, 30s, £2.
Solid Silver Hunting Cases,
255, 30s, £2, £2 10s, £3, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold SCROLL BROOCH
Pearls and Rubies. 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Two-Bar BROOCH
Pearls and Rubies, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Star PENDANT
or BROOCH.
Set Pure White Pearls, £5 ss.
Diamond Centre, £7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Three-Bar SCROLL BROOCH.
Pearls and Ruby or Sapphire, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Pearl Set BIRD and SPRAY BROOCH,
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Gold Hunting
KEYLESS WATCHES, Jewelled,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, £5, £6
£7, £lO.
Guaranteed 2. 3,4, and 5 Years.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Pearl Set Spray Bar BROOCH, 21s.
A Tasty Design.
We Will
Send You
Our Illustrated Catalogue
on request. Its perusal
will help you,
and give you a very
good idea of the enormous
stock we carry.
All goods sent POST FREE.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Fancy Curb Padlock BRACELET, in Four
Sizes, £2 10s, £3. £3 10s, £4. All with Safety
Chains attached.
Country
Residents I
No matter where you live,
you have the same
opportunity
in choice and price
that you would have
if personally selecting
in our great store.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Two-Bar BROOCH,
Opal and Four Pure Diamonds, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Lyre BROOCH,
Pure White Pearls, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold PIN.
Pearls and Rubies,
15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Set. Gold CROSS,
6s 6d.
Larger,
7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Half Chased Bamboo BRACELET, with
Safety Chain attached, £2 15s. Smaller, £2 ss.
Plain, 255, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Ruby
or Sapphire, 20s.
Pure Double. £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold
Pearl Set
WISHBONE,
10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Spray
BROOCH.
Pearls and
Turquoise,
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Two-Heart
RING,
Opals and Four
Pure Double Cut
Diamonds. £4 10s.
L««dW«ch
Thi
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mizpah
HEART CHARM. 8s 6d.
Smaller, 5s 6d, 6s 6d.
A.
SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Pin
Chain and Wishbone
CHARM, 7s 6d.
Smaller. 5s Gd.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Floral Spray and Crescent NECKLET, Set Fine Pure White Pearls, £4.
Heart or Lyre Centre same price. Complete in Silk-Lined Case.
Other Styles. £4 10s, £5 10s, £6 10s, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Circle
BROOCH,
Set Pure Pearls and
Turquoise, £2 ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Bee BROOCH.
Pure Pearls and Opal Body, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Ribbon
BROOCH, Set Pearls
and Turquoise, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Pin and
New Zealand
Greenstone
CHARM, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Five Fine
Pure Opals, £2 10s.
Extra Quality Opals,
Larger, £3.
*O5
fopSS
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold
“Dinna Forget”
CHARM. 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Two-Bar Pure Double Cut Diamond
BROOCH, £2. Larger Diamond, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Horseshoe
and Stone Set Heart
CHARM, 8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Extra Heavy
HAND CLASP, 255.
15et. Gold, £2 10s.
18ct. Gold Half-Hoop
Five Pure Double Cut
Diamonds, £4 10s.
Larger Diamonds,
£5, £t> 10s, £7 10s,
£8 10s, £lO 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Marquise
RING, Diamonds
and Rubies
or Sapphires, £6 10s.
Larger, £7 10s,
£8 10s. £lO. £l2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Zealand Greenstone HEART PENDANTS,
Gold Mounted, 10s 6d. Larger, 12s 6d.
Smaller, ss, 7s 6d, 8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Four Pure
Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires,
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold
Pure Double
Cut Diamonds
and Rubies,
or Sapphires, £l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mounted New Zealand Greenstone Bar BROOCH,
15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Signet RING,
20s.
15ct. Gold, £2.
18ct. Gold. £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Envelope
CHARM. 12s 6d.
Post Card, 10s Od.
Silver, 4s 6d.
SPECIAL,
15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong, Reliable, Knockabout WATCHES,
8s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s.
Our “Guard,” 15s. Our “Railway,” 20s. All
Guaranteed.
SUPERIOR,
17s 6d
ķ
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Heart and
Dumbbell LINKS, 12s 6d.
15ct. Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold ALBERTS, Single or Double, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £4 10s, £6. 15ct. Gold, £5 10s, £6 10s,
£7 10s, £B, £lO, Solid Silver, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d,
15s, 17s 6d. Gold Filled, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold BRACELET, Pure Double Cut Diamonds
and Rubies or Sapphires, £3.
15ct. Gold. £4 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold Oval
LINKS. 255.
15ct. Gold, £2, £2 10s.
Initials Engraved Free.
SOLID
SILVER,
£2.
m
I m
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Hunting Keyless LEVERS
£2 £2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, £5. Patent
Gold Cases, £4 4s, £5 ss, £6 10s. Solid
Gold, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5. £2O.
GOLD
CASED,
£4 4s
A. SAUNDERS
( SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER, )
[ SILVERSMITH, and OPTICIAN, j
809, 811, 813, 815, 817
GEORGE-STREET,
Opp.
Railway
Station,
Sydney.


wm
%
mti
.
V
:
■m
. ■
. .
' .
V.-.- v
.
A*.!
%
4
4
■r-o
Wm
\
\ •
81*181
;
f ■ 3 : b
■
.
r j
■
'4r SJ
■
4 »
'
*#
f
' ' ‘ ■ 1.. . - • # .
’
y » v> •
.. • • . •
m
■
fei-j
- : ■
i
Wm
is
. ■
Ii s w *<
■
* w
i«P* :
'
<(
Hurry up, sonny! I’m dying for a smoke—but
be sure you bring me HAVELOCK. ! ”


a
D
&
smmk
am
f .a
m.
'
v;i'&Kte> ■
: :«1
K
*'l * %
’■": : ' :■'■ fj&ylsll&va
: |gi§- •
Im
Ml
4P$gJHs
ggiliP
■isgtfjg
•jM'-
2ssG
||
££■?£
jigl
M--
S&S
ili
|rai
L
ISk
Esft
r.'.r-
-%
A
m
ft£Y
v;"
lny
1-^‘v^
£*■-;••. . / '^-
5 ®
if&i:
i®
mm
SgSp
Sjssg
IS
H
11 ■
MRftb v
P-- i t &- > «s&&,¥.;
Bsa
s*§
fM«<sei^Sas
hhh
...
B B
mi
*syi!s
P&i
• i
■ ':'. :;; V':
,'IX-W
S~i'
Yte*
&£
tStT.'l
ggs^mis
«PP
Mil
i*&Si
s#i|llPf®i§
i-;<s: ( ,‘2>
\ ' rt
w&M
' ©
MMM
s
Absolutely the Best on the MarKet.
MADE BY AUSTRALIANS IN AUSTRALIA FROM
THE FINEST AUSTRALIAN MATERIALS.


pRINCESS'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
LAST NIGHTS of the Magnificent Production by
Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON’S GRAND AUSTRALIAN
COMIC OPERA CO. of Jacques Offenbach’s Celebrated
Romantic Military and Spectacular Opera Bouffe,
LA FILLE DU TAMBOUR MAJOR.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
Amusements.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee J. C. WILLIAMSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
BLAND HOLT and his
-FAVORITE COMPANY OF DRAMATIC ARTISTS
in a Complete Representation of the Up-to-Date
Russo-Japanese War Drama,
BESIEGED IN PORT ARTHUR.
SAT. EVENING NEXT, MAY 5, THE PRODIGAL SON.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s and is.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Direction of
CLYDE MEYNELL- and JOHN GUNN.
EVENINGS, at 8. MATINEE, WED. and SAT.
The Phenomenally Successful Play,
THE FATAL WEDDING.
HUNDREDS TURNED AWAY NIGHTLY !
Plan at Elvy’s. Day Sales at White Rose.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ ■ Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVENINGS, at 8. WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON, at 2.
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS of
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
THE ORCHID.
The Brightest of all the Gaiety Successes.
Box Plan at Paling’s. t'W PRICES AS USUAL.
l A LAC E
THEATRE,
SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING, at 8,
Mr. GEORGE STEPHENSON’S
ENGLISH MUSICAL COMEDY COMPANY,
in Alfred Hill’s Dlightful Work,
A MOORISH MAID.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. . PRICES—4s, 2s 6d, and Is.
AST WEEK OF
WIRTH BROS.’
GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
PRINCE ALFRED PARK, EXHIBITION GROUND.
THE GREATEST CIRCUS AND MENAGERIE OF
TRAINED WILD ANIMALS EVER SEEN
IN AUSTRALIA.
SEE THEM NOW OR NEVER.
POSITIVELY LAST THREE NIGHTS !
GRAND FAREWELL PROGRAMME.
LAST GRAND MATINEE, SATURDAY NEXT, at
3 p.m. Children Half-Price everywhere.
PRICES—3s, 2s, Is. Reserved Chairs at Paling’s, 4s.
Children Half-price, except to Gallery.
Grand Benefit Performance in aid of the “ Thirlmere
Home for Consumptive Women ” on FRIDAY, MAY 4.
COUNTRY TOUR of the
FISK JUBILEE SINGERS
AND THEIR GREAT
THAUMATURCIC PICTURE DISPLAY.
The finest in Australasia.
The most beautiful picture production put before
the public. *
All subjects instructive and entertaining.
TWO GRAND ENTERTAINMENTS IN ONE.
Each entertainment a treat. Each artist a star.
Collectively acknowledged par excellent for harmony
and finish.
BOURKE, SATURDAY, MAY 5.
BYROCK, MONDAY, MAY 7.
BREWARRINA, WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY, MAY 9, 10.
R. H. COLLINS, Manager.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mr, Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
Emphatic Success of HOMER B. MASON and
MARGUERITE KEELER CO.
LAROLA, the Funny Man with the Funnv Ways.
Enthusiastic Reception of Mr. SLADE MURRAY.
TAMBO & TAMBO, Original Tambourine Spinners.
Miss ALICE RAYMOND and Mr. JOHN KURKAMP.
THE THREE LEES. THE GILBERT SISTERS.
HARRY SADLER. BABY WATSON, FRED. BLUETT
MISS MAY COLLINS, MISS FANNY POWERS, &c. ’
QPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
MR. HARRY CLARK’S RADIUM GIRLS in the
Sensational RADIUM DANCE.
MARTINETTI and GROSSI, Novelty Act.
O’NATIS TROUPE, Algerian Jugglers.
MILES-STAVORDALE MUSICAL QUINTET.
THE CARMOS, Sensational Jugglers.
Plan at Allan’s. it®- PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s. Is.
N
EW THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
NOW IN THIRD WEEK,
Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION in
THE MIDNICHT MAIL.
Reappearance of Miss EUGENIE DUGGAN.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand.
|_|ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ ■ Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
GREAT SUCCESS EVERY EVENING of
MISS TiTTELL BRUME in
DOROTHY VERNON, OF HADDON HAH.
faff- Remember, the LAST NIGHTS in Melbourne.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
BOOMERANG MOUTH ORGANS
THE BEST, SWEETEST, STRONGEST,
AND LOUDEST IN THE WORLD.
“ Professional,” large size 4./-, sitiall size 2/-, post free
“ Boomerang,” large size 2/6, small size I/O, post fres
Sr '«• iff
Trade Supplied.
Edison Gold-Moulded
Records,
Price 1/9 each.
ALBERT & SON,
137 KINO ST., SYDNEY.
Largest Wholesale and Retail Stores
for Music, Musical Instruments,
Violins, Accordeons, etc., Edison
Phonographs and Records.
CATALOGUES FREE. WHOLESALE SUPPLIED.
MY PAL HOMER
I HAVE a pal called Homer—an old Greek bard
is he;
The most poetic roamer this world did ever see !
I stride the promontories with Homer by my side,
And feast upon the glories of sky and cliff and tide !
I love the roaring ocean—old Homer loved it, too ;
The fretted white commotion his soul unto it drew.
It set his song a-rolling—it strung his lyre with joy—
It set old Homer trolling in the restless pubs, of Troy !
I love the good old Homer—the ghost who walks with
mje,
What time the long, grey comber rolls inward from the
sea.
The salt spray stings our faces, big winds chant in the
West,
When lordly Homer paces with me on mountain crest!
We talk of young Ulysses and Nestor brave and bold—
Of Helen’s honeyed kisses in the gay days of old !
We talk of old King Priam—a good old king was he —
The sort of king that I am in hours of reverie !
We talk of sacks and battles—of Ajax’ rolling car ;
Methinlts his chariot rattles where storms and thunders
are !
Methinks the Trojan forces still wrestle with the
Greeks —
Above the foaming horses the dust of combat reeks.
The Greek ships float in fancy upon the sunset tide —
O could but modern man see those ancient days of pride !
They were the days of daring, as Menelaus observed,
When sea-port towns were flaring and any reason served !
Pallas Athene slumbers, and Hector’s head lies low,
But when I read those numbers my pal penned long ago
I seem to see fair women stand on the walls of Troy,-
With eyes the tears are dim, in for mingled fear and joy !
I seem to hear them weeping, I feel their hot, salt tears—
Their agony comes sweeping across the wrack of years !
The sack of Troy sends shivers adown my modern spine,
( And Hector’s head still quivers in mingled blood and
wine!
I have a pal called Homer—he tells these things to me,
What time the long, grey comber rolls inward from the
sea.
We walk upon the headlands that face the salty south,
And in those misty, dead lands I still see Helen’s mouth !
Good luck to every Paris who strips another’s field ;
Alas, the day afar is of sword and spear and shield !
I like those pagan roamers—they fill my heart with joy—
Those drinky men of Homer’s who stormed the pubs, of
Troy.
Vic.
GRANT HERVEY.
The raking up of records of Melbourne
University, consequent on its jubilee celebrations,
has disclosed the fact that in 1887 some feminine
snob, who naturally desired her name to be kept
secret, offered a scholarship of £4O yearly to women
medical students, open only to those who had
“ never attended a State school.” It is distinctly;
gratifying to learn that the University Council of
the day promptly declined the endowment on
those terms.
The trustees of the rich Berry estate, now
in the hands of the Hay family, have offered to
hand over to the State 16,500 ft. of water frontage
skirting Berry’s Bay, North Sydney, and extend-
ing round to Ball’s Head, conditionally on the
Government undertaking to maintain for ever a
hospital for the use of residents in the Shoalhaven
district. Seeing that the duty of running the
hospitals of the State falls on the Government
in any case to the extent.erf at least half the cost,
the stipulation that an up-to-date institution must
be maintained near Berry looks comparatively
easy, and the State may be considered lucky in
getting its own again on such terms. The old Berry
grant, which is beginning to rival the Cooper estate
in the vastness of the.unearned increment, did
not include the usual 100 ft. reservation on the
foreshores of the harbor, and the estate is now
handing back the foreshores on the basis of a £6
per foot valuation. The property is certainly of
considerable value ; still, any person who tried to
settle on Ball’s Head and other precipitous parts
of the frontage would have to spend a heap of
money to make his water frontage accessible, or
else reach it by ladder or by airship, or else be
content to fall into it from a great height and be
drowned.
“ Vica ” writes :
The strut of the gaudy soldier-man is as nothing beside
that of the University doctor swaddled in garish scarlet
and a scream of yellow. Last week I watched a Uni-
versity reception in Melbourne, where Doctors of Law,
Philosophy, Literature, Medicine, Divinity and Lord,
knows-what were preening themselves on a platform,
W. Anderson’s pantomime was nowhere for barbaric color.
And these are the gentlemen who think themselves the
intellectual salt of the earth, and who laughed with
scorn, when gorged with their University dinner, at the
endeavor of outsiders to bring their barren “culchaw”
into line with modern thought. There is no conceit like
that of the University professor, and when he puts on his
vermilion gown, and his red tassel, and his yellow-striped
stomacher to parade in front of his adoring clique, his
vanity becomes taller than Belshazzar’s palace.
Military discipline, esprit cle corps, pipe-
clay, and several other senses of martial dignity
were violated in Sydney Water Police Court one
day last week. A valiant draper, who omitted to
attend drill on account of an extra rush on his
emporium for something in the nature of sheeting,
was hauled before a minor magistrate to enforce a
fine of £2 for an offence described in the informa-
tion as “ conduct to the prejudice and good order
of military discipline.” The panjandrum who
had fined the draper but couldn’t collect the fine
was quoted as “Reginald Selwyn Smith, officer
commanding the Australian Army Service Corps
Militia, New South Wales.” The draper simply
pleaded that there was a rush for sheeting, or
something like that, and that he had no intention
of paying any fine, and the magistrate threw the
Case, affidavits and all, out of the court. It doesn’t
matter much, perhaps, in time of peace, but in
war time it may be necessary to hang military
drapers who don’t turn up.
If, as seems pos-
sible, Britain has to go to
war with Turkey over
the Sinai Peninsula, Tur-
key should have all the
best of the fight on land.
A nation whose military
resources were strained
to the utmost to meet the
Boer army of 40,000 or
50,000, would have little
chance to withstand Tur-
key’s force of nearly a
million. Victorious on
land, the Turks might,
in reply to a ruined Con-
stantinople, destroy the
Suez Canal. It’s a dis-
mal commentary on Eng- i
land’s military system I
that even against the
Siok Man of Europe it
could put no adequate
army in the field.
Germany is blamed
in England for stirring
up Turkey to make
trouble over the Sinai
Peninsula. It’s the En-
glish fashion now to
blame Germany for every-
thing. A couple of gener-
ations ago the German
was the person who, so i
to speak, swept out offices
and cleaned up drains for
England. He was the
abject in the house of
Europe whose armies
were seldom patriotic
unless they were paid by
foreign gold, and whose
industrial position was
contemptible. Now, by
high Protection and effec-
tive industrial organisa-
tion, Germany has raised
itself up until it is the
foremost military and in-
dustrial powerof Europe, j
and is even preparing to
talk back at England on
the sea. The English- j
man, who has still the
habit of regarding the
German as an office-
sweeping person, can’t
stomach this, and anger
with Germany shows
itself in a disposition to
blame the Teuton for
everything. If King
Edward went out- i
rageously wrong in set-
ting the fashion for the ■
new season’s neck-wear, !
probably it W'ould be at-
tributed to the pernicious
machinations of the
Kaiser. j
The Law had another
bout lately with Percy
Ram age, the rampageous ;
youth who periodically j
plays ninepins with the
Melbourne police. This 1
time it took only four con-
stables to sit on Percy
while he was handcuffed.
Magistrate Panton re-
cognised the inefficacy
of the Law to restrain
Ramage, and merely im-
posed three £1 fines,
remarking that Ramage,
if he wasn’t careful,
would ultimately dance
at the end of a rope for
slaying a policeman.
That is the beauty of the
Law; its “remedy” is
sudden and-sure enough
when the Ramage—or
rather the damage—is
done, but for devising any
sensible plan to prevent
damage—which is the
same thing as preventing
Ramage—it is as hope-
lessly incompetent as
George Reid trying to
define anti-Socialism.
There is wailing in
the camp of the Deform
Leaguers, that curious
crowd of self-satisfied
humbugs which was to
bring about a sort of
Kyabramapootra move-
ment in N.S.W. Every-
where are to be found
branches of this precious
league, and its numbers
are said to be as the
sand on the sea shore;
but the only energetic
members seem to be
those who write to the
press complaining of the
“apathy” of the other members. Last week
“Kernel” Bell, the ancient and rather humorous
U.S.A. Consul, was advertised to speak in
favor of individualism, or against Socialism, or
to expose the fallacies of something or other, and
out of 7500 allegedly paid-up metropolitan mem-
bers of the league only 40 turned out to hear the
aged prophet slay the enemy and drag his remains
round the city till they were even deader than
before.
While the Victorian ’Pootras were listen-
ing to Yes-No babbling about the shameful han-
dicaps that Socialism would put upon the farmers,
one of them had something lying heavy in his
pocket that made him chuckle. He was a Carrutn
farmer, and when Dr. Cherry, of the Socialistic
Agricultural Department, was down that way last
year he strongly advised maize-growing. The
farmers smiled; maize wouldn’t do there, they
said. _ But one of them took the advice of the
Socialistic expert, and chanced 45 acres. It
yielded him 90 bushels per acre, of such fine
tjuality that the Department promptly offered
him 4s. a bushel for his crop, for seed purposes.
That sort of man doesn’t worry about ’Pootra
leagues ; State Socialism, as far as it has gone, has
paid him all right.


ij.
- j
v. -sr;/'
t-t£K'~< *m.
: if C
■M» ;
| -'•:
. .
.
■': ,V'
W:M
C
si
A
.
r
■ .
«L
rm
' ,:::
--
lCr^
v
■ i
1
•*
m r- '
" * .
■
-T
: <*' t;
wMsi
m*.
mmmm
mm
m
wm&, ■<
~ -. *
m
|i§
'
i
stiH
■
Ml
;• * ;
( *„pC\
. v,, %gittjgsgt4sjk
■■ :' , ;'■
-••' '
*
ill
■


THE TWENTY-SIXTH REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS OF
The National Bank of Australasia Limited.
1. The Balance Sheet of the Bank as on 31st March last, and the Profit and Loss Account for the
half year which then terminated, are now submitted to the shareholders.
2. The net profit, after deducting expenses of management and the other items specified in the
Profit and Loss account,
Amounted to .. .. .. . - • • • •
Balance from previous half-year
Deduct note and income taxes in Australia and Great Britain ..
Leaving available ..
which it is proposed to appropriate as follows :
Transfer to Reserve Fund Account (making it £130,000) ..
Dividend at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum on Preference Shares
Dividend at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum on Ordinary Shares
Carry forward
£45,054 3 5
6,49719 0
£51,552 2 5
3,909 19 9
3. During the half year branches have been opened in Victoria at Macarthur, Stratford and
Wangerrip, and agencies at Briagolong, Laver’s Hill, Myrniong and Rivernook. Branches have also
been opened at Wallaroo, in South Australia, and at Broome Hill, Kojonup and Moora, in Western
4. The Ordinary General Annual Meeting will be held at the Head Office of the Company,
Collins-street, Melbourne, on Wednesday, 2nd May, at noon. .
5. The shareholders will be called on to elect two directors on that occasion in lieu of John Grice,
Esq., and Edward Trenchard, Esq., who retire by rotation. There are no other candidates. They
will also be required to appoint two auditors.
By order of the Board of Directors,
JOHN G. ADDISON, Chief Manager.
The National Bank of Australasia Limited,
Head Office, Melbourne, 23rd April, 1906.
BALANCE SHEET of THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
For the Half-Year ending 31st March, 1906
(Including London Office to 24th February, 1906, and Western Australian Branches to 12th March, 1906.)
Dr. Cr '
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
To Proprietors’ Capital-
-30,578 preference shares
paid in money to £lO
per share, £305,780 ;
238,488 ordinary
shares paid up to £5
per share, £1,192,440 £1,498,220 0 0
Reserve fund account.. 120,000 0 0
Profit and Loss account 47,642 2 8
Notes in circulation ..
Bills in circulation
Government Deposits—
Not bearing interest,
£62,674125. 6d.: bear-
ing interest, £523,086
ss. 7d
Other Deposits—
Not bearing interest,
£2,787,084 10s. Bd. ;
bearing interest,
£3,489,341 Is. Id. ..
Interest accrued and
rebate on current
bills
Balances due to other
banks,..
£260,523 2 6
1,683,240 19 10
585,760 18 1
6,276,425 11 9
71,016 5 9
39,583 9 6
£1,665,862 2 8
8,916,580 7 5
£10,582,442 10 1
Contingent liability, as per contra,
£323,412 19s. 3d.
ASSETS.
By Coin, bullion and
cash at bankers ..£1,552,211 17 9
Coined gold in tran-
situ .. .. . 50,000 0 0
Government, munici-
cipal, and other pub-
lic stocks, deben-
tures and funds .. 721,703 14 7
Bills and remittances
in transitu .. .. 1,403,707 13 8
Notes and bills of other
banks 17,047 12 2
Balances due from
other banks .. .. 63,021 7 11
Duty stamps .. .. 3,994 6 2
£3,811,686 12 3
Real estate, consisting- of bank pre-
mises at cost to the bank .. .. 44(5,925 2 4
Other real estate at valuation .. .. 200,395 2 2
Bills discounted and other advances,
exclusive of provision for bad and
doubtful debts 6,123,435 13 4
£10,582,442 10 1
Liability of the old bank, in the form
of a guarantee of certain shire and
municipal debentures (Victoria) sold
in London, and which are being duly
provided for by sinking funds, in
terms of the Act authorising their
issue, £92,600; and liabilities of cus-
tomers and others on letters of
credit and drafts, £230,812 19s. 3d. ;
as per contra, £323,412 19s. 3d.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Expenses at Head Office, 119 branches
and 23 agencies .. .. .. ..£59,878 0 5
Note and income taxes 3,909 19 9
Balance .• 47,642 2 8
£111,430 2 10
By Balance brought forward .. .. .. £6,497 19 0
Gross profits, including recoveries, less
rebate on bills current, interest paid
and accrued on deposits, repairs to
premises and rent 104,932 3 10
£111,430 2 10
ACCOUNT.
RESERVE FUND
To Balance
£120,000 0 0
£120,000 0 0
By Balance last half-year £115,000 0 o
Transfer from'profit and loss .. .. 5,000 0 o
£120,000 0 0
JOHN G. ADDISON, Chief Manager.
NOTE.—The Customary Auditor’s Report and the Directors’ Statement to comply with the
Companies Act, 1896, appear on the Official Report.
The Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assurance Society Limited
263 George Street, Sydney.
LIFE, ACCIDENT AND INVALIDITY ASSURANCE IN ONE POLICY.
ANNUAL PREMIUM for £lOOO, person aged 30, payable at 60 or Death, £39 19s. 4d.
SPECIAL BENEFITS : (1) £2OOO if death takes place as result of accident; (2) £lOOO for Permanent Total
Disablement: (3) £5OO for Permanent Partial Disablement; (4) £6 per week for Temporary Total Disablement;
(5) £1 10s. per week for Temporary Partial Disablement ; and (6) £6 per week for incapacitation through
specified diseases. For full narticulars and conditions call or write for Prospectus. V. H. BAXTER, Res. Sec.
e he PLUM.
Gentlemen,— This razor is superior to any other It is specially tempered,
perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell, and never requires grinding.
Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of edge that
is required to ensure any easy shave, and, having had them in use tor a
number of vears, can testify to their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH
RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “ Plum ” Razor Strop., specially made for this Razor, 7/6.
“Razoleo” Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. Cake.
Single Razor, in strong Leather Case. 10'6; Pair, in beautiful
_ Morocco Leather Case, 21/ a *
Price g; rig ) e p alorj in ivory handle, 15, Pair Razors, Ivory Handles!
in beautiful Case, 30 *
Registered and Sent Post Free to Any Part of the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country, and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
tele Agents— CßAlG A AITKEN, 654 GEORGE STREET, SYDMEY^J
J
MAKES the. SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
rf
&
0
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
NOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
AH Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A 2/6.
MOSQUITOES. Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Agents—Elliott Bros., Sydney; Felton, Grimwade & Co., Melbourne.
WEESBACH
MANTLES *
Made in Australia by Australians for Australians.
“Tie House that Jack built” J
r.
Patent
."y.
vfciHU'V*
iaf'.j' -!
O
-S*s
. 'v
*•
V *
**s V '
x * W»4?V
*a
ri<»
' A . f, •■. \
«»*<>*
&
MS® - *’
-
kO--e*--“
ipw-Ms
1
VSC
BMW
ft
AUK
“ These are the mantles light and strong,
That burn so fcrightand last so long;
See trade mark “ |3”—you can’t, go wrong,
—Used in the house that Jack built.”
Look for the Trade Hark on every article.
WELSBACH Mantles and Fittings can
be had of all Ironmongers & Plumbers.
The UJelsbach tight Company
Have Showrooms at . . .
S'
W
*
o
441 Kent Street, Sydney
230 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
Harrold Colton & Co*, Adelaide
Perry Bros*, Brisbane
Levi Green, Perth, W.A.
THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA,
(INCORPORATED BY ROYAL CHARTER, 1835.)
Paid Up Capital
Reserve Fund - . „ ' ’
(Of which £500,000 is invested in 2\ percent. Consols at 85,
the remainder being used in the business of the hank.)
Reserve Liability of Proprietors under the Charter
£1,600,C00
1,250,000
1,600,000
£4,450,000
SPVFNTV SECOND ANNUAL REPORT of the DIRECTORS of the BANK of AUSTRALASIA, with the ACCOUNTS
for the to 16th OCTOBER, 1905, presented to the Proprietors at the Annual General Meeting held on
Thursday, 29th March, 1906, at 1 o clock.
REPORT.
THF Directors submit to the Proprietors the Balance Sheet as at 16th October last, with the Profit Account for
After providing for rebate on bills current, for British and Colonial rates and taxes,
and for all bad and doubtful debts, the net profit for the half-year amounted to LI3/,451 6s 8&• ■
To this sum must be added £17,103 18s. lid., brought forward from the previo , of I*2 per cent per
£154,555 ss. 7d., out of which the Directors have declared a dividend tor the half-} eai at the rate of I, L p * P
, C and the Directors have further appropriated £30,000 to the Reserve Fund,.and
£ll,OOO in reduction of the cost of Bank Premises. There will then remain £17,555 ss. 7d. to be carried forward to
the next account. , . ~ om-u
The Dividend will be payable, in London and in the Colonies, on the oOtn inst. . , ,
To the office of Superintendent, rendered vacant by the retirement of ) John bawers. the Directors have
appointed Mr. Arnes Hellicar, who has had long and varied experience in the Bank s service, and has the entire confi-
denC sln°ce t the D dlte t ff r the last Report the Bank has opened new Branches at Ballina and Nowra, in New Sopth Wales,
and at Hamilton and Whangarei, in New Zealand, and has closed its Branches at VYinton, in Queensland, and Queen
t 0W 4 Treldneeffie-kreet, London, 19th March, 1906. W. A. M‘ARTHUR, Chairman.
profit ACCOUNT, from 10th APRIL, 1905, to 16th OCTOBER, 1905.
-■ ~ £113,103 18 11
Undivided Profit, 10th April, 1900 on 000 0 0
Less : Dividend, October, 1905 _2__
Profit for the half-year to 16th October, 1905, after deducting Rebate on Billscurrent.it
Balance date (£8042 Us. 10d.), and making provision for all bad and doubtful debts £293,704 19 0
LESS :
I. Charges of Management-
Colonial— _ . , ~ ~
Salaries and allowances to the Colonial Staff, including the Superin-
tendent’s Department and 169 Branches and Agencies ’ .. •• £98,4/0
General Expenses, including rent, repairs, stationery, travelling,tec.
London —
Salaries
General Expenses
£17,103 18 11
5 10
22,898 18 11
9,512
2,924
0 6
8 10
£133,805 14 1
Rates and Taxes-
Colonial
London
£12,636 19 2
.. 9,810 19 1
■ £22,447 18 3
-£156,253 12 4
-£137,451 6 8
Total amount of unappropriated profit
From which deduct 4.q0 non n h
For transfer to Reserve Fund n n
For reduction in cost of Bank Premises u u
£154,555
£41,000 0 0
Leaving available for dividend
.£113,555 5 7
Dr.
BALANCE SHEET, 16th OCTOBER, 1905.
Cr.
LIABILITIES.
Circulation
Deposits
Bills payable and other liabilities
Capital .. .. ..£1,600,000 0 0
Reserve fund .. .. 1,250,000 0 0
(Of which £500,000 is in-
vested in 2£ per cent.
Consols at 85, the re-
mainder being used in
the business of the
bank)
Profit account; undi-
vided balance.. .. 113,555 5 7
£450,854 0 0
16,329,565 2 6
2,319,698 3 4
19,100,117 5 10
2,963,555 5 7
£22,063,672 11 5
ASSETS.
Specie, bullion and cash balances .. £3,981,667 10 10
Loans at call and at short notice .. 2,359,000 0 0
British Government securities .. .. 967,140 12 2
India and Colonial Governments securi-
ties •• 175,980 2 10
7,483,788 5 10
Bills receivable, advances on securities
and other assets .. .. • • .. 14,294,303 14 9
Bank premises in Australia, New Zealand
and London .. 285,580 10 10
£22,063,672 11 5
F. H. BLOGG, Accountant. ». W, JEANS Manager.'
We have examined the Cash and Securities in London, and the London Books, and have verified the transfers
from the several Branches in the Commonwealth and New Zealand, and we beg to report that, in our opinion, the
foregoing is a full and fair Balance Sheet of the Bank, and that it exhibits a true and correct view of the state of the
Bank’s affairs as shown by the books. T /vwr.n j , ...
London, 13th March, 1906. WELTON, JONES and CO., Auditors.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
*Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Week thereafter.
LONDON ... .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &0., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON ' & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
THE
Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the ; Companies Act, 1563.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 113,240 16 0
Reserve(inGovt.Stock,£43,43s) .. 48,000 0 C
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
Ameriqa, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
T~he trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Investedin Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £20,000 0 0
Directors: F. It. Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORItOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
" ’ —THE—
CITY MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
(Established 1879.)
Head Office—HUNTER & BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life Office
in Australia.
Agents Wanted. GEO. CROWLEY, Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Phijp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Hammers: Melbourne, D. Clynk ; Adelaide. W. N.
M‘Farlank ; Brisbane. A. Hamilton H\rt ; Perth.’A.'W.
Farquhar. J. J.ALLEN General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus 131 Pitt St.. SYDNEY.
'—THE—,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,920,210.
Policies Issued 98,461—Assuring £29,270,925.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,503,272.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Batik of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital ... ... _ „ 2,000,000 0 o
Reserve Fund.. ... ... ... .. 1,425,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors ... ... 2,000,000 0 0
Total ... _. .. 5,425,000 0 0
Directors:
The Hon. Charles K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
Auditors:
Harrington Palmer, Esq. Frederick W. Uther, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea-
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through-
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks ; and conducts all. customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the world.
J .RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manager.
The Commercial Banking ('<>:> nany
of Sydney, Limited .
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,100,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,100,000 0 0
DIRECTORS :
G. J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. F. T. Humphery, M.L.C.
Auditors :
A. H. K. Maxwell, Esq. W. L. Docker, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. IL Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
It4>nddn Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane
Directors : F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq.;
lion. II S. Littleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
ami in (jin enslaml.
Agencies throughout the world.
Shipping.
nxr. d. l.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa
Gibraltar. London.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via NEW BRITAIN
NEW GUINEA and MANILA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
*PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons.. 12th MAY.
*PRINZ SICISMUND, 3300 tons.. 9th JUNE.
*WILLEHAD, 4761 tons .. 7th JULY.
*T\vin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities - Maximum Speed.
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney,
the only certain
MOUSTACHE PRODUCER.
CAPILLARINE
Posted (under cover) to any part /
ot Australasia or New Zealand. 1
Sons Agents— PRICE 10/6
CRAIG and AITKEN,
N. 8. W. Barber’* Supply House,
CB4 George Street, SYDNEY
ĸ
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetoivn, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SOPHOCLES
•MILTIADES
MORAVIAN
R. M'Killiam
T. F. Spalding
A. Simpson
Noon. May 19
Noon, June 2
Noon, June 30
•Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os. to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application,
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
mmm
PLYMOUTH and LONDON' via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
PERSIC, to Sail on or about
12th MAY,
RUNIC, MEDIC, AFRIC,
and SUEVIC to follow.
FARES— Capetown .. .. £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 5
Only One Class of Accommodation-
Pamphlets, Timetables , and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety find Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
QCEA.NTIC S.S. Co. -A.. & _A. LINE (via SAN FRANCISCO).
THREE-WEEKLY FAST MAIL SER.VIOE run in conjunction with the Most Luxuriously Equipped Trains'
and Atlantic Steamships in the World.
SHORTEST LINE FASTEST TIME TO
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN AND EUROPE.
fares to any destination as cheap as any other first-class line.
SV77 PW- 7 VEN TV„ RAi ® 2OO TONS. SAILS MONDAY, JUNE 11.
For Full Particulars and Illustrated Matter , send or apply to
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
. CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
WINTER
BOOKING- PLANS for the
“Moresby’s” three Winter
Cruises, on Mat 7, July 7,
and September 7, are now
open. On each trip she will
be away about 53 days, and
will visit the Solomon
Islands and S.E. New
k
CRUISING.
Guinea, calling at Brisbane
both ways. This cruise will
cost you £25 —there are no
extras; your home on the
ship the whole time. Will
you send us your address,
so that we. can post
“ Holiday Hints ” ?
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
Banking. Public Companies. &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—
FAIR, INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
&
■aaxKnoosia
sins
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
nxr.s.'W.
fllont de pete Co.,Ctd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
arid 17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The j{oyal Bank of Queensland
LIMITICJD. **
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £457,538 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 175,812 10 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 66,000 0 0
£699,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Kdwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
17 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.'
NEXT SAILINGS—
May 14, June 11, July 9.
To England
via
Canada.
An Attractive Journey
all the way.
SSft Send for Illustrated Pamphlets Furnished Free.
*.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT. General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG; V
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
■ Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter),
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Sheei of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
X
New York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
FIRE HAS IMP TERRORS!
CAPITAL, £1,900,000.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £500,030.
ANNUAL REVENUE, £300,000.
Fire has NO terrors that Fire
Insurance hannot quell.
Put the South British on guard!
GEO. 11. MOORE, Manager.
CHAS.-T. METCALFE, Assistant Manager.
™ e South British
PIRE and MARINE INSURANCE CO.,
12 Bridge St, Sydney .
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO7
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian
Viotorian and Queensland Ports.
FOE MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Yongala, May 16.
.
S.S. Wollowra, May 18.
BRISBANE, 1
MAC KAY,
TOWNSVILLE, f
And Ports North to Oairns. I
S.S. Yongala, May 9.
S.S. Marloo, May 12.
liest, and Cheapest Ho ate to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
trench Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
tor further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
Hotels.
PETTY’S HOTEL,
SYDNEY
decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will be
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed,
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET
C. W. CUPIT, Manager.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every omtor and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS.
Queen’s Mansions, a to 5 Beacon3field Parade
ST. HILDA.
T H F' largest and best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than'.icensed hotels. City, J-hour
oy tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107. Windsor.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
THE (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Motel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con>
venient and Healthy Locality,
ilodern Appointments. Hoderate Tariff.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Rai way Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
Public Companies, &c. ~ '
The Bank of |)orth fiueen¥and
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner Ceorge & Bridge Streets.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
CAPlTAL—Authorised .. £700,000
.... Paid-up. .. .. £lOO,OOO
Uncalled . .. “250,000
Reserved Fund .. \ 20,000
(Invested in Government Stock) J £370,000
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
CO. Limited).
MEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000.
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks ..
Rates Very Low.
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
THOMAS M.TINLEY, Manager.


“P.N.” : Melbourne University has been
inquiring anxiously about its lost foundation stone,
and at last, by the aid of a very ancient person
who helped to build the halls of learning m the
’50’s., it has been found, obliterated under the soil
and vegetation of half a century. Australia is
dotted over with lost, disused and forgotten founda-
tion stones. Where, by the way, are all the
foundation stones of Sydney’s new Parliament
House —the one that never happened ? And
where are the men who laid them ? And where is
the money that was supposed to be put under
them, and the liquor that was consumed over
them?
“ T.D.” : I met the new arrival from Aus-
tralia at a convivial gathering in London just
after the Keir Hardie crowd had made Britain
recognise that Giles and Hodge and Bill and plain
John were at last to be reckoned with. He held
the fort, as the new-chum Australian generally
does until he discovers that a loose tongue collects
no gold. “ I told people out there what it would
be if they let the blessed Labor party get hold,”
he remarked. “I said everything would go to
the dogs, and Australia wouldn’t be fit to live in,
and my word, it’s about the rottenest hole under
the sun now Watson and all those fellows have
taken things in hand.” I’ve heard so much of
that kind of thing from alleged Australians in
England that I just let things rip, until a few
minutes afterwards I heard him relating with
great gusto how he had taken the Victorian
Government down in the early nineties by a deal
in land, which was required for public purposes,
and which he sold to one of the departments for
four times what it was really worth. He had been
rioting on the profits of that transaction ever since.
Then came my turn, and I asked the gentleman
whether the Labor party had ever been known to
connive at or tolerate land swindles, also whether
any big land-swindlers and land-boomers had ever
belonged to the working man element which was
now ruining Australia. Likewise I inquired
whether he was going to pay back his illicit
gains. from that land transaction. The listening
Britishers merely gaped when another Australian
“ patriot ” subsided, and sat miserably in the
corner by himself, and wondered why he hadn’t
held his tongue.
Two Splendid Novelties
THE *• ENCHANTED BOTTLE.’ ’
Won’t Lie Down.
A WONDERFUL TRICK.
With this wonderful, splendid little
Trick you can have no end of amusement
amongst your friends. Consists of a
nicely-finished Papier Mache Bottle,
which you lay down on the table or any
other flat surface ; then,
passing it to a friend,
you tell him to do the
same. He tries, but can-
not. Try as long as he
will, it will be impossible
for anyone but yourself
to lay that bottle down.
mm
; ts'-i
Why? Ah, that’s the secret which you alone possess.
The Trick with full directions how to use, will be sent
anywhere on receipt of Bd. in stamps.
THE SQUIRT SKULL.
ĸ
Also a splendid little
Novelty, and will cause
lots of fun and roars of
laughter. Made of
Rubber, enamelled to
resemble a ghastly
skull. It is previously
filled with water, and, on showing' to a friend, is squeezed,
with the amusing' result that he gets an unexpected
charge of water in his face. Only Bd., post free.
Also in stock :
TRICK MATCH BOXES (full, yet empty), 9d.
TRICK CIGARETTE CASES, Is. 2d.
THE GREAT WIZARD CARD TRICK, Id. per pack.
THE WONDERFUL DICE TRICK (How to force a
Dice right through a.hat), Is. 2d.
i J&c., &c. All Post Free.
A PACKAGE, containing the WHOLE OF THE ABOVE
ARTICLES, will be sent anywhere on receipt of 4s. 6d.;
and if three packages are ordered we will present, ABSO-
LUTELY FREE, a most mystifying puzzle, THE MYS-
TERIOUS CROSS, which will try the patience of you and
your friends. Ordered separately, the price is 6d. posted.
A. J. SMITH & CO., 6 Moore St., Sydney.
BUILD YOUR OWN BOAT
By the BROOKS SYSTEM.
If you can drive a nail and cut out a piece
of material from a fuil-sized pattern—you
can build a canoe—row-boat —sail-boat—or
launch—in your leisure time—at home, and
the building will be a source of profit and
pleasure.
All you need are the patterns, costing: from
10s. up, and materials, from £l. The tools are
common in every household. Patterns of over
40 styles and sizes—all lengths from 12 to 55 ft.
The Brooks System consists of exact-size
printed paper patterns of every part of the
boat—with detailed instructions and Working
Illustrations showing each step of the work—
an itemised bill of material required and how
to secure it.
Over 6000 amateurs successfully built boats
by the Brooks System last year. Fifty per
cent, of them have built their second boat.
Many have established themselves in the boat-
manufacturing business.
Catalogue and particulars free. For Is.,
100-page catalogue containing valuable
information for the amateur yachts
man, showing several working illus-
trations of each boat, and a full set for
one boat. Full line of knock-down
and completed boats.
Brooks Boat Mfg. Co
Originators of the
Pattern System of
Boat Building,
Bhip Street,
:> »
r
5**
k
DSNIJtKWXMHBM
W'-r-i/v-- j/Vr jij
iHv r (jai^> jou^
ip-**
srxsr,
amp
V VlOjJ
WPS
NICOLE—*-
UNIVERSAL RECORPS
Of the World’s Greatest Artists, Bands and
Orchestras. lOin. and 7in. Records, will fit
any and every Disc Talking Machine.
ABSOLUTELY UNBREAKABLE.
NKOLEPNONE&
TWO SPECIAL
INSTRUMENTS
The Colonial,
The New Standard*
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE FREE on application.
W. G. KING,
agent. 316 George St
SYDNEY.
HOULDER BROTHERS & CO., Ltd.
Passengers Booked to STEAMSHIP OWNERS, FREIGHT CONTRACTORS,
All Parts of the World. SHIP, INSURANCE & CHARTERING BROKERS.
THE HOULDER LINE STEAMERS. for Conveyance of
Passengers, General Cargo, Frzzcn Produce, &c.
To and from AUSTRALASIA, AFRICA, LONDON, LIVERPOOL, GLASGOW, &c.
Steamer. Tons.
HORNBY GRANGE .. 3,750
OVINGDEAN GRANGE 3,700
URMSTON GRANGE 6,600
LANGTON GRANGE 9,200
DRAYTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10,000
ELSTREE GRANGE 6,000
ROYSTON GRANGE 6 330
Steamer. Tons
BEACON CHANGE 6,300
RIPPINGHAM GRANGE 9,200
OSWESTRY GRANGE (Twin Sciew) .. .. 10,000
THORPE GRANGE .. 6,350
HAVERSHAM GRANGE 11,200
EVERTON GRANGE (Twin Sen w) .. .. 11,000
SOUTHERN CROSS 7,300
First, Second and Third Saloon Cabins situated Amidships. Excellent Cuisine. Electric Light.
For full particulars, apply at the OFFICES OF THE COMPANY, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
12 Pall Mall, S.W., London. 14 Water-street, Liverpool. 30 Gordon-street, Glasgow. 337 Calle Ouyo, Buenos
Aires. 446 Calle San Martin, Rosario, Gran Dock, Ensenada, La Plata. Capetown and Durban, South Africa.
Head Office: 146 Leadenhall-street, London, E.O.
HARDY’S
ķ
TINTARA
WINES. .
700 Prizes.
Sydney, Melbourne} and Adelaide.
THE COCOA OF THE OLD COUNTRY.'
> - - .
iwm
ilKlC
<22
(ADBURYS
(OCOA
It is the purest aivd n\ost ecoivonvical
cocoa irvuse. It’s aicest too.
JMNCff sa/s :-‘Cadbur/s /s the < Standat'd of highest purity.\
DINNEFORD'S
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS]
MAGNESIA]
MAGNESIA
By Royal
Warrant to
ĸ
His Majesty
The Kin£.
BOVRIL
is guaranteed the product of the finest Ox Beef.
A small quantity of BOVRIL added to Soups ( Curries, Stews, &C.,
increases their nutritive value and improves their flavour.
SORE
SINGLE TON'S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORB AND WBAK BYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES*
A CERTAIN REMEDY
k
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
ISi ELVER FAIL.S.
Ask youp Chemist for the Little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
To soothe
the Skin, ;
smarting under the heat ot a
burning sun, and to remove the
effects of perspiration.
CALVERT’S
Prickly=heat Soap
is specially adapted. Though indispensable
in cases of Prickly-heat (whence its name)
and other irritation of the skin, it is also
popular for general bath and toilet use, being
pure, antiseptic, and refreshing.
Sold by all local Chemists and Stores,
in bars and tablets.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
England.
Visitors to Melbourne Xt.T
Neale's Temperance Hotel
(Tankards)
LONSDALE STREET (Next Law Courts;
is the handiest place to stay at. Being’ close to Railway
Stations, Theatres and Wharves ; and three minutes’ walk
from G.P.O. Bedrooms on Ground Floor if desired.
Board and Residence, 4s. 6d. per day; or from £1 per
week. Telephone 1640.
DUNKLING’S
WATCHES
Are Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee Is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronographs
'S
N*
fesj
No. I—Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Guaranteed 2 Years,
£2 10s, post free. With Silver Case, £3 15s.
No. 2—Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, with Minute Re-
corder (as illustration), Guaranteed 3 Years, £3,
post free. Silver Case, £4 lOs.
No. 3—Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
25 Jewels, Split Seconds, with Minute Recorder,
Guaranteed 3 years, £7 10s, post free. Silver
Case, £lO, Open-face or Hunting.
Warranted to be the Best and Most Serviceable
Racing Watches made.
Sent Post Free and Duty Paid to any Address in
Australia.
W. DUNKLING,
315-317 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
R»0
BOSISTO’S
“PARROT
BRAND
EUCALYPTUS OIL
and REFUSE
\SUBSTITUT£^
ķ
TEN DAYS' FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
Money in full refunded without qui stion
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
cycles, warranted six years.
MODELS £2.10 to £6
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or. Clincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Him
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
Packed and Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee safe
delivery.
Second-Hand Cycles
I £1 to £2.10
good as new, ...
Great factory clearance sale at naif factory prices.
EARN A CYCLE mach?ue. Agent*
wanted in each district. Large profits easily made. Write at once for
free catalogues and our special offer, using sufficient postage;
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, dec., half pr* ce*.
MEAD CYCLE CO. Dept. »39
UYERPOOL. LONDON AMD CHICAGO.
200


CAPT. GRAHAM'S
GRATITUDE
Suffered from Sores on Face and Back
—Doctors Took His Money But Did
No Good —Skin Now Looks Clear
as a Baby’s.
ANOTHER CURE BY
CUTICURA REMEDIES
Captain W. S. Graham, 1321 Eoff St.,
Wheeling, W. Va., writing June 14, ’O4,
says: “lam so grateful I want to thank
God that a friend recommended Cuti-
cura Soap and Ointment to me. I suf-
fered for a long time with sores on my
face and back. Some doctors said I had
blood poison, and others that I had
barbers’ itch. None of them did me any
good, but they all took my money. My
friends tell me my skin now looks as clear
as a baby’s, and I tell them all that
Cuticura Soap and Ointment did it.”
STILL ANOTHER CURE
Neck Covered With Sores, Hair
Fell Out, Wild With Itching
Mr. H. J. Spalding of 104 W. 104th St.,
New York City, says: “For two years
my neck was covered with sores, the
disease spreading to my hair, which fell
out, leaving an unsightly bald spot, and
the soreness, inflammation, and merciless
itching made me wild. After a few appli-
cations of Cuticura the torment subsided,
the sores disappeared, and my hair grew
thick and healthy as ever.”
AND STILL ANOTHER
“ For over thirty years I suffered from
painful ulcers and an eruption from my
knees to my feet, and could find neither
doctors nor medicines to help me, until
I took Cuticura which cured me in six
months, (signed) M. C. Moss, Gaines-
ville, Tex.”
Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Pill, are sold throughout the
■world. Depots: London, 27 Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, £ Hue da
la I’aii; Australia, R. Towns Sc Co., Sydney. Potior Drug &
Chem. Corp., Boston, TJ. S. A., Solo Props.
rarSend for “ How to Cure Every Humour." Mailed Free.
Tl\e Very First
= Polish =
is the polish that is given to ladies’ and
children’s shoes by HAUTHAWAY’S
Peerless
Gloss
which is known the world over as the
finest shoe-polishing preparation ever pro-
duced. Not only does it polish better than
any other polish, but it is good for the
leather—softens it, makes itcomloriab e to
the foot, and has such protective and pre-
servative qualities that shoes upon which
it is used last much longer than they
otherwise would. Not sticky, but p’e’sant
to use, and gives a gloss of great bri.liance.
Sold at all Boot Stores.
Be sure to ask. for Ha u thaw ay’s.
C. L. Hauthaway & Sons, 346, Congress
Street Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
' I
mm
QUEENSLAND BRANCH
Colonial Mutual Building',
next 0.P.0., Brisbane.
Victoria, S.A. and Ta 3.—•
NORMAN BROS.
58 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
i
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth.
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks-
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
ence.
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Looks.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for EvKurTiilNG.
Australian Users now num-
bered by the hundreds.
.Of course you hare System
■ in vbiir office HUT IS li
PERFECT?
lias it occurred to you tliat
it might be improved
upon.
Til INK IT OVER!
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Write for Catalogue.
IOHN SANDS, 374 George St,, Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent
/C
”'Z\ K'mw
43
r»
tX/Xi'*”
HEALTHY
CHILDREN.
Children’s ailments nearly
always arise from a derange-
ment of the stomach and
I bowels. A gentle laxative
is needed.' California Syrup
of Figs, “ Nature’s Pleasant
Laxative,” gently and
comfortingly relieves and
cleanses the system and
strengthens the organs acted
upon. It is so agreeable in
flavour that a child accepts
it eagerly.
It is an ideal household
and nursery remedy, as
truly beneficial to adults
as to children. Mothers,
nurses, and those who have
the care of children know
what California Syrup of
Figs will do when there is
a tendency to costiveness
and the little ones become
fretful and out of sorts.
California
Syrup "Figs
NATURE'S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.
Of all Chemists, in two sizes.
CALIFORNIA FIQ SYRUP CO.,
33 Snow Hill, London, Eng.
N.s.w.: 7
Barrack Street,
Sydney.
Wonderful Electric Torches.
Only Bs. 6d.
IT will give a most marvellous and blight light for a
1 distance of over 200 feet, simply by pressing the
Button. Made of convenient size, its length being only
61 inches.
Our ELECTRIC TORCHES are fitted with the
BEST BATTERIES IN THE WORLD,
viz., Rosewood’s Electrolyte Battery, which we guarantee
will give a brighter light, last twice as long, and more
satisfaction in all respects than any other, size or price
notwithstanding.
Bear in mind our Torches are not to be compared with
the innumerable cheap grades now on the market. The
Battery given with our Torch will last AT LEAST SIX
MONTHS, when fresh ones can be obtained from us. The
Battery is sent out uncharged so that there is no possi-
bility of any loss of current during transit. The charging
is a very simple, yet interesting process, printed direc-
tions being sent.
Hundreds in use all over the world. We have never
known one to go out of order. Write for one to-day,
and you will never be without it. Think what a boom it
will be to you, going from room to room, or getting up at
nights, on going lonely walks, and there are dozens of
other uses which suggest themselves to you, which you
never dreamed of. EVERY LAMP GUARANTEED. No
other firm will do this.
PRICE, complete, Bs. 6d., post free to any address.
Extra Batteries 2s. 9d. Other Torches in stock, superior
finish, 10s. 6d., 17s. 6d. and £l.
ELECTRIC POCKET LAMPS, 4 x 2i x lin., 3s. 9d. and
7s. 6d. post free.
A. J. SMITH & CO., 6 Moore St., Sydney.
Henry Skinner,
Clarejdon-st., South Melbourne!
Telephone No. 10hS. .^CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered tor
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
PASTORAL ACCOUNTS
AUDITED AND KEPT.
LOANS NEGOTIATED.
ALEX. JOBSON, A.I.A.
Public Accountant, 90 Pitt St., Sydney.
(late Actuary for Australasia for the Equitable Life of
the United States.)
Liver Disease Cao Be CCired
From Mr. Charles Newson, 7 Taylor-street, Surry Hills, Sydney, 10th March, 1905.
“For three years I suffered from liver complaint, dizziness in the head, spasmodic pain in the
upper part of the abdomen, sick headache, frequent vomiting of bitter matter, accompanied by a feel-
ing of depression and a disinclination for exertion. I was induced to try Warner’s Safe Cure, and,
after taking that medicine, 1 was promptly relieved from all pain. Since then, my health has been
most satisfactory.
From Mrs. Margaret Doig, 60 Helen-street, Northcote, Vic., 25th February, 1905.
“For nearly three years, previous to a few months ago, I was afflicted with liver and kidney
trouble in a very severe form. I suffered intense pain in the back and under the shoulder blades, and
there was a sense of weight and pain in the region of the liver. I also had indigestion and other
symptoms of general ill-health. Nothing seemed to give me relief until I took Warner’s Safe Cure,
and then I got relief from the first bottle I took. I continued to take Warner’s Safe Cure and
Warner’s Safe Pills for some time longer, when all traces of the complaint left me, and there has been
no return of it up to the present; in fact, my health has been most satisfactory in every respect.”
From Mr. Robert White, Fitzroy-street, Rockhampton, Q., 11th March, 1905.
“My wife suffered from very severe bilious attacks. She had medical advice, but derived no
benefit from the treatment. Having myself had experience of the value of Warner’s Safe Cure, I
persuaded her to try that medicine. After taking two bottles of Warner’s Safe Cure and a phial of
Warner’s Safe Pills she was completely restored to health. I can heartily recommend Warner’s Safe
Cure and Warner’s Safe Pills to anyone suffering from biliousness.”
From Mr. Cecil Thompson, 17 Womerah Avenue, Rusheutters’ Bay, Sydney, N.S. W., 9th March, 19C5*
“Two years ago I had serious disease of the liver, indigestion, dizzy headaches, and great pain in
my chest and stomach. I tried various remedies to obtain relief, but without succeeding. I was
nearly in despair, when I happened to see a pamphlet which was left at my house, containing a num-
ber of letters from people, who, after suffering in a similar way to myself, had been cured by taking
Warner’s Safe Cure. So I thought if it would cure others, why should it not cure me, and resolved to
give it a trial. I did so, with the happy result that, in a few weeks, I was quite cured and in the
enjoyment of good health. Since that time I have been quite free from the complaint.”
From the Rev. H. E. Lewin, Warrnambool, Vic., 14th July, 1904.
“lam thankful to say that I believe your medicines (Warner’s Safe Cure and Warner’s Safe
Pills) have completely cured the biliousness from which I suffered so long. I am now in the best of
health. I hope many others will derive the same benefit from your medicines as I have.”
From Mrs. A. M‘Donald, 52 Comber-street Paddington, Sydney, N.S.W., 7th March, 1905.
“ I suffered from liver complaint and indigestion, and, as I grew older I became a martyr to it.
After every meal I had a sense of oppression at the chest, and was troubled by severe pain in the back
and under the shoulder-blades. I was reduced to a condition of great weakness ; I dreaded to stoop
to pick up anything, as stooping made me feel quite faint and dizzy. For years I suffered in this
way, and could get no relief till Warner’s Safe Cure was brought to my notice. A course of that
medicine not only gave me great relief, but I believe has added years to my life, for I now feel a great
deal younger, I can now eat and sleep well, the pains and dizziness have all left me, and lam in the
best of health.”
From Mr. Albert Ross, 53 Oxford-street, Paddington, Sydney, N.S.W., Bth March, 1905
“Having taken Warner’s Safe Cure for liver complaint and dyspepsia, I am glad to add my testi-
mony as to its value. For about eight months I suffered intense pain in the shoulders, chest, and
other parts of the body. There was nearly always a sense of fullness and oppression after meals ;in
fact, nearly everything I ate gave me great pain. Talking to a friend about my trouble, he advised
me to get a bottle of Warner’s Safe Cure, as he had himself derived great benefit from taking it. I
followed his advice, and was soon relieved. I believe lam permanently cured, as I have had no
return of the symptoms since that time.”
From Mrs. E. Limpus, 78 Cantonment-street, Fremantle, W.A., 6th October, 1904
“For many years I suffered from disease of the liver, which caused great physical prostration and
mental depression. After suffering all that time, on the recommendation of.a friend, I decided to
take a course of Warner’s Safe Cure. lam pleased to say that the good effects were apparent almost,
immediately after I commenced to take the medicine, and since that time my health has been most
satisfactory.”
A treatise containing valuable diet directions will be sent, post free, by H. H. Warner and Co‘
Ltd., Australasian Branch, Melbourne, Victoria. [3.
J
*
A
BELLEVUE HOTEL,
; ] George and Alice Sts., BRISBANE
(adjoining Parliament House, Queensland Club, and the
Botanical Gardens).
HOTEL OF THE HIGHEST CLASS.
Porter awaits arrival of all Boats and Trains. ■ "
MODERATE TARIFF. ALL MODERN CONVENIENCES.
W. PETERMANN,
Also at Toowoomba. (late of Lennon’s), Proprietor.
Business, Robbery, etc.
WORK AND TRADE.
[For The Bulletin.]
It was just a little hut, where well-tended fruit tree
grew,
And the hot winds from the west,
Or the cold winds from the crest
Of the iceberg’s in the South Sea seldom made a passage
through ;
It was many kinds of wood,
Bad, indifferent, and good,
And the roof of bark was pieced and patched to please
the owner’s mood.
But the man who lived within was more happy than a
king,
For he feared no traitor foe
Plotting for his overthrow,
Or capricious subjects grudging or revoking anj'thing.
He had what sufficed for one,
Loving labor in the sun,
And he dreamed of bliss hereafter when his working days
were done.
And beside the city’s harbor where big firms have taken
root,
There’s an agent rich and fat,
With a costly, shining hat,
Who receives the old man’s cases and disposes of his
fruit,
He sends up accounts which show
That the fruit fetched so-and-so—
Just a half of what it truly fetched, as many people
know.
And the agent’s growing richer and more pious with the
y ears,
And he regularly prays
For the old man length of days,
For he likes to deal with people who have no suspicious
fears.
Each is happy in his way,
One’s a rogue, and one’s a jay,
And ’tis combinations such as this that make our com-
merce pay.
N.S.W. Oby.
♦ * * *
The Bulletin has received a letter from a man
who is staying at a hotel at Dawson, Alaska. There is
nothing special about the letter, but the letter-heading is
something unusual: —
SOUR DOUGH HOTEL.
1333 Icicle Avenue.
BEST HOUSE NORTH OF MEXICO. FIRST-CLASS IN EVERY
PARTICULAR. RATES 1 ONE OUNCE PER DAY.
Crap, Chuck Luck, Stud Poker and Black Jack Run
by the Management.
Private Entrance for Ladies by Ladder in the Rear.
Special Rates for Ministers and tjie Gambling “ Per-
fesh.” Every known fluid —Water Excepted—for
sale at the Bar.
Dogs bought and sold. Insect powder for sale at the
Bar. Indians and Niggers charged double.
Dawson, Y.T. Jan. 21, 1906.
* * » *
“ J.F.D.” : A knacker’s yard is a cheerful-
looking place. Was at one on Dead Horse-road, Botany,
recently, and the boss was swearing in large capitals.
“What I can never make out,” he said, “is why the
horses die in fits and starts. We hadn’t one in yester-
day, and here’s seven in this morning, and the ’earse
gone for another.” A poultry farmer loading up with
boiled, horse started to talk about ducks. “A duck is
the biggest cannibal on earth,” he said. “ He’d eat his
father. S’help me, my crowd hears this cart coming-
before I get within a mile of ’ome, and they get up at the
gate, kicking up ahorfulrow, and nudging one another in
the ribs with their bills. If I leave the cart for a moment,
they climb up the shafts and scoff everything in it. I
reckon a duck can eat about four pounds of ’orse at one go.
Two old drakes got a long sinew, the other day, and they
started on it from different ends, and there they were,
walking round the yard, ’ooked together for ’arf a day,
until the old woman cut it in two. Then each one
thought ’e beat the other, and went round telling all the
ducks about it. I heard a parson say all flesh is grass,
and ducks is of that opinion.” The “ hearse ” arrived
then, and the duck-feeder’s horse bucked at the sight of
his deceased brother, and upset all the boiled horse in the
sand. The boss knacker said he was going to dinner, so
I departed, leaving the poultry-farmer shovelling up sand
and horse in equal quantities and throwing them into the
cart. “ That’s one thing about ducks,” he said, “ they’re
not a bit pertikler, and this sand ’ll do their digesters
good.”
• • * *
“ Flabby Paul ” : Reading some remarks about
nerve specialists in previous issues of The Bulletin, I
thought I’d write to one and await results. Got back a
pamphlet with a list of symptoms, and instructions,
if I had one or more of them, to immediately send £1 and
live. There were 96 symptoms mentioned, of which I had
had 91 during the week. I promptly wrote a cheque for
a pound, with a forlorn hope of getting a reply from the
specialist in time. The bank wouldn’t cash the cheque,
so I sat back and awaited my doom. While I waited the
other li\ e symptoms crept slowly over me and I gave my-
self up for lost. The last five symptoms were a craving
for strong drink, irritation (a man just having asked me
to pay what I owed him), elephantiasis, appendicitis and
hydrophobia. This statement is purely voluntary. I
received no money or other consideration and to the
best of my belief it is not true. (I may have had heart
disease but I don’t think so.) Anyhow, I’m prepared to
give an assurance to anyone who cares to write to me,
that I’m still alive and still possess some of the symptoms.
Natural modesty alone prevents me sending you my
photo, for publication.
* * * *
“I was never yet beaten down in my prices,”
said the smart grocer, flicking a fly with the corner of his
apron. “ Oh, yes, it looks as if I was, I allow. They will
want a ha’penny off this and a penny off that, and so on,
and you think they get it because I agree. But they
don’t get it. They never got it once. Unless they' are
buying other things I never come down, and if they buy
other things I simply add to something else what I took
off. Most of us do that now. Easy ? It’s ever so easy.
The party’s so proud at having bested us for a ha’penny
or penny that the increase in another article isn’t noticed.
If I’m very closely watched I shove it on as an error in
counting up the total. I never yet gave in to a customer,
and never will, and I don’t know a man in the trade that
does. Anyway, if there is such a man he needn’t come to
me for a job.”
* * * *
“Stripe”: This party is in trouble about his
acetylene gas and other things, and so he wrote to my
firm
Dear sir, —I want you to write to and tell how we work
the gase out put in letter everything we did still we full
up again out here when he fill it up let its go about goes
up then turn df water and turn it on when he light when
1L o’clock come he put all light inside out one leave all
night and go down turn water off were from vat dont let
pentrat and when I got to hopeing its tis bad air in no
water to work and I you to send me letter and put
down way the we make I hand and top of finger his burn
of I had to get something don’t forget to write by turn
post if you were see my hand it burnt me all long top
finger that him turn of vat and leave the light out no
water to work. So don’t to put everything down from
start to finish dont to forget every thing I will send you
nice present I not nice to be milking with every finger
burned. lam bussy write by turn post don’t forget you
wont if no how I suffer I wont forget you—your friend
PS. you uo address.
* * * *
“Elmore” : In a N.E. Vic. tannery, t’other
day, was shown piles of leather ready for market. Huge
letters and figures, the remnants of old brands, were
scattered on nearly every piece ; and each brand repte.
sented a loss of from 2s. to 4s. a hide. Surely' some cattle-
man can invent a way of identifying his beast without
spoiling the hide. Or if he' must brand, why hot stick
to the less valuable neck ?


w
Fop Racing,
Polo, etc.
X BREEDING STOCK
OF my
THOROUGHBRED PONIES
FOR SALE.
Registered in the General Stud Book and
Polo and Riding Pony Stud Book.
Col. E. N. HENRIQUES
Invites correspondence and inspection at
Mursley Stud, Winslow,
Bucks, England.
HEALTH
WEALTH
BECAUSE
It gives you the comfort that
mere money cannot buy—it
means the clear brain action,
the physical strength, the
bright spirits that fit you to
seek and win fortune.
MOTHER
SEIGEL’S
SYRUP
IS BOTH
HEALTH & WEALTH
BECAUSE
It is the most effective remedy
in the world for the most
widely spread form of disease
—and all the world knows that
IT CURES
INDIGESTION
WHY ?
AERTEX CELLULAR
OPINIONS OF THE BRITISH MEDICAL PRESS
The Lancet. —The idea embodied in the Aertex
Oellular cloth is that of providing ready means
of escape from perspiration as vapor.
British Medical Journal. —Aertex Cellular
cloth affords a free escape to the skin exhala-
tions.
The Hospital. —Aertex Cellular cloth is light,
remarkably warm, and is manufactured on
scientific principles.
The Broad Arrow.— We regard Aertex Cellular
goods as a special boon to officers of both ser-
vices.
The Queen.— Aertex Cellular cloth is porous, so
that all that ought to be eliminated from the
skin is allowed to escape.
The Era. —Aertex Cellular garments promote the
cleanliness of the skin by their non-absorbent
qualities.
Cycling. —ln our opinion there is nothing like the
well-known Aertex Cellular clothing to ward
off King Winter’s chill breath and searching
sting.
Golf.— Aertex Cellular cloth is not only lighter, but
better ventilated than ordinary fabrics, and is
easier to wash.
The Gentlewoman. —It combines lightness
with warmth in a satisfactory manner not
attained by any other material for underwear.
Sole Agents in N.S.W.
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.
94 King Street, Sydney.
xn
Don't
waste time
experimenting.
Thirty Years’
unbeaten and increas-
ing Success is the.
best proof of the claim of
(Mmdge
” £ung Tonic
|to be the WORLD'S CURE[
for Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
and other Throat and
Lung Troubles.
It can b 3 ob ‘ain id fro m
any Chemist or Store,
and Eaves Many
Lives.
The“fieoi flajah”Gold flame Brooehes
Gold Cased. Good Pins.
Any name up to 12 Letters to order—Dinna For-
get, Mizpah, Forget-me-not, Regard, BABY,
Darling, Mother, Good Luck, Pet, 1.0. R.,
C.E., 1.0.G.T., etc. Price only 1/6 each, or
4 names, 5/-. Post free anywhere. Send
Postal Note to STAR NOVELTY CO.
2:9-231 Collins Street, Melbourne.
TljeSe TEA POTS tpak? 3
SPLENPID CUP OF TER!
BUY one for home use or as a Wedding Gift* Nowadays there is
such a demand for Novelties to give at a wedding that the
Everyday Useful Article is quite left out in the cold, and now,
instead of getting half-a-dozen Tea Pots, the probability is the Bride
does not get one. Think of these when next you want a Wedding
Present. They are good value —every one of them. We post them
Free anywhere, on receipt of remittance. Write for our Catalogue.
No. FI2SS. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, 16s Cd
i :
No. Fll6l. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot,
£1 15s
I i
No. E 3763. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, £2
No. F 5099. Full-size Silver-plated Tea l’ot, £2 10s.
1
No. E 3792. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, £2 2s
No. FGI3G. Heavy Solid Silver Tea Pot, Full size,
Handsome Design, £l5 10s. In Best Plate, £2 10s.
No. F 6135. Massive Solid Silver Full-size Tea Pot,
Richly Ornamented, £l3 10s.
M,
No. G 879. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, 17s 6d
re
No. E 7134. Full-size Silver-plated Tea I’ot,
32s Gd
No. 367. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot,
£2 5s
No. F 4387. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, £2 10s.
m
No. 365. Full-size Silver-plated Tea rot, £3 3s
No. E 7090. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot,
£4 10s.
No. F 6137. “Louis Quatorze ” Tea Pot, Very
Massive Solid Silver, £22 10s.
Address all
Your Orders
to . . .
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Auckland, Wellington,
Christchurch, Dunedin, London.
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
After a Bush-Fire.
The garden fair, restored in calm, reposes,
The mended trellis smiles in the embrace
Of Afric’s ivy; and some autumn roses
Cling to the covert with a girlish grace,
Unharm’d’mid all the storm ; each bloom discloses
A heart of gold ; next which the eye may trace
The errant, amorous bee, an ardent suitor,
AVho’d learned his lesson well without a tutor.
The birds return. . . . Rosellas golden-breasted
Dive in the garden-paths, and softly flute ;
The cockatoo, all snow, and sulphur-crested,
Screams as lie skims the field he used to loot,
While the bronzed dove, her gentle foot-sole
rested,
Cooes on the winding path, where coral fruit
Stud the green train, the strawberry trails along,
As magnie-carols fill the air with song.
And blades of grass, like emerald needles thrust-
ing,
Keen-pointed, thro’ Earth’s mantle, black as
night,
Give earnest of green turf where charcoal-crusting
Shuts all the coming verdure from the light,
Much as some envious cloud of salt-sea-rusting
Obscures the glories of a sabre bright.
The fields are green, all Nature smiles again,
And our slab castle here might be in Spain.
VIO.
G.G.McC.
Welly Hot Insi’.
Li Ho conducts a doctor’s trade
AVay out at Bullabri;
His only medicine is made
Of schnapps and seaweed dry,
No matter what
Disease you’ve got,
One diagnosis meets the lot—
AVithout demur,
Li says : “ My wor’,
You welly hot insi’! ”
And mostly, too, he feels you where
The heat’s supposed to lie,
What time he sagely shakes his bare
Old pate, and shuts an eye ;
So Simon Farr,
Of Talbragar,
One day held there a live cigar,
And Li Ho swore,
And said : “ Whaffor?
You plully hot ou’si’! ”
Once unto Li some fellows brought
A swagman, bitten by
A carpet snake, who really thought
His time had come to die.
He’d slowly sunk,
Until he’d drunk
A case of schnapps to cure his lunk—
The cunning Chow
Shuns snakebite now :
“ Too muchee hot insi’ ! ”
You bet, the little township takes
An honest pride.in Li,
And better physic than lie makes
It doesn’t wish to try;
The seaweed tack
Supplies the lack,
Maybe, of greener food out back,
Or else, perhaps,
It is the schnapps
Suits Bullabri’s insi’ !
n.s.vv.
HENRY E. HORNE.
To an Old Playfellow.
I remember the far green hill-top,
Where we clung to the rata vines,
And you climbed to the nesting parrots
In the boughs of the kauri pines;
And the scent of the tutu bushes,
By the bend in the path o’ergrown,
AV here you wove me a necklet of rushes,
As we sat on the “ Bunyip Stone ” ;
And the day that we roamed the terrace,
’Mid the tangle of supple vines,
And the tuis sang on the meros
To the locust’s hum on the pines.
But the wind came out of the forest,
Like a lost soul’s moan in the air,
Till we thought ’twas the great Bush Spirit
AVho would draw us and hold us there.
And the might of our child-hearts failed us,
As we fled from the forest door,
AVith the roar of the pines behind us,
And the known green flats before.
Shrivelled now are the tutu bushes
That we climbed with our light limbs then ;
And the shrine of the hillside echoes
To the clang of the boots of men.
But the mystical pines lean over,
; And their shadows are falling black
'Between one on the trampled highway
i And a chum on an old bush track.
iN.S.W.
!■
LOLA RIDGE.


The first
Essential
for the preservation of the
teeth is to keep them clean by
constant attention at least every morning
and evening.
CALVERTS
Carbolic Tooth Powder
makes the work of your toothbrush so much
more complete and satisfactory, because it
perfects the cleansing and alsb supplies the
necessary antiseptic properties.
It is also delightfully flavoured and
refreshing to use.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
FINNEY, ISLES & CO., LIMITED.
*».
BIG BLOCK SUITS
Machine-made to Measure. In Pure Wool Fancy Tweeds and in Fox’s Indigo-Dye
All-Wool Serges. HONESTLY THE BEST VALUE OBTAINABLE.
Price
40/-
THE
SUIT,
v
l Trousers
12/6
pair
POST OR CARRIAGE FREE to Any Address within the Commonwealth.
Send for Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms, which we shall
be pleased to forward POST FREE ON REQUEST.
BiG TH ß lock, Edward & Adelaide Sts., BRISBANE.
—
GANZ
Turbine Pumps
for mines, water-supply
works, etc., to suit all
kinds of requirements,
are supplied and erected
by the
Austral Otis
Engineering Co-
Cr. Hanna & Kavanagh Streets, South Melbourne.
ft
OSTRICH PLUfIES
FROM OUR FAMOUS FARMS IN SOUTH AFRICA.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, OREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE. (Length, 15 inches).
This style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
■f /
a U/ V
POST FREE
to any address.
The Feathers we offer you cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house. They are the Best Value in
Australia. Write to-day. Send Postal Notes or Money Order
payable to .lohn Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
NATURAL OSTRICH FEATHER BOAS, 21/- Length, 1J yds.
MILLER’S FEATHER
SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
[Mention The Bulletin.]
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Streets, MELBOURNE.
SOME BOOKS
SOLD
BY
SIR
H
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
• Plates. 36 Ohromos. 400 Illustrations. 124 S Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, Unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Book op Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, new 1905 edition,
2s 6d posted. How to Get lticii; Is posted. Da. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, 'ls 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s
Big Horse Book and How to Train the
Horse, Is 6d. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Stolen Sweets, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, Isposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d.’ The Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is post, Is 3d. ’Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
Gii>sy Fortune Telling Cards, Love, Business,
Futurity, &c., with full directions, Is posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is, Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is. 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle's
Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every, Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Eas.v, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Cd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers Handybook, is 3d. Mac-
faddkn’s Physical Training, Is. Elements op Social
Science, 3s (id. On Our New Selection, Us (id. A Life
of Pleasure, ls6d. Lung Complaints, ls6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. All these prices Post Paid.
Don't be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. IHT* Established SO rears,
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT
’ «
Write for my
Bi 9 Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make-Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Thicks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d cost. 1)r. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6a.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
•Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry, Exposed 1906 Edition, Is posted.
•Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d posted. . Tokology,
7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. . Ingersoll’s
Complete Works, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassk’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Breal) and . Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s 6d. ' The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700, pages, KSOOlßusi leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Supfirb Manhood,
ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. . Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. New Tricks with
Goins, Is posted. A Modern Siren, Is 6d.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney
f
L
“ Is superior even to meat and of
Inestimable value as a food.”
—Virchow.
PLASMON
Dr. Robert Hutchison says:—
•• A diet rich in proteid MAKES PHYSICAL*
MENTAL ENERGY. To growing children a
deficiency of proteid is especially dangerous,"
DR. J. DOLUS BROWNE’S
(•HLOROPYNE
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c. bears on the
Government Stamp the name of
the Inventor
Pr. J. COLLIS BROWN 6
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say CHLORODYNE. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief, of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recornmendatibn.”-
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving- instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney,
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
{)£ RICORO's
E.SS&** cE °f U | f£•
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world. .
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. .Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Fauldingr & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
;
INSTRUCTION FREE!!
You can become a Hypnotist in-a few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
sway the minds of others, control friendship
and artectiou, cure disease and bad habits,
gratify your ambitions and-produce amuse-
ment by thehoUt. My mammoth Illustrated
Lesson or Key to Hypnotism which I send
free c f charge and postage paid, will tell you
allabout thi > marvelous science. It contains
be utiful and artistic engravings, and shows
you just what Hypnotism is and
what it will accomplish. Send for
it and learn to Hypnotize. Remember, this wonder-
ful book costs you nothing. Ii you men-
tion this paper, I will also include a large
package of other valuable, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance of a liferim*.
Write to-day. Address—
?rof. R. H. BARRADEN, «9 Pitt St., Sydney'
ĸ
THE BALLET GIEL
k
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
(VSadame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
DEAF
I TRIED every known treatment and device without
1 help. Finally I cured myself by Galvanic Electricity.
If you are deaf, or have head noises, don’t waste time and
money as I did. Write me, mentioning- this paper, and 1
will send you full information FREE. Address —
MR. LEWIS VERNON, 64 Hunter St., Sydney.
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OF SELF-CURE, will
forward the same, free o- charge, to any-
one interested.
Address; A.MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
The Illustrated Medical News
says“ Infants do remark-
ably well on it.”
The British Medical Journal
says“ Benger’s Food has
by its excellence estab-
lished a reputation of its
own.’-’
I
FOOD
"'SI
For INFANTS. INVALIDS, and the AGED.
BENGER’S FOOD IS SOLD BY CHEMISTS, &c., EVERYWHERE.
Bender’s Food has attained
its great reputation not by
extravagant or sensational
advertisement, but by the con-
stant recommendation of those
who have used it, and of Medi-
cal men who know its value.”
Chief Justice Darley (N.S.W.) was most
successful with his pupils. He had but three —
the late Jack Want, K.C. ; R. E. O’Connor, now
a judge of the High Court ; and C. E. Pilcher,
K.C., who is marked down, it is said, as Darley’s
successor, some day, in the Chief Justiceship.
An advt. in this paper invites shilling sub-
scriptions to the Eight Hours Jubilee Art Union,
which will be drawn in Melbourne on May 14,
and £lOOO awaits the person whose ticket bears
the winning number. There are 129 consolation
prizes, ranging in value from £l5O to a modest
“quid.” Also, a sure and certain profit can be
achieved by anyone who buys 22 tickets for £l,
and retails them to his friends at a shilling each,
but in order to get this reduction on a quantity
the speculator must apply to Theo. Heide, at
312 Flinders-street, Melbourne, who cries aloud to
Bulletin readers : “Be sure to try your luck.”
Nobody’s luck is so bad that it doesn’t deserve a
chance to retrieve its character.*
“ Hiphen,” whom The Bulletin knows as
a mighty good writer of tales, sends this :
The S.M. Herald criticises Australian literature. It
says sweepingly that there is none, and that the fragment
of literature so-called bears the impress of English and
American writers. Take it for the love of argument that
the Herald is right. What is the Herald going to do
about it? It is easy to criticise. Talk is cheap. What
does literature (always a hard mistress) offer a young man
in Australia? Take an instance—a case on which I can
speak authoritatively—one that has come under my
notice. Take myself.
lam a young Australian—also a clerk in the city. I
feel I can write. I know I can write. I would rather
write than eat my dinner. But to live I must eat my
dinner. And that dinner has to be earned. To earn it I
work nine or 10 hours a day at a desk in the city. A
modern galley slave am I. In my evenings I write.
Now if I throw up my billet as galley slave which
gets me my dinner, what has the Herald to offer me?
There is only one paper that pays for Australian matter
at fair living prices. The rest have the importing craze.
Will the Herald patronise my wares ? Will it give us
young Australians a chance ? Will it publish my humble
yarns which deal with what I know—Australia ? Yarns
of the seamy side ; of the rough out-back ; of the cheap,
tawdry suburb. Will it leave off importing the refined
English literature which deals with the moral lapses of
English high society ?
Every 10 years—every ten years—every ten years—the
Sydney Mail offers a £lOO prize for an Australian story.
This is encouraging ! It is munificent, charitable,
inspiring ! The S.M. Herald does perhaps less than this,
but in its lofty and cobwebbed bed it turns in its sleep and
says: “ Let there be an Australian Literature; and God
help ye who go to help to make it—for we won’t.”


Legal Notices.
PURSUANT to an order of the Court of
Chancery of the County Palatine of
Lancaster, made in the matter of the estate of
JAMES BUCKLEY deceased LOWE v.
SWIRE 1902. Letter L No. 155 whereby an
enquiry was directed what grandchildren of the
Testator issue of his four children MARY
BUCKLEY, FRANCES BUCKLEY, SARAH
ANN BUCKLEY, and JAMES THOMAS
BUCKLEY were living at the decease of the last
survivor of the said four children and whether any
and which of such grandchildren have since died and
if so who are the legal personal representatives of
the one or more so dying and whereby a further
enquiry was directed whether any grandchild
or grandchildren of the Testator issue of his said
four children had died prior to the decease of the
last survivor of the said Testator’s said four
children leaving issue and if so who were the
issue of such children so dying before such date
leaving issue and whether any one or more of such
issue are now dead and if so who are their re-
spective legal personal representatives. All
persons claiming to be any of the persons referred
to in either of the said enquiries are by their soli-
citors on or before the 2nd day of July 1906 to
come in and prove his her or their claim before
the Registrar of the Manchester District of the
said Court at his Chambers situate in Duchy
Chambers 4 Clarence-street, Manchester, Eng-
land, or in default thereof they will be peremp-
torily excluded from the benefit of the said Order.
THURSDAY, the 12th day of July, 1906, at 11
o’clock in the forenoon, at the said chambers, is
appointed for hearing and adjudicating upon the
claims.
NOTE. —The survivor of the Testator’s said four
children was JAMES THOMAS BUCKLEY,
who died on the 31st of October, 1879. Two of
the children of the Testator’s said daughter
MARY (afterwards MARY SWIRE), namely,
THOMAS SWIRE and HENRY SWIRE, were
last heard of about 40 years ago, when they
respectively went to Australia, and afterwards:
they or one of them went to America.
Any person having knowledge of the where-
abouts of the said THOMAS SWIRE and;
HENRY SWIRE, or either of them if living, or
of their respective children if living, or of the
place or places of their respective decease if dead,
is requested to communicate with Messrs.
WATSON and SON, of 11 Church Lane, Oldham,
England.
Dated this 13th day of March, 1906.
HUBERT WINSTANLEY,
Registrar.
WATSON and SON,
of 11 Church Lane, Oldham, England,
Plaintiff’s Solicitors.
ANDREW FANE EDGE
otherwise J. FOSTER.
PURSUANT to an Order of the High Court
of Justice Chancery Division made in the
matter of the Trusts of the share of ANDREW
FANE EDGE under the Marriage Settlement of
the Reverend CHARLES FANE EDGE and
EMMA MERRICK DANSEY And in the Mat-
ter of the Trustee Act 1893, 1905, E. No. 858.
An enquiry was directed whether ANDREW
FANE EDGE is living or dead and if he be dead
whether he died testate or intestate and whether
he left a Widow and any and (if any) what chil-
dren. Now the said ANDREW FANE EDGE
and all persons claiming under the above enquiry
are by their Solicitors on or before the 30th June,
1906, to come in and prove their claims at the
Chambers of Mr. Justice Kekewich and Mr. Jus-
tice Joyce, Royal Courts of Justice, London, Eng-
land, or in default they will be peremptorily ex-
cluded from the benefit of the said order.
Tuesday the 10th July, 1906, at 12.30 o’clock in
the afternoon at Room 689 in the said Chambers
is appointed for hearing and adjudicating upon
the claims.
Dated this 6th day of March, 1906.
W. 0. HEWLETT,
Master.
NOTE. —The above named ANDREW FANE
EDGE went to Australia in or about the year
1886 where he passed under the name of J.
FOSTER. His last known address was the
Miclere Post Office via Clermont Queensland.
It is believed that in 1898 he contemplated going
to the Klondyke Goldfields and he has not been
heard of since 1898.
CHAS. GEO. SCOTT.
41 <fe 42 New Broad Street,
London, England, _
Solicitor.
LEAVE THE CROWD
I
and qualify vourself to rbtain a first-class position with first-
class pay. We train you by mail, in your spare time, in your
own home, no matter where you live, to become an Electrical
or Mechanical Engineer. Electrical Engineering is acknow-
ledged to be the profession of to-day. The overcrowded trades
offer no chance of advancement. Why? Because there arc
hundreds waiting to take any man’s place, at even less salary.
Then he is face to face with
THE UNEMPLOYED QUESTION.
We could write pages on this subject. But the
whole matter is in a nutshell. There are too
many applying for ordinary positions. We offer
you the means to leave the crowd. We have
thousands of students to-day all oven the
world wh< m we are lifting to the pinnacle of
success. Distance is no ob.ieet. Let us qualify
you. We have couises in Electrical Engineer-
ing, Mechanical Engineering, Electric Lighting,
Electric 'Tramways, Dynamo Design, Motors,
Mechanical Drawing, Telephony, Telegraphy,
Mathematics, &c. We supply our Students with
la complete Reference Library, free. We teach
anyone who can read and write to
BECOME AN ELECTRICAL ENGINEER.
Don’t, take our word for if. We ask you to investigate
matters loryourself. Ifyou write to-day, we will send
you our interesting book, “ How to become an Elec-
trical or Mechanical Engineer,” absolutely free. It
tells the story of success. Send for FREE copy
NOW TO—
THE ELECTRICAL ENGINEER INSTITUTE OF
CORRESPONDENCE INSTRUCTION,
5 Norwich House, Southampton St.,
Holborn, London, England.
fVINCHfSTlR
■1
AUTOMATIC r,fle
.22 CALIBER MODEL 1903
LIKE HISTORY IT REPEATS ITSELF
As a means of pleasure and sport, the Winchester Automatic
Rifle is as far ahead of any other .22 Caliber as an automobile
is ahead of the historic one-horse shay. After loading this
rifle, all that it is necessary to do to shoot it ten times is to
pull the trigger for each shot. Although automatic in action,
it is simple in construction and not apt to get out of order.
For city, country or camp it is the gun of the day.
Sold by all dealers. Manufactured by
WINCHESTER REPEATING ASMS CO., - NEW HAVEN, CONN., U. S. A.
A CARD.
OLD DOCTOR LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
Begs to inform his patients and the ailing public
generally that HE and HIS STAFF OF EXPERT SPECI-
ALISTS may still be consulted as in years past* either
personally or BY LETTER, FREE OF CHARGE.
IF YOU ARE IN NEED OF MEDICAL ADVICE,
WRITE FOR QUESTION CHART AT ONCE.
POST FREE, Doctor Langston’s
Popular 'Medical Work, latest edition
(Illustrated):
MENS SANA IN CORPORE SANO.
It tells you what you want to know,
and what you ought to know.
WRITE FOR IT NOW.
™ DR. LANGSTON INSTITUTE
129 COLLINS ST, MELBOURNE
ESTABLISHED 1887.
All Communications Sacredly Confidential.
Mention this paper when writing.
WILL ANDRADE... BOOKS
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition, Is ; post Is
3d. BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Marri-
age Guide by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, g-enuine 1904 edition, hard covers, im-
proved. Magic Up-to-Date, Is. Horse and Cattle
Doctor, 6d. Donelly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, Is. Maria Monk, Is
6d. How to Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous
Dialogue Book, 6d each. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat Gould’s Novels, 6d each,
posted Bd. Devil in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads,
etc., Is. House Painting and Papering, 1/3. How
to Play Billiards, Is. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Tiie Cuckold, is; post, Is 3d. Britain for the
British, 6d. Freemasonry Exposed and Ex-
plained, 1905 edition, with key to all degrees, Is.
Cycle Building and Repairing, new edition, 190
illustrations, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Train-
ing. Is. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the First
Night, 1/3. How to Write Signs, Tickets and
Posters, Is 3d. Staining, Varnishing and Polish-
ing Wood, Is 3d. Electric Bells, 1/3. Boot-
making and Repairing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise :
Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal
Gustave, Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
Piano Tuning and Repairing. Is 3d. How to Make
Love, Is. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card
Games, Is. Picture Frame Making, Is 3d.
Poultry Keeping, Is. Dream Book, Is. Every
Man His Own Builder, Is and Is 3d,
NOVELTIES.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, Real Photos, 200
Kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s.
ZINCARA GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS, LOVE, BUSI-
NESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions, Is; posted 1/3.
Ttoli
1!
28
H j
Free Catalogues:
No. I—Plays, Reciters,
Make-up, etc.
No. 2—Conjuring' Apparatus
and Books.
No. 3—French Novels in
English.
No. 4—Books for Presents.
No. s—Useful & Mechanical
Books.
No. 6—Books for the
Married.
No. 7—Advanced
j Literature.
Confessions of a Melbourne Barmaid, illus., Is 3d.
Gay Liff, in Melbourne, illus., Is 3d. Hoffman’s
New Conjuring Entertainment, Is 3d. How to Bei
and Gamble, Is 2d. Kropotkin’s Fields, Factories
and Workshops, Is 3d. A Midnight Mystery, Is. A
Left-Handed Murder, Is. God and My Nei&hbor, 9d,
p. Is. ENGiNEER’sPRACTiCALTESTiengines, boilers,gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6. How to Make Up, Illustrated
Guide to the Stage, Is. NeiSiTricks with Cards, Is.
Sandow, 3s. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 124 S pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors,-Is 3d.
Midwives’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is. Building Model
Boats, Is 3d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phrenology,
Is. Blacksmith’s Work, 1/3. Lover's Letter Writer,
Is. Photography, Is. Monster Song Books, 3d,
6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post Age of
Reason, Is 3d. Ingersoll’s Works, 9d. Irish
Song Book, Is. Lightning Calculator, Is. Min-
strel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is 2d.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
GLEASON S GREAT HORSE BOOK
EVERYTHING WORTH KNOWING ABOUT THE HORSE. Fully Illustrated. Deals with breeding-, breaking,
training, sheltering, buying, selling, telling age, racing, etc. Diseases —their causes, how to know them and
how to cure them. Worth £lO for its information, but offered for 7/6.
508 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE
VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE ST
MELBOURNE.
ķ
. / AIDS DIGESTION.
BRACES THE NERVES
PLASMON
COCOA
It non-heating. One cup contains
5? more nourishment than 10 cops of
N any ordinary cocoa.
FREE TRIAL!
NOT A PENNY DOWN
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved nigh grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back, Kid-
ney, Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all Weakness of Men and Women.
iue u)ill glut Free
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
men and women. If you are weak in any way
delay no longer, but write to-day for our
splendid Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co. f
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC. ,
Please mention this paper.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST..
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS' TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequence's. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
SYIDUnTZE-Y.
WHAT IS CATARRH
ĸ
MEDICATOR.
Catarrh is inflammation of'
the lining membrane of the '
nose anti adjoining passages. :
If this inflammation is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the
sight and hearing, destroys
the sense of taste and smell,
renders the breath offensive,
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, • and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? If so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache,Neuralgia,Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
Price,complete with 4 mon ths’
treatnient by mail, 10s.
Write tor Booklet, free, or send .order direct to
Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
RUPTURED
m PEOPLE have been and are being
by Dr Langston’s Perfect
Combined Treatment.
No Pain, Operation, or Detention from
Work. Immediate Relief, and Certain
I Cure. Convincing Testimony and Refer-
ences from nearly every town in Australia
sent with my Valuable 800k — .
“RUPTURE, ITS HISTORY & CURE”
FREE.
Posted 2 Stamps.
THE LANGSTON INSTITUTE
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE. 1
CURED
RHEUMATISM.
?’.s
GOUT
PI Ii Ia s
Are recommended by doctors with confi-
dence as one of the valuable results of
medical science, and the only remedy
ever discovered for these disorders, in
that they not only rapidly cure but pre-
vent the recurrence of the malady.
Of Chemists and. Stores, 1/1 and 2/9 per box.
Proprietors— PßOUT & CO., 229, Strand,
London, England.


TATTERSALL’S CONSULTATIONS.
NOW OPEN
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
PRINCE OF WALES STAKES, Randwick, N.S.W., Prince of Wales Birthday •••
BRIGHTON PLATE, Brighton, Tasmania, June 4
GRAND .NATIONAL HURDLE RACE, Flemington, Vic., July 7 •••
MELBOURNE CUP, Flemington, Victoria, November 6
50,000 at 5/2 each.
50,000 at 5 2 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d. on each
ss. Ticket J and 4d. on each IOS. Ticket. Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. Parcels may be forwarded through any PARCELS
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING & MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
The Milk Foods closely approximate in composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant
They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
stroiig bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns-
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys" Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys” Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
ALLEN & HANBLRYS Ltd., LONDON. * Bridge f s»Loftus Sts., Sydney
DRUG HABIT
HAYS YOU TAILED THROUGH
DRUNK
ENNESS
DON’T DESPAIR
DR. LANGSTON’S VEGETABLE CURE.
A Home Cure which never fails.
It is safe, sure, absolutely certain, and
inexpensive. A few doses produce a won-
derful change. The craving for all
intoxicants will be destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for food will
return, refreshing sleep ensues. This cure
will surprise and delight you. May be
GIVEN SECRETLY.
Thousands of Cures; here is one :
Ravensthorpe, W.A., 23-9-04.
Have finished the half course , which has
effected a cure. I have no desire for drink ,
in fact, have a, repugnance to the very idea
of it. Yours faithfully,
Write for Treatise No. 5. Posted Free.
The Dr. Langston institute,
12 9a COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
LIQUOR HABIT
TOBACCO HA BIT
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
SF'W.A-TFMH OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT. AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A COMMERCIAL TRAVELLER SUFFERING IN-
TENSELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
HAS SINCE CAMPED OUT AND TRAVELLED
MUCH WITHOUT CONTRACTING A COLD.
Mr. W. G. Heame.
Dear Sir, —In 1898,. I was lor four years previously in
Queensland travelling representative for a mercantile
house. Having contracted a heavy cold, I placed myself
under a medical man, and used all kinds of chemists’
prescriptions without avail. I was then staying at Hayes’
Terminus Hotel, Brisbane. The manager did all possible
for me, for which I shall always feel grateful. Mr. Duncan
Currie, at that time acting manager for the New York
Life Insurance Co., came to see me daily, and he advised
me to try your Bronchitis Cure. I was about done for,
could not eat, or scarcely swallow ; in fact, used to nearly
suffocate a dozen times a day, suffering intensely. Guess
of my thankfulness, when Mr. Currie brought me a bottle
of your Bronchitis Cure. A few doses actually cured me.
I took another bottle away from the city with me, and
gave part of it to a young girl at Southport, and it also
saved her life. The balance I gave to Mr. T. McMillan,
Tweed River—three persons cured by your valuable
medicine. Although I have camped out and travelled
about 10,000 miles since my illness, I have not contracted
a cold since.—l am, Sir, your best well-wisher,
THOS. ROSS,
Labasa, via Suva, Fiji.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A QUEENSLAND RESIDENT CURED BY HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
IT MADE A NEW MAN OF HIM.
NO SHORTNESS OF BREATH SINCE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I had Bronchitis several
times since 1898 in Victoria, Western Australia, and here,
and had paid many pounds away in medicine ; but when I
arrived in Cairns in 1900 from Western Australia, I was
induced to try your Bronchitis Cure. I took five bottles,
and it made a new man of me. I could afterwards run a
mile or climb up and down a vertical shaft without any
feeling of shortness of breath. No medicine for Bronchitis
that I have ever taken has afforded me such relief as your
Bronchitis Cure.—Yours faithfully,
RICHARD COLLINS, Mine Manager,
Irvinebank, via Cairns, North Queensland.
BRONCHITIS.
A SOUTH AUSTRALIAN STOREKEEPER TESTIFIES
TO THE EFFICACY OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE,
A SUFFERER 70 YEARS OLD CURED BY IT.
WELL AND HEARTY NOW.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir.—l am a storekeeper,
living in this township for the last 20 years. One of my
oldest customers has been subject to Bronchitis for a
number of years, and has been in the hospital with it
several times. Hearing of your valuable medicine, he
tried it, and found that it gave him great relief. One
bottle was sufficient to put him right. This gentleman is
over 70 years of age, an old bushman, who has been in
these parts for the last 30 years, and is well known. He
makes my house his home when here, and got the
medicine from me. He is at my place now, and he says
that this winter is the freest he has had from Bronchitis
for a number of years, and he wishes to return you thanks
for your valuable Bronchitis Cure. He is well and hearty
now. You are quite at liberty to publish this or any part
of it you like, as it may he of great benefit to other people
suffering from Bronchitis.—Yours truly,
M. GOGLIN, Storekeeper,
Yurita, South Australia.
BRONCHITIS.
A FOURTEEN MONTHS’ SUFFERER IN
QUEENSLAND.
COUGH SO DISTRESSINGLY BAD COULD NOT GET
ANY REST.
CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
AFTER OTHER TREATMENT HAD FAILED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I write to add my testi-
mony to the wonderful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I
suffered for 14 months with a terrible cough. It was so
distressingly bad at night that I could not get any sleep.
I consulted doctors to no purpose. I saw your medicine
advertised, and sent for a bottle, which has taken the
cough clean away, and I feel a different man. You may
depend on my making your wonderful medicine known.
I have sent for another bottle to keep by me in case it
may return at any time. lam writing this, as lam sure
there are a great many people out this way that if they
knew the wonderful effect of this medicine they would
send and procure it at any price.—Yours faithfully,
J. P. BOYD,
Contractor, Torrens Creek, North Queensland.
SEVERE COUGH.—A FIVE YEARS CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
“ Dear Sir, —I suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and can’t be licked.—Yours sincerely,
“W. TREMELLEN,
“Modewarre, Victoria.”
ASTHMA—A SEVENTEEN YEARS CASE.
[PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes: —“After suffering from asthma for
seventeen years, and having been under a great many
different treatments without benefit, I was induced to try
Hearne’s Medicine for Asthma. After taking three
bottles of this medicine, I quite got rid of the Asthma,
and since then, which was the beginning of 1883—fifteen
years ago—l have not had the slightest return of it. The
medicine quite cured me, and I have much pleasure in
recommending it.”
Writing again two years later, he states “ I am
keeping very well. Never have the slightest return of
the asthma.
GRATITUDE AND APPRECIATION.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN CIRCLE.
The Scientific Australian Office,
169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who, during the last few years, has been repeatedly
working for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bron-
chitis Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
This gentleman some three years ago was recommended
to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, accountant.
Collins-street, and the effect that it had was so marked
that he has ever since been continually recommending it
to others.
We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintances.
Believe us always to be,
Yours most faithfully,
PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.
BRONCHITIS.
TWO PERSONS IN NEW ZEALAND CURED BY ONE
BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
ONE OF THEM HAD BEEN SUFFERING FOR
TWELVE MONTHS.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I had a very bad cough, so I
bought one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, and used about
one-half of it, which cured my cough in two or three days.
My daughter, who had been troubled with a bad cough
for the past twelve months, then used the remaining half
of the medicine, and it cured her also. I think your
Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful remedy.
I have lived on my farm at Bombay for about 36 years.
You are at liberty to use this letter in any way yow
please.—Yours respectfully, CHAS. WOOTTON,
Bombay, Auckland, New Zealand.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A SUFFERER FOR YEARS.
IMMEDIATE RELIEF AND COMPLETE CURE BY
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I feel in duty bound to express
my gratitude first to you for your marvellous Bronchitis
and Asthma Cure, next to Mr. Cheshire, Chemist, North
Brighton, for having so valuable a cure in stock. My wife
being a sufferer for years, I purchased one bottle of your
Bronchitis Cure. It gave immediate relief, and, con-
tinuing it as directed, it effected a complete cure. My
wife and I recommend it to all our acquaintances who
suffer with the same. You can use this letter for publi-
cation if you wish.—Yours sincerely,
F. A. CUTTEN,
lElsternwick, Victoria.
BRONCHITIS.
A SYDNEY RESIDENT, CURED BY HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, EXPRESSES APPRECIATION
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —Accept my testimony to the success of your
Bronchitis Cure. I was very ill last February in Mel-
bourne, and was recommended by a friend to try your
Bronchitis Cure. After three doses, I felt immense relief,
and the cough vanished before the first bottle was finished.
Before leaving Melbourne I obtained three bottlesof it, as
I would not like to be without wonderful a medi-
cine.—Yours faithfully,
N. KILMARTIN,
Darlinghurst, Sydney.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Large Size, 4s. 6d.
SOLD BT CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA
FORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
.ranch depot- ofg ce; jj 0 5 ; p'i oor) Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.


WHY GO HUNGRY?
If your stomach is weak and you
are suffering from indigestion, don’t
sacrifice your health and comfort.
Eat all the wholesome food you
want. Then take one of
Dr. Sheldon’s
DICESTIVE TABULES
BWHIMIMBB—B—P
after each meal. They digest your
food and thus nourish and build you
up, while the stomach is recovering
its natural tone. SOLD EYERYWHERE
If unable to obtain
locally will be posted
upon receipt of price
2s. 6d., by—
Sheldon Drug Co.,
15 O'Connell St.,
Sydney,
N.S.W. ,
m
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
Sunlight
LAUNDRY SOAP
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
so
VERY
GOOD
3*o
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
QOO9
0009
0009
0009
0099
0009
0009
0009
Many a mother knows
quite well the
of feeding her baby by
hand. Yet she is obliged to do it.
But the danger need not be so great
after all. Thoughtful modern mothers
make up for the deficiencies of artificial
food by giving Scott’s Emulsion of cod
liver oil and hypophosphites of lime
and soda. The mineral properties con-
tained in this well-tried food-medicine
are just those which wise nature herself
provides in the
Milk
of the mother’s breast.
Consequently, babies fed on Scott’s
Emulsion grow straight, strong bones,
covered with fine, healthy flesh.
Then the mother is spared the agony of
seeing her darling fade and wither,
as so many do, from rickets, the
scourge of babies.
Penneger Street, Broadford, Victoria,
October 12, 1904. “My son, Samuel
John, aged nine years suffered severely
from rickets. At last I gave Scott’s
Emulsion and from the first bottle he
began to improve. In a little while he
was able to run about and play, which
he was quite unable to do previously. He
has gained considerably in weight and is
quite well again. ’ ’ (Mrs.) Jane Hamilton.
Perfection
to which the original
Scott process of manufacture has been
Always gei the Emul-
sion with this maik-the
Eighman-the mark o£
the “Scott” process 1
brought makes Scott’s
Emulsion by far the
safest and surest emul-
sion for rickets.
Begin in time by send-
ing to-day for a free
trial bottle (enclosing
4d. for postage and
mentioning this pa-
per). Scott & Bowne,
Etd., 483 Kent Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
The Peak in Darien.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
~wr jr-JS stared on the Pacific, and all his men
/■ -/ Gazed at each other with a wild sur-
t M raise,
Silent upon a Peak in Darien.
The world went well, and golden was the weather,
The skies without a frown,
When he and I walked up the hill together
To where the sun goes down.
We made the journey short with song and jesting,
My friend with heart so light;
We had no time for loitering or resting,
No fear of coming night.
The years to us were days, the days were hours,
then,
No carking cares had we;
The staff he bore was all abloom with flowers then,
The flowers of Poetry.
So we pressed on towards the Sunset’s porches,
Still higher and still higher;
In his lean cheeks there were two burning torches,
And in his heart red fire.
At times we strode along with little speaking,
Although our eyes were fond,
’Twas not the Rainbow Key that we were seeking,
But something far beyond.
We passed some pilgrims who with tears had salted
The path they trod in pain;
And at the Inn called Last of Luck we halted,
And heard a gay refrain.
I stayed and drank awhile with those good
fellows—
We all joined in a glee ;
Their raiment’s hues were mostly reds and yellows,
But what was that to me ?
But, ah my friend, he went away before me,
And left me all alone,
And so I live with old, grey memories o’er me,
Dark as a Druid stone.
I saw him standing on the Mount of Vision,
Transfigured, weak of breath ;
“ And can you truly see the Isles Elysian,
For you there is no Death.”
“ This is,” he said, “the Peak of Darien
Whatever may befall”...
I left my friend with other hopeful men
With dead eyes shining in the hospital.
V. J. DALEY.
The Riding of Slinger.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
DULLA was one of the oldest squat-
tages on the Logan. Its patchwork
buildings, and the collection of wretched
vehicles about the blacksmith’s shop, were evi-
dence of the fact. There were bullock waggons,
horse drays, spring carts, buggies and wag-
gonettes; some were mere frames of splintered
wood and bent iron, and some had wheels without
tires, or wheels that had lost a number of spokes
and felloes. Toby Carson, the young manager,
had brought them in from out-camps and else-
where, and Jim Scully and Bill Tarkalson had
taken the contract of making them into service-
able rolling stock.
Scully was the blacksmith. He stood at the
anvil, artistically decked in a doughbanger’s cap
and a leather apron, flogging iron and making
sparks fly. Tarkalson, who modestly described
himself as a rough carpenter, sat chopping out
spokes with a tomahawk, and piling up chips.
Lolling on the bench was Matthew Conyers, who
had just arrived from the Richmond, looking for
droving. He was interrupting the work by re-
counting how he had broken in 40 colts at Wyan-
garie at a pound a head.
“ That’s a good price, ain’t it ? ” asked Tarkal-
son.
“For ordinary horses it’s a fair thing,” said
Conyers, * ‘ but it was little enough for that lot.
Ripsnorters they were, every one of ’em. Buck
a house down.”
“Didn’t buck you down, though?” remarked
Scully, blowing the bellows.
Conyers smiled as though such a contingency
was among the impossibles. “They had an out-
law there that’d thrown all th’ crack riders on
Wyangarie,” he went on. “Th’ boss offered me
a pound one mornin’ to ride him. I snapped; an’
he set me about the roughest go I’ve had since
th’ black mare bucked over th’ precipice with me
on Gordon Brook.”
“Thought it was McPherson who rode that
mare over the precipice ? ” questioned Scully,
leaning on the pole of the bellows.
“It was me,” Conyers informed him with deci-
sion.
“It said McPherson in th’ paper,” Scully per-
sisted.
“I contradicted that report,” said Conyers.
“ But they mislaid my letter till it was too late.
McPherson was a subscriber. I wasn’t.”
Toby Carson came to the door with a bridle on
his arm. A couple of stockmen were catching
horses in the yard.
“Anybody ridin’ Slinger to-day?” asked
Tarkalson.
“ No,” said Toby. “ Want a seat ? ”
Tarkalson, with a jerk of the tomahawk over
his shoulder, drew attention to the interested
person on the bench.
“ This chap’s fit for an argyment with anything
yer ken produce—providin’ yer make it worth his
while. Crack rider from Wyangarie.”
“ Well, if he can ride Slinger I’ll give him the
brute,” said Toby.
“ There you are, Mat,” said Tarkalson. “Th’
finest-lookin’ ’orse on Dulla.”
“’N animal with a bit o’ spirit in him,” added
Scully with a grin.
Conyers slipped off the bench and limped across
to the forge for a light. “I’d like to snap that,”
he said, limping back. “I’d like to—but I’m
afraid me leer won’t stand it.”
“Wot’s th’ matter with yer leg?” asked
Tarkalson, surprised.
“ Horse fell on it crossin’ the range. Me back’s
been troublin’ me a bit too,” said Conyers,
indicating the spot with his thumb.
“Yer seemed all right when yer came in,”
Tarkalson remarked, aggressively.
“ Felt all right too,” Conyers admitted. “Comes
on me after I sit down awhile.”
Tarkalson and Scully exchanged glances.
“ Give us a blow, Bill,” said the latter, and the
matter would have dropped there but that Toby
Carson scented fun.
“ There’ll be some cattle going away from here
next week, and I’ll want another hand,” he said.
“Have a camp, and you can ride Slinger some
afternoon before we start.”
Conyers didn’t look as pleased as the occasion
seemed to call for, but he consented, remarking
that he would be quite fit for the droving at any
time, and hoped that gammy leg of his would not
deprive him of the pleasure of a seat on the out-
law. He wanted a horse of Slinger’s reputed
calibre for a buckjumping contest at the Casino
show.
“I remember you entered for the Grafton show
one time,” said Scully. “Yer didn’t go any
further, though.”
“ Th’ blamed horse got out into the bush th’ day
before,” Conyers explained.
“Heard ’em say th’ fence was cut where he got
through, an’ there was tracks of a lot o’ gallopin’
thereabout,” said Scully, tapping the anvil busily.
“I heard about that too,” said Conyers, twist-
ing uneasily. “ Believe that fellow as won the
prize did it. I know he was a bit frightened o’
me an’ my nag.”
Tarkalson was seized with a fit of coughing.
* * * *
When Conyers had been a couple of days on
Dulla an event happened that precipitated
matters. A sheep had got out of the killing pen,
and Toby Carson and a rouseabout were trying to
catch it near the yard. Tarkalson and Scully
went out to give a hand, the yard being close to
the shop. Conyers followed. He was a good
runner, was Conyers. That is, he could run
away from the blacksmith and the carpenter. He
flew around, darting this way and streaking that
way; he dodged and danced and leaped in the
air, knocking his heels together and throwing his
arms about to show his agility. When the sheep
had been caught, Carson said :
“Leg seems pretty right now, Conyers. What
about a ride this afternoon?”
Conyers’ expression was that of a man who had
been taken an unfair advantage of. He ran his
hand down the afflicted limb and began to limp
again. “ I’m afraid that twistin’ about didn’t do
my leg any good,” he said. Then his thumb
dived into his spine. “ Back’s th’ worst. Caught
me up pretty sharp once or twice.”
Carson grinned and walked away.
“Look ’ere, Conyers,” said Tarkalson when
they had got back to the shop. “ I bet th’ boss
two quid this mornin’ that you’d cross Slinger an’
sit him. Seems I’m goin’ to lose.”
“You wouldn’t if I was right,” said Conyers.
“ Eggs-ackly,” assented Scully. “ But it looks
’s if them ailments you’ve picked up are goin’ to
be chronic. Often taken that way ? ”
“If yer don’t mount him, I’ve got to forfeit,”
Tarkalson continued. “If he slings yer I lose;
but if yer stick to him half th’ wager’s yours.”
“You oughtn’t ’ave bet that way, knowin’ how
crippled up I am,” said Conyers.
“I thought I could depend on an old mate,
who’s not m th’ habit o’ sayin’ he ken do things
he carn’t, an’ who’s gorra wholesome contempt
for a person who has no pluck in him.”
Conyers left the shop offended, and strode off
down the paddock. At dinner-time he came back
—a new man. He joked about Slinger, and
smiled all over his face.
“ Your two quid’s safe, William,” he said, with
a confidence that surprised Bill. “I’m goin’ to
ride the outlaw this afternoon. Pass the mus-
tard.”
They couldn’t account for his high spirits and
sudden change of manner.
“ Must’ave let him out,” Tarkalson whispered
as they left the table.
“ Eggs-ackly,” said Scully.
But Slinger wasn’t let out. He appeared in
the yard an hour later, and Conyers at once went
over to fulfil his promise, carrying his saddle and
bridle on one arm, and a long bolster cm the other.
Slinger was a big black horse, with the sleek
coat and carriage of a stallion. He looked power-
ful and active, and he was certainly a snorter.
He snorted every time Conyers moved.
The others sat on the caps, recalling the men
Slinger had maimed or killed in his time. Con-
yers looked pale. He saddled the murderer in
the crush, with a lot of trouble. Then he secured
the bolster by the middle to the crupper staple,
hooked the reins under the stirrup leathers, and
let Slinger loose in the yard. He bucked like a
demon, bucked, grunted, and squealed; and at
every prop the ends of the bolster swung out and
slapped him across the flanks, which made him
kick and buck all the more. Conyers kept him
going round the yard for an hour, till he was too
tired to buck any more—till he would hardly even
kick at the bran bags and kerosene tins Conyers
threw at his heels. He was in a lather of sweat
when Conyers caught him and relieved him of the
bolster.
“ You’re not going to get on him yet?” Toby
inquired with sarcasm.
“ I’d try him with th’ fam’ly bed-tick an’ a few
pillers fust,” Tarkalson suggested.
“Do yer want a landin’-net ? ” asked Scully.
Conyers didn’t hear these opprobrious remarks.
He led Slinger out of the yard, and started across
the paddock, watching the snortful beast across
his shoulder as he went.
“Means to have clear ground,” Toby remarked
as the three followed him. They followed him
for half a mile. Conyers still led tbe horse.
“ Showin’ th’ animal some scenery,” said
Scully.
When they had tramped about a mile Toby began
to grumble, and to make caustic allusions to
Matthew’s appearance and horsemanship. Tarkal-
son, having blown the trumpet for him, felt in-
clined to kick that person.
“ Don’t think th’ skiter ken sit a kick-up,” he
confided savagely to Scully. “ Where’s he travel-
lin’ to, anyway ? ” *
It was soon clear where Conyers was travelling
to. A mile and a-half from the homestead was a
boggy spring, and into this he led Slinger till the
horse was bogged up to his knees, and he began
to bog himself. Then he prepared to mount. He
had a monkey-hold rigged on the off-side of the
pommel, which he took a firm grip of before he
left the ground. Slinger stood pretty quiet.
He couldn’t do anything else; he was too
well hobbled with black mud. Still, when he
felt the weight on him, he made a good
effort to get rid of it, plunging desperately through
mud and slush; but he grunted and stumbled
more than he bucked. Conyers went twice over
the pommel, once behind the saddle, and several
times he lost his stirrup irons and stuck a foot
down into the quagmire, to the jeering yells of
Toby and company. But he wasn’t slung ; there
was always some of him on the horse.
Below the bog was a big dam, where the stock
watered. Conyers rode Slinger into it, and swam
him round in it; he flanked him, caught him by
the ears, stood up in the saddle, and took other
liberties with that outlaw. He rode him back
into the bog, back again into the water to wash
him, and so on till sundown ; while Carson and
Scully chiacked him, and Tarkalson threw mud
over him when his back was turned, and called
him things unprintable.
Suddenly Conyers left the water on the dry
side, and headed for the yard at a good jog, the
horse going like an old stager. He was dead
beat. With a yell, Tarkalson rushed after him,
picking up sticks. Scully remonstrated.
“ Let him go, you fool! If he gets to th’ yard
safe, yer’ll win th’ wager.”
“ Win th’ wager be darned !” cried Tarkalson.
“ I never made no wager, ’n’ if that blamed yahoo
don’t fall off I’ll ’ave to pay him a pound. A
pound for that l ” And Bill made renewed efforts
to get near enough to throw a stick at Slinger’s
heels; but, just as there was a prospect of success,
his foot caught in a creeper, and he lost some skin
off his nose in the resultant fall.
When they reached the yard Conyers had un-
saddled, and was sitting on the erate-post, smoking
a cigarette. He looked pleased.
“ I’m goin’ to make a pack-horse of him,” he
informed Tarkalson, with a nod towards the
depreciated outlaw. “Wouldn’t mind gettin’ a
few more at the same price.”- He jumped down,
laughing. “ You might let me have that quid to-
night, Bill, if it’s convenient.”
Tarkalson, dabbing a bleeding nose with a
handkerchief, swore under his breath, and went
and sat down on the anvil.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.
What for 35 years has been “ The Aus-
tralian Handbook” becomes now “The Austral-
asian Handbook ”; but inside the covers it
remains still the same old reliable guide to most
things that concern the Commonwealth and
Maoriland. In especial it contains what, in spite
of blemishes, is the finest lot of Australian maps
published in one volume —general maps, railway
maps, mineral and other maps of that sort, news-
paper maps, and invaluable maps of the cities and
suburbs, the only blot on which, is the announce-
ment in the corner that they are printed in Edin-
burgh. But for being printed in Edinburgh, per-
haps, the Benevolent Asylum would not still be a
vast pile of buildings standing where the new
Sydney railway station is. Gordon and Gotch
publish this volume—which is a large guarantee
in itself.
The Sport.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MET Bill S , a sporting crank, going
to his “ club,” the other night. He
asked me to go along with him. Out of
curiosity, I went. Afterwards, I was glad I did.
Bill was down to spout. He spouted :
“ Look here, mates, I tell ’e sport is the main
thing in this ’ere world. Put all yer money in
sport. Every blanky cent. Don’t pay yer butcher
or baker if yer have to neglect sport. What we
want is a race of true sportsmen.”
I left the club after Bill’s famous speech.
Two days later I saw Bill at a football match.
Bill’s fancy club was playing in the final.
“ ’Eie y’ are,” roared Bill, “4 to 1 on our
fellahs ! ”
Bets were numerous. Bill had all his money on.
The game started. Bill’s team was going down
badly.
He raved ; he wildly clutched his hair; he
swore; he cursed.
# “ Umpire’s a damned cheat! ”he yelled. “You
rotten ,” he roared, and rushed madly at
the goal-umpire for “ robbing ” a goal. He banged
a player, and pulled off his coat with an oath.
“ Fight any man on the ground,” he shouted.
This was too much for me, remembering Bill’s
famous speech.
1 could stand it no longer.
“Be a true sportsman, Bill,” I cried. “We
want a race of true sportsmen.”
“Ain’t I a true sportsman?” hollered Bill.
“Ain’t I got all my money on this match? I’ll
fight any man on this ground ! The umpire’s a
damned cheat—a rot ”
I laughed. Bill spotted me. I had to scoot for
That was the last I saw of Bill. Bill was a true
sportsman. He put all his money on sport. He
lost. He went mad over it.
THE KID.


k
CONSTIPATION is, beyond doubt, responsible for more illness than
any other known ailment. Mere purgatives are no protection
against this disease ; and the old-fashioned remedies, containing
aloes, mercury, etc., generally do more harm than good, by making medi-
cine-taking a constant necessity. Bile Beans being purely vegetable and
J2L
operating on the liver—not as a
mere purgative—are a safe and
certain cure for Constipation. They
tone up the liver, and prompt it to
secrete Nature’s own purgative—
the Bile. Constipation is thus
ended in a perfectly natural man-
ner, and, as soon as a cure is
effected, the Beans may be left off.
As illustrating this, Mr. Charles
Tucker, of Eaglehawk Road, Long
Gully, Vic., says : —“ Constipation
and headache had affected me for
several years. They were brought
on in the first place by my neglect.
I always felt listless and tired—
had no inclination for work, and
suffered with splitting headaches.
I tried all sorts of medicines, but
could not gain really permanent
relief. Happily, Bile Beans were
brought to my notice, and I secured
a supply. From the first dose I steadily improved, until
time I am in perfect health. I am no longer
Constipation, and headaches have ceased to be, and I now
fit for work.”
at the present
troubled with
feel thoroughly
BILE BEANS have a world-wide reputation as a proved cure for BILIOUSNESS,
HEADACHE, INDIGESTION, STOMACH TROUBLES, CONSTIPATION, PILES,
DEBILITY, FEMALE WEAKNESSES, NERVOUSNESS, BAD BLOOD, BAD
BREATH, ANAEMIA, DISTURBED SLEEP, LOSS OF APPETITE, RIIEUMA-
TISM, and in fact, all ailments that owe their origin to defective bile flow,
assimilation, or digestion.
Obtainable generally at
Is. lid., or 2s. 9d. LARGE
BOX (contains three times
the Is. l|d. size).
ķ
A. ®> F.
PEARS,
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Slot ice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc
Jpg-Sttfeva "*
Margaret.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
** ~W~ ~T"P in the morchary, sir, she lies,”
m / Said thehospital porter, with weary eyes;
“ You orter look at her, cold art clean,
Most beautiful woman ever I seen.”
Still sweet loveliness lying there,
With your white hands crossed on your marble
breast,
Is life so good—with a death so fair ?
Is joy so kind —with so cool a rest ?
What peace of the spirit your pale face shows,
Rare dead woman whom no man knows !
Pure proud oval of face and chin,
Perfectly framed in the full hair’s brown !
Were there kisses and laughter for love to win
On those cold carved lips where my eyes look
down ?
Small white hand with never a stain,
Did it clasp in bliss to be clasped again ?
“ She fell in th ’ street,” spoke the porter low,
“ Art she died in th’ keb four hour ago.
She weren’t ill-fed, art ’er ’ands ain’t rough,
But the clothes she was wearirt was pore enough.
The p’leece found notliink at all, I b’leef,
’Cept ‘ Margret,’ wrote on a ’angkercheef.”
Was there sorrow, girl, in your life, or shame ?
Your heart, whose blood is now choked and thick,
Was it broken and torn when the death-grip came,
Or was joy still urging it warm and quick ?
Margaret, girl with the frozen brow,
Did they love you then as I love you now ?
Though life be dear, it were dearer yet
To-day like you on the stone to lie,
And clasped to the bosom of Death, forget
The blossoming trees and the warm blue sky,
To sink with you in the quiet grave
With the crown of beauty his cold hand gave.
Shall I do you wrong if I touch you—so ?
Will your dead hands stir if I touch them, dear ?
I draw the veil o’er your face of snow,
And say good-bye ; you are fairer here,
I ween, than you were in those days of mirth,
When you smiled in joy on the good, glad earth.
“ There’s some looks awful,” the porter said,
“ But some looks beautiful la,yin’ dead.”
VIC.
PRIAM.
Mr. Barnes in Society.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ XT’s good for a man to be married,”
remarked Mr. Barnes, sadly and thought-
fully. “It keeps ’im from broodin’ on ’is
other troubles.”
He kicked the attenuated fire resentfully.
“Booh!” he shivered, “it’s c-cold. There’ll
be icebergs down south, I’m thinkin’. The
trouble is, wimmin wears so badly after marriage.
Most on ’em gits ugly, and all on era’ gits kids.
Bah ! some on ’em gits nothin’ else—bar the
sassi-ty people. Rotters! I ’ates them ’igh-
clawss swells. Only ’ad to do with ’em once.
“ It wuz through a mate o’ mine—the Dook we
called ’im—’cos ’e come frum Ingland an’ dressed
an’ washed like sif every day wuz Sunday. Now,
though I’m a lib’ral-minded man meseif, I don’t
usually ’old with forriners an’ sich, but this ’ere
Dook wuz a white man —mighter been born
Australian.
“ ’E’d bin somethin’ high in his own country,
an*ad done somethin’, so come out ’ere.
“ That’s jist it. The wasters come out ’ere—
we make men of ’em, and then they go away
and curse us.
“ The Dook an’ me was in Melbourne where we
’ad gone to sell some ’igh -steppin’ pals of ’is a
little mine we ’ad been workin’ out past Mt.
Warrenheip. A splendid mine it were—only
wanted a little capital to develop it—full o’ beauti-
ful specimens. We knew—’cos we put ’em there.
“ The Dook raised some money—’imself an’ the
devil knows how —and we lived at the best pub.
an’ splashed round like kings. All went well at
first, and the Toorak mugs came round like lambs
and looked at our specimens an’ went away with
their mouths watering. Yus, all went well till
the Dook excepted an inveetation for me to
dinner. I kicked against it, but the Dook said it
was to the ’ouse of the brumby we wanted to ear-
mark. ’E dressed me out in an evenin’ suit till I
looked like that Italian waiter at Moriarty’s at
Coleraine. Mr. ’Erbert Rixon was the name of
our mark, an’ what a ’ouse ’e ’ad ! I uster think
Moriarty’s at Coleraine was clawss, but lor ! it was
a wash’ouse compared to Rixon’s.
“The door was opened by 6ft. of waiter in a
beautiful uniform, like at the the-atre plays, ’oo
took me breath an’ coat away an’ led us into a
room and called out in a loud voice, ‘Captain
Charles Claridge’ (which was the Dook), ‘Mr.
James Barnes’ (what was me). An’ole bird all
over nakidness an’ di-monds come forrard an’
shook our ’ands in a tired sorter way, an’ eyed
me up an’ down through glasses on a stick. ‘ This
is Mr. Barnes,’ said the Dook, ‘whom I was
telling Mr. Rixon about.’ ‘Ha ! ’ said th’ ole gal.
“‘Yer servant, mum,’ sed I, with a perlite
scrape.
“ ‘ A child o’ Natur’,’ whispered the Dook in
Jer ear. ‘ The back-bone of this great country.’
‘Ha!’ sed she agen, still quizzin’ me through
them glasses like I was the sword-swallerin’ cove
at the Dramboo cattle show. Made me pretty
nervous, ’specially as there was a roomful of
Eeople yapping like a dog-show. I thought I’d
etter say somethin’.’
“‘Very ’ot weather to-day; makes me feal
quite sweaty,’ I said.
“ ‘ Indeed,’ sed she (she spoke like an ice-chest)
‘ I find it rather cold.’
“ I looked at the nakedness of ’er. ‘ You would,’
sed I. She went away.
“Just then a white-whiskered ole cove come
bustlin’ up. ‘ Ah, Mr. Barnes, I presoom. ’Ow
d’yer do ? ”
“ ‘Nicely,’ sed I, *’ow’s yerself ?’
We re jist going to dinner. Let me inter-
dooce you Miss Grosvenor—Mr. Barnacles—no,
Barnes.’
“Gosh ! what a boshter gal that was ! She
stuck about two yards outer ’er clothes at the top,
but it was worth it—all the way.
‘“’Ow d’yer?’ I murmured feebly. I could
only look at ’er.
‘“Won’t y’u sit down, Mr.—er—Barnacles,’
she sed sweetly.
“ ‘ My oath,’ sed I, an’ in me nervousness nearly
spilt a table.
“‘You must tell me all about the bush,’she
sed. ‘I love it.’
, kl bush,’ sed I. She ’it me playful with
er fan. I was gettin’ on splendid with’er, and
was jist goin’ to ax ’er to come fer a stroll in the
Eitzroy Gardens the next night, when they started
in for dinner.
“ That dinner was the limit. Never, never did
I think that Jim Barnes would see the time when
’e didn’t know how to eat.
“But I confess. that when I set down and eyed
the ironmongery in front o’ me, a cold chill crept
to me vitals. There was about ten knives and
forks—all silver (I ’ave some on ’em still) set in
front o’ me, and as many spoons an’ forks. A cold
sweat o’ despair broke out on me brow, and I was
glad to see there was a bit of a towel in front
ov me.
“ I felt better when I’d mopped down. Then
a, big bloke of a waiter put a little plate in front
o’ me. There were two tiny green plums on it
wat y’u could ’ave put in yer eye. Olives I think
they was called. I wish I’d ’a’ put ’em there
rather than in me mouth. I was foolish, for I
mistrusted ’em at the start. They didn’t look
ripe. ’Owever, I s’lected a knife and fork from
the bundle and started. I never tasted nuthink
like it in me life. Bitter an’ sour all at oust. I
couldn’t stand it. I simply ’ad to spit it out in
me anguish. It ’it the ole gal opposite, an’ she
went away, amid great excitement. That rattled
me considerable, so that when the bloke come
round with a dish o’ soup an’ I took it from ’im,
me ’and wuz so trembly that I spilt it over the
lovely gal’s dress.
“ She looked sif she wuz goin’ to weep lots, but
pulled ’erself together, and kinder smiled on one
side of ’er face and reckoned it didn’t matter
nothink; it wuz an old dress, and she hated
it anyhow an’ wuz goin’ to give it away to ’er
washerwoman.
“ No one’ll ever know what I suffered during
that dinner. The Dook sed ’e suffered too. I’rn
jolly glad. It wuz all ’is fault. There wuz about
40 rounds of it, but lor, they wouldn’t ’a’ made a
square feed fer a sparrer.
“Talkin’ o’ them, there was some things called
sparrer-grass. I couldn’t touch ’em. My gal
sed, ‘ Don’t y’u like the sparrer-grass ? ’ ‘ No,’
sed I, ‘the blamed things is ’arf boiled.’ ‘ Y’u’re
bitin’ the wrong end,’ sed she, gigglin’. The
other end was certainly softer but they was rotten
eny’ow—not fit fer a white man. The drink wuz
the only thing I could understand. Dozens o’
different wines. I tried ’em all several times. It
made me feel ’appier—more confident. Still the
knives an’ forks an’ spoons an’ things worried
me considerable. I never knew which to use.
They was all sizes an’ shapes—big, little, an’
middlin’ sized. The knives was that sharp, I
near cut me jore every time I ventered a mouth-
ful. Half-way through I grew cunnin’. I’d wait
to see what ones me neighbor, the beautiful gal
with the few clothes on, would pick up, an’ then
I’d copy her. But even that didn’t work any too
well. At three-quarter time I found she was
five knives, three forks, an’ two spoons ahead o’
me. I was fair boxed up.
“But t’wards the finish I got a terrible fright.
’Twas when they brought the fruit on. The
waiter-bloke give me a plate with another knife,
fork an’ spoon, an’ a little bowl full o’ liquor wat
I took for gin. It was the first chance I ’ad ’ad to
git a decent drink —a man’s drink—so, bein’
thirsty, I tossed it off without a second thought.
It was ’orrible. It tasted like nuthin’.
“My Gawd, I’m pisened ! ” I spluttered,
jumpin’up. Then I see’d the waiter be’ind me
grinnin’ like a joss.
“ I’ll learn y’ to put up a joke on yer betters, y’
cow,” I yelled, an’ landed ’im. There was great
excitement. Ole ladies fainted, while the young
’ups wuz all ’air-pins an’ hystericks. Ole Rixon
grabbed the Dook an’ yelled : ‘ Take ’im away !
Take ’im an’ yer sumthink mine outer me ’ouse.”
Then they tole me it wuz on’y water to wash yer
fingers in. I ’ad fergot wot water tasted like.
“Ole man Rixon danced up very red about the
gills, an’ foamed an’ raved an’ cursed. ‘ Outer me
’ouse ! outer me ’ouse ! ’ was all he could splutter.
An’ all the rest was squealin’ an’ snortin’, an’ the
waiter was moppin’ his eye.
“To all the row I showed a dignified silence,
beyond tellin’. ’em to go to somewhere warm an’
bracin’. I thought ole Rixon was agoin’ to throw
a aperplectic fit, so I pushed ’is sinful ole head
into a dish of ice-cream to cool it.
“ Then the wine in me grew excited. I jumped
onto the table an’ told ’em in a few chosen words
what I thought of ’em, their manners, their
lack o’ clothin’, their style o’ feedm’ ; an’
touched on many other matters of interest. Then,
seein’ an army o’ flunkeys gettin’ ready for attack,
I bashed out as many of the lights as I could. I
filled me arms full o’apples, oranges, pines, an’
other vegetables, an’ took cover be’ind the floral
decorations, an’ gave battle.
“There was a wild stampede for the door.
Two fat ole gents got jammed ’ard, an’ blocked
the fairway. A pine-apple or two in the back
relieved the pressure, an’ soon the room wuz
empty but for about 15 flunkeys, the Dook an’
meseif. The waiters was town bred, and’ unused
to warfare, so that a few well-d’rected volleys of
peaches an’ forks dispersed them, an’ I turned me
attention to the Dook.
“ ‘E wanted me to come ’ome, an’ called me
names; but I was jist beginnin’ to enjoy the party,
so I let ’im ’ave a ’andful o’ nuts an’ a fistful or
two o’ strawberries to go on with, and struck ’im
in the weskit with a bottle. ’E didn’t wait for
more, but retreated hurriedly through the
window. So, havin’ dispersed all me enemies
single-’anded, I locked the doors an’ windows.
Then I emptied a decanter or two to counteract
the effects of the water.
“I woke late next afternoon, and found meseif
back in the hotel. The Dook was in the room
lookin’ very wild an’ worried. I felt very, very
ill. Muster bin that water I drunk. The stirrin’
events of the previous evenin’ was a blank at first.
My head was hazy.
“‘Well,’ I asked ’im, ‘did y’ sell the mine?
What was the result ? ’
“‘The result,’ sed’e, kinder sorrowful. ‘The
result is that y’ are a good enuf chap out back, but
hardly—well, hardly a success in ’lgh Sassi’ty.
It took me all me time ter keep yer out o’ gaol,
and the mine isn’t sold an’ never will be.’
“Well, they can keep all their fancy drinks,”
concluded the old gentleman in a loud voice. “If
y’ was to offer me—now —a bucketful o’ champine
or a pint o’ plain, ’onest beer, I know which I’d
’ave.
“ Thankee kindly.”
ALF. BRASOH.


Boils, Pimples, Rashes—all eruptions of the
skin, cured by Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. A splendid
blood-purifier and strength-restorer. Read Mr. J.
Sinkinson’s strong words in its praise. His photo-
graph is also given.
A
“I suffered for years from indigestion,
and a sort of heat lumps over my body.
The medicines recommended to me did no
good and I only wasted my money on them.
Being strongly advised to try
AYER’S
Sarsaparilla
I did so, and was agreeably surprised, as it
did for me all that is claimed for it. After
taking several bottles I was cured entirely
of my complaints. This is some years ago,
but I have continued to take two or three bottles every year, as Ayer’s Sar-
saparilla builds me up and enables me to carry on my duties.”
J. Sinkinson, Unley, S. A,
Keep your blood in good condition, keep your digestion
strong, and keep your nervous system vigorous. Then
you will not suffer from the weakening effects of hot
weather. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla was made for just these
purposes. It cools the blood, tones up the digestive appa-
ratus, puts force into the nervous system. And it fortifies
against hot weather, cold weather, or changeable weather.
It gives strength to ward off disease.
Don’t foe deceived by trying some other Sarsapa-
rilla. Don’t experiment with imitations. Hold fast
to the tried and tested Sarsaparilla —AYER’S. A
tonic for all seasons of the year.
Prepared by DS. J. G. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., TT. S. A.
Ayer’s Pills area purely vegetable laxative for the whole family.
m
$
A
7s.
Nxy.
«s3»'.
3
» *
A*
/i
» t .
V A
ih^
S'SKkZ*.
,;*
*ss
6%
1^221111111
pHMtf
kjjtotfm
r~^ni|
DO YOU SUFFER ?
THE
REASONS
WHY
you should know
all about our
Grand Remedy,
BECAUSE
there is just a bare
possibility that it
may be the remedy
that will cure you.
At this stage, how-
ever, there is no-
thing certain about
its doing so. If you
have failed with
other remedies, that
is all the more
reason that you
should thoroughly
investigate ours.
Many men and
women take too
much for granted
after meeting num-
bers of failures in
their search for
health. Don’t you take it for granted that you cannot be cured. Let us
send you our illustrated ffee book which describes Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric
Pelt. Do not imagine, however, that anything else about it is free, except a
carefully prepared and complete diagnosis which will fully explain the cause
of your complaint, and, if curable, the method by which we will cure you
This is all you get free; you have to pay for the treatment, but then, you
see, you will get your money’s worth. If we say our Belt will cure you,' once
we diagnose your case, you can bank on the results. We shun failures.
Write to-day for our book, or call at our office if possible and be put on
the road to health. The road is as straight as an arrow. Remember, book
and diagnosis free. Don’t delay, but let us know your symptoms.
WE ONLY COUNT ON CURES FOR RECOMMENDATION .
INDIGESTION.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co. WHITE HART March *nfi
Your Belt has completely cured me of Indigestion and all my other pains. I now eat well sleen well
and am strong and hearty, though and old man and unable to work before I got your splendid annlinnca
I never fail to recommend it. Yours faithfully, W. SHEPPARD
The Dr. McLaughlin Co. DAISY HILL, GOGANLEA, QUEENSLAND’
Dear Sirs,-For eight or nine years I was so bad with a pain in my back that if I stooped over I could
scarcely straighten up, and sometimes not at all for some minutes. After wearing your Belt a month T
left it off and had no pam for three months. I then discovered I was not quite cured! and put theTeß on
again for another month That was a year ago, and I have had no pain whatever since I want al!
sufferers to know how good your Belt is. Yours sincerely, EDITH ARMSTRONG
J A AV'i.YJLkJ ItV/ll \jr«
The Dr. McLaughlin Go., wow. Market st.,
54 WILLIS ST., WELLINGTON, N.Z.
99 WILLIAM ST., PERTH, W.A.
WILLIAM CHARLES CRAWfOW 3/5/’6 B g
Sparkling Eyes,
Clear Skin, Rosy Lips,
Healthy Vigor, Happiness
Positively and Speedily
obtained by the use of
BEECHAM\S
PILES
You can look well, feel well, and keep well by using
BEECHAM’S PILLS to remove the cause of dull
eyes, pimples or blotches, pallid lips, listlessness,
and depression unmistakable symptoms of a
depressed nervous system and an impoverished or
impure state of the blood.
A few doses of BEECHAM’S PILLS will restore
free and regular conditions, and bring about that
physical grace and beauty which only comes
through physical health and regularity.
6,000,000 Boxes Sold Annually.
» 1 rape- fin
Sold Everywhere in Boxes,
Price 1/l j (56 Pills) and 2 9 (168 Pills). [6
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, m a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
.Street, Sydney.
Vf
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in 43
hours without
incon-
venience.
Each Capsule bears the name gtr~
MIDY
ASTHMA CURE
GHiMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness Mini Oppression immediately
relieved by GKIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
-1 E'i TES. So dHi all Chemisix.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
BLOOD POISON.
FOR MORE THAN TWENTY YEARS
we have made the cure of blood poison a
specialty, Primary, Secondary or Tertiary
Blood Poison Permanently Cured. You can
be treated at home under same guaranty.
Capital 500,000 dols. We solicit the most
obstinate cases. If you have exhausted the
old methods of treatment, and still have aches
and pains, Mucus Patches in Mouth, Sore
Throat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spots,
Ulcers on any part of the body, Hair ,or
Eyebrows falling out, write for proofs of
cures. 100-page Book Free.
COOK REMEDY Co.,
1102 MASONIC TEMPLE, Chicago, U.S.A.
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
■how long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St.. Melbourne
DR. MARTIN, M.D.,
The Only Medical Author and Doctor of Medicine Practising 1 as a Specialist
in Australasia, and holding the Highest Qualifications Conferred by British
Universities.
MEN AND WOMEN SUFFERERS,
If you have failed to find relief elsewhere, if you are despondent, and despair of ever being cured, CONSULT
DR. MARTIN. He is the Best Authority on all Diseases of Men and Women. His successes in Chronic and so-
called Incurable Cases have gained for him the LARGEST CONSULTING PRACTICE in the Commonwealth.
DR. MARTIN’S long experience as a CLINICAL SPECIALIST in the Hospitals of Europe has made his judge-
ment infallible on Private, Nervous, Blood and Skin Diseases. He has NEVER FAILED to permanently Cure
any Case he has undertaken.
Sir T. GRAINGER STEWART, M.D., F.R.C.F.E., Physician-in-Ordinary to
Her Majesty the late Queen Victoria, says:—
« DR. MARTIN, Bachelor of Medicine and Master in Surgery, is well-known to me as an able and intelligent
Practitioner. He was a Distinguished Student in the classrooms and in the Wards of the Hospital, and must
take his place as a LEADING PRACTITIONER wherever he may settle.”
Dr. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK: “THE DISEASES OF MEN AND WOMEN
AND THEIR HOME CURE."
Specimen pages of DR. MARTIN’S Famous Medical Work POSTED FREE to all on application. The Book
contains 700 pages, over 500 prescriptions, 193 illustrations, and colored plates. A Medical Handbook for general
use, and is invaluable for those living in the country. It is entirely different to the many so-called Medical
Books that are advertised FREE to the public. Price to Patients, 3s. Write for this Valuable Book to-day, or
send for specimen copy—FREE.
“ ELM LEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY .


Asbestos . . .
Boiler Covering
Has Proved its Economy times without number.
PACKED WET, ready for use, in 3cwt. casks,
75., Bs.,- 9s. ewt.
PACKED DRY, in Bags, each lcwt., 145., lGs.,
18s. cvvt.
IT SAVES 25 PER CENT. IN FUEL.
Perdriau Rubber Co.!£
270 George St., Sydney.
Estimates given for Covering Boilers & Steam Pipes.
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BEST.
£
:
Sol
b.v
all first
clt ;* stores
in Australasia.
Ko. 5176.1 2-BLADE
“ PAMPA,"
Cocoa Handle 1/C
Buffalo Handle- 21-
Stag Handle -mm 216
WORTHINGTON PUMP CO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
FREE
application to
on
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
MATTS
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
mark.
4tOU
tons
Mbib
WOLF
Ji
or
ax p;
At th# Showroom*—
EMPIRE CHAMBERS, 93 YORK-ST.,
SYDNEY
Also at—
“ THE BLOCK,"
J. & J. MAXFIELD, Proprs., SHEFFIELD. Collins-St., MELBOURNE
Showrooms re-arranged with additional cases and entrance fitted with Electric Elevator.
for
Commonwealth
Price 6d-
Posted Bd.
f;;/.
Pump -
“There is No Better Pump
t' fiiaseffi
than the ‘KNOWLES.’”
KNOWLES PUMPS for every kind of service
kept in stock. SINGLE and DUPLEX, VERTICAL
and HORIZONTAL.
Boiler Feed or Pressure Pumps, Double Acting Plunger Pumps,
Tank or Light Service Pumps, Vertical Sinking Pumps,
Air Pumps, Circulating Pumps, etc .
PARKE & LACY CO.,
60 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
Melbourne Selling Agents: Be van Edwards Propy., Ltd., Latrobe Street.
PATERNOSTER’S
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
..FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
.
n m
SESBO9SB
n
tanaaamißßßaatpßgßß^ifaiiMgiuiiii
Fred Metiers & Co.
RANGES
«•* STOVES
Manufacturers in N.S. Wales,
South Australia and West
Australia.
All influential storekeepers act as
our agents and stock our Stoves.
HEAD OFFICES 1
558 George St., Sydney.
142 Rund/e St., Adelaide.
William St., Perth.
A NOVEL t
J
AN receipt of P. 0 0.
V/ forward to anv
iUUnSDME
or M.O. for 5/- we will
addressin Australia one
9ct. GOLD-FILLED
BROOCHES, with any
Name or Three Initials, Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross
Pendant, guaranteed the same quality as brooch ; and
without pendant, 3/6. In 15ct. U.F. Twisted Wire,
8/6 ; without Pendant, 6/6. Illustrated Catalogues
sent Free. All letterscarefully addressed to R. SIMS, Gold
Wire King, Cole’s Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
3
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
71 George Street,
SY33RTia’Sr.
mz
w -
A
■
4 : V...
The Finest Book of
Illustrations ever
issued in Australia.
fS I
ree
ndred of “ Hop’s” Pictures, superbly produced.
,
UN!<
LUXURIOUS GIFT.
m
< m g
sm
1
263 GEORGE ST,
Collins StMelbourne.
-AGEUTS FOB-
Card Concentrator. Sperry Slimer. Rapid-Economy Stamp Mill.
Slugger and Little Giant Rock Drills.
Rand Air Compressors. Pulsometer Company’s English Pumps of All Kinds.
Lister Motors and Dynamos. Electrical Machinery.
Panklast Dry Crusher.
Rackarock. Rend rock.
Ilett’s Pat. Hot Air Tuyere.
Cam Brand Forged Steel Shoes and Dies,
Nevermiss Fuse. Electric Fuses- Batteries.
Guthridge” Gold Saving Canvas. Abbott Water Filter.
