

DEWAR’S WHISKY
THE SUPERB
STIMULANT.
I
9
107 Kent Street, SyOney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’"and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
OVER
300
PRIZE
AND
GRAND
PR IX
PARIS,
1900
'iM
Over 75,100 Engines, Boilers and Pumps sold.
3EEOBART.
• —jsfl*
Radley s Orient Ijotel.
HH
PIONEER
«
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C.Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
Gibson, Battle & Go., *7 Bent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
SOLE AGENTS FOR HUSTON, PROCTOR <sc CO.'S
STATIONARY & PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES & BOILERS,
CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS FOR LOW, MEDIUM and HIGH LIFTS.
For Illustrated Lists and Particulars apply to Gibson, Battle & Co., 7 Bent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
v-.
Take it back,
I must* have -
HUTTON’S
PincApplc Brand
HAMS S
BACON.
CHUBB’S
STRONG ROOM
DOORS
JlafionaL
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branch:
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society). w A QIBB, Manager.
Active Agents and Canvassers Wanted.
a//,
U
£h
ASK YOU ft GROCER FOR M C INTYRE BROS
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS!
m
m
s
■W
TEA!
BENSDORPS
Royal
Dutch
mm
is the Queen of all Cocoas
"V FOI^
Aroma,Strei\gtfu'Purit)C
FOR
STANDARD PALE ALE
:w TT7
■V • ’
31
"FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers — SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
Also largest makers in Australia of Refrigerating and Ice-Making Machinery.
HELIDON SPA.
Absolutely the BEST TABLE WATER
OOXJ.IM & CO., A K ent..
The Bulletin
Vol. 27.—N0. 1375. j
[Thursday, June 21, 1906
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


IN THE SPECIAL AUSTRALASIAN EDITION.
THE JUNGLE, By UPTON Sinclair.
A NOVEL WITH A PURPOSE. ONE OF THE MOST POWERFUL AND TERRIBLE STORIES EVER WRITTEN.
ALL ABOUT CHICAGO MEAT-PACKING METHODS. Price S/6, in Cloth, postage 6d.
Through the unprecedented demand for this book, consequent on the disclosures made by Upton Sinclair, and
proved by the Commission appointed by President Roosevelt, under arrangement with the American Publishers, we
are preparing locally a special Australian Edition. Printers and Binders are working night and day, and copies will
be ready in a week or so. Orders are now being registered, and will be despatched in rotation.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP. LTD., 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
•r*
m
g
it.
the Great
is^&mmsmgy:
v*~ '.'■ *• 1
-.•-
vKT^,<»
a;
for Influenza,, Bronchitis, Asthma,sail affections of
ethe throat & lungs, & for preventi on of Consumption,
Sold in Tins, 1/6, or Post Free on receipt of stamps from the Sole Manufacturer, C. HUDSON, Chemist, I paw
Queensland. SYDNEY DEPOT—S and 7 Queen’s Place. Agencies in all the Australian States & New Zea'i
LONDON AGENT—W. F. Pasmore, Chemist. 320 Regent Street W /
THE RED PAGE.
THE TWISTING OF THE HOPE
SINCE the Dun Emer press is devoted to
Ireland, there will be Irish in Aus-
tralia to devote a part of their time to
the publications of the Dun Emer
press. It is placed at Dundrum, and directed
by that Miss Yeats whose name has come to
ring like an Irish pledge. Her workers
are girls and women : they print their
books upon home-made paper and bind
them, all in a comradeship of pleasant in-
dustry. One of these books is Stones of
Red Hanrahan by William Butler Yeats,
who is looked upon to-day as the head
and front of Irish literature’s defending.
All the stories have been printed before,
but the form of them left their author un-
easy, and ‘‘ a friend has helped me to re-
make’’them “nearer to the mind of the
country places.” The remaking is in large
part re-creation that leaves nothing of the
original stuff, and the change is certainly for
better reality. As a proof of the general
iniquity of poets, and the care that must
needs be exercised in dealing with the Irish
ones, we cite some passages telling how a
serviceable trick was played upon the wan-
dering poet Hanrahan.
Hanrahan was walking the roads one time near
Kinvara at the fall of day, and he heard the sound
of a fiddle from a house a little way off the road-
side- He turned up the path to it, for he never
had the habit of passing by any place where there
was music or dancing or good company, without
going in. The man of the house was standing at
the door, and when Hanrahan came near he knew
him, and he said :
“A welcome before you, Hanrahan, you have
been lost to us this long time.” But the woman
of the house came to the door and she said to her
husband: “I would be as well pleased for
Hanrahan not to come in to-night, for he has no
good name now among the priests, or with women
that mind themselves; and I wouldn’t wonder
from his walk if he has a drop of drink taken.”
But the man said: “I will never turn away
Hanrahan of the poets from my doorand with
that he bade him enter...
The fiddler was tuning his fiddle for another
dance, and the man of the house said to the young
men, they would all know what dancing was
when they saw Hanrahan dance, for the like of it
had never been since he was there before.
Hanrahan said he would not dance, he had better
use for his feet now, travelling as he was through
the five provinces of Ireland. Just as he said that
there came m at the half door Oona, the daughter
of the house, having a few bits of bog deal from
Connemara in her arms for the fire. She threw
them on the hearth and the flame rose up, and
showed her to be very comely and smiling, and
two or three of the young men rose up and asked
for a dance. But Hanrahan crossed the floor and
brushed the others away, and said it was with him
she must dance, after the long road he had
travelled before he came to her. And it is likely
he said some soft word in her ear, for she said no-
thing against it, and stood out with him, and
there were little blushes in her cheeks. The other
couples stood up, but when the dance was going
to begin, Hanrahan chanced to look down, and he
took notice of his boots that were worn and
broken, and the ragged grey socks showing
through them ; and he said angrilv it was a bad
floor, and the music no great things, and he sat
down in the dark place beside the hearth. But if
he did, tne girl sat down there with him.
The dancing went on, and when that dance was
over another was called for, and no one took much
notice of Oona and Red Hanrahan for a while, in
the corner where they were. But the mother
grew to be uneasy, and she called to Oona to come
and help her to set the table in the inner room.
But Oona, that had never refused her before, said
she would come soon, but not yet, for she was
listening to whatever he was saying in her ear.
The mother grew yet more uneasy then, and she
would come nearer them, and let on to be stirring
the fire or sweeping the hearth, and she would
listen for a minute to hear what the poet was say-
ing to her child. And one time she heard him
telling about white-handed Deirdre, and how she
brought the sons of Usnach to their death ; and
how the blush in her cheeks was not so red as the
blood of kings’ sons that was shed for her, and her
sorrows had never gone out of mind ; and he
said it was maybe the memory of her that made
the cry of the plover on the bog as sorrowful in
the ear of the poets as the keening of young men
for a comrade. And there would never have been
that memory of her, he said, if it was not for the
poets that had put her lieauty in their songs. And
the next time she did not well understand what he
was saying, but, as far as she could hear, it had
the sound of poetry though it was not rhymed,
and this is what she heard him say: “ The
sun and the moon are the man and the
girl, they are my life and your life, they
are travelling and ever travelling through
the skies as if under the one hood. It was God
made them for one another. He made your life
and my life before the beginning of the world, he
made them that they might go through the world,
up and down, like the two best dancers that go on
with the dance up and down the long floor of the
barn, fresh and laughing, when all the rest are
tired out and leaning against the wall.”
The old woman went then to where her husband
was playing cards, but he took no notice of her,
and then she went to a-woman of the neighbours
and said : “Is there no way we can get them from
one another ? ” and without waiting for an answer
she said to some young men that were talking
together : “ What good are you when you cannot
make the best girl in the house come out and
dance with you ? And go now the whole of you,”
she said, “ and see can you bring her away from
the poet’s talk.” But Oona would not listen to
any of them, but only moved her hand as if to
send-them away. Then they called to Hanrahan
and said he had best dance with the girl himself,
or let her dance with one of them. When Han-
rahan heard what they were saying he said :
“ That is so, I will dance with her, there is no
man in the house must dance with her but myself.”
He stood up with her then, and led her out by
the hand, and some of the young men were vexed,
and some began mocking at his ragged coat, and
his broken boots. But he took no notice, and
Oona took no notice, but they looked at one an-
other as if all the world belonged to themselves
alone. But another couple that had been sitting
together like lovers stood out on the floor at
the same time, holding one another’s hands and
moving their feet to keep time with the music.
But Hanrahan turned nis back on them as if
angry, and in place of dancing he began to sing,
and as he sang he held her hand, and his voice
grew louder, and the mocking of the young men
stopped, and the fiddle stopped, and there was
nothing heard but his voice that had in it the
sound of the wind. And what he sang was a
song lie had heard or had made one time in his
wanderings on Slieve Echtge, and the words of it
as they can be put into English were like this :
I heard under a ragged hollow wood,
A queen-woman dressed out in silver, cry
When the sun looked out of his golden hood,
O that none ever loved but you and 11
O hurry to the water amid the trees,
For there the tall deer and his leman cry
When they have but looked upon their images,
O that none ever loved but you and 11
O hurry to the ragged wood, for there
I will drive out the deer and moon and cry—
O my share of the world, O yellow hair,
No one has ever loved but you and I!
And while he was singing it Oona moved nearer
to him, and the colour had gone from her cheek,
and her eyes were not blue now, but grey with
the tears that were in them, and anyone that
saw her would have thought that she was ready to
follow him there and then from the west to the
east of the world.
But one of the young men called out: “Where
is that country he is singing about ? Mind your-
self, Oona, it is a long way off, you might be a
long time on the road before you would reach to
it.” And another said : “It is not to the Country
of the Young you will be going if you go with
him, but to Mayo of the bogs.” Oona looked at
him then as if she would question him, but he
raised her hand in his hand, and called out
between singing and shouting: “It is very near
us that country is, it is on every side; it may be
on the bare hill behind it is, or it may be in the
heart of the wood.” And he said out very loud
and clear : “In the heart of the wood ; oh, death
will never find us in the heart of the wood. And
will you come with me there, Oona ? ” he, said.
But while he was saying this the two old
women had gone outside the door, and Oona’s
mother was crying, and she said : “He has put
an enchantment on Oona. Can we not get the
men to put him out of the house ? ”
“ That is a thing you cannot do,” said the other
woman, “for he is a poet of the Gael, and you
know well that if you would put a poet of the
Gael out of the house, he would put a curse on
you that would wither the corn in the fields and
dry up the milk of the cows, if it had to hang in
the air seven years.”
“ God help us,” said the mother, “ and why did
I ever let him into the house at all, and the wild
name he has ! ”
It would have been no harm at all to have kept
him outside, but there would great harm come
upon you if you put him out by force. But listen
to the plan I have to get him out of the house by
his own doing, without anyone putting him from
it at all.”
It was not long after that the two women came
in again, each of them having a bundle of hay in
her apron. Hanrahan was not singing now, but
he was talking to Oona very fast and soft, and he
was saying : “ The house is narrow but the world
is wide, and there is no true lover that need be
afraid of night Or morning or sun or stars or
shadows of evening, or any earthly thing.”
“ Hanrahan,” said the mother then, striking him
on the shoulder, “will you give me a hand here
for a minute ?” “Do that, Hanrahan,” said the
woman of the neighbours, “and help us to make
this hay into a rope, for you are ready with your
hands, and a blast of wind has loosened the
thatch on the haystack.”
“ I will do that for you,” said he, and he took
the little stick in his hands, and the mother began
giving out the hay, and he twisting it, but he was
hurrying to have done with it, and to be free
again. The women went on talking and giving
out the hay, and encouraging him, and saying
what a good twister of a rope he was, better than
their own neighbours or than anyone they had
ever seen. And Hanrahan saw that Oona was
watching him, and he began to twist very quick,
and with his head high, and to boast of the readi-
ness of his hands, and the learning he had in his
head, and the strength in his arms. And as he
was boasting, he went backward, twisting the
rope always till he came to the door that was open
behind him, and without thinking he passed the
threshold and was out on the road. And no
sooner was he there than the mother made a sud-
den rush, and threw out the rope after him, and
she shut the door and the half door and put a bolt
upon them.
She was well pleased when she had done that,
and laughed out loud, and the neighbors laughed
and praised her. But they heard him beating at
the door, and saying words of cursing outside it,
and the mother had but time to stop Oona that
had her hand upon the bolt to open it. She made
a sign to the fiddler then, and he began a reel,
and one of the young men asked no leave but
caught hold of Oona and brought her into the
thick of the dance. And when it was over and
the fiddle had stopped, there was no sound at all
of anything outside, but the road was as quiet as
before.
As to Hanrahan, when he knew he was shut Put
and that there was neither shelter nor drink nor a
girl’s ear for him that night, the anger and the
courage went out of him, and he went to where
the waves were beating on the strand.
He sat down on a big stone, and he began
swinging his right arm and singing slowly to
himself, the way he did always to hearten him-
self when every other thing failed him. And
whether it was that time or another time, he
made the song that is called to this day “ The
Twisting of the Rope,” and that begins, “What
was the dead cat that put me in this place is not
known...”
It must be admitted that all this, besides
being finely written, is very like a poet of
the Gaels.
WHETILM BUTLER YEATS
HOUGH his prose be subtile, it is in his
I poetry that Teats may be known best,
and the poetry is of a kind which
will not admit of valuation by odd
snatches, however beautiful. In all Celtic art
one must be steeped if one would profit: there
is little virtue in little sips. It is a thin fluid
that yields intoxication only when you com-
bine Hood’s unfortunate woman and disso-
lute man, and go “over the brink of it,”
“ bathe in it, drink of it”- —wallow in it, in
fact. Then, with every pore a mouth, it is
possible to be drunken on a dream, like him
who slept in Fairyland.
Yeats is not as Celtic or even as Irish as
his work appears. Where he is most mysteri-
ous, the mystery looks suspiciously adventi-
tious or deliberate.
Do you not hear me calling, white deer with no
horns!
I have been changed to a hound with one red ear...
A man with a hazel wand came without sound;
He changed me suddenly; I was looking another
way;...
—and so on. There is for this kind of thing
an excellent descriptive word that rhymes
with the name of a friend of Fitz Gerald’s.
One supposes that it represents the natural
ambition of a Celtic poet to drive his Gael a
little further than it will go.
Yeats’s work is scattered in several tinker-
ings over a good many little volumes : people
who desire his acquaintance may as well
begin with the biggest of Poems (Lond.,
Unwin ; 7s. 6d .) Three parts of Yeats are
here, including that middle part which
one may hold poetically the best of
him. In The Shadowy Waters he can be
judged to embrace beauty more closely, but
throughout the Poems there are parallel
passages with a dropping music like the
plucking of harpstrings :
Red Rose, proud Rose, sad Rose of all my days !
Come near me, while I sing the ancient ways :
Cuhoolin, battling with the bitter tide ;
The Druid, gray, wood-nurtured, quiet-eyed.
Who cast round Fergus dreams, and ruin untold ;
And thine own sadness, whereof stars, grown old
In dancing silver sandalled on the sea,
Sing in their high and lonely melody...
“ Wood-nurtured ” is harsh in that r line :
Yeats’s use of words is not flawless, and some-
times his taste in alliteration errs :
In laughter rose the litter of the waves...
But usually he weaves his lines artfully into
a honeyed harmony that brings an echo
of Shelley, and sometimes of Keats, and
sometimes of Coleridge, and of Poe and
Ingelow and Emerson and others, yet is
always his own.
In the early Wanderings of Oisin there is
a great deal of flat and decorated narrative
that may represent the primary Yeats, rely-
ing on regular form. There is also much
with the cadence of Shelley’s ‘ 1 Sensitive"
Plant,” but less airy, less exuberant.
On a survey it seems fair to suggest that
Yeats is at his best when he is
neither formal nor formless ; when his
verbal outline is broken sufficiently to
give his melody play, yet not sufficiently
to let his substance escape. In his earlier
writing he is comparatively lucid, in his
later writing sometimes positively obscure :
one thinks that he is happiest with a middle
style that is neither in shadow nor in shine,
but in twilight moon-chequered.
The music that Verlaine craved beyond
all is found in Yeats, and he has ideas
withal, a strength of thought and fancy that
(midway through the Poems) moves one to
admiration again and again. It is a strength
that is never the strongest, for Yeats is
perpetually refining and refining ; yet it
exists, and exists with a power of com-
pression that is rare in the Celt. In The
Land of Heart’s Desire , perhaps the finest of
his dramatic essays, he fills ear and mind
with a grave sweetness :
To sit beside the board and drink good wine
And watch the turf smoke coiling from the fire,
And feel content and wisdom in your heart,
This is the best of life,...
Then I would mould a world of fire and dew
With no one bitter, grave, or over wise.
And nothing marred or old to do you wrong.
And crowd the emaptured quiet of the sky
With candles burning to your lonely face...
Finvarra, and their Land of Heart’s Desire,
Where beauty has no ebb, decay no flood,
But joy is wisdom, Time an endless song...
Yeats creates his atmosphere ; he trans-'
fers his mood; he follows, singing, an
exalted quest: he is a true poet and a fine.
And if his inspiration remain aspiration,
if his deed be but a dream, we are never
sure that our best moments are not the most
ineffectual, of that our happiest moments
are not those spent in musing with a
beautiful regret.
Paul Wenz the Austral-French pas-
toralist who so triumphantly has pose un
lapin—devotes an occasional calm Australian
Sunday to literature ; and A VAutre Bout
du Monde , published by the Librairie Uni-
verselle, Paris, collects sixteen sketches
of “aventures et moeurs australiennes.”
Several are reprinted from L’ Illustration,
where they were eagerly read by stay-
at-home Frenchmen, yearning tor fireside
adventure as in the days when Mayne
Peid and Fenimore Cooper were hailed
romanciers du premier ordre. Mr. Wen« has
travelled far and with a fresh eye; his
aventures australiennes are not limited to
the N.S.W. corner, but go north and east to
the islands. He recounts his impressions
dramatically simply, much in Becke’s manner,
in a quaint English-French that shows his
new country is supplanting the old :
D’oh venez-vous? dit l’etranger d’un ton de
commandement.
Jimmy hesita, balbutia, puis repondit :
—De la creek la-bas; j’ai perdu mon chemin,
je ne sais oh je suis.
—Oh avez-vous campe hier soir ?
—lci, dit le “swaggy”; j’efcais si fatigud que
je n’ai pu lever le camp ce matin...
One admires the skill with which Mr. Wenz
has taken the familiar motives of Australian
story—coin so worn that it is refused circu-
lation nowadays—and given them fresh
weight and currency in another language.
The work is literal and faithful, and
one could not have facets of the fact
cut more dexterously for the foreigner.
That the foreigner will receive a false
impression is undeniable: nearly every
book about Australia should begin by
stating that this country is a giant’s
garment, and an author can only pull
half-a-dozen threads from the sleeve;
but ! Elsewhere Mr. Wenz follows
untrodden paths, and turns his themes with
the literary grace that seems a Frenchman’s
birthright. Yet it is to the sketches showing
a keen appreciation of bush character that
one turns a second time.
♦ . ;
The Press Illustration Co., Sydney, issues the
“Tophet Series” of post-cards by Fred Brown,
with subjects chosen from Bulletin caricatures
showing how human injustice is righted...L’s-
where. The designer’s inventive talent is
seconded by an ingenious pen; and his work
deserves better printing, with “ black as is black.”
A grateful scribe records that A. E. W. Mason,
semi-historical novelist and M.P., devoted part of
his first House of Commons speech to quotation
from a young lady at a high school. This young
lady described platonic love as “a rapprochement
in which She did n’t know what He meant and
He did n’t mean it.”
Soul-Twilight, by Lucas Cleeve (Lond., John
Long ; 2s. 6 d.) describes a mirage of sex-relation-
ships that astonished a married lady. Its distant
basis of reality seems to lie in passages describing
the lady’s emotions when an eccentrio Venus
swims into her ken and wobbles celestially.
These passages contain a profitable analysis
(naturally wordy) of unreasons at the root of the
eternal Yes-No. In contrast, other answers to
the problem are displayed too imaginatively.
The rest is for femmes incomprises at the lib-
raries.
M. C. Fraser recites anew the marvel of Japan.
One lingers on her picture of the Emperor during
the war, working “ from dawn and frequently till
midnight,” with no Sunday intermission; and
proving sympathy with his frozen soldiers by an
order to discontinue heating his palace till the
war should be over. “The only recreation the
Emperor permitted himself during those eighteen
months of stress was the composing of an occa-
sional short poem in the severely condensed
Chinese style of which he is master.”—The
picture, we submit, is ALschylean.
In Folly, by Edith Bickert (Lond., Arnold;
2s. 6 d.), a new turn is given to F. Morton’s
“twisted idyl.” By the time the woman has
decided that it is imperative for her to bolt, the
man is dying of a disease unspecified (it looks like
cancer of minor poetry), and is in such pain that
he has nothing to...say to her (which smoothes
the path to reconciliation later on). A large
black gulf with a broken fence and a
danger-post yawns through several chapters
where the man has nothing to say ; and the deft
manner in which the author plucks daisies of sen-
timent on the very edge of the gulf is a matter for
surprised plaudits. Folly is a study of the woman
with a tangled temperament, who, in her own
phrase, has to swing like a pendulum before she
settles to rest on the bosom of a husband fortun-
ately steadfast. Reality is gained with accurate
finesse, and the story is worth scrutiny in a pass-
ing show.
A.G.S.
C 1 ED DOF, I count thee happy in thine end,
Far out. upon the ■main at set of sun,
The free wind blowing ; when the wur.c is done
Death conietli only as releasing friend.
The mighty beings wind and ocean blen t
About thy dying eyes, thy soul teas one
With their intensity, thy fate was sinus
With thread that Titan anguish could but rend.
The sea that trill be murmuring evermore,
The vext wind of eternity, they seek
A slumber never gathered—thou hast made
Through toil a path to silence and a shade,
That all our marvelling gaze can not explore,
Sanctified as a dawn-enthroned peak.
HUBERT CHURCH.


RABBIT SKINS WANTED.
Also KANGAROO, WALLABY,
OPOSSUM, &c.
Consign to : —
WINCHCDMBE, CARSON & CO., Limited, Wool and Produce Salesmen, SYDNEY.
MICK SIMMONS.
The Sydney Sports Depot.
FOOTBALLS.
OE ASSOCIATION.
i.
po^AL
fOoTB^
m
in!
«*
t**
Sm-; • /
The
All Balls Fitted with best quality imported Red Rubber Bladders.
Postage on Men’s Football—N.S.W., 6d ; Inter-State, Bd.
No, I—Nicholson’s “Royal” Match 11., Hand-sewn 9s 6d
No. 2— Nicholson’s “ Royal Special” (Rugby only) 11s 6d
No. 3— Nicholson’s “Royal” Match II •• •• s
No 3 is an exceptionally strong, useful Ball, not so good as the hand-sewn, but suitable for practice.
best quality Imported Bed Bubber Bladders.
GILBERT’S Best Match 11., Hand-sewn ..
BRYANS “Grasshopper” Match 11., Hand-sewn ..
“A.N.A.” Special Match 81., Rugby only
SYKES’ Match 11., Special Value .. • • ••
“ALBION ’’ Match 11., Association only, Buttonless
“RIVAL” Match 11., Association only, Buttonless
“DIADEM” Match 11., Association only, Buttonless
A Splendid Ball—will always keep its shape.
“LEAGUE” Match 11., Association only, Buttonless
12s 6d
13s 6d
14s 6d
7s 6d
11s 6d
10s Od
13s 6d
15s Od
BOYS’ SPECIAL VALUE.
RUGBY
Solid Hide, No. 1 (Postage 4d.) ..
Solid Hide, No. 2 (Postage 4d.) ..
Solid Hide, No. 3 (Postage 5d.) ..
Solid Hide, No. 4 (Postage 6d.) ..
Solid Hide, Match 11. (Postage 6d.)
each.
2s 3d
2s 9d
3s 6d
4s 3d
5s Od
ASSOCIATION
Solid Hide, No. 1 (Postage 4d.) ..
Solid Hide, No. 2 (Postage 4d.) ..
Solid Hide, No. 8 (Postage 5d.) ..
Solid Hide, No. 4 (Postage 6d.) ..
Solid Hide, Match 111. (Postage 6d.)
each.
2s 6d
3s 3d
3s 9d
4s 6d
5s Od
BOYS' RUGBY, Extra. Special Value (Postage 3d).
No. 1, Is 9d each. No. 2,2 s 3d each. No. 3,2 s 9d each.
Football Bladders (imported)-Red Rubber (Rugby or Association)
Each.
.. Is Od
.. Is 4d
.. Is 7d
No. 1 (Postage 2d.) ..
No. 2 (Postage 2d.) ..
No. S (Postage 3d.) ..
Each.
.. Is lOd
.. 2s 3d, 3s 3d
.. 2s 9d, 3s 3d
No. 4 (Postage 3d.).
No. 5 (Postage 3d.).
No. 6 (Postage 3d.),
We can Supply COLONIAL Bladders at Cheaper Prices il required.
SHIN GUARDS.
Stout Twill, with tapes (Postage 3d.) .. ” " 3d pair
Stout Twill, straps and buckles (Postage 3d.) lg 6d k a -, r
Basil, leather straps and buckles (Postage 3d.).. .. •• 2s Od pair
Brown Basil, extra large, continuous leather straps (Postage 3d.).. .. •• •• 9d Pj r
Cape Shin
Best Quality Gold Cape, extra padded, continuous straps, with or without Ankle
Pads (Postage 4d.) -• " " 6 s Od pair
Same as above, larger size (Postage
football boots.
Postage on pair, N.S.W., Is; Inter-State, Is Bd.
Best Quality English .made Hide Boot, blocked toe-cap, very light, a
splendid boot for Rugby
Extra Oualitv English-made Buck Skin Boot (white), blocked toe and
ankle pads, guard over instep, very special quality, per pair ..
Best Quality English-made Hide Boots, blocked toe-caps with and
without ankle pads, per pair 118 oa - iZ3 oa ’
10s 6d
14s 6d
13s 6d
football sundries.
UMPIRE’S WHISTLES, 9d, Is, Is 6d each.
LACING AWLS (Post. 2d), 6d each
LEATHER BOOT STUDS, 6d packet.
STOUT WEB BELTS, Double Straps and Pocket (Post. 20),
Is 3d, 2s 6d each.
N.S.W. RUGBY ANNUAL (Post. 2d), 6d.
BOOK ON FOOTBALL (Post. 2d), 6deach.
EAR CAPS, Duck, open top (Post. 2d), 3s each.
EAR CAPS, Chamois, netted top (Post- 2d), 3s »a.
EAR CAPS, Gold Cape, netted top (Post. 2d), 5s each.
• • ■.
; .r, -ft-A-
-■
"■>.
I H
£ : i ■
Brass Inflators.
BRASS INFLATORS (Postage—Small, 6d ; Large, 9d) ..
Is, Is 6d, 2s,
2s 6d each
k
The “Bullseye” Rifle, 22 Calibre,
20in. Octagon Steel Barrel, rifled Remington action, walnut
stock open sights, weight about of lb. • • *
’ Postage-is 9d N.S.W. ; 3s 2d Inter-State).
7s
ķ
Mick
Simmons
Marlin Repeating: Rifle.
1892 Model, 24in. octagon barrel, 22 Calibre., Kim Fire (magazine takes 25 short,
20 long-, or IS long Bifle Cartridges), weight
£3
'"shx-jssz »" »sa:.tas»^
£4
Stevens’
‘■Little Krag.
!!■■■■■■
Stevens’ S.S. “ Little 22 Calibre, bolt action, blued steel round
barrel, 20in. long, walnut stock, steel scroll trigger guard, peep
sight, with V sight if required, Cd extra ; length over all 36in.,
weight about 3Jlb. (Postage, Is Gd N.S.W. ; 2s 8d Inter-State)..
21s
Lists, Anglers’ Guide and Hints on Fishing—Post Free.
Illustrated Fishing Tackle, Sports, Tobacco
The Celebrated
“MAINE’’
RIFLE
THE MAINE
f?ifle
Sheutrng PiHe A parr
fitted with Sporting- Bear Sights to 300yds., Bolt
Action, ISin. Blued Steel Barrel, Walnut Stock.
Shoots 22 Short, Long, or Extra Long Cartridges.
Weight, 2|lb.
PRICE 15/6
POSTAGE ON RIFLE-N.S.W., 1/3; INTER-
STATE, 2/2 EXTRA.
MICK SIMMONS.
WINCHESTER THUMB TRIGGER RIFLE.
22 cal., 20in. Blued Steel Barrel, bolt action, weight about 2Jlb
Postage : N.S.W., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d..
13s 6d
Winchester S.S. Rifle, 1902 Model, 22 Cal., R.F., peep or V
sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2|lb.
Postage : N.S.W., Is ad ; Inter-State, 2s 2d
18s Gd
Remlng'ton S.S. Rifle, New Model, 22 Calibre, R.F., 20in. barrel, weight 3ilb.
N.S.W., Is (id ; Interstate, 2s 8d
Postage—
16s Od
Winchester
1904
Model.
ĸ
“Winchester” Single Shot ltifle, 1904
Model, for 22’ short or long rim fire cartridges,
21in. heavy round steel barrel, plain trigger, bolt action,
adjustable rear sight, length of rifle over all 37iin., bead front
sight with patent alloyed tip, which will not
tarnish, weight about 41b. (Postage, Is 9d
N.S.W. ; 3s 2d Inter-State).
24s
sc
Stevens’
“ Favorite.”
22, 22 W.R.F., 25, or 32 cal..
Stevens’ S.S. “Favorite,” 22, 22 W.R.F., 20, or 32 cal., rim
fire, half octagon 22in. barrel, case-hardened frame, solid breech block,
Under lever action, open front and rear sights, weight 4ilb. (Postage, Is 9d N.S.W. ; I
3s 2d Inter-State) .. .. •• •• •• •• ••
Stevens’ S.S. “Favorite,” 22 or 32 cal. R.F., fitted with beach combination, front sight, open
rear and vernier, else same description as above (Post., N.S.W. Is 9d ; Inter-State, 3s 2d .. ..
Lest on
Daly
Coy.
D. 8.8. L,
Gun
k
MICK SIMMONS
■ cutam miv rn >=s D B B L GUN. 12 gauge, top lever, steel barrels, extension rib,
LEST °^ou D ndS i?ct 3 le°'cho B ke pistol stock* weight about 71b. Postage-N.S.W., 2s 9d ;
Inter-State, 5s 2d
35s
LESTON, DALY
Postage—N.S
CO.’S D.B.B.L. GUN, same as above, but with Greener Cross Bolt.
.W., 2s 9d ; Inter-State, 5s 2d
45s
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.B.B.L. GUN, 12 gauge, top lever, steel barrels, extension nb,
rebounding bar locks, left choke, weight about 71b. .. -. ■ •
b Postage—N.S.W., 2s 9d ; Inter-State, 5s 2d
40s
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.B.B.L. GUN, same as above, but with Greener Cross Bolt.
Postage—N.S.W., 2s 9d; Inter-State, 5s 2d
50s
MICK
SIMMONS
THE GLOBE
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 or 16 Gauge, top lever, twist barrels, extension
d! & E. fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about ill).
rib, rebounding locks,left choke, patent
Postage, N.S.W., 2/9 ; Inter-State, 5/2.
40s
ISAAC
HOLLIS
& SONS’
ķ
“The Reliable,
£6 12s 6d
»
D B B.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Real Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt,
Reft Choke, Rebounding Locks, Snap Fore-end,
chambered for 2|in. Cartridges. Guaranteed
for all Smokeless Powders.
Postas-e. 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
k
Mick Simmons
HOLLIS & SONS* “THE RELIABLE” D.B.B.L. HAMMERLESS
H rU N lLTausre top lever, genuine Damascus or “ Siemen’s steel barrels,
boT’chlef lock ’aftion, automatic safety bolt extended nb,
Deeley-Edge fme-midfitted wdh
&uabt d /Gun gSgw. 2s9dN.S.W. ; 5s ad Inter-State.
chambered for
absolutely the
£12 12s
REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT
MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER."3WS
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.


TRIUMPHANT PROOF
STRIKING
are the medical possibilities disclosed by Science. The mysterious, agonising, “incurable” diseases of yesterday are to-day
treated and cured effectively and speedily. Students of Electro-Physiology declare that those ailments (such as INDIGESTION,
LIVER COMPLAINTS, NEURALGIA, GOUT, GENERAL DEBILITY, SCIATICA, RUPTURES, PARALYSIS,
KIDNEY DISORDERS, ATROPHY, MENTAL IMPAIRMENT, WEAKNESS, and FUNCTIONAL DISORDERS which
may be traced to EXHAUSTION OF NERVE POWER, and to the diminished energy of the vital functions, consequent
upon this exhaustion) are specially amenable to cure by Electricity. As a curative agent it is fast becoming most beneficial, established upon a sound scientific basis.
It is especially effective in the cure of NERVOUS DISORDERS, in the dissipation of pain and the enticement of sleep. There is no questioning the certain quality
of ics power.
THE FREEMAN & WALLACE ELECTRIC APPLIANCE
is a curative agent, applied externally, exerting a powerful influence upon the whole system. This wonderful instrument, similar to those used by European scientists,
gives instantaneous relief in eases of acute pains in nerves, muscles and kidneys, and never fails to relieve the most insistent cases. When applied as directed, its
influence is felt in a speedy and sure return to Health and Happiness. Read the testimony published below from THE HON. DANIEL O’CONNOR, M.P.,
ex-Postmaster-General of New South Wales, and one of the best-known members associated with the commercial and political history of N.S. Wales.
•
i MR
w*
IHE HON. DANIEL O’CONNOR, tYI.P.
O*CONNOR*S TESTIMONY. Parliament House, Macquarie-street, Sydney, January 28, 1903,
“ I have tried a course of your Electro-Medical treatment. It has benefited me very much. For some years /
was troubled with severe pains in the back and kidneys—the legacy of an attack of lumbago—which has now
altogether, / am happy to say, left me.
“(Signed) DANIEL O’CONNOR, M.P.‘
READ THIS
For the good that it has done during a long term of ill-health, MR. P. R. LARKIN,
J.P., a prominent Sydney commercial resident, writes to the Physician-in-Chief of the
Institute in the following grateful terms
Dear Sir , — The Electron Medical Treatment 1 received from you six
months ago, / have adopted consistent with your instructions. I am
pleased to say I have found much benefit from it. lam satisfied it
gives vigor to the system and improves the general health.
(Signed) P. R. LARKIN, J.P.
AND THIS
Inspector F. FOWLER, an highly-esteemed officer of the New South Wales Police
Force, who consulted us some months since, chronicles his improvement to us in a recent
letter. Here is an extract: —
Since adopting your Electro-Medical treatment my health has im-
proved, and the trouble 1 was suffering from I hardly ever feel. As you
are aware, / was so much benefited by the use of your treatment, I re-
commended my friends to try it.
(Signed ) F. FOWLER.
The Specialists of The Freeman & Wallace Institute have cured thousands of cases like the above*
There is nothing gained in employing an unpractical person to do an expert’s task. Nine times in ten FAILURE follows. The average physician is oftentimes an amateur in the
treatment of Hrave Nerve Diseases. His time is so fully occupied in treating a full assortment of human ills that he cannot devote special study to any particular branch of practice. Some
diseases are sufficiently simple as to require only the general knowledge obtained in colleges and general practice.
THE MORE COMPLEX AND PERPLEXING DISORDERS
not f av °F. ed >7 the family doctor, as many sufferers may have discovered. He prefers to be relieved of tasks which call for special knowledge and special skill. The true
SRECIALTbr is a physician who is absolutely expert in the treatment of a few diseases. He knows all about the complaints he treats, and he supervises difficult cases with the same certainty
with which the general practitioner treats a common ailment.
. . I"or over 25 years the Specialists of the Freeman and Wallace Institute have been successfully treating serious diseases. They began their special work after thorough
training in some of the best-known colleges abroad. They have cured more men of their troubles than any association of physicians in Australia. You can consult them feeling certain that
they know just what to do, and, if your case be curable, they will cure you. If they consider they cannot cure you, they will not undertake the treatment of your case.
SW RF.MEMBF.R ! ADVICE IS AA. WAYS FREE.
>
A
%
%
C
%
%
❖
*
vS'
And at MELBOURNE.
M€N ANP WOM€N
If you are ill, try this new system, which is endorsed by the scientific world and praised by
thousands of rescued people.
The Freeman & Wallace Electro-Medical Treatment
will cure you. They will send you, Post Free, a special brochure of Testimonies, illustrated, showing you what this grand
method has done for others. IT STANDS TO REASON, if it has cured them, it will cure you. If you cannot call write
to them. They reply to all letters punctually and privately.
Their 700-page Medical Health Guide, “ CLINICAL EXPERIENCES,” 150 Medical Plates, explains thoroughly
the cure of Nerve Diseases by Electro-Medical Methods. Send for it. POST FREE TO SUFFERERS. J
Tn e A^Q icia £‘ iri ' Chief re Ins . fci , t . ut ® registered by AUSTRALIAN, ENGLISH, and
AMERICAN BOARDS. He is a qualified Specialist of great European reputation.
IMPORTANT.—Our dispute witH the Federal Postal authori-
ties Having been amicably settled. Patients may diredt
tHeir letters to the above address without fear of delay.
Howard Freeman, Director and Principal of the Institutes.
Dr. Richard Wallace, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.S., E., Physician-in-Chief.
Dr. Elizabeth White, M.D., Specialiste in Diseases of Women and Children.
A Freeman ® Wallace
Ele«Jtric Battery for
Home Treatment.


Losing your hair? Do you bring
out a combful each morning? Has
it lost its natural brightness? Is it
beginning to look faded and dead?
Do you like this condition of things?
Certainly not. Then stop this falling
of the hair at once. Stop it before
your hair is thin, short, and lifeless.
Buy a bottle of
>fye/*’s
flair Vigor
and make your hair beautiful, glossy,
silky, abundant.
If your hair is gray, and you don’t
care to look at thirty as if you were
sixty, then you should use Ayer’s
Hair Vigor. It always restores color
to gray hair, all the deep, rich, beauti-
ful color it had when you were young.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Be sure you get AYER’S Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
For Sunburn
nt* P irpc quick relief can be
w t-fj' obtained by the applica-
tion of the well known remedy,
CALVERTS
Carbolic Ointment.
It has a good record of success for cure of
many skin ailments, itch, ringworm, piles,
etc. Minor mishaps such as cuts, bruises
or scalds will keep healthy arid heal rapidly
with its use.
Sold by local Chemists > and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
England, ,
Mothers I
It fs simple misery to you to see
your little baby tom to pieces,
day after day, night after night,
with whooping cough* To stop
it you haare only to give Scott’s
Emulsion of cod liver oil and
hypophosphites of lime and soda*
There is no risk* Hundreds of
mothers during 30 years past
have done the same and had
the unfeigned joy of seeing their
Rabies
grow well, strong and bonny.
East Cobar, N.S.W., July 7th, 1905.
“My little daughter, Ina Muriel, aged one
year and nine months, had a severe attack
of whooping cough. I gave Scott's Emul-
sion, and in a little while she lost all signs
of sickness, her cough entirely left her, and
she is now a fine healthy child."
(Mrs.) J. Kemister.
The perfect purity and great
nourishing power of
left's
'tm.ukkn
are the result of the original cele-
brated Scott process, by which
Scott’s Emulsion alone is made!
It is no trouble to give, no trouble
to digest. There are many emul-
sions in the market —Scott’s is the
ķ
Always get tlie Emul-
sion with this mark-tbe
Fishman—the mark of
the “ Scott ” process 1
only one that pro-
duces the Scott's
Emulsion, effect,
which is a cure*
We will gladly send you
a free trial bottle. Send
us your address and 4d.
for postage, mentioning
this paper. SCOTT &
BOWNE, Limited, 483,
Kent Street, Sydney,
N.S.W.
IRISH
k
SSOK
WILL CURE THAT . . .
Hacking Cough, &
Troublesome Cold, &
Annoying Influenza **
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption.
(IE KliiEi,^
DON’T BUY IMITATIONS
S
i m
nnnannnnTOCjnannr'f
MVML7VM
The
THE IVEL TUG of WAR,
BVEL’ agricultural
MOTOR
Nineteen Gold and Silver Medals awarded
in Great Britain, 1904-5.
Direct Haulage on Farm, Station or Plantation for
all kinds of Implements, and as a Stationary Engine
all the uses steam is now applied.
Full information from the Sole Agents—
HAM & OWEN, 17 Bridge St., SYDNEY
The best watches j
that , can be con- |
structed.
t
All guaranteed, j
For sale all over [
the world.
AMERICAN WALTHAM [
WATCH COMPANY, [
Waltham, Mass., U. S. A. i
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
ķ
His Majesty
The King and
Royal Family.
MORR’S
New Season’s Genuiue
“SCOTCH” OATMEAL
This Meal contains special fattening and
nourishing powers not obtainable in any
other. Scotch Oats are world celebrated.
In hermetically sealed packages. TRY
IT, and you will never use any other.
MOIR’S
WORCESTER SAUCE.
EXTRA SUPERIOR QUALITY
IS PURE AND GENUINE.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, Limited
HERBERT J. SOLOMON, Agent,
47 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
[1
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
(Regd.)
ĸ
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
The Ideal
Material
for
Children's
Frocks,
dc.
From the
Leading
Drapers.
S£ “ TH3 IMiCwruTSSLIESoS:
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Cypress Shadows.
The shadows deepen,
The sun sets red
Upon the tombstones
Of the dead.
The sun has set in
A sea of cloud,
A blazing pyre,
A crimson shroud.
On marble cold falls
A ruddy light,
An angry glow or
A promise bright ?
I ask the question
Of Earth and Sky ;
The black trees murmur,
The night winds sigh.
The moon is shining,
The wind is cold,
The Earth is grey, and
The stars are old.
The moonlight steals on
Thy lonely grave,
Through cypress shadows
That stir and wave.
Your eyes are closed and
Your heart is stone ;
The light of Life and
Of Love has flown.
I ask the question ;
The night winds sigh j
There is no answer
In Earth or Sky.
N.S.W.
TTHE BUD.
So-Long!
He used to ride to the fence and say :
“ And how are you getting on to-day ? ”
And then we would talk for an hour or more
Till mother came to the wash-house door,
Calling, “Please, young fellow, just ride away
Or there won’t be any work done to-day ! ”
He would slip the bridle from off the gate,
And grumble, “ Surely the work can wait! ”
The wind would whisper across the plain
All fresh and green from the recent rain ;
Down in the willows beside the swamp
Where wild duck hide in the rushes damp
A bird would break into joyous song ;
And he’d say to me “ My girl, so-long !
We meet to-morrow, you and I.
So-long, sweetheart, but not good-bye ! ”
Ihe days of that spring were happy days,
The ways of my lover were merry ways.
When I fed the fowls or baited the bread
I was always turning my silly head,
To look across by the culvert bridge.
To see him riding over the ridge;
At first the crown of his cabbage straw,
And then the laugh in his eyes I saw,
And then his shoulders so strong and square l —
how can any girl help but care
When the best man in the country side,
For her sake alone, long miles will ride?
My heart was mad with its springtime song,
I called back to him, “So-long ! so-long !
We are bound for ever, you and I;
So-long, sweetheart, but not good-bye.”
What did he see, I wonder, in her,
A sleek white kitten to scratch and purr—
Why did she come, like a blight, to his life ?
And fancy her as a cookie’s wife !
She’ll want a maid to fasten her lace,
And smear the paint on her smirking face—
But what does it matter now to me ?
He is free to love her, and I am free
To mind my work and to bake my bread ;
Free from a love that was quickly dead.
And I leave my sweeping on no pretence;
Nobody looks for me over the fence,
Nobody rides by the culvert bridge,
There’s nothing stirring along the ridge—
Nothing but grass and trees and sky.
Not “So-long, sweetheart!” but a long good-bye.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
After Years.
And here you are in the street again,
So pleased with the world as to leave no doubt
That your life, with its little trouble of rain,
To a broad, fair noon has opened out!
Married these ten years since, you say—
And loved not less as the years go by;
Well, there in your eyes of the dawn’s own grey
The truth looks out, and you cannot lie.
I think that a man might beggar his heart
And pay the coin of his love for less
Than one, just one, of the lights that start
And ripple and play on your every tress.
Well, yes, if you like, it is foolish talk;
“ All false to the last fair word,'’ you say;
Yet, some are ever too prone to walk
In paths where the gods have no feet of clay.
And you—what poison has soured your breast ?
All frank you were in the days of old,
Took phrase and praise, and desired no test
To prove their truth or to try their gold.
Ten years, you say, and it seems so strange !
But yesterday, or the day before,
Time changed a heart, but it did not change
A girl’s red mouth and the smile it wore.
There Time wrought ill, wrought lasting harm,
To spoil a heart that was frank and pure,
And keep rose-red in their early charm,
The mouth and the smile to tempt and lure.
Good-bye, good-bye—there is just a touch
Of light left still in the western sky—
Do you remember an evening such—
When we ... ? Well then—again—Good-bye.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
“ Punter ” : Ever heard of a musical dog?
I possess such an animal which, at the least, can
howl in two notes, if not more. When the Sydney
express passes our place, it gives a loud, long
whistle at a certain crossing: This dog howls
directly after in exactly the same note as the
whistle. The morning goods has a different
whistle, somewhat lower than the express, and
the same tripe-hound imitates this also to a “ T.”
I suppose some monster with a faint resemblance
to human shape will say that he has a dog that
can play the harp ; but I can vouch for the above
case.
“1I.J.L.” : Marine turtle eggs are food
for the gods, provided one does not get frightened
at the fact that the white, or albumen, will not
set, no matter how much it is boiled. Best way
is to pray hard, shut one’s eyes, grab an egg, tear
a small hole in the shell, place to lips, and mutter
“Eureka !” as you squeeze and it slides down.
Then proceed as with oysters. Marine turtle
nests contain anything from 80 to 150 eggs. Also
I can highly advise fresh pelican eggs. Two’s a
meal. In case, however, they should be stale, it
is best to pre-arrange one’s funeral. When a
pelican’s nest is being robbed, the female acts
ludicrously. The largest bird seemingly mar-
shals the colony ; they form in line, with solemn
head-wags, and waddle in single file a short dis-
tance. There they left-about face, stand in line,
and solemnly watch the robbing of their nests,
with an expression of anathema. Then I have
always felt like the jackdaw of Rheims after the
cursing.
“ Gr. Rooney ” : I have just been viewing
the circumstantial evidence of some remarkable
tree-climbing. About Muttama (N.S.W.), where
a lot of the eucalypti extract comes from, great
tall trees are to be seen with all their smaller
branches lopped off. Some of the trunks are
wholly innocent of any foothold, and are as smooth
and slippery as glass. A few years ago, when
the extract business was booming, great rivalry
existed among the climbers. The acknowledged
champion was a man named Hudson, who, with a
light axe, used to cut small notches through the
bark and into the sapwood, just big enough to
accommodate his big toe, and progress upward
with amazing rapidity. Directly in front of the
Muttama Hotel is to be seen one of his master-
pieces. It is a big yellow box-tree as straight
as a gun-barrel, and this writer wouldn’t
undertake to climb it with a step-ladder. Hud-
son eventually came to grief (all climbers do,
sooner or later); he had his nose broken through
falling from the top of a forest sky-scraper. Even
then his presence of mind didn’t forsake him, for
he grasped the limb he fell on and recovered his
balance, otherwise he must have been smashed on
the landscape beneath. But the accident injured
his nerve, and his reputation deteriorated after-
wards. There is a sort of superstition about this
country’s premises to the effect that the aborigines
are the best climbers. Undoubtedly they can
climb—their activity and scaling capacities are all
right, but they lack the white man’s pluck and
judgment. The accomplished eucalypti-getter
will chop away quite fearlessly and unconcernedly
where a blackfellow wouldn't venture for a beer
or the happiest hunting ground ever dreamed of.
By the way, most of the eucalypti extract comes
from the leaves of the yellow-box—or “yellow-
jacket,” as it is commonly called—and not, as is
generally supposed, from those of the forest and
river gum.


’ LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The 4 Stockport Remedy ’
for Coughs and Colds. Of 40 years’ proven efficacy.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND,’ The 4 Stockport Remedy ’
for Coughs at*l Colds. Gives immediate relief.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.; The 4 Stockport Remedy ’
for Coughs and Colds. Gives immediate relief.
.‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Coughs and Colds.
Gives instant relief to Asthma and Bronchitis.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ of 40 years’ proven efficacy
for Coughs, Colds, Asthma and Bronchitis, &c.*
A A 111 liU C
v V
Transparent Cement
for broken articles.
‘ LINUM CARTHART [CUM PILLS ’ of Mountain
Flax. Agreeably Aperient. Worthy of trial.
. ‘ LINSEED COMPOUND.’ Trade Mark of Kay’s
Compound Essence of Linseed, for Coughs and Colds.
THE BALLET GIRL
k
4
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.O., SYDNEY.
FREE TRIAL!
NOT A PENNY DOWN
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we wiH arrange to forward one of our
latest improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back, Kid-
ney, Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all Weakness of Men and Women.
Ule will glue free srts
to us one copy of our beautitully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
men and women. If you are weak in any way
delay no longer, but write to-day for our
splendid Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
sir id untie-sr.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
MEDICATOR.
k
Catarrh is inflammation of
the lining- membrane of the
nose and adjoining passages.
If this inflammation is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the
sight and hearing, destroys
the sense of taste and smell,
renders the breath offensive,
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge,passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? If so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache,Neuralgia,Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
lb-ice,complete with 4 months’
treatment by mail, 10s.
Write for Booklei., free, or send order direct to
Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Oollins-st., Melbourne.
THOUSANDS OF
RUPTURED
I PEOPLE have been and are being
CURED
by Dr Langston’s Perfect
Combined Treatment.
Nq Pain, Operation, or-Detention from
Works, Immediate Relief, and Certain 1
Cure. Convincing Testimony and Refer-
ences from nearly every town in Australia
sent with my Valuable 800k —
“RUPTURE, ITS HISTORY & CURE”
FREE.
Posted 2 Stamps.
the LANGSTON INSTITUTE
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
POLICY I‘oit Tine COMMONWEALTH
Price, Gd ; Posted, Bd.
0.
i
0
MK
%
1
A
■O3
*-<a
u
S=!
<3*
\
{Q
CAN BE PLACED
ON ORDINARY
DINING ROOM TABLE
WRITE FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
Alcock&C°, 155 Elizabeth St Melbourne.
FROM
111.5
FROM
2.11.5
BILLIARDS has
long been re-
cognised a 3 the
King of Indoor
Games, and the
Alcock Table is
admittedly the
Monarch of Bil-
liard Tables. Our
Miniature Tables,
with Slate Beds,
represent a high
standard of excel-
lence, can be used
on any ordinary
Dining Table, in-
stantly removed and
stored against the
wall. They are not
toys, but perfect,
highly - finished
Tables throughout,
and are the best
known cure for dull
evenings.
SYDNEY
Showrooms:
422 George Street.
THE COCOA OF THE OLD COUNTRY.
11 m 11 mi i ji 1 1 n n
©
0,5
§lg
It is tKe purest ai\d n\ost ecoivonvical
cocoa ia use. It’s aicest too. <m~"
‘T/if JUNCff sa/s .-“Cadbur/s ts the c Standai'd < of highest pa tit/.
4r
GOOD HAIR FOR ALL J
HOLLAND’S Marvellous Hair Restorer
has gained a world-wide reputation for arresting the premature decay,
promoting the growth, and giving lustre to the hair. If your hair is
falling off, try it; if it is thin, try it. Price, 3s, 4s, 5s ; Postage 9d extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE
for Eczema, Ringworm, and all Parasitical Diseases of the Head, and for
making hair grow on Bald Patches. Price, 5s ; Postage 9d extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE
for Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Color. It acts Quickly,
Naturally, and Effectively. Price, 5/6 ; Postage 9d extra.
CONSULT E. HOLLAND for ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
HOLLAND,
HAIR
SPECIALIST,
195 Collins StMelbourne
DINNEFORD'Sl
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections,
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS'
MAGNESIA,
MAGNESIA
SORE
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT (
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES*
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL BYE TROUBLES.
INI ELVER RAILS.
Ask your Chemist fop the Little Book •
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES ”
CURED
DO IT NOW !
WHAT?
REGAIN YOUR HEALTH, IF IT IS LOST.
TAKE MEASURES TO PRESERVE IT, IF IT IS FAILING.
Good Health is the greatest blessing mankind can
experience. It means not only the power to vigor-
ously engage in the contest of everyday life, but
the ability to enjoy the fruits of success; the
intuitive conviction that one is the equal of his
fellow, and the joy of the fight that is found in the
fighting—in short, it means Energy, Force, Vitality
and Power. WHY BE WITHOUT IT ?
WEAK, AILING and DESPONDENT MEN, recover
your Strength. Get rid of that Tired, Languid
Feeling. Be young again. Health is yours for the
asking. Don’t cast aside the Pearl that is beyond
Price. Consult the Specialists of the DR. LANGSTON
INSTITUTE. Their experience extends over many
years of successful practice. THEY HAVE NEVER
FAILED TO CURh, when a case has been undertaken.
Sufferers from NERVE, BLOOD
Expert Medical Specialists of the
thousands of grateful testimonials
or SOTAf DISEASES can consult no Higher Authorities than the
DR. LANGSTON INSTITUTE. We cure, to stay cured, and
can be seen in their officially-stamped envelopes, at the Consulting
Rooms of the Institute.
OUR ELECTRO-MEDICAL TREATMENT IS THE LATEST
DISCOVERY IN MEDICAL SCIENCE. IT NEVER FAILS.
WRITE
at once for Dr. Langston’s
latest medical work (Ulus.)
“MENS SANA IN CORPORE SANO.”
It tells you what you want to know,
and what you
ought to know.
POSTED FREE,
THE
Dr. Langston Institute
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Consultation Free.
All Communications
Sacredly Confidential.
Established 1887.
Mention this Paper
•when writing.
WHEN
SEASONS
CHANGE
It "behoves one to take special pre-
cautions against Chills and Colds
by wearing next the body
AERTEX
CELLULAR . .
UNDERWEAR
Ail garments of underwear, for both
Ladies and Gentlemen—SHlßTS,
PYJAMAS, &c., and the materials
by the yard, stocked by
Sole Agents in N.S.W.
DAVID BRAHAM & CO -
-94 King Street, Sydney.
Call or write for ILLUSTRATED PRICE
LIST—Post Eree.
Don't
waste time in
experimenting.
V Thirty Years 9
m unbeaten and increas »
W in 9 Success is the
best proof of the claim of
Oxbridge
" £ungTonfc '
\to be the WORLD'S OURE\
for Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
and other Throat and
Lung Troubles.
It canba obtained from
any Chemist or Store,
and Saves Many
Lives.
V'ASK, for.
BOSISTOS
“PARROT A
BRAND
EUCALYPTUS OIL
and REFUSE
i SUBSTITUTES^
ķ
fEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
3 allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
Money in full refunded without question
If not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
cycles, warranted six years.
MODEM £2.10 to £6
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or Clincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Kim
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
Packed and Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee safe
delivery.
nnn Second-Hand Cycles
ZUU all makes, £1 to £2.10
good as new,
Great iactory clearance sale at halj factory prices,
EARN A CYCLE from^ sample
machine. Active Agents
wanted in each district. Large profits easily made. Write at once for
free catalogues and our special offer, using sufficient postage.
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, See., hal r prices,
ME AO CYCLE CO. Dept. **39
LIVERPOOL, LONDON AND CHICAGO.
FAT FOLKS
REDUCE
your weight
5 lbs. a week
No inconvenience. No strict diet. Pursue
your ordinary avocation. Endorsed by Physicians.
Book and particulars free. Address—'
JA S. CRAIG & C 0.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne.


Australian Mutual Provident Society
Establishbd 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties! or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying j
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape, Esq.
General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL *900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES ne Bed 7 T h °* " f SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
mMctftsTm
ĸ
AUTOMATIC- r,fle
.22 CALIBER MODEL 1903
LIKE HISTORY IT REPEATS ITSELF
As a means of pleasure and sport, the Winchester Automatic
Rifle is as far ahead of any other .22 Caliber as an automobile
is ahead of the historic one-horse shay. After loading this
rifle, all that it is necessary to do to shoot it ten times is to
pull the trigger for each shot. Although automatic in action,
it is simple in construction and not apt to get out of ©rder.
For city, country or camp it is the gun of the day.
Sold by all dealers. Manufactured by
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS CO., - NEW HAVEN, CONN., U. S. A.
Cures 'While -*■
You Sleep
, ESTABLISHED 1879.
A Vaporized Medicine having Extraordinary
Curative Powers over
Whooping Cough, Croup,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza,
AND DISTRESSING CODGHS IN YOUNG AND OLD.
JT PROTECTS YOUR HOWE AGAINST CONTAGIOUS DISEASE.
Yapo-Cresolene complete 7-65 Cresolene, 10 oz., 7-65 4 oz, 5 2-3$ 2 oz., 1-3.
A VAPO-CRESOLENE COMPANY. NEW YORK, U. S. A.
Trade Supplied by THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG COMPANY, LTD.
Beautiful Home Decorations
k
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities^
‘•OUR FAVORITE” GOLD EVAMEIi (Washable) —Rich and
durable as real gold. Withstands wear and tear, handling and washing
without tarnishing. For Furniture, Frames, Lamp and Gag Fixtures,
etc. Highest class gilding enamel. Inexpensive; easily applied.
“SAPOLIM ESAMELS.” For decorating the brilliant white and
colors. A beautiful china gloss surface for Furniture, Metal Beds and
any other article.
■‘BAPOLIH” BATH TUB EIVAMEI.. In White, Rose, Ivory
and Nile Green. Withstands hot water. Porcelain finish, which will
not come off. For sale at all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of JAPANESE GOLD PAINT, “SAPOLIN” floor
STAINS, “ SAPOLIN ” ALUMINUM ENAMEL, Etc.
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEN, specialist
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
' of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
ALE ALINE VITALITY PILLS
VWill Cure the Nerves, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
. They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-estatolish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
n ■ nnn r»IIB3ET IS 11 I Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases.
dLUUU lnUriS- “I Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blood
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43/6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
Weak Women
•P 9 'Sgf> ‘ascinoo eiqnoa injaeAvog reloads
•9/955 ‘sesanoo *sg ‘saxog ‘siuieiduioo
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/0
Li ve r Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing- Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches : 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE ; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE ;
481 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.; 111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
MANS PPTFR RASMUSSEN.
Leichhardt Testimony
Every Locality sends its Tribute.
The Case of MRS. A. YOUNG.
(BY A SYDNEY REPORTER.)
Here is a narrative which will assuredly put many a reader on the right track—supplied to us by
Mrs. Annie Young, of Myrtle-street, Leichhardt. It was at Mrs. Young’s present address, where
she has been living for the past eleven years, that our special correspondent was granted the inter-
view which appears hereunder: —
“It is thirteen years since I had the illness you refer to. Truly the time does fly. It doesn’t
seem half so long ago, for everything is as fresh in my memory as though it was only yesterday.”
“ Were you experiencing any physical pain ? ”
“Oh! don’t talk about it. Have you ever had neuralgia in the head? I hope not, for it was
something dreadful. Right across the forehead, through from one temple to the other, and up to the
top of my head, the most acute pain imaginable harassed me. The agony was so great that often I
imagined something was pressing on my brain, and I really used to think I would go mad with it.
It had such an effect upon me, indeed, that even my sight went bad, and as for the feeling in my
ey ea —well, they felt as if they were double the size they should have been. Ah ! what desolate,
melancholy days they were ! I’m sure I felt myself to be about the most unhappy woman in the
world, and I think I had occasion to be in view of the fact that the outlook was so black.”
“Do you mean that your prospects of getting strong again seemed remote ?”
“They did, indeed, for I had been attended to by several doctors, and the most they could do for
me was to”give just a little relief now and then ; but there was nothing lasting about it, and if I felt a
trifle better one day, I was sure to feel ten times worse the next, and the medicine, besides being so
ineffective, was always disagreeable to take. A strange thing was that I felt always so worn-out,
drowsy and exhausted—as if I was only fit to go somewhere and lie down and die—yet, when I made
an effort to sleep, do you think I could ? Not a bit of it. I’d twist and turn nearly the whole night
through, and when at last I dozed off the dreams I had were fearful.”
“And you couldn’t get permanent relief from these symptoms through the medicine prescribed
for you?”
“No, unfortunately. But finally I got something to do me good. Clement’s Tonic it was,
and the best remedy I ever had in all my life, too. Goodness, what a show it made of every-
thing else I had taken, for instead of only easing me a little occasionally, it went right to the
base of my infirmities, and lifted them out by the roots! In addition to what I have already told
you, I must state that I was highly nervous—nobody could be more so, for I was actually
afra’id to stay in my own house by myself, and was continually worrying myself about
things that I “imagined were going to happen. Trouble was always hanging over me, and I
couldn’t get the idea out of my head—not until I had been taking Clement’s Tonic for a space
of time, when, quite mysteriously, I ceased brooding over such silly things, and my mind became
as happy as the day. Oh !it was wonderful what an altered woman Clement’s Tonic made me.
Instead of being anxious and timid all day, I got as happy and cheerful as possible—nothing
frightened me, and my nerves were steady. It is because I know so many nervous women that I deem
it my duty to say what a splendid remedy Clement’s Tonic is for that complaint, though, for that matter,
it was equally beneficial to me in other ways. I used to get pains down the small of my back
and about my shoulders, also palpitation and pains in the region of my heart, which made me think
that something very serious was wrong with me there; but Clement’s Tonic showed itself to be such a
pain-removing medium that I can faithfully recommend it to all sufferers. Its regulating influences
on the heart were extraordinary, and for making one’s sleep sound and peaceful, the same remedy was
the only one to meet with my requirements. I wish I had used it months before, for plenty of people
told me what a grand medicine Clement’s Tonic was. The least I can do is to assist my neighbours
to throw off their afflictions, so you may publish my experiences in any manner you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I ANNIE YOUNG, of Myrtle-street, Leichhardt, in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth of
Australia do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully read the annexed document, and that it contains
and is a true and faithful account of mv illness and cure by Clement’s Tonic, and also contains my full permission to
nublish in any way my statements—which I give voluntarily without receiving any payment; and I make this
bilemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act,
1000 (Sgd.) ANNIE YOUNG.
Subscribed and declared at
before me,
Petersham this fifth day of September, one thousand nine hundred and four,
H. EVANS, J.P.
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENOS
BILIOUSNESS,
HEADACHE, ‘FRUIT
AND CONSTIPATION. SALT.’
The effect of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt ’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.— Sm Capsule marked EHO’B 'FRUIT SALTi* Without It you bars M
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. O. UNO, Ltd., * FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS. LONDON, BNO.,
by J. O. BNO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c„ everywhere.
I
There’s SECURITY in
BARTER'S
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
iFURRED TONGUE.
l
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION. |
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
Small Pill. Small Dos*. Small Prices
They TOUGH the LIVER
Be Sure they are


SKINS'& HIDES
> *;
W>
w
S'
K
r^T/
J. Rennon&sons
are the . . .
Largest Tanners and Exporters
of Raw Skins in Victoria £?
and therefore require a large quantity of
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
Opossum, Sheep and
Rabbit SKins, also Hides,
Tallow, Wool, Horse
Hair, besides Fox, Hare,
and Otber SKins, etc.
to keep their works going.
O
Don’t hesitate to send consignments—whether large
or small, both receive equal treatment —and every-
thing will be done to merit continuance of your favors.
Consignments from N.S.W. and Queensland should be sent care of Howard Smith & Sons S.S. Co.
Price List and all information sent on application.
Account Sates sent same day Goods reach us.
No Commission or other Charges deducted .
Note Address—
J. Kennon & »Sons
TANNERS (SL EXPORTERS,
Richmond, Victoria.
The Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assurance Society Limited
chlef omS'S h.s.w.— 263 George Street, Sydney.
LIFE, ACCIDENT AND INVALIDITY ASSURANCE IN ONE POLICY.
ANNUAL PREMIUM for £lOOO, person aged 30, payable at 60 or Death, £39 19s. 4-d.
SPECIAL BENEFITS; (1) £2OOO if death takes place as result of accident; (2) £lOOO for Permanent Total
Disablement; (3) £5OO for Permanent Partial Disablement; (4) £6 per week for Temporary Total Disablement;
(6) £1 10s. per week for Temporary Partial Disablement ; and (6) £6 per week for incapacitation through
specified diseases. For full particulars and conditions call or write for Prospectus. V. H. BAXTLR, Res. Sec.
THE
OLDSMOBILE
A Good Investment.
7 H.P. TOURING RUNABOUT.
7 H.P. STANDARD RUNABOUT.
More healthful out-of-doors enjoyment can be had from the OLDSMOBILE
RUNABOUT than from the same money spent in any other way. All the
annoying automobile uncertainties that may have prevented you from buying
a machine have been overcome to the smallest detail in this strong, handsome,
reliable car.
Costs practically nothing for repairs with intelligent handling. It has been
strengthened and built up to the highest point of efficiency, and is as well
adapted for touring as for city use—as the successful trip of two of these cars
across the American Continent, and the 3000-mile endurance run in England,
and the 30-day Continental trip, have proven.
Send for Catalogue showing the Oldsmobile line; the lowest prices for the
highest efficiency.
7 H.P. Standard 7 H.P. 20 H.P. 10 H.P. 16 H.P.
Runabout. Touring Runabout. 2-Cyl. Touring Oar. Light Tonneau. Commercial Car.
OLDS MOTOR WORKS, Lansing, Mich*
Motor Garage of Sydney, Ltd*, 253 Elizabeth St*, Sydney.
NEW CLUB CARTRIDGES
The great popularity of New Club Cartridges has tempted other
makers to place on the market inferior cartridges of the same
brown color and general appearance. Accept ho substitute.
New Club Cartridges are for sale by alb dealers.
Union Metallic Cartridge Company
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U.S.A.
k
*
W
Vi
c>3bo\it e
RUBEROID RED ROOFING
The beauty of RUBEROID is that
you take no risk in using it. Other
people have spent 15 years in test-
ing it, and each test has been
answered satisfactorily. Have you
seen the RED RUBEROID? The
color is a warm, deep red, not
a painted coat, but a perma-
nent coating incorporated
during the process of manu-
facture. It makes a handsome, durable and
comfortable roof. RUBEROID may be obtained from all Builders’ Ironmongers.
Wholesale Agents: E. RICH & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
K


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
You 27.—N0. 1375.
THURSDAY, JUNE 21, 1906.
Pbiok Gd.
.jCwfei'-Writer '». wifflr of fto 'Pairs'’filefi
ifaf hft \vft said PljaP hr SZPpON was opt of j
W Qfeafcsf Sfakytp o) lus age mi finished Sj
pin) up picely, \ suppose. Well cjao pdmap-
ttwy frjtr 'pe.njoCra-Ha party aj uju-al jir t
THE GREAT DEMOCRAT AND HIS FRIENDS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the A iistraliaus.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tim Bulletin posted
regularly to you every iveek for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Hoiv to Address Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin ivould oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regal’d to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. ivill be returned., or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. _ The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Hlacle u nil White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical draioings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture 'which has to be re-drawn —ivill be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under tvhich
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, No. 1 Broad-street. Place.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetoivn;
Messrs. B. A. Thompson <Sc Co., 28 ltiebeck Street, Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver , B.C.
San Francisco. — W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
HongKong. —Brewer and Co., 22 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai.—Brewer and Co.
A vents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size Gffin. x lhin.,
ivill be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, JUNE 21, 1906.
THE IMPORTED OFFICIAL.
The Governor-General’s speech at the opening of
Parliament gave some indications that the time
comes at length when the Australian will be a
man of some honor in his own country. Hitherto—
somewhat like the Irishman, who cuts a notable
figure in the public life of almost every land in the
world, except Ireland—the Australian has found
least encouragement in this, his country by
birth or adoption. “ Australian ” as an adjective,
applied to men or goods in Australia, has long
been almost synonymous with “second-class.”
Australian wine, “colonial” beer, local furniture,
home-made jam are used as terms of inferiority,
and give indications of a wide current of anti-
Australian thought. The Australian youth of the
richer classes cannot be taught on absolutely right
lines in Australia. He has to go to Eton and
learn to leave the last button of his vest loose, as
if he had dressed in a hurry and really couldn’t
bother ; or to Harrow and find the art of poising a
pill-box straw-hat on his head; and then on to
Oxford to acquire the Piccadilly drawl and the
languishing affectation of an accent of boredom.
The Australian girl isn’t quite the thing until she
has been to London and worn a shockingly cold
dress on a shockingly cold day before a royal per-
sonage who hasn’t gained enough common-sense
to allow his or her guests to be decently and
warmlv clad at a “Drawing-Room.” When the
Australian youth of the English-educated type re-
turns it is often with the conviction that good clothes
are only made in London, and his sister or sweet-
heart, the Australian girl who has been
“finished” in London, has the same faith in the
impossibility of Australian clothes. I he Aus-
tralian politician has long looked for his
highest earthly reward in London, and sang his
nunc dimitte when a tired clerkling in Downing-
street posted to him one of a batch of decorations
intended for nigger chiefs, “colonial” politicians,
and small English mayors. The Australian daily
newspapers have long set themselves to be pallid
shadows of the London journals, putting British
ideas into inferior English for the consumption of
the Australian intellect. Finally Australian en-
terprises have been generally discouraged and
treated with contempt, it being preached assidu-
ously that there isn’t enough energy and brain-
power in the continent to do more than grow
wheat and wool to feed and clothe the superior
race inhabiting the British isles.
* * * «
The phenomenon of this general self-abasement
in Australia is more than difficult to explain, for,
from the beginning, the Australian population, in
the mass, was extraordinarily virile. The first
Australians were to a slight extent criminal con-
victs, to a much greater extent they were convicts
representing the cream of the British populace—
sturdy English rebels against game laws worthy
of the worst days of the French Bourbons ; Scotch
revolters against tyranny ; Irishmen guilty of no
other crime than patriotism; Chartists, discon-
tenteds, men who refused to doff caps and bend
knees—the daring spirits who clashed with
brutal laws and tyrannical customs. To these
early colonists, translated into a country
where they breathed an ampler air than ever
Europe could offer, came in time the hardy
adventurers of all the world, drawn by the gold
rush and the later rush for “free selection ” land.
Thus the Australian population from the first
seethed with energy ; and it still has great capacity
for energy. (There is nothing that is done on earth
to-day that an Australian cannot do as well. There
is no race with more resource and more industry.)
Having sucked in so much of the adventurous
genius of other lands, Australia, with its infinite
possibilities, seemed destined to a quick leap to
greatness. But something was in the way. Aus-
tralian development is to-day, though not frus-
trated, blocked. It is not possible to find any
reason for this except it is to be found in Aus-
tralian politics—in the fact that the various Aus-
tralian Parliaments in the past did not repre-
sent the vigor of the race. The people were too
busy subduing the wilderness to trouble much
about politics, and fell under the dominance of
small peddling men, whose ideas were foreign to
the new aspirations of a new people, and who
elected to limp after English examples in tardy
apish imitation. No one can deny Australian
energy. It shows itself locally in every domain
of effort from athletics to art. It shows itself
even more conspicuously abroad. The Australian
who can find no honor in the Commonwealth you
will find in Europe, Asia, Africa and America
doing for other lands what he is not per-
mitted to do for his own. Only in the
government of Australia has the Australian
so far shown sloth, negligence and incapa-
city. That exception sadly enough spoils most
of the value of effort in other directions. Without
guiding political leadership, the Australian energy
largely runs to waste. Physical strenuousness,
denied other outlet, loses itself in athletics. In-
ventive and administrative ability seek rewards
abroad, and in every branch of art the Australian
exile advertises at once the capacity of his country
to produce great men, and its incapacity to put
them to good use.
* * * *
Now there is some indication of a change.
Federation has given a new meaning to politics.
A Prime Minister speaks openly of “ Australia for
the Australians’’—Australians by biith or adop-
tion, and for all reputable, healthy white immi-
grants who are willing to become Australian, and
to think Australian; instead of Australia for
the foreigner, whose thoughts and ambi-
tions are foreign. The last Governor-General’s
speech to Parliament declares that there will
be no more appointments of military officers
from abroad to teach the Australian soldier the
warfare that he will have to carry on, not under
the conditions of abroad,_ but the conditions of-
here. The same speech hinted at a change in the
administration of Papua from the present British
colony government, which has failed, to an
Australian system of rule which, in all proba-
bility, would succeed better, and which, in any
case, is fitting, since Papua is now an Australian
possession, for which Australia must take the
financial and other responsibility. But the hint
was misleading, if it is true, as is just now freely
rumored, that a new Governor is to be imported
for Papua—a sexagenarian outsider, when plenty
of young capable Australians are available. If
this proves true, then clearly Deakin’s patriotic cry
is more for the platform than the Cabinet. And it
certainly is true that the present Deakin Govern-
ment with its policy of “Australia for the Aus-
tralians ” is talking of importing a meteorologist
merely because the habit of importing people and
things has become so deep-seated as to be almost
instinctive, and has to be unlearned with painful
effort. Prime Minister Deakin has learned that it
is not necessary to import boots and clothes and
machinery ; nor military officers, nor judges ; but,
knowing little probably of meteorology, when a
professor of that science is wanted, he instinctively
thinks of bringing from abroad a man with no
knowledge of Australian climate or conditions.
And what is wanted in our public men is a deep-
seated conviction that Australians can make any-
thing and do anything—a conviction only to be
abandoned in any particular regard on the clearest
of proof to the contrary. Only when that con-
viction is formed will the Australian energy get a
chance of justifying itself.
• * * *
The extent to which the disease of importing
officials has infected Australia can be seen by a
glance at the news items and articles in the daily
press for the last month. Proposals, or arguments,
or congratulations will be there found for importing
a Governor for Papua, on the ground that no mere
Australian is capable of ruling over a few thousand
blacks; a military commandant and staff, because
the Australian can do only the rough work of
soldiering, and mustn’taspiremuchabovethegoose-
step stage ; a railway commissioner for N.S.W.,
because the local Chief Commissioner finds it hard
to do good work, hampered by cat-fighting col-
leagues : a meteorologist, because Australian
weather must be better understood by an Ameri-
can or Englishman than by any mere Australian,
without the stamp of Boston or London;
a Judge for Westralia, because Australian
lawyers haven’t the necessary knowledge
or character ; an engineer for the pro-
posed new Brisbane waterworks—presumably
because the present works, designed by an im-
ported engineer, are a ghastly failure; and
parsons for various parts of the country, because
Heaven is more gracious when addressed in an
Oxford accent. All these proposed or actual
appointments are canvassed with wide approval,
in spite of the fact that, in every department of
human effort embraced in those callings, Austra-
lians have done, and are doing now, either in
Australia or elsewhere, conspicuously good work.
It is simply that the importing idea has become an
actual obsession ; public men, from a long habit of
looking to London for their ideas, have got an over-
mastering delusion that Australia’s destiny is to ex-
port raw material and import shoddy manufactures;
to export raw genius and import shoddy officials.
Tap Bulletin, in fighting that mania, wishes to
set up no narrow and bigoted test of Australian
birth as a condition of Australian official employ-
ment. Every white man, who is here and who
shows his sympathy with Australian life by de-
termining to stay here and throw in his lot with
ours, may be ranked as Australian. And when
Australian public men really begin to act and
think Australian, and the Commonwealth pro-
gresses as it should, there will be such demand for
men of all grades that a big influx of officials, as
well as workers, from abroad will be inevitable.
What has to be fought against is the idea that,
when a man of capacity is wanted, importation is
the first thing to be thought of. Let Australia be
closely scanned first. In short, let the policy
of the Immigration Restriction Act be applied
to bar any imported person —even a general
or a bishop—coming here under contract unless
there is clear proof that no Australian is fit for the
post. •
THE N.S.W. LANDS SCANDALS IN 1885.
Report of the N.S.W. Lands Inquiry Com-
mission, 1906, recalls the land scandals ventilated
by Dr. Ross, M.L.A,, and the late John
M'Elhone, M.L.A., as far back as 1885. (It was
Dr. Ross’s sturdy honesty in bringing these
scandals to light that inspired the celebrated
Phil May picture of Ross as Diogenes— used
for some time as a cover to The Bulletin ; a re-
production of that picture appeared in last week’s
issue.) What The Bulletin said about land
agents on September 26, 1885, is worth reprinting
now, the tribe having apparently undergone little
change in the course of 21 years:—
FATHER-IN-LAW FARNELL REPLIES.
For some time prior to the opening of the present
session of the Parliament of N.S. Wales, ugly rumors were
abroad concerning the administration of the Land Act of
1884. It was said that, like other acts of every day occur-
rence, the forfeiture or non-forfeiture of conditionally-pur-
chased land went entirely by favor. Some color was given
to this by the publication of a letter signed by a land-agent
named Frederick Cummins, a son-in-law of the Minister
for Lands. Judging by his letter, Mr. Cummins appears
to be a young man who thinks it stupid to have influential
relatives without using them. The use to which he put,
or intended to put, his father-in-law, Mr. Farnell, can
be gleaned from the following circulars without the
trouble of reading between the lines :
Dear Sir, I notice that your conditional
purchase has just been gazetted forfeited, and I
now beg to inform you that, if employed by
you, I will use my utmost endeavors to have the
forfeiture reversed, and you re-instated on your
selection. Upon receiving instructions from you
I will at once peruse the evidence, and place your
case in as favorable a light as possible before the
Minister for Lands, with a view to reversal of the
existing forfeiture. There can be no doubt that
many selections are forfeited on account of the
parties concerned not understanding the method
of conducting their cases before Inquiry Courts,
although in reality the selections are perfectly
bona fide. In cases of this kind the services of a
clever, experienced agent are invaluable, and
often result in his obtaining for the selector a re-
hearing of his case before the court, and ulti-
mately a reversal of forfeiture without rehearing.
In conclusion, I think I may safely say that I
have as much influence at headquarters as any
other agent in Sydney, and very much more than
a good many. I am, yours faithfully, F. CUM-
MING.
We believe this to be a model of perspicuity. From
the opening pronoun to the final adjective it is lucidity
itself. Whatever fault may be found with Mr. Cumming
for the part he takes in the administration of the Laud
Act, there can be but one opinion regarding the benefits
of early training in enabling a pushing person to express
his views with elegance and directness. If his influence
with his relative the Minister can be gauged by his fee,
he must have been a favorite son-in-law.
But it was only on the opening of Parliament that
these rumors became precipitated and crystallised. It
was then that pointed and uncomplimentary allusions
were made to the positions as “land agents” held by
some of the Minister’s relatives. Speaking from his place
in the House, Dr. Ross, member for Molong, made some
revelations, which fairly surprised and alarmed the
country. Among the doctor’s constituents were three
selectors— M’Cudden, Leary, and Scott. For various
causes, their selections were recommended for forfeiture,
and they applied to their member to use his endeavors in
getting the forfeitures revoked. He first, he said, tried
the Minister with M’Cudden’S case, but was unsuccessful.
The application for revocation could not be entertained.
Was M’Cudden satisfied to let the law take its course
without making a final effort to recover the land? Far
from it. He wrote to Cumming on the matter, and re-
ceived the following reply :
Dear Sir,—l am in receipt of your favor of the
16th instant, and hasten to reply. I really think
if you come to Sydney I can pull you through,
but, of course, it will be difficult. With refer-
ence to your inquiry about fee, I think it will cost
about £6O at least. Why not come for a trip to
Sydney ; it will not cost you much, and then I
will take you to see my relative, the Minister for
Lands, and I hope to get the forfeiture reversed.
—Yours fully, Frederick Cumming. P.S.—lf you
do come to Sydney, I shall not require you for
about ten days.
He came. He and Mr. Cumming saw, and between them
conquered. Thus we see that Dr. Ross tried to get
McCudden’s claim re-considered, and failed. Another
tried and succeeded, not only in getting the matter re-
opened, but in getting the claim allowed. That other was
the Minister’s own son-in-law, Mr. Frederick Cumming.
* * * •
Then there was Leary’s case. Leary came to Sydney
to have the forfeiture of his selection rescinded. For
him, too, Dr. Ross did his utmost, but in vain. And now
comes the most suggestive of the doctor’s statements—
one which, so far, has not yet received an answer either
in or out of Parliament; “ Immediately the £5O was
qiven, the forfeiture was revoked." The last case to which
the member for Molong referred was that of Robert
Scott. Scott was burnt out, and even the grass on his
land was destroyed. Dr. Ross, undaunted by his former
failures, pleaded Scott’s case also, but with a result simi-
lar to the previous ones. Indeed, as a land agent under
the present administration, the Molong representative
appears to be a dismal failure. Scott turned Sydney-
wards, expended £5O judiciously, and got his land back,
accompanied by the following receipt
Received from Mr. Robert Scott the sum of
fifty pounds sterling as a fee for having forfeiture
of his conditional purchase, 82-145, of 200 acres’
and 84-126, of 110 acres, reversed.— Frederick
Cumming, Sydney, August 11 th, 1885.
From a week from the time of the first allegations
against his administration, the Minister for Lands pre-
served a strange silence. On Thursday, the 17th Sep-
tember, his long-expected explanation was given. The
metropolitan journals, without exception, described it as
eminently successful. . . To us it appears that Mr. Far-
nell’s explanation is no explanation at all —that it leaves
the matter just where Dr. Ross left it.
• # • •
This is ivhat the Minister is reported to have said :
So far as I am concerned myself, I am not re-
sponsible for these letters. No one deprecates
the writing of them more than I do. I say it was
a most improper and indecent thing for these
young men to do—sons-in-law of mine though
they be. I say it is the grossest misconduct, and
if they had been my greatest enemies they could
not have invented anything more calculated to
do me harm in my ministerial reputation.
Whether they have done the thing innocently or
not Ido not know. Whether they have written
these letters on account of the position that I
hold, and for the purpose of getting business, of
course is known to themselves and not to me. I
know nothing of theiractions or their transactions.
Indeed, I very seldom see them as sons-in-law,
or in their capacity as land-agents. These gentle-
men were land-agents long before they became
my sons-in-law. They were land-agents—one of
them, at all events—before I became a Minister
of the Crown. I have really no defence to make,
for I don’t intend to defend those young men for
their misconduct—because it is misconduct.
Neither sons-in-law, daughters-in-law,mother, nor
sister would influence me in my administration of
the law. I have too much confidence in my rec-
titude to allow myself to be swayed by personal
relationships. This matter having been brought
under the attention of the Uou-e, and I, myself,
feeling its real tendency—because I dare say it
mav cause a severance of my family ties—l can
only say I shall do my duty honorably and fairly
to the public; and as my attention has been
called to the matter, I shall consider it my duty
to issue instructions that these young- men shall
not be allowed to see me personally in their capa-
city as land-agents.
In these sceptical times it is really pleasant to know there
are those amongst us who are satisfied with this explana-
tion.
* * * *
It is not with the writings of the letters we are con-
cerned. It is of little public interest whether Mr. Farnelli
considers them “ indecent” or not, whether or not they
were written in all innocence by his interesting relatives.
What we really want to know, and what has, so far.
remained unexplained, is why certain revocations were
denied to one agent and granted to another. If the
officers of the Department are responsible, it is for them
to produce the fresh evidence on which their change of
opinion was founded. It is reassuring to know that
neither sons-in-law, daughters-in-law, mothers nor sisters
can influence the Minister. But if they can influence
others who, in their turn, can influence him, how is the
matter mended? According to Dr. Ross, certain lands
were forfeited. He tried to get the forfeitures cancelled,
but failed. Other persons, who happened to be related
to the Minister, tried and succeeded. Why
We no more believe Mr. Farnell corrupt than the
member for Molong did ; but at the same time, we deny
that his explanation is satisfactory. It is a lawyers
explanation throughout. This might account for the
Minister’s silence till silence was no longer possible.
It might account also for other peculiarities in the reply.
If by the truth is meant the whole truth, and nothing
but the truth, then entire veracity is almost a
stranger to the legal mind. There is but one more
point in the Minister’s exculpation to which we
have space to refer. “As he (Mr. Farnell) understood
the word, they never had a corrupt Government, and, in
fact, he did not know what was meant by corruption.
It is clear, then, that he does not understand the word.
The friends of Democracy will take fresh heart when they
find that for years they have returned to Parliament an
important statesman who did not know what was meant
by corruption. Still, as even the purest-minded priest
has to read bad books in order to discover and refute the
errors they contain, it would be only fair to the public
for even the most ingenuous Minister to learn the mean-
ing of corruption, if only to destroy it. Should Mr.
Farnell seriously desire to learn the various transactions
to which this important word might be applied, we
engage—provided a free pardon is held out to us—to give
him the names of at least half-a-dozen members who, we
have no doubt, would gladly afford a good deal of infor-
mation on the subject.
• * * *
In succeeding articles it was suggested by The
Bulletin, then, that precautions should be taken
against the growing evil of influential land agency.
But the daily press—true to its traditions
no support, and Parliament no attention. The
germs of Lands maladministration were allowed
to come to the monstrous growth shown in the
1906 report. And that 1906 report will not be the
last unless the most stringent safeguards are now
taken against future malversation. The Lands
Department has control of many millions of
pounds worth of property. Its express duty is
to administer that trust under conditions of equity
and good sense rather than within the exact letter
of particular enactments. Necessarily, therefore,
officials of the Department, must have a wide
discretion. To see that that discretion is not in
the future used dishonestly is the task which now
awaits Parliament. If the N.S.W. Lands De-
partment has been under suspicion for 21 years
all the more reason why there should be no delay
in putting it beyond suspicion now, if such a thing
be possible.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Carruthers’ Slander upon N.S.W.
Last week there was laid before the Australian
Parliament certain correspondence that had
passed between the Australian Government and
Joe Carruthers. of N.S.W., on the subject of
the Australian capital. It is an amazing corre-
spondence on Joe’s side—a correspondence that
should make N.S. W. feel even more ashamed «f
its Joe than it ought to have been before—for the
case put forward is backed by such glaringly
false assertions as to be an outrage on political
decency. The following extracts show the main
features of the story which Carruthers told on
behalf of his suffering State
One of the main causes which led to the rejection of
the first Federal Constitution by the people of New
South Wales at the 1898 referendum was the indefinite
nature of the clause relating to the seat of government.
At the conference of Premiers at Melbourne in 1899 the
following resolution was agreed to : —“ It is considered
that the fixing of the site in question might well be left
to Parliament to decide, but in view of the strong ex-
pression of opinion in New South Wales, the Premiers
have modified the clause so that, while the site cannot be
fixed at Sydney or in its neighborhood, provisibn is made
in the Constitution for its establishment in New South
Wales at a reasonable distance from that city.” The
Premiers thereupon agreed to the clause, now section
125 of the Constitution Act.
. . . Mr. Reid endeavored to insert a provision that the
site should be in New South Wales and distant not less
than 75 miles from Sydney. Mr. George Turner pro-
posed as an alternative that it should be in New South
Wales, but not less than 200 miles from Sydney. Eventu-
ally all the Premiers agreed that the site should be not
less than 100 miles from Sydney, and as near to the 100-
mile limit as possible.
Subsequently the clause originating section 125 was
drafted, and the draft Constitution as amended was ac-
cepted in all good faith by the electors of New South
Wales.
How, then, can it be maintained that the choice of
Dalgety by the Federal Parliament is equitable, and in
accordance with the letter and spirit of the Constitution?
The electors of New South Wales would have given an
adverse vote at the referendum of 1899 had they not been
fully satisfied that the seat of government clause would
secure the capital for New South Wales at an early date
in the history of the federation, and, further, that it
would be within reasonable distance of Sydney.
For the hundredth time this paper takes occasion
to tell Joe the Slanderer that the people of
N.S.W. are not all—nor even half—the sordid,
selfish, grasping bargainers that he represents
them to be. They did not reject the Federal
Constitution at the 1898 referendum because
N.S.W. hadn’t been promised the Federal
capital; in fact, as Joseph well knows, they
didn’t reject it at all. They accepted it
by a majority of over 5000. The majority
counted nearly 72,000 votes, and the N.S.W.
Government and Parliament had pledged them-
selves to the other States that if there was an
affirmative majority, and that majority consisted
of at least 50,000 votes, the Constitution would be
carried; and they asked the other States to
go into the movement on these terms. The fact
that the Parliament of 1898 was a Parliament of
liars and faith-breakers, and that the Government
of 1898 had neither political honesty nor political
decency ; and that between them they broke their
agreement, raised the minimum to 80,000, re-
versed the people’s decision and nullified the
popular vote, makes no difference in the fact of
the popular acceptance. As regards the further
slander that the people of N.S.W. were so utterly
sordid that they would have rejected the Federal
Constitution at the second referendum if they had
not been bribed by the promise of the Federal
capital, it is only necessary to answer that
as Joe is not a prophet lie can’t say, and
as he is a most impudent and reckless asserter
his word isn’t sufficient evidence. Certainly
the fact that the people of N.S.W. accepted
the first Constitution, in which there was
no promise that the Federal capital would be


in any particular State, makes it eminently proba-
ble that they would also have accepted the second
one without the greedy bargaining that Joe the
Traducer ascribes to them. The three other main
points in the Carrutheiis argument—that there
has been discovered somewhere, after years cf
concealment, an allegedly authentic scrap of paper
on which four or five irresponsible persons jotted
down a suggestion that the capital should be
within a “reasonable” distance of Sydney ; thet
this document, of which the people of Australia
knew nothing when they accepted the. Constitu-
tion, should override the Constitution itself ; and
that Joe should be sole judge of what is a
“ reasonable distance ” —these merely go to show
the boundless cheek of a very commonplace little
politician. Australia couldn’t expect anything
better from Carruthers than it has got
in this matter, but when it turns to the
other side of the correspondence, it cer-
tainly has a right to complain of Prime
Minister Dkakin. If Deakin were a whole
man, instead of being partly a man and the
rest only an affable circumstance he would have
intimated in polished phrase to Carruthers that
unless the obvious and glaring falsehoods were
left out of the argument he would decline to dis-
cuss the matter, and that he would also decline to
discuss it unless Joseph stuck to the Constitution
which the people had accepted, and left out
irrelevant questions about alleged memoranda
conveniently found in a drawer or the lining of
somebody’s hat, or other unexpected places.
Deakin’s time is too valuable to be wasted in dis-
cussion upon such trash—or it ought to be.
+
Tlie Producer and the Middleman.
Tory newspapers have for weeks done nothing
but squeal at Lynk’s Commerce Act regulations.
Melbourne and Sydney butter-agents have howled
at the ruin awaiting the butter export trade. In
the midst of the lamentation came a conference of
11 Gippsland butter-factory companies, to re-
solve :
That the compulsory grading of butter for export is of
vital importance to the best interests of the dairying
industry.
That this meeting regrets the action taken by the co-
operative selling companies in offering opposition to the
compulsory grading and marking of butter without con-
sulting the factories supporting them, as it is.in direct
opposition to the best interests of the factories in the co-
operation and the industry generally.
The conference thereupon proceeded to sing
hymns to Vie. Minister Swinburne, and to set
up altars to Bill Lyne. And for the space of a
day at least the press, which had wailed that
Lyne was about to destroy the butter industry,
was silent and thoughtful. Newspapers like the
Argus study the interests of the Flinders-lane
agents who fleece the farmer and call it “ assisting
the producer.” The great cry against butter-
grading is caused by the fear that London firms,
satisfied with the State guarantee, will buy direct
from the factories, and so wipe out the Mel-
bourne middleman.
Greater Melbourne.
Greater Melbourne is steadily growing. The
success that has attended the City Corporation’s
socialistic enterprises is making the outside
municipalities think hard and push for a share of
the profits. The latest applicants for union are
South Melbourne (which is a city itself) and Port
Melbourne (a borough). A conference between
representatives from these two municipalities
and the Melbourne city has decided on a
scheme for unification. Apparently both “South”
and “Port” have everything to gain by the
union. South Melbourne rates have never for
years been below Is. 9d. or Is. lOd. in the £l. At
present, indeed, the rate is 2s. in the £1; but
South is busy paying off a loan. Port Melbourne
has always liad a rate of Is. 6d. in the £l, except
when special demands for loan sinking funds
necessitated a higher charge. The rate in the
city of Melbourne is Is. 4d. in the £l—ls. town
rate and 4d. lighting rate—while every year a big
lamp of money is added to the town fund—a fund
intended to ultimately extinguish rates altogether.
South Melbourne will, when it joins Greater Mel-
-1 iourne, have a one-and-tenpenny rate till the end of
1907, then a one-and-eiglitpenny rate for four
years, and after that the present city rate of Is. 4d.
Port will pay Is. 6d. for five years, and then drop
to Is. 4d. There is no doubt that both these
municipalities would have joined with Melbourne
long since but for Baragawanath, ex-Mayor
of South Melbourne. He has been dictator of the
two councils for years, and feared the obscurity
that the merging of the two with the city would
inevitably bring for him. He went away to
the Cold Country a few months ago, and
in his absence the other side got to work
with such zeal that he will probably come
back to find South and Port, two wards of the
City of Melbourne, each represented in the City
Council by an alderman and three councillors.
The things Baragawanath will say then ought
to be worth hearing. The City Corporation also
gains a great tactical victory over South Mel-
bourne on the question of markets. South and
the city have been at feud (Baragawanath
mostly ran the feud) for over a year regard-
ing their rival markets. Melbourne’s Victoria mar-
ket was a little cramped for the market gardeners,
and South Melbourne saw a chance of annexing
most of the fat revenue the city draws from this
source. It was proposed to borrow (Baragawa-
nath again) a cart-load of money, to build a huge
market on St. Kilda Hoad, and to catch
all the market gardeners before they got
to Melbourne. Now, of course, the scheme
falls to the ground, and Melbourne Council
will continue to socialistically reap a large annual
harvest from its markets. Still, South Mel-
bourne will gain more by reduction of rates than
it would have done out of its proposed speculation.
The annexation of South and Port will hurry
up the advent of a Greater Melbourne, covering
the whole of the nearer suburbs. Already Col-
lingwood, Pitzroy, and Richmond have expressed
themselves in favor of unification.
Bent’s Disfranchisement Scheme.
Premier Bent, of Victoria, has, it is alleged,
built up a scheme for disfranchising the public,
which is, in many respects, a great deal more logi-
cal than it looks. There is a grim humor about
Bent’s idea, and a certain grim fitness also. . Ac-
cording to report, he simply proposes that when a
man doesn’t vote he shouldn’t be allowed to vote;
that non-voters should be disfranchised for a fixed
period—a somewhat lengthy period it would seem
—to see how they like it. Put in the fewest
words, the theory is this: Smith asked for a vote,
and wasn’t satisfied till he got it. Then the elec-
tion came, and Smith didn’t use his vote. There-
fore, let Smith be deprived for a while of his vote
and his right to stand for Parliament, so that out
of the inherent cussedness of human nature he
will desire to use those privileges as veil
as merely possess them, and when he gets
back again on the roll after putting in a
spell as a degraded political outcast, he will
put more value on his status as a citizen.
And so long as allowance is made for cases of
severe illness or absence from the State, there is
only one flaw in the logic. Smith may have
stayed away from the ballot because there was not
in his electorate a single candidate that he could
conscientiously vote for ; he objected to vote for
Bad, M.L.A., and he didn’t feel that things would
be improved if he voted for Worse, J,P. The
remedy is to allow a negative vote, and then the
poll might occasionally turn oiit like this : —
John Bad 1,264
William Worse 1,122
No (just plain No) .. .. .. 1,360
In that case there would have to be a new elec-
tion, with both Bad and Worse disqualified as
candidates. And if, by some amazing combina-
tion of circumstances, the second election panned
out like this—
T. Fool .. .. 1060
G. W. Fuller .. 930
No .. .. 1123
there would be nothing for it but to let that
constituency do without any member for one
Parliament, it being reckoned as a place that
couldn’t make up its mind ; and thus a member’s
salary would be saved. The great point is that
under this policy Smith, the elector, would have
no reason left for staying away from the poll. If
he objected equally to Bad and Worse, and
thought Fool and Fuller were similarly unde-
sirable, he could still do his country good and
manful service by voting against all of them.
But if, with such complete facilities for expressing
his political opinions, he still didn’t express them
(unless he was kept away by severe illness or was
absent from the State), the best thing possible
would be to disfranchise him for, say, four years,
so as to make sure of abolishing him for at least
one election, and then to restore him only on
personal application. This could be done on
the fair assumption that he had no political
opinions to express, or that he took no
interest in his country’s welfare, and was an
unpatriotic citizen whose interference would do
more harm than good. Either way, four years
would be not too long a time to allow him, so
that he might get some political opinions, or
recover from being an unpatriotic citizen. But
without the negative vote any disfranchisement
scheme would be an outrage. And while Bent is
on the job he might consider, as a side issue, the
advisability of having a second ballot where the
candidate at the top of the list does not represent
a majority of the votes polled. Out of 68 mem-
bers returned to the Victorian Assembly in 1904,
13 represented minorities, which is a pretty bad
proportion.
Premier Price Hits Back.
Premier Price, of S. Australia, rose the other
day in a much-needed manner to a very large
occasion, and told things to the ladies’ branch of
the Farmers’ Political Union, which were cer-
tainly unpleasant but very probably true. Some
of the proceedings were reported as follows : —
Mr. Price : The Ladies’ Branch of the Farmers’
Political Union had issued a circular which said
that the Labor party desired to weaken the mar-
riage tie and burst up family life. That was a
wicked and malicious lie. He was prepared to place
his married life, and that of those associated with
him, alongside that of men on the other side. If they
wanted to find men who had more wives than one they
were not to be found in his party. He could, however,
take them to North Adelaide, and other places, and could
find them men like that; but they did not belong- to his
party. (Applause.) Yet he found here that the ladies’
committee at Mount Gambier took men into their homes
who were known to be “ dirty birds ” in Mount Gambier.
Cries of “Oh,” and of “It is a lie,” “Shame,” and
much confusion.
Mr. Price : No, it is not a lie.
Cries of “ It’s a lie,” and uproar.
Mr. Price ; It is not; and as far as women of the
league here are concerned, they honor men with dirty
characters.
Voices: “They’re as good as any other ladies,” “You
can’t prove it.”
Mr. Price said he knew what he was speaking about.
They excused a man here that was not clean.
Such statements as these may be uncivil, but
when anyone considers the impudence, the
silly, pompous, supercilious ignorance, and the
blatant lying of the “ladies” of various Tory
political organisations, he might fairly con-
clude that the time for civility is past. The
Bulletin has no knowledge of the Mount Gam-
bier Ladies Committee alluded to by Premier
Price, so it passes that by. But it does know that
with many members of the Tory female organisa-
tions which bleat about the “sanctity of the
home,” and the “sacred character of the marriage
tie,” and falsely accuse the Labor party of a
desire to destroy both—with many of them the
home is mostly a place to be absent from, and as
regards the marriage tie their husbands have
reduced it to a joke, apparently without
serious protest on their parts. As for Mr.
Price’s general statement that rich men of
infamous moral character are freely admitted into
the society which these Tory dames adorn, and
are allowed to deposit the cloven hoof of
sin on top of the “purity of the domestic
hearth,” that is so well known that it was
hardly worth while for the S.A. Premier to
mention it. If such things were not allowed
there would be very little “ society ” left.
Probably it is unkind to allude to such details of
social rottenness and social sham, but the super-
cilious manner in which the whited sepulchres of
fashion rise to accuse a class which is vastly their
superior in morality, of evil designs upon the
“ marriage tie ” (or as much of the “tie ” as has
survived frequent visits to Japan and its geishas),
and of conspiracies against the “purity of the
domestic hearth ” (which, in the most aristo-
cratic quarters, is already muddied all over with
the footprints of welcome visitors whose moral
characters are just about unspeakable) makes it
necessary. As a matter of fact, many of the
“ladies” of the Tory political leagues have put
themselves beyond the pale of ordinary courtesy.
Their methods are based on a cheerful assumption
that in dealing with the hated Democratic party it
is permissible to lay aside every semblance of truth
and fair-dealing, and that any lie or slander is
permissible. And withal they have shown a
childish inability to make the lie look plausible or
the slander seem feasible, which has covered them
with contempt. Their ignorance of history, poli-
tics, public finance, law, and all other matters on
which they touch, is that of an infant school, and
their minds have apparently been trained for large
public affairs by petty drawing-room discussions
on the nefarious proceedings of Mary Jane, the
servant, and by small social cacklings about a new
hat. It is reported that the ladies’ committee to
which Premier Price alluded intends to take
“ further action ” on account of his remarks—not
about its own morals, on which no reflection was
cast, but only about those of some men whom its
members admit to their acquaintance. If all the
Labor men who have been directly accused by
Tory dames of much worse doings—of immoral
designs on the “marriage tie,” and soon —had
taken “further action,” by summons or other-
wise, there would have been a very hysterical
time in well-dressed circles.
«, -
The Men of the Melville Island.
Every day now produces some fresh development
in the astounding Melville Island case; but still
up to time of writing Captain Larkin refuses
with irritating obstinacy to deal justly with his
men, and, despite solicitor Joe Woolf’s perti-
nacity, nobody seems to be found whose business
it is to hammer some regard for law and justice
into the Bluenose skipper’s head. After promising
the shipping master that he would pay the men
off at Melbourne, after making appointment after
appointment for that purpose and failing to keep
them, this Nova Scotian sea-lawyer calmly turned
round and said that he had changed his'
mind and would not discharge his crew at all.
He went to each man separately, and for-
mally ordered him to return to the ship and
start work again. The men refused, and then
the captain’s solicitors — Malleson, Stewart,
Stawell and Nankivell —wrote to Woolf, an-
nouncing their intention of arresting the men
under a new section of the Merchant Shipping
Act. The men were originally hauled before
Panton, P.M., under a section which allowed
them to be brought before a court and only
authorised their conviction if they could show no
lawful excuse for absence from the ship. Now
this remarkable ship captain has found a section
which, he thinks, gives him power to cart the
men on board ship without reference to any court,
and set them to work. Woolf’s counter move
was to apply to the Vice-Admiralty Court—
which takes precedence over all others
in marine matters —for a writ attaching the
ship on behalf of one of the seamen. A
warrant was issued, and the marshal of the
court went to Queenscliff, affixed the writ
and warrant to the mainmast of the vessel, and
left two bailiffs on board. The same day a Cus-
toms weigher arrived at Queenscliff and sealed up
all the ship’s stores. He took an inventory of
the stores on board (a poor, miserable lot they
were), and demanded duty on all that had been
used since the vessel came into Australian waters.
Here again the conspiracy of inertness that has
helped this tyrannical captain was made evident.
The Melville Island cast anchor off Queenscliff on
May 14. It came from a foreign port —Mollendo,
in Peru—but the Customs never entered it in,
never went aboard it, never sealed up its stores,
never took the slightest official cognisance of its pre-
sence until Woolf found time to prod the depart-
ment into action. The order to review Panton’s
decision came before Justice CUSSEN, but was
adjourned for some technical reason. In the
meantime, Woolf has taken out 18 other orders
nisi to review decisions of Panton’s regarding
the Melville Island men. When the first charge
against the men came before Panton, there
were two other sets of cases listed, in which
all the nine sailors charged the captain
with supplying improper and insufficient food on
the voyage, and also applied to the court to
rescind their contract with the ship. The incredible
Panton convicted the men on the captain’s case
against them, without allowing them to come into
court and hear the evidence against them, and
without listening to any defence. Then, as regards
the men’s cases against the captain, he nodded his
godlike topknot and said, “ All dismissed.” The
cases were not even called, and the men were no
more allowed to state their case against the cap-
tain than they had been allowed to state their
defence against that Bluenose tyrant. But the
worst feature of the whole business is the flat-
footed inactivity of the Police Department. There
is nothing in the Merchant Shipping Act on
which more stress is laid than on the harboring of
deserters. Now, the police actually arrested two
Russian deserters aboard the Melville Island.
They had reason to believe that two other deser-
ters were still on board at a later date (so far as
is known there is no one in particular on board
now. for the new crew has left without its wages ;
it complained that it hadn’t been put on the
ship’s articles, and so had only the captain’s bare
word for its wages, and as he refused to give more
than that nude verbal assurance there was another
exit). And not only does the Police Department
make no move to enforce the law against the
captain, but the Chief Commissioner has, it is
said, stopped proceedings initiated by the
police at Woolf’s pertinacious instigation.
Nothing that has ever happened in last 20
years has brought Victoria into more contempt
than this Melville Island business. It holds that
State up to scorn as a place where the whole
machine of Government is so paralytic or
so corrupt that the skipper of a twopenny
sailing ship with a little decayed beef on board
can, by mere bluff, “ hold up ” the Police Courts,
the Supreme Court, and the Police Department,
can defy the shipping laws, can dodge the Customs
for a whole month, and can make a jest of things
generally. The poorest half-breed republic in
Central America would have done better.
The Australian Tory Press on Seddon.
Sydney Telegraph described Premier Seddon,
after .his death as “ the most notable Australian
statesman of his time,” and almost every other
Tory paper in Australia spoke in a very similar
strain. Yet if those papers had the courage of
their alleged opinions, and if they believed the
things that they tell the Australian public every
day, they would have rather stated that Richard
Seddon was the most notorious political quack,
charlatan, humbug, thief, confiscator, and repu-
diator of his day and generation, and that his
existence was a public calamity. If there is any
reasonable semblance of truth in what the Tele-
graph, the S.M. Herald, the Argus, the Ade-
laide Register, and a number of other papers
daily allege, then Seddon was such a monster
of folly and iniquity that the common
sayitig, “of the dead speak nothing but
good,” no more applied m his case than
it did to Deeming after he was hanged, or to
Cain, Gehazi, Judas Iscariot, C/Esar Borgia,
Henry VIII. or any one of a hundred others
on whose graves the public has poured centuries
of loose and general execration. All his political
life Seddon occupied himself in doing the things
which the Telegraph and papers of its kind
declare to this day are the pinnacle of folly, the
sum of political sin, the short road to ruin, and
the wild inspirations of untaught fanatics who
fool with things of which they know nothing—-as a
lunatic or adrunk might doif he were leftalone with
a steam engine and amused himself turning all the
handles at once. Unless every one of Australia’s
Tory papers is a liar or a fool, Seddon must have
dragged Maoriland down to the lowest depth of
poverty and misery, and it must have been glad
when he died, and the rest of the world must have
been glad likewise, out of sympathy. Yet the Tele-
graph and its unwholesome friends admitted that
he left Maoriland prosperous. And the Telegraph
went further, and called him a “ statesman, ’
which is something vastly higher than a mere
politician. Dor once it spoke with a fair measure
of truth, but if Seddon was a statesman, no term
of contempt is low enough for the Telegraph.
And if Seddon’s policy was statesmanship,
then a lump of mud the size of a cathedral isn’t
large enough to throw at the Telegraph’s policy,
which is in everything the reverse of Seddon’s,
and, by the Telegraph’s showing, the reverse of
statesmanship. The visit of Richard of Kumara
drove the Tory papers of Australia to take notice
of him—to admit that this man, who did every-
thing that they said was small, mean, foolish
and despicable in politics, was a man greater
than his fellows, and to say that this leader
who did everything they said was ruinous,
disastrous, and calculated to drive men and
capital from the country was politically an enin-
ently successful man, and one who had made his
country a notable success. They said these things
with renewed emphasis after his death. And
then they renewed the old business of denouncing
Deakin, Watson, Isaacs, and their friends for
proposing to do some of the things that Seddon
the “statesman” did. The eposode shows the
Tory press at its true valuation.
4.
The “Argus” on the Advisability of Being
Dishonest.
Duncan Gillies, of Victoria—old, borrowing,
begging Duncan who put a mortgage on every-
thing in sight—is not dead but sleepeth. It used
to be a great sight, some 16 years ago, when
Duncan would rise with a bland smile on the
round, red, pleasant, hairless countenance that
always shone as if it had been washed with soft
soap at the kitchen sink, to tell a new tale of
boom, and propose a new loan; and in spirit
Duncan is still rising. Like John Brown, his
soul is marching on. Gillies represented the
invariable financial corruption of Toryism, and
Toryism is still the same. Witness this recent
yelp from Melbourne Argus :
INCOME TAX.
OBJECTIONS TO “SURPLUSES.”
EFFECT ON INVESTMENT.
There is no necessity for the income-tax in the present
condition of the State finances. It is our depression tax,
our drought tax, an impost, perhaps, to be re-enacted
should such times unfortunately recur. The question of
its repeal is one for the people. If this opportunity be
allowed to go by, the fears expressed in some quarters
when the Act was passed will be fully realised. The
income-tax will have “ come to stay.”
Now Victoria hasn’t had one real surplus yet,
though some things it has had have been so much
more real than the average that they have 1 een
called surpluses by courtesy. Victoria had a cour-
tesy surplus last year and an unusually good one.
Premier Bent put up an almost unparalleled record
for honesty by making a small reduction in the
public debt, and a little was, paid off the
accumulated deficit. The rest mostly went to
repair assets, paid for out of loans, which had
been allowed to depreciate till they only
represented a half or a tenth of the loan money.
The next courtesy surplus is to go in further
reduction of the debt and in more repairs like
those of last year. Every one knows well enough
that several millions of nominal surplus are
required before Victoria has any real net surplus.
These millions are required to wipe off the
accumulated deficit; and to pay off enough per-
manent debt, and to sufficiently repair existing
loan assets or to sufficiently replace vanished loan
assets, to again put the State in the com-
paratively honest position of having fair
value in assets to show for its loans
All the prospective surplus this year wouldn’t
suffice to wipe off one old swindle alone —the bogui
assets of the Railway Department, consisting of
Downing-Street.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Australia and Maoriland would be much happier if they
were placed beyond the reach of Downing-street alto-
gether. (Applause.) In the New Hebrides, the cause of
the trouble was the supineness of the British Govern-
ment. . . . One thing had happened so often that he was
almost tired of it. Despatches were sent to him, and to
the Prime Minister of Australia, time after time, marked
“Confidential” and “Secret.” . . . What were they afraid
of? They said that it would prejudice their position
with a friendly nation. The fact was that it prejudiced
Australia’s position.— Appallingly disloyal remarks from
Seddon, reported with fear and trembling by the Argus.
Dream and doze—while the Empire fails.
This is the motto of Downing-street.
Worship the King and the Prince of Wales,
Loyally crawl and lick their feet.
What do things matter ? We’ve got the Fleet.
Why should we trouble ? We’ve got the cash.
What do we care if things go smash ?
That is the method of Downing-street.
“ We are all right if we’re left alone
Here in our offices snug and neat;
Note our respect when we speak of ‘The Throne’;
See our despatches—a perfect treat!
Lovely chirography, sheet on sheet,
Full of grave platitudes, sealed and tied,
Scattered abroad through the world so wide.”
These are the answers of Downing-street.
“ Out on the beastly Colonies’ ‘ needs’ !
Why do they seek us in our retreat?
Why do they urge us to action and deeds?
Why do they ask an impossible feat ?
Ah, but our life is so pleasant and sweet!
Why can’t they see it and leave us alone ?
Haven’t they got any pride of their own ? ”
Such are the comments of Downing-street.
“ Here we are, ruling them, don’t you know,
Saving the Empire in Downing-street;
Who are these persons who call US ‘ slow ’ ?
How dare they criticise Britain’s elite ?
Really such language is hardly meet
When it’s applied to fine gentlemen
Related, of course, to the Upper Ten !”
This is the feeling in Downing-street.
“ What have we done to be worried and bored ?
Why do they write with such rudeness and
heat?
Why don’t their letters begin with ‘My Lord,’
Instead of plain ‘Sir’? Why don’t they repeat
The styles and the titles wherewith they should
greet
Britain’s ‘ great governing families,’ eh ?
It must be their beastly familiar way ! ”
Such are the questions in Downing-street.
“ Why do they harp on mere trifles, like trade?
Why do they say that our rule is effete ?
Why do they think that we’ve never displayed
Interest in them ? It’s most indiscreet!
Haven’t we sent them a Prince to greet
The Commonwealth —whatshername ? Where
is it ? Eh ?
Yes, it’s gone three ; I must hurry away ! ”
That is the motto of Downing-street!
VIC.
O. C. CABOT.


•sn
It'S
SHE KNEW A GOOD THING.
“ Surely, May, you don't smoke?"
“ Only Gallahcr's Cigarettes, ma'am,"
GOLD
PLATE
and
TWO
|flakes
jobacco
CIGAR-
ETTES
are TVi E
best
engines, rolling-stock, buildings, and stores that
have .vanished, and lines that have been abandoned
or torn up, but which still stand in the accounts
at their full original value. But Bent’s honesty
in proposing to clean up these old Tory swindles,
horrors, and arrears shocks the Argus. If he
abolished the income-tax he couldn’t do much
cleaning up ; the income-tax and public honesty
go together. The A'pgus holds that both income-
tax and public honesty are superfluous, which is
such a sound old Tory attitude that one would
think that Duncan Gillies can't be quite dead,
despite all statements to the contrary. The
Duncan we once knew couldn’t rest comfortably
in his grave while such brilliant ideas about letting
the finances slide were about. He would just
have to rise and financially slide also.
-♦
The Anti-Trust Bill.
The Foreign-trade agony over the Anti-Trust Bill
has its amusing- side. If the Foreign-trade advo-
cates are to be believed, their greatest objection to
Protection is that.it will encourage the growth of
rapacious local monopolies which will ravage pro-
ducers and consumers alike. That Freetrade
encourages the growth of foreign monopolies like
the Beef Trust is, of course, not referred to. A
monopoly finds absolution from all sins in the
fact tliat it is foreign. But, to meet the
objection that a high tariff, in addition to
stopping the ravages of the foreign monopoly,
may encourage local Trusts, the Deakin Govern-
ment (in preparation, let us hope, for a high
tariff) has brought down an Anti-Trust Bill
which, if enacted; will prevent monopolies and
combinations so far as legislative effort can do so.
And the Bill meets with frenzied Foreign-trade
opposition. There is no welcome for this measure
which is to do away with the possibility of the
more or less real evil which is said to follow on
the heels of Protection. It converts no Foreign-
trader whose previous antagonism to Protection
arose from “no hostility to local manufactures
but from fear of the up-rise of Trusts as in the
United States.” But it makes the Foreign-trade
press as furious as a trapped dingo, arid Conroy’s
remarks simply are not fit for publication. Here
is a brief summary of the Bill which threatens to
drive the anti-Socialist party to the mad-house :
Anybody joining a Trust designed to injure the public
or to destroy an Australian industry is a criminal.
Penalty, £5OO or J ug.
Anybody trying to injuriously monopolise any branch
of trade in Australia is a criminal. Penalty, £5OO or Jug.
Goods must not be dumped, i.e, , imported at unfair com-
petition prices, to the injury of Australian manufactures.
The Minister has power, after full investigation of the
facts by a Board, to stop such importations. The goods
simply go to Jug.
There is nothing unfair in this. It is all directed
against unfairness in others. To be a practical
safeguard against the shifty devices of Trusts and
Combines, the Bill has to be drawn on a broad
and sweeping scale. Otherwise, loopholes would
be found to make it ineffective. But ample
provision is made against any tyrannous use of the
Bill’s wide powers. The Minister for Customs and
the Attorney-General, in the exercise of the pro-
posed Act, are checked by the officials of the
Customs Department, by special Boards to be
created to investigate cases of dumping, and by
Parliament and the law courts. There is no
real danger of any injustice unless there is pre-
sumed a corrupt department, a corrupt legisla-
tion, and a debauched High Court. But, of
course, it is not the fear of injustice that worries
the Foreign-traders. It’s the dread of justice, and
the fear of losing a handy excuse for hostility to
Australian industry.
Bushido.
About our noble ally the Jap:—
There are some useful lessons to be gleaned from the
story of the brutal ill-treatment of Australian citizen
Weigall and his wife in Corea bv Japanese soldiery last
December. Weigall, who is a son of the headmaster of
Sydney Grammar School, is a mining engineer, and was
travelling through Corea on business. At Hein-Tchieg they
—he, his wife, and his assistant —were accosted by some
Jap soldiers. One soldier used “the lowest form of
language in framing his questions,” his manner was “ ex-
ceedingly rough and insulting,” and, on addressing Mrs.
Weigall, he referred to her as “ that thing,” and pointed
to her with his foot. Then, when Mr. Weigall produced
for his benefit the passports of the party, they were handed
round amongst the crowd collected about the house to be
dirtied, torn or lost, as the case might be.
Soon after, the three white people (Mr. Weigall, his
wife, and Taylor, his engineering assistant) left the town,
but had scarcely covered two miles when they were
startled by cries of “ Yobo, yobo,” and, on looking back,
saw three Japanese soldiers advancing at a trot. The
Wiegalls’ both dismounted, but continued to go forward
as before. Taylor still stuck to his horse and rode slowly
in the rear. The first soldier caught the engineer by the
arm, while the second made a pass at the assistant with
a fixed bayonet. Taylor was quick enough to save his
life, and the steel point missed going through his body by
half an inch, whereupon the maddened beast who had
wielded it turned his attention to Mrs. Wiegall, swinging
her round at the length of his arm, and, finally, striking
her a violent blow full on the breast. Mrs. Wiegall
staggered into her husband’s arms. Then this chivalrous
child of “ The Coming Power ” threw back the breech of
his gun, and, in another moment, would have blown both
man and woman out of the world had not a Wiser
brother stayed his hand before it was too late.
Then came a march back to the magistrate’s quarters,
outside of which Mrs. Wiegall was kept for 35 minutes
in a freezing atmosphere without a rug or cloak, while,
in order to pass the time more pleasantly, one of the
Monkey men took upon himself to behave “ grossly inde-
cently before the unfortunate lady.” After a long delay
the party were ranged into “an open shed, where
criminals are tried,” and where justioe (?) was found in
the shape of a Japanese officer. A long list of questions
and answers were then given, and the opportunity of in-
sulting Mrs. Weigall was again taken to the fullest
advantage. The members of the party then were rudely
ordered away from the premises and told to continue
their journey.
As soon as possible Mr. Weigall sent a complaint to
the British Legation at Seoul. It referred the matter to
the Japanese Minister, and he referred it, in his turn, to
one General Hasegawa. The two latter offered “ expres-
sions of regret as sufficient settlement of the case.”
And now Mr. Weigall is trying to force the hand of a
lackadaisaical Ambassador from Great Britain (by com-
munication with the Foreign Office in London), that he
may secure reparation for the abominable assault made
upon his wife and himself. But it is not likely that
Britain will chance unpleasantness with its blessed
“ ally ” to compel the offensive Japs to give satisfaction.
And Australia is in no position to speak for itself—un-
happy Australia with its blind and stupid neglect of even
the rudiments of national defence.
♦
It remained for Melbourne ’Erald — a journal of
intense culchaw—to reprove the irreverent Vic-
torians who attend public meetings with a view to
addressing Premier Bent as “Tommy.” The
term “Tommy,” from the reporter’s point of
view, “ belittles the people who have placed the
gentleman so named at their head. Contemptuous
banter of the holder of the chief office in the
public gift deprives the givers of that dignity
which a free people should be careful to
sustain.” But, on the other hand, “Tommy”
may be quoted as evidence that Bent
belittles a most honorable office by so
bearing himself as to invite banter. No Premier
in the Commonwealth has had a better chance
than Bent to rise superior to the familiar appel-
lation he earned in his early political life. When
he was elected Speaker of the Vic. Assembly
years ago he belittled his elected electors by con-
tinuing to act the “Tommy” instead of playing
the “Mr. Bent.” Parliament conferred upon
him the symbols -wig and mace—of the First
Commoner in Victoria, yet he remained one of
the commonest. The office had lots of dignity.
Bent had none. As Speaker he was still called
“ Tommy.” Effect followed cause, as in the case
of King William IV., whose pomp and
circumstance couldn’t protect him from the
contemptuous nickname of “Silly Billy.”
If ex-Speaker Bent can’t command, a feeling of
general public respect for Premier Bent —which
would entail popular disapproval of the “Tommy”
that wounds the Herald’s national pride—then
the fault is in the man. A Premier addicted to
the singing of snatches of comic songs, and the
babbling of reminiscences on the platform, invites
all the banter he gets.
♦
“ Binnacle ” writes :
N.S.W. Premier Carruthers has weird ideas about
Steamships. On Friday last be informed the papers that
the tonnage of shipping on the Sydney register was woe-
fully deficient, caused by the action of the Labor party in
insisting on a half-yearly survey instead of the annual
one that suffices in some other ports. Incidentally,
Carruthers dropped this pearl of information :
“ The present law also had the effect of sending all the
work away from Mort’s dock to other places. The ships
had to be surveyed at the port where they were registered,
and a certificate had to be obtained from the marine sur-
veyor of that port, and of course the repairs and altera-
tions were done in the port.”
The man might have done the thing properly and said
that ships had to be surveyed in the Customs House
because they were registered in the Customs House!
Wonder if he ever thinks ! If so, please ask him to work
this out. The Canadian-Pacific steamers are registered
in London. So are the China’s Co.’s boats, and the E.
and A, None of these vessels ever go nearer London than
Vancouver or Hongkong. How do they get surveyed?
Huddart Parker’S Victoria has just spent thousands of
pounds in Mort's Hock being surveyed. It is registered
in Melbourne. How did it manage to evade the law?
Carruthers apparently does not know that the Adel-
aide boats, registered in Adelaide, are surveyed in
Sydney, and so are many of the Union Company's (all
registered in Dunedin). The port of registry is of little
importance, and, as far as survey goes, has no more to
do with this subject than Willis has.
Wellington (Maoriland) has been eating fish for
breakfast, dinner and tea ; for one Moore has got
up and talked some about Wellington’s meat
supply. He alleged that inspectors’ palms were
oiled so that diseased carcases would slip through
their hands, and that there was as big a percen-
tage of diseased meat going through the slaughter-
houses in Wellington as in Chicago. His allega-
tions have not yet been thoroughly gone into, but
in the face of the public’s cusses, the council will
have to investigate matters. There are no muni-
cipal abattoirs, -and, while the larger concerns are
well enough managed, inquiry shows that the
smaller ones are practically under no supervision,
and do just as they like." One or two inquiring
individuals give some of their experiences. At
one boiling-down factory a rat, covered with sores,
was climbing along a rafter, and was promptly
knocked over with a lump of wood by one of the
men. It fell into the soup, so to speak, and was
stewed up along with the rest of the savory
morsels, the nice; greasy, yellow fat from which is
carefully preserved for the biscuit manufacturers !
Another found, on visiting a piggery near the
city, that 30 or 40 of the darlints were feeding on
the diseased body of a horse which had been
condemned by the inspector. Some had managed
to work right inside the body, and were having a
gorgeous time at the entrails. Dairy fed pork !
It turns out to be a common thing for the
porkers to be fed on the garbage of Wellington.
One ex-managei of a bacon-curing factory relates
how, some time back, he started to condemn all
pigs suffering from tuberculosis. But “ the
directors commenced to ‘squeak’ at the loss,”
and he was told he must utilise them, diseased or
not, as the other factories were doing so. Butchers
are a filthy crowd • seemingly the world over.
There are exceptions—many exceptions—of course,
but the average man whose business it is to
be always slushing round among blood and
entrails gets the stain of them into his soul.
“ Snob ” : “ Gent’s evening dress shoes ; price in
England, 245. per dozen pairs.” The sample has
just been submitted to me as a boot buyer. I
pulled the thing to pieces. Uppers, blank oiled
baize (commonly known as black American oil-
cloth) ; soles, papier machi, with a shaving of
leather pasted over ; heels ditto, with last lift of
leather nearly |in. thick. Uppers glued on to
soles ; backs strengthened with cardboard; lining,
cotton, thin enough to strain Reid’s political
principles through. But the shape of this iniquity
was A 1; and it looked a clinking line to sell at
3s. lid. retail. The unfortunate devil who put a
pair on his feet, though, would be down on his
uppers before the first set of Lancers was finished.
Meanwhile, the Australian factory —which should
be supplying him with decent shoes at 7s. 6d. and
10s. 6d.—is mostly idle, waiting till the truth
soaks through the public’s thick hide. Germany’s
tariff, by the way, is death to this shoddy—the
duty is calculated on the weight of the boots.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “In Sight of St. Paul’s.”
Criterion Czerny.
Her Majesty’s “The Little Michus.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Town Hall Mane Narelle Concerts.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “The Man from Mexico.”
Her Majesty’s “On the Quiet.”
Theatre Royal “ Hands Across the Sea.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Athenaeum Hall West’s Pictures & the Brestians.
■
Miss Marie Narelle started her Australian
tour inost appropriately with “ The Exile’s Re-
turn.” There’s one fact that the Hibernian exile
can lay with unction to his soul, and that is that
the Irish exile mostly returns in triumph to her,
or his, native land whether that land be this or
the one that is padlocked, against its will, to Eng-
land. “ There came to the beach a poor exile of
Erin ; the dew on his thin robe was heavy and chill.
Ere the steamer that bore him had passed out of
hearin’, he was Alderman Mikeinthrojucin’ aBill.”
However, that’s by the way, and just to remind
the Sassenach that the .Irish govern in other,
countries if not in their own. Miss; Narelle, in
Irish ballads of pathos,; has so piercing a sweet-
ness and i so.,deep-seated an appreciation of the
sentiments she enunciates in song, that; in the
really sympathetic listener she causes mental dis-
turbance. Many of her audience were in tears,
and tears, as even a mullet might know, are some-
times more subtle flattery than praises shouted
ALMA GRAY (formerly “ Little Alma Gray,’
of Australia) in “My Little Bush Girl”
(London).
Photo, by Hama, London.
to the concave vault of heaven. This writer
would have thrown her string of pearls at
the singer for her singing of “ Believe Me,
Me of All ” only she has doubts of their being
genuine gems. (They cost Is. Bd.) “ The Last
Rose of Summer ”jwas another warmly received
number, and in “ Y ou’d Better Ask Mama ” Miss
Narelle, though as coy as an early Victorian girl,
added richness and vigor. As for the Jewel Song
from Faust, no one cares whether Miss Narelle
can sing the florid, squealy squally number well
or not. Anyhow, it’s not a good concert number,
but the soprano treatment of it pleased a section
of the audience. With “ O’Donnell Aboo,” Miss
Narelle bowed herself out from a successful pro-
gramme and an enthusiastic audience.
* * ■* *
Tenor Chester Fentress —his own name,
not transplanted out of a girl writer’s first
novel —is a fine contrast to Miss Narelle in color-
ing. Her hair is as black as the darkness of a
tarred African at midnight. His hair and com-
plexion (yes, he has a complexion, yet he doesn’t
look effeminate) are like those of Percy Grainger
—a fairness that is almost golden. Also in face
and figure and coloring he’d pass for a twin brother
of Nance O’Neil. Like that lovely giantess he is
a Californian. Mr. Fentress took his musical train-
ing in Paris, and he does Paris proud, for his style is
as finished as a polished precious stone, and his
voice is of pure though not of powerful quality.
The Californian is on the rails for a sure and easy
success in the Commonwealth. Miss Constance
Brandon Usher presided over the ivories with her
usual brilliancy. The remaining Narelle concerts
of this season here will occur to-night (Thursday)
and Saturday next.
“For England” gives way to “InSight
of St. Paul’s” at Sydney Royal on Saturday.
“For England” is not at all the best in Bland
Holt’s list, yet it has done excellent business. In
Sydney there is a steady demand for sound melo-
drama, and with Holt it really is only a question
of putting on pretty good plays to crowded houses,
or rather better plays and being fined for over-
crowding. The “ St. Paul’s” revival will probably
be followed by something quite new.
** * *
The crowded houses which greet “The
Little Michus ’’ at Her Majesty’s, these times, are
probably in part due to the desire of Sydney to
give a cordial farewell greeting to Miss Margaret
Thomas. Seldom has a sweeter, more artistic
singer than this winsome little lady been heard in
light opera in Australia. Her manner recalls
Violet "V arley, though her voice is of much higher
quality. Apart from farewell greetings, however,
“ The Michus ” earns warm approval on its merits.
Miss Florence Young as the other Little Michu
makes much rollicking humor, and Lauri, as the
gouty old general, proves that his capacity for
fun-making is still fresh and strong. In such
parts as are provided by “The Orchid” The
Bulletin confesses to finding this comedian a
little same and tame now and again. But given
any sort of a chance to develop on new and
original lines and Lauri shows himself a first-class
source of mirth.
* -*■ * -*-
Czerny, magician, comes to the Sydney
Criterion on Saturday, “The Man from Mexico”
departing, after a very successful season, for Mel-
bourne. Czerny is under the management of
William Anderson, and Maoriland reports speak
highly of his power to represent the things that
are not, and to make the things that are look like
the circumstances that never were, and to cause
the present to seem to be the past or the future,
and to dig out the fourth dimension of space from
its lair, and the myth, the chimera, and the
delusion from their hiding places.
-* * JK- *
Miss Leila Doubleday, aged 12, whose
photo appears in this issue, is to give a concert at
the Y.M.C.A. Hall, Sydney, on the 80th. The
child’s recent performance at Melbourne Town
Hall as a pianiste and violiniste exceeded the
expectations of everybody save the few who had
heard her on one or two previous occasions, ere her
age had advanced to double figures. The Sydney
concert is part of a scheme for raising £lOOO to
take her to Europe in charge of her mother, for
five years, and if Sydney desires to hear the
gifted and winsome little Leila in the short-
frocked stage of her career it had better seize this
only opportunity. At: the Melbourne concert she
sat down to the piano before standing up to the
violin, but in Sydney the order of things will be
reversed, and the audience will be practically
asked to express an opinion as to which instru-
ment the young artist should take up for good
and all—not that she will ever be able to take up
a piano, except in a figurative way of speaking.
** * *
The boy comedian who tells a smoking-
room sort of story with a leer that is most unboy-
like, prompts the thought that a good cuffing is
the proper greeting. There is nothing more pro-
voking than juvenile precocity in the peppered
story line. Writer confesses to feeling that way
towards “Little Cliff,” who appeared at Sydney
Tivoli for the first time last Saturday ; but only
for a while. He felt that he wanted to biff Cliff,
and that he would like to give Little Cliff
no small biff. But the boy—he’s only a kiddie
—in time compels admiration. He is such
a clever comedian and such a wonderfully
comic dancer. “Little Tich the adult' man
in a boy’s size body—is inevitably suggested
by this precocious youngster, who really is
in some respects quite his equal. Cliff sings, not
imitatively, but with a humor of his own, and his
dancing is full of quaint fun. He will be a Boom.
Miss Lilieth Leyton (assisted by Mr. Harry Ken-
dal) is another new turn at the Tivoli in a comedy
“The Order of the Bath,” which is billed as
having been “ patronised by King Edward.” If
he enjoyed it, Ned VII. is an easily-amused
monarch, for the comedy has little of wit or fun.
A girl goes to the bath and is followed there, in-
advertently, by her Johnny lover, a British army
captain. The door slams on him, and they are
alone. Except that the British officer wears an
eye-glass to his bath—that may be a habit of the
British aristocracy—-there is very little to laugh
at. A well-varied bill is filled out with the
Stavordale Quintette, the O’Natis jugglers,
Omega, wire- walker,_ and Blake and Granby (in
a farce), and other items.
m* * *
The Fisk Jubilee Singers—who have
wandered over the earth so long and changed
their composition so often that the original Fisk
is hardly even a memory now, and yet have
preserved a high level of excellence all the time —
open in Sydney Centenary Hall on June 30.
With them comes a “ Thaumaturgic tableau ”
which is presumably just a biograph—with pic-
tures of the burning of what was once San
Francisco, and with other novelties. Every show
seems to bring along a biograph nowadays.
** * *
“On the Quiet,” the farce with which
William Collier and co. are making their second
bid for popularity at Her Majesty’s (Melbourne),
is a more rough-and-tumble piece than “The
Dictator,” and when it got fairly going on Satur-
day night the house started to roar. Moreover,
the roar was almost constantly in evidence until
the finish. Described as a fun-problem in three
acts, “ On the Quiet” belies its title after Act 1,
and becomes “On the Riot.” All the men,
women and things move fast and furiously, with
the exception of a large, slow-witted British duke
who has married a Yankee heiress, and loves the
girl better than he loves her dollars, dashitall !
If he had the least sense of humor he would prefer
the dollars, but his eye-glass prevents him seeing
a joke. He walks seriously amidst the madness—
a strange duke in a strange land—a meritorious
product of deplorable social conditions, imparting
just one touch of nature to a hustling American
show. Perhaps the duke is the reason why the
show was called a “ problem.”
* * * *
William Collier, who is rarely off the stage,
plays the supernaturally cute New-Yorker of the
piece, the hero with the iron nerve and the
irresistible audacity. At the outset he is involved
in complications which have a savor of melo-
drama. He wants to marry the duchess’s sister
and co-heiress with the consent of the family,
but the ruling family authority and chief trustee
of its millions is a snobbish brother who blows
cold on Collier, and would rather “sell” his
remaining spinster sister to a titled person, as he
is said-to have sold the duchess. It subsequently
transpires that the duchess is quite happy with
her duke; but if this fact were admitted in the
beginning, the audience’s sympathies would be
somewhat turned against Collier. He is a
heartlessly comic suitor with a record for


insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
FISHER’S BEAUTY PILLS
for THE jt Ladies and Children Always Take Them.
LIVER. They Ensure Clear and Bright Complexions.
joatTir
5^
ill
<
N
Gentlemen find that Fisher’s Beauty Pills for the Liver gently but absolutely cure Biliousness,
Torpid Liver, Constipation, Sick Headache, Indigestion, Sallow Skin, Furred Tongue, and Dizziness.
m\
vmmmis
9
X
/
■W!
Per Box—ONE SHILLING. All Chemists and Storekeepers. An Efficient Doctor
Manufacturers, FISHER & COMPANY, Chemists and Drug-gists, 337 GEORGE STREET
opp. G. Post Office, SYDNEY. pT" INSIST UPON BEING SERVED WITH
at Small Cost. Sole
FISHER'S.
reckless expenditure, and he talks dollars all
the time. Finally, the obstructive brother
agrees to sanction a provisional engagement
between his love-sick sister and her Collier,
on the understanding that the inveterate comedian
in question will go back to college and complete
his education during the next four years. Collier
meets the difficulty by persuading the devoted
girl to marry him clandestinely in the adjoining
room, in the presence of his fond father and other
conspirators, after which he turns up his pants in
knickerbocker fashion and roughs up his hair, and
says he is going back to school. He doesn’t act
up to contract, but he goes to the college town and
stays at the local hotel. His friends and relatives
mostly happen again at the hotel and get into a
state of wild confusion—all except the deliberate
duke. In the last act the confusion is shifted to
Collier’s yacht, where the dissenting trustee
arrives and is bluffed into demanding an instant
marriage between the gay deceivers who are
married already. Being now in full possession of
his twenty-million-dollar wife, Collier scores a
final joke off the duke as the curtain falls.
In a farce that is much more farcical than
“The Dictator,” the leading man appears to no
less advantage than before. There’s no oil in his
humor, nor any milk of human kindness, but as a
“droll ” of the purest American quality Collier
stands for excellence. Miss Taliaferro, the quiet
little girl of the previous production, is a brighter
and sweeter ingenue in this, but clever John Barry-
more has no chance to do more than show his
agility at boisterous moments. Grant Stewart’s
artistic sketch of the harmless duke is as con-
vincing as his sketch of the blustering General
Campos in “The Dictator.” Some of the other
members of the co. are not so well fitted to their
parts this time, and both the duchess and the
angry brother fall short of reasonable require-
ments.
At the Princess’s the days of “Little
Mary” were longer than six in the land, and
Barrie’s comedy pointed its moral to a large audi-
ence on a second Saturday, the revival of “ A
Village Priest” being held over. To-night
(Thursday) the season of the Brough-Flemming
co. is to conclude with “Quality Street,” and on
Saturday comes “The Man from Mexico.” Mel-
bourne is prepared to rush the forthcoming festi-
val. It has a welcome of great warmth in readi-
ness for Hugh Ward and Willoughby, and its
heart is full of joy at the thought of Grace
Palotta. The reception that awaits “The Man
from Mexico ” would be fiist as hearty if he were
coming from Jericho.
** * *
The present and particularly foolish thing
at Melbourne Royal will be withdrawn from
circulation on Friday, therefore anybody desirous
of witnessing British jingodrama in its last stage
of imbecility must buy a ticket for “Death or
Glory Boys” to-morrow night, at the latest. A
comparatively brilliant entertainment, “Hands
Across the Sea,” is announced for Saturday.
Henry Pettitt was responsible for “Hands
Across,” and it’s a pretty good melodrama that
can achieve a revival fifteen years after the
author’s decease. At any rate, it is vastly superior
to the works of many modern authors who ought
never to have been born.
** * *
The change in the Opera House bill this
week is a very decided improvement. Homer
Mason and the beauteous Miss Keeler, assisted by
a third party, have taken over the comedy-sketch
business, which was previously in a languishing
condition. “ Hooked by Crook ”is a new treat-
ment of an old idea, and Mason has given popular
approval a good hard knock.
** * *
Hackenschmidt is just now downing the
Terrible Turk in a West’s Picture at the
Athenaeum Hall; also, Vesuvius is erupting, and
the Brescians have a new musical programme.
Unfortunately, the Athenaeum Hall continues to
be the same old place as before.
* ifc *
“ The State Fair,” a tented show devised
by dentist Dr. Russell, of Melbourne, who lately
took it for a brief Victorian tour, is now in course
of shipment to Noumea, where visiting shows
have hitherto been of less account than this one.
Impressive posters, printed in French, warn the
Noumeans to be prepared for amazing attractions
on the first Sunday of next month, and among
names of the artists appears “Dtino —sorcier,
prestidigitateur, &c.”—inanagerially known as le
Docteur Russell aforesaid. His partner in this
foreign expedition is J. A. Miller, the printer
responsible for the postewr en deux couleurs,
begorra ! Le Bulletin seizes the opportunity to
wish them un tres bon temps.
** * m
Miss Tittell Brune finished her Adelaide
season with “Sunday,” which is probably her
best part after the cold-blooded young woman in
“ The Light That Failed.” Cuyler Hastings used
to play Jacky, but Kingston prefers the part of
the English lover. This co. is a very strong one
all round. Atholwood and Mervale had their
chances before, and now Staveley, Maurice
Dudley, and T. W. Lloyd all came out strong.
The capable Miss Susie Vaughan has also done
good work ; but somehow Miss Brune’s favorite
pieces do not run much to opportunities for other
actresses. The co. has gone West, and the Royal
has an annoying, unusual vacant week, which
would have been occupied by Collier and the
“Dictator” crowd but for earthquake con-
siderations.
An interesting document was placed upon
the table in the Board Room of the Sydney Hos-
pital at a recent meeting of the Board of Direc-
tors —the original deed of grant of the land on
which the hospital stands, with the transfer from
the original trustees to the Sydney Hospital en-
dorsed thereon. The original hospital—the Rum
Infirmary—of which the Parliament Houses and
the Mint formed a portion, was built by D’Arcy
Wentworth, Garnham Blaxcell and A. Riley at the
instance of Governor Macquarie. In return for
the hospital the trio had the exclusive privilege of
trading in spirits for three years. Lang says that
the spirits were bought by the contractors at 3/-
per gal. and sold at 40/-. The British Secretary
of State severely censured Macquarie for granting
this monopoly, but in a sense it made for temper-
ance. Only the rich could afford to go on a really
large jamboree, while these three hungry pub-
licans ran the business.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Marie Narelle made her debut at a Sunday school con-
cert at Temora (N.S. W.) at the age of eight. Marie thinks
that, next to Australia, America is the best country in the
world. In America she had her biggest successes, she
dined with the President, was entertained by 34 million-
aires, and altogether had a fine time. America is going
to be a great musical country, she thinks, and she advises
Australian warblers, if they must rush away somewhere,
to rush there. The Australian woman will be flattered to
know that she is, in Marie’s opinion, the most domesti-
cated woman in the world.
Ellen Terry’s official jubilee matinee, at Drury Lane
Theatre, London, produced close upon £6OOO. Many
persons waited outside the theatre doors for 24 to 30
hours in order to secure seats in good positions, and were
so dog-tired that when they got the seats they fell asleep
and didn’t know whose jubilee it was.
Died in Melbourne the other week unnoticed by the
press, good old Kreitmeyer, the father of the local Wax-
works. In his prime Kreitmeyer had pretensions to be
called an artist, not on account of the orthodox effigies
that figured in the main hall of the Waxworks, or the
inner Chamber of Horrors, hut for the “anatomical”
modellings which he executed with particular careful-
ness, and of which £. £. Smith has, or had, a choice
collection of specimens. The show place, in Bourke-
street, Melbourne, brought a good deal of money to Kreit-
meyer for many years, and was quite a popular institu-
tion up to the time of Deeming, when Phil. Stuart was
managing the business. Deeming was about the last of
the murderers to draw anything of a daily crowd to the
Chamber of Horrors. He was waxed for purposes of
public detestation long before he was found guilty,
stormful old actor (Newton Griffiths) was engaged by the
management to work himself into a profuse perspiration
asa reciter of the numerous murders, real and imaginary,
that Deeming had committed. Kreitmeyer’s waxen re-
presentation of the “Foul Fiend” planting his wife’s
corpse under the hearthstone was a mild matter compared
with Newton Griffiths’ verbal picture of the event, and
the epithets that issued from his foaming mouth. Heigho !
We don’t have such murders nowadays, as Mr. Parkyn
remarks in “ The Silver King.”
At a recent Adelaide amateur dramatic splash a sort of
tragic comedy happened. A bouquet arrived to be
handed up to Miss Blank after her performance.
It was from an admirer, so the note said, but the
note bore no signature. At the conclusion of the playlet
a waiter awkwardly approached the footlights and niade
the terrible mistake of handing the bouquet, not to Miss
Blank, but to her bosom pal, Miss Blanky. Miss Blanky
blushed and hurriedly passed the blossoms on to Miss
Blank. Then people asked if Miss Blank had sent the
bouquet, to herself, for if it had come to hand quite un-
expectedly how did Miss Blanky know it was for Miss
Blank ?
LEILA DOUBLED AY, the 12-year-old Mel-
bourne girl who will appear this month in
Sydney as a pianist and violinist.
Photo, by Talma, Sydney & Melbourne.
Comedian J. L. Toole, who died (or was reported as dying-)
the other day, had long been a pitiable, paralysed figure
in an invalid chair at Brighton, England. The grimace
which he used to make in his ordinary ancient way of
comedy business had become a fixed grin on the poor old
mummer’s countenance, and people wondered that he
could still delight to appear in public. Toole was nearly
played out, physically and histrionically, when he came
to Australia in 1890. Of all the imported English stars
this country has been asked to accept on their reputation
J.L.T. was the most unquestionable fraud, for his English
reputation at that time barely sufficed to keep him going
in a mere bandbox of a theatre, where his audiences were
mostly country folk with very primitive notions of
humor. Among Londoners his name had been a dimin-
ishing quantity from the time he went into man-
agement and began to appear in new farcical
comedies, written specially for him and his atten-
dant co. Toole was never a new humorist. At
his best he was a mummer of the old broad-comedy
school, with a considerable strength of personality and a
lot of experience in a few parts. His newest characters
were out of date when he visited Australia in ’9O. The
younger generation saw nothing funny in his winks and
nods and baggy breeches, and even his elderly admirers
had to admit that his methods were best adapted to the
antique playlets with which he had been identified for
30 years and more. He made his first appearance as the
Spitalfields Weaver in 1852, and his Caleb Plummer origi-
nated in 1860. These parts he travelled upon all the
years of his stage life, but they were not big enough to
support an overloaded “ reputation.” America saw him
in 1875, before he had begun to grow feeble, and the
Yanks found him tiresome as a rule. Australia saw him
to less advantage, and made something of an effort to
treat him kindly. But the disappointment was inevitable.
“0.K.”: What ‘‘Hiphen” says on the question of
raising money for the technical musical education of an
Australian child in Europe, when she could get a good
deal of advanced training in her own country, may be all
right enough. But public patriotism doesn’t yet run to
a faith in the local educational powers that be. It is use-
less to attempt to raise any considerable sum of money
for the benefit of a promising young artist who isn’t going
to Europe. And “ Hiphen ” overlooks the undeniable
fact that Germany is a better country than Australia for
the student who would hear, at every possible
opportunity, the finest interpretations of the finest
music.
The Payne Family, of Ballarat, well-known in the Vic.
country districts a dozen years ago, has popped-up again
as “the Steel-Payne Entertainers and Bellringers,” and
they are singing and ringing on a somewhat larger scale
than of yore. A sharp-pointed name is half the battle with
a travelling side-show. There’s a hard, cold incisiveness
about “Steel-Payne” which could not be excelled by
Steel-Pen or Brass-Nib.
American actor Collier told a M.L. reporter, as a
matter for astonishment, that the ’Frisco earthquake
“spared neither class nor creed.” Who on earth sup-
posed that it would ?
“Hamer”: In “ Pov. Point” (B. 24/5/’O6) there are
remarks about two stage people who hate the stage.
It s a tale that has been told before ; in all probability the
ladies referred to will be seen on the boards again. That
sort of charming hypocrisy arises from a sort of feminine
coquetry that actuates both actors and actresses —the
Resort of coquetry that often makes a girl pretend
a dislike for the boy of her preference. Australia has at
least one actor who came in for a respectable fortune
had been for about twenty years announcing
tnat he hated the stage. And the first thing he did was
to launch a company with himself as star. He is, for all
I know, grumbling about the stage to this day ; but he
nasn t half the cause to do so that the stage has to
grumble about him.
Cockaigne ” : Cyril Keightley, from Australia, made
good appearances with Benson’s Company in the
otratford-on-Aron performances this year, held in honor
of Shakspere’s birthday. He acted Pistol, in “ Henry
, and yet better parts. The performances are endowed,
wherefore Benson was able to produce the whole of the
Plantagenet dramas, except the first part of “Henry IV.”
That is to say he staged “ Richard II.,” “ Henry IV.”
(second part), “ Henry V.,” the three parts of “Henry
and “Richard III.” They were all reeled off
consecutively, one night to each, proving that Thespians
can do a bit of study, even nowadays. There is no record
of the third part of “ Henry VI.” being acted in England
since Shakspere’s era. The first and second parts were
acted. It is alleged that all the three parts have been done
in series in Germany, where playgoers are treated to
Sliaksperian cycles. A German says you cannot under-
stand the good plays without seeing the comparatively
bad ones. Sarah Bernhardt once had the cheek to act
Hamlet in Stratford-on-Avon. For Ellen Terry’s recent
benefit at Drury Lane, London, the programme included
the second act of “Much Ado About Nothing,” in which
Ellen, Kate, Marion, and another Miss Terry were all
billed. One of Ellen’s sisters is dead. The male cast in
the second act of “ Much Ado ” was : Benedick, Beerbohm
Tree ; Claudio, G. Alexander; Don Pedro, F. Terry;
Leonato, H. Vezin ; Don John, H. B. Irving.
“ J.A.C.” : I have received a prospectus of “ The Aus-
tralasian Grand Opera Company, Limited.” It is a pro-
posal made by George Musgrove that confiding Aus-
tralians should furnish him with £4OOO to bring out a
company to perform what he is pleased to call “ grand
opera.” As used in this country the term is a misnomer,
and is a relic of the old Lyster and Cagli days, when any-
thing which was not Offenbach’s “ Grand Duchess,” or
something similar, was dubbed “ grand opera.” “ Mari-
tana” was, and, I presume, is still, “grand opera.” If
the term has any significance at all it is only as applied
to the repertoire of the Paris Thbatre National de l’Opera,
as represented in the big capitals of Europe and the two
Americas. Gounod’s “ Romeo et Juliette,” promised in
the prospectus, is not, technically speaking, “ grand
opera,” although it ought to be ; it belongs to the opera
comique repertoire. But all these are details. What is
wanted is “ good ” opera ; let “ grand ” opera slide. It is
useless to expect a first-class rendition of opera seria—
that is the Italian term, and a much better one than
“grand opera”—here. It won’t run to it. Artists of the front
rank would not come on the mere guarantee of a manager
with £4OOO behind him. All we can hope for is fair second-
class, but even that would be a boon to the true musical
amateurs of Australia. It is a poor job to throw cold
water on any well-intentioned scheme, but the fact
remains that since the late Martin Simonsen, 20 years
ago, brought to Australia his Italian opera company, of
which Madame Ciuti and Signor Lazzarini were the lead-
ing- members, all other attempts have resulted, more or
less, in financial failure. It is true that the polyglot com-
pany which Musgrove brought here some few years back
was not an absolute failure, but that is all that can be
said of it. Musical comedy, admirably represented by J.
O. Williamson for many years, and recently by George
Stephenson—who, by the way, appears to be the only
Australian manager who knows how to spell ballerine—
has too deep a hold on our “ musical ” public to be easily
rooted out.
The Yankee comedy at Her Majesty’s (Melbourne)
threw further light on the “ tipping” infliction, which
Americans protest against when they are abroad, but
accept as a national institution under their own Flag of
Freedom. Brooke Travers, passenger from New York to
Porto Banos on an American vessel, is expected to part a
dollar or two to every blessed serving-man in the ship’s
company'.
Mabel Munro, a 17-year-old Maoriland girl, now playing
with George Edwardes’ Co. in “ The Little Cherub ” at
the Prince of Wales Theatre (London), is a daughter of
G. S. Munro, Executive Commissioner of the M.L. Inter-
national Exhibition. Miss Munro won the Edwardes
Scholarship in 1904 at Barrett’s Lyric and Dramatic
Academy, and the scholarship carried with it an engage-
ment with Edwardes.
One Australian singer made a terrible mistake when he
first arrived in London. At a swell “At Home ”he heard
various vocal efforts which he considered much inferior
to his own. Going up to one of the perpetrators, he
remarked, “ You have a very good voice, indeed. It’s a
great pity you don’t study' a bit.” A very astonished
person fixed him with a resentful eye, and then, instead
of punching his critic, he gave him the metallic laugh
and handed him a card. Two minutes later a very shrunk
vocalist rushed away from that house with a bit of crum-
pled pasteboard in his hand. He had been advising one
of the world’s most famous baritones to take lessons in
singing. (Perhaps the most famous baritone needed
them.)
“Hiphen”: I saw Harry Rickards at his own show
some time ago. He sat in his box with the emotionless
visage of a poker player or a butcher’s chopping block.
Twice a smile almost struggled across his countenance,
but died away again on that weary expanse, and once he
expressed his appreciation by allowing one gloved paw to
fall wearily on the other. After all it must be a tired
thing to go and look at your own show. It suggests the
bush editor who collects his matter himself, writes it him-
self, sets it up himself, reads it in the proofs himself, and
then would sooner fall down dead than read it all over
again in the paper.
Lawrence Barrett, one of America’s best Hamlets, first
played that character under the auspices of a manager
who was used to staging the “ Fiend at the Fowl-house ”
type of drama. The manager regarded the simple title
“ Hamlet ” as too weak altogether, so he billed it as “ The
Grave Burst, or the Ghost’s Piteous Tale of Horror, by W.
Shakspeare, Esq.”
“ Quidam ” : Why doesn’t someone get out a whole
series of real Australian scenes for bioscope business ?
What a wealth of variety' there u'ould be to deal with.
Mining in Kalgoorlie, Bendigo, Gympie, and the Towers ;
ocean liners leaving Circular Quay ; branding, horse-
breaking, or droving out-back ; cutting cane in the field,
the sugar mills, loading bananas at Cairns, pearling at
Thursday Island, and so on. Surely in a country of
wanderers like Australia, such a display would take on
better than the eternal “ Boys in Blue,” the relics of the
Cuban war-boom, and the fake effects such as the
“ Soicerer’s Dream.”
THE OPPOSITION, OR BLOCKING
BUSINESS.
“L.” : Only in one way could that grand
old Premier Seddon have died more dramatically.
Had his end eome 14 hours from Auckland instead
of 14 hours from Sydney, and the big waiting
crowd of welcomers have sighted the Oswestry
Grange coming in with flags at half mast —then ! !
The S.M. Herald tries to be a bigoted
Tory with a conscience, which is much the same
as trying to lie truthfully, or to be an honorable
burglar. The results are curious at times. On
June 13 it published an article in which it
admitted that the Government Land Banks of
various States were so splendidly managed that
they had made no losses, and that—
The expenses had been kept at the lowest limit com-
patible with efficiency.
Then it went down to its dusty lumber-room and
found an axiom :
It is an axiom in prudent financing that the less the
Government has to do with banking the better for the
country.
N.S.W. Attorney-General Wade, who is
preparing a Bill to prevent bottles being taken
away without payment, got a shock last week.
The couticil of the Bottle Accumulators’ Associa-
tion called about the Bill, and asked him to bring
it right along. Wade’s deputationists wanted
every retail bottle accumulator licensed at the
rate of £1 a year, and every wholesale aggregator
regulated by law. They also spoke loftily, as
dead marine specialists, of the prospects and
resources of their profession, and Wade could only
gasp that his Bill intended to deal with all
branches of second-hand trade, and that their
claims would have his abject attention.
Henry Carey Dangar’s contemptuous
reference to those who desire to apply legal
restrictions to Dr. Danysz’s microbic experiments
as persons “who own hardly a sheep among
them,” is quite true. A lot of these people own
no animals except themselves; otherwise the
only live-stock they have an interest in are their
families. And they want to be sure that these
animals won’t be endangered. Henry Carey
Dangar, the sheep man with the sheep intellect,
can’t understand how any man who doesn’t own
sheep has a right to lift his voice in the community.
A Parliamentary report in his idea would read
something like this: “Mr. Blank (105,000 sheep)
approved of the motion ” &c.
Once again Vie. Premier Bent has fallen
with a valuable thud on the bucolics of the Lily-
dale and Upper Yarra district, who were cadging
help for their Warburton Railway Trust. Thomas
dug out the facts that over £2OOO rates out of £OOOO
were in arrears; that the Trust had spent £3OOO
in buying land for the railway, and had managed
to fool away £9OOO in law costs in getting the said
£3OOO worth of land; also, that soil which the
State had sold to the people thereabouts at 12s. 6s.
was now worth £l5 oer acre, which seemed
to show that the local landowriers' weren’t
exactly beggars. Then he remarked casually that
there were some very smart rate collectors to be
had if they looked for them ; and that a few
honest valuators were still left in Melbourne ; also
that the evening train left at 5.12, and they would
catch it if they hurried.
For unscrupulous lying Sydney Tele-
graph’s comments on the Redistribution of Seats
scheme before the Australian Parliament win by
a nose from any other competitor (second and
third places go to the same paper). The Govern-
ment announced long ago that, it would push on
with the scheme. J. 0. Watson, who is supposed
to be very much in the confidence of the Govern-
ment, showed his belief in the sincerity of that
assurance by picking out a new seat to contest
because the redistribution scheme, if adopted,
would abolish his old one. And absolutely as soon
as Parliament met the scheme was pushed
through. And the Telegraph yells that the
Deakin Government never intended to goon with
the scheme, and was only forced to it by the
astuteness of the Opposition. The Telegraph’s
evil mind is only fit to be potted as Chicago beef.


0 O
We qualify for Positions as BOOKKEEPERS
ACCOUNTANTS, &c.
We Prepare for all. . .
Accountants’ Examinations.
“Home Study” Post Free.
STOTT & HOARE’S Business College,
HOORE STREET, SYDNEY. [l.
Furred vSßins
Rabbit vSßins
FORWARD YOUR CONSIQNHENTS TO—
HILL CLARK & CO.,
Wool and Produce Salesmen, SYDNEY .
Society
PENFOLD'S
WINES
Newcastle Harbor now holds between 80
and 100 deep sea ships waiting for coal cargoes, a
sight which cannot be seen in any other port ih
the world. The whole of Ooalopolis is crying to
Government for more rails, more trucks, more
wharves, and more cranes sO that the very bowels
of the city may b'e hi ore expeditiously torn out
and earned Over sea. And when Newcastle is
fiHly disembowelled, Newcastle will fall into the
hole and be happy at last. There are no voices
heard crying out for Australian industries to use
Australian coal in making Australian goods for
Australian people. Instead everyone is fright-
ened of offending the West coast of South America,
or the Straits of Magellan, or the Antarctic Circle
by not sending over the coal in time.
A CRUSH-ROOM COMP LIMENT.
LONGLEIGH : “ That's Mrs. Pinker whom Podge
is talking to. He's just been telling her he
prefers amateur theatricals—that he never saw
a professional who could get half as much fun
out of Hamlet as Pinker does."
Ari infantryman, who was thrown from
ms horse two miles from Langwarrin camp,” is the
description given by Melbourne Argus of Private
Garden, Bth A.I.R whose case is being inquired
into by a Board. Garden twisted his leg in a rut
on the road one afternoon, and tore a sinew. In
the camp there was a field hospital, with six
eautiful new tents and six new ambulance
waggons; an infantry bearer corps, which had
enough stretchers to fill up a railway train ; and
a company of mounted bearers, prancing about on
foaming steeds. But the medical corps was so
occupied in admiring its own beautiful appearance
hri t |£ r fm t y Gar l e , n all eged to have lain nursing
h . leg till four o clock next morning. Then an
ambulance waggon came along and took him to
the camp hospital.
Any lingering rag of the garment of
mystery that might have still hung round the ease
ot James, the missing Westralian parson, has now
vanisned like the baseless fabric of a dream. The
reverend gentleman was last seen on the Canadian
Pacific railway flying eastward with a Flossie, and
the only thing that remains for his church to do is
to tind a, new and more stable parson, and try to
To get Ts ltS late S, idd y shepherd. All the same
±he ±sullehn has some sympathy for the
evaporated sm-shifter. There is such a deadly
monotony about a preacher’s life. His clerical
choker, Ins black coat, the walls of his con-
venticle, his circle of deacons or church-
wardens, his orthodoxy— are so many ramparts
ounamrn. He lives in a smothered atmosphere
ot old women, and stuffy mothers’ meet-
ings, and bun scrimmages. He is alwavs
expected to ‘rise and say a few words.” He is
harried by people who bring their small souls for
us inspection, and he often hasn’t the monev to
huy the necessary microscope. If there was only
a glad island somewhere in the Pacific set apart
pa r a ! jna ! m holiday—an island where preachers,
Who felt they could stand it no longer, were
allowed to go for a while and run wild and naked
on the beach, and pursue the savage woman—it
might ease the strain. Many d, saint has good
permanently to the bad; Wheil he Wight hdVe beeii
Ji* 1 aHdrtgehiehfc which allowed him to go
temporarily to the bad, and then return and take
up with renewed vigor his old heavy job of being
d saint. When a professional holy mail knows
that he must either keep holy all his life of go to
moral wreck all his life, he keeps holy as long as
he can, and then he bursts once and for all, and
it is an extra large burst just because of the
repression. An allowance of six months or a
year s wickedness for just once in his life,
with no questions asked when he went away and
no tales told on his return, might make, all the
HHen tile Stifled clferic bob id gb and
nght in a Central Anieficdri teVolutibn ; ol- take a
turn at brigandage, in Mdceddnid ; or he hught
Simply go to the islarid aforementioned, dnd buy
a keg of turn and 21b. of coarse tobdcco, arid be a
nude beachcomber with other preachers similarly
situated, dnd sweat Occasionally, artel ruri like d
deer after the local bfdwri Wdmdri- with adeadsnakb
in hig harid wherewith to playfully Walidp lief Wheri
he Overtook her,dr else lie, might clnrib trbbs and
;‘LJ n h^ r & joyful Whoopi as she pidssed
underneath, or hide behirid the fdlidge and call
out ‘boo at her as she passed by, to make her
jump. I robably the brown woman would fequiiy
a « uary to compensate her for beillg jjteygbbuted IW
wooi preachers Who had gorie back. to a state Of
A it tire, but that detail coii Id surelV Be arranged.
SWeet message of reconciliation from agony
column of Melbourne Argus
JESSIE.— Forgiven ; be home to dinner. Arthur.
Ihe Bulletin sees a blissful picture of shining
dishes on a cosy dinner table for two, and after-
wards one big, snug chair pulled in front of a fire
and a cat singing on the rug. And this paper
does not think—no, it does not think that Arthur
went out again after dinner that evening.
* * * *
“Two Seas”: Judging by some recent
decisions given in our Halls of Justice, I believe
that if some smart
police-court solicitor
raised the point that
there was no evidence
before his Washnp or
his Hbhdr tb shoW that
the dbffeijdant Was
alive a,t the tiuie life
tvas alleged to have
committed the robbery
or the assault, there
are—or were—plenty
of calamitous Wash ups
and Honors who would
consider the matter
seriously, and decide
that the objection was
fatal. There have been
amazing Honors who
have decided that the
Court wasn’t officially
aware that Bourke was
more than 150 miles
from Sydney, or that
George-street, Sydnev,
wasn’t in the ijootua
district; and there have
been Washups that ar-
rived at even more
remarkable con cl m
sions, Ahd that sort
of Honor or Washnp
couldn’t be expected
to know, without evi-
dence, that a full-
grown mail who was
alive on June 10 must
have been alive on the
previous March 15.
Such a point, if it had
been raised before the
days when the Federal
High Court infused
some sense into legal
proceedings, would
simply have knocked
out his Honor or his
Washup, and would
have covered the legal practitioner with glory like
unto a thick coating of mud. And it is worth
trying yet—before the right Honor or the proper
kind of Washup.
* * * *
The temperance people in Adelaide won
the fight at the recent local option polls, but the
licensed victuallers are making a big skirmish
before the law courts with the object of disquali-
fying Cold Tea on technical points. Symon,
K.C., who is proprietor of the Auldana vine-
yards, is their chief counsel, so that he is being
well paid for battling in his own interests. In
the meanwhile the teetotallers are girding up
their loins with the object of getting Parlia-
mentary authority to turn the bewitching bar-
maid out into the wilderness.
* * * *
Adelaide Police Court lias cleared its dock
of three familiar faces at one blow, sending down
a “habitual drunkard ” for two months, and two
“incorrigible rogues” for a year’s hard labor
each. All three were women ! Two of them had
476 previous convictions between them, and the
P.M. thought they would be just as well where
the beer couldn’t' get at them.
* * * *
The shepherd roaming o’er the plain,
The stockman on his lonely run,
The teamster with his bullock wain,
The sportsman out with rod or gun,
The digger on gold-bearing reef—-
While firm to duty’s call they stand—
For coughs and colds they find relief
With Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure at hand..
THE SERMON WAS AHOUT PERDITION.
REV. GRUMPUS : “I hear your father’s ill my
hop; What’s wrong?"”
SMALL KID: “The old man! Oh, he waz on
the lank las’ week. Then he got thided dyon Sunddy mornin' Then he went ter churoh an’
got the horrors.”
So far as the new proceedings against
Crick and Bath have got at N.S.W. Water Bobby
Court (so-called for purposes of deliberate dis-
respect) Crick has done most of the talking, and
the Law has hardly got a word in edgeways. As
for Bath, he seems to have simply hung about
with his long walrus moustache and said nothing,
A silent man is C. Bath.
* * * *
The Maori is a humorous cuss at times,
and some unfortunate census sub-enumerators
who have been the victims of his pranks are
now blankly gating at their schedules in
dismay. The abnormal increase in the
native population of some Maoriland dis-
tricts caused surprise, as there Was no out-
ward visible sign Of an influ* tit browri
rioihads, hot had the birth-rate been re-
SpolMble. Then it wats discovered that the'
iiahies pf departed ancestors had been mis-
chievously inserted to play the devil with
the returns, also the pet ridti ifes. of the
domestic pussies and the hundreds of
mongrel dogs which infest the home of the
noble savage and sit round looking thought-
fully at their own tails in search of the lesser
animal kingdom. They were nil inserted,
with their -ages, religions, &e., and now it
seems that it will be necessary to put some
people in gaol to check this abnormal in-
crease of native population.
* W 4 *
London Missionary Society, which is
one of the many organisations that spend
good money in trying to make savage races
go to church and put threepence in the
plate every Sunday, last year ran itself
into debt to the extent of £17,000. It has
205 men and 71 women working for it, and
those 276 people managed to spend last
year £156,044, or an average of about £11 a
week each, When it is considered that this
is Hot inclusive of the cocoa-nut and yam
contributed by our saved bruddef, it will
be seen that tnissiotiarying ia a fairly
expensive business^
* * * *
It’s the lady who promptly marries
again when the Divorce Court cuts
tlie first knot. During the last 1 0 years
1501 people who have been made absolute
have tried the gamble again in N.S.W.,
and 915 of them have been women. Striking
an average, a trifle less than every second
divorced woman takes another chance in N.S.
Wales, and a trifle more than every fourth man.
The Melbourne unemployed were even
more demonstrative in the church of Bevan, the
cherub, than they had been on the previous Sunday
in the Anglican cathedral, and interjected freely.
The lesson they deduced from the observations of
Mr. Bevan—who gets £3O a week for preaching
for about an hour in all to a mere handful of
people—was that their troubles were entirely
their own fault. Dr. Bevan’s idea seems to be
that as we are all free men in a free country, with
equal advantages, every one of us may become a
parson, and get £3O a week, and if we are not all
parsons getting £3O a week it is due to our innate
depravity and bone laziness. If we were all
parsons, the assumption is that we would get the
£3O a week by taking up each other’s collections.
Fred M'Cubbiri has ; aT fast Sold his
three-panel picture, “The PiO'nfeefs,” to the Mel-
bourne National Gallery for 350 guindals.- The
Felton bequest will soon be worth about £IO,POP
a year, so Australian painters who are. worthy
enough ought to have a chance of living in their own
country instead of being obliged to scatter them-
selves over Europe and America. If Australia
could keep at home painters like Gonder, Long-
staff, Streeton, Roberts, Bunny, Fox, &c., it
would soon have as good a record in art as in
sport or public borrowing.
COULDN'T BE DONE IN THE TIME.
“ Shall I tell you how much I love you?"
“George , dear, it's eleven o'clock, and your last
tram goes at twelve."
“Nana Sahib”: If Dr. Danysz really
is convinced that the introduction of his rabbiti-
cide, either directly or indirectly, into the human
system will be quite harmless, will he inoculate
himself or allow one of the Health officers in
Sydney to inoculate him ?
THE FOWL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A small orchardist near Melbourne was charged, the
other day, with removing*’ chickenS off ft neighbor’s
hen ranch. Defendant pleaded that his neighbor flid not
knhvy how to rekr chickens, that he Was not fit to keep
fh^ t Were ri n h i e( h^ l,dant)h, 'J d taken the birds because
thej Were Ilot beitig properly treated. At this, there
Was much laughter in court. The orchardist was fined
and ordered to restore the chickens.
A noble lesson this should teach,
Dear children unto yoll.
tf other people’s good* ybti reach,
'Of recti tilde ’twill life ft breach,
Wr parkbrift Will your virtues preach,
According to the point of view,
Or to the kind of folks you “ do.”
You steal a chicken off a fence,
With wrath the pious shake,
Although you say with elocpienee
The owner used it ill, and hence
You kindly sought to fecftmpehse
The bird tor trttubleS past, and make
it happier, tdr Heaven’s sake.
iiut if you are a statesman grand,
And ships and armies raise,
To steal some feeble niggers’ land,
To make its folks a Christian hand,
And take their moral weal in hand—
The Empire echoes with your ptaise,
And churches bless ybU all your days.
via
D.


The Power of
R.. C. Hagon’s
Clothes. -6?
YOU ARE ALWAYS REGARDED
AS A WELL-DRESSED MAN. j*
Perfection
Winters
iSuits Measure
3s
R. C. HAGON,
Merchant Tailor, SYDNEY
1
I
“ W. 8.” : Blank, the much-advertised
preacher (the contributor gives the real name, but
The Bulletin is dispirited through a cold in the
nose this week, and hasn’t the heart for libels) of
(he mentions the city, but owing to a cold in
the ear this paper doesn’t feel its usual yearning for
accuracy)of course may be a good enough missioner,
but he has no sense of the incongruous. A man-o’-
war’s-man named Moses Bunker was drowned
lately in the wind-swept harbor, and the body not
being recovered, Rev. Blank did the best he could
in the way of a really impressive and dramatic
funeral. A boat was moored on the water where
the dead was last seen alive, and a service vvas
held with eloquent perorations something like
this: —
So, crowned with asphodel, and bearing aloft the white
flower of a blameless life, glides into eternal bliss over
the Ely si an fields, the blest spirit of the late departed
Moses Bunker... On behalf of his absent, sorrowing
mother, I place this beautiful floral tribute on the watery
grave of the late lamented Mo.
And then there was a response, for Moses Bunker
rose, and Moses was not good to look upon, after
the long immersion of Bunker, and the funeral
dropped its peroration and fled.
Clairvoyants and spookists find it hard to
earn a crust in Melbourne now-a-days. One of
them has come down to the price of “ fish and
chips,” and advertises :
Free Clairvoyant Character Delineations.—State age,
sex, married, single ; enclose Id. stamps.
The man who replies gets for his 4d. a splendid
character—one that would make Shakspere blush
—and an offer of further beautiful and valuable
information for 2/6. Probably he seldom forwards
the half-crown, and there is mighty little profit in
the 4d. after paying for the stamp, and the paper
and envelope, and inventing the lies.
TOO DIFFIDENT.
EMPLOYER: “ This is a nice time o' night to come
home, Nora.”
NORA (who has been to a ball): “Of re been
knockin’ more'n an hour, sorr.”
EMPLOYER: “ Why didn’t you knock louder?”
NORA: “Oi was afevrd o’ wakin ’ you, sorr.”
EMPLOYER: “ Well, if you didn’t want to wake
me why did you knock at all?”
NORA: “Oi wanted to get in, sorr.”
Cabled that British soldiers have turned
their Chicago tinned beef out to welter on Salis-
bury Plain. At last the British nation can say it
has squared up with the American people who
tipped British tea into Boston Harbor.
**■**
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street. *
MATTER OF TASTE.
FIRST SINGLE GIRL: “It
must be dreadful to be a
widow.”
SECOND SINGLE GIRL: “ Oh,
I think I should like to
be one if I could only select
my own deceased.”
“H.G.” : A recent Melbourne religious
gathering was graced by the presence of a South
Sea Island missionary, who proudly announced
that he and others of his craft were making
splendid progress in their work, “imparting to
the natives the rudiments of civilisation and
teaching them useful trades.” And yet that
missionary was apparently a good-natured, kindly
man. Like certain leaders of the Inquisition, he
believed that all he did was for the best. Imparti-
ally analysed, it is difficult to conceive a more cruel
and wicked act than that of this purblind altruist
and his accomplices. The rudiments of civilisa-
tion in missionary parlance mean trousers. Every
nigger now walking
about naked and un-
ashamed is to have a
sense of shame drilled
into him, and to be
covered with an un-
comfortable tog. He
is to learn that there
is harm where he
now sees none. His
undeveloped brain is
now to be developed
along the lines that
lead in civilised man
to degeneracy. In
short, he is to be
made to skip over
several thousands of
years in progress, and
start at the point
from which every
thinking civilised
man is trying to
drag humanity back.
Having forced into
the mind of the
nigger that his body
is a thing that must
not be looked at, he
is to be set to work.
The once naked, con-
tented nigger is to be
encouraged in the
task of wearing out
superfluous trousers
and must put in
superfluous labor at
the useless trade of
making superfluous
trousers to be worn
out. These same
niggers, who have
lived all their lives
without more work
than is necessary to
pluck a cocoanut or a
banana from a tree,
are to be driven into
the turmoil of indus-
trial competition,
with an unemployed
problem and all the
other blessings of
civilisation awaiting
them, and with an
army of Fat persons
crying at them for
raw material. Had
Nero, or any other
Pagan, committed,
in the name of Mars or Vulcan, the unspeakable
crime that these well-meaning missionaries are
committing in the South Seas, the awful busi-
ness would have been handed down with
scathing footnotes for every student to ponder
over, but because the crime is committed in the
name of Christianity, nobody, not even the most
advanced guard of the Labor party, is game to get
up and show it to be a whited sepulchre.
* » * *
T’other day at Nhill (Vic.) a well-known
bagman, while crossing the railway line in a cab,
was struck by a train and killed. The smash was
a tremendous one, cab and man being knocked to
pieces. A crowd swiftly collected round the
scene of the accident, and, with a ghoulish
instinct, gathered up bits of things as mementos.
One man secured the torn and twisted cover of
The Bulletin, which the bagman had been read-
ing. Another seized a boot-heel, another a
crushed match-box. The dead map’s crunched
cigar, a piece of his hat —all sorts of relics were
collected and carried off as prizes. What a liearsey,
tombstoney lot the people of Nhill must be 1
The tale of the short-skirted damsel with
an imaginative mind took an entirely new form
in Melbourne lately. She was a nurse-girl of 19,
and was discovered wheeling her charge in a
“pram,” which had previously been left outside
a shop, and had mysteriously disappeared. Asked
to account for the vehicle, the damsel asserted
that her “boy”—one Roy Goldstein, of St.
George’s-road, Toorak—had been so overcome by
the sight of her carrying a weighty infant that he
had presented her with the pram and his regards.
Also, she produced a long letter from the said Roy
in which he said he had bought the machine
from some unnamed woman in Fitzroy, who was
going to the West, and that he would be happy to
come to court to clear his girl’s character but that
his father assured him such an action would im-
mediately bring on haemorrhage, which would be
fatal. “We have,” he added, “all cleared out
last night on the motor-car.” It was a fairly well
built yarn, and might have passed muster in the
Young Ladies’ Novelette; but the police re-
Sorted that there wasn’t any Goldstein in St.
-eorge’s-road, and the damsel was sent for trial.
“WHEN THE GUNS BEGIN TO SHOOT.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Residents of Watson’s Bay were notified (as usual) to
leave doors and windows open and take other precautions
against calamity, as the big gun at the fort would be fired
on Monday.
Oh, hurry up, Eliza, take the pictures from the walls !
And, Mary, get the carpets off the floors ;
Jemima, wrap the ornaments in blankets, rugs and
shawls;
And, Johnnie, screw the handles off the doors.
Quick, Jennie ! take the beds to bits and put them in the
yard.
What ? Moving 1 No ! but don’t stop talking now.
Go, someone, see the stable doors are bolted, locked and
barred,
And put the bells and hobbles on the cow.
Now wrap the books in wadding; take the mantles off
the gas,
And put the clock in father’s Sunday hat.
The cellar is already packed with crockery and glass,
And likewise with canaries and the cat.
You think I’m going crazy ; but you’d better fly around ;
Throw wide the doors and windows for a run.
You’ll have to get a mile away and lie upon the ground,
For the Government is going to fire a gun.
N.S.W.
WAIP.
THE CASH BASIS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The church could not do its work unless it was armed
with cash as well as spirituality. Rich members of the
church failed lamentably in mission work— Vietorian
Archdeacon Peacock, at a meeting held to boost the
Melanesian missions.
In pleading for the mission, or
The Church, with rich parishioner,
We praise the Melanesian or
Kanaka with a splash ;
We find in each locality
A growing spirituality,
But wonderful frugality
In cash !
They are not rash !
They talk with cold formality
Of cash 1
The souls of our gentility
Are filled with meek humility,
A holy affability,
The rough world cannot dash ;
They’re full of earnest prayerfulness ;
They seek the Lord with tearfulness ;
But eh, they show their carefulness
In cash !
Our hopes fall crash !
They give us Christian cheerfulness,
Not cash !
Oh men with purses ponderous !
The Church is groaning under us ;
She asks in accents thunderous
To share your yellow trash ;
And so whate’er our station is,
The theme of our oration is,
“The Church’s one foundation is
On cash! ”
Or else a smash !
The cry of our vocation is
For cash !
vie.
LAM.
BRIGHT’S DISEASE.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
“ For twelve long months I never put my foot
outside the bed-room door,” said Mrs. Frederick
Whiteiey, 20 Seymour Crescent, North Ballarat.
“The best doctors could do nothing for me. I hey
told me that I had Bright’s Disease and Call
Stones. Often I was in such agony that I begged
for something to put me out of my miseryt. Ihe
doctors tried hard to get me to go to the hospital.
They all agreed that if I didn’t have an operation,
the pain would kill me. My husband said Id
gone through enough torture already, and he
wouldn’t listen to the doctors. As a last hope, I
started Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People.
In a few months I was working about the house
again, as strong as any woman in Ballarat. l)r.
Williams’ Pink Pills saved my life.
“ It’s between five and six years since my health
first began to fail,” said Mrs. Whiteiey. “I was
always tired, and got quite sallow in the face.
Smoky black rings came under my eyes. Just
below those rings the flesh was yellow, and all
loose and pouchy. I looked so ill and wretched
that I hated to look at myself in the glass. Often
I didn't care how things went. Many a day it
was as much as I could do to get the dinner on.
When it was ready, I never wanted a bite.
Everything I ate lay in a hard lump, at the end of
tny breast bone. My chest felt as if it was wedged
between great heavy weights. I could only get
my breath in gasps. After every meal, I went
through pain that was little short of torture.
The doctor gave me medicines, but they made me
worse. Nearly every morning I woke with a
splitting headache. As the day wore on it got
worse. In the end, I had to give in and lie down.
My stomach turned at the thoughts of eating. A
cold clammy sweat broke out all over me, and 1
felt that I was going to faint.
“ When I look back now, I don t know how 1
ever got through the days,” added Mrs. Whiteiey.
“ Half an hour’s work about the house, left me fit
for nothing. I was so heavy and drowsy that 1
could have dropped off to sleep any hour of the
day. When I went to bed, I tossed from side to
side. Often half the night was gone before I
closed my eyes. Even when I did doze off, I
woke with my heart thumping like mad. When
it was time to get up, I would have given any-
thing to stay in bed. Every bone in my body
ached. When I had this sort of thing to face day
after day, it was no wonder that I lost all heart.
I couldn’t help getting the miserables. Over and
over again, I said there was nothing for me to
live for, and that I would be far better out of the
world.
“ The pain in my back was enough to make any
woman wretched,” Mrs. Whiteiey went on.
“When I bent down it was agony for me to
straighten up. Washing day was what I dreaded
most of anything. At first the doctor said
it was Lumbago, hut he soon found out that
it was something more serious than that. My
kidneys were all inflamed and poisoned. There
were sure signs of that, as I could see for myself.
For five years I went through torture. In the
mornings I was always worse. All day long,
across my hips there was a dull dragging
ache that nothing could ease. It was like some-
thing stabbing me every time I moved.
“ At last, I had to take to bed, and there I was
(for over a year. The doctors said that my liver
was in a terrible state, and gall stones were
•forming. Every month my case got more and
more hopeless. Terrible pains took me in the
right side, and worked up to my shoulder blades.
Many a time I was bent double with the agony.
It was like something tearing at my inside with
red-hot pincers. Often these pains took me in the
dead of night, and the doctor had to be sent for.
He gave me a medicine that had to be made up
without delay. I rolled on my bed till the sweat
teemed off me. After hours of terrible torture, I
might get a little ease. Every attack left me as
weak as a baby in arms. For the next three or
four days I lay on my bed, too feeble to lift a cup
to my lips. At last, the doctors told my husband
that I-must have an operation, and have the Gall
Stones cut out. That was the only way they
could give me a little ease, and, perhaps, save my
life for a few months. Mr. Whiteiey would not
hear of that, and I felt that I would never come
out of the chloroform alive.
“We had given up all hope, when a very old
friend told us how Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills had
cured just such another case as mine. That very
day we sent to King, the chemist in Sturt St., for
some. The first box made me hungry, and from
that out, I mended. Weeks went by, and I
never had a bilious attack—and I’ve never had
one since. In a little while I was able to get out
of bed, and get around the house again. The pain
in my hack eased up, and I could see for myself
that my kidneys were better in, twenty ways. I
kept on with Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, and every
dose did me good. My face lost its sickly look,
and I felt that it was a pleasure to be alive. At
the end of ten weeks, I was working about as well
as ever I did in my life. All that time I never
had one attack of the terrible colicky pains in ray
stomach. I tell everyone how Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills saved my life when the doctors gave me up
to die any day.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills strike right at the cause of
disease in the blood, and so cure indigestion, kidney and
liver diseases, palpitation of the heart, nervousness,
neuralgia, rheumatism, sciatica, partial paralysis, and
the ailments that fill the lives of so many women with
misery. Sold by all chemists and storekeepers, or sent
post free by the Dr. Williams’Medicine Co., Sydney, at
2s. 9d. a box, six boxes 15s. 3d. Medical advice given
free.*


TIN and GOLD SLUICING PLANTS
As supplied m the Tin Districts of N.S.W. with great success.
Kobey Portable Engines, Centrifugal Pumps, Etc. Apply—
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER, 64 Pitt St., Sydney.
Rubber Belts,
Packings,
Valves & Hose,
Stocked &-Made
to Order.
Dunlop
Mining
Goods
Are now being used with satisfaction
in mte of the Leading Mines of
Australasia-Their QUALITY*
WEAR are UNSURPASSED-
Tenders & Samples submitted.
Correspondence invited.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
The DUNLOP RUBBER COl of AU3.LTD.
10a Flinders St. Wflb. a-jUI States.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The great Melbourne brewery combine is now
arra ''" p ' l ,- It is to take over the business of
S r^ e oa^t° n . M’Oracken’s, the Castlemaine,
the Shamiock, Foster s, and the Victorian brewery. It
proposes to close down three of them, and concentrate
the business in the other three, which it will lease for 50
years with the option of purchase. The companies which
own the three closed breweries can sell them to the
oalvarray. The new co. takes over no liabilities, only plant
stock, and goodwill. Out of its £1,000,000 capital each old
brewery co. gets a certain number of shares proportioned
to the value of its business, and each old brewery co.
nominates one director of the combined co. Each old
brewery co. will get its dividend, and go away with it to
see its creditors if it has any—and do the best it can
with them. If any old brewery co. can’t keep its
creditors at bay with the dividend it draws from the new
brewery co., presumably its creditors will seize
its shares in the new brewery co. and divide them
among themselves. Any directors of the new brewery co.
who represent very much embarrassed old breweries will
probably want the profits divided to the last penny, so
that they will have the more dividend to fight their
creditors with ; those who represent more affluent old
breweries may prefer to vote for smaller dividends and
the building up of large reserves. The shareholders of
the old breweries will depend for their dividends on the
dividends of the new brewery ; it will be, in a manner of
speaking, a dividend within a dividend. It is a compli-
cated arrangement, but it is probably the best thing that
could be done with over-breweried Melbourne. Probably
in time, the old brewery cos. will simply divide their
shares among their shareholders and dissolve, and then
the new brewery co., instead of having six shareholders
and each shareholder a brewery, will become an ordinary
brewery co. just like any other brewery. Looking back
on this paragraph, there seems to be a great repetition of
the word brewery in it. 1
* * - . * *
rr, Th ! , Wkstern , Assurance Co., of Toronto
(Canada), mentioned in this column last week as a con-
cern which had the bad luck to be in several memorable
conflagrations, sends in its balance-sheet for 1905 (the
document reaches this office per the firm of Goldsbrough.
Mort and Co.) It sets forth that the profits last year
were £45, ( m. The income was £756,110, and against
that there were losses £454,428 and “ commissions, taxes
#vo« on« er c . l ? a l^ es - For a concern with
£308,008 capital and £357,704 reserves, the profits look
very small. The dividend is 6 per cent. The balance-
sheet was, of course, presented long before a burnt city
of San Francisco was dreamt of, and what kind of luck
the Western has struck there is still a mvstery. The next
balance-sheets of quite a multitude of foreign fire insur-
ance companies should be interesting reading.
* * * X-
,»Aima : Bnme °f them are rather hard to size up.
(A) Not a very good stock, but may improve. Would
not sell at present prices unless you bought very cheaply
and ca " real, se a profit. (B) Regard as quite worth hold-
ing. (C) YVould hold. (D) Consider quite safe. Would
not sell unless you see a better-paying investment, and.
considering occasional bonuses, they pay better than
they look. Writer is holding. (E) Co. struck a bad snag
through, neglect to provide for depreciation. Better
wait till things improve, and watch closely. (F G H II
Consider them all good. (K) Hardly worth holding if
you can sell at a profit. (L) Quite sound, but if you can
sell at a profit, it is hardly worth holding a stock that
gives so small a return on present rates. (M) Don’t care
for them. (N) Would advise you to hold Coal: Plain
gamble, and all depends on whether you like gambling
and whether you are lucky at it. If you are a successful
• two-upper,” then you had better buv the stock
.Spec. : Just now prices of almost all stocks are so
hig’h that it difficult to advise. Colonial Bank ordinary
are prohabiy as Rood as any. But you must remember
that it only requires the good old drought to return, and
there may be a general tumble.
* * * *
Tiie Ballarat Woollen and Worsted Co
(Ballarat, Victoria), one of those “ bloated ” manufactur-
ing concerns which rouse so much indignation in the
bosom or the anti-Australian importing- person :
Dividends on Capital Added
as Written to Re- Re-
c , _ • Profits. Down. serves, serves.
kept. , xo\j2i ■ — £l7 QBQ
March, 1903 £2269 15 per cent. = £2249 £2O 17’409
Sept., 1903 2215 15 „ „ „ 2249 17975
March, 1904 2308 15 2249 59 17494
Sept. 1904 2291 15 „ „ „ 2249 42 17V76
March, 1905 1778 13J,-, ~ ~ 2000 17'254
Sept., 1905 1384 10 „ „ „ 1500 - 17 138
March, 1906 1136 10 „ „ „ 1500 10)774
This co. has at various times called up £60,000 capital,
and it has written off £30,000 of that as lost, therefore the
bloated manufacturers” are really only getting 5 per
cent, on the money they put into the bloated business
and this half-year £364 of that bloated remuneration
comes out of reserve's. And they have never of late
years received more than 71 per cent. ; the highest thev
ever got was 10 per cent. ; and they have had lamentable
experiences of £ll7s. 6d. per cent, and of nothing at all.
Ihe attempt which the co. is making to pay good w’ages
for short hours, and find employment for Australian labor
and capital, while a ridiculously low tariff forces it to
compete with imported goods made under a system of
short wages and bad hours, is the cause of the trouble
Considering that the earnings for the past year only
represent £4 4s. per cent, on the original capital or
£8 Bs. per cent, on the written-down capital, and taking
other things into account, the directors would have done
wisely to cut the last two dividends down by one-half or
else pass them altogether.
The principal other thing which the Ballarat
Woollen and Worsted Co. needs to take into account is
the overdraft. It is a very large and ominous-looking
draft, and this is how it has been growing of late
Overdraft, less
Credit Balances
.. . and Cash.
March, 1900 £4 0,90
~ 1901 .. .. .. .. 4 779
i» 19 03 7)683
.» 1904 12,640
.. 1906 11,889
Sept., 1905 13,813
March, 1906 .. .. .. 13,727
There has been a reduction, but it has been a very small
one, and only brought about, too, by reducing stock on
hand by nearly £2OOO. The shares are fully paid up so
there is no reserve liability as security for the bank.
Therefore, if there is no change, for the better in the
tariff, and the profits continue to dwindle, anyone can
foresee the time when an anxious and worried bank will
foreclose, with a view to rushing the concern on the
market and selling it before it becomes mere old iron and
waste bricks and mortar.
* » * *
A fine bit of work has just been done by
Melbourne shipbuilders in the Alfred graving dock at
Williamstown. The coastal steamer Peregrine was cut in
two just forward of the boilers, and with hydraulic jacks
and capstans the halves of the vessel were hauled 40ft.
apart. A new ’midships section has been built, and
will now' be lowered between the two halves, and built in
making the Peregrine 40ft. longer than it was before. If
the job had been imported it could not have been
done better.
* * * «
In New York, the wild-cat acquires nocturnal
habits. The success of an “all-night” bank there has
induced a big Broadway firm of real estate agents to keep
open until midnight to facilitate land-dealing; and a
prominent bucket-shop keeps its doors open until 2 a.m.
and touts for late customers among theatre patrons.
* * * *
The Broken Hill Water Supply octopus coolly
suggests that if the N.S.W. Government would give it a
lease in perpetuity it could reduce the cost of water on
the Hill by half. It doesn’t say what it is prepared to
pay for such a valuable franchise, and so far it seems to
offer only its verbal assurance about the reduction in the
price of mud, or whatever the substance is.
* * * *
“M.C.”; The idea that, with depth, Broken
Hill ores get richer is not sustained by a comparison of
past and present milling- returns, nor does the idea fit in
with old dumps of tailings, some of which have proved
as rich in lead as the crude ore now being mined and
treated. Formerly the extraction in units of lead and
ounces of silver was better than it is now, because the
ore was much richer, and for the same reason the old
nulls lost more in the tailings than the modern machinery,
treating 12 per cent, and 13 percent, ore, can be expected
to do. Mill returns say plainly that ever since the
beginning of concentration, ore at a depth has got poorer
in metals and more difficult to concentrate. Assays and
reports cannot explain away a continuous record of
milling returns. No doubt all the mines have better ore
than they are now treating, because poor ore has to be
taken with the richer to keep down mining costs and to
prolong the life of the mine. It would be a poor look-out
lfßlock 10 and Block 14 had not some better ore than
the late returns have averaged, for the extraction of
metals compares very badly indeed with the results
obtained by the old rattle-trap mills of a by-gone age.
Block 10 (Broken Hill) has squeezed out of the
tight corner it was placed in by the creep without
- loudl - v erlou gh to startle shareholders. Harvey
shaft is now sunk right through to the 1200 ft., and is
being timbered as rapidly as possible. But, what is even
more to the purpose, the lode at the 1200 ft. is opening
up oltt. wide, so that now the shutting off of the stopes
in the upper levels won’t matter so much. The new
winding engine, which has been erected on the North
side of Harvey shaft, is working all right.
* ■* * *
. The British mine (Broken Hill) is looking well
just now. Marsh’s section, close to the corner of the
Junction and Junction North boundaries, is being
and before very long the ore body at the
550 ft., temporarily lost through the collapse of the
M Intyre shaft on the Junction, will be operated on. In-
dications point to the existence of a handsome body of
carbonates above the 200 ft, level, and some bunches of
chlorides and native silver have also been picked out from
the same spot. The stope at the 550 ft. was somewhat
broken by the movement in the Junction, and will take a
little time to repair. Tlie erection of an aerial tramway
f°' ( l° nn ® c . t ,. Marsh ’s with Thompson’s shaft will mean a lot
to the British, and on its completion work there will be
carried out on a more economical scale. The undertaking
is already in hand. . h
* * * *
/R P vf e ! l , t m ap -P.^ rance of the Junction North
(Broken Hill) mill (it is partly dismantled and machinery
is still being taken out) suggests the removal of the whole
plant to the North mine, 4Ooft. or so further along the
nill, which again foreshadows amalgamation. The large
Krupp ball mill, put in to pound the ore fine enough to
suit the peculiar appetites of Ullrich’s ill-fated magnetics
has been thrown out, and will be replaced by a Imaller-
si2ed machine. J
* * * *
~ T |? e Zinc Corporation has considerably changed
Ifi?, fa ° e . of . the , landscape to' the southward of Broken
v, Th j founda tions for the, big zinc plant are making
good headway, and a lot of heavy machinery is now on the
ground. The Corporation’s officials have reported favor-
ably regarding experiments made with the Potter plant
wliniM-n ™ lBh i! >Ut lf •!', hese operations on the Barrier are •
fbl nl w P f/.b they Wl i l , need t 0 get-, a better product than
the plant is at present turning out. Their initial expenses
are very heavy, including the purchase of tailings, and a
high recovery is essential to success. The Corporation
doesn t publish any recoveries, but it is known that they
are not much oyer 40 per cent. The Proprietary has the
advantage in being able to specially prepare its' residues
hpH Z pr < in e i^ racfc,on ,’ W)t ? h lhe result that a cleaner and
better-looking product is turned out. The tailings in the
dumps bought by the Zinc Corporation Were thrown out
as waste product, with no thought of being treated for
zinc extraction. The Proprietary Co., intending its tail'
X f ° r the ZlnC planfc > P rod uces them as clean as pos-
* * * *
The fact that the South mine (Broken Hill) has
got the lode at the 970 ft. is encouraging. The develop
““ ™. not unexpected, but the actual presence and
trend of the ore body was only disclosed by putting in a
crosscut off the exploratory drive, started in the"direc-
artSsKasasr"* ** ***•«——<**
* * * *
New A.B.H. Consols (Broken Hill) has some
good galena ore on surface, raised from the 200 ft The
lode evidently identical with the cut in the South Blocks
f< f Un< ? n*i he ’ a shot put in disclosing a
a u iulphlde ?- This was 100 ft to the east of The
shaft, and has caused some excitement at the south end
oi the line of lode.
* * * *
Homeward Bound Wyalong(N.S.W.), has come
on to mineral ore in sinking from the 200 ft. At a further
depth of 40ft the reef, from being quartz carrying
mineral and galena, has developed into a solid bodv of
almost pure mineral ore, about 12in. wide. This should
& T the erecfc , ion ° f machinery purchased some time
property should prove a fortune if judiciously
* * * ,
Mr. E. E. Tyler has abandoned the Joker after
S ?i.-r 1 '?? abo " a vain effort to cut the underlay
of -blink s reef, which gave several rich crushings in the
early days to a depth of 180 ft.
* * » *
The black sands of the N.S.W. North Coast are
l f ° r ? old and Platinum. A Melbourne
syndicate has secured an option over 50 acres, and has
also taken up an adjoining claim. It is said that French
and German exploiters also intend commencing operations
shortly. Although hitherto regarded as valueless by
I J i? a^; C 0 T b ' !rS ’ reo ®" t Yankee experiments have shown
that the American black sands are extremely rich in gold
and platinum. There is no reason why our Austra-
lian sands should not be as rich, and as the process
of extracting the metals is said to be inexpensive beach-
ss,r ° p “° th " “°< "*»*»' "> ti»
* * * *
Will it be worth calling Ballarat a goldfield
'r; °^ er ? Here are the yields and dividend returns
m va S S Victorian fields for the quarter ended
March 31, 1906, arranged in the order of the dividends
Rpnriio-n tiold. Dividends.
Bendl S? 47,3360 z. £74,946
Walhalla .. .. ~ __ 12 009 9 050
Harretville, Buckland, &c. . 4 543 ” t’ooi
Bitfield and Berringa ’.. .. BJ3I ” f’gOO
Gastlemaine and Fryer’s Creek 7,502 „ 4 683
MaHon Ck and ClUneS " " 10 ’ 53 ' 2 „ 3,225
Maiaon .. .. .. # # 4 494 3 000
Chiltern and Rutherglen .. 13’,292 ” 2’450
13 > m .. isoo
fet. Arnaud .. .. 2 603 1 son
Maryborough and Carisbrook.. 4,954” 1500
Omeo. Cassilis, Glen Wills, &c. 5,291 175
OnHUoinH^ 0 " Ballarat > comes ninth on the list.
On dividend figures it looks as if Ballarat Stock Exchange
might as well be shifted to Gaffney’s Creek. 0
*** ’ *
, “Js i* to commit evil to do good’” is
what both speckers of Caledonia Consols, Warrandvte
(Vic.), and their opponents would argue over to the
bitter end. Bears have gone nap over the stock, their
justification being a belief that the mine is not up to
much, as indicated by the estimate they have framed of
the stone broken so far, and their belief that faulting will
make the show unreliable. The bulls go on the other tack.
They reckon that as the mine had a decent past it will
live up to that reputation on its second advent. This in
mining is like expecting to throwsixes continuously when
the Christmas raffles are on. There is a good deal of
certainty, however, about the bulls’ next position. That
is that as four-fifths of the shares are in safe hands any
large exchange specking means that it will be easy to force
the market against the shorts. This is where the greatness
of ethics arises. Is it right to pinch the Stock Exchange
bear speculator at any time, even if he does wallop your
stock. He says “ No.” His view is that, instead of being
a wrecker of your enterprise, he has sized it up properly,
and specks to prevent the public taking the stock at
inflated prices. Caledonia Consols bulls don’t admit this
reasoning, and are squeezing profits by insisting on
delivery. While this battle is being waged, the public
are drawing the only possible conclusion—that a co.
whose stock figures in this way is best let alone.
* * * *
Star of the East, Sebastopol Plateau (Vic.), gleams
brightly in a preliminary puff from the Argus. For-
merly the Age did the trumpeting, while the Argus
avoided the stock like sin. This was while the co. was
working at depth, and Granny’s renewal of interest in the
mine now the bottom levels are left, indicates pretty
plainly that it did not think the co. was worth
worrying over while it was poking about at depth. There
isn’t much to talk about at the 1250 ft. level. Tributors
on the western lode have a bit of ground which goes well,
but there have always been patches in the upper level
which have done that. Witness the last divs.
from the mineral lode which cut out so com-
pletely. There is plenty of untouched ground ahead
of the tribute block at 1250 ft., and it is the chance of the
extension of the shoot that prompts the present gamble.
Co. at 250 ft. deeper hopes to find the gold living down.
If it does the most will be made of the fact, for Ballarat
has been nursing a very heavy babe in the Star; but it
will take a mountain of inducement to get anyone outside
Ballarat to take other than a long shot at any of the
distant shows. Dealers play too much on the home
wicket for outsiders to score there.
Bendigo’s deepest shaft just now is that of the
Victoria Quartz, which has got ahead of the New Chum
Kailway, its depth being 4255 ft., or 7ft. more than that
of its rival. To imagine the depths of these shafts one
has to remember that there are not many peaks as high
in N.S. Wales.
* * * *
Victorian Mines Minister M‘Leod’s campaign
against the locusts of mining—the royalty holders
received an unfortunate set-back in the judgment of the
High Court dismissing the appeal of the Duke of Welling-
ton Co. against C.-J. Madden’s decision Ordering it to
continue paying 3 per cent, royaltv to the owner of some
land at Bamganie. The company up to March, 1904, had
under agreement paid the landowner £lO5 for land taken
and surface damage, and £1444 for royalties at the rate of
3 per cent;, on all gold won. Then the co, surrendered
its lease to the State and received back a consolidated
lease, and it brought the landowner before the warden to
assess compensation. The warden found that the
landowner had been fully compensated already.
Then the co. refused to pay any more royalties
and the landowner dragged it before the Supreme
Court. Chief Justice Madden gave him a ver-
dict, and the co. appealed to the High Court. The
High Court unanimously found for the landowner, stating
that the royalty was to be regarded as rent and not as a
loyalty such as had been forbidden by Victorian law. As
rent, the royalty was binding on anybody to whom the
lease might be transferred. This decision goes a long
way to support the Claims of all holders of mining royal-
ties in Victoria. McLeod recognises this, and has
announced that the amendments he proposes to introduce
into the Mines Act next session will effectually deal with
the evil. Every technicality that has been discovered in
the Act so far has been on the side of the royalty-holder,
and McLeod has been bumped rather badly by all of them.’
It is strange how these old laws made by the squattocratic
crowd all serve to boost up the man who owns the land
and provide him with money for which he does not do
any hard work.
Re Cornish United, Daylesford (Vic.). “The
management is everything that can be desired, and the
local board consists of men with practical experience and
high position, the chairman being the Government
Minister of Mines for the State of Victoria.” This sen-
tence is taken verbatim from the advertised report of one
of the outside London jobbers. If Mr. McLeod wishes to
know why he should take to heart the advertisement, he
can turn to the extravagant assertions made at the meet-
ing of shareholders. Here speaks managing-director
Bonnard : —“ We have a vast amount of virgin ground un-
touched, and I am not going to attempt to lead you on to
the consideration of any Arabian Night theories, but if
they (the old co,) were able to take out over
£1,000,000 worth of gold in the way I have
described, and we have, by working in a small manner at
the outset, taken out £65,000 worth of gold from a dis-
carded level, how many millions of gold do you think
still remain in our properties for extraction?” Those
who would say that because Ballarat produced tons of
gold at shallow depths it must be to-day the biggest
mining district in Australia, could perhaps answer such
a question, but the ordinary mining man is a different
being. Here is another gem from the same Bonnard set-
ting : “ I think it a veritable El Dorado, and out of this
El Dorado you possess in these four lode channels an
area of ground of no less than 400 acres in its
extent.” This is another old friend introduced very
skilfully. Area means extent of lodes, and ex-
tent of lodes means rich returns. Boiled down,
£65,000 worth of gold, won in eighteen months, does not
indicate a veritable El Dorado, and there is no more
chance of the Daylesford mines proving El Dorados than
those of Ballarat. They have average grade, big forma-
tions, which should pay to handle if worked cheaply and
with skill. Minister McLeod, assuming he is worth his
salt, should show resentment at such extravagance
Anyway, shares would not flag as they do if there was
anything marvellous about the Victorian Cornish.
Apropos of Daylesford, it may be pointed out
that the smart Ballarat crowd are already preparing the
way for little Stock Exchange pickings over the district.
They have got the Ajax, and the Nuggetty Ajax, and
the South Nuggetty Ajax, and goodness knows what else.
The Ajax ground is worth atrial, just as any other decent-
looking formation is, but to rush Ajax scrip up to 11s.
or 12s. on untried possibilities is a feat as
sensible as the carrying of Port Arthur shares to 17s.
because a sft. lode had been exposed. However, another
Daylesford mine has gone out of the State. This is
the New Glenmona, which Hunter Patterson and his
brother and Tom Hills ran for years with almost con-
sistent bad luck, Hills never had a doubt where the gold
was, but others thought differently. So he had to let go,
and Devie, of the Victorian Cornish, and the Fields getting
hold of it for about £2OOO, picked up the gold and started
dividends. Next Lees Field realised on the mine in Lon-
don, and, “ that’s the way money goes.”
* * «* *
Weldbrook (Tas.) is the first of the little group
that has been a gamble on the tin-market for the
past 12 months to practically turn up its toes. It is
only a fortnight or so since the meeting, when
the Melbourne shareholders dispersed, thanking
their lucky stars that they had such a mine.
The board now admits to £llOO of debts, and trusts
that the present run will ease that liability. How
can it ? Costs must be from £5OO to £6OO, and the general
belief is that two tons will be the utmost that will be
cleaned up. Judging by the long faces drawn, there is
a very hard-hit crowd about the Stock Exchange just
now. The often-heard recriminations, shouted in no
subdued tones, tell of the same experience. Pity
might be felt if there had not been such open market-
boosting. But what about the highly-paid experts who
very recently commended the show to Queen-street and
Collins-street magnates. They are singularly quiet.
Board is to make a 10s. call and wants the amount of the
shares increased from £6 to £lO. That means preparing
for further contingencies. Briseis Extended is likewise
in the doldrums with a five-ton return, or half that of the
previous run, though the barge is in the ancient drifts.
Result, a debit balance of £lOO. The prehistoric man
certainly did his work very well before moderns got on
to the claim.
* ■* * *
The drop in the Westralian gold yield continues,
the figures for May being 157,0210 z., against 157,6850 z.
for May, ’O5, and 160,2800 z. for May, ’O4. For the first
five months of the year the totals are : 1904, 817,1670 z. ;
1905, 810,2240 z. ; and 1906,761,5420 z. The way things are
shaping it looks very much as if the year’s shortage would
be 120,0000 z., as compared with 1905, and 150,0000 z., as
compared with 1904. Prospecting is practically dead
chiefly owing to the stagnant and drooping condition of
the Stock Exchange. Most speculators are more or less
stranded by having to pay up continuous calls on scrip
held under cover. Until there is a revival in scrip
generally there will be no money for prospecting. The
only prospective producers are the Oroya-iuack Range, of
probably 1800 oz. monthly and the Lancefield of 36000 z.
The goldfields generally are looking very depressed.
* * * *
W.A. dividends, like W.A. gold returns, begin
to show a serious decline. For the first half of 1905 the
divs. totted up £1,148,640, while this year the total has
fallen off to £980,850. The fall is pretty general. Last
year Oroya distributed £258,750 till June, and this year
only £lBO,OOO. Great Fingall last year panned out £187,500,
while this year only £150,000 was forthcoming. Golden
Horseshoe toes the mark w'ith £75,000, against £90,000
last year. Even the much-boosted Great Boulder shows
£131,250, against £153,125 last year. Ivanhoe, the
best-managed mine in the State bar the Kalgurli,
shows no change. The Kalgurli, through the able man-
agement of Moss, has divided £75,000 against £30,000 in
1905, and will show an enormous increase on the year.
Sons of Gwalia pans out £48,750 against £24,375 a year
ago, but is now in a pretty dicky position. Perseverance
has distributed £70,000 against £52,500, but the
future outlook is gloomy, unless the boundary
“ phantom ” lode turns out trumps. Associated
Northern has paid out the same as a year ago,
and so has Associated (by paying nothing). Black Range
has distributed £6750 against £5063, and looks good
enough to make a record on a small scale. Ida H. shows
up well with £BlOO against £5400 a year ago, and prospects
are fairly good. Hainault shows little change, the figures
being £6750 against £6287, owing to more shares having
been issued. South Kalgurli has paid £20,000 against
nil a year ago—improvement is owing to the capable
and energetic management of “Taffie” Morgan. Cum-
berland’s contribution has dropped from £4OOO to £2OOO,
while Hidden Secret’s has gone from £32,400 to nil.
Fremantle Smelter has only panned out £15,000 against
£47,500 a year year ago. Golden Ridge, which, last yeStr,
paid £6287, is now on the rocks, and not likely to pay
for some time to come.
* * * *
Sons of Gwalia, Leonora (W.A.), appears to
have got completely under its ore chute exactly like the
Great Fingall. The thirteenth level has been extended
over 900 ft. in very poor ore, and the face is only worth
about 2dwts. per ton. The fourteenth level is in over
500 ft., and the face shows no values. The present dead
work must be charged to revenue, as no ore is being de-
veloped by it. Under the circumstances, it is pretty
Certain that the current rate of divs. cannot be main-
tained. A lot of prospecting is being done to the south,
and may turn out profitably, but that cannot be relied on.
* * • #
Sons of Gwalia, Leonora (W.A.), shows a very
poor return for May. The grade of ore treated has dropped
from 40s. 6d. to 345. 6d. per ton, with the result that the
yield has fallen from 52040 z. in April to 43780 z., and the
profits from £9540 to £5680. This once for all settles the
question of the maintenance of the Is. 6d. quarterly div.,
which means £97,500 a year. V it.h the extremely poor
outlook in the bottom levels, and this serious decline in
output, the div. will have to be reduced to Is. per quarter,
and possibly even less. It is instructive that, on Dec. 31,
the ore reserves were estimated at 385,500 tons, valued at
40s. 6d. per ton, equivalent to three years’ supply, and in
five months the value has dropped by 6s. per ton. The
fall may be only temporary, but, as the bottom levels are
worthless, the outlook is very poor.
* * » »
Princess Royal, Norseman (W.A.), has pub
lished its worst return for many a long day, and co. looks
as if it must, be in Queer-street. During May, 686 tons
were treated for 4360 z. bullion worth £l4OO, or about 41s.
per ton. This will show a loss, at the lowest estimate, of
£3OO. Shares in the Princess Royal have of late had a
rather active market, but there is nothing to justify this,
and there must be a collapse sooner or later.
* * * n
Golden Pole, Davyhurst (W.A.), appears to be
reaching the end of its tether. On January 31 the ore
reserves were given as 13,400 tons worth 1275. per ton,
and since then the returns per ton have been as follows :
January, 695.; February, 665. 3d.; March, 575. 6d. ; April,
635. 9d. ; and May, 665. Bd. per ton. The average works
out at 61s. 7d. per ton, or a shade over half the estimate.
The fact of the matter is that the minimum stoping
width is about 30in., and the value of the reserves is calcu-
lated on 6in. or Bin., or whatever the reef happens to
pinch to, and, when results falsify estimates, management
accuses employees of stealing the gold. The mine is
pretty well played out, in spite of optimistic reports, and
co. will probably give up before many months.
Golden Horseshoe, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), during
1905, sent to the Fremantle smelter 15,700 tons, worth
£194,000 against 24,100 tons in 1904, worth £364,000, or a
decrease in value of nearly half. The average profit
being earned by the co. is about £21,000 a month, and
this can be maintained for the next three years. The ore
reserves on December 31 were given as worth 645., but
results only pan out at 505., which tends to prove that
no allowance is made for mullock broken down in stoping,
and other contingencies. The ore and the mullock in the
Kalgoorlie mines are, in many cases, so exactly alike
that no expert can separate them, and allowance is made
for this in some cases when estimating reserves.
* * * *
Westralia Mt. Morgans appears to be in a very
dicky position. In June last year, Bob Nicolson, of the
Ivanhoe, was commissioned to give a report on the mine
and its reserves, and stated that there were in sight only
34,800 tons of ore, worth 365. per ton. He advised
closing down the treatment plant, and pushing on with
development. Managing director A. E. Morgans pooh-
poohed Bob Nicolson’s pessimism, and cabled London
directors that the mine could work out its own salvation.
Morgans had his way, and ran the mine to a standstill.
The result was that, in March, co. had to reconstruct
with 130,000 preference shares of ss. to provide £32,500
extra working capital. After receiving 200 per cent,
these preference shares are to rank as ordinary. On A.
E. Morgans’ advice the mill was shut down, and the whole
plant overhauled. A start was made in January, and
since then 13,500 tons have been treated for an average of
19s. per ton, which must leave a loss. Morgans is one of
the old-fashioned class of miners ; he does not believe in
constant sampling, and is quite out of place on the W.A.
goldfields. In a very short time co. will probably again
be in trouble.
* * * *
Revenue, Meekathara (W.A.), has just treated
881 b. of stone for a return of 201 oz. It is six months
since the previous parcel of 1701 b. was treated for 2050 z.,
so that it can be easily gauged that the mine is on a very
small scale. All the same, up to date, about 15J tons
have been treated in all for a return of 26650 z. This
would be no good for a Bull co., but is a fortune for a
few working men.
'* * * *
Latest estimates of some outside W.A. gold
mines’ reserves are as follows : Golden Ridge, 24,000 tons,
worth 275. a ton ; Victory United, 1200 tons, worth 85s. ;
Ivanhoe Junction, 9000 tons, worth 635. 9d., and thousands
of tons worth 3Ss. ; Greenmount, 30,000 tons worth 28s. ;
It is needless to say that these figures must be accepted
with great caution, as managers seemed to be endowed
with a marvellous imagination. For instance, Ivanhoe
Junction, according to manager Hocking’s estimate, is
practicallyas good a mine as, say, South Kalgurli, yet shares
u'ere lately quoted at about twopence, at which price the
whole mine and plant were valued at £lOOO. Director
Uren visited the mine recently, and has returned to
Adelaide to advise the cutting down of the main shaft,
and the erection of an up-to-date mill, but the whole
thing seems a farce.


.So that it
Witt be
Carried
m 'X im ■
■ V
'■ . V /
//Appoif
%J s k'&rt n k
£*>3# r
■■■:■ ■
Of
\*
SPRING ST.
North End, Kalgoorlie, has come to the end of
its tether, and a meeting has been convened for June 30
to inaugurate a reconstruction. The mine was extra-
vagantly managed from the start, and, as a conse-
quence, has not been given a fair go. The chute, or pipe
of ore, is dipping to the south, and very little work has
yet been done on it. Until the mine is equipped with rock
drills to test the hard ground in the sulphide zone no
definite opinion can be expressed of its possibilities.
-ft * • *
Ivanhoe Junction, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), which is
being much boomed by manager Hocking and director
Uren, is the same old lame duck it has been for years.
Hocking advises cutting down the shaft, erecting
an up-to-date treatment plant, and starting crush-
ing on a big scale, and Uren endorses his recom-
mendations. Possibly people will put their good cash
into this “ cat,” as they have so often done before,
especially as Boulder people, who should know better,
have taken up the 15,000 forfeited shares at 3d. apiece.
Manager Hocking asserts that co. has in sight
9000 tons of 15dwt. ore, and untold thousands of tons
of 9dwt. ore, and that he can keep a mill going
at a profit for years. There may be a gamble
in the shares, but Hooking’s statements are much
too sanguine, as the battery has again and again proved.
His alleged ore reserves were there when Johnson was in
charge, and when Tom Hewitson, years ago, said that the
ore would go 10dwt., and tests went less than 3dwt.
* * * #
The Carbine (W.A.), about 45 miles north of
Coolgardie, is being very much talked of at the moment.
It is said to be the greatest gold mine on earth, and
Minister of Mines Gregory has endorsed this statement.
The main shaft is down 400 ft., and, in addition to driving
about 120 ft., a crosscut has been put in 410 ft. east
without finding any wall. The mine has been worked
on and off for the past ten years, and abandoned by
various parties in sheer disgust. The present owners,
Crawford and party, have crushed 0482 tons, taken out
during development for a return of 33430 z. Quite re-
cently the tailings dump has been measured by experts,
who estimate that the tonnage has been rather over than
under estimated, and that not much more than 5000 tons
have been treated. Everything broken out has been
put through the mill, and there is no dump of rejected
mullock, so that the proposition looks genuine. The
owners want £60,000 hard cash for their show, but
nobody seems inclined to jump at the bonanza. On the
strength of this show the adjoining blocks have been
pegged out, and the South block is now being prospected
by a Perth syndicate of £5OOO in £5 scrip, bossed by
Bellingham, M.L.O. If the thing pans out, W.A., which
is now looking decidedly sick, may come again with a
rush.
* • • •
Mining costs have been reduced at
Kalgoorlie, and the effect of the reduction on all the re-
presentative mines has been to increase ore reserves. For
instance, if the South Kalgurli costs can be brought
down to 225., as alleged, sdwt. and over becomes the
stoping limit, and the addition of a large quantity of this
Sdvvt. and 6dwt. orb that will give very little profit will
automatically increase the reserves. Shareholders, when
told that there is a large sudden addition to reserves
because of reduced costs, may be quite sure that reduced
mining costs, at any rate, have been partly brought
about by including lower grade ores in the stoping limit.
Taking a lot of poor ore along with the richer and more
profitable ore is a way some W.A. mines have of cutting
down costs and nominally increasing ore reserves. The
quality of the ore included in reserves is little more than
a guess. Values jn these lodes occur like plums in a
pudding ; assays will not determine if there are sufficient
plums—only stoping and crushing can do that. The
speculative value of lodes like the Perseverance or Lake
View consists in the fact that lenses of rich ore have
occurred and are likely’ to occur again.
* * » *
Oloncurry (N.Q.) is getting ready for the coming
railway. During April 23 mineral leases and 20 mineral
copper claims were applied for, and Warden Cherry ex-
cuses the delay of his report on the grounds of the
extreme rush of business. About 700 people are at pre-
sent making a living in the locality in connection with
Copper shows, and Mount Elliott is endeavoring to get a
smelter to the ground, but is hampered by carriage pro-
blems. There are 4000 acres of mineral freeholds at Clon-
curry—another proof of the necessity for the proposed
Act to shake mineral freeholders out of their wonted
lethargy.
* * * *
Minerals obtained in the Herberton (N.Q.) dis-
trict during April were Milled tin, £13,989; stream
tin, £16,126 11s. Bd. ; copper, £10,454; silver, £2451;
wblfram, £1481; also lead, gold, and fluxes; the total
being £45,012 Is. 4d. A district which raises this amount
of money in a month out of the ground can hardly be
considered quite poverty-stricken.
* * * *
Some of the exhibits at the Herberton show
(North Queensland)4£ tons ingot tin, stream tin, 1 ton
wblfram, lj tons tin ore, wolfram-tin ore, molybdenite,
bismuth, specimen containing nickel, cobalt, tin, cop-
per, and wolfram ; antimony, carrying 2£oz. gold ; arrow-
root, maize, vegetables of all kinds, apples, English
potatoes, sweet potatoes, Shorthorn cattle, Jersey cattle,
Ayrshire cattle, horses of all stamps ; honey, and fancy
woodware made from the following beautiful local
woods: marjoram, rosewood, chadjury, beefwood, wal-
nut, silky oak, coorangarra, witchun, honeysuckle,
maiden’s blush, acacia, forest oak, cedar, bean tree,
sovereign wood, white cedar, elm, sassafras, waterwaved
cedar, brown oak, and (so-called) kauri pine. Stinking
Fish apostles should make a note of this list.
• * * •
Said that Edison has discovered great lodes of
cobalt in U.S.A., and counts the discovery of much elec-
trical importance. Cobalt is reported to be the essential
mineral of the much-talked-of new Edison storage battery,
which, it is promised, will revolutionise electric traction.
* * * *
Aerial tramways or conveyors undoubtedly
afford the cheapest means of transport, especially when
they are worked under a system which is entirely
automatic. The, largest manufacturers in the world in
this particular line are Adolf Bleichert and Co., of London,
represented in Australia by W. and J. Lempriere, of Mel-
bourne. Delivering ore automatically from the mine to
the mill over almost any distance at a cost of about one
pennyper ton, is far ahead of all other means of transport.
Automatic systems are in vogue for the cheap discharge
of tailings. Automatic weighing and counting of loaded
cars is also assured under Bleichert’s system, thereby
nothing is left to assumption or imagination.*
* * * *
The Commercial World (London) July 15th,
1904, writes with regard to the Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society Limited: —“In responding to the
cordial vote of thanks passed to the staff at the meeting
alluded to, the general manager stated that the
stability and strength of the society had been growing
year by year and that at the end of the year, 1903, it was
in a stronger position than ever before.”*
Cobae.—For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894.
•* * • •
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silbkrberg and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne.*
* * * #
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
,»* • *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected,' inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discretion of cast or wrought iron work.*
» * * •
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
* * * *
The enterprising engineering firm It. Hornsby
and Sons, Ltd., Grantham, England, world renowned
manufacturers of the “ Hornsby ” Patent Safety Oil
Engine, the latest adaption of which is their Traction
Engine, have entered the Gas Engine arena and are now
making the Hornsby-Stockport Gas Engine and Suction
Gas Plant. The latter we learn will develop upwards of
10 brake horse power at the cost of Id. per hour. The
minimum cost and attention required should prove a great
inducement to users of motive power to instal this type
of plant. The Australasian addresses of the above firm
are : Sussex-street, Sydney and Spencer-street, Mel-
bourne.*
* * * •
The electric plant of the Federal Palace Hotel,
corner Collins and King Streets, Melbourne, furnishes a
good example of a thoroughly successful electric installa-
tion, in technical as well as in commercial respects. This
plant generates all electric current required for the hotel
lighting ; it consists of a 20 horse-power gas engine belted
to a “Ganz” 12 kilowatts dynamo, a “Ganz” switch-
board containing all the controlling and measuring instru-
ments, and a storage battery with 82 cells. The generating
machinery runs continually during the day time at its
full capacity and highest efficiency ; .the surplus current
being stored into the battery; the latter supplies all
necessary electricity required during the night; the
battery forms also a substantial reserve in case of acci-
dents. Compared with the previous method of working a
saving of £4OO per annum has been effected by this plant.
The contractors for this plant were The Austral Otis
Engineering Company, Ltd., corner Hanah and Kavanagh
Streets, South Melbourne, as sole agents for Ganz and
Company, Budapest, Hungary.* [3.]
* * * *
The introduction into the Broken Hill and
Western Australian Mines of a small hand rock-drill for
boring “pops” to break up large blocks of ore, cutting
“ hitches” for timber, and squaring up shafts and levels,
has quite revolutionised the old method of working with
hammers and gad. The best machine for this work is the
“ Shaw ” Hand Rock Drill and is manufactured by the
Austral Otis Engineering Company, Ltd., Melbourne,
who are the sole agents. The machine weighs only 161bs.
and has only one working part—the hammer—which
serves the purpose also of a valve. One man with this
machine can easily do as much work as four men with
hammer and drill. In some of the hardest lodes in the
Boulder these machines bore over lin. a minute, and in
softer country as much as 2Jin. per minute. Unlike other
types, the operator does not experience any excessive
vibration due to the recoil of the hammer. The working
pressure is 801bs. per square inch and the machine uses
about 25 cubic feet of free air per minute. Ten of the
biggest mines in West Australia are now Using the Shaw
Hand Rock drills. Fullest particulars may be obtained
from the Company’s offices in South Melbourne, where
the machine mav be seen working.* [o]
* * * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queeh-street,
Melbourne. Commission business only. Agents every-
where.*
• • * •
George D. Meudell, Money and Mining Broker,
A.M.P. Building, Bendigo (formerly of Stock Exchange of
Melbourne).*
* * • •
The Zinc Corporation has taken careful advice
in connection with the large plant required at Broken
Hill, and has ordered Babcock and Wilcox water-tube
boilers with superheaters and mechanical stokers. This
order has been followed by the great firm of mining
engineers, Messrs. Bewick, Moreing and Co., placing
orders with the same boiler company, in connection with
the South Blocks, also at the Hill. These instances
further prove the assertion that, wherever economy in
fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed. This company stock boilers at “ Haymarket,”
Sydney.*
* * *
Charters Towers. —Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of th«
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* * * •
Commonwealth and Foreign patents ob-
tained. Collison and Co., 483 Collins-street,
Melbourne (and Adelaide.) Twenty-six years
practice. Write us for Inventors’ Guide.*
Dick Seddon’s greatness was not solely due
to his intellectual and physical capacity and force
of character. It was his big hearted sympathy
with human suffering which gave his soul its con-
quering magic. All politicians should quicken the
magnetic power of human kindness by well con-
sidered instalments of D.C.L. whisky ; and so
quicken the march to the goal of human happiness.
A little D.C.L. in a first class human vessel has
beautiful results.*
Westralian barrister Pennefather (one of
John Forrest’s Attorney-Generals) made a loud
complaint, when English-imported Judge Rooth
appeared on the Perth bench last week, against
the passing-over of local barristers for the im-
ported one, and made it reasonably clear to Rooth
that the bar was very sorry to make his acquaint-
ance. Rooth was appointed by Premier Rason.
Pennefather treated the matter mostly as a per-
sonal grievance, because (though once acting as
Judge) he had not got a permanent appointment
himself. Pennefather alleges that Rason first
offered the billet to a colleague (Moss), but there-
after gave no Westralian barrister a chance.
Pennefather’s complaint, and the general slight
given to the Westralian bar, make Rason’s action
appear a little smellful. It looked unpatriotic all
the time.
Of Queen Elizabeth we read—
“ Cold made that monarch croak.”
To save the Queen from catching one,
Sir Walter spoilt his cloak.
But had she ruled us now, you know,
For very trifling payment,
A bottle of Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
Would save poor Raleigh’s raiment.'*
You may beat the tattoo on the drum
Imperialistic or any other kind of a tom-tom. But you
cannot beat Tattoo Oil for sheep marking. And it needs
no “ drummer ” to convince wool-growers of this import-
ant and well-known fact. Tattoo oil carries conviction
on its merits. Every branded sheep is its advertiser—
and the best of advertisers at that.*
“ Tuna ” writes from an unpronounceable
place in Maoriland :
Par in Bulletin (24/5/’O6) re Maoriland’s latest religious
fanatic calls for a few corrections. Rua Tapu is not a
son of Te Kooti, neither is lie a firebrand ; merely a waster
from the Urewera country, where they grow a prophet
once, in three months. He is a clumsy person who
hasn’t even sense enough to map out a programme that
is reasonably likely to eventuate, but assures his fol-
lowers that, in addition to meeting Edward VII., they
will have discovered to them untold wealth in the shape
of huge diamonds, &c. His adherents are rapidly leaving
him, and from a retinue of 2000 he will pass along the
coast en route to Gisborne with a rabble of probably 50.
His method of curing the sick is original, if not effective.
The patient hands up 9d., 3d. of which Rua places under
his armpit for a few moments. Then he directs the
victim to stir it in some tea and drink the liquid. If no
good result follows, Rua falls backs on the ancient gag—
“ not sufficient faith.” I asked one of his disciples what
would happen to the Prophet if Edward VII. failed to keep
his appointment. “Oh! cut him plurr.v troat, I tink.”
The drawback to a large policeman dealing violently
with Rua is that the natives would then make a martyr
of him, and he would loom up in legend as a real prophet,
of whom the Pakehas were afraid.
“ Ailath ” : Willie-motor Kelly got into
trouble with Pa Deakin, the other day, for asking
frivolous and impertinent questions. “If is was
was,” or something to that effect, chirrupped
little Willie, with an evident satisfaction at having
said something real funny and clever. He was
rebuked much. Willy does certainly come out
with some silly little questions and silly big motor-
cars, though now and then he happens to put
a trace of common-sense into a query, but
he throws it in the midst of some other member’s
eloquence, and Master Willie’s bit of gumption is
sucked up in the vortex of Parliamentary gab and
strife. Poor Willie is never taken for what he
is—the only member who can really walk grace-
fully down the Block.
Robert Bodycomb—it is a remarkable
name—who passed out, recently, at Dromana
(Vic.), aged 80, did a lot of solid work as a Pro-
tectionist during his career. He was a native of
South Wales, an engineer by profession ; he came
to Melbourne in 1852, and put in 35 years making
good Australian machinery with Langlands’
Foundry Co. He was treasurer to Victoria’s first
Protectionist Society, which got through Parlia-
ment a Bill protecting the local machinery in-
dustry with a 25 per cent, import duty.
DEVELIN AND O'DONOVAN, THE
IRISH ENVOYS.
The love affairs of thrifty John O’Brien,
draper’s assistant, were made public recently at
the Northcote (Vic.) Police Court, where Nellie
Rollo, “a daintily-attired young woman of pre-
possessing appearance,” sued him for £4l 10s.,
money paid, money lent, and money received.
She also proceeded against him for the illegal
detention of two rings, valued at £6. Nellie
related that John, whose dazzling smile over the
drapery counter had captured her young affec-
tions, had got from her £5 to pay for a watch, for
which she afterwards received a bill, he having
spent the money otherwise. She further stated
to a benevolent Bench :
I bought, at his request, 15s. worth of shirts for him.
He promised to pay for them, but never did so. I also
gave him £1 for his fare from Melbourne to Castlemaine,
and £llss. to pay a bill, which he never paid. Besides
this, I gave him sums 'amounting to £9, to pay the
expenses of his illness. While I was in Queensland I sent
him £4 10s., to help to pay for an electric belt. He in-
vited me to go to the theatre, but when we got there he
said he had no money, and I gave him £l. He bought
the tickets, but never gave me any change.
And, in addition, it seems, John the Draper wrote
her letters like these
Dear Nell, —I want you to send me 10s. or 12s. 6d. I
hit a young man, and he is going to bring me to court
if I don’t square it....
If you send me down the money I will come up and see
y0u.... I am going to compensate you some day by
taking you as my life partner.
I think you had better come back to Victoria. How is
your purse ? I think full by this time. Mine’s very low
at present.
Have no work at present. Can you spare me a few
pounds ? I intend to make up for it some day by making
you Mrs. O’B.
Had to pawn your ring to pay for my board.... Got
p. note you sent. Wish it was four times as big.
I suppose Annie told you I went to Ballarat, and I
did not have to pawn my ring to go there. I went over
with a young woman as my companion. She paid my
fare, so you see it cost me nothing. I have got your ring
out again, and am going to keep it.
Then Nellie realised that she had lost her John.
He was borrowing money from a new girl—the
minx ! The Bench decided that John (who had
married another woman) should pay Nellie
£41105., with £3 3s. costs, and should give her
back her rings. Presumably, Nellie Rollo is
“off” drapers at present.
Transpires that in New South Wales they
have a system of paying a juryman by results. If
he attends four hours he gets 4s. If the time runs
beyond that he gets luncheon and 3s. extra.
Naturally, therefore, an impecunious juror will
often be inclined to spin his job out. Better, on
the whole, to pay him 7s. and a ham sandwich for
the day, whether short or long.
W. M. Fleming, M.L.A., fcoJd his Mus-
wellbrook (N.S.W.) constituents, the other night,
that:—
Political influence was still exercised largely in the
Railway Department. He knew of a case in which a man
obtained temporary employment in the railway service,
and paid a member of Parliament £1 forgetting the work
for him.
Having said so much, it is now up to Mr. Fleming
to further enlighten the public as to (1) The name
of the member who was paid the £1 as alleged ;
(2) who paid the member the £1; (3) the name of
the railway official who “put on” the man who
paid the £1 at the behest of the member who got
the £1; (4) whether the Railway Commissioners,
or any of them, have any inkling of the alleged
£1 transaction ; (5) when the alleged £1 transac-
tion occurred, and when Mr. Fleming first became
seized of it; (6) how long it is since the price of a
politician got down to £l.
Thomas Seddon, second son of Premier
Dick, who, it is said, will be asked to stand for
the old lion’s seat in Parliament, is generally
regarded in Maoriland as a chip of the old block.
He is a law student (having just finished an Arts
course at Wellington), and has a fine record both
in study and in athletics. He was a likely (though
finally unsuccessful) candidate for the last Rhodes
scholarship, for which King Richard thought him
ideally fitted. It would be an amazing thing if
Thomas, in politics, proved to be the second of a
dynasty of Seddons. Such things have been. It
took five generations to wear out the statesman-
ship of the Koprilis, and there might be five
successive Seddons in like manner.
It is announced that a “ Japanese gentle-
man ” resident in Victoria has persuaded Premier
Bent and Lands Minister Murray that rice can be
grown there, and they have “ arranged to grant
him an area on the Murray on which to experi-
ment with rice-farming.” Here three points loom
out very conspicuously:—
(1) If the Jap had been an Australian he would have
had to buy his land in the ordinary way, and if that way
is good enough for an Australian it is good enough for a
Jap.
(2) If an Australian made a similar application in
Japan, so far from getting “ a grant" of land he wouldn’t
even be allowed to buy land.
(3) It is a weird piece of foolishness to give land to a
Jap, to experiment in rice-growing, seeing that the
necessary experiments are even now being made by white
men at Mildura without any “ grant.”
The skipper of a little Maori-
land hooker, the topsail schooner
Jessie Nicol, has probably come to the
conclusion by this time that he is a
now Vanderdecken, a hoodooed man,
and a person under a commodious curse.
In February last the little vessel bobbed
away out of Bluff Harbor en route for
the Macquaries—a mere handful of
black, bleak debris in the sea, half-way
between the great Maoriland public debt
and the Antarctic ice-floes. Its business
was to fetch away the summer penguin
fishers before they froze to death, and to
bring away their stock of penguin-oil.
The little topsail schooner hasn’t arrived
at the islands yet, and the penguiners
are still freezing on the Macquaries.
For weeks the south-west gales struck
the vessel, and the whole Southern
Ocean climbed over the weather rail
and poured out over the lee one. The
captain found the Auckland isles, which
he didn’t want, and the Campbell isle 3,
which he had no use for, and other isles
which were quite unsaleable, but he
couldn’t get far enough to windward
to strike the Macquaries. He came
back to the Bluff with a broken bowsprit
and did repairs, and sailed again. The
same S. W. gale blew him off, and he
returned to Port William (Stewart
Island) to land two injured sailors. He
made his third start, and was blown
back. He made his fourth ditto, and
was ditto. When last heard of, he had
a disgusted anchor down at Port
William, and was preparing for a
fifth start. Meanwhile, the penguiners
must be doing a bitter hungry freeze on
the Macquaries, and it seems as if it
would be a fair thing to send a steamer
to their rescue.
“Kurnel ” Bell is the latest recruit to the
forces of anti-Sosh, and, like other anti-Sosh
orators, he is vamping up the same old misrepre-
sentation. The other day, at Maitland (N.S. W.),
the “Kurnel ” told an audience of ladies —
All they held sacred in the homes the revolutionary
movement of Socialism was pledged to destroy, and it
behoved the mothers and daughters of Australia to try
to save the country from its baneful influence by the
rightful use of the suffrage placed in their hands.
The “Kurnel” might specify what things Aus-
tralian Labor-Socialism is pledged to destroy that
are sacred in the home. Are they the coal-scuttle
and the side-board ? As an alternative he might
stop talking bosh.
A System that Swells Profits.
The “Time Clerk" who used to be such a feature of
the big factory all over the world will soon have gone to
join the megatharium, plesiosaurus, and Queen Anne, and
they of an inquiring mind can see his successor round at
the show-rooms of Fairfax and Roberts, 23 and 25 Hun-
ter-street, Sydney. It is called the Rochester Time
Jobcosting Recorder, and is an amazing development of
mechanical record. Attached to a clock is a printing
apparatus. Each man in the establishment has a card
that records his time at the establishment, and the
machine prints on it the date and the exact moment
of his arrival. When he leaves the building
he rings off, and his card bears the time.
In the matter of piece work men are given “ job cards ”
and they “ ring on ” when they start the job, and “ ring
off ” when they finish it, or lay it aside for another. By
this device the manufacturer can obtain the exact time
that has been taken over any particular piece of work,
and can also compare the value of the various workmen
to the establishment. In the U.S.A., where there are
many thousands of these machines installed, employers
have instituted a system of bonus paying for fast
work, and this amazing Recorder does the discrimi-
nating and picks out the fast worker from the slow.
For all-round utility in the matter of keeping a check on
the going and coming and various operations of hundreds
of men working on various jobs, all of which have to be
checked and recorded, it is perfect in its mechanism, and
there is practically no operation that the Recorder
cannot do better than a clerk, and for an invisible fraction
of the cost, to wit, £4O for a lifetime. Its invention and
production cost $lOO,OOO in tools, machinery, and models,
and it has been developed to a state of absolute perfection.
For the proper conducting of an establishment in which
men are paid by results the thing is indispensable, as by
reference to a man’s working cards it is possible to ascer-
tain by a little observation exactly the time he takes
over' any class of work, and when tendering, or
quoting estimates, that information is of the utmost
value. For establishments in which piece work is not ,
the system, and where all that the management requires- 1
is a record of the time at which the assistants arrive and
leave, there is the Bundy Recorder, of which each em-
ployee has his key. When he comes in he inserts his key
and rings the bell. The clock prints the time on a
travelling paper tape, and the key prints the number, and
the tape, having taken its impression, moves on inex-
orably, and nothing can bring it back. When an em-
ployee goes out to buy his mother-in-law a new hat he
presses a lever as he rings off, and the machine marks the
fact that he is out by affixing a Star against his name. It
is a perfect time recorder. x


ANGLERS
Send
for our
FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE.
It will please you.
EAST WAY BROTHERS,
409 and 411 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
.
Resells Waverley Brewery, Agents.
David iStorer O. sons’
Tattoo Oil
[Registered Trade Mark]
IS THE ONLY ABSOLUTELY ....
In Three Colors:
BLACK, RED,
(a BLUE.
Kept by ...
ALL MERCHANTS
<SL STOREKEEPERS.
SAFE WOOL-MARKING OR
SHEEP BRANDING OIL
THE PERFECT
SHEEP-MARKER.
Aboriginalities.
A BACK-DOOR TRAGEDY.
WOMAN: “Aren't you the man I gave a lump
of pie to yesterday?”
TATTERED TED: “ No, mum; it was me mate ,
Billy. He eat all of it before I could stop
him."
WOMAN: “ The greedy wretch! I suppose you
come for another slice?"
TATTERED TED: “ No, mum, I come ter say as
'Our Bill win is dying breaf forgive yer, mum."
Bratkins, who would probably have been
none the worse if he had passed the last five or
six drinks, landed home the other Saturday after-
noon with a parcel containing a fine fish. Mrs.
Bratkins was out shopping with the children"
and her temporarily benevolent husband decided
that he would save the poor, tired missus the
trouble of cooking the evening meal for once in a
way. He filled the kettle with water, and
managed to cram the parcel—paper, string and
all into it. This made the kettle overflow and
put out the struggling fire which Bratkins had
just lighted. Undaunted, he procured another
blaze with several weeks’ supply of fire-kindlers
and a few pints of kerosene. Then he gave the
kettle a seasoning of everything in the cruet-
stand, and awaited his wife’s return with an
“alone I did it” bearing. She came, and when
he proudly shewed her his pulpy handiwork she
indiscreet enough to exclaim, “Oh, Jack,
why did you leave it in the paper?” Righte-
ously indignant, and with a hazy recollection of
something he had heard about preparing joints
Bratkins scornfully replied, “So’s to retain the
natchral juices, o’ course. You a woman, and
don’t know that much about cookin’ ! ”
* * * *•
Householders will find that for universal
jtse Little s Phenyle Disinfectants are unsurpassed.
J_he Soluble Phenyle is a powerful insecticide, it
lalls bugs, cockroaches, fleas, &c., and is one of the
best washes for all domestic animals. Sold by all
chemists, grocers, storekeepers, throughout Aus-
tralia.*
NOT UP TO THE TECHNICALITIES,
MANAGER : “Have you seen Dan Manners about?”
BRACEMAN (highly recommended as an experienced man, pointing to the shaft): “ Please, sir,
he's just gone down stairs.”
“Kulpara” : “F.Y.T.” (B. 3/5/’O6) says
that in Queensland irrigation with bore water
will not destroy Mitchell grass. Can’t speak
about Queensland, but in South Australia the
bore water kills Mitchell and every other kind of
grass in a few months. The only things that will
grow round a bore are a few reeds fringing the
banks, and perhaps a smattering of bulrushes in
the centre of the stream. Have also tried to grow
vegetables with bore water, but failed every time.
Seeds that were planted -would just come above
ground, then die off; while cabbage and lettuce
plants would grow for a month or so, get leggy
and also perish. The reason in “South Oss,” at
any rate, is that the bore water is so highly
mineralised that it impregnates the soil, which
becomes hard, caked and brittle, and encrusted
with salt. Perhaps if you could find bore water
that was not.mineralised and had the same pro-
perties as rain water, then irrigation might be a
success; but it has not been my luck to strike such
a bore and I have seen a good many. I have
noticed the same trouble with artesian springs.
With the exception of a wiry, spiky kind of couch
grass extending for about twenty yards round the
springs, and the aforesaid smattering of reeds and
bulrushes, there’s not a skerrick of feed within
two miles of the springs. (Almost forgot to men-
tion that dates are the exception. They grow
round bores or springs in luxuriant style—planted
by man, of course.)
* * * *
“ A.E.P.” does a blob of enthusiasm :
Your correspondent “ Mark ”is right. With the excep-
tion of the stockwhip, and a few bellbirds, and an occa-
sional lowrie, king- parrot, black cockatoo, lyre bird, or
ringdove, the Blue Mountains of N.S.W. are practically
destitute of bird life. A correspondent more recent than
Mark ” says he camped at the foot of Wentworth Falls
(Valley of Waters) and heard rosellas, magpies, king
parrots, &c., &c. But when we hear the lyre bird getting
in a bit of fine orchestral work in the early morning, and
especially when he puts all the tiimmings on, one might
fancy the whole ornithological creation was on show. I
was walking round Wentworth Falls, a few mornings ago
and .heard a concert, with the whole gamut from the wren
to the black cockatoo. Then the solitary performer hap-
pened to spot my dog, and stopped short.
1 camped at the foot of Vera Falls (Valley of Waters)
last Xmas, and at night the millions of fire-flies darting
about among the sombre foliage made a veritable fairy-
land. Add the rushing of the waters, and the sighing of
the winds, and there is the material for some of our
rising poets or musical geniuses to make something for
the world to hear.
By the way, Arnold Mote, now in London, has com-
posed a piece on the Valley of the Waters. Our mountains
and glens are calling for some sweet singer like our own
Kendall, or some word painter in sympathy with the
spirit of the mountains, to make something that will last
till the end of time. The fascination of the mountains
lies, not in their animal or bird life, but in the lights and
j The grim veteran crags that have
battled with the elements since before man was, the
storms and the winds and the gentle mists that shroud
the grandeur and majesty of the place—all the ele-
ments are here waiting for the master’s touch.
* * * #
“ Flinderino ” : Re curious catches in
rabbit traps (“Elmore,” B. 17/5’06). Some
months back, finding things quiet, I took it into
my head to go trapping. Got a mate, bought a
moke and spring cart, and started off to beyond
JJandenong. Set two dozen traps for the
first night. Result: One sheep, one tomtit, one
water-rat, no rabbit. On the second round I
managed to catch two fingers.
Sydney Morning Herald’s man “ on the
land ” rhapsodises about the well-known squattage
“Tabletop,” a huge station outside Albury, on
the main railway line of the State:—
It produces luxuriant herbage, and the estate presents
a pastoral picture of great beauty and productiveness,
fine tracts of country extending away from the table-
lands as far as the eye can reach, richly timbered hills,
spacious flats, and rolling meadow-like areas which are
covered with herds of magnificent Devon cattle, their red
coats showing up through the trees in the distance,
against a background of misty purple ranges afar off.
And the 47,000 acres which make up this Garden
of Eden are devoted to sheep, cattle, emptiness
and scenery. Of men and women there are none.
The Bulletin begins to believe that the Serpent
was a member of the Upper House with a great
hatred of the graduated land-tax, and that Adam
and Eve were expelled from Eden to prevent
closer settlement.
* * * *
“Te K.” : The Bulletin (24/5/’O6) has
something to say about the happenings of a back-
blocks race meeting down the West Coast of the
other Island. Recently there was a meeting up
the West Coast of this
(North) Island. It was at
Milkville, or Calfvale, or at
any rate, somewhere about
Cowtown. The course was
a paddock, and the crowd
made a street of itself near
the judge’s box. Young
Separator, getting a bit
anxious about how Farmer
Milkcan’s horse, Cream Test,
was getting on in the race then
eventuating, stepped out to have a
look down the course just as that animal
happened along. When young Separator
came down he hit the ground like a
paunch and slithered a lane for himself,
unparticular-like and sudden, through
the crowd, and eventually brought
up against a big plough horse. After
calling that equine several different
kinds of cow for treading on his waist,
he re-lit his cigarette. He is “ pivot
forward ” of the local football club, and
it is of such material that Maoriland
footballers are made.
“Rypo”: Was at Traralgon (Yic.) the
other day and spent an hour amongst the cattle.
You cannot be at Traralgon an hour without
getting amongst cattle. And one would become
cow-like after a few days there. Those who live
there do ; they moo at each other. After seeing
the cow people in their native stalls, I can quite
understand the intellect of cattle-dealing men
like ex-fractional Premier Allen M’Lean. M’Lean
just loves ox-like folks that vote as their employers
do. It was a dreary day at Traralgon, and the
dreary “ Man-with-the-Hoe ” cast of counten-
ance there made me miserable. I hurried away,
yearning for some strong man to bellow loudly in
the ears of those ruminating citizens, and wake
them up.
“ The ordinary bush J.P., if level-headed,
is better suited for average bush cases than an
acute lawyer,” said the Sergeant. “Do you re-
member Jim Hannell, of Maitland? He was
M.L.A. for Newcastle or somewhere about there
a few years after. Well, when Jim was made a
J.P. everyone laughed. He knew no more law
than his own horse. But his head was in the
right place. I mind his first case. Jim mounted
the binch with the air of a Chief Justice and
listened to both parties with his eyes shut an’ his
mouth open. I must say the swearin’ was hard,
for the women were ould, an’ were figlitin’ over
ducks. The flock ivas all there in the
coort yard, an’ each woman claimed
certain ducks as hers, which the other
denied on oath. It was a divil of a case to
see through, an’ would have bogged the Attorney-
General. But did it puzzle Jim? Not a bit.
He just opened his eyes when the parjury was
over, an’ says he, ‘ Constable, take these ducks to
where the row began—they must be hungry now.
When you get there let ’em go—let ’em all go,’ he
exclaimed, throwin’ out his hands, ‘ an’ then
watch them where they go. Them as goes to this
oul’ woman’s yard is hers, an’ them as goes to that
oul’ woman’s yard is that oul’ woman’s.’ An’ it’s
the truth —the right ducks wint to the right yards,
an’ both the oul’ women admitted it.”
* » * *
“W.P.8.”: The picture-poem entitled
“ Old Jack ” (B. 3/15/06) is not the least bit of an
exaggeration as some may think. Those who
know sheep dogs will cheerfully allow that the
animals can do almost all but talk. A good
sheep dog has not a lazy bone in his body. Have
known a kelpie to “work” a rooster in his
leisure moments, just to keep his eye in, as it were.
And if commanded to “hold” it, would do so all
day if desired. There is no rushing about a good
dog. If the object under its control makes a
wild break for liberty the canine does not try to
race it, but sort of sneaks round in a semi-circle
until it gets ahead, and then back to the original
spot comes the rooster (or whatever the animal is)
as if he had no will of his own. A good dog can
“ work ” all other animals except the common or
garden variety of goat (of course elephants, fleas,
alligators, and other minute animals are excepted).
A goat doesn’t play the game; As soon as the
dog comes near, Billy or Nanny will just look at
him. If the dog comes too near the goat will
stand on its hind legs and strike with its fore
hoofs. The positions soon become entirely re-
versed, and the dog is driven backwards, the goat
with its eye kept unwaveringly on the enemy all
the time. The dog soon gives it up as a bad job
and turns away in disgust, and then William re-
sumes his dinner.
* * * *
“Silas Snell”: I have just made the
acquaintance of a benignant old Cousin Jack
miner, out of whose kindly eye shines truth like
the lamp on the bowsprit of a tramcar, and he
tells me of an almost incredibly tight fix in which
he once found himself. He was working in a
Creswick mine with a mate named Jim —not the
Jim occasionally mentioned in connection with
Bill; another Jim altogether—when he heard the
ground going overhead. It was treacherous
country, and the drive was a long one, A big
piece of reef started to come away, and the brave
old miner, seeing no other means of averting a
catastrophe, set his shoulders under it, and,
although the junk must have weighed upwards of
tons, kept it from shifting further till Jim put
some fresh timber in. A good idea of the terrible
strain upon my informant may be gathered from
the fact that when the timbers were in and the
ground secured he had to be belted out from
under with a hammer. I must admit that I could
hardly have believed this last item had it not been
told to me myself.
THE BOXING BOOM.
ADMIRING BARACKER : “ Ain't he a Bill Squires!
I call ’im a ’urricane fighter.”
Rabbit-exterminator Dr. Danysz, inter-
viewed in Melbourne, seems to have in some degree
given his case away. Said he : “In Europe, the
microbes I use have existed for centuries, and
epidemics break out among the rabbits frequently.
No precautions are ever taken against them
spreading, and never has there been any infection
known among men, beasts or birds.” Just so !
Admitting that the virus is fatal to bunnies alone,
what is gained by inoculating them with a disease
which has been trying for centuries to kill them
in Europe, but has failed to do so ?
LORD OF THE STABLES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ranging 1 down in the morning chill, by scrub and stony
face,
While snug in tent and stringy-shack the eight-hour
sweaters snore ;
Bull-eyed and stiff at daybreak,.in a reckless, crazv race
High up among the bouldered bush, to tail the mob once
more,
Slow back to craft and harness—crawling back to greet
the sun
With their weeping bluestoned shoulder-sores, their chain
cuts raw and red ;
Here, dodging needled ant-hills when the day has scarce
begun—
Watch me ! —loping in to see my motley mine-teams fed !
To bump them back to camp, and crowd the loafers past
the rails,
And weed them, slops and kickers, till they’re fixed up
tail to bar;
To dole out skimpy rations, bin to box, in careful pails,
Chow-fashjon ; and, with hungry eyes, to watch where,
low and far,
The drifting blue smoke swirls and lifts where Smithy
grills our chops ;
To shove and coax and curse and praise, and, as they
feed, stand by
To paw my aching void, while Staggers, off his tucker,
stops
To flash a vicious pound or two of hoof-iron in my eye.
In the cool of the Gulf morning, in the shade of the
green brush roof,
The long line scuffles and sniffs its grub—a mixed lot,
northern-bred,
With the pauper blood of their nameless sires picked out
in hair and hoof ;
Bare rib and lifted shoulder, flirting ear, and lumbering 1
head,
And cunning eye, they munch and plunge and bite ; a
graceless crowd,
With skinny thigh and cavern mouth—with each uncanny
sign
Of swift and savage schooling to the game of graft, and
ploughed
Between gaunt haunch and buttock with the slow-starva-
vation line.
Still, seven days in seven days, I snatch my crib, and
toil
All day and half the restless night, red-eyed and cursing
hard;
I’ve sold myself to slavery—to burn the midnight oil,
Mooching down with my “hurricane” when the late
teams strike the yard.
And still, a-bunk, from dreams of quick hoofs slashed
across my mouth—
Of foddery breath and ghostly molars meeting in my arm,
I start up, shuddering, to find the stars pale in the south,
And, shouting through the dark, the clamorous five
o'clock alarm !
vie.
FRANK HENTY.


Wolfe’s Schnapps.
A PURE 2; WHOLESOME SPIRIT.
mar- Buy Whole Bottles. "W
THE “Fx. & R.” WATCHES
“ Are the most extraordinary Watches of the aye.”
THEY are f-plate Levers.
THEY have Brequet Overeoil Balance Springs.
THEY have compensated and adjusted balances.
THEY have jewel ruby rollers.
THEY are Dustproof and Watertight, as their
cases screw together.
THEY are especially made to stand ROUGH
RIDING and KNOCKING ABOUT, and go
with Profound Accuracy.
THEY are Guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in
order (breakages excepted) for 2 years.
With 15 Jewels, in Oxidised Case, 30/- ; in Solid
Silver Case, 42/-
Fairfax (H R>©berts 9
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 EUNTER STREET.
/
-ft
s
\
Gent’s
Open-face
Oxidised
Metal
Case, 30/-
Gent’s
Silver
Open-face
Ci.se, 42/-
“Musselburgh”: Re “Janor’s” query
(8., 24/5/’O6) as to why bark always curls the one
way. I can’t give him any reason except natural
cussedness, and I recall one time when I was the
victim thereof. I was stripping some stringy-
bark near the top of a rather steep ridge. Had
got a long wide strip on my back, and was carry-
ing it with my arms stretched out to keep the
sides open. I stumbled over a root or something,
and instinctively let go my hold of the bark to put
out my hands to save myself. Instantly the bark
curse curled round me, and I was rolling down the
ridge inside that vegetable stove pipe, at the
rate of I don’t know how many miles a minute.
When I was just about dazed with the whirling,
there came an almighty bump, and I thought I
felt myself sliding out of that circular coffin. We
(tfie bark and I) had struck a tree, but before I
could crawl out, the wretched concern had slewed
round and started off again for another spin.
Finally we crashed into a clump of saplings and
scrub near the bottom of the gully. When I
emerged from the inside of that improvised fern
roller and stump crusher, I felt a bitterness to-
wards bark that amounted to hatred. And my
mate laughed. Some men would laugh at an
Early Christian martyr boiling at the stake.
A DROP IN PRICES.
“ Five, bob ain't much for a wild-cat. Up in
Kalgoorlie one cost me £5OO, and then I only
had a share in him."
. ~ ..
It Yen rabbit-trapping has its perils,
though the rabbit itself seldom turns on its
acl versary. Consider the case of the man Greyson,
who was hunting bunny along the Goulburn beyond
Nagambie (Vic ). This nnsfortunate was busy
putting out his traps in the favorite haunts of the
plague, and had one spiked down, and was m a
kneeling position carefully distributing a little
dust over it, when he was bumped aft with great
force, and driven face foremost into his own trap.
The trap sprang at him, and seized him by the
nose, and while he was tethered in this way with
the steel grfp eating into his features, he was
violently concussed again five times running be-
fore hia mate could run to his rescue and beat off
the assailant with a rail. The cause of the
trouble was a huge, combative ram, which had
been unable to resist the opportunity afforded by
SrilhKeVXrribi
tenance.
* » * *
A too faithful dog has sprung into notoriety
at Tarnagulla (Vic.) The owner, having killed a
pig, told the dog to watch it over night. In the
morning, a son of the house approached the car-
case, and the dog discharged his trust by biting
five inches of flesh off him.
“ Jabez ” : Would like to referee in the
white ant mound wrangle. It makes men who
know the bush tired. “Kulfara,” “.Tanor,” and
the others are each right, as far a’s his information
goes; but each seems to know only his own pet
mound. The large mound of “Kulfara’s”
acquaintance has a crust of incombustible material
up to six inches thick, and the inside is composed
of organic matter which burns freely. The small
tapering mound will not burn. I have a small
furnace built of this kind which stands any
ordinary heat, and at my tent door I have a large
one with the inside burnt out, in which I bake the
toothsome damper and the succulent bear.
* * * *
“ Mallarapoona ” ; Can any of your
“ Abo’s” elucidate a mystery of Australian verna-
cular ? How is it if a person leaves the coast to
go inland, they say he is going cutback, and when
he reaches the very interior he’s right ow£side ?
If the person were on Central Mt. Stuart—the
very in’ards of the thing—he'd be about as far
out as he could get. On the other hand, if he left
Central Mt. Stuart to push out to the coast (if go-
ing inland is going in and not out as they say, then
going out to the coast must be going out and not
in as they call it), he’d be going in —inside; and,
when he reached the coast, he’d be right inside,
Mariners are correct in saying out to sea and in to
land ; but how the deuce can a chap be going out
—o«£baek, when he’s going in—inland all the
time ? What with going out when one’s going in,
and going in when one’s going out, I’m about as
bamboozled as the enraged Chow, who, failing to
comprehend these anomalies, remarked—“ Fuss
time you say insi’, then you say on’si’ —on’si’,
insi’, any blurry si’ too welly clankv.”
* * * " *
“ Curfew ” : The mysterious death of Sam
Yin perplexed the camp. It was well known that
he had nearly a bottle of gold, the result of five
years’ labor on the Dargo. Sam’s presence being
missed for about a week, it was decided to burst
his door open. They found him suspended from
a rafter with a rope round his neck, very dead.
Rumors were current that Sam had been mur-
dered, but at the inquiry the verdict was “found
dead.” The day after the funeral a report went
round that Sam had swallowed his gold to make
him heavy so that he would hang better. “ Ned,”
feeling convinced that he had done so, unearthed
the victim and took his stomach. Then he crept
to the river and started to wash up. He got
nothing. We afterwards learned that a syndicate
of Chinese had hanged Sam Yin and divided the
gold. At least that was the tale told by Ah Yep
in his dying moments. Ah Yep said that the
gash in his stomach had arisen through the rest of
the syndicate turning dog on him.
* * * ■*
“Traveller”: A good story comes from
West Queensland —even better than that you told
of the Scotchman and his mouthful of
sovereigns. At Longreach show there was
an opulent prize of half-a-crown (25.6 d.)
for the best sheep dog—t hree dogs to be
entered or no prize. A Scotch grazing
person entered two sheep dogs, and
found to his horror that there was no
third entry, and the eighth part of a
pound was liable to forfeiture. But
at the last moment a homeless town
mongrel —a back-yard marauder with
the mange—drifted past, and the
Scotchman captured it by the hind
leg and entered it, and the situation
was saved.
* * *
“Haloli” : Although Queens-
land has been blessed with a good
season and a bountiful supply of
grass, money is so scarce in some out-
bade towns that the great natural
resources are used as legal tender.
The other day two scalpers entered
a liquor-house in Springsure (C.Q.),
ordered two pints, and p issed a dingo
scalp over the bar in payment. Mrs.
Public-house, after making a careful
inspection of the dead dog ears, re-
marked “things is tarybill bad just
now.” Then she handed over as
change three wallaby scalps, and the
scalpers departed with their currency.
* * *
“ F.L.J.” : Re the over-pubbed
town of Niagara (W. A ), mentioned
by “G.M.” (B. 24/5/00), and its cross-
streets with a pub at each corner.
The most remarkable feature about
that corner, to my mind, was that, in
my time at least, the four pubs, were
all kept by women —two widows and
two grass-ditto.
“ Moody-Sankey ” : I was at Donnybrook
( W . A .) Show last week. The crowd “showed”
all day and danced all night. Next day some of
it drove a Ministerial party all over the Preston
Valley district, while the rest baked all day for
S p re ad at night. They danced that night
right out. On the following day most of the same
mob drove another 30 Hides, and again heeled and
atr jke up the “ Varsoviana,” they will
’ &wake tiu / urther orders . The man who
c j oesn > t pass pi a t e U p again at a Preston
ba t f g looked L , p(m as having no “ visible,”
are t . he heJltliiest and belt-complexioned
f have seen yet . They don’t sleep at work
L ud, G J J
eltner ’ * * * *
“W P B.” ; About 12 months ago an
’ ’ , ° .
“ Abo. person made the assertion that cats are
fond of music. Whistling is music, isn t it?
-Well, I have whistled tunes to some of my house-
, j d cats and they expressed much indignation
«>«».. Such little things as "The Cockroach-,
Last Wail ” nearly gave one convulsions, and the
others spat angrily or sped out of the room. Then
again it was alleged that cats loved the piano,
I play well myself (on a pianola), and have often
tried the effects of the same on the pets. 1 ''ey
departed suddenly, suffering from enlargement of
the tail the tail was larger than the cat. All
the cats I know prefer to make then own music.
A PASSIVE PERSON.
MAGISTRATE: “Did the prisoner resist V'
ARRESTING CONSTABLE: “ No, your Worship. I made him come along voluntar'y."
WHEN FATHER SNORES IN CHURCH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When father snores in church all other sounds
Are stifled by the loud crescendo tones ;
The quiet dead, beneath their verdant mounds
Outside, awake in fear, with rattling bones,
When father snores in church.
When father snores in church it’s like, Oh ! my !
A tropic cyclone out upon the loose ;
llysrericfemales squirm, and sob, and cry,
’Cos with their nerves it plays the very deuce,
When father snores in church.
When father snores in church the flippant smile,
The priest turns pale, the verger frowns reproof;
The nasal thunder rumbles through the aisle,
And rattles up the rafters in the roof,
When father snores in church.
When father snores in church you'd think there was
A lion in the vestry roarin’ hard ;
The organist gets mad as cats because
llis diapason can’t be heard a yard
When father snores in church.
When father snores in church it’s like a band
That’s all bassoon and drum—a horrid vamp
Of tortured tones—then mother takes a hand
And bangs him in the brisket with her gamp,
When father snores in church.
N.S.W.
IRONBARE.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS,
No notice (except of a hostile character) ivill be taken of
communicate insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken vo contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
.*»■- •<»«“ Of ~ SOU) mmsm.
White Australian : Meerschaum is a kind of fine
clay found in various parts of the world. Largest supply
comes from Asia Minor B.E.A. : Naturalisation in
Australia will cost you just fourpeuce for postage (if you
are a desirable citizen). Call or write to the nearest Com-
monwealth offices (in your case, Macquarie-street, Sydney)
and they will send you forms, which you must fill in and
post to the Melbourne Commonwealth offices.... .Maraz :
The Bulletin almost every week explains its ideas of
what ought to be done with great land-grabbers like the
Gre»»s. °A heavy graduated land-tax that would make it
unprofitable to hold any more than a certain area of land
(area proportioned to the density of population) is a very
fair remedy . ..W.C.S.: Sorry can’t spare the space. And
you misunderstand somewhat. The Bulletin doesn’t
preach a policy of harrassing the farmer or robbing him
of any of the privileges he has now. What this paper
objects to, is the cry that the manufacturer is “ a parasite
on the farmer”; and what it wants to see is the
farmer helping the manufacturer to a safe footing, so
that they can settle down to enjoy prosperity together....
T F O’D. : You don’t state title of MS. you inquire
about If vour address was on it, and stamps were
enclosed, it is probably on its way back. If they weren’t,
it isn’t. No address on your letter Bully Tene :
Declined. We want to encourage the birth-rate, and
advisin<>- men to continue rowdy bachelors isn’t the way
to do it" E.V.P. : Too much suggestion of Flossieism in
your rondeau E.M.D.: “ Debtor ” declined. It nearly
got in but just stuck in the doorway Chips : Chip of
verse declined. It isn’t chippy Embassy B. :We bet
on the sculptor, but the point 'is hardly worth arguing...
Moorokyle : Many thanks, but couldn’t publish that. It
is so wiidlv flattering that it makes us fry in our own
blushes '.The Bohemian: “Feud of Piety” declined.
It seems familiar, too, as if we had declined it long ago,
perhaps in some previous state of existence H.K. :
“ How Shall I Know ? ” is too small and mild a soul-wail.
...E.F.L. : If the nurse was a really nice nurse, she
deserves a better poem Cam.: They called you “Don
Juan ” yet in your poem you put your arm round the
o-irl three times and never kissed her once. And they
'called you Don Juan ! Go to ! If that isn’t sufficient, go
tq ree ! Argo: You don’t give date of issue...
Straight Out: Criticism too captious altogether. Of
course the ideal rifle practice would be at men who are
tryin<>-’ to hide or get away. But that sort of practice
isn’t available. We haven’t the men to spare, and their
widows would object. Meanwhile, we must get along
with mechanical running men Agricola : One particu-
]al. libel, and one general libel against female school
teachers.’ We are not looking for all that trouble....
Callattie (or thereabouts): Not promising J.L. :
Gold was first discovered at Teetulpa in 1886 by Brady
and Smith. The field was rushed, but is now practically
deserted T.F.M'D.: Blank verse requires to be very
well done, and “Priest” is only moderate F.C.:
“Swao-man” is dull, and has some impossible rhymes ;
“adrift” and “this” for instance, also “door” and
“implores.” A.P.R. : Land yarn says nothing that B.
hasn’t already advocated Navua : Pretty minor verse
of which the supply far exceeds our printing space....
P.C.T. : And as an office that knows R. S. Smythe pretty
weliwe'can vouch for it not being a fact Dainsme :
Religious mania is about the hardest of all to cure....
J.M. (Melbourne) : About the Early Closing Act. Come
up to Sydney, and you’ll get absolute proof that the
Early Closing Act hasn’t done the shopkeeper, large or
small, any harm N.C.E. : Sorry, but clips are apt to
go astray. We take every care, but can’t guarantee the
return of what we may never get... .Jogalong. Tiy
McArthur: There is no reliable record... .Elmore: All
that Danysz argument been said before P.F. : The
Scotch gentleman who danced without an essential part
Hard to say. Probably Reynolds. But the Tory dailies
in London are more progressive than the “Liberal”
papers here T.W.S. : Thanks. Will note L.E. :
But Australia has its flag. You’ll see it illustrated in one
of The Bulletin pictures last week... .Diploma : On some
points only you are right. Reserves can only be cancelled
by the Government making them, not by any munici-
pality. Once cancelled they can be alienated like any
other land, and to trespass on them is trespass. Water-
courses by common law are the property of the people,
and cannot be alienated. There is nothing in a squatter’s
lease, so far as we know, to compel him to give or sell
rations Senga Ylea: Glad to hear of the bright side
of the picture ; but that does not, unfortunately, alter the
fact that the back-country school teacher is underpaid....
J.8.P.: Rather ponderous humor H.D. : “ Bunny”
has good points, but has also too many weak spots.
T.T.C. : Dull screed and deficient postage R.McB.:
You have some gift. What you lack is practice....
A.M.F. : See reply to W.A.L. (14/6/’O6). It’s not pos-
sible to tell the “ meaning ” of “ The Man With the Hoe.”
The picture simply represents the avyful tragedy of the
slavish “ primary industries,” to which Foreign-traders
would doom Australia if they could. So you can get the
“ meaning’ ” that it is a good thing to artisans as
well as agricultural laborers, if you like.. J.M.K. (London):
Heavy, and out of our line Jorkins: Rises to real
poetry in places, but is, on the whole, merely a versified
sermon upon very conventional lines... .Roamer : Pass-
ably nut together, but otherwise of small account....
Critic: Ludicrously bad.... Goody: The false rhymes
would spoil it in any case... .R.T.: Required livelier and
more dramatic treatment... .Siphon : Commonplace re-
flections and a bald style....D.F’.A.: “ Dashed off ! ” Yes,
and dashed bad. Therefore, dashed right 0ut.... W. OB.!
You have ideas, but you greatly lack command of lan-
guage Shem : Yes; there’s a decided improvement,
but you don’t “arrive” yet Ranji P. : Workmanship
too inferior... .Kaupapa : The verse is very poor, and the
prose paper is confused and inconsecutive... .Jack L. :
You are “ forwarding some of your intellect.” Alas, poor
intellect!—if that’s a sample Anona : Wishy-washy
ideas in painfully accurate verse Silas: You have an
alert mind but a rocky style.. ..0.W.T.: Self-conscious..,.
A.B.R. (Black Range, W.A.) : Ycur stupid page of illus-
trations cut from a local paper wasn’t worth the 4d. it
cost for deficient postage... .H.H. : Below par... .James
W. : Of no use to us Bosthoon : “Othello” shows
your characteristic lack of 5ki11....K.A.5.: Trite reflec-
tions in respectable verse... .T.M. : Rather watery senti-
ment Hollow Log : Not bad, but rather too “ strong ’
for print The Pessimist: “No” is ingenious, but un-
equal in quality. The others are too conventional in
theme and treatment....A.J.W.:
But the point is, would you let your sister or your
daughter 'marry him and make him a brother-in-law or
son-in-law? Bowser: Merely disgusting A.J.B. :
Purity of Australian canned meats is generally undoubted.
British, French and German admiralties will take none
but Australian if they can help it. Yet Australia eats a
good deal of the Chicago horrors Coolamoonga:
Thanks for clipping. The attacks of the Labor press
don’t worry Tiie Bulletin, especially as they are mostly
good-humored and obviously half-hearted E. Murray :
The President and Vice-President must be native-born.
A Senator must be at least 30 years of age, native-born or
(if foreign-born) a citizen for at least nine years, and a
resident of the State he sits for. A Representative must
be aged at least 25 years, a resident of the State he sits
for, "and must be either native-born or have been
a citizen for at least seven years. Therefore both
A and B are partly wrong, and the bet is a draw'
A.J.McP. ; Thanks, but details of the Natal native
troubles are hardly of enough importance to Australia....
D.M.A.: Thanks ; the idea is a good one P.M.D. :In
the words of Hamlet, your picture is “ Horrible, most
horrible Dermot: What’s the joke ? Do you think
£4O a year an enormous life insurance payment. Writer
knows dozens who would look upon that as a ridiculously
small cover Corinda: Yes, there is the fault in the
Commerce Act that it doesn’t protect the Australian con-
sumer against the possible tricks of the Australian pro-
ducer. But that’s not the fault of the Australian Parlia-
ment, but of the Australian Constitution, which doesn’t
give power to the Federation to supervise the purely
“ domestic ” trade of a State.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS
Percy A.S. : Picture too horrible for words J.T.:
“All’s Said and Done” is only a pun S.S. :We
are willing to bury your pencil sketch in oblivion
and say no more. It will never be thrown up at
you to blight your promising career ... Ivy Y. : Jokes not
too good and drawing a shade worse than hopeless. No
stamps enclosed for return, so drawings, as far as we
remember, were not preserved.... J. 8.: Not well enough
drawn. As for “ a sketch sent some months back with
only initials on it” a needle in a haystack isn’t a circum-
stance to that. Put name and address on back of picture.
... ,F. J. Coultes (or something like that; no address):
None quite suitable... .E.L.1).: That “Alas! my poor
brother 1 ” idea has been sent in by so many people, and
it isn’t much of an idea... .Chick: Another of them!
“Alas! my poor brother!” has been done to death....
Malthus: Neither quite fit....G.H. : Neither up to the
mark J.B.P. : Slight variation of aged funnyism.
I know no mark that does divide
One human from another ;
Where’er that human may abide,
For me he is a brother.


K]2inu **
•t - * ✓
I)inr> i/I 'fo w
op \
scb<»»)«s op
Confijtfc'fo,/
t Ar s*3 /
rscd ;
aj- Pl%*ufacfdrts :— '* /Vo - -
il” trje jjl , "
Je '5 of>
& n/en conr>i»7p 7
l>iclureson top ofltjem.
„ P«^Kihy
Do you liXe ?"
X*' Mo*7*Ce/ Q&ftnp A
j[ "
'fiircess
Sold \\er souf"fo
A crown,
YJO good Would
CO»»»e, of
S 'mis% c om^<"
'for f7o*<gi» ftje
brjiJls of Cjod
\3nnd s/owly
\.njey grind
\ gyceedmoly
\sWI -
\Fft?v &vce/V«ryj
E*r*:- Oli Pearce! you never
ioU »ne 'ttJTs bejore tyVriod j
~Mf Wc
is denied ybr'
tSUoW rfere fot- *>lV>o/before . ”
"p 7« N
i«7 ej-f-efet",
dl)V”~ WocKii/e tfjon
[ ,
h° f'7
UMjW/
[isles'] I \
Vo*»j vi'
I ; l/h lesS y° u
your -fo |>lv«s vvij'fi yoor (”
If llpeaferieJ lecisl^tji n c^rr, e d
<> v '' I #fere Would “be tio^SKi^roirjgsl'’
* a, smaller y o c % to JS ! ” f Pr ' s ' de " r
" Ise World kt\,<4!y h>
■ Hu*.*. i*iel«; few,WJ« n ,4^i,i, 7 l, s ''[ 4!1 ]
K€ s* da^ of
* over 6 feel"/o*,«
J ’Z e _|~ Coi|ccl U f oot Vis <W. " S
A LOOK ROUND.


A Victorian \ f /
athlete says he \
failed to win a race \ NJ
at the recent Olym- \
plan games on account \
of the loss of sleep
caused by certain hemlp-
terous insects which
shared his bed. »s s
The ancient Athenians
used to place scratching-
posts at the starting place.
Hence the phrase “ Starting at scratch.’’
jgf=Thls Is historical If not true.
Itl
THE ANTI-TRUST BILL.
Bill Lyne pleads In its favor.'
A FELLOW FEELINQ.
Carruthers says there is nothing to fear from the
Danysz microbe. Joey knows that microbe like a
brother, he does, being a bit of a microbe himself.
The latest from Mr.
Willis Is that he has
decided to return to
Australia after all.
BE WELL SHAKEN BEFORE
TAKEN.—The Commonwealth’s
' > 'v s _ attitude towards the Danysz
$ microbe.
A COMPLICATED CASE.
Melbourne, Sunday.—A youth charged at the Ballarat Court
on Saturday with lunacy, was said to have religious mania and
to suffer from delusions. He fancied, among other things, that
he was a member of Parliament. The youth was also under
the impression that he had been swallowed by a whale.
HARK! FROM THE TOMBS A JOYFUL SOUND.
It Is announced from the House of Commons that there will
be no Jurther opposition to the Colonial Marriage Bill legaltslne
marriage with o deceased wife’s sister. *
SPORT, POLITICS, &c.


\
The. Worlds;;
i; Dentifrice
Odol not only beautifies but
it also preserves the teeth, and
the fragrant taste it leaves in the
mouth is most refreshing.
Price 2\6 a bottle of Odol, lasting for
several months (the half-size botde x/6).
Of all Chemists.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Exports by the Runic last week included
M 54,437 crates of rabbits and one atheist.
It is said Henry Parkes kept a political
diary. Well, it was about the only thing he
managed to keep. His creditors got the rest.
By the irony of circumstances, Seddon
being dead and Ward absent, old harmless Hall
Jones becomes Premier of Maoriland. Even in
the wildest visions of Jones’s head upon the bed
of Jones, it seems impossible that Hall Jones ever
dreamt of himself as a possible Premier.
When Dowie was last seen prophesying to
the small scrag end of Zion which still adheres to
him, he was described as looking fat and scared,
also he was carried by two niggers, and he wore a
purple and white turban, a purple robe, and em-
broideries of scarlet, green and gold. No wings.
C. C. Kingston is in Melbourne for the
Federal session, but still in indifferent health.
His friends hold the view that if he could get
.away for a quiet holiday spell on his own, the
great Federalist might recover enough strength
for much useful work.
Charles Edward Gordon, of Sydney, who
.-succeeds to a Scotch property and title, has been
enjoying a N.S.W. Customs House pension for
•over a decade. He was a serious, plodding, slow-
moving official of the old school, and until pen-
sioned off looked as fixed and reliable a figure as
the big front clock overlooking Circular Quay.
This motion was carried last week at a
meeting of the Yic. May Day Committee :
That this committee indignantly protests against the
tyrannical treatment to which the May Day deputation
was subjected by Mr. Bent, and considers it a serious dis-
grace to this State that an unmannerly Bombastes
Furioso should be permitted to assume the double role of
clown and Czar in a free and enlightened community, and
thus convey to outsiders that if Maoriland be “ God’s own
country," Victoria has the “ Devil’s own Premier.”
N.S. W. GOVERNMENT SONG IN THE
HOUR OF TROUBLE.
“ Our Anchor’s Wade.”
N.S. W. Equity Judge Simpson got a severe
shock from a witness, the other day. It was a point
of “ language, ” and the witness said that it was
very, very bad. “In tact,” he amplified, “it was
language your Honor wouldn’t use in a ” well,
“ house of ill-fame ” is the best expression for the
word. The witness didn’t mean to make any
offensive and wholly unjustifiable insinuation, but
the Court nearly died on the spot.
The S.A. Treasurer has had a painful dis-
appointment over the estate of Edward Spicer,
the pioneer squatter and merchant who died in
May, The old gentleman was known to be
immensely wealthy, and visions of another Angas
or Scarfe windfall were entertained. But deceased
was one of the kind who would much rather give
a pound away than waste a sixpence. He lived
on to nearly 90, and in his later years must have
made heavy distributions among his favorite
Wesleyan charities and the members of his large
family, for his estate is sworn at a mere £130,000,
which probably means under £lO,OOO in duty.
Ebenezer Ward, aged 69, who has long
been reckoned a political back number in S.A. is
running in the Ebenezer Ward interest for the
vacancy in the Murray district. So long ago as
1870 he was elected for one of the two old
I electorates which now form the constituency of
Murray. He was in the Assembly 20 years and
afterwards sat in the Council for nine years, and
he was a Minister under Boucaut and again
under Oolton for two years. So that he is
permanently ‘ ‘ honorable.” He is a journalist and
ages ago succeeded the Much-Wandered Smytheas
sub-editor of Adelaide Advertiser. Also he
acted as a member of G. V. Brooke’s company in
'the far-away day's.
WHICH PUP!
The income-tax could not be abolished unless some'
thing-took its place. Would the Argus like to have a
land-tax?— Premier Bent.
TOMMY : “Shall I! ”
A Victorian parson who plays among the
Anglicans the Dill Macky game has been cited to
appear before the Archbishop of Melbourne con-
cerning his insectarian lecturing. This is appa-
rently the first step in Anglican circles towards
squelching the reverends who stir up the muddy
drain of sectarian politics.
William O’Sullivan, for many years
A.W.TJ. secretary at Charleville (Q.),* dropped
off recently, aged 40. For some time he belonged
toN.S.W. Education Department; then he took
to the political arena to try and educate the
working classes. In 1902 he ran a bad second to
Janny Leahy for Bulloo, but at last general
election he came within a sma’l bag of votes of
ousting the other Leahy (Patsy) at the Warrego.
Amongst the officers in the S.A. militia is
one whose father was a carpenter. Some years
ago he applied for a vacant appointment in the
forces. A superior officer of Hebrew extraction
received the application, and wrote on it, “ I do
not consider this man suitable; his social position
is nothing.” The document then passed on to
another officer, who, reading the comment with
disgust, wrote beneath it, “I consider this man
suitable for the position in every respect, and I
may add that this is not the first time the Jews
have persecuted a carpenter’s son.”
The Sydney morning papers are getting
the public mind used to the idea of providing
W. T. Dick, M.L.A., with a “stiddv job” on
N.S.W. Public Service Board when the retire-
ment of Joe Barling is arranged for. Dick’s poli-
tical career has been rather a disappointment.
He was always going to do things, and after long
waiting his hopes of a portfolio seemed to be
really blossoming when Carruthers formed his
Ministry. But at the 1904 election Dick only re-
tained his seat by 48 votes in a poll of nearly 5000
(in 1901 he had 500 votes to spare), and, for a man
whose seat was so “dicky ” as Dick’s, the billet of
honorary ornament without portfolio seemed good
enough.
Robert Fowler, M.L.C., who was buried
at Waverley on Thursday, was born in George-
street West, Sydney, in 1841. His father, Enoch
Fowler, started a pottery there (near Bay-street),
but in the mid-fifties went to Camperdown, where
the business has been carried on now for half-a-
century. Robert Fowler was Mayor of Sydney,
M.L.A. for Phillip Division, and subsequently
M.L.C. As a member of the community, he was
an upright man; as member of the municipal
council, he was a good road-maker ; as a legis-
lator, he was a nonentity. The great public work
of his life was to bring about the amalgamation of
the municipalities of Cook and Camperdown. The
two together only made 435 acres, and are now
insolvent.
Died recently at Devonport, near Auck-
land (M.L.), Mrs. Wynyard. She was the half-
caste daughter of a Captain Benson, who settled
in the Bay of Islands in the long ago, and took
unto himself land and a number of dusky wives.
Mrs. Wynyard, although descended from one of
the big gun chiefs, never made herself ridiculous
by claiming the title “princess,” as some recent
humbugs have done, especially when visiting
England. In some respects she was a remarkable
woman, and was at one time of her life exposed to
severe derision by scientific men for having
claimed to nave seen two living moas. She was
10 years old, or thereabouts, at the time, and all
the north end of the island was in a state of
excitement over an impending marriage. Among
the live stock to be slaughtered on the occasion
were two moas, which Mrs. Wynyard (then Miss
Benson) saw tethered to trees by thick ropes of
twisted flax. Scientists at that time declared
that the moa antedated the glacial period, and
stigmatised Miss Benson’s statement as utter rot.
She was asked to describe the bird, which at that
time had not been rebuilt. Twenty years
later Von Haast got the first complete skeleton of
a moa, and the reconstructed bird was found to
tally in every detail with the description given by
the half-caste lady. Ever since then Science has
been wearing its considering-cap right down over
its noble brow.
“ H.” writes :
The Rev. A. R. Edgar, the Melbourne Methodist parson
who lately acquired public sympathy owing to Senator
Dawson’s attacks on him, is a large, heavy-going indivi-
dual, who is accustomed to pose as the embodiment of
fearlessness. It is now about 10 years since Edgar was
charged with having arisen and denounced members of
the Vic. Assembly as “liars and profligates.” He was
summoned to the bar of the House to prove his words,
and there he rather died away, and said that he had been
misreporbed. Edgar is a slow and deliberate speaker
who is easy to report, and the scribe who caused the
trouble came forward with a declaration, backed up by
witnesses, that the words attributed to Edgar were
actually used. Edgar said that if they were (which he
didn’t remember), he didn’t intend his remarks to be
taken that way. He departed amid something of a
general smile. For some time his stock was pretty low,
but he has contrived to rehabilitate himself a bit. Still,
he is conspicuously a man with a lost opportunity. If he
had neither backed down nor apologised, the Assembly,
having once taken the matter up, would have found
itself with a large parson on its hands. If;it had gaoled
him it would have been a huge advertisement for Edgar,
and he could have eaten up the whole surplus in board.
There wasn’t enough Victorian surplus to feed a big
parson ten years ago, and it would have broken the
Treasurer’s heart to see it eaten.
According to Adelaide Herald,
S. A. Chief Justice Way is a very busy
man. He is Lieutenant-Governor,
Chief Justice, Chancellor of the Uni-
versity, Chairman of the Public
Library, Museum, and Art Gallery,
one of the Board of the Botanic
Gardens, of the Horticultural Society,
and the Zoological Society. In addi-
tion he is President of the Society of
Arts, Vice-president of the Society for
the Protection of Birds, a sheep-
farmer, a yacht club patron, several
sorts of hospital committeeman, and
patron of various societies. It is un-
kindly suggested that in that long list
is to be found part of the reason why
Mr. Way has been hatching one judg-
ment for a year and eight months.
Vic. Premier Bent grows more
brilliant every week, more airily persi-
flageous and witty. Talking at Chil-
well (a drowsy outpost of Geelong,
Vic.) his replies to interjectors were
as cutting as potatoes. To a small
youthful person who questioned his
moral courage, Tommy the Sparkler
shouted “ Six stone eight could tackle
and beat you ; ” and to an old hairy-
faced man he yelled, “If my father
was like you I’d put him in the Zoo-
logical Gardens.” There’s no silencing
Bent. He’s so ready with his tongue.
Smaller men may boast their flowers of speech,
but the grand old market gardenerraises huge
vegetables of oratory from his mental soil.
“ Dolly de Vere ” was the kittenish fluffy-
sounding name of a witness in a police
court the other day. Pussy complained that she
had been taken down for 10s. by a monster of
iniquity who promised her a billet; and the Court,
after hearing what Tottie had to say, decided that
the man who allegedly took in Flossie should be
committed for trial.
J. C. Tucker, who has passed out at the
age of 90, and F. A. Cooper, who still lingers at
St. Kilda,' Melbourne, were big men in the early
wine and spirit business of Sydney. The Tucker
firm still survives, but the Cooper one has
crumbled into many hands. Tucker disliked
politics, but Cooper sat for a time as member for
Braidwood. They both drank little of the liquor
they vended.
After over 40 years’ service as R.C. priest
in the Western District, Monsignor O’Donovan
leaves Mudgee to reside in Sydney. He has been
38 years in Mudgee alone, his previous station
being Orange. In his day Rev. O’Donovan was a
noted horseman, and took short cuts across his
parish on his big black horse, fences, gullies,
fallen trees, and sundries being matters of indif-
ference to him.
In S.M. Herald of Saturday, Mr. W. L.
Vardy, Sydney solicitor, gives some reminiscences
of his fifty years residence in Australia. During
the half century he has known nine Chief Justices,
and 33 puisne Judges. Of the 42 only 12 remain
on the Bench to-day, Samuel Way being the
senior C.J. Mr. Vardy practised 40 years ago
with George Higinbotham, afterwards Chief
Justice of Victoria, and he served as a full private
in the volunteer corps to which Redmond Barry
belonged. When the 40th Regiment left Mel-
bourne to take part in the Maori war, Vardy and
George Higinbotham did sentry duty at the
Treasury and Government House: Higinbotham
was then a private in the Brighton Corps. Mr.
Vardy has practised in three States—S. A., Vic.,
and N.S.W.
“ Egmont ” on the late Richard Seddon :
How the superincumbent and fraudulent weight of
aristocracy would have kept him down in England, while
young Lord Nozoo would have been trumpeted as a
genius, when not fit to black Dick's boots ! He was in-
finitely more wonderful than Whittington. Coming to
Australia, he took bis schoolmaster father’s advice, to
“go with the crowd.” Seddon, Vogel, Stout! What
Victoria lost. The stamp of men who made Ballarat and
Bendigo were most]} 1 driven out of Australia. I reckon
that from 1879 to 1890 Seddon, in the Maoriland Parlia-
ment, only seemed a troublesome Boanerges, like
Don in Victoria. When Ballance passed out, Stout
reckoned, like the Grand Inquisitor in the “ Gondoliers,”
that there was “ no possible doubt whatever” of what
would happen next—viz., that, though one of the Outs,
he would be summoned as - Premier. But let a man
beware how he loses touch in politics or journalism.
Dick the Digger put Stout’s pug out of joint, and dug
down a foundation that lasted him to the end of his
days. In the later Seddon you came to a man with the
dimensions of Lincoln, the kind to whom one can assign
no hounds. 1 have a colored print of the coronation.
Next to the panjandrum, King Dick decidedly sticks out
most. Seddon and Grey were the only eminent Anglo-
Maorilanders who imbibed and absorbed the Maori
spirit—Seddon much more thoroughly and pleasantly
than Hori, although nothing like so good on the lan-
guage. Now that Elijah has gone where is Elisha?
Nicholas Walpole Raven, the old gentle-
man of the Petersham (Sydney) alleged shooting
case—he was acquitted on the ground that he
bombarded in self-defence—resided in Brisbane
some time ago, and once opposed the Muckle-
wrath Ministry at the polls. This was in ’93.
Raven was not taken seriously by the electors,
and his meetings were a thing of joy and a shriek
for ever. The result at Brisbane North (which
returned two members) was MTlwraith, 1570 •
Kingsbury, 1482; Chas. Lilley, 947 ; T. Glassey,’
766; Raven, 55. Still three candidates struck
worse luck than his ; one dejected person named
Banks scored 15 at Barcoo.
Harry Levien, M.P. (N.S.W.) writes :
Re comment (Bulletin, 31/5/’O6) on a paragraph of my
recollections as “Father of the House,” published in
Sydney Telegraph, I should like to point out that whilst
your critic is perfectly correct in the view he takes of
diaries, at the same time he scarcely appreciates old
John Robertson’s distrust of the particular “political
diary ” kept by his contemporary, Henry Parkes. It was
not the use but the abuse of the diary that provoked the
hostility and aroused the ire of John Robertson. I was
speaking from memory of a debate in N.S.W. Assembly
of 20 years ago, and made only a passing allusion to the
idea in Robertson’s mind that “ the man who kept a diary
was dangerous.” The fact that Parkes kept a diary, and
that he had made statements founded on it in
order to justify his change of attitude towards his old
friend and one-time colleague, nettled Robertson.
The politician who keeps a diary in order that he may
some day use it against a colleague (who does not keep a
diary) is certainly dangerous. If conversations and con-
clusions in confidential conference are to be committed
to paper, then the colleague should confirm the record
and have a copy of it, otherwise he is not safe against
some future use of it. The diary may be unfair and in-
complete, and only the clearest memory may prevail
against it. Again, politicians in friendly intercourse,
just like private friends in confidential speech, do not
expect minutes to be secretly taken—and partially taken
—of the conversation. If they did, then they would he
ou guard, and there would be an end .to trust and con-
fidence. A diary, in the circumstances, is something
that must be counted suspicious, and its use dangerous.
Of course, the diary of a journalist, or of one who intends
to write memoirs, or biographies, or the history of his
time, is not only defensible, but creditable as well. It
was not against such John Robertson railed. lam not
writing this in any captious spirit, for The Bulletin has
for over 20 years treated me with the greatest kindness
and consideration ; hut I do wish to clear a misconception
as to John Robertson’s real attitude towards diaries—a
misconception, I am bound to say, due to the brevity of
the reference to the subject in my recollections.
A Bar story. She was a demure
little lady witness, and the sharp way in which
barrister Gannon cross-examined her seemed to
annoy N.S. W. Chief Justice Darley. For really
the lady didn’t look as if butter would melt in her
mouth. Then the next witness came, and he
testified that the demure little lady had used
“shocking language.” “ I shan’t ask you to sav
what it was ” said Mr. Gannon. “Oh ” broke in
the Chief Justice “I should like to hear what
you call shocking language ! No need to be so
squeamish, Mr. Gannon.” His Honor evidently
had a fixed opinion that the remarks made by
such a demure little lady couldn’t be anythin-?
serious. The witness started to give the language”
which was red and terrible : “She said 1
!!***!! J ——” “ Wait a minute. A little more
slowly,” broke in Mr. Gannon. “His Honor
wants this. Now watch his Honor’s pen.” Hi s
Honor put on his air of severest dignity, as he
didn’t “ take it down.” But it was evident that
in his mind that demure little lady’s name had be-
come Mud-Miss Amelia Jane Mud.
“ W.M.8.” reminisces :
The Dick Seddon I met in Sydney in May, 1906, was
scarcely the same man I knew in Durban in May, 1902.
The intervening four years had whitened his skin, dimmed
his eyes, and left his gigantic frame limp and draggy.
There was still left in him a spark of that fierce fire that
had burnt so long, but it was the will and not the dis-
position that roused him to interest. lie was obviously
worked to almost the finish, and heavily-laden nature
was collapsing under the incessant burden. But in South
Africa the indefatigable Richard was stout and strong as
a locomotive, and a puzzle to the people whose tempera-
ment was personified in “ Waate-een-beetje.” There was
no wait awhile about Seddon. He had arrived with a
solution of the three years’argument of words and of war
with the Boers, and it took more than the press censor
to turn off his riot of rhetoric. He could not understand
why Milner and Kitchener did not retire in his favor
from the peace conference at Veeriniging and allow him
to deal with Botha, De Wet, De la Rey, and Smuts. He
could not understand any other terms than unconditional
surrender, and the fact that there was plenty of fight left
in the Boers never occurred to him. “He was the
most rampant Imperialist in South Africa, and quite a
new and embarrassing problem to the leaders of the
British and a first-class curiosity to the Boers. But,
somehow, he did not get himself disliked by either side.
He was voted honest, but ill-informed. He was soon
rigorously press-censored and, no doubt, much was whis-
pered in his ear. He subsided into silence regarding
military matters and peace problems, but continued to
enthuse over the Empire. At the Cape he was made much
of by the three parties—the Jingoes, the Bondmen and the
Moderates—and the sturdy vitality of the Maoriland
statesman won popularity. He was the lion of Capetown
for a week, and when he was not dining or being hospit-
ably entertained and eulogised, he was scattering cables
to the four quarters of the world about his views.
A REALLY WELL-BALANCED
INTELLECT.
Mr. Trey car (Maoriland Secretary of Labor) is a very
emotional man of pronounced opinions which he cannot
refrain from preaching in his departmental reports.—
Argus.
Fat : “ Gimme a man of no opinions, or else
fat ones, like mine! ”
Panton, P.M., who long ago passed the
statutory age of retirement —he was born in Scot-
land over 75 years ago—is now being assailed by
the Melbourne Labor Leagues, on account of his
treatment of the Melville Island sailors. Brunswick
Laborites urge Panton’s removal on the ground
that his “erratic decisions and manner of treating
witnesses clearly show his incapacity to hold
office.” Panton’s methods in the City Court make
lawyers, witnesses and reporters sit up and gasp.
His blunders in the Melville Island case have
raised a storm that he will find it hard to weather,
and the ancient vessel is in troubled waters.
TRIBUTE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One greater than a king
Hath from the world been taken.
A mighty soul takes wing,
A country lies forsaken,
A voice is heard in weeping
And bitter lamentation,
The Isles a vigil keeping
For their grief-stricken nation.
A mighty voice is still,
AVe hear no more in thunder
That resolute “ I will ”
AVhich cleaved the foes asunder.
A stalwart prince of men,
High planets may he tread on ;
A noble citizen—
We loved thee, Richard Seddon.
No struggle and no pain—
Thy very death was royal ;
Unto the people plain
Thou wert for ever loyal.
A wreath of laurel leaves
Thy brow doth deck with glory.
Each heart’s a loom that weaves
Thee in thy country’s story ;
It showeth clear and far
In blaze of triple splendor,
Thy great and steadfast star—
The nation’s strong defender.
The people’s chosen chief,
Strong-purposed and reliant,
Australia bows in grief
Beside the Fallen Giant.
vie.
GRANT HERVEY.


The Genesis of the Organ Man.
OF MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS, it may be said THE ORGAN
is one of THE OLDEST, for in Genesis iv., 21, we read of
JUBAL, a PERSON of that period :
“HE WAS THE FATHER of all such as
HANDLE THE HARP AND ORGAN.”
WHAT THE ORGAN of those EARLY DAYS was like, IT IS
NOT EASY to conjecture, but it may be assumed it WAS
ALTOGETHER DIFFERENT from THE ORGAN of to-day.
MUSICAL SCIENCE was in its infancy. The melodious JEW’S
HARP and the EAR-SPLITTING DRUM were yet to come, and
NEITHER THE SOL FA METHOD NOR THE MUSICAL
GLASSES had been heard of.
IT WAS FOR LONG-AFTER CENTURIES
TO PRODUCE AND PERFECT . . .
THE. jz?
PAC HARD Organ,
and it was for THOUSANDS living in the NINETEENTH and
TWENTIETH CENTURIES to say
“THE PACKARD ORGAN
IS THE BEST.”
What is the VERDICT of Music ? The MUSICAL PROFES-
SION says THE PACKARD ORGAN IS THE BEST, and the
MUSICAL WORLD admits it!
GhQ Pacßard Organ.
is the ORGAN of all others to STAND ROUND when THE
HOURS OF EVENING FALL, and FAMILY VOICES break
forth into SONG AND PRAISE.
158 -°K
*lB2 ‘OH
an
•m -ow
ISIIHI
THE. PACKARD ORGAN.
STYLE NO. 351.—Cabinet top, bevelled mirror, Walnut case. Five octaves,
having two sets of reeds of two octaves each, and two sets of three
octaves each. £l5 10s.
Eleven Stops, as follows : . ..
BASS.—Diapason, Bft.; Viola, 4ft.; Violina, 4ft. ; Dulcet Bass, Bft.;
Bass Coupler.
TREBLE.— lVJclodia, Bft.; Celeste, Bft.; Celestina, Bft.; Dulcet treble,
Bft. ; Treble Coupler.
THROUGHOUT.—Vox Humana ; Full Organ (Knee Lever); Knee Swell.
THE PACKARD ORGAN.
STYLE NO. 341. Heavy Cabinet top, with bevelled mirror, Walnut case ;
five octaves, having two sets of reeds of two octaves each, and two
sets of three octaves each. .£l6 ss.
Eleven Stops, as follow :
BASS. —Diapason, Bft. ; Viola, 4ft. ; Violina, 4ft. ; Dulcet Bass, Bft. ;
Bass Coupler.
TREBLE.— Melodia, Bft. ; Celeste, Bft. ; Celestina, Bft. ; Dulcet Ircble,
Bft. ; Treble Coupler.
THROUGHOUT.—Vox Humana; Full Organ (Knee Lever); Knee Swell.
THE PACKARD ORGAN.
STYLE NO. 283.—Same model as No. 281. Five octaves, having two sets
of reeds of two octaves each, two sets of three octaves each, and one
octave Sub-Bass. .£l6 lOs.
Twelve Stops, as follow :
BASS.-Sub-Bass, lfift.; Diapason, Bft.; Viola, 4ft.; Violina, 4ft.;
Dulcet Bass. Bft. ; Bass Coupler.
TREBLE.—Melodia, Bft.; Celeste, Bft. ; Vox Angelica, Bft.; Dulcet
Treble, Bft. ; Treble Coupler.
THROUGHOUT.—Vox Humana ; Full Organ (Knee Lever); Knee Swell.
Specially adapted for use in Churches.
THE PACKARD ORGAN.
STYLE NO. 288.—Same model as No. 281. Five octaves, having two sets
of reeds of two octaves each, four sets of three octaves each, and one
octave and a half Sub-Bass. £22 10s.
Fifteen Stops, as follow :
BASS. —Sub-Bass, 16ft.; Diapason, Bft.; Viola, 4ft. ; Violina, 4ft. ;
Dulcet Bass, Bft. ; Bass Coupler.
TREBLE.—Melodia, Bft. ; Celeste, Bft.; Flute, 4ft. ; ’Cello, 16ft. ;
Celestina, Bft. ; Flutina, 4ft. ; Dulcet Treble, Bft. ; Treble Coupler.
THROUGHOUT.—Vox Humana ; Full Organ (Knee Lever); Knee Swell.
THE PACKARD ORGAN.
STYLE NO. 281. —Low top, Walnut case, five octaves, having two sets of
reeds of two octaves each, and two sets of three octaves each. <£ls.
Eleven Stops, as follow :
BASS.—Diaphason, Bft. ; Viola, 4ft. ; Violina, 4ft, ; Dulcet Bass, Bft.;
Bass Coupler.
TREBLE.—Melodia, Bft.; Celeste, Bft. ; Celestina, Bft. ; Dulcet Treble,
Bft. ; Treble Coupler.
THROUGHOUT. —Vox Humana ; Full Organ (Knee Lever); Knee Swell.
ANTHONY HORDERN SONS,
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS
PALACE EMPORIUM, SYDNEY.
The East
Is Calling
WA
Im /
*“i
•rrisui
*2*
TT-
.- •**%?**
,'*/
-..: ; -am^sa-
■
'*->\ ■
L®A.
Mail Line.
MANILA—CHINA-
JAPAN.
Via QUEENSLAND and
PORT DARWIN.
Space for Frozen Cargo.
Saloon Accommodation amidships. Large, airy
two-berth cabins, all on the upper deck, and fitted
with electric fans. Through booking via Japan,
Canada. United States of America and Europe.
mm is m AvsmmjA _
Gibbs, bright & c?
ADELAIDE, MELBOURNE, SEDNEV. BRISBANE
GRENFELL STREET. 3-# QUEEN STREET. 37, PITT SImr. EAGLE STREET.
Particulars of Passage Money, Ports of Call, (ELc.,
forwarded to any address on application.
Foodless, Shirtless, and Brainless.
In the Westminster Gazette (London) Miss
Frances Campbell has just been describing her
experiences in a visit to a school in a poor quarter
of London. The school contained 600 children.
It provided a midday meal for every one of them,
and had managed, by contract with a bootmaker,
to get them all shod—Government and charity
finding 2s. and the parents Is. for each pair of
boots. Miss Campbell talked wi th the youngsters,
and quotes (as a typical instance) one boy of six
years whose mother was in hospital, whose father
was looking for work, and who, when not attend-
ing school, looked after his three younger brothers
or sisters. Says Miss Campbell :
This child had one meal a day —at the school.
Another case was that of Ned, a boy with the
stamp of country birth on his features.
The head-master stooped and absently thrust a finger
beneath the hoy’s collar, which lay pinned tightly across
his neck. He opened the coat, and showed an expanse of
fair chest. Ned wore no shirt.
Unfed, unclothed children. Look at the result
The head-inaster passed by the first line of desks, and
said, in a loud tone, “ There is too much noise in this
class-room.” Immediately on the following stillness, he
pointed at the boy nearest him, and asked, “ What did I
say when I came into this room ? ”
The boy rose and thought. “ There is—there is— ”He
could remember no more, though the words were spoken
at his elbow.
The head-master stepped into the middle of the class-
room, and repeated the sentence slowly and emphatically ;
then asked what boy could remember it.
Only one boy out of the whole class, numbering about
20, could remember beyond the first three words.
Nature takes vengeance on the foolish nation.
Nothing but bread and meat will suffice to make
brains. When the old man is out of work, his
children starve into useless imbecility. It is of
no use-to provide schools and Universities for a
race whose stomachs are empty. Australia has
thousands of men thrown out of work because of
a futile, make-believe tariff. Keep them out of
work long enough, and their children will become
incompetents whom no tariff will help.
♦
When the British Tory sets out to do things, he
is thorough. In East Dorset, one Churchill, a
fishmonger, is a Liberal, and this is the note he
received from a she-Tory customer :
Ciiurciiill,—l have decided to deal elsewhere for fish,
so you need not call here again ; and I should like your
trifling account sent in. It has got to a serious pitch
now, and Conservatives must hold together and support
each other.—Yours, etc., B. Radclyffe.
“Churchill,” a poor wretch with a sick wife,
wrote a pitiful letter, begging to be allowed to
call with fish, and pointing out how he had never
done Mrs. Radclyffe any harm, and how he
respected her, etc., etc. She replied in a cold
way that she was sorry for him and his wife, but
she couldn’t deal with him. The letter concluded
thus: —
I hear a report that the Conservative employers o
labor in this and other counties are about to form a re-
solution that they will not in future employ either
tradesmen or laborers who do not support the Unionist
cause. I cannot wonder at this, as it is the object of the
Liberals to do away with all the landed gentry and others
in England. —Yours, etc., B. Radclyffe.
Our Australian Tories can borrow several hints
from this episode. First, there is a new way
of writing to fishmongers and other scum like
“Churchill”; secondly, everyone ought to be
sacked who doesn’t vote for Knox, and Bruce
Smith, and Joke Cook, and Mrs. Dobson’s hus-
band.
“Bois” : Is the Corrupt Practices Act in opera-
tion in N.S.W., or does it apply only to Timbuctoo
and Iceland ? Also, does it apply to the civil ser-
vice, or only to tramps and cadgers ? I ask because
things in that line (corrupt practices) seem to be
as brisk as ever. I’m in business, and, when the
Act was passed, I bought a big money-box to put
my prospective savings in. I looked in the box
the other day, but found nothing. Royal Com-
missions have lately been shaking things up.
How would it be to have a Royal Commission to
inquire into how the aforesaid Act is working ?
And for witnesses, call all Government con-
tractors. One contractor of my acquaintance told
me he would never dream of sending a con-
signment of timber to the Government without
going down himself and “making things right.
And,” said he, “ a pound spent properly saves you
hundreds.” I can believe it, because this man, so
far as I can learn, never has anything con-
demned. Others (who “ make things right ”) can
be as long as they like in sending in their goods,
while a poor wretch (who has not the capacity for
“making things right”) has no sooner signed his
contract, and begun to congratulate himself upon
having a “Guv’ment job,” than telegrams showei
upon him, threatening him with all sorts of pains
and penalties if he does not hurry up. Gasping
with terror, and his eyes bulging out of his head
like hat-pegs, he rushes around and does his best,
but the nearer he gets to carrying out the con-
ditions of his contract, the thicker become the
threatening messages, until at last he begs to be
allowed to forfeit his deposit and live at peace.
After he has got free, his job is handed over to
someone who can “make things right,” and the
victim is more than astonished to see how long
the second man lingers over the job, and how com-
fortably he takes things. I know what I’m talk-
ing about. I’ve been there. So let’s have a Royal
Commission.
♦
If the marriage rate is a test of the prosperity of
a country (and, within certain limits, it is—the
movement, anyway, follows the temporary ups
and downs of a country) there is something for
both the anti-Federal push and the Freetrade
crowd to struggle with in the figures that follow.
They show the marriages per 1000 of the mean
population in the last five years and in the five
years before Federation (1900 may be dropped as
a year of transition): —
Before Federation and Some Protection.
Sydney. Suburbs. Country. AIIN.S.W.
1895 .. 18-90 4-44 5'44 6'42
1896 .. 17-94 5-02 578 6‘69
1897 .. 16-12 5-84 5‘94 6-83
1898 .. 18-03 5-04 5’93 677
1899 .. 19-06 4-95 613 6-95
Average 18 "01 5 "06 5 "84 673
Since Federation and Some Protection.
Sydney. Suburbs. Country. AIIN.S.W.
1901 .. 20-04 6-61 6-46 7 '6B
1902 .. 21-54 617 619 7-52
1903 .. 19-90 610 5-46 6'86
1904 .. 20-29 6-10 6'02 7.21
1905 .. 19-65 6-44 6'32 7'42
Average 20-28 6'28 6'09 7-34
Even in the disastrous drought year, 1903, N.S.
Wales, favored by Federation and partial Protec-
tion, married to a greater extent than in any, bar
one, of the five preceding years of alleged Free-
trade, when there wasn’t any Federation, and
when there were no State Frights for ineffective
State Premiers to cry about.


fleet
t/
£
s
pew
c
❖
Y
/)
46
tf / 6/afo'a4f'i
wvj£ vikzr'.
HIGH-CLASS COMFORTS.
BUCHANAN # OTARD-DUPUY
WHISKY BRANDY
QUALITY and AGE.
? 4 ‘c ra^enette^
- ,|i ck Are the Ideal Rubrics
W RAINCOATS.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, June 19, 1906.
My Dear Arini.—
For a few months—these winter months—Lake
Cowal Station, where Governor Rawson, Miss
Rawson, and son Wyatt have gone on a visit, is
“a place full of sweet trees and color of glad
grass. The glorified waterhole that gives a name
to the station may also have a few feet of wet in
it and support a boat, and the verdure is probably
so long that you could tie it over the horses,
backs. In the summer-time the country is mostly a
dust-pan. The ,T. B. Donkin’s homestead (the
Donkins own the place and host his Ex. and
party) is only a lathe-and-plaster cottage, but
the; proprietors are mentally well-furnished
and their own physical architecture is of
the, best. Private secretaries and aides have
been at Lake Cowal homestead by the
bunch, and enjoyed regular Lindsay Gordon gal-
lops after game. The district teems with Austra-
lian ammals that men pursue with guns and dogs.
And at night the brolgas come out and do their
strange ballet around the lake or in its dry bed
limn, of course, the air is delicate, and the holy
ji • u 1 - S g enerall y unbroken. The homestead
which is enclosed in snake-proof netting, is a 25-
hiile drive from Wyalong, a township which
drowses within a wide, wide belt of mallee
faking it all around, it’s just an ideal place for
tbe young Australian story-writer to stand the
pither tottery legs of her “local color” short
story upon.
Gordon, K.C., who goes hence to marry
Miss Margaret Thomas, ate a congratu-
latory dinner from the Equity Bar previous to
putting on his deck shoes and unlimbering his
deck chairs. He takes
all the wish-you-joys ”of his friends like a cat
lapping cream. Sometimes he tells how he came
f n- Ut rf th f« «T, and dum P until the mid-summer
ot bis life. When I was a quite young man I
nn mysef 1 ' vould marry when I was making
toOO a year. But it seemed inadequate when it
and 1 de termmed to defer the event till
£lOOO a year was assured. But that, too, seemed
insufficient, and so did £2OOO per annum when it
was there, and I told myself ‘Just you wait till
it s three. When that sum and that time came
the girl.was not in sight.”
That’s all very well, but the high gods take a
hand, in these matters, and one of the Lightning
JSw f°i? 8 i 0 bveup among the lightning
don t they ?) had already ear-marked a little
Welsh rarebit, away North in the country of coal
and religious revivals, as the K.C.’s mate) and one
day a few months Ago hq-the god-looked at the
leaf.on which Gordon s fate is written, and then
told Ganymede, the celestial drink-waiter, who
was filling up his nectar-glass, to send a marconi-
a g^igram—earthward. It read some-
thmg like this, You have now some eight
fe San >? a year ,- and th u e Girl is here. Carpe
UAA • _£? d bel ?old, the mortal did as he was
bidden, and the god said wearily, “It is a lona
time between nectars.” - - °
Miss- Thomas will be accompanied back to her
liome by Miss Hodges, a lady who met her whilst
both were studying music at some or other
academy. Every other singer and actress of note
has one special woman satellite who either comes
out here with her, or begins to move in her orbit
when she arrives. The satellite is moneyed, and
has an infinite capacity for admiration of the star
and for self-effacement. Melba had one; Miss
*lorelh has another; Miss Palotta has hers.
Miss Brune is also well provided for in the
matter of feminine worship. But getting back to
the marriage of the fascinating footlight lady : It
has been _ said that every woman is an actress
(garden of Eden Adam called her a serpent) so an
acfress is doubly a woman, therefore doubly fasci-
nating. But all this is dust in the mouth to the
swarm of Sydney society girls who must stand and
see their best matches select the imported juiube
to sweeten his road through life. Miss Knight
Molhson took our notable Tin Kelly II (she was
as graceful beyond the footlights as an antelope and
her smile might allure an oyster off his rock so
ttiere isn t much cause for wonder there) Now
comes Miss Thomas, with her big eyes and sweet
smgingfand annexes Gordon. It’s enough to make
the Society girl jump on her best hat, or nav to
go, on the stage. J
Cbi ® f impression of Grace Palotta, off the stage
is of her exuberant health. She should surely
write a book on physical culture or diet, or both
with a title, “ How to be always young and
debonair.’’ Stage life is hard L Twoman’s
health and looks, as a rule. Theatres are neces-
sanly poor in oxygen, and the acting art calls for
long hours. Meals must be often irregular and
tor the actor or actress there is always lurking the
deadly snare of late suppers (a cynic friend of
mine_ keeps a table of mortality, or something
showing the actuarial effect on the actress’ life of
lobster and cold beef at midnight or there-
abouts). Further the “make-up” is injurious
to the skin .unless used with the utmost
precautions. But Miss Palotta-who is at least
over 17—shows to-day the skin of a child, the step
and the fresh vitality of a school-girl. That is off
the stage with no “make-up.”
The secret ? She makes no secret of it. “ Start-
ing the day at the wrong, end—l believe in as
early to bed as the theatre allows of. After a
performance no supper, if I can possibly avoid it
Suppers sometimes can’t be avoided. They are
always a trial. Usually I have a cup of warm
milk, and then I don’t hear 12 strike In
the morning a hot bath, a real' wallow in
very hot water. One needs it at least once
a day to get rad ,of the- dust and the
grease of stage life. Then exercises—Swedish and
Sandow exercises—until I am thoroughly warm
Then a cold plunge. Yes, always, winter and
summer. Breakfast, very light. No, I’m not
faddy as to food. - But not too much. Fruit
grains, perhaps an egg. Rehearsal or study takes
up mosfc.of the morning, but I always insist on
getting in a walk. That is, perhaps, the greatest
thing of all,, m my opinion— to get as much time
in the open air as possible. I always get my walk
m, even if I have to cut short the sleeping time.
Usually, too, X walk to and from the theatre.
V Now lunch, that is a meal. I make the most
°l *** • d° I ea t ? Anything that is nice and
that likes me. For the rest of the day, very little.
If I were to dine, in the sense of taking a big meal,
I would not feel as if I could do my best on the
stage. So tea is a very light affair, taken before
dressing for the theatre. The afternoon is usually
kept busy with calls; and there are books to read
—I am studying your English literature very hard,
hoping to know a little of it some day—and letters
to write; and a thousand and one other things.
One must even go to a dressmaker’s or photo-
grapher’s now and again. But, if I can, I get
some open air among the trees in the afternoon.
“Tea? Yes, I drink tea and I drink coffee,
and I drink wine, and I drink water, and I drink
almost anything, but very moderately, except,
perhaps, milk and water. lam a little greedy
with milk and water. Would you think I was
greedy of milk-and-water? And I don’t worry.
I eeling glad is good, and so I always try to feel
glad.”
The recipe is excellent. But—but, lam afraid
it comes back in the end to a matter of tempera-
ment. All this careless carefulness might fail in
another just for want of “feeling glad.” Still it’s
an interesting Confession of a Healthy Woman.
Little Leila Doubleday is in Sydney, preparing
for her concert at the Y.M.O.A. Hall on Saturday,
the 30th. She proves to be a merry, unspoilt
voungster of twelve and a half, with curly dark
brovyn hair, brown eyes with drooping lids, and a
sensitive mouth. Also she is straight and well-
grown. When playing or listening to music
her face almost grows sad in its seriousness.
Away from music she is just a wide-smiling, jolly
child. At two years of age she sang to an audi-
ence of some hundreds of grown-ups, but that was
at a school. It is as a pianiste and violiniste she
will appear in Sydney. Melbourne thought
enough of her to roll up at her farewell con-
cert to the extent of £450 profit. At ten
years of age she took a scholarship (piano) at
Marshall Hall’s Conservatorium from all-comers,
some of them nearly old enough to be her mother
or her father. The following year she got it
again, and would have gone on catching it if rules
had permitted. Which instrument—piano or
violin—Leila will elect as the chosen one where-
with to play her way to stardom neither she nor
her advisers have yet decided. Some of the tip-
top musicians of Sydney who have heard her play
assert that she has a most accurate ear, alive to
every shade and color of musical expression, and
that the interpretations are keen and original and
possessing nervous force. The last possession
being for a girl, and a child at that, something
more than it sounds.
To-night Mrs. Doubleday and her gifted lamb
are the guests of the management at “The Man
from Mexico.” Miss Palotta, who shows a great
interest in the young musician, has taken that,
the only available chance, to express her glad
wishes. There is some talk of a reception at the
Australia. Miss Marie Narelle has promised to
interest herself, and there is talk of Lady North-
cote doing the same. Also Rivers Allpress has
offered her a lesson a day during her stay here;
so Leila has the right to wear a smile.
Miss Marie Narelle, wearing a tailor-made and
her Tara brooch, got out of the train at Redfern
into the arms of friends, and started what up to
the present has been a perfectly dizzy time. A
tidal wave of welcomers overwhelmed her. But,
like most “arrived” singers, she is very strong!
Imagine her being able to appear twice a day for
the seven months of the St. Louis Ex. ! Premier
Carruthers and a Citizens’ Reception Committee
gave her a comet-like night at the Town Hall and
presented her with an address. On Saturday,
Miss Narelle’s first concert was a Conquest.
Her voice is as fresh as of old, and as
she studied all she could with Steffani in
London she has gained in musicianship. Lady
Northcote, escort*! by Private-Secretaries Share
and Stephens, was an absorbed listener, although
I believe her little feet in their pale-pink satin
shoes must have been damp. It was a pouring
wet night, and the steps were to match. Mister
Spruson, Mister Shipman, and the rest of yez—
where was that red carpet ?
First aid to the Vice-regal party was rendered
by Mr. Southwell, and after the tumult and the
shouting died at the end of the concert, her Ex.
said the equivalent of “I’m glad I came.”
Marie Narelle’s gown of emerald-green chiffon
velvet, with panels of Irish point lace from corsage
to hem, was a splendid robe, but its magnificence
is too middle-aged for Marie. In her hair was a
coruscating half-wreath of green laurel. However,
in dressing and programming, she honored the
land of her people. And even those present who
were not of that land, with loud smiting of palms
showed appreciation.
As for the new tenor, Chester Fentress, the
audience took him to its heart after hearipg him
warble but a few notes, and the subsequent
applause was spontaneous, every clap of it, though
both his opening numbers were sung in French.
Fentress received a floral gilt horseshoe, which he
accepted as one who says, “Take away this
bauble ! ” His voice has a silvery quality, and
his manner gives the impression that he would
only say “ Thank you ” if one told him the house
was on fire.
Miss_ Mary Innes, daughter of the late Justice
Innes, is back in Sydney, after much going l to and
fro on the countenance of the globe. She is a tall
girl with a complexion, and carries her tailor-made
garniture to advantage. It will be remembered that
the young lady’s mother was married recently in
Paris to ex-French Consul Biard d’ Auriet. It
must be a great responsibility off a girl’s mind to
have a mother, who still wears her own hair and a
twenty-one inch corset, comfortably re-settled in
life,
A year or so ago five well-known, nice Sydney
girls got married within the one week. This
month the whole group is mourning the
death of its first-born. Two of the bereaved
young mothers, who were respectively Miss Enid
Whiting and Miss Mildred Coffee, were wedded
on the same day, one to Captain Waters, the other
to Dr. Kelly of North Shore,
A correspondent comments on the fact that the
flag at Government House, Sydney, was a notable
exception to others on the day Mr. Seddon’s
death was announced, in not being half-masted.
But the rule is that the Government House jack
—which is hoisted only when the Governor is in
residence there—may not be half-masted except
on the death of the British Sovereign, or by
special instructions from the British Court. I
am informed, however, that instructions have
been received warranting the half-masting of the
flag to-day (the funeral day) as a mark of respect
for the deceased statesman.
That cabled picture of the body of Dick Seddon
carried ashore in the cold starlight while the
tolling of bells and the firing of guns reverberated
from the hills, and Maori chiefs uttered cries of
grief, is curiously affecting. The hills of the
Town Belt crowd in round Wellington city and
by starlight seem to hang over the crater-harbor.
The wail of the tanyi, the measured boom of
minute guns, and the tolling of bells would all
come back in echoes with quite creepy effect. In
Wellington it either blows a gale or is dead calm,
and the stillness of the small hours of the morn-
ing under the shadow of the everlasting hills,
always strikes the wayfarer from this side, used to
the continuance of city noises in places like Syd-
ney and Melbourne which never quite go to bed.
Captain Wilson, of Sir Harry Rawson’s staff, is
going to take himself and, of course, his lovely
brown eyes and teeth away back to England.
What will Cranbrook do without his manage-
ment ? He is a marvellously skilful director and
organiser, and the Rawsons will certainly feel like
collapsed puff-paste after his departure.
Mrs. Bland Holt schemed in color when she
started to redecorate “Sevenoaks,” the romantic
high-walled-in house with the three oaks, in a
Darlinghurst lane. Outside it is painted baby-
leaf green; so are the garden seats and the garden
roller, the watering-cans and the laughing-jack-
asses. Inside, all is pale amber—otherwise, the
color of the sunlight. The idea is for artistic self-
deception. Missus wants to make believe that
it s always spring. Spring sunshine filtering into
the rooms, spring leafage rustling outside. As
for the lady herself, she’s got the same old spring
in her step, and her semi-barbaric, gypsy-like
jewellery touches the spot, so to speak, in our
retina.
Maoriland Tourist Chief Donne is back from
Melbourne, and even in his dreams confesses to be
still pursuing premises in which to plant the
agency that will take the poor English tourist by
the eye glass and show him how good God has
been—to Maoriland. Although the death of his
great chief has not taken any of the buckram
out of I.E.D. it has affected him so far that he
now declines to be rushed around in the night air
to banquets where twenty-five toasts are honored
in a half hour speech apiece. An ex-pressman
from Auckland, Mr. Montgomery, well-known to
many Australians as the acute and courteous
Auckland rep. of the M.L. Tourist Bureau, has
now been appointed Sydney agent for the
Bureau.
Latest Tall Poppy engagement is that of Miss
Nea White, a daughter of the late “Havilah”
White of Mudgee, sheep-breeder and racehorse
raiser, to Mr. O. C. Elemich, of Ghingwindah,
J-aroorn, Queensland. (No prize is offered to the
person who correctly pronounces Ghingwindah.)
Ihe orange-blossom-wearer-that-is-to-be is very
good to look at, and as the late paternal squatter
was never drougbted-up or rabbited-out, she has
considerable of what Milton calls “ the precious
bane. ■
‘‘The Primate (Saumarez Smith) and five of
his daughters have left Marseilles by the Oruba
for Sydney.” Five of his daughters ! Of course
it’s not as startling as the late G. R. Dibbs’
unfinished story, “when I and ten of my daugh-
ters were crossing George-street to-day,” used to
be, but it s enough. Some of the girl Smithereens
have been left behind, then, by Primate Smith—
the married ones, of course. And the marriage
of his son, the Rev. S.S., to Miss Hanbury has
been postponed on account of the bridegroom-
elect’s fall from a horse. But that’s not as bad as
a fall from grace.
Maoriland’s greatest matrimonial catch passed
through Sydney from Europe last week (or may-
u tt S here) cn route to one of his homes in
the Hawkes Bay district. He is six-feet-two, a
great oarsman, wears his chest half a foot in front
of him, and rakes in an income of some £20,000 a
year. His flocks are white on many a hill. Also
he s getting into the forties. Isn’t it Pinero who
asserts that the magnetic age in man is the bunch
of years between forty-three and fifty-five—that
any nice bloque within that group of seasons can
sing successfully, even without much voice: “ I
fear no foe of twenty-five in shining armor drest;
he couldn’t cut me out.”
For the first time, so far as I know, a law has
been passed against the wearing of trailing skirts
in the streets. The penalty for each offence is a
fane of thirty shillings. A town in Hanover is the
courageous place that has started to cut the human
female tail.
Miss Roland Watts Phillips is doing a little
writing these mushroom-growing days in the
Evening News. She drives a light and pleasant
pen and is very philosophical though naturally a
little bitter over the collapse of the Stephenson
company and the twenty-one weeks’ salary owing
to her. There isn’t a cleverer or more original
actress m her line than “ Roley,” and she deserves
better luck than she’s had the last few years.
Mr. Knibbs, of the picturesque white hair and
the wonderful conversational powers, had the
usual good-bye meal given him at the A.B.C.
before going to Melbourne to frolic with the
Commonwealth statistics. Over 200 whiskered
or moustached or clean-shaven Somebodies ate in
his honor. Mrs. Knibbs had appendicitis some
few years ago, and has not been about much
There is a daughter “out,” and some
Knibbs boys.
Artist Dattilo-Rubbo, who leaves Australia bv
and-bye for a visit to his native Vatican land
tells how he came to be cast up on our shores jH ( >
and a merry troop of art students, studying m
Milan, used to go down to the quay at luncheon
hour to see new faces coming off the ships. On
one occasion they saw a beautiful girl pacing the
deck of a liner. She was so lovely that half of
them fell to sketching her, and ail fell in love
with her. Bribing an interpreter with a bottle of
wine, the man discovered for them that the ladv
was an Australian. Till then, the artist
had thought Australians were black. A few
years later Dattilo-Rubbo went down to
the quay to leave for a foreign land. He
did not care an olive which land. “ Where does
that vessel go to ? ” “To the Transvaal.” “Ah
Ido not like the name. Where does that one
go ? ” “To Australia.” He liked that name and
he remembered the lady. So he came here—in
’97. It is only lately, after nine years, and speak-
ing the language capitally, that Datillo-Rubbo
learnt that the expression “for good” is a collo-
quialism. When asked “if he were going for
good,” he would say “Yes,” meaning that he
expected to benefit by the trip. Not until tear-
sodden letters from former and intending students
began to rea,ch him, asking him not to go for good
did he see light.
In the current fashionable novels you get very
mbblesome crumbs of description of the menu
sandwiched between the brilliant conversation of
the diners. In “The Transgression of Andrew
Vane, ’ one of the characters (at a dinner) is
“ deeply engaged in dressing little morsels of
smelts in overcoats of sauce tartare, assisting them
carefully with his knife to scramble aboard his
fork, and having braced them there firmly with
cubes of creamed potatoes, conveying the whole
arrangement to his month, where he instantly
secured it from escape by popping in a piece of
bread upon its heels.”
A quiet wedding took place at “ Fintona,” the
residence of Mr. A. G. Thompson, solicitor,
Bathurst, when that gentleman’s eldest daughter,
Lucy Ethel, was wedded to Mr. R. M. Drum-
mond, chief Government Surveyor, New Guinea.
The Thompsons are “ old folk ” in Bathurst. The
grandfather of the bride was postmaster in the
City of the Plains over G 5 years ago, and on his
retirement his son, W. G. Thompson, got the
billet just 40 years ago, and holds it still. The
son entered the post office service in 1863. Father
and son have, therefore, obliterated the postage
stamp in Bathurst for something like three gene-
rations.
According to the Freeman’s Journal Mrs.
Catherine Byrne, the mother of Mrs, Sydney
Burdekin, died at A.ttuhga, in the Tamworth
district, at the end of last month, aged 86. The
Byrne family are old identities in the dairy
business.
Pianist Godfrey Smith, who is cabled as having
done something wonderful in London in the way
of teaching a piano to take a joke (as some Yankee
humorist has said), is a nephew of De Rego, the
musical man of the Telegraph. He was a pupil
of the late Sidney Moss.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
Heard in a Melbourne suburban police-
court. The lawyer : “So prisoner persuaded you
to go into this?” Witness: “Yes.” “He
appealed to your tenderest susceptibilities?”
“Yes, boss, he offered me five quid.”
This item comes from Ballarat:—
The subtlety of the municipal personage reached a
gorgeous stage in Ballarat on Friday. The people who
take charge ot the Common wanted trees planted, and as
labor costs money, it was decided to have recourse to
philanthropy. So it was ordained that the State school
kids should have an Arbor Day, at which local snobs
could pose as the children’s friends, and get the planting
done for next to nothing. Three hundred little boys
of requisite toughness were accordingly marched
off on a three miles tramp at 9 a.m. The
Common is the bleakest spot outside the Antarctic, and
in the teeth of an icy wind the wretched little children
were set to work with pick and-shovel. There were 130
holes to be dug. Under the eye of “teacher” (whose
teeth chattered in his head), the ironstone Was carefully
extracted, and the soil broken up and put back. The
kids had to bring their own dinners, but partook of some
sloppy tea generously provided for them. A number of
august persons arrived during th» afternoon, in time to
attitudinise in a sheltered / >ee. The Orphan
Asylum band, which declined Ary its instruments
five miles, was brought at in a dray to make
music. Alderman Somebody something with a spade,
and declared the first tree “ and truly planted.” The
kiddies, with blistered ha’ put in the other 129 trees.
Labor ended, they were g /a roll and a saveloy apiece,
and were talked to at great .ength, and then they hoofed
it three miles back to town.
YOUR COMPLEXION!
IF you have a complexion that has a muddy or faded
appearance, or is troubled with blackheads, freckles
and wrinkles, or any skin blemishes whatever, you can
easily exchange for a skin without a blemish, a com-
plexion radiant with a transparent freshness, a clear,
smooth, and perfect skin that is so much to be admired.
This is the kind of complexion that we guarantee if you
will give Valaze a fair trial, no matter how impoverised
your skin is from the effects of bad weather, or from the
use of inferior skiri-foods that injure the tissues.
Valaze is the best friend you can rely upon.
Valaze has now a reputation throughout Australasia
that is absolutely unrivalled.
We guarantee an improvement in one month.
We guarantee Valaze not to increase the growth of
superfluous hairs.
We guarantee Valaze to be a genuine imported skin-
food, made by Dr. Lykuski, the celebrated European Skin
Specialist, from Extract of Herbs grown on the Carpathian
Mountains.
We guarantee you so much satisfaction from one jar
that you would not be without it for anything.
Try a jar and prove these assertions.
Price 3s. 6d. or large jar 6s. (containing three times the
amount.) Postage 6d. Leading chemists, or direct from
Helena Rubinstein and Co., 274 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Dr. Lykuski’s Special Valaze Blackhead and Open Pores
Cure—guaranteed to cure most obstinate cases—2s. 6d.
tin, by post 3s.
Valaze Herbal Soap, lasts six months, 2s. cake.
Enclose 3d. in stamps to cover postage and we will for-
ward you our latest edition of the new “ Guide to
Beauty,” a book that is full of most valuable information
concerning the skin and health, and will prove most use-
ful and instructive to anyone.


Superfluous Hairs Effectually and Per-
manently Destroyed. A lady self cured of this
distressing affliction has a wonderful remedy which com-
pletely destroys the roots of the hairs. After trying
depilatories, electrolysis and every so-called cure, she
discovered this simple home remedy, which succeeded
when all else had failed. This treatment does not burn
off, it kills the roots, and theTmost disheartened may
safely and successfully try it. It leaves no scar or mark.
Send Id. stamp for testimonials and booklet on treatment.
Remedy posted, Victoria, 4s. 6d., other States, ss.
“ Tonic," Central Chambers, 77 Swanston St., Melbourne.*
s2#
€
Dunlop
Rubber
Heels
For easy
walking
on Kara
pavements.
h
Vi
‘x,'
Dunlop
Rubber
Heels
Outwear all
others.
All Sizes & Shapes.
Accept only
DUNLOP BRAND.
ĸ
I Obtainable
Boot
' <u
Shops.
OJ
rek
ANU
05E
tea
IN All LEASING MllR!
“ Garments fitted with Kleinert’s Dress
Shields and Kleinert’s Hose Supporters
bear the indefinable Stamp of Style.’^
This is the Verdict of Three Continents.
PD
Lh
ISMPE.
mciiorv o
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, June 19, 1906.
My Dear Yarrie,—
The big attraction of the Orpheus Society con-
cert was the first public appearance of Madame
Agnes Janson since her return. The special num-
f°r the contralto’s starring was
‘ The Crusaders’ Cantata,” in which the wicked
Armida has to woo, and temporarily win, the holy
Rinaldo from the strict and religious path, in a
series of sirenesque appeals of a mezzo-soprano
range. Madame Janson’s appearance didn’t
evoke very roof-splitting applause. Grateful
memories of her “Carmen” performances didn’t
influence the Orpheus congregation to wear out
its gloves in welcome. Yet the former star has
improved with time. She looks happier and
brighter, and her smile in singing moments is a
sweetly-inspiring thing. The voice is not as fine,
but the Janson art, with its dramatic taste and
fervor, made every number a treat.
Miss Joyce Brown was billed for the Orpheus
concert last week as the winner of the Austral
Scholarship, in Bendigo. On the charge-list she
was down for Papini’s “Danse Hongrois”—one
of the trickiest of fiddle show pieces. Joyce
turned out to be a small squat budget of early
childhood, with a rosy moon-face and a pair of
fatted calves. She swung her bow up valiantly,
and attacked the strings like any old platform
warrior. Joyce must have brandished the bow in
her lullaby and cot days instead of the usual coral
rattle. She was glib, sure and, on the whole,
correct; but her art is still in bib and socks, and
her gift of expression in the earlier teething stage.
Joyce is really too young and green to stage at a
grown-up concert, but as a bold wielder of fiddle
and bow, and an intrepid performer, she’s a glad
curio.
The concert head is a sadly neglected affair.
During a dull show, when someone is horribly
wailing “Out on the Rocks,” or some perjurous
pianist is strumming a Schubert study as if a
dozen harpies were sooling her on to do her worst,
the concert head comes in for review. And it’s a
sad prospect. In some cases it looks leaked and
weeded in a rubbish pile. In other cases the thin
wisps have ghastly partings where the upholster-
ing patches of horsehair show gruesomely. Two
hairpins hold together a reckless topknot, or a
few dozen skewers and tortoise-shell clasps stab and
clutch the coiffure in ludicrous profusion. People
who devote their souls to music seem to forget to
worry about their back hair; and the woman who
neglects her back hair'cannot compensate for the
artistic outrage by any amount of soulfulness in
her eyes.
New frivolities are filling these violet days.
The whole of Toorak turns out to try a frozen
waltz at the Glaciarium. Miss Byron Moore is so
far the nearest approach to the fetching skateress
of the Christmas-card type. She is sunny-haired,
cream-complexioned, snug of figure, and chic.
Also she loses her prunes and prism look of pro-
priety on the ice. Most others lose their balance,
and a few their urbanity. A repetition of im-
promptu falls has an irritating effect. One thing
about these frozen frolics : the adopted com-
plexion can’t withstand the early chill and sub-
sequent steam. I saw one charmingly-applied
color-scheme (where they had been much holding
of art up to the mirror) melt out of the face-scape.
It was pathetic. First, the siren glow—the rose-
bloom—deepened, then it spread, and finally it
trickled in rainbow streaks off the countenance.
A fast color is needed—something guaranteed to
withstand the chill and steam of the iced whiz.
One’s complexion really needs to be chained on at
the Glaciarium.
The Talbottle Exes., with the curly aide,
looked upon the skating multitude last Tuesday,
and were duly impressed at the expert with the
intemperate name doing the swallow-on-the-wing
turn on the ice, and the Holy City Miss (a young
relative of electrician Reid) waltzing like a joyous
skiff in a big sea. She gets that peculiar pitch on
as she whirrs. It makes the sensitive eye quite
sea-drunk.
The Homoeopathic Hospital hop proved a dull,
drab affair. The local Worships and the bulk of
the municipal Fathers foregathered, and supplied
an official Lancers, but they failed to give a fillip
to things. Some fledglings—a quartet of them—
fluttered into a special square, and clung to their
bouquets fearsomely. Miss Winifred Fraser,
after Little Marying and breaking up a whole
stage picture by the mere mention of “stomach,”
rushed into the polka scene, and had her pro-
gramme all marked out for her immediate whirl-
ing. Miss Win. wore milky-white chiffons, with
pretty blue-and-pink furbishings. This spruce
little comedienne is the one extensive social
flutterer of the Flemming-Brough co.
The Alliance Francaise wakes from its long
sleep, and promises a gay hop. Th e date is fixed
for July 12, and the cards are already in brisk
circulation.
Idle fashionables and the frou-frou sex generally
are trooping to the Tea and Song matinees at
Menzies and the Winter Gardens neighboring the
Chicago bun resort. Miss Topsy Conn, who isn’t
at all as giddy as she sounds, arranges the musical
bill-of-fare at the Subterranean Gardens, and
supplies some honeyed melodies herself. You’d
never dream from tbe serious and soulful strains
that a Topsy was singing. Topsy as a girl-label
is in this case misleading.
The craze for rag-time and coon wiggle-waggle
ditties is getting stronger. They creep into quite
solemn programmes, and no tea seems to be
quaffed (is a temperance brew quaffed ?) without
their aid.
The Austral Salon is not dead but forgotten of
late. An announcement to the effect that the
Talbottle Dame will shortly descend upon tbe
Salon fora blessing or a bun serves to remind tbe
public that the Salon still survives.
Te Rangi Pai (Mrs. Howie) comes along here
on a musical visit for rainy July. Probably it’s
another deep design of Commissioner T. E. Donne
to keep up the top C. of the Maoriland Hymn of
G-lory. The tourist hustler is night, noon and
morning searching round for new schemes to
advertise and glorify the hot-spring Paradise to
the world at large. Before quitting this Bent
city Mr. Donne made a special promise to a host
of intending exhibitioners and down-south gad-
ders that the Isles of the Blest would not go off,
blow up, fizzle, or pass out of the map without a
month s warning. There seems to be a Govern-
ment guarantee that tourists will always receive
due notice to quit when an eruption is imminent.
Mr. Donne has a yarn that sizes up simply the
divorce faith of the Yank. One of the Irresistibles
ot JNew York suddenly announced to her friends
she was about to be married. Somebody en-
quired if the stranger were a good sort of fellow.
“Guess he’ll have to be,” replied the Juno, “or
ill get a divorce so quick I reckon he’ll feel
giddy. He d have to be ! She didn’t know
what lie was, but pretty sure guessed what he’d
have to be. Docile, you bet.
Indian “chudders” are the latest fad. Chudder
isn t a cheese or a cocktail or a cakewalk. It’s a
shawl intended to keep out the theatre draughts
and Jook becoming. The other night Miss Eileen
Whiting covered her plump shoulders with a
chudder—a flaming red chudder, too. It serpen-
tined round neck and arms very like a tongue of
hre.
Ihe fierce light that beats upon a honeymoon
couple in a stylish hotel blazed upon a particular
pair of doves last week. The fact was that their
coo was so loud and glaring in the corridors, at
the dinner-table, and in other public places that
even the discreetest waiters were moved to a grin.
One of the staidest of them fell from grace and
was caught in the act of a smile. He pleaded he
couldn’t help it—that he wasn’t well and a little
upset him. The lift-boy, for an open guffaw, was
expelled instanter. Why not expel the doves ?
knot-tying of Mr. Charles Lempriere and
Miss Dora Mitchell, sister of Melba, is booked for
damp and cold-nosed July. Dora is the youngest
chick of David s clan, and is likely to start away
in double harness with a substantial gold bit in
her mouth. She’s a Titian-haired, slender Miss
with a rather shy air and none of sister Nellie’s
aplomb or dominance. Mrs. Harry Box—the
second blossom of the prosperous family tree—is
more of the bossy Melba pattern. The Lemprieres
are all smart and sporty.
The Wiedermann-Pinschofs, the other night,
celebrated their eldest girl’s coming of age. Every
guest now has that event marked indelibly on th 6
memory. In years ahead when the Miss in
question is still looking 21, there will be those in
the land who will proclaim her age as 27 and state
how they know she is this and not 17 or just Sweet
and Twenty. It’s not fair to a girl. This sex
should have no birthdays, or should have them at
such irregular intervals that they won’t convey any
information.
The Malcolm M'Eacharns are being publicly
blessed. Of the municipal gush there is no end.
The other day, there being nothing doing pro-
bably and the City Fathers feeling the need of a
biscuit and a speech, the thought of the
M‘Eaeharn occurred, prompting excuse for both.
So they gathered and spoke. Then some silver-
ware was unveiled and presented to the Maes;
and someone voiced the hope that it would be as
an heirloom in the great and noble familv.
Before the chrysanthemums of Goathlands were
put back into crimping-pins for the To Let
season, and the chairs restored to their pinnies,
the M'Eacharns invited some festive hundreds.
The small Mikado of Melbourne set Saturday
apart for this daylight wassail, and accomplished
one clever deal in getting the rival Arch-
bishops to the scene. It’s a long time
since the two competitive prelates took a
joint turn at a shivoo of the kind, but
the Mikado has a way with him and a munificence
that melts Christian rivalry out of the holiest
hearts. Guests were surprised to find Australian
cutlery and china ; somehow they expected to be
required to use chop-sticks. Another concession
to old times was the drum-banging of the Scottish
Regiment Band. The M’Eacharn clan started
for the Cold Country on Tuesday.
Pasteboards are out in the name of the Wil-
loughby and Ward Co. “to welcome Miss Grace
Palotta on her return to Melbourne. ” The Cream
are keenly interested, and are going to gather
thickly at the Princess’ on the 26tli. Grace is
such a Toorak pet that even a sewing-bee or
scone-class in her honor would draw the frilly
legions.
The State Parliament has a curtain-raising act
on Wednesday next (June 27th) with the usual
spree to follow. It is the Wrixons’ party, and
will be good, and will put the Federal House of
inhospitality to the blush. They don’t spree visi-
tors at the opening of the Federal House. It’s
political good sense, of course—there’s no earthly
reason why Parliament should be opened with
fizz and tea. But the society woman finds in
the fact another of the evils of Federation.
There was a Gordon anniversary bill on last
Thursday, when the Australian Literature Society
(a high-sounding label this for a very small potato)
endeavored to help the Victor Daley fund
by talk of another deceased bard. Mrs.
A. H. Macdonald did this particular talking.
Mr. E. J. Brady also bestowed some rele-
vant remarks on the listeners. The one fresh
feature of the Gordon talk was the introduction
of the bard’s political interests. Mrs. Macdonald
dug up the political past to the amazement of
some fervent Gordonites who had no notion that
the devil-may-care rhymer had suffered politicitis
at any time of his life. Yet it didn’t spoil his
Muse. Mrs. Macdonald failed to mention that.
There’s a streak of fiery genius in one strummer
of the ivories hereabouts. The youth bears the
apt name of Spry—H. E. Spry. And he is. He
makes music of a warm, ardent, knowing kind,
and in a Liszt Concerto at the Town Hall the
other night, dissipated the chill on the big sneezy
audience by his glowing performance.
Senator Keating’s brisk young wife is likely to
be the foremost galleryite this Federal session.
Already the astute young person has a first-class
and familiar knowledge of politics and the
people’s wants. She speaks with a kindling
eye of Acts to be passed, and work to be
done. She has clear-cut views of men and
measures, and speaks out with all the confidence
of the innocent, the young and the earnest. The
curly Senator should find such a wife a spur and
stimulus. And the curly member needs both.
It’s a bad thing to have the lowliest place at a
wedding-table, for according to a recent example,
the bad brand of wine travels down to the poor-
relation end of the board, and the unwary is
straightway poisoned. A ’groom in one such case
learnt that the girl’s dad, who was giving the
spree (according to a merciful tradition which
spares the ’groom in this matter), had ordered
two brands of wine—the good to circulate at the
upper and more important section, of the feasting-
board and the bad to fizz treacherously at the
other.
The satchel slung over the shoulder is the latest
adjunct to the cold-weather toilette. It’s a Yank
notion—sporty but reasonable. The small cash
and hanky and miscellany bag that up to this had
been carried in the hand and left in the tram, in
the cafe and other places of call, after the beauti-
fully lax and absent-minded manner of woman, was
a miserable source of trouble and loss. But it’s
not every She who can sportfully sling a satchel
over her shoulder and stand the gape of the vulgar
little boy or the grin of the man in the street.
One has to have a good amount of dash and
splendor to vindicate this fashion.
The infant aide raises a still small voice to
plead against his condemnation as a child. He’s
twenty-seven and his curls are a family matter.
He didn’t want them and would gladly shave
them off if he were allowed. He’s sorry. Tooralc
should be gracious and forgive him his curls. It
seems that there’s an irritating reproach of
innocence in curls. All the world’s villains are
lank-haired. There was never a curly monster in
any dark chapter of history. There are curly
rogues—males with the feminine gifts of prevarica-
tion and subterfuge and with the curly character.
But the true brute is straight-haired. He even
finds it difficult to go bald.
A wanderer in the Big Smoke has seen Carrie
Moore in “The Dairy Maids,” and expresses the
change in Carrie thusly—“ Such a treat is our old
friend romping through a star part in this frivolous
show. She’s overflowing with vitality and high
spirits. The jaded Londoner blinks on her in
wonderment. You couldn’t measure the joy of
such splendid vitality till you arrived among the
blase, lackadaisical folks astir in this
hub. Then you d throw up your hat as a tribute
to our Carrie. Besides, she’s plump and coy and
pretty these days. ”
The Stuart Balmains hied away last week by
the Sydney express for Uncle Sam’s Land. A
host of Toorak pals waved them off, and presented
the violet of farewell. How is it a violet remains
the best symbol of grief ? The forget-me-not is
too giddy for a funeral wreath. The violet does
as a long-drawn sigh, a melancholic tear, or a
Platonic kiss. A chrysanthemum expresses no
tender sentiment. Its slothful sagginess or its
severe crimp makes all emotion impossible. A
rose stands supremely for love. Adolphus tenders
it to Araminta. What about the cactus? A
bunch of cactus might suit the Woman-Leaguer,
or stand as the badge of the cat-enthusiast, the
dog-fancier, or the “ole clo’” dealeress. In
flower language the cactus must be the swear
word.
A creamy committee is toiling to make St.
Vincent’s Hospital hop a glaring success. The
medical fraternity has been roped in by the gross,
and elaborate fancy sets are being promoted to
catch the right crowd. Debutantes are promised
in swarms.
An Adelaide correspondent writes: —
Adelaide’s Mayor, Theodore Bruce, is something of an
inventor, and the alleged mayoral ball that eventuated in
the Holy City t’other day, proved it by taking the form
of a grandparents’ bread ai.d butter dance. Age limit, or
rather youth limit, of guests is said to have fluctuated
somewhere between 40 and 100, and the whole affair was
a correspondingly ancient and feeble spree. In
ex-Mayor Cohen’s hilarious time the annual municipal
carousal was an event at which 50 or 60 buds took the
opportunity of spreading their petals. Mayor Bruce,
however, apparently thinks the budding habit ought to
be suppressed, for he carefully omitted every suspected
bud from his invitation list. Buds, in the mean-
time, got in first by spreading their petals at the
“’Varsity” hop, a somewhat important function that
achieved itself some weeks ahead of the municipal depres-
sion. Mayor Cohen used to import a few Governor-
Generals and other potentates to add to the eflect of his
balls, but Mayor Bruce does not look so high. He was
humbly content with the State viee-regals and the Lord
and Lady Mayor of Melbourne for decoration purposes.
News by cable of the death of Miss Helen Lloyd was a
considerable shock to Adelaide. The girl’een was
the step-daughter of philanthropist C. H. Goode, and
set ofif only a few months ago on a jaunt round the globe
with her people. In London she was taken ill of periton-
itis, and died in a few days, aged only 21. Pathetic part
of it was that she was to have been married this month to
Bev. A. N. Marshall, a popular parson of the City of
Churches.
Yours Affectionately,
TRYPHENA.
What vast sums ladies will cheerfully spend on
dress and at the same time totally neglect their com-
plexions ; or, what is infinitely worse, cover a rough, coarse
skin with injurious paint and powder—a subterfuge
apparent to all but the most vulgar 1 In times gone-by
such foolish methods were excusable; but science has
made such strides in recent years that ladies troubled
with wrinkles, pimples, freckles or any facial blemish
need no longer worry. They have now a most reliable
and dainty cure in Patti’s Beauty Cream, which has added
three years of the highest Australasian reputation to a
quarter of a century of the most distinguished European
appreciation as the only perfect skin food and complexion
beautifier. It is found on the toilet tables of every lady
of refinement, because it is absolutely pure, harmless,
and a perfectly natural and never-failing remedy for all
complexion troubles, no matter how bad they may be. It
instantly clears the skin of all pimples, rash, &c., caused
by injurious concoctions and imitations against which
ladies are cautioned. All chemists and stores, price 3s. fid.
and 6s. per pot.*
Tins is how a postal telegraph operator
announced the news of the San. Francisco catas-
trophe over the wires before he left his instru-
ment and ran into the street:—“Earthquake hit
us at dawn to-day. They are carting the dead
rrom the fallen buildings, fires are all over the
tovvn. no water, no brigade. I’m off, as this
building is shaking from top to bottom, and it’s
me for the simple life,”


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QIiOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
Dr. SOUTHAM’S
QOUT and
Rheumatic
PILLS
are a safe and simple remedy for the cure of
Gout, Rheumatism, Rheumatic Gout, Tic
Douloureux. Sciatica, Neuralgia, Muscular
Rheumatism, Lumbago, etc. These Pills are
of Australian origin, and are known as the
greatest Australian discovery, since they give
immediate relief, and in many cases cure in a
few days. Sold only in bottles at 1/-, 2/6, and
5/- if not obtainable locally, send postal note
to the Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers—
H. A. ROSE & CO., Chemists,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wolfe’s Schnapps, as good for women as
for men—buy bottles with wrappers intact.
Get what has been known for 70 years. Don’t be
deceived. Get Wolfe’s Schnapps.*
pea
GO TO HBLL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Frsd. Ltd.
FOREIGN"STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
n„,,rrht Pfiop l icts Rratis.
Shall hacking cough my rest destroy,
And all my pleasure here alloy V
Are pains that cut me like a knife
To make a misery of life ?
Shall bronchial troubles wear me out ?
No—never ! All are put to rout
By best of medicines, simple, sure,
W. E. Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
A REAL PICK-ME-UP.—“Talkabout cham-
pagne,” said Byron, “there is nothing which
cheers your spirits up like a dose of salts. But
had he known Hunyadi Janos he would certainly
have preferred this, the best and safest natural
aperient.*
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Limited, report:
The wool market during the past week may be
characterised as quiescent owing to lack of supplies, tne
only lines offering being local scoureds which are readily
placed at full current rates. Monthly auctions will be
resumed in this market on 20th inst., when we intend
submitting about 600 bales, including
of the well-known JRL/BOATMAN and NORTHAMPTON
Brands.*
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS,
™V/j
s:
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
BEHYER BROTHERS
Also at Melbourne.
281 j George St.
(ov[ o Hunter St.)
t SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Bananaland Government is making
Sro vision on the next Estimates for a Tourist
,ureau. The winter traffic to the Cairns resorts
is increasing considerably. There is no more
attractive sea and landscape scenery in the world
than that along the coast of North Queensland.
The Tory paper’s epitaph as written lately
in a score of leading articles
George Heid has formulated what he calls
the “seven great wants of Australia, ’ but they
boil down to little more than a demand that we
should employ black men on our mail boats' and
blacklegs in our factories — Arthur Griffith at
South Botany.
TOUTING FOR RURAL MEMBERS.
Conn fanner who can spare time to attend Parliament
should stand as member for Barwon. He need not be an
orator or even a fluent speaker.— Arbus.
“ Not a scholard? No lamin'? Why, you'll he
another George Reid, I can see it in your face."
The United States, as the only effective
remedy for the Chicago meat horrors, proposes
State inspection and grading. That’s what the
Australian Commerce Act, just passed, intends
to enforce ; and the Commerce Act, according to
the daily press, will utterly ruin Australia’s
export trade.
The N.S.W. State Government pursues a
policy of masterly inactivity over filling the posi-
tion of State Statistician. The acting man is Hall,
and while he gives no excuse why he shouldn’t
be made permanent, Carruthers is not game to
give him the position lest Woolly Rutledge should
pour new kerosene on the Flames of Smithfield.
So the policy of let-it-slide is followed in the hope
that Hall may die, or grow old, or turn Buddhist.
J. 0. Watson will stand for the new South
Sydney seat. .His old Bland seat (really in the
fitness of things J. C. Watson should always have
represented Bland ; the adjective fits him better
than any other notable figure in politics) is
divided up between the constituencies now repre-
sented by Lyne, Tom Brown and Conroy.
The most banal idea in the matter
of the redistribution of Federal electorates was
the suggestion of Page, M.H.R., that the musical
name of Maranoa (Q.) should be changed to
“ Artesia,” because of the artesian bores there.
It is a wonder he didn’t suggest calling the elec-
torate in which Rockhampton stands “Tinned
Meatia ” for similar workaday reasons.
George Reid had been going strong the
other day about the alleged discouragement
of immigrants by the Australian Government
when he was floored by Kennedy, M.H.R., who
produced Reid’s own Act of 11 years ago, prohibit-
ing aliens—even desirable white immigrants—
from taking up State lands in N.S.W. Then the
House gave George the metallic laugh.
G, H. Reid shortly embarks on a tour of
Queensland. He should undo some of the mis-
chief that the Labor extremists have been re-
sponsible for and rally many votes to the Federal
Labor party. Last time he toured Queensland,
Reid delivered a staggering blow to anti-Sosli.
The Tories expected a great champion, and found
a man whom they reckoned had escaped from a
second-class music-hall.
It is expected that Homburg, son of
the Jenkins Attorney General who recently
made himself a judge, will win the Murray seat
in the S.A. Assembly vacated by the death of
Squatter Duncan. The candidate likely to be
nearest to him is the Labor nominee, George
Monks. There are 2000 German voters in the
district, and Homburg is of German parentage
and speaks the lager beer language, which counts
for much when appealing to a clannish Frankfurt
sausage constituency.
When Joe Cook and J. W. McOay talked
at CaStlemaine (Vic.), the statements hurled at
the pair Were so scathing and so uproarious that
Joe was moved to tell the audience that he had
never, in all his travels throughout the Common-
wealth, met with so an exhibition of
personal insult. It is something to have suc-
ceeded in insulting Joe Cook more than anyone
else in Australia, for nearly everybody has tried
his hand at it some time or other.
The Tasmanian Auditor-General has been
expressing his opinion about a small but inter-
esting point. On October 28, 1904, Lieutenant-
Governor and Chief Justice John Dodds gave up
the tiller, and Full-Blown Governor Strickland
took it. So careful were these two men that each
collected a full day’s pay for the 28th. The
Auditor-General reports that he has been legally
advised that Chief Justice Dodds had acted
wrongly in collecting the money, but that all his
efforts to recover the money from Dodds had
failed.
A recent Parliamentary report explains
how the Chow deserter from the Rand (S’Africa)
mines diverted himself during the period between
June 1, 1905, and February 28, 1906. In the
Transvaal town police area the roving Chow was
principal ip 87 cases of outrages upon whites, most
of them in connection with housebreaking. He
committed 20 outrages upon natives, and 204 of
him were arrested. In addition there were 29
cases of outrage outside the town police area, and
181 of the deserters were jugged. Not a bad nine
months’ record for what Bruce Smith calls the
‘ ‘ law-abiding colored workmen.”
James Gibb, the Foreign-trader who got
in on a split vote for Flinders (Vic.), scoring 4916
votes out of 13,604 polled, has announced at
Warragul that he won’t contest the seat again.
Gibb is a farmers’ representative, but he speaks
on no subject whatever ; he is the champion silent
man of the House. He sits behind Reid, but
doesn’t much approve of him. He doesn’t approve
of anything in particular, but the farmers like-
him because he is a good agriculturist. By
grievous mismanagement the Protectionist vote
was split among three at Flinders last election,:
L. L. Smith being the tail of the procession.
Sydney Evening News has been, this
long time, only an infrequent worshipper of the
battered fetish Freetrade, and whenever it did
pray it resembled some of the youths at suburban
Bethels—most of its time went in ogling pre-
sentable parties in the neighborhood. But in its
leader of June 16 it abandoned its aged jade,
Freetrade, and threw itself at the feet of Pro-
tection. Admitting the sound and rapid advance
of Germany’s shipping industry, it explains the
cause thus :
The secret of the whole business may, however, be
broadly expressed in the words “State help.” As we
know, 'individualism was and is often unable to develop
new industries when powerful and wealthy foreign com-
petition is in the field.
Shade of Sam Bennett, who was wont to call
Freetrade “an eternal and indestructible prin-
ciple !” Shade of Alfred, who, though he set a
bad example in spelling, yet warned the junior
reporters to “ watch closely the policy of the
paper” !
The Victorian Political Labor League has
now bumped against the trouble it was certain to
strike sooner or later—that there may arise certain
circumstances and conditions that no hard and
fast rules will serve to meet. The Labor caucus
lias unanimously backed up Watson in his refusal
to break the promise given to certain Democratic
Protectionists not to oppose them at the next
elections, and has officially notified the League
that it absolutely refuses to break that promise at
its bidding. What will happen if the League
branches prove obstreperous, Heaven only knows.
The branches choose their candidates, and the
Central Executive—not the Parliamentary Labor
party—endorses them, so the existing Labor
members may be disqualified like so many
cricketers. But probably there are enough honest
men in the branches to ensure that Labor—as a
party—shall not be guilty of an unparalleled piece
of treachery, a political breach of faith that would
cover the party with infamy for years to come.
It rests with the branches now, for it is to the
discredit of a few of the Central Executive, who
want to gain Parliamentary distinction at any
cost, that this proposed infamy must be placed.
A FIGURE OF SPEECH.
MR. REID: “No matter what I promised, Deakin, I must offer a stout resist-
ance because I’m built that way.”
London Times, in reference to the working
of the German increases of tariff
Coincidently there has been an influx of workless
miners from Austria, and of crowds of starving Russian
refugees ; but so healthy is the state of the labor market
that, according to the reports of the public employment
bureaux throughout Germany, there were, last March,
only an average of 1009 applications for every 1000
vacancies. The mining, iron, clothing, building, and
farming industries are particularly mentioned as afford-
ing abundant employment.
The country that can show an average of less than
101 applicants for every 100 billets is a place where
lack of employment has been reduced to a mini-
mum.
Three Tory candidates and one Labor man
came forward for dead J. F. Levien’s seat of Bar-
won in Vic. Assembly. They were Gurr, once
famous as the baldest man in Parliament, and an
inept Minister of Education when Peacock was
an inept Premier ; Levien, a son of the crafty old
politician; and Farrar, who' stood down to let
Levien, senior, win the seat at the last election.
The Labor man was Trades Hall Sutch. Premier
Bent went to Geelong to arbitrate, and
Farrar was chosen. Local feeling was mostly
in favor of Levien, chiefly out of regard for the
old man who pulled so many hidden wires to
oblige his constituents. Levien swallowed his
mortification, but his barrackers used language
about Bent. The election, of course, resulted in
the return of Farrar, who is a nonentity and
would eat grass out of the hand.
An exhibition, organised by London
Daily News, was opened on May 2 in Queen’s
Hall, London. It was unique in its way, being
an exhibition of the sweated industries of Free-
trade England. There were 22 stalls, each de-
voted to an industry and occupied by two
workers, and each article, when completed, was
ticketed with the price paid to the worker and
the time occupied in making. Very few panned
out 2d an hour, and from that deductions had to
be made for material. Among the worst of the
“sweated” occupations were the making of
“ sassiety ladies ” fal-lals and the folding of
Bibles and prayer-books. Into the saddening
spectacle an element of humor was introduced by
the exhibition being opened by a royal princess,
with a large following of upper-crust women and
rich clerical nobs.
Sydney has had an experience similar to
that of Ballarat (24/5/’O6), in regard to the unre-
liability of Italian marble. The lamp pedestals
in front of the G.P.O. are cracking and crumbling
on a large scale. If the Australian marble
couldn’t do better than that, Australians wouldn’t
take the trouble to quarry it.
Premier Price (of S.A.) and his colleagues
are said to be resolved to ask for a dissolution of
the Assembly this session if the Council refuses
to pass the Bill for the extension of its own fran-
chise. It is hard to see, however, what they will
gain by it. They can certainly force a section of
the Councillors to go to their constituents also,
but it is hard to see what they will gain by that
either. The Assembly electors (there are 188,000
of them) will send Price and his party back as
strong as ever. The Council electors (52,884 pro-
perty-holders), being asked if they want to share
their privileges with others, will answer “No”
by sending back the same old Councillors. Then
each House will say that its constituents endorse
its action, and things will be where they were.
The remedy then will be in a Bill to abolish the
Upper House and a stoppage of supplies—a
national strike—if the Council doesn’t pass it. A
refusal to vote supplies, which would mean the
temporary stoppage of railways and the disband-
ment of the police and civil service, would make
the propertied classes climb down within a week.
The refusal of members of the Australian
House of Reps, to listen to those long, dreary
speeches about nothing in particular which are
called the “debate on the Address-in-Reply ” is
one of the most cheerful of recent happenings.
It indicates a dislike to mere words that promises
well for work. And the velocity with which the
work of distributing the States into new elec-
torates was rushed through keeps up the promise.
A frequent lie of the Sydney Freetrade press was
that the Deakin Government would evade the
redistribution in order to do another outrage on
Ma State by depriving it of a member. When
the re-distribution was made the first business of
the session, the only thing that could be said was
that Deakin had had the worst intentions, but
public opinion had driven him to do the right
thing, or that he was “dictated to by the Labor
party.”
“Philo ”
writes
Frank T. Bul-
eri, in his re-
cent lecture
on “ The Way
They Have in
the Navy,”
said : “ When
they are in a
hot place in
England,
you’ll be in a
hotter place
here. Take the
advice of one
who loves you
and get a navy
of your own.”
An d Bullen
ought to know.
In speaking to
him at the con-
clusion of the
lecture I as-
sured him of
my agreement
with his senti-
ments. “ Yes,”
he said, “but
they don’t
seem to realise
this great ne-
cessity. We
have to keep
on driving,
driving it into
their heads.”
And he em-
phasised each
of the last half-
dozen words
by driving his
k'nuc k 1 e s
against the woodwork of the doorway. Now, did he mean
this as a simile, and did he suspect what material the
head of Kelly, M.H.R.. is made of ?
It is stated that the Labor caucus in S.A.
wants Representatives Batchelor, Boynton and
Hutchinson to stand for the Senate against Baker,
Playford and Symon in December next. They
would then run weaker men for the present Labor
seats with good hope of success. All the same,
the suggestion is pretty rough on the sitting
members (Batchelor, Poynton and Hutchison
aforesaid), who would probably be returned uno P'
posed for their old districts, while they would
have to put up a great and gory fight at the Senate
election.
Premier Seddon, of Maoriland, was a
stupendous toiler in his life time, and when he
died the Australian House of Reps., with a huge
lot of work ahead of it, could think of no better
way of honoring his memory than by wasting a
day and loafing. A logical Premier would have
said : “ Mr. Speaker, out of regard for the great
dead we will do as he would have done had he
been alive—have an extra-long sitting and try to
do two days’ work in one. All his life he was
trying to do two days’ work in one, and he would
think it a poor compliment if anyone loafed to
show respect for his memory. He was the sort of
man who would like people to break stones in his
memory, or to pound hot iron with sledge-
hammer for the repose of his soul. Mr. Speaker,
out of regard for the statesman who has passed
away, I beg to move that this House works like
Sheol with the lid on.”
NATURAL HISTORY.
Items of Life." — PROF. GUENTURR.
And when George Reid...!
Why does a
hunted cat
make its fur
standout? So
as to appear
bigger than it
is, and thus
intimidate the
attacking
party. When
the turkey-
cock gobbles
and inflates
himself he is
caperingawar-
daneedesigned
to frighten and
intimidate an
adversary. —
“ Darwinism
and the Pro-
To a Sydney City Council request that it
should be given control of the city theatres—at
present lack of effective control causes serious
danger to the public—Premier Carruthers re-
torted, with a characteristic ha-ha, or hee-haw,
and suggested that if the City Council wanted
new responsibilities it could take over the Pyr-
mont bridge. Of course the Council should have
the bridge as well as the theatres ; but it’s more
important that it should control the places of
amusement. Carruthers’ sneerful offer of a con-
trol which would cost a good deal, firing in no
revenue, and effect practically no reform, is a poor
sort of answer.
A CHEAP AND NASTY NOTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Arguing in favor of the free importation of foreign rot,
Senator GoUld said “they had no right to increase the
cost of living,"— Debate, on Address-in-Reply, Australian
Parliament.
Fetch along the potted poodle
Canned as sheep!
Let Us eat the whole caboodle
At a sweep!
We should not be over hasty
In demanding what is tasty,
Everything goes in the pasty
If it’s cheap!
Eat the offal from the Yankee
Rubbish-heap!
Drink imported doctored swankey—
Drink it deep !
Wear imported tweeds —all cotton !
As to whether it is rotten
That’s a fact to he forgotten
If it’s cheap!
That’s the drie arid drily question—
IS it cheap ?
Never ask, as a suggestion,
Will it keep V
To achieve an estimation
For a doubtful importation
That’s the one consideration—
.ls it cheap ?
As to quality, you’d better
Keep asleep!
That’s the notion, to the letter !
Pretty steep !
That’s the side that perfect joy’s on,
Feed your little girls and boys on
Any kind of potted poison—
If it’s cheap.
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.
HICHAED SEDDON,
aged 61.
Me wAs a Great and Good Man.
Go Thou and Do Otherwise.


YOU Get Our Good Boots.
WE Get Your Good Will.
t? CALLAGHAN BOOT
In fine Glace Kid, to button or lace,
stylish patent caps, pointed or medium
toes.
It can’t be beaten for 15/11
/ ■
POST
FREE
16/6
DUTY
FREE
including West Australia.
We exchange Boots or Shoes, or we refund money if
desired; you can therefore see and FIT ON our
goods without being compelled to buy.
FOR
LADIES.
to
■ •«
'
/
k
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Sena for our ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE-Postea Free.
wAK
6^7
a
L'JT.ww
BOOKS *
WORTH
READING
THE £ SOO BOOK SANDY’S SELECTION By STEELE RUDD.
With 40 Illustrations by the leading- Black and White Artists of Australia.
•< 4 Press unanimous that this is one of the Best Australian Books ever published
st , ate !?, e " fc of the life of an Australian selector, it rings true.”-Ti.E Daily Telegraph
Syuxey Heral". " Wth interest b >' the “any admirers of this promising autho“ H E
d0 M, e , fcter than to fill yourselves up with the adventures of Sandy.”— The Queensland Grazier
there is something beneafli th^foolingf’t-—Melbourne^Leader! 18111 '^ 1^163 PreSented> bUt h * wHI UnderStMd tb 'ai
THE Z°ZZ F ™ E SEAS ™ STEVE BROWN'S BUN YIP
THLR STORIES, By JOHN A. BARRY. With Introductory Verses by Rudyard Kipling.
Price 2s 6d. Postage, 6d extra. 1 a
HOW Me DOUG ALL TOPPED THE SCORE
AND OTHER VERSES AND SKETCHES By THOS. E. SPENCER.
With Portrait and 12 full-page illustrations by Lionel Lindsay and H. W. Cotton.
Fu,/ Cloth, Price 3s. 6d.; Post Free 6d. extra.
o those in search of first-class recitations, warranted to “ bring down the house,” this book will be a godsend.
THREE YEARS WITH THUNDERBOLT
AMBROSE PRA TT- Illustrated. Price, Pager 2/6, Cloth 3/6. Postage 6d extra,
says: “The bushranging career of Frederick Ward (otherwise known as ‘ Thunderbolt ’)
command^he y s E? mt . S ° f lnterest - Ward’s daring and recklessness, not less than his consummate horsemanship,
h sto /y t 0 Persons who love this kind of reading. Mr. Pratt loses no opportunity of bringing out
adventures I 'on ” Thunderbolfc ’ s ’ character, and treats with much dramatic power his "varying
OTHER BOOKS HAVING AN EXTENSIVE SALE ARE- I
CONQUEST,” by Rata. Illustrated. Price Is, post free 1/2.
it P/l/CDrAi the colored races captured the world. Forecasts the blacks rising in South Africa.
rfl Vt hALL., by Porter. Illustrated. Price Is, post free Is 2d.
°9vv S oon'o^!i th a S v^ ODS o£ th / e so , c * alist i° element. This story, in America, reached a total sale of
250,000 copies. Edward Bellamy (author of “ Looking Backward ”) wrote that “It is one of the best
stories ever written.” uuso
FOUNTAIN PENS. Value for Money.
; • quality vulcanite case, fitted with heavy 14-carat gold nib (guaranteed!
mdmrn tipped and twin feed Equai to any guinea pen on the market,
NlBS. —Fine, Medium, Broad.
Thousands of POST CARD ALBUMS, POST CARDS, and BIRTHDAY CARDS
.. stocked. Send for Lists.
book reviewed, noticed or advertised can be supplied at bedrock prices.
Kindly address order THE CASHIER,
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO.
476 George St.,
Sydney,
'CUtfZ
Refiners and
Sole Manufacturers of
ESTABLISHED 1884.
SAN FRANCISCO, and 117 Pitt St:, Sydney
MALTHOID ROOFING
NOT THE SAME AS OTHER ROOFINGS.
j;cl > •; .<
the roof of &
vanised Iron
ing and see
the inside of
LOOK INTO
building covered with Gal-
on a cold winter’s morn-
the water running down
the roof.
THE CAUSE
is condensation; the cure is Malthoid
Rooting instead of iron. Malthoid is a
non - conductor and moisture - proof,
made from a pure mineral.
“Ifit is not seemly, do it not; if it is not true, speak it not. •
—Marcos Aurelius.
WILLIAM BALDWIN
W. S, FRIEND & 00.,
JAMES W. JACK,
NORMAN & GO.,
e. t. Harris,
HEDLEY BUTTON,
BRISCOE & CO,, LTD.
Aust. Rep (
Sydney, N.S.W,
Wellington, N.Z.
Adelaide) BiA.
Townsville, Q.
Launceston, Tas.
Melbourne) Vic.
JAMES MoEWAN & CO., LTD., Melbi, Viti*
JAMES SANDY & CO., Sydney, N;S.W,
JOHN BUIINS & COjj LTD., Auckland, N.Zi
G. L. DENNISTON, Dunedin, N;Zu
WILLIAM SANDOVER & CO.. Perth, W.A,
EDWARD Reece & SONS* Chch., N.Z,
E. L. YENOKEN & CO. Pty.j Ltd., Melb., Vic t
XT THOMSON, BRIDGER & CO., LTD., Invercargill, N.Z.
THE N.Z. LOAN AND MERCANTILE AGENCY CO.* LTD., Brisbane, Q 4
from ah
GkANPKtfERAS 1 \
Wife
'{ecurd.^^-
sfonortoobANl
ws
Illustrated Catalogue
Post Free on application.
NKOLEPHONES
The Worlds Triumph in Talking Machines,
From £3 lOs. to £12.
Nicolepbooc PiSc Records
ABSOLUTELY UNBREAKABLE. . .
AT GREATLY REDUCED PRICES.
THE MARVELLOUS DUPLEX RECORDS,
Containing TWO RECORDS ON ONE DISC.
lOin. m m 5/m each. 7in. • • 2/6 each.
THE UNIVERSAL SINGLE RECORDS.
lOin. • - 3/6 each. Tin. - - 1/6 each.
W. G. KING,
AGENT,
316 George St.,
SYDNEY.
PATENT TWENCENT
Incandescent Oil Lamp.
60 CANDLE POWER for Less than
ONE FARTHING PER HOUR with
ordinary Kerosene.
Complete, with Mantle
and Chimney, from 28s.
STAND and
HANGING
LAMPS.
m
Extraordinary
Value.
Best British
Manufacture.
s-'T'
JO
Complete,
from
18s 6d each.
DOES YOUR. LOCAL STOREKEEPER STOCK
THESE GOODS? IF NOT, WRITE TO s
Welsbach Light Co.
OF AUSTRALASIA
LIMITED,
439-441 KENT ST., SYPNEY.
OR
230 Flinders Lane Melbourne* Harold Colton & Co., Adelaide.
Perry Bros., Brisbane.


GOOD
BOOD
6000
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
6000
GOOD
GOOD
SUNLIGHT
LAUNDRY SOAP
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
600 D
GOOD
“GOOD ”
IS YOUR
WATCHWORD
8000
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
“MOTA” BRAND
Motor Car Spirits
Are the finest power spirits the world produce*.
Sold by all Motor Manufacturers,
Importers, Repairers, etc., or of
The BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD.,
Agents, Adelaide, Melbourne & Sydney.
Pratt’s Motor Car Spirit.
Highest Grade DpTRQI
American . . . r t I
ALWAYS UNIFORM IN QUALITY.
In stock at the Kerosene Stores of the COLONIAL OIL
COMPANY.
At all the Leading Centres of Australia and New Zealand.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ale & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt Bt., Fremantle. _
Bbewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
: 1 : ' ' ■
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Whispered that at least some of the ex-Players
are getting scared, and inclined to regard the Melbourne
Cricket Club as a sinking ship. Members of the N.S.W.
Association are said to have been approached with the
question whether abandonment of the Melbourne Club
will lead to the lifting of the disqualification. The loyalty
of the ex-Players to the Melbourne Club has not been in-
creased by the evident readiness of the Club to throw
them to the wolves when it suits its purpose to do so.
Also, the M.C.O. makes the ex-Players understand very
plainly that they are mere mercenaries, hired to do
certain work—and not allies. So they have no part in the
negotiations.
« « • *
After all, the Sydney Cricket Ground Trustees
proved a very tractable crowd of animals when Brother
Trickett took off his coat and started in to break things.
The fact was, that up to the date of the row with the
M. and the ex-Players, the Trust had been run by a
very small clique, and straight-going sportsmen like “ Old
Bill Lyne,” busy with what are, after all, more important
matters, had taken no part in the concern. The result
was disastrous. Consider the unholy mess things have
got into at the Cricket Ground. No wonder the Trust is
fighting tooth and nail to get out an English team. It
has hardly anything on view to encourage people to
become members of the ground. What is the
use of a Cricket Ground ticket at the present
time? The big Rugby matches are played at the
Sports Ground ; cycling is likely to collapse through
internecine warfare, and at least half of it will be carried
on at the Sports Ground next season for a certainty.
And now even the lawn tennis club is leaving the place,
so all the ticket-holders for next season are likely to get
is one first-grade cricket match every week, and a couple
of inter-State fixtures thrown in. The Trust may have
kept the ground well, but it has certainly done nothing
else, and the place that ought to be the site of the most
important sporting event of the week is a desolation, in
which a few score of people watch the Y.M.O.A. team
being licked by, a crowd of boys who haven’t the stamina
to play Rugby’foo'tball.
The cricketing position, as The Bulletin goes
to press, is very hopeful. The Melbourne Club has offered
to release the ex-players if the N.S.W. Association, will
join in with the club and other associations to bring a
team from England, and fight out the matter of a
Board of Control later on. And the N.S.W. Associa-
tion’s reply is a freezing remark that the Mel-
bourne Club is a Victorian institution, and the
N. Association can only treat with Victorian
cricketers through the Victorian Association. Of course,
the fact is that the M.C.O. is on its knees. Its
schemes have collapsed, and now, supposing it could get
the Marylebone Club drunk and a team started for
Australia, it could not be sure of getting even the Mel-
bourne Cricket Ground, of which it has quite lost con-
trol ; while it knows that it has no hope of Sydney
Ground, in spite of the well-known sympathy of the late
managing clique. As a matter of fact, the M.O.C. and
the Sydney Ground Trustees are about the only people
who want an English XI out here this season. The
Melbourne crowd wants it so as to. demonstrate
that it was only its overwhelming desire to get an
XI out that drove it to such contemptible tactics.
But for the accidental discovery of the fact that the club
had secured the services of the ex-Players, that part of
the business would have been kept a dark secret
till the XL was actually on its way, and then in
the interests of international courtesy the N.S.W.
Association would probably have had to back down.
Too many English XL’s are bad for cricket ; , they
serveto foster the spirit of professionalism,andoneinevery
five years is quite enough. Just at present, Vic. cricket is
not in a sufficiently flourishing state to make an
English XI. desirable; arid ihere in N.S.W. we have
to find another XI., for, no matter what happens, Noble
andco. will not be played. So, under the circumstances,
the Australian Board of Control should just sit Light and
decline to recognise the Melbourne Club as being alive at
all. If it doesn’t belong to the Victorian Association it is
dead, and no decent Board of Control has any right to be
fooling about with corpses. If it does belong to the Vic-
torian body, then the Association’s Executive Committee
will speak for it. In the meantime, no English XI. is
wanted here.
■*- * * •*
Eastern Suburbs and Glebe are at the top of the
Sydney Metropolitan Rugby competition with 11 points
each, and South Sydney and Newtown are formidable,
with 10 to their respective credit. Sydney and Univer-
sity are bracketed on the nine point mark, and after that
the list becomes uninteresting till Manly is reached, once
more at the bottom of the class. On Saturday the good
manners of the previous week had disappeared, and oppo-
nents addressed one another as “cows.” The lialmain
men played up splendidly against the first-class team that
Eastern Suburbs put into the field, and the first spell was
all theirs. Eastern Suburbs had to force frequently to
save the situation, and the first half ended with Balmain
leading by three to nil. In the second spell E.S. made
great efforts, but was repeatedly blocked. The Bal-
mainers punted beautifully, and followed fast. But the
inevitable opening came along, and like a flash E.S.
scored a try, which Messenger Eastern
Suburbs doesn’t miss opportunities easily. After that
Balmainers had to force, but came again, full of grit, and
raged on the Suburbs line. However, they failed to break
through, and were beaten by-two points in a game in
which most of the horiors were with the losers.
• '" *
Altogether it was a day of interesting matches.
University strove hard to get in .its passing charges
against Newtown, but the Newtown men came round the
scrum so fast that in spite of the strong wind behind,
them, the Uni. backs could do nothing, and were beaten
by nine to nil. St. George forwards put up a wonderful
game against North Sydney, whose back division played
equally well. On the other hand, St. George back division
might as well have been away playing skittles for all the
good it was, and North Sydney forward division seemed
to be present only to be trodden on. Under these circum-
stances, North Sydney was lucky to be beaten by only six
to nil. The surprise o'f the day was the stubborn' stand
made by the despised Manly team against South Sydney,
last year’s' premiers. Over and over again in the first
spell the Villagers had South Sydney struggling on the
line, and the premiers’ famous dribbling rushes were
stopped in great style. In the scrum Manly climbed all
over the premiers, but it was the backs of the South who
broke through the Villagers at the slightest opportunity,
and scored six to nil in the first spell. In the second half
Manly showed it is developing a back machine of its own,
and there were some pretty dribbling rushes, followed by
passing charges that were worth watching. One of them
went right through the premiers and scored. The gam*
eventually ended in a victory for South Sydney by 14 to
three, but the S.S. team had all the luck, and it looks as
though, in another six weeks’ time, things might easily be
all the other way. The Villagers are improving wonder-
fully.
The Glebe-Western Suburbs was a fearsome
struggle. Nobody thought W.S. had a hope, and against
the heavy, formidable Glebe men they were expected to
curl up like bacon in the pan. However, they declined
to curl at all, and pulled down the red forwards who
came rushing on to their line with a grim persistency.
It was a great proceeding. Fast as a Glebe man got his
feet against the leather a Western man sprang in, and
frequently both teams rolled together on the swampy
ground. Then right out of a most muddy scrimmage
somebody passed, and there was a scramble, a roar, and
a wild rush carried the ball right down to the Glebe 25,
where the red team piled its component parts on top of
it, and the mass writhed and swayed till a Glebe
forward kicked the ball out of touch. A Glebe
man secured it and streaked for the Western line,
and just as he reached it was dragged down. As he was
swung off his feet he tried to pass, but the Western
three-quarter sprang in, and intercepting, went past
the whole red team till the full-back scragged him. He
passed beautifully, but the taker was overtaken, and
thrown out of touch. More wild scrambling, and a hard
kick, which Glebe marked and scored from. This gave
the butcher-men fresh energy, and they whooped into
the Western 25, where they met as stern a defence as one
could wish to see. Man after man was pulled down by
the lighter team, and the line was repeatedly cleared
only to be swarmed on again and again, till at last the
Glebe got through, but failed to add the points. Then
Glebe having temporarily exhausted itself, Westerns
goc a rush on, and carried it clean over the
line. The shot at goal failed. The second spell, opened
with a series of charges, by both sides, all of which were
stopped till the Glebes worked down the touch-line and
scored three more. Getting possession, they tried
the same game again, but the Westerns replied
with a passing charge, only to lose the ball.
Getting possession again they hurled themselves
on the Glebe line, and after a wild scramble, in
which the leather flew backw'arks and forwards across
the field, a Westerner dashed through and scored. The
game ended in a victory for Glebe by nine to eight. It
was a great match.
* * * «
The British Association competition at Sydney
is headed by Pyrmont with the considerable lead of four
competition points, the club’s score being 14. Balmain,
Rozelle and Glebe are in the second position with ten
each, and after that Ultimo, Granville, Sydney and South
Sydney have six, four, two and nil respectively. That
sign of the duck is an impressive figure. In the Aus-
tralian competition, Newtown and Redfern are abreast
with 14 competition points, Sydney is in second place
with 12, and Balmain has 10. After that the figures are
uninteresting. The Y.M.C.A. and Paddington are at the
bottom of the list with two points each. Last year and
the year before Y.M.O.A. had a high position. What has
gone wrong with the good young men ?. Early piety,
presumably.
* * * *
The odor arising from the different, football
grounds round Melbourne gets even more powerful than
the voice of the barracker. Last Saturday the undefeated
Carlton team met Essendon, previously beaten by
“South” and “Saints.” The public expected a good
game, but the betting market in the morning told a dif-
ferent tale—2 to 1 on Essendon, with a goal and
sometimes two thrown in. The “ same old ” played
a fast, strenuous game, but as for Carlton—its
play is best indicated by the result : four goals 15
behinds to Essendon’s 10 goals 14 behinds, which, as
Euclid used to remark when the Athenians played stiff to
the Spartans, is absurd. The incompetence, or worse, of
two Carlton players was so glaring as to fix everybody’s
attention. A subject of comment was Essendon’s play-
ing of Thurgood. ; That club’s committee signified in
1902 that it wbuld never select the champion
goal-kicker again, arid, after standing down a season,
he went West. Returning last year he applied to
play for Collingwood, but the League refused a permit.
During last week the Club’s president stated in the press
that T. was not wanted—yet on Saturday he played,
and showed up brilliantly ; while the fool crowd, forget-
ting how it hooted him but four years back, cheered him
uproariously. The Fitzroy v. South argument was a mere
tussle, without actual bloodshed,.’Roy ultimately winning
by 62 points to 40. Collingwood had been upside-
down during the week. During its last few matches it
had been noticed that some of the players declined to
pass the ball to certain others, while one brilliant
“marker” was'afflicted with painfully slippery fingers.
On the Thursday evening, at the training-room, recrimi-
nations resulted in several healthy scraps, and when the
team filed out to play Melbourne it was found that four
of the leading men had been left out—for the present, at
any rate. As ’Wood beat Melbourne by 90 points to 46, the
result seems to have justified the committee’s action. In
the Association game West Melbourne still holds top place,
with only a draw to'its discredit, while Williariistovyn,
North, Footscray and Richmond try to keep within
coo-ee. On Friday afternoon, the youngsters of the C.E.
Grammar School settled the Wesley College infants by 55
- points to 44, on the East Melbourne:ground.~ Remember-
ing last year’s scuffle, the authorities had carefully
separated, the sheep from the-goats, as it were;
but the two forces collided ..in Flinders-street,
on the way home, and a pleasing little scuffle ensued.
One infant lost two teeth—which was the more regret-
table as the child was going to a dance that night, j It
was a notable scrimmage. Seeing the trains stopped,
Proputty evidently thought Socialism had arrived, arid
telephoned for the police.
* * * *
There is a frightful howl from the “Australian”
footballers over the selection of the team that is to play
Queensland. Boiled down; it is a cheerful indictment,
and'the selection committee is charged with favoritism,
incompetence, arson, bigamy, and prevarication. If
N.S.W. is beaten on Saturday, something horrible will
certainly happen to that selection crowd. On the other
ha.nd,’if N.S.W. wins, something will also certainly
happen to it—it will get drunk with delight at having
. defeated its detractors. The Rugby enthusiast makes
fairly nasty remarks about his selectors, but he is a meek
and mild sort of animal compared to the Australian-rules
camel.
* * * *
“Corinthian ” : I don’t think there is any occa-
sion for Australia to dust its hair and howl over its share
of the honors in the Olympic games (as suggested in 8.,
14/6/’66). Australia sent four competitors where some of
the other nations mentioned sent four dozen, or more,
arid it scored a point or two after all. With a fair show
it would have done very much better. The winner of the
Marathon (26 miles) was in Greece training for two
months. G. Blake, the Australian, was there two weeks ;
he was not allowed the use of the Ophir’sdeck for train-
ing going over; was not permitted to train in
the Stadium when he got to Athens; was
afforded no privileges at all. Yet after doing his
preparatory runs on soft ground, he was out
of sight of all competitors 'at 16 miles. So
far ahead was he, in fact, that the Canadian who won
afterwards admitted that he had given, up all hope, and
was running only for second place, when Blake’s legs
cramped as a result of his defective training. The Aus-
tralian sprint runner, Barker, was deliberately outed in
his favorite distance, and the Australian swimmer, who
has since knocked holes in the Olympic records, hadn’t a
chance of a decent swim after striking' Athens. Blake’s
chance in the five-mile was destroyed by the patriotic
Greek who stole his running shoes.. This runner has
beaten the Olympic time easily. The sports vvere managed
about as smartly as those at a butcher’s picnic, and many
of the American points are due to the Yanks imperishable
powers of bluff, while the Australians lost points through
having no manager to bluff for them.
The Bulletin office is inundated with corres-
pondence telling of the awful mismanagement at Athens.
In many of the contests the conditions were not
published, and were only explained by judges to the
competitors before the contests began, and where there
were several judges they often started wrangling as to
how the contest should be decided. In the swimming
contests this wrangle started after the competitors were
in the water, which was icy cold, and some of the men had
to retire and seek medical aid. What the Australians
complained most about was the lack of training facilities.
They were not admitted to the Stadium till a week before
the Contests. All the trainers and the only bit of ground
suitable for training operations had been secured by a
Yankee millionaire for the exclusive use of the Amurikan
contingent, which is the true Amurikan idea of “ sport.’
Even then the effect of eating the Beef Trust’s sausages
seems to have been too deadly, for, considering their
numbers, the Yankees did not do so very well. The track
at the Stadium was supposed to be a cinder one, but if
the accounts received here are correct, it was like racing
over the top of an ash-pit. The result was that most of
the contests degenerated into mere tests of brute
strength, and the times were all unspeakably bad.
* * * *
An American girl impersonated Annette
Kellerman for a time at the Olympia Games at Athens,
the other day. However, a crowd of Australians came
upon her and detected the fraud, and the supposed
Annette made a disappearance.
* * * *
Saturday afternoon saw another Sydney betting
club raided—the States Sporting Club this time. But it
was only a moderate bag totalling 26, and the loot is
understood to have been under £5. Now, when is Pre-
mier Joe going to swoop down on the big bookmakers’
clubs ?—or hasn’t he the pluck to do it ? Consider the
money there would be in it the night the card is called
on Sydney Cup 1
* * * *
Lacrosse players around Sydney are now nicely
hardened up, and the stick work is in some cases well
nigh perfect, as far as appearances go. Mosman and
Marrickville met at Petersham. This was one of the
games in which the stick work was not elegant nor
finished ; and the final score was Mosman eight, Marrick-
ville one. Balmain had two teams in the field, one of
which defeated Burwood, after a hard struggle, by nine
to seven, while the other was donkey-licked by North
Sydney—eight to one.
Naturally the game of the day was the tussle
between Balmain A team and Burwood, and the Balmain
captain, securing from the face-off, fed his homes, but
they failed to turn the pass to any account. The pre-
sence of one named Newman was a tower of strength to
the Balmainers. He was as full of tricks as a Chicago
meat operator, and played in a style that was
really brilliant. He drew the first blood, and
the other, side responding gamely, the first quar-
ter ended 'two all. The second quarter both sides
settled down to play the game as it ought to
be played, and then came one of the finest displays of
stick-work ever seen in Sydney. The equality of the
teams was amazing, and they scored goal and goal about
regularly. Second quarter ended four all. The third
quarter found the Balmainers playing much the better
game. The Burwood men seemed to suddenly tire or sro
off or something, and the Balmainers scored three goals
by three successive rushes. After that, the luck varied
for a while, and the game ended in a victory for Balmain
by nine to seven.
• « • *
Last week Edward'Tipper and Charles Connors,
the conductors of Melbourne’s chief two-up school, were
each fined £2O, with £5 ss. costs. This is the school held
in a big two-storeyed building in Market-lane, between
Bourke and Little Bourke. The constable who proved
the case slipped past the guardians of the Cumberland
Athletic Club, as the precious school is called, over a
score of times in four months. The fines were inflicted
on Thursday, but on Saturday evening the school was
running full swing as usual. One small fine in four
months won’t break a prosperous two-up academy.
• * * «
N.S. Wales bowlers, having wrestled with the
Liquor Act, have struck further trouble. Investigation
has proved the suspicion that some of the bowlers have
been on the straight instead of on the bias, which means
in bowls the opposite to what the expression would
mean in other walks of life. Every bowl played with is
supposed to be weighted on one side, and in consequence
to roll it straight means that the bowl will curve out
of the direct line. It is this “bias” which makes
bowls a game, and to play with “straight’’balls would
, reduce the pastime to the level of marbles. Yet in their
j lust after trophies some of the bowling cult have des-
i cothled to subterfuge and deceit. The mischief is that
j ho adequate system of easily testing the. bowls has been
\ introduced, and in their wrath the bowling community—
i mostly fat and anti-Socialistio—threatens to turn for
refuge to the security of a Government stamp on its im-
plements of warfare.
r * * » *
The entry for the veterans’ sculling match on
the Parramatta River has been cut down to nine—the
other applicants being refused as not sufficiently qualified
for such an event. But the accepted are real “ old ’uns.”
: Beach, Kemp, M‘Lean, Clifford, Green, Laycock, Rush,
Pearce, and Reynolds, all champions in their time.
* » * *
Larry Corbett’s story in N.S.W. Bankruptcy
Court is no encouragement for the young man to go to
the bike for a living. His professional career lasted
JO years and his total winnings were under £4OO. And
Corbett as a rider is reckoned superior to the average.
The one bright spot in his cycling career w'as when he got
£6 a week for fancy riding in a vaudeville entertainment.
If an ambitious youth turns to the bicycle for a living let
him learn to ride the implement wrong way up.
The interesting item in Sydney hurling, on
Saturday, was the City-Redfern match. In the first
round City defeated Redfern, and it was very confident
that it would repeat the licking. Having won the toss
and decided to play downhill, it seemed likely that it
would pile up the points so fast while it was fresh as to
get an invincible lead. But from the puck-off Redfern
secured, and carried the ball up the incline with a rush,
and scored promptly. Thunders of applause. Redfern
had splendid combination, and by a series of deliberate,
well-sustained charges scored again and again, till at
half-tame it was leading by 13 to 2. With the change of
ends City played frantically, but those systenused
charges by the Redferners—who seemed to be capable of
making the ball go where they liked, and kept it dancing
along their front—were irresistible, and they piled up
points till the whistle blew and left them winners by -3
to three. ,
• • * '
The Bulletin is beginning to have doubts
about the docility of the motor-car. It seems a fractious
brute that is liable to play the buckjumper or take the
bit between its teeth and fly off the handle, or do other
weird things, without the slightest provocation. Writer
went out in a motor-car last Sunday, and only the fact
that he had not been over the road before prevented hin-
travelling at somewhere about 40 miles an hour. As it
was, he was blowing along at somewhere about 15, which
is about the same rate as a Sydney electric tram. There
was a curve in the road. The driver turned the steering
wheel—or rather he tried to. It stuck, and next
•moment’ the machine had left the road, plunged
down the bank, banged into the fence, and ejected
everybody as the whale ejected Jonah. The part)
picked each other up, and then went back
to the beastly machine which was (standing on its head,
its engine snorting at the task of working in that
unnatural position, and the wheels racing for all they
were worth. Driver shouted “Whoa!” and “Heave
to!” “Belay there,” and “Avast!” But the wheels
whirred on, and then the boss, who had only bought the
machine two days before, swore fiercely, and turned off
the supply of petrol, which immediately oozed through
somewhere and caught fire. Then there was more
language, and the boss beat out the flames with his top
coat, and eventually the machine was got right side up,
pulled round by brute force, its nose pointed for home,
and the engine started. It went home quite quietly, and
the wheel worked beautifully. There was nothing wrong
with the machine when it refused to come round. It was
just a strike, with no time for arbitration.
••■ * *
Athletic trainer Sammy Goodman, who died in
Auckland (M.L.) t’other day, was a top-notch walker in
his time. Over two miles, he had no equal in M.L., and
a long list of matches resulted mostly in successes for
him.
• » * •
Dan Creedon’s last fight has a pathetic little
story attached to it. Dan’s mother kept a pub., but
things went down of late, and she had to sell out at a
ridiculously low figure. For some time she had been hard-
up-r-very hard-up—and Dari’s heart smote him. He re-
solved that it was up to him to find enough money to set
the “ old woman ” up again, and Dan knows only oneway
of earning money. So the old fellow went into training
and got on that match with Bill Smith in the hope that
he might pull it off and fixup the “old woman.” Dan
was all out of condition, and it is awful work taking two
stone off when you’re close on 40 and feel like 50.
But the thought of the “ old woman ” kept him at it, and
Dan lived a pure, righteous, and sober life for
a couple of months. He went into the ring full
of the hope that, having won the worst fight—against
himself—and got rid of that two stone of flesh, fortune
would not desert him against Smith. He knew that one
lucky jolt of the old sort would win the fight and the
“old woman ” the purse. But Smith knew it too, and
his long, brown left never gave the “old woman” a
chance. When poor old Dan threw in the towel a whole
mountain of hope tumbled with it.
* * * *
Further particulars to hand concerning the big
Dunlop Warrnambool-Melbourne road race. reveal the
..fact that among the prizes are no less than seven bicycles
of various makes, a cheque for £3O, and a £5 ss. gold
medal from the Dunlop Co., three pther cheques for two
and three guineas, and a bronze >rind enamel medal for
every rider who gets over the 109 miles in 10J hours. The
Dunlop Rubber Co. will, on application, post a card of
conditions, which contains a wealth of information on the
subject, to any cyclist free of cost.
(Continued on page Jfl).
Kemarkable Testimony.
A Newcastle Lady’s Experience, Twice Given
up by the Doctors, and Twice Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills Prove Successful.
Mrs. Elizabeth Lightfoot, of Lambton Heights,
Newcastle, N.S.W., relates a story which is
often told by women ; of suffering for years from
habitual constipation, dreadful headaches, general
debility, and subsequently from a bad leg. How
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills restored her to
health, and healed the running sores when
doctors’ efforts failed, is best told in her letter
which bears her signature, attested to by a Justice
of the Peace. “For over four years,’’ she states,
“I was in bad health and suffered dreadfully
from constipation, severe headaches, and general
MRS. LIGHTTOT.
(From a photo:)
debility. I took,, all
kinds of medicine, and
my doctor prescribed
for many months. He
could practically do
nothing for me, and
finally advised me to
take an opening medi-
cine regularly. I tried
many pills and reme-
dies,” but I failed to
g.dn any benefit be-
yond the temporary
movement of the
bowels. The local
storekeeper one day
advised me to try Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root
Pills. I had no faith
in pills, but I tried
them, and the first
couple of doses seemed
to have a wonderful
effect, I continued with them, and I can truly say
they gave me every encouragement. I soon
regained my strength and activity, and was free
from headaches and dizziness, and my system be-
came regular in every way. This all happened
about four years ago. Some time since, having
discontinued your pills altogether, I had a break-
ing out on my leg, which extended from the ankle
to the knee. I used various ointments, but finding
they had no deterring effect I consulted the
doctors, who treated me for some months, but
they failed to do me any good, and advised me
to lay up or go to the hospital for treatment.
It was only as a last resource that I thought of
your pills (having previously been under the
impression pills were only purgatives.) I com-
menced talcing them regularly, and gradually
my leg got better, and in a few months entirely
healed. This wonderful cure entitles them to
every credit for their blood purifiying and heal-
ing properties. I have since used them regularly
once or twice a week, and I have much pleasure
in recommending your pills as a household
medicine for children and adults, and especially
for mothers under all conditions. I am giving
this unsolicited testimonial as a debt of gratitude
to you, and you may use it in any way you wish.
—Mrs. Elizabeth Lightfoot.” Subscribed and
declared at Lambton, N.S.W., this third day of
June, one thousand nine hundred and five, before
me, George E. Hardy, J.P.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are not simply
purgatives. They contain more important
properties which act directly on the liver, kidneys,
and blood ; correcting, purifying, and restoring
the whole system to health and strength. The
many wonderful cures effected by these pills
have awakened the interest of all classes to their
curative, cleansing, and healing properties, and
to-day Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are the
family remedy, not only of the miner and the
artisan, but of the more wealthy, professional, and
independent section of the community.*


m
mil
hi ii
MR. HOWARD PAUL
The Finest Judge of a Cigar in England.
. uh “ < f e “ „ bee T n a debatable point, Who is the finest judge of a
c gar ni England? Lord Kitchener is considered to be a keen judge
of what a cigar should be, but it is generally admitted that Mr
oward Paul takes the first place as a cigar critic. Mr. Paul has
visited most countries where cigar tobacco is grown. Whilst in Cuba
he was the guest of Senor Alvarez, the former proprietor of the
np- Clay agar Factory. We have received the following entirely
unsolicited testimonial from Mr. Paul: & y
rou nd no more fragrant cigars in the Isle
of Cuba than your delicious ‘ Surabarangs. ’"
SOLID A.G-BITTS :
FELDHEIM, COTTHELF & CO., Sydney, N.S.W.
FOTHERCILL &. CO., Fremantle, W.A.
MR. DAN REDDAN, Fitzroy, Melbourne, Victoria.
Messrs. AULD & SONS, Adelaide, S.A.
Messrs. WHITE & CO., Hobart, Tasmania.
Mr. P. A. 0. BYRNE, Launceston, Tasmania.
Mr. DUNCAN McLEAN, Creymouth, N.Z.
[7
THE
ents
ii
of the
PIPE
are many, and its principle is the
most successful ever invented
‘or the benefit of smokers.
Nicotine is absolutely pre-
vented from entering:
enher mouth or pipe
bowl. Every pipe is
guaranteed.
0
‘MASTA’
smokes cool
and dry and to
the end of the
/' tobacco. The
bowls are made
from flawless briar-
wood , well - seasoned.
To be had in three
qualities from all tobac-
conists throughout the Aus-
tralian Commonwealth. Whole-
sale only from FELDFE.M,
GOTTH EL & CO., Sydney.
TEN JOURNEYMEN TAILORS
Constantly employed solely making COATS—NO FACTORY WORK.
The Best and Most Fashionable Goods, regardless of cost.
RESULT—Once a customer, you will always have your Suits made by
E. T. WALSH, Expert Tailor,
359 CEORCE STREET (opp. the G.P.0.).
SUITS from FOUR GUINEAS. Samples and Measure Forms sent to any address
WHY SUFFER FROM COED WEATHERS?
Wonderful Japanese Hand or Body Warmers.
The Finest Protection from Winter on the Market.
Thoroughly Practical. Absolutely Free from Danger.
PRICE
ONLY
2/6 EACH.
THESE JAPANESE HAND WARMERS are as wonderful as they are ('heap. When in use they will give forth a
delightfully soothing warmth of about 120 degrees. The heating power is produced by a .Japanese preparation,
which, when lit, smoulders away very gradually, giving out the warmth through the metal ease of the HAND
WARMER or HOT BOX. The Preparation is already made up
in Cartridge-shaped packages, each containing a sufficient
quantity for about four hours’ warmth. One of these
Cartridges is placed in the Case, lit at one end with a match,
and the lid put on. Bear in mind that there is no smoke, and
no smell whatever, and, as the preparation only smoulders,
there is NOT THE SLIGHTEST DANGER OF FIRE WHAT-
SOEVER. We positively guarantee this to every purchaser,
and assure you that our JAPANESE HAND WARMERS can be
placed amongst the flimsiest material, or in any position in
the pocket or elsewhere with absolute safety.
A REGULAR DEGREE Of HEAT MAINTAINED.
Our JAPANESE HAND WARMERS are a sure protection
against colds, chills, and other winter complaints, and of
priceless value to sufferers from pneumonia, bronchitis, neur-
algia, headache, toothache, chapped hands, &e. NEVER GO
OUT INTO THE COLD FROM A WARM ROOM WITHOUT
TAKING ONE OF OUR JAPANESE HAND WARMERS
WITH YOU. It’s dangerous. You may regret it. Our HAND
WARMERS are of special value to ladies and gentlemen engaged in light occupations, such as writing, sewing, etc.
or for keeping clothing or beds warm there is nothing on the market so effective. Supersedes entirely old-fashioned
bricks or hot bottles which soon get cold.
USED AND RECOMMENDED BY DOCTORS.
Can be carried in the pocket, muff, or other convenient part of the body, or can be used as a Foot Warmer. Does
not burn. Measures only Gin. x 3in., lin. thick. The metal case is protected entirely with velvet. Fresh Cartridges
of the Fuel preparation can be obtained from us at any time at the trifling cost of 4d. per packet of 10 Cartridges, or
sufficient for about GO hours’ warmth. Thousands of these JAPANESE HAND WARMERS in use. Must be seen to be
appreciated. Write for one before the winter is any further advanced. Money refunded in full if not in every way
satisfied. Price, only 2/6, post free anywhere, with package of 10 cartridges of necessary Fuel pfeparation.
Extra supplies, 4d. per packet of 10.
=* =
SPECIAL OFFER ’
To introduce these HAND WARMERS, we will present, absolutely free, to
anyone sending- us an order for not less than six, one of our grand ELECTRIC
POCKET LAMPS which we sell at 3/9. If you order 12, you can have two of these Lamps, or one of our first erade
ELECTRIC POCKET LAMPS which we seli at 7/6.
A. J. SMITH & CO., 6 Moore Street, SYDNEY.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMM'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coußhs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR.
ETTES. So'd by all Chemists.
TIME.
Write for
• • •
Our Illustrated
Sale Catalogue.
Sale Commences MONDAY NEXT,
JUNE 25th, and ends JULY 21st.
*
CARRIAGE: PAID on
All Goods excepting
Furniture and Floor
Covering', jz?
COUNTRY BUYERS are thus able
to buy at SYDNEY SALE PRICES.
■
as®
'
f?ji
sm
■ ■■ -
The Country Postman brings our
Goods to Your Door.
DAVID JONES a.CO,
Opposite G.P.0.,
SYDNEY
The jubilee of Responsible Government
in New South Wales found four of the officials of
the Parliament of 1556 still alive. Since then one
of the quartette, James Hugh Palmer, has
passed over at 89 years of age. Palmer came
to Sydney in 1841, and joined the Parliamentary
staff in 1843, the year when the first election took
place. He learned shorthand from the original
Gurney, and was counted the father of steno-
graphy in Australia, jig, retired on a pension
of £321 Bs. 6d. after a service of 41 years. The
three remaining officials Are still in harness, two
in Sydney and one in Brisbane.
The cable brings news of the death in the
Cold Country of Dr. James Stewart, who pitched
his hospital tent on 'Black Hill Flat, Ballarat, in
1853, and reaped rich fees at a time when nuggets
were more plentiful than coins. He was a fortu-
nate mining investor, and was one of the heaviest
shareholders in the* famous New North Clunes j
mine when it was paying monthly dividends of
£-1 per share. It kept this up for several years,,
and after Dr. Stewart had shaken all but the gold !
dust of Australia from off his feet and re-pitched
his domestic tent in London, his income from this
mine alone is put down at £40,000 a year. He
was a, member of the first Ballarat municipal
council, but for more than 30 years he was an ab-
sentee who knew Australia only as the magnificent I
source of his wealth, : and the place that was too
foolish to make him pay an absentee-tax. I
Captain Crone died the other day at
Wairarapa (M.L.), aged 74. Many years ago he
commanded a schooner trading between Australia
and Maoriland, and brought over the first batch of
diggers to Otago. He was a nephew of the chief
Police Commissioner of Denmark, and a cousin to
Boer General Cronje. Luckily the latter relation-
ship escaped notice a few years ago at the time of
Maoriland’s wild-beast Jingo fury, else the old
man would probably have been thrown over-
board.
That weary cold-tea bird, Albert Bruntnell,
has at last found rest for his travelled feet. He
has been appointed general secretary of the New
South Wales Alliance. Albert, who was once of
the Salvation Army, and has all the ear-marks of
a Good Man, ran in the Carruthers interest a bad
second to tlie Owe’Sullivan at Belmore last elec-
tion —the one at which Holy Bunker (no —Brun-
ker) passed out, likewise W. N. Willis, Haynes,
Sleath, Dick Meagher and so many other cele-
brities.


WEDDING
mmmm
SK«IK
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESERVE DISH, Pure Silver-
plated, cut crystal glass, 255.
Other styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s
6d, 15s.
OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE WILL
PROVE AN INVALUABLE HELP, AND AID
YOU IN MAKING A SELECTION.
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel-mounted
STAND, Oak Base,
TOBACCO JAR and PIPE
20s. Other styles, 27s 6d, 355.
SB
a 7
A. SAUNDERS.
Walnut CABINET CLOCK, 8-
day, strikes hours and halves, I7in
high, 17s 6d. Other styles, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s 9d.
WG"
WE PREPAY ALL EXPRESS CHARGES TO
ANY PART OF AUSTRALASIA, WHICH
MEANS A BIG SAVING TO YOU.
Z&Jyrst
WX2
gSggg
mm
WOP
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAKFAST CRUET, pure silver-
plated, cut crystal bottles, 12s
6d; other styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 15s
6d, 17s 6d.
PRESENTS
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver SEWING COM-
PANION, comprising 4 articles, in
silk-lined case, £2. Other styles, 15s
6d, 18s 6d, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Automatic CALL BELL, pure silver-
plated, richly embossed, 12s Gd. Other
styles, 4s Gd. 255.
YOU MUST
BE
SATISFIED
The very widest
range of choice, and
the very highest
quality at prices
idiSS THAN ELSE-
WHERE.
Our Guarantee is'
YOU MUST BE
SATISFIED.
All Goods sent
POST FREE to
any address in
Australasia.
A. SAUNDERS.
CRYSTALITE SPECS, 3s 6d; Pure Pebbles, 4s 6d, 7s Cd 10s
English Gold-filled Frames, 12s 6d, 17s 6d, 21s; Solid Gold, 255, 30s
We ask you at your leisure to pay a visit to our Optical Rooms and have
your sight carefully tested by a skilled Refractionist. Examination and advice
Free. If unable to call, send for Home Eye-test Chart, sent post free'
SEND
FOR IT
NOW.
Our Illustrated
Catalogue enables
you to shop
leisurely and con-
veniently in the
privacy of your
own home.
Write to-day.
You will receive
it by return mail.
You assume no risk
when dealing
with us.
A. SAUNDERS.
SHAVING HUG, pure silver-
plated, 20s. Other styles, 13s
6d, 15s Cd, 17s Od, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent. V Nickel SHAVING COMPANION, com-
prising Mirror, Soap, and Hot-water Bowl,
Brush, and Paper-clip, on wooden base, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
POCKET BOOK, Morocco Leather,
pure silver mounts and lock, 12s
6d. Other Styles, 5s 6d, 7s 6d,
8s 6d, 10s 6d, 15s.
Sydney
|.r
'oil*',
' ; " 11 i■' :: |
A
1
zssx&Sb
111
A. SAUNDERS.
SALT CELLARS, cut glass, solid
silver mounts, and spoon®, in silk-
lined case, 12s 6d. Heart-shaped, 13s
6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
FLOWER EPERGNE, pure silver-
plated, opal Venetian glass, 30s.
Other styles, 15s 6d, 20s, 255, £2.
2~
A. SAUNDERS.
COLLAR STUD BOX, pure silver-
plated, satin finish, richly pierced, 4s 6d.
Other styles, 5s 6d, 7s 6d.
ra
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE BASKET, pure silver-plated on nickel
silver, richly embossed, serrated edge, £2 10s.
Other styles] 20s, 255, 30s, 355, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid silver HAIR
BRUSH, finest white
bristles, 15s 6d.
Others, 12s 6d, 17s
6a, 20s.
I
V‘ \
A. SAUNDERS.
PHOTO FRAME, solid silver, cabinet
size, richly embossed, 10s 6d Other
styles, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
m
S—*4
m*m |p
W/V/
A. SAUNDERS.
DINNER CRUET, 4 cut crystal
bottles, pure silver-plated, 255.
Other styles, 15s 6d, 17s 6d
21s,' 30s.
Jt^cMyndMA
•M
Y -,r
las
A. SAUNDERS.
Jam Spoon, Butter Ivnite, and Sugar Sifter,
solid silver, mother-of-pearl handles, gilt bowls,
In silk-lined case, 30s. Other styles, 255, 355, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
English Oak SUGAR BASIN,
China lining, pure silver-plated
mounts, 15s 6d. Extra mounted,
17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Handsome Gilt Bedroom CLOCK, tinte-d
enamel dial, Onyx base, accurate
timekeeper, 12in high, £2 ss. Other styles,
12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
FIELD or MARINE GLASSES,'
sharp definition, with leather
sling and ease, £2. Other
styles, 20s oc: "
A. SAUNDERS.
AFTERNOON TEA SPOONS and
pure silver-plated on nickel silver,
Other styles, 7s 6d, 10s 6d, 15s 6d,
TONGS,
12s 6d.
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
English Oak CRIB-
BAGE BOARD and
Card Drawer, pure
silver-plated mounts,
15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Leather Travelling ROLL, fitted every
convenience, 20s. Other styles, 10s 6d, 12s fid,
15s, 17s fid, 20s, 21s, 25s, 30s, 35s, 40s.
Ladies’ Crocodile Leather PURSE, pure silver mounts
and lock, im tan or green, 8s 6d. Other styles, 4s 6d,
63 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s Od.
Oak PEPPER MILL,
pure silver-plated mounts,
Si 6d. Others, 10s 6d,
12s 6d.
Gent.’s TRAVELLING CO M-
PANION, comprising Brush,
Comb, and Mirror, 10s 6d.
Other styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
CEREBOS SALT
CASTOR, pure Silver-
mounted, 3s 6d.
Others, 3s 6d, 5s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Presentation CUTLERY SET, comprising set
3-dozen each Dessert Sind Dinner Knives, best
Steel, £2 5s. Extra Mounted, £2 10s.
carvers,
Sheffield
SYDNEY'S LEADING JEWELLER,)
SILVERSMITH, and OPTICIAN, )
A. SAUNDERS
( 809, 81 I, 813, 815, 817)
( GEORGE-STREET, j
Opp.
Railway
Station,
Sydney.


m
ass,
1
mm
;>®m
mmam
y
-—
~ T, ~
1
£?W
sm.
i' $;, .
fwpr ',' A -^:«
«am’.4 ' > >■■.'**.■.l
se
wie&’Si
.
c*hl. ■
-V
—IT -"“S’ ' t ' J
'■t/
.
n-'’.vN«i *V*9ifA
sMsP.' . •'
*
.
■‘it ■
tetters
lak in
ķ
are made in Australia by Australians for Australia, under patented inventions which
you cannot obtain in any other Pianos. And they are expensively made—and, what is
more, they are most expensively made in the very parts which do not show- The
public demand the best that is reasonably obtainable / the merchant demands the
cheapest, always cutting out something that he thinks the buyer will not give him credit
for—things the buyer can neither see nor know. Our aim and object in selling direct
from factory to user is to give the buyer all possible points in his favor - Necessarily,
this costs money, and so, we repeat, BEALE PIANOS are expensively made , We use
only the very best materials / we employ only the highest skilled artisans, each man a
specialist at his particular work . AH this means money . BUT, in selling direct from
factory to user in Australia, avoiding 20 per cent. duty, freight, exchange, European
agent’s charges, and the importer’s enormous profit, we make enough saving to cover
this expense, and the price to the consumer for absolutely the Best Pianos on the
market is no more than he would pay for second-grade imported goods.
SEVEN THOUSAND BEALE AUSTRALIAN PIANOS
ARE NOW IN DAILY USE.
A FACT MORE ELOQUENT THAN ANYTHING WE CAN SAY.
BEALE & COMPANY, Ltd.
474 Georg'e St., Sydney.
107 Swanston St., Melbourne.
10l Brisbane St., Launceston.
Branches and Travellers Everywhere.
207 King' St., Newtown.
127 Rundle St., Adelaide.
615 Hay St., Perth.
Catalogues and Circulars FREE for the Asking.


V
y ‘ >■
HarryOL We
“Give us your ‘butt/ if it*s a CAPSTAN! ”


Let’s go to Queensland!
CAIRNS
5
Brisbane
Sydney
<t> Perth
DaUym
dTrt
DhMt e
Windy"
Co\d t W?t
fr«>2 i n£
Adelaide
MeLBOUR
Tasmania
6 New
Queensland makes Sunny Winter.
The Tourists* Ideal Trip in Winter is to
go aboard the Mail Train at Sydney or
Melbourne, and waKe up in Sunny
Queensland.
Write to the Queensland Railway Department,
Brisbane, for full particulars.
FIRST-CLASS RETURN FARES.
SYDNEY and BRISBANE - . . . £6 0
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON - - - lO O
MELBOURNE and BRISBANE - - - 12 O
MELBOURNE and ROCKHAMPTON - - 14 5
‘BRISBANE and TOWNSVILLE - - - 9 15
‘BRISBANE and CHARTERS TOWERS - - lO lO
‘BRISBANE and CAIRNS - - - - lO 17
including Saloon Fare by Turbine Steamer from Gladstone to Townsville.
0 0 0 0 0 0 ®


mk
m
(W
“Yes, that’s the stuff! It’s Marrickville j I grew it!
MARRICKVILLE TWEEDS
ARE PURE WOOL. * *


Winter Trips to North Queensland
FOR the months of May, June, July, and August,
tourists or those seeking an equable climate and mag-
nificent scenery can be thoroughly recommended to
take the trip to Cairns, North Queensland. The scenery on
the way there and round about Cairns stands unrivalled. The
famous Cairns-Herberton Railway, a marvel of engineering
skill, runs from Cairns over the ranges past the celebrated
falls to Chiilagoe, with its wonderful copper mines and lime-
stone caves. The Cairns-Mulgrave Tramway Line also
takes you through some typical Northern scenery. Cairns
is an ideal resort for the invalid, for the tourist, and pleasure-
seeker. Australia has not any winter trip to compare with
it. The round trip from Melbourne to Cairns and back can
be done in 27 days, Sydney to Cairns and back in 20 days,
Brisbane to Cairns and back in 14 days.
0T
S.S. GABO,
*l*s
"V.
View from
The Barron
r~
Stony lUtyi i
Creek
Palls.
Bridge.
Cairns
Railway.
FARES
For Further Particulars apply to ....
A.U.S.N. CO. LTD.
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD.
ADELAIDE S. CO., LTD.
Offices at BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE,
Agencies at All Ports. FREMANTLE.
Tickets are interchangeable subject to conditions
to be ascertained at various offices.
By Magnificent vSteamships.
The Red Bluff.
% T ■ M '
■zJW:
mm-'' \l
m
wn*
?.1V -
0:
•■*;
yv. \
Barron F»Mr in Flood. 700 Feet.
PIHM
TRIP
r
Dj?T£
jIND
MBlfr
vSTMM
ships
—/^7— *■
Jet**
S.S. MARLOO.
S.S. WVANDRA.
Fig Tree,
Atherton.
Cairns
Railway.
I#''
n
m
m
The Gorge.
Cairns Railway.
Stony Creek Bridge.


Shipping.
LUND'S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONnmvr
Ton 8
Steamer.
WILOANNIA .. 4953
*GEELONG 7954
6611
Commander. i Sails.
7‘i? - Ju ngham • • 'July 6
hj. Ilbery .. Au<>-. 3
H. G. Thomas .. Sept. 14
. . _ , *Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Week thereafter.
LONDON .. „ 1R , „„
CAPETOWN and NATAL ... „
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Ilf “m-strte G t ENTS ' SANDBMOn* T%O
S“»«»™ “StowHi l l°bo lU ' S 4ca
wS".oSiS LlB ' GILCHRIST * SANDER
Banking.
The Bank of flustralasiaT
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital £1,600,000
Reserve Fund. 1,250,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors.. 1,600,000
£4,450,000
London Office: 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
AMES HELLICAR,
Superintendent.
THE
Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 413,240 15 0
,Reserve(in Govt. Stock, £43,435) .. 48,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and (.he Kast
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. : Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities,
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLI .MS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,920,210.
Policies Issued 98,461—Assuring £29,270,925.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,503,272.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Hon. J. F. Bußxs°Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of IjeuiZealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000
_ UNCALLED CAPITAL isoo^OO.
CRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
The Bankof |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner Ceorgre & Bridge Streets.
Manager— Local Director— JAMES BURNS, Esq.
, ( Messrs - Burns, Philp & Go. Ltd.)
CAPlTAL—Authorised £7OO 000
Paid-up .. £lOO,OOO
Uncalled . .. 250,000
Reserved Fund .. [ 20,000
(Invested in Government Stock) J £370 000
f \ ET A [\l Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs
Bright & Go.), Sir John She, Lt.-Gol. Burns (Burns!
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, 1). Clyne ; Adelaide. W. N.
M‘Farlank ; Brisbane, A. Hamilton Hart ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J.ALLEN General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
DALGETY & COMPANY
LIMITED.
Capital Fully Subscribed
Capital Paid up
Reserve Fund ...
<£4,000,000
.£1,000,000.
£165,000.
Head Office — 96 Bishopsgate St.
Within, London, E.C.
BRANCHES:
VlCTORlA— Melbourne and Geelong.
NEW SOUTH WALES —Sydney and Newcastle.
QUEENSLAND —Brisbane, Rockhampton & Townsville.
WEST AUSTRALIA— Perth, Fremantle, Kalgoorlie,
Geraldton, Albany, Carnarvon and Roeburne.
NEW ZEALAND— Dunedin, Christchurch, Wellington
and Napier.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— AdeIaide and throughout the
South East.
This Company makes Advances on, and conducts the
Sale of, Land, Stock and Station Property, and receives
for Sale in London or any of the markets‘of Australia or
New Zealand consignments of Wool, Skins, Hides, Tallow,
Frozen and Preserved Meats, Grain and Dairy Produce of
all descriptions, and carries on a Financial, Shipping,
Insurance, Indent, Merchandise, and General Agency
business.
JXT. ID. L.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
slir.2. •K 2555 .a is*
Leaving- MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
mw mS Ev 7!?"I via NEW BRITAIN,
NEW GUINEA and MANILA to HONGKONG KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
*WILLEHAD, 4761 tons .. 7th JULY.
*PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons.. 4th AUGUST.
*PRINZ SICISMUND. 3300 tons.. Ist SEPTEMBER
♦Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities - Maximum Speed.
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
ssriS?*"- For tarth "
& CO.. 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
The Royal Bank of Queensland
7, / /IF F'f’
limited.
Capital Paid-up £457,538 10 0
Reserve Liability ok Shareholders .. 175,812 10 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 66,000 0 0
0 0
-.v , £699,351
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
„ _ LONDON OFFICE: 31 BRIDCE ROW, E.C.
17 Branches m Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the. II or/d.
TH€ »B€RD€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetoivn, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
•Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
D° n <Jon From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and, Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
ft
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
MEDIC, to Sail on or about
13th JULY,
AFRIC, SUE VIC, PERSIC,
and RUNIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown .. .. £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
and (Jompaut/, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
O f'-'EiVTC'IC S.S. Co. A. A. LIMTI (via SAN FRANCISCO).
THREE-WEEKLY FAST MAIL SERVICE run in conjunction with the Most Luxuriously Equipped Trains
anci Atlantic Steamships in the World.
SHORTEST LINE FASTEST TIIVIE TO
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN AND EUROPE.
I* ARES TO ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-CLASS LINE.
R.m S. SONOMA, 6200 TONS SAILS MONDAY lIIIV o
For Full Particulars and Illustrated Matter , send or apply to— ’ L 2.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
WINTER
BOOKING PLANS for the
“Moresby’s” three Winter
Cruises, on May 7, July 7,
and September 7, are now
open. 'On each trip she will
be away about 53 days, and
will visit the Solomon
Islands and S.E. New
ĸ
CRUISING.
Guinea, calling at Brisbane
both ways. This cruise will
cost you £2s—there are no
extras; your home on the
ship the whole time. Will
you send us your address,
so that we can post
“Holiday Hints”?
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
Banking. Public Companies. &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security. -—-
FAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
cs»
$
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
3NT.S.-W.
fflont O'e Pete
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAIGrH ST., 74, SYDNEY
and 17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
4^Tm4T 412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £9O qoo 0 ft
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £2O 000 0 0
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. •
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
BEST PRESENT FOR
THE BOYS!
fTIHE New Wizard Gy-rotary Top.
, Spins in any position, upside-down,
sideways, on the pedestal, l or runs along
a wire. Complete with pedestal, string,
and full directions ; only 1/- carriage
paid. Send stamps of any State.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
SIZE
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
TELE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE NEW TURBINE STEAMER,
MAHENO,
SAILS JULY 9.
EXCURSION TO CANADA.
A Journey of 16,000 miles on Sea & Land.
Cheaper than any trip being offered
in Australia.
FOLLOWING SAILINGS—
AXT G. 6, SEP T. 3.
£3T Send for Illustrated Pamphlets Furnished Free.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG,
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter)
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond !
(a good catch), One Sheei of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
FIRE HAS NO TERRORS!
CAPITAL, £1,900,000.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £500,030.
ANNUAL REVENUE, £300,000.
Fire has NO terrors that Fire
Insurance cannot quell.
Put the South British on guard!
GEO. 11. MOORE, Manager.
CHAS. T. METCALFE, Assistant Manager.
T J? e South British
FIRE and MARINE INSURANCE CO.,
12 Bridge St, Sydney.
S&lpptng.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Grantala, June 27.
S.S. Marloo, June 29. ,
S.S. Yong-ala, July 11.
BRISBANE,
MACK AY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.S. Wollowra, June 23.
S.S. Innamincka, July 7.
Jiest mid Cheapest Itoute to G old fields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
lVlessageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
trench Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
I ORI SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
Steamer
AUSTRALIEN
VILLE DE LA
CIOTAT
YARRA
Com-
mander
Verron
Etienne
Selliei
India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY,'£2S toils’
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
tor further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen s Corner, Pitt Street. Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
PETTYS HOTEL,
SYDNEY
decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will be
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed.
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET
C. W. CUPIT, Manager.
VISITORS TO R/IgLBOURIME
VVi " fl,,d every oimor and convenience at-
MRS- TOBINS.
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaoonsfield Parade
8r - K,LD A.
I and ±>esc-Appointed Boarding-house in
Charges mm-hT' ;^ mficent situation, facing Beach,
bv Dram wir a” than!lcens ed hotels. City, 1-hour
am. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
the (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality.
Hodern Appointments. noderate Tariff.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
W ,n^?H, E ’ S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Rai way Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Daj', or from
2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Olarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 1013. ,*^CATERER
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
Visitors to Melbourne
Neale’s Temperance Hotel
(Tankards)
LONSDALE STREET (Next Law Courts;
is the handiest place to stay at. Being- close to Railway-
Stations, Theatres and Wharves ; and three minutes’ walk
from G.P.O. Bedrooms on Ground Floor if desired.
Board and Residence, 4-s. 6d. per day; or from £1 per
week. Telephone 1640.


Amusements.
ENTENARY HALL, YORK ST., SYDNEY.
Manager .. .. Mr. R. H. COLLINS.
For Limited Season, commencing SATURDAY, JUNE 30,
Re-appearance of the
FISK JUBILEE SINGERS
and their Wonderful
THAUMATURGIC TABLEAU of Moving Pictures,
Introducing during Season
’FRISCO IN RUINS, after the BIG ’QUAKE and FIRE.
Star Attraction, First Programme.
A TRIP OVER THE CANADIAN AND PACIFIC
RAILWAY.
PRICES—3s., 25., Is. Plan at Elvy’s. Day Sales
White Rose.
Rep., FRED. DAWSON.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
1 Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mil. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
Brilliant Reception of MISS LILIETH LEYTON, who
with Mr. HARRY KENDAL, scored an immense success in
their original comedy, “ THE ORDER OF THE BATH.”
Enormous Success of LITTLE CLIFF.
Enormous Success of OMEGA, Queen of the Wire.
Also, O’NATIS TROUPE of Wonderful Algerian Jugglers.
Continued Enormous Success of BLAKE and GRANBY.
THE SISTERS WARNER, MISS NITA LEETE,
FRED, BLUETT, IRVING SAYLES, ALICE FANE.
QPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
HOMER B. MASON and MARGUERITE KEELER,
Comedy Artists, in the Comedy, “ HOOKED BY CROOK.”
LAROLA, Funny Man, Funny Ways.
SLADE MURRAY, Comedian, Descriptive Vocalist.
VASCO, the Mad Musician, plays 27 Instruments.
MDLLE ALEXANDRA, MASTER BERTIE, Noveltv Act.
Plan at Allan’s. OS’ PRICES—3s, 2s fid, 2s, ,Is.
AUSTRALIAN AXEMEN’S CHOPPING CARNIVAL,
Fitzgerald Bros.’ Circus Building, Melbourne.
£225 12th, 13th, & 14th JULY, 1906.
ir* Prizes. PROGRAMME :
CHAMPION STANDING BLOCK CHOP, 56in. Logs.—
First, £25 and Gold Medal ; second, £10; third, £5.
Entry 10s.
CHAMPION U.II. CHbP, G2in. Logs.—First, £25 and
Gold Medal ; second, £lO ; third, £5. Entry 10s.
U.H. HANDICAP QHOP, 62in. Logs.—First, £3O;
Second, £l5; third, £5. Entry 30s. ; no acceptance.
S.B. HANDICAP CHOP, Sfiiri. Logs.—First, £3O ; second,
£l5 ; third, £5, Entrv 30s. ; no acceptance.
INTERSTATE TEAMS MATCH, 3ft. Logs.—First, £10;
second, £5 ; Entry 10s.
D.H. SAWING MATCH.—First, £10; second, £5; Entry
10s.
PALING SPLITTING COMPETITION.-First, £10;
second, £5. Entry 10s.
BLACKBUTT TIMBER. Entries to
C, E. ELY, Toora, South Gippsland.
E. ERSKINE SCOTT, Business Manager.
Amusements.
TWO LAST NIGHTS !
TOWN HALL,
JUNE 21 and 23,
MARIE NARELLE
CHESTER FENTRESS.
CONSTANCE BRANDON-USHER.
See daily papers for Programme.
PRICES —55., 35., 25., and Is.
Plan at Paling’s.
FREDERIC SHIPMAN, Manager.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
BLAND HOLT’S Spectacular, Sporting, & Military Drama
FOR ENGLAND.
SAT. NEXT, JUNE 23—IN SIGHT OF ST. PAUL’S.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s and Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
EVENINGS, at 8. WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON, at 2.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
—in
THE LITTLE MSCHUS.
Box Plan at Paling's. aPRICES AS USUAL.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Sole Direction of WILLIAM ANDERSON.
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 23,
Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON presents his latest attraction,
CZERNY,
“ A magician most profound in his art.” —As You Like
It , Act V., sc. 2.
An Entertainment of the Highest Class, REFINED,
ARTISTIC, HUMOROUS.
PRICES—3s., 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
FRANK TALBOT, Treasurer.
GEORGE MARLOW, Business Manager.
Tell
Your
Husband.
was w
That
Bald
Spot.
Are
You
Sensitive ?
Are
You
Sensitive ?
it s no use pretending that you are not sensitive about it—because you are, aren’t you?
Aren t you looking older than you can afford to ? Why do you still neglect it ?
Don t you know one of the many thousands who have testified to the wonderful
hair-growing merits of
CAPILLA
is a Medicinal —Antiseptic—Curative—HAlß FOOD, which
cures the cause of the trouble and gives the scalp the power to produce
strong, healthy hair. It doesn’t matter how bald you are, provided a
“ slight down ” exists on the scalp CAPILLA will positively produce hair
—or I will forfeit £lOOO.
CAPILLA is sold everywhere, 1/6 and 2/6 a bottle, or I will post the
full course on to you (under cover) for 17/6. Advice on all Hair troubles
free of any charge. Correspondence or personal interview invited.
"W. O. RICHARDS, Inventor, 106 Pitt St., Sydney.
Amusements.
lUEW THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
THURSDAY, JUNE 21, FRIDAY, JUNE 22, LAST TWO
Performances of DEATH OR GLORY BOYS.
SATURDAY, JUNE 23,
Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON'S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION in
the'Successful Nautical Drama,
HANDS ACROSS THE SEA.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ 1 Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
GREAT SUCCESS EVERY EVENING,
America’s Foremost Comedian, MR. WILLIAM COLLIER,
—in—
ON THE QUIET.
As played by Mr. Collier upwards of a thousands times.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. EDWIN GEACH.
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 23,
THE WILLOUGHBY WARD COMEDY CO., including
MISS GRACE PALOTTA,
in the World’s Greatest Laughing Success,
THE MAN FROM MEXICO.
PRICES—Ss., 35., Is. Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’, and
The Grand. MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY.
HENAEUM HA LL, MELBO U R N E.
Under Direction of EDWIN GEACH.
BRILLIANT SUCCESS, EVERY EVENING,
WEST’S PICTURES,
THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.
THE BRESCIANS,
ORCHESTRA AND SINGERS.
To Dramatic & Variety Companies.
r| TO LET, the Hall of the Tirana Mechanic’s
JL Institute and School of Arts for the two
nights of the Show of the Tirana Pastoral and
Agricultural Society, August 7 and 8. Minimum
for the two nights, £7 Ids. Tenders with cash
deposit, £5, received up to July 1.
ALFRED HACKER. H >n. Sec.. Urana.
Music, Songs,
Phonographs,
Violins, Etc,
O'
Weekly
EDISON Pay-
Packing; Free to any address.
Terms extended to Householders only. Send for
CASH CATALOGUES.
EDISON GOLD-MOULDED RECORDS
(Cash only), price 1/9 each. Trade Supplied.
ALBE3RT & ®O3XT,
Largest, Best and Cheapest Music Stores in Australia.
137 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of the famous
BOOMERANG MOUTH ORGANS.
YOUR FORTUNE FREE
mO introduce iny unerring Astrological System.
JL throughout Australia, I will for a limited
time send you FREE an Astrological Horoscope
of your life if you will send-me your name;, date
of birth, sex, if married or single, and penny
stamp for return postage. My Horoscopes are
most wonderful revealers ;. business matters, love
affairs, speculation, legacies, all correctly re-
vealed. Thousands of delighted patrons all over
the World.
PROF. EDISON, 225 B. Street, Binghamton, N.Y., U.S.A.
Please stamp your letter to me with a 2Jd. stamp. i
HANDSOME AND STYLISH
WARE mME BROOCHES
CHEAPEST AND BEST
Note
the Low Price,
only 2/6
Post Free to any address, with any Name or any Three Initials*
A Present any Lady will be Delighted to deceive.
'T'HESE tableful W re Name Brooches have become so poru-
■*- lartJintour Wire A rti.-t has imported from America the
very latest and bes i lam and n ater als. and can thus produce
much more Styl'sh and Subs'antial Brooches and Pins
th m have h therm be n offered n AU't.ra'm an at greatly
reduced prices GENUINE GOLD-FILLED WIRE is used
and the De igns are verv graceful and attractive. The
Pr ces. you w ll notice are about half the rates usually
charged. Fne Pc und Wire, only 2s. 6d.; Heavy Tw.sted
Wire, 4s. 6d. ; if mounted on P-- rl Tablet, 2s. add tional ;
Heart or Bell Pendant, Is. 6d. additional ; Novel Initia Hat
Pin, 2s. Gd. The prices include postage. Mo? ey returned if
not satisfactory. S< nd Posiai Not* sof eny Slate.
Please mention this paper when ordering.
The Union Mfg. & Agency Co.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Go.
Corner LITTLE COLLINS & ELIZABETH STS.,
MELBOURNE.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
_ to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following lines
at greatly reduced prices to clear :
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip. Usual price, £6.
Sale Price .. .. £3 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality treble wedge fast .Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Hammerless Double-Barrel Breech-loading
Guns, special high-grade trap gun, fitted with
treble wedge fast cross-bolt, left full choke,
right modified, and latest improvements, safety
indicator. Usual Price, £lB. Sale Price, £lO 0 0
6 Single-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, top action,
best quality barrels, choke bore, pistol grip,
walnut stock. Usual Price, £3. Sale Price .. £1 12 6
The Baden-Powell Rifle, fires 8.8. Cartridge to
kill at 100yds. Usual Price, 17s. Od. Sale Price £0 8 9
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders, top action, wal-
nut stock, choke bore, with cartridge machine'
and cleaners complete. Usual Price, £5.
Sale Price .. .. .. .. .. .. £2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridge. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price £0 13 9
6 Single-Barrel Muzzle-loading Guns, walnut
stock, twist barrel. Usual Price, 255. Sale
Price .. ' £0 15 0
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge ss. per 100
Smokeless Cartridges, 7s. 6d. per 100
8.8. Caps, 9d. per 100
Shot, 2d. per lb. Caps, 2d. box.
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
SPIRO Powder SPIRO
A BOOM FOR HOT WEATHER
KILLS ALL ODOR OF PERSPIRATION.
NO MORE SORE AND ACHING FEET.
DOES NOT STAIN ANYTHING. EASILY APPLIED.
1/3 per box to any part of the State.
Grand Views of Niagara Falls Given
Away to Purchasers.
Australasian Agents AMERICAN HYGIENIC
AGENCY Ltd., 177 Liverpool St., Hyde Park, Sydney.
Distributing Agents for Victoria — Grant, Bradley &
Co., Fulham Place, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Distributing Agent for Queensland~-ALFR.ED Moon,
37 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Distributing Agents for West Australia— P. Falk &
Co., Ltd., Henry Street, Fremantle.
FREE SAMPLES, ALL STATES, ON APPLICATION.
i MELBA ACCORDEONS
k
ĸ
k
ķ
Produce the
most . .
delightful
musie.
They are
easily learnt
N o know-
ledge of
musie being
required to
become a
skilled
performer.
NEW 1906
MODELS
With 1,2, 3, or 4 sets of reeds, six, eight or ten
fold double and triplo Bellows with metal bound
corners, and all latest improvements.
Prices from 7/6 to 26/9.
Packed and delivered free to any Post Office or
Railway Station in Australasia.
Ask for our 1906 Illustrated Catalogue. We
will send it Post Free.
ALLAN & CO. Propy. Ltd.
276-278 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Y. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collection of his best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price, 4s. 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
STOCKTAKING CLEARING SALE
NOW BEING HELD.
EVERY DEPARTMENT REPRESENTED.
Large Reductions throughout the Warehouse.
Price List and Catalogue on application.
Every care will be taken in execution of ORDERS BY POST*
NOW BEING HELD.
BUCKLEY & NUNN, Ltd.,
300-310 BOURKE STREET
MELBOURNE.
Among the effects of the late Macdonald
Patterson, Queensland and Commonwealth
Parliamentarian, sold by auction the other day,
was a line specified as “45 gallons of whisky.”
Small wonder the quaint old man had many
callers. In his house the bottle could hardly
run dry.


LEMON WHISKY.
WHAT IS IT ?
subject of this article, for several important reasons, should be given preference over
I ordinary whisky. It is less intoxicating, yet more satisfying, and is therefore destined to fill
JL a great wane—a beverage suited to persons of temperate habits, yet not teetotallers—a
stimulant which strikes the happy medium between ardent spirits and the mawkish soft drink.
Lemon Whisky supplies this want ; it is at once a stimulant, a luxury, a food, and a medicine. A
happy combination of all the qualities which are essential to an ideal beverage.
The ingredients used in this preparation, although simple and familiar to everybody, possess most
important medicinal qualities. It is not a mysterious chemical compound ; it is simply a scientific
preparation of ripe lemons, pure whisky, and specially refined cane sugar. It is guaranteed to be
absolutely pure, containing no adulterants whatever.
We invite our readers to carefully note what medical authorities have to say about the ingredients
contained in this unique beverage ; the authorities quoted are the best known and the highest in the
world ; their opinions cannot be questioned.
LEMON JUICE.
Dr. Robert Farquliarson, late lecturer on Materia Medica at St. Mary’s Hospital Medical School,
etc., in his work, “ A Guide to Therapeutics,” p.p. 208-209, says:—
“ Lemon juice has some important therapeutical properties unexplained by any action it possesses
over the healthy organism.
“ There is no doubt that persons afflicted with chronic rheumatic pains may often derive benefit
from taking a tablespoonful of this agreeable remedy two or three times a day with their meals.
“ The occurrence of scurvy on board ship is now looked upon as a clear indication that the regu-
lar administration of lime or lemon juice has been neglected, and that the crew has been attacked by
a painful and dangerous disease, the absolute preventability of which experience has amply confirmed.”
The same authority points out “ that citric acid, from which most of the so-called lemon prepara-
tions are compounded, is in no degree antiscorbutic.”
Ic will be interesting to here mention that, by an Act of the British Parliament, every ship
sailing from a British port must provide at least loz. per day of lemon or lime juice for every member
of the crew.
In the “Companion to the British Pharmacopoeia,” 1899 edition, p.p. 400, we find: —
“Lemon Juice —medicinal properties—refrigerant; when diluted, a particularly useful bever-
age in the prevention and treatment of scurvy ; relieves thirst in febrile and inflammatory affec-
tions. In acute rheumatism, to 1 pint daily.”
Dr. Heinman, speaking on this subject said: —“You cannot take too much lemon juice, the
natural salts of which act as a solvent on uric acid in the blood, the cause of so many painful
maladies.”
WHISKY.
We will now say something concerning the whisky contained in this preparation.
Dr. Robert Farquharson, while deprecating its excessive use, states: —“A moderate quantity
of alcohol stimulates the mental faculties, and is often beneficial to weakly persons by giving tone
to the digestive organs and aiding the due assimilation of food. It is of great service to dwellers in
large towns, and others whose mode of life involves much mental strain.”
In the “Companion to the British Pharmacopoeia,” 1899 edition, we read:—“Alcohol.—
Medical Properties : Internally a powerful diffusable stimulant, especially cardiac; mildly anti-
pyretic, diuretic, diaphoretic ; used in states of acute disease characterised by excessive debility,
as in typhoid, acute pneumonia, and influenza, in insomnia of old people; as an aid to digestion,
more especially in the aged and feeble, and those exhausted by overwork.”
Dr. Robert Hutchinson, M.D., Edin., M.R.C.P., author of “The Principles of Food and
Dietetics,” says, pp. 324 : —“ Alcohol must be regarded as a digestive stimulant ” ; pp. 323 : “Diges-
tion is not merely a chemical process ; the movements of the stomach walls play a large part in it
also, and here the action of alcohol, in dietetic doses at least, is entirely favorable, for it has a won-
derful power of increasing the activity of the stomach peristalsis. Alcohol not merely increases the
Stomach movements ;it promotes very jjowerfully the secretion of gastric juice.” pp. 324 : “ Alcohol
in dietetic doses, 30 to 40 grammes (about two tablespoonfuls), taken before or during meals, actually
shortens the time required for the digestion of a meal by half an hour. The net influence, then, of
moderate doses of alcohol upon stomach digestion, even in health, is favorable rather than the
reverse, while in some conditions of disease its power of exciting the movements of the walls of the
stomach, and promoting the flow of gastric j uice renders it a valuable aid to the digestion of solid
food. The importance of these conclusions regarding the influence of alcohol upon digestion can
hardly be over-rated, for they explain much of the benefit often derived from the moderate use of
alcohol even in health, and still more in cases of disease.” „
SUGAR.
To complete our description of Lemon Whisky, which contains a considerable proportion of sugar,
it will now be necessary to inquire what are the effects of sugar on the human system. In doing so,
we cannot do better than again refer to Dr. Robert Hutchinson’s work, treating of the nutritive value
of sugar. On pp. 271 we find it stated that “refined sugar is to be regarded as a practically pure
carbohydrate; that being so, its food value must be high, for every gramme of it will yield 4T
calories of energy.”
“Itis as a muscle food that sugar is of special importance. We have already learnt (pp. 38) that
carbohydrates are probably the chief source of muscular energy, and sugars, on account of the ease
and rapidity of their absorption, are better calculated to perform this function than any other
member of the carbohydrate group,” Dr. Hutchinson’s treatise on sugar is too lengthy to be fully
reproduced in the space at our command ; we will therefore condense some of his more important
statements, which are as follows i-
“To Swiss guides and Arctic explorers, the value of saccharine has long been familiar.”
“Sugar is given to blood horses in order for sustain them in the trials to which they are sub-
jected.”
“Sugar has a notable effect in lessening muscular fatigue.”
“Yaughn Harley found that if he took 17ioz. of sugar per diem, his power of doing work
was increased 61 to 76 per cent.” .
“Sugar is a specially valuable food for persons who have to perform a single muscular effort,
especially if they are obliged to do so in a state of exhaustion.”
“ Extensive experiments have been made in the German Army, and it was found that the men
who were given ten lumps of sugar per day in addition to ordinary rations, marched better and
suffered less from hunger and thirst than their fellows not so supplied.. As a result of the experi-
ments, the surgeon in charge recommended that the sugar ration be increased to 60 grammes per
day.”
“ Certain rowing clubs in Holland found sugar to be a valuable food in training. The rowers
who used it always won, on account of their superior powers of endurance, and it seemed to counteract
the bad effect of an exclusively meat diet, so that the men did not become ‘stale.’”
We do not think it necessary for our purpose to quote any further from the overwhelming mass
of evidence at our command to prove to the satisfaction of our readers the great value of the ingre- j
dients used in the manufacture of Lemon Whisky. We have quoted sufficiently to show that it is
entitled to first place in the category of alcoholic stimulants, and that it, is beyond doubt over-
whelmingly superior to all other liquors.
It pleases the palate, aids digestion, cleanses the blood, quickens the circulation, creates energy,
and strengthens the powers of endurance.
These are not our own bald, unsupported assertions; they are the teachings of our greatest
medical authorities, beyond whom there are none to refer to.
After a careful computation of the component parts, the quantity it would be advisable to take,
according to expressed medical opinions, would be 10 to 20oz. (half a pint to a pint) per day.
IT MAY BE TAKEN :
Plain, in a wine-glass, as yod would take a liqueur. Diluted with cold water to taste. As a
summer drink. A wineglassful mixed With cold soda-water. A wineglassful mixed with a large glas|
of cold water, with your meals. „ For a winter drink, mix with hot water. It is doubtful whether
there is any better cure for chills and colds than Lemon Whisky, if taken hot and strong on going to
bed. For a sore throat or a troublesome cough, a teaspoonful undiluted at frequent intervals will
give great relief. .
Obtainable from all Hotelkeepers and Wine and Spirit Merchants throughout the Commonwealth.
LUCAS, LOCK, and CO., 24J Pitt-street, Sydney, are the Proprietors.
k A.
SSJJG
Bellevue Hotel, Brisbane.
BELLEVUE HOTEL
BRISBANE.
(Opposite Post and Telegraph Office, Parliament House, and
Botanic Gardens.)
CONDUCTED on Continental system—no Meals, no charge,
when previously advised. The Hotel has been thoroughly
renovated, and Ladies’ and Gents’ Bathrooms and Lavatories
on each floor added. Three minutes from the centre of the
town, and yet in the quietest locality. Porter meets all
trains and steamers.
W. PETERMANN,
Also Imperial, Toowoomba. Proprietor.
1
n
IEIIIiTII
VISITORS TO
THE OLD
COUNTRY
I
Queen s GaieTer race
London. S.W. j
UNDER
PATRONAGE^,
ROYAi
THE MOST
FASHIONABLE
HOTELS IN j
LONDON
NOTED FOR
ITS COMFORT J*
CONVENIENCE
More Effective than
an Electric Belt I!
This MEDICAL BATTERY is ten
times more effective than ANY electric
belt, and five times cheaper. It is a
genuine Medical Electrical Battery
specially made to cure
Nervous Diseases and
Debility, Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Etc., Etc.
All ready for use—easy to use—costs little
for chemicals. Strong enough for a man
or weak enough for a child.
Price -35 s
Post Free.
Money Returned if you. are
not satisfied.
ĸ
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd.
“MV OPTICIANS,’
Opticians and Electricians,
393 GEORGE STREET (facing Royal Hotel), SYDNEY.
Have You a PHONOGRAPH?
%
If so, what are you paying for Records 1
COLUMBIA Gold Moulded Records
are superior to all others in Tone and
Durability.
PRICE IJ3 EACH -
Write for our New 72-page CATALOGUE, and
particulars of our exchange offer on old and worn
Records.
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO. (GenU
Australian
Headquarters
25 Ash StSydney, N.S.W.
FINNEY, ISLES & CO., LIMITED.
FOR WINTER WEAR . . .
A Man cannot do better than Order one of our Famous
40/-
“Big Block” Sflits
MADE TO MEASURE, in All-Wool
Tweeds and Pure Indigo Dye Serges.
Price -40 s.
40 j-
THEY FIT WELL. THEY WEAR WELL
POST FREE to any address in the Commonwealth.
EXTRA TROUSERS, 12/0 the Pair.
Send for Sample Patterns and Full Instructions for Self-Measurement.
B.o TH Blotk Edward & Adelaide Sts., BRISBANE
High
Class
WINES, BRANDIES m WHISKIES
IMPORTED DIRECT FROM
COCKBURN, SMITHES & CO., Oporto, Portugal— Finest Old Tawny PORTS.
DUFF, GORDON & CO., Jerez, Spain— Finest Dry SHERRIES.
JAMES HENNESSY & CO., Cognac \
A. DUBOIS & CO., Cognac f
PURE GRAPE BRANDIES,
In Hhds. and Cases.
JOHN JAMESON & SON
SIR JOHN POWER & SON
WISE’S (Cork)
BEN LOMOND (Special Highland)
SPECIAL OLD POT STILL
WHISKIES.
7 Years Old.
THE ABOVE FAMOUS
OLD POT STILL WHISKIES
made from Home Grown Barley, and thoroughly matured in bond, fulfil to the letter all ihe conditions laid down
by the court when giving judgment lately in the celebrated case—“ WHAT LS "WHISKY ? ”
HOGAN, nOONEY & CO.
Importers and
General Merchants,
MELBOURNE.
HOULOER BROTHERS & CO., Ltd.
Passengers Booked to
All Parts of the World.
STEAMSHIP OWNERS, FREIGHT CONTRACTORS,
SHIP, INSURANCE & CHARTERING BROKERS.
THE HOULDEB LINE STEAMERS.
Specially Constructed
for Conveyance of
Passengers, General Cargo, Frozen Produce, &c.
To and from AUSTRALASIA, AFRICA, LONDON, LIVERPOOL, GLASGOW, &c.
Steamer. Tons.
HORNBY GRANGE 3,750
OVINGDEAN GRANGE 3,700
(JRMSTON GRANGE 5,600
LANGTON GRANGE 9,200
DRAYTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) ... .. 10,000
ELSTREE GRANGE 6,000
ROYSTON GRANGE 6 330
Steamer.
BEACON ORANGE
RIPPINGHAM GRANGE ..
OSWESTRY GRANGE (Twin Screw)
THORPE GRANGE
HAVERSHAM GRANGE ..
EVERTON GRANGE (Twin Screw)
SOUTHERN CROSS
Tons
6.300
9,200
10,000
6,350
11,200
11,000
7.300
First, Second and Third Saloon Cabins situated Amidships. Excellent Light.
For full particulars, apply at the OFFICES OF THE COMPANY, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
12 Pall Mall, S.W., London. 14 Water-street, Liverpool. 30 Gordon-street, Glasgow. 337 Calle Cuyo, Buenos
Aires. 446 Calle San Martin, Rosario, Gran Dock, Ensenada, La Plata. Capetown and Durban, South Africa.
Head oriiec: .143 Leadenhall-street, London, R.G.
“ Algol ” : Was at an official dinner once
with the Education Department people. One
boss was dining so well that the bones on his
plate formed quite a mound. A subordinate
sitting next to him noticed this, and, leaning over
to him, gently said, “Put your bones on my
plate, sir.” One of the uses of a departmental
subordinate—to provide a plate for the boss’s
bones.”
“Hamer” : Be extraordinary unchristian
names (B. 26/4/’O6). I know a family afflicted
thus: —Australia Victoria, Longfellow' Thackeray,
Gladstone Beaeonsfield, Garfield Lincoln, Gordon
Khartoum, Shakspeare Bismarck, Alexandria
Tasmania, and Baden-Powell Roberts Kruger.
They call each other Ossie, Long, Gladdie, Garf,
Kart, Bissy, Tassie, and Baddy.
“ F.” writes :
Apropos vandals (B. 7/6/’O6). Many years ago, the
solitary policeman in Fitzroy Gardens (Melb.) at daylight
found many of the statuettes injured, with arms and kgs
broken off, and eyes gouged out. The wrecks were traced
to two well-connected men, who had been out on a howl-
ing tear. One was associate to a Supreme Court Judge,
and son of a very high law functionary. The other lofty
drunk was a clerk in the County Court, and brother of a
former Minister of the O'own in Victoria. The Judge
violently sacked his associate, and his father, the high
legal functionary, bought the misguided youth a slop out-
fit, took him to Sandridge, placed him on board a ship
going to ’Frisco, put a £5-note in the captain’s hand to be
given to the staggered immigrant on arrival at the Golden
Gate, gave him his paternal curse to go on with, and left
him. The civil servant had influence enough to keep his
billet on payment of damages, and he became a very sober
Minister himself in later years.


V
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the fame
diseases in 48
hours without
incon-
venience.
Each Capsule hears the name | w~
pr
BOVRIL
Supplies Energy.
Bovril gives Strength to Resist
Disease and greatly aids
recovery from exhausting
illness.
Pure Grape H.V.D. BRANDY
J. B. COOK, Ltd., 82 Pitt St., Sydney, cAgents.
f BRUNSWICK
( rr
ICE MACHINE
k
THE advantages of mechanical refrigeration are daily
becoming better known and appreciated. It makes
possible the preservation of food products and
supplies pure hygienic ice, and forever does away tfith
the lodgment of poisonous germs which accumulate in
wood or metal-lined refrigerators, that become water-
soaked and soggy from melting ice.
The “BRUNSWICK” ICE MACHINE has a
refrigerating capacity of from 2301 b. to 10 tons per day,
or in ice-making capacity from 1001 b. to 5 tons of ice per
day. It is so designed that it can be run with any power
—steam, gas, gasolene, kerosene, electricity, or water—
and a half horse-power is sufficient to drive the smallest
size. Full and interesting particulars and illustrations
will be forwarded on application to any address.
BUZACOTT & CO., Ltd., s °’° 7*9 Market St., Sydney.
Also Sole Agents for Sharpies’ Tubular Separators, Cyclone Cates & Fencing, ‘ Hercules ’ Oil Engines, &c.
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
jFr*
INSTRUCTION FREE!!
You can become a Hypnotist in a few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
sway the minds of others, control friendship
and affect iou, cure disease and bad habits,
gratify your ambitions and produce amuse-
ment by the hour. My mammoth Illustrated
Lesson or Key to Hypnotism which I send
free cf charge and postage paid, will tell you
allabout thi < marvelous science. It contains
beautiful and artistic engravings, and shows
you just what Hypnotism is and
what it will accompli h. Scndfor
it and learn to Hypnotize, fieiuember, this wonder-
ful book costs you nothing. If you men-
tion this paper, I will also include a large
package of other valuable, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance of a liferim**.
Write to-day. Address—
R. H. BARRADEN, a<j Pitt St., Sydney
ķ
BLOOO POISON.
FOR MORE THAN TWENTY YEARS
we have made the cure of blood poison a
specialty, Primary, Secondary or Tertiary
Blood Poison Permanently Cured. You can
be treated at home under same guaranty.
Capital 500,000 dels. We solicit the most
obstinate cases. If you have exhausted the
old methods of treatment, and still have aches
and pains, Mucus Patches in Mouth, Sore
Throat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spots,
Ulcers on any part of the body, Hair or
Eyebrows falling out, write for proofs of
cures. 100-page Book Free.
COOK REMEDY Co.,
1102 MASONIC TEMPLE, Chicago, U.S.A.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Oastlereagh
Street, Sydney.
5
ANTI-
BILIOUS
PILLS
| “I do not hesitate to say it is the best made pill in the kingdom.”—Dr. G. F. Collier, in the Pharmacopoeia of the Royal College of Physicians of London.
A FAMED AS A FAMILY MEDICINE FOR A CENTURY. Invaluable to every Mother of afamily. ||
LIVER TORPOR, STOMACH IS EIEI TROUBLES
From Docflors
Dr. J. BOND SULLIVAN
WRITES :
“Knock, Ennis, Co., Clare, Ireland.
“ Having recently got from you a bottle of
Kutnow’s Powder, from which I personally de-
rived much benefit, will you now kindly send me
a larger supply ? I really feel unsatisfied without
it myself, and I have recommended it to several
lady patients, who approve of it greatly. An aged
clergyman to whom I recommended Kutnow’s
Powder tells me he finds it both effective and
agreeable.
“ J. BOND SULLIVAN,
“M.D., M.R.C.S., Eng., etc.”
Dr. I. N. LOVE-, M.D.,
WROTE:
“ The great surgeon, Prof. Lawson Tait, M.D.,
himself a sufferer from a gouty diathesis, for years
found Kutnow’s Powder of great value to himself
personally and in his practice. Kutnow’s Powder
stimulates the activites of the bowels and kidneys.
It cleanses the bowels, acts as a diluent, and
flushes the kidneys in a most satisfactory way.
Thorough elimination is salvation, and there is no
better eliminator than Kutnow’s Powder.
“I. N. LOVE, M.D.”
(Professor of Clinical Medical Diseases,
Marion-Sims College of Medicine, and
College of Physicians and Surgeons.)
Dr. J. ABELA
WRITES :
“Tripoli, Syria, July 20th, 1905.
“Dear Sirs, —It gives me pleasure to let you
know the result of my trial of Kutnow’s Powder.
It is an efficient remedy in regulating liver
secretions and curing skin diseases due to dis-
ordered functions of the said organ.—Yours truly,
“J. ABELA, M.D.”
The Advantages of Kutnow’s Powder.
SIR JAMES CRICHTON BROWNE said that a prolongation of
life is not desirable unless that life be vigorous and happy.
Many of the quick-killing diseases that involve but brief
disability and suffering, like typhus and typhoid fever, are decreasing,
while slowly degenerative diseases, involving protracted invalidism
and much misery, like Bright’s disease, diabetes, and cirrhosis of the
liver, are mounting up. Society has always had to pay for every
mistake it makes, except when the habit of hygienic correction is
cultivated. PROFESSOR LAWSON TAIT, M.D. recognised the
importance of removing the debris of undigested food the morning
after the banquet, and not only prescribed Kutnow’s Powder in his
hospital and private practice, but used it personally for years with
unqualified success. The secret of health is often found in the
elimination of uric acid, and this is easily achieved by the use of
Kutnow’s Powder. It cleanses the stomach, rouses the liver, flushes
the kidneys, and clears the bowels. By this simple means the errors
of excess in diet and drink are corrected, and the poisonous debris
removed from the system.
How to
Detect Fraud !
The genuine and original Kutnow’s
Powder can be had of all conscien-
tious Chemists throughout the
world. See that the fac-simile sig-
nature, “ S. Kutnowand Co., Ld.,”
and the registered trade-mark
“ Hirschensprung, or Deer Leap,”
are on the carton and bottle. You
will then avoid fraud, and
Get Kutnow’s
Powder.
Dr. Leon Blanc
WHITES :
“ Aix-les-Bains,
“June 7 th, 1905.
“Many thanks for Kutnow’s
Powder you sent me for the Thermal
Hospital. It has proved equally
beneficial for my Rheumatic and
Gouty Patients, both in the hospital
as well as for those patients taking
the Aix-les-Bains cure.
“LEON BLANC, M.D.”
(Consulting Physician of Aix-les-
Bains, Physician of the Thermal
Hospital, Member of the Council for
Hygiene of Aix and Savoy, Laureate
of the Academie de Medicine de Paris,
Ac., Ac.)
From Clergy.
♦ ;
Rev. F. L. BULLEN
WRITES :
“ Wellesley, Church Lane, Highfield, '
“Southampton, Oct. 22, 1905.
“ Dear Sirs,—l have no objection to your pub-
lishing my testimony concerning the excellent
properties of Kutnow’s Powder. I can only wish
I had tried it years ago. In my case it has proved
to be an agreable and getitle aperient, cleansing
the liver and kidneys, relieving the brain of any
symptoms of pain or discomfort, and regulating
generally the whole organic system.
“(Rev.) F. L. BULLEN.”
Rev. F. G. RILEY, M.A.
WRITES :
“ Helperthorne Vicarage, York,
“May 13, 1905.
“ Dear Sirs, —I have given Kutnow’s Powder a
fair trial, and I may say at once that its action is
gentle and its effect all that can be desired. I
shall in future keep a store at hand for use as
required from time to time. The Powder is agree-
able to the palate as an excellent household
medicine. —Yours faithfully,
“(Rev.) FRANCIS G. RILEY, M.Aq
“(Sidney Suss. Coll., Camb.)” f
Rev. C. E. WINCOTT
WRITES :
“ Gentlemen, —About three years ago I was
confined to my bed for a short time with a very
acute attack of liver complaint. After other
medicines had failed to take any effect, I was
recommended by my doctor to try Kivtuow’s
Powder, and I am glad to say that after taking
two bottles I was completely cured, and my
health has been better ever since.
“(Rev.) CHARLES E. WINCOTT, k
‘ 1 Incumbent of St. Philip’s Church,
■ “Adlington Lane.”
SOLE PROPRIETORS: S. KUTNOW <EI CO., LTD.,
41. FARRINGDON ROAD, LONDON, E.C.
[3 — 9.1
At last the Vic. Education Department
discards the 30-years-old “ second reader,” which
lingered in use for years after the other “Royal
Readers ” had dropped into the grave. The new
book will be printed and bound in Australia, and
one-fourth of its articles will deal with Australian
subjects. So much is the good spirit growing that
even the Universities propose to discuss in confer-
ence the question of the local supply of books,
and the possibility of establishing an Australian
University press. At present most text books in
use come from the Oxford University press, or
the Pitt press at Cambridge.
‘ ‘ Snell ” : The testimony of the man in
the game : “I play football, I have been a bit of
a pro in the bike-pushing business, and I’ve
fought for purses, and all I’ve got to say is that
these men who’re howling about the brutality of
boxing are mugs. They don’t know; that’s what’s
the'matter with them, but they’re not content to
be quiet about it. Riding bikes hurts a man worse
than boxing; so does football, especially if your
luck’s bad. It’s not. a matter of mere surface
damage—that’s nothing, it passes in a day ; it’s
getting all out that pulls on a man, and you’ll see
cyclists and footballers carried’off utterly done-up
any time you care to look for it. If these croakers
are for abolishing all sports that call out the
last bit of go a lad’s got in him-—all right. That’ll
obliterate long-distance running and every game
that’s worth a tin tag. But they only yelp against
boxing ’cause they haven’t the sense to see that it
comes to pretty well the same thing whether a
man’s finished by giving and taking blows, and
stopping or avoiding, or by pushing a bike, or I
running ten miles across country. In a boxing |
match more care is taken of the competitors than
in any other game, but a little blood goes a long
way in a scrap, and that’s what frightens the
softies. I’ve seen a lad come out of a fight look-
ing like a Red Indian, blood from head to heel,
and then clean up to a small cut on the eyebrow
that didn’t trouble him more than a mosquito
bite.”


== Britisb=.flustralasian
1 BROAD STREET PLACE, LONDON, E.O.
Price 6d.
POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Managing- Director- - Mr. J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
Australian Representative, Mr. SAMUEL A. MILLS.
The British-Australasian is the journalistic
principle of connection between Great Britain
and Australasia.
It is the NEW SCHOOL in the develop-
ment of Australian thought. It gives Austra-
lian writers not only the benefit of Australian
circulation, but introduces them first-hand,
through its British circulation, to the teeming
millions of Great Britain.
The British-Austrai.asian is the Organ
? ; THE . AUSTRALIAN
LI lERARY CITADEL in London.
Original Australian articles dealing with the
growth, development and resources of Aus-
tralia are particularly suitable; also Australian
stories, sketches, verse, &c., &c.
RABBIT SKINS.
TO FILL OUR ORDERS WE REQUIRE
6,000,000 RABBIT SKINS
this Season, and are prepared to pay EXTREME PRICES.
IMMEDIATE RETURNS, NO COMMISSION.
Consign to— JAMES FAY, MCDONALD & CO.,
276 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
DUNKLING’S
WATCHES
Aro Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronographs
mnuwHue
No. I—-Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Guaranteed 2 Years,
£2 10s, post free. With Silver Case, £3 15s.
No. 2—Gunnietal Open-face Kevless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, with Minute Re-
corder (as illustration), Guaranteed 3 Years, £3,
post free. Silver Case, £4 10s.
No. 3—Gunnietal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
25 Jewels, Split Seconds, with Minute Recorder
Guaranteed 3 years, £7 10s, post free. Silver
Case, £lO, Open-face or Hunting.
Warranted to be the Best and Most Serviceable
Racing Watches made.
Bent Poet Free and Duty Paid to any Address In
Australia.
W. DUIMKUIMG,
315-317 BOIIRKE ST., MELBOURNE
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11,.,
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.'
Wholesale Agents:
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nioholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
25 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
The World's Favorite
Briar Pipe.
The Leading Pipe in Australasia
and all the World
For over 50 Years
- - Obtainable
from all Tobacconists.
gOLP-MouNTEP BACK COMBS
For the Dancing Reason.
SPECIAL DESIGNS by STEWART DAWSON & CO., The Jewellers.
C 2795
DEEP
C 2,793 3^DEEP
C 27 97 3-WIDES-DEEP
PRICE 35/-
C 27
EEP
x<
C 27Si
WIDE
SMSEP
PRICE2S/
THESE COMBS are very handsome-looking in wear, both for outdoors and indoors, and are a few of our
NEW DESIGNS for the Season. They are strongly made, and will give satisfaction in every way. You
will see these Combs on many of Sydney’s most fashionable dressers to day. Come in and see them. Don’t
trouble if you know you don’t want to buy; we won’t mind showing them in the least. We have others,
perhaps a bit less elaborate, for 16s 6d, 17s 6d, 18s 6d and 21s ; and others again at 32s 6d and 47s 6d.
Also specially fine Gem Set Combs for 67s 6d, 70s, 80s and 120 s. They are worthy of Inspection.
ORDERS BY
POST
CAREFULLY
EXECUTED.
POST FREE.
&
r
MONEY BACK
IF
WE FAIL
TO
PLEASE YOU.
WILL ANDRADE
BOOKS
AND
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition, Is ; post Is
3d. BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated '-Marri-
age Guide by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over f>o
engravings, genuine 1904 edition, hardcovers, im-
proved. Magic Up-To-Date, Is. Horse and Cattle
Doctor, 6d,, Donelly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, Is. Maria Monk, Is
6d. How to Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for ' THE Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous
Dialogue Book, 6d each. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat Gould’s Novels, 6d each,
posted Bd. Devil in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads,
etc., Is. House Painting and Papering, 1/3. How
to Play Billiards, Is. Georgette, Is ; post/ ls 3d.
The Cuckold, Is ; post, Is 3d. Britain for the
British, 6d. Freemasonry Exposed and Ex-
plained, 1905 edition, with key to all degrees, Is.
Cycle Building and Repairing, new edition, 190
illustrations, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Train-
ing, Is. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the First
Night, 1/3. How to Write Signs, Tickets and
Posters, Is 3d. Staining, Varnishing and Polish-
ing Wood, Is 3d. Electric Bells, 1/3. Boot-
making and Repairing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise:
Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal
Gustave, Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How To Vamp on Piano, Is.
Piano Tuning and Repairing. Is 3d. How to Make
Love, Is. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card
Games, Is. Picture Frame Making, Is 3d.
Poultry Keeping, Is. Dream Book, Is. Every
Man His Own Builder, Is and Is 3d.
NOVELTIES.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, Real Photos, 200
Kind a, 7s 6cl dozen, 3 for 2s.
ZINGARA CIPCY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS, LOVE, BUSI-
NESS, FUTILITY, &c., with full directions, 1s ; posted 1/3.
I
V.
Free Catalogues:
No. I—Plays, Reciters,
Make-up, etc.
No. 2—Conjuring-Apparatus
and Books.
No. 3—French Novels in
English.
No. 4—Books for Presents.
No. s—Useful & Mechanica
Books.
No. 6—Books for the
Married.
No. 7—Advanced
Literature.
Confessions of a Melbourne Barmaid, illus., Is 3d.
Gay Life in Melbourne, illus., Is 3d. Hoffman’s
New Conjuring Entertainment, Is 3d. How to Bet
and Gamble, Is 2d. Kropotkin’s Fields, Factories
and Workshops, is 3d. A Midnight Mystery, Is. A
Left-Handed Murder, Is. God and My Neighbor, 9d„
p. Is. ENGiNEEß’sPßACTiCALTESTiengines,boilers,gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6. How to Make Up, Illustrated
Guide to the Stage, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is.
Sandow, 3s. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Midwives’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is. Building Model
Boats, Is 3d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phrenology,
Is. Blacksmith’s Work, 1/3. Lover’s Letter Writer;
Is. Photography, Is. Monster Song Books, 3d,
6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6di
Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post. Age of
Reason, Is 3d. Ingersoll’s Works, 9d. Irish
Song Book, Is. Lightning Calculator, Is. Min-
strel Snow, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. MoNEt
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post Is 2d.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
GLEASON’S GREAT HORSE BOOK
EVERYTHING WORTH KNOWING ABOUT THE HORSE. Fully .Illustrated. Deals with breeding, breaking,
training, sheltering, buying, selling, telling age, racing, etc. Diseases—their causes, how to know them and
how to cure'them. Worth JSIO for its information, but offered for 7j6.
508 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE
VICTORIA MARKETS)
201 BOURKE ST.,
MELBOURNE.
AND


f
iticur
SOAP
V
And Cuticura Ointment, the
Great Skin Cure.
Not only arc they the purest, sweetest, and
most effective for preserving, purifying, and
beautifying the Skin, Scalp, Hair, and Hands
of infants and children, but they afford instant
relief and refreshing sleep for skin-tortured
babies, and rest for tired mothers, in the
severest cases of torturing, disfiguring, itching,
burning, bleeding, scaly, crusted, and pimply
skin and scalp humours, eczemas, rashes, and
irritations, with loss of hair, and are sure tc
succeed when all else fails,
Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Pills are sold throughout
the world. Depots: London, 27 Charterhouse Sq.; Pans, IS
Rue de la Paix; Australia, R. Towns & Co., Svdney; Bos-
ton, U. S. A., Potter Drug Sc Chem. Corp., Sole Props.
WpMailed free,“All About Baby’s Skin, Scalp, and Hair.”
■
QUEENSLAND BRANDH
Colonial Mutual Building,
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
NORMAN BROS.
58 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
Wkst Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Everything.
Australian Users now num-
bered by the hundreds.
Of course you have System
in vour office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER 1
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Write for Catalogue.
IOHN SANDS, 374 George St., Sydney,
Solk Australian Agent
Clean White
Tppfh mean sound teeth, fit for their
■* work, the condition they are kept
in by the use of
CALVERTS
Carbolic Tooth Powder,
It is made for cleaning the Teeth, and
does it, too, pleasantly, thoroughly and
gently, without scratching or injuring
the enamel. That is why it is in such
constant demand all over the world.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,
England.
A FREE GIFT SALE
I
1
7/6
Post Free
For one month,
as an advertise-
ment, we offer
5,000 Beautiful
Black Ostrich
Plumes, 13J in-
ches long, 7/«
Post Free.
GIVEN
AWAY.
One Feather
Pom Pom Given Free to everyone ordering
this month. Catalogue Free. Write
to-day. Send postal notes.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP.
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention ‘liie Bulletin.]
MOTHER
SEIGEL’S
SYRUP,
A remedy composed of the extracts
of leaves, roots and barks, and that
has the splendid record of 35 years
of popular use and approval
CURES
INDIGESTION
AND AM, OTHKR
DISORDERS
OF THE
STOMACH,
LIVER & KIDNEYS.
Wui. Francis Meaney, of 18, Hope
Street, Spring Hill, Brisbane, was
cured of severe kidney disease by
Mother Seigel’s Syrup.
Mrs. Jessie Mathewson, of Botany
Street, South Randwich, N.S.W.,
was cured of indigestion and bilious-
ness by Mother Seigel’s Syrup.
TRV IT.
IT WILL CURE YOU.
Be Armed Against Punotures!
MIRACULUM
IS A
SURE PUNCTURE STOP
For MOTOR CARS, MOTOR CYCLES, and
BICYCLES.
It does not injure Rubber, but tends to preserve it.
Does not affect resiliency of Tyres.
Does not lift patches.
Easily operated, effective, and dead cheap.
Bring along your Cars and Cycles to —
Miraculum Proprietary Ltd.
Next Independent Church,
RUSSELL ST., MELBOURNE,
or write, and a Booklet and Testimonials from the
leading Motorists and Cyclists in Australia will be
sent you.
(M-LIVE AGENTB WANTED IN VARIOUS BTATEB.
INSTANT RELIEF.
POWELL’S
Balsam Aniseed
*
Fop
COUGHS
COLDS
ASTHMA
BRONCHItIS
Safe for Children.
TRADE
MARK
you
o#s, AIMISE^°
JV oil Chemists & Stores. Be sure
'• get Powell's with above
Trade ilark.
MORE LETTERS FROM WOfIEN.
From Mrs. Elizabeth Sweet, 135 Gouger-street, Adelaide, S.A., 2nd December, 1904.
“ It affords me great pleasure to testify as to the great and lasting benefit I derived from taking
Warner’s Safe Cure, after suffering for many years from constitutional breakdown and nervous
prostration, brought on by mental worry and family troubles. I have been the mother of fourteen
children and had lost my husband, so was compelled to support my family by my own unaided efforts.
This seemed a burden greater than I could bear, but I struggled on until I became so weak and ill
that I could scarcely drag myself through my duties. Then my hands and feet began to swell, and I
could not walk without a stick to support me. Finally the time came when I had to take to mv bed.
A doctor was called in who gave but little hope of my recovery. A friend who came to see me ad vised
me to take a course of Warner’s Safe Cure. She seemed to have such great faith in the medicine that
I began to hope that it would benefit me, and therefore commenced to take it. In a few weeks 1
could hardly realise that I was the same woman. I was able to get up and walk about without the
aid of any support. My strength returned, and I felt that I had been granted a new lease of life.
After taking seven bottles of Warner’s Safe Cure I became assured that I was quite well, and once
more able to battle with life for my family who were dependent upon me.”
From Mrs. Claria E. Horne, Wentworth-street, Plattsburg, Newcastle, N.S.W., 16th March, 1905.
“ For a long time I suffered almost daily from nervousness, giddiness and headaches which were
almost unbearable, accompanied by great lassitude and mental depression, brought on, no doubt, by
the influence of the law of nature applying to women of middle age. Fortunately, I was recommended
to take Warner’s Safe Cure, and was astonished at the great relief I obtained. Continuing to take
the medicine I was soon free from any distressing ailments, and able to go about my work as well as
ever. I have recommended Warner’s Safe Cure to many women, who have taken it with the same
beneficial result.”
From Mrs. Annie Harrison, 54 Campbell-street, Balmain, Sydney, N.S. W., Bth March, 1905.
“ I have suffered as many other women have from the effects of rearing a family of children, com-
plicated by disorders of the liver, constipation, headaches and depression of spirits. Quite frequently,
whilst working about the house, I would have to sit down and rest until faintness passed. About a
year ago I suffered almost torture from pain in my back and head, scarcely knowing a moment’s peace.
A friend, knowing my condition, recommended a trial of Warner’s Safe Cure. The advice was
adopted, and, after taking a few bottles of the medicine, a most favorable change took place. Con-
tinuing the treatment I continuously improved in health, until now all my previous troubles have left
me and I am in good health.”
From Mrs. J. N. Thomas, 84 Oroya-street, Boulder City, W.A., 17th October, 1904.
“ Ten years ago I was taken ill and consulted a leading doctor in Adelaide. I described to him
my symptoms, an intense pain in my right side, accompanied by a swelling or feeling of tightness, the
Eain being so severe that I could not lie on that side nor get my proper rest and sleep, also that I had
egun to lose flesh rapidly. The doctor diagnosed the case as being one of hydatids or of tumor of the
liver, and said that in either case I should have to undergo an operation. He strongly advised me to
go to the hospital and be further examined. I went to the hospital, and the doctor there confirmed
what the other doctor had said in respect to an operation being the only means by which I could be
cured. I did not like the idea of an operation, and promised to think about it, and let them know my
decision. On leaving the hospital I met a friend and told her what the doctors had said. She advised
me not to have an operation performed, but to go home and take a course of Warner’s Safe Cure, as
she was sure it would cure me. She inspired me with such confidence that I resolved to take her
advice, and procured a few bottles of the medicine. I was, however, so weak when I returned home
that I had to go to bed, where I remained for a week, but during that time I took Warner’s Safe
Cure at regular intervals. In a short time I began to feel easier and better, and by the time that I had
taken six bottles of the medicine the pain had all gone. I could eat and sleep and enjoy my rest and
food, which I had not been able to do for many months previous. Since that time I have been in good
bodily health, and able to attend to my household duties.”
From Mrs. Bridget A. Nolan, 62 Lyons-street, Ballarat South, Vic., 17th February, 1905.
“ About eight years ago I began to take Warner’s Safe Cure for indigestion and for a chill. I
suffered also from weakness and prostration, general debility, nervousness, sleepless nights, and de-
pression of spirits. I could not even help myself. Several doctors had attended me for about five
years, and I had got tired of throwing my money; away without any good result. I first had one
advice and then another, but all were without avail. Through reading a Warner’s Safe Cure book I
began to take Warner’s Safe Cure, but with little hope that it would do me any good, but the first
bottle made such a wonderful change in me that I continued to take the medicine until I was com-
pletely cured. lam thankful that I took Warner’s Safe Cure, and gladly recommended it to any
woman who may be suffering as I did.”
From Mrs. H. Harriot, 22 Surrey-street, Darlinghurst, Sydney, N.S.W., 10th September,l9o4.
‘‘For three years I suffered from severe pains in my back and head. I could scarcely get any
sleep at night, and my appetite was very poor. Finally I got so bad that I could scarcely move about.
I tried doctors but could get no relief. I was then advised to try Warner’s Safe Cure. I did so, and
felt relief after the first few doses. After taking only four bottles of your valuable Warner’s Safe Cure
I am now as well as ever I was.”
From Mi's. Carrie Rowse, 28 High-street, West Geelong, Vic., 25th August, 1904.
“ Some years ago I was prostrated by extreme weakness, general debility, loss of appetite, head-
aches, and depression of spirits. My system was completely run down and out of order. A friend
who knew my condition recommended me to take Warner’s Safe Cure. Although without much faith,
I adopted the advice, and after taking Warner’s Safe Cure for a little time a favorable change de-
veloped. I began to improve in health and strength, my appetite returned, and I was very soon
strong again and in the enjoyment of good health.”
From Miss Edith Newman, 58 Grosvenor-street, Balaclava, Vic., 21st January, 1904.
“For the benefit of ladies who may be suffering as I did, I wish to state, m a few words, my ex-
perience in taking Warner’s Safe Cure and Warner’s Safe Pills. For more than two years I was
suffering from very acute headache, accompanied by fainting fits, extreme weakness, and general de-
bility. At that time, oil the advice of a friend, I commenced to take Warner s Safe Cure and
Warner’s Safe Pills. I continued to take these medicines f<?r a few weeksjonly, when lie nervousness
entirely disappeared, and the headaches and fainting feelings left me. I am pleased to state that
I have enjoyed better health since taking Warner’s Safe medicines than for years previous to that
time.”
From Miss C. E. M. Smith, 87 Albion-street, South Yarra, Vic., Bth January, 1904.
“ For a protracted period of time I have suffered, almost daily, from nervous headaches of an
almost unbearable nature, combined with great lassitude and various symptoms, due to a relaxed
system. Upon tbe advice of a friend I decided to try Warner’s Safe Cure. I was pleased that I did
so, for, in a few weeks, the medicine banished all symptoms of ill-health.” [lo]
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Janor”: “Old Camp’s” salting episode (B.
16/3/’O6) brings to mind an old-time Victorian saline
transaction, the success of which also depended on the
correct forecast by thesalter of the sampler’s procedure.
The operator was a hatter. The mine consisted of a shaft
down 20ft. on a 2ft. reef, worth about 4dwt. to the ton.
Buyer was the local butcher —a man quite unscrupulous
as to the getting of mining information. Thus it hap-
pened that one evening, after working hours, the man of
meat climbed, as he thought, unobserved, the spur which
held the hatter’s show. But the prospector was delayed
later than usual, and, busy at a surface job, saw the
visitor. He hastily picked up two small calico bags used
for bringing prospects up the shaft, and placed therein,
equally divided, the golden contents (some few dwts.) of
“ Kitty.” The salted bags were thrown carelessly by the
shaft head, and the hatter secreted himself in a hollow
woolly butt. Up panted the butcher, glanced quickly
around, grabbed a pick and the readied-up bags, and dis-
appeared down the shaft. After live minutes’belting
with the pick he re-appeared with two samples—one in
each bag. These he carefully panned off and got a fine
prospect. Replacing everything as found, the sneak
sampler departed. Later, the miner called into the shop
for a bit of steak, and the butcher inquired casually how
the reef was looking, and the price of a half-share, The
hatter took £2oo—and the early coach. There was no
crushing broken from that vein, though, strange to say,
17 years afterwards a prospector, overtaken by a snow-
storm sheltered under the remains of a shed close by the
old shaft, and, idly prodding the ground with his pick,
discovered the cap of a parallel vein which crushed up to
7oz. per ton. Thus was the smiter smit.
* £ £ '£• #
Complaints are rife that Australian butchers
are going in largely for Yankee methods of weighing, the
chief point about the U.S. method being that it is just a
violent rebounding of the meat off the scale, and the
movement is too rapid for the average dull-eyed buyer.
But long before the Yankee scales were introduced there
were butchers whose rapidity made even a common pair
of scales deceptive. There was one in particular, in
George-street, Sydney, who stands in history as
an unblushing fake. He posed as a friend of the
poor, and on Saturday nights sold legs of mutton
much below current prices. One night it was “ 6Jlb.
legs for 25.” The legs were not more than
51b. each, but for a long time there was not one quick-
eyed enough to dispute. At last an old man said, “ See
here, I think there is a mistake. This is not 6£lb. Please
weigh it, and weigh it slow.” There was excitement in
the shop, but the meat man rose to the occasion. He
seized the leg as if to weigh it, and slung it in among the
other legs, and yelled to the attendant, “Give this man
back his money ; my weights and scales are stamped.”
He successfully dashed the meat into the scales for many
years after that, and died in the odor of sanctity, leaving
much cash.
ft •«* *5 v
“Mirumbeck”: The jewellery and watch-
tinkering trades are not what they were in the silver era,
before the time-payment and tanglefoot watch curses
came to the land. The eternal chase after cheapness has
much to answer for. Especially is it responsible for
the gold-filled and rolled-gold rubbish with which the
States are now swamped. The watch-maker, who spent
years at his profession, and took a pride in his work,
begins to find his occupation gone, for the nickel-cased
rubbish people wear nowadays isn’t repaired. When your
watch goes wrong you aim it at the dog and buy
another. There is a class of people, thank Providence,
who still believe in the real article, and, when gold gew-
gaws are out of the question, they take silver rather
than “Brummy,” so I expect silver to come in again
shortly. For 30s. a woman, with taste, can deck herself
out for a Government House “hop” in temporary
“ Brummy.” The average society butterfly is a puzzle
nowadays, for it is hard to tell—even the expert is often
astray—where the real jewellery begins and the paste ends.
Parisian paste gems, especially in the white grades, look
better than the real twinklers, in their light up-to-date
settings, as against the heavier, safer claw-clingings of
our grandma’s days. But the fashions change mystically.
Twenty veais ago, my benchwork consisted in melting
down the casings of cameo brooches and reducing the
despised long granny muff-chains to the natty fobs, of
one-tenth the length and one-quarter the weight. Yet,
to the dismay of Fashion’s vandals, the long muff-chain
is more worn than ever to-day, while cameos, though a
trifle smaller than of yore, are creeping into fashion
a B ainl , , t *
“Philo’ : Purchasing a pair of boots, recently,
was shown some marked “ Made in U.S. A.” I felt pretty
sure they were a local article. “I know something
about this line,” I said, “and this isn’t an American
boot.” I thought he’d look upset, but he didn’t. “No,”
he said, calmly. “ Then why is it marked ‘ Made in
U.S. A.’?” “Oh, that means the United States of Aus-
tralia.” I subsided.
o * * *
“ Starr ” : I have lately been going about among
some newly-married friends, old friends, neighbors, and
strangers, and have consequently eaten many meals at
their tables. The bridal lots had plenty of expensive
electro plate, but nary a scrap of solid silver. Neighbors
and others had shabby electro ; whilst the old-timers
could set out some fine old silver, which they had
brought out 40 and 50 years ago. I know many pioneer
women, and each possesses a good silver teapot, cruet, or
spoons—they are great on spoons—which came out in
the old sailing ships about the time of Columbus. Where
does all the Broken Hill silver get to that none is avail-
able for Australian use ? Electro costs almost as much
now as real silver —and it won’t stand the same
cleaning. Surelv we might be allowed to have one fac-
tory in Australia for the making of pure silverware,
after good models, instead of having to buy imported
rubbish of hideous patterns.
THE MORTGAGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I see my houses standing in a row along the street,
And my gardens growing plants, and flowers and trees,
I hear my song-birds singing in their cages clean and neat,
And I scent my perfumes floating on the breeze.
And even little children playing school beside the fence
I look upon with kind paternal mind,
For they’re all beneath my mortgage, and a few short
summers hence
They will bear the yoke their fathers leave behind.
I bought that piece of land for something like a thousand
pounds,
And let it lie until the city spread,
And when I found the people chafing in their narrow
bounds,
I offered them suburban homes instead.
I would sell the land for so much on long terms to suit
each taste,
And would build, to suit their fancies, any style—
Very simple the agreements that these people sign in
haste,
But they pan me out a handsome yearly pile.
Some are with me from the start, but many died and
passed away,
Other tenants taking over their arrears,
But not one of all the living or the dead could ever pay
Off the obligations growing with the years.
There’s that house up near the corner, where the blinds
are trimmed with beads,
I built that to please a tenant who is dead ;
Well, last week his son got married, and has signed the
same old deeds,
And is proud to take the mortgage on his head.
Putting everything together, I can say X love to see
My old people as I move about the street;
I love each beaded window-blind, and shrub, and flov.er,
and tree,
And the song-birds in the cages clean and neat.
And on a sunny morning, as I slowly pass along,
My heart is full of thankfulness and praise,
And when, as sometimes happens, joyous kids around me
throng,
I pat their heads and wish them length of days.
N.W.S.
OBY.


YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
SOME BOOKS
T
SIR ROBERT!
is
I
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Ohromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
Women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
Illustrated with over 50 engraving's, new 1905 edition,
2s 6dposted. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book oy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Ur-TO-
Date Oomic Reciter Irish Oomio Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s Cd posted. Gleason’s
Big Horse Book and How to Train the
Horse, Is 6d. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Stolen Sweets, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeigiibor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love, Business,
Futurity, &c., with full directions, Is posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. llow to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man llis Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Ur-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. On Our New Selection, 6s Cd. A Life
of Pleasure, Is 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 20 Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT
«
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Thicks with Cards, Is. Saphio, genuine,
Is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s Oa.
Aristotle, 3s Cd. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Ereemasonry, Exposed 1906 Edition, Is posted.
"Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology,
7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Ingersoll’s
Complete Works, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
MoTHEk, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s Gd. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. Tiie Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. Tiie Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood,
ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Nigiit, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. New Tricks with
Coins, Is posted. A Modern Siren, Is 6d.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney
HOLLOWAY S PILLS
ĸ
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as “ run-down " or “out of sorts." Females
of every age find Holloway's Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords mo** welcome relief
in a very short time.
&
&
&
❖
s
*
$
C
$
and niNTMENT
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for tbg
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons Who had lost all hope before reading this book
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY'
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth!
street, Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne".
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c. bears on the
Government Stamp the name of
the Inventor
Dr. J. COLLIS BROWNC
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodynk. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
B
I TRIED every known treatment and device without
help. Finally I cured myself by Galvanic Electricity.
If you are deaf, or have head noises, don’t waste time and
money as I did. Write me, mentioning this paper, and I
will send you full information FREE. Address —
MR. LEWIS VERNON, 64 Hunt nit Sr., Sydney.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored In
Four Weeks by the use of
RX CORO’S
CSSt^ ce °y v.\ f
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Faulding- & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OF SELF-CURE, will
forward the same, free of charge, to any-
one Interested.
Address: A.MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
RHEUMATISM.
GOUT
FILLS
Are recommended by doctors with confi-
dence as one of the valuable results of
medical science, and the only remedy
ever discovered for these disorders, in
that they not only rapidly cure but pre-
vent the recurrence of the malady.
Of Chemists and Stores, 1/1J and 2/9 per box.
Proprietors— PßOUT & CO., 229, Strand,
London, England.
KEMP’S PATENTSHEEP BRANDING LIQUID
IS NOW BEING USED BY HUNDREDS OF WOOLGROWERS, AMONGST THEM SOME OF THE LARGEST SQUATTERS IN AUSTRALIA.
IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED FOR IT.
IT WILL STAY ON THE SHEEP’S BACK AS LONG AS REQUIRED.
IT WILL NOT INJURE THE WOOL and can he SCOURED FROM IT.
BLACK, RED, and BLUE (in S-Gailon Gases) :
Manufacturers and Sole Agents :
FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO., MELBOURNE
J}\e Xaqcet describes it as—
“ Mr. Benger’s admirable
preparation.”
VJje British Medical Journal
says—
“ Benger’s Food has by its
excellence established a
reputation of its own.”
GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION. LONDON.
if
0
FOOD
For INFANTS,
INVALIDS
» ndthe AGED.
Benqer's Food is sold in Tins
by Chemists, &c. everywhere.
“Hexham” writes on a very large sheet
of paper:—
„ Do ”’ fc you 80 too far ih saying (6. 10/5/’O6) that Cook, a
ranker ' 'could never have risen higher than lieutenant
had he lived and stayed in the navy 50 years ” ? Benbow
in the same centiirj', Christopher Ming's in the preceding 1
onej who both crept in through the hawse-hole, rose to
be Admirals, and there are many other instances of men of
similar origin attaining higher rank than Cook held. Smol-
lett knew the service well, and assuredly his Commodore
iJIm 111011 never climbed into it by the cabin-window.
While men of “ birth ” always had the lion’s share of all
billets under Government, their exclusive monopoly
of the big prizes in the army and navy does not seem to
have begun before the early years of the last century.
Gobbett, the son of a peasant, became regimental ser-
geant-major of the 54th Foot before he was 21, and on
leaving at 24 was offered a commission if he would remain.
Writing from St. John's, New Brunswick, about ISOS, he
says (I quote from memory) that of 17 commissioned offi-
cers there, 12 had risen from the ranks. Apropos of Cook,
I saw many years ago in South Shields an ancient brig
which the old salts of the port swore was the identical
craft the navigator served his apprenticeship in. Being
reporter on the local paper, I was sent to hunt up the
facts, but the only evidence to be found in support of the
legend was that the story had been wandering loosely
around for 40 or 50 years, and had been passed down
from one old salt to another. The ancient ruin was still
in the coal trade—the screw-steamer had not then quite
killed off the old sailing collier—and if any of the tim.
bers that Boy Cook walked on were left in her they must
have been at least 130 years old.


SUFFERED
EXTREME
AGONY.
INDIGESTION
DOCTORS
ADVISED
OPERATING.
A TWELVE TEARS’ SUFFERER CURED.
TNDIGESTION comprises many ailments, has many varied symptoms. Pain after food,
relieved slightly when wind is rifted; a feeling of sickness if awakened suddenly;
headache; a bad taste in the mouth; the recurrence of food; heartburn; sleeplessness—
all these, or any of them, maybe present. They all mean that the digestive
organs are out of order, and need a little help to get them equal to their
work. Bile Beans give that help and tone up the digestive organs so that
they can do their work properly.
“ About nineteen years ago,” says Mr. Henry Speer, a Blacksmith, of
Lynch-street, Young, N.S.W., “ I first felt the symptoms of Indigestion.
The pains I experienced were terrible, and would completely double me up.
I consulted doctors. They all agreed it was an aggravated form of Indiges-
tion, and one told me that I would not live four hours unless I got ease from
the pain. Another doctor advised operating, but this I would not agree to.
All the doctors could do for me was to administer morphia and
opium to deaden the pain. I was under the doctors’ hands for many
years, attending them regularly until my patience was exhausted.
About seven years ago, hearing that Bile Beans had cured many
cases of Indigestion, I decided to give them a fair trial. After
having taken them regularly for a month or six weeks. I noticed a
great improvement in my conditon. Thus encouraged, I persevered
with the Beans, and was effectively and thoroughly cured. It is
now five years since I had an attack of Indigestion, which I
think can be taken as a guarantee that the cure is permanent. Where life was once a
burden it is now a pleasure, and altogether I feel a different man. I have now been a
resident of Young for seven years, and am consequently well-known.”
8
I ‘
“ The pains
I experienced
were terrible.”
BILE BEANS have a world-wide
reputation as a proved cure in cases
of BILIOUSNESS, INDIGESTION,
HEADACHE. STOMACH TROUBLES,
CONSTIPATION, PILES, DEBILITY,
FEMALE WEAKNESSES, NERVOUS-
NESS, BAD BLOOD, BAD BREATH,
ANiEMIA, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA,
and, by giving tone to the
system, will ward off
COUGHS, COLDS, and
INFLUENZA. Ob-
tainable generally at Is.
Hd., or 2s. 9d. LARGE
BOX (contains three
times the Is. ljd. size).
/ St 1
1 '•
-• v •»
Said that the English have given up the build-
ing of speed racing yachts. Britain is no longer the
richest nation on earth, and only' multi-millionaires can
stand the strain of building racing yachts. The very
excellence attained by the builders brought about the
ruin of the business. The racing yacht that is to lick
creation is quite unseaworthy, good only for racing in
sheltered waters, and uncomfortable and uninhabitable.
It was fotind that its extreme life was a little more than
two years, and British yachtsmen have given up the
struggle, and left the business to members of the
Chicago Beef Trust. Meanwhile, they have gone in
for the eminently safe and comfortable craft in which
a 1 j a . n . oa j cruise round the Mediterranean with his wife
and friends in good solid comfort and safety—the class of
boat that has a life of somewhere about 40 years. Some
?> , e i llos * ; comfortable and seaworthy craft of the
ltoyai Yacht Squadron, and the Royal Thames Yacht
ioor> a i Yacht Racing Association, date back
to 18J0 and thereabouts. In fact one, the Arrow, built by
Joseph Weld, which is still competing in ocean races,
" as built as far back as 3822 —but it is said that absolutely
e\ cry piece of timber and every rivet in the wonderful
noat Has been replaced several times over. The first
yacht race recorded in England was that between the
Jaime (built at Lambeth to the design of Charles 11., and
which the Merry Monarch also steered) and a Dutch boat,
for a wager of £lOO. The giddy king won with compara-
. tive ease. Ihe Dutch aft envardsgot level by bombarding
Sbeerness. b
« * * * *
. ,A lth ?% rh m ost people seem to have forgotten
all about it, there is to be a race for the sculling cham-
pionship of the world next month. Stanbury is putting
in good, solid training on the Parramatta, while Towns is
up at Raymond Terrace. As it is still six weeks to the
date of the race, Stanbury will probably shed a lot of that
surplus tissue that he laid on so swiftly after winning the
championship, and row a lighter man than ho did in the
former race. This time Towns is not going to make the
mistake of under-rating his opponent.
* * * *
Articles are being drawn up for an Australian
scullmg Championship—a distinct event from the
world s race, and restricted to bona-fide Australians,
me stake will be as reasonable as £lOO a-side. The idea is
to bring to light young scullers who are not afraid to test
the muscles of the champion at a reasonable side wager :
and it will gn e the lagging pastime a lift.
* • * •
. J-h® Auckland City team, which proposed to
wsit Sydney with a view to showing our Rugbyites how
to kick the inflated sphere, is understood to have a proper
appreciation of its own worth. It includes four of the
famous All Black team that raged through Britain, and
the fact is understood to have prompted the Auck-
landers to make cash demands which have taken away the
breath of the N.S.W. governing body. If the terms can
be arranged the team will play here on July 14,18, and
, . 13 not known how much the Aucklanders are
asking, but the Cornstalk governing body seems
pretty determined that unless the request is reduced very
considerably there will be no tour. Even in their ain
countree the Aucklanders are regarded as grab-alls.
* * * *
~ ■^ l ® recent progress of the All Black team
through Britain has brought about a great burst of
football literature, and the magazines have been making
special mention of William Webb Ellis, the Rugby bov
who broke through the then rules of the game and ran
towards the opposite goal with the ball in his hands.
In those days (it was 1823), when one caught the ball on
the fly he was allowed to run backwards as far as he liked
with a view to taking a good kick. Ellis didn’t—he ran
forward ; and his breach of the rules, which probably
had nothing to do with the change in the game, has been
recorded aa the invention or discovery of Rugby. Which
is all bosh and tripe. As a matter of fact, the game of
football was brought to Britain by the Romans, who got
it from the Greeks, and both those peoples used to carry
the sphere in the hand or under the arm. Then for
centuries the game was played, or fought, much as
bouth Sydney and Glebe played it on a recent Saturday.
That is to say, the object of the game was to
get the ball between the enemy’s goal-posts by any means
whatever, either by carrying it, kicking it, throwing it,
or punching the other fellow on the nose, or kicking him
in the stomach. Shrove Tuesday was high festival day
of footballers, when both sexes came out and scrapped
over the leather for all they were worth. It was the
game of the people, and the aristocracy spoke of it with
sniffs on their way to the cricket pitch. Edward 11.,
Edward 111., Richard 11., all prohibited the game on
account of it interfering with the practice of archery,
so Lord Roberts had good precedent for his objec-
tions. Janies I. prohibited it because it was more
disastrous to the lives of his subjects than war, and he
got nothing out of it. The rules of modern football date
back to the year 1863, when the Football Association and
Rugby Football Association drafted regulations for the
conduct of the game that differ but slightly, and only in
detail, from those at present in force. Previous to that
there were sometimes as many as 60 men a-side, and the
game resembled a battle.
» * * *
One section of Melbourne’s citizens is fairly
honest, at any rate. At the big Carlton-South Melbourne
football match, on June 4, the turnstiles proved inade-
quate to accommodate the rush, and a few climbed the
barb-wire-topped picket-fence, while many more slipped
through a gap where the fence had given way. Yet a
club committeeman who happened along was called by
the crowd to come and collect their “ sprats,” and,
standing in one spot, gathered in £5 18s. 6d.
• • * «
The Bulletin has been watching Australian
football closely, and has come to the conclusion that it is
about twice as dangerous as Rugby, and several times
more so than British Association. Also, it seems that the
men gfet as many minor knocks and bruises as they do in
Rugby, while the danger of a really bad accident is much
greater. If the players indulged in the malicious rough-
ness that has been prevalent in Rugby circles the last few
weeks (Saturday last excepted) the opportunities for mis-
chief would be infinitely greater. A dozen men springing
wildly into the air to score a “ glorious high mark ” make
a situation that is full of unpleasant possibilities, even if
there is no desire on the part of any one of the dozen to
do the other fellow harm. Theoretically Australian foot-
ball is a better game than Rugby, but practically it will
always be more dangerous.
# # * *
One of the numerous betting club proseoutions
in Melbourne came to what looks like an end recently,
when the Full Court upheld Judge Johnston’s decision up-
holding Magistrate Dwyer’s conviction of two Cohens, two
Myers, and a Solomons for running what was known as
the Metropolitan Club, in the Eastern Arcade. Cohen
and Co. said this was a company duly registered under
the Companies Act, '9O, formed for the customary purpose
of “improving the breed of horses, etc.,” but Mr. Dwyer
held that the tote sheets, telephone, bench, and the sub-
sequent billiard-table, which comprised the company’s
assets, no more improved the noble prad than the plain
brown penny the two-up school tosses, and fined Myers
and co. £2O apiece all round. As three Judges have
agreed that Dwyer was right, and as the telephone was
removed next day, there would appear to be an end of
Solomons and Co.’s Metropolitan Club. But it is not
well to be too sure. Solomon is mostly a sticker.
* * * *
Citizen John Wren has fairly taken pugilism
under his wing. He sits close to one of the corners at all
fights nowadays, and the expected hero of that parti-
cular disturbance, when he enters the ring, always leans
through the ropes and shakes hands with John. The
referee bows low to him. The official announcer an-
nounces in his direction. John’s glory is likely to be
visibly increased by his interest in the game (said interest
figures out at something over 50 per cent.). It is pro-
posed indeed that a new set of rules should be framed for
John’s pets to fight under—Marquis of Oollingwood rules
they will probably be called. Murphy, after his fight
with Squires, alleged that these rules were already in
existence, and that the big fight in the Exhibition was
conducted under them. If that is so, they are a good,
hustling set of rules and ought to keep Philadelphia Jack
O’Brien warm for a brief space.
* * * *
It was understood that the real reason for Jim
Jeffries’ retirement from the boxing championship of the
world was that rheumatism of the hands caused his blows
to hurt himself more than the other fellow. Apparently
Jeffries is recovering, at least temporarily, as he recently
appeared in the roped ring at an entertainment at Los
Angeles in aid of the victims of the recent ’Frisco ’quake.
* * • •
Is there any other academy in the world which
possesses such a record for producing first-class pugs as
St. Francis’Church school, Elizabeth-street, Melbourne?
St. Francis taught the young idea how to stousli to such
effect that it numbers on its past rolls the names of Dan
Creedon, Tut Ryan, Tom Tracey, Artie Tully, Micko
Walsh, Jack Willis, and Jack M’Gowan, besides a host
of dimmer lights with local fame. In Melbourne it is
only necessary for a man to say he used to go to St.
Francis’ for everybody about to grow suddenly civil.
* ■* * *
“ A. Zelwood ” : The elusive Ted Nelson, who
came within a shade of winning the middle-weight cham-
pionship of Australia, was mining a few years ago at
North Lyell. In the hut where he camped, his spare
time was mostly occupied in sparring before a looking-
glass. These “ acts of reflection ” afforded much amuse-
ment to his mates. While admitting his quickness, one
and all thought him as harmless as a sunbeam, till, just
to take him down a peg, they induced him to have a spar
with a pro. then showing at Lyell. To everybody’s sur-
prise, Nelson (name, by the way, is Grogan) got all over
his man. After this, Nelson came out of his shell some.
Every Sunday afternoon he would stroll down to where
they head ’em, looking for a fight. Soon lie would single
out a big fellow with a good deal to say, and in the soft
voioe that always provokes wrath, ask him to moderate
his language and not profane the holy Sabbath. Of
course a fight was the result. One round would Nelson
spend looking for the other’s weak points, and, having
located them, the second round generally found the big
fellow dead to the world. Since then but his fights
can speak for themselves.
* * * «
“S.S.”: Bulletin paragraphers trying to ex-
plain the knock-out sensation seem to me to be allowing
their imagination free play. The knock-out is simpiy a
drop into unconsciousness, and whether you take the
brain jar from the jaw-bone, or get it more directly on
the temple, or abaft the ear, the sensation, or absence of
sensation, is identical. You know no feelings till you are
no longer “out,” and the recovery is an awakening
accompanied by such sensations as the wallop would have
set up had you stayed in instead of passing out. It very
often happens that the outed man doesn’t know he has
been outed, and wants to take up the thread of the battle
where he left off. When he is informed that his opponent
is now a mile off with the butt end of the “ gate ” in his
Gladstone bag, the astonishment of the resuscitated
young pug is quite touching. All those fine dramatic
sensations The Bulletin par.-builders tell of must
happen to the more elderly pugs who go out as a matter
of choice.
* • « •
“S.” : Dan Creedon versus Bill Smith, at Mel-
bourne Cvclorama, strikingly illustrated the suddenness
with which the athlete goes to bits after reaching years
of discretion and a little over. The Dan Creedon who
put up a long, worrying battle with champion Billy
M’Oall in Sydney 18 months or so back, and the Daniel
who was beaten all to bits by Bill Smith in Melbourne
were two very different men, and yet Creedon claims
only 38 years. Smith, who is not in the same street with
M‘Call as a pug., simply ate Creedon up, and when Dan
recognised the hopelessness of his effort to get back
again into the game, and requested his seconds to float
the washing, it signified permanent retirement. Cree-
don’s failure was the failure of an old man to whom
training is no good, and out of whom all the sap had
evaporated.
* * * *
A muscular young parson down Richmond
(Vic.) way is reckoned to be the Rev. Bill Squires of the
sin-shifting profession. He was prominent in a recent
boxing tournament run by the athletic club connected
with his church. After slogging out most of the Bible
class and other good young men (including a prominent
League footballer), he met the Christian Endeavor secre-
tary in the final bout, but, after a bitter fight, threw up
the sponge in the tenth round.
* * * *
“ Squidge” : Bill Squires says (B. 24/5/’O6) that
Bill Smith taught him how to fight. Bill Squires did nob
explain where he captured his fighting face, which in
itself is enough to scare out of the ring any ordinary man
before a blow haT"been struck. But I saw BiU Smith
%ht Dan Creedon t’other night, and now I know that
Squires learnt his face as well as his fight from B •
Smith’s fighting face is half snarl and half curse, and in
his right eye there is Blood, and in his left Sudden Death.
• » * *
The Five Miles Novice was run by the Mel-
bourne Harriers’ Cluo at Oakleigh on Saturday week.
An entry of 120 is a record for this cross-country event,
and equals several Ten-Mile State Championship Helds.
W. V. Aitken (Coburg Harriers) arrived first by some 60
yards, covering the distance in dOmin. 204*5sec.— a fair run
seeing there was a head wind for half the distance* The
race, however, is run under sealed handicap conditions,
and resulted in a win for A. D. Mackie, Carlton, with a
time allowance of lmin. 30sec. George Blake ana H. A.
Wheatlev, the recent Olympians, both finished ahead in the
Five Miles Novice during preceding .yearp. Amateur
athletics are seemingly on the up grade around Mel-
bourne, for there are some 300 runners in paper-chases
weekly. # #
The Dunlop Motor Reliability Test is, as anti-
cipated, to be held this year over Victorian roads. The
first day's run will be from Melbourne to Hamilton. The
second day they will return to Melbourne by another
route. The third day they run out to Tallarook and back.
Fourth day will find them journeying to Staweil, and on
tiie fifth, like the general in the poem, they will go back
again. The sixth and last day will be occupied whizzing
out to Marysville and back. As usual, all precautions
will be taken to guard against accident by indicating
dangerous turns and hills, and observers will report
drivers who race through towns. No less than five
motorists have a leg in for the Dunlop Cup, and as some
of them are in a position to win it outright this season,
there is sure to be a great struggle. A motor cycle test
will be held over the same roads simultaneously if a suffi-
cient entry is forthcoming. Besides the Dunlop Cup,
there are medals and other valuable trophies on the prize
list.
... *
“ Oracle In issue 24/5/’OG The Bulletin lias
an article on the motor-car business in England and
France. It is not as well known as it might bo that cars
are made in Australia ; that is, about one in every 250
cars on the road is of Australian make. Here at
Armadale (Melb.) we have a man who has been making
reliable steamers for, as near as I can remember, the last
ten years. The “Tarrant” petrol car, of wholly Aus-
tralian construction, is acknowledged by experts to be as
good as any petrol car at present in the country, “ but,”
I was told resignedly by one connected with the firm,
“ the public don’t think so.” The makers get a living by
selling French and English cars. Give us a 60 horse-
power tariff, and Australia will be able to make
all the cars it wants for Its own use, anyway, and
perhaps a few over.
* * » *
The Trumper tour did Queensland cricket
some good. It has shattered the common belief that
Brisbane cricket (which is very poor cricket) is Queens-
land cricket. The country teams have made a better
showing than the metropolis. One country team, Rock-
hampton, made 175, and put Trumper and Go. out in the
first innings for 168. But in the second innings Truniper’s
men made an exhibition of Rockhampton. Another team,
North Queensland, gave the visitors quite a fright by
nearly beating them, and Hopkins and Redgrave were
forced to stonewall in order to make a drawn game.
* * * *
“ Phlipp ” : Visited several country shows this
year, and one of the principal items on the programme
was what is called a tandem race. This is an innovation
which, although a few years old in the country, has not
yet travelled to Sydney. It is a riding and driving race
combined. The horse is driven by means of long reins,
and the driver is on another horse behind. It calls for
good horsemanship, and there is the necessary element of
danger. The foremost horse must be kept travelling at
exactly the same rate of speed as the other ; if it gets too
much pace on it is liable to drag the driver from his
saddle. Also, the leader is always liable to swerve round,
which, again, would make things unpleasant. The pace
some of the riders get up is remarkable, and their con-
tinual shouting to the leaders inspires the required en-
thusiasm and thrill. When introduced into the Sydney
Show this item will easily outrival the water and high
jump for interest.


TATTERSALL’S
(George Adams,
CONSULTATIONS.
Hobart, Tasmania.)
NOW OPEN
GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE RACE, Flemington, Vic., July 7
SILVER CITY CUP, Broken Hill, N.S.W., July 18
ADELAIDE GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE RACE, Victoria Park, S.A., Aug. 11...
MELBOURNE CUP, Flemington, Victoria, November 6
100,000 at 5/2 each.
50,000 at 5/2 each.
100,000 at 5 2 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
IMPORTANT NOTICE
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d. on each
s§ b Ticket, and 4d. on each 10s. Ticket. Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. Parcels may be forwarded through any PARCELS
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
£5=3
9
This DIET is recommended
in place of ordinary milk foods,
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
particularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Invalids.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who are
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particularly serviceable in conva-
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Aged.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
boiling water.
The “Allenburys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “Allenburys” Foods for Infants.
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., and Bridge & Loftus Streets, SYDNEY.
DRUG HABIT
HAVE YOU FAILED THROUGH
DRUNKENNESS
U H U If PiDON’T despair.
DR. LANGSTON’S VEGETABLE CURE.
A Home Cure which never fails.
It is safe, sure, absolutely certain, and
inexpensive. A few doses produce a won-
derful change. The craving for all
intoxicants will be destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for food will
return, refreshing sleep ensues. This cure
will surprise and delight you. May be
GIVEN SECRETLY.
Thousands of Cures ; here is one :
Ravemlhorpcj W.A., 23-9-04.
Have finished the half course, which has
effected a cure. J have no desire for drink,
in fact, have a repugnance to the very idea
of it. Yours faithfully,
Write for Treatise No. 5. Posted Free.
The Dr. Langston Institute,
129 a COLLINS STREET,
IVtFLBOURNE.
LIQUOR HABIT
TOBACCO HABIT
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
THCB
FAMOUS RBMB33Y FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
HAS THE - „ _ _ , t, •
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of CmZtt^’u^Ts^o^Tom'
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those Asthma to become chronic.’nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
forting in allaying irritation m the throat and giving strength to the voice. and it, neither , • 8 n , u„„ taken at the beo-innirur a dose is s/enerallv sufficient
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
.nd a Complete Cure is certain. BEWA.HB OF COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION 18 NO EXCEPTION TO THIS ROLE.
** I have used Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure with splendid
results. Always keep it in the home for use. It acts like
magic.”
(Rev.) JAMES SMITH,
Methodist Parsonage, Dunkeld,
Formerly of Oakleigh, Victoria.
“ I have been a Bronchial subject for nearly forty years,
but have found your Bronchitis Cure a perfect remedy.”
H. EDHOUSE, J.P.,
Stawell Brewery,
Stawell, Victoria.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a splendid medicine. It is
the best medicine I have ever used for Coughs, Colds on
the Chest, and Sore Throat.”
(Mrs.) JOHN MCKENZIE,
Werona, Victoria.
“ I suffered very much from Asthma for four years, and
tried lots of so-called cures, without deriving any benefit.
I got a bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, No. la, last
Friday, and a bottle of your No. 2 Medicine, for obstinate
Asthma, on Saturday. Since the first dose of your No. 2
Medicine, I have not had the wheezing at all.”
V. CAMERON,
“ Leongatha,” Riversdale Road,
Hawthorn, Melbourne.
"Your Bronchitis Cure really acts like magic.”
(Mrs.) E. L. SYMES,
Narracoorte Hotel, Narracoorte,
South Australia.
“ As my purchases show, your remedies are increasing
in sale. From time to time I hear people speaking about
the good results obtained from them. Wishing you a very
much enlarged sale and great prosperity.”
JOHN KING,
Chemist, Ballarat.
“ I have purchased a small bottle of your Bronchitis
Cure, and have only taken four doses, and am glad to tell
you that I am cured.” J. WRIGHT,
c/o Mr. D. McLean,
Camperdown, Victoria.
"I was laid up for twelve months with Bronchitis,
during which I tried many remedies, without success. I
used two bottles of your Bronchitis Cure, and am now
completely cured.” JAMES WILLIAMS,
Huntly-street, Elsternwick, Melbourne.
“ It affords me great pleasure to testify to the mar-
vellous effect your Bronchitis Cure has upon coughs and
colds. I have proved its value in my own home.”
F. W. BINNS,
c/o A. H. Massina & Co.
Australian Journal Office,
Melbourne.
“For nine years mv wife suffered from Asthma and
Bronchitis. I tried various treatments for her, but none
succeeded till I got Hearne’s Bronchitis and Asthma
Cure. She found benefit from the first bottle, and three
bottlfes completely cured her. This was nine months
She is quite well now, and has never had an attack since.
A. ORR,
Clonbinane, Sunday Creek,
Broadford, Victoria.
“ The cough was just terrific, but your Bronchitis
Cure acted splendidly.”—Yours very sincerely,
F. C. GREEN,
State School, Rosebud, via Dromana,
Victoria.
“I feel truly grateful to you for your invaluable
medicine. It is marvellous the good it did me.”
ISABEL P. WILSON,
“ Coanwood,” Drummond-street,
Ballarat, Victoria.
“ I am glad to tell you that I have been quite free from
Bronchitis for the last two years, the result of taking
your Bronchitis Cure.”
W. UTTON,
7 Little Railway-street, Durban,
Natal, South Africa.
“ I have used your Bronchitis Cure, and am pleased to
say that it is without doubt absolutely the best medicine
on the market for coughs and colds.”
A. E. ANDERSON,
Telegraph Office, Fremantle,
West Australia.
“ My husband was cured of Asthma by your Bronchitis
Cure, more than 12 months ago, and he has not had an
attack since. I have now commenced to give it to my
son, 5 years old, who has had a cold ever since he was
born. I have only given him a few doses, and he is better
already.” (Mrs.) W. J. WISHART
Warwick, Queensland.
“Having used your Bronchitis Cure in my family at
different times for years past, I wish to testify to the
relief always afforded by it in colds on the chest, or any
complaint arising therefrom.’^—-Yours,^etc^,^^
19 Fitzgerald-st., South Yarra, Melbourne.
“Your Bronchitis Cure has a great reputation here.
We sell more of it than of any other chest medicine we
stock.” WILLIAMSON fc 00.,
Windorah, via Charleville, Queensland.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is the best medicine I have ever
taken.” D. WILLIAMS,
Hill-street, Lithgow, N.S.W.
“ I can thoroughly testify to the wonderful efficacy of
your bronchitis Cure in a consumptive cough, it having
relieved me when other prescriptions had no effect what-
ever.” T. LEWIS,
Kimbolton, via Wellington, N.Z.
“ Your Bronchitis and Asthma Cure has been more to
me than money could ever pay. I am quite free from
Asthma now, and feel very grateful to you. ”
ISA S. TOSACH,
Virginia-street, Geelong.
“ I have used your Bronchitis Cure myself, and have
recommended it to others, with most beneficial results.”
(Rev.) E. J. HENDERSON,
Gumeracha, South Australia.
“ Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.” —ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was
magical in its effects.”—CHAS. WYBROW, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.
“ I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family,
and it cured each of them in from one to three doses.”—
P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.
“Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully
quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of the
medicine yet; but I am sending for another bottle in
case I should want it.” —D. M’DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.
“Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.”—
A. B. SIMMONS, J.P., No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington,
Sydney.
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The
result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.” —
G. SEYTER, Bourke, N.S.W.
“ I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I
ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.”
S. STEELE,
Yanko Siding, N.S.W.
“I suffered from Asthma for about fifteen years ; was
that ill at times could scarcely walk from one room to
another ; often had to sit up in bed part of the night.
Tried doctors, patent medicines, and herbalists, without
success ; was almost tired of trying anything when, one
day, hearing about your Bronchitis Cure, I decided to
give it a trial. I used five bottles of your Bronchitis and
Asthma Cure, with the result that the difficulty of breath-
ing and distressing cough have all disappeared. I cannot
speak too highly of your valuable medicine, and I recom-
mend it to all my friends.”
ELIZA LANGTON,
Wiseman’s Ferry, New South Wales.
“My wife is 82 years old, and lam 79. lam glad to
inform you that your Bronchitis Cure has done us both
a wonderful deal of good, having quickly cured us both.”
R. BASSETT,
Strath Creek, via Broadford, Victoria.
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with
great benefit to myself, as the smothering has completely
left me.” (Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY,
Glenmaggie, Victoria.
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, from
which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine, but
I can truly say that I am astonished at my present free-
dom, as a direct result of my brief trial.”
JOHN C. TRELAWNEY,
Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.
“Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the
doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do me any
good ; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two
bottles of it made me quite well.”
H. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-st., South Yarra, Melbourne.
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure.
This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now cured
a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.”
A. ALLEN,
Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.
“ Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bron-
chitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most valu-
able medicine.”
(Mrs.) J. SLATER,
Warragul, Victoria.
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certif\«chat it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed
by the Rev.'JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-st., Geelong and 59
other leading residents.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Large Size, 4s. 6«L
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. Q. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG,
FORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY..
BRANCH DEPOT— Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
VICTORIA


A MYSTERIOUS EVENT.
TRADE
MARK
r t
V
DISCOVERY
COUCH 5#
COLD||
C R O U ijlt
Consumption
’ AND ALL
BRONChIAL
AND
Pulmonary
Affections
OF THE
Throat, Lungs
and Chest.
Ym iYY- ■
EPARE
BY
SHELDON DRUG C?
U.S.Ar
SYDNEY N.S.W.
COPVRIOKTED
£
MANY physicians seem to think it a mys-
terious event when their patients—
whom they cannot cure—are quickly
relieved and restored to health by
D'SHEIDONS/S,,
Discovery^"" 10 "
But there is nothing mysterious about it.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery represents
the latest knowledge of the day, in the prac-
tice Qf the science of healing, and does not
follow any of the old-fashioned methods qf the
materia medica. It goes right to the point of
infection, in all cases of throat and lung
trouble, and, by means that are all its own,
drives out the disease, and heals the affected
parts. It is a safe, pleasant, positive cure for
all lung troubles. Try it.
Read the following letter from Mr. George
Barrett, stonemason, of Mosman, Sydney:—
Countiss-street, Mosman,
Sydney.
June, 1908.
To Sheldon Drug Company, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —After vainly trying doctors’ pre-
scriptions and all the advertised medicines with-
out getting any relief, I was induced to buy a
bottle of DR. SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY,
for COUGHS, COLDS, and CONSUMPTION, and
I am very pleased to state that one dose relieved
me, and one bottle completely cured me. I have
much pleasure in recommending it, and would
never be without a bottle in the house.
Very gratefully yours,
(Signed) GEORGE BARRETT.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery can be
relied upon to cure all LUNG TROUBLES.
It has proved a blessing in thousands of
homes, and has been energetically endorsed
by many of the most prominent citizens and
professional men in Australia.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is not a
patent medicine, or an ordinary cough mix-
ture, but a scientific discovery that will make
sore lungs well.
To bo obtained everywhere at 1/6 and
3/-, or will be posted upon receipt of
price by the
SHELDON DRUG CO., 15 O’CONNELL
STREET, SYDNEY.
9
aftddftad)a amtimt
M’tfw tf/fisJJkmtd ■&'
mid /aM)d?mJt d
d dd di£a/i&d.
The Hunters.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THEY had stowed the clattering tops’ls,
And sent the top gear down,
For the sea rolled green and sickly,
With foam at each roller’s crown,
When faintly down to the south’ard,
Where the clouds hung red and low,
The cry of the night-waves echoed,
And a wind began to blow.
It bore down on the schooner,
And buried her white lee-rail,
But she spun to her heavy rudder,
And flew from the angry gale ;
While, nearer, a fearful wolf-cry,
The van of the Hunters came—
Thundering waves of the darkness
Their tossing crests aflame—
Leaping high in their clamor,
Bellowing as they raced.
And one green galloping Hunter
The best of the pack outpaced.
The little ship was their quarry.
As the speedy leverets do,
She prayed that her heels would save her
From the jaws of the ravenous crew.
So over the tumbling water
She staggered and leaped and swung,
Tossing her prow to the heavens
When they would have seized and clung—
Swerving over to starboard,
Shuddering over to port,
To distance the cruel Hunters
Who harried her for their sport.
Then sudden the great green Hunter
Was racing with gleaming fangs
Under the vessel’s counter,
Where the smooth stern overhangs—
Racing with reckless violence,
Panting with grim intent,
But she fled with the speed of terror,
And the Hunter fell back, spent.
While all the other pursuers,
Thinking to see her fall,
Lifted their heads in the darkness
In one long hunting call.
One leaped with a howl on her transom
And snapped her rail away ;
Another sprang at her life-boat,
And tossed it over in play.
Then the angry, green-lipped Hunter,
Shouting to stand aside,
Tore in her solid bulwarks
A great hole, gaping wide,
Sending her forward faster
Yet following faster too
Where the blaze of high Pencarrow
Brighter and brighter grew.
The stars looked down through the storm-wrack
And cried to the rushing wind,
“ Blow hard, blow hard ! The harbor
To the little ships is kind.
Drive her so that the Hunters
Are left in her wake out-paced.”
And the swift wind howled in its hurry
And the little schooner raced.
But the mighty Hunter summoned
His eager pack to his aid
And they raced along with the schooner,
Just raced —and she was afraid.
Until, when the blazing beacon
Threw light on the seas and spars,
The great green Hunter lifted
His head to the trembling stars.
And howled ; and the smallest Hunter
Howled too in the lust for blood.
They raged till the decks of the schooner
Were all afoam and aflood.
Round and about they tossed her,
Snapping her tangled gear.
They tugged at her heavy rudder
Till scarcely her crew could steer.
The stars laughed now, for the harbor
Was close ahead o’er the bar ;
Then wept, for the big green Hunter
Dragged over her side a spar.
But the waves that stand at the entrance —
Guards of the inner seas—
Charged down on the fierce pursuers
That sprang at the schooner’s trees;
The pack called loud defiance —
“ The quarry is ours,” they cried,
And led by the galloping Hunter
They thrashed at the schooner’s side.
Then the Watchmen fell upon them,
While the vessel flew beyond
In where the quiet waters
Lay like a glassy pond.
The chase fell back from the Watchmen,
Fighting in foam and spray—
All save the great green Hunter,
Who thrust them out of his way;
Blown and scarred with battle,
He leaped through their serried ranks;
But the Watchmen bore him under
As he charged at the schooner’s flanks.
As they stow the clattering tops’ls
And send the topgear down,
When the seas roll green and glassy,
The shouted orders drown
In a long-d/r awn, terrible wolf-cry
And the boldest there is dumb,
When, the galloping waves of the darkness,
The harrying Hunters come.
MAORILAND.
WILL LAWSON.
The Motor Boat of Black
and Red.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I WAS entering the American bar in my
usual impetuous manner when the swing
, . _ , . . .
door suddenly new outwards before the
rush of someone who was coming out even more
emphatically than I was going in, and I was
knocked into the middle of the pavement.
Shaping curses with both lips, I was struggling
to my feet when a big burly man in a knicker-
bocker suit offered a helping hand, and a faintly-
familiar voice said :
“Gosh, old man, I believe I upset your apple
cart. Let’s go in and have a wet.”
There was no mistaking him. The big, clean-
shaven face, merry blue eyes and bronzed com-
plexion were all those of Squatter Howard, now
just past 40, showing signs of a paunch, but youth-
ful as ever in spirit. He didn’t know me from a
crow. I spoke severely.
“ I see you are as bad as ever. First you knock
a man into the middle of next week, cause him to
wreck his immortal soul with language, and then
proceed to demoralise him with drink. But as my
inside machinery does feel strained, a little lubri-
cation might possibly make it work easier.”
The big burly man gripped me by the shoulder,
held me off at arm’s length, and stared at me. A
look of recognition spread over his countenance,
and with a wild yell he lugged me into the bar.
“ Sixteen champagne cocktails, Tom. Well,
well; just fancy meeting you in this place of bad
beer and worse whisky. Well, I’m damned!—
this is real joy. Hurry up with those cocktails,
you mongrel ! ”
We spent most of the afternoon talking over
old times and the intervening years, and when it
suddenly chimed seven we realised that the after-
noon had gone. It was no good going back to
work, so I wandered off with the newly-recovered
squatter to have dinner in a French caf&
It was a nice dinner, but the table wines demo-
ralised us, and Howard began to talk of some of
the wilder deeds of the past. We were just drain-
ing the liqueur glasses when he remarked that
he had that morning taken delivery of a new
motor boat, a regular beauty.
“We’ll take her out for a spin presently, ” I
said.
“Anoble idea. Gosh, we’ll have some fun!
We’ll make the police boat chase us—give ’em a
deuce of a run—and I’ll lay 10 to 4 they don’t
catch us. ”
“Done!” I yelled, and we sprang up and
rushed out of the cafe at such a speed that it was
only when we slowed down to board a cab that
the waiters managed to lay hold of us.
“What the Sheol do you want, anyhow?”
snorted the indignant squatter as a big greasy
man in a white uniform grabbed him by the arm
and hung on, a mass of dead weight, like a prize
pork carcase.
It was the head waiter, and he placed both
hands over his heart, which was thumping loudly,
and strove to keep it in its own territory.
“ Zee beel, zare—you have forgot ze beel oh,
Lord ! ”
“Good heavens !” gasped the squatter, hunt-
ing in his pockets for the money. “ Very good
thing you caught us, as we might not have come
back.’
The waiter had by this time got control of his
heart, but had forgotten his assumed nationality
in the struggle. He remarked, in flowing Eng-
lish :
“No, they don’t very often come back when
they leave like you did and owe a bill as long as
my leg. My oath, no ! ”
The squatter eyed him suspiciously as he handed
over the money.
“ That man is a fraud,” he said, very decisively,
as he took his seat in the cab, and we started off
to where the boat was moored.
And she was a beauty. Thirty-six feet long.
Whale-back bow which sloped up to the roof.
Side screens which worked on the Venetian blind
principle and were weather-proof. Seats all
covered with red leather. The steering wheel
was of the large variety, on a long shaft which
sloped up to a nicely-upholstered swivel chair
that gave the steersman an uninterrupted view in
every direction. A four-cylinder 40 h.p. gasoline
engine supplied the motive power, and the craft
was painted pearl grey and turquoise blue below
the waterline.
In two minutes we had the engine running, and
were moving out of Rushcutters towards Watson’s
Bay, looking for the police launch. Like the land
variety, the water police were not about when we
wanted to give them a friendly trial of speed. So
we zig-zagged across the fairway, disregarded the
rule of the road, and broke all the speed regula-
tions of the Harbor Trust.
The police launch came with a rush just as we
rounded the corner of an island. Black smoke
was pouring from its funnel, and we saw that the
object was to crowd us up on the shore. Two
men armed with boat-hooks were standing ready
to hook us. We turned on full speed, and the
Aerolite went across the bows of the police launch
with a bound. We hailed the clean-shaven man
on the bridge as “ Whiskers,” and swung round
for the Pile-light.
The moon suddenly climbed over the hills at
the back of Rose Bay. As we went leaping
through the water, we saw the police boat’s big
black smoke cloud spread across the water, saw
its lights zigzag over towards Middle Harbor, and
knew that the force had lost us in the moonlit
haze.
We rushed on, under the frowning North
Head and slowing down as we glided into a
slight swell, burst suddenly into a moonlit
ocean. Behind us the shore line rose like
a silhouette in Indian ink. Across gleaming
leagues the moon made a track of glory to where
an opalescent archipelago floated partly in the
sky and partly in the sea. Like Winken and
Blinken and Nod we turned our boat into that
golden pathway and reeled along with a shower
of gems falling on our whaleback bow. On, and
on, and on, we fled towards the opalescent archi-
pelago. The charm and witchery of it fell upon
us, and we spoke no word, but sat swaying with
the motion of the boat till I saw among the
islands one larger than the rest. On its beach of
seed pearls lovely girls stood holding glorious
mixed drinks with plenty of soda and ice, under
palms which waved by electricity.
* * * *
A splash in my face awakened me. I sat up
with a curse and said I wanted hot tea and not
cold water. I was answered with a grunt, and
opening my eyes, thought I must be dead and
gone to -. A dull gray sky, the stern of a
boat, and beyond, a rolling ocean of gray-green
water. I tried to think it out, and saw a big
burly man lying under the seat to the left. Then
I remembered.
“ Here, wake up ! This is beyond a joke,” I
gasped, trying to rise to my feet. But just then
the ocean dropped from beneath the boat, and I
fell of a heap, As we struck the floor of the
ocean I hauled myself up. The rebound helped
me, and when I stood upright we were on the top
of an oceanic buckjumper, and I stared round
and found that we were quite out of sight of
land.
Howard got on his knees. His tongue was
(Continued on page 44- )


“THE WINTER IS AT HAND
When clouds appear, wise men put on their cloaks;
When great leaves fall, the winter is at hand,
_vv_. il ftiv, n/vf lrvnlr fnr merr
Nature never takes us by surprise; she always gives a
clear signal when change or danger is near. ar P P n 0
dull ache in the back is Nature's warning of Kidney Disea .
The sufferer from Kidney Disease is short-tempeied and
irritable, nervous and despondent—his back gives him no
peace day and night, the least change of the weather tells on
Eim he can’t stoop, can’t walk far. Women with Kidney
Trouble are just the same; they imagine themselves to be
suffering from all kinds of “women’s complaints. lhey
have no patience with the little ones, are easily annoyed, an
always tired. During the winter months youl are more like y
to get colds. And colds very often affect the Kidneys , be-
fore, at the first sign of backache, or any other symptom o
kidney derangement, take Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, the
special kidney and bladder medicine for men women.
Bead the following experience of a Sydney woman:
WHEN COLD WEATHER SET IN THE PAIN WAS DREADFUL
Backache Caused by a Heavy Cold. Cured to Stay Cured.
Mrs. Kate Helmka, 27 Ada-street, Ultimo, thw city, ago^l
Kft the used - b a
Fam pieaswl recommend these pills to all
was made
-d “ ed kidneys -
I’ve had no return of my trouble.’
“of all the ways 1 a cold * affects the system , no way is so
dangerous as a cold on the kidneys.
“Every Picture Tells
a Story/*
n
Till
c
—3T
I
/■
DOAN’S,
REMEMBER
k
Backache
Kidney
PIUS.
2s 9d per Box,
At all Chemists and
Stores, or from
Foster*McClellan Co.
76 Pitt St., Sydney
hanging out, and he had a pathetic look m his
blue eyes.
“Where the devil are we, old m fellow?’ he
gasped. _
“ Somewhere in the South Pacific Ocean, I
snorted, cursing my foolishness in being there at
ail.
Howard stayed on his knees and clung to the
steering shaft while I clutched wildly at anything
as we fell down into another hole in the ocean.
“ I think you’re wrong—in fact, I’ll lay 50 to 1
that we’re in the Tasman Sea,” he said sadly.
“You will be presently, for a cert; for if one
of those curlers catches us we’ll be ct the bottom
before you’ve time to collect. I wish I could let
out a good howl, or kick myself, or something. Oh,
I’m an unmitigated idiot! ”
“You are—you are, old man. And Im
another. Nobody but too infernal lunatics would
be in such a plight. Does the sea often get holes
in it like this ? ”
“ Oh, I’m hanged if I know. Can’t you get up
and make the engine go?”
“No, old man, I can’t. I’m afraid I —er am
going to be sick.” .
“Well, is there anything to drink on board?
I asked, despairingly, feeling that the only thing
that could keep me alive was hot tea or cold soda-
water. , _ , .
“ Not a drop !’’ he groaned. Set the engine
going and let’s make for Sydney before we die of
thirst. I’ve got a lime kiln in my throat.”
Then I discovered that the last drop of gasoline
had been used up. We were lost at sea, nothing
to drink, no fuel —and the boat was performing
like a drunken cork.
“ It doesn’t matter. If we had the fuel we
don’t know which way Sydney lies. But if we
get back I’ll make sure there’s plenty of every-
thing on board before we come out again.”
“You won’t catch me coming out here again if
I have the good luck to ever get in.”
“No, I think I’ll sell this craft and cultivate a
good, domestic, stay-at-home vice in preference,
said the squatter, who was beginning to pull him-
self together.
We took turns at watching for passing steamers,
and the long dreary morning wore slowly away.
We rolled and bobbed about in the hideous waste
of waters, expecting to be swamped at any
moment. We were too ill to talk. _
Suddenly the gray veil overhead rifted, and a
great burst of sunlight streamed down over us,
and turned the rolling, gray water to sunlit green.
If we had not been parched with thirst we would
have felt more cheerful, for the sunny ocean
looked much less dreadful than when grey desola-
tion brooded over it.
“Looks like a god gone mad, doesn t it?
mused the squatter. .
“ Yes, the wild fantasia of the maniac seas '
“Oh, shut up—l say, there’s a whale or some
other beastly thing coming up the side of the next
gU “ Whale be blowed—what whale would come
out on a day like this ? ”
“Well, you fool, they must come out—where
can they stay ? ” , ,
“How in thunder can they come out when
there’s nowhere for them to go in ? What was it
you saw ? ” T , • „
“It was something long and black, it it is a
whale only the Lord knows how we’re going to get
out of its way ! ”
* * * *
We watched intently, and then something ap-
peared for a moment on a distant hill of water, and
immediately sank out of sight. We strained our
eyes in the anxious watch for its reappearance,
and then, poised a moment on a green crest yards
above us, appeared another motor-boat, its null
was black, and a long, red line was revealed as
the water fell from below its bows. The copper
rims round its ports gleamed like go c •
curling crests went clean over it as it slippea
down into the trough of the ocean and slowly
came straight at us.
“Boat ahoy I—are you all asleep there, we
y< But no notice was taken of our shouts. We got
out the boat hooks to try and fend her off. As
she drew close we could hear the noise ot her
engine working, and as we saw she was just c ,
we got ready to grapple. On she came, I he
ocean was rising beneath us, and she mig
carried out of reach by the swirling waters, as she
was not nearly as buoyant as our Aerolite, atm
no sign of anyone on board, and I ' von(ler “ ! , f
we, or I at least, had gone mad. As she rolled
we gripped her with the hooks and hung
grim death. The light, buoyant Aerolite swung
close to her, and we scrambled on board, and as
we looked round we saw the pearl-gray boat and
her turquoise-blue water-line swirl away behind.
We plunged into the cabin. It was upholstered
in sage-green, The engine was running quarter
speed. Huddled in a heap up under the bow lay
the form of a woman in a dead faint. Ibere was
no one else on board. We lifted the girl up as
well as the plunging and rolling of the boat would
permit, and dragged her to the stern, where there
was more fresh air. While the squatter chafe
her hands and temples I hunted round for some-
thing in the shape of restoratives, and found a
locker containing wine, soda-water, and ale. in
an obscure corner, carefully stowed away, a la g
bottle of O.Y.G. breathed fresh hope into my
a< ‘ She’s coming round,” shouted Howard.
“ So am I,” I gurgled, ripping the cork out of a
soda-water bottle and draining it dry. I hen X
brought over some to Howard, who gulped it
eagerly, after which we rubbed a little of the
precious whisky on the girl’s temples. She opened
tier eyes and looked at us in dazed amazement
We gave her some whisky and soda, and then she
sat up for a moment, but immediately sank down
again. It was much easier lying down m that
SG After saving our lives again with some more
drinkables we started out to recover the Aerohte
It was not so easy as it sounded. I he Aerolite
was like a wild horse, and broke away in a curious
manner. After dodging round for an hour or so,
we managed to hook her and make her fast to a sea-
anchor. Then we hunted for something to eat. I he
girl lay still in the stern of the boat on cushions.
Salt spray splashed on her face occasionally, but
she wiped it off in silence, and lay with her eyes
closed We found half a lobster some rolls,
butter, and other luxuries. We tried to rouse the
girl to take something, but she just shuddered
and covered her face with her handkerchief.
“ Poranghil” (mad) muttered Howard m Maori.
The woman looked up with a sudden start.
“ Where are you taking me? ” she asicea.
“ To Sydney later on. Is that where you wish
t 0 “Where did you come from ? ” she queried.
“Off that cruiser astern. We had run out
of fuel, and, as we could not get any reply, we
came on board when the boats drifted together.
How do you come to be alone in a motor-boat m
SU The woman drank a glass of wine and looked
helplessly across the now subsiding ocean. A
cloud of gulls swept by, the sunlight flashed on
white crests, and glittered on the wet sides of
the Aerolite that bobbed behind us.
“ Could you tranship fuel to your boat, and take
US ‘‘Yes, when the'sea goes down a bit; but what
is the advantage ? We’ll have to tow this boat in
and, as it is heavier than our own, it is better to
tow the Aerolite.” , . _ T ,
“But you mustn’t tow this boat in. Aou must
Sm “ Tim Lord forbid ! ” we both gasped, in horror;
“Yes, and land me at Manly when it is dark,
and keep it all a dead secret.”
We stared at one another. The woman mois-
tened her lips with soda-water and went on:
“ There was a man in this boat with me. He was
afraid that we would be swamped, and he tried to
hoist a distress flag on the pole forward. I steered
the boat badly, and great green waves swept over
it, and, when I looked again, he was gone. I
tried to find him. I hoped against hope that lie
might be swimming, but I never saw him again.
And it must never be known that I was with him.
13 “l?o.” emphatically. “ You had
better trust us implicitly. Are this man s rela-
tives to go on wondering week after week, montl
upon month, if he will ever come back . Why,
his wife and children may not be able to collect
his insurance money for want of proof of death.
You must consider all these worldly facts,
had no wife nor family. But can you not
understand. We loved each other, and I am
married. I am staying with friends away out at
Pittwater, and my friends at Pittwater believe 1
have gone into town for a couple of days. If_the
fact that I was in this boat comes out l am iume ,
and I have no lover now to take care ol me.
“Yes, madam, I understand now. You were
in a tight place, and hang me if I know how
you would have got out of it if we two fools
hadn’t got drunk last night. Well P lok , U P
that boat and make for the shore now that
long, dark line is the coast—-and get into the first
sheltered bay, tranship all the things we requite,
and tow this craft out after dark and swampher.
Lord, but it hurts —I’ll feel like a murderer.
There was still a considerable swell as we stole
out to sea in the moonlight that night. The
motor boat of black and red trailed behind us
The skittish Aerolite danced like a bird over the
moonlit waves. We drew the other boat along-
side and commenced to pump water into her;
just in case the sea gave her up she must have
been legitimately swamped. It was hideous, but
we pumped on remorselessly. I he beautiful boat
struggled gamely and rocked from side to side, as
though trying to shake herself clear of the weight
that slowly dragged her down. Suddenly she
gave a lurch, and a wave broke over her sides
We glided away and watched her sadlj. ol e
rose gallantly to the swell, but another wavelet
curled over her, and she shipped half of it and
went down a little more at the bow. Every time
the swell caught her she sank lower, and then,
like a wounded animal, she fell over on one side,
struggled a moment, and plunged downward.
Weturned the Aerolite’s head northward, and
the last gleam of the moon lit our way through the
Heads. We crept slowly towards Manly, and
landed a fashionably-dressed lady round by Tair-
light She lingered a moment, murmured some-
thing about eternal gratitude, and then vanished
in the gloom. We got out of the cove and streaked
away for Port Macquarie, where we left the
launch in charge of a varlet while we drove round
to the French cafe for something substantial in
the shape of a supper.
* * * *
On Saturday nights a pompous man dines at that
French cafe in all the glory of a frock coat. The
sheen of his tall hat falls on the dainty head-gear
of a dark-eyed woman who sits beside him, laugh-
ing and talking. The sound of her voice brings with
it the echo of angry waves, and the gurgling noise
that rose from the water as the motor boat of
black and red sank into the depths ; and somehow,
in spite of all her gaiety, I think her heart is
drifting in the Tasman Sea with the body of her
lost lover.
C. A. JEFFBIKS.
Mother-love.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A month last night my baby died,
At first I only sat and cried,
Till Parson came to me and said,
“You must not think your baby dead.
“ Think of him up in Heaven,” said he,
“ Where God and all the angels be.
Think of him in Christ’s arms,” lie said,
“ Poor mother, and be comforted.
So, as I work through the long day,
My thoughts go flying far away,
I follow till I almost see
The way my baby went from me.
Up through the clear warm air he goes,
So round and pink without his clothes,
And when he reaches Pleaven’s gate
They do not make my baby wait.
For all the angels walking near
Cry out, “ Oh, see the lovely dear !
Arid swing the broad leaves wide, and run
To carry in my little one.
Set in a ring of merry talk—
He is too little yet to walk—
They bear him, smiling, small and bold,
Up the steep street of shining gold.
To where, above the dazzling height,
Set on a throne so great and white,
God and His dear Son always rest,
With crowds of children round i.hem prest.
God holds all little children dear,
He loves to draw them close and near.
But my wee boy, so sweet and small,
Is drawn the closest of them all.
For Christ holds out a pierced hand;
My baby kicks, and tries to stand,
Stretches to reach Him, snuggles warm,
Deep in the hollow of His arm.
And there he rests and goes to sleep,
So cosy, I forget to weep, . .
Watching each warm and dimpled limb,
And all the sweet content of him.
But when he wakes —ah, Christ, be kind .
He turns and seeks, and cannot find,
Pressing his little downy head
Just where the Saviour’s side is red.
His lips a-trembling I can see—
And then the heart-break catches me—
His little trembling lip—for oh
My boy does want his mother so !
QUEENSLAND.
A.W.


An Adelaide lady sends her photograph, and writes:
'V
.*5
m
“I used to have terrible
feelings come over me. The
doctors could do me no good.
I could not sleep, my appe-
tite left me, and I was a
most miserable woman in-
deed. Having read of Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla I thought I
would try it. To my great
surprise, after taking only
two bottles I found myself
very much better in every
way. After taking six bot-
tles all my disagreeable feel-
ings left me, and I was completely cured.”
If your appetite is poor, your digestion imperfect, and
you feel nervous and weak, you ought to take
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
It expels all impurities from the blood and gives strength
and vigor to the nerves. A thorough course of treatment
with it makes rich and red blood, brings the old color back
to the lips, fills out the cheeks, and gives the glow of per-
fect health.
A good appetite—a good digestion—a healthy liver—
an active brain and strong nerves; these are better than
great riches, and Ayer’s Sarsaparilla will help you to
obtain them.
Prepared by DR. J. O. AVER Sc CO., Dowell, Mass., U. S. A.
There are many imitation “ Sarsaparillas.” Be sure you get AYER’S.
Ayer’s Pills, sugar-coated, for constipation. In glass bottles.
ķ
MADE
STRONG
\ /fL T"H( * does the world praise ? Why the strong man,
f f of course—the man who CAN DO and DOES !
Not the weakling whose very personality obscures
him. The world idolises a manly man, and has but pity
for the weak one. Surely you want to appear, and be, at
your best. Nature did not intend you to be a weakling. . .
Why drag your legs about like a wooden man ? Why take a
back seat, or be a wall-flower, when the Specialists of this
Institution stand ever ready to make you as Strong,
Vigorous, and Virile as any man who lives ?
We know why you suffer, and we also know that by
pumping your nerves and tissues full of new life (Electricity)
you can be invigorated, rejuvenated, and made as strong
and healthy as Nature intended you to be.
Dr, McLaughlin's Electric Belt
after three months’ use, makes strong, vigorous men out of
weaklings and “half-men.” It will infuse new life into
your nerves and tissues ; will give you a new lease of life,
and will make all sunshine where you now see a dull, dark,
dismal future. Guaranteed in every case undertaken, you
can be sure it will not fail when recommended. Give it a
trial, and you will rejoice ever afterwards. Thousands have
been cured by this appliance, and so can you be—if you will.
Varicocele and Functional Debility.
Railway Station, INVERELL, N.S.W.
Dear Sire,—l wish to inform you that, though I had
taken medicine for months without success, and had
despaired of ever being cured of Indigestion and Consti-
pation, as well as the other complaints that bothered
me so much, after wearing your High-Grade Belt for
five months I found that I was completely cured and
as well as at an.v time in my life. This was over two
years ago, and since that time I have had no return of
my old complaints, so I consider that your Belt is un-
questionably the best remedy ever known for these
troubles.—Yours truly,
ALEXANDER ALLAN.
we
nos o t
/,
Free Book !
Send us the following COUPON, properly filled in, and we
wi post you our Free Book. It is worth pounds to any
sufferer, as it contains much interesting: advice for men and
women, and gives full information about our Wonderful Belt. . CALL if you
can, and obtain Free Test and Free Advice. ’ y
CONSULTING HOURS-9 a.m. to 8 p.m. Dally.
The dr. McLaughlin go.
100 W. Market St.
SYDNEY.
90 William St., Perth*
WILLIAM OHULti MAwreia
Cut off this Coupon, fill it in, and Post It to us To-day .
THIS COUPON, filled In with your name and address,
by return poet.
will secure you our FREE BOOK
NAME.
ADDRESS
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
8
L and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headaclu-s
Uuidiness, r ulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush*
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Lreath. Cos i veil ess, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
wirr Nervous and Trembing Sensations. &c. THU FI RSI' DOSR
jL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
rriTvi “lvited to try one Box of these Pills, and oi oy will be acknowledged to be “ W OR'IH A
fxUINEA A BOX.
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, w quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of Lie system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen ed e of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are facts admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Largtst Sale of any Patent Medieine. in
the world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
IHOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is lid. ami ils 9(1 each.
ĸ
£3 Parcel of Jewellery
8 ARTICLES OF STERLINC VALUE
Something' for each member of
the Family.
High in Quality—Low in Price.
The reason that we are able to offer such
high-grade goods at so low a price is that we
manufacture all of the articles (except the
watch) in our own works, and they carry but
one profit#
The watches are purchased from the
manufacturer in very large numbers for cash.
You get the share that usually goes to the
middlemen. That is your gain.
If you bought these goods at any store in
Australia you would probably have to pay
pretty well double the price for them.
THESE ARE THE ARTICLES—
No. i— Boy’s Keyless Watch, solid
Silver Hunting Case, Jewelled Movement.
Warranted to wear 10 years, and kept in order
by us—except breakages—for 2 years, free of
charge. Although this watch is de.scr,bed as
for a boy it will suit most men and is made
to stand really hard wear.
No 2.— Gentleman’s Solid Silver
Albert, with the Government Stamp on
every link. Complete with Sliding Bar and
Two Swivels.
No. 3— Solid Bilver Locket. Govern-
ment stamped.
No. 4— Gentleman’s 9-Carat Gold
Scarf Pin, set with 2 pearls and 3 rubies.
No. 5 Elegant 9-Carat Gold Bell
and Chain on Lace Pin.
No. 6— Heavy Gold Band Ring.
Any name engraved and made to any size
you may desire. An excellent souvenir.
No. 7 — Gold Brooch (9 ct.) of charming
design. Nice present for a girl.
No. B—Lady’s Purse in Real Morocco
Leather, with solid silver lock.
If desired, we can supply a Lady’s Silver
Watch and Muff Chain in place of the Boy’s
Watch and Chain, for the same money,
THE PRICE OF THESE EIGHT ARTICLES
PACKED IN STRONG BOX AND DELIVERED
AT YOUR ADDRESS IS £3.
We do the largest Mail Order Business
in Jewellery and British Silver Plate in the
Commonwealth, and this remarkable offer is
made because we know that you will be so
delighted with the parcel that we will gain
you for a regular customer.
Write now for the parcel. Remember,
your money back at once if you are not
absolutely satisfied.
ANGUS & COOTE,
“ The Store where Quality counts,”
494 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Ask for our 72-page Catalogue. It con-
tains hundreds of illustrations, and will save
you money on every purchase.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
■Completely overcome Dxafnkss
■and Head Noises, no matter of
■how long standing. Are the same
fto the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Addms-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St.. Melbonriu.
Consult DR. MARTIN,
The Old Established, Reliable
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
*sr-
MEN
and
WOMEN
A 50-page specimen copy of DR. MARTIN’S Great Work on the
Diseases of Men and Women, contains 34 Illustrations and
Colored Plates. Write To-day for it. POSTED FREE.
May be had from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you
apply to him now a copy will be Posted Free tor 2s. This
Magnificent Medical Work contains 692 pages Crown Bvo., over 500
Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautifully
Four-Colored Plate—the most interesting, up-to-date and reliable
Medical Work Published. It is a true guide for all the diseases of men
and women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books
advertised FREE TO THE PUBLIC. It is a complete Ene\ clopsedia
of information for suffering humanity afflicted with long-standing,
chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. No similar book
has ever been published.
PRIVATE HOSPITAL TREATMENT
atienta received. Terms Moderate
ADDRESS ALL COMMUNICATIONS TO-
ELMLEY HOUSE,
151 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
DR. MARTIN, M.D.
[Please mention this paper when writing.]


GOLOSHES
k
Beacon ”
Pure Gum, Rolled Edge.
flen’s - -6/- per pair
“THE BEACON”
Puke Cum.
Men’s - " 5/- per pair
(Also at 3/11)
Women’s - 3 9 per pair
(Also at 2/11)
Our List of Winter Requirements Free on request.
Perdriau Rubber Co
270 George St., Sydney
WORTHINGTON PUMP GO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET
SYDNEY.
Policy for the Commonwealth:
Price 6d.
Posted Bd.
Rabbit Skins, Marsupials, Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins and Wcfol SESDIO
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., SYDNEY
HIGHEST VALUES. SPEEDY RETURNS. E. J. E. MACKENZIE, Manager.
HARDY’S
ķ
TINTARA
WINES. .
700 Prizes,
Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide.
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
r'm
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER BIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill for
Mines or Quarries. Weight about Igibs. Operated by compressed air. consuming about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Strlotly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
SDLE - ACENTB i _ W# & J. LEMPRIERE,
506 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST., BYDNEY.
Every Pump Guaranteed.
“There is No Better Pump
than the ‘KNOWLES.’”
KNOWLES PUMPS for every kind of service
kept in stock. SINGLE and DUPLEX, VERTICAL
and HORIZONTAL.
Boiler Feed or Pressure Pumps, Double Acting Plunger Pumps,
Tank or Light Service Pumps, Vertical Sinking Pumps,
Air Pumps, Circulating Pumps, etc.
PARKE & LACY CO.,
60 CLARENCE ST„ SYDNEY.
Melbourne Selling Agents: Bevan and Edwards Propy., Ltd., Latrobe Street.
PATERNOSTERS
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
FOR
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
k
ķ
k
ĸ
Fred Metters & Co.
RANGES
and STOVES
Manufacturers in N.S. Wales,
South Australia and West
Australia.
All influential storekeepers act as
our agt&ts and stock our Stoves.
HEAD OFFICES:
558 George St., Sydney.
142 Bundle St., Adelaide.
William St., Perth.
Sold
by
all first-
cltn;s stores
in Australasia.
No. 8176 J 2-BLADE
“ PA MPA,”
Cocoa Handle 116
Buffalo Handle- 21-
Stag Handle - - - 216
k
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
PAMPA’
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BEST.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SY3D3XTEY.
MEW PATENT FRAME
Possesses the following Advantages over the SHELL or JACKET :
For MOUNTING
ROCK DRILLS
Much lighter: Keeps the drill perfectly rigid from beginning to end of stroke;
Prevents undue wear of feed screw and nut; Ensures absolutely smooth working;
Prolongs life of drill; Obviates fitchering; May be used with any kind of Drill.
Little Giant and Slugger and Baby Drills supplied with these Patent Frames
Stolen
Licensees:
N. GUTHRIDGE, Etd., Sydney & Melbourne
