

BULLOCH Lk '
BULK WHISKY
IRROY’S CHAMPAGNE
R. G. WA.TKISTS SC CO.,
107 XSZejtil; Street, Sydney,
Mining' and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LISTS
AND PARTICULARS.
HoaaAKT,
v
fiadiey's Orient |otel.
m
PIONEER
LEATHER
■BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
i. C.Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 7 Bent Street, SYDNEY
•* *
FIXED ENGINES
4 B.H.F. ... 45100
6 B.H.F. ... £125
8 B.H.F. ... £155
IN STOCK.
SOLE AGENTS FOR ......
COLUMBUS OIL ENGINES
The Most Convenient Power for FARM PURPOSES, DRIVING SHEEP
SHEARING MACHINES, GRINDING FEED, CHAFF CUTTING, PUMPING
WATER, DRIVING SEPARATORS, SAWING WOOD, Etc., Etc., Etc.
PORTABLE ENGINES
4 B.H.P. ... £l4O
6 B.H.P. ... £165
8 B.H.P. ... £2OO
IN STOCK.
V
\
Pineapple Brand
5
CHU
" Take it back ,
I must have -
HUTTONS
HAMS ®
BACON .
THE ROYAL
EDISWAN LAMP.
ii
l\vi
mm
Economy in Current.
Equality op Light.
THE
mm a m
United Electric
Light Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
16 Carrington Street
Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY.
Queensland Depdt:
Commonwealth
Buildings,
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE.
Bathurst to Sydney, Great Wallace Continental, Road Race.
Ist, «/. Dm
2nd, Fm Aflsop
Rode Continental Tyree -
-127 Miles without Puncture .
Ask for these Famous Tyres
for Motor Car or Cycie.
££
<ZA
VO
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS!
m
*3
TEA!
ASK
FOR
0^
m
OIL
No Other in
the World .
EQUALS
‘SIMPLEX’
IRRIGATING PLANTS SUPPLIED.
ABSOLUTE
En
Reliability
Simplicity
Efficiency
Durability
Economy.
No Worry or Trouble
IGNITION is
AUTOMATIC.
No Carbonization
whatever.
Satisfaction Guaranteed
Ail Sizes.
Stationary & Portable.
ENGINES
UNRIVALLLED IN QUALITY.
PALE ALE.
iPT" ITW BOTTLE. -WSSt
pe»«*Bnni jo} puog pe, X H9n ON
Catalogue.
E. Coulson
116 a’Beckett St.,
MELBOURNE.
JUST PUBLISHED.
Price 21s.
Three Hundred of “ Hop’s” Pictures, superbly produced.
sp
■■Ski
BOOK of
ILLUSTRATIONS
ever issued i*i Australia.
A UNIQUE AND LUXURIOUS XMAS OITT.
V- ■
Gollin & Co., Agents.
The Bulletin
—No. 1356. j
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
[Thursday, February 8, 1906.


geiotua
OF POPULAR AUTHORS.
Some New and Forthcoming Vols.
WHO WAS LADY THORNE Florence Warden
THE CHOICE OF EMELIA Adeline Sergeant
THE HARVEST OF LOVE C. Ranger Gull
IRRESPONSIBLE KITTY Curtis Yorke
THE GARDEN OF MYSTERY Richard Marsh
HORSES I HAVE KNOWN “ G. G.” (H. G. Harper)
TRAITOR AND TRUE John Bloundellk-Burton
THE GREAT REFUSAL . .Maxwell Gray
Author of “The Silence of Dean Maitland.”
THE CATTLE BARON’S DAUGHTER..Haroldßindloss
FOR THE WHITE COCKADE J. E. Muddock
THE BELLE OF BOWLING GREEN..... Amelia E. Barr
SOUL TWILIGHT Lucas Cleeve
THE BLACK PATCH ..Fergus Hume
BARNABY’S BRIDAL ..S. R. Keightley
LADY MARION AND THE PLUTOCRAT
Lady Helen Forbes
PHOEBE OF THE WHITE FARM . May Grommelin
A MADCAP MARRIAGE M. McDonnell Bodkin
THE REAL MRS. DAY3ROOK Florence Warden
ANNA LOMBARD (39th Edition). Victoria Gross
*»* Complete Catalogue of John Long’s Colonial
Library Post Free.
NAT GOULD’S NEW
SPORTING STORIES.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
Mr. John Long has much pleasure in announcing
that in future all Mr. Nat Gould’s New Stories will be
exclusively published by him, in a more attractive
style than hitherto. The following are the first three :
ONE OF A MOB Recently Published.
THE SELLING PLATER In November.
THE LADY TRAINER January , 1906.
Price 2s. each, illustrated boards ; or in cloth, gilt,
2s. 6d. each. Crown Svo, f!88 pages.
SHILLING EDITIONS
A Lost Cause .. .. g uv thorns
Author of “ When it was Dark.”
Standard (London)Has all the elements of a
great and popular success.”
Daily Telegraph (London):' —“‘A Lost Cause’ is
decidedly clever, and a better book than that much-
ta!ked-of ‘ When it wax Dark.’ ”
Morning Leader (London)“ Will create as great
a sensation as ‘ When it was Dark,’ and be as great a
success. ”
WHEN ST WAS LIGHT
A reply to “ When it was Dark ”
BY A WEIL-KNOWN AUTHOR.
This book which, it is no secret to state, is written
by a very well known author, is a reply to “ When it
was Dark,” by Mr. Guy Thorne, and an antidote to
the views expressed in that enormously popular novel.
It should arouse very great interest, and no doubt
this battle of the wits will resound in the ears of
English novel readers throughout the world.
All London has been roaring over
THE STORM OF LONDON
lhth Edition completing a circulation
of over 100,000.
Bookman “ Everybody is stark naked and has to
grow accustomed to it. You cannot tell an Ear!from
a busman, the butler from his master, nor the cleric
from the layman. Entirely readable and amusing.”
London: JOHN LONG, 13 & 14 Norris Street,
Haymarket.
And at every Library and Bookseller’s
in the British Colonies.
BOOKS 2 BOOKS! BOOKS 2
Write us for Particulars of any you Require.
We are Always Glad to Answer inquiries.
ANY BOOK OR MAGAZINE PROCURED- LISTS ON ANY SUBJECT SUPPLIED.
List of Sixpenny Edition and R.P.A. Berles Mailed from
George Robertson & Co. Pr**p. Ltd.
71 CASTILEREACH STREET,
SYDNEY.
IE THROAT, THE VOICE.
The Great ..
ANTISEPTIC
REMEDY
For ths Curs of
Bronchitis !
and Influenza I
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
a
A. The Larynx, or organ of voice.
B. The Traohea, or windpipe.
O. The Bronchial Tabes of a dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
THE "AUSTRALASIAN
MEDICAL GAZETTE”
says
“ Of great service in
affections of the
voice and throat.”
MT HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
(Rbsistbred). CONTAINS NO COCAINE OR OTHER POISONOUS DRUC. Sold by all Chemists, in tins, 1/6, or
from the ’Manufacturer, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland, post free on receipt of stamps. Sydney
Depot : 6& 7 Queen’s Place. Agencies in all Australian States and N.Z., and at 320 Regent Street W., London.
THE RED PAGE.
ONE wonders what a professor of Presby-
terian theology would say to the literary
marriage of William Sharp and Fiona
Macleod. Death has just decreed a
divorce ; and the widow alleges that those twain
were one flesh —though in May, 1899, a letter
signed “ Fiona’Macleod ” appeared in the dignified
Athenceum to this effect:
... I give you authority to say definitely that “ Fiona
Macleod ” is not any of those with whom she has been
“identified”; that she writes only under the name of
Fiona Macleod ; that tier name is her own ; and that all
she asks is the courtesy bpth of good breeding and com-
mon sense—a courtesy which is the rigiit of all, and surely
imperatively of a woman acting by and for herself...
As a very loud-voiced rumour had declared in
1898 that Fiona was William, denial could scarcely
be more explicit. And if the Presbyterian pro-
fessor should exeuse that, how could he excuse
Sharp’s definite denial to a brither Scot?—the
serious and peculiar Robertson Nicoll —who, when
last heard of, was painfully doubting whether he
should accept Mrs. Sharp’s word in defiance of
additional solemn denials made to him person-
ally. And Nicoll in 1895 declared in The Bookman
his exclusive information that William was Fiona’s
cousin ! Hereabouts is sacrilege to which there is
no defence. One may pardon Sharp for cheating
the whole world, but how is it possible to pardon
him for deluding Robertson Nicoll ?
Sharp, of course, had a definite bond with
Australia. When he was twenty-odd he came
here for his health “and joined an exploring
party’’—(which ?)—turning his experience to
account in a volume of indifferent verse quoted
too • liberally in Sladen’s collection. Even he
wrote, after A. L. Gordon, “The Stockdriver’s
Ride,” printed at the head of this page and now
accredited duly to the lady of whom The Academy
declared :
Miss Macleod is by birth and conviction a Celt of the
Celts. She is a member of an old Highland family, and,
contrary to general belief, the name is no pseudonym,
but a genuine one, Fiona being the diminutive of Fiona-
ghal, the Gaelic of Flora.
"\T F ‘ SPIEL VOGEL, a Victorian school-
teacher who writes A Gumsucker on the
-i- v • Tranip (Ballarat; S. Spielvogel) is a
sportive bird who deserves his name.
He does a t say whether his book costs 6 d. or Is. ;
but it deserves to be taken up by a regular pub-
lisher, printed in larger type, and sold at Is. all
over the country in order to make Australians
contented with tiieir lot. You never know what
a good place Australia is till you get out of it.
N. F. Spiel vogel desireci to see" the world, saved
1207., and spent it gaily in six months of Europe—
returning with a glad heart and 3s. 4 d. “ perfectly
sitisded that notwithstanding all the beauties, the
treasures, and grandeur of the whole world, I pre-
fer to live here.” His little book records his
impressions of travel. He has seen a great deal,
and tells brightly what lie has seen. Here are
some of his gay little sidelights on things and
people :
What a crowd of 80,000 Londoners to hear John Burns !
Dull, stolid, hungry-looking individuals. Hardly a cheer.
Without fervour of life. Like a horde of lost souls look-
ing for the road to Heaven.
The Londoner doesn’t talk Australian English. He
talks of “ cahnations,” “ voelets,” “ Broighten,” and the
lads and workmen all address me as “ Guv’ner.” I don’t
know whether they are prophesying or what. I think it
must be what.
As I went along the early London streets, I saw num-
bers of wolfish-looking men seeking in the gutters for a
crust. Australia is a grand land. It knows not poverty
in the same sense that London knows it.
I have had to defend Australia from most abominable
calumnies. Such questions as “Why do you not allow
the Six Hatters to land in Australia?” “Why did you
put the Six Hatters in prison ? ” “ Why did you refuse to
allow Indians to save themselves from drowning?”
“ What about the Petriana ?” My denials were met with
copies of Australian papers, confirming my opponent’s
argument. And I thought of the fishmonger travelling
with his rival’s barrow, crying “ Stinkin' fish.”
Our Cockney provoked a general laugh by remarking
wisely—" These blessed German stations are all the same
name. All called Ausgang.”
In a bevy of German girls one was put forward as able
to talk English to the stranger. And the prettv little
maiden said to me unblushingly all the English she knew.
(I’m wondering if she understood it)O ! you leedle
darling ! I lofe you! Oh ! you leedle daisy 1 Dell me
drue.”
London is great, Berlin is grand. London is impressive,
but Berlin is majestic. Unter den Linden reminded me
of Sturt-street, Ballarat.
I would n’t live in Berlin. No ! not at any price.
Berlin has a God we know not in Australia or England—
Militarism ! The soldier is everywhere !
The officers, dressed in their dainty lavender top coats
and little undress saps, stalk along the street, turning an
eye of contempt on any one not in uniform. I stepped
into a car the other day. Four civilians were sitting on
one side, an officer alone on the other. The car started
with a jerk. I dropped down rather suddenly, almost on
top of the officer. He jumped up as though something
or other (I don’t know what) had happened. I apologised
in English. He looked too fierce for me to remember any
German. Then, giving me a look of intense contempt, he
said several things at me in German. (I wish I’d learnt
more German.), I don’t think they were respectable.
The Spree’s not much to look at. I have often seen
on a bigger spree than Berlin is. I’ve seen no
river yet to compare for beauty with the Mitta Mitta as
it runs through Kskdale (Vic.).
The Germans do not hide their feelings, and I hate
being kissed by men.
I bought articles of clothing for 6s. 6d. that I regularly
pay 17s. for in Melbourne ! Pictorial postcards, 10 a
penny. I’d like to earn my salary in Dimboola and buy
my things in Berlin.
Though teetotalism is (as far as I can judge) almost
unknown in Berlin, so is drunkenness. I ascribe this to
the more rational method of drinking.
The Australian girl is easily first (as far as I have seen)
in beauty and charm, but particularly that she always
seems to be well dressed, no matter how cheap the
materials may be of which her dress is composed.
I am not supposed to understand any German, and
they criticise me openly. Says one, “I suppose all
Australians smoke pipes and have funny noses?” And
another, “They don’t grow much hair in Australia. I
suppose it’s too hot.” “ Yes ! and they all write without
ink (I had a fountain pen), and what bad writing ! ”
“ Entsehuldigen sie mich ” (excuse me) came a voice
from the corner. I looked round and saw 20 stone of
humanity. He found out I was an Australian, and he
began to curse Australia. He had been there for 20
years, and had left at last in disgust. Why ? Because of
the drought ? Because of Socialistic legislation ? Because
of the Six Hatters incident ? No ! But because Aus-
tralian beer was no good. “It was made from glucose,
arsenic and tobacco. I trink two glasses Gomsucker beer
I get head top. I trink twenty glass Deutscher beer not
so bad.”
The Swiss are great people. I. am in love with them.
Everybody is genial and delightful. And that just
reminds me that the Australian speaks more i in < ® e ‘°“ ■
than any folk I have heard. An Australian m--kes n
difference in intonation, whether he say
important thing as Pig’s Feet won the Cup, or S “ CI ‘
small matter that his neck is ru’C.'.tt.. All • ’
one of the sweetest things I have heard is th- ‘ *
way in whiei) the German girls trill such
“ Adieu,” “ Bitte,” etc.
I’m in love-with Lucerne. It’s the dearest, quaintest
place I have ever seen. It’s a miniature peaveii, auu
there are any number of angels there. , .
The Yankee is everywhere. The women can fifejnekea
out by their beauty and the men by their ugliness. \
“But you ought to see the falls of Niagara !
hundred times more beautful,” etc., etc. I had to
Australia’s end up. “ Niagara ! ” I said with all the con- -
tempt I could muster up. “ Have you seen the Wimmera
at Dimboola ? ” These Yankees must be kept in their
places.
Said the guide-book : “ The Cathedral is the finerest in
the worle.” “ Vinci painted this before he died in his
spare time.”
My guide-book, in describing a picture, “ Heaven and
Hell,” says very naively, “ the artist has taken for his
models for the angels in Heaven the features of his
friends, and for those suffering the torments of the other
place the faces of his enemies. Many well-known men
are in both places ” !
[Dropping into poetry]:
The oak tree is glo.rious,
The poplar straight and tall,
The weeping willow beautiful,
The pines do peace recall;
The cypress and the sycamore,
The ivy on the wall,
But my dear old spreading gum tree
I love above them all.
Cairo is by far the most interesting city I have yet
visited. London, Berlin, Borne, are variants of Mel-
bourne, but here everything is strange ; it is like a new
world.
Jt
There is a little party of four German young men going
out to farm in New Zealand ; ideal settlers and grand
young fellows, genial, gentlemanly, and straight. They
have most comical ideas of N.Z. One is that smoking on
Sunday is strictly prohibited.
The Cingalese traders were still on deck, suave,
smiling, and servile. A white planter came on board,
and his servants knelt at his feet and kissed his boots in
farewell. Beautiful is Colombo, but I hate it; beautiful
as a dream of perfection without; putrid with vice, tilth,
and slavery within. A hundred times better stern,
austere Australia, free and pure. Will any man of Aus-
tralia kiss my boots for sixpence 1
The first thing I heard on landing was “ Blime, blokes,
where did he get that hat?” referring to my German
headgear. This is Australian. The Australian is a dif-
ferent type to the Englishman. These men at Fremantle
pier were not the same as those at Southampton. The
Australian is longer and thinner. His pockets were made
at the same'time as his hands, and he has a slouching
walk. Here is the independence that is the delightful
trait in the Australian. The obsequiousness of the Con-
tinental and English workmen is missing. This man
does n’t touch his hat and “ Sir ” one every three words.
Likewise his hand is n’t constantly itching for the tip.
He gets a decent wage from his employer and that
satisfies him. One of our first-class English passengers
said, “ Take this parcel, my man ! ” “ Excuse me, lam
not your man,” was the reply.
I have come back to Australia feeling proud that I have
come back to a country where freedom is more than a
name.
Buy the book.
•
Australian Life in Town and Country, by E. C.
Buley (Bond., Newnes; 3s. 6 d. net) is an admirable
short account of this country ; and anyone wishing
to give friends abroad a notion of Australia cannot
do better than post this well-printed and well-
illustrated little book. It is written less for Aus-
tralians than for foreign»rs who wish to know
something about Australia ; and the task of giving
a full picture in a small compass—a task involving
much labour as well as much knowledge—has been
cleverly accomplished. Here and 'there one meets
inexact statements; but such shortcomings are
few and of little moment. The summaries of social
and industrial conditions are usually so well done
that Australians also will find them interesting
and useful. The author makes no attempt at fine
writing : his style is clear, his information good,
and his judgment sober. He closes one chapter
in words like these :
Here is a continent of three million square miles which
contains fewer than four million people, yet the history of
recent years shows that few immigrants are arriving to
fill the empty places. For more than ten years immigra-
tion has been at a standstill, while the surplus
millions of the old world have been pouring into
America and Africa. Recognising this, the politicians are
at last abandoning their cry of “ Australia for the Austra-
lians,” and are casting about for means whereby they may
Provide Australians for Australia.
F. M. Hueffer writes intelligently of Hans Hol-
bein in Duckworth’s “ Popular Library of Art ” (2s. net).
There is little space for the critical imagination to play
round Holbein, —as little as he left undecorated in his
pictures. He was the literal, unimaginative German, as
Diirer was the German of the Mdrchen —the man to
whom sprites and kobolds talked, moving his mind in the
richly-decorated adventures of a childish dream. Hueffer
emphasises what he calls “ the music of the pattern ” of
Holbein. It is a craftsman’s pattern, painted with care-
ful exactitude, yet, as Hueffer says, it is a quality, a feel-
ing, and arouses a mood. But Hueffer does not admire
the portrait of The Merchant, which one would
think to be the best illustration of the quality
he attributes. This he finds deficient in human
interest; the detail, so exact and faithful, over-
powers the man. Of The Duchess of Milan, “ that
! symphony ’ in blues and blacks ” in the British National
Gallery, he says, “ I would rather possess that painting
than any other object in the world, I think. It is not for
me a picture ; it is not even a personage with whom I am
in love ; but simply a mood ... of profound self-forgetful-
ness. .. which assuredly is the most blessed thing which
art in this rather weary world can vouchsafe to a man.”
This is surely self-hallucination, self-hypnosis. In
verity, the point is interminably argued whether that
emotion is best to which one yields wholly, or that to
which one yields sufficiently to enjoy while standing
aloof to taste and realise. —From such a specula-
tion one descends to say that this is a neat little
book, which contains numerous neat little hints of
Holbein in the form of illustrations.
Henry llarland, author of those dainty and
fanciful stories, The Cardinal’s Snuff-box, The Lady
Paramount, 'and many others—“ books that have sim-
plicity, cleverness, freshness, that are as graceful as
swallows’ flights, and full of tenderness and ethereal
beauty ” —died in Italy recently, aged 44. As “ Sidney
Luska,” he wrote earlier books (such as The Yoke of the
Thorah) with a heavier hand in a more melodramatic
vein. Between his American and European literary
periods came the period when he edited The Yellow
Book, whose first four volumes will probably best ac-
credit his memory. Though born in Russia, he was
Connecticut American, tracing descent to John Alden ;
and he was educated in America. It has been printed
hat his method of work was Balzac’s—“ to go to bed at
seven o’clock, to rise at two in the morning, and then to
write on coffee till the normal day began.” But all such
stories must be taken with a pound of salt: before
adopting Balzac’s methods one must have Balzac’s
physical constitution.
R. H. Sherard, gossiping in Twenty Years of
Paris, says that one of Duuias’ ghof t* Auguste Maquet,
“undeniably wrote the whole of Le Vicomte de Brage-
tonne.” Elsewhere he relates Ktw Swinburne might have
been drowned at Et’ : efckt if Gay de Maupassant had not
rescued him nobly. But this has been told the other
way about-. .perhaps they rescued one another.
In another Eng. book of reminiscences is re-
printed a familiar story of the pitfalls that lurk in foreign
iidfifes- “Two men were leavingahoi.se where Italian
art had been discussed, and one said to the other as they
walked away : ‘ Nice fool you made of yourself talking
after dinner; when you were asked if you liked Botti-
celli you said that you preferred Chianti.’ ‘ Well, what’s
wrong with that ? ’ ‘ You owl: Botticelli is not a wine,
it’s a cheese ! ’ ”
The mate of this is the story of the Omar
Khayyam Club lecturer who went to spread fight in the
provinces. When he had finished his genuflexions before
the idol and the audience, the mayor-chairman thanked
him effusively. “ So pleased to have heard you, Mr. ——.
Do you know, until this evening I never quite compre-
hended which was Omar Khayyam and which was
Hunyadi Janos ! ”
Another reprinted story stresses a lady’s rooted
objection to people who mislay her hyphen, when she has
one. The narrator was upon an Alpine excursion, and
had started from Grindelwald early in the morning. He
acted as last guide, and one of the ladies was just in
front of him. As they were crossing the glacier this lady
trod on a piece of projecting ice at the edge of a crevasse.
Hauling hurriedly at the rope he expostulated, “ Don’t
tread on that, Miss Hardy ! ” Swinging round abruptly
she curtsied to him and said: “ Miss Rigby-Hyphen
Hardy, if you please ! ”
A Sydney dramatic club, which wishes to
play Wilde’s An Ideal Husband, and cannot by much
searching find out a copy, throws itself upon the bosom
of universal charity, and asks anyone who will lend, or
hire, or sell, to communicate with W. Dymock, 428-
George-st., Sydney.
A.G.S.
THE STOCK-DIUVER'S RIDE.
O'er the range and down the gully, across the river bed,
We are riling on the tracks of the cattle that have fled :
The mo pokes all are laughing and the cockatoos are
screaming,
And bright amidst the stringy-barks the parrakeets are
gleaming.
The wattle-blooms are fragrant, and the great magnolias
fair
Make a heavy, sleepy sweetness in the hazy morning air,
But the rattle and the crashing of our horses’ hoofs ring
out,
And the cheery sound we answer with our long repeated
• shout — /
Coo-ee — coo-ee-eee ! Coo-ee — coo-eee I ■ Coo-ee — coo-eee !
“ Damnation Dick” he hears us, and he shrills back
whoo-ee-ec!
“ Damnation Dick ” the prince of native trackers thus we
call,
From the way he swigs his liquor, and the oaths that he
can squall.
Thro’ more ranges, thro’ more gullies, down sun-scorched
granite ways
We go crashing, slipping, thundering in our joyous morn-
ing race—
And the drowsy 'possums shriek, and o’er each dried-up
creek
The wallaroos run scuttling as if playing hide-and-seek...
And “ Damnation Dick" comes running like a human
Kangaroo,
And he cries the herd have bolted to the creek of Waharoo 1
So we swing across the desert, and for miles and miles ive
go,
Till men and horses q>ant athirst i’ the fierce sun’s fiery
gloiv.
And at last across the plains, where the Kangaroos fly
leaping,
And the startled emus in their flight go circularly sweep-
ing,
We seedfle trees that hide the spring of Waharoo, and
there \
The cattle ajl are standing still—the bulls with a fierce
stare. \
Then off to right goes Harry on his sorrel “ Pretty Jane,"
And to the leftj on “ Thunderbolt ” Tom scours across the
plain,
And Jim and 1 well mounted, and on foot “ Damnation
Dick,” /
Go straight for Waharoo, and our stockwhips fling and
flick 1. ..
Back through the gum-tree gullies, and over the river-bed,
And past the Sassafras Ranges, whereooer at dawn we
sped,
With thunderous noise and shouting the drivers and
driven flee —
And this was the race that was raced by Tom. Jim,
Harry, and me!
FIONA MACLEOD.
Doubtless it was to make tilings even that
William Sharp wrote (in Fiona's book) “The
• Prayer of Women,” printed at foot: between one
piece and the other the notorious Celtic spirit has
traversed a considerable distance. Scottish
writers seem to take especial trouble with such
deceptions : witness Macpherson and the great Sir
Walter. If their need increases we shall want a
longer catechism.
Perhaps Fiona Sharpes or William Macleod’s
best work was done as an editor. “ The Canter-
bury Series ” of poets is a storehouse of inspira-
tion, and his-her essays on the sonnet and on
Swinburne (in the Talichnitz collection) are valu-
able summaries. All the same, when Robertson
Nicoll meets him or her in the Presbyterian
heaven, there will be a great deal of grieved
expostulation which no explanation on earth can
a»suage.
THE PRAYER OF WOMEN.
0 Spirit, that broods upon the hills
And moves upon the face of the deep,
And is heard in the wind,
Save us from the desire of men's eyes,
And the cruel lust of them,
And the springing of the cruel seed
In that narrow house which, is as the grave
For darkness and loneliness...
That women carry with them with shame, and weariness,
and long pain,
Only for the laughter of man’s heart,
And the joy that triumphs therein,
And the sport that is in his heart,
Wherewith he mocketh us,
Wherewith he playeth with us,
Wherewith he trampleth upon n 5,...
Us, who conceive and bear him ;
Us, who bring him forth ;
Who feed him in the womb, and at the breast, and at the
knee :
Whom he calleth mother and wife,
And mother again of his children and his children’s
children.
Ah, hour of hours,
When he looks at our hair and sees it is grey ;
And at our eyes and sees they are dim ;
And at our lips straightened out with long pain ;
And at our breasts, fallen and seared as a barren hill;
And at our hands, worn with toil!
Ah, hour of hours,
When, seeing, he seet.h all the bitter ruin and ivreck of us —
All save the violated womb that curses him —
All save the heart that forbeareth .. .for pity —
All save, the living brain that condemneth him —
All save the spirit that shall not mate with him,
All save the soul he shall never see
Till he be one with it, and equal;
He who hath the bridle, but findeth not ;
He who hath the whip, yet is driven ;
He who as a shepherd calleth upon us,
But is himself a lost sheep, crying among the hills l
O Spirit, and the Mine Angels who watch us,
And thy Son, and Mary Virgin,
Heal us of the wrong of man :
We, whose breasts are weary with milk,
Cry, cry to thee, 0 Compassionate.
WILLIAM SHARP.


RABBIT SKINS
Have a Very Strong Market.
Mr Write to us for Particulars.
Winchcombe, Carson & Co., Limited
IVOOL ant/ PRODUCE CV HNFY
SALESMEN a,un6l.
And all Kinds of BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE. -»»
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & GO., Ltd.
Absolutely the Best Salesmen.
The Leading Sports Depot.
MICK SIMMONS.
Pistols and Revolvers,
m
M
Mick
Simmons
Pocket
Pistol.
Derringer Pistol.
Pocket Pistols, No. 1, nickel-plated barrel, fires bullet or shot, cartridges, weight 3Joz. (Postage 3d.)
r 2s 9d, 3s, 4s (id
Derringer Pistol, 22 calibre, nickel-plated, self-ejecting, length s£in., weight 4|oz. (Postage 3d.) .. 6s Od
Stevens’Target Pistol, 3Jin., blued steel barrel, 22 cal., self-ejecting, 6oz. (Postage (id.) .. .. 12s 6d
Stevens’ Diamond Model Pistol, 6in. blued steel'barrel, 22 calibre, self-ejecting - , weight 90z., fitted with
globe and peep sights, length 9Jin. (Postage 6d.) .. .. .. .. £1 5s Od
Vest Pocket Revolvers, Hammer, 22 R.F., blued or nickel, weight 4joz. (Postage 4d.) .. 10s 6d, 12s Od
Vest Pocket Revolvers, Hammerless, 22 R.F., nickel, weight soz. (Postage 4d.) .. .. .. 13s 6d
Vest Pocket Revolvers, Hammerless, 22 R.F., nickel, weight 5 z., pearl handle (Postage 4d.) .. His 6d
Bulldog Revolvers, 320 C.F., 5 chambered, double action, nickel, weight 9|oz. (Post 9d. N.S.W. ;
Is 2d. Inter-State) .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 5s 6d
Bulldog Revolvers, 320 0.F., 6 chambered, double action, nickel or blued, lOJoz., horn handle (Post.
9d. N.S.W. ; Is. 2d. Inter-State) .. .. .. .. .. .. •• 7 s 6d
Bulldog Revolvers, 380 0.F., 6 chambered, double action, nickel or blued, weight about lib. (Postage
9d. N.S.W. ; Is. 2d. Inter-State) .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 9s 6d
Bulldog Revolvers, 450 0.F., 5 chambered, double action, nickel or blued, 18oz.. (Postage 9d. N.S.W. ;
Is. 2d. Inter-State) .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 10s 6d
Young America Revolvers, 22 R.F., 7 chambered, double
action, nickel, 2in. barrel, BJoz 10s 6d ; blued, 13s 6d.
(Postage 6d.)
Young America Revolvers, 22 R.F., same as above, with
IJin. barrel, 9,joz nickel, 12s 6d ; blued, 15s 6d.
(Postage 9d. N.S.W. ; Is. 2d. Inter-State.)
Young America Revolvers, 32 C.F., safety hammer, 5
chambered, 2in. barrel, BJoz., nickel, 10s 6d. (Postage 6d)
8. & W. Pattern Revolvers, 320 C.F., nickel or blued, auto-
matic ejector, 3jin. barrel, vulcanite stock, 131 oz. (Post.
9d. N.S.W. ; Is. 2d. Inter-State.)
S. & W. Pattern Revolvers, 380C.F., same as above, 3)in.
barrel, 18oz. (Post. 9d. N.S.W. ; Is. 2d. Inter-State) ..
Hopkins’ “Forehand ” S. &W. Pattern Automatic Revolvers,
32 cal. C.F., 3in. barrel, weight lib., a limited quantity
only. (Postage 9d., or Is. 2d. Inter-State.) . .
c.
13s 6d
15s 6d
17s 6d
Young
America.
:isf
The “Bullseye” Rifle, 22 Calibre grooved,
20in. Octagon Steel Barrel, open sights, Remington action,
walnut stock, weight about 3Jlb. (Postage Is 9d N.S.W. ;
3s 2d Interstate).
7s
ufj*
The Celebrated
3NIVUI3HI „
yyggy fruimai/cp
fitted with Sporting- Rear Sights to 300yds., Bolt
Action, ISin. Blued Steel Barrel, Walnut Stock.
Shoots 22 Short, Long, or Extra Long Cartridges.
Weight, 2flb.
PRICE 15/6
POSTAGE ON RIFLE—N.S.W., 1/3; INTER-
STATE, 2/2 EXTRA.
\J : n ,'•
Mick
Simmons.
18s 6d
WINCHESTER 1902 MODEL.
“ Winchester ’’JSingle Shot, 1902 Model, 22 cal. E.F., peep
or V sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2flb.
(Postage, Is 3d N.S.W. • 2s 2d Tnt»r-Sr.atel.
Winchester
1904
Model.
“ Winchester ” Single Shot Rifle, 1904
Model, for 22' short or long rim fire cartridges,
21in. heavy round steel barrel, plain trigger, bolt action,
adjustable rear sight, length of rifle over all 37Jin., bead front
sight with patent alloyed tip, which will not
tarnish, weight about 4lb. (Postage, Is 9d
M.S.W. ; 3s 2d Inter-Statej.
25s
MICK SIMMONS.
THUMB TRIGGER.
Winchester Thumb Trigger, Single Shot Rifle, 22 calibre, same
description and finish as the 1902 Model, but, as the name indicates, the
trigger (which is located on the upper side of grip at
rear of bolt) is operated bv pressing down with thumb -t Gm CfJ
(Postage, N.S.W. Is 3d ; Inter-State 2s 2d). 1 UU
Stevens’
Mtxle
Krag.
Stevens’ S.S. “Little Krag,” bolt action, blued steel round barrel,
20in. long, walnut stock, steel scroll trigger guard peep sight, but
may be had with V sight if required at 6d extra, length over all Ole
36in., weight about 3£lb. (Postage, Is 6d N.S.W. ;2s Sd Inter-State) A
Stevens’ “ Favorite.”
Stevens’ S.S. “Favorite,” 22, 22 W.R.F., 25, or 32 cal., rim
fire, half octagon 22in. barrel, case-hardened frame, solid breech block, . , „„ w . n . . _
take down action, open front and rear sights, weight 4ilb. (Postage, Is 9d N.S.W. , JO-| *|Qg
3s 2d Inter-State) .. •• •• " ” V
Stevens’ S S “ Favorite.” 22 or 32 cal. R.F., fitted with beach combination, front sight, open
rear and vernier,^else^same^descriptionjLS^Ja^(Post^^S^W^JLs^d^nter-State^s^2d^^^^^
lllustrated Fishing Tackle, Sports, Tobacco Lists, Anglers’ Cuide and Hints on Fishing-Post Free.
MICK SIMMONB
'
12 Gauge, top lever, steel barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks, left choke, pistol stock ;
weight about 71b. .. ••
As above, but with Greener Cross Bolt, 455. Postage on Gun, 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
35s
Leston
Daly
Coy.
D.8.8.L,
Gun
MICK
BIMMONS
THE GLOBE
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 or 16 Gauge, top lever, twist barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks,left choke, patent
D. &E. fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. Postage, N.S.W., 2/9 ; Inter-State, 5/2.
40s
12 Gauge, top lever, steel and twist barrels, rebounding bar locks, left choke
As above, but with Greener Cross Bolt, 50s. Postage on Gun, 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
40s
MICK BIMMONS
Lesion
Daly
Coy.
D.8.8.L.
Gun
<£3
Sal
Sm
Postage on 1 Gun, 2s 9d
N.S.W.; 5s 2d Inter-State.
National Arms Co/s
D.8.8.L. Gun 12 Gauge, top lever, rebounding bar locks, Greener cross bolt, Siemen’s
steel barrels, left choke, pistol walnut stock ; weight, about 71b.
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Real Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt,
Left Choke, Rebounding Locks, Snap Fore-end,
chambered for 2Jin. Cartridges. Guaranteed
for all Smokeless Powders.
Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
£ :
“The Reliable,”
£6 12s 6d
PRICE
ine Reiiabli
£6 12s I
Mick Simmons
HOLLIS & SONS’ "THE RELIABLE” D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
GUN, 12- gauge, top lever, genuine Damascus or “ Siemen’s ” steel barrels,
' both choke, side lock action, automatic safety bolt, extended rib,
Deeley-Edge patent fore-end, fitted With Greener cross-bolt, neatly engraved, chambered for
2Jin. cartridges. GUARANTEED FOR ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, and absolutely the n-i/l 1
finest-quality Gun in the States. Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State. jb IJL IZS
Gun Cartridges.
Cartridges can now be sent fcy Boat to any
Queensland Poet at ordinary Goods Freight.
AMMUKTITIOKr
Pea Rifle Cartridges.
BULLETED No. 1,6 d, 9d; No. 2, Is 3d ; No. 3, Is 9d 100
SHOT No. 1, Is 3d ; No. 2, Is 9d ; No. 3,2 s 6d, 4s „
Rifle Cartridges.
WINCHESTER, 22 Conical
» 22 Short
i) 22 Long
» 22 Long Rifle .
it 22 Extra Long.
$lOO $lOOO
Is Od 9s 6d
Is Id
Is 3d
Is 6d
2s Od
10s Od
12s Od
13s Od
18s Od
REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER.
MICK SIMMONS, Hay market, Sydney.


Australian Mutual Provident Society
18111 - For Lite Assurance on the Mutual Principle. '
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Sesurlty of Freehold o'"
Leasehold olty or Suburban
Properties, or on
DebentureT d |nB C P Hh«S n,^ in l d) Pa , 9toral ana *BTrloultui»l Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscnbed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or Now Zealand
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Esq • Senator'the Hon °j II T Hon - A - W Murks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman : Brn.tamin Short,
J ’ Se "General t i lliT : Jam " B ,**!• 5 The Hot,. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; F. E Winchcombr, Esq.
„„ » e J -' lana!fer and Actuary— Richard Truce. F.1.A.. F.F. A., F.S.S. 4
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PIT! STREET, SYDNEY ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
DEFY COMPBTITIOKT.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
SPIRITS.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
“REPEATER”
SMOKELESS POWDER
SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES
Carefully inspected shells, the best com-
binations of powder, shot and wadding,
loaded by machines which give invariable
results are responsible for the superiority of
Winchester “Repeater” Factory Loaded
Smokeless Powder Shotgun Cartridges.
There is no guesswork in loading them.
Reliability, velocity, pattern and penetra-
tion are determined by scientific apparatus
and practical experiments. Do you shoot
them ? If not, why not ? They are
THE ONLY CARTRIDGES TO SHOOT
0
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORD3
MAGNESIA,
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and Most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
E
0 FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE,
FRUIT
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION. *
The effect of Eno's ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.-’Sm Capsule marked ENO’B ‘FRUIT SALT/ Without It you hart «
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Pr*par*d only by J. O. ENO, Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, ENG.,
by J. o. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, «Sc., everywhere.
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEN,
111 all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
or men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
lAfnnlf till am TREA ™ ENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
weakjflen ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Wmll Cure the Nerves, Debility, Dost Power, Restore Dost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, os. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
BLOOD CURE PILLS.
Disorders. BOXES, 6s.
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s,
Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blood
COURSES, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43/6
. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
Weak Women
Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6.
Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SC/ATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills CSre Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing' Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches: 211 QUEEN ST.,>RISBANE ; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE;
481 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.; 111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE ?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z. HANS PETER RASMUSSEN
fir
Bn;
from all y&k W
GRANPViERAS fV
Induingn*-*- W
sfdnortooDANl
FiT r
TWO SPECIAL
INSTRUMENTS
3
W. G* KING,
SOLE
AGENT,
SYDNEY.
NICOLE
UNIVERSAL RECORDS
Of the World’s Greatest Artists, Bands and
Orchestras. lOin. and 7in. Records, will fit
any and every Disc Talking Machine.
ABSOLUTELY UNBREAKABLE.
NICOLEPNONES
The Colonial,
The New Standard.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE EREE on application.
316 George St„
Beautiful Home Decorations
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
‘‘SAPOLIN” FLOOR STAINS stain and varnish with one operation.
Brilliant, rich, permanent hardwood colors produced on Floors, Borders,
Woodwork and Furniture where extreme durability is desired.
“SAPOHS” ALUMINUM ENAMEL gives unsightly Pipes, Boilers,
or anything made of metal, wood, etc., a durable, untarnishable silver finish,
in or outdoors. Simply brush it on.
JAPANESE GOLD PAINT (Ready Mixed). Unequalled in lustre and
ease ot application. Adheres to any surface. For all decorative purposes,
economical and satisfactory.
For sale by all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENBORFER EROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of “OUR FAVORITE” 00I.D ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” BATH
FUSSELLS
FUU CREAM
CONDENSED
IS THE
CREAM OF MILKS
lURNS, PMUP & GO; LTD., Sole Agents.
.g'tfEn
IbutterfjS
p^and
a
A CASE at MARRICKVILLE
A Very Convincing Narrative,
THE CASE OF MRS. C COOPER.
(BY A SPECIAL REPORTER.)
In an interview with our representative, Mrs.
Caroline Cooper, of No. 3 Fitzroy-street, Marrick-
ville, gives some information to the afflicted which
should help them considerably. Her statement
runs as follows :
“ My health is altogether different now to what
it was some years ago, as there was a time when I
was nothing but a total wreck, and now people
are always telling me how well and strong I look.
Yes, I am not like the same p>erson at all; for
now I am always contented and happy, instead of
being intensely miserable, like I used to be. But,
Heaven knows, I had enough to make me so, for
the pains in my head were so great that for many
a day I hardly knew what I was doing. In each
temple there was a nasty beating sensation, which
caused me so much agony that often I thought I
would surely go mad.”
“You would welcome the arrival of bed-time,
so that you could sleep and forget your afflictions
for a while ? ” suggested the writer.
“One would naturally think so; but I didn’t;
for the simple reason that I could seldom get any
sleep ; and oh ! how those hours of wakefulness
used to wear me out. Truly, when I got up of a
morning, I felt worse than if I liad not been in
bed at all, and 1 always had a bitter taste to
make me feel sick for the rest of the day. Some-
times I got so thoroughly exhausted that it would
have been impossible to walk had I tried to; but,
knowing how weak I was, I used to stay indoors
to be on the safe side; for, when one is like
that, it is such an easy thing to meet with
a serious accident. And, another thing,
I was accustomed to taking fits of giddi-
ness, and I went right off, and did not
know anything that was going on ; so you
see I had to be careful. And wasn’t I nervous ?
Goodness, I only had to hear a little shout or
whistle, and I’d actually jump again, and it would
be a long time afterwards before my nerves would
steady down a bit. Why, my mind was so un-
hinged through excessive nervousness that I was
afraid to be left alone, and would not have stayed
in the dark for a fortune ; besides, if I closed my
eyes for a few seconds all sorts of ugly faces could
be seen, and those were the kind of hideous sights
I usually witnessed in my dreams.”
“ Have you any idea what caused your head
pains and your other ailments ?
“ I tnink it was all through receiving a sun-
stroke when a girl at my home in Goulburn.
I can say with truth up to the period when I
purchased some Clements Tonic through a friend’s
advice, and then, for the first time during my long
illness I learned what it was to get some substan-
tial ease from my torments. At first I thought
the relief would be only short-lived. It seemed
too much to expect anything else after the dis-
appointments of the past, but Clements Tonic
soon put an end to that pessimistic idea by
making me feel better and stronger every day,
and when I realised that my improvement was
making such regular strides, my heart was over-
flowing with gratitude. Continuing with Clements
Tonic I lost the burdensome feelings that affected
me after taking food, and soon the windy spasms
that had often doubled me up were quite
cured. My eyes had always felt dull and
swollen, and I used to be irritable and
anxious from morning to night, feeling that
something was going to happen, but, strange
as it may seem, after using a few bottles of
Clements Tonic my mind became as free from
anxious thoughts as a babe’s. lam glad to say
that Clements Tonic left nothing undone, for it
gave me a digestion that has remained sound for
many years past, and in regard to nervousness,
well, I hardly know how to express myself. At
all events I can say that my nervous weaknesses
were soon overcome, and if anybody suffers from
sleeplessness there’s nothing in this world they
need take but Clements Tonic to make their
nights peaceful and refreshing.
“That remedy succeeded in giving me perfect
health, and I would rather have a bottle of
Clements Tonic in the house than anything else.
Well, I hope others in need will read my story,
so you may publish it as you feel disposed.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Caroline Cooper, of 3 Fitzroy-street, Mar-
rick ville, in the State of New South Wales, Com-
monwealth of Australia, do solemnly and sincerely
declare that I have carefully read the annexed
document, and that it contains, and is a true and
faithful account, of my illness and cure by
Clements’ Tonic, and also contains my full per-
mission to publish in any way my statements,
which I give voluntarily, without receiving any
payment, and I make this solemn declaration
conscientiously believing the same to be true, and
by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
(Sgd.) CAROLINE COOPER.
Subscribed and declared at Enmore this seven-
teenth day of November, One thousand nine
hundred and four, before me.
F. A. DRURY. J.P.


Doctors* lawyers, ministers, bank-
ers, merchants, business men every-
where, a-**, rely upon
Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral, whenever
they have a cough
or a cold. They
keep it on hand, at
their home, at their
placo' of business.
■they carry it with
ih en when they
travel. They say there is nothing sd
bad for a cough as coughing, and
there is nothing so' good for a
cough as
■£=%-
’m
'Cherrif &eetoral
It is the best remedy in the world
for coughs, colds, croup, whooping-
cough, influenza, and all throat and
lung troubles.
There are many substitutes and
imitations. Beware of them and of
so-called “Genuino Cherry Pectoral.”
Be sure you get AYER’S Cherry
Pectoral.
Put up in large and small bottles.
(Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, "less., 13. S. A.
By Royal Wart-art b
Purveyors bo
His Maiesiy The
Hirin' and
Royal Family.
}f yoU f&qi'U'ire a (/e.'j'ncy combined
with gJtsaJ nourishment, use .••
MOIR’S
“ MAYFAIR”
JELLY CRYSTALS.
Super! :r flavors, and
very transparent,
"MOIR’S
WORCESTER SAUCE
it is i replacing all others on
Uebount of its excellent quality
and GUARANTEED PURITY.
JOHN MOIB, AND SON, Limited,
London, Aberdeen, and Seville.
SYDNEY ACENCY: 47 MACQUARIE STREET,
CIRCULAR QUAY. \
3
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
(Regd.)
DOES NOT SHRINK.
[
ri
IDAY
i
NIGHT
For Blouses,
Nightdresses,
Pyjamas,
Children’s
Frocks, & c .
ECONOMICAL
BECAUSE
CURABLE.
See the label on the Selvedge.
The Queen says: “ ‘Viyella’ has
borne the test of years; you can
wear it for night dresses all the
year round ' r
From the leading Drapers.
—IX IS NECES-
8A R Y T O
ASK FORIrHE “~No.~4”EATT JDE COLOGNE,
which is known in all purls of the world under
the lawfully registered lube! here shown
CAUTION.
' JL.
The Public are warned against many spu-
rious imitations under the name of Johann
Maria Farina of mv genuine Kau de Cologne
labels. Every bottle of my original Eau dc
Cologne is labelled Johann Maria Farina,
Julicli’s Platz No. •. The addition of tlio
address JULICHS PLATZ No. 4 alone war-
rants genuineness of my Eau de Cologne.
JOHANN MAKS A FARINA,
JULICHS PLATZ No. 4, COLOGNE O Rli
PURVEYOR to H. M. the KING EPWARD VIL
“For
30 Years
I have used Bonnington’s
Irish Moss for Coughs
and Colds, and any irrita-
tion of the bronchial tubes.
It always gives relief.”
That is a plain, straightforward statement.
We could supply hundreds such. Cough
remedies have come and gone, but
Bonnisigton’s
Irish Moss
the pioneer, is still the premier in public
favor. Strenuous advertising and pushing
of sales will not sell a remedy if it is not
endorsed by public opinion. When you
get BON KINGTON’S you are safe, you
have the best. Some dealers, for the sake
of a few pence profit, try to sell you an
imitation. Do not be misled. Look care*
fully for the name, and
TAKE ONLY
“BONNINCTON’S.”
SHt3F^Lj|j
£*% GROUND
ENGLISH
MANUFACTURE,
J^R
VX
■*
IN BLACK & IVORY HANDLES-
(EACH RAZOR IN A CASE).
EMM 8288
BY REGISTRATION UHDIH THE TRADE MARK PROTECTION ACTcrlBß3]
The
mmmRWNDi
r<sm
Refuse . g ge t^at t j ie i a jj e i on tfe Razor Case is exactly as above .
Imitations
Wholesale S OSBORNE, GARRETT & Co., London, England.
m
Hotelkeepers, Fruiterers & Caterers
CAN PRODUCE
IOOdOZ. AERATED WATERS Tor 30/-
WITH AN
AUSTRAL AERATED
WATER MACHINE
AND VERY LITTLE LABOR.
The only machine used hy the -- “* “
NO STEAM POWER repaired to work it. Easily erected, and occupies very little .pace.
The “ GLACIER SODA FOUNTAIN.
II
For further particulars write for our Illustrated Catalogues.
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
w.a. Agents: 214-216 Queen
E. H. Fothergill & Co., Fremantle.
Sole Manufacturers,
Street, Melbourne.
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
MOSQUITOES.
*
m
\>
fLW
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
*nd entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tsn, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Agents—Elliott tiros., Sydney;
Felton, Grlinwside & Co.
Melbourne.
c. BRANDAUER & Co.’s,
Circular Pointed.
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals^
Ingland.
Works s Birmingham,
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Biotting Ser es.
Ask your Storekeeper for aa
assorted Sample Bo's.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Little Maiden.
j was dreaming, dreaming only,-
Of the times when life was gay ;
Bor the Wide land looked so lonely
That- those times seemed far away.
I wasdro’wfifed jn melancholy
Fathoms deep’,- against my will,
And my heart wris beating slowly,
Ai? if longing to be' still.-
But the morning Was arrayed irt
Gold, the sun was drinking d@W,
Wheri I saw the Little Maiden
in her Pinafore of Blue,
Then I felt the secret power
That makes Innocence so strong—
For her face was like a flower,
And her smile was like a song.
And I rose to give her greeting,
And, in spite of troubles sore,
Sure the heart in me was beating
As if life were good once more.
Then I asked the little fairy
What her name was. With fine ease
She said she was Norah Mary
From the farm amongst the trees.
With her satchel on her shoulder,
She was on her way to school,
For the teacher (bless him !) told her
To come early, as a rule.
Folk who take delight in scorning
Simple joys, at us may smile,
But I see her every morning,
And we talk a little while.
When she’s late, through some contrary
Chance, I sigh till she’s in view—
“ What is keeping Norah Mary
Li her Pinafore of Blue ? ”
Y, J. DALEY.
A Pagan Hymn.
Oh ! Earth is green and gay, I ween, with its
pastures, vines, and corn,
And surilrrier edrries with rustling gums, soft skies
sbrene hi id blue.
How blossohis flash and fresh waves splash from
morn till golden mttrn,
Arid songs are sung that the WUrld s yet young
and love’s a dreaitl come true !
So eat arid drink arid nierry make, tlirires time to
Spare for mirth,
Arid chant, ye throngs, the song of songs the
Stag Of the joy of earth.
Beneath the sods lie the olden gods, discarded one
by one,
Who strove in vain with doubt rind pair! to dig
deep vales of tears,
With figures frail and faces pale, scorned by the
laughing sun,
Like specks of grey they’ve passed away like mists
of banished years.
Then seek no phantom Paradise, wait for no angel
choir,
It lies at hand, our promised land, the land of
Heart’s Desire.
Oh ! Earth is green and gay, I ween, and Heaven
is dull and grey,
So Man alone, not gods of stone or mist, must
find his goal;
And doubt is waste. Let’s pluck and taste tl e
fruit of ripening day,
And put to rest the antique jest—the dirge of the
mystic soul.
Then eat and drink and nierry be, drive sin and
shame to rout,
Love take and give, and laugh anci live, till all the
stars blow out.
VIC.
LOUIS ESSON.
The Albatross.
Within this sunny landlocked bay
Where long low ripples break and gleam ;
Where eager gannets throw the spray,
And curlews pipe and seagulls scream ;
Where myriad wings are flashing white
Above, below, athwart, across,
All glistening hurry ’mid the light
What place for me, the Albatross ?
Not here, not here, my rest is found ;
But where the great winds endlessly
Bush on, and, all the wide world round,
Untrammelled swei ps the Southern Sea.
Silent I mount the winged gale,
The wind’s voice is the voice of me,
With pinions undisturbed I sail
Above the reaches of the sea.
Below me icy mist-wreatlis drift
Thro’ the pale night, and. ere the day,
From the dark trough the green bergs lift
Lift to the crest, and fall away.
Beyond the farthest land I breast
The unguarded deep. South, south I go,
Till, poised on rushing air, I rest
Above the sullen barrier floe.
The pale sun dips—aloft and mute
I watch to see the round world roll.
As up the vast of darkness shoot
Strange lightain ;s from the frozen pole.
Borne on the thin and icy air
O'er icy seas that crash and toss,
Lord of all heights, I circle there
Triumphant, lony—the Albatross J
QUEENSLAND,,
A.W.


mm.
-
» i ■
If] 1
ynfc
j^-if.l
CafeXps’ue -free
*
'['237; cnay n Xd3<\3 tir/SptiaS^
xmia wind "2
acy
STK
tWRIHHUUHIin
In rfw
' ' i ii 1 -Ptomi
r— <r '
■
m
-V ;
»ik». u(U» I j £»
/ •
aY&HEY
Z< YVE.L,.
BEFORE YOU CONSULT A DOCTOR,
THINK OVER WHAT WE SAY OF
LAXATINE.
The LAXATINE LOZENGE TABLETS act like a charm in stimulating
the intestinal organs. They give absolutely new life and working power to the
Liver and Bowels—and neither strain nor gripe. Remember that half the dull-
ness, want of energy, fits of depression, and the “ blues” that you experience are
a result of “waste” and other poisonous matters accumulating in the system.
Throw them off. Feel Bright, Happy and Gay. TAKE LAXATINE.
Is per Box of 25 Tablets. All Chemists & Storekeepers.
A CERTAIN,CURE for PILES or CONSTIPATION.
BOVRIL
Adds nutriment to Soups, Curries, etc.
Ther e is nothing like Bovril to makg a
man feel fit. It makes him as fit as he
feels.
NESTLE’S MILK
THE WORLD’S STANDARD QUALITY.
Milk Foo
FOR CHILDREN.
*
i'%.
w
,«The ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR MOTHERS’ MILK
ws r'
in ini
HOTEL
METROPOLE
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
'C
Sold by
All Jewellers
WHO CANSHOW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES.
FIRST THROUGHOUT THE EIV!F»IRE.
MEDALS WHEN-EVER EXHIBITED.
7\ Certificate Given With Each Watch.
*°U
'Gfi
:
ofJo
'8 63
1592
%
Estab-
-1750.
BUBEBOID IS SYNONYMOUS
WITH DURABILITY.
If you want your Roof
to last as long as your
house, use
RUBEROID
the kind with the word
RUBEROID stamped
every 4ft. of the roll.
E. Rich & Co., Ltd
Sydney & Brisbane
ft
-O'-
<r.
Undone!
m iwwt,* 5 "
Some Firms Selling
RUBEROID.
Goodlet & Smith, Ltd.
Saxton & Binns, Ltd.
John Mclntosh & Sons
Holdsworth, Macpherson & Co.
W. Cary & Sons
Anthony Hordern & Sons
F. Lassetter & Co., Ltd.
Grace Bros.
Marcus Clark, Ltd.
J. W. Eaton, Ltd.
Fredk. Ash, Ltd., Newcastle
F. Braund & Co., Armidale
J. F. Utl & Co., Glen Innes
T. J. Treloar & Co., Tamworth
Fred. R. Hall, Coolamon
E. Rich & Co., Ltd.,
Bourke & Brewarrina


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 27.-No. 1356.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 11)08.
Prick 6d.
THE ILLEGITIMATE DRAMA-A PURELY SYDNEY
(N.S.W. Premier Joseph Carrnthers has uncarthed from its hiding place in his back a "secret document" whick "changes the whole situation in regard to the Federal Capital
site." Said "secret document" was years ago published by all the papers, was printed as a cirealar, and is reprinted in the standard work on the Australian constitution.)
Dramatis Persome: JOSEPH CABRUTHERS. a Virtucus Hero. ALPEED DEAK N. a Heavy Villain.
Hero: "Stay, villain! This blocks thy biack-hearted schemes!"
Villain: "Ha! Foifed! Ah, carse you! Car-r-r-rse you!" (Dies or something.)


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ A tish alin for the A astral inns.'’
Printed and Published bv William Macluod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SI IBSCR IB ERS.
(In Advance, Only) .
Per Annum ... ... ... £f Q g
Half-yearly .... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tim Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tim Bulletin posted,
regularly to you every week for a year.
Clieques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maclisod, Managing Director .
How to Address Isetters.
Correspondents to Tub Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to Hie Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
sufierscription for "copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special ’Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
7 . The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate, any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, .’WOO words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Betters, or Newspaper Clippings.
ATI communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But. no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
tor return it will be understood, that, the copy is to be
destroyed, if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not. responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To A niatcu r.s in 111 itch. unit. I'hite.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
an.y i nteresting photograph, illustrative of a current event,
will be paid, for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining d good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.c., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be. paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under ■which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin ca.n be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Aerica. —The Central News Agency, Capetown ;
Messrs’ It. A. Thompson .& Co., *8 ltiebeek Street, Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver: —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C,
Hong Kons. —Brewer and Co., 2% Queen's Road, llong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
A gents’ Special Notice.
Tiie Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6§in. x Ifin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
77i? z^xtlleZzoi.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1906.
THE UNKICKED ASIATIC.
There is a European tradition that the only way
to treat a nigger ( “ nigger a negro, an Ameri-
can Indian, an Asiatic of any sort, or South Sea
Islander) is to kick him soundly and often. The
tradition may have no justification in fact; it is
certainly brutal, and has no justification in ethics.
But it is the principle on which European rela-
tions with the colored races have always been
carried out. Among Anglo-Indians it would be
hard to find a man willing to even discusS
the possibility of that method being wrong,
though in actual practice he may be forced
by Exeter Hall into making some concessions
foreign to its spirit. Russian, French, German,
Yankee, without any restraining Exeter Hall,
follow the tradition with relentless fidelity, to
such extreme degree as was shown by the Russian
drive of thousands of Chinese into a Manchurian
river ; by the “ human hash ” which French Gene-
ral Dodds made of the Nigerian natives with
melinite shells; by the German cruelties in Africa;
and the American habit of putting in a Pleasant
Sunday Afternoon kerosening and burning the
nigger who has dared to forget the dominance of
the white race. Truth to tell, it would be diffi-
cult to imagine the possibility of the European
having achieved mastery over the colored peoples
by any method but that of insolent tyranny.
Almost without exception those races cringe like
dogs to the lash and interpret kindness as weak-
ness. This is particularly so with the Asiatic,
whose character is also such that it springs to
arrogance whenever it ceases to fear the strength
of an antagonist.
* * * *
The essentia] arrogance of Asia is the fact which
the average Australian, accustomed to the fawn-
ing humility of the well-kicked Cantonese China-
man, finds it difficult to comprehend. But Asia
has ever nurtured-an insolence beside which any
white-race pride is insignificant. The Persian
Darius —the first Asiatic toattack Europe of whom
there is definite knowledge* and a despot invested
with titles and surrounded by ceremonies, as
though he were a god—sent to the Greeks for
earth and water, symbols to acknowledge that
“Persia ruled the land and the oceans.” The
desperate Greeks cast mud, as earth, on the
emissaries of the Persian, and threw them into
the wells to get water. The Persian arrogance at
this showed itself by the despatch of armies against
Greece, the second host numbering no less than
2,000,000 men, to crush to the dust the men who
had dared to dispute Persian might. Marathon,
Thermopylae and Salamis saved Europe then, and
the Persian became promptly the slavish and
humble flatterer of the Greek. Later, the Huns
(coming when Greek Republicanism had de-
generated into Roman Imperialism) looked
upon the white men whom they conquered
as something lower than animals. The Turks,
another great Asiatic race to war against
Europe, could compare the white man only to
that unclean beast, the dog. The first European
ambassadors who went to China were forced to
crawl with abject humility to the feet of the
Chinese dignitaries. In his secret heart—of
which the European eye can see so little —the
Asiatic, whether he be Japanese, Chinese, or
Indian, holds a deep disdain for the white. The
contempt we feel for them is returned more than
one hundred fold. But by brute force of arm, and
more cruel force of brain, the European has, up till
recently, asserted his dominance over the Asiatic
by that final test, to which all human questions
come at last; and, with full and plenty of kicks,
he has made the yellow man an abject enough
servant. Only outward, however, was the change.
Still in his heart the Asiatic keeps his arrogance.
The British alliance with Japan, enabling that
most strenuous of all the Asiatic peoples a fair
field to attack clumsy Russia, torn as it was
by internal dissensions; and admitting for the first
time in history the equality of an Asiatic with a
European race; has given Asian arrogance an
opportunity to assert itself. A cable :
Reuter’s Tokio correspondent states that at a meeting
of the Sectional liudiret Committee of the Diet, M. Chishi,
the Progressive leader, inquired whether, as a result of
the Anglo-Japanese-alliance, Japan intended to urge Great
Britain to reform her army organisation ?
General Terauchi (Minister for War) replied that he
would do so at some future date.
And by way of explanation for this unprece-
dented impudence, it is stated from London that
the terms of the alliance between Britain and
Japan give the latter country the right to offer
advice on this point, and to insist on its being
taken ! If that is so, the sooner the alliance ends
the better for Britain’s remaining shreds of self-
respect. Russia and France are allies. If France
were to publicly suggest to Russia to mend its
ways, there would be an end to friendship at
once, perhaps war. Nor would Austria, say,
tolerate from Germany dictation as to its military
policy. Japan evidently has no idea of the
amenities of intercourse between civilised
nations, and exaggerates enormously the degree of
Britain’s dependence on its friendship. Were
Britain now, even at this late stage, to make the
entente with France a forma) treaty of union and
bring Russia into the compact, Japan would keep
its existence only on tolerance. That a series of
unhappy mistakes, beginning with the Boer war
and including the steady refusal of the British
nation to adopt a genuine reform of its army sys-
tem, has made London to some extent dependent
on Tokio, must, unfortunately, be admitted. But
the dependence is not such that the British people
must submit to a dictation from the Mikado which
they would never tolerate from their own king..
* ■* * -k
China took occasion the same week to further
impress the point that times have changed with
the Asiatic. Another cable-
A. Chinese' policeman in the service of the British
municipality at Tien-tsin was enforcing the traffic orders
on the occasion of the visit of Yuansiii-kai, Viceroy of
Chi-li, when he touched an outrider with his baton.
The municipality apologised, and handed the policeman
over, to the Chinese authorities, on condition that he
would be leniently punished.
The Chinese, however, inflicted one thousand blows
with a bamboo, together with a sentence of three years’
hard labor.
This is a daring outrage. The Tien-tsin police-
man was, to all intents and purposes, a British
subject. He was citizen of a city held: by the
British, was in the employ of the British Crown,
and was doing its work when he accidentally
affronted the flunkey of the Chinese mandarin.
It was a shocking weakness on the part of England
to hand the man—who was guilty of no offence
to the-Chinese law ; and the arrogant Asiatic
takes triumphant advantage of that weakness to
inflict a punishment of barbarous cruelty on the
unhappy policeman. To take an analogy again
from Europe, were the German law to actill us to
a Frenchman, armies would he crossing the border
within a week. But China seems to rest confident
under the aegis of Japan.
* * • * *
The Bulletin does not wish to preach the
Jingo doctrine of a Caucasian crusade against the
Asiatic. It believes just as strongly in China for
the Chinese, and Japan for the Japanese, as in
Australia for the Australians. It would welcome
the departure of the last European from Asia—
so_ long as there' was a sufficient garrison in
this continent to .ensure that the first, and
the last, Asiatic who attempted to pass
our shores was stopped by a rifle bullet. It can
see no reason why the Englishman or any other
European should trespass on Asia to kick the
Asiatic at Ins own hearth into a proper state of
humility. But, whilst the European is in Asia,
he must kick—kick hard and often. The policy
of alliances with the Asiatic, of allowing the
Asiatic arrogance to lift its cobra head, is.inviting
a disaster which will shock History.
THE FEDERAL WORK AHEAD.
The Deakin Government promises to meet Par-
liament in a performatory spirit. A tradition
exists that the first session of a triennial legisla-
lature should he devoted to “settling down,” and
that, from it, therefore, no very serious work is to
be expected ; that the last session must be given
by members to setting up good cases for their con-
stituents, and, consequently, should be excused
from much work ; and that, therefore, the middle
session is the only one from which a reasonable
attention to business is to be expected. The tradi-
tion is a thoroughly bad one, and an exceptionally
good reason is ready why it should be broken
in this case, and the third session de-
voted to real work, in the fact that the
middle session was mostly given to recrimi-
nation, stonewalling, and fruitless debates. And,
so far, an honestly useful last session is at least
strongly promised. The three chief voices of the
Cabinet have spoken, and with such unanimity as
to suggest a c mcert id plan on the part of the
Prime Minister. First Minister Lyn-e told a
N.S.W. audience with pointed reference to the
machinery industry, that the approaching session
was to be devoted to tariff reform. Later Minister
Isaacs, with- equal clearness, conveyed the same
information to Victoria. Finally the Prime
Minister, endorsing and expanding his colleagues’
declarations, made unmistakable announcement
to the Federal Chamber of Manufactures that the
strengthening of the tariff was to be the business
of the 190 G session. There does not seem to b„
any reason to doubt that these declarations point
to the actual enactment of a reformed tariff
before this Parliament goes to the country, and
not merely to an announcement of tariff reform
proposals to be submitted to the electors. If so,
and only if so, the Ministerial decision is to be
hailed as satisfactory. A “tariff reform session,”
which would indicate what might and ought to be
done, without doing it, would certainly not satisfy.
* * * *
There are several reasons why the work of Tariff
Reform should be pushed on with at onee. The
foremost is, of course, the need and demand of
the country for higher Protection. The Com-
promise Tariff, which the Freetraders forced as a
substitute for the Kingston Tariff by hounding
the two Finance Ministers of the first Cabinet to
the edge of the grave, has in practice proved weak
and faulty. The need for its amendment is even
recognised by Mr. G, H. Reid, who was respon-
sible in the first instance for the mutila-
tions which . rough-hewed it out of the
Kingston Tariff. Languishing industries, un-
employed men, falling revenues, call for a change.
That is the main consideration. Another—of far
less weight—is that the tactical advantage of such
a course, over a more timid policy, would begreat.
If the tariff is amended by this Parliament, the Pro-
tectionist Government can go to the country with
the credit among its supporters of -a fact -accom-
plished, and with the certainty of attaching to
itself many voters, of hesitant views on the fiscal
question but with a hearty dislike to change of
any sort. They would vote “ fiscal peace ” on a
40 per cent, tariff just as solidly as on a 10 per
cent, tariff. Yet another reason why the Cabinet
should take heart of grace and deal with the
tariff definitely this session is that, in so doing, it
will clear the way for a definite pronouncement on
the other momentous issue involving Australian
prosperity, the present monopoly of the land :
and be in a position to ask the authority of the
electors for the second great step towards an em-
ployed and populous Australia—the freeing of
the arable accessible area's of the continent to the
entry of those who can put them to the best use
for the Commonwealth.
* * * *
Prime Minister Deakin confesses to an appre-
ciation of the pressing need of a remedy for what
may, for rhetorical effect, be called an empty
Australia. He knows that to have a populous
and employed Australia, great city industries
built up by Protection are necessary ; and with
them, equally necessary, great dust rs of farms,
possible only under a land policy, the keynote of
which is that the only indefeasible title to land is
in its use for the best good of the community.
He knows that to him is given power to do very
much to secure for Australia the two ramparts of
busy cities and teeming farms. lie "knows,
finally, that the present times are perilous,
and that, in all human probability, the
continent has. barely time to carry through
what is necessary for its safety before the time
of trial comes. AH this should prompt him to a
decision to set firm during the coming session one
of the ramparts, so as to be free in next Parlia-
ment to get to work on the other. Work for the
artisan, land for the farmer, population for the
continent: the three stand together as the prac-
ticable and immediate goals which an Australian
statesman should aim at, the first leading to the
second, the third coming as the natural result of
the others.
* * * *
A programme of tariff reform tliissession and land
reform next Parliament may seem over-bold. But
there can never be too much haste in doing a good
thing. There is no question here Of a leap in the
dark. All the facts have been ascertained.
All the processes to be called into action
are familiar. We know that the Commonwealth
wants population—employed, not pauper, popu-
lation ; that to get that population and to keep it
employed, the scope for labor in factory and field
must be widened, and more room found "on the soil
and at the bench ; that to tmd room in the field
and in the factory the lands must be opened to
the people who will best use them, and the work
of manufacturing must be kept as far as possible
m our own hands by high Protection. When
there is no uncertainty as to the path, and little
doubt that the time for reaching the goal of safety
is but very brief, no excuse exists for the laggard.
To push on is the statesman’s course.
* » • *
The duty of a courageous and resolute policy
devolves upon Mr. Deakin all the more clearly
now because it seems to be unfortunately probable
that the party which has up to this taken the
lead in Radical reform will at the approaching
elections be hampered a great deal by its own
domestic differences. In Queensland, in Victoria
and to a lesser extent in -N.S. Wales there are in-
dications of trouble in the Labor ranks through
the efforts of unpractical extremists to seize
control of the Labor-political movement. In
N.S. Wales fortunately there is not much likeli-
hood of the intransigeant movement being to any
marked degree successful. The leading spirits of
the Parliamentary party from this State—J. C
Watson, W. M. Hughes, W. G. Spence and D.
Watkins— are all on the side of the practical,
and they form so strong an influence that it is
absurd to imagine any move antagonistic to them
being successful. In Queensland and Victoria the
outlook is not so cheerful, and the probability of
serious division in the democratic ranks is, un-
happily, not remote. In any case, the Federal
Labor party seems to be likely to be called upon
to face a crisis which will engross its whole atten-
tion, and which may' even cause some loss of
voting strength in the Legislature. It is possible
that, with wiser counsels, the threatening trouble
will be averted. But the fact remains that at pre-
sent the Labor party is, so far as the public can
see, concerned more about discipline and organi-
sation than about a progressive platform, and the
“lead ” for the next Federal election's must come
from outside that party. Failing Mr. Deakin,
from whom is it to come ?
* * * *
Mr. G. H. Reid, struggling somewhat hope-
lessly for a chance to lift his head again above the
political waters, gives the Prime Minister the hint
as to what should not be done, by arguing for a
policy of slothful inactivity. He wants the coming
session to be devoted to “ marking time.” Then,
when the issues come before the electors, he can
plead that the choice is between Mr. Reid who
did nothing and Mr. Deakin who also did nothing,
and that with such a poor pick, it will be just as
well to vote to do nothing in a heavily humorous
spirit under Mr. Reid as to do nothing in an elo-
quent way under Mr. Deakin. Mr. Reid is the tail-
less fbx of politics—the man without a platform
and without a performance. He naturally suggests
that the present administration and its sup-
porters should also cut off their tails, and has
the best of reasons why during this session Parlia-
ment should do nothing of importance. But what
would suit Mr. Reid is not the policy for the
Commonwealth. That should be High Protection
achieved this session, with the land question as the
battle cry for the next elections.
P LAI IN ENGLISH.
The “ Sensitive ” Jap.
“-J.” has views about the “sensitive” Jap :
Dhaki.n's amendment to the Immigration Restriction
Act is framed to avoid injury to the feelings of the
sensitive Jap. It would do the Prime Minister a world of
good to visit the Yoshiwara suburb of the city of Tokio.
He would come away from Japan with quite a different
idea.
Tne Yoshiwnra is a marvellous sight. You walk along
street alter street, with three and four storey houses on
each side, and in the shop windows are women—women
for sale 1 Just like dogs in the markets. They are ih
cag-es, so that the visitor can make his. selection. They
sit squatting in the usual Japanese fashion, all magni-
ficently dressed —each establishment lias its particular
uniform—touching up their faces with rouge, smokirig
cigarettes or the small-bowled Japanese brass pipe, 6r
staring - at the passing crowd in dull listlessness. At
each side of the gilded cage are the entrance doors, each
of which has a ticket-box in which, through the pigeon-
hole, can lie seen the face of the man selling- tickets. ,
Take a walk along - here at night as all tourists do—fdr
it is one of the sights of Japan. Your rickshaw man
usually follows you to get a commission should you go ih.
He has his particular business connection. “Ah, no
good,” be says. It is some poor place, and he wants you
to go to another where he will get a better commission.
And so you go Under the string of paper lanterns, under
the glare of the arc lamps that light up the scene
brilliantly, just as if you were -walking through a bazaar
or a zoological collection. If you stop, one or two of the
girls who know a little English will rise arid come to the
bars, squat close to them just as the monkeys do in the
Zoo, offer you a draw from their cigarettes, and chat.
Sometimes, as you are passing., several girls will get up
and call to you. One or two; Japs known to the girls
shuffle along - , and there is a rush to . the corner of the
cage, as the men call the girls. As a rule, however, they Sit
quietly smoking and fanning themselves. (The Jap girl
lias a great capacity for sitting round.)
Here and there you will come to places where the
goods are not on exhibition. The portraits are showh
instead. They are hung in a picture gallery, and, as you
inspect them, the man in the ticket box comes out arid
stands behind you expectantly. The scene is a vividly
picturesque one, with the brilliant lights, the artistic,
fascinating Japanese carving, the glitter of the gold
paint, the rich carpets, the exquisitely harmonised
colors of the costumes, the jet black eyes and inky hair
of the girls, the glimpses of lovely cool gardens in the
court-yards seen through the entrance doors. Men and
women, young- girls and children crowd the streets of the
Yoshiwara and spend the cool evening looking at the
most brazen exhibition of vice ever instituted by any
nation on earth.
This is practically a Government show. The Jap
Government collects 10 per cent, of the earnings of the
houses. To enable the tax to be gathered the managers
are required to keep their books correctly, and also the
accounts between themselves and the girls, so that in an
establishment where there are 50 or 60 girls a staff Of
clerks must be employed. The accounts are balanced
monthly, and audited by the Government official
appointed to supervise this department. When a girl
goes into the Yoshiwara the owner of the house pays her
parents or her brother £3O or £4O for her. The mother
and father sell their daughter, or the brother sells his
sister for cash down. If a young man wants money to
buy European clothes so that he can get a good Govern-
ment billet, or if poverty overtakes a family, it is the.plaoe
of the daughter to sell herself. She applies to the police for
a license, and seeks a place in the Yoshiwara. An agree-
ment is signed by her parents or guardian under which
she hands herself over for three years. The agreement is
officially countersigned and sealed by the registrar, and
the matter is settled. The form of agreement used in the
world-notorious “No. 9” at Yokohama has a clause in
respect to the repayment of the loan as follows:
“ I will gradually repay the loan from my earnings
as a courtesan, and while the same is not repaid I will
work faithfully and diligently. I will never rest from
work without good reason, neither will I do anything cal-
culated to interfere with of hurt your business.” This is
the document officially recognised by the Government and
registered. It was the proprietor of “ No. 9 ” who showed
me the translation. Another clause provides that the
girl will pay over all she earns, less 35 per cent., to her
employer for room hire—as the agreement puts it—instal-
ments of the loan, and other sundries, including the tax
of 10 per cent, collected by the Government. In three
years she is supposed to have worked it all off, but by the
thousand and one tricks of the trade the balance is always
on the wrong side of the ledger, and the poor wretch
seldom gets out of it at the end of the term. If she
absconds she is arrested by the police and brought back
to lier cage. This actually happened when some foreign
missionaries helped a girl to get away not long ago.
While she is under the agreement she is not allowed
Give Us a God.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Give us, oh God ! a local god,
Exalted on a mighty throne,
To rule us with an iron rod,
And hold us ruthlessly his own;
For, in the west lands and the east,
At foreign shrines our people pray
And kiss the feet of ev’ry priest,
Who treads them, worm-like, in the clay.
Weak, weak—so weak ! —bowed down, we cry
Way-wandering, we fast and faint;
Help ! help ! and longingly we eye
The shekels of some Hebrew saint.
We may not make what we must wear,
For unto Shoddy’s altar-place
Our Wealth of wool we humbly bear
With adoration in our face.
.We may not make what we would eat, , *
The while our waving corn-fields glow,
For, with a sacrifice of meat
And flour, we bend to Bull and Co.
We may not make what we would drink,
Though fair our hop-fields and our vines—
For at the feet of France we sink
And sip her sacerdotal wines.
Our looms and forges are but small,
Though much our children may invent,
For at the feet of Trusts we fall,
And bow ourselves with loud lament.
Our mines are ored with affluence,
And yet our wages are Despair,
For with the high-priests of Pretence
We worship Imports everywhere.
Yea ! yea ! a great fool-people we.
Blest with a inilk-and-honeyed land ;
But God of gods, low bent to Thee,
Give ear unto the patriot band :
Be Thou the Great Iconoclast,
With eye of wrath and mighty hand,
And, from the wreckage of the Past,
Build up a Nation in our land.
Yea, build a people proud to call
This land the most beloved one—
A blood-pure race that courts no thrall
And seeks the sufferance of none.
Then give us, God, a local'god,
Exalted on a miglity throne,
To rule us with an iron rod
And hold us ruthlessly his own.
VIC.
MILKY WHITE.


outside the Yoshiwara except to attend certain family
festivals. She is medically examined at the big hospital
in the middle of the quarter once a week. The Jap
Government is very solicitous about its daughter s neaitn.
You can buy one of these girls from the Yoshiwara if
you like, by paying off her debt. Sometimes a wealthy
man will come along and select one and take her home
with him. Most of them, however, renew the agreement
from time to time, until finally—well, what does become
of them finally in any part of the world ?
In one way the police benefit very largely by the
Yoshiwara. The girls are made police spies by the
regulations, and form a detective bureau that would
make the mouth of Gaboriau water. They have to keep
an accurate account of every visitor, his peisonal descrip-
tion, name if known, how much money he spends,
whether he has more casli about him than his position
would warrant, and so on.
The Yoshiwara is the most amazing sight in the uni-
verse —and probably the most brutal. These are the
sensitive Japs !
♦
The Cinderella Province of N.S.W.
The appeal by the Monaco district of N.S.W. to
Victoria for help to get into touch with the big
markets of the world, is natural enough. I he
Monaro has been always the Cinderella of the
N.S.W. family of provinces, and now that Prince
Federation wishes to favor her with his choice, the
analogy is completed by the display of tiepce
jealousy on the part of her sisters. Long, long
ago, Ben Boyd, one of the early makers of Aus-
tralia, whose memory is not enough cherished,
had a dream of founding u great. State on the
Monaro —or Maneroo as it wa-i then known. On the
shores of Twofold Bay, opposite to the town of
Eden, still stand the ruins of his Boydtown,
melancholy relics of an ambition which was sane
and reasonable, but yet failed. Some years ago
pictures of Boydtown and Sydney showed ports of
about equal importance ! Boyd’s idea was this: that
at Twofold Bay should he a seaport, depending on
the whaling fleet, on the corn to be grown on the
rich flats of the coast strip, and, more than all, on
the pastoral and agricultural products of the
Monaro tableland of rich volcanic soil, watered
by a score of never-failing streams, llrom Boyd-
town first roads and then railways were to run to
the tableland —some 60 miles distant—and bring
down the wealth of horses, oxen, sheep, and well-
tilled fields. Boyd died tragically, and with him
died his dream. Sydney, its importance grow-
ing, feared rivalry, and resolved that all
N.S.W. was to depend upon its favor. There
must be no other port on the coast, least of all at
Boydtown, near the hated Victorian border. Ihe
idea of running railways to the highlands from a
number of points on the coast, such as Clarence
River, Newcastle, Sydney, -Jervis Bay, and Iwo-
fold Bay, was dismissed. That would be all very
well to develop the State; hut such was not the
object—rather the aggrandisement of Sydney.
Melbourne, pursuing the same policy, was then
crushing out Geelong, and b.oat.ng itself, and
boasting of its hydroeephalous mgness. Sydney
joined in the insane competition. The cry was
not which was the greater, the more prosperous
State, hut which had the lirger capital. Under
these conditions the Monaro languished. Small
settlers, with no chance of getting their wares to
market, vanished, and the rich volcanic plains,
watered by the snow-streams, passed into the
hands of a few squatters, who could “team”
their wool to the coast for shipment. Later
a railway from Sydney crept down towards the
district, but stopped at its hungry edge, Cooma,
leaving no chance for the sowing of wheat-fields
around Bumbala and Dalgety Yet a sixtv-mile
stretch of line would give tlie'Monaro access to a
good harbor, and would open u p to closer settlement
a stretch of land far more fertile than the average in
N.S.W., and exceptionally well-watered. There
is room for 103,060 sturdy families on that healthy
table-land if a railway ran up from Elen. But
Sydney influences will see the place perish before
they will permit such a thing. The new port
might divert a little trade from Sydney, and
hotter any desolation than that, for is not all
Australia comprised in N.S.'Wales, and all N.S. ■
Wales in Sydney ?
-C-
More Wrongs.
The poor Ma State is assured that it has another ’
grievance, and incidentally Socialism is dragged
into the trouble. The I’klCE Government in S. '
Australia, having been refused by its Landlords’
House the land tax which was conceded to Ex-
Treasurer Botler, was driven to look round for
other means to dodge s deficit. It hit upon the
Broken Hill mineral traffic on the railways, and
asked for small increases, which would bring in
from £12,000 to £14,000 a year more freight.
Justifying the increase, Premier Price referred
to it as “sharing in the increased profits of the
mines consequent on the rise in lead.” There-
upon some of the Fat dailies have two horrible
visions. Some of them see a “ practical applica-
tion of the socialistic doctrine that wages should he
regulated by profits’ ;■ and the Sydney Daily
Telegraph is horrified (or pretends to be) at what
it calls “a grab at the Barrier returns by the
S. Australian Government,” and an odious scheme
“ to raise the freights on a monopolistic railway
for the purpose of getting at the profits made by
the enterprise of another State.” Both these
mock-heroic protests would fie amusing if they
were not so contemptible. Broken Hill freights
are the lowest oil the S. Australian railways.
Some years ago they were much higher; hut,
when the rich oxidised ores were nearly worked out
and profits slumped, they were cut down severely.
Nobody then saw the. evil hand of Socialism in the
matter; and no Fat paper feigned to he furious
against a system under which freights followed
profits downwards. Liter on, the cloud lifted
from Broken Hill, and freights were raised. But
the mines said that they were not yet able to bear
the full proposed increase, and, on showing what
their profits were, a portion of the increase was
remitted. And still no Fat paper feigned to be*
furious at the freight being lowered on the ground’
that profits could not yet stand the increase. But
now, when the profits have increased over
100 per cent, in 12 months, a proposal
to raise freights a fraction is Socialism,
and the idea of “ sharing in the increased pros-
perity ” is too horrible for anything but notes of
exclamation. Further, because Premier Price
happens to be a Labor man, the Barrier incident
is tacked on to a resolution of the Sydney Labor
Conference, and a brick is cast at the principle,
approved there, that wages should also be regu-
lated by profits. After the bank smashes of 12
years ago, almost every institution of the sort in
Australia cut down salaries. But there were no
shrieks that the directors were wild Socialists ;
on the contrary, the sufferers were told
that what was decided upon was the
most natural and proper thing in the world
in other words, that this principle of wages fol-
lowing profits was most natural and proper. But,
besides seizing the stick to beat the Labor dog
with, the same stick is used to heat the drum on
which the D.T. plays the dismal tune of the Ma
State’s wrongs. S. Australia, it is alleged, grabs
at the profits made by the enterprise of another
State. As applied to tire Barrier, “ the enterprise
of another State” is charming. About all the
enterprise the Ma State has ever shown there is
in the way of tax-gathering. Not a single Broken
Hill mining co. has its home in N.S.W. For its
water supply the field has to rely on a Vic-
torian co. For means to get its products
to the markets it has to rely partly on a Victorian
co., and partly on the S. Australian Government.
Yet, when the S. Australian Government asks the
mostly S. Australian shareholders of Broken Hill
companies (anyway, there are three S.A. share-
holders for every one in N.S.W.) to pay a farthing
or so more per ton for the carriage of goods that
have increased shillings in value lately, the Ma
State is invited to call it another grievance. 11 is
up to the Ma State to tell her would-be leaders in
these matters that she is tired of being asked to
make a hysterical ass and nuisance of herself.
Is Irrigration Necessary Yet?
That, with irrigation, a largely increased area of
Australia can be opened up for profitable settle-
ment is a truism which is only now repeated, lest a
few plain truths in discouragement of the irriga-
tion fad, just now reigning, should be ascribed to
a blindness to the value of irrigation. Without a
doubt, when the heavens won’t supply water, the
rivers, and the rivers beneath the earth, should be
levied upon. But is it worth while for Australia
to trouble much, at the present stage, with vast
irrigation works? When the position is that all
good lands, blessed by Nature with a sufficient
rainfall to give a fair certainty of crops with in-
telligent culture, are in use, the time will, of
course, have come for general resort to irrigation.
But with millions of acres of good coast lands,
rained upon abundantly, still unused, is it worth
while sending the engineer out to conquer the arid
tract? Are those who boom irrigation not re-
peating the mistake which sent small settlers out
to the Far West long before the possibilities of
the coast areas were exploited to anything like
their full capacity ? Australia wants a concentra-
tion rather than an extension of settlement. Irri-
gation enterprises propose, in the main, to take the
man whoought to be tdbngthe coast and tablelands
with a natural water supply, and setting him to till
the interior with the aid of water which an engi-
neer brings to him. In special circumstances,
such as the growth of particular products which
back-country conditions favor, or the supply of in-
land mining towns with closti-at-hand supply of
vegetable foods and fodder, an irrigation proposal
may be wise : as a general policy it would be better
to tax the well-watered lands into use than to irri-
gate the dry lands for occupation. Australia
could put at least 20,000,000 people on to the land
which, without irrigation, would give as fair pro-
mise of regular crops as the average agricultuial
areas of the earth. Until that is done, there
seems very, little use in an irrigation policy, the.
practical effect of which will be to take attention
away from the evils of land monopoly, and thus
give that ulcer a longer life.
♦
Joseph's ihscovery.
Joseph Carruthers is very much like a man
who goes to the sea-shore, and, on his return,
announces, with great solemnity to an awe-
struck public, that the ocean is wet, and
that, therefore, the wicked conspiracy on the
part of Victoria against N.S.W.—and so on. He
has been talking triumphantly about his great dis-
covory of <i docuinont recording «i resolution which
is supposed to put D ilgety out of the running for
the Federal capital. It was Joseph’s private secre-
tary Mr. Harkness, who “ unearthed ” this docu-
ment, which, according to Mr. Carruthers, had
been ’“evidently stowed away in some inconveni-
ent place.” Apparently this high-souled gentle-
man wished to imply that the document had been
deliberately put out of sight by some former Pre-
mier,' who didn't, wish the facts to be known.
And’this, resolution, the discovery of which has
brought such glory on Carkuthers and Hark-
NESS, is printed in full at p. 219 of Quick and
Garran’k Annotated Edition of the Constitution
—the leading authority, to which anyone who
wanted to know anything about the history of the
business would naturally turn ! Mr. Carruthers
knows so little about his business that he lias
got his private sec. to hunt in remote corners for
information which he could obtain in two minutes
from a work which is probably lying on his table.
And then he basks in the glory of the discovery !
Now!
At the opening of the Australian Goods Exhibi-
tion in Melbourne, an attempt was made by
Charles Atkins (speaking for the Chamber of
Manufactures) to get his audience particularly in-
terested in the possibilities of Australian woollen
manufactures. The facts and figures that Mi.
Atkins submitted to unimpressionable listeners
(who were not taking any statistics at the tune)
amount to an irresistible argument in favor of
rushing Australian woollen manufactures to the
fore by legislative force. In 1904 this
sadly mistariffed country imported woollen
goods to the value of more than 2 2 . millions
sterling, its exports, needless to say. being prac-
tically nil. The local production of wool for the
same year was about 454 million pounds weight,
and of this only million pounds were used in
local manufactures, as against 5 3 millions m the
preceding vear. Under the Commonwealth tariff
the conversion of Australian wool into Australian
fabrics had diminished by about 35 per cent, from
1903 to 1904, and the local mills were dealing with
less than 1 per cent, of the raw material raised
on their native soil. Comparing firstly Australia
with Britain, the former country in 1904 had a
stock of 29 million sheep, and its wool imports were
240 million pounds weight, of which 220 million
pounds—nearly the whole importation—came
from this land. Therefore, if the Freetraders
claim excellence for British woollen manufactures,
thev inevitably proclaim the excellence of Austra-
lian wool Australia in 1904 had 65 million sheep,
and its manufactures of their coveted fleeces were
diminishing as aforesaid whilst Britain exported
some £18,000,000 worth, of woollen goods, of
which a consderable percentage came back to the
country that supplied the raw material. And
300 000 British workers were employed in this one
industry. Germany’s figures for 1904 are not
available, but it appears that in 1903, that land,
with onlv 9 million sheep at grass, imported wool
to the value of £14,431,300 and exported woollen
stuffs, cloths, wearing apparel and yarn to the
amount of £19,674,350. The enthusiastic Atkins
deduces from these statistics the moral that Aus-
tralia, on the strength of its wool production, so
much greater than that of Germany, Britain, or
even the United States, should be promptly raised
to the position of a great woollen manufacturing
country, exporting in tens of millions the goods i
now imports to the tune of 2| millions sterling
per annum. Here the middleman freetrader
will doubtless burst forth into loud guffaws. I here
are many immediate difficulties m the way
of estaolishing Australia as a woollen goods mar-
ket for European buyers. But there is no real
commercial obstacle to a Commonwealth policy of
prohibition against foreign woollens: lo secure
the Australian market to local manufacturers, and
create new employment for local workers m this
indigenous woollen industry, it would be only
necessary for the Government here to legislate as
the British Government legislated in the early
years of Queen Victoria’s reign. The im-
portation of woollen yarn, worsted, waddings, or
wool flock was prohibited. The duty on all
articles made of, or mixed with, wool was 50 per
cent. Meanwhile Britain’s export trade in
woollen and cotton goods was protected by the
simple device of prohibiting the export of any
artificers who could assist foreign countries in the
establishment of rival industries. The penalty
for merely inciting a cotton artificer to leave
Britain was £5OO. A person convicted of export-
ing sheep, or fleece of sheep, was sentenced to
three months’ solitary imprisonment and heavy
cash penalties, and he rotted in gaol if he couldn’t
pay the fine. Britain compelled the growth of
its clothing manufactures, and restricted the use
of its home-grown wool to the enrichment
of its own mill - owners and workers. The
time for prohibiting the export of our wool
may never come, but the time for forcing Austra-
lian manufacture of Australian wool (the best in
the world) by refusing admission to foreign manu-
factures of our exported wool, in order that a
monopoly of the local market may give our manu-
facturers a chance to achieve an export trade in
due coirs e—thnt time is the present time. Now —
emphatically Now !
Land Monopoly in Queensland.
The Melbourne correspondent who wrote to the
London Economist to say that there was plenty
of unalienated land in Bananaland for settlement,
as the figures showed that only about 5 per cent,
of the 400,000.000 acres had been alienated ; and
argued on this premjse that there was no justifica-
tion for the Land Monopoly Tax Bill, did so in
ignorance of the facts, or else to wilfully
mislead. Certainly a very small slice of
Bananaland is held as freeholds, but of the
remainder a great portion is either inaccess-
ible or useless because of its natural aridity.
Remote from the railway lines there are patches
of rich scrub lands still in the hands of the Grown,
but much expenditure will Vie required to make them
accessible. The good and the accessible land is
mostly held by private monopolists. In the early
days of the State the land-grabber worked
industriously. Many of the large estates
he then acquired have been already re-
sumed at six or eight times the price
paid for them; but there are others held
firmly. Many of these big properties skirt the
railway lines, and are employed, if at all, to
raise sheep and feed cattle, whereas, if they were
cutup, they would carry farming families. J lie
evil is acutest in Southern Queensland. In that
part there is one estate comprising a quarter of
a million acres. Six others in S.Q. run into six
figures each, totalling 1£ million acres. This area
alone would give 3000 families 500 acres each. In
the same division there are 01 estates of five figures
each, or 3,000,000 acres—soo acres forGOOO families.
About 100 acres of some of this land would keep a
family comfortably employed and provided for.
In Central Queensland there are two six-figured
and 3(3 five-figured estates. The evil is not so bad
in N.Q., for there are only 15 estates of five
figures and over in that part. Advocacy of the
bursting up of these provinces rather than estates
is met with the argument that there is no demand
for the land so held, and, if there were, the owners
would readily sell. They have practically made
no attempt, however, to do so, and the State was
recently obliged to resume six estates (in all
300 000* acres) to serve the double purpose of find-
ing-land for farmers and increasing the revenue of
the railways. All this lias been , taken up. But
the demand is as keen as ever, and the Lands
Department is falling back on the timber re-
serves—a questionable proceeding. When the
owners of estates are appealed to pri-
vately they ask exorbitant prices as a rule.
One estate in the Burnett district of 40,000 acres,
was offered to the Government for £3 per acre,
yet it was valued at 10s. per acre for local govern-
ment purposes. In short, the Monopoly lax Bill
—or, better still, a heavy graduated Land lax
]sj]l—j s wanted in Queensland to open up for the
settler the good land near the railways. The vast
areas of poor or inaccessible land still in the
hands of the Crown have nothing to do with the
case.
♦ —~
Ealigion.
A dray-load of curious, out-of-the-way informa-
tion can be rummaged out of a brand-new part ot
the N.S.W. “Statistical Register,’ just issued
for the first time, and labelled “Religion. I he
first Church of England parson landed m Aus-
tralia in 1788, but the first “ Bishop of Australia
didn’t arrive till 1830 ; in the interval the Bishop
of Calcutta was the spiritual boss of these parts.
The old habit of putting your ticket on your pew
and laying out a red cushion on it if you wanted
to do something extra in the way of frill, seems to
be dving out: of 143,103 “sittings under the
Church of England in N.S. Wales only 22,570 are
definitely pegged out. A Scotchhytenan church
here and there still collects “ seat rents, but the
number is only about one-twelfth of the total.
Soon, probably, it will dwindle down to one m
13 whereupon somebody will call the hired and
peWed-out pew the seat of Jddas, and that won t
improve its popularity. The hired local
preacher,” or “lay brother,” who generally
looks as though he wore the regular preacher s
cast-off clothes, and pretty often does the toughest
graft in the hardest places, seems to be increasing ;
the Methodists alone have now 40 of him in
NSW Among the R.C.’s, there are no less
than 23 religious orders in Sydney arclKliocese-
from the Marists, who landed m 183 1, to the
Dominicans, who turned up 10 years ago.
Dill Macky will probably be interested to
know that, according to the returns, there
isn’t a Jesuit in N.S.W. outside Sydney,
and only 24 of them in that archdiocese.
According to last census, there were about a dozen
people who each had a sect to himself ; and it, as
is most likely, each sect reckoned that only he had
the truth and the light, tins little lot must look
forward to being pretty lonely by-and-bye. But
they haven’t all got licenses to marry ; that way
of raking in an odd guinea is narrowed down to
just 50 sects. Lately one little sect, which says it
numbers one parson and 100 members, lias had a
great boom in the marrying business ; in three
vears it has hitched up something like 180 J couples
—which looks too large a record for a single parson.
Up to a couple of years ago .“ Independent
Presbyterians ” and others listed under “ matri-
monial agencies” were responsible for as many as
700 weddings in a twelvemonth, but m '1.104 the
whole lot of the agency-marriages Were debated to
the one small sect with the one parson and the 100
alleged members. It looks as though either the
small sect’s parson had cornered the market or the
returns aren’t as reliable as they might be.
-♦
In Bulletin 14/9/ 05 attention was called to the
action of the B. and 0. Company in causing to be
posted up in its steamers trading to Australia a
notice which stated that “even a single cigar or
cigarette found in the possession of any passenger
or member of the crew would be taken as evidence
of an intention to smuggle.” The Customs depart-
ment took the matter up. It endeavored to hnci
out how the notice originated, and on wnat
authority. The local Australian agents were
apparently unable to give any information ;
at all events the Customs could get no,satisfaction
from them on the subject. As a last resort, the
general agent of the company in Sydney was
written to, asking him to make inquiry on the
point from the head office in London, as
no information could be obtained, apparently,
in Australia. In reply the agent refused to do
anything of the kind. The Department then
addressed a courteous letter to the chairman of
the directors in London, pointing out how mis-
leading the notice was, and how it reflected, and
evidently was intended to reflect, on the adminis-
tration in Australia, and asking if he would be so
good as to say whether the notice complained of
was really issued under central authority, as was
stated by officers of the P. and 0. service in Aus-
tralia. All that was asked was that some dis-
claimer should be given of the terms of the notice.
The only reply the Department has been able to
obtain from the directors is that the Board never
intervened in the matter referred to, and that
“ they leave such matters to their representatives
in Australia.” It will thus be seen that the
Department gets no “ forrader ” in its inquiry.
It is put off in Australia by disclaimer
of any knowledge of the issue on the
part of the agents ; the officers on the
steamers themselves say they received the
notice from the Head Office, and produce copies
(type-written), which they state came from that
office ; and the central office of the company iii
London, when appealed to, says that it knows
nothing at all about it, that it is a matter for the
local agent to manage, and apparently suggests
that the notice was a perfectly proper one. When
it is known that the British Customs are much
more stringent in their requirements as to dutiable
articles in the possession of members of the crew
than the Customs in Australia, the action of the
company is, to say the least, rather remarkable.
In England every master of a P. and O. steamer
arriving in British waters has to fill in an elabo-
rate form, signed and declared to by himself, and
signed by every member of the crew, including
the master down to the stokers, colored and all,
setting out the exact quantity of cigars, tobacco,
etc., that each man has in his possession, and
this quantity has to be rigorously accounted for.
No such thing is required in Australia, and yet
the representatives of the company consider they
are justified in issuing such a notice, which had
for its only object, evidently, the intention to
bring discredit on the Commonwealth Govern-
ment.
A Victorian ex-railway man writes :
Several derailments of Bent’s Victorian trains (the
sooner they are portion of Watson's Australian trains
the better) have occurred of late. Some have been
noticed by the press. Others have not. The railway
authorities do not yearn for publicity, however. But
enough has leaked out to make Premier Bent say that he
is going to “ see into things,” and Manager Tait to declare
that the rolling stock was never in better repair. But
the ordinary working railway man seems to have different
views, judging from the remarks made to me by one of
the tribe the other morning
“These smashes are bound to come. Everything is
worked to the finest point. No margin is allowed for
safety now. It is all a matter of £ s. d. The present
administration calculates upon so much for smashes, but
so long as the cost is covered by the extra revenue
squeezed out of this high pressure system they don’t seem
to care. Only the financial aspect of things is considered.
“ The railway trucks are being loaded to the last ounce,
and the last ton that an engine will haul is crowded on to
the trains. Trucks built years ago to carry 10 tons, in-
stead of having their loads reduced as they grow old and
crippled, have had their burden increased 20 per cent, by
merely substituting ‘ 12 ’ for ‘ 10 ’ in the legend : ‘ To carry
tons ’ painted on their sides. The overstraining of the
rolling stock is also added to by the new system of shunt-
ing’ by gravitation at Spencer-street goods depot. Ihe
trucks are uncoupled in singles, or more, as required, and
‘ dropped ’ down a long incline into the various roads at
the bottom. They gather a speed of anything from five
to 20 miles an hour as they ‘drop,’ and they crash
and bang into the others already there, ibis
causes displacement of under-gear, bent axles, etc.,
etc. There is no time now to steady them down.
Were anyone permitted to gather up the loose wheat,
firewood " coal, coke, and other moveable loading knocked
off the trucks which are thus shot at each other, lie
would make a fortune. , .
“Then the new system of sectional running is
responsible for much damage to roiling stock. Each
section betweeen stations is limited to so many minutes
run, and the engine drivers have to ‘ show cause why
they should not be suitably punished should the total
time taken in running, say, 20 sections, exceed the total
time allowed. Hence a premium is off ered to the driver
to make up 10 to 20 minutes on a down grade should
he lose them on an up one. This task system causes records
as well as rolling stock to be broken. With trains of
700 tons ffoini*' down Mount Maoedon, for instance, at 45
or 50 miles an hour, it does not require expert knowledge
to depict the jolting experienced by toe over-loaded
trucks bounding over a permanent way which is looked
after by onlv about half as many repairers as were con-
sidered" necessary a few years ago. VVhat would happen
should a rail break, or a brake-block, or other
jrear drop across a rail from a truck, has jet to be
recorded. Perhaps the management would arrange to
run excursion trains to the spot and show people the
'Tlhd not stop to hear any more. But I understand
now why Premier Bent rides in a motor car.
——
According to the sworn evidence, before the
Tariff Commission, of A. S. Baithrson, Aus-
tralian manager for the Massey-Harris Co., of
Canada, that firm can turn out harvesters at the
invoiced price of £3B os. 3d. Landing the machine
in Melbourne—including packing, inland freight,
ocean ditto, insurance, wharfage, duty at P er
cent., &c. —brings thecostupto £5B Is. 4d. After
that, selling and distributing expenses put on
£l9 lGs. lid. (the witness didn’t give details of
this, though it seems an enormous sum to pay for
sending a harvester from Melbourne to, say,
Nhill), and the enterprising Canadians realise
only a minute £3 Is. 9d. profit on each machine at
the regular selling price of £Bl—about 5 per cent,
on the cost landed in Melbourne. Against this
says Mr Patterson, the Australian maker of
the" Sunshines reaps £lB 2s. 7d. per machine
profit, equal to 44 per cent. Cross-examined,
the witness admitted that the £3B included
a “substantial manufacturing profit”; that his
firm had at first sold harvesters at £75, but
had raised the price to £Bl before the trade
agreement was entered into ; and that, “ with an
additional £5 or £lO duty, it would pay the
American and Canadian firms handsomely to
come out here to manufacture their goods.” The
foreign firm’s manager’s figures have been chal-
lenged, but, even admitting their absolute Correct-
ness these points stand out conspicuously.: The
Massey-Harris Co. at first sold its machines at
a dead loss, and now sells them at a very trifling
proflt—presumably to capture the trade, i.e., it
dumps them. When an Australian farmer pays
£Bl for an imported machine; he is paying £3B
to the manufacturer and his men and £44 to
various partly-foreign distributors, ’ and this
£44 might just as well go into the pockets of an
Australian manufacturer and Ilia employees as
into those of foreign middlemen. As this one
fore'gn company alone sold 3000 harvesters m
Australia during 1901-1905, and as it is ad-


m
m
OL
<T&baeco
r- (Navy Out.)
MINS
” CVCRY TIME •
on account^ of its natural
aromatic flavour*
GALL-AHER UP BELFAST- 6£LGNG TO N° TRUST op COMBINE
v!
'i'
Prize Scheme for 1906.
•£250 in Cash Prizes
RANGING FROm£s DOWN TO 5/-
to Collectors of Outside Wrappers
FROM CaILLERS CHOCOLATES.
£62.10.0 •EACH QUARTER
MCH3IJT, June3oT?, Sep3QT» Pec 15™
ALL SIZES,I?INCLUDED,ARE VALID.
YOUR Wrappers to
p.0.80x/36, Sydney ,
mitted that an additional £5 or £lO duty would
have caused all these 3000—and many more—•
machines to be built here instead of abroad, and
as the Australian mechanic wants all the work he
can get, it would, beyond all doubt, pay him
handsomely to put that £lO extra duty on imme-
diately. Even if the price were not reduced one
solitary penny below the present £Bl—and the
Australian manufacturers are willing to give a
guarantee that it will be induced—nobody would
be a farthing the worse off, save the middleman,
and the Australian mechanic would get vastly
more employment than at present.
-♦
Land. Nationalisation.
Dear Bulletin.— Maoriland is very far from
satisfied with the position as regards radical legis-
lation, as you hinted recently. Almost unrepre-
sented in this Parliament though they be, there
is a vast number of voters who feel that, in
spite of all that has gone before is progress or
attempted progress, yet the improvement made
is illusory and must continue to be illusory,
so long as private ownership of land continues.
They have seen a very large share of the benefits
of their 15 years of progress mopped up by
the landowners, and that true democrat, Mr.
Tregear, has pointed out how, in Wellington, the
increased wages are neutralised by increased rent.
A sidelight is let in on this subject by the gorgeous
profits made by Wellington land speculators for
the Last ten years. You place your faith in land
taxation, but it is a fact that, in face of our gradu-
ated land-tax, our wealthy men still lay field to
field, and our wealthy families add sheep-run to
sheep-run and town property to town property.
If you permit private ownership, you will in-
fallibly produce the landlord class whom you
so well describe as “loafing, idle, parasitic. ’
The leopard cannot change his spots, and
the freeholder won’t part with one of his, but he’ll
let it and rackrent the tenant. How about taxa-
tion ? He’ll pass that on to the tenant, just as
the mortgagees in Maoriland have passed on the
mortgage tax to the borrower. It is doubtful
whether private owners—let us grant them the
benevolence of a Buddha—could, if they would,
divide and work the land to the best advantage.
It needs all the brains of the working community
to do that. Community ownership could arrange
reasonable terms of leases, carefully adjusted to
the class of land, town or country, and its situa-
tion or its quality. The up country sheep runs in
Otago and Canterbury have always been let on
lease to the satisfaction of all concerned ; the
sheep-man would have thought himself hardly
used if he had had to buy them. Why in the
world should not the lowland farms be let in the
same way? And the suburban lands? And the town
sections? This is a - revolutionary proposal,-you
say. Well, is The Bulletin afraid of a big move?
Your paper is courageous enough in recommending
Protection, and a Federal steamship line, an
Australian Navy, and the paying-off of the great
Australian debt. Yet not one of these things
would benefit the people (by which I mean the
people who work as distinct from the parasites
who don’t) like this primary reform of land
nationalisation, the reform which is a condition
precedent of all progress. Half-measures—sub-
division, taxation, single tax, graduated tax—
none of these will do, because the essential fact
remains that if the land of a country is in private
hands it matters little whether the owners are
seventy in number or seventy thousand ; they will
still be the lords of those who haven’t the land,
and the seventy thousand will work together with
the cohesion and the singleness of aim of the
seventy. You will see it in Ireland ; in a genera-
tion there will be just as much poverty and misery
there as now exists ; the English think they have
solved the Irish land question by expropriating
the few big landlords; but they have created a
great many smaller ones. What saith the Eastern
sage—“ White parasols, and elephants mad with
pride, shall be his who hath a grant of land.”
And for this luxury who will pay ? The rest of
the population. But if the State resumed the
whole land, paying for it with land bonds, and
letting the land by public auction on reasonably
short and reasonably long leases, an immense im-
provement in the condition of the whole popula-
tion would be at once effected. The vast capital
now locked up in the land (and which has to be
locked up before the land can be used) would be
released, and would create immense activity of
trade and production. With no man paying more
rent than he felt w r as fair, rents would fall at first,
and prices with them, and a great relief would be
afforded to every worker. But the general pros-
perity resulting would, without rack-renting,
gradually raise the total of the rents until, in
twenty years’ time, the natural income from them
would make all taxation unnecessary. To such a
happy country tourists and settlers would be
attracted in thousands, and before long the un-
earned creinent of value and the rent derived
therefrom would pay off the State debt and leave
a continually increasing share of the national rent
for more elaborate national defence, national
patronage of the arts, national beautifying of the
country, and generally the realisation of national
ideals. This reform deserves the aid of The
Bulletin—
To you is given the power supreme
To mould a new and nobler scheme.
Every year adds to the number of freeholders,
and strengthens the fetters on the wrists of
the enslaved landless, thus making the reform
more difficult to get. —Yours, &c., Dick.
[To which The Bulletin remarks that it has
always favored land nationalisation, and will
fight for a sane, comprehensive scheme whenever
the chance offers. It is the piece-meal business of
purchasing estates (with borrowed money) “ for
closer settlement ” and selling them again on the
instalment plan (instalments going to revenue)
that the B. objects to. —Ed. B.j
4
How Modern Wars are Engineered.
Concerning a neighbor of ours
Everj' time a land-grabbing nation begins to weep on
another people’s shirt-front because of the oppression this
other people has to put up with, the worid seems pretty
well justified in sniffing.
We saw what happened in S’Africa ; now Jonathan, of
New York, is beginning to have an idea that he was
“had’’the same way over the Philippines. Before the
Yanko-Spanish war his papers—the same old papers —
told him that the Filipino was a poor fellow who had been
kept in darkness by Spain, and it only needed an enlightened
rule (such as Jonathan’s) to make the Philippines boom
something tremendous. Their g reat natural resources, the
papers said, were practically untouched —all owing to the
darkness in which the land had been kept by the Dons of
Spain. And to rescue the Filipino (who kicked violently
against being rescued) Jonathan blew Spain out of the
water.
Now the impartial person is beginning to say that there
wasn’t any darkness to speak of, that the vast untouched
resources were mostly a myth, and, in- short, that, so far
as “rescuing” the Filipino is concerned the war was
largely a fraud, and the newspaper yarns were a three-
card trick. James A. Leroy, of the U.S. Consular
service—author of “ Philippine Life in Town and
Country,’’and one of the authorities who piloted the recent
Taft party through the new colonies —wrote an article
lately on “Philippine Problems” in which he gave most
of the show away. “There has been altogether too much
of a tendency,” he says, “ for Americans to think that here
was an undiscovered El Dorado.” As to Spain—well, the
more a man inquires, -‘--the more respect he will have
for Spain’s accomplishments in the island in asocial way.”
So far from there being vast neglected areas of rich land,
it isn’t certain that there are any such areas at all. In
fact, it was all a mistake —“ the Philippines are relatively
further developed and settled to-day than we have been
inclined to believe.”
In other words, here was another war, costing many
millions of money and thousands of lives, which to a very
great extent an ignorant or a corrupted press bustled a
nation into, b}' feeding the public on gross misrepresenta-
tions. The idea, no doubt, was, on the part of some of
those who pulled the strings, to collar land wholesale and
use Chinese coolie slaves to work it. But it was just at
that point that John Bull and Jonathan parted. John
allowed it after his war, Jonathan declined promptly and
vigorously. The U.S. Congress refused to countenance
coolie immigration ; if it didn’t it knew that there would
be trouble —coolie immigration has been tried before
in the Philippines, and the immigrants every
time have been wiped out. Further, it decided
that no individual might acquire more than 40
acres of Philippine land, and no corporation more than
2500 acres. Of course those who pulled the strings are
furious ; they expected spoils, and are cheated out of
them. Congress simply took them at their word ; they
urged war and annexation in the interests of the Filipinos,
and Congress declines to note that they had their tongue
in their cheek when they mentioned tifei interests of the
Filipinos. Which is one thingin favor of the U.S. Govern-
ment, as compared with the British, anyway—the British
Government played the hypocrites’ game, and gave the
wire-pullers the Chinese slave they were after ; the-U.S.
Government would do nothing of the kind. Whether it
won’t sooner or later be squeezed or tricked into relaxing
its attitude is yet to be seen ; the grabbers certainly
haven’t given up hope, and, as they can’t get slaves in a
large general way, they still petition for separate treat-
ment for portions of the islands. But, so far as he has
gone, though Jonathan was lied to and made a fool of,
he shows no disposition to back his foolery up with
knavery.
Sydney Daily Telegraph, affecting to discuss
Mr. E. Riley’s remarks on possible Presidents of
the Arbitration Court, shamelessly misrepresents
the position the employees’ representative has
taken up,.and as shamelessly distorts the conclu-
sions he ( sought to reach. Says the D.T.
According to Mr. Riley, however, the Labor party in
Parliament should, see to it that the scales are manipu-
lated before being brought into use, and that the judicial
officials charged with the duties of weighing the issues
brought before them should begin the operation by
loading the trades-unionist scale with a definite weight
of prepossession. Short-weight justice is what Mr.
Rileiy, in the interests of Socialism, advocates.
What Mr. Riley complained of was that Judges
who, out of doors and on the judicial Bench in
other courts, made it known that their personal
feelings and settled opinions were antagonistic to
Labor ideals, were not the men to be entrusted
with the duty of determining doubtful points as.
between employers and employees. What he
argued for was the Open-mind, not a mind loaded
with prepossessions in favor of the employee.
This is just the opposite of what the D.T.
imputes. Of course, it will be said that no matter
what a Judge’s present feelings or opinions may
be, when he sits as a Judge he goes strictly by the
letter of law. But set up a trades-unionist Judge,
and hear what the D.T. will say !
“Drifter”: We ’ad. been fillin’ ’em up
pretty liberal like on Christmas Eve an’ the two
days after, an’ Boxin’ Night found me down ter
my hast zac. So I goes round ter Tom’s place ter
lug him fer a couple er bob, but he ’ad gone stiff
as a crutch too. We decided ter pad the hoof ter
Leichhardtontheoff-charnse of strikin’ a bloke that
owed Tom ’arf a jim fer a bit .of plasterin’, but ’ad
no luck. It was a darned ’ot night walkin’, an’
our tongues was beginnin’ to’angout. “ Come on,
Tom ! ” sez lat last; “ there’s only one thing for
it; we must bust the zac an’ get a suck of some-
thing ! ” Well, we goes into the first pub. I
calls for a beer an’ syrup.- Tom orders a beer an’
soda. I noticed the old bloke seemed a bit
shickered as ’e was pumpin’ out the drinks.
“ ’Ullo !” sez Tom, when he flings them up to us,
“ what’s this ? ” “A beer, an’ a soda an’ syrup,
same as yous ordered ! ” snarls the old bloke,
fierce-like. “ Ter ’ell with yer ! ” yells Tom ; “ I
want beer with a dash ’er soda ! ” I ’ad one bite
outer the beer an’ was still ’angiri’ onter the zac
when the old publican staggers over ter the till an
pulls out ’arf a dollar ” : “Ere, take yer damned
money an get outer my pub!” he yells. Fer a
moment we stood paralysed ; then Tom grabs
the ’arf wheel orf the bar an we makes a bee
line ter the next pub. An yet you blokes don’t
believe in Providence!
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Palace R. G. Knowles.
llkr Ma.tk,sty’s “ Ver tuque.”
Theatre Royal “ Sinbad the Sailor.”
Criterion “Quality Street.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s. “ Patience.”
Ilmt Majesty's “Sunday.”
Theatre Royal “ The Lig’hts o’ London.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Princes Court Miscellaneous Programme.
• O
In “Quality Street ”J. M. Barrie is an
artfully Sentimental-Tommy, repeating the pretty
tricks of tears and smiles that he used in “The
Little Minister,” and “The Professor’s Love
Story.” There is a modicum of quaint, gentle
humor in Barrie, and a little genuine pathos, and
a great quality for playing on the feelings of his
readers or hearers with an emotionalism that is just
on the intellectual level of the average novel-reader
or playgoer. Phoebe Throssell is a pretty little
Dresden-china maid of 20, living in Quality street
with her elder sister, who has quite made up her
mind to be an old maid, when enter Dr. Valentine
Brown, a gay and somewhat noisy bachelor, whom
Phoebe learns to love with the aid of a very little
propinquity. But Brown’s seasoned heart needs
more propinquity, and he goes off to the Napo-
leonic wars without “making an offer”: and
naturally, to give sentiment a better chance (the
wheels creak a good deal here), the Throssell
ladies lose all their money through taking
Brown’s advice as to an investment. Mr.
Barrie recognises that to his public the pathos
won’t be sufficiently obvious if the heroine
is left to eat her heart out in lone-
liness with three square meals a day and the
softest thing in cushions to bear up upon. After
10 years re-enter Mr. Brown, still dashing, to find
THE LATE DAN FITZGERALD- Australia’s
“ whitest ” showman—with a Maori chief.
Phoebe a very tired spinster, having spent the
interval in regrets and in running a dame’s school.
Brown shows that he considers her old, and she in
a spirit of pique and vanity casts off her spinster
garments and ways, and dashes around a bit
posing as her own niece. By this markedly im-
probable device Phoebe secures several proposals
of marriage, and Brown’s is evidently going to
be one of them until the author brings the
story with a jerk out of that-r-ut, and proclaims
that Brown really loves the old—well, only 30
years old—Phoebe, and not her dashing niece at
all, and the story ends in kisses.
* » * *
The chief burden of “ Quality Street ”
falls upon Miss Winifred Fraser, who, in the first
act, as a sweet and somewhat gushing maiden,
makes the best of impressions. The quick fading
of Phoebe’s spirits when it becomes plain that
Brown, doesn’t mean to “make an offer”
is shown most artistically. In Act 11., as
the spinster who is resigned to fate, Miss
Fraser again acts admirably. It is in the second
and third acts when she has to become her own
dashing niece that the actress fails somewhat—
rather over-accentuating the burst of gaiety. Miss
Beatrice Day as the elder sister of the little house
in Quality-street has a part which is pretty well
in the one key, and makes in it a good impression.
There is not very much in the character of Valen-
tine Brown to make it worthy of Brough’s steel.
What chance it gives is taken full advantage of,
and he makes that “dasher ” cut always a manly
figure. Two admirable character sketches, Miss
Bessie Major as the servant, Patty, and Mr.
Pickford as Ensign Blades, contribute much to the
gaiety of the piece.
** * *
The farce-fashioner never wearies of the
hoodwink-your-wife theme as a ground-work for
his ; comic situations. Said hoodwinking must be
innocent and done under stress of circumstances,
and hoodwinker must be. at heart a perfect •
monster of domesticity. Even though he
goes for a “little fling” or a “look round
town,” the audience must know that there’s “ no-
thing in it he’s only just going sideways, like
Mr. Pickwick’s horse. Besides, these little break-
aways only serve to prove to him what he already
knew by heart, viz., that by contrast his own wifey
is much prettier, cleverer, and more huggable than
any other woman. And, even though lie’s been years
married, he’d do just the same matrimonially over
again if he had the chance over again. “ There
and Back,” a comedy-farce in three screams, was
presented for the first time in Australia at
the Palace, on Saturday night, by the Strand
Comedy Co. The two principal male characters
in it are suffering from what the audience, if it
were asked to give it a name, would call nervous
prostration; also they are evidently too well
treated in their homes by their respective wives.
Nervous prostration and too much domesticliappi-
ness, and then a doctor’s advice to go somewhere and
have a thorough change. In their state of nerves it
would not be kind to their wives to take them
along also. So thqx, hustle for deck cabins on an
American liner, a\js have their suit-cases and
fishing-rods and whisky flasks ready for the trip,
when they hear that a cheeky Miss Antoinette
Smith, who used to smoke a cigarette with them
exchange unconventional, funny, frothy noth£
in their bachelor days, is going to travel bv tl
same steamer. They are two too-good hubh'
for any more philandering at Miss Smith’s hi!*
heels and open-work hose, and they are not »<!,
to take any risks of having to carry her ruasanH
fix her deck chair, and perhaps be. snapshotted hv
someone just as they were bending over t
tuck the rug round her awfully fetching yachting
* * * *
The hoodwinking begins, and the screams
are mobilising rapidly. Instead of going by the
liner the two men depart for Scotland to visit a
gay old bachelor chum of theirs. They don’t
tell their wives of the change of plans, and they
don’t confide in each other as to acquaintance with
giddy Antoinette. So there’s a double hood
wink to be driven in shafts of comical lies
They go to Scotland to find that the gay bachelor
Jock M‘Crae has just returned from London
with a bride—the lady who was Miss Smith. 4t
the scene in the hotel at Pitfoodle’s, theserea'insof
laughter ascend in such volume that they would
rend the welkin if only they could get through
the roof to do so (and if anyone really
knew what the welkin is). Meantime the two
•weeping grass widows are coaxed and tenderly
bullied by the uncle of one of them to spend their
grassy period in Scotland. They go, and are
actually in the same hotel with their hoodwinkers
when they get wires to say that the American liner
has gone down with all on board. When next
they are on view they are dressed as permanent
widows back in the London house. And to them
enter, their holidays over, the two husbands.
Not having seen a paper, they do not know that
they should now be two damp, moist, unpleasant
bodies suffering sea change, and getting ready
to have their bones turned into coral and
their eyes into pearls, like the gentleman of The
Tempest. Lies, explanations, contradictions
counterings. From one desperate (and comical)
subterfuge to another they are driven by their
wives’ questioning, until finally they make a clean
breast, and all is joy, caressing,- and
sitting on one- chair.
♦ * *
Miss Florence Lloyd plays the
elfish, good-sort Bohemian Antoin-
ette Smith as well, in its way, as
she managed the male role in the
“ J-P.” Mr, J. J. Dallas, as one
of the hood-winkers, was Comedy
materialised, and Mr. Gregun
M ‘Mahon, as Jock M'Crae, helped
materially to raise laughter. Misses
Maud Chetwynd, Norah Delaney and
Florence Redfern, besides several
Misters who deserve notice, made up
a strong cast. A clever little musical
skit, entitled “The Bazaar Girl,”
preluded the: bigger piece.
** * *
Messager’s dainty music, full of
artistic surprises, is slowly soaking
into Sydney, and “Veroriique” wiil
be more popular in the fifth week of
its run than it is in this, the second.
The libretto doesn’t leave many
memories behind, but everything
else in connection with this newest
of comic-operas is so good that one
feels like getting up into the pulpit
and moving a comprehensive vote of
thanks to Messager, J.C.W., and all
the other ladies and gentlemen who
so kindly give their assistance.
** * *
Manager Anderson, having
consumed the dregs of the cup of
success with his pantomime at Syd-
ney Royal, is now hard at work pre-
paring for the production of “La
Fille du Tambour Major,” which is
to be staged on Saturday week. “Sinbad” has
had the longest run the Royal has seen for some
time.
*m # *
The Tivoli bill is new in patches, and some
of the patches are very good—particularly Lotto,
Lilo, and Otto, trick cyclists, who. are almost too
much to be called a patch, and may pass for a
whole suit. In the art of tumbling off, Aus-
tralia has seen nothing so complete since the
days of Governor Brassey; and in the art
of sticking on, it has seen nothing so striking
since it read a land agent’s bill. The artistic
Jacksons are back again; Post Mason, a
warbler, is doing a.fine voice more, justice than he
did at first; and a large assortment of good to
middling items make up a bill that is ahead of the
average.
Strictly speaking it is Silver Creek (not Valley)
where .Tacky suffers the pangs of unrequited love
and is left disconsolate in the last act. One feels
very sorry for Jacky. At the outset of the
drama he seems to be in luck. Another fellow
stands between him and Miss Sunday, and he
murders the other fellow in the interests of Silver
Creek morality, which is strictly ’Murkan and
beyond reproach. But having removed his rival
with a shot fired from the rear, having slaughtered
him in the most unsportsmanlike manner, Jacky
loses his girl all the same. She goes away to
England to recover from the shock, and when she
returns to keep house for Jacky and Co. she has
left another sweetheart behind her—a beauteous,
curly Colonel who seems to have walked out of a
Family Herald novelette. And the Colonel
comes after the girl. For a moment he looks
likely to get murdered, as was his brother before
him, in the manly and moral American fashion.
Because he interferes to save Jacky from
Miss Brune in sundry plays we’ve seen,
And one’s named after one day,
And that’s the day which comes between
A Saturday and Mon-day ;
She lights her sentimental part
With many a lively sal-ly,
But, O-o-o-h ! she breaks poor Ja-a-aclt-y’s hea-a-rt,
Way down at Silver Val-ley.


damage or sudden death at the hands of his fine,
honest, bloodthirsty colleagues, one of them
Towzer—draws a revolver on the Colonel, and _a
mere snort from that unarmed citizen would be his
death knell, and then Miss Sunday would have had
,to turn to .Tacky for consolation. But the Colonel
doesn’t cry “ Fire, and be d dto you !” like
George Darrell, in “The Sunny South.’ He
turns away Towzer’s wrath, and lives to hug
Sunday to his elegantly-tailored bosom.
» * *
The present revival of “ Sunday at Her
Majesty’s (Melb.) will give the usual satisfaction
to large audiences for a week or two. It is better
stuff than ordinary domestic melodrama. All the
minor characters are easily made effective, and to
the public that is easily convinced the most arti-
ficial situations appear pathetic. Miss Brune,
Roy Redgrave (who in this instance suggests that
his front name should begin with a 1), Mervale,
and Douglas Gerrard are the four performers
chiefly concerned in the plot, and Douglas
Gerrard, the newcomer, with his sombre voice
and manner suits the part of .Tacky far better
than the more difficult one of Lancelot in Mary
Ann.”
** * *
At the Princess’s the Gil. and Sul. opera
co. has only one more week to stay. Utopia
Limited ” is now a comparatively aged produc-
tion for a quick-change season, and on Saturday
night it will be retired in favor of “ Patience.
** * *
At Melbourne Royal the caravan of Mr.
and Mrs. Jarvis will shelter the shorn convict for
another week ere the arrival of “ The Prodigal
Son.” The hero in “ Lights o London is a
prodigal son for that matter, but the current
candidate for fatted calf differs entirely from the
name character in Hall Caine’s story, who will
not be required to plunge into a tank. Mean-
while, the G. R. Sims melodrama continues to get
rapidly off the mark. There’s a tale to be told,
and as soon as the curtain is fairly up the narra-
tive starts on its long journey.
* -* -X- *
The Eight English Primroses who lately
twinkled their yellow jnmbes in the air at Sydney
Tivoli are now doing likewise at Melbourne Opera
House, and there is more joy in the Heavenly
Amphitheatre over those 1(5 upended extremities
than over ninety-and-nine Commonplace limbs
that need no repentance. The sportive Primroses
impart the charm of graceful discipline to their
concerted gambols, which remark also applies to,
the Two Beils. Miss Alice Raymond, the cornet-
ist'e, was out of the bill some nights last
week, on account of a sore lip, but she resumed
practice on Saturday, and John lveerkamp
assisted the turn with his tenor voice as before.
Crimmins and Gore are recent arrivals, but the
present scribe has no taste for Gore and Crim-
mins. A final outbreak of tumbling by the male
partner is an insufficient apology for their inco-
herent comedy sketch.
** * *
The “Living London” Biograph was to
be withdrawn from the Town Hall this week, at
what the wily advt. would call the supreme
moment of its triumph, in order to reach Bendigo,
Ballarat, and other places, by certain dates.
Princes Court, on the other hand, never goes
touring. It has lately assumed the title ot
“Pleasure’s Head Quarters” (which suggests
“hindquarters ” where the Helter-skelter
is concerned), and the local police, who
are whales for dissipation, have arranged to
fete there on the 17th, in aid of the hospital.
There is one other Melbourne show whereof The
Bulletin can speak only in tones of deepest
sorrow. The A.N.A.. musical and elocutionary
competitions are happening once again at the
Athenaeum Hall (admission sixpence). The num-
ber of competitors will be four thousand, or lour
hundred in excess of last year s procession, and
the comparatively meritorious amateurs, with no
relatives or friends to speak of, will get frozen by
the icy stare of a wholly antagonistic audience.
It seems to be the rule at A.N.A. competitions
for the wickedest reciters to have the largest pio
portion of barrackers, Consequently the most awful
crimes are vociferously applauded.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Charles Kenningham was quietly married, the other day
to Miss Vera Buttle, of the same theatrical company.
Said that beauty actor Douglas Gerrarct has fallen cap-
tive to the classical beauty of one of Melbourne s fairest,
finest, and most bored-looking matrons, and that he ad-
mires her even more than he does himself.
American actress Annie Russell conies to Australia
next year to J. O. YV., for the name part in G. B. Shaw s
“Major Barbara,” the new Salvarmy play, described as.
“ a discussion in three acts.”
Carrie Moore’s engagement as principal boy in “Aladdin *
at Glasgow is worth .£5O per week. She is booked for the
same piece at Birmingham next Xmas.
Edgar Stillman Kelly, the American composery now
living in Berlin, was asked what lie was doing. trying
to set some of Sousa’s marches to music, said Kelly.
The ten-year-old daughter of the favorite Australian
vocalist, Florence Esdaile, has been appearing successfully
with her mother in pantomime at the Broadway Theatre,
London. The small girl is a Melbourne native, named
Stella after her aunt, formerly of the Royal Comic Opera
Co.
A notable musician who did not “blow his own
trumpet” died at Newcastle on Sunday. Mr. Charles
Malcolm came to Australia about Centennial year in
search of health. In England he was associated with
Hallb, and for several seasons was accompanist of Adelina
Patti.
Adelaide Bach Society has created a travelling scholar-
ship which has been awarded to Miss Gwen Chaplin, a
promising young contralto of the society. Miss Chaplin
leaves for England in. February and will study for two
years under Madame Minna Fischer.
“ E.F.” : The late Lilian Wheeler was, with one excep-
tion, the most impressive of the “ born ’ actresses that
Australia has produced within the past 20 years. Alice
Crawford, the Bendigo girl, showed quite as much pro-
mise from the outset, and her physical advantages when
she first appeared as a young recitress were even more
noticeable than Miss Wheeler’s, but she didn’t show quite
the same precocity of talent. The Bendigo girl wanted
considerable time to develop from the brignt amateur
into the fine artist she has now proved herself. Miss
Wheeler, who arrived some years previously, had the air
of a real leading lady from the outset. She got her first
sta°'e experience as a silent member of Bland Holt s Co. at
Mefb. Royal, where she simply “ walked on ” in two or
three melodramas. At that time George Rignold,
plaving in Adelaide, was stuck for a leading lady, and he
wrote to his old friend, Dr. Neild, in Melbourne, asking
him if he could recommend a girl equal to the emergency.
The old critic suggested Lilian Wheeler, and she went
rmlit away to Adelaide and made a success in the comedy
of “ Confusion,” taking the part that Kate Bishop had
played of yore. A few weeks later the novice was appear-
ing as Righold’S principal support in “ In the Ranks ” at
Melbourne Royal. The heroine of that good acting drama
is required to take a dose ’of poison—by accident or
design—and MissCWlieelet rose to the tragic occasion
in a most satisfactory style. All things considered
her’s was a remarkable display of dramatic ability. Mel-
bourne saw no more of her after that season until she
figured as a minor member of the Nance O’Neil Co. in
“ Tess of the D’lJrbervilles,” etc. She was then only! a
shadow of her old self. Her best work had been done in
Sydney, during the season when she played Dt sdemona to
Rignold’s Othello. It wasn’t for long that she looked
E. G. KNOWLES, Entertainer and Humorist.
likely to do great things on the stage, but as to her possi-
bilities there could be no two opinions.
“«s Snell ” • There seems some chance of Australia
having secured at last a possible With voice,
looks and ability, who is actually tall, Miss uiwewv
win is a Williamsonian investment and a local P r °dt •
drove of fairly clever little ladies for light opera and but-
lesoue but a tallish girl who can sing sweetly, talk -
teiUo-e’ntlv and look as if she were really concerned
the matter in hand, is quite a new development so far as
the present generation of playgoers is concerned. -
Princess is a much more cheerful d.gn hed and
Gilbertian Princess than Miss Do!Hy '" s kindly
latter’s misfortune that she is too dolly. » oi e K ''”
veteran ought to tell her how to make-up to tone dow
her too marked resemblance to a waxen che
if all the kindly veteran isn't monopolised by anothi
little lady. , , „
« ” Masker died on Thursday at Summer Hill,
near Sidney about 86. He first knew Poverty
Point at Hobart Town 60 years ago, m the same theatre
mfl under the same lesseeship as (*. H. Ko„eis.
was in the police before taking to dTictork
afterwards, did a bit of droving in N.S.W. a «d Victoria.
S™, wars av-o Cyril Haviland, when secretary of Sydney
Ichool of Arts, employed him at writing his experiences,
but Hasker never knew what became of the copy.
Florence Llovd, of the Strand Comedy Company, violated
the rule of the'Waihi (M.L.) mine, which prohibits women
tne ruie ui h , go niany women have
fafntTd cage going down, that this prohibition was
necessary. But Miss Lloyd managed to convince the folk
that as the best boy-impersonator on record she was pioo
against . , , Naw
“ Vulcan ” : The all-embracing new Liquor Act of JN.S. vy.
creates new trouble for Poverty Point. Any peison
refusing to pay a reasonable sum for meals and accoinmo-
HsHon at licensed premises shall be deemed a rogue and
I an sha be liable to lie dealt with under the
it, a “theatrical manager got till the lisinig>
NSW country town, t’other day. And so the ancient
custom of flitting becomes dangerous.
Of to He°'°'ie tVie young* S. Australian who did pret y
wenwith Hawtrey while lie lasted, leaves hopefully for
London this week. ~
Yet another of R. S. Smythe’s lecturers has gone to the
farmff region where Charles Clark, Talmage, little Haweis,
H M Stanley and Max O’Rell are twanging harps. Rev.
Haskett Smith, the plump shepherd[ from Kg.vpt and the
Holv Land died last week. Haskett Smith, who was no
great shakes as an elocutionist, paid two■ yifits_to this
country and his second visit was a frost. But th ®
of his discourses was interestingly instructive. What he
had to sav about Jerusalem, Nazereth, Damascus, and
the land of the Pharaohs was worth a lot more attention
than it got from his audiences.
Graceful Roxy Barton has lately been pleasing London
nla v-L'-oers as Titania in “ A Midsummer Night s Dream,
at 'the Adelphi. The critics speak of her sweet and
artistic representation” and “delicate sense of humor
Elizabeth'Parkina is the First Singing Fairy of the
Adelnhi cast and Ada Ferrar’s sister Beatrice takes Puck.
Australian Oscar Asche is Nick Bottom and Caleb Porter
(the Nero of the first Australian production of The bi„n
of the Cross ”) is also prominent. ' . .
Samuel Williams, the Yankee who was buried at Princes
Court Melbourne, for a week some time ago, rushed into
the arms of the law in Ballarat t’other day. Samuel vvas
nut into a hypnotic trance, and then ordered to find a
nenknife which had been hidden in the sock a m i in ,'’ v ' ’°
hail heen rtlanted in a remote corner of a big draper s shop,
SSiTeoC“..w„. Hew».t»4riv.tteVij.j~c.Com
mittee in a dray through the to b ti kmfe
Garnnpi i n the trance was in .such a huiry that ne arove
the dray at a hand gallop, and was just finding the knife
when a'bobby, panting and scarlet, dashed up and took
his name and address for furious drjying Samuel re-
covered from the trance in time to pay a 40s. fine next
day Apparently even a hypnotic trance is no excuse
for a fractured bylaw.
One theatrical manager tells of the difficulties he ex-
&SW aa*
hurled by the villain, into the damp element, and yet it
was essential to the success of this particular play that
she should be gallantly rescued from a watery Stave by
voubF squire. “ The water’s too cold,” said the
leading lady The manager warmed the tank at great
exi ense and then the leading lady declared that it was
not clean “She wouldn’t go into the water unless it
was filtered,” she said. A notice to quit from the
manager terminated the dispute in his favor.
Harold Parsons, the young Adelaide cellist who went
to Germany last year, writes that he is much discouraged,
and is longing to return to Australia In Adelaide he
n thousand times better than he can ever hope to be. Be-
vend this he finds the life peculiarly interesting; his
master is’encouraging and he feels he has progressed.
He’s a modest young man anyhow.
Marvellous how Sydney Cyclorama, still showing the
i i tt Rai tlp of Gettysburg,” continues year after year to
blow its trumpet and holl’the door open for the country
cousin The co. that owns the concern hasn t had a
cousin, xne t he show doesn tr
n e'xpenses imdhit yetr it wasn’t a fiver to the good.
Nobodv ever hears of anybody going there nowadays ,
and vet, somebody must go—in fact, last year the turn-
stiles showed that over 40,000 went.
“ T an tana ” : I agree with “ Euphemia ” in this much-
,, i: r - lin , tn e Australian girl who is given to dogging
a,, « hfrt d tole”ated and fc iuetaphorically relegated to outer
c.K “Sir would infer l pitiful decadent*. a inM
actual man and a devotion to posings and artifices,
01 a of'the kind. What it really amounts to is
*3 - N An h infatuation for ttie unactual man (whom the
this .An rat, successfully tries to represent), the
-'Seftaw world ever"strains to prove there
the window—hers and the pug s.
The Next Station.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE train had settled into its stride
and was covering the miles to the mono-
tonous refrain of “Getting along!
“Getting along!” The doctor had finished his
newspaper and was settling down for a nap.
There were only two other passengers in the car-
riage. In the far corner an old lady was wrapt
in unlovely slumber, her grey head tied up in a
black scarf, her jaw fallen and quivering with
snores. Opposite the doctor was little, red-
headed, restless man with a reporter’s note book
and pencil sticking out of his pocket. He was
dressed in tumbled clothes of a loud pattern and
a paper collar creased irrevocably along one side.
As the doctor’s diowsy glance rested on him for a
moment he withdrew his bleak stare from the
vacancy of the window and, leaning forwarc,
tapped the doctor on the breast.
“ I can’t bear it any longer,” he stuttered, tem-
The doctor recognised a smell of brandy in the
air, and a familiar expression in the man s eyes
They were light eyes with,a rim of bloodshot
white showing all round the pupil, jerking eyes
•with flickering lids. The man breathed heavily
as though he had been running, and threw out an
admonitory finger that nearly hit the doctor s
nose, f hen he went on in spasmodic sentences,
speaking as if every other word began with a
c^lt*iJlf began when old Uncle Harry left me
£5OO. I went to the funeral. Ever been to a
funeral ? It’s impressive. Specially when you
belong. Mary was there. She teaches in a
school’; set to work teaching me. When you ve
only had 20s. a week, mostly uncertain, you think
£5OO a mint of money. That and the, funeral
made me cry. ‘ Hope of a glorious resurrection and
all that. She sat by me. lie P" 6 , her ha {“L°f
mine, and looked at me. Parted hair, you know,
white face and big forehead, and eyes; Lord,
they went through you. Afterwards she said,
‘What are you going to do with it. I said,
‘Start a paper.’ Then she began Truth and
duty,-and high aims. And me? S pose I was
thinking of the ‘joyful hope still. I took it all
in. I said, ‘Will you help me to do it? She
didn’t get red; she got white ; she took a deep
breath; her eyes blazed like a flame. She said,
‘ It’s what I’ve longed and prayed for, to live in the
great world and do good.’ Then she began to
idealize me. Me! Oh Lord! I used to be
pretty cocksy. Have to push when you ve got
vour way to make. She idealized me till a worm
could have given me points. Truth, she said.
She kept on talking about absolute truth. And
me a journalist ! Purity, she said, and renun-
ciation. And me being what I am, and knowing
what I know ! I’ve had to find my way about.
I’ve had to take hold of any handle I couklgeta
finger on. She didn’t mind me being ugiy. She d
settled I had a giant mind. She was going to
wrote leaders for practice. She’d read
’em out to me and discuss both sides of the ques-
tion till I was fairly giddy. There was no rest
for a fellow. When the war began she said we
must make up our minds about it, get down to the
bed rock. Was war ever justifiable ? I hat went
on for weeks. She came to stay in town for her
holidays. Oh Lord!” , , ~
The'red-headed man wiped the beads from his
brow with a degenerated pocket handkerchief;
then he waved it like a banner and went on.
“ The character of the royal family too, and
Church Establishment, and our fallen sisters.
Made me bring home two to tea, 1 tell you.
Never had such a time in my Jife. I could have
managed them by myself. Been there before, but
with her — — ! Then I tried to back off a bit. 1
told her I wasn’t worthy of her-nor I am t, she s
as high as a saint; and she said wed climb to-
gether. I said I didn’t love her properly only
with my intellect; and she said that s how she did,
too. I don’t believe she knew she had a body, that
girl—fairly spectral, and those eyes! I hen i
stopped away for three weeks and she wrote and
wrote. Was I ill, would she come and nurse me .
Said I was the centre of her being. Me ! Said she
knew I was far before her in mental grasp, but she
was studying day and night to prepare herself to
be a true companion to me. Me! I had to go
north for a job ; been away 10 days, had her
on my mind every blessed minute of the time.
She found out when I was due back, wired she
was coming to meet me. She’s waiting at the
verv next station for me! I’ve got to see her.
I’ve got to* tell her.* I’ve got' to get quit of it all
or I shall go mad.”
His voice rose to a cracked screech.
“You’ve been drinking,” said the doctor,
looking at him steadily.
“ Well,” said the red-headed man, aggressively,
“ s’pose I have.” Then he wreathed and bur-
rowed into his corner, growing perceptibly smaller,
like a frightened turkey-cock.
“So’d you if she was waiting for you at the
next station,” he whined.
He couldn’t keep still; his restless hands were
picking at fringe and button and strap.
“Don’t fool with that door-handle, said the
doctor, sternly. .. , . ,
“ D’you hear the wheels? said the red-headed
man. “Going along!” He listened with lifted
finder for a minute, then shifted jerkily two 01
three times. He pulled a cheap watch from his
pocket and looked at it with dilating eyes.
“ Another five minutes,” he whispered, ‘ and the
rough red hair seemed to bristle on Ins scalp.
Suddenly he bent forward, letting the watch slip
from his hold, and dangle unnoticed from the
chain as he tapped the doctor on the breast again.
“ You take her,” he leered, “ just suit you, old
man.” He gave an uncertain wink.
“ Pick up your watch and don’t be an ass, said
the doctor. ~, , ■ ,
The train began to slow off along the high,
sharply-curved embankment that led into the
station. Just then the old lady in the far corner
woke'up, mightily flustered, and began hauling
her packages down from the rack. 1 he doctor rose
to give her a hand. He ranged the parcels m tidy
rows on the seat for her, and was unearthing the
last from beneath her feet, she at the same
moment pinning on her veil with fat con-
tortions and balancings as the tram slowed and
slowed, when suddenly she gave a cry and pointed.
The doctor turned like a flash. On the carriage
step, swinging loose to the open door, hung the
red-headed man, a grin of inconceivable elation
and trickery touched with horror distorting his
countenance. , , tIT , a,,
“ You see to her,” he shouted ; I m off here .
and was gone. The doctor sprang to the door,
but beyond the streaks of light from the carriage
windows lay black darkness. He shouted for the
guard and explained matters. .. ,
“We’ll send back to look for him, said the
guard, “we’re just in now.” As lie spoke the
brakes ground on the wheels and the tram pulled
up at the lighted platform. The doctor looked
out and saw. standing under the big central light,
unmist&keably, Mary. She was lean, haggard,
intense, with the pallid face of a sedentary woman,
the sombre lightning-glance of an enthusiast her
hair parted austerely above a high narrow fore-
head Through the repression of her attitude
gleamed avi vid expectancy. The doctor went up
to her. Her eyes looked beyond lnm, fixed on
the train, scanning it anxiously with swift sweep-
ing glances. When he spoke to her she started,
and her look came back to him with a sense of dis-.
location. ~ . ~ ,
“There has been a slight accident, he ex-
plained. “Your friend got out rather too soon,
and fell. They are going to look for him now.
And he pointed to a knot of excited porters with
lanterns starting along the embankment. He
will be here in a few minutes. W ill you go to the
waiting-room ? I will come and call you when
you are needed. lam a doctor.
She went a shade paler, and he saw how her
eves “ blazed like a flame.” She hesitated while
one might draw a long breath, her intent gaze
seeking to read his face ; then she bowed, and,
without a word, followed him to the waiting-
room. There he left her sitting rigid, her hands
clasped on her knees. ~, m
He went and stood at the end of the platform
watching the bobbing lanterns. Then lie heard a
shout, and the lights grouped and stayed not AX)
yards away. He ran to join them, and found the
railway-men gathered in a knot watching, with a
sort of doubtful amusement, the red-headed man.
who was painfully, yet with an indescribably
jaunty air, pulling himself up over the brow ot
the embankment. His eye fell on the doctor;
lie stopped where he was, on hands and knees,
nose and cheek scratched and bleeding, and
cocked a half-closed eye at him.
“Is she there ? ” he asked. _
The doctor put a hand under Ins arm and lilted
him to his feet.
“Are vou hurt, man?’ he questioned. Ihe
red-headed man shook his head as b uz /r.
“I’m all right,” he muttered hazily ; nothing
the matter with me. Only you tell her ; non
compos, you know— non compos, you know, iso
good ; mustn’t marry. See ? ” He dug a waver-
ing finger into the doctor’s waistcoat, winked a
bruised eyelid, and suddenly swayed into his arms
with strange gaspings. , .
They put him on the ground, where he ay
breathing heavily and fast. After a little delay
they brought a litter and carried him to tne
station. The cloak-room lay nearest, so he was
taken in there and laid on the baggage counter a
rolled coat under his beach His face was bluish ;
he breathed with ever-increasing difficulty, xne
doctor cleared the room, sent for water and
brandy, and set to work to examine his patient
who seemed perfectly conscious through it all. it
didn’t take long. The sound of the leaping,
straining heart told its tale. Ihe sick man
watched him half quizzically, and, as he rose at
last from the examination, asked between whistling
breaths, “ How long ? ”
The doctor spoke clearly, close to his ear. You
will die in less than half-an-hour, probably a few
minutes. You must see Mary.
The man groaned between his gasping breaths.
His face was perceptibly bluer.
“ I—can’t—think—what— to say, lie gasped.
The doctor spoke again—slowly, very close to
his ear. “Say ‘Goodbye, Mary; Ive always
loved you.’ ”
The man made a sign of assent.
“ I’ll bring her,” said the doctor.
He found her as he had left her m the waiting-
room, smitten to immobility. _ •
“He is injured,” said the doctor; there is
mischief at his heart. He has only a little while
tC> to beat about the bush with this woman.
She followed him along the luggage-strewn plat-
form, stepping from light to shadow light to
shadow, under the hanging lamps, before they
reached the cloak-room door they could hear the
noisy, labored breathing of the stricken man
within. As they entered the naked, flaring
jet, burning from a tarnished bracket on the wall
above his head, shot out a sudden, shrieking arm
of flame and lit the face beneath with cruel dis-
tinctness. The doctor stretched a hand to turn
the tap while she hung over the sick man, search-
ing his drawn face with eyes softened by no tear.
His eyes flickered and shifted, refusing to meet
hers ; he seemed to shrink smaller where he lay,
half turning on his side ; then he pulled himself
together for a last effort . ~ , ■
“Mary ” he said, turning, with pitiable strain,
a little towards her, while after each word came a
strangling gasp, “ I’ve— always—loved A™-
He turned his eyes on the doctor. Gin t
remember,” he muttered. His voice trailed off to
nothing. His eyes closed- He laid a hand on
hers, and she laid her cheek on his hand. She shut
her eyes tightly; through the lids oozed slow,
bitter tears.
“Oh Will! Will!” she moaned.
The red-headed man lifted his heavy lids and
looked across at the doctor again, a strange con-
tortion on his livid face. He was trying to wink
She never saw; she nursed his helpless hand
against her cheek with wordless sounds of tender-
j! He drew a dozen more horrible shuddering
breaths, lapsed into unconsciousness, and so died.
Mary rose and stood grim and steadfast by his
side “ Thank you for all your kindness, sir, she
said’ in an even voice, “ I suppose you were a
friend of Will’s.” Then her voice broke. }-No-
body but me knew what a man my Will was.
QUEENSLAND.
W.
: Received at this office, a shipping direc-
tory “Knagg’s Almanac,” issued by Messrs.
Sproull and Co., of Newcastle Almanac seems
a verv complete one, dealing with, amongst other
things, sailing directions for lorres Straits, and
signals and chart of Newcastle harbor. Price,
3s. 6d.
About the Jap occupation of Corea (by
R. W. Ritchie): —
The Corean will not buy from the Japanese because he
hates the Japanese. He will not accept one of the Jap-
anese innovations in food, style of dress, or household
furnishings, because it is Japanese. Because the Japanese
have made him feel that he is a conquered man and a
vassal, he bitterly detests everything Japanese and
there are to
keen up busmess ; but when the lull comes there will
Surely beT crash. There are in Chemulpo, Seoul
Chinnampo, and Fusan many Chinese importers, and a
few' French German, and American merchants. These
peopleare coiningmoney now. Unless Japan destroys
Corean sovereignty, and imposes protective tariffs for the
urotection of her merchants and the coercion of the
Coreans, Japan’s colonisation of Corea will probably fad.
Rv ferrorisin"' and bullyragging the people of this country,
fvKss acts " aggression and despicable practices of
political chicanery, Japan has begun colonisation of
Corea as Clive and Hastings initiated British rule in
India. A Corean mutiny may not be impossible.


Have a Care for Your Eyes.
The Great Poet Milton asks:
"hy was this sight
To such a tender ball of the eye confined.
Therefore when afflicted with Sandy Blicht Tnflnnwl vjL TV V-T t
don’t experiment, but use the Australian Nrtion.al Remedy and Erellds > fa ’’
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
Jins Preparation has been the salvation of thousands. Rose’s Celebrated Fve
Lotion is sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers throughout aSSmS If
PoSt “' "° to V» *■“ ***■&* wtli' a
D II DAOEt t> S nn E ™ 0P ' ItIETOR $ AN » MANUFACTURERS:
H. A, ROSE & CO., Cliemists and Druggists, 531 George Street. Sydney.
MARVELLOUSLY
CHEAP!
SURPRISINGLY
EFFECTIVE !
An Elegant, Neat and Service-
able Little Hand or Stand
Camera, only
21 -
THE
“UNION”
Takes Photos 4|in. x 34m.
Complete with Three Double
Plate Holders and Book of
Simple Instructions.
Packed and Posted to any
address, 1/6 extra.
m
CAMERAS from £5 to £5O.
Illustrated Catalogue Free—Postage 3d.
HARRINGTON
55® CO
LTD.
386 GEORGE ST
Near
G'P.O.
SYDNEY, 93 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
MRS. MERCY GREGORY , murdered by the
lift-boy at the Royal Hotel, Sydney.
Photo, by Talma, Melbourne.
Recent launch tragedy in Sydney Harbor
prompts one to consider the danger of pleasure-
travelling on that sheet of water. After the
motor-launeli was cut in two by the steamer
Manly, there was a delay, according to some wit-
nesses, of 15 minutes (others say less) before a
boat could be launched from that vessel: and in
15-minutes a good deal can happen to a group of
people struggling in the water. But how much
worse would it have been had there been no boat
to lower ! The two fatalities would have stretched
probably to half-a-dozen. That is what would
have happened had the launch collided with any
other than a Port Jackson steamer. Of all the
Sydney ferry steamers not one other carries life-
boats. They carry rafts and floating seats, cer-
tainly—useful in case of sinking themselves, but
useless if they cut down a small boat—and those
steamers are just as liable to do that as the Manly.
Every year there are to be found more motor-
boats and sailing-boats on the harbor, and with
their growth the danger grows. Every ferry boat
on Sydney Harbor should carry at least one
lifeboat, and that in a convenient place where it
would not trike ,15 minutes to be lowered.
The mountain residents round the Vic-
torian Governor’s summer house relate that an
order was recently issued that all goods and
parcels consigned to the Excellency’s abode should
be carried free by the railways ; and that, taking
advantage of this, the vice-regal account at the
local store lias been closed and all commodities
are now got from the city,
* * #
A constable, in giving evidence against
a woman whom he arrested in the Carlton
Gardens: “ Her dress was disarranged, and she
called me one of those returned soldiers.” That
comes under the heading of insulting language
nowadays.
* * * *
Dill Macky’s Watohman journal gives
some snappy and informative pars about 'Home
now and then. Last week it told of two trusty
Orangemen who, having been accidentally locked
in one of the Scarlet Woman’s edifices at Rome
after closing time, were horrified to observe a
procession of priests, leading a young girl towards
“a tank-like structure with a lid.” Rome's
minions hurled her in and wandered peacefully
away—probably after more maidens. We don’t
want to question the story (an initial of one of the
witnesses—“W.”—is very frankly given, and
what more corroboration is wanted ?). But why
the lack of picturesque detail ? The tank (well
known in all R.C. Churches, and cleared bi-
weekly by the municipal authorities in Rome-
ridden spots—one of the Cardinal’s grievances in
Australia is that the Town Councils won't clear
church tanks of corpses) is not fully described.
And why no reference to the crocodiles and the
crimson megosauri, which, prompted thereto by
the devilish malignity of Rome, revel in those
tanks on the Maiden Tribute, leaving only the
bones to be cleared away in the morning, while
“The Wearin’of the Green” thunders from the
organ above?
* * * m
Victoria’s annual Post Office picnic, when
the department practically ceases work from
Friday night till Monday morning, transpires
next Saturday. If that other State business con-
cern, the Railways, decided to stop working for
one day every year, to allow the lower employees
to toddle down the Bay and there pour grease
over the higher ones, something would drop with
a thud.
Burns’ “ A man’s a man for a’ that ”
has lately been quoted appositely once at least.
In theksummer most of the married women clear
out of “the old camp,” as they call Coolgardie in
the West, and cool their heads down bj the sea.
Usually the man left behind is a poor, forlorn
object, who has cut all his bachelor ways. Lately
some of them decided that the time had arrived to
do something and assert themselves; so they
formed a club, ostensibly to hold “decorous
socials,” and took for motto “ A man’s a man for
a’ that.” After they had printed it at the head
of the card for the first shivoo, there was a rush of
vvives from the seaboard. It sounded too much
like the hint of an army on the point of rebellion.
Detective Sergeant O’Donnell,
the Melb. policeman who was not blotvn
U P by a bomb, has high notions of the
abilities called for in a detective. Detec-
tive Bannon is his idea of a D. with
all the natural talents and accomplish-
ments. He told the Police Commission
the other day : “He seems to have
intuitive knowledge of a criminal.
Doing along the street he will say
‘There is a thief,’ and he is almost
invariably right although he may never
have met or seen the man before.” Evi-
dently Bannon has all the instincts of
the old witch finders. But is that sort
of intuition quite safe in the hands of a
class which has a good deal of power to make of a
man what it judges him to be ?
* * * *
Trading vessels on the Australian coast
often founder under the stress of a moderate gale,
and no sufficient cause is ever discovered. An
unpleasant sidelight was thrown on the subject
the other day, at a meeting of the Melbourne
Marine Board, when someone pointed out that
the register of inspections by the shipping
inspector showed no record of any small craft
haying been examined since Feb., 1904. The
officer in question explained that although such
inspections were not recorded, he always “gave
the small vessels a look as he was passing.”
Some enraged Asiatics in Sydney, looking
forward to dear opium, miserably swear by
Buddha, Confucius, Cole and Bruce Smith—the
lot lumped or severally, whichever way appears
most convincing—that the whole business of
shutting out the opium, Chow petition to Parlia-
ment and all, was a “spec” on the part of a few
Chinese, who have laid in an enormous stock of
the drug, and intend to retail it later at about
100 per cent, over its proper value. If this be so
it only demonstrates again the rich stratum of
malignant humor lurking beneath the Chow’s
smile.
Adelaide is in some doubt about its most
recent case of heroism. A boat-load of men and
boys upset, about half a mile out off Henley Beach,
and there was no boat handy for rescue. Even-
tually one was found in a locked boathouse.
Meanwhile a young married man, seeing a
boat moored some way up the beach, ran
along and essayed to swim out to it. It was not
far out, but he was a poor swimmer and was
drowned before he even reached the boat (though
a boy simultaneously swam out to it and, failing to
get it loose, came back to shore). The upset boat’s
occupants were picked up at last, not at all excited,
and saying that they could have held on inde-
finitely ; one of the boys had already swum ashore.
The only life lost was that of the man who—under
the eyes of his wife and child—made an ill-judged
attempt to do something outside his powers. But
he meant well, and it has been decided to honor
him as one who gave his life in trying to save
others.
* * * *
Pepper : —*
TV/TARY. —Stood enough foolery. Want see me, 1
1 o’clock punctual. Study husband before others.
—Age, Jan. 23.
And salt: —
/'y—TIRED also of fooler}'. Wife not compelled to
keep husband. Do your worst. Mary.
—Age, Jan. 24.
THOMAS JOHN QUINLAN, aged 15, who
confesses to having killed Mrs. Greyory,
Photo, by Bain Studios , Brisbane.
Kihnore (Vic.) Council is just now by way
of wishing that some prominent citizen—Tom Bent
or Jack Wren or somebody—would die. It lately
distrained on a monumental mason for overdue
rates and acquired the only property that didn’t
happen to be in his wife’s name—a monument, to
wit. As Kilmore isn’t in the habit of buying its
tombstone beforehand, nobody will make an offer
for the blessed thing.
* * * *
“Homo”: Surely the State should take
some means to prevent the hereditary transmission
of insanity. I know (I have special means
of coming into contact with the insane) one
woman, following the occupation of wife and
mother, and liberally contributing to the languish-
ing birth-rate, whose husband's father died in a
lunatic asylum, and whose own father is confined
in one at present, and is not regarded as a curable
case either. The husband himself enjoys his free-
dom so far, but I reckon he’s a good sample
of the 1 border line ” case so frequently
mentioned of late. Another case is. that of a man
who has been in and out several times, and is in
at present—a hopeless case. Whilst out “ cured ”
on one occasion he got married to a young woman
yvho first became acquainted with him when visit-
ing her father, who was incarcerated in the same
asylum. She has been anything but lax in her
contributions to the population, too. It’s obvious
also that the practice of allowing married patients
home for the day, in charge of their spouses—a
thing very frequently done in Victoria—must help
to swell the lunacy birth-rate.
* * * *
Warrnanibool (Vic.) 'v> cast its trousers
aside, and gibbers “ Ilech mon ” vigorously. A
new disease has broken out, and the sooner some-
body finds a prophylactic the better. A bagpipes
band has been formed, and eighteen spindle-
shanked youths are marching up and down
the main street nightly, exhibiting their hairy
knees to a startled multitude. Bagpipes have
been cornered, ano the holders of the visible supply
have thrust up prices. Residents have called
meetings to devise means of dealing with the pest.
Somebody has suggested bringing bagpipes under
the vegetation Diseases Act. Bevond a vague
idea of asking Premier Bent to roar or do some-
thing, Warrnanibool is in the utterly demoralised
state of a town of 5000 people with 18 pipers.
Professor Gosman lately suggested to the
Melbourne papers a useful idea—that they should
obtain and publish a daily labor report, on similar
lines to their market reports. The manufacturer
or grower now gathers at a glance the state of the
market, the demand, etc., in different localities
and acts accordingly. The laborer should have
the same advantages.
A crime of a type foreign to Australia was
the murder of Mercy Gregory at Sydney Royal
Hotel last week, She was a guest at the hotel
on a health-holiday ; alone, her husband being
in Westralia, The jewels that she wore
seem to have excited the cupidity of the
lift-boy, Thomas Quinlan, aged 15. He hid
under her bed, and, late at night, was rifling her
room when she awoke, and he killed her with seven
savage stabs with a sheath knife. That is the story
as he himself told it to the police. His desire for
money may have been sharpened by the fact that
he had been discharged from his post, as under
the new Liquor Act he was too young to bring
drinks to lodgers. The boy got clear away from
the hotel; but he had left some of his clothing in
Mrs. Gregory’s room, and was tracked by that.
The police found Quinlan lying in bed in the
house where he lodged, with his arms under his
head, listening to his little brother of 13 reading
an account of the tragedy in the evening paper.
When they took from under his bed a blood-
stained shirt, Quinlan confessed the crime.
Quinlan is said to have had as his only “ vices”
smoking cigarettes and reading “Deadwood
Hick” literature sufficiently vicious habits,
though the Decalogue mentions them not, to
account for a great deal. He seems to
have been a student of the current
Deadwood Dicker in Sydney Evening News.
He states that he purchased his knife on Wednes-
day. The previous (Tuesday) night the News
serial extolled the sheath-knife over the revolver
as a man-killer :
Romanoff returned to his chair. It required all of his
self-control to maintain his air of indifference. He glanced
furtively about, and felt, in his inside coat pocket, where
he grasped the handle of a sheath-knife—his only weapon.
He was a great believer in the knife at close quar-
ters. It made no noise, and it never missed fire
“ I’ll get about three inches of cold steel into him before he
has a chance to try an.v of his monkey tricks.”.. .The mate
leaned forward a trifle to take it, but that careless move
cost him his life, for Romanoff jerked his knife from his
shirt and plunged it into the hilt beneath the mate’s
arm.
* * * *
Australian women will look under the bed
with persevering industry for the next ten years.
The habit was dying out. Mrs. Gregory, the vic-
tim of the Sydney Royal Hotel tragedy, didn’t
look under the bed, and it happened there was a
murderer there.
•* * * *
The Royal Hotel, where a woman lodger
was butchered by a lift-boy the other night, is one
of the historic places of Sydney. On the site three-
quarters of a century ago was another “Royal,”
kept by Barnett Levey. In the early thirties
Levey fitted up the saloon of the hotel as a theatre,
but Governor Boiirke refused a license because
there was a grain mill on the top of the house.
Levey, however, built a theatre alongside, which
was duly licensed as the Theatre Royal. On St.
Patrick’s Night, 1840, the theatre and hotel were
burned to the ground. The present house was
commenced almost immediate!y, and was at the
time looked upon as the finest specimen of hotel
architecture in Australia. In its earliest days,
John Sparke held the license ; he was father of
W. E. Sparke, who “went over” recently, leaving
something like half a million sterling:. Later
Charles Skarrett had it, and kept it almost unt.l
he blossomed into a Mount Morganaire.
QUINLAN IN THE DOCK.
“ S.” : I notice that the intensely respect-
able Melbourne weeklies are greedy for photo-
graphs of girl swimmers, and print rows and rows
of damp young things in scant clinging garments,
but do not worry to display the male competitors
m similar undress, although the latter are much
more elegant and picturesque. The girl swimmer
18 seldom shapely, so that the editors cannot
plead that they are displaying things of beauty,
even if they are a joy for ever to the well-con-
ducted church wardens who buy the papers.
SONG OF THE SUBURBS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh ! Tins is the song' of the sububbs, the sububbs where
every street
Has a grocer’s shop, and a German band, and a barrow
upon its beat ;
And jerry-built Queen Annes, with tiles, and gardens all
complete.
It pays its rent, and it shakes its mat by meadow and
sounding sea :
At stated times its dames march in to gossip and stay to
tea ;
O i ! the sububbs resounds with a reckless rush of
Respectability.
The sububbs gulps thrice in the morning, then streaks for
the gradual train ;
And the sububbs repeats this process years long in the
sun or rain ;
It grasps its bag, and wipes its brow, goes in, and conies
out again.
When the office is locked, the sububbs returns to rest in
its backyard bowers;
It clasps its leaky hose with jo3' and sprinkles the cauli-
flowers ;
It eats and drinks and goes to bed at unsehsational hours.
And the dames of the sober sububbs lean over the back
yard gate,
And argue the servant problem, and hats, and each
fashion plate,
And the parson’s cough, and the price of tripe, and hus-
bands that stay out late.
Like a bard in a bar, or a phantom isle in a sea of ame-
thyst,
The outer world of sweat and sin gets lost in domestic
mist;
The coffee-stall and the midnight bust, they simply don’t
„ exist.
Oh ! This is the song of the sububbs, the song and the
S.\ mpliony
Of the tabby-cat, and the garden hose, and slippers, and
afternoon tea ;
The bubble and squirt and riotous rush of Respectability.
Vic.
LOUIS ESSON.
LOVE AND ROSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Starry daisies at her feet,
For a background, wealth of roses,
Leila, lily-like and sweet,
Lainty. as a picture, poses.
Does she love me ? Can it be
That, as every one supposes,
This fair flower belongs to me ?
With the day my fancy closes.
Twilight darkens, night comes on—
Man proposes, God disposes 1
Leila like a dream has gone,
Leaving me the stars and roses !
N.S.W.
STELLA.


REFORM WITHOUT REVOLUTION.—The great
an.l particular merit of Hunyadi Janos is that it
relieves without discomfort ; in other words, it effects
reform without revolution. This is because it is the
best and safest natural aperient.*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
i
**
Health First!
JZ? JZ7
You should be clothed as
Nature clothes the Sheep —
IN PURE WOOL.
riY NEW ALL-WOOL
TWEED SOUS
£.3 3s.
JZ? jz?
R. c. HA<SON
Mkkciiant Tailor,
!2? KING ST., SYDNEY.
Solicitor Woolf, acting for a dozen or two
of the Vic. railway passengers who were upset on
the line to Gembrook, t’other Sunday, has notified
Commissioner Tait of his intention to raise a
larger question than that of the alleged culpability
of the engine-driver. The scapegoat driver is
accused of having put the train a’ong at a higher
rate than is authorised on a narrow gauge. Woolf
refers to the history of the construction of the
line (prior to Tait’s appointment) for evidence
that the narrow-gauge scheme was opposed by the
Engineer-in-cliief. It seems clear enough that the
easy allegation of recklessness against the man on
the engine, should be subordinated to the question
whether the Government showed due regard for
public safety in venturing this experimental
narrow-gauge line.
* * * *
“ H.” : The occurrence of a big catas-
trophe, such as a railway smash, fills the breast of
the man-in-the-street and the woman at the gate
with a peculiar sort of excitement —almost joyful,
it seems. When news of the Gembrook accident
began to filter (or rather pour) through, the sensa-
tion mongers fairly revelled in stories of mangled
and bleeding humanity. On the bare facts being
published, there was a look of keen disappoint-
ment plainly observable on the benevolent coun-
tenances of some who had spread the wildest
rumors. One philanthropist round our way, who,
on the Sunday evening; gleefully recounted thril-
ling tales of scores killed, and a great array
of ambulances waiting on Princes Bridge station
to receive the badly maimed, almost tossed the
paper from him in disgust when he perused the
tame truth.
* * * *
An “extraordinary” edition of the
’Erald, roared around the suburbs of Melbourne
t other Sunday night, was something of a fraud.
The Victorian Sawbath law fori>,ds the issue of a
Sunday “ extr’ordinary ” oftener than three times
a year. Therefore the appearance of one is
accepted as a guarantee of news either very
startling or peculiarly horrible. The recent
“ ’strordinary ” was offered at sixpence a copy in
the suburbs nearest to town, and a shilling in out-
lying districts. And the public, on paying its
pieces of silver, learned that a railway excursion
train had met with a mishap, and that nobody
had been seriously injured. In the untruthful
language of the ’Erald, this was an “ Appalling
Catastrophe.” The law that forbids the public
the convenience of a Sunday newspaper might as
well protect it from sixpenny impositions of
this sort. If an ordinary paper is held to be too
wicked for publication, a deceitful “ extraordi-
nary” is surely wickeder.
* * * *
The day after Victoria’s Gembrook railway
disaster, Commissioner Tait hurried to the scene
in a special, and promptly laid the blame where it
would do least harm, ‘by attributing the smash to
running at too high a speed. But that the load
was too heavy for the engine is proved hy the fact
that the driver had to make two tries to surmount
the incline just outside Fern Tree Gully. Being
then 25 minutes late, he either had to make up
time or face a row. And, significant fact, between
Jan. 26th and 29th no less than seven accidents,
more or less serious, occurred on the Victorian
railways. They can’t all be put down to high
speed or ignoring signals. Something must be
wrong with the track or the rolling-stock.
“Wyung” : Theory re
explosion of '303 rifles (B.
4/1/ 00) is not tenable. If
the nickel of a bullet were
left in the barrel, it would
be the barrel, if anything,
that would burst, not the
breech. In the case of an
obstruction to the passage of
the charge after tiring, the
damage is always done where
the extreme concentration of
air pressure in the barrel
occurs—right at the obstruc-
tion. Jam a tight-fitting wad
in the barrel of a shot gun
and fire the gun (with a
charge), and the barrel will
go just where the wad is.
If it is a good twist barrel
and the wad is at the muzzle
end, the last inch or two of
barrel will be spread out like
a ribbon. In gun explosions
caused by obstructions, the
locality of the damage indi-
cates the locality of the cause.
When the breech bolt of a
rifle is blown out the obstruc-
tion is in, or closely adjoin-
ing, the chamber. The two-
bullet'theory is the only ac-
ceptable one—the extra bul-
let, that went in first, com-
presses the charge but has
no clear run—no run at all.
By the way, supposing a man
gets an obstruction in his
rifle barrel—cleaning-rag, or
spare bullet, or anything
else—the quickest and surest
way to shift it is to fire a
blank charge behind it. Take
care that there is nothing
but the exploding charge,
though, or the barrel will be
burst. The most trifling ob-
struction in a barrel will
burst it when a bullet is
behind and in a hurry to get
out.
* * *
Be the University’s
purchase of Government
land opposite Sydney G.P.O. for £5OO a foot.
When J. H. Ghallis bequeathed his Potts
Point land to the University, the valuation was
£30,000; but the trustees stuck to the property
till on a rising market they raked in £BO,OOO.
Still they have had the other sort of investment as
well.
* * * »
Dengue fever, which lately demoralised
Queensland, has been put under the microscope
by Dr. Bancroft in an Australian Medical Jour-
nal article. He does not class the disease with
influenza or measles, holding that people do not
take it from contact with one another. He con-
siders it to be propagated by an intermediary
host, and is inclined to blame the mosquito.
* * * *
Sydney Daily Telegraph agony column
(2/2/ 01})':- -
D° come home. Baby ill. All forgiven. E.V.
LAST appeal. Come. A.F.G. All right, love. Re-
form.
ATIOLET, do come before home, is broken up. Baby
’ dangerously ill. Mrs. VV. W.
Which reminds : the woman who wants to keep
her husband has a baby. Babies are the cement
of union.
An Australian’s random recollections of
P The little hauntir.gr tune to Which‘Leslie and Miss
Woorllock did their sand-dance in The Curl *romKay s,
in Svdnev, brought back some memories of last season s
ParU Glancing towards a gigantic embodiment of
fe nale respectability anchored beside me. as the first few
dainty S tinkled forth I instinctively reached for my
hat. It is when that l.ttle air strikes up Chez Maxixe,
after midnight, that the British husband, who has been
there ” already on his own, rises, and, without a word,
hurriedly drags his bewildered spouse into the cool night
breeze outside. I have forgotten the name of the tune,
but it is of Spanish origin, and, as danced at any of the
“ all-ni<>ht ” cafds. paralysing. . ,
Memory brought reflection, and the antics of Hoggen-
heinier and his blue-blooded friend induced com-
parisons—a good deal in favor of the But.sh
lordling, however banal he may be. Is there an J'
thing else quite like the Gallic aristocrat? A
Frenchman of birth on terms of intimacy with a Jew
too preposterous an idea for the most fantastic lib ettist
to consider a moment. A Royalist make a pio ession of
his army, navy or diplomatic service ! He would bei as
lonely there as the gentleman in Athens who was searched
for with a lantern about 2000 years ago. A French. noble
of the genuine old crusted lt.G. brand, with a post in
the Government or a seat in the Deputies 1 He would
not be found dead in either capacity. I am no
admirer of the Hon. Percy type-if
recognise that something remotely resembling this comic
opera dude can be found in Britain without a very power-
ful glass. But surely, in the line of absolute uselessness
these modern Frenchmen of the old retjime are the \\<oist
gang of hereditary nuisances that have ever cumbeied the
earth. They make even the British Johnny look like a
genius and a gentleman. Their careful aloofness from all
interest in the country’s well-being is an organised mani-
festation of sore-head. They, so to speak cut la belle
France dead on account of the lady’s preference for the
vulgar Loubet, and, till the jilted Bourbon gentleman is
taken back to favor, they want none of her.
The leading exhibition of cussedness, by these l lench
“ aristocrats ”is an annual affair. Just about the time
Paris looks its loveliest (.in June) there falls a date on
which, many years ago, there was some mouldy old enact-
ment passed, either against the Royal family or the
aristocratic order-nobody seems very certain which
Before that date they, with one accord, make for their
country houses and return to the capital no more that
year Paris, not France, has ever been the mother of
revolutions, and she must be scored off by the upper
suckies” even if they have to doit to their own disconiloit.
And then in regard to the Hebrew. It is the French-
man’s boast in every rank that he is no snob Neither lie
is, in the pushing, truckling Anglo-Saxon fashion. But
there is a form of social intolerance amongst the
French “ noblesse ” which would seem quaint in a com-
munity of Chinese mandarins or Cannibal Islanders.
Anti-Semitism (fanned by the Church) is so rife amongst
this class—the one and only French Smart Set -that
the brothers Ephrussi (Michael and Edouard), the leading
racing owners of the land after Blanc, would have about
as much chance of election to the Jockey Club, say, as
would the public executioner—they are estimable sports-
men, but bankers and Jews. Ed. Blanc himself, who has
done more to improve the French horse than any dozen
other men, and who practically spends all Ins Monte Carlo
millions (he owns the casino) on his stud near l ans, is
not a member of the Club. He is bourgeois and a sus-
pected Israelite. Tell the average Frenchman that on
the member list of Edward Vll.’s pet club ,n London are
many Jews-Cassels, Hirschs, Rothschilds-and he will
shake his head—incredible 1 Yet, as a fact, from the
first, floor window of the Marlborough any day in spring
all Judea seems to peer into Pall Mall.
It is by the way, a fine testimonial to the true Radical-
ism of’the French Republic—this sore-headed attitude of
the aristocrats. And the Republic doesn’t worry about
them and their “Stinking Fish” cry. The Republic is
safe, reliant on its brilliant peasants such as Delcassb and
Loubet.
* * * *
Queensland and New South Wales have
effected an exchange. Hundreds of kanakas
crossed the border from Queensland to engage in the
THE MODERN ELIJAH.
Elijah Howie is not fed by ravens but by gulls.—Din-
gustedex-Dowicite.
sugar industry, being freed in N.S.W. of the
many restrictions on them in Q. On the other
hand Hindus are crowding across the border from
N.S.W. into Q., and any day a pack of them may
be' seen squatting on their haunches in front of the
savings bank in Brisbane.
* • * *
At some of the seaside resorts about
Brisbane (Q.) it is notified in large letters that
mixed bathing is “strictly prohibited.” Not-
withstanding the notice, mixed bathing is carried
on in the baths every day—entirely, by the way,
on account of women invading the baths (often
in the scantiest raiment) in the hours set apart for
men.
ANOTHER THREATENED COHEN WRECK.
Japan's recent borrowing total over £100,000,000.
A curious thing is Sydney Society life,
if one may judge by what can be gleaned from
the “ Woman’s Bage” in the D.T., which possibly
gives the most valuable sort of inside stable infor-
mation. It appears that nowadays “wealthy people
are all for giving dinners beneath their own roof-
tree.” Unfortunately in swagger circles vyhen
such an event occurs, there is one invariable
source of trouble “the old man.’ the parent
bird shows up very badly indeed. It is his cus-
tom, we learn, in his gilded privacy, to face due
evening worry 44 in his shirt sleeves, and he
stands up to carve.” Ask the “Smart Set’ to the
house and what occurs ? “He finds it irksome to
don dress clothes and struggle with the poultry on
its own level.” Bewildered by the display of glass
at his right hand the hoary disgrace “ pours cham-
pagne into the claret glass and port into the sherry
glass ” However, thank Heaven, for the
credit of the country, there appear to be
two occasions when he more or less redeems
himself. “ The Australian father, though usually
careless to the verge of oblivion of little
social niceties . . . has two strongholds. One is
going to Government House, and the other is
keeping up appearances before English visitors.
He gets nervous and fussy when the family is
under weigh for ‘ His Excellency’s.’ ‘ I just hate
going to Government House,’ sighed a society
girl, ‘ it’s the only time father gets the fidgets.
This occasional display of decent feeling on the
old man’s part brightens the picture a bit, but,
speaking broadly, the verdict returned is that h e
is “incorrigible”—and undoubtedly something
decisive should be done in the matter. “ bocial
aspirants should choose days when a compromising
parent is away on the annual holiday to give their
more ambitious dinners.” But surely that remedy
is not drastic enough. Why not drown the com-
promising progenitor?
In Switzerland when a certain degree of
heat is reached the schools are dismissed. It is
thought—and probably rightly—that under un-
favorable weather conditions instruction cannot
be imparted. Australia moves timorously in the
same direction with an extension of the mid-
summer holiday in the back country. But it is
a poor concession to climate. (Jommonsense
would shut up the hot-district schools for at least
three months in summer.
* * * *
By reason of the fine income made by
some doctors through operating for it, it is about
time somebody christened the new disease —
“ Aprettypennydieitis.”
There was trouble at the Victorian Field
Artillery camp on Foundation Day. Rations were
poor, and the meat wasn’t enticing. The men
objected. They first saw a major, who asked
them to take all his money and get meat—any-
thing, but begone. Then they saw the mild and
gentle colonel, who implored them to be good.
The men were obdurate. It was meat or mutiny !
Then a masterly mind conceived the idea of
marching the men out of camp, while the officers
hastily procured sandwiches. Under cover
of the sad, dark night, a pathetic officer with a
basket was observed going round the empty tents,
and upon their return the men found little heaps
of sandwiches awaiting. The situation was thus
saved.
The Victorian Field Artillery has more
enduring grievances. The matter of import-
ance in an artillery field force is its mobility.
The first essential to this is good cattle. The
Victorian batteries are horsed with hairy-legged
draughts, which spend their weary days in pulling
lorries in the streets of Melbourne, seldom ata paefe
faster than a walk. These animals when with the
artillery are trotted, sometimes galloped, over
rough country, and one hour’s work of that sort is
enough to knock the best of them out. The
saddle horses are supplied by the “cadre”
(R.A.A.) and by a contractor. The permanent
horses are excellent, and give the men oppor-
tunities to do good work, but they “dont go
round.” It would be an advantage if, in Victoria
(and in N.S.W. too), the Field Artillery were
supplied with horses owned by the department,
and thoroughly trained for their work.
HEAVEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The curtain of the flesh was drawn,
And from the Earth there passed,
Into his longed-for Heaven borne,
A weary soul at last.
He mixed amongst the hatless throngs,
White-robed, and chorussed in
The yawning angels’ weary songs
That rose in droning din.
At first, with zealous eager fire,
His voice rang in delight;
He pounded at his golden lyre,
And kept his halo bright.
But soon the weariness that clung
About the angel choir,
Stole o’er him as the hymns were sung
And cooled his ardent fire.
And next his lyre aside he cast,
His halo he removed ;
And brooded sadly o’er the past—
The past he had not loved.
“ To think I fixed my hopes on this—
Slighting the joys I had !
Earth is the place to have our bliss !”
He woke —and he was glad !
N.S.W.
HAMER.


i v
COO 3 SALARIES await our Postal Graduates
la Business and Technical Subjects.
'“Home Study” Post Free.
STOTT a ~3ft HO A RE’S BUS/NE73 COLLEGE,
MOORE STREET, S'lrOftEY. [4.
TIN and GOLD SLUICING PLANTS
As supplied in the lin Districts of N.S.W. wiith great success.
Robey Portable Engines, Centrifugal Pumps, Etc. Apply—
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER, 64 Pitt St., Sydney.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Every State Treasurer ought to be wearing an
expansive smile. For the third season running, harvests
have been good, and the prices of most Australian pro-
ducts unusually high. A country which hangs so largely
on the “great natural industries,” and which has only an
erratic climate to build them on, must move in bumps,
and the Treasury is liable to move in the same way. For
years almost every State had a deficit; now almost every
State ought to have a surplus, and there isn’t much cause
for anybody to crow over the egg when it is laid. It
would be a mighty bad Treasurer who could dodge a sur-
plus under some circumstances. As usual, the records
are shockingly incomplete. So far as they go, here are
the main features brought together :
State Revenues for January.
1905. 1906.
N.S. Wales .. £835,805 £1,057,217 Inc. £191,412
Victoria .. .. 680,274 758,187 Inc. 71,913
Queensland .. 267,935 254,252 Dec. 13,683
Westralia .. 293,'22 330,066 Inc. 36,944
Tasmania.. .. 72,457 78,232 Inc. 5,775
But a month’s figures are affected by local and temporary
causes ; a review for a longer ptriod gives a truer idea :
State Revenues for Financial Year so Far.
1904-5. 1905-6.
N.S. Wales (7mos.) £6,179,171 £6,774,692 Inc. £595,521
Victoria (7mos.) 4,217,087 4,273,389 Inc. 56,302
Queensland (7mos.) 2,034,786 2,163,395 Inc. 128,609
S. Australia (6mos.) 1,190,585 1,181,273 Dec. 9,312
Westralia (7mos.) 1,998,571 1,986,994 Dec. 11,577
Tasmania (7mon.) 520,781 632,569 Inc. 11,788
On the whole, it is a pleasant list to look at. The tide of
prosperity which shows itself in phenomenal bank de-
posits shows itself here also in large Treasury receipts.
The trouble is that, instead of using the surpluses from
the fat years to promptly wipe out the deficits
of the . lean years, those deficits are spread out over
long periods, so that the lean years arrive again long
before the old deficits have been got rid of. N.S.W., for
instance, has been getting fat years and lean years all
through its history ; but it has mopped up the surpluses
so promptly, and so carefully spread out the deficits over
long periods, that the accumulated deficits amounted
last June 30 to £2,064,517.
As to the outgoings :
Expenditure for Financial Year so Far.
1904-5. 1905-6.
N.S. Wales . .. £6,800,099 £6,722,301 Dec. £77,798
Queensland .. 1,962,637 2,026,765 Inc. 64,128
S. Australia .. 1,275,938 1,310,059 Inc. 34,151
Westralia .. .. 2,056,577 1,964,502 Dec. 92,075
And on loa,n account (as usual, only two States furnish
particulars as to the size of their call on Cohen): —
Loan Expenditure for Year so Far.
1904-5. 1905-6.
N.S. Wales (7 mos.) ..£1,063,965 £900,796 Dec. £163.169
Queensland (7 mos.) .. 124,465 158,342 Inc. 33’877
The matter can be summed up in this way :
N.S. Walks.—Twelve months ago the expenditure (for
seven months) exceeded the revenue by £620,928. So far
this financial year the revenue has exceeded the expendi-
ture,, /apart from loans) by £52,391. The position is,
therefore, £673,319 better than it was this time last year.
And as 1904-5 ended with a so-called surplus of £141,843,
1905-6 should end with a surplus of about three-quarters
of a million. But included in the “revenue,” and
practically, therefore, wholly responsible for the alleged
surplus when it happens, will probably be something like
£BOO,OOO, the proceeds of land sales. (The average for some
years past has been close up to £1,000,000.) So even in
this extra-good year the State isn’t making ends meet,
apart altogether from loan expenditure, except by
realising assets and treating the proceeds as revenue.
Victoria.—This State’s Treasury publishes no progress
reports as to expenditure. Railway returns are still
mainly responsible for the improved look of the revenue
figures; but whether there has been an accompanying
jump in expenditure', Bent doesn’t tell.
Queensland.—Twelve months ago Queensland had
£72,149 available to pay the current half-year’s interest;
this year £136,630 is waiting in the stocking for Cohen.’
The State is therefore, on figures, £64,481 better off.
But that is not the full extent of the improvement, be-
cause Kidston, as he goes along, is spending more money
out of revenue on works —which accounts for a good deal
of the extra £64,128 which has gone out of the Treasury
iii the past seven months. There is a pretty severe
slump in the single month’s revenue, but that is wholly
due to shrunken Federal refunds.
S. Australia.— Returns are for six riiontbs only. The
half year shows a deficit of £128,816; corresponding
half of 1904-5 showed a deficiency of £85,353, so the
position this year is £43,463 worse than it was last year.
The local House of Landlords took the finances out of the
hands of the Treasurer and the people by refusing them
the land-tax ; but S. Australians are a tired people,
with great respect for ancient traditions, and they appa-
rently don’t mind What the House of Landlords does.
Treasurer Peake may escape a deficit this year (provided
a man shuts his eyes to the N. Territory finances) as a
result of the good wheat harvest and the Broken Hill
boom ; but it will be a close shave. And a State which
can only fluke a tiny surplus in that way would have its
certificate suspended for five years if it were an individual
up before the Bankruptcy Court.
Westralia.—Westralia is carefully putting a patch
over its sore, having achieved a Premier who be-
longs to the borrow, boom, and burst party. Its ex-
penditure figures are worthless so long as it doesn’t show
how much is being spent out of loans. The thing that
Ought to make any Treasurer anxious is the fall in
revenue. The population is growing, and so ought
revenue to be ; but it isn’t.
Tasmania.—No expenditure figures, and without them
the revenue returns are not worth much.
* * * *
The Equitable, of New York, is going out of the
active hustle for business in Australia ; it finds that there
is no profit in the strenuous pursuit of policies in a
foreign country, where it has no patriotic “pull,” and
where the people are tolerably well assured already. For
a few years the Equitable did fairly well in Australia by
reaching out after large-sized policies. The A.M.P.
won’t take more than £lO,OOO from one man; and
the glittering figures of the Equitable attracted the
thoughts of the few Australians who want to
make biggish life-assurance investments. But the
field for that sort of business was comparatively small.
Soon the new policies dwindled in size. Then came the
disclosures— absurdly exaggerated by American “yellow”
journals and political wire-pullers—and it became still
more difficult to do foreign business. Upon the disclosures
followed a change of policy in the management. For
1 years the officers had striven, before all else, to
make the society “ the biggest thing on-earth.” As it
will do A.M.P. policy-holders good to consider, even now,
before it is too late, bigness is not everything. You can
pay too dearly for big figures just as you can for big
buildings. So the Equitable draws out where the busi-
ness costs too milch to get, and merely sits down among
the echoes in its vast offices to receive, premiums on
existing policies and pay out claims.
Equitable policy-holders have no guarantee
that the society will maintain enough assets here
to meet claims. Australia has been too busy
fussing’ around about the precious dignity of the
States to protect the pockets of its people. It has prac-
tically no insurance law. Any wild cat concern can
“take lives.” Any foreign co. can do the same, and be
under no obligation to keep enough assets in the country
to cover the liabilities under the policies. The up-to-
date European country doesn’t take such foolish risks.
The A.M.P. directors, having got the support
of one-sixth of the voting power in the sooiety, propose
to do what the Equitable has tried in Australia—and how
does the A.M.P. policy-holder relish the prospects? The
A.M.P. directors propose to go to a country more Conser-
vative than the Equitable found Australia, where the
society will have no “patriotic pull,” where all the
business it gets it will have to hustle and fight
for and buy, with the result that though the
figures may be swollen, the expense rate will, inevi-
tably be high. The Bulletin showed the other day
that there is not a single foreign or colonial life office
doing business in Great Britain that can work at less than
£24 15s. per cent. And the A.M.P. rate in Australia is
only £l3 11s. 6d. per cent. That is what “patriotic pull ”
means. Business flows to well-known English and Scot-
tish offices in England and Scotland just as naturally as it
flows to the A.M.P. in Australia. And for the A.M.P. to
attempt to force business in Great Britain will almost
certainly prove just as disastrous as it evidently has been
for the Equitable to force business in Australia.
* * *
The Austkalian Deposit and Mortgage Bane
(Melbourne): —
Dividend on Added Nomina
Profits. Preference to Be- Re-
Shares. serves. serves.
Dec., 1900.. £1640 £1640 £11,541
June, 1901.. 1222 1222 12,763
Taken from
Reserves.
Dec., 1901.. 1634 1 p.c. =£2793 1159 11,604
June, 1902.. 1522 1 „ „ 2793 1271 10,333
Dec., 1902.. 1959 1 „ „ 2793 834 9,499
June, 1903.. 2199 1 „ „ 2793 594 8 905
Dec., 1903.. 2606 1 ~ „ 2793 187 8,718
Added to
Reserves.
June, 1904.. 2866 1 „ „ 2793 73 8,791
Dec., 1904.. 2957 1 „ „ 2793 164 8,955
reduced from £909,979 to
£198,935 and assets written down ;
£BlO7 written off reserves .. .. 848
June, 1905.. 3395 4 p.c. =£3352 43 891
Dec., 1905.. 3636 4 „ „ 3352 284 1,175
The paid capital is now £198,935, of which £167,596 is in
pref. shares, £27,933 in deferred prefs., and £3406 in
ordinaries (68,116 shares of Is. each). The pref. shares
have a 5 per cent, preference ; that means £4190 per half-
year, so that the deferred pref. and ordinary shares are
some distance yet from a dividend. Under the scheme
of reconstruction, by which the securities were severely
written down, surpluses from realisations go to a fund
for the benefit of deferred pref. and ordinary shares.
This reserve, being for a special purpose, is not shown in
the foregoing table. Six months ago it amounted to
£794; now it is £2134, an addition of £1340 in the
half-year. These amounts are described as profits on
“sales of securities fully realised.” The directors
report that the realisations were £20,193 (of which £16,093
was vacant land), but whether the whole of this is
‘‘ fully realised "or not it is impossible to say. Most likely
it isn’t. If it were, the surplus would show a nrargin of
very nearly 7 per cent. ; it would be more if the whole
were not “fully realised.” Considering the heavy pro-
portion of vacant land, this looks satisfactory ; it seems
to show that the writing-down was emphatic enough.
But “ vacant land” means, in this bank’s books, farming
land as well as the handkerchief allotment upon which
some Edwin was going to build a home for some Angelina
in the boom days, but didn’t ; so, in view of the
recent demand for farm lands, the realisation is
liable to be deceptive. The properties in possession
are now valued at £299,911 ; and as £130,637 of this
is represented by “ vacant lands ’’—mostly, no doubt, un-
productive—decently high returns on capital are not pos-
sible. Still, apart from the profit on realisations, capital
and reserves last half-year earned at the rate of £3 12s.
9d. p.c. p.a. Advances (new business) are apparently
increasing a little, but deposits are scarce. As to the
security for deposits, the non-liquid assets total £523,115 ;
the shareholders’ funds are £202,244. That means that,
though most of the non-liquid assets have been written
down hard, they could shrink nearly 39 p.c. further be-
fore the public’s funds would be imperilled. That looks a
safe enough margin.
* * * »
The Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assur-
ance Societv, Ltd. :
Added
Income. Outgoings. Insur-
-s ,• ~ ance
Oct., Premiums. Interest. Claims. Expenses. Fund.
1897 .. £150,602 £58,446 £121,983 £38,060 £49,005
IS9B .. 155,539 58,881 108,768 ’41,936 63,716
1899 .. 161,603 60,853 115,640 48,950 57,866
1900 .. 171,740 62,050 122,187 52,079 59 524
1901 .. 183,805 63,293 109,639 56,519 80,940
Contingency reserve transferred .. 9 324
1902 .. 182,091 67,205 -138,383 51,718 59,195
1903 .. 180,405 70,073 140,982 47,523 61,973
1904 .. 175.945 72,135 152,266 50,458 45,356
1905 .. 182,998 75,239 16/,442 52,045 88,750
In addition to the Insurance Fund this society has a small
suspense account, practically a reserve to safeguard
securities. This account was in credit £10,949 at the
beginning of the year ; profit on sale of securities realised
£1628 ; total, £12,577. But as the year ended with the
account £8072 in credit, £4505 has been written-off during
the year.
The expense rate is still high :
Expenses Compared with Total Income (Profit on
Realisation of Securities not Includf.d).
1897 .. £lB 4 2 per cent. I 1902 .. £2O 14 11 percent.
1998.. 1911 2 „ „ | 1903.. 1819 5 „ „
1899 .. 22 0 1 „ ~ I 1004 .. 20 6 9 „
1900 .. 22 5 6 „ „ 1905 .. 20 3 1 „ ,
1901 ... 22. 17 6 „ „ |
Certainly this doesn’t compare badly with some other
reputable societies ; but it begins to look far less satis-
factory—or it begins to look a g’ood deal more unsatis-
factory—when the proportion of new business is taken
into account. Last year the total amount of new busi-
ness written was 2726 policies, yielding a premium income
of £21,055. The renewal premiums were £159,892 ; and
£905 was received in single premiums. As shown above,
the expenses totalled £52,045. Now charge 5 per cent, on
the renewal premiums (that is £7993) and 3 per cent, on
the consideration for annuities (£105), and we get £BO9B
spent on these two lines, leaving£43,947as the approximate
cost of the new business. This means, according to this
plan of reckoning, that the new business cost 209 per
cent, of the first year’s premiums. For comparison take
the National Mutual, although that society’s expense rate
on the basis of costs in proportion to total receipts is not
low —it is beaten in that respect by two or three offices.
In the National Mutual, charging 5 per cent, for renewals
and 3 per cent, for annuities in the same way, the new
business cost 121 per cent, of the first year’s premiums.
The difference between 121 per cent, and 209 per cent, in
cost of new business is sufficient to cause the Widows’
Fund some concern. And if there were more data
available, the chances are that the results would
look still gloomieT. For instance,What becomes of this
new business after it has been got at a cost of over two
years’ premiums? In 1903 the renewal premiums
amounted to £160,847. In that year policies assuring
£425,254, and yielding an income of £16,605, were issued.
In the following year policies assuring £511,916, and
yielding £18,455 a year, were issued. Now the claims
during the two years were less than one-third of the
amount of new insurance ; therefore the renewal pre-
miums in 1905 should have been far greater than they
were in 1903—roughly, about £23,000 more. But, instead of
being greater, the renewal premiums in 1905 were
£159,892, or £955 less than in 1903. This points to heavy
lapses and forfeitures of policies ; so that apparently the
business which the office is paying so dearly to get isn’t
being kept.
In one respect, however, the Widows’ Fund is
doing reasonably well—in the matter of interest earn-
ings :
Interest Earned on Average Funds.
1897 .. £4 15 6 per cent. 1902 .. £4 6 8 per cent.
1898 .. 4 11 11 „ 1903 ..4 7 1 „
1899 .. 4 10 7 „ 1904 ..4 6 9
1900 ..4 8 4 „ 1905 ..4 7 9 „
1901 ..4 5 9
This rate is above the average for Australian offices, a
fact which is partly no doubt due to the large proportion
out on mortgage. Of the total assets 59 per cent, is in
this form of security, against 51 per cent, in the National
Mutual, 45-9 percent, in the A.M.P., and 37’5 per cent,
in the Citizens. But while the Citizens has 31'6per cent,
in public securities—probably the safest of all invest-
ments—and the A.M.P. has 25 per cent., the Widows’
Fund has under 11 per cent. Considering the disposition
of its funds, the Widows’ Fund does not appear to be
earning any too much ; but that is a point as to which it
is impossible to say anything very definite, because so
much depends on the quality of the security, and that
can only be judged in a very general way.
* * * *
Union Steamship Co. op New Zealand
(M.L.)
Added to Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. serves.
1900 •• 7 p.c. =£42,000 £230,404
1901 ..£91,620 8,, „ 48,000 £43,620 274,024
1902 .. 75,227 8„ ~ 48,000 27,227 301,251
1903 .. 90,744 8,, ~ 45,000 42,744 343,995
1904 .. 129,928 10 ~ ~ 60,000 69,928 413,923
1905 .. 96,764 8,, ~ 48,000 48,764 462,687
Of the profit shown for 1904 £47,011 was made on the sale
of property resumed by the N.S. W. Government; so that
on ordinary trading the past year’s experience has been
even better than it looks in the table. The reserves are
as follow:
1900. 1903. 1904. 1905.
Boiler replacement £25,000 £25,000 £25,000 £25,000
Insurance .. .. 166,239 257,742 281,604 320,056
Reserve Fund 100,000 100,000
Undivided profit.. 39,165 61,253 7,319 17,631
In addition to making large provision for self-insurance,
the co. writes off out of profits what appear to be liberal
amounts from the value of ship property. The exact size
of this standing charge is not disclosed ; but some idea of
it can be got from this list:—
Value Set Tonnage Value
Tonnage on Added Added
of Shipping During- During
Fleet. Property. Year. Year.
1900 .. 77,738 £746,300
1901 .. 82,847 748,400 5109 £2,100
Reduced.
1902 .. 88,263 670,700 5416 77,700
„ Added.
1903 .. 89,851 678,100 1588 7,400
1904 .. 98,293 791,800 8442 113,700
Reduced.
1905 .. 103,758 708,600 5465 83,200
Thus, though 5465 tons have been added to the fleet
during the year (this includes the Wairuna), £83,200 has
been charged against earnings for wear and tear—a trifle
over 10 per cent, per annum—in addition to the value of
the added tonnage. So not only have the new boats (to
the extent of 5465 tons) been paid for out of profits,
but the rest of the fleet has been written down so hard
that, if the process were repeated for eight or nine years,
their whole capital cost would be wiped off entirely out
of profits. To what extent the Insurance Fund can be
regarded as a reserve, and to what extent the amounts
annually added to the fund can be reckoned as profit, are
no doubt matters that you could argue about from here
to the Bluff, and still leave them unsettled. For the
past year the co. itself divides up the figures this way :
True profit £58,313, Insurance Fund additions £38,452.
Taking the co.’s figures as to true profit, the return was
£5 Iss. per cent, on capital (£600,000) and reserves;
on the profit as shown in the table (which includes net
additions to the Insurance Fund) it was £9 10s. 9d. per
cent. The amount written off ships looks exceedingly
liberal; if it is too liberal, then some of what is referred
to as written off for depreciation is really additional
profit. It is an exceedingly prosperous concern anyway.
And solid. It paid £150,912 during the year on account
of new steamers (not included above), and still had
£381,059 in liquid investments and cash balances—apart
from stores, trade accounts, &c
* ■* * *
North Coast Steam Navigation Co. (N.S.'W.):
Unexplained
Busi- Additions Written
ness to Re- Off Re- Re-
Profits. serves. Dividends, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
June, 1900 .. 5581 663 Bp.c. = 5250 26,763
Dec., 1900 .. 5518 736 8,, ~ 5250 27,767
June, 1901 .. 5445 40 8,, ~ 5250 28 002
Dec., 1901 .. 5480 —8 „ „ 5250 80 28,152
June, 1902 .. 5507 13,097 8 „ ~ 5250 41 506
Dec., 1902 .. 39SS 2,894 8,, ~ 5250 43’ 138
June, 1903 .. 2583 6 „ ~3938 190 41,593
Dec., 1903 .. 2665 500 6,, ~ 3938 40 820
June, 1904 .. 3992 775 6 „ ~3938 41 649
Dec., 1904 .. 5596 3,987 8 „ „ 5250 45,982
June, 1905 .. 5860 4,542 8 ~ „ 5250 51 134
Dec., 1905 .. 6230 852 8 „ ~5602 52,614
A fat season up where the cows and the pumpkins grow
has again put a good complexion on the balance-sheet.
There is not much of an addition to the reserves cer-
tainly ; presumably that is due to the loss of the co.’s
steamer VVolluinbin. The Co. does its own insuring to
some extent ; the ship property (apart from steamer now
being built) is valued at £177,680, and the insurances are
said to be £84,500, so that rather less than half the value
is covered outside. Against its own risk the co. has an
insurance fund of £41,915 (included above in reserves) ;
and the unexplained additions to reserves noted above
are for the most part additions out of profit and loss to
this account. The heavy addition in 1902 resulted from
the State resumption of wharf property at a price much
in excess of the book value. This and'other transactions
have altered the look of the figures
Dec., Dec., June, Dec.,
1900. 1904. 1905. 1905.
Capital .. ..£131,250 £131,250 £131,250 £159,228
Reserves ~ .. 27,767 45,982 51,134 52 614
Debts to public .. 48,662 8,599 44,853 33 356
Ship property .. 77,490 134,250 175,000 184 730
Freeholds.. .. 81,190 22,043 26,294 25 765
Sundry debtors .. 17,262 18,431 22,279 24 008
Other assets .. 31,737 11,107 3,664 16’297
The reduction in debts to the public in 1900-4 was due to
the clearing-off of mortgages upon the sale of freeholds.
There has been a very large addition to the capital sunk
in ships ; and it is impossible to tell whether the heavy
depreciation which takes place in this class of property is
being sufficiently provided for. The capital has increased
by £27,978'in the six months, while only £11,497 of out-
standing debts have been wiped out ; the difference is
accounted for by the further purchase of ship pro-
perty and the increase of amounts owing to the eo. With
such large amounts of capital transferred from wharf
property to ships, much larger sums than hitherto
will have to be set aside for depreciation ; and, though
in favorable seasons profits will no doubt be swollen, the
co. seems to have a much riskier business than it had a
few years back, when it was sitting comfortably on large
freeholds which weren’t liable to sink or wear' out, but,
as it proved, only grew more valuable with age.
* * * »
Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power
Co.: —■
Written To Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. Off. serves. Deficit.
1896 ..£7,209 8| p.c. =£6,562 £647 £11414
1897 ..10,016 10 „ „ 7,500 £1250 1266 10,148
1898 ... 11,531 10 „ „ 7,500 1250 2781 7 367
1899 .. 11,614 10 „ „ 8,438 1250 1926 " 5 441
1900 .. 16,498 10 „ ~11,250 1000 4248 1 193
1901 .. 10,058 10 „ ~11,250 ' 2 385
1902 .. 13,140. 10 „ ~11,250 1890 . ’495
Nominal
Reserves
1903 .. 13,499 10 ~ ~11,250 2249 1 754
1904 .. 13,889 10 „ ~11,250 , 2639 4 393
1905 .. 13,260 10 „ ~11,250 2010 6,403
The reserves consist of a plant renewal account £14,500,
Waterloo lease reserve account £5OOO, and undivided
profit £1903. But against these, totalling £21,403, there
is a paper asset, “ Parliamentary rights and concessions,
£15,000 ” ; and £6403 is left after scoring that paper item
out. (This treatment of paper assets is the only safe plan
to pursue, though no doubt the rights, so long as the co.
is a going concern, are worth something.) But even tha
£6403 which remains is only a nominal reserve, because
practically the whole amount put by is provision for
wear and tear and decay which have already taken
place. The whole of the assets are in at cost • and th
reserves simply represent the amount available’ to writ!
them down to their depreciated value as partially worn
out tools. In favor of this system of presenting- account!
it can be said that you can tell how much is available fv>
writing-down, whereas if the writing-down is done out of
profits and the amount is swept off the balance-sheet
altogether, you can’t tell how much altogether has been
provided to cover wear and tear. On the other hand
when assets are left in at cost, and the wear and tear Dro
vision is thrown in as a make-weight on the other side"
the public is liable to get the idea that the co has
that much of reserves, whereas they are not re
serves at all. And that appears to be the case
with this co. Profits are barely sustained, and there
is a reason for expecting that they won’t show much im
provement ; for, apart from the competition of electric
power, 10 per cent, is the maximum which the co can
pay without sharing with the City Council, and the co
would probably prefer to make itself solid with its cus’
tomers by giving them some benefits rather than share
with the Council and get no direct advantage from it.
The Equity Trustees, Executors and Agency
Co. (Melbourne): —
To Re- R e .
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves
June, 1900 £832 7£ per cent. = £937 £4 40c
Dec., 1900 1090 7J 937 £153 i’ssS
June, 1901 2087 7£ „ „ ~ 937 1150 5 73s
Dec., 1901 1488 7£ „ „ „ 937 551 o’vsfl
June, 1902 2977 8 ~ „ „ 1000 1977 8266
Dec., 1902 1517 8 „ „ „ 1000 517 8 783
June,l9o3 1349 8 „ ~ „ 1000 349 9’]32
Dec., 1903 1744 8 „ „ „ 1000 744 9’576
June, 1904 3036 12 ~ „ ~ 1500 1536 11 412
Dec., 1904 2435 8 ~ „ „ 1000 1435 12’847
June, 1905 3775 12 „ „ „ 1500 2275 15 122
Dec., 1905 3225 8 ~ ~ „ 1000 2225 17,347
This is one of the trustee co.’s that give little information
about their business. Previously, and mainly on account
of the erratic profits, it has been suspected 'that the co.
took credit for the whole of the commission on the corpus
of trust estates when the estates came in, and if that were
so, the co. would be liable to show a heavy slump in profits
at any time that there happened to be a lull in the inflow
of estates, because the annual commission is not always
sufficient to cover even working expenses. In the
accounts issued for last year, however, though the whole
of the earnings—interest earnings as well as commissions
—are lumped, the amount is shown “after providing for
contingencies.” Probably this means that part of the
corpus commissions is being reserved. Assuming that
only a fair proportion of these commissions is taken in as
profit, then the profit for the half-year was at the hand-
some rate of £l6 Is. 6d. per cent, on shareholders’ funds.
As there are half-a-dozen Australian trustee co.’s earning
even more than that, on the present scale of charges
these offices are playing on a remarkably good wicket.
The Equity’s assets consist of Vie. Government stock
(£18,054), premises (£15,962), mortgages £721, and the
balance cash and outstanding- accounts. Premises are
taken in at cost ; and that isn’t a satisfactory wav of
presenting such assets, especially when the earnings
from them are bundled in with commissions, and there is,
therefore, no possible way of testing what the real value is.'
The Perpetual Trustees, Executors, and
Agency Co. of Tasmania (Hobart): —
Divs. and Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Div. Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1900.. £358 6 p.C. =£3ls £43 £4351
June, 1901.. 454 6 ~ ~ 315 139 4490
Dec., 1901.. 1404 8 „ „ 420 984 5474
June, 1902.. 703 8 „ „ 420 £255 28 5502
Dec., 1902.. 677 8,, ~ 420 257 5759
June, 1903.. 796 8 „ ~ 420 713 5422
Dec., 1903.. 676 8 ~ ~ 420 256 5678
June, 1904.. 685 8 ~ ~ 420 265 5943
Dec., 1904.. 717 8„„ 420 297 6240
June, 1905.. 818 8 ~ ~ 420 398 6638
Dec., 1905.. 653 8 ~ ~ 420 233 6871
Capital is £lO,OOO ; on that and reserves combined the
profit was at the rate of £7 ss. 3d. p.c. All earnings are
bundled together, and so the return on the co.’s invest-
ments is hidden. These investments include Treasury
deposit £5OOO, mortgages £4075, property £3125, and a
vague “ sundry debtors” £BS9S.
* • • •
The New Zealand Loan and Mercantile
Agency Co., from 1896, when a deficit of £79,099 was
written off capital and the fixed interest charges were
reduced: —
Full Interest Paid on a/c
on Ist and 2nd Interest on
Gross Debentures 3rd Deben-
Profits. Paid. tures. Deficit.
1897 .. £130,777 £132,993 £2,216
1898 .. 96,063 100,550 6 733
1899 .. 108,705 100,595 £1,377
Reserves.
1900 .. 167,552 100,580 15,016 51,956
1901 .. 100,859 100,594 265 51,986
1902 .. 100,195 101,659 536 51 986
1903 .. 101,050 100,658 392 1
Suspense a/c (£51,213) added to Reserves j 1 03,1J9
1904 .. 122,775 100,657 16,9011 ln , Qr ,
Written off, £4459 /
1905 .. 121,952 100,658 16,901 \ ln . „„„
Written off, £3548 / 1^,802
This co., into which one way and another J. Bull put over
£4,000,000, paid for many years 15 per cent., and paid it,
in many cases, by overstocking country. In that respect
it erred with others w-ho were supposed to know the Aus-
tralian back country thoroughly. On top of heavy
stocking came the rabbits, and between the two the first
drought slipped in and wrought disaster. The co. had to
write off £1,042,142 of share capital, reducing the total
(including calls now paid in advance) to £135,122, besides
£1,448,325 of debenture capital; also 10,000 trustees’
shares were issued, and 1,000,000 certificates were issued
against those shares. The extraordinary privileges
carried by the trustees’ shares were modified by
an Act of 1904; the £3548 shown as written-
off last year is part of the cost of preparing
and putting that Bill through the English Parlia-
ment. Mixed up with this co. is the N.Z. Land
Association, Ltd. The shares in the latter are held
exclusively by the N.Z.L. and M.A. C0.—£195,966 of
share capital and £356,692 of debenture stock, which
appear as assets in the N.Z.L. and M.A. Co.’s balance-
sheet. But, to complicate the situation, portion of the
assets of the Land Association, Ltd., consisted of trustees’
shares, which were dealt with by the Act of 1904 ; and
that Act, which provided for the repurchase of the cer-
tificates by the holders of the trustee shares, has meant a
loss of £69,247 to the Land Association. In other words,
it had to pay £76,997 forthe certificates, while the shares
it gets are worth (at par) only £7750. That loss has partly-
been covered by sales made by the Association of M.L.
properties on good terms ; and to further help the Land
Association (which is itself) out of the trouble, the parent
co. waived a year’s interest on the Association’s debentures
(£14,267). That amount has therefore to be added
in comparing the co.’s past year’s profits with
those of previous years. On the other hand, as
the Land Association’s assets have been depreciated
through the Act of 1904, and as the Land Association
belongs to the parent co., the parent co.’s assets have
been depreciated too. Part of this depreciation, as
already mentioned, has been covered by sales of M.L.
property- at prices in excess of hook value ; but there still
remains £28,312 uncovered. Instead, however, of writing
this off reserves, the co. lets it stand, apparently in the
expectation that it will be able to make some more good
sales in the country- where a land-tax and other items in
the Seddon policy- are supposed to have spelt disaster.
From the fact that they- can get more for land than it has
been reckoned to be worth by the co. itself, it looks as if
the land-tax is still insufficient, or that the Land Associ-
ation over-estimated the depreciating influence of a land-
tax and consequently wrote its properties down too
severely.
The debenture debt of the N.Z. L. and M.A.
Co. is now as foilow-s :■ —
Total amount. Held bv Co.
Ist Debentures .. £2,350,000 £387,554
2nd Debentures .. 540,769 40,412
3rd Debentures .. 405,576 30,309


Three Friends
The Best
Tobacco-
on
Earth.
>? <?
376 George St., Sydney
28 Hunter St., Sydney
177 Oxford St., Sydney
A. A. MARKS, Sole Agent.
Broken Hill Mines owe a great measure of
success to the slime saving appliances of their mills. The
slimes contain the richest part of the mineral particles.
Several processes were tested but it was found that the
Luhrig Vanners gave by far the best results. The mines
have installed Luhrigs as essential parts of their
appliances and these Vanners are erected in some
instances to save material that lias, been lost off other
tables. There are several hundred Luhrig Vanners erected
and in course of erection at Broken Hill, and they are
extensively used in all up-to-date reduction works. W.
& J. Lempriere, Melbourne, are sole agents.*
* * * *
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silbkiiberg anu Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne.* <"
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
The British Broken Hill Silver Mining Co.,
after careful consideration of all types of boilers, have
placed an order with Babcock and Wilcox for three large
boilers, each of 500 h.p. Superheaters, chain grate
mechanical stokers and economiser have also been
ordered from the same firm. This now makes 40 boilers
of the Babcock and Wilcox type supplied tQ the "various
mines and industries at Broken Hill. Wherever economy
in fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed. Hence the recent unanimous decision of the
Expert Admiralty Committee to install Babcock boilers as
the standard for the British Nav'\*
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Meplian Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, Burning, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and everv discretion of oast or wrought iron work.*
, * * *
Card Ore Concentrating Tables.—lmportant
notice to mine managers and users of Concentrators. The
Supreme Court of Victoria did not decide that the Card
was an infringement of the Wilfiey Patent. The decision
merely referred to a top which was altered without
authority and was never sold. Despite the strongest
opposition Letters Patent- were granted for the Card as a
new and improved Concentrator on the Wilfiey. The.
dressing is done on the smooth surface at the ends of the
Cleats but the Card, on the contrary, dresses .the mineral
in the Patent Channels which extend to the end. What
Card users say.“ Greater Capacity (up to 50 per cent.)
than any other, higher Concentrates poorer tailings, in
wear and tear far ahead of its rivals, gives the greatest
satisfaction.” New booklet on application. N. Guthndge,
Limited. * „
*.■ * * *
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information g'ladly * ’£o. A.
Miller-, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).* r * \
Send us your address and we will post you a
pamphlet gratis how to purify acetylene gas. Brandt
Bros., Pitt-street, Sydney, and Elizabeth-street, Mel-
bourne.*
* * * *
Charters Towers.—Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.* .
* * » *
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products, tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
Cobar.—For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J»M. Scott, Share Broker, Oobar.
Est., 1894. • ' " # ,
A 15 inch Suction Dredging Plant is being built
for the Tanjopg Rambutan Syndicate of the Federated
Malay States. The plant is similar in design to those now
working at the Pioneer and Briseis Extended Tin Mines in
Tasmania. The 15 inch gravel pump will be of the latest
and most approved design, very strong and massive, and
will be driven by a vertical compound condensing engine,
self-contained a'nd of 250 I.H.P. The centrifugal nozzle
pump wili be driven by a separate vertical compound
emdne and will be capable of discharging about 4000
gallons of water per minute with a pressure equal to a
head of 112 ft. An Edwards type of air pump, a surface
condenser, and an electric lighting- plant will .be provided.
Mr. T. R. Toby is the engineer representing the Syndicate
and the Austral Otis Engineering Co., of South Mel-
bourne, is designing and manufacturing the plant.* [c
*i * * *
It is interesting to note that the “Hornsby
patent safety oil engine has sustained its world-wide
reputation for reliability and economy. During-the past
year hundreds of squatters, recognising their adaptability
have been using them for their shearing and general
motive power, and as they are specially suitable for
mining, electric lighting, pumping, etc., mine managers
have shown, their appreciation by installing- them on some
of the leading mines. The latest type of engine will run
at a cost- of less than a farthing per brake horse power per
hour and are manufactured by the well-known
“ Upright ” Water Tube Boiler firm R. Hornsby and Rons,
Ltd., Hay-street, Sydney and Spencer-street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining- and Assay- Chemicals and Apparat us, Mic-io,
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Gi-ini-
wade and Co., Melbourne. Fourth edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of- all mining requisites
now ready. Rost free on application.*
* * * *
The Daily Mail (Brisbane), of Ist June, 1905,
wrote:—“The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
Limited held its annual meeting in Melbourne yesterday,
and on that occasion a most satisfactory report was
presented. The Society may be regarded as in a highly
prosperous condition.”*
The Tasmania Co., Beaconsfield, has had
another profitable return for last year producing 36,5790 z.
valued at £153.626. This Co.’s reduction plant'is most
complete. The Luhrig system of concentration
(hydraul e classifiers, Jigs and Vanners) was introduced
nearly 10 years ago, while about 4 years ago the plant
was further increased on the same system. Full par-
ticulars of Luhrig Machinery may be obtained from, the
• general agents, W. arid J. Lempriere, Melbourne. Luhrig
Vanners are specially adapted for the successful treat-
ment of slimes and are doing great work on the- leading
gold, tin, copper, and galena mines of Australia and
Tasmania.* >
* * * *. .; ..
The Curtin Davis Proprietary Company, No
Liability, is prepared to consider offers of approved
mining properties under working option of purchase for
cash. Full particulars to R. E. Tweddell, Manager, 31
Queen-street, Melbourne.* # #
Commonwealth and Foreign patents ob-
tained. Collison and Co., 483 Collins-street,
Melbourne (and Adelaide.) Twenty-six years
practice. Write us for Inventors’ Guide.*
KENNEDY BROTHERS,
General Financial Agents,
and Company Managers,
Liverpookand London Buildings, 62 PII
SL, SYDNEY*
The only change in the 12 months has been the wiping
lOut.of-a small amount of Ist debentures —a process easily
'effected by-cancelling some.certificates held by the co.
For two years past full interest has been paid, and
but for the special aid to the Land Association something
.moderate would last year have been available for reserves.
In advances (apart from advances on wool and products)
the co. has £1,069,660 out—£S9,776 less than it had 12
months before: If has £192,319 of property, besides
£303,356 in offices, stores, &e. ; and its clients with
current accounts have drawn £530,610. Something very
solid in the way of a reserve is therefore necessary. Yet
its assets are mostly of the sort that enjoy phenomenal
recoveries as well as appalling slumps, and this seems to
be the time for a recovery ; and so shareholders have a
right to look as cheerful as shareholders can who have
lost about seven-eighths of their capital. For years they
couldn’t get anybody to take their shares unless they
handed over about £4 apiece with them ; and things are
a long way better than that already.
* * -K *
The N.S.W. Mont de Piete Deposit and In-
vestment Co. (Sydney)
, ; Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. off. seryes. serves.
Dec., 1899 £2BOl 7£ p.c. = £2778 £7335 £8,598
June, 1900 3031 7£ ~ „ 2780 443 8,406
Dec., 1900 3003 7£ ~ ~ 2781 189 £33 8,439
June, 1901 2972 7| „ ~ 2784 188 8,627
Dec., 1901 5010 8 „ „ 2972 2038 10,665
June, 1902 4573 8 „ „ 2972 1901 12,566
Dec., 1902 5913 8 ~ ~ 2972 2941 15,507
June, 1903 6048 10 „ ~ 3717 2331 17,838
Dec., 1903 6484 10 ~ „ 3720 2764 20,602
June, 1904 5748 10 ~ ~ 3721 2027 22,629
Dec., 1904 5543 10 ~ ~ 3722 250 1571 24,200
June, 1905 5606 10 !,, ~ 3723 800 1083 25,283
Dec., 1905 4469 10 „ ~ 3725 94 650 25,933
There is a small item among the assets —“ Balance pre-
liminary expenses, Melbourne branch, £7O” —which looks
like a paper asset, and probably ought to be written off
and deducted from the reserves. Business with this co.
hasn’t been so good—which no doubt means that with
most people times have been lately a good deal better.
In the second half of 1903, when the pinch of the drought
was being felt, the co. earned £10,970 in interest on
pledges, mortgages, &c., at a cost (apart from interest) of
£3,990 ; this past half-year, with the drought over, money
plentiful, and the banks inclined to lend on securities that
they wouldn’t look at when times were harder, the Morit-
de-Piete has'only earned £8794 at a cost of £4202. Yet
the co. has got nearly 'as much out on loan--£83,323, as
against £58,400 ; the balance is lying in the' bank, like a
good many other five thousands, waiting for Australia to
employ more factories and fewer importers. Looking at
the figures, it seems fairly clear that the co.’s profits dur-
ing 1902 and 1903 and thereabouts can’t be taken as a fair
indication of its earnings under normal conditions. ' It
isn’t like a bank altogether ; when it. can’t g.et as much
for advances, it can’t even-up profits 1 by cutting down
deposit rates. It has to stand practically the whole
racket itself.
» '• * * *
Richardson and. Wrench, Ltd., (Sydney),
property salesmen, valuators, &c. :
Deficit 1
■ In Re- (blood- 1
duction will not
of De- reckoned
' Profits. Dividends. ficit. an asset).
Dec., 1900.. £2538 5 p.c. =£lsoo £lO3B. £49,500'
June, 1901 .. 2517 5 ~ „ 1500 1017'' '4B/483
Dec., 1901 .. 3313 5 „ ~ 1500 1813 46,670
June, 1902.. 3263 5 „ ~1500 1763 44,907
Dec.. 1902.. 2993 5 „ ~ 1500 1493 43,414
June, 1903.. 1746 5 ~ ~ 1500 246 43,168
Dec., 1908 .. 2055 5 ~ ~ 1500 555 42,613
June, 1904.. 1611 . 5 „ ~1500. 11l 42,502
Dbc., 1904 .. 1622 5 „ „ 1500 122 42,380
June, 1905.. 1661 5 „ „ 1500 161 42,219
Dec., 1905 ~. 1730 5 1500 230 41,989
The capital is £60,000, of which goodwill represented
£57,500 ; and the co. is getting rid of that huge item as
fast as a pretty sick property market will let it—it is now
down to £43,000, after years. The profits are a shade
better than they have been lately ; but are so little better
as to hint that the recent effort at suburban land-boom-
ing was mostly advt. and ham sandwich, and mighty
little sale—and a good many times the effort didn’t even
run to ham sandwich.: with the position five
years ago, gross income was then £5lBO, and salaries,
refit, and other charges, £2642 ; In the past half-year in-
come was £4543, and expenses £2813. Which isn’t the
sort of movement to make shareholders feel particularly
good. The undivided profit is in Treasury bills (£9000)
and deposits. ;
* * * *
C.S.A., Cobar, which entered hastily into
boring contracts, is now reaping the benefit in the
shape of a slump in its shares because of decreased values
in gold, silver, and lead, and the arrival of copper. With
a huge ore body like, the C.S.A., which, on the evidence
of its crosscut at 450 ft., isn’t consistent in nature or
quality, the value of drillings depends almost entirely on
the position selected for the bore. As a matter of fact, ■
site'of first bore' is in a poor zbne; or rather in a zone ,less
rich than could have been selected. Whatever this bore
says won’t be conclusive, anyway ; and under the circum-.
stances it is a pity boring was ever started. It will help
the bears, and that’s about all for,certain..
* . * * *
C.S.A. South, which isn’t within 300yds. of the
linte of'C.S.A. lode and Gardner’s, still gives no reason
why shares jumped .from £4O; to £l6O. A little Sydney
crowd worked a handful of shares up to £6O, andexpected
to control the mine and market; but local holders only
sat the tighter. , There is nothing in the South to justify
high values unless a parallel lode, is -struck, and there is
not much better reason why a parallel lode should be
struck 300yds.' away from'the main body than 3000yds.
away.
■ • ■ * . , * «
Lode which was reported in Gardner’s hasn’t
got the C.S.A. hall-mark yet. Gardner isn’t interested in
Australian opinion one way or the other, as J. Bull gets
all his spare time, as far as the C.S.A. field is concerned ;
so'the mine is closed against outside inspection. This
sort of thing doesn’t help the field'; but it is Gardner’s
mine and Gardner’s business. Anyway,-Gardner says he
has the lode ; .and, as his shaft is in direct line of the
C.S.A., and under /IOOOft. away, probably he has it.
Lionel Robinson, of London and elsewhere, who lately
took Broken Hill to London, now gives Cobar attention.
He is afloat, and by the time of his visit Gardner
will most likely have matured the big scheme he is
reputed to have brewing.
* * * *
Premier, ’Cobar (N.S.W.), already referred to
as one of the shows worth attention, comes in the market,
branded by Manager J. Bonderson, of Cobar Gold Mines.
Co., No Liability, has a nominal capital of £24,000 ; 24,000
shares paid to IQs. go to the vendors, 24,000 to the public,
6d. on application and 6d. on allotment. Premier is
ch-oicely sandwiched between the Syndicate’s Great
Peak gold mine and the rapidly-developing Cobar Peak,
and, as Bonderson says, the boundary is only 20ft. from
the “ brown and blue ” lode. Though the vendors’ bite is
big it isn’t surprising that 15,000 shares were applied for,
mostly locally, on the day the prospectus washout.
Boppy * Blocks, Limited, came on to the
market last week ; nominal capital, £4OOO ; 160 shares
of £25 each, of which 40 paids went to vendors. Capital
was over-subscribed before the prospectus was issued.
Show is another gamble—on surface prospects it may be
a very big proposition. It has 160 acres on line of lode,
which gives room for a nice litter of pups.
A new field, yielding something, worth having,
is opening up at Craiglea, sixlmiles from Trunkey (N.S.W.).
Hunter’s party sent seven tons to Gallymont, and got
18Joz. to the ton, and the stone had been picked over for
specimens. Other parties are getting out small quantities
of good stuff from the same line ; and while there was any
water, a bit of alluvial gave better than, tucker. This is
new country, and looks like making up for the failure of
the shows opened up at Trunkey after the battery was
built there. A cyanide plant was put up at Alma Dam to
treat sands, but that was a fizzle tco. Hunter’s show at
Craiglea was offered a while back for £lOOO. The man
who turned it down missed the ’bus ; £2OOO of gold has
been got out since, and they are only down 30ft.
* * * *
Wamboyne, 34 miles from Wyalong (N.S.W.),
has a bit of a rush. A prospector named Keysor took out
5 tons from a quartz blow, g*oing’ down 15ft. for it. Treated
at Wyalong gave a little over an ounce per ton. The
prospector’s claim is on the edge of a C.P., on to which a
few early birds have swooped. But there’s nothing
around to get excited about.
The Barrier, Wyalong (N.S.W.), now opening
out between 300 ft. and 400 ft., is going to turn out some
good stuff this year. A start has been made already—
-12 tons for 9oz. per ton. The Keep-it-Dark, which gets a
natch now and then, has had 67|oz. from 9 tons.
* * * *
The Stock Exchange of Melbourne rufHes up its
quills like the fretful porcupine whenever the word labor-
unionist is uttered. All the same, it is attempting a
hide-bound piece of exclusion which, if suggested by a
trades union, would evoke a whirlwind of abuse. The
unionist asks that he and his fellow-man shall be paid a
living wage to keep himself and the other fellow from
starvation. His object is to level-up, not to level-down.
Can this be said of Stock Exchange brokers, who mostly
neither toil nor spin, leaving that to their clerks?
Agents bringing business to them have been allowed a
third of the com. Now, if some members’ ideas are
adopted, they are to get nothing, unless surreptitiously.
Considering that the broker has had no hand in interest-
ing the client brought by the agent in the business trans-
acted’,'it would be thought that he is doing pretty
well in grabbing two-thiifrls of the commission. But
not even the bone is to go-to the agent. Those
who wilt be hardest hit will be the legal managers. These
float co.’s ; for, nowadays, brokers, with a few .exceptions,
don’t essay that class of business—it needs a following.
But the brokers figure in the prospectus, and share the
commission. Legal managers, too, keep in touch with
shareholders, and often suggest buying to outsiders. No
commission can go ito them in the future when they get
share business, Talk about the monopoly of labor ! It is
not in it with this proposal. Few labor men are so mean
as to try to jump another man’swage: Their aim is to get
a bit of the unearned profit that js pocketed by the fat-
man. For that, they are hounded by the Stock Exchanges,
who here not only want an exclusive union, but to
feed on the product of other people’s work. The Labor
members have a chance to prove now that they are not
concerned only about the rights of the laborer with warts
on his hands. #
To see Garden Gully (Bendigo) shares trip in
one bound from about 20s. to 345. tells what’s in a name.
Garden Gully is not only one of the most famous of the
Bendigo group, but it is one of the biggest gold producers
on the eastern slope of the continent. The value of the
gold won from it is over £1,600,000, and divs. went
close up to £850,000 ‘ before they had to be
stopped. Co. has- not been doing well at
depth, so it came up to 1062 ft. to try the
stone left between the Nos. 2 and 3 shafts. In driving
north from the No. 3 the east leg of the saddle is now
being developed, and the present appearance is that there
is a body of payable stone from Bft. to iOft. wide. How-
ever, tlie battery will soon talk. If it speaks to some
purpose, more cash will be made out of the old mine, as a
block about 600 ft. long remains to be; beaten out between
the two shafts. Beal luck would come if the Garden
Gully got on the good gold in its workings below 2000 ft.
It is almost a rule in Bendigo that good stone is to be
picked up under rich upper shoots, so, with a record like
that of the Garden Gully, there is every inducement to
fcr y° n - .
The Briseis “mountain” div. turned out a
« mouse.” Most everyone expected a shilling, yet only
ninepence is to be paid. If that same everyone had not
been blind he would have guessed what had happened.
The knocks that the, market got every time 16s. was
reached told of plenty of scrip waiting to be
planted in' more congenial soil, and that the div.
was not to be large. What staved off a col-
lapse was the circulation of • reports that a shilling
was certain. If “ Bill ” Clark, Lionel Bobinson’s partner
and a London director of the co., ever- had his ears burn
in his life, they must have been red-hot during the past
fortnight. He was cited as being responsible for the
sending of cables (1) that the board intended to pay a
div., and (2) that it would be a shilling. Probably he
never sent a wire at all, but a kite had to be flown, and
his was the name chosen to tack to it. The div. is a fair
one. Co. only has about £30,000 in hand, and it leaves a
margin of about £lO,OOO. The dry season is on, bush
fires may injure the race-, or the tailings question may
have to be tackled, now that the Bingarooma is up to the
brim with sludge. Should tin fall back there won’t be a
. quarterly Is., and with the metal at such a high figure
there is plenty of a fall. *
Ten pounds for an option over 60-odd thousand
shares ' No wonder that the blood of the Llewellyns
seethed with true Welsh fire at the Crown Lyell meeting
when the option was discussed. As no printed balance-
sheet. was issued by the board, the outsider is denied
the pleasure- of tracing the - course of ' even
the tenner; still one may submissively inquire
if it went in directors’ fees, .or did it go. to
that beautiful sink “ petty cash ” which in some offices
’ (not in Madden’s) stands treat at the nearest pub after
the close of board meetings? Was it absorbed in lawyers’
fees over the agreement, or was the cheque framed as a
memento of so magnificent a piece of financing?
And now that the option has been extended
for two months, will the directors explain why
nothing was paid for such renewal? No one really
looks at the affair seriously. In the first place,
6 per cent, copper ore won’t pay an outside’ show at Mt.
Lyell and the Crown Lyell hasn’t proved ore of anything
’ like that value. Next, it is fully 200 ft. from the North
Lyell shoot to the Crown boundary. Even if the North
Lvell ore were making towards the-Crown, it has to live in
extra-hard country, and there isn’t the least indication
of anything of that kind happening. The mine has to be
urvwatered before it can be examined. Does the tenner
stand that expense ? So far no move lias been made at
up watering, vet shares, which were valueless, shot to a
mice ’W hich gave a profit to thosfe who cared'to ‘sell. If
they didn’t sell, so as to be quit of-a co,-which, on the
valuation placed on it, wasn’t worth a pony, they deserve
to—well, to pay fees to the present board.
„ * - ■* *
“Ray X.”: After examination of the recent
prospecting work at the Weldbrook (Tas.), I am satisfied
that it is likely to turn out one of the finest alluvial tin
mines Tas. has seen-(share basis considered). - Even taking
only the 12 acres just. prospected in the immediate,
vicinity of the barge, the capital of the co. is more than in
sight It averages in value over 41b. to the yard. Number
of cubic vards in 10 acres, 10ft. deep,say 150,000.; taking it
at 31b. to"the yard, with tin at Is. per lb., £37,500. Time will
prove the figures. ’Some say the show is partly worked
out. Nojotlier answer is required than a look at the timber
on the flats ; gum-trees, perhaps 100 years old, dry, and
now being cut up for firewood. As to the yarn about the
old tunnel, Donald one of the’best engineers in
the district, made a survey’of this old tunnel, and finds it
was an utter failure owing to a mistake in levels. It was
impossible, in any case. Another show' in this vicinity
which has possibilities, is the Mutual Hill. The other part
of the float, Sarah Ann, is mostly worked out, and was
include'd in co.’s (eases mainly to secure its water rights.
Mutual Hill’s formation is similar to that of. the Briseis
arid should have been taken by that co., which has only
about six or seven years’ work in sight. Out of present
show shareholders cannot do much more than get their
own money back. Then their magnificent water supply
will be their only-asset, and they havea.t present no decent
' show to use it on. ■
* * • *
Burbanks Birthday Gift (W.A.) has made its
final call of 6d ; and if £4250 does not put the mine on its
feet, a reconstruction must ensue.. The mine, like most
quartz reefs on the fields, became poorer the deeper the
workings were carried. The equipment was, moreover,
badly arranged, so economical work is impossible.
Queen Margaret, Bulong (W.A.), has been
getting rich stone below the 700 ft. level; the December
yield was 7390 z. against 1170 oz. for November. Twenty-
four tons only were treated. As likely as not, directors
will declare another div. instead of retaining the money
for further prospecting. The South Gippsland leases are
looking sick for want of development, and returns are
off, the last three returns being 4XI, 277, and
J79oz. On present basis, the mine is unpayable, and, but
for the rich patch in the Queen Margaret, co. would
collapse.
* * * *
Higgins’ Find, Higginsville (W.A.), still looks
well. At 80ft. 120 ft. of driving show s a reef averaging
20in. wide, and easily w'orth 2oz. per ton. Some speci-
mens from the show'‘look very like Ida H. quartz. But it
is a small mine, and can’t stand too heavy a capitalisa-
tion. There is still a difficulty about water, but that will
be overcome, as it was in the early days of Coolgardie. •
* * * *
- Charters Towers’ shareholders in the Mexican
called a meeting to consider the best method of working
the show'. They need not have troubled ; it was all
arranged some time ago. Work is to be re-started in the
old Mexican P.O. straight shaft, near the drill shed-
abandoned some 15 years ago. In sinking the old shaft
850 ft. four veins of stone were cut—at 50ft., 90ft., 300 ft.,
and a few feet from present bottom. On the 90ft. seam
an underlie was put down to a depth of 700 ft. (vertical).
Somewhere in the underlie the 50ft. vein junctioned, and
work was discontinued, and the straight shaft put down
to its present depth. A few feet from the present sink a
leader w'as cut, dipping the wrong way ; an underlie was
sunk on it for 130 ft.—nothing payable; 100 tons gave
onlv 4oz. As all seams prospected have been found,
wanting, it is proposed now'to sink’an underlie on the
300 ft. vein, and continue until the Mills United shoot is
reached in the Mexican lease. Large bodies of stone are
exposed in Mills' United, and .the Mexican is after
an east continuation of that run. lteef in Mills
hangs at an angle of 45 degrees, and rises Ift. in.
Ift. as it extends towards the eastern boundary.
Mexican is on the eastern side. If the reef held
its course (which it has not done), it should have been
cut in the Mexican shaft at 550 ft. ; but at that depth no
stone was met. llow far the underlie will have to go for
the reef is merely guesswork. The only information the
co. had to rely upon was that of grade ; and the straight
shaft has proved that the shoot does not extend that far
back. At No. 12 in Mills the stone is at the underlie,;
600 ft. higher up it was necessary to drive No. 6 level
600 ft. east before the top edge was cut ; and it has to live
further back yet before the Mexican ground is reached.
It’s a large order to expect a run of stone on the Towers
to last for 900 ft. Nodoubt Mexican prospects have improved
considerably of late ; but the market is out of reach. By
the issue of new shares, co. is now in 120,000 £1 shares,
just double the original capital. £4OOO is to be spent on
a surface plant. . ‘
*,*. * * '
Phoebe, Charters Towers, tells the old story
about a small patch and a rush to let the sun shine on it.
Now the returns are tailing off rather rapidly. Last
fortnight’s run. was 250 tons for 120 oz. 16dw't., woii 11
£428. Concentrates sold for £145 18s. 3d., equal to
£2 6s. 3d. per ton. Sands to come. There is not much
profit from a 6in. reel in this, and costs are being in-
creased by prospecting. ' Directors' could not have had
much faith in the monkey shaft that whs punched down
230 ft from the No. 5 level, for the Brilliant reef. On one
formation, a level was driven 50ft. and stopped ; another
is to be started lower. If .the top .vein were only worthy
of a paltry 50ft. level it does not sav much for the lower
formation And this shaft was to be the co.’s salvation.
* * * *
Vulcan (N.Q.), the one undoubtedly great tin-
mine of Australia, will now have 30 stamps regularly at
work turning over from 1200 -to 1500 tons monthly ;
hitherto the average has been from 600 to 800 tons. And
the deep developments fully justify the larger out-turn.
From Currie, Buchanan and Co,, Brisbane :
“ B. (25/t/’O6/) remarks that Beak Downs ought to be a
payable proposition at present price of copper, but ‘ that
it is gall for the vendors to get £3OOO cash and 250 shares
in the new syndicate.’ Considering that the vendors part
with 1160 acres freehold, as well as 450 acres leasehold,
within three miles from Clermont, containing a splendid
proved copper mine, and also a very good coal mine, less
than £3 per acre seems a very reasonable price.. The old
co left besides what is in the mine, froin 50,000 to 75,000
tons of’slags on the grounds, of which 120 assays have
been made, averaging 4£ p.c. copper.” Yet it is years
and years since the old-co. tried to do anything with this
property, which, being mostly freehold, is beyond the
reach of labor conditions. And. some people still say that
labor conditions are not necessary in order to induce"
people to w'ork the mines they control.
The Callide Coal Syndicate, which in 1900 got
permission from the Queensland Parliament to build a
railway line from Gladstone tp Callide Creek, has for-
feited to the State its deposit of £2500. ' - .
Boring at the Union (Northern Territory) has
proved blyond a doubt that the reefs go down. After
borinv 861 ft. at an angle of 45 degrees, operations have
stopped Result: The.bore has passed through some-21ft.
of stone down to 500 ft. vertical. Assays were—74bft.,.
16gr. per ton; 755 ft., 9dwt. 19gr. ; 758 ft., 2dwt.
Trucker': That field pretty well covered al-
ready O.L. : South Australian Government lately
made inquiries re this- mineral, and Mines Department
there would no doubt furnish information. *
Bung in Brisbane is talking co-operation, and
two or three meetings have been held to discuss a
brewery. The directors ©f the co-operative concerns in
the southern capitals are lending a hand; and, though
Perkins and Co. are a pretty large-sized snag to run
a<>’ainst, the Brisbane bung shouldn’t have.much’ difficulty
in running a brewery if he really wants to do it. Perkins
profits are £25,000 a year, and the dividend has been
multiplied by seven during the past 12 . years, so there s
evidently money in it; also if Perkins and Co. want to
fight and go for a knock-out, it is evident from these
figures that they can afford to flood Brisbane at a great
reduction But Perkins and Co. are not likely to use
that weapon. It costs too much, and is uncertain into
the bargain. , *
* * *
A work of great face value is “ A Handbook on
Victorian Company Legislation,” by G. H. R. Robinson,
i In'some 400 pages it gives the various Acts affecting Vic-
‘ torian Companies, the rules and schedules, abd tables of
costs under those Acts, and all the information useful to
• company managers or directors. The wide use of such a
volume (it is published aba reasonable price by.Cuthbert
and-Co., Chancery-lane, Melbourne) can be readily under-
stood. ’ ■ ' , ■
* * *
' After paying £9071 interest, and -putting £2059
into the sinking-fund chest, the municipal trams of
Wellington (M.L.) returned a net profit of £7262 for the
past nine months. This, means at least £10,060 less
•annual'taxation, or borrowing, for the Wellington citizen ;
and, whether you call him “Socialist ” or not, Im pro-
bably feels warmly comfortable over the matter. Nothing
but ‘a lack of Wellington’s horse-sense prevents Adelaide
idoing as well, or better. Some towns have horse-sense ;
•others have horse-trams.
A cruel iade is Chance. North Adelaide’s
big “ Pioneer« chaff mills, burnt out the other
da°v had never previously had a fire, and had been
insured for £4OOO, regularly, for 35 years. But that was
onlv up to January 4th last. Then the risk was all owe,
to lapse pending some insurance re-adjustments. Then
Fate came, and there were only ashes left.


um
3#
tii fAfA
filfc
m&Si
w!s
m
$
Q Kill R&bbits
iywkere 4 Every wkere
All lKe\e*rßound.
<C wrira us.
IuJMING,SMITHS
MANUFAC TURERJy j
or MANURES
I
WIRE CLOTH WEAVERS.
MAKERS OF ALL
KINDS OF WOVE
WIRE In Steel, Iron, Gal-
vanised, Copper, & Brass.
WE MAKE A SPECIALITY OF HEAVY WIRE CLOTH,
WE HAVE THE BEST ME
and LATEST MACHINERY
We would be pleased to get in communication with those interested in WIRE CLOTH.
We will be found Quick, Civil, Obliging and Cheap.
EASTWAY BROTHERS, 409 & 411 George St., Sydney
Factories: 533 A George St., and Albion Lane. P.O. Box 85S. Telephone 2075.
WATSON’S WHISKY
Resell’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
Aboriginalities.
“ Mundala ” : “Bunny” (B. 11/l/’O6)
says: “So great is the stench from dead rabbits
at White Cliffs that dust-storms are now piously
prayed for.” “ Bunny ”is “ another ! ” Babbits
not very numerously dead in the immediate
vicinity of the Cliffs at present. Also, we never
pray piously for anything, and we never pray,
piously or otherwise, for dust-storms. If “ Bunny ”
himself prays for dust-storms, and would like “to
make profitable use of the Wasted West” with a
homestead-lease, I’ll sell him my lease and all the
prayers I know for three-quarters of a plug of
tobacco and a second-hand water-bag.
BEFORE THE SOBER SUNDAY.
WET WORSHIPPER : “ Hoi’ hard, waiter, hoi’
hard! Where’s my glass? ”
“Caber”: What brand of ancient history
is “Dave H.R.” (B. 18/l/’O6) giving us about the
growth of cereals in the outer back ? Sometimes
the manner in which a crop of wheat is cared for
doesn’t count two straws. The man who sows
wheat first week in May may have to wait till the
last week in July for enough rain to germinate the
seed ; and then, if he allows even one ju hi buck in
that cultivated patch, he is the two ends and
centre of an egregious idiot. If the wheat is too
forward and has an inclination to rankness (which
means rust, 12 out of every dozen times), rush in
the sheep by all means, to delay its growth. After
the break-up of the 1902 drought some of the
Darling Downs cookies sowed early, and the
copious rains brought the wheat up at a much
more rapid rate than was anticipated, and they
skirmished round for sheep to eat it off. There
was none available just then; the drought had
killed them all off, and the third crop in succession
was lost—the last through rust. No; successful
wheat-growing in the outer back or the inner zone
depends absolutely and entirely on the mercy of
Providence.
“ War E.” : In a country where financing
mostly consists of borrowing money to build wild-
cat railways, I can understand the importance
attached to the so-called rabbit “ industry.” But
I cannot enthuse over it, simply because I live
where bunny is boss of the show, carrying,capa-
cities of pastoral holdings are reduced by half at
least, and the farmers have to share their wheat
with the pest. The sum realised by the rabbit
export trade is not a circumstance to the loss of
wealth owing to the presence of too much bunny.
The work caused by the bob-tailed pest cannot
count for much either, seeing that most of the
netting is imported, and all the poisons used make
cash for the foreigner. Besides, netting and
poisoned baits are unproductive works. If Dr.
Danysz’s gelatine-microbe disease does not com-
pletely exterminate the pest, the result will pos-
sibly be a disease-proof, aggressive type of rabbit
which will carry on the tight with the pertinacity
of a Russian-Pole. The solution of the rabbit
question is closer settlement and population, and
until that soaks in, the “buck” faddist and the
disease-monger will be as great a nuisance as the
one they threaten to remove.
* * * *
“ Paddymelon ” : Australia is a country of
contradictions. One western squatter just now
prays for dry conditions to hold out. “We’ve
nearly licked the rabbits, and if rain will hold off
till March we’ll have them that well in hand it’ll
be only a matter of continuing our methods of
destruction systematically. Now we’re killing
thousands daily. The only water available to
rabbits is to be found in our tanks, and when they
come we don’t guarantee them pure water. But
if rain comes the rabbit will again get the upper
hand, and the present chance may belong again in
coming.” Dry weather and heat waves do some
good to the western squatter.
* * * *
“ Prooshan ” : The Australian bush-
woman’s style of locomotion has greatly changed
since the advent of the bike and sulky. Atone
time she sped about on horseback. There was
generally a beast about the home known as
“ Nell’s filly.” In those days the mother thought
nothing of riding off in the early morning with a
30-mile objective. And she would carry her baby
too, and do a gallop with him if necessary. Young
Australians, in fact, were considerably reared in, as
well as to, the saddle. But nowadays you seldom
see a woman riding; Nell’s filly has gone, but
there is a sulky in the shed. And Nell has to
wait till, by grace of brother Jack, she gets a drive
to the races or picnic. Unfortunately Jack prefers
driving someone else’s sister, or pushing the bike,
and Nell locomotes chiefly round the house with a
broom till she becomes “someone else’s sister.”
* • * *
“Drifter”: There’s a legend extant
among many of the old hands around the Shoal-
haven River (N.S.W.) district
of an aborigine who knew
the whereabouts of a wonder-
fully rich deposit of alluvial
gold in one of the mountain
gullies. Periodically he turned
up at one of the small town-
ships with a fine nugget,
and loafed around until the
cash obtained from the
local storekeeper for the
gold was all spent. Then
he would strike out for the
wild mountainous country
towards the cage-shaped
peak known as the Pigeon
House, and disappear into
the scrub. Numerous at-
tempts to follow him to
his bonanza were unsuc-
cessful. The secret finally
died with him. He was
found by the coastal
blacks one day lying be-
neath a gum tree a few
miles up the river.
“C.L.M.”: Be dras-
tic methods with refrac-
tory horses. A well-known
S.Q. man with a fiendish
temper had a mare that
propped a couple of times
coming through a gate in
the dusk, and this fiend
started to jab his spurs
into her and flog her with a
greenhide. That, of course,
got her temper up, and a
battle royal ensued. The rider
conquered in the long run, rode
the mare up to the gallows, took off
the bridle and saddle, and, fixing the
gambit to her hind legs, hauled her up
and left her there hanging head downwards.
He remarked as he walked away, “ That’ll learn
you to shy, you cow !” The mare never shied
again.
* * * •
“L.8.R.” : Be the starting of bush fires.
Extraordinary precautions are taken by some out-
back smokers. One cocky out Mudgee way spits
on every match before he throws it down, and
another, in the same district, carries a small flask
half-full of water, in which all “ dead ” matches
are dropped and corked up. A boundary rider in
the Old Man Plain district places each match, as
he extinguishes it, on his saddle, and sits hard
thereon ; and a man I struck near Walcha some
years back not only blew the match out, but spat
on it, and then deposited it carefully inside his
shirt. He reckoned he would know if it started a
fire going. Many Kiverina stations, by the way,
supply their men gratis with safety-matches to
prevent the use of vestas.
■> * * *
“Snag” : Can any Bulletin reader tell
me why milkers on dairy farms in Vic. are called
‘‘ snaggers ” ? I have worked with many of them,
but they cannot themselves account for the
appellation. The fact that sore-teated or vicious
cows are generally called “snags” may have
something to do with the title.
THE SLUICED’S TROUBLES.
JAMES EDWARD: "My word, old! fellow, it’s taking you a deuce of awhile
to wash that old box, isn’t it? You were at it when I was
heah last week."
“ Milo ” : “ Via ” (8.25/l/’O6) wrongly
locates Albany station (Q.). Albany is due north
of St. George, and fronts the Maranoa. Was
there recently, and couldn’t find a single abori-
gine, not to mention a tribe. Neither is it pro-
bable that the black boy would starve on his
journey to St. George, for he would pass half-a
dozen homesteads noted for hospitality. Further,
the Maranoa stock-route is much used, and drovers
are not the men to allow an eight-year boy with
an eight-months “ pic ” on his back to starve.
“ Spring ” : I
know a brave, strong
man who trembles
and cries out at the
sight of a goanna.
When a youth, he
was in the middle
of a big, cleared
paddock, when his
dog started a huge
“go.” which, as
there were no trees
or fences to climb,
ran to the youth
and climbed him.
He had no stick
with which tostrike
it. It gripped its
claws in the horri-
fied youth’s shoul-
der, twisted its
scaley body around
the back of his neck,
and its mouth was
so close to his face
that he could smell
its foetid breath.
The dog sprang and
dragged off the rep-
tile, whose claws
tore through the
light shirt and
trenched the boy’s
back with tearing
wounds. Then the
youth started to
run. Again the
strong “go.” who
wanted to live,
eluded the dog and
sprang on the boy’s
back. This time he
tore at the “go.”
which, seeing that
it had two enemies
to fight, bit him
savagely on the face.
The dog sprang
again, but missed,
and tore a bit off
the youth’s arm.
The three dog,
“go.” and youth—
were a gory riot of
reptile and mam-
mal. At last the youth, with the aid of the dog,
threw the creature off. Then he fainted. When *
he came-to, he found the dead body of the “ go.”
lying on his chest, and the dog anxiously awaiting
the time for his owner to wake-up in order to
show him the dead.
MIXED BATHING.
“ Wot d’yer think of this ’ere mixed bathin’ at
Bondi?"
“Its real indecent; an’ I can't see ’ow any re-
speckable bloke could allow wimmen an'
children to wotch ’im wosh 'isself. It mebbe
that I'vi ole-fashioned; but, all the same, no-
body's never seen me in my barf!”
Madam Marzella, well known to the Aus-
tralian variety stage as a bird charmer, discourses
in the last Ladies’ World. Australian birds are
the most intelligent on earth, and the most human
of them is the sulphur-crested cockatoo. She has
birds 30 years old, and as good as ever. They
have wonderful memories, and are easy to teach.
Her husband, however, distances her in teaching.
Her well-known-macaw hates women, and always
darts for their feet; she thinks it is because some
woman must have trodden on it many years ago.
Her birds understand the different words of com-
mand distinctly ; yet she works on them most
with her eye, which they comprehend in a moment.
So is it with the trainers of dogs, horses and pigs.
* * » *
“Ben Sun”: The Victorian game laws
are a dead letter in the Mallee. Shooters bang
away unrestrictedly by water channel and storage
dam, and, as bird and beast must drink, the
slaughter is great. What should have been a step
towards the preservation of kangaroos, Mallee
hens, emus and native pigeons threatens to
materially assist in their extinction.
BALLAD OF 115° IN THE SHADE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To live these times you have to think
Of hillside spring-lets crystal-clear,
Of frosty midnight’s starry blink,
And Kosciusko’s atmosphere ;
Or sea-boards where a white yacht moors
And white wings twinkle round the pier—
(bthink I’ll have another beer,
What’s yours ?)
.Of waterfalls where bubbles wink
Below the torrent, falling sheer ;
Skates ringing on a frozen rink ;
The snow-swept northern hemisphere ;
Shade-haunted valleys, woodland lures,
Enticing to some hidden mere—
(l thinkTll have another beer,
What’s yours?)
September rainstorms, black as ink,
That ripple every swelling spear
In wheatfields, stretching link on link ;
Glades where shy forest things appear,
Where every ferny bed allures
And singing waters soothe the ear—
(l think I’ll have another beer,
What’s yours ?)
But most of all, of things to drink !
Long dainty glasses, so you hear
The jagged ice’s cheerful clink.
Bring on the pewter-pots that cheer,
Bring beakers, flagons, brimming ewers 1
(To make existence less austere
I think I’ll have another beer ;
What’s yours ?)
Let conscious virtue gibe and jeer,
Hail, Bacchus ! while the heat endures—
(l think I’ll have another beer,
What’s yours?)
w.a.
THE PRODIGAD.
OUT-BACK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The yellow sun moves slow across the sky ;
The red ants guzzle where the gunnies leak ;
And I—l drink the water-bag bone-dry,
And trudge with it, slow-footed, to the creek.
The scarlet spiders show they’re not averse
To my sad company—they share my flat,
And, with the glad morn, get my matin-curse,
Weaving their quick webs in my only hat.
Green-mailid centipedes wait writhing in my boots ;
Death-adders slide and linger in the grass,
Or lurk behind the tangled bloodwood-roots
To nip me in the ankle as I pass,
Scenting, head-up, the rare, chill Barrier-breeze . . .
But eight good shillings are my eight-hours’ screw,
For this I suffer daily agonies,
To get back soon to Melbourne—and to You.
The teams drift in from Lappa, crawling slow,
With tug-chains hot upon the streaming hide ;
Horses and men, their loose jowls chestward, show
The torment of the red road where they stride.
Beneath the clear, full-furnaced, shining blue,
Our butcher’s meat and spitted pigeons spoil;
The fat flies, swarming, stick to us like glue,
Out hot-wing on the track of dirt and oil.
Along the road the long, low dust-cloud lies,
The far horizon quivers in the haze . . .
And then the crib-lire smites me in the eyes,
And—crash ! the blasted billy’s in the blaze.
This is my penance for my dreams of bliss,
For this I draw my eight white bob a day,
Sweating my soul out here in hell’s abyss—
To get back soon to You and Hobson’s Bay.
O’ nights the black bats flutter in the dark,
And rouse the dreadful world of creeping things.
All things that fly and buzz make me their mark ;
The stealthy scorpion saunters in, and stings ;
The clattering ’possums come to broach my store,
They wake me as they knock the treacle down
And spread my good jam on the rocky floor,
Or flop into the water-pail and drown.
But I —l look ahead to one glad day
When I shall leave this gay and sunny clime ;
When I shall give my frying-pan away,
And Sleepy Joe will mark me off my time,
He’ll look at me, the “ laborer,” with a grin,
And shut his silly eye as if he knew
Why I am “ off ” this place of sweat and sin—
That I am bound for the Old Town... and You !
VIC.
FRANK HENTY.


Householders will find that for universa.
use Little’s Phenyle Disinfectants are unsurpassedl
The Soluble Phenyle is a powerful insecticide, it
kills bugs, cockroaches, fleas, &0., and is one of the
best washes for all domestic animals. Sold by all
chemists, grocers, storekeepers, through Aus-
tralia.*
By
Royal
Warrant
to
H.M. KING EDWARD VII.
Cerebos
TABLE SALT.
Every grain of food is made more
nourishing by using it in the
kitchen and at table.
Wholesale Agents: —Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
Eleven
Reasons
Why sell
so many Rings.
; ‘Fx and R”
Diamond
Half-Hoop
Ring,
A Marvel
of Value,
£5 as.
Pink Tourmaline
and Golden Sapphire
and 2 Diamonds,
£5 ss.
Fine Diamonds
and Whole Pearl,
£l3 13s.
Special
Diamonds,
Our Own
Make,
£lB 18*
1. We are the actual makers.
2. We make them in our own workshops.
3. W r e buy the gems in the rough.
4. We cut the gems.
5. We save all intermediate profits.
6. We are ring-setters.
7. We make only 18cfc. gold gem rings.
8. We are gem experts.
9. We carry a large stock of unset stones.
10. We receive them direct from the mines
11. We sell at London Prices.
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS
The Oldest Jewellery-
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street,
Belah,” about whose reliableness The
Bulletin can’t say :
I spent a week among the bush fires in Riverina lately,
and found comedy mixed with the tragedy. In these
days most of the farmers are insured on terms well calcu-
lated to promote outbreaks of fire. A policy is usually
issued on the basis of two-thirds of the yield, the farmer
Deing allowed to make his own estimate of what the crop
will go to the acre. So when a wheat crop that is insured
as going 4 bags is actually only worth 1J to 2, it seems
natural, m view of the cost and bother of harvesting, that
a fire should happen in that locality—through phos-
phorus, the carelessness of the swaggie, or the gratifica-
tion of some grudge against the nearest squatter. I saw
one agriculturist sitting on his harvesting machine for
10 minutes after the flames had reached his paddock. He
remained there, cheerfully urging the horses to “ger-
rup, until his ample whiskers started to singe—then he
jumped off the machine and lied to the nearest
waterhole. As he ran, he was smiling at the humor
of the situation ; but when he came out of the hole he
smiled no more. The wind had chopped right round, and
the greater part of an indifferent crop was saved. In a
corner of one of the Riverina stations, swept by the fire,
I came on a man whose farm had not been touched.
My word,” I remarked, “ you were lucky.” “ Lucky be
damned 1” he responded sharply. “ This blanky crop is
insured for five bags to the acre, and it is only going
two.” On the same run a lot of men were trying to put
out a fire that was consuming sundry more or less dilapi-
dated outbuildings, when the manager appeared on the
scene. “Here,” he yelled; “come out of that, you
6 fools. Those ramshackle places belong to the in-
surance co. Get to work on that fence there ;it ain’t
insured.” On the whole, it is to the credit of the country
community generally that not more than a couple of
hundred outbreaks of fire occur in this part of Riverina
alone during January !
“San ßemo” : “Drifter ”(B. 11/l/’o6)writes
about excited Chinamen going amok so readily.
I have had an extensive experience of Chows.
Have often as a boy careered across this continent
with a frenzied Chow, armed with chopper, reap-
ing hook or hoe, on my heels. Hard to say what
would have happened if the Celestial had run me to
earth. He never did. When a hatchet-armed
Chow is breathing celestial curses on one’s back
hair, the time a boy can put up over a measured
mile would paralyse Shrubb. I remember the
narrowest squeak I had whilst acquiring a melon.
A Chow swooped down upon me with a reaping
hook. I flew a five-foot paling fence like a bloom-
ing bird and lit out for Westralia. That
Chow just said “My cli!” and froze in his tracks;
at least so my pals informed me next week when
we put a rule over the fence. They wanted to
nominate me for the high jump at the lqcal show
but I couldn’t clear over 4ft.—not for one thousand
sovs. What a time we led those Chows ! At
Rockhampton, one day a fleet and infuriated
Chow ran us to earth. Some of us jumped into
the large open drain and ran in along the sewer.
John left his boots on the bank and dived after us.
One of our chums on top came along and traded
those boots to a passing Chow for some fruit ;
then stood off and witnessed a lovely mill when
the rightful owner came on the scene.
• * • •
“Olim” ; Recently at Farrar’s Creek,
W.Q., I saw scores of emaciated cats making
their way along a rabbit-proof fence. They were
descendants of a number of felines liberated in
the Far West some years ago to destroy rabbits.
But cats prefer even snakes and lizards, as food,
to bunny. At Thunda Creek (Q.) saw a number
of rabbits, several cats and a hawk, prisoners
together in a rabbit-trap; yet the cats, though
starving, made no attempt to prey on the rabbits.
Dogs soon tire of rabbit flesh, and if long confined
to this diet will starve. Have seen drovers’ dogs
in badly-infested rabbit country pass the rodent
with a glance of contempt. By the way, a
rabbiter on Cooper’s Creek told me that
he once dug three rabbits, a carpet-snake
and a cat out of one burrow. Rabbit experts out
West assert that a cat-rabbit cross is becoming
frequent, the creature possessing much of the
cat’s climbing powers. [No animal hybridisation
has ever been known between creatures further
removed from each other than different species of
the same genus, as horse-ass, dog-wolf, etc.
Further removed are animals of different genera,
and further still those—like the cat and the
rabbit—of different orders, so that the alleged
cross is a treble impossibility.—Ed. B.]
* * * *
“ Nym ” : Husky Bill had piloted his
bullock-team to the siding at Codville, with a
badly-stacked load of chaff, and, while he was
turning his team to get close into the truckway,
the load overturned. Bill’s troubles ! It was 119
in the shade, and Bill’s bullocks will stand for a
fortnight; so he went to view life through the
bottom of a pewter-pot. A little later the local
J.P., walking through the goods-sheds, caught
sight of the chaff upheaval. With a yell he
gathered a score of wheat-lumpers, and they
started feverishly to lift the stuff off the driver,
who was supposed to be underneath the heap.
When the toilers had got pretty well to the
bottom, Bill rolled up with a wild look in his eye
and wanted to know why the blanky blank they
were meddling with his blanky chaff.
* * * *
“ Stoush ” : Said the little man in the
corner —“Talkin’ ’bout narrer ’scapes, I had a
close call myself wunst. Wuz workin’ on a
thrasher, and somethin’ went wrong with the
drum. Bein’ the smallest man on the job, I got
inside her to fix it, and the durned driver started
the injun without Mowin’ the whistle. Fust
bloomin’ thing I lcnowed was a bloke up on the
straw-stack, sayin’ ‘Good Gawd, it’s Johnston.’
Didn’t have a button left on me cloes.”
“ Wyung ” : Re the so-called “ pea-rifle,”
why misdescribe this deadly weapon in such a 1 tarm-
less looking term? The pea rifle is an extinct
form of firearm. It was the title of a diminutive
smooth bore gun that an ordinary dried pea just
fitted. The charge was a small pinch of powder,
loose, and without wads, and the thing was harm-
less at 20 paces. The ’22 calibre rifle of to-day is
deadlier than any 60-guinea shot gun—because of
its range. It takes six sizes of cartridge, as a rule,
and with the largest can let daylight through an
inch board at 500yds. The ordinary “ ’22 short”
cartridge can bore a hole in a man’s heart or lungs
at 200yds.—clothes and all. Motherly persons
who want to buy Tommy a present ought to be
protected from the “pea rifle.” I know of at
least one case in which Australia lost a citizen
through misdescription of the deadly “ ’22.”
Why, out here in E. Gippsland the pelt-hunters
are using the repeating ’22’s in their business,
instead of the ’3s’s and AO’s of old.
* * * *
“ Prooshan ” : The lyre-bird is fast dis-
appearing from the Tumbarumba districts owing,
it is thought, to foxes. The bird was pretty safe
from extinction so long as he had merely the gun
to fear—it was so very hard to get a-shot at him ;
but Mr. Fox knows too much for even the wary
menura.
The gales which have pervaded Maoriland
lately are attributed to sunspots mostly. At any
rate the islands appear to be on a very-exposed
section of the globe. In Southern Wairarapa
they tether the children to the back door in the
infant schools, and much skill has to be exercised in
grain sowing. It is broadcast about two paddocks
to windward of the ploughed section, such precau-
tion being necessary to prevent the next-door
neighbor reaping a dishonest harvest. Most crops
grow lying down, and will find it hard to change
the habit when things resume the normal—if they
ever do.
♦ » * »
“8.H.D.”: A new sort of fly has re-
cently made an appearance in these parts (Donald,
Vic.). It is smaller than the common house-fly,
almost white in color, and as persistent as an in-
surance agent. The bite is like a prick from a
red-hot needle.
* * * *
“Butter” : Struck a shanty once on my
way to Morven Hills (M.L.) about the same time
as a rabbiter with a fair cheque and a big thirst.
Handing Bung his cheque, he started to load with
up-country whisky, and soon lost his bearings.
About daylight next morning I heard Bung talk-
ing with him outside my window. “ Give me one
drink more. Why I only struck here yesterday,
and my cheque can’t be done yet.” " Yesterday ! ”
yelled Bung. “ Strike me lucky ! but it was yes-
terday week you come here, and you’ve stuck-up
seven quid; "and not another drink will you get
here ! ”
“ A.P.R.” : The telephone in some bush
districts is becoming notorious as a source of dis-
cord. Very often a number of stations have
private lines, all connected to a main telegraph
line. The resultant induction is so strong that, by
listening at the receiver, one can hear every word
telephoned, even by people 60 miles away. In
the solitude of the bush, the squatteresses chatter
away all day on the ’phone, and those who aren’t
speaking are very often listening “on the sly.”
Consequently Mrs. Merino doesn’t speak to Mrs.
Crossbred because she heard her telling Mrs.
Woolly that Mr. Merino was always ordering
whisky from the town, by telephone, and that he
must be getting gay, &c. By practice, listeners
can be detected by the click of the receiver coming
off the hook ; if the “click” is loud, it must be
the nearest station, and so on. Thus new compli-
cations arise, for Mrs. Merino will say something
specially designed for Mrs. Crossbred, who is
blissfully unaware that Mrs. Merino knows she is
listening. On one occasion a horse-fancier began
excitedly telling his friend the peculiar symptoms
of his steed’s illness, when he was dismayed by a
chorus of indignant, shocked “clicks,” as seven
receivers were simultaneously hung up by females
who couldn’t stomach the details.
* * * *
Adelaide fruit-growers have been trying a
graft of apples on almond trees. The apples so
grafted had a strong almond flavor.
MADONNA IN THE
WINESHOP...
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Low-pillared, and dark, and Etruscan—
Where causeway and alley-way meet —
The house of our wine-vending Tuscan
Fronts, beetle-browed, bold to the street.
On his window a blazoned Bacchante
(She is clasped by a tortuous vine)
Sits throned on a cask of Chianti;
Once, callow, we yearned for his wine,
Enough—
We have proved it, O villainous wine !
I have run the mad round of the glasses
(Though cursed be vintner and vine !) —
I have drunk of the pleasure that passes,
For the gladness that yet may be mine.
Though our Tuscan is old, yet like water
Stream the saint-ridden oaths from his mouth,
But the sudden white smile of his daughter
Is warm as the seas of the South
(Far out),
As the still middle seas of the South.
When she poises, our broad-browed Madonna —
Unwitting, calm cameo-face,
Of the circled sun-halo upon her —
In the coign of the wide window-place
Where, lissome and sweet, she reposes
(Ah, the little chain-purse at her hip !).
VIC.
One could fancy a fragrance of roses
In the bud of her beautiful lip—■
(Speak low !)
In the red petalled line of her lip.
I have heard—in the hush of the laughter,
Through the dusk of the darkening room
Where the fretted smoke swings to the rafter—
Throb out to the captivate gloom
The secretest sweets, in her playing,
Of all inarticulate things,
Vague, subtle, voluptuous, swaying
Our souls to her mandolin strings;
(Breathe soft!)
To the face o’er the mandolin-strings !
Drink ! comrades in mirth, and through malice
Still true —(the lamp dies at the door,
From the throat of the overturned chalice
The red lees drip down to the floor)
“To the glow of the glamor that lingers
On the half-curtained eye and the lip,
To the flexing of supple brown fingers,
And the little chain-purse at her hip—
(Farewell)
To the girdle and purse at her hip—
Ohe !
Ah, the little chain-purse at her hip ! ”
JAS. A. ALLAN.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
v —.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name aiul
address must appear on .1 [S. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Roma : Sixpence to pay on your last screed,
because you had sealed your envelope P.O.P. : Yes;
you are entitled to charge ; 4d. to pay on your batch of
copy, and it was worthless Tas. : No acknowledgment
is made of pars in this column ; sometimes a par is held
for some time before use... .Florence: Pretty little album
verse, of the sort Tub Bulletin doesn’t print The
Moocher: Will set a guard on your pen-name for the
future... .F. (Tas.): The average politician has to patro-
nise a cheap hotel because he can’t afford a better.
Public men are very poorly paid ; they seldom have
private means, and most of them are honest E.F.H.G.:
There seems a dreadful lot of after-glow wandering about
this summer ; your after-glow poem was the sixth this
week The Cockney : Just misses M.B. : We’re
getting tired of the constant pros and cons as
to Tait’s' railway management. One of these
days we’ll get a man who can tackle the sub-
ject with an open mind to report Nym: In
short, because the man is dead and wrote good
poetry we should hypocritically represent him as a cold-
tea man of smug respectability ! Can’t follow that argu-
ment at all Koala : It would need to be “ad agricolas
and the farmer who allowed his “fat kine to wander in
clover fields” would find them bursting cn his premises.
Those are blemishes on your bucolic ; but you have a
verse instinct and may do better later... .Matchbox :
You are one of many correspondents to remark this week
that the frank exposure of feminine limbs at the seaside
does not conduce to “ romance ” —or whatever other
euphemism you care to use. But that's no new
discovery. Do you recollect Burton’s cure, in the
“Anatomy of Melancholy,” for love-sickness?
A Morris: No special merit to compensate for the
mechanical jig-jog of the verse.... Allan L. : Void and
ineffective Nym: Fish-yarn dull Amberite : They
were dealt with in the “Answers” column 25/l’/06.
Verses last sent are inferior.... Wil K. : Smartly written,
but the reflections are trite and the satire stale
C.C.H. : “ Joe” has good points—also bad ones Victor
E. :No literary merit... .Mary M. : Not enough in it
Japhet: Interest too purely 10ca1... . A.P.R. : Has life and
movement, but lacks skill... .Old Campaigner : Too much
spread-out. Should have gone into one-eighth the space...
O.J.K. : No. Situation far too familiar. Would require
a genius to write that up well enough for acceptance.
... .M.E.F. (Vic.) : Hardly up... .T.J.R. (Rhodesia): Not
in our line Esther: Thanks for good wishes. One par
usable.. i .Krex : The foundation of a story, but not dealt
with dramatically... .Cuss : Doesn’t follow that because
the rabbit is a pest in thinly-populated Australia it
will be a pest on thickly-populated islands ;
indeed, all the inferences are the other way
L. Col. : You’re miserable ; but why make Tue Bulletin
miserable, too? “ O let me live, or cease to be,” you cry
five times. Well, what’s stopiping you? Wallet: That
writer has been answered....Snagger : Your metrical
reply to G.H. has more sense than skill... .Truly Rural :
Humorous, but rather clumsy Mrs. G. : “Frincess”
is too, London JouRNAL-ish for B R. M‘G. P. :
Crudely melodramatic.... A.S. : Metre of “ Babel ” blocks
it. The other better, but we don’t care for parodies
G.H. : “ Winkler ” has more faults than merits Keon
T. : A feeble effort E.G.G. : Inferior workmanship
S.R.S. : Not a story ; just a fact, and rather a common-
place fact VI. N. : A good deal of promise, but not
quite up Frank H. : Some cleverness. Should suit
another paper Violet J. : Pretty album verse, and
that is all E.G. : Says nothing important L. Scott :
Kipling parody firmly declined... .E.H.C. : Boarding-
house humor has been exploited in these cols, by a much
stronger pen K.11.A. : Not up to the mark. One of
the troubles of our life is declining verse the sincerity
and good intention of which does not compensate for its
lack of skill G.C. : Difficult contract to write
poetry about a flea ..Sappho: Just jingle
S.P.B. : Too crude Nemo : Sorry, but earlier ones both
under mark. “Inspiration” better... .Dando : Would
be glad to know of the builders of your Auckland “ small
craft ” which rush round the harbor at the rate of 16
knots. Small craft in Sydney can’t get up to that speed
as a rule L.E.M. : Not even in these dog-days, when all
the world seems a vapor bath of grease, will such rhymes
as “ trim ” and “ in”and “ bricks”and “kids”slip through.
And, also, you haven’t yet discovered anything to make
even bad rhymes about....C. E. Glass: Hopeless
Unsuitable: Wideawake, P.C.H.G., P. 0., E.G., R.T.E.,
Jessie L., Gava, G. 8., E.D., F.H.C., A.S., M.S.H., A.E.S.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
M.S.C.: That rather bad drawing will be returned to you.
.... M.B.E. : Sorry you did not catch the worm D. H.:
Rather too crude P.S. : Just missed the mark... J.E. N. -
Just slithered through without catching on W.R.:
Your drawings may be high art; if so, they are wasted
on this unappreciative paper ; so we have returned them.
....G.B. :Do you really call them drawings? W.N. :
The bull’s-eye 'must have slipped; for you missed it....
B.M. : Sorry not up H.V.G. : Not good enough....
J.C. : Sketches and jokes both too crude for publication.
Jay: Shows some promise, but too crude as yet....
Unsuitable: W.E.J., F.J., N.J.H., R. 8., Cyril D., Walter
V., V.C.M., C.H.


the jap alliance— another unhappy marriage.
T HE PENALTY OF THE JAP ALLIANCE.
LONDO, Thursday.-Reute's Tokio corr espondent states that at a meeting of the Sectional Budget Committee of the Diet, Mr. Chishi, the Progressive leader, inquired whether as a result of the
Anglo-Japanese alliance, Japan intended to urge Great Britain to reform her army organisation. General Tera uchi (Minister for War) replied that he would do so at some future date!-Cable.
The Lordly Jap: “Now, look here, you white trash, I won’t stand any loafing on me. You do your work better or get!”
‘Let us now join in and sing “Rule Britannia!”)


j)is cJ SS ,rl *\
q</<>s'lT«»t Melt (
ineel7r?« M r H-CM.HoJr s*'d l/e
Ijijd noTTced %«re none.
\n London
I S2r/
\yz notes 'Jo «
on yoar trib
"jrae tfaT ?
I P<e Jj
[My
• L 1
"TbvT i
r M- ism
sjjob us p-v/e wo*<l<Y
*
. lire 4rp« s
howls
Wo-nVS
Jo s f As zp eVer'-
\\ r Reid is
boui'if/o
4Vou.ble<j
his S otA l 't®
tjis ihterVWet^
Cejl°»>
[ A ?, e l
y«|»res«^s
f* ,y& °
■A Scrfl« : V)‘TVT'^l e 'i^K l A
iivjtct. •
W J S»».-S '1 A °^ U '
0 r- T>7 ■ttje-
°j" 5
youiigwjan "b^Vc
b«e»» enr* iica.
Vj M . .W t +a T>e W< +»
*■*■**? m°« * '■^■'■ t y <* K 1 -
Stys
AjJgriii* W
lli'lcl/eci its
WAtfoon *to
M- SUrof
Unity - —~
Hop* so^
j We 'UjoagVf” if
W*3 i>oi*?o -t>
\t. 'Hjis OYJQ.}
"M 1 : W-H-Mnc tas
declined %uyre*na.
CpuA~ i J?
%)} OftlVvil:- L'***" ! 'UTe \
Constable. Olj! it", wo-ll 1 J
\Xsi*r IH t]o-r*wX i™ <Wei"tf»* jot yeX-
Ber*K- *’ Here's 'f or
'jou •
Iceberg (coUfyJ '■ J)oht" \hi So
lv«. o d +"nrw ey« on
ffeJcKaj ftlßics .'
VICTORIA’S TROUBLES.


Odol is the first and only
preparation for cleansing the mouth and teeth which absolutely
counteracts the causes of microbic fermentation. While all other
preparations are effective only during the few moments of application,
the antiseptic and refreshing power of Odol continues gently but
persistently for hours afterwards. This absolutely certain effect,
scientifically proved, principally due to an entirely new and unique
property of the preparation which causes it to penetrate the interstices
of the teeth and the mucous membrane of the mouth, to a certain
extent impregnating them and thus securing an after effect lasting for
hours which no other mouth-wash can produce, not even approximately.
Owing to this characteristic, peculiar only to Odol , the whole oi*al
cavity, to its minutest recesses, is completely freed from and protected
against all fermenting processes and injurious bacteria.
Price 2/6 a bottle of Odol, lasting for several months (the half-size
bottle 1/6). Of all Chemists. When Odol cannot be obtained locally
the Odol Chemical Works will forward a flask on receipt of 1/6, or
a large flask for 2/6. Write to the Australasian Representatives,
Hob. H. Barber & Co., George-street, Sydney. Box 1347.
WKBmSS
w
m
0
If
. I
fP
:
■
PERSONAL ITEMS.
One Victorian M.L.C. was for some years
a nigger minstrel in London.
Rev. Dr. Moulton surrenders the leader-
ship of Tongan Wesleyanism and the presidency
of the Tuvou College, to settle down in Sydney.
Saint Valentine’s Day, Feb. 14, is now an
obsolete festivity. It has, however, some Aus-
tralian interest. On Valentine’s Day, 1779, Capt.
Cook was murdered.
The Victorian Art Travelling Scholar-
ship has just been awarded to young artist
Cohen for bis picture “Reconciliation.” This
is the third year (out of seven) that a Jew
has captured the attractive scholarship.
It was because of some journalistic refer-
ences made by George Jacob llolyoake to Henry
I’arkes that the latter was so frequently alluded
to as one of the English Chartists, llolyoake was
mistaken. Parkes was never connected with the
Chartists. On the eve of receiving his K.C.M.G.
he publicly repudiated the honorable distinction.
Amongst the deaths of the week is an-
nounced that of the widow of Stephen George
Henty, one of the founders of Portland (Vic.) in
1836. The deceased lady was a daughter of
Captain Pace. She was in her 90th year. Her
son, Richmond Henty, born in August, 1837, was
the first white man born in what is now the State
of Victoria.
HAROLD GREY AND V. J. DALEY.
From a photograph taken about 1886.
Apropos the jubilee of Melbourne Univer-
sity. At a meeting of squatters at Scott’s Hotel,
m the early Seventies, the question of the coming
price of wool was canvassed, prices were pro-
phesied, and Salmon ” Wilson —whose clip was
perhaps the largest—said he would give all over a
certain figure to some public institution. As a
result, he gave £30,000, to build Wilson Hall
within the University ground. So ran an old yarn,
anyway.
Davey Mitchell, of Cave Hill, Lilydale
(Vic.), known to fame as “Melba’s father,” is the
most versatile capitalist in Australia. He has a
butter factory of his own, and, in addition, manu-
factures bacon, wine, cement pipes, railways,
sawn timber, and vocalists.
Miss Catherine Helen Spence, 81 years of
age, proposes to stand again for a seat in the
Federal Parliament. Her intellect is bright and
clear, and enthusiasms fresh. Her mother, who
lived to 96, and was also political, retained unim-
paired faculties to the end.
Campbell-Bannerman’s name was ori-
nally Henry Campbell. The “ Bannerman ” of
his unwieldy surname came to him with much
money, under the will of an uncle. One of his
brothers, .T. A. Campbell, sat with the Conserva-
tives in the last Parliament.
Miss Violet Clarke, daughter of ex-Vic-
torian Governor Sydenham Clarke, was to have
made her professional debut at a recent concert
given by Melbourne tenor Walter Kirby. At the
last moment it was announced that she was unable
to appear. Miss Clarke’s platform name will be
“ Violette Londa.”
The autograph-hunter’s blind faith in some
people’s liking for useless work is pathetic. In a
Sydney rubber-stamp manufacturer’s price list
there is an item, “We do autographs, any style,
from 3s. lid.,” and, under, the bold signature of
“Ada Crossley” hit writer in the eye. That’s
what the autograph-hunter often gets—a rubber
stamp impression.
Tommy Bent has quietly wiped out his
agreement with Reuben Kyrle, a boom-time relic,
who cropped up as special advertiser of Bent in
the Western District. Among other things
Reuben flashed on his screen for the delectation of
bucolic audiences, wore full length (and width)
portraits cf Tommy Bent and Madame Melba.
They were presented together, as Victoria’s two
most celebrated singers presumably.
Dead last December, at Chico, California
(U.S.A.), William Straughan, an old Australian
mining man. He did a lot of mining in Victoria
in the early 70’s, and 27 years ago held a position
at Charters Towers (Q.). Later on he worked at
Etheridge, in the Malay Peninsula, Maoriland,
and W.A. He settled in Sydney some eight
years ago, and last year visited California to
inspect some mining interests there.
i The chief weakness of
Hugh Watt, English M.P., sent
| to gaol charged with attempting
| to buy an assassin, seems to have
I been a total incapacity to judge
whether a man was a good
“mark” or not. In Australia,
some years back, he proposed to
try the effect of a present in con-
nection with some Government
concession he wanted ; and the
Minister he selected to “ap-
proach ” was, of all people, C. C.
Kingston ! Watt was literally
and very promptly thrown out
of the office. In his recent nego-
tiations for getting his wife
killed, he hired a First Murderer
who took all instructions, and
all fees that could be collected in
advance, and presently wired
“done” (as arranged) and col-
lected more money, and later
l on, being faced with the fact that
Mrs. Watt still lived, suggested
regretfully that he must have
■ killed the wrong woman. So
a Second Murderer was intro-
duced, and many more fees on
account were paid. Neither of
them ever went near the lady to
earn the pay. They were a
singularly dishonest lot of
assassins.
George Plaistowe Unwin,
N. S. W. Deputy-Postmaster-
General, now laying down har-
ness at 64, has been 45 years in
the postal service. His' father,
an English barrister, went into
practice as a solicitor on his
arrival in Sydney, and in con-
junction with Randolph Want,
ran a successful family law
business. Socially he cut a big
figure. He took over Craigend
House, in D.irlinghurst, now a
private hospital, but esteemed
a society centre in the early
times.
Mr. Tom Minn is now secretary of a new
Social Democrat Union which he has formed.
Commercial traveller H. M. Reeve, pro-
bably the oldest bagmin in the Commonwealth,
for he was 82, passed out at Rockhampton recently.
Fighting Dr. Lang brought him out to Sydney
from Scotland 55 years ago. He drifted to
Ipswich where he kept a store, but for the last 25
years he had been regularly on the road.
MA KING THE BEST OF IT.
1ST WRITER: “ Deuced rum, old chap, how
everybody remarks upon my likeness to Rud-
yard Kipling."
2ND WRITER: “ And mine to Shakspeare.”
1ST DITTO: “ Well, there's one thing to be said
for it—we need never let it enter into our
work. ”
Captain Buxton, A.D.C. to Gov. Talbot,
is son of the new British P.M.-G., Sydney
Buxton, and nephew of late S.A. Governor
Powell Buxton.. The aide, who is a subaltern in
the very swagger Rifle Brigade (a commission in
which used to be only possible by “nomination ”
from the old Duke of Cambridge), had the un-
pleasant experience of being shot through the
head in S’Africa. The warrior was placidly con-
suming cake during an interval of the fray when,
with a start of surprise, he noticed that a bullet
had unexpectedly emerged from the back of his
head via his mouth. It was, presumably, some
weeks before he faced another square meal, but
qtherwise he was not much damaged. The
incident at once suggested that he should become
an A.D.C.; and he did.
Death of circus proprietor Dan Fitz-
gerald, in Melbourne tlie other day, at the age of
46, wasn’t unexpected. He knocked up to a com-
plication of disorders some months back, and,
though cheerful to the end, knew a month ago
that his hour was fixed. Contrary to popular
belief, Dan was a Maorilander, not an Australian
lie was horn at Auckland (M.L.) in 1859. ather
dying when Dan was 11, the brothers had to
hustle for a crust on their own. Dan cultivated
the great Australian horse till what horse
and Dan didn’t know about each other wasn’t
worth knowing. In 1878, when about twenty, he
joined the sawdust co. of the (then) well-known
circus proprietor Burton, and thus got his first
experience of the business in which, later, he and
brother Tom were to evolve a new standard
When Burton died, Dan, in partnership with
lorn, took over the show. It was a very modest
programme at first 5 the whole outlay consisting
of a couple of waggons, not many more horses, a
trick pony, and a goat. But from that small
beginning, in 1878, came the gorgeous show of
later days.
The photo, of Mrs. Mercy Gregory (pub-
lished in this issue), who was slaughtered in her
bedroom at the Royal Hotel, Sydney, shows her
as she appeared about the time when she got a
divorce in Melbourne from her first husband, one
Kichard laylor. Sweet-voiced, sweet-looking and
brainy, she was then in all respects an admirable
specimen of womanhood, and a sympathetic Jus-
tice Hodges on hearing her tale of woe, decided
that she had been much too good for Taylor He
rie< l- her_a * irl of 19—at Rochdale (Eng.) in
1882. Six weeks after the marriage he left for
Victoria, as had been pre-arranged. He found a
billet at one of the Geelong mills. Within a few
months lus wife came to join him, and at
Geelong her first child was born. Then they
went to Maoriland, and there, after Taylor
had found brief employment in sundry
places, he left his young wife. Mrs.
lercy Taylor had the two children on her
hands, ohe got back to Victoria, paying her
debts and passage money with the proceeds of
some goods that had been sent out by her friends
in Dngland, and for the next seven years sup-
ported herself and children, firstly by millinery
work, and afterwards by acting as housekeeper
and assistant to a milliner at West Melbourne, who
gave the youngsters a home with their mother.
Mercy Taylor, at the age of 31, had fairly earned
her divorce. As a free woman she sailed to the
We3t with some letters of recommendation, and
presently she opened a private hospital at Oool-
gardie. Probably she was a Heaven-born nurse,
bhe undoubtedly looked it. In Ooolgardie she
made a happy marriage with Mr. Gregory, at that
time an auctioneer and estate agent, but nowadays
the licensee of the local Union Club Hotel.
Holyoake leaves a copious autobiography
and another work called “ Bygoties.” Native of
Birmingham, and wrought in the Eagle foundry
there. The best of his anecdotes is about Francis
Place and the Duke of Wellington, as Premier
Place and other Laborites waited on Wellington to
urge Reform. The Duke said : “ You seem to have
intelligent heads on your shoulders. Keep them
there.” Place then got out his famous placard
“To Stop the Duke, go for Gold.” Caused a run
on the Bank of England, and the Duke’s retire-
ment as Premier.
Recently-deceased Hugh Nelson lost hope
some time before the end. The first sign of despair
was a desire to test his weight daily. The reduc-
tion was painfully regular. Ex-Premier Morgan
heard of this (the old man harped upon it while
they conversed). So Morgan saw the owner
of the scales. For a while Nelson noticed he was
one pound heavier each day. There was a shadow
of hope in his countenance for a time. But lie
discovered the dodge. Then the sadness deep-
ened, and the old chap faded off.
The death of Johnny Vane in Cowra
hospital ends the career of a gang that terrorised
the Goulburn and Lachlan districts forty years
ago. Ben Hall, leader of the gang, had given up
bushranging when he was treacherously mur-
dered. He had asked a friend with whom he
placed money to give it back, so that he might
quit the country ; but the friend, a model of
thrift, informed the police of Hall’s hiding place.
Hall got no show. On coming out of his tent to,
as he thought, meet his friend, he was riddled
with over 30 slugs.
At the forty-second general meeting of the
Castlemaine (Vic.) Brewing Co., held recently,
“Nick” Fitzgerald, M.L.C., announced his
retirement, having completed 50 years of brewery
management. Fitzgerald’s father was a well-
known brewer in Galway, Ireland. The son
obtained honors at Trinity College and studied
for the Bar; but later on the other bar called
more loudly, so, coming to Victoria in 1859, lie
and his brother established the Castlemaine
Brewery. He climbed as high as to get into the
Federal Convention which N.S.W. (through
Henry Parkes) called in 1891—the Convention
wherein Hori Grey had an honored place, and
J. M. Macrossan blazed out more brilliantly
than even S. W. Griffith, his colleague from the
North.
INSTINCTIVE AUSTRALIA.
REPUTABLE OLD GENT: “If you can tell me
where Mr. Jones lives, my hoy, I'll give you
sixpence.”
SPONTANEOUS URCHIN : “ Gam, git! You’ve got
a summons for the bloke.”
Bent s Cabinet has offered a Supreme
Court Judgeship to Icicle Irvine, and the Icicle
has declined. Argus says the refusal springs
from Irvine’s determination to play a big game in
Federal politics. Possibly the most effectual way
of securing Irvine’s disappearance would be to
send him into the Federal Parliament, where
several Vic. politicians of the same stamp and
type have been sunk out of sight. Anyhow, Bent
knew Irvine’s mind, and the offer of the judgeship
was made only that the Icicle might have the
honor and glory pf declining. Refusing so big a
boon carries a good deal of kudos with it, and Irvine
will now stand out as the disinterested patriot
who declined a fat, swagger, and most desirable
billet m order to devote himself to the task of
smashing Socialism and whooping for Preferential
Trade in the Federal Parliament. Vic. people
are to be congratulated on Irvine’s refusal. There
are too many cold Conservatives administering
warm democratic laws in Australia.
KINGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The 11 King ” of Denmark, died last week.— Cable.
Say not a King is dead. Kings died long since.
They are but puppets in a foolish play,
Acted by brainless lordling, petty prince,
Shows shunned by Truth for fear that she should wince,
Or, made aghast with anger and dismay,
Stretch forth a hand, and sweep them all away 1
The King—the Cunning—He who Can ! No throne,
Gaudy with gilt and tinsel, holds him now ;
Phantoms are housed in palaces of stone,
Haggard, mud-worn, with wishes not their own.
Can They bid great wheels spin? They guide the
plough ?
They light or darken any human brow?
PRIAM.


Anthony Hordern’s Sale
DELIGHTING THE TOWN.
SALE CATALOGUE sent POST FREE TO ANY COUNTRY ADDRES .
ss
BSig
NEB
■
1
II
l >’
m
Anthony Hordern Sons
only universal PALACE EMPORIUM, SYDNEY.
PROVIDERS & r 1
“A.C.L.” : Is it a fact that newly bom
piccaninnies are white? A little while back a
young lubra here gave birth to a baby. She came
to me for clothes, and said “ Him white once, all
the same that fellow,” pointing to a little child
near by. Have been frequently assured by folks
who claim to have seen, that the newly born black
baby is white at birth, but the color gradually
deepens till in a few days the piccaninny is the
color of its parents. [Children of the col °J ed
races have very much the same lobster appe -
ance as white children at birth. 1 hey re not
white, nor black, but red.—Hd. K.J
The Kidston Government lias decided,
though it wants the money badly, to allow a
rebate up to the full amount of pilotage and hal '-
bor dues on steamers taking away cargoes of
Queensland coal. Another sample of how our
great natural resources have to be coddled. I
order to import we have to export something, and
in Australia the something has to be raw products ;
and in order to get a footing in the market for
raw products, the railways have to carry wheat
for a trifle, and wool for a song, and now coal is •
to go out without helping to pay interest on the
cost of the harbor works it benefits by. Ye t the
importer continues to tell the ancient Action that
it is only the Protectionist who coddles trade
and industries.
Ceylon District Court Judge Weiumann
speaks of the Afghan or Pathan moneylenders
who infest Ceylon as “ a pest and a danger to
society ,5 owing to their shocking usury. re
these of the same breed as the Afghans who, m
Australia, won’t take interest on their money in
the Savings Bank ?
Some extracts from Gibbon’s “ Decline
and Fall ” showing how history repeats itself :
Of great interest and significance is his (Roinanus’)
law of 935 hy which he attempted to put
stoD to the growth of the enormous estates, which,
especially in Asia Minor, were gradually absorbing the
small proprietors and mining agriculture. These lati-
fundia which increased in spite of all legislation, were an
economical evil, a political danger, and even
armv as the provision for soldiers largely consisted in
unaiienated lands, and these were swallowed up by the
rich enormoug estates devoted tO
pasturage 'which were ruining the small fainiei and
agriculture and transforming the provinces into the
feudal domains of a few P° werf ul nia^. lybesßoth
Nicephoros and Tzimisces were fully alive to the evil.
. . . Andronicus made a serious and resofute attempt
to rescue the empire from its decline on th .
which had been followed by Basil 11. wu^fvthe
his death The objects of Andronicus were to purilj tne
aLTnistration and to remedy the great economic* ev 1
which was ruining the empire-the growth of' vast- estate-
He was consequently detested by the anstociatic ana
official classes. . . .
“ Quidam ” : Don’t know the reason, but
there is a difference between the situation of bush
houses in Vic. and in N.S.W. and Queensland.
In Queensland and N.S.W., wherever 1 have
been the homesteads are generally near the mam
roads • in Vic., at any rate m the parts I know,
they are anything from a quarter to a mile away.
The consequence is that in Vic., with the densest
• population, biking or motoring along many country
roads is as lonely a game as one could get at.
ti 11mvv cy 1\ <iy n i Australians possess a
faculty of accurately describing a man by means
of a peculiarity. I was asked by a stranger to a
Queensland town, of which I was a resident
whether I knew a tailor there whose name the
questioner had forgotten, but who, he said, had
a face like a deserted diggings ! The phrase
enabled me to at once direct him to the shop ot
the individual who had a smallpox-pitted coun>
tenance.
m
nuffliiiiiiiiiiihinmn
& digestive
VEfiESALIS
TABLE SftLT
WHICH jS SALT
With Vegetable Virtues.
DOES NOT BLACKEN SILVER.
Does not Cake. <
USE IT WHEN COOKING
VEGETABLES instead of
OBJECTIONABLE SODA.
Wholesale Agents
WEST wa!sON LI BROS., Fremantle.
VI ROBERT _ NELSON & CO.. Melbourne.
NEW W S °H T ARIELL E rCO., Sydney.
OUE O E We n r D n~ey & Co., Brisbane.
....... -real ANO-ELLIS & WANTON, Wellington.
SOUTH AuItRALIA-JAMES ROBIN & CO.. Adelaide.
Made to Measure.
In WHITE, BROWN, or KHARKI
WHITE, BROWN, or DARK-GREY CKAbil
In ASSAM SIEK, 37s 6d.
the big block,
FINNEY, ISLES & GO.
POST FREE THROUGHOUT THE
COMMONWEALTH OUR
*BIG BLOCK* Sac Coat and Trousers
17/6
PATTERNS and SELF=MEASUREMENT FORMS.
Send for
EDWARD and
ADELAIDE STS.
BRISBANE.
. * MARYBOROUGH, Q. t MURWILLUMBAH, N.S.W. ;
And « 27 iyjji ton street, LONDON, E.C.
■
ill
it
frfrffiT| ?gggi
\Ss
ggg
MEDLOW BATH HYDRO, Blue Mountains, n.s.w.
THE ONLY WINTER RESORT IN AUSTRALIA.
T T is well Known .ha. the climate of Sydney SSE
1 that the Blue Mountam air is best of s P’ U Sul MEDLOW BATH HYDRO
sometimes snowy, but sun, frost or■snow is Ithroughout;1throughout; resident doctor ; baths and
is a Health Home, electrically lightedL and he . required ;an entertainer for general
' c o, ~ vmy
G * ° U GO, FOR A BENEFICIAL HOLIDAY.
V usi ne«i°l Sg mo^y y0 at r the°eipen:e a liXon your
a good investment. TERMS From £2 2s. upwards.


-* <O-
fl'
mm
DELICATE & PERSISTENT
WHOLESALE ONLY
MIDDOWS BROTHERS. SYDNEY
MELBOURNE BRISBANE PERTH & WELLINGTON^
H/GH-CLASS COMFORTS.
BUCHANAN * OTARD-DUPUY
WHISKY
BRANDY
QUALITY and AGE.
The
ew
Corsets
For Distinction of
SHAPE, DESIGN,
and STYLE. . . ♦
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, February 6, 1906.
My Dear Arint. —
One of the most popular men in this State is
announced to put on the matrimonial handcuffs.
He, Mr. Reggie Allen, a son of the late Wigram
Allen,- is engaged to Miss Muriel Grubb, a Tas-
mamenne, daughter of the owner of Strathroy
station, Launceston. Bridegroom-elect is nearing
the middle forties, and the Chosen Girl is
twenty or thereabouts. He used to be one of the
farm of Allen, Allen and 'Hemsley, solicitors, but
left it awhile ago. He keeps a racing stud, and
can give the world the easy-money gaze.
Another engagement that has made a loud
splash in the society pond is that of Mr. George
MacArthur Onslow, of Camden Park, to Miss
Violet Gordon, of Menar Station, a noted place
on the southern line. She, also, is a quite young
girl, and used to be round considerably with the
1. A. Dibbs girls.
Camden Park might be described as the
Chatswortli, or show place of N.S.W. It dates
back well before the Conquest—by rum and
religion—of the Australian native. Thatis to say,
Jie no;..''' • a hundred years old. Beside
Camden, Ru heroawood, for instance, its Victorian
rival, is a mere mushroom structure of vesterday
evening It is impossible, with the naked eye, to
discern the Park, but the house itself is there all
right built in the solid, wide-verandahed, por-
ticoed style of the American Southern “colonial”
residence. Ihe estate (kindly refrain from the
word “station”) boasts some appallingly blue-
bloodud stock, human and otherwise, about4ooacres
o orchard, 1 50 acres of asparagus beds, an expanse
of flower garden which necessitates a perfect
army of expert gardeners, and other luxuries
of the kind. In fact it is a credit to the
heart-broken old mother State, and should console
her for Victorian conspiracies, Carruthers, So-
cialistic legislation, and many other of her
miseries, could she only be brought to view the
matter in a proper spirit.
t 9 atll A? n i>ark was originally granted to old
John Macarthur; and there, no doubt, were
hatched many of those schemes “agin the Govern-
ment” of the day (i.e., Mr. Bligh) which subse-
quently caused Macarthur to be fired out of the
colony. It comes to the Onslow family by mar-
riage with the combative old settler’s descendants.
WANTED, young Refined GIRL as Nursery
, GOVERNESS (ENGLISH accent), take entire
charge children.
That’s from a morning daily. Some of the girls
who apply will probably have the low London
twang, ; incorrectly known as “The Australian
accent.” But they won’t know it, and will on
its account fail. Probably the girl who wins
will have a silly Oxford bleat which is supposed to
be truly English and aristocratic, and of which she
will be deeply and conceitedly conscious. Taking
them all in all, most Australians speak far more
correctly than English people of the same station
in life. But a twang crops out sometimes, and a
curious thing is that often one member of a well-
educated and “all advantages” family will fail in
accent and pronunciation while the other members
will be faultless. I know a girl with a Uni. degree
(not of this State) who habitually says <jit , ketch,
anythink. Other members of her family do not
sin in like-wise, but seem not to notice her lapses.
That fine looking, decorative pair of American
artists, Maud Amber and Winfield Blake, leave
here for a season of three months or more in
Manila, China and Japan. They go late in March
and may. return to this city, where the lady goes
out to buy her own green corn to hand to the hotel
chef, and where clients say to their dressmakers
“ Can you give me a figure like Maud Amber’s ? ”
Americans sojourning in Sydney hostels ever
yearn for the green boiled-and-buttered corn of
their own country.
Maud Jeffries' portrait as she appears in one of
the “situations” in “The Sign of the Cross” has
been used by an English memorial statuary firm
as a design for a tomb figure. In this-photo-
graph the actress is pictured dressed in classic
robes, and carrying a long wooden cross and a
lantern. There is nothing gloomy about the sug-
gestion. “Weeping Angels” and other signs of
despair are “off,” and emblems of hope are “in ”
as grave adornments. We take our pleasures
sadly and our burials cheerfully.
The Jeffries-Knight Co., by the way, will be
back at Sydney Palace theatre late in February
for a short season, in which light comedy mostly
will be staged—“ Comedy and Tragedy,” “ David
Garrick,” and “ Beaucaire ” are mentioned.
Julius Knight shortly after returns to England.
A bit of philosophy from “ The Princess Pris-
cilla’s Fortnight,” the latest book by the exiled
Australian lady who is known as the author of
“Elizabeth and Her German Garden.”
If it, were not considered awful, placed by the world
high up on its list of Utter Unforgivableness, there is, I
suppose, not a woman who would not at some time or
other have run away. She might come back, but she
woujd surely have gone. A wife who runs is pursued by
social ruin, it being taken for granted that she did not
run:alone. I know at least two wives who did run
alone. Far from wanting yet another burden added
to them by adding to their lives another man,
they were anxiously endeavoring to get as far as might be
from the man they had got already. The world, foul ha"
with the downcast eyes and lascivious lips, would not
believe it possible, and was quick to draw its dark mantle
of disgrace over their shrinking heads. One of them
unable to bear this, asked her husband’s pardon. She
EASING HER CONSCIENCE.
T OMMY: “ Boo-hoo! You ate all my orange !”
HIS SISTER : “ I'm sorry; but never mind, I’ll let you pinch me hard for it."
was a weak spirit, and now lives prostrate days, crushed
beneath the unchanging horror of a husband’s free for-
giveness. The other took a cottage and laughed at the
world. Was she not happy at last, and happy in the
right way ? Igo to see her sometimes, and we eat the
cabbages she has grown herself. Strange how the disillu-
sioned find their peace in cabbages !
A new terror has fallen on the life of man. If
He and She sing into a phonograph, with inter-
ludes in the song for expression of warm private
and personal regard, then He and She had better
mok to the records. A divorce case is pending in
Paris because a married woman and the other
inan sang the duet from “Romeo and Juliet,”
with interlardings of their own, into the phono-
graph. They let the record stray, and by-and-bye
the lady’s husband put it through the machine
in all innocence. Now there is to be a divorce
action, with the squeak as chief witness.
Punch editor’s youngest daughter, Miss Wini-
fred Burnand, appears to have rather more
humor about her than the parent, who is weekly
responsible for that somewhat dreary British
journal. She is 23, pretty, author of' a Drury
Lane pantomime booklet, and a political cartoonist
of some skill.
“ And drowsiness shall clothe a man with rags.”
lhat from the Bible Proverbs had been making a
refrain of itself in my brain all last hot Saturday
forenoon. I was certainly in training for rags of
the most abjectly tattery kind. Eighty per cent,
of boiling water in the atmosphere had made
most all Sydneysiders as drowsy as native
hears at noontide. I put my hot nose against a
plateglass shop window, and thought of Sydney
Jephcott’s article in that day’s Herald, “A
Hospice on Mouht Kosciusko.” He writes :
On the summit of the continent we should build an
establishment that would make available that wilderness
of charms to which the body of our people are yet quite
oblivious.
We most certainly should. Just then the Woman
Who Doesn’t Mind the Weather touched me on
the elbow sleeve, saying, “Don’t think of that
blouse, come inside and——” ‘‘ I wasn’t blousing, ”
I retorted, ‘ ‘ I was drowsing and thinking of those
prodigious clover stretches, and the nimble air,
and the view of the Snowy River plateau, 70
miles wide, and the dreamland-like Murray
Valley, six thousand feet below, and 40 miles
away. Didn’t you read ? ”
By this time we were inside the shop, where a
mighty sale of alleged bargains was in full ex-
plosion. Throngs of tired-looking women and
sleepy children were in the alleyways, but the
Woman Who Doesn’t Mind the Weather butted
a passage for us both, and we pulled up
at the blouse counter. “There you -are,” she
said; “take this one. Seven and six. Muslin
and Valenciennes. I’m wearing one like itit’s
cut on good lines ; only fault is the collar, but
nine out of ten neck-gears are failures. I like a
regular neck corset. You’ve heard of the collar'
corset invented by Bernhardt for herself ? I wear
a high linen collar. You might think a linen
collar on a fragile, transparent material like that
muslin the wrong thing, but it’s not. Mrs.
Jorkins has just come back with the chic-e st
clothes, and she has some sweet silk and
lace blouses, all fitted with plain linen collars and
cuffs. Sounds queer, doesn’t it ? Reminds me of
a slice of corned beef on the same plate with a
chrysanthemum meringue. You mean to say you
haven’t eaten a chrysanthemum meringue ! I am
surprised. The Northcotes’ chef invented it when
England made its second alliance with Japan.
There are five liqueurs in the cream——Hats ? No,
I won’t go with you to buy a hat. Even if you
do get a nice hat, you won’t put it on just the
right way. Have you got that blouse ? It is true,
as you say, there are several million of these blouses,
all exactly alike, and all costing seven-and-six,
but you can make it look as if you’d bought it a
thousand miles from here by running baby-ribbon
velvet all through the lace. Leave a little tassel
of the velvet just where all the lines of insertion
end. Come on, I haven’t a minute to waste. I
have just an hour to get to the bank for some
money, then to a registry-office for a nurse, have
lunch, and go to a poulterer’s to get him to send
up some green-cut bone and a crate of fowls. The
fowls and the nurse must catch the 5.25 mountain
train, and I shall have to get back from my
swim at Rose Bay, in time to see that the
fowls are treated better than the last lot. They
were left out on the platform in that last pelting
ram until the feathers were washed off their backs.
I sat up all next night steaming them, but the
whole lot died of cramp and pneumonia.”
By 12.30 we had got the nurse, the fowls, and the
money, and she had sandwiched in the time to try
on a ten-pound-ten imported model muslin frock.
I stood by fanning myself with the handle of my
umbrella. The muslin was, she said, a nine-
penny-ha’penny a yard material, but an artist had
designed it with its yoke of linen-thread lace and
embroidery, and its fans of itself round the
skirt, its lace-trimmed flounces and its frightfully
smart back. “If I bought it,” she explained to
the sales-lady, and at the words the latter smiled
wide as a bath, “I’d cut out that white silk lining
under the yoke and have it transparent, and I’m
not sure that I wouldn’t do away with .its silk
underskirt and just wear it over my lace petti-
coats.” She drew off a few paces, looked at the
creation on the bias, so to speak, with her head
on one side, and added : “ It’s shockingly droopy
and snuffy, isn’t it? Whoever buys it will need
to send it direct to the cleaners.”
Then we departed, and at the next full stop 1
left her, but 20 minutes later she rushed past me
in George-street, her cab-horse almost galloping.
She called to me to say she had cut her lunch
and swim in order to play golf. The Woman
Who Doesn t Mind the Weather certainly won’t
come to rags through drowsiness.
Mayor Allen Taylor has had an unpleasant
week-end. Bor the last month all the courtesy
calk made in the city were paid to him. Hundreds
of them. And on Thursday evening last the
ptomaine microbe visited in the disguise of tinned
salmon and stayed so long that on Friday morning
his was reckoned a serious case and morphia was
injected to relieve the acute pain. However the
danger’s past and Mr. Taylor is a well man once
more.
Mayoress s rooms at the Town Hall—those three
rooms that used to open into each other and get
congestion of the doorways on days when Mrs.
laylor had her minor At-homes—have been
thrown into one big salon, and are being decor-
ated in readiness for the resumption of the inva-
sions in March.,
Mr. Pat Osborne, the most important single
member of the important tribe, has started from
London for Australia. His widowed mother and
her daughters seem to be having that enviable
thmg known as a good time in London. Among
their recent excitements was a~ fancy-dress ball
given by the senior lady.
A very smart and good-looking Australian, just
now in London is Mrs. Pearson, who was one of the
Sydney beauties a decade ago. She owns a small
and ultra chic Sloane-street bonnet shop—which
is a calling worthy of even our haughtiest local
aristocracy, now that countesses and so on are
jostlingpone another at the same game. '
In the catalogue of weird out-back horrors
that recent tragedy at Warren is marked
with scarlet. On the day that the two young
Walsh children died of heat exhaustion, after
being lost in the bush with their mother for
some hours, the shade temperature was 116 deg
Mrs. Walsh started from her mother’s home for
her own home, eight miles distant, and because of
“some words” with her parent (so runs the report)
she took the latter’s horse out of the shafts of the
sulky in which she had travelled, put her children
into the vehicle, and started for home pulling the
trap-herself. Out-back, and in such weather con-
ditions, it sometimes only needs the “little
more” to set the feminine mind wild. If
Mrs. Walsh had been a man, she’d probably have
run amok. Her mother says her temper was un-
controllable, and that she departed on her via
crucis against all entreaties. She would seem to
be of a not uncommon feminine type that enjoys
gloats on, self-martyrdom if only her suffer-
ing acutely pains other people. " After pull-
ing the trap for about two miles—the mounting
sun smiting like flame—she left it, and with
her children started to walk. Into what a story
could one set the design of the tragedy ! The
blood-red heat of the poor creature’s environment
the white hot rage within herself. She loses her
way, leaves the children in the timber, and brings
water for them in her boots from a tank in the
plain a mile and a half distant. One child had
died, and, now partially demented, she took the
other and again set out. He also presently dies
and the horror trails into a mist of contusion as
the out-back Rizpah runs forward on the blister-
ing earth cooee-ing, and neighbors and her husband
come on the scene.
Talking of the feminine mind : In London
recently a woman leaped from Tower Bridge into
the river. She was rescued against her will. “ [
wish you would let me drown,” said she. ‘‘ lam
the mother of thirteen. Some soot came down
the chimney and spoilt the dinner.” She was the
mother of thirteen and had endured the affliction '
It took just the “little more ” in the form of a
lump of soot to drive her to Suipide.
The elder of the two sisters Skerrett—both
were presented at Court last season by Mrs.
Coghlan—was married last month in London to a
barrister named Conchie. The bride is a Wel-
lington (M.L.) girl. For long she kept a
“society” millinery shop in Bond-street. A
French Count gave her away, and she wore a
beautifully embroidered princess robe of white
cloth. Captain Nelson Hood Was best man, so
apparently it was a stylish marriage, and the pair
will keep a carriage.
Mr. “ Wallington ” Layton’s value to the Town
Hall'fall Poppies has been recognised in a mild
change of the title under which he earns his crust.
Instead of being merely known, as heretofore, as
Chief Clerk, he is now Deputy Town Clerk, and
his salary is raised with the designation. Mr.
Layton went to a Town Hall clerkship on leaving
school 20 years ago.
A correspondent tells me that Katoomba is
overrun with girls in cambric frocks and mush-
room hats. A stream of them is constantly trip-
ping towards Echo Point to gush soulfully over
the floating mists in the dim valleys, or the
bright, lone evening star that gleams above tower-
ing Mt. Solitary, beyond The Pass. There is a
lamentable scarcity of Man. When in evidence
He is usually laden with a beaming, self-satisfied
expression, a weighty picnic, hamper, and the
care of a bevy of damsels. Heard of a mild
adventure that befell some friskers who are
cooling off in a cottage, near one of the valleys,
with an easy-going chaperon. Owing to scarcity
of water they decided, one warm night, to have a
dip in the pellucid creek near by. With lighted
lanterns, like the Wise Virgins on their Pilgrimage,
they crept through the star-lit bush and finally
plunged into the stream. Whilst the delightful
splash was in full dash’the Naiads were horrified
by the sound of masculine voices coming towards
them. One girl hastily threw a dark garment over
the lanterns, and they huddled trembling in the wet
rushes. But the men merely crossed the stream,
after taking a deep drink, some 20ft. lower down.
Then the startled nymphs bolted into their,
kimonos and wrecked their lanterns against stumps
in a wild giggling race back to the cottage.
Mayoress Allen Taylor and Mrs. Thompson
(Miss Margaret Harris’s niece) are thanking those
who helped with the Thirlmere Home fate. The
credit balance of £lOO7 is just splendid, and the
figures rather staggered those who had remarked
that the fete was not as well attended as it de-
served to be. Donations to the fete and the result
of the house-to-house collections bring the sum up
to its plump proportions, and Mrs. Thompson and
co-workers expect that, by the time all the pro-
mised donations are in, they will have between
three and four thousand pounds.
Concerning bathing-clothing: daughter of a
Sydney Somebody paddles in a costume of scarlet
stockingette, with an embroidered spider on the
knee. Week ago two ladies were ordered out of
the long wash oi Australasian seas at Manly
Beach. And —it is hard to believe—it was
the male bathers who were shocked by their
inadequate costumes —cellular-*cloth vests and
knickers. “When the material was quite wet,”
complained a father of nine, “ the wearers seemed
to be clothed only in clinging mosquito curtains.
And one of them wasn’t young, either.” It is
awfully difficult to get becoming bathing cos-
tumes, but a friend writing to me from Cronulla
Beach says of two girls who are with her, “ They
make a great sensation in the breakers, for as
well as- being perfectly formed they have the
very latest bathing outfits. Silk stockings and
indiarubber sandals,. pretty terracotta silk caps,
with a big white bow in front. In the water they
are real pictures, and our men friends do roll up, I
can tell you.” Should think they did ! My corres-
pondent has evidently forgotten the most essential
garment the bathing dress^- or was it the girls
who forgot ? _
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.


3£
n:m
t m
Procurable at Analyst’s certificate,
suburban bramu,,,?'' 11 / p * iarma cy, H 8 Pitt St., and their
Gordon & Niciio, to’ ° B’ ’ or tl 'ial 3 ar by post from
ICHOLLS > 3 Queen’s Place, Sydney, for 3s. 3d.
Dress RABRies
Are Stocked by the
Leading Drapers. 99
trademaVkTHE varnished board
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, February 6, 1906.
My Dear Yarrie,—
The Waxellency dame has been cautiously
shunning all valedictory functions. The reason
a nnim obvious, unless she reckons the small
bves too small for her size. Her knightly spouse
* hpon getting all the fat send-offs. So she
stands aside and makes excuses to the unimportant
todies that have begged for her acceptance of a
small farewell/ In the meantime, the Cliveden
dowager has been sailing round with pennants
S and all the small social and chanty craft.
making salutes of homage. The dowager is ever
ready to pay the penalties of greatness.
The tootler finds it difficult to give up the
nlatform habit. * The homage of one man-some-
hmes growing perfunctory with custom-is not
?efficient to compensate for the homage of hun-
dreds Matrimony is not a career ; it s rather a
" re •' and immediately the warbler is established
at the suburban villa—slate-roofed and tuck-
nointed-after an expensive honeymoon, she pro-
claims her intention to go on exercising the top C
for a paying public. Two recent musical brides are
‘id to be both willing to resume concert appear-
ances Who would settle to the darning of socks
with'a polished top-register and a champion
method of breathing at the right spot in a song-?
There will be a rash outbreak of matrimony
during the next two months, and your Blue
Mountains will be pinked with Melbourne honey-
moon pairs. The parsons, the caterers and the
florists hate midsummer for the lack of knot-
tviiwvs One pretty little Collins-street rose-
wirer joyfully prepares for five wedding sprees in
the near future. “Thank goodness,” she ex-
claims, “marriage hasn’t completely gone out!
A wedding-order is such a help to one’s business! ”
The parson likewise finds an exuberant ’groom his
best friend nowadays when the fashionable chris-
tening is a matter only of memory and it’s the
thing to be buried without fuss.
A handsome Melbourne dame is sampling the
simple life at a seaside cottage. She sends along
word of her doings. They have a penitential
psalm sound. ' She sews for the poor, avoids ex-
citement and the daily papers, speaks well of her
neighbors, pursues temperance habits, withholds
from bridge parties, frequents church, rises at
dawn, sets at dark, and encourages a liking for
Chaucer’s early English verse. This programme
has lasted for nine days, and the epd is near. The
dame declares if she doesn’t return to town soon,
jump publicly on a few of the ten commandments,
and revel in every wickedness open to the smart
woman, she’ll go clean mad. The simple life is a
terrible experience for a smart She with Bridge,
and worse, on her conscience. Hundreds of Melb.
dames are trying it, with brilliant failure.
A Ballarat marriage last week had two very
youthful principals. She of the bridal blossom—
Miss Beatrice Metallacli—was j ust rising from her
teens. The groom was of age plus a summer.
Mr. Bradley Reed takes his little mate on a globe-
trot extending over a few seasons.
MissTittell Brune gives “Sunday” some bright
clothes to wear at Brinthorpe Abbey. Among
other things, she sports shoes tied up coquettishly
with siel blue ribbons. This idea of shoes
trimmed with love-knot bows caught the fancy of
Saturday’s audience. Presently we’ll have all
femininity hereabouts stepping out in patent
leather shoes bubbling over with blue bows, or
flaunting crimson streamers or leaf-green loops.
They haven’t started to dress a motor-race
meeting in these parts yet. That at Aspendale
on Foundation Day lacked any trailing chiffon
glory. Participants lurched up to the stand in
corrugated and tin-trimmed uniforms with two
square inches of the face alone exposed to the
view. When-the petrol cars race more often, the
motor meeting will no doubt evolve its special
rig.
Somebody has written a letter to London Daily
Telegraph protesting that the first of all causes
of the deterioration in English physique is the
abominable “ comforter ” supplied by chemists for
the deluded baby—-the town-bred baby, as a rule.
Dyspepsia comes naturally to the infant who is
“brought up on the bottle,” and weaned on a
mere windy mouthpiece. It is seriously suggested
that the sale of rubber comforters should be pro-
hibited with a view to putting the modern baby
on a level with its ancestors, who were born prior
to the wicked invention of feeding-bottles, and
who found a comparatively harmless consolation
in sucking their thumbs.
The swagger dame who came this way philan-
dering with a globe-trotting Yictorian, and
shocked her clan by devotion to that gadder, has
returned in high dudgeon to the Cold Country. The
gadder grew tired of the extended flirtation, and
found an excuse to get out of range. The clan said
it served her right, and the piqued one sailed back
to her Big Smoke spouse, offended with the world
m general. When a matron gets angry with
everybody she is least angry with her husband.
A correspondent tells me that you can occa-
sionally see rather a rare sight at Colac —three
generations of beauty; Youthful looking grandma
Calvert, of Irrawarra, crowned with a wealth of
beautifully silken brown tresses, looks like an
elder sister walking beside her only daughter,
Mrs. Gordon Lyon, who still retains all her
beauty. The third generation is represented by
Miss Noel Lyons (daughter of the latter).
• Victorian lady with a German name several
inches long last week popped a charge of buck-shot
into the appendicitis region of her equally long-
named husband. The police were sent for. In
etween the shooting and their arrival the German
any slipped into her bedroom, titivated up her
imr, put on a clean blouse and another skirt,
onned her best hat and veil and sat down to draw
1* ? oves w hile waiting to be arrested. How
is that for the vanity of woman?
t i chick,- who was trying the rest cure and
to* H. ltm hUylesford when the bush started
aze all round the garden chairs, relates
KIND.
“ That's the hat, Edith ; it takes ten years off your age."
“ They hadn't I letter let one of you have it—you need it more than I?"
cynically how the approach of the conflagration
and the simultaneous rush to safety affected the
folk. Most of the girls took hysterics, but as no
one fussed, they recovered and took their goods
and chattels to Melbourne by the first train. The
men hustled, and got out of reach of the flames,
making lame jokes about not caring to sample
blazes before life was half through. “My own
mother,” she relates, “invited us all with tears in
her eyes and voice to join her in the creek, where
she sat all day, but Gran, who has been a cheerful
pagan all her life, assembled with the Roman
Catholics at prayers, a priest having prepared all
in the neighborhood for the worst. When the fire
was beaten back and the house cooled down, we
all' assembled and looked sheepish. The Gran
confessed to being a coward, and finding it easier
to pray than run away. But the he-cowards con-
fessed nothing, and mother’s crowd, who sat in the
creek, merely sneezed and sucked away at eucalyp-
tus lozenges. It’s a-great game to watch a terror-
stricken community when the red tongues of
fire roar their threats.”
A split occurred in a leading theatrical com-
pany the other day, through one of the principals
committing matrimony, his accomplice being a
chorus chick of rather brief experience. A great
rumpus was caused, but the tangle of talk round
the subject is so thick and confusing that the wisp
of truth sinks out of sight. When the excitement
gets off the boil, something definite and reliable
may be gleaned of the true facts.
A naive maid was asked her full and complete
name by a J.P. the other day. She said she only
had the one Christian name. “Why on earth
have you only one?” asked the testy Justice.
The maid reckoned, as she was the youngest of a
family of 16, her mother had grown a bit tired of
christenings and confirmations, and she and a
half-dozen others were left without the usual
brace of labels. They had only one apiece. It’s
reasonable enough. The mother who has added
16 to the birthrate must grow a trifle tired of sup-
plying names.
The Big Smoke sweetheart of one Yarra
charmer has hit on a great notion for keeping
memory He ti&cl & series of sweetly
amorous sentiments transmitted to phonograph
records, and shipped to Melbourne. The lady
received them safe and sound., had the phone
waiting to make the records articulate, and finally
she got the record working. At first she had a
private audience, fearing that the enthusiasm of
the recording angel might have led him into
extreme expressions of adoration. She glowed
and thrilled to the sound of his voice,
then wept that the rest of him wasn t
there too. Later she admitted the grown
and thoroughly sympathetic members of the family
to her “boy’s” utterance of about three of his
least ridiculous speeches. Now when the mail is
late arriving with the rose-and-gold epistle from
London, the impatient She turns on the Voice and
soothes herself with a gross of honeyed vows.
How awkward any similar love record will prove
for a defaulting Romeo! Fancy the talk
reeled off before Judge and jury when the breach
action is on ! Alphonso’s oaths let loose on a
whole court!
A well-known family takes a trip to the Cold
Country shortly in order to place the maternal
head in an asylum, for over-worship of Bacchus.
Nothing in this land can effect a cure—now Eng-
land is to be tried as a last hope.
Suggested by a recent advt. that a neglected
wife’s only pull over the other cat is the flaunting
of her marriage lines. One case is still fresh in
local memory. A gay husband made public his
attachment to a stage charmer, and the out-
raged wife at once sought revenge, and let off
steam by advertising her marriage (then some
years stale). The public had a grin the pulpit a
groan, and things went on as before; the wife
left to her own resources, and the man pursuing
the stage butterfly. Things are so to this day
and the lonelier half has probably seen the cost
and not the gain of further publishing her mar-
riage lines. There’s absolutely no consolation, or
revenge, for neglected wives of great virtue. A
hat shon or a Todgers establishment alike lead to
meeting’ other brutes. And every distortion is
but a provocation to gaiety. The one jure coon-
nation is missionary work among the far-off
heathen, where the forsaken She may toil to teach
the cannibal how not to emulate the white man s
Things are so depressed in the “ Single Gentle-
man” lodging line that a young professional
whose shiny plate in Collins - street makes the
hardest eye blink, found, on advertising for a
Se of suburban rooms, a shoal of answers so
accommodating as to quite embarrass him. . One
wTdow employed lilac stationery and charmingly
demmeTxpSsmns in offering even to move to
another suburb with her cat and her chattels to
please the Single Gentleman. Another asked for
an ffispection of her villa and some expression of
opinion Sen she’d attend to any alterations or
improvements the Single Gentleman might
suX In all, 85 ladies (of whom over 60
described themselves as widows) respondedU> Urn
•id The Single Gentleman has sought refuge in
his own little back room among the forceps and
the dental bric-d-brac till he can make up his mind
to find a sour Todgers who doesn’t mean to marry
him, and who, as a guarantee of good faith, is
ready to fling the soup at his head if he complains.
Interest returns to the tea-room charmer. One
of her was married last week to a wealthy young
squatter, and she’verted to the R.C. faith which
is his. Another has almost breathed the
, vow to a young Midas from the West. The tem-
perance Hebe is having it all her own way just
now. The barmaid and the footlighter are neg-
lected quantities.
An awkward thing occurred at a smart suburban
house the other day. A flunkey, minus powder
on his crest, had recently been installed in the
dining-room. A dame filing into the apartment
for tiffin at the head of the other guests caught
sight of a manly figure at the tail-end of the table,
and at once mistook it for that of the host. So
she rushed up to Jeames and snatched his hand
and shook it heartily, hoping he was well and
bearing the heat like a Christian. She didn’t
stem her volubility till a second guest clutched
her skirt, giving her a death-sentence look. The
poor fat gusher drifted from the mute figure and
endeavored to get lost among the crowd. But
Jeames haunted her and spoilt her meal. Every
time he recurred with the fish or the sauce, she
started like a thief caught in the act and trembled
guiltily. Fortunately this sort of thing can’t
happen often. The husband of Suburbia hasn’t,
as a rule, such a figure as to allow him to be mis-
taken for anything so fine as a flunkey.
The Y.R. caddies have their work cut out when
they attend the Northcotes to the theatre. Occa-
sionally an applauded line is missed by an absent-
minded Ex., and the caddies are at once referred
to. Should they have missed it too, or fail to
supply a likely point from their own underdone
fancy, a reproof is certain. The aide’s is a hard
show-window job.
The polo tournament was transferred to Onion-
town last week, the idea being that by shifting the
locality perchance a change of weather could be
secured, no luck having fallen to the players this
season at Kooyong. More than usual interest
attached to the new scene of polo play because
of it being the Osborne ground, adjoining the
premises under consideration by the Bent Premier
as a vice-regal residence.
The two plump Grieg brothers, who ran a
company of amateur players to a disappointing
finish—the public failing to pay for the gas-bill
and the grease-sticks—made an appearance in
“ L’Aiglon ” as the start of a professional course.
Laurence Grieg, who starred it capably in “The
Shop Girl” and other Girls of amateur footlights
favor, stepped into the shoes of the tailor-
conspirator, and his big brother of the double-
chin figured as a guardsman. Both did pretty
well.
A trio of Graces in the heavy habiliments of
woe have been causing a mild sensation in Collins-
street. They drive in an open landau, and remain
seated amid their inky drapes while Buttons
marches into the shops for books, pearl powder,
or hair-pins. They are young, and so attractive
in their suits of grief that their solemn pose is all
the more magnetic.
A brilliant star at a certain theatre is troubled
with the curse of a beauty-husband, for every-
where that hubby goes the girls are sure to
follow. The star finds an attractive spouse more
of a care than her best suit of diamonds.
“The other cat” was married the other day,
and her best friend takes the trouble to write to
me that, as both bride and groom “ had been pre-
viously engaged to others, there was fear of some
tragedy, so police guarded the church door.”
Also —“The wedding breakfast was served m a
tent in the bride’s backyard, ordinarily used as a
fowl-run.”
Miss Alice Raymond is a handsome, dressy
star on the Rickards bill-of-fare. Her dresses
bear famous Paris names on their tags. Since
Melba’s marvellous lace dresses, nothing finer than
Miss Raymond’s have faced the green eye of envy
here.
Morphia is the slow poison of one creamy dame.
The habit has gained a strong hold over her mind,
and she plunges from one rosy dream into
another. Her medical attendant is drawing up
large bills, but doing nothing to cure the wealthy
patient of her weakness. Relatives and friends
look helplessly on. The dame’s youth is the most
pathetic part of the business—but whilst there s
youth there’s hope.
A rural gallant of ripe years puts up his tooth-
brush and paraphernalia at a seaside hotel for the
hot season, haunts a Collins-street Club, and takes
his siesta whenever inclined at his snug little flat
in the city. And the wife and daughters, making
the best of things on a sheep run, wonder why on
earth they are kept down so in their dress bills
and home comforts. Oh, those men !
The travelled She warns young things (per
letter to Yarrie) about foreign vessels. The food
may be very exquisite and the wines plentiful
enough to fill a daily bath, but the exchange of
remarks is limited to one’s own circle, and the
foreign officers or passengers are impossible
to understand, for once the languor of ship-life
has crept into the bones, one can’t be bothered
applying to a dictionary for help to the meaning of
any foreign angel’s remarks. One lets him slide,
and the disposition to flirt fades from the
fancy. On the English liners the prevalence
of amorous officers and voyagers leads on to excite-
ment and matrimony. The travelled She expresses
the opinion that every social chick should be
given the chance of a gay, and perhaps profitable,
time on an English liner. Deck engagements are
quick matters. The foreign vessel is only good
for eating and drinking purposes, and should
appeal merely to the portly and middle-aged.
Yours Affectionately,
TRYPHENA.
The beauty of Valaze is that its use is
such a very simple matter. Just before retiring
it should be rubbed well into the skin and allowed
to remain on during the night. “It works its
wonders while you sleep.” It is a pure natural
herbal food, goes straight into the skin, feeding
and nurturing the delicate tissues. It eradicates
freckles, wrinkles, pimples, tan, sunburn, and
leaves the face fair and soft and beautiful. Its
purity is assured. It is the best skin-food known
to medical science to-day, and the only genuine
imported complexion preparation in Australia.
Try a jar; pi’ove its worth. 3s. 6d. and Os.,
posted 6d. extra. New preparations—'Blackheads
and Open Pores Cure, guaranteed to cure the most
obstinate cases, 2s. 6d. box; posted 3s. ; Valaze
Herbal Complexion Soap, one cake lasts six
months, 2s. cake, postage 2d. Valaze Face
Powder, absolutely pure and hygenic, 2s. box,
three tints, postage 2d. Washington H. Soul,
160 Pitt-street, and Civil Service, Pitt-street,
Sydney. All leading chemists, or direct from
Mile. H. Rubinstein and Co., 274 Collins-street,
Melbourne. “ Guide to Beauty ” free.*
It is generally thought that there is no
cure for stoutness, because the usual treatments
only confine themselves to combating single
symptoms instead of attacking the root of the
disease. Pyrolene Pellets remove not only the
superfluous fat, but also the internal deposits of
fat which hinder the action of the heart and lungs.
We advise a trial. Pyrolene Pellets improve the
breathing, give the heart freedom, and enable the
lungs to expand naturally. Sent free by post to
any part of the States on receipt of Postal Note
for 3s. 9d. or 135., according to size required.
Arnold’s Balsam Co., 3G4a Little Collins-street,
Melbourne.*
The Social Questions Committee is the
name adopted by Mr. Tom Mann for his new
society, in which Mr. H. H. Champion and Miss
Vida Goldstein co-operate with him. There are
said to be 622 members already.
Q. Agricultural Bank, though much ham-
pered by narrowness in scope, is doing good work.
It lends money to the producers at 5 per cent, to
buy stock and construct farm improvements for a
term of 25 years. Many of the poorer settlers are
now being enabled to buy cows with which to ven-
ture into the dairying industry, and are doing
well.
London Morning Post on the National
Defence movement in Australia :
It may yet happen that her younger and more open-
minded children may set an example to the Mother
Country in this respect, as they have done in others.
Certainly no well-wisher to the Empire will fail to recog-
nise that the movement which has been inaugurated in
Australia is full of great possibilities, and Lord Roberts
will probably find in it a great encouragement to his self-
sacrificing and patriotic efforts.
A few Australian school-examination
answers :
“ A bird’s-eye view ” is what a bird would see if it went
up in a balloon.
At the battle of Agincourt it is said the French had
7 to 1 on the English.
Asked to define “elucidate” and illustrate its use.
“To make clear. We saw a hawk flying about our
pigeon-house, but my father came out with his gun and
soon elucidated it.”
• From an essay about Clive “ His parents were much
displeased with'his future conduct. What could be done
with an ill-tempered dunce was a difficult question to
answer, so they made him the first Governor-General of
India.”
“ What was the next plague ?” “ Locusts, Miss.”
“ And what did Pharaoh do?” “Sent for John the
Baptis’, Miss.”
“ C.C.H.” : Quoth the Melbourne tram-
gripman : “Yes, we have a bit to put up with
now and again. The co. makes us run on time ;
but if a fat old woman a hundred yards away
waves her brolly, we’re supposed to wait till she
steams up and plants her parcels and herself. The
public is a fair liog to deal with. It growls at you
if you don’t pull up in five yards when it wants to
get on or off. Then it growls at you again when
you stop too often to pick up more public. But
we score when the public swears. The co. doesn’t
allow bad language on its cars, and tells us we
must remove it. When an angry man gets on my
car and begins to.tell me.about my duty, I always
coax him on to swear. Then I chuck him off,
and my wescut swells.”
“5.G.8.”: A barmaid is expected to be
rather too versatile. When we kept a pub. in
Sydney, near the wharves, I discoursed of house-
flags, blue-peters, and marline-spikes to the ships’
officers; and of loading and Union hours to the
wharf laborers. I got into dairy country and then
talked eternal and everlasting cow. I had learned
to tell an Alderney from an Ayrshire or Jersey,
when Fate (and bigger wages) directed my steps
westward, where I was expected to know how
many sheep the average man could shear, and
that hoggets weren’t pigs. I also discussed the
noble horse; but, in spite of my best efforts, I
never could recognise a horse at the second time
of meeting, though I soon found out that, every
man’s little nag was the best bit of horseflesh
in the district. In other places I’ve learned’
millet and sorghum ; and now I’ve landed in the
middle of copper, and already have two tin trunks
full of specimens. Am expected to talk of leads
or lodes, or something, the price of copper, and
the prospect of the mine closing down. Don’t
think that’s all I can talk about. I can talk of'
nothing without an effort, if that particular brand
of conversation seems to make the beer-pump
work easier.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PHOTOS
FEOM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 sample i
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/- Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. QENNERT, 89C. FBQ St. Martin, Paris, France.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A ustralia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
0. MDUNTGASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
“Ah, my Beloved, fill the Cup.” You may
just as well fill it with the purest spirit available.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the liveliest and best tonic
known for mind or body. If your back aches it
may be your kidneys— Wolfe’s Schnapps cures
kidney diseases.*
Fts
GO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hagci)> Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Prioe Lists Gratis.
POLITICAL
POINTS
CHINESE ON THE RAND.
The Duke of Westminster presided at apublic meeting,
held at Chester, to refute “ the hideous calumnies in re-
gard to Chinese slavery on the Rand.”— Cablegram.
BULL-COHEN : “ Gentlemens, I beg to move the
resolution: ‘ That this meeting unanimously
agrees that the blots on the map of Africa
are not there.' ” (Carried unanimously.)
Massey-Harris manager Patterson, to the
Tariff Commission : “If the Canadian manufac-
turer were given free entry to the markets of the
world and free raw material he would not ask for
any Protection.” Just so. But in the meantime
he takes fine care not to set the example of
“ throwing his markets open.” The fool Austra-
lian mostly does so, and the result is that with
plenty of free raiv material in the shape of wool,
leather, iron, coal, etc., he can’t manufacture
nearly enough fott/Ms own requirements, let alone
exploit the markets of the world.
Joseph Carruthers’ attitude to the Federa-
tion : willing to wound, but afraid to strike.
Philp and Leahy are so well-known in
Bananaland that no candidate could be found
bold enough to carry their flag of borrow, boom,
and burst at any of the four bye-elections since
the great election rout a couple of years ago.
British Labor Party evidently doesn’t
mean to swallow Freetrade whole. Keir Hardie
now announces that the time has come “to dis-
cuss Protection on its merits.” A discussion of
that sort must lead to a Protectionist Labor
Party.
Two Jap “ merchants ” missed the China
steamer at one Australian port recently, and
wired on to have their luggage forwarded. An
accident caused some of the luggage to be ex-
amined, and among it were found complete plans
of Sydney harbor f
Suggested by a London Times correspon-
dent that a National Naval Museum should be
instituted in England for the exhibition of naval
models, prints, and curiosities. But if the curio
department is to be tilled, what will England do
to supply boats for the Australian squadron ?
Warwick (Q.) will witness a warm political
duel. Mr. Barnes, a rather popular local man,
has gone out to meet Minister for Works
O’Sullivan, who aspires to the ex-Premier's seat.
Mr. Barnes comes out as a rail-sitting Indepen-
dent, and he has a brother in the front ranks of
the “Janny” Leahy-Philp Crowd,
Premier Bent is stumping the country in
advertisement of his home made loan. Every-
where he goes he trots the subject out. “ It’s very
kind of you to receive me like this,” he says to all
the shire councils and “poor” farmers that, banquet
him. “ But just extend your kindness to the new
loan. You can buy an interest in it for a £5
note.”
The whine of the Sydney secesh meeting
had hardly died out before the Daily Telegraph
came out in this fashion :
A BRIGHT OUTLOOK.
the state Revenue.
ANOTHER BIG INCREASE.
Nearly £-200,000 for January,
£600,000 FOR SEVEN MONTHS,
N.S.W, Treasury received a windfall of
£12,000 in probate duties last week, £6300 Coming
from one estate aiid £4600 from another, This
latter was an absentee, who Owned £60,000 worth
of property in N.S.W. This large increase in the
State revenue is, no doubt, to be credited to the
Deform Government. No doubt, had the Labor
Earty been in power,, the wealthy testators would
ave been afraid to die.
At the Labor Conference which has beeil
sitting in Sydney it was stated that the present
N.S.W. Government had issued instructions to the
Officers of the department that it did not wish to
have prosecutions under the Early Closing Act,
find that complaints and information supplied to
the department by jJhion secretaries had been
deliberately igiiored. The Government was
charged with trying to make the Act a dead letter
by repeating the Arbitration Court strangulatioil
tactics.
If Yic. Labor party is not careful, it will,
at next Federal elections, win the Balaclava seat
for Irvine and Freetrade. A radical Protectionist
running against Irvine would win the seat which
George Turner vacates; but there is no chance
for a Protectionist if the Labor party runs a
candidate. Equally certain is it that a Labor
candidate cannot win Balaclava, which includes
Bent’s Brighton constituency, Toorak, and
M’Kinnon’s Prahran electorate in the State
Parliament.
When that shipping genius stated that the
Australian Government could not compete with
the shipping ring because the ring would cut rates
till the national steamers were driven off, he had
his tongue in his cheek. The Australian Govern-
ment has control of the tariff, and could fix a
retaliatory duty on goods imported in the ring’s
steamers that would make their cut-rates in-
effective. At the end of the 18th century the
British Government levied a discriminating duty
on steel imported in foreign bottoms, it paying 50
per cent, higher duty than that coming in British
ships.
The new Commonwealth Electoral Act
protects Federal legislators against “sporting”
blackmailers. A clause in the Act provides that
no candidate for Parliament shall be entitled to
give or promise a donation in cash or kind to any
club or association within three months of the
polling day. But the clause is not sufficiently
comprehensive. It should disqualify politicians
from membership of any sports or pastimes club.
Think of the awful amount of support in votes
and interest that many a Fatman obtains through
his pet vice—bowls ! The democratic interests of
the country suffer considerably from bowls.
Mr. Denham, who is adding to his Minis-
terial duties in Q. the portfolio of Railways, has
for some time desired this. The Dept, has got a
name for inertness re the rapidly expanding dairy-
ing industry, and Digby’s personal interests, as
well as other people’s, are suffering. The trouble
is that the Dept, will not supply properly venti-
lated and cold-storage cars. The Department
of Agriculture is compulsorily grading butter
and fixing a standard for cream, while the
Railway people let the cans stand out in the sun
at country platforms and then stuff them into
heated cars with meat and bones, and anything
else happening along.
London Referee (3/12/’O5) quotes from a
report of Spencer and Co., a leading English
ribbon-firm. Said a partner: “During the past
five years the house had done a trade of ov«r
£lOO,OOO in ribbons, and during the whole of that
time they had only had £3OO worth from English
factories. Coventry was now practically dead,
the factories were closed, the looms broken up,
and the men had lost the art, whereas 500,000
foreigners were getting a living out of the manu-
facture of those goods. Again, three or four years
ago England had practically the monopoly of the
hosiery trade, but now the Germans and Ameri-
cans are flooding the market with cheap goods.”
“Dagonet” comments thereon: “Every penny
the customers saved in the cost of the foreign-
made goods they have to pay back in other ways,
principally in rates, which are advancing by leaps
and bounds because we cannot let the unemployed
starve.”
POLITICAL PHRASES ILLUSTRATED.
Go on the land, young man!
In his manifesto to State presidents and
members of the Chamber of Manufactures, the
president of their Feclecal Council (Charles
Atkins) suggests that the duty of every individual
manufacturer is to encourage Australian produc-
tion of the raw material he uses by telling the
primary producers exactly what is required of
them, and always giving the preference to local
material as against the imported, Also, Atkins
adopts a wise paternal tone in advising all manu-
facturers to invite amicable discussion with their
employees on questions that can be settled out of
court, thus avoiding contact with" the Arbitration
Act,
The Labor Conference recently sitting ap-
pointed a committee to make a report as to a
land and finance policy for the party. The com-
mittee brought down a good resolution framing a
progressive policy for the taxation of unimproved
land values, The resolution was triumphantly
carried, and then it was found that owing to the
small attendance of delegates no change in the
platform could be constitutionally made, so the
matter stands over to be debated at the next con-
ference. The conference had an ample attendance
when hot debates on nothing were raging, but
couldn’t muster an effective quorum to consider
the land question.
Freetrade gets another staggering blow
from the report of the Moreing Commission—
three Tory and three Liberal workmen sent from
Yorkshire to study labor conditions in Germany.
All the delegates agree (1) on the necessity of a
change of some kind being made in England to
better the condition of the workers, (2) that there
is an absence of unemployed in Germany, (3) that
the unskilled worker is belter off there than in
England, and (4) there is a greater demand for
skilled labor in Germany. Just what the Mosely
Commission reported about America. But the
stodgy Briton, with his foolish shibboleth, “ cheap
loaf,” is too dense yet to move.
Directors of the Australian Gaslight Co.
had their half-yearly cock-shy at the Arbitration
Act during their recent semi-annual meeting. They
gravely announced that a reduction in the present
price of gas was rendered impossible, as, owing to
an award of the Arbitration Court, additional
wages to the extent of £2OOO per annum had to be
paid. There are approximately 70,000 consumers
of the co.’s gas, and if the whole of the £2OOO had
been applied to reduce the price of gas supplied,
each consumer would have been saved 7d. for the
year ! Further, the gross income of the monopoly
now approaches a quarter of a million sterling,
and the net profits £150,000 a year. With figures
like those what is an odd £2ooo ?
An illuminating instance of what even a
small amount of protective duty will do for a local
industry is afforded by the grizzle of the Felt Hat
Makers’ Association of Great Britain, which asks
that “ effective representations should be made to
the Australian colonies ” to secure a reduction in
the tariff on hats of Bull manufacture. On the
showing of the association, in the four years from
1900 to 1904, imports of hats into N. 8. Wales fell
from 57,186 dozen to 22,332 dozen, and the value
from £81,125 to £33,961. Meanwhile, the Collectors
of Customs in Sydney and Melbourne report that
Australian-made hats are cheaper than they were
four years ago, and that profitable employment
has been given to hundreds of hatters in Sydney.
Three or four months ago N.S.W. Parlia-
ment voted £50,000 for the purchase of rabbit
netting to help the cocky in his fight with bunny.
At that time netting was selling at about £32 a
mile. Then Premier Carruthers became very
busy poking his tongue out at the Federal Govern-
ment, and forgot all about the rabbit-netting—at
all events, he didn’t buy it. Meanwhile that com-
modity was steadily creeping up in price, until
now it is £37 and £3B a mile, with a prospect of
going higher. Even if Carruthers gets a sudden
hustle on, the chances are that he won’t get orders
placed at anything under £4O a mile. So that
the money that would have fenced 1562 miles will
now only suffice for about 1250 miles. But it’s a
long tongue that Joseph has poked at the Federal
Parliament, almost long enough to make up those
miles.
“ R,P,T,” suggests another Referendum :
It does not seem to have occurred to anyone in Sydney,
concerning the N.S.W, Legislature’s threat of a Referen-
dum of the State electors as to various alleged offences
on the part of the Australian Parliament, that the Com-
monwealth might also have recourse to a plebiscite, How
about an appeal to the N.S.W, electors/for their opinion
as to the State mismanagement of the vast public
domain? That the Commonwealth has a heavy griev-
ance in the N.S.W. maladministration of the public lands
cannot be disputed, seeing that the Commonwealth
power over immigration, in particular, has been
rendered of no avail through the fact that of
the vast tracts of fertile lands which the N.S.W. Parlia-
ment once controlled, practically the whole area suit-
able for agricultural settlement has been alienated in a
reckless, improvident, and sometimes criminal manner.
As a secondary consequence of the absence of suitable
land for settlers, the Federal policy of defence is seriously
interfered with, As a Federalist I call for a referendum
as to the conduct of Joseph and his political brethren in
a matter which affects the very existence of the State —
the Lands scandals,
“There y’ are,” snarled the carbuncle-
nosed passenger, waving his paper violently in
the faces of the people opposite him in the tram,
“ there’s Licker Act for yer ! Stabbed dead nine
times, d’yer’ear?. . . An’ why ?—why, Licker Act,
’o course. .. . Now, don’t you tell me! Here’s th’
Eaper sez ’e wos a ’ighly respektible kid and quiet;
ut would the Licker Act let ’im alone ?. . . Not
it; the Licker Act soz *e mustn’t go in th’ bar,
being too young, it sez, an’wot ’appens?. , . Why,
the boss sez, oez ’e, ‘ y’ a kid in a thousand,’ sez ’e,
‘ an’ I don’t know ’ow th’ place’ll git on without
ye, but th' Licker Act sez yer must go,’ sez ’e, ‘ an’
’ere’s yer wages.’ Now, I sez, wot ’appens ? Does
th’ Licker Act run after 'im wif a noo job?
Does it call round an’ arst ’im inter a square meal ?
Does it send fifty quid on th’ sly ter keep ’im
goin’ fer a bit?. . . Not it— ‘ S-t-a-r-v-e,’ sez the
Licker Act ter that pore, ’ightly respectable kid,
an’ yer see wot ’appens ?. .. ’E goes an’ gits a
knife. Th’ unforchinite women stabbed dead
nine times ! —Now, don’t yer try ter tell me! ”
A PARLIAMENTARY QUESTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The sun was westward dipping, and with gold the branches
tipping
Of the gum trees drab and straggling, but all beautifu
to me ;
Yet somehow the scene distressed me, fora bitt rncss
oppressed me,
And I blindly cursed the country where such things as I
could be.
As I munched my sodden brownie how 1 scorhed the
gushing townie--
He who raves about the freedom of the swaggic’s roving
life.
How I loathed the lonely camping, and the weary, hope-
less tramping;
llo.v I yearned to swap Matilda for the townie's home
and wife.
When the night had settled o’er me, black as prospects
were before me,
Lying underneath my tattered rag, my head upon my
boots,
Grimly came to me the wonder If God hadn’t made a
blunder
When he made of me a human thing ; a hog could live
on roots,
Morpheus, god of toil and sorrow, blotted out for me to-
morrow,
And he turned the dream-book’s pages to the pictures
fair and bright;
Now, no more my country cursing, my elector's right I'm
nursing ,
For I want to hurry up the time of which 1 dreamed that
night,
When the engine-wheels are clanging, and the mighty
hammer’s banging,
And the furnaces illUffliUe with a ruddy glare the night ;
When the iddms are rocking gaily, and this message goes
forth daily,
“ Drop your swags, ye heavy ladeii ; the yoke of industry
is ligHt.”
Now the harvest time is coming, Yankee strippers will be
hiimming.
Gathering grain to feed sclme people fifteen thousand
miles away.
Whilst the Ihdian ryot’s draggibg Up the jute to make
our bagging,
And I want to ask one member if he thinks he earns his
pay.
VIC.
JEACH.
John Bull’s Boss!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(Mr. Ohishi, leader of the Progressives in the Japanese
Diet, declared that the British Army was not undergoing
improvement, and he thought improvement was neces-
sary. The Minister for War (General Teranchi) agreed
that improvement was necessary, and Japan intended at
an early date to urge Great Britain to reform her army
organisation Cable item ., Feb. 5, 1906.)
Did you ever think he’d bid you
Come to heel, John Bull ?
Never bargained for it, did you ?
How d’s it feel, John Bull ?
You must reconstruct your army—
It’s enough to drive you barmy !
Are we dreaming ?
Is it seeming ?
It is real, John Bull!
’Twas a dubious alliance
From the first, John Bull.
You might bid the world defiance,
Or at worst, John Bull,
Make some sort of stipulation
With some European nation !
The erratic
Asiatic
Is accurst, John Bull!
But you would prefer the yellow
To the white, John Bull;
Such a plucky little fellow—
Very right, John Bull!
And the war was well conducted,
Which is why you’re now instructed,
(For it borders
Close on orders !)
How to fight, John Bull!
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.


C? U?, 538 George nSX nSvdnev
Importers of lnstruments, Brisbane Newcastle
Piano
Abies
for
Piano
Buyers.
Buy
R>ur
Piano
at
Pa/injs.
You'//
Get
Va/ue
fbryour
Money ;
And
A//tAe
latest
Patents
Aswe//.
T/ne
Tone
and
Good
7buc/i.
7fiey
Stand
/fi7une
in any
C/rmate.
So/c/
on
l/ery
£asy
7erzns.
O/cf
P/a/ios
TaAe/i
//7
PrcAa/iJe
Send
/‘or
our
/ree
Cata/o/ue
“ O’Fipp ” : Writers who delight in assert-
ing that various things are “not generally known”
are extremely sly dogs. Readers of the mental
standard of the average J.P. are tickled by these
items into the idea that, as they knew previously
so many things that are not generally known,
their knowledge must be encyclopaedic.
“ Burglar Bill ” : Why allow a detective to
hunt always with the same pal ? The couples are
inseparable, and the reasoning of two becomes the
reasoning of one, as the battle of individualities
where two small men are concerned doesn’t last
long; and then one is boss thinker and the other a
listener. Change them round, or, better still,
send them out on their own. Why cannot a ’tec
hunt by himself ? Two I know are living in the
same terrace, so that they can walk backwards
and forwards together. The first principle of the
game, “Learn to look like any other person but a
detective,” is never gripped by our men.
Whereas there have recently appeared
without our knowledge, in The Shearer, a
weekly newspaper, printed by us for the Machine
Shearers’ Union, certain paragraphs reflecting
upon Mr. Hector Lamond, as Manager of The
Worker, as General Returning Officer of the
A. W.U., and in his private capacity, and whereas
we find these allegations and innuendoes to he
entirely unsupported in fact, we now publicly
apologise to the said Mr. Hector Lamond, and
express our deep regret that such unwarranted
statements should have appeared in a newspaper
printed by us.
We further desire to express our regret that
any statements reflecting upon the ability or
honesty of the Manager or Board of Management
of The Worker, or of the Executive or Officers of
the Australian Workers’ Union, should have been
printed by us, and we agree to immediately cease
printing The Shearer, and to entirely sever our
connection with that newspaper.
Otto Fischer.
Geo. A. Stewart.
Melbourne Herald of January 11, 1856,
reports that “a numerously-signed requisition
was presented to the Mayor, asking him to con-
vene a meeting to consider the propriety of
memorialising the Queen to allow the colonists to
elect their own Governor.” After 50 years of
progress the “colonists” are keeping seven out-
side Governors instead of six.
“Cyclists’ Avenue,” on which N.S.W.’s
Owe’Sullivan spent £l2O of loan money, is one
of those great reproductive works which gibber at
the passer-by. This avenue was formed between
the tramway and the main Rand wick road, and
runs from Moore Park nearly to the racecourse.
Along it the mind’s eye of O’Sullivan conjured up
the picture of a procession of cyclists taking the
air on a summer evening, surpassing in usefulness
and beauty Rotten Row, the Paris Boulevards,
and the Wliat’s-the-Name of Vienna. As he re-
marked, all this was dirt cheap at £l2O. This was
three or four years ago. To-day the Avenue is an
uneven, unkempt path strewn with rubbish, and
the occasional bikist bound that way takes the
Randwick road.
From recent issues of Indian dialect
papers :
It is the duty of the Hindustanis that instead of appeal-
ing- to the Parliament of England and trying to awaken
the English conscience, thej r should appeal to their own
men in the army, their relatives, and their officers in
British service. If the Hindustani army demands some-
thing, it is sure they will get as much in one day as the
beggars of the Congress could not succeed in twenty
years to get.
The only difference between the Japanese and Indian
soldier is that the former are sensible and the latter
ignorant.
The British steal the salt of the Indian people by force
and give it to the sepoys to fight against their own flesh
and blood and against other people in Asia, Afghans,
Tibetans and others. This is a fatal sin, and the sepoys
should not fire on their own people and their brothers in
Asia when the English order them, but should go on the
side of the Indians and the other people in Asia.
The leaven of the shameful alliance with Japan is
working !
The Very First
= Polish
is the polish that is given to ladies' and
children’s shoes by HAUTHAWAY'S
Peerless
Gloss *
which is known the world over as the
finest shoe-polishing preparation ever pro-
duced. Not only does it polish better than
any other polish, but it is good for the
leather—softens it, makes it comfortable to
the foot, and has such protective and pre-
servative qualities that shoes upon which
it is used last much longer than they
otherwise would. Not sticky, but pleasant
to use, and gives a gloss of great brilliance.
Sold at all Boot Stores.
Be sure to ask for Hauthaway’s.
C. L. Hautha way & Sons, 346, Congress
Street Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
C. Stratmann’s *
FINE....
Made on the CHOCOLATES ™i
p “ SWEE'ITIEATS
124 PITT STREET, Fresh Every Day.
SYDNEY, Next to Lawson’s Auction Room.'
n
For Racing,
Polo, etc.
BREEDING STOCK
OF n
THOROUGHBRED PONIES
FOR SALE.
Registered in the General Stud Book and
Polo and Riding Pony Stud Book.
. Col. E. N. HENRIQUES
Invites correspondence and inspection at
Mursley Stud, Winslow,
Bucks, England.
3*ct)qb
che Underwriters’ fire extinguisher
...COMBINING...
SIMPLICITY, QUICK ACTION, HANDY SIZE.
Highly Concentrated Extinguishing Power.
Long Distance Throw and Certainty of Action.
The most Efficient and Reliable Hand Fire Ex-
tinguisher ever produced.
Single Machine - £3 10s.
Agent—P. A. HOWARD, 90 Pitt Street, Sydney.
BEST PRESENT FOR
THE BOYS!
rpHE New Wizard Gy-rotary Top.
Spins in any position, upside-down,
sideways, on the pedestal, or runs along
a wire. Complete with pedestal, string,
and full directions ; only 1/- carriage
paid. Send stamps of any State.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
EsEUuKu
9 I 11
ROTHWELL’S
Ltd.
Only Address: EDWARD ST., BRISBAN
The Best Value 8 6 TERAI HAT
in the Commonwealth. 9/6 post paid. All Shades.
BRISBANE’S BIG HAT STORE. [2
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS.
w
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Bell Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENYER BROTHERS
281 George Bt.
(ovp. Iluntcr St.)
and at cor. Lonsdale & Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
%
<p
« U/Hg
4
Legal Notice.
WHEREAS by an order of the High Court
of Justice Chancery Division made in the
Matter of the Trusts of the Settlement dated the
9th July 1872 made on the marriage of Alfred John
Orme with Fanny Bax and in an action of
Nethersole v. Rouse 1905 O. 1203 the following
Enquiry was directed. Whether Edward Green
the Father of the Defendant Winfred Mabel
Green is living or dead and if dead when he died
and who is or are his legal personal representa-
tive or representatives. Edward Green if living
or if dead his legal personal representative or
representatives and any person claiming to be
interested under the said Enquiry are by them-
selves or by their Solicitor to enter their names in
a Book kept for the purpose in Room 286 Royal
Courts of Justice Strand London England and
also on or before the 27th day of March 1906 to
come in and prove their Claims at the Chambers
of Mr. Justice Farwell and Mr. Justice Eady at
the said Royal Courts of Justice or in default
thereof they will be peremptorily excluded from
the benefit of the said Order. Tuesday the 3rd
of April 1906 at 12 o’clock noon at the said
Chambers is appointed for bearing and adjudi-
cating upon the said Claims.
Dated the 15th day of December 1905
r*. SAMUEL A. M. SATOW, Master*
NOTE.—It is believed that the said Edward Green left
England in or about the year 1889 for Australia. He was
last heard of from c/o The Revd. Alfred T. Puddicombe
Goulburn, New South Wales.
WARREN MURTON <fe MILLER,
45 Bloomsbury Square,
Agents for Richard Wilks, Solicitor, DeabKentf England.


“M OTA ” brand
Motor Car Spirits
Are the finest power spirits the world produces.
Sold by all Motor Manufacturers,
Importers, Repairers, etc., or of
The BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD.,
Agents, Adelaide, Melbourne & Sydney.
Another Clergyman
Proclaims the Merits of Dr, Morse’s Indian
Root Pills for Liver Complaints.
The Rev. David Milne, who for many years has
had charge of the Presbyterian Church at Yea
(Vic.), advocates the use of these pills not only in
the following testimonial but personally whenever
opportunity offers.
He says:—“l have much pleasure in stating
that Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills have been my
sole, medicine for many years, and I can confi-
dently say that they have given me more relief
from liver complaints than any other medicine I
have ever tried. I have recommended them to
many people and they have always found them
efficacious. (Signed) D. Milne, Clergyman.”
Among the thousands Of testimonials received
from all parts of the Commonwealth and New
Zealand are many letters' from men and women
holding high positions, who for various reasons do
not wish their names published. The proprietors
of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, however, decline
to publish any testimonial without the full name
and address as this is the only guarantee the
public have of their genuineness.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a perfect
blood purifier, and a positive and permanent cure
for biliousness, indigestion, constipation, head-
aches, sallow complexion, liver and kidney
troubles, piles, pimples, boils and blotches, and
for female ailments.*
Last session there was laid before Q.
Upper House a carefully-prepared return showing
the forced sales by local authorities for rate
arrears. Quite a startling number of properties
have been bought at a very low price by aider-
men.
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives.
DOWLING
Brewery and Offices :
ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The recent bathing fatality at George s River
(N.S.W.) has brought to light an amazing amount of
shark lore, most of which has had a disastrous effect on
time-honored beliefs as to the habits and limitations of
the scavengers of the deep. Many people have hitherto
fondly believed that sharks never ventured into the
breakers, and that as long as a swimmer kept to the surf
he was safe. Now, according to many correspondents,
the existence of sewers has developed a species of surf
shark who can any time be seen rolling in the breakers.
Another venerable fetish that has gone overboard is that
the shark must turn on his back to bite, and when he is
turning is the time to catch him across the throat with
the knife the swimmer never carries. Some sharks,
it seems, do mostly turn on their backs for conveni-
ence, but like Paddy’s dog when teased, they can
bite in any position. Other species of shark
never turn on their backs. All of them seem to be gifted
with lightning-like speed when there’s a man trying to
get away in front. The mossy belief that sharks are only
met with in deep water is no more. The man who was
killed at George’s River was in a comparative shallow,
and numerous correspondents have written that they
have seen 12ft. sharks lolloping along in 18 inches of
water. If only half the stories told are true, it is just
plain 'temptation of Providence to bathe in any open
water around Sydne3'. People who persist in the tempta-
tion should temper it by bathing fully covered in dark
stockingette, or something. There is a phosphorescent
quality about human flesh in the water that makes it
visible a long way off, and loudly intimates to sharks in
the vicinity that dinner is ready.
* * * *
It is firmly believed that the particular shark
which tore Mr. Dobson on Anniversary Day in George’s
River has met the fate it deserved. The brute continuing
to haunt the river, determined efforts were made to cap-
ture it, and on Friday night it was safely landed. It was
a grey nurse 10ft. long and 4ft. 9in. in girth.
* * # *
There’s going to be a tragedy at Manly some
night. Just now in the hot evenings there are thousands
of people in the water simultaneously, and the swimming
hoodlum’s chief amusement is to swim under the water
and catch a girl’s ankle between bis own. Then the girl,
believing she has been gripped by a shark, screams
wildly—and that’s the joke. One night recently a hood-
lum who played this trick found that the girl had fainted,
and it took him all he knew to save her from drowning ;
another fared even worse, for the girl, believing some-
thing had got her, stabbed at it viciously with her water-
proof-cap pin. It was a very punctured hoodlum who
streaked for the shore.
* « » *
Seven yachts started for the second leg of the
Championship of Sydney Royal Yacht Squadron, on
Saturday, the old-time deep-keeler Oithona being the
scratch boat. The yachts were sent off together at 2.30
sharp, but Magic, having drifted over the line, was- re-
called and sent off again, which made a hole in her
chances. When the handicaps were adjusted, it was
found that Scotia had won the second leg, with Fleetwing
and Petrel second and third respeotiveb'. This is Scotia’s
second leg for the championship, and, providing she
can score even a couple of points in the final, she will be
the champion boat of the club. At present, the score
stands : Scotia 6, Fleetwing 4, Petrel and Magic one each.
* * * *
Sydney Flying Squadron, on Saturday, ran a
general handicap in two heats and a final. Seventeen
entered. The placed boats in the ffrst heat were Moria,
Keriki, and Australian (Sydney). Second heat found
Stella, Desdemona, and Arawa in front, in that order.
Eight faced the starter in the final. Mona did excel-
lent windward work, and went to the front easily enough.
Keriki showed out in her true colors, and, getting an
enormous spinnaker to draw, went past the fleet like a
flash, and finished first easily. But, having struck Arawa
on the run across the harbor, Mr. Taylor’s boat was dis-
qualified, and the prize went to Mona, with Stella and
Australia second and third.
* * * ■*
Just now there is an epidemic of sharks in Syd-
ney Harbor, and on Saturday there were more sharks
than boats taking part in the Ftying Squadron’s handi-
cap. The sight of their dorsal fins darting about put the
fear of death in the crews, and there were no capsizes.
* * * *
Saturday afternoon in Sydney, grey and cool,
was an ideal day for cricket, and in the majority of cases
the wickets were suitable for run getting. The centuries
scored were three, Charlie Gregory being caught at 174,
G. L. Garnsey making 103 for Burwood and Bardsley 109
■ The star performers with the ball were Noble,
Kerim, Freeman, O’Connor and Gregg. Kerim and Free-
man took nine of Waverley’s wickets between them, the
other five'bowlers only getting one wicket. Noble bagged
five Balmain wickets for 28 runs, and O’Connor and Gregg
took four for 28 and 32 respectively.
* . * * *
Noble and Armstrong had a tussle for the honor
of being best all-round player in Sheffield Shield matches.
The averages were :
-Batting. !
Innings. Notout. Runs. Average.
Noble .. 6 1 511- 10'2'20
Armstrong.. 5 0 275 55 '0
Bowling. -
Overs. Runs. Wickets. Average.
Armstrong.. 151 - 2 282 13 21'69
Noble * .. • 61T 165 5 33
Curious the manner in which, after a period of
unpopularity, Noble has been received into favor again
by the Sydney cricket-going populace. The reason is
partly that he gave Mackay his manufactured record, but
what counted for more with the crowd was his effective
treatment of Darling’s protests. Darling stood in the
centre of the ground, talking and waving his
arms. Noble said nothing, but smiled sweetly—and went
on blocking. The contrast appealed to a pro-Mackay
attendance, and the fact of the notorious strained rela-
tions between the two captains added some salt to the
situation.
» * * *
The averages of the three State teams playing
in Sheffield Shield matches show the disproportionate
share in the batting figures borne by Mackay and Noble.
Fourteen men represented the down-trodden Ma State' in
these contests, and the whole fourteen, aided by sundries,
amassed 2464 runs, of which total the twain mentioned,
scored 1070, not so very iiiuch short of one-half the
total. Each wound up with an average of three figures
for the three matches. Pete MjAlister, the methodical
Victorian, made 50 less than Noble, but he had one
innings more. He was the only other player to compare
with Mackay or the N.S.W. captain. In bowling' Garnsey
had the best average, but he was lucky in always bagging
a wicket or two while the tail men were in. Saunders,
who took 27 wickets, the most of anyone in the series, put
up the best performance when the calibre of the opposing
batsmen is considered.
* * * *
Trouble about formation of Board of Control
to manage Australian end of international cricket pro-
mises to be settled by the Board backing down. The con-
stitution stipulates that the Board shall finance Australian
Elevens to England, and this has been the chief cause of
all the contention. The syndicate’of players would have
less loot to divide. But now Darling says that if the
words “ if necessary” are introduced into the clause, the
players will waive the claim for direct representation on
the Board, and withdraw all other objections. The idea
of the players, of course, is to keep the money in the
family. At present writing, the Victorian part of the
Board has been nobbled by the suggestion, but N. S.
Wales is holding out. There are, however, signs of
weakening, and the chances are that the masterful Dar-
ling Will have his way. »
The Melbourne Cricket Club, as a means of
getting rid of its surplus cash, sends a team of club
players on a fine holiday trip. This year the M.C.C. team
will play a series of matches in Maoriland, and will return
via Hobart, to play a team representing Tasmania. The
M.C.C. would employ its funds to much better purpose in
eradicating the dry rot which affects Victorian cricket.
* * * *
C. J. Eady, playing for South Hobart (Tas.)
against East Hobart, recently took all 10 wickets at a
cost of 44 runs. At one time he had taken five wickets at
a cost of one run only. Eady has been heard of before,
but this is a resurrection —or what? He might be worth
trying again for Australia.
* * * *
Judging by the form against S. Australia,
cricket in Westralia is making great strides. The S.A.
team was fairly representative of the State, and carried
the hall-mark of the S.A. Cricket Association; yet the
Gropers defeated the visitors fairly comfortably in the
first “ test,” and are holding their own in the second
which is now progressing. Taking the form as reliable on
each side, the Westralian cricketers have greater claims
for Sheffield Shield representation than the S. Australians.
* * * *
A “benefit” match is proposed for erstwhile
Australian XI. captain Harry Trott, who has suffered
misfortune in health and other ways recently.
* * * *
A London sporting writer,, ad vocating the aboli-
tion of the “ amateur” distinction in cricket, states that
he first saw the absurdity of it when Dave Gregory’s Aus-
tralian XI. visited England, and he learned that five
English amateurs received altogether the sum of £l2O as
the “expenses” of two days’ cricket in London. The cost
of “Test’ amateurs must have risen considerably since
then, but even at that time they were ridiculously over-
paid. The salary of a first-class professional cricketer is
£l2 a week during the season. There are extra fees for
specially good work, and private tips from supporters of
the game, and the complimentary benefit, which comes
sooner or later, is a big consideration. Nevertheless, a
brilliant pro. would be much better off as a paid “amateur,”
with the right to call himself Mister and put on any
amount of “side.” And in some cases he would play
the part of gentleman better than the other fellow.
*-* * * ’
The real jubilee of inter-State cricket in Aus-
tralia will not occur till March next, as it was in that
month 50 years ago that the first N.S.W.-Victoria match
was played on the Melbourne ground. Of the 22 players
only three survive, two Cornstalks and one-Victorian.
The two Waters, Messrs. Hilliard and Gilbert, are 80 and
77 years of age respectively, and have been shaking their
heads at recent matches, and remarking that the game
■ and the country are not what they used to be in the good
old days. Nevertheless, they were free to admit that the
ground has improved a bit and is easier of access than in
those good old days.
* * * *
Remembering that Tom Pay ten has always had
a covetous eye on the Australian Cup, punters are bound
to think about Scot Free (8.3) for the long-distance race,
although the Sydney nag seemed to find the Melbourne
Cup (two miles) a trifle too much for him. Scot Free,
Aurate, Maniapoto, Tartan and Beilis strike one as being
the pick of the Australian Cup crowd, and Beilis is the
most interesting problem. If Marmont could win the
big flat-race ’from end to end with 6.12 in the saddle, why
shouldn’t Beilis—'equally brilliant over the sticks —follow
Marmont’s lead with 7.1 ? The Lochiel gelding ran second
for a G.N. Hurdle Race long before he made his name as
a ’chaser, and he is younger now than Marmont was two
3'ears ago.
Australian sprinters—in a sporting journalese
way of speaking—are “made hacks of ” by handicapper
Menzies. The five top weights for the Newmarket are
Machine Gun, Gladsome, Sylvanite, Airloch and Mania-
poto, of which Gladsome and Maniapoto came from
• Maoriland, but are acclimatised to this country. Machine
Gun, the non-acelimatised Maorilander, is rated 201bs.
higher than any of them, and his burden is 11.3.
* * * *
Machine Gun, the Maoriland crack, who has
been given top weight for the Newmarket Handicap,
arrived in Sydney a fortnight ago. This is how Melb.
Aegus announced the fact:— ■*>'"
Sydney, Wednesday.—A machine-gun, for the
defence forces, arrived by the Maheno from New Zea-
land to-day.
* * * *
A dark horse suspected of a chance for the
Newmarket is the well-bred Lachlan, by Bill of Portland
—Merse3'’s Daughter. Lachlan started in the six-furlong
sprint last year and carried a little public mone3' on the
strength of a rumor that he had beaten his stable com-
panion, Bullion, on the track, but he was then a rather
leggy, unfurnished colt, and he finished about eighth.
The "handicapper has given him the same weight (7st.)
this time.
•* * * *
“Jack” Wren may not be able to thoroughly
scour out pony-racing, but at least he, or his stewards,
cannot be accused of not trying. Last Thursday, at
Ascot, they gave themselves another field day. After the
first race, the favorite’s owner protested against the
winner for interference, but the stewards said
the complaint was frivolous, and forfeited the £2
deposit. Then a jockey was reprimanded. Later,
after a bumping race, five mannikins were called
up and overhauled. One was suspended for a
month, one reprimanded, and a third given one more
chance to improve on this, his first, appearance. In the
last race pony Boss Croker (significant name), who had
romped home well-weighted but 14 days previously ran
badly. The jockey said he “ couldn’t make the prad gallop
nohow ; he sweated and scoured something awful.” Owner
had no feasible explanation handy, so stewards concluded
pon3' had been stuffed, and disqualified owner and horse
for life. Then everybody went home thoughtful. Mean-
while Wren has a libel and slander action on his hands, in
connection with a similar occurrence recently, when
James Miller and his horse Ben Bolt were disqualified tor
two years. Miller says this disqualification practically im-
putes to him dishonest practices, and sues for £l9
damages.
* * * *
Autonomy-Gretchen horse Mister, at Tamworth
(N.S.W.) two days’ meet last week, brought much trouble
to punters. Carding a big heap of money in January
Handicap first day, he got home, but failed to draw
weight, and was disqualified. Mister having led from
start to finish and won that race easily, punters fell over
each other, laying 3 to 1 on him, for February Handicap
next day, only to see the “good thing” badly beaten.
Then Mister lined up for the last event, Forced Handicap,
and settled a warm favorite, Haut Lock, handily after
making all his own running.
» * * *
What a fruitful source of profit the' betting
machine is to racing clubs is shown by the fact that,
thanks to hig tote profits, Auckland Racing Club cleared
£3OOO over its Summer meeting.
• * • •
S.A. League of Wheelmen cynically puts out as
its advertisement of the current race-meeting a vividly
realistic poster of an almighty smash. In the immediate
foreground, four poor devils are down on the track ; and
three more are about to pile themselves up on the heap.
The thing is admirably calculated to make any ordinarily
humane person stay away ; but the League presumably
knows, or thinks it knows, what its patrons would like
best to see.
* * * *
South Australian League of Wheelmen is play-
ing its last card. Its previous carnival resulted in a
heavy loss, and, unless the present one at least clears
expenses, the League will give up the ghost. Expenses
have been cut to the bone, and the officials have to pay
for even their own drinks.
The annual contest for the Griffith Shield was
run off by the N.S.W. Cyclists’ Union on Saturday at
Sydney Sports Ground. . Redfern, Marrickville, Eastern
Suburbs, Balmain, Western Suburbs, Enfield and Newtown
Clubs sent along teams. Contrary to general expectation
Western Suburbs won, securing first, second and fourth
places.
* * * *
Dates for the Sydney Thousand Meeting have
been fixed. Opening night will be Monday, March sth,
and after that each Saturday and Wednesday till the
night of March 21st, when the final will be run.
* * *
As a “great rider,” 0. H. Brook, the fastest of
the local fliers at present, is a failure. He can ride better
than any of them with his legs ; but, unfortunately for
him, it is the head w'hich mostly wins races. If Brook
would only settle dowrn to train his head into as good
nick as he has his legs, what a rider he would be 1
* * * *
Sydney Cricket Ground will see no more
cycling tiil the Thousand Meeting in March next. The
race has drawn 120 odd entries, and if it is run straight
should provide good racing. So far the only rumors
afloat are whispers that the Australian riders have
determined that the money shall stay in the country,
even if they have to team to keep it here. The recent
meeting was not a booming success from a financial point
of view, but the attendance appeared to be an improve-
ment on that of the previous meeting. Whispered that
Tom Scott’s abandonment of the secretaryship of the
syndicate in favor of another billet in Melbourne in-
dicates no Thousand in 1907.
* * • »
Pie-biter McFkrland of Murka is County-
Courting the M.B.C. for £45 155., stakes won by him at
the last Austral meeting. The club admits liability but
claims to be allowed to deduct the amount due for
entrance fees and acceptances. The pie-biter : claims that
international cyclists are exempt from such fees, but the
club retorts that it has no rule to that effect except in the
case of cyclists under contract.
• * * •
Someone writes to ask if professional athletes
can compete in the forthcoming Olympian games at the
Greek capital. The regulations distinctly state that only
amateurs can enter for the games ; and an amateur is
defined as a person who has never competed for a money
prize, or received appearance money, received money as a
trainer or instructor, or made an appearance in any
athletic game for the purposes of advertisement.
* * * *
At Newcastle (N.S.W.) a Harrier Club has
been formed, and will hold its first meeting this coming
Saturday. Among the runners will be Nigel Barker,
making his last appearance in this State prior to his
departure for Athens and the Olympian Gaines. Nigel is
booked to attack some records.
* * » *
Conditions of coming Olympian Games at
Athens insist that competitors in any events shall enter
for the Pentathlum —five set competitions, including
wrestling, discus throwing, and javelin hurling. N.S.W.
rep. Nigel Barker knows nothing of any of these games,
and never saw the javelin business, but, all the same, he
must compete, and is consequently endeavoring to
acquire from a Sydney wrestling professor sufficient
knowledge to assure him going under as early and as
decently as possible. Barker is afraid that absolute
ignorance of wrestling might cause him to evade a fall
and thus prolong the agony.
•**'**
Arthur B. Postle won the 100yds. Australian
professional championship at recent Kalgoorlie athletic
meeting in 9 4-5 sec., just 1-5 sec. outside Duffey’s world
record.
* * * *
Professional athletes are reaping a good harvest
in Kalgoorlie (W.A.). The “ Second Kalgoorlie Hundred ”
was a lavish affair, and drew an attendance of 9009. Bert
Terry (who was favorite after the first round") won the big
prize-money after a slashing finish with Norris second,
Bamess (a colored athlete) third. The books are alleged
to have been hit heavily ; but, then, there is no telling in
what other way Ikey balances his “book.” It was the
bookies cronkness which killed professional running in
Sydney.
• * * *
Recently telegraphed from Germany that the
Kaiser had put in five hours shooting at Schloss Moschem,
and bagged 1136 pheasants and hares. This isn’t a bad
“ bag ” for a man with a palsied arm and a whisker that
must seriously interfere with his vision. One kill every
17 seconds—a better record than King Ned’s, who seems
to have a knack of catching the poultry on the crown of
his head.
• « * *
“Wyung” : Want to protest against the long-
shore fashion of describing marine progress as so many
“ knots an hour.” It’s just like talking about so many
days a minute, or something equally foolish. Please let
me say, for the benefit of those who don’t know a smoke
stack guy from a salt pork barrel, that the term “ knot,”
as applied to the speed of ships, in itself signifies “miles
per hour”; and "let me add, for the benefit of soft-
goods .yachtsmen, that by the old method of “heaving
the log ” the speed of the ship was ascertained (approxi-
mately) by the number of knots on the line that passed
out astern during a specified number of seconds, not
hours.
* » * *
Sydney Ladies’ Swimming Club has split, and
half the kingdom cleaves to the founder, Mrs. Loftus, and
the other section follows Miss Christmas. The younger
section wishes to affiliate with the recognised swimming
associations and go in for the sport seriously, and have its
records, when it makes any (and there is no reason why
our girls should not be as good as our boys in that
respect), properly registered and recorded. The older
section, under Mrs. Loftus, does not desire any of these
pomps and vanities. They joined the club for exercise
and the improvement of their health, and prefer a quiet
paddle, and a pleasant chat over a' cup of hot tea after-
wards, to all the glory that a fraction of a second chipped
off somebody’s previous record can bring them.
* » * *
Those in a position to know state that the
Maoriland football tour through the Cold Country will
bring a surplus of £BOOO back to Seddon’s Land. As the
team is a rigidly amateur one, only the players’ bare
expenses will be met.
* * * *
The most persistent beggars for cigarette-cards
in Melbourne are the young yellow half-castes in the
neighborhood of Little Bourke-street. What cards are
cadged promptly figure in a gamble on the two-up system,
which seems to take the young Chow’s fancy more than
any of the other games followed by the white-Australian
small boy.
* *’ • 9 ’
Said Barney : “ I’m a dead cert for the Sheffield
to-morrer. That’s if I don’t get shikkered to-night.
Talking of skikker,’minds me of the first two maidens I
won. Was up to Daylesford, Boxing Day, to their sports.
Good runners ? My oath ! I was on 12 yards in the
Maiden, feeling pretty fit. Night before I meets Jack
Burke, cobber o’ mine about five year ago. Course we ’ad
to ’ave a beer. Then Jack, ’e sprung, and what with
meetin’ one and ’nother I was all out. Nex’ mornin’ I
lines down to the ground—’ad no breakfast. Jack comes
along, too—my trainer, I calls’im. Had a bit o’trouble
afore startin’. ‘ ’Alf a mo,’ I says to the starter, ‘ I want
to knock these ’ere nails outer me shoes. They ’urts.’
The crowd laughed, and Jack slips away and takes two-
an’-a-’alf to Jim about me. Course I wins easy and we
collects. I goes to Maryboro’ nex’ day, and wins Maiden
there, dead easy. Steward says, 1 Here, you, I wants
yer.’ ‘Wot yer wants?’ says I. ‘Got to sign a dec.,’
says ’e. ‘ Right o’,’ I says—‘ where’s yer J.P. ? ’ Couldernt
find a J.P., so I writes one meself —‘ I, Barney Donahoo,
do solemnly and sincerely declare that I ’ave never
won a race under Y.R.C. rules.’ Bli’me, they weighs
out. There was a Married Men’s Race that day, host-
entry, a quid prize. There was a woman there runnin’
one o’ these pay yor money an’ take yor choice tables as
I’d ’elped to fix up, so I says, ‘ If those blokes asks any-
thing tell ’em you’re my missus. I’m ’avin’ a go in the
Married Men’s Race.’ ‘ Right-o,’ she says. Smart ’un
she was, my oath. I wins again. They didn’t like it, me
lookin’ so young too. They says, ‘Air yer married?’
< course,’ says X, * come over an 111 interduce yer to the
missus.’ That satisfied’em, so I collars. Crook ? bli’me
they’re all on the same game. Down’t Stawell last year,
good meetin’; steward calls, “J. Reed 22 yards. Bloke
steps on to mark. S’prisedme. I says, ‘ Bl’ime Williams ;
wot yer doin”erel’ Knoo ’im well, won a lot’er races
in Gippsland. Oh yes, they’re all at it. Man’s got to
make a bit ’oliday time pay for beer an’ exes. ’Ave one
now? No fear ! After the Sheffield I’m with yer as long
as yer like.. S’ long,’ see yer termorrer.”
“Drifter”: The operating room of the Sydney
electric telegraph department becomes a jealously-guarded
citadel while the Melbourne Cup result is being flashed
along. Years ago, when the bookies laid the odds up till
the last moment, the Cup brought a golden harvest to a
little coterie of telegraphic sports, who had their own
methods for getting on the winner. There were several
of them, but one was simply to scribble the winner’s
name on a slip of paper, then flip it out of the window to
a sentinel below, who caught it and darted round and
worked the shops in King-street. This gave the sentinel
a start, as the message had to be completed, booked,
pumped down the pneumatic tube to the despatch
branch, booked again, then delivered by a tired, un-
interested messenger, and all these things were
done slowly. One day, however, the Department
smelt a rat, and then the trouble began. Now,
when the result is expected, stupendous prepara-
tions are made. The bosses take post and watch the
known sports of the department with the eye of dark
suspicion. Every door and exit is guarded. No man is
allowed to leave the room. The telephone box is kept
under surveillance as if it were a dangerous maniac. The
head manager stands over and unnerves the receiving
telegraphist. When the result is clicked through it is
“ rushed ” and booked beneath the sub-manager’s eye.
A small army of bosses shove it along from hand to hand
like terriers' chasing a rat through a drain pipe. Each
man who must handle the accursed thing flings it past
him as he would a cobra. A supervisor flusters the boy
working the pneumatic tube, and amid the smoke and din
of battle and yells from excited bosses to “ rush it out 1 ”
the Cup resuit is finally pumped with a roar to the Dis-
patch Branch for delivery. There more bosses are wait-
ing, and special messengers are hustled away with it,
beneath the eyes of a couple of inspectors, right to the
points of delivery. Then the exhausted department
gathers up its shattered nerves and breathes again.
* * * *
So far, the Yankee has not made his usual boom
in motor-cars-, but now he is threatening to come along
and upset the show with his steam mobiles. They are
absolutely noiseless, and recent improvements have
increased the speed without raising the cost, and also
done away with the liability to burn the boiler. The
price of the petrol car has a tendency to rise all along the
line, but the advent of a cheap and reliable steam car will
probably have a steadying effect.
Said that private attempts will be shortly made
to do the run from Sydney to Melbourne, per motor, in
15 or 16 hours. No doubt it is possible, but there’ll be a
smash or two before it is accomplished;
# * * *
The Turner-Andrews fight, at Sydney National
Sporting Club, last Tuesday week night, went its full
course. In the beginning Montague Andrews piled points
rapidly, but public attention was partly diverted for a
few moments by a most cheerful set-to between spec-
tators. When the side show had been suppressed
Andrews and Turner resumed their positions in the lime-
light. Turner did most of the attacking,., and Andrews
fought a defensive fight, which largely consisted of
clinching, and repeatedly proved that he could walk
round his antagonist and hit him when and where he
liked. Turner is evidently an admirer of Napoleon, and
whenever he found himself getting into difficulties he
promptly attacked with great vigor and put the Woolloo-
mooloo Pet on the defensive. Towards the end of the
scrap things began to show in Turner’s favor, but Mon-
tague had got such a start on points that, in the referee’s
judgment, he was still ahead at the close of the 20th
round.
* • * *
The Oasey-Sullivan fight at Sydney Gaiety
Athletic Club was a lovely rumpus. Sullivan found him-
self up against a harder and stronger man, and twice the
floor flew up and hit him. Then he apparently got vexed,
and in the 15th round drew back and stopped a Casey
rush with a well-placed kick right on the summit of the
stomach. If the sun had burst it could not have made
much more noise than that Gaiety crowd when it got its
breath. Bystanders seized Sullivan, but Casey refused
to an information, and the crowd allowed him to
depart in one piece. Doubtful if he will, ever be allowed
in the Sydney ring again.
* * * *
Freckled Fitzsimmons; who came to grief in his
fight with “ Jack O’Brien,” was a whale for matrimony.
In fact, it was almost a vice with him, and is now said
by the slugged-out hero to have been the real cause of
his defeat. His third wife left him on the eve of the
battle, and by some means Fitz., in spite of all the pre-
cautions of his manager, got the news before the dis-
turbance began, and said it “broke him all up.” He
couldn’t punch O’Brien because he saw' his wife’s much-
loved countenance dancing about before him, and he
struggled to see that of the man with whom he believed
she had eloped. If he could only have made his face
appear Fitz is certain Jack O’Brien would have been
killed. O’Brien does not think so.
*' * *
Seems to be fairly certain that elegant puncher
Hock Keys w’ill get to the U.S. A. about the end of March,
and perhaps be matched against James Britt or Bat-
tling Nelson. No doubt Hock is as clever as the
best of them, but there is a lack of devil about
his fighting that will handicap him heavily w'hen he gets
in front of the hard-hitting Yankees.
(Continued on page 3U.)


MOTHER’S FRIEND.
PEDIC POMADE for the Head,
Strikes infesting vermin dead;
On all hands it is confessed,
Surest, finest, foremost, best.
Destroys vermin; kills nits; heals sores,
By post—Small 1/2, large 2/3, extra large 3/6.
Manufacturer—P. KI t
Traralgon, Victoria.
THE
VULCANISED!
DUNL°P
TYRE
THIS TYRE
la made by Australians for Australian
Roads. It deserves Every Cyclist’s
Support, not only because its wearing is
unequalled, but because it is an Australian-
made article, and should be used in
preference to foreign-made tyres.
Purchase “ Dunlops ” and keep your money
in your own country—which is more to
your advantage than sending it into
Foreign hands.
BEWARE OF
IMITATIONS.
or
■ “ Lantana” : Up New England way lately,
came across a house .completely papered on the
outside with newspapers. It was no uncommon
occurrence jfc see half-a-dozen horsemen in various
attitudes of ease, or suffering from that tired
feeling, and spelling out ancient history. “My
colonial oath ! that ’Enry Parkes is a coinin’
man,” I h&ard one ox-persuader remark to
another. “Takes a cove like ’im to save the
bloomin’ country from goin’ to ’ell.”
* * » *
■ “ N.” : George Hedley, a blind piano-
tuner of Bendigo, is a man of many parts. He is
nowadays accompanied by his son as guide, but in
his bachelor days he used to strut about the streets
of the towns he visited, with the greatest confi-
dence. In vain did local wags place obstructions
in the sightless pedestrian’s path. He avoided
them in a marvellous manner, the power to
do this being ascribed by himself to the “sound-
v shadows ” perceptible to the totally blind. George
once tried a tandem bicycle, with a boy on the
front seat to guide the machine. All went well
till about the third sprint, when the pair ran into
a fence. George anticipated the impact (per
“sound-shadow”) with his foot, and did consider-
able damage to the fence. He now travels by
tram in the safe, old-style. “You’re looking fine
to-day!” George will observe. “How do you
know?” “By your voice!” he will reply, and
he is rarely wrong.
“Ne’er-do-Weel” has had an experience
of carrying dynamite on a packhorse :
I was a new,chum, storekeeping on Bindango, near
Roma, at the time, and we ran out of dynamite. Wired
to Roma, and had two boxes sent out to Hodgson siding,
about (i miles off. I had to go in for them, and as no spring-
cart horse was available, had to take a packhorse, which
was not a wild young thing but a broken-down old crock,
warranted to go to sleep and fall every hundred yards,
unless kept awake with a waddy. The boss told me to
he careful to secure the boxes firmly to the pack saddle,
ami impressed upon me that if one happened to fall off he
would probably be put to the expense of collecting as
much as possible of my remains, and burying them. Also,
he would lose the packhorse, which was worth at least ten
hob, and that would be a terrible misfortune, consider-
ing the station’s heavy losses through the dro'ught. He
was not concerned about the'horse I was riding ; it
did not belong to the station. One box of dynamite"
is about the most difficult thing I know to secure
on a pack-saddle, and when it comes to two it is the very
devil. I had plenty of saddle-straps, hack and front
straps, and a surcingle. After a quarter of an hour’s
hard work I got them securely fixed. Then\l got on my
moke and. tried to haul the pack-horse, it was fast
asleep, took two steps forward, stumbled, and came down
on its nose. The jolt loosened the straps with which I
had swathed the dynamite, and I had to spend'another
ten minutes tightening- thing's up. At last I made a start.
Seventeen times did the pack-horse stnmble between the
siding and the Hodgson, and each stumble made the
boxes more insecure. Just as we pulled up at the pub
the brute gave a worse stumble than ever. I chucked
myself off, and as I dropped to the ground I saw the box
on the near side slipping. Dived under my moke and
caught the bomb under my left arm. Instinct must have
prompted me to dive under the pack-horse too ; anyway,
I did, just in time to catch the box on the off-side, under
my right arm. Then I staggered with my dangerousburden
into the bar, and swallowed four whiskies before I could
quite make up my mind that it was not only a small por-
tion of me which was lubricating. I didn’t try the pack
any more, but hired a trap and horse from the publican
and drove out to the station at a walk.
* * * *
“P.J.J.” : It is a wonder to me that
lizards’ eggs are not more generally eaten. They
are plentiful, and, though small, are delicious.
They are eagerly sought for and eaten by the
Mitchell blacks. In the Antilles alligator eggs
are considered quite a treat. I once ate a gator s
e<rg that had been found in a nest in the Fitzroy
River (Q.). The taste was somewhat similar to a
hen’s egg, with the addition of a fishy flavor. But
the after-effect was awful. I was bilious for days.
* * * \ *
. “D.H.R.” : Not often seen in curio-
collections is the Maori calabash. The extra
large kinds, with thick collars artistically fashioned
from the matai wood, are obtainable only in the
' Uriwera country, where they are much valued by
the natives. The few specimens in museums seem
to he of an inferior sort, without any collar or
neck. The calabashes are much used for the pre-
servation of birds in their own fat, and - once
figured as receptacles of the choicest morsels (very
often cooked pakeha) at old-time Maori feasts.
But the degenerate, modern Maori person prefers
the glittersome kerosene-tin.
* * * *
k-
“ Krex,” on two strange pets :
Some years ago, at Kanowna Station, on the Cooper,
S A there were two pets, an emu and a sheep, called
respectively Tim and Jim. This inseparable pair were a
worrv to the cook and storekeeper, for they would annex
anything they got a chance at. One day, finding the
store open, they strolled in, and, when the storekeeper
returned, Jim had his head buried in half a bag of sugar,
and Tim was engaged with an open box of raisins. The
pair bolted for the doorway, and, reaching it as the store-
keeper was stepping in, upset him. In a dry period the
station was temporarily abandoned, and the pets were
left Some eight days later two stockmen of the adjoin-
ing station, riding- within 50 miles of Kanowna, were sur-
prised to see an emu runnihg up to them, and recognised
it as Tim aud not far away they found Jim dead, but not
mutilated in any way, though the country was infested
with dingoes, from which Tim must have protected his
mate Tim followed the stockmen to an out-station, and
quickly made himself at home there. Every morn-
in,, he’went with the black-boy to muster the horses, and,
by running some distance parallel with the boy, would
assist materially to start the mokes towards the yard.
But when the stockmen were.yarding a beast to kill, Tim
usually contrived to get between the “ poddies ” and the
“ killer,” and then, racing in circles around the excited
and galloping beast, he would cause a tempest of pro-
fanity. Tim, in the end, received a Snider-bullet from
the cook. # * »
“ Musca ” : Let us give the;“ go.” and the
snake anct the rabbit a well-earned rest, and con-
sider the .common fly. Recent science has shown
perfect co-ordination between the fly’s flight and its
-breathing. The wings are virtually forcing-pumps,
of which the stroke compels the thoracic action.
In tact, the insect breathes and flies simultane-
ously by the action of the same muscles, hence
respiration is most vigorous during flight. The
air-vessels, supplied by many pairs of spiracles,
Traverse the wings and give a rapidity of action
measured by thousands of strokes in the minute,
and an endurance by miles and hours of flight.
The dash of the swallow is slow compared with
the darting of house-flies at play.
* *• * *
“ Dave R.” : “I don’t agree with “ Milo ”
(B. 25/l/’O6) about the relations .between .cattle-
drovers and sheep-drovers in Queensland. There
is a Freemasonry amongst all drovers that would
never permit one, intentionally, to injure another,
whether in the same line as himself or not.
To Victor Daley.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I THOUGHT that silence would be best,
But I a call have heard,
And, Victor, after all the rest,
I well might say a word :
The day and work is nearly done.
And ours the victory.
And we are restihg, one by one,
In graveyards by the sea.
You made a jest on that last night,
I met it with a laugh :
You wondered which of us should write
The other’s epitaph.
We filled the glasses to the brim—
“ The land’s own wine ” you know —
And solemnly we drank to him •
Who should be first to go.
No ribald jest; we were but two —
The royst’ring days were past—
And in our heart of hearts we knew,
That one was going fast.
We both knew who should win the race—
Were rest or fame the prize—
As with a quaint smile on your face
You looked into my eyes.
But then you talked of other nights,
When, gay from dusk to dawn,
You wasted hours with other lights
That went where you have gone.
You spoke not of the fair and “ fast,
But of the pure and true —
“ Sweet ugly women of the past ”
Who stood so well by you.
You talked about old struggles brave,
But in a saddened tone —
The swindles editors forgave
For laughter’s sake alone.
You talked of humorous distress,
And bailiffs that you knew,
But with a touch of bitterness
I’d never seen in you.
No need for tears or quick-caught breath—
You sleep not in the sand —
No need for ranting song of death,
With the death drink in our hand.
No need for vain invective'hurled
At “ cruel destiny,”
Though you seem dead to all the world
You are not dead to me.
I see you walk into the room
We aye remember how —
And, looking back into the gloom,
You’ll smile about it now.
’Twas Victor’s entry, solemn style—
With verse or paragraph :
Though we so often saw your smile
How many heard you laugh ?
They dare to write about the man
That they have never seen :
The blustering false Bohemian
That you have never been ;
Some with the false note in their voice,
And with the false tear shed,
Who in their secret heart rejoice
For one more rival —dead.
They miss the poems, real and true,
Where your heart’s blood was shed,
And rave of reckless things that you
Threw out for bitter bread.
They “weep” and “worship” while you “rest,”
They drivel and they dote—
But, Victor, we remember best
The things we never wrote.
The things that lie between us two, ',
The things I’ll never tell.
A fool, I stripped my soul, but. you—
You wore your mask too Well
(How strangely human all me* be,
Though each one plays a part).
You only dropped it once for me,
But then I saw your heart.
A souls’-match, such as one Alight strike
With or.without intent
(How strangely all men are alike—
With masks so different).
No need to drop the mask again,
On that last night, I know—
It chanced when we were sober men,\
Some seven years ag6.
They slander you, fresh in the sand,
They slander me alive ;
But, when their foul souls flee the land,
Our spirits shall arrive.
In slime and envy let them rave,
And let the worst be said :
“ A drunkard at a drunkard’s grave,”
“ A brilliant drunkard dead.”
Because we would not crawl to them,
Their bands we would not shake,
Because their greed we would condemn,
Their bribes we would not take :
Because unto the fair aiid true
Our hearts and songs we gave—
But I forgot them when I threw
My white flower on your grave.
So let us turn, and with a smile
Bet these poor creatures pass
While we, the few who wait awhile,
Drink to an empty glass.
We’ll live as in the days gone by,
To no god shall we bo.w—
Though, Victor, there are times when X
Feel jealous of you now. ~
But I’ll have done with solemn songs,
Save for my country’s sake ;
It is not meet, for all the wrongs,
That any heart should break.
So many heed to weep and smile,
Though all the rest should frown,
That I’d take your burden up awhile
Where you nave laid it down.
N.S.W.
HENBY LAWSON.
Bronson Elliott writes :
Dear Bulletin. —Can’t imagine where some of your
correspondents get their Vic. railway facts. Windermere
(Vic.) is an interlocked electric staff station, and is not
run by a woman. No. woman-in-charge is required to
work signals or switches.
Vic. Railway Commissioner Tait, in pur-
suance of his fad for abbreviating station names,
has knocked off the Flat from Sydney Flat, a
one-horse township on the Eaglehawk line.So
now Victoria possesses Sydney, and Barrenjoey
Oarruthers may be expected to secede once more.
Croweater,” from Bloemfontein (South
Africa): —
Was up at Jew’burg the other day and was struck by the
number of flashly-dressed Kaffirs walking about. On
inquiry found that they were mostly bullies of native
women. Quite a large business has opened up procuring
Kaffir women for the Chinese.
Death reported of J. F. Deegan, erst-while
politician, brewer, wine-merchant, founder of
Melbourne Beefsteak Club, president Licensed
Victuallers’ Association, Melbourne press scribe
and enthusiastic Shakspearian. His recent con-
tributions to the Akgus consisted of Saturday
sketches on “Plays and Players of the Sixties,
and to the Australasian “Goldfields Sketches
of the Fifties. ” He wrote under the pen-name of
“ Autolycus,” which was not identified, despite
much curiosity, until his death.
The Australian traitors who want to hand
over the Northern Territory to the Asiatic, on the
ground that the climate is impossible for the
feeble white man, should note wliat Professor
Baldwin Spencer (an expert authority, and with-
out political prejudices, but with the precision of
the man of science) announces :
In regard to climate, there is no difficulty in working
all the year round. . . . From March to September it is
simply perfect. ... I should doubt if anywhere in Aus-
tralia there is a stronger, healthier, and hardier people
than those who are scattered over the great central area
of the continent. There is no part of the year during
which, taking ordinary precautions, a white man cannot
work in any part of the great steppe lands of the interior
of Australia.
The teat-pulling industry in South Q. is
leaping and bounding along. It is now worth
about a million a year. The increase would be
much quicker if there were,a graduated land-tax to
burst the big estates. The Bananaland producers
—well, the honest ones—are reaping a great
benefit by the State handling of the output, and
they will get better results with the system of
cream-grading which has just been started. The
best article has reached 119 s. per cwt., which is
bobbing dangerously close to the Danish man’s
prices. The Private Enterprise advocates in
N.S.W., who opposed State interference, will
directly see the northern article leaving them, for
it has already caught up level after being a long
way in the rear.
Melbourne Leader came out hurriedly
with several batches of bushfire photographs, and
snaps of the .Gembrook railway smash. Unfortu-
nately even the most enterprising paper cannot
have its expert snapper always on the spot, and
you can’t snapshot a bushfire anyhow, but the
Leader, equal to the occasion, poses the bush-
fire victims over the devastated area, and so
secures its dramatic situations. In one picture a
settler’s family is shown packed in a tank, while
the settler himself, kneeling at the feet of the man
who effected their rescue, fondly kisses the hero’s
hand. It is a striking tableau, but is calculated
to give that weary feeling to any observer whose
sensibilities are not as tough as the rind of a wart
hog. The hero who could submit to being kissed for
public exhibition is a curious Australian product.
In the same way heart-rending pictures of the vic-
tims of the railway smash were obtained, the only
incongruous note being the extreme cheerfulness
with which the alleged sufferers bear their
affliction.
Hy. Abotomey writes from White Cliffs
“Anti’s” attack in The Bulletin (18/i/W) on the
Syrian race (to which I belong) is a senes of untruths.
The statement that Syrians never work is an fbsuid lie,
and one which is easily disproved. There are scores of
Syrians at the present time working in the Bioken mu
and other mines'. , , ~ v „,f
As to our women, some of them do go hawking, but
“Anti’s” should not forget that thousands of Brit sh
women do the same, and I challenge him to give the
and address of the Syrian mother who has sold her -
year-old daughter for a few paltry pounds and then
helped the purchaser to outrage her, as was done hy a
British-Australian woman and mother only last ween r
Victoria. The fact is that our women are, on the average,
just the same as their British sisters —some are good an<
virtuous ; some are not. Some are good-looking, a
some are ugly. • . '
The statement that we have no commercial morality is
untrue. I am prepared to give “Anti” the names and
addresses of some of the principal Australian firms who
would be quite willing to advance to Syrians four times
the credit asked for ; and in this town there are Syrians in
business who, hy their straightforwardness and honesty,
have earned such a reputation that their bare word
would, by the general public, be taken for an amount
where “Anti’s” P.N. would require an approved endorse-
ment. Ido not say all Syrians are honest. We have our
quota of rogues ; but we, as a people, are just as honest
as other races, and the bill of a Syrian trader will be
discounted by any European banking co. Our standard
of living—just like other people’s—rises with our purse,
and nothing gives a successful Syrian greater pleasure
than to increase the adornment and comfort of his home.
However theory may demonstrate the end,
common sense must dictate the means. And the
best definition of common sense is D.G.L., the
whisky which inspires the highest order of level
headedness. There are no kinks in the mental
machinery geared by D.C.L. No flies on its
wheels. Formerly known as the Whisky of the
Wise the D.C.L. brand is now known as the
Whisky of the Wisest.*
Dear B.—Any hope of stopping unscrupu-
lous writers using my name ? Recently one or
two Maoriland papers have printed stuff with my
signature at foot. Current issue of Red I unnel
prints four pages of alleged “ Antipodean Bohe-
mianism,” containing matter which will have a
depressing effect upon the relatives of a dead poet.
I disclaim all knowledge of the article in question.
Hard enough to keep one’s own stuff up to a
decent level without having to father the spleen
of other journalists.— Albert Dorrington.
*‘M.C. ” on the servant-girl problem in
Papua:
Bia and Garia, two full-breasted kakenis (girls), ven-
tured together to the foreign woman’s house in the days
when only “boys ” were used for servants, and while the
three months for which they “ signed ” lasted they sa\ ed
the house from monotony. One morning of their nrst
week the shocked proprietor of the hotel came to ask it
we could not keep them in bounds. Then came com-
plaints from the Government cutter. The gay and giddy
conduct of our maids, so demure in the house, was de-
moralising the crew. A firm order had to be given,.in
spite of tearful protests against such unkind slanders, for
them to spend their evenings at home. Then it was that
their relations began to fall sick, and as Bia said, great
was the longing of her dying mother to see her child.
Bia would weep patiently at my feet till she got permis-
sion to go to the village ; or, in extreme-cases, she howled
in the kitchen. Then, when she was safely off the pre-
mises, came Garia, asking reproachfully why Bia had been
allowed to go play, leaving her w'ork for anyone to do.
Ruth, our next experiment, who beat her companions at
swimming and running contests, had no great liking-for
the imprisonment of the wdiite woman’s kitchen, but,
though sometimes sulky, was good enough when working
out of doors, always ready to play a prank on other natives.
Best of all was Geregere, tall and stately, with dignified
air. It w'as not always easy to correct her ; fortunately
she came with a good knowledge of her work. She came
one day and announced that she w'anted to stay', and no
one thought of refusing her. Her mother had wanted
her to marry, and Geregere had walked off. However,
she met her “ fate ” in our kitchen-boy, one of the ugliest
of his race, a contrast in every way to herself. She
became deeply enamored of Qui, taking possession of
him, and never hesitating to upset the house when be
started out to play cards, a proceeding of which she did
not approve, and tried to prevent, once hiding the cards
and causing a great disturbance.


YOUR OPPORTUNITY FOR CHOICE IS GREATER THAN EVER.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Black Open Face
KEYLESS WATCHES,
10s Gd, 20s, 255, 30s, £2.
Solid Silver Hunting Cases,
255, 30s, £2, £2 10s, £3, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold SCROLL BRCDCII,
I‘carls and Rubies. 15s.
A. SAUNDERS,
9ct. Gold Two-Bar BROOCH,
Pearls and Rubies, 17s (id.
A. SAUNDERS.
15et. Gold Star PENDANT
or BROOCH,
Set Pure White Pearls, £5 sa.
Diamond Centre, £7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Three-Bar SCROLL BROOCH,
Pearls and Ruby or Sapphire, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Pearl Set BIRD and SPRAY BROOCH,
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Gold Hunting
KEYLESS WATCHES, Jewelled
£2 10s, , £3 10s, -4, £5, £G
£7 £lO
Guaranteed 2,3, 4, and 5 Years.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Pearl Set Spray Bar BROOCH, 21s.
A Tasty Design.
We Will
Send You
Our Illustrated Catalogue
on request. Its perusal
will help you,
and give you a very
good idea of the enormous
stock we carry.
All goods sent POST PIIEE.
wl
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Fancy Curb Padlock BRACELET, in Four
Sizes, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4. All with Safety
Chains attached.
Country
Residents I
No matter where you live,
you have the same
opportunity
in choice and price
that you would have
if personally selecting
in our great store.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Two-Bar BROOCH,
Opal and Four Pure Diamonds, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15et. Gold Lyre BROOCH.
Pure White Pearls, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold PIN.
Pearls and Rubies,
15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold CROSS,
6s 6d.
Larger,
7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9c-t. Gold Half Chased Bamboo BRACELET.
Safety Chain attached, £2 15s. Smaller, £2
Plain, 255, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s,
with
ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Ruby
or Sapphire, 20s.
Pure Double, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
Pearl Set
WISHBONE,
10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Spray
BROOCH.
Pearls and
Turquoise,
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
IBct. Gold Two-Heart
RING,
Opals and Four
Pure Double Cut
Diamonds. £4 10s.
'Tut LonnWMCH
BetbecuMe lk
IHEE
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mizpah
HEART CHARM, 8s 6d.
Smaller, 5s 6d, 6s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Pin
Chain and Wishbone
CHARM, 7s 6d.
Smaller. 5s 6d.
15ct. Gold
BROOCH,
A. SAUNDERS.
Two-Bar Pure Double Cut Diamond
, £2. Larger Diamond, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Horseshoe
and Stone Set Heart
CHARM, 8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Extra Heavy
HAND CLASP, 255.
15ct. Gold, £2 10s.
.OM
O.'A u u^.
15ct. Gold Floral Spray and Crescent NECKLET, Set
Heart or Lyre Centre same price. Complete
. Other Styles, £4 10s, £5 10s, £6 10s, £7 10s,
Fine Pure White Pearls,
in Silk-Lined Case.
£lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Circle
BROOCH,
Set Pure Pearls and
Turquoise, £2 ss.
18et. Gold Half-Hoop
Five Pure Double Cut
Diamonds, £4 10s.
Larger Diamonds,
£5, £0 10s, £7 10s,
£8 10s, £lO 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18et. Gold Marquise
RING, Diamonds
and Rubies
or Sapphires, £6 10s.
Larger, £7 10s,
£8 10s. £lO. £l2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Bee BROOCH.
Pure Pearls and Opal Body, £4
A. SAUNDERS.
New Zealand Greenstone HEART PENDANTS
Gold Mounted, 10s 6d. Larger, 12s 6d ’
Smaller, ss, 7s 6d, 8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Ribbon
BROOCH, Set Pearls
and Turquoise, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Four Pure
Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires,
' £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold
Pure Double
Gut Diamonds
and Rubies,
or Sapphires, £l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Pin and
New Zealand
Greenstone
CHARM, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Five Fine
Pure Opals, £2 10s.
Extra Quality Opals,
Larger, £3.
LNw
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct„ Gold
“Dinna Forget”
CHARM, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
GolJ Mounted New Zealand Greenstone Bar BROOCH,
15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Signet RING,
20s.
15ct. Gold, £2.
18et. Gold, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Envelope
CHARM, 12s Gd.
Post Card, lus od.
Silver, 4s 6d.
SPECIAL,
15s.
SUPERIOR,
17s 6d
\
/
s
A.SAUNDERS
SIS George Street
SYDNEY
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong, Reliable, Knockabout WATCHES
8s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s!
Our “Guard,” 15s. Our “Railway,” 20s. All
Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold ALBERTS, Single or Double, £3, £3
£4, £4 10s, £6. 15ct. Gold, £5 10s, £6
£7 10s, £B, £lO, Solid Silver, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s
15s, 17s 6d. Gold Pilled, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255,
10s,
10s,
6d,
30s.
A. SAUNDfiRS.
9ot. Gold Heart and
Dumbbell LINKS. 12s 6d.
15ct. Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Oval
LINKS* 255.
15ct. Gold, . £2, £2 10s.
Initials Engraved Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold BRACELET, Pure Double Cut Diamonds
and Rubies or Sapphires, £3.
15ct. Gold. £4 10s.
SOLID
SILVER,
£2.
GOLD
CASED,
£44
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Hunting Keyiess LEVERS
£2 £2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, £5. Patent
Gold Cases, £4 4s, £5 ss, £6 10s. Solid
Gold, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
A. SAUNDERS
SYDNEY’S LEADING
, SILVERSMITH, and
JEWELLER, )
OPTICIAN, )
809, 81 I, 813, 815, 817
GEORGE-STREET,
Opp.
Railway-
Station,
Sydney.


ASSURANCE
COMPANY JS
'
>£<
.
' ‘ ' ' - . ''.■•■
, '-—rya*
V- V
sSwifr'
‘ . .
4
.
*
V : ; V
,
, ■?£': - ,
*
*
[)r~ . “■
■■
K*»*2i*K
w
■
F:
rA
■
■
"
,W'
Head Office: Citizens’ Buildings, Castlereagh & Moore Sts., Sydney.
INVESTED FUNDS EXCEED £1,500,000.
THE COnPANY HAS MONEY TO LEND on security of Freehold, City or Suburban Properties, good Dairy Farms, Agricultural and Grazing
■ 1 Lands (Freehold or C.P. and C.L.) or ■ nwp< ,f Cwrv&nf D -f f i +
Government or Municipal Debentures of any of the Australian States or New Zealand at t IycILCS OT interest.
Loons arranged for a fixed term, or made payable by instalments, without notice or payment of any fine.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart, Wellington (N,Z.)


■ /
(3
II
■•r <•
1
r '
IfaflHEff.
'
f V \
*s*
v”
sr /
m
. : -
■
jf^!
7?W
\A.\
2*
y2s££,y
u r~\ i
a
< ■
/
<H^7
‘ .'!
■s*£
-**'W;
W.
S®
~C
S r*~ :
m
-
a-
• j
IP
V
I—P»imi*
«
It’s nice and won’t hurt you, dear ; it’s
LIGHT HAVELOCK! ”


.. • .
mm
H
m
m
2SS
M
*»
Ni
St
It
&
4
v
■
.
• ■'
.-.
ISH
■JI
SIR
>*sSPs
Mi
jtf
.
SM
¥ ; S*
■ ■
ffISS
SliMs
m
SS*
m
N.
•*a»
•v
IN THE HOT SUMMER-TIME
When FLIES ARE SWARMIJJG
IN THE ROOMS ....
INSECTIBANE
should be dusted on the window and picture frames or diffused in the air, with closed
doors, when £yoj.y Fly will Fall Dead.
Blowers for diffusing the Powder can be purchased from all vendors of Insectibane.
No other Insect
INSECT*’*'
p oW r> * possesses the qualities which render
«.NE so peculiarly efficacious.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Proprietors—Rocke, Tompsitt & Co.
Wholesale—Elliott Bros., Ltd.


From published interview with Mr.
O’Donnell, of Mareeba, on mining and dairying
industries of N. Queensland
Th* Walsh and Tinaroo districts more prosperous than
ever . . , Everything booming with the tin-mining
centres. . . . Copper, lead, wolfram and gold areas along
the route of the proposed Etheridge Railway. . . . Dairy-
ing industry being established at Atherton, where the
regular rainfall and inexhaustible richness of the soil
forecast success, etc.
When the alien loses his grip on N.Q., that coun-
try will yet carry a fine white population. Re-
markable fact vouched for by the travelled
“commercial” is that most of the biggest men in
Q. are to be met with in the North.
Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
*Twin Screw. at Hobart.
And Regularly every Four Week thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll6.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents: JOHN SANDERSON' & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
'—THIS—.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with,
out Mutual Liability.
Offices . - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
The lion. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. O. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,920,210.
Policies issued 93,4(iL - assuring' £29,270,925.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,503,272.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable. Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling-. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Head Office:
*l9 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
™ E Queensland national gank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 186 S.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,240 15 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 45,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New’ Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors.— J as. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; .John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Tool'd, Esq.
General Manaoer.— VV. V. RALSTON.
The Bank of j|orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
CAPlTAL—Authorised ~ .. .. £700,000
Paid-up .. £lOO,OOO
Uncalled . .. 250,000
Reserved Fund ~
(Invested in Government Stock)
20,000
£370,000
The trustees
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £20,000 0 0
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : It. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; Joint Grice, Esq. ;
lion. J. M, Pratt, M.L.C. ; lion. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORROW,MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
EXECUTORS
—TIIE—
CITY MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
(Established 1879.)
Head Office—HUNTER & BLICH STREETS, SYDNEY
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life Office
in Australia.
Agents Wanted. GEO. CROWLEY, Manager.
Bank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. 2,000,000 0 o
Reserve Fund 1,425,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,425,000 0 0
Directors:
The Hon. Charles E. MacKbllar, M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt.
Richard BiNnik, Esq.
Hon. Sir Normand MacLacrin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
Auditors:
Harrington Palmer, Esq. Frederick W. Uther, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea-
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through-
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies -and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks ; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the wo Id.
J .RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manager.
OCEAN
Accideuc and. fcruarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia..
Direstors—Sydney : Hon. A. VV. Meeks, M.IIO. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, Lt.-061. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide: L. A. Jkssoi*, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, J). Ci.ynk ; Adelaide. VV. N.
M'Faruank ; Brisbane, A. llamit,ton Hart ; Perth, A. VV.
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Shipping.
nxr. id. i_..
(NORD-DHUTSCHER LLOYD.
Three-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS ROOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
*T\vin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY EvervFour Weeks, via BRISBANE, NEW
BRITAIN and NEW GUINEA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
*PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons.. 17th FEBRUARY.
*PRINZ SICISMUND, 3300 tons.. 17th MARCH.
*WILLEHAD, 4761 tons .. .. 14th APRIL.
’Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent-
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & 00., 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand. 1
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
m
The Result.
I'll Try It.
CRAIG & AITKEN, N.S.W. Barber’s Supply
House, 654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
•Twin Screw. Calling' at Hobart.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only' on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH and LONDON' via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
MEDIC, to Sail on or about
23rd FEBRUARY,
AFRIC, SUE VIC, PERSIC,
and RUNIC to follow.
FARRS—Capetown .. .. £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation-
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dal get n and Compant /, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
O C3E A.3WIC S.S. 00. A. and A. LINE.
NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS—EVERY THREE WEEKS.
R.M.S. SIERRA. 6200 TONS. SAILS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 26.
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, SAN FRANCISCO, &c., &c.
FAST PASSENGER SERVICE to AMERICA. CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN,
EUROPE and ROUND THE WORLD.
CHEAP THROUGH FARES TO ENGLAND.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
SOUTH SEA
ISLAND
CRUISES
Do you know what charming
trips can be made among the
Islands of the Western Pacific? Are you aware that
our steamers will carry you comfortably round the most
interesting of the Island Groups, with your home always on board, at an average
cost of about Ten Shillings a Day —that is less than your hotel expenses alone
would be on your usual holiday. May we have the pleasure of mailing you our
new illustrated descriptive matter ?
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
FAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
$
&
as*-
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
nxr.ss.'w.
fflont de pete D.#>l.Co.,Ctd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTIEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
and 17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The Royal gank of Queensland
LIMITED. **
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £457,538 10 0
Reserve Liability op Shareholders ' .. 175,812 10 0
Reserve Fu.ND(lnvested in Government Stock) 66,000 0 0
£699,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. I). Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE : 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
17 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Building’s, Greorg’e Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 1,000,000
Preference Shares issued to the Crown in
terms of Bank of New Zealand Act
(N.Z.), 1903 ...... .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders boo.ooo
total Capital „ .. £2,000,000
CANADIAN-AUSTRAUAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
NEXT SAILINGS—
February 19, March 19,
April 16.
The New Triple Screw Turbine Steamer.
MAHENO,
SAILS, APRIL 16, 1906.
This Vessel has Superb Passenger Accommo-
dation surpassing easily that of any other
vessel engaged in the Pacific Trade. Her
Deck Cabins are the most elaborately fitted
yet seen in Australian waters.
Shower, Spray, Plunge, Needle, & Douche Baths.
Sea or Fresh Water.
&ST Send for Illustrated Pamphlets Furnished Free.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-streeb, Sydney.
WM. STITT. General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG,
X
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
-t*- Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter),
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Sheet of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on *onoir>t 0 f 2s. 6d.
n. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., LLi.
X
New York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
Fine HAS NO TeKKUnS!
CAPITAL, £1,900,000.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £500,000.
ANNUAL REVENUE, £300,000.
Fire has NO terrors that Fire
Insurance cannot quell .■
Put the South British on guard!
GEO. H. MOORE, Manager.
CHAS. T. METCALFE, Assistant Manager.
T £ e South British
FIRE and MARINE INSURANCE CO.,
12 Bridge St, Sydney .
Shipping,
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Yiotorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Wollowra, Feb. 23.
S.S. Grantala, March 7.
BRISBANE, V
MACK AY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Cairns. I
S.S. Marloo, February 17.
S.S. Wollowra, March 3.
Best an<l Cheapest /Conte to Goldfields.
Saloon Pass a g- e Tickets are interchangeable after the
nist I ort of call with other inter-State Companies on all
sei vices subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
S\ ONLY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
; 1 ' e l n , c ;; Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
F n EM^, NTLE ’ COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
Batavia, and Japan,
including table wines.
j j nuiai) VlJllJct,
PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75,
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them eveiy assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
loi further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen s Corner, Pitt Street. Sydney.
R. BRASIKR DE THUY. Principal Agent
To soothe
the Skin ,
smarting under the heat of a
burning sun. and to remove the
effects of perspiration,
CALVERT’S
Prickly=heat Soap
is specially adapted. Though indispensable
m. cases of Prickly-heat (whence its name)
and other irritation of the skin, it is also
popular for general bath and toilet use, being
pure, antiseptic, and refreshing.
Sold by all local Chemists and Stores ,
in bars and tablets.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester.-
England.
Hotels.
PETTYS HOTEL,
SYDNEY
decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will be
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed.
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding: Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET
C. W. CUPIT, Manager.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
THE (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con*
venient and Healthy Locality,
riodern Appointments. Hoderate Tariff.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every omror and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beacon sfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
r j''HF' Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower thanlicensed hotels. City, J-hour
hv tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
* Uftv
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St
- T , i K ‘ k,a lial Station and Cable Trains. Largest
THE LAST OF SIX
Price 6d. To&i


the ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND
LIMITED.
RiYDTTRTW T?T<PnPT Adopted by the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held -at the
r uiuinill IsEXUIM* banking House, Queens-st., Brisbane, on Tuesday, 23rd January, 1900.
The Net Profits for the Half-year, after deducting Rebate on Bills,
Interest on Deposits, providing for Contingencies, payment of all
charges, and reducing valuation of Bank I urmture and
To which*was added the amount carried forward from previous half-year... 991 17 0
Giving an available balance of ... ••• ••• ••• ••• '* c -
Which has been distributed as follows
To Dividend for the Half-year at the rate of 3| per cent, per annum
~ Income Tax •••
~ Reserve Fund • •••
~ Balance carried forward to next half-year
2 9
8,020 11 6
447 18 3
1,000 0 0
1,419 13 0
£lO,BBB 2 9
During the Half-year, Branches have been opened at Boonah and Harrisville and arrangements
have been made for Officers from the Gatton and Nanango Branches to make weekly visits to Helidon
and ICingaroy respectively for the transaction of business.
By Order of the Board,
EDWD. D. DAY, General Manager.
AGGREGATE BALANCE SHEET
... OF ...
THE ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND LIMITED, 31st DECEMBER, 1905.
: ABILITIES.
..£457,538 10 0
.. 65,000 0 0
.. 10,888 2 9
£533,426 12 9
8,184 6 4
■ for
.. 33,500 0 0
ilities 928,256 9 0
969,940 15 4
£1,503,367 8 1
LI.
Capital paid up
Reserve Fund ..
Profit and Loss
Bills Payable
Liability to Treasury
Notes held in reserve
Deposits and other Liabil
ASSETS.
Coin bn hand and Cash at
Bankers £225,293 0 10
Bullion 22,304 19 2
Treasury Notes on hand.. 36,301 0 0
Government Stock .. 76,977 0 3
£360,876 0 3
Bank Premises, Furniture, &c. .. .. 62,276 13 8
Bills discounted and all other Debts due
to the Bank.. 1,080,214 14 2
£1,503,367 8 1
t)r.
To Salaries, Rent, and other
Expenses at Head Office and
18 Branches .. .. .. £9,921 8 6
~ Interest paid and accrued
on Fixed Deposits, Rebate
and Exchange Paid.. .. 12,102 11 6
£22,024 0 0
„ Balance 10,888 2 9
£32,912 2 9
RESERVE FUND.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT, 31st DECEMBER, 1905.
Or.
By Balance brought forward £99117 0
„ Gross Profit for the half-year .. .. 31,920 5 9
£32,912 2 9
To Balance. . .. .. .. .. ..£86,000 0 0 !
■' k:
£06.000 0 0
, , OHAS. A. <3LARKIi, A.S.A.A., Enff. Y s
Audited and found correct.—^ Eo< fREB. SCOTT, 8.A., E.I.A.Q. f
Brisbane, f th January, 1906.
By
Balance invested in Government Stock.
Transfer from Profit and Loss Account .
.£65,000 0 0
. 1,000 0 0
£66,000 0 0
i\ L. OARDEVV, Chairman.
I£DYY T D. D. DAY, General Manager,
Au. ITORS.
j
AUDLTOI S’ REPORT.
We have examined the foregoing Aggregate Balance-Sheet, made up to 31st December, 1905, and report that
we find the several items therein stated to conform to the Balances in the General Ledger at Head Office, and
to the Balance-Sheets furnished by the Branches ; these latter being certified to by the respective Managers and
Accountants.
We have, counted the Cash, and examined the Bills held by the Bank at the Head Office in Brisbane, on the
31st ultimo, and hereby certify that we have found them correct.. The securities held at the Head dffice have,
at the request of the Directors, been examined by Messrs. Chambers and McNab, Solicitors to the Bank, and we
have seen their certificate to the effect that they are in order.
We have further to certify that in our opinion the said Aggregate Balance-Sheet is properly drawn up, and
exhibits a true and correct view of the Bank’s affairs as shown by the Books on the 31st December, 1905.
Brisbane, 9th January % 1906.
CHAS. A. CLARKE, A.S.A.A., En ff . \
GEO. FRED. SCOTT, 8.A., F.I.A.Q. /
Auditors.
BACKACHE.
URIC ACID in the blood is the whole cause of the fever, pain, inflammation,
swelling of the joints, &c., symptomatic of rheumatism. Your kidneys get
clogged up and need cleaning, just as your “ liver ’ occasionally needs a
waking up. The cure lies in the removal from the system of this acid. V\ hen the
kidneys get inactive the poisonous waste which they should carry away is
held in the body, causing rheumatism, backache, and many urinary disorders.
LIVERETS are composed of remedies
that act directly on the kidneys, producing
an increased flow of urine, and thoroughly
cleanse and rid the system of impurities.
(i
i
IK=-s?
PS
S-sT
m
c •
■
t j if
-■■•- i;
m
m
i
V \
% i
m
m
mr%
JM
v
W*
% - ... : .
“Still got that Backache ?”
“ Yes, and likely to keep it. Have tried
almost every medicine on the
market, but cannot get rid of it.”
“ Try Liverets. They cured my Back-
ache, and made my miserable life
happy. They are splendid i ”
CURE
BACKACHE,
BILIOUSNESS,
HEADACHE,
INDIGESTION,
CONSTIPATION,
RHEUMATISM,
BAD BREATH
PILES,
BAD BLOOD,
INSOMNIA, &C..1/3 & -2/9 Bot.
W> .0-E3ALE AGEMTS : AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.,
SYDNEY,
registered
* «
DRUGGIST*
io ttomiucm^
The Inky Way.
“Alfred the Great” Harmsworth—the “we” of the
Daily Mail and a score of other British papers—presided
at the last annual meeting of “The Amalgamated Press
Ltd.”, the name under which the co. built up by Alfred
Harmsworth lives, and shelters Hildebrand Harmsworth,
Hamilcar Harmsworth, Hereward Harmsworth, and other
harmless and inoffensive brothers of the great man—
and announced a profit for the year of £255,UU0. Among
pther things, he said :
“On the editorial and journalistic side we secure the
best talent by a scale of remuneration hitherto unknown
in journalism. The payments to some of your editors
would seem extravagantly large to many publishing firms,
for salaries of £2uOU, £3OOO, and £5OOO a year are not ex-
ceptional in Carmelite House. One of the most gratifying
among the thousands of congratulations I have received
on his Majesty’s kindness in conferring a peerage on the
head of your business, was one from a number of jour-
nalists, who thanked me for increasing the scale of pay-
ment in Fleet-street to a figure hitherto unknown. The
well-known quickness of promotion in Carmelite House,
which is only equalled by the speed with which the unfit
are excluded, attracts every day a tide of talent from
which it is not difficult to choose able people.”
Which cut to the core of the secret of Harmsworth’s
Success. He pays for ability, and gets it, and ability is
everything in journalism. Harmsworth, by the way, has
established a special correspondent in Sydney. Mr. Lyne,
who was on the staff of Sydney D. T., used to combine
With that the sending of occasional news to the Daily
Mail. Some of this, decrying the land settlement facili-
ties of N.S.YV., roused the ire of members of N.S.YV.
Parliament, and there was a warm debate about the
treatment of Australia by the Daily Mail. The fact that
its Sydney correspondent was a D.T. man received
pointed reference, and the D.T. suggested to Mr. Lyne
that he’d have to drop the Daily Mail. Mr. Lyne
cabled to, that paper, and was promptly put on, at a
good salary, to represent it in Australia.
*** * *
Sydney Morning Herald veteran manager, Mr. Samuel
Cook, takes 12 months’ holiday shortly, as a preliminary,
it is said, to retirement from bis onerous duties. Conley,
a young reporter with ideas and push, is promoted to the
management staff. S.M.H. is beginning to give.ioung
men a show. Its editor and the Mail editor are both
young men.
* * • *
There is an upward move in journalists’ salaries in
Australia. For some years they have been absurdly low.
As a result many good men have been driven out of the
obuntry. Many others have sought the decent living
they couldn’t get at journalism, in oilier professions.
Consequently there is a dearth of good men, arid instead
of there being competition for vh ancles there is com-
petition for men. A new sphere of labor for the journalist
has been found in writing advert.selnents for big com-
mercial firms. Almost all the first-rank shopkeepers now
employ advertising experts. Journalists naturally diop
into these positions, and this fact adds to the keenness of
the demand for capable writers.
**. * t
There are in N.S. Wales few country nurseries for
pressmen. In Queensland the provincial press is power-
ful—such towns as Townsville, Charters Towers, Too-
wbomba and Ipswich having good papers. In Victoria,
Bfendigo Ballarat and other centres shelter papers or
standing. But in N. S. YVales the country press-
owing to a long succession of Freetrade Govtrn-
nients subsidising the city papers with high Protection
and free railwav carriage—has been trampled to the
ground. Newcastle, which was strong enough to
ward off a special free train from Sydney to carry the
competing metropolitan dailies, has one newspapei of
some importance. Outside of that, and Broken HilJj which
is out of the range of Sydney influence, there is
not one really rich and prosperous provincial journal in
N.S.YV., though in several centres a gallant struggle is
being carried on by small proprietaries. A consequence of
this is that the N.S. YY r . country press provides no re-
cruiting ground for pressmen as in other States. The
sheet which has one reporter in addition to the editor is
the exception ; the rule is to find an editor-reporter-
manager running the show. Seeing that these condi-
tions were created by metropolitan press greed, there
is some sort of poetic justice in the fact that the absence
of a steady flow of recruits to their staffs is seriously
embarassing Sydney papers now.
Beaumont Smith, a contributor to The Bulletin,
founded and ran a holiday paper at Y’ictor Harbor, Pt.
Elliot and district (S.A.) during the Xmas season. This
is a leading holiday resort in the Central State, and is
visited by thousands of people during the Xmas season.
Smith’s Sea-side Topics boomed during its month’s
existence, and it will probably be an annual affair.
* * * *
Death of J. F. Deegan created a vacancy-on Melbourne
Australasian. Since the departure of Mrs. Bavistock,
Deegan had been the theatrical critic of the paper. His
criticisms were always of the milk-and-watery type—with
very little milk in them. Now Montague Grover has been
appointed theatrical critic, so that the theatrical columns
of the Australasian may be expected to scintillate from
this out.
* * * «
’Frisco Examiner has a machine (cost £15,000) which
will print three colors on one side and six on the
other side of an eight-page paper—nine colors printing
all at one time. It will turn out 14,000 of these eight-
page colored papers an hour, or 28,000 four-page colored
papers.
Perth Western Mail publisl es some thrilling pictures.
A full-page photograph appeared recently of a bunch of
cherries from the orchard of Dr. Hackett, the paper’s
proprietor.
* * * *
Understood that the next Argus silly season discussion
is to treat of “ The Twelve Best Ouss-words.”
* * * #
The death of M. S. Machen, of Gundagai, journalist,
Crown lands agent, farther, dairyman, auctioneer, and
many other lines successively, set an old hand talking of
ex-journalists now in N.S.YV. public service, and he
counted fully a hundred men in Government employ who
had passed their early years in newspaper offices.
* * * *
Maurice Brodzky, formerly of Melbourne Table Talk,
now edits theWAsi>, San Francisco. For some time he was
sub-editor on the Examiner. The YVasi- is a rather lively
weekly, and was the first paper Nankivell drew for, after
leaving Australia.
* * * *
“U.”: During a long experience of Australian news-
paper offices I have noticed that the attention of sanitary
inspectors is almost invariably directed away from the
no <scs and crannies where proofreaders are stowed. This
is understandable, for it would be hard to find worse
accommodation than that usually allotted to readers.
Any kind of poorly-lighted and unventilated pigsty,
packed with humanity till it is almost as unbearable as
the Black Hole of Calcutta, is thought good enough for
the pursuit of one of the most trying of occupations.
Some of the so-called “great” dailies are notorious
sinners in this respect. A reform .might be worked if
.those responsible could be sentenced to three months’
reading of such stuff as mining and market reports and
legal advts. under the insanitary conditions described,
with half-a-dozen voices reading different matter, at
express speed, alongside, and the noise of numerous
lihotypes and a metal-cutting circular saw helping to
draw attention off the proof. Then each time a pedantic
subscriber wrote complaining that Plesiosauridse was
spelt with a lower-case “ p,” or that Mpapwa-ngwetza
had two hyphens inserted in it instead of the one that
every human encyclopaedia knows to be correct, the
persons undergoing punishment could be awarded another
week for displaying gross carelessness. That would help
them to realise how' the ordinary reader feels when fined
or suspended for similar crimes,
* » * *
Melbourne “ Johns ” have received instructions from
new detective chief Sainsbury that they are to scintillate
journalistically. The Police Gazette is to be remodelled,
and issued in a more up-to-date form; bolder type
has been provided, and it is to be printed on fine
surface paper to show up the illustrations. There-
fore, improvement is demanded in the literary
style of the constable who reports the stolen pair
of trousers, and, in a page-long list of instruc-
tions to contributors, he is warned not to for-
get it. The kit of every policeman will now include a
Roget’s Theasurus and a rhyming dictionary and the time
he formerly put in writing complaints about his fellow
cops is to be applied to studying the great models of
literature, in order that the readers of our esteemed con-
temporary may learn of the arrest of John Smith in terse
vigorous English.
* * * *
Melbourne Argus’s veneration for the House of Com-
mons began very early. Back in ’53 a young man of 2(>,
C. A. Saint, who was a good shorthand reporter, having-
been trained by his father on a Bristol newspaper to both
the mechanical and literary branches of the business,
called on the Argus and asked what it would give him as
a reporter. Having ascertained that the applicant had
never reported in the House of Commons, Edward YY’ilson
replied: “£3 10s. a week.” The disgusted Saint went
round to the Morning Herald office in the next street
and got a job as a compositor at £8 a week. In eighteen
months’ time he had saved enough money to buy a third
share in the Mount Alexander Mail, Oastlemaine. From
there, after some years, Saint went to China and bought
the China Mail.
» * * *
Dear Bulletin. — l desire to bring under the notice of
your readers the objects of the Colored Australian Daily
Newspaper League. All reasonable men and women will
admit that the conditions which have to be accepted by
white persons engaged in producing the literary matter
of Australian daily newspapers are decidedly detrimental
to health. How the enervating heat tells on leader-
writers ! My heart bleeds at the remembrance of certain
of these estimable but unfortunate old ladies, who were
forced by inability to obtain engagements as tea-room wait-
resses, to undertake, during a particularly hot summer, the
killing labor of humping heavy encyclopaedias and exploring
dusty seventeenth-century quartos, in a disheartening
endeavor to find “ new” arguments in favor of Freetrade
and national borrowing. The Australian climate is
decidedly unfavorable to the necessanly-rapid pro-
duction ' of daily newspaper matter -by white
men. The remedy? Undoubtedly it hes in entrust-
ing this work to members of the colored races.
As these very journals have been good enough to point
out repeatedly, persons of color are scarcely affected by
climatic conditions that are most distressing to whites.
Though at present I am an Australian resident merely by
virtue of an exemption certificate, the encouragement
given by certain journals to my Syrian friend, Malouf,
has led me to aspire, like him, to stay here altogether. In
another year or two I hope to see my league in ownership
of the entire daily press of Australia. When that happy
time arrives I am to have the editorship of the Daily
Phonograph, and my fellow-Japanese of the league will
fill the foremost positions on other journals, while minor
duties will be allotted to Chinese (farm chat, and chess
and draughts), Hindus (fashions and household economy),
Afghans (ben column), etc. —Yours faithfully, T. Ofipsu-
gawa, sec. C.A.D.N. League. f
London Times seems to have been from its inception,
on Ist January, 1788 (it had previously been in existence
under the title of the Daily Universal Register), the
same meek sort of a paper that it is now. The first num-
ber contains an announcement by J. Walter, founder and
proprietor, as follows : “ Mr. Walter, patentee of the
Logographic Press, cannot omit bis tribute of thanks for
the verv great encouragement Which his endeavors to im-
prove the art of printing have experienced—notwith-
standing the unjust and illiberal measures adopted to
impede its progress and injure him. An accurate state-
ment of these mean and invidious practices he is deter-
mined to lay before the public in a pamphlet on a future
day ; at present he will only mention a very recent one.
The Daily Advertiser being generally read by the lower
orders of the people, he offered at its office an advertise-
ment for several apprentices, w'hioh Mr. Jenour, the
printer, refused to insert, though he had received pay-
ment several days proceeding ” (sic).
* ‘ * * *
“ liaylee” : I was once a contributor to a small paper,
with a slender exchequer. I used to knock out from 10s.
to 30s per month, and called for my cash punctually every
15th. The accountant w-as a financial genius, and if the
amount due was 10s. he would hand me 75., remarking,
“Ah, yes, Mr. , quite so. Your amount is 10s., but I
have deducted 3s. for one quarter’s subscription.” At
other times he w'ould deduct a six months’ subscription,
and he had a secret hankering to deduct a 12 months’
sub. lam a fully paid-up subscriber to that paper till
about Judgment Day.


There was a humorous item or two about
that Gem brook (Vic.) railway smash. One youth
was jerked violently through the canvas awning
of the truck, and landed head down on the bank.
Feeling himself over carefully to see if he was
intact, he rushed back to the truck for his beloved
camera. It was undamaged ; whereution the
business-like infant promptly covered all the films
he had with scenes of the Wreck.
Marie Corelli fatuously asserts that the
richest men rarely enjoy love even in their own
homes. How these spinsters strive to maintain
the absurd fiction that love is unselfish ! A mil-
lionaire who is fairly generous and naturally in-
clined to make himself pleasant, can be the
“dearest man in the world ” to a hundred women
outside of his own home, even if in his own home
he is reminded of Juvenal’s maxim—“ Nothing is
more abominable than a rich woman.”
An amusing feature of N.S.W. Railway
coal scandals inquiry was the action of one of Syd-
ney s heavy dailies, sending round to ask the
opinion of city firms of the report. Here is a
humorous slab from the mass of replies :
Observed the chief salesman of a hardware firm, which
lini) a n,lul ' ier railway contracts : “We find it very
difficult to get a point on the Railway Department. Their
officers look after and protect the department very zeal-
'v " * la *' vve d° complain of is, that, too frequently,
they display a tendency to he too rigid and not act suffi-
ciently on such principles of equity as are common be-
tween commercial houses.”
Probably that salesman had a bad quarter of an
hour when his boss saw that he had been admit-
ting to the press that the firm tried to get
a point on the department. On the Maori-
land railways, in the old days, the rule
held when an officer was, on leaving a
station, presented with a purse of sovereigns,
to send present Sydney train-manager Kneesliaw
to examine his books. John K. was the demon
auditor of that period. If John K. failed to find
anything, then an officer was sent to take charge
for a month to see where the old officer had been
dropping the money that went to fill the purse.
I here’s a moral somewhere about here. Also,
there was, in a certain trout district of Maoriland,
a very zealous ranger, whose vigilance made
poaching impossible. For a month or so he got
convictions galore, and then the poachers gave up
poaching for six months. At the end of the time,
they presented the ranger with a testimonial, in
token of their appreciation of the way he had sup-
pressed poaching. The Acclimatisation Society
looked down the donors’ list, and saw the name
of every notorious poacher in the district, sacked
that ranger, and poaching resumed with a bang.
There’s also a moral, another moral, in that story.
Why is typhoid so prevalent ?
n
From drinking 1 water
containing bacteria. It
can be avoided by
using an
Abbott
Filter
which arrests all disease
germs and supplies ab-
solutely pure water—
the most wholesomeand
agreeable beverage.
If your storekeeper
cannot supply, send to
N. GUTHRIDGE,
263 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Accurate Arithmetic and Comfort-
. . able Computation. . .
The Rapid Reckoner
Multiplies and Divides in an Instant.
Perfectly Simple and Simply Perfect
ERROR IMPOSSIBLE
JN response to many requests we
have itnpo. ted a fresh stock
of these Wonderful Rapid Recko-
ners, and w • have fixed the price
at One Shilling each, including-
carriage to any address. Not i
more than one Reckoner will bef
sold to any person ; dea’ers and?
agents cannot be supplied. Th#
Rapid Reckoner will relieve you) 1
of all the drudgery of intricate
calculations. It multiplies and
divides in an instant, and it so
simplifies every computation
that it becomes a pleasure instead of a task A. child can
understand it. An error is absolutely impossible. If you
mention th s pan. r when ordering, we will send with the
Rapid Reckoner absolutely free a Handy Pencil Case and
a Box of Re-fills
Send Postal Note of any State for One Shilling to
The Union Mfg. <fc Agency Co.,
359 Collins Street, Melbourne.
■ .
MEMORY.
A COURSE OF
THE PELMAN-FOSTER SYSTEM
OP
MEMORY TRAINING
will increase your,power of the ught-concentration and
cure the habit of mind wandering-. The best positions in
every business and profession are filled by those with the
best memories : therefore, if you wish to succeed, TRAIN
your memory.
The Pelman-Fopter System
Scientifically trains the natural memory, and enables
anyone to remember names, faces, facts, figures, business
details : to speak without notes, to follow lectures and
conversation.
It is easy and interesting-, and the oldest and youngest
can learn it. No matter what your life work may be,
THE PELMAN-FOSTER SYSTEM will make you more
successful. r
WRITE for a FREE explanatory booklet, “ MEMORY,
AND HOW TO IMPROVE IT.”
The Secretary, The Pelman-Foster
School of Memory Training,
Box 4-02, G.P.0., Melbourne.
ENGLAND : 4 Bloomsbury St., London, W.C. FRANCE :
109 Avenue de Neuilly, Paris. SOUTH AFRICA : Lynn
Buildings, Durban. AMERICA : 901 Whitehall Building,
New York. GERMANY : Prannerstr 13, Munich.
STAR EYE OINTMENT, the Golden Remedy for In-
flamhidtion, Sandy Blig'ht and Weak Eyes. Price
only 2/'- Post Free to any address in Australia, Tas. or
N.Z. StaA Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne
ROD ox:
1
.
- /
“1
The Safest and
by far the most
deadly . . .
Rabbit
Destroyer.
LARGE
TINS
2/-
Per
Tin
INTER-STATE
DISTRIBUTORS.
NEW SOUTH WALES :
Messrs. C. Markett & Co.,
O’Connell St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND :
Messrs. Webster & Co.,
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA :
Mr. L. P. Lawrence,
King William St., Adelaide
VICTORIA :
Rocke, Tompsltt & Co.,
Melbourne.
Pat : “ Bedad, O'ivc been using Lodox, and the place
is aloire wid dead ra bits 1 ”
ABBIT KILLER
4*
>sr
.• • i
HU
*
m
—
ae Denton Hats
Made in Australia for Australians.
•Smartest Shapes jz? Best Values.
DENTON HAT MILLS,
Makers of All Kinds of Men’s,
Women’s and Children’s
FELT HATS.
MELBOURNE.
QUALITY and COLOR GUARANTEED.
AND
OA R D
RESIDENCE
“ WARATAH,” Bayswater Road.
This delightful mansion, close to the tram situated in
an extensive garden, with a Tennis Court attached his
been converted into charming Residential Quarters com
billing- the privacy of a Home with all the comforts of a
Country House. Terms on application to the Manageress
MRS. CHARLES COOPER, <( Waratah ”
Bayswater Road, JDarlinghurst, Svdnev
Telephone—37s William-street. W o^uney.
Missing Friends.
INFORMATION desired of ANDREW KEATINO
1 formerly of Brisbane, Journalist, aged about 50 Last
heard of in Western Australia. Any person knowing of
his whereabouts, please communicate with b
E. E. DILLON, Solicitor,
Prell’s Buildings, Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
Amusements.
JHEATRE
ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Lessee T. C. WILLIAMSON.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
Gorgeous Spectacular Comic Operatic Pantomime
SiNBAD THE SAILOR,
OR, THE FAIRY OF THE DIAMOND VALLEY.
Box Plan at Livy’s. POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s and Is.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
9 Direction of Messrs. Brough and Flemming.
EVERY EVENING, at 8,
The Brough-Flemming Comedy Company.
in an Entirely New and Original Comedy in i Acts,
by J. M. Barrie,
QUALITY-STREET.
Prices as Usual. Box Office at Elvy’s. Matinees every
■ <■ ■-si • Wednesday.
|_|ER MAJESTY’S
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVENINGS, at 8.- WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON, at 2.
Mr. Williamson’s
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY in the
Dainty, Tuneful Comic Opera,
VERONIQUE.
Box Plan at Paling’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
OALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
1 Direction of J. O. Williamson.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 10,
R. G. KNOWLES,
PRINCE OF HUMORISTS,
in his . .
WORLD FAMOUS ENTERTAINMENT.
Box Plan at Paling’s. POPULAR PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mn. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
LOTTO, LI 1.0, and OTTO, Comedy and Trick Cvclists.
MDLE. ADA CERITO. THE SISTERS WARNER.
THE SCOTTISH MEISTERS, Highland Comedy Quartette
and Comedy Glee Singers.
HARRY RICKARDS —better than ever.
JACKSON FAMILY, Premier Musical Team.
POST MASON, BABY WATSON, MAY DAOMAR,
FLORRIE LORRIMER, CATHEDRAL CHORISTERS.
ALF LAWTON, OLIVE LENTON, LEEDS and LEMAR.
PERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
EIGHT ENGLISH PRIMROSES.
TWO BELLS, Vocalists, Dancers.
ORIMMONS and GORE, Eccentric Comedy, Artists.
BARNARD’S PICCANINNY MARIONETTES.
PERCY DENTON, Character Comedian.
ALICE RAYMOND, Cornetist and Bugler.
JOHN KURKAMP, Conductor,
BERT DAWSON, Descriptive Vocalist.
. Allan’s. *BT PRICES—3s, 2s Gd, 2s, Is.
Plan
itw thcatr;
' Lessee
ROYAL,
MELBOURNE.
BLAND HOLT.
GREAT SUCCESS
EVERY EVENING,
BLAND HOLT and his Popular
Combination of Commonwealth Dramatic Favorites in
the Popular Adelphi Melodrama,
THE LIGHTS 0’ LOMDON.
iVST PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Business Manager, Mr. C. STMoNSENS.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
9 Lessee and Manager Mr. .T. C!. Williamson.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING EVERY EVENING
Australia’s Favorite Dramatic Star,
MISS TITTELL PRUNE
SUNDAY.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
THURS.-, FEB. 8, & FRIDAY, FEB. 9, UTOPIA LIMITED
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 10,
GILBERT AND SULLIVAN OPERA COMPANY
PATIENCE.
An Exceptionally Strong Oast. Additional Attractions
“DRINCES COURT,” MELBOURNE
1 General Manager .. A. L. BAIRD.
ADMISSION Gd. ; CHILDREN 3d.—2.30 to II p.n
A Good Resolution—
... TO “ PRINCES COURT” ONLY .. .
Attractions Katzenjainmer Castle Fun Factory-
llelter Skelter -Maze —Chute—Toboggan—Rifle Rang
--Dragon—Diving Exhibitions—Naval-Military Exh
bitions—Cafe Cbantat Entertainments, &e.
Japanese Tea House. Wine Kiosk.
Popular Price Refreshment Rios!
Music, ss ag
Phonographs,
Violins, Etc,
o
.
Packing Free to any address.
Edison Gold-Moulded Records
25,000 to choose, 1/9 each. Catalogues Free.
ALBERT’S MUSIC STORES,
Largest and Cheapest in Australasia,
137 King Street, Sydney.


E. Figarola Caneda, from Havana, where
the good cigars come from :
Having read an article, “ Heredia’s Sonnets,” in your
paper, and finding in it a few errors, I take the liberty of
7r al . lc * ma king the following facts known : Heredia
(Jose Maria), who was born at Santiago de Cuba in 1803,
and died at Foluca, Mexico, in 1839, was not the father of
the poet, Jos6 Maria de Heredia, member of the French
Academy, author of “ Les Trophee’s,” but a cousin. Jose
Maria Heredia, who never would sign with the nobiliary
ae, is the author of many poems. He is best known to
* 6 ii I s -* 1 anc * American-speaking public as the author
of El Niagara,” which has been translated into many
languages. To Spanish-Americans he is known as the
author of many beautiful poems. On account of political
? ontral W Spanish rule in Cuba, he was pursued
aru | “ea to New York, where he lived nearly tw'o years,
and then went to Mexico, where he held a prominent
place in the magistracy.
“ San He mo ” tells of early gunning :
When I was a school kid 12 years of age every second
boy in our class, when the gunpowder session opened (in
November), built his own bone cannon. The shank-bone
of a sheep was selected, saw'n in two, the central cavity
cleared, and a toueh-hole bored at the butt. Then it was
mounted upon a carriage. Our big brother was a born
mechanic. We clubbed together and bought a few feet of
brass-cased tubing, f-inch. This was filed into lengths,
the ends carefully plugged with lead, and a touch-hole
bored. (This latter was a tough job.) Our brass guns
were mounted on flash carriages, and when we struck
school with them the boys just went green with envy.
Our guns took both powder and ball, and when, after a
severe test, one burst, and another blew out its breach-
biock that artillery genius took the matter in hand. He
drilled a hole through the cannon barrel and lead plug,
passed stout iron wire through, and then wire-wound
those gnus right throughout. How’s that for a school-
boyofl4? This was in the ’eighties, long before Eng-
land s Armstrong had exploited his principle of wire-
wound guns. We could have crammed those guns of
ours right to the muzzles.
W. Watson & Sons
ARB AGENTS FOR . . .
PAUL’S
ANIMATO6RAPH.
PRICE LIST GRATIS.
The
Best
Living-
Picture
Machine
Extant.
J*
Large
Btock of
Newest
Films
Always
on
Hand.
W m WATSON & SONS,
78 Swanston Street,
MELBOURNE.
MELBA ACCORDEONS
Produce the
most . .
delightful
music.
They are
easily learnt
No know-
ledge of
music being
required to
become a
skilled
performer.
NEW 1906
MODELS
With 1,2, 3, or 4 sets of reeds, six, eight or ten
fold double and triple Bellows with metal bound
corners, and all latest improvements.
Prices from 7/6 to 26/9.
Packed and delivered free to any Post Office or
Railway Station in Australasia.
Ask for our 1906 Illustrated Catalogue. We
will send it Post Free.
ALLAN & CO. Propy. Ltd.
276-278 Collins Street, Melbourne.
GIVEN AWAY
FOR ONE MONTH ONLY.
2000 OSTRICH TIPS, nine inches
long, will be given away absolutely
free during THIS fIONTH to advert
tise our Feathers from South Africa.
Write for Coupons and Particulars.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Gr. Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Mention The Bulletin.]
/i
tV/
(207)
Change of
Agency
Makes
Golden
Opportunity
for
Buyers
We have given Up
the Agency for the
well-known...
Superior Grain
Drills 9 of which we
have sold over 3,000.
<s>
w? CB3
New Agents have
been appointed, and
will carry large stocks
of extra parts.
We have a considerable quantity of these
Drills on hand.
<s!> <s>
vCw vw
We must sell them quickly and are
prepared with prices and terms that will do it
■r
Those who buy ELHy Grain Drill without
first finding out our prices and terms on
“Superiors” are simply throwing away their
money.
DON’T MISS THIS CHANCE
But WRITE TO-DAY for Prices and Terms
International Harvester Company of America
AGENTS THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALASIA
Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide, Launceston,
and Christchu ch
LL ANDRADE » BOOKS an.
MOLL FLA\I)ERS, genuine edition, Is ; post Is
3d. LUOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Marri-
age Guide by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over SO
engravings, genuine 1904 edition, hard covers, im-
proved. Magic Up-to-date, is. Horse and Cattle
Doctor, 6d. Donelly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings. Is. Maria Monk, Is
6d. How to Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous
Dialogue Book, 6d each. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is ; post, Is lid. All Nat Gould’s Novels, 6d each,
posted Sd. Devil in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads,
etc., Is. House Painting and Papering, 1/3. How
to Play Billiards, Is. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d.
The Cuckold, Is; post, Is 3d. Britain for the
British, 6d. Freemasonry Exposed and Ex-
plained, 1905 edition, with key to all degrees, Is.
Cycle Building and Repairing, new edition, 190
illustrations, Is 3d. Maofadden’s Physical Train-
ing, Is. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron. and many
others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the First
Night, 1/3. How to Write Signs, Tickets and
Posters, Is 3d. Staining, Varnishing and Polish-
ing Wood, Is 3d. Electric Bells, 1/3. Boot-
making and Repairing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise :
Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal
Gustave, Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
PiAno Tuning and Repairing. Is 3d. How to Make
Love, Is. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card
Games, Is. Picture Frame Making, Is 3d.
Poultry Keeping, is. Dream Book, Is. Every
Man His Own Builder, Is and Is 3d.
NOVELTIES.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, Real Photos, 200
Kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s.
ZINGARA CIPSY FORTUNE TELLINC CARDS, LOVE, BUSI-
NESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions, 1s ; posted 1/3.
Confessions of a Melbourne Barmaid, illus., Is 3d.
Gay Life in Melbourne, illus., Is 3d. Hoffman’s
New Conjuring Entertainment, Is 3d. How to Bet
and Gamble, Is 2d. Kropotkin’s Fields, Factories-
and Workshops, Is 3d.' A Midnight Mystery, Is. A
Left-Han ded Murder, Is. God and My Neighbor, 9d, •
p. Is. Engineer's Practical Test: engines, boilers, gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6. ' How.to Make Up, Illustrated
Guide to the Stage, Is. New Tricks with Cards* Is.
Sandow, 3s. lilt. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, ls3d.
Midwives’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is. Building Model
Boats, Is 3d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phrenology,
Is. Blacksmith’s Work, 1/3. Lover’s Letter Writer,
Is. Photography, Is. Monster Song Books, 3d,
6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post. Age of
Reason, Is 3d. Ingersoll’s Works, 9d. Irish
Song Book, Is. Lightning Calculator, Is. Min-
strel Show, jokes, speeches, etc., is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is 2d.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
I
Free Catalogues:
No. I—Plays, Reciters,
Make-up, etc.
No. 2—Conjuring Apparatus
and Books.
No. 3—French Novels in
Engtish.
No. 4—Books for Presents.
No. s—Useful & Mechanical
Books.
No. 6—Books for the
Married.
No. 7--Advanced
Literature.
GLEASON’S GREAT HORSE BOOK
EVERYTHING WORTH KNOWING ABOUT THE HORSE. Fully Illustrated. Deals with breeding
training, sheltering, buying, selling, telling age, racing, etc. Diseases—their causes, how to know
how to cure them. Worth £7O for its information, but offered for 7/ T.
breaking,
them and
508 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE
VICTORIA MARKETS)
201 BOURKE ST.,
MELBOURNE.
BEST
“best*'
RAZOR GUARD
MEN WHO SHAVE with a “ BEST ” RAZOR GUARD
attached to their own blade experience the
delightful sensation of being quickly, safely and com-
fortably shaved. Guard requires no fixing, and is
easily slipped on to the ordinary razor blade, no
matter what size or shape. Instantly converts your
blade into a SAFETY RAZOR that is perfectly safe
to use under any conditions—travelling on a train, or
even in the dark —without fear of cutting yourself.
Makes your razor shave as smooth as velvet, just as
close as desired, in half the time you ordinarily take.
Absolutely prevents scrapes, even to the most
tender skin. Just as useful to the “good’’shaver as to
the novice. To try it is to appreciate it. Thousands
now in use. Every one sold makes a friend for life.
Send 2/-, Postal Notes or Stamps, and a Guard will
be mailed you to any address in Australasia. Agents
Wanted.
E. P. BREWER & CO.,
opp. G.P.0., MELBOURNE.
Visitors to Melbourne
WILL FIND
THAT % . •
Neale’s Temperance Hotel
(Tankards)
LONSDALE STREET (Next Law Courts;
is the handiest place to stay at. Being- close to Railway
Stations, Theatres and Wharves ; and three minutes’ walk
from G.P.O. Bedrooms on Ground Floor if desired.
Board and Residence, 4s. 6d. per day; or from £1 per
week. Telephone 1640.
B. MOUNTCASTLE
■ & SONS
'
The first
Essential
for the preservation of the
teeth is to keep them clean by
constant attention at least every morning
and evening.
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Tooth Powder
makes the work of your toothbrush so much
more complete and satisfactory, because it
perfects the cleansing and also supplies the
necessary antiseptic properties.
It is also delightfully flavoured and
‘ refreshing to use.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
BLOOD POISON.
FOR MORE THAN TWENTY YEARS
we have made the cure of blood poison a
specialty, Primary, Secondary or Tertiary
Blood Poison Permanently Cured. You can
be treated at. home under same guaranty.
Capital 500,000 dols. We solicit the most
obstinate cases. If you have exhausted the
old methods of treatment, and still have aches
and pains, Mucus Patches in Mouth, Sore
Throat, Pimples. Copper-Colored Spots,
Ulcers on any part of the body, Hair or
Eyebrows falling out, write for proofs of
cures. 100-page Book Free.
COOK REMEDY Co.,
1102 MASONIC TEMPLE, Chicago, U.S.A.
NERVOUSNESS
liOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OP SELF-CURE, will
forward the same, free of charge, to any-
one interested.
Address: A. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
RHEUMATISM.
GOUT
PILLS
Are recommended by doctors with confi-
dence as-one of the valuable results of
medical science, and the only remedy
ever discovered for these disorders, in
that they not only rapidly cure blit pre-
vent the recurrence of the malady.
Of Chemists and Stores, 1/1 \ and 2/9 per box.
Proprietors— FßOUT & CO., 229, Strand
London, England.
PHOTOS
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List, with 100 MinjJ'''
tures and 3 Cabinet Size Vhar
55., P. 0.0. or Stamps. Jr
S. RECKNACEL NACHF, Munich, Brieffach^


AND PEED
Suffered for One Year Water Caused
Agony, Heat Intense Pain —Grew
Worse Under Doctors—Could Not
Do Any Housework.
ANOTHER WONDERFUL
CURE BY CUTICURA
“About a year ago my hands began to
crack and peel. I tried many remedies,
but they grew worse all the time. At last
they became so sore that it was impos-
sible for me to do my housework. If I
put my hands in water, I was in agony
for hours; and if I tried to cook over the
stove, the heat caused intense pain. I
consulted a doctor, but his prescriptions
were utterly useless. I gave him up and
tried another, but without the least satis-
faction. About six weeks ago I got my
first relief when I purchased Cuticura
Soap and Ointment. After using them
for a week, I found to my great delight
that my hands were beginning to feel
much better, the deep cracks began to
heal up and stop running, and to-day
my hands are entirely well, the one cake
of Cuticura Soap and one box of Cuticura
Ointment being all that I used to make a
complete cure. (signed) Mrs. Minnie
Drew, 18 Dana St., Roxbury, Mass.”
ONE NIGHT TREATMENT
For Sore Hands and Feet
with Cuticura.
Soak the hands or feet on retiring in
a strong, hot, creamy lather of Cuticura
Soap. Dry and anoint freely with Cuti-
cura Ointment, the great skin cure.
Wear on the hands during the night old,
loose gloves, or bandage the feet lightly
in old, soft cotton or linen. For red,
rough, and chapped hands, dry, fissured,
itching, feverish palms, with brittle,
shapeless nails and painful finger ends,
and for itching, burning, and scaling
eczemas, rashes, inflammations, and
chafings, this treatment is simply won-
derful, frequently curing in one night.
Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Pills are sold throughout the
world. Depots : London, 27 Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 5 Hue de
la Paix; Australia, K. Towns & Co., Sydney. Potter Drug &
Chem. Corp., Boston, U. S. A., Sole Props,
nor Send for “ How to Cure Itching, Scaly Humours.’*
COOD
LAUNDRY SOAP
Good
friend
on
wash
day.
A good friend
is good to you.
Good Sunlight
Soap is a good
friend to you,
for Sunlight
Soap is good
and does good
work for you.
301
When you have proved the value of Sunlight Soap
you will be equally satisfied if you will try
Monkey Brand for scouring metal and woodwork,
im
I);=HSI.AN3 33 AN 3.1
Colonial Mutual Building,
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Victoria, S.A. and Tas. —
NORMAN BROS.
5S Elizabeth St., Melbourne
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth.
Of course you- have System
in vour office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OYER!
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
ence.
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Hooks.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Everything.
Australian Users now num-
bered by the hundreds.
Write for Catalogue.
JOHN SANDS, 374 George St*, Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in Q.Q
hours without
B
Incon-
venience.
Each Capsule bears the name ijtr~
MIDY
is a simple, safe, and reliable, laxative,
pleasant to the taste, pleasant in action,
pleasant in results.
Symptoms of constipation are not difficult to
tell. With a dose or two of California Syrup
of Figs they are as easy to dispel. Indigestion,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, depression and
loss of energy, sluggish action of the Liver,
Kidneys and Bowels, are rapidly cured by
California Syrup of Figs ; and the prime cause
—habitual constipation—is gradually overcome
by the invaluable tonic action of ihF ideal
household remedy. Of Chemists and Stores,
in two sizes, 1/3 and 1/11.
CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO., 32 Snow Hill, London, Eng
l;
@
m
i
I ' A
r^a
\J
r=r
\
ro
FROM
FROM
CAN BE PLACED
ON ORDINARY
DINING ROOM TABLE
WRITE FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
iUcociuG*.. 155 Elizabeth St Melbourne.
“iii
MILLIARDS has
■ long been re-
cognised as the
King of Indoor
Games, and the
Alcock Table is
admittedly the
Monarch of Bil-
liard Tables. Our
Miniature Tables,
with Slate Beds,
represent a high
standard of excel-
lence, can be used
on any ordinary
Dining Table, in-
stantly removed and
stored against the
wall. They are not
toys, but perfect,
highly - finished
Tables throughout,
and are the best
known cure for dull
evenings.
je
SYDNEY
Showrooms:
422 George Street.
Stop Groping
in the Dark!
Think What This Means
When you drop money or a
valuable article on a dark
streetwhen your “ collar
button ” rolls under the bed
or in the darkest corner of
the room, and you have to be
out of the house in five
minutes when the match
you light to find the collar
button goes out or burns
your fingerswhen the
sneaking thief enters your
house or follows you on a
dark lonely street. On occa-
sions like these, which are
liable to happen to anyone,
the possession of this handy
little electric lamp, will save
time, money, temper, and has
been known to save life.
One Battery, used a little
eaon night, will last over six
months.
MW UNQUESTIONABLY THE BEST AND
MOST RELIABLE ON THE MARKET.
Press the Button, and you hp,ve a Very Brilliant
Light, which is further intensified by the power-
ful magnifying Glass Bulb lifted over the ordinary
glass bulb.
m\wu
I
m,
Electric Pocket Lamps.
Electric Scarf Pins.— By re-
mitting' an extra 5s 6d to the
price of the Lamp ordered,
we will forward a most
beautiful Scarf Pin for your
tie, button-hole, coat or
dress. The wire connects
(unobserved) with the Lamp
in your pocket. Every time
the Button is pressed, a
brilliantly. effective light
gushes out in the darkness
from the “ stones ” of the
Scarf Pin, which must make
vou the admiration of your
friends These E'ectric Scarf
Pins are admittedly the best
of all novelties. They can be
fitted to anv Electric Pocket
Lamp in a few seconds, and
there is absolutely no danger
whatsoever. Send in your
order now, as we have only
a limited number in stock.
Every Lamp Guaranteed.
Beware of the innumerable Cheap Lamps on the market,
'which are utterly worthless, and get out of order in no time.
OUR LAMPS ARE NOT TOYS. Batteries are only charged the day they are sent out. Most Lamps are
charged in the Manufactory months (perhaps years) before you get them, affected by climate, heat, and wind,
and all the electricity wasted.
Price, posted to any address in Australia, properly packed, 7s. 6d. each. Refill batteries, 2s. 6d. each.
We have also a cheaper Lamp in Stock, price 3s. 9d. posted, verv good value for the money, but the 7s. 6d.
article is undoubtedly the BEST IN THE WORLD.
A. J. SMITH & CO., 6 Moore Street, SYDNEY.
This High-class . . .
Hedical
Battery
Every ailment that electricity-
will relieve or cure can be cured
by this wonderful MEDICAL
BATTERY.
Nothin;? in the electric belt
line can approach it for effec-
tiveness.
Its strength can be regulated
to suit a child or a strong mar.
Price 355.
POST
FREE
Money Back if Unsat sLctory.
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd.
‘MY OPTICIANS,”
Opticians and Electricians,
393 GEORGE STREET (facing lioyal hotel)* SYDNEY.
N.S.W. Railway Commissioners have just issued
an illustrated pamphlet on trout fishing. Over 140
streams are stocked. Trout have increased in the cold
streams of Monaro to an incredible extent. In Molonglo
River, five miles from Queanbeyan, the first N.S.W. trout
were liberated by Gale and Campbell in 1888. The
wild Goodradigbee River is better for trouting even than
the Queanbeyan, Molonglo, Cotter, or Gudgentry. Trout
bite for fly, worm, grasshopper, spinner, &c. Crickets,
shrimps, and wood grubs will do. From Cooma many
roads radiate to trout rivers, such as at the beauty spot
known as the Flour Mill. Cooma folk catch abundant
trout, cod, bream, and perch with white grub, shrimp,
worm, frog. “ liven dynamite barbarians and troutshooters
are found.” Trout up to 51b. are rather common at Rosedale.
Bight-pounders have been caught at Nimitybelle. The
fly wallet of the trouter in the Snowy and Bombala should
include bee fly, coachman, white moth, black gnat,
March brown, red ant, green grasshopper. Thirty
varieties can be had in Sydney. In favorite holes on the
Bombala trout are butter fat from 81b. to 121 b. The
streams feed the great trout river of the State, the
Snowy. The Snowy, a spring-fed river, is an ideal haunt
for the speckled trout that fight to a finish and quiver on
the bank. Trout are to be put into Kosciusko’s blue lake.
* • • •
“The Prooshan” : What a lot of hifalutin’
tommy-rot is talked in regard to trout angling! To
read up sufficiently to catch a rainbow, according to
the dicta of Roy Rippleton and Co., who—ah-own the —
ah—Rippleton Run—why, one could matriculate with less
trouble. Yet I know a stolid, sleepy-going Austral-Ger-
man who walked over to Manus Creek, near Tumberumba,
and slung in bis usual old cod-hook and worm, and yanked
out nine good rainbow trout in an hour. He fished 4ft.
deep too. He never saw a trout before, and had never
seen any trout literature. He just “yanked ’em out!”
[Generally admitted that anyone can “yank out” trout
with a worm, grasshopper or other bait of the sort. The
genuine “ angler ” operates with an artificial fly and on
his gossamer cast gives the fish a show, and himself more
sport.]
* * „ *
In view of the Stanbury-Towns deadlock, it is
evidently necessary that the private enterprise element
should be knocked out of the sculling championship. As
the championship is at present held in Australia, and has
also been closely identified with this continent in the
past, the rowing associations might elect a committee to
decide under what conditions it should be run, and take
steps to bring other parts of the world into line. At
present the thing has degenerated into a feud between
Stanbury and Towns. Stanbury is getting back on the
boat-builder for driving a hard bargain by trying to
work a skinner, and possibly, if Towns defeats Stanbury,
he will impose a further penalty, till some future cham-
pion asks for all the gate and £lOOO cash down before he
races.
* * * *
Victorious trip of Maoriland Rugbyites has
suggested retaliation, and the British Amateur Boxing
Association is contemplating the despatch of a team on a
mission of bash. Maorilanders are a bit green in the ring
yet, but some of the Australian centres could perhaps
more than accommodate the visiting amateurs.
* • * *
The daily newspapers are referring continually
to the approaching visit of a Canadian Rugby team to
Australia. There is nothing - in the report, for the reason
that the New South Wales Union is noc taking any. The
British Columbia people, however, appear to be anxious
for the trip.
* * * *
Mail files show that the Maorilanders were
outplayed in the Welsh match, Taffy’s score of a try to
nothing failing altogether to represent the position. The
win by nine points in the following match, against
Glamorgan, was robbed of significance by the fact that
half of the Glamorgan players were away as a result of
injuries received in the international. The absentees in-
cluded Winfield (back), Morgan, Llewelyn and Gwyn
Nicbolls (three-quarters), Owen (scrum-half), and several
forwards, and, in fact, only three of the team originally
picked ultimately took part in the game.
* • • *
M. footballers came in for much female atten-
tion in Britain according to all accounts, and the scorers
of tries, and kickers of goals received numerous offers of
marriage, which got mixed with their toast and were
soiled by their coffee of mornings. One player who was
erroneously credited with securing a try received a
proposal, which, however, was promptly cancelled when
the evening papers came out. The lady saw that someone
else crossed the line, and wrote stating that under the
circumstances she could never be anything more than a
sister to the player who hadn’t scored.
• * » •
N. Rugby Union is trying to form an Im-
perial Rugby Union, to control the game throughout the
Empire. The N.S.W. body is apparently under the im-
pression that the visit of the Maorilanders to Britain has
revived the game in England ; but there is no reason for
the belief. The English Rugby Union has not reversed
its policy of driving out the working man, and all the
best players—players who are worth having - —are snapped
up by the Northern Union, and turn professionals. The
amateur Rugby game in England is almost dead.
» * * »
Almost last-created Balfourite knight was Sir
H. E. Randall, the Northampton manufacturer. The
gentleman’s chief claim to distinction lies in the fact that
he is the father of his son, one of the foremost professional
flat-race feather-weights of the day, and high up in the
list of winning jockeys for this year. Curious calling for
the only son of a man who is almost a millionaire—but in
the Coid Country “ retaining fees ” alone run well into
the thousands. Young Randall began as an amateur,
and ’verted to professionalism.
* * * *
“Brumby”: I lately met a puny specimen of
the straw-hatted girl-charmers who perennially pervade
Sydney block. It was at the baths, and he had the
physical-culture mania badly. I asked him wherefore the
unwonted exercise, lie replied that he was getting
“fit” to “take on” a certain offensive member of his
push. This chap had been foremost in insisting that he
should wear on his straw hat their distinctive badge—a
broad red ribbon with the gilt letters S.O. Dodged a
swinging club and inquired what S.O. stood for. “ Strand
hornamints,” gasped the strenuous weakling, with his
face half out of joint.
V • * »
“Gr.” : A series of visits to schools of physical
culture shows me that almost all the pupils are drawn
from two classes, and those are classes which contribute
very little to the general mass of athletes. There are the
very strong young men, who can raise masses of pig-iron
like feathers without the aid of physical culture, and who
want to learn to uselessly heave up an extra cwt. ; and
there are the weeds. The strong youths all expect to
become Hackenschmidts, just as every girl who can
sing “ Dolly Gray ” coming home from a picnic thinks
she would be a Melba if she had her voice trained. The
second class has no such illusions. - Its members aim only
at becoming decently set-up men, capable of holding
their own in health with the average, and it is with these
that physical culture does most good. Many of them are
ludicrous in their angular distortion. Some look like
Indian famine specimens, and the improvement made
with them is remarkable. Probably the worst examples
will never be up to the average, but they will be a long
way ahead of what they were when they started. They
are the by-products of manhood, the refuse of national
physique, and, if it w'ere not for these schools of physical
culture, they would remain the same until the ceinetery
claimed them. The physical culture school is a sort of
mission for the reclamation of unregenerate bodies.
• * • #
Somebody who has been rooting among ancient
Dutch books declares that ju-jitsu is only another
example of the Jap’s imitativeness, and that most of its
tricks of attack and defence are given in a wrestling
manual published in Amsterdam more than 200 years ago.
• * * *
“No,’’said the boss of the Rats Push, “tlier
perlice ain’t wot they uster be. Blime, there was a time
when they were Micks to a man, and their hands was
heavy. Irishmen have awful heavy fists. But these days,
you can do pretty well wotcher like, half ther traps now
is Dutchmen. They’ll be havin’ Dagoes next! ” and he
spat with ferocious disgust. He seemed to take a pride
in the police force and to he grieved that there was a
chance of a proportion of it becoming unworthy’Of his
blue metal.


SUITABLE FOR PRESENTATIONS TO GENTLEMEN
Beauty an 1 appropriateness of design,
combined with excellence of workman-
ship and intrinsic value of the Goods
we sell, have contributed to the reputa-
tion for superiority enjoyed by
Stewart Dawson & Co.
SEND YOUR ORDERS and REQUESTS FOR
CATALOGUES D RiCT TO . . .
if you want to buy an article for pre-
sentation to a Man we can meet your
wishes with as fine a Stock of Suitable
Things as could be found anywhere,
and better by far than what you can
see in the majority of shops.
Plain Solid 9ct. Gold Match Boxes,
the new flat shape,
705., ,755.,, 80s.
SfK
Plain Sovereign Purse, holds 10 sovereigns.
15et. Gold, £lO ; 18et. Gold, £l5.
mem
I
>•* ■
; 0«S i
Combination Solid Silver Match Box and
Cigarette Tube Holder, with G fld Mou tWd
Tube, £2 2s.
Cut Class and
Solid Silver Whisky.
Heeanter, £2 16s,
All Solid Silver'Spirit Flasks,' each
in a Morocco Case, 635, 755, 90s.
pp*
'
’ AinSer and Gold Mounted Cigar Holder*,
in Leather Case, 14s 6d, 22s 6d.
Cigarette ditto, 12s 6d.
Case of 1 Finest Ivory Brush and Comb, £3 ss.
2 large size, with Comb, in case, £7 7s.
9et. Gold Cigarette Case, £ll 10s.
; Solid Silver, 27s 6d, 355, 40s.
Silver-Mounted Shaving Tidy, 17s V
Silver-Mounted Shaving-
Tidy, 6s 6d.
In Crocodile Leather, 12/6
Solid 9ct. Gold Cigar
Case, £2O.
Solid Silver Shaving: Mug;, £5.
Brush to Match, 12s 6d.
Plain Photo tiig'art tte Case,
Solid Silver, £2 17s Gd.
r'?~
Combination Match Box and Soverei' n
Purse, 15ct. Gold, £9 10s ; 18ct., £l5 10s
w*s-
?AJI
-Ml
© iy
2
-V
£7
fo.
m
Cube sy
perfect.
ONE MILLION
LETTERS
left our Offices last year to our patients, which shows our facility for
handling large mail business, extending throughout Australasia, South
Africa, England, China, Singapore, and all parts of the civilised globe.
Because we are It eliable Specialists for Men in Treatment and
Cure of their Delicate and Deadly Genito-Urinary diseases, and because
we have honestly -cured more men of their troubles than any similar
association of Medical Practitioners practising in Commonwealth, we
control the largest Home-treatment Business in Australia. If we did
not cure men by honest treatment, we would not hold the position of
pre-eminence as Specialists, which we have held for 25 years. We
follow the precepts of those great Masters in Genito-Urinary Diseases,
Ricord of France and Kane of America, and their methods are our
models. We cure quickly Gravel, Stone in Kidney, Weakness in Men,
Weak Organic Power, Insomnia, Rupture, Prostatic Gland Disorders,
Inflammation, Cystitis (Stone in the Bladder), Varicocele, and other
Deadly Serious Disorders. During the Xmas and New Year’s Season
the Institute will he open daily from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m., and Special
Appointments may be arranged. A celebrated Lady Specialist, Dr.
Elizabeth White, will be in attendance in the Women’s Department.
AN & WALLACE INSTITUTE
STAFF OF FOUR QUALIFIED PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS MAY BE CONSULTED FREE.
WHERE OTHERS HAD FAILED!!
70 Lang- Street, South Yarra, Melbourne.
To Whom it may Concern.—
“This is to certify that for some 15 months I was
troubled with eczema, and was attended by various
medical men, without result. After con-
sulting your Institute and adopting your medical
treatment 1 soon began to improve until now 1 am well
nigh over my troubles. I can conscientiously recom-
mend any sufferer from blood or skin affections to the
Freeman and Wallace Institute.
(Signed) O. E. TIMS.”
COOD N3WS FROM QUEENSLAND.
From “ Winton” Station, Goondiwindi, Queensland ,
comes Mr. Win. WEBB’S letter, saying :
“I am very grateful and thankful for the. attention
given my ease, and you have made a complete cure for
me. The back never aches ; the nerves are all steady.
None of my old serious troubles weaken me, and now
I am a new man altogether, thanks to your great skill.
You can make any use you like of this letter, and when
I see others troubled as I was I will advise them to con-
sult the Fireman and Wallace specialists, who will cure
them as they did me.”
AN ATHLETIC EXPONENT STATES.
That well-known boxer, Mr. RALPH WELLS, whose
success in the roped-arena has been phenomenal, in
writing us, says :
“A brief course of treatment at your hands has
effected the most wonderful results, and being relieved
of all anxiety as to my condition, am myself again in
every way. I feel it is due to you to record this testi-
mony, and the greatest credit is due to your medical
attention and great care exhibited in my case.”
A CCOD BOOK.—It tells every Weak Men
how to get strong, It explains the reason
for the Early Decay of Manhood’s Strength,
and how Perfect Vigor- is restored. It tells
how we have cured thousands of weak men
in Australia during the past twenty-five
years. It is a beautifully illustrated handsome
book. To any man who suffers from ap early
breaking down of the Vital Powers, it is in-
valuable. “Cllnicai Experiences,” 31 chap-
ters, is the Book for Sick Men. It is com-
mended by hundreds of Australian news-
papers. IT COSTS NOTHING. Send for .it
to-day. All letters sent to the Institute are
supervised by Br. Richard Wallace, M.D.,
L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.S., E., L.M., our Physician-
in-Chief, who is registeied by Australian,
English and American Medical Boards.
I!” Freeman & Wallace
Electro-Medical & Surgical Institute,
Cor. Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts., Sydney
AND AT MELBOURNE.
Dr. Richard Wallace, M.D., Physician-in-Chief \
Dr. Elizabeth White M.D. Dept, of Women I
Howard Freeman, Director.
N DTE.— After all this evidence can you
doubt our ability to cure you ? We give you
every opportunity of finding out all about us,
and will give you further proof of the efficacy
of our wonderful healing treatment. Patients
who take our home treatment receive the
same expert attention as if we saw them in
person. When we receive our Question
Chart filled out correctly, our Specialists
are able to diagnose your case as accurately
as if you were personally present. Our
Diagnosis Charts are seriously studied by
our Specialists, so that we understand your
case fully.
We have cured so many thousands of cases
of serious chronic complaints, if there is a
cure for your disease you will find it at
our Institute. Our treat mint never fails.


The published lists of successful Yictorian
matriculation candidates exhibit the usual run of
gorgeously ornate and romantic Christian names
—lvan Cyril Diinant, Vincent Cyril Duff, Noela
Gilbert, Stella Fida Greig, Orwell de Ruyter
Foenander, Cyril Kingswell Oxenham, Percy
Warwick Sandford, Randall Francis Hazelton
Smith, Leslie Cyril Webster, William Garnet
Ockleshaw Eggington, Marie Naomi Franklin,
Roy Fallowes Watson, and so on. There seems
to have been a heavy run on Cyril some
years ago. But one Jones passed, plain William
Henry. Also there was a Chandos Eric Bones—
no less.
Some of Nelson’s letters to Lady Hamil-
ton, recently unearthed, show the amount of trust
he placed in George IV. (then Prince of Wales).
Nelson heard that his beloved Emma was likely to
meet the “fat Adonis,” so he promptly sent a
letter of warning
I am so agitated that I can write nothing. I knew it
would be so, and you can’t help it. Do not sit long at
table. Good God ! he will be next you and telling you
soft things. If he does, tell it out at table and turn him
out of the house.
After the date of the dreaded occasion Nelson flras
still distressed, not knowing that the meeting
with the Royal scoundrel had been averted :
Did you sit alone with the villain ? No, I will not believe
it. Ob, God ! Oh, God ! keep my senses. Do not let the
rascal in !
• «#
(Sraphophoiie
rOR 50/-
including Nickeled Horn,
Bent Wood Cabinet, new
large Reproducer an I
RECORDER for TAKING
RECORDS AT HOME.
AN IDEAL GIFT.
Price Oft 4ft a
Complete— ■ "?>
Record foe, per Dozen.
PHONOGRAPH USERS ! What are you paying for Records?
Latest Columbia Gold-Moulded
Records for all Phonographs are
1)3 each
FOR LISTS, and Name op Nearest Agent, send to
Columbia Phonograph Co,, 25 Ash St., Sydney.
SOME BOOKS
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
H
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young- and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, new 1904 edition,
2s 6d posted. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Hr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. " Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted. Marie
Corelli’s God’s Good Man, 2s 9d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tiie
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s How
to Train the Horse, Is 6d. Passion’s Paradise, Is Cd.
Stolen Sweets, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
CußF.,lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Ciiiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River ; 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made E.Asy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Inquirer’s Oracle ; Wiiat to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training,
Is. Elements of Social Science, 3s (id. On Our
New Selection, 6s 6d. A Life of Pleasure, Is 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying- more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. |)C“ Established W Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT
4
Write for my ......
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappiio, genuine,
Is. Advice to Women, Is post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Lovf. and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court or England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is posted.
All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s Freemasonry,
Is 2d post. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d posted.
Toxology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances, 2s.
Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, &c., with
full directions, Is posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s Cd posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. The
Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pa; . •?, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. Tiie Secrets of Clair yoyanck
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. Tiie Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood,
ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. French
Art Studies, 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen. New Tricks
with Coins, Is posted. A Modern Siren, Is 6d.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING & MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
The Milk Foods closely approximate in composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant /
/They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones. (
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns.
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the of the “Allenburys" Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The "Allenburys” Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
ALLEN & HANBLRVS Ltd., LONDON, # Bridge Loftus Sts., Sydney
Business Announcements.
WHAT A LOT THERE IS IN LUCK I
IN ALL AGES SEVEN HAS BEEN
THE LUCKY NUMBER. NAPOLEON
WOVE HIS MOST SKILFUL COM-
BINATIONS ABOUT THE MYSTIC
SEVEN. 777 IS THE NUMBER OF
TATTERSALL’S GOLDEN PEN.
TRY YOUR LUCK WITH ONE FOR
YOUR SWEEP TICKET. BOX OF
EIGHTEEN FOR SIXPENCE Any-
where, or send Eightpence in stamps
777, BOX 98, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
PETERS
IMIiK
Ghoeolate
is
Irresistably
Delicious
and
as wholesome
as
Bread and Butter
Does NOT
create Thirst.
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
‘PAMPA’
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BEST.
Sola's,
by N.
all first- s.
class stores
in Australasia.
No. 8176 J 2-BLADE
“PAMPA,”
Cocoa Handle 1/6
Buffalo Handle - 21-
Stag Handle - - - 2/6
This
Trade
Mark
AERTEX
London
on
every
Garment.
AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR
Shirts, Pyjamas, &c., &c.
Shirts made to measure from 5/6,
LADIES and CHILDREN’S
UNDERWEAR and other garments in stock and
made to measure, in Cottons, Lisles, Wools, Merinos
and Unions.
FABRICS BY THE YARD.
PAMPHLETS AND PRICE LISTS POST FREE.
Sole Agents in N.S.W,:
DAVID BRAHAM & CO -
-75 King Street, Sydney.
AIDS DIGESTION.
BRACES THE NERVES
PLASMON
COCOA
It non-heating. One cap contains
more nourishment than 10 caps of
any ordinary cocoa.
FRANZ JOSEF Lager
Superior
to
All Others .
J'lje Xarjcet describes it as—
“ Mr. Benger’s admirable
preparation.”
British Medical Journal
says—
“ Benger’s Food has by its
excellence established a
reputation of its own.”
GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
0
FOOD
For INFANTS,
INVALIDS
AGED.
Benqer's rooD is sold in Tins
by Chemists, Bcc. everywhere.


the name
W9OD-MILNE
moulded on the face of your
rubber heels.
These splendid rubber heels re-
duce fatigue and jar in walk-
ing, prevent worn-down heels,
and make a pair of boots last
twice as long. Smart and
economical.
WOob-MJLNE KHOESIHWES KEEP
BOOTS POPISH ED FOR DAYS.
On sale at all Shoe and
Rubber Stores.
Sole' Wholesale Agents for Australia—
D. and W. MURRAY, Ltd., Adelaide,
South Australia; Perth, Western Aus-
tralia; Kalgcorlie, Western Australia;
Melbourne, Victoria; Launceston, Tas-
mania; Brisbane, Queensland; Towns-
ville, Queensland; Broken-hill, New
South Wales.
WOOD-
MILNE,
RUBBER
HEELS
DUNKLING’S
WATCHES
Are Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronograph.
%
ss
G unmetal Open Face Key less Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Minute Re-
corder, and all the newest improvements.
Guaranteed for 3 Years. Post Free to any
part of Australia.
JS3»
Warranted egucil to czny £lO 10s.
Chronograph made.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Australian Depot for ZEISS and
GOERZ FIELD GLASSES.
W. DUNKLING,
315-317 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
LINOLO
GLEANS, SHANES, POLISHES
Linoleums, Wood Floors,
Furniture, Harness,
Boots and Shces, &c.
THE FINEST AMERICAN POLISH
YET PRODUCED.
All Grocers, Ironmongers, &c.
Australasian Agents—
AMERICAN HYGIENIC AGENCY, Ltd., 177 Liver-
pool Street, Hyde Park, SYDNEY.
Sole Victorian Distributing Agents—
J. J. MADDEN & CO., 58 Queen St., MELBOURNE.
Sole Queensland Distributing Agent—
ALFRED MOON, 37 Adelaide St., BRISBANE.
FREE SAMPLES any State on application.
“A truly delightful Thirst Quencher.”
The Lancet writes “Lime Juice is, particularly during the
summer, afar more wholesome drink than any form of alcohol.”
“ Montserrat ” is obtained solely from the celebrated
Lime Juice Plantations in the Island of. Montserrat.
To obtain the genuine, specify “ M' NT ERRAT,”
OF ALL STORES AND CHEMSSTS.
SMOKE OH !
Cigar TRy KING of All K. &B.
Smokers HIGH LIFE CIGARS
Mild, Medium and Full Strength, 17s 6d per Box (lOO); postage
9d extra ppsend for 1s worth as sample—posted free.
Agents: CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.
I
a
Absolutely CUT 6
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
There’s SECURITY in
Barter's
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
They TOUCH the
Be
.Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Prloe*
LIVER
Sure they are Carter's
&
DO YOU SUFFER FROM
Lost Strength, Debility, Early
Decay, or Varicocele?
They are Quickly and Forever Cured by this
Grand Product of Nature.
Dr. MCLAUGHLIN’S
ELECTRIC BELT.
With Free Attachments for Weak Men.
These Attachments carry the current direct
to the weak parts, and Cure all Weakness of Men,
Varicocele, etc. They develop and expand all
weak organs, and stop unnatural loss of power and
vitality. No case of Debility or Failing Vigor can
resist the powerful Electric Belt and Attachments.
Most of the Pains, most of the Weakness of Stomach, Heart, Brain,
and Nerves from which men suffer is due to an early loss of Nature’s
reserve power through mistakes of vouth. You need not suffer for this;
you can be cured. The amount of Electricity you have lost you can get
back, and you may be as happy as any man liv>ig.
Electricity has a wonderful effect on all of the Limbs or Body,
Stiff Joints, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago, etc., quickly curing ailments
of years standing. •*'
. . READ THIS . .
Weakness, Sciatica, Asthma, and
Debility.
RENO, via GUNDAGAI, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs, —Before commencing the use of
your valuable Belt my general health was very
much out of order, and, to use the colonial
parlance, I was just about fit for the grave-digger
and the bone-yard.
I started to use your Belt on September 10th,
and have worn it up to now regularly every
evening. The . black specks that used to be
floating before my eyes ; the singing noises like
bells ringing in my ears ; the stiffness in hips,
knees and legs—which you said was Sciatica —
are all gone, and, I hope, never to return. lam
very well pleased ■ with the benefits I have
received from your Belt, and the only thing that
I regret is that I did not take the higher grade
.appliance.
Yours truly,
JAMES'HARFORD, Senr.
The tyc Laughliit Co.
100 W. Market-st., Sydney
N.Z Office —54 Willis Street, Wellington.
W.A. Office—9o William Street, Perth.
William Charles Cranford
A GRAND HEALTH BOOK
POST TO-DAY.
THIS COUPOW, FITL IN
NAME & ADDRESS AND
but OUT
FREE BOOK.
WE publish a Grand Illustra-
ted Book, showing how
we apply this wonderful
Ufe-Giver, in all sorts of com-
plaints. It shows how the
wonderful Electric Current is
carried to all parts of the body,
and how our Belt is as good
for women as for men. It also
gives photos and names of
hundreds of cured and grate-
ful patients. If you are ailing
send for it to-day. Do not
delay.
Please send me a Book,
as described above.
Namb.
ADPKESS.
~SK FOR-
AND
refuse].
rtiß^Tmnrc
$
Himself Cured.
T\EAR SIR, —I have been cured of Weakness and
Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and
will be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers.
I do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURST,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME .CURE by that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
SYnDIsTDETT- ' ' ,
FREE
WHAT IS CATARRH?
Catarrh is inflammation of
the lining' membrane of the
nose arid adjoining passages.
If this inflammation is not
attested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the
sight and hearing, destroys
l he sense of taste and smell,
renders the breath offensive,
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal Car-
tiieges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? If so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEIIICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache,Neu ralgia, Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
Price,complete with 4 months’
treatment by mail, 10s.
Write for Booklet, free, or send order direct to
Star Novelty Co., 220-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
MEDICATOR.
FREE TRIAL!
NOT A PENNY DOWN
Simply drop us a post card with ymr name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved high grade ELECT KIC-
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure al l cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back, Kid-
ney, Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all Weakness of Men and Women.
Ule will glue Free
to each per-
son writing
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, whi.ch should be read by all
men and women. If you are weak in any way
delay no longer, but write to-day for our
splendid Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
THOUSANDS OF
RUPTURED
PEOPLE have been and are being
Alin PR by Dr Langston’s Perfect
|» UK til Combined Treatment.
No Pain, Operation, or Detention from
Work. Immediate Belief, and Certain
Cure. Convincing Tegtimeny and Befer-
ences from nearly every town m Aastraaa
sent with my Valuable Book .»
“RUPTURE, ITS HISTORY 4 CURE
FREE.
Posted. 2 Stamps.
THE LANGSTON INSTITUTE
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.


TATTERSALL’S CONSULTATIONS.
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
NOW OPEN
NEWMARKET HANDICAP, Flemington, Vic., March 3
AUSTRALIAN CUP, Flemington, Vic., March 6
NEWCASTLE CUP, Newcastle, N.S.W., March 31
DONCASTER HANDICAP, Randwick, N.S.W., April 14
100,000 at 10/4 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
50,000 at 5/2 each.
50,000 at 5/2 each.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d. on each
5Sm Ticket, and 4d. on eacli fOs. Ticket. Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
ie -TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several vears past. Parcels may be forwarded through any PARCELS
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pfitt St., Sydney.
Booking Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
DRUNKARDS
CURED SECRETLY.
EUCRASY,
i
//.Wi 1
—
This harmless and
tasteless remedy is
given in Tea, Coffee,
Pood, etc., to cure
Drunkards. Any
' wife, sister, daughter,
or mother can cure
her loved one of this
fearful and degrading
habit by this new
simple remed3% as did
Mrs. Scott, who
writes : “Oh ! how
happy I am that my
husband has lost all
hi s appetite for
whisky; he now hates
the sight of it, and
refuses to drink, even
when others offer it
to him. Your remedy
is surely a blessing
for drunkards.”
Mrs. Scott s word of gratitude is only one of hundreds
In possession of this company. Anyone who will send
their name and address to
THE EUCRASY COMPANY,
62 Hunter-street, Sydney, will receive by mail, sealed, a
free book about this wonderful remedy, and full instruc-
tions how to cure the drink habit.,
I mM.
GANZ
Turbine Pumps
for mines, water-supply
works, etc., to suit all
kinds of requirements,
are supplied find erected
by the
Austral Otis
Engineering 1 Co»
Cr. Hanna & Kavanagh Streets, South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 331.
I].
EARS
THAT
WILL
HEAR
SCIENTIFIC INVENTIONS
FOR THE DEAF.
rjEAFNESS, total or partial, is no longer a hope-
***. less affliction. The MASSACON treatment
for the cure of Deafness has won the approval of
scientists and physicians in all parts of the world ;
and the ACOUSTICON, as an artificial aid to
hearing, will give “EARS THAT WILL HEAR ”
to even the most stubborn case of deafness. We
want an opportunity of PROVING and DEMON.
STRATING to you the great value of these instru-
ments. As a preliminary step we invite you to
write for FREE BOOKLET A. TO-DAY.
ACOUSTIC PATENTS, LIMITED ,
Equitable Building, Melbourne.
Hearne’s Bronchitis Core.
TZEaCE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
has the largest sale of any chest medicine in the world.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis Coucrh Difficulty of w _ TJ -
Soreness m the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it s iny Suable as R effects fcm t p Ho ™ ess ’ Pain or
I^JEZ'VU' OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A COMMERCIAL TRAVELLER SUFFERING IN-
TENSELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
HAS SINCE CAMPED OUT AND TRAVELLED
MUCH WITHOUT CONTRACTING A COLD.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —In 1898, I was for four years previously in
Queensland travelling - representative for a mercantile
house. Having- contracted a heavy cold, I placed myself
under a medical man, and used all kinds of chemists’
prescriptions without avail. I was then staying at Hayes’
Terminus Hotel, Brisbane. The manager did all possible
for me, for which I shall always feel grateful. Mr. Duncan
Currie, at that time acting manager for the New York
Life Insurance Co., came to see roe daily, and he advised
me to try your Bronchitis Cure. I was about done for,
could not eat, or scarcely swallow ; in fact, used to nearly
suffocate a dozen times a day, suffering intensely. Guess
of my thankfulness, when Mr. Currie brought me a bottle
of your Bronchitis Cure. A few doses actually cured me.
I took another bottle away from the city with me, and
gave part of it to a young girl at Southport, and it also
saved her life. The balance I gave to Mr. T. McMillan,
Tweed River—three persons cured by your valuable
medicine. Although I have camped out and travelled
about 10,000 miles since my illness, I have not contracted
a cold since.—l am, Sir, your best well-wisher,
THOS. ROSS,
Labasa, via Suva, Fiji.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A QUEENSLAND RESIDENT CURED BY HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
IT MADE A NEW MAN OF HIM.
NO, SHORTNESS OF BREATH SINCE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l had Bronchitis several
times since 1898 in Victoria, Western Australia, and here,
and had paid many pounds away in medicine ; but when I
arrived in Cairns in 1900 from Western Australia, I was
induced to try your Bronchitis Cure. I took five bottles,
and it made a new man of me. I could afterwards run a
mile or climb up and .down a vertical shaft without any
feeling of shortness of breath. No medicine for Bronchitis
that I have.ever taken has afforded me such relief as vour
Bronchitis Cure.—Yours faithfully,
RICHARD COLLINS, Mine Manager,
Irvinebank, via Cairns, North Queensland.
BRONCHITIS.
A SOUTH AUSTRALIAN STOREKEEPER TESTIFIES
TO THE EFFICACY OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE.
A SUFFERER 70 YEARS OLD CURED BY IT.
WELL AND HEARTY NOW.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir.—l am a storekeeper,
living- in this township for the last 20 years. One of my
oldest customers has been subject to Bronchitis for a
number of years, and has been in the hospital with it
several times. Hearing of your valuable medicine, he
tried it, and found that it gave him great relief. One
bottle was sufficient to put him right. This gentleman is
over 70 years of age, an old bushman, who has been in
these parts for the last 30 years, and is well known. He
makes my house his home when here, and got the
medicine from me. He is at my place now, and he says
that this winter is the freest he has had from Bronchitis
for a number of years, and he wishes to return you thanks
for your valuable Bronchitis Cure. He is well and hearty
now. You are quite at liberty to publish this or any part
of it you like, as it may be of great benefit to other people
suffering from Bronchitis. —Yours truly,
M. GOGLIN, Storekeeper,
Yunta, South Australia.
BRONCHITIS.
A FOURTEEN MONTHS’ SUFFERER IN
QUEENSLAND.
COUGH SO DISTRESSINGLY BAD COULD NOT GET
ANY REST.
CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
AFTER OTHER TREATMENT HAD FAILED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l write to add my testi-
mony to the wonderful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I
suffered for 14 months with a terrible cough. It was so
distressingly bad at night that I could not get any sleep.
I consulted doctors to no purpose. I saw your medicine
advertised, and sent for a bottle, which has taken the
cough clean away, and I feel a different man. You may
depend on my making your wonderful medicine known.
I have sent for another bottle to keep by me in case it
may return at any time. lam writing this, as lam sure
there are a great many people out this way that if they
knew the wonderful effect of this medicine they would
send and procure it at any prjpe.—Yours faithfully
J. P. BOYD,
Contractor, Torrens Creek, North Queensland.
SEVERE COUGH.—A FIVE YEARS CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
“ Dear Sir, —I suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during- that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and can’t be licked.—Yours sincerelv,
“W. TREMELLEN,
“Modevvarre, Victoria.”
ASTHMA—A SEVENTEEN YEARS CASE.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes “ After suffering from asthma for
seventeen years, and having been under a great many
different treatments without benefit, I was induced to try
Hearne’s Medicine for Asthma. After taking three
bottles of this medicine, I quite got rid of the Asthma,
and since then, which was the beginning of 1883—fifteen
years ago—l have not had the slightest return of it. The
medicine quite cured me, and I have much pleasure in
recommending it.”
Writing again two years later, he' states “ I am
keeping very well. Never have the slightest return of
the asthma.
GRATITUDE AND APPRECIATION.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN CIRCLE.
The Scientific Australian Office,
_ „ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who, during the last few years, has been repeatedly
working for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bron-
chitis Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
This gentleman some three years ago was recommended
to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, accountant
Collins-street, and the effect that it had was so marked
that he has ever since been continually recommending it
to others. °
We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintances.
Believe us always to be,
Yours most faithfully,
PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.
BRONCHITIS.
TWO PERSONS IN NEW ZEALAND CURED BY ONE
BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
ONE OF THEM HAD BEEN SUFFERING FOR
TWELVE MONTHS.
J^ Hew^« De ? r Slr ’~ 1 had a ver > bad cough, so I
bought one bottle of your Bronchi tis Cure, and used about
one-haR of it, which cured my cough in two or three days.
My daughter who had been troubled with a bad cough
toi the past twelve months, then used the remaining half
of the medicine, and it cured her also. I think your
Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful remedy.
I have lived on my farm at Bombay for about 36 years.
You are at liberty to use this letter in any way you
please.—Yours respectfully, CHAS. WOOTTON,
Bombay, Auckland, New Zealand.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A SUFFERER FOR YEARS.
IMMEDIATE RELIEF AND COMPLETE CURE BY
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l feel in duty bound to express
my gratitude first to you for your marvellous Bronchitis
and Asthma Cure, next to Mr. Cheshire, Chemist, North
Brighton, for having so valuable a cure in stock. Mv wife
ti 6l " B ' a su ff erer for years, I purchased one bottle of your
Bronchitis Cure. It gave immediate relief, and, con-
tinuing it as directed.it effected a complete cure. Mv
mier a 2?H, I *r° on,men i it t 0 aH <mr ac ‘l ua -intances who
suffer with the same. You can use this letter for publi-
cation if you wish. —Yours sincerely, 1
F. A. CUTTEN,
Elsternwick, Victoria.
BRONCHITIS.
A SYDNEY RESIDENT, CURED BY HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, EXPRESSES APPRECIATION.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir,—Accept my testimony to the success of
Bronchitis Cure. I was very ill last February in
bourne, and was recommended by a friend to’
Bronchitis Cure. After three doses, I felt immen
and the cough vanished before the first bottle was
Before leaving Melbourne I obtained three bottlesof it as
I would not like to be without wonderful a medi-
cine.—Yours faithfully,
try your
ise relief,
finished.
your
Mel-
N. KILMARTIN,
Darlinghurst, Sydney.
HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE-Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Large Size 4s 6d
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA
FORWARTYPrn BV T>r> *mr "
BRANCH DEPOT-
EOR WARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3582.


TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’S—AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine -without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
Bladder Disease Can be
Cured.
From Mr. Alex. Dickson, 90 East Belt, Christchurch, N.Z., 21st February, 1904.
“ During recent years I have been troubled with urinary difficulties. My bladder seemed sore
and irritated, and my physician said I had catarrh of the bladder, which was difficult to overcome
on account of my advanced years. Warner’s Safe Cure was recommended to me, and I took
frequent doses, hardly daring to believe that I should be helped, but, to my relief, I found that
the irritation gradually subsided, the difficulty passed away, and my general condition
improved. I have enjoyed splendid health for the past six months, and really feel younger than
I did some years ago, thanks to Warner’s Safe Cure.”
From Mr. Christian Lawson, Cook Street, Auckland, N.Z., 17th March, 1904.
“ I suffered from inflammation of the bladder for thirteen months, and only those who simi-
larly suffer know anything about the agony I endured. It is one of the most painful diseases a
person can suffer from, and one of the hardest to get rid of. Had it not been for Warner’s Safe
Cure I feel that I should be in my grave to-day, but, thanks to its wonderful efficacy, I am in
the best of health instead. I took fourteen bottles, and felt my health and strength gradually
return. I believe my restoration is permanent, as I have not had the slightest pain for over
three months.
From Capt. W. J. Stuart, Master Mariner, Station Avenue, Coburg, Vic., 6th April, 1903.
“ It is with much pleasure that I beg to inform you of the great benefit I have derived from taking
Warner’s Safe Cure. In the early part of last January I had a chill, which turned to a very
severe attack of Inflammation of the Bladder. I consulted two doctors, and after examin-
ing me each said it was a disease common to men of my age (I am over 60), and that
I could only get relief by using an instrument, as medicine would do me no good. I posi-
tively refused to let either of them use an instrument on me, but at once procured a bottle
of Warner’s Safe Cure. I conscientiously and truthfully declare that before finishing the
first bottle I got absolute relief and began to feel better in every respect. I have continued to
take the medicine, and my health has wonderfully improved. lamin as good health now as
I can ever expect to be, and my recovery is entirely due to Warner’s Safe Cure. I carefully observed
the diet directions given in your book. I most strongly recommend Warner’s Safe Cure to anyone
who suffers as I did, and can only add that to me it has proved invaluable.”
Writing on the 7th March, 1904, Capt. Stuart, says:—“l have received your letter of sth inst.
making inquiry as to whether I can now confirm the statements made in my letter to you of 6th April
last year, and am very pleased indeed to be able to advise you that I have had no symptoms of any
return of bladder trouble, and my general health is so satisfactory that I am constantly being con-
gratulated on my renewed vigor by all my friends. I can only add that I cannot be too grateful as I
am sure that I owe my health to Warner’s Safe Cure. The effect of the medicine in my case has’been
most remarkable. ’ ’
From Mrs. Elizabeth Roben, “Brighton,” French Street, Kogarah, Sydney, N.S.W., 25th September,
“ About eight years ago I was attacked by great pain at the stomach and severe vomiting I took
a bottle of Warner’s Safe Cure, but it did me no good. I then went to the hospital and underwent
an operation, but was not cured. The pain I suffered was terrible. The medicine the doctors
prescribed gave me no relief. I was brought home and treated by another medical man but still
obtained no relief. He at last said he could do no more for me, and my friends were sent for My
sister having great faith in Warner’s Safe Cure brought a bottle with her, and gave me a tablespoonful
every quarter of an hour from eleven o’clock until one, and the relief was wonderful. I continued to
take Warner s Safe Cure and Warner’s Safe Pills until I was restored to health.”
From Mr. Joel Weatherby Bolton, King Edward Street, North East Valley, Dunedin New Zealand
10th h ebruary, 1004. ’
“I was in good health until about four years ago, when I noticed that my back became lame and
? or f' T „ e P ;I M IS kept increasing, with severe twitches and slow, exhaustive aches. I found that I
had Inflammation of the Bladder. I tried many remedies without gettting better, but finally
decided to try Warner s Safe Cure, and within a few days, to my great joy, found relief. I com
tinued to take the medicine, and at the end of three months was restored to perfect health lam
only too pleased to endorse the value of Warner’s Safe Cure.” V 1 ani
From Mr. Joseph Agnew, Fairfield, N.S.W., 18th September, 1903.
i ' Some-years ago I was attacked by great pains in the groin, which at times were so bad that 1
almost cried with agony. I was treated by doctors, but found no relief. A friend advised me to tak<
Warner s Safe Cure, which I did, and after taking two bottles I was quite curedJ’ aVlSed me to tak<
From Mr. J. Fredk. Holmes, Auburn Road South, Hawthorn, Vic.. 12th February 1905
. bcive much pleasure in stating that while in Sydney I was verv mnoh frnnltlori ...hl
and h had^talten n vMious’^edicinM^wHfin , x r Warner’*, Srie C
THE BEST SOAP FOR BA.BTT
is
WRIGHT’S
COALTAR SOAP
IT IS DELIGHTFUL IN USE
IT IS ABSOLUTELY PURE.
IT PROTECTS FROM ALL INFECTION.
6d. per Tablet. Box of 3 Tablets Is. 6d.
Me.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE' cynics snarl, the heathen; rage,
Fools fight and fret for place and fee.
A nobler task in this mean age
Is mine—the perfecting of Me.
The gods have passed beyond our ken ;
The fashionable fetish seems
To Me the ugliest spook that men
E’er imaged in their foolish dreams.
Grasping ascetics, dank and sere,
Scream bitter curses down the wind.
But all the glory of the year
Thrills Me—when Dora’s eyes are kind.
Methinks that life, if good betide.
Is just to love while youth has breath.
Then . . . what delicious suicide,
If Love should kiss itself to death !
To Me it seems right royal sport
To bring back joy to eyes that weep . . .
Ah Me ! that life should be so short!
And then (ah Me !) the long, long sleep!...
To bring back joy to eyes that weep,
To soothe sweet sorrow till it sings,
To stay the glaring brutes that creep
To rend all timid, trustful things;
To help along the rugged ways
The little tender feet; to see
Grey mornings bloom to joyous days—
All this is gallant sport for Me !
Life, if you will, is hard and cold ;
But it does not seem so to Me,
While still the noontide skies are gold,
And there’s a way to Arcady.
Dear eyes that can’t conceal the truth !
Dear coaxing lips that feign to chide ! . . .
Fond sister-mistress of our youth,
Lithe Hebe, still with Me abide !
Let cynics snarl, let heathen rage,
Let helots fight for place and fee.
One task shall all my days engage—
The full enfranchisement of Me !
MAORILAND.
FRANK MORTON.
Chadband in the Coral Sea.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
LAST English summer, finding a number
of bearded ladies and effeminate men
swarming in the Strand with the excited
importance of a hen pretending to lay an egg, I
entered the dingy Exeter Hall. There were hymns
and sermons in full blast, and currant buns and
missionaries were devouring each other in every
second room. A foolish old gentleman with a
scanty, hungry beard was loudly proving to his
own satisfaction that the English are the Lost
Ten Tribes, and that Edward Vll.’s name ought
to be Manasseh. On the strength of this valueless
information he urged me to buy certain dreary
literature bearing on the subject, and exhorted
everybody to regard the collection-plate with a
kindly eye As there are already quite enough
J ews on earth to fill market orders, and as there
are still some millions of continental Hebrews
preparing for admission to England by way ot
Poplar and the Hand stock market, this proposal
to create 45,003,000 new Jews at one stroke was
too much like bringing coals to Newcastle, and I
turned the proposition down cold.
In another room a mission to the Japs was
detailing its successes ; and in a long hall on the
ground floor the Mission to Deep Sea Fishermen
entertained the deep sea fishermen with a gorge
of tea and cake. The deep sea fishermen them-
selves were the toughest lot of beefy, bull-necked
men I have ever seen in a collection. Between
every two of them sat an anaemic scraggy lady,
probably as a foil to the hearty fat men of the
lobster pot and the trawl.
To jump from this loud-voiced snufflebusting in
■the Strand to the Coral Sea is a change ; to find
the snufflebusting of Exeter Hall and its collection
humbug and “ May meetings ” repeated in Torres
Straits in September is a shock. I met a remote
putpqst of the London Mission Society at Thursday
Inland, where a lay-brother of sorts is in charge.
Tl?e inartistic howling of Exeter Hall—un-
fdorped by the pagan festivities of the Straits —
syoul(j[ be so foreign to the beautiful setting of the
(Jonil Sea as to swear at the scenery ;so the mis-
sionaries effect a compromise and assimilate the
jwp functions—the war-dance with all its primi-
tive joy of life and the taking of it, and the
snufflebusting which is native to the clothed and
rpore humorless savage of the two. So the hula
and the homily—in the proportion of 90 per cent,
hula and 10 per cent. Doxology, that the
missionary may save his face —and the war-dance
and the collection are enacted on the one stage.
A moonlit night, a boomerang of white beach, a
cocoanut grove, a taro patch, a yam garden and an
acre of loose sand, one moment beaten solid and
smooth, and next torn to its atoms by the feet of
the dancers. Swan-black Binghis, brown Western
Papuans and Jew-nosed Kunai boys—feather,
flower and shell decorated—dancing, home-coming
and head-hunting, courtship and seafaring, battle
and menace and farewell, to the dull booming of
the war-drums and the music of their own voices.
Savages—red, copper-colored and black, grass-
petticoated and ankletted, armletted in wood and
shell, their hair decorated with flowers and
feathers, clad in red sarongs and saffron palm
leaves, and one savage in harsh black clothes, a
white choker and squeakful boots.
The hula with its front row—a Semitic Papuan
girl, an energetic Binghi lady and Filamena, the
Samoan belle of Aagheer; old women from the
islands of the Three Sisters—Bet, Poll and Sue —
dancing the Emu dance ; small brown-red children
chattering in the wongi tree and eating the
astringent red date-like fruit without pause; the
“ Wind ” dance of men of the Three Sisters ; the
dance of the. Mobiag men illustrative of sea birds
and their hunt for the fish. And after all these
things, and during them, and before them, dearly
beloved brethren, the ah—um—Collection.
The London Missionary Society, which, of all the
Chadbands and Stigginses of the earth, is the
champion cadger, has a steamer, the John
Williams, which cost £17,000 —all of it provided
by the pennies of Sunday-school children, who are
levied upon with the distinct promise that some
Papuan, dressed in a nose bone and an
indecent piece of string, shall leave off eating
his brother and learn to sing hymns with the
best missionary that ever squeaked. And
yet very far off conversion is the Papuan. The
Anglican Mission and the Roman Catholic
Mission are single-hearted people who really mean
well, and, at least, do no harm, but rather some
good; although, judging by results, anywhere in
Papua missionising is an absolute failure. But
the London Missionary Society is so stupidly arro-
gant and selfish as to be wicked. It attempts to
interfere ini the government,, for the reason
that it desires the brown man and his land all to
itself it attempts,, also,, in its weak way to dis-
courage white occupation. In the case of Judge
Robinson,, who had sentenced one of the native
teachers to 12 months’ gaol for perjury, theL.M.S.
seems to have determined to get Judge Robinson
out of Papua. In pursuance of that design, report
exaggerated the eight cannibals killed in the Goari-
bari affair to 200, and then reduced it to 80, each
of whom was a Sir Galahad and qualified to wear
a martyr’s crown ; the news was sent to Aus-
tralia to stir up the newspapers; the L.M.S.
had a Royal Commission appointed, and then ran
away from the tribunal it had invoked. For
the work was done then—Judge Robinson was
“out of Papua”—dead by his own hand. The
L.M.S. asserts that it is not a trader, but what
else is it? The missionary can take for “educa-
tional purposes” any number of Papuans without
indentures or payment. At Kwato “ educational
purposes ” is stretched to include log lumping in
a sawmill and service to a breaking-down saw, the
timber cut in this cheap fashion being then
brought into competition with the product of the
white man who, if he uses native labor, has to
have it properly indentured and pay for it.
It is only impudent vociferation that has given
Chadband his present authority in the Coral
Seas. The missionary does not protect the native
from trouble with another tribe —it is the irreli-
gious white taxpayer who does that; yet these
jackals in sheep’s clothing are heard oftener in the
Government than any other class. The L.M.S.
has a good deal of money to spend, and its stand-
ing as a trader chokes the criticism of the local
storekeepers, who may not tell the truth except
in whispers. It is as impudent on the Coral Sea
as it was in China, and but for the sloth of the
Papuan there would be the equivalent of a Boxer
rising—f ir which rising the China missions were
directly responsible.
The L.M.S. on certain of the Scraits Islands
has tried to perpetuate in the Pacific the condi-
tions of the little English villages, which require
missionising more than do those natural Edens of
the South. There is the galvanised iron church
surrounded by the hovels its cadgers have helped
to spoil. But there are no picturesque seas and
coral islands in England, and the comfort-loving
Stiggins makes always for the luxury of the
South. You will never find the L.M.S. sitting in
the Arctic circle and singing frozen hymns with
the polar bear. Probably they think that if the
Eskimo dies unregenerate, and goes to their
material hell, it will be a nice change for him.
At Port Moresby the L.M.S. has been estab-
lished for 25 years, and has the filthiest village in
Papua as a monument. It is at Port Moresby
that the missionary tells the natives that if they
dance no rain will fall, and, the Government being
appealed to by the brown men, has had the sense
to run counter to the mission for once and deny
the missionary statement of “ God being angered
by the dances.” It is at Moresby that the dirty
men dressed in the indecent piece of string
are informed that if they do as they are told
they will go to Heaven, but if they trade with
the trader of Elle, they will assuredly burn in
hell for ever. For this jumble of jest and confi-
dence trick, Australia is paying its good £20,000
a year. The men who are producing the revenue
—the miners—have least done for them.
The desire of Australian Governments to pro-
tect the native is so great that the missionary
anywhere, being assumed as a blacks’ protector
though self-appointed, has a bigger pull with
Governments than any mere trader, who is gene-
rally—unfairly in most cases—assumed to be
against the native. But in Papua the interference of
the London Missionary Society with Government
functions has been glaringly impudent; and the
missionary has followed that up with trading.
We in Australia see little of that side of him
which runs the sweating sawmill, the sweating
laundry, the clerical copra, or the parsonical
milkwalk. When he visits Australia on a cadging
expedition, trade is turned off at the meter and the
Gospel is turned on. The missionary holds forth
on his sufferings, on the deadly climate which is
not deadly, on the horrible un-Christian ignorance
of the Papuan and the Binghi; he does not say
that the only natives he worries about are the
working and wage earning natives whom he can
cajole and threaten into filling the collection plate
and building churches by appealing to his pride
and setting island against island, and tribe against
tribe in rivalry ; or the natives who will work for
nothing, for educational purposes in the mission-
ary sawmill, or build the missionary’s house with-
out money and without price.
He discreetly conceals the fact that at the two
small islands of Mobiag and Badu over £4OO was
collected in one year by the London Missionary
Society—the foolish natives mortgaging their
wages for months ahead or getting advances from
their pearler employers (and finally leaving the
employer in debt) to fill the insatiate plate. At
Nagheer Island on the 14th September, the
L.M.S. collected £43 at the “May”—which is a
brown man’s dancing festival trimmed with
Christian prayer. The fertile island of Darnley
has been in receipt of food for months from the
Queensland Government, but the cormorantic
L.M.S. put out its little plate there this year and
collected £lB. On this island destitution had
resulted from the men neglecting their gardens to
work in pearling boats. The pearlers paid the
wages, but the missionary was there to batten on the
wages as soon as they were paid. The only places
where food is scarce are islands that have mission
stations. At Vacoote, in the Trabnunds, the
north-east of New Guinea, shipmasters could once
buy loads of yams. To-day, even native food sup-
plies have to be imported.
The L.M.S. talk of educating the natives is the
rankest nonsense. I met at Baxter Harbor a
native who had been eight years in the mission
school at Tyfe Bay, but who could talk very little
English, and was unable to spell his own name.
Asked him where God lived, and he replied “Tyfe
Bay.” He did not want to go back there; pro-
posed to live at Sin Village, which was a bigger
village than Sydney. He had been to Sydney
with a missionary. He remarked further that he
was a good left-hand bowler ; that he had been
married a year, and had paid six pigs for his wife,
and would have “ plenty piccaninny ” next year.
And people who have some experience of Papua
and the Papuan tell me that this Tyfe Bay boy
represents more than the average of Papuan
mission-scholar intelligence.
This trading missionary society has picked the
South coast for its vineyard, securing thus the
best trading stations and the softest jobs. To pre-
vent quarrelling, the Government partitioned the
Possession, thereby compulsorily creating certain
tribes Methodists, others Anglican, and others
Roman Catholic. The eastern islands are W esleyan;
the London Missionary Society, which has no
special Church, but consists generally of Dollarites,
controls the western division and the south coast
generally, except the wedged bad country given to
the Sacred Heart Mission ; the north-east coast
natives are Anglican; and the Roman Catholics have
the hardest work in Hall Sound and the break-neck
mountains behind it. In these hills the L.M.S,
once held Vanamai and Ponkama, buttheL.M.S.
does not like fighting and withdrew. At Maiwa
both the L.M.S. and the Sacred Heart Mission
have a hold, but the L.M.S. has got a grant or
land which practically closes out the other mission.
The people of Delena, the Hall Sound mission or
the L.M.S., really belong to Yule Islands, but
they become Protestants by crossing the Straits.
Thus the Government, by turns of its finger ana
thumb, threw out of the dice box in succession
Wesleyans, Anglicans, Roman Catholics and -
The L.M.S. men call themselves laborers in the
vineyard—this is probably a mispronunciation foi
“brewery.” The Papuan, dying slowly of sloth,
has been barred from dancing wherever possible ;
so that some villages enjoy the deadly English
Sabbath all the time; they spoil the black
swimming pearl-divers and the tenders of diving-
boats of their wages. Says the deluded brown
man as he begs tobacco of the unmissionary white
after giving his wages to the missionary : Mis-
sionary talk hard longa blackfeller, make black-
feller shame. We sandbeach men, missionary
teachers say. 1 You no sandbeach man ; you bush
man, s’pose you no give money alonga God.
Then we give money. We been want him blurry
big feller church, better feller church alonga
’nother island.” They could build a church of
native materials for next to nothing, but the
missionary’s artistic soul pants for galvanised
iron, and so you have the snameless incite-
ment to rivalry in church building among the
islands — pitted gainst:' J^ th s
there are almost tribal fights. , '
the villages of the Onomo are (lying oiit, but the
Mission does not notice them Lf Kf
men —the money spinners. Til y P ‘ .
and sell it to the boats’ crews, and yet are not
traders ! They came to preach a Gospel without
money and uninvited ; taught the native that he
must be church-married, and, m some c.i.es,
charged him from £2 to £3 for the artificial cere-
mony. By stretching the law, they get all the
labor they want for nothing, and without, regula-
tion or supervision. The “education or tne
native includes the hoeing of gardens and Ins
spoliation at all times. A collection is made or
£2OO at Turi Turi and £l5O at Mawatta so that
a galvanised-iron eyesore may rise among
the hovels of Nipa, and after Mobiag
and Darnley and the rest of them have paid
tribute they are allowed to pay again in
little ways. The John Williams missionary
steamer called at Mobiag at an off-time; but it
managed to collect enough to give the snutne-
busters’ craft a new painting overall, borne of
these L.M.S. stations are in Queensland waters,
and the Queensland Government should stir up its
Aborigines “Protector” to protect the islanders
from the missionaries. For in Papua the Com-
monwealth is now supreme, and one of its
most necessary works is a new set of regulations
that will aim at putting the trader-missionary in
his place and keeping him there. _
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


r.
Kt
i
LIVER
TROUBLES
A DISORDERED Liver turns a pretty pink skin
into an ugly yellow one, and bright eyes into
dull ones ; in fact, kills good looks, and makes
a lively, attractive woman weakly and unat-
tractive, if not repulsive. Prevent this ! When you’ve
looked in the glass and found the tell-tale signs, take a
couple of Bile Beans. They do their work while you
sleep. Mrs. Ellen Moore, of 12 Bray-street, Erskine-
ville, Sydney, has proved this. This lady says :
‘ ‘ Some seven years ago I was troubled with
very severe pains in the small of my back,
accompanied by constipation, a poor appetite, and a worn-out
feeling, making me feel very miserable and unfitted entirely for
my household duties, and in time my system became completely debilitated.
For some time I was an out-patient at the hospital, but I was told that I
could only be patched up, as I had a congested liver. It was then I de-
cided to give Bile Beans a trial, having heard of their efficacy for liver
disorders. The first few doses made a great improvement in my condition,
and continuing with the course, the pains quickly left me, I regained my
lost appetite, and was quickly restored to health and vigor. Asthma has
also fallen to my lot, and I find Bile Beans afford me great relief, and I
have every hope that by continuing with them I will, in time, be rid of this dis-
tressing complaint. One of my daughters suffers occasionally from Neuralgia,
and I find a dose of Bile Beans speedily brings her relief. I will never be with-
out such a valuable medicine in the house, and always recommend Bile Beans to
fellow sufferers, and will be glad at any time to answer any queries in regard to
my statements, which might prove of value to others.”
BILE BEANS are a SAFE and SPEEDY CURE for BILIOUSNESS, HEAD-
ACHE, INDIGESTION, STOMACH TROUBLES, CONSTIPATION, PILES,
DEBILITY, FEMALE WEAKNESSES, NERVOUSNESS, BAD BLOOD, BAD
BREATH, ANAEMIA, DISTURBED SLEEP, LOSS OF APPETITE, SUMMER
FAG, and, in fact, all ailments that owe their origin to defective Bile Flow, Assimilation
or Digestion. Obtainable generally at Is. or 2s. 9d. LARGE BOX (contains three
times the Is. Ud. size).
ft
ft
A. ®> F.
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Kotice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
Sic Semper— and Sally Brown.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
~V~ WER sails are furled, and her anchor’s
f—m down,
A. JL And the lamps are lit in Melbourne
toivn —
I’ll spend my money on Sally Brown
Weiyh-hey,
With a shipmate true and a pound or t wo ,
I’ll spend my money on Sally Brown.
Weigh-hey-Ho,
We’ll spend our money on Sally Brown.
We’ve brought her over from Puget Sound
With her load o’ Canady pine,
But her Bluenose mate that’s dead an’ drowned
He was never a friend of mine.
Been crimped at ’Frisco and gaoled in Pool ;
I been stoushed in a Plymouth slum ;
I’ve “ blewed ” my dollars and played the fool
With Woman an’ Dice an’ Rum.
I’ve smelled the bilge of a Swedish brig,
Where the right whale wallows and blows ;
I’ve sailed in a bark of Yankee rig
To the land where the cotton grows.
I’ve lived in the land o’ God-forbid,
Where Hell is your daily lot;
I served my time as a fo’castle kid
In the House of the God-forgot.
I’ve sailed with tigers an’ ’uman swine,
I ’ave sailed with a yaller crew ;
An’ the Devil ’imself was half divine
To some of the mates that I knew.
He left ’em all by a level mile ;
He would make it an easy win
On any track of the All-That’s Vile,
On the sawdust courses of Sin.
“ The sea is mine,” said the Lord above,
When the waters He just began ;
He gave them hate an’ He gave them love,
For the good of the Sailorman.
He made them blue and he made them deep,
With a seaport there and here,
With plenty of rain and salt to keep
The depths of His oceans clear.
And North an’ South they are green an’ gray,
But the middle seas they are blue—
We slid him out at the fall of day
When the skipper had read him through.
A Bluenose mate with a ginger ’ead,
An’ a squint in his ugly eye,
An’ every man, in his heart, he said
It was good for our mate to die.
Aye, Dago Pete with his broken face,
An’ “ Sails ” wot he kicked an’ cowed—
I guess ole Sails in his heart took grace
When he stitched him inter his shroud.
An’ Boozey Bill—from the Stato o’ Maine —
Irish Pat an’ Antonio,
That partin’ it brought ’em no grief nor pain—
For all had their marks to show !
He hazed us out from the bloomin’ Bay,
Till we lifted the Southern Light;
He hazed the watch through the livelong day, ■
And he made a hell of the night.
It was “ dargs,” and “skulkers,” “hogs,” an’
“ skunks,”
An’ sorrow an’ sweatin’ an’ curse,
We dreamed at last in our crowded bunks
Of our just revenges—an' worse.
His Soul was posted as overdue
At the homing harbors o’ Hell,
When a block—in the way that blocks may do—
From her crosstrees slipped an’ fell!
He sprawled the deck like a stricken bull,
To the lilt of a ten-knot breeze,
With her canvas drawing free an’ full
As she parted the combing seas.
The planks were splashed an’ spattered an’ red,
’Till we scraped ’em with holystone.
It ketched him full on his ginger ead,
An’ he went with never a moan.
He lived a dog, an’ a dog he died ;
An’ I seen him a-sinkin’ down,
As we put him over the Bluebird’s side
On the road t® Melbourne town.
A bully less on the Great High Seas —
But there’s plenty of tyrants more—
’Tis little of comfort an’ less of ease
An’ a roaring night ashore.
But Dago Pete he will find a girl,
An’ Tony will blew-in his gain,
An’ Pat get drunk as an Irish Earl
With Bill from Pawtucket in Maine.
We’ve brought it over from Puget Sound,
Her cargo of Canady pine;
That Bluenose mate that is dead an’ drowned
He was never a friend of mine.
The Bluebird's anchor is out an’ down,
The girls are waiting in Melbourne town ;
I’ll spend my money on Sally Brown,
Weigh-hey.
With a messmate true and a quid or two,
Weigh-hey-Ho,
I’ll spend my money on Sally Brown.
N.s.w.
E. J. BRADY.
The Reviver.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
GETTIN’ a bit thin on top, sir,” said
the barber, pleasantly.
This could be in no way permitted.
“I like it that way,” I said. “ Foolish of me, no
doubt, perhaps even outrd and bizarre ” —that
staggered him —“but fresh air has always been a
passion with me.” For a moment I thought I
had defeated him.
Then he returned to the attack. He caught
hold of my nose, using it as a convenient handle
to turn my face this way and that as he busied
himself under my chin. “ A bottle of our
‘ Reviver ’ now ? ” he asked, insinuatingly, as he
let my nose go.
“Those American drinks,” I replied, “are
insidious things.”
He gasped, and in the mirror, out of the corner
of my eye, I watched divers suspicions chase each
other across his face. Frontal attack was useless
—I saw his face clear. “What d’ you think of
Acrasia, sir? I’ve a bit on —an’ p’r’aps”-——
his voice trailed into mistiness as he stropped his
razor.
“I should go to a specialist,” I answered. “I
only hope it isn’t infectious.”
Then, after quite a long silence, the Old Guard
formed upon the left. He slid into personal
reminiscences and I suffered in silence. I recog-
nised the method—one sees it in the patent medi-
cine advertisements starting out with a tale of
shipwreck or battle and pointing a moral in regard
to some nostrum composed of gin and senna. You
can get gin at 4s. a quart bottle. I do not know
the price of senna, never having used it, but I
imagine it is cheap. But that shipwreck story
makes you willing to spend 2s. 6d. for a six-ounce
bottle of the mixture—if you are a fool.
“ That bald spot, sir ” (I winced —it is not really
bald), “that bald spot reminds me of a ’air-
restorer me and another chap went shares in. A
country town it was, and Lord, ’ow dull it was !
’Ardly any business —you wouldn’t believe. Plenty
of ’air-cuts an’ shaves o’ Saturdays and Sundays,
but the rest o’ the week I might as well ’ave put
up me shutters. So I, ’avin’ plenty o’ time on me
’ands, invented a ’air-restorer. It was cheap
enough, made out o’—oh well, sir” —he paused a
moment, razor in air—“there’s tricks in every
trade, sir.”
I nodded.
“Well, this other cove’s name was Filson —I
made up the stuff,'and Filson was the corpse
viley , as. you might say. ’E shaved the top of ’is
’ead and come across to my shop as reg’lar as
clockwork—’e wus a bootmaker and lived opposite
—every time ’e saw a customer; if a bottle went
off it made a sprat for ’im. Filson was anew man
in the township, and no one knew ’is bald spot
was hartificial. I’d press the customer to buy.
’E’d say no, ’avin’ bin in the ’abit of usin’ sheep-
dip for ’is thatch—and in ’d walk my partner.
‘Give us another rub o’your restorer,’ ’e’d say,
and while I was gettin’ the bottle, ’e’d show my
customer ’is ’ead. ‘ Not bad, eh ? ’Afore I used
it ’twas as bald as a hegg ; and now ’ Seein’
is believin’, an’ I used to do a fair bit o’ trade that
way.”
He started lathering me for the second mow,
talking dreamily as one whose soul is in the past.
“Y’know, sir, ’air-restorers are funny things.
Sometimes they restore, sometimes they don’t.
That one I just told you about didn’t. But
this ” he reached down a bottle, a six-ounce
flat bottle with a red label and lettered in black
“Welling’s Patent Scalp Cleanser, Invigorator
and Reviver.” He patted it tenderly, and put it
where I could see it.
“ This” he said, “is a bosker. I come across it
at Ulmittalong ten year ago. A bloke named
Pauley was tryin’ to sell it. A little cock-eyed
feller ’e was, an’ a damn bad ’air-dresser. You
c’d bat if ’e shaved you ’e’d ’ave ’is pound o’ flesh,
as the sayin’ goes. I was on me uppers an’ walked
into ’is shop, askin’ ’im f’r a meal, ‘ What’s your
line?’ says ’e. ‘Same as yours,’ I says. So ’e
got me to sharpen ’is tools. My word, they needed
it. ’E saw I knew ’is trade better than ’imself, and
the long and short of it was ’e offered to go shares
in the business if I’d stay. ‘ I never could strop a
razor,’ ’e says, ‘me ’avin been brought up as a
sailor.’ So I stays.
“Now the Agricultural Show was set down for
a month ahead o’ the time I struck this ’ere
Pauley. An’ ’e told me as it was ’is ’abit to take
a booth there an do ’is business on the ground at
show-time. And ’e also gave me the recipe for
this stuff, an’ said as we’d try an’ push it this
year. I was willin’. So we made up 500 bottles,
and Pauley got credit for the labels at the
printer’s. That was the most expensive item.
And that’s the beauty of this stuff; it’s simple.
Moustache trimmed, sir ?
** Well, Pauley was for both of us settin’ up in
the booth, me doin’ the ’air-dressin’, ’im ’andin’
out the restorer at a bob a time. I says ‘No.’
Filson’s idea ’ad give me a better one. So I buys
up a old crock. I ’ad to go to a town twenty
mile away, where I wasn’t known. I takes me
purchase an’ a razor an’ strop to Pauley’s shed at
the show ground. ’E was away on the tank when
I got back, an’—l s’pose you never tried to shave
ahorse, sir? No, sir. Of course not, sir. Singe,
sir ?
“Well, it was a ’ole night’s work, an’ when I’d
finished he looked like a Nicholson’s cricket-ball
or a bit o’ oily tarpolin. Pauley come ’otne about
’arf-past four, an’ seein’ the light in the shed come
out to investigate. ’E saw the ’orse before ’e saw
me, an’ nearly ’ad the ’orrors. ‘Good God,’ he
yells, sittin’ down on the floor. ‘ ’E’s come for me
at larst.’ Then ’e saw me. I explains what the
’orse is. ‘But why?’ he asks. I told ’im that
that ’orse was the only genuine wonderful ’airless
’orse in the world, an’ that he was goin’ to make
money for us. You see, sir, I’d figured it out this
way. Pauley was to take up ’is booth, an’ me an’
old Moses, that was the ’orse, was to take the next
one. I was to show Moses at a bob a go, an’ when
dilatin’ on the merits of ’is restorer, ’e was to say
to ’is customers ‘as it would bring ’air even to the
’airless ’orse next door.’ I was to ’ear of this an’
challenge ’im to try. See, sir ? Of course, in a
few days the ’air ’d begin to show, and then
Pauley’d ’ave a run on ’is restorer. ’E was so
took with the idea that ’e invested in more labels
and set to work makin’ up another 500.
“ The night before the show we shaved the
moke again, and oiled ’im till ’e shone like india-
rubber. The barney we faked fetched a big
crowd, and Pauley rubbed the stuff on the
Wonderful ’Airless ’Orse in the presence of 20 or
30 people, who came into my booth to see the
hoperation —at a bob a time. The ’orse alone
paid well. I took £l4 on ’im. The bald ’eaded
’ayseeds used to come in reg’lar every morning to
see the ’air sprout, an’ when it did Pauley ’ad a
run on ’is mixture. ’E sold nearly the whole lot,
over 800 bottles.
“ ‘Now,’ says I, after we’d divided, ‘let’s turn
Old Moses loose ;we can’t sell ’im.’ But Pauley
wouldn’t ’ear of it. ’E wanted to keep ’im, and
play the same game at Curraboo Show a week
later. ’E wanted me to go in with ’im, but once
is enough for a spoof of that sort. I told ’im
someone would be bound to spot ’im who’d been
at our sliovv.
“Pauley, ’owever, was a pig-’eaded little cove,
and when ’e saw I wasn’t ’avin’ any ’e gets
another partner for Curraboo.
“Well, the show was spotted, as I knew it
would be, and the ’ayseeds wrecked ’is booth, and
pelted ’im with the bottles, and ’is partner was
run in for cruelty to hanimals. Now those bottles
broke all over ’im, and ’e went into ’orspital for
six weeks. And not only that—you mightn’t
believe me, sir, but it’s gawspel—’e’s showin’ now
as the Wild Man from Borneo —ginger ’air a foot
long all over ’im. Shampoo, sir ?
“ Yes, it’s good stuff, all right, my Reviver. You
will take some, eh ? ”
I was persuaded. After all, this wonderful
stuff only cost a shilling, and my dog’s hair was
falling'out.
HOWARD ASHTON.


Had no appetite, and could not sleep. Read what
yer’s Sarsaparilla did for Mr. Marsden, whose
ait and letter we publish below:
Ayer’
bortr
“ I was in a very weak condition, had
no appetite, and could not sleep. After
trying several so-called cures, I began
with Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, and it did me
so much good that I took, in all, ten
bottles. It was the cheapest in the end,
as it cured me entirely. I now make it
a practise to take three or four bottles
during the year, and it keeps me in good
working order. I cau honestly recom-
mend it to other like sufferers, as I feel
sure it will cure them as it did me.”
Hokace Marsden, Adelaide, S. A.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla has been
tried and tested in every way;
and there is nothing like using an old, reliable, and effective
medicine. Intelligent people do not like to experiment.
It is too dangerous. Unknown and untried medicines
often work more serious results than the disease. When
you need a Sarsaparilla, get “ AYER’S,” for it is the old-
est, strongest, and best Sarsaparilla you can buy. Hold
fast to the kind that has been tested for 60 years. For
purifying the blood, strengthening the digestion, and brac-
ing up the whole nervous system, use
AYER’S § arsaparilla
Purifies the Blood. Builds up the System.
Prepared by DR. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Maes., IT. S. A.
Ayer’s Pills are liver pills. They cure constipation, biliousness.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
TtUphone No. 10IS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Moat
Reasonable
Terms.
ets and
Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DAN
of Various Sizes Sup
n
HERE’S A NEW HELP
lor the cura—a greater heijrthaa
has been before invented
f THE ELECTRICON. _
llt does whatall other devices have ?
r been trying to do. It dees more. It
actually makes the ear better. Per-
fectly harmless, easy to adjust and
comfortable. Send for our booklet.
THE L. R. VERNON COY..
60-64 Hunter Street, Sydney.
EffilSS®
DRUG HABIT
HAVE YOU FAILED THROUGH
DRUNK
ENNESS
DON’T DESPAIR.
DR. LANGSTON’S VEGETABLE CURE.
A Home Cure which never fails.
It is safe, sure, absolutely certain, and
inexpensive. A few doses produce a won-
derful change. The craving for all
intoxicants will be destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for food will
return, refreshing steep ensues. This cure
will surprise and delight you. May be
GIVEN SECRETLY.
Thousands of Cures; here is one :
Ravensthorpe, W.A., 23-9-Q4.
Rave finished the half course, which has
effected a cure. I have no desire.for drink,
in fact , have a repugnance uTurit very idea
»/ Yours faithfully ,
Write for Treatise No. 5. Posted Free.
tub Dr. Langston institute,
129 a COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
MQUOH HABIT
TOBACCO HABIT
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
o 6 fM COHOS
tSSCW cE # L \ Ft*
Tire only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
8 88e ? c , e ,°t Life r o*tores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the-important elements of the human frame. *
0T *? U J' Quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
o. .. ru.vvo a .cc —rvrry ac uo., 4-7 oueen
* t ’*J,^ Urn V 1H- Fauldin S & Co„ 16 O’Connell St."
Sydney, and at Newcastle, AdelaWe, and Perth.
ON THE HOP!
an/boimd - 6 ’ h ? nd , s 2lP e ly printed
1 bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
ice2ls bQSt drawings - - Full Bulletin size
of
Price
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
C^HLOROPyNE
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGrHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c. bears on the
Government Stamp the name of
the Inventor
Pr.J. COLLIS BROWNS
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, 19.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading tliis book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth*
street, Sydney.
THE
The Hew Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
land Head' Noises, ne.matter of
Dhowlong.standing. Are the same
I to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address— A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St.. Melbourne
Sparkling Eyes,
Clear Skin, Rosy Lips,
Healthy Vigor, Happiness
Positively and Speedily
obtained by the use of
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
You can look well, feel well, and keep well by using
BEECHAM’S PILLS to remove the cause of dull
eyes, pimples or blotches, pallid lips, listiessness,
and depression unmistakable symptoms of a
depressed nervous system and an impoverished or
impure state of the blood.
A few doses of BEECHAM’S PILLS will restore
free and regular conditions, and bring about that
physical grace and beauty which only comes
through physical health and regularity.
6,000,000 Boxes Sold Annually-
. ——— nQo-4
Sold Everywhere in Boxes,
Price 1/11 (56 Pills) and 2 9 (168 Pills). f 6
BUSHMAN
BUCCANEER
Posted is. Id.
Post Free.
ASTHMA CURE
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co's INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold bn all Chanistt.
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
-«3*
INSTRUCTION FREE!!
You can become a Hypnotist in a few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
sway the minds of others, control friendship
and affection, cure disease and bad habits,
gratify your ambitions and produce amuse-
ment by the hour. My mammoth Illustrated
Lesson or Key to Hypnotism which I send
free c i charge and postage paid, will tell you
allabout thi s marvelous science. It contains
be utiful and artistic engravings, and shows
you just what Hypnotism is and
what tfc wi 11 accomplish. Send for
it and learn to Hypnotize. Remember, this wonder-
ful book costs you noth'ng. If you men-
tion this pappr, I will also include a large
package of other valuable, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance of a lifetime.
Write to-day. Address—
?rof. R. H. BARRADEN, b 9 Pitt St., Sydney*
POLICY fok the COMMON
Price, 6d ; Posted, 8d
YOU OUGHT TO
WRITE at once for my new book (iiitps-
trated), “ Mens Sana in Gorpore
Sa.no.” Valuable information FREE for
EVERY MAN. The following subjects are
dealt with and thoroughly explained—Marriage,
False Modesty, Culpability of Parents, Blood
Poison, Loss of Vitality, Varicocele, General
Debility, Rupture, etc., etc.
The book is written for sufferers to under-
stand, and points out the way to a permanent
cure. It tells you what you want to know,
and what you, ought tOjknow. Neurasthenia
and various other Nervous Disturbances arising
from neglected Varicocele are fully explained.
Posted FREE.
My Electro-Regenerator
(Patent Secured)
i 3 the result of the Latest Scientific Achieve-
ments in Electro-Medical Therapeutics. It
builds up the Nervous System and sends a
Curative Wave of Electricity throughout the
entire organisation
WRITE TO-DAY.
SURGEON LANCSTON,
129 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney•
Dr. MARTIN
M.D.,
Gold Medallist, Formerly Medical Superintendent
and Visiting Surgeon to Four of Australasia's
Leading Hospitals ; Government Medical Officer ;
Medical Officer in Charge of Troops, South
African War.
M. 8., 0.M., L.R.0.P., E., L.R.0.5., E.,
L.F.P.S.G.
A Serious Question.
Where can I obtain relief ? After so many failures,
whom can I trust? Who is the most thoroughly
experienced and reliable physician and surgeon in
Australasia ?
The above qualifications, gained from the World’s
Most Famous Universities, should be an all-sufficient
answer to the question. Therefore, if you are ill, or
suspect the existence of some latent disease, why
not sit down quietly at home, and drop a few lines in
plain, simple language to Dr. Martin, describing as
thoroughly as possible the symptoms you experience.
He will, on receiving such an account, write you
plainly, telling you exactly what is the matter, and
the remedy to obtain to effect a thorough cure.
Always bear in mind : Dr. Martin has cured thousands
who have been duped and drugged by so-called
specialists by advice alone
AND WITHOUT CHARGING
A FEE.
Dr. Martin’s New Book, “ Diseases of Men and
Women,” 700 pages, 500 Prescriptions, 193 Illustra-
tions and Colored Plates. All Booksellers. FREE :
A 50-Page Specimen Copy, showing what the great
Book is like
SENT FREE TO ALL.
Remember, should you decide to correspond with
Dr. Martin, you will be writing to one who will prove
your friend. Be you rich or poor, do not hesitate to
write to the Doctor, who will give your case personal,
careful attention.
Address all Communications—
Dr. Martin,
ELM LEY HOUSE,
151 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
(Please mention this paper when writing.)


Your Garden
Wants a Hose.
That is, if it hasn’t got one
already. It ought to have
a Garden Hose if you want
good crops. You can’t better
the best. You’ll get it at . .
Perdriau Rubber Go.!£
270 George St., Sydney.
“ Is superior even to meat and of
Inestimable value'as a food.”
Virchow.
PLASMON
Dr. Robert Hutchison says:—
“Adiet rich in proteid MAKES PHYSICAL*
MENTAL ENERGY. To growing children a
deficiency of proteid is especially dangerous,“
)LICY FOE THE COMMONWEALTH,
Price, 6d.; Posted, 8d
WORTH I N
PUMP GO., Limite
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water M
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors. /
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STRE
SYDNEY.
f
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
MARK.
MM
or
' X
WOLF
J. & J. MAX FIELD, Proprs., SHEFFIELD.
At the Showrooms—
EMPIRE CHAMBERS, 93 YORK-ST.,
SYDNEY
Also at—
“THE BLOCK,”
Oollins-St., MELBOURNE
Showrooms
e-arransred with additional cases and
TO YOU FREE! A Solid Silver Watch.
%
T° introduce our Catalogue into as many homes as
. possible, we have decided to give away 1000 Solid
Silver Watches to persons of either sex who send in the
correct solution of the following puzzle
OXR WXXOXXS AXE TXE BXXT.
The only condition is that, if your answer is correct,
you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains to
wear with the watch. We make this condition because
we want our Catalogue to get into the hands of reputable
persons only. These watches are not toys, but Solid
Silver, and Fully Guaranteed. Early application is neces-
sary. Forward your letter, and enclose a self-addressed
envelope and 2 penny stamps for reply, so that we may
inform you if you have won the watch.
Address: Puzzle Competition,
ARTHUR PRYME & CO.,
PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S. W.
Wholesale & Retail
Jewellers, Etc.,
THE
THE
‘PLUM’
is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground rings
quires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
TEE EACH RAZOR TOR TWO YEARS. y
THE “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 79 6d.
“RAZOLEO” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d. cake.
ST,—This razor
ke a bell, and never re
edge that is required to ensu
their merits. WE GUAR AN
Price
<■
SOLE AGENTS t
Registered and Sent Post Free to Ant Part of the World.
HXT" Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
CRAIG & AIT KEN, 654 George St., SYDNEY
fit
There is no
than
the .
9 99
Pump Guaranteed.
■ —■
V ::
V- ■
m
KNOWLES’ PUMPS for every kind
of service kept in stock. Single and Duplex,
Vertical and Horizontal.
Boiler Feed or Pressure Pumps, Double Acting
v'ZZf-S, L a " k ° r Li9ht Serv ‘ee Pumps,
Vertical Sinking Pumps, Air Pumps, Circulating
Pumps, etc.
& LACY CO. Ltd
60 CLAEENCE ST., SIDNEY.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
Thm Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER'S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstkk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
TRUMAN'S NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizks, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingokstrb & Tkuman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
ilAißliil
HjjaaftueaS
_
rs & Co.
RANGES
and STOVES
Man ufact in erx in N.S. Wales,
South AiVtralia and West
Australia.
All influential storekeepers act as
our agents and stock our Stoves.
HEAD OFFICES:
558 George St., Sydney.
142 Rundfe St., Adelaide.
William St., Perth.
SOR
SINGLETON 'S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
restores eyelashes.
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
INI EVER RAIL-3.
Ask your Chemist for the Little Book •
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
NOVEL PRESENT.
)
ANreceiptof P. 0.0.
forward to any
of our HANDSOME
ROUND WIRE
or M.O. for 5/- we will
address in Australia one
Oct. COLD-FILLED
BROOCHES, with any
Name or Three Initials, Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross
Pendant, guaranteed the same quality as brooch ; and
without pendant, 3/6. In 15ct. G.F. Twisted Wire
8/6 ; without Pendant, 6/6. Illustrated Catalogues
sent Free. All letters carefully addressed to R. SIMS, Cold
Wire Kingr, Cole’s Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
Money in full refunded without qu* stion
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
cycles, warranted six years.
LATEST
MODELS
£2.10 to £6
260
Ladie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or Clincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Rim
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
MgJfccd and Delivered free
--■y poll in the world. We guarantee Bate
delivery.
Second-Hand Cycles
all makes, jn « jr* m
flood as new,
Sreat factory clearance sale at half factory trricet.
EARN A CYCLE
vttifl-iiig uxucib uuui
Active Agents
wauieu in each district. Large profits easily made. Write at once for
iree catalogues and our special offer, using sufficient postage,
lyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, &e.. half prices,
MEAD CYCLE GO - Dept, bss
UYERPOOD, LONDON AND CHICAGO.
Tl NTARA
WINES. .
700 Prizes* Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaida*
Mew Zealand Loan Agency Go.
SYD2XT EJ Y,
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignment, of SH EPS3CIWS, HIDES, TALLOW, ana MARSUPIAL
SXIITS are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS who pay special
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered
promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
