

DEWAB’S WHISKT
THE BUftlttil
STIMULANT.
R. Q-.WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, M Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and QENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS A AILA
sdf
EEOBAnT.
X*rX
Ijadleg’s Orient Rotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 7 Bent Street, SYDNEY
HAVE IN STOCK AND TO ARRIVE—
Centrifugal Pumps , Ram Pumps, Turbine £umj», Pumps
Illustrated Lists and Particulars sent
on Application; >—>
IRRIGATION PLANTS OF ANY CAPACITY.
MEPHAN FERGUSON’S SPIRALLY RIVETED PIPES.
Sr
Take it back. -
> I must have
T* ,
Pinc-Applc Brand
MAMS S
BACON.
sd
the royal
ED IS WAN LAMP.
m
At
m
167 ft i
I
Economy in Current.
Equality of Light.
THE
SUM & SWAI
United Electric
Light Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
16 Carrington Street
Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY.
Queensland DepOt i
Commonwealth
Buildings,
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE.
9
u
“TO THY SPEED ADD WINGS • Jk&'lX&Qfb*
fd
Are the Wings that
give Speed to the
Twentieth Century
Motor or Cycle•
sf
Unsurpassed for Durability <& Comfortw SYDNEY Address s 225 Clarence St.
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR M C INTYRE BROS
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS!
&
TEA
ASK
FOR
STANDARD PALE ALE
UNRIVALLLED IN QUALITY- SPF* I3XT BOTTLER
sdf
dsf
OIL
No Other in
the World
ENGINES
EQUAI.B
‘SIMPLEX’
IRRIGATING PLANTS SUPPLIED.
absolute
In
Reliability
Simplicity
Efficiency
Durability
Economy.
»o YJorry or Trouble
NO LIGHT wanted.
IGNITION is
AUTOMATIC.
No Carbonization
whatever.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
All Sizes.
Stationary & Portable.
Send for Illustrated
Catalogue.
E. Coulson
116 a’Beckett St,
MELBOURNE.
USE . .
DELMO BROS.
ti
mum" macah
VERMICELLI
SEMOLINA
79-81 COPPIN ST.,
RICHMOND,
VICTORIA.
HELIDON SPA.
Absolutely the BEST TABLE WATER.
G-OLLIKT & CO., Agents.
Th e Bulletin
Voi. 27.—N0. 1380.]
[Thursday, July 26, 1906.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THIS WEEK’S NEW BOOKS.
Seton, E T., Animal Heroes, Wins., 7s, post ape Cd.
Hall Caine, The Christian, cheap edition, 6d, postage 2d,
Rice, Concrete Block Manufacture, 10s, postage Bd.
Ruskin, A Joy for Ever, pocket edition, Is 3d, postage 3d.
Sayers, Experiments on Hot Water Supply, 3s 6d, p. sd.
Spielvogel, A Giimsucker on the Tramp : An Australian’s
Experiences Abroad, Is, postage 2d.
Watts, Leather Manufacture, new e<lt., 15s, postage Is.
Nesbitt, Algeria ami Tunis, ilius. and colour, 245, p. IsCd.
Ko.ya! Academy Pictures, 1906, wrapper 3s Od, cloth 6s,
postage lOd. The Naval Annual, 1906, 18s, p. Is Sd.
The Statesman’s Tear Book, 1906, 12s 6d, postage Bd.
Thompson-Street Poker Club, new edt., 6d, postage 2d.
One Thousand Practical Keceiptsin Trade, &c., Is 3, p. 4d.
Write to us for any Book or Magazine yon rejuire,
Geo. Robertson £k Co- Prop. Ltd.,
71 CASTLES? ’HAC H STREET,
SYDNEY.
FOR THE LUNGS, THE THROAT, THE VOICE.
The Great . •
ANTISEPTIC
REMEDY
For thb Curb op
Bronchitis !
amd Influenza !
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
sd
A. The Larynx, or organ of voice.
B. The Trachea, or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
THE “AUSTRALASIAN'
MEDICAL GAZETTE"
says
“ Of great service in
affections of the
voice and throat."
HUDSON’S EUiVSEMTHOL JUJUBES
CONTAINS NO COCAINE OR OTHER POISONOUS DRUC. Sold by all Chemists, in tins, I S or
from the Manufacturer G HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland, post free on receipt of stamps. Sjclney
Depot : 5& 7 Queen', Ptoe. Agencies’in all Australian States and N.Z., and at 320 Regent Street W„ Condor,.
THE RED PACE.
THE TOTE.
THE murdered welsher who lies there
Upon the outraged sod,
With awful eye 3 that bleed and stare
To an attentive God :
He is the Gambler’s archetype.
The Crowd’s inconscient sign,
The Brute’s persisting tiger-stripe;
And yet, he is not mine.
Of making Books the end they shun
Who dread the Furies’ lash ;
My sin is ended when begun :
I save my soul in Cash.
*T is you who lay, ’t is you who call,
You fix the starting-price ;
I only hold the stake for all,
On Virtue build my Vice.
Sometimes, in hours of mortal stress
(Called, by police, a raid),
Awhile I leave my patrons guess
If wagers will be paid.
But soon the Law, with gloomy face,
Colleots lifer traps and goes;
Again the instinct of the Race
Old Order overthrows :
With genial life I thrill the land,
Refill the honest pot,
Revitalise spent doubles, and —
Resume my cheerful lot.
Though Life in .racing bubbles soar
To froth the eternal mug,
Like Death, I negligently pour
The mug into the jug.
I triumph in a new St. Paul’s
For heaven-desirous serf,
Or win, behind my armoured walls,
St. Vincents of the turf,
Where Rand wick's artful snare is set.
Or Yarra’a act is rash.
Of Sport I am the Alpha bet
And Omega, the splash.
The sturdy Roman sang my spell.
The gay Athenian crowd.
And Celtic bards, with words that smell
And thoughts that, burn endowed.
But whether in the shop or school,
Or where machines are sent,
I preach the Automatic Rule
Of taking Ten per Cent:
That Chance bestows what AU mag share,
That Figures earmot lie,
That Natural Odds are always fair ,
Are low, however high.
WOMAN AND WEININCER
FOR half-a-truth, then, imitating half-a-
truth (which, not being the whole,
may in implication be more) : “ Sen-
sible men are all of the same opinion
about women.” “And what is that?”
“ Sensible men never tell.”
Weininger is of a different opinion—or it
may be the same—and he tells in Sex and
Character (Lond., Heinemann; 17s. net).
Having told, he killed himself, like a Sphinx
unriddled. Possibly the act was appro-
priate. All through the ages Humanity has
lived in company with things that must not
be told, words that must never be spoken.
Sometimes they blurt the truth of conven-
tions, sometimes they lie at the centre of
religions; but, as T. H. Bayly wrote of
tr rs :
Oh no, we never mention ’em 1
Their name must not be heard....
And in this class of Unmentionables the
limbs and inward flourishes of Woman have
been placed definitely.
So Weininger, with both sacrilegious hands
to the veil of Isis, has withered away. Or
that, at least, might be the heroic theory of
an admirer. More prosaically admeasuring
the man with his book, one conceives him as
an enthusiast who planned a masterpiece
and could not /survive the conviction of
failure. For his brilliant volume, full 6f sug-
gestion though it be, is only a flying buttress
in the edifice of science, though seemingly
designed as a new foundation-stone.
J*
His first and quasi-scientific part was
noticed on 12th July : his second part
is quasi-literature. Between science and
literature Weininger muddles his method.
Of course written science should be literary,
to the extent of lucid style, or even to the
extent of style ornate, decorated with illus-
tration and illumined by metaphor. But
the matter of science must be based upon
fact, the development of its theories must be
governed by logic ; while literature may
float in airy fancy over all the regions of
taste. The one must have a hearthstone
and a steady tiro : it is sufficient for the
other to fling sparks. And that, in the end,
is the function that Weiniwger has served.
His first part has been taken quite
seriously enough : his second part must not
be taken too seriously. Woman, considered-
by and large, covers an extensive area of the
human territory ; and it is possible there are
tracts of her unknown even to a promising
young man of twenty-three. Yet young
men see visions, and this young man’s vision
is worth sharing : if not for what he says,
then for what he hints and avows without
terror of the Unmentionable.
J*
He says, following his first assumption,
that it is only Man who counts : Woman is
nothing. But since she may be part Man,
she may count in proportion to her maleness.
“ A woman’s demand for emancipation,” for
example, “and her qualification for it are
in direct proportion to the amount of male-
ness in her."
Emancipation, as I mean to discuss it, is not
the wish for an outward equality with men, but
what is of real importance in the woman
question, the deep-seated craving to acquire
man’s character, to attain h-is mental and
moral freedom, to reach his real interests
and his creative power. I maintain that the real
female element has neither the desire nor the
capacity for emancipation in this sense. All those
who are striving for this real emancipation, all
women who are truly famous and are ofconspicu-
ous mental ability, to the first glance of an expert
reveal some of the anatomical characters of the
male, some external bodily resemblance to a man.
Those so-called “ women ” wbo have been held up
to admiration in the past and present, by the
advocates of woman’s rights, as examples of what
women can do, have almost invariably been what
I have described as sexually intermediate forms...
There is, then, a stronger reason than has
generally been supposed for the familiar assump-
tion of male pseudonyms by women writers.
Their choice is a mode of giving expression to the
inherent maleness they fepl; and this is still more
marked in the case of those who, like George
Sand, have a preference for male attire and mas-
culine pursuits- The motive for choosing a man’s
name springs from the feeling that it corresponds
with their own character, much more than from
any desire for increased notice by the public. As
a matter of fact, up to the present, partly owing to
interest in the sex question, women’s writings
have aroused more interest, ceteris paribus, then
those of men ; and, owing to the issues involved,
have always received a fuller consideration and,
if there were any justification, a greater meed of
praise than has been accorded to a man’s work of
equal merit. At the present time especially
many women have attained celebrity by work
which, if it had been produced by a man, would
have passed alfhost unnoticed.
And W. proceeds to give instances to justify
a conclusion of “ Away with the whole
‘woman’s movement,' with its unnatural-
ness and artificiality and its fundamental
errors— It is not the true woman who
clamours for emancipation, but only the
masculine type of woman, who misconstrues
her own character and the motives that
actuate her when she formulates her demands
in the name of woman.”
J*
These ideas are not novel. The under-
lying theory, as has been shown, is not
novel either. There is scarcely novelty
in the application of the idea of mixed sex to
“ the woman’s movement.” But Weininger
seems to have stated the cause-and-effect
argument in this connection more fully and
more forcibly than any previous writer ; he
has brought “woman’s rights” into clear
relation with a solid scientific theory; and
so has written usefully. He gives, too, a
suggestion of periodicity in the production of
varying sex-forms which is worth keeping in
historical mind.
As he proceeds, our author rambles far,
and far beyond his evidence. He has to be
read with reservations, yet he has nearly
always the virtue of being readable. His
chapters on “ Talent and Genius ” and
“Talent and Memory ’’are irrelevantly
written, and often (to a rival theorist)
wrong - headed. There is room for a
condensation which would concentrate the
flashes. These are like the jagged lightnings
that play over pictorial representations of
Hell; but one shrinks from giving a name
to Weininger’s Hell. Weininger does not
shrink. Woman has no soul, no mind, no
idea of truth, no morals, no power of making
judgments—she is an assembly of negatives.
She cannot even talk !
A psychological proof that the power of making
judgments is a masculine trait lies in the fact that
the woman recognises it as such, and that it acts
on her as a tertiary sexual character of the male.
A woman always expects definite convictions in a
man, and appropriates them; she has no under-
standing of indecision in a man. She always
expects a man to talk, and a man’s speech is to
her a sign of his manliness. It is true that
woman has the gift of speech, but she has not the
art of talking; she converses (flirts) or chatters,
but she does not talk. She is most dangerous,
however, when she is dumb, for men are only too
inclined fib' take her quiescence for silence.
The last sentence is either profound or
obscure : Balzac’s idea—that She is never so
talkative as when She is saying nothing—is
more intelligible.
Hereabout comes a good deal of second-
hand, sad, clear-sighted, narrow-minded Scho-
penhauer. She-that-must-be-commanded has
no modesty. The true sentiment of naked-
ness is impossible to Her, because She has
no Ego.
If a woman were asked what she meant by her
“ego” she would certainly think of her body.
Her superficies, that is the woman’s ego. The
ego of the female is quite correctly described by
Mach in his “Anti-metaphysical Remarks.”
And this is only the beginning of Her woe.
The phenomena of courtesy and chivalry are
simply additional proofs that women have no
souls...
They have no sense of justice ; no sense of
property ; —because they have no ego.
One’s name and a strong devotion to it are
even more dependent on personality than is the
sense of property... Women are not bound to
their names with any strong l>ond. When they
marry they give up their own name and assume
that of their husband without any sense of loss.
They allow their husbands and lovers to call
them by new names, delighting in them ; and
even when a woman marries a man that she
does not love, she has never been known to
suffer any physical shock at the change of
name. The name is a symbol of individuality ;
it is only amongst the lowest races on the face
of the earth, such as the bushmen of South
Africa, that there are no personal names, be-
o&use among such as these the desire for dis-
tinguishing individuals front the general stock
is not felt. The fundamental namelessness of
the woman is simply a sign of her undifferen-
tiated personality.
An important observation may be mentioned
here and may be confirmed by every one. When-
ever a man enters a place where a woman is, and
she observes him, or hears his step, or even only
fu esses he is near, she becomes another person.
[er expression and her pose change with incred-
ible swiftness; she “arranges her fringe” and
her bodice, and rises, or pretends to be engrossed
in her work. Sl*e is full of a half-shameless, half-
nervous expectation. In many cases one is only
in doubt as to whether she is blushing for her
shameless laugh, or laughing over her shameless
blushing.
J*
And this young man was only twenty-
three ! So young, and so ‘I Now, it he
had come to Melbourne—there is a Very
Nice Girl in Melbourne (meaning you) who
? But he preferred to die—and his work
lives after him—and continues, with some-
what tedious repetition :
It has been exhaustively proved that the female
is soulless and possesses neither ego nor individu-
ality, personality nor freedom, character nor
wi11...
Most women delight to hear discussions on
their souls, although they know, as far as they
can be said to know anything, that the whole
thing is a swindle. The woman as the Sphinx !
Never was a more ridiculous, a more audacious
fraud perpetrated. Man is infinitely more mys-
terious, incomparably more complicated .. .
There is a great deal more-—a great deal
that is thinkable, a great deal that is funny,
and a great deal that is tabooed in family
papers like The Bulletin. With the exception
of a chapter on Judaism—which may be im-
portant—it comes to a reiteration of the
formula : Woman =O, As to proof, we do
not say: sensible men never say; but
Weininger might have stressed the signifi-
cance of 0 with an integer—might have
asked, for example, when dull carbon glows
with electric light, whether the current could
dispense with the carbon. Yet this is to
consider too seriously—or not seriously
enough. It is better to drop on Weininger’s
grave a flower of submissive acceptance.
Woman, then, exists no longer. She is
brought to nought—annihilated—blotted out.
But we hope that—with her natural talent
for keeping up appearances—she will persist
in pretending to remain with us for a few
years, anyway.
A fine poetical tribute to Seddon is this by
M. C. Keane, of New Zealand Times staff :
Out of the West, sound sleeping,
Heedless now of the change of dawn and sunset,
Dreaming deep of the olden clamour and onset,
Wrapped in peace and swayed in the passionate sivell
Of hurrying waves high leaping
To foam farewell.
Home to the hills that mourn him I
With silence set on the lips that laughed and lightened,
Darkness set in the clear grey eyes that brightened
When once he swept the strings of the songful days.
High, high, pale Death has borne him
By far, dim ways.
Vain now the trumpets’ blaring,
The bright, blithe cheers and'shouts of the hearts that love
him !
Wishful only of peace and the grass above him,
Out of the dark strange sea he is seeking rest.
Ended his strong wayfaring—
Closed his long quest.
Our days go heavily onward,
The light that lit us of old is no more shining ;
The dark has hidden our path beyond divining ;
The soul that saw the East where the morning gleams
Has swept in a long flight sunward
With all its dreams.
Far past our utmost knowing I
Tears, or desirous hearts, or the death flag streaming
Vex him not in the deeps of his secret dreaming ;
Passion he knows no more, nor the face of woe,
Where poppies of peace are glowing
And sweet winds blow.
Moral, the Spanish anarchist who threw the
bomb at King Alfonso and his bride, raised a
point in literary ethic before his departure. His
rmssile flung, Moral looked about for refuge.
He remembered that a journalist named Nakens
had written a momentous article proving that in
anarchy alone resides theoretical virtue; and he
fled to Nakens. Then the condensed dialogue
according to Nakens : “Are you Mr. Nakens?”
“lam.” “ Will you give me your word not to
tell what I am going to say to you ?” “ Well—
certainly.” “Then look here! I’ve thrown a
bomb! People have been killed ! But I read
that glorious article of yours. Will you help me
to hide?” And Nakens explains that his senti-
ments were in a whirl. Really and truly he
detests crime; he loathed the criminal; but he
was bound by his word, he had to live up to his
article. So he helped Moral to escape, and later
confessed contritely. He was wrong, of oourse ;
yet there is a certain attractive homogeneity
about Mr. Nakens. What he had written he had
written ; what he had said he had said. Would it
be too much to expect, in circumstances of lesser
social moment, that some of our own leader-
writers should be bound personally by the noble
notions they offer to the public ?
I>. S. Mac Coll, most stimulating of English art
critics, has been named Keeper of Lond. Tate
Gallery in place of Sir Charles Holroyd, who
becomes a director of the National Gallery. In
the-Tate are .stored pictures bought under the
Chantrey bequest—the very .wjiich.Mac-
Coil was lately condemning as the Academy’s
interested choice. The R.A. smiles as sourly as
it can.
H.P. can only quote the current use of back-
slanging as “ talking back ” —probably based
originally on Lond. thieves’ method of using
words backwards. The alleged special use at
squatters’ huts evidently exists no longer, if it
ever did exist. Crow-eater he has heard explained
thus : The 8. A. cockies and squatters feed their
men on crows, so as to have cheap meat and
exterminate the crows at the same time ; enliven-
ing two stones with one bird, so to speak. Bag-
swag, already explained, has a more pretentious
eousin in the oildrum-swag, when the bags are
rolled round an empty oildrum, so as to give it a
more prosperous appearance. Thus appearances
are saved at the nadir of society as at the zenith.
The oildrum is rare, except as a jibe.
Swinburne, then, is still read. D.J., ELW.D.,
and others inform F.P.A. that citation is from
fifth verse of “ Laus Veneris " ( Poems and Ballads ,
first series).
“ Did you ever read your French Bible ? ” asks
a correspondent— 1 ' before you could read French,
but with the fine old vatted harmonies of the
English Version still tingling in your blood ? I
am reading the gospels so just now. I find that
the gay language, m such solemn surroundings,
is simply a wicked little ballet-dancer sitting
beside me in church. A clever little actress—she
prims her mouth and drops her lashes and really
tries to rise—and sit. and kneel to the opoasion.
But she just can’t. Her pert little feet—demurely
crossed on the hassock—twitch dance-measures
into the opening voluntary—she sucks jujubes
through tire Sermon on the Mount—she openly
ogles John the Baptist—she calls Saint Peter
“Pierre” out loud—her inherent frivolity ex-
plodes at the miracles —she scandalises my whole
congregation of low-church traditions—what she
will do by the time we get to Revelation — French
revelations—the devil only knows—l fully expect
her to pirouette down the middle aisle and kiss
John the Divine instead of putting threepence in
his plate.”
J*
English notions of French literature some-
times curious, but French notions of English
literature are usually amazing. We find a widely-
circulated Paris paper deciding a competition for
the hooks which should form a jeune fdle's library.
“ What are the books,” was the solemn query,
“ that will endow with a mind healthy, gay, and
pure,” the sheltered French maiden of to-day?
“What works should she have read before she
marries?” And in their turn come these
“ Foreign Masterpieces,’’ introduced with a note
by old Francisque Sarcey :
How charming: to read a great book through the mists
of a foreign tongue with which one is only half acquainted!
Words lose their precise and decided contour: they are
something at once vague and luminous that rouses the
imagination.
Then the maiden is enjoined to read all these in
preparing for matrimony :
Shakespeare.— Theatre. (“ It one dreads the complete
works ” le The&tre Choisi, de O’Sullivan).
Milton.— Paradis Perdu (livres I et 11, an notes par
Beljame).
Lord Byron.— Childe-Harold (traduit par M. Bellet).
Walter Scott. — Ivanhoe, la Jolie FiUe de Perth,
Quentin Durward.
Oh. Dickens. —David Copperfield, Nicolas Nickleby , lea
Contes de Noel.
Thackeray.—Le Livre des Snobs.
Beecher-Stow e.—La Case de VOncle Tom.
Rudyard Kipling.—Le Livre de la Jungle.
George Eliot.— Sillas Warner.
Mrs. Cummig.— L’Allumev,r de lUverMres. [The Lamp-
lighter.]
One feels rather sorry for the jeuncfiUe; but
they say she has distractions.
Thos. F. Millard writes The New Far East —
“an examination into the new position of Japan
and her influence upon the solution of the Far
Eastern question, with special reference to the
interests of America and the future of the Chinese
Empire.” The author suggests that the Chinese
are ready to keep step with Japan m the adoption
of European ideas —*' Ido not hesitate to express
the opinion that among nationalities to-day none
is more disposed to take up with new and im-
proved methods than the Chinese.” In the
solution of Asiatic questions he thinks America
must take part —and Australia ?
A Madcap Marriage, by M. M. Bodkin (Lend.,
Long ; 2s. (id.) is a yarn of mixed bathing, mixed
clothes, and a mixed couple, who eventually
coalesce with the familiar formula. Spirits with
a dash carry the reader along, scarcely away.
A.G.B.


RABBIT SKINS WANTED.
Also KANGAROO, WALLABY,
OPOSSUM, &c.
Consign to :
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Limited, Wool and Produce Salesmen, SYDNEY.
MICK SIMMONS. The Leading Sports Depot
Pistols and Revolvers,
fds
Mick
Simmons
Pocke
Pistol.
f
Derringer Pistol.
Pocket Pistols, No. 1, nickel-plated barrel, fires bullet or shot, cartridges, weight 3Joz. (Postage 3d.)
2s 9d, 3s, 4s
Derringer Pistol, 22 calibre, nickel-plated, self-ejecting, length 6Jin., weight 4}oz. (Postage 3d.) .. 6s
Stevens’ Target Pistol, 3£in., blued steel barrel, 22 cal., self-ejecting, 6oz. (Postage (id.) ... ..12s
Btevens’ Diamond Model Pistol, Oin. blued steel barrel, 22 calibre, self-ejecting, weight 90z., fitted with
globe and peep sights, length 9£in. (Postage 6d.) .. .. .. £1 6s
Vest Pocket Revolvers, Hammer, 22 R.F., blued or nickel, weight 4£oz. (Postage 4d.) .. 10s 6d, 12s
Vest Pocket Revolvers, Hammerless, 22 R.F., nickel, weight soz. (Postage 4d.) .. .. •• 13s
Vest Pocket Revolvers, Hammerless. 22 R.F., nickel, weight 6 z., pearl handle (Postage 4d.) .. 10s
Bulldog: Revolvers, 320 C.F., 5 chambered, douDle action, nickel, weight 9Joz. (Post 9d. N.S.W. ;
Is 2d. Inter-State) .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ss6d
Bulldog: Revolvers, 320 0.F., 6 chambered, double action, nickel or blued, lOJoz., horn handle (Post.
9d. N.S.W.; Is. 2d. Inter-State) .. .. .. .. .. .. •• 7s 6d
Bulldog Revolvers, 380 C.F., 6 chambered, double action, nickel or blued, weight about lib. (Postage
fid. N.S.W. ; Is. 2d. Inter-State) .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 9s 6d
Bulldog: Revolvers, 450 0.F., 5 chambered, double action, nickel or blued, ISoz.. (Postage 9d. N.S.W.;
Is. 2d. Inter-State) .. .. .. .. „ .. .. •• 10s 6d
222 222
Young America Revolvers, 22 R.F., 7 chambered, double
acbion, nickel, 2in. barrel, BJoz., 10s 6d : blued, 13s 6d.
(Postage 6d)
Young' America Revolvers, 22 R.F., same as above, with
4£in. barrel, 9(0z., nickel, 12s 6d; blued, 15s 6d.
(Postage, 9d N.S.W. ; Is 2d Inter-State.)
Young America Revolvers, 32 C.F., safety hammer, 6
chambered, 2in. barrel, Bioz., nickel, 10s 6d. (Postage 6d)
8. &W. Pattern Revolvers, 320 C.l'\, nickel or blued, auto-
matic ejector, 3jm. barrel, vulcanite stock, ISoz. (Postage 9d. N.S.W.;
Is. 2d. Inter-State.), 13s (id
8. & W. Pattern Revolvers, 380 0.F., same as above, 3Jin. barrel, 18oz.
(Post. 9d. N.S. W. ; Is. 2d. Inter-State), 15s 6d
Hopkins’ “Forehand" S. & W. Pattern Automatic Revolvers, 32 cal. C.F.,
3in. barrel, weight lib., a limited quantity only. (Post. 9d, or Is 2d Inter-
State), 17s 6d
H
Young
America.
E5E
The “Bullseye” Rifle, 22 Calibre,
20in. Octagon Steel Barrel, rifled, Remington action, walnut
stock, open sights, weight about 3Jlb
Postage—ls 9d N.S.W. ;3s 2d Incer-State).
7s
The Celebrated
“MAINE
RIFLE
dsf
’’THE MAINE"
f?iHe
{Sheusing P/He Apsrr.
PRICE 15 6
POSTAGE ON RIFLE—N.S.W., 1/3; INTER-
STATE, 2/2 EXTRA.
fitted with Sporting Rear Sights to 300yds., Bolt
Action, ISin. Blued Steel Barrel, Walnut Stock.
Shoots 22 Short, Long, or Extra Long Cartridges.
Weight, 2flb.
ma
WINCHESTER 1902 MODEL.
“Winchester “jSingle Shot, 1902 Model, 22 cal. R.F., peep
or V sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2jlb.
(Postage, Is 3d N.S.W. ; 2s 2d Inter-State).
IVFick
Simmons.
18s
Winchester
1904
Model.
ds
“Winchester” Single Shot Rifle, 1904
Model, for 22’ short or long rim fire cartridges,
21in. heavy round steel barrel, plain trigger, bolt action,
adjustable rear sight, length of rifle over all 37£in., bead front
sight with patent alloyed tip, which will not
tarnish, weight about 41b. (Postage, Is 9d
N.S.W. ; 3s 2d Inter-State).
24s
fsd
Romingrton
barrel, weig
N.3.W. ; 2s
REMINGTON, NO. 6.
, S.S. Rifles, New Model, 22 Calibre R.F., 20in.
fht 3i1b.— 168 ; or with sliding: sights, £1 is
8d Inter-State.)
round blued steei
(Postage, Is 6d
i ena*
..tie Krag.
Stevens’ 8.8. “ Little Krag," 22 Oalibre, bolt action, blued steel round
barrel, 20in. long, walnut stock, steel scroll trigger guard, peep
•ight, with V sight if required, 6d extra ; length orer all SSin. A-f
weight about 3Jlb. (Postage, la 6d N.S. W. ; 2s 8d Interstate) . ZIR
fds
fsd
Stevens’ “ Favorite.”
Stevens’ S.S. “Favorite,” 22, 22 W.R.F., 25, or 32 cal., rim
fire, half octagon 22in. barrel, case-hardened frame, solid breech block,
under lever action, open front and rear sights, weight 4jlb. (Postage, Is 9d N.S.W.;
38 2d Inter-State)
Stevens’ S.S. “ Favorite,” 22 or 32 cal. R.F., fitted with beach combination, front sight, open
rear and vernier, else same description as above (Post., N.S.W. Is 9d ; Inter-State, 3s 2d
£1 10s
£2
AIVtMXJJVXXIOKr
Cartridges can now be sent by Boat to any
Queensland Port at ordinary Coods Freight.
Pea Rifle Cartridges.
BULLETED No. 1,6 d, 9d ; No. 2, Is 3d ; No. 3, Is 9d 100
SHOT No. 1, Is 3d ; No. 2, Is 9d ; No. 3,2 s 6d, 4s „
Rifle Cartridges.
$ 100
WINCHESTER, 22 Conical .. .. Is Od
„ 22 Short .. .. Is Id
„ 22 Long: .. .. Is 3d
„ 22 Long-Rifle .. .. Is 6d
„ 22 Extra Long.. .. 2s Od
$ 1000
9s fid
10s Of|
12s a |
13s Od
18s Od
Illustrated Fishing: Tackle, Sports, Tobacco Lists, Anglers’ Guide and Hints on Fishing:—Post Free.
Postage—2B 6d N.S.W. ;
4s 8d Inter-State.
Harrington & Richardson’s 5.8.8.1 i Gun,
12-jratige, top action, automatic self-ejecting de-
carbonised steel barrel 80in., solid case hardened
breech, rebounding locks, pistol
grip, walnut stock, weight
about 6Jlb.
£1 78 6d
»
&
«S
f/
Leston
Daly
Coy.
D.8.8.L.
Guin
f
MICK BIMMONS
12 Gauge, top lever, steel barrels, extension rib, rebounding looks, left choke, pistol stock
weight about 71b.
As above, but with Greener Gross Bole, 455.
35s
Postage on Gun, 2s 9d N,S.W.; 5s 2d Inter-State.
MICK
BIMMONB
sdf
THE GLOBE
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 or 16 Gauge, top lever, twist barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks,left choke, patent
D. &E. fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. Postage, N.S.W., 2/9 , Interstate, / .
40s
Leston
Daly
Coy.
D.8.8.L.
Gun
rr ~ m
m
lV
r r-r>
MIOK SIMMONS
12 Gauge, top lever, steel and twist harre.s, reooundmg bar locks, left choke
As above, but with Greener Cross Bolt, 508. Postage on Gun, 2s 9d N.S.W. ;5a 2d Inter-State.
40s
£3
Postage on 1 Gun, 2s 9d
N.8.W.; 6s 2d Inter-State.
.
National Arms Co/s
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, top lever,
steel barrels, left choke,
rebounding bar locks, Greener cross bolt, Sietnen'a
pistol walnut stock ; W'eight, about 71b.
ISAAC
HOLLIS
& SONS'
“The Reliable,”
£6 12s 6d
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Real Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt,
Left Choke, Rebounding Locks, Snap Fore-end,
chambered for 2fin. Cartridges. Guaranteed
for all Smokeless Powders.
Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 6s 2d Inter-State.
sd
Mick Simmons
fsd
HOLLIS & SONS’ “THE RELIABLE" D. ft ILL. HAMMERLESS
GUN, 12-gauge, top lever, genuine Damascus or “ Siemen’s ” steel barrels,
both choke, side lock action, automatic safety bolt, extended rib,
Deeley-Edge patent fore-end, fitted with Greener cross-bolt, neatly engraved. chambered for
•2fin. cartridges, GUARANTEED FOR ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, ami absolutely the
finest-quality Gun in the States. Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ;5s 2d Inter-State
£l2 12s
REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER.^i
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney


STAMINA IN MEN.
The Freeman & Wallace Electro-Medical Treatment
makes Weak Men Strong, and Strong Men Stronger.
Read the following testimonies by famous Athletes, and no further proofs of the efficacy of the Treatment should be necessary to convince you that
THE FREEMAN & WALLACE TREATMENT will set you up in Strength and Vigor:—
MR. RALPH WELLS, after his victory over
Jim Corbett in 1904, wrote: —“ It gives ine
pleasure to state that I have been under your
treatment, having felt in need of special treatment
to meet my requirements, being run down and
suffering from poorness of blood, with complica-
tions, and lacking tone. A brief course of treat-
ment at your hands has effected the most satisfac-
tory results, and I feel now in every way relieved
of anxiety as to my condition, and am myself
again. Much credit is due to your medical staff
for the attention and treatment I have received,
and I feel that it is due to place on record this
testimony to the benefits I have derived.”
MR. FRANK BARKER, of Victoria-street,
North Richmond, Vic., wrote: —“I desire to
express my gratitude to you, as well as my com-
plete satisfaction with the result of the treatment
adopted by you. I was afflicted about as gravely
as any young man could be. After treatment at
the hands of two well-known doctors I felt my
position hopeless. Fortunately, I was persuaded
to undergo a course of treatment at your hands.
'Hie results have gratified me beyond expression,
for I am now a new man, strong in body, and free
from what previously gave such trouble. From a
condition of general breakdown and enervation I
am now rescued to one of sound and satisfactory
health.”
♦
Wise Words.
WHEN YOU ARE WEAK, Nervous and
Enfeebled, or Languid, Unenergctic, and Ener-
vated, with Weak Digestion, an Inactive Liver
and Disordered Kidneys, then it is that you
lack a sufficiency of Nerve Energy in your
system. You are debilitated because your own
natural nervo-electric powers are too weak to
make new vigor and energy for you from the
food you eat. For want of such power you are
afflicted with an aching back, tired limbs, ypu
are quickly fatigued, your energy is fitful and
ill-sustained, you are easily worn out, you are
subject to mental tremors and forebodings, you
fail in everything you undertake, you are often
nervously prostrated. No wonder that you are
morbid, fearful, and apprehensive, for the signs
we name are indications of speedy physical
wreck and collapse. Don’t neglect such serious
conditions. The Specialists of the Institute are
Medical Experts in the treatment of NERVE,
KIDNEY, and BLOOD DISEASES. They
have restored thousands of others; and they
will do it for you. You will not be disap-
pointed. They will restore your Nerve Strength,
will revitalise the energies of your nervous
system in its vast and intricate network all oyer
your body. They will bring back waning
Physical and Muscular Powers, and will give
you a new lease of Life and Vitality. You may
by consulting them attain your ideal of perfect,
vigorous manhood, or womanhood. There is a
mountain of evidence in favor of these wonder-
ful scientific health-creators. Special pamphlet
of testimonials posted free.
*•
!!
'• > *
isttfii
*42 ' *
,
‘
■
■
'■ - .a :.-7;- ~.2:2:2
PETER RUNG, The Famous Pugilist.
MR. PETER KLING wrote to the Institute on July 9,
1906, as follows :—“For some time I have been using an Elec-
tric Appliance and treatment advised by you for increasing my
Nerve Power and general strength, and during my training for
my last fight with Heckenberg, whom I beat, as you are aware,
I carefully followed out your orders ; and it is to the Electric treat-
ment you have given me that I attribute my great success, as it
improved me most wonderfully in the direction sought, as well as
making me feel all that a well-trained athlete should be. I
have much pleasure in enclosing herewith my photograph, which
you may use in conjunction with this testimonial.”
MR. G. JOHNS, champion light-weight of
Australia, wrote: —“As I have used your treat-
ment in training for various contests, and have
found its effects most beneficial, both to my nerve
and muscular systems, my opinion is that your
Electro-Medical treatment has done me un-
doubted good, both in training and actual con-
tests.”
MR. MAT. MITOHIE, after defeating Dennis
Maloney, wrote : —“ I tried your systems of treat-
ment during training for my fight with Denny
Maloney, and to its strengthening effect I attri-
bute much of the vigor and staying power that
enabled me to withstand Maloney’s continuous
attacks, and eventually win the decision which
was subsequently awarded me.”
MR. JOE MEGSON, the well-known cyclist,
wrote : —“I suffered from nervousness for a long
time. I was on the point of a constitutional
break-up more than once. The merits of your
treatment received by me are beyond question.”
WEAR MEN.
Weak men lose confidence in themselves. They
are unable to discern where their feet may tread.
THEIR STEPS ARE SLOW, UNCERTAIN.
Their hands are raised to ward off imaginary
blows which threaten them. Sick men or women
are often like people blindfolded. They may
not have confidence. They turn now to this side
and now to the other in an uncertainty of doubt.
They know they are ill, and that robs them of
their courage.
Men in this condition, who are tired of spend-
ing money in a vain endeavor to obtain relief from
HEALTH-RUINING DISEASES, should, after
reading this advt., adopt our treatment. We
could not convert our fellow-men were we to take
money from a patient whom we did not benefit or
cure. No medical man should take a fee from a
sick person unless he is able to benefit. When
you consult us, you know our proposition before-
hand—if we do not produce results, you get
your money back. Remember, there are four
LEGALLY - QUALIFIED MEDICAL EX-
PERTS associated with
T * Freeman & Wallace
Electro-Medical and
Surgical Institutes,
Sydney and Melbourne -
Each Specialist may be consulted personally.
Their opinions will be given FREE.
Some of the diseases we treat with unfailing success are: Deadly Varicocele,
Urinary Affections, Contagious Blood Poison, Lost Vigor, Weakness, Rupture,
Piles, Insomnia, Sciatica, Rheumatism, Bladder Disorders, Kidney Ailments,
Indigestion, General Debility, and all Reflex Ailments.
If you suffer, call upon us or write. We charge nothing for advice.
TAKE NOTICE.
All consultations, personally or by letter, are Free. Letters are replied to with pro-
fessional secrecy and punctuality. All patients are under the care of the Resident Pysician,
who is late of Hospital Staff, Melbourne, and British Army Medical Staff. Dr. Wallace is
a Specialist of unequalled skill. His book. “ Clinical Experiences,” is of great value to all.
Its 31 chapters treat upon Diseases of the Lungs, Heart, Throat, Kidneys, Bowels, Bladder,
and Brain. It contains articles on the treatment of INVALIDS, the SICK-ROOM,
SNAKEBITE, SUNSTROKE, GUNSHOT WOUNDS, POISONS and ANTIDOTES,
INSOMNIA, RESCUE OF APPARENTLY DROWNED, CARE OF CHILDREN,
etc. It is invaluable to country residents, and gives many priceless prescriptions for Home
use. Write or call for it now.
If you are living too far away to visit, write at once, in strict confidence, giving full par-
ticulars of your trouble, and you will receive a plain and distinct statement of what we can
do for you.
The Strictest Confidence may be Relied Upon.
We have References from every district in the Colonies.
Almost every post brings us fresh evidence of our success ; but remember, under no cir-
cumstances do we make use of letters unless we have distinct permission to do so.
For a quarter of a century the Freeman and Wallace Medical Institute has been ® fixed
fact, and will remain so. It is as standard as Australian gold. Send for a pamphlet dealing
principally with testimonies. You will be surprised to know how many thousands we have
cured and benefited.
THE FREEMAN & WALLACE
Electro-Medical and
Surgical Institute,
Cor. Elizabeth (& Bathurst Sts., Sydney
Howard Freeman, Director and Principal of the Institutes.
Dr. Richard Wallace, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.P.P.S., K, Physician-in-Ohief.
Dr. Elizabeth White, M.D., Specialiste in Diseases of Women and Children.
Dr. Bell, Lecturer.
And at MELBOURNE
IMPORTANT.—Our dispute with the Federal Postal authorities having been amicably settled. Patients
may dire<st their letters to the above address without fear of delay.


Don’t neglect your cough. Stop il;
at once and drive away all thought of
consumption. Begin as early as pos-j
sible—the sooner the better—to take
Mger’s
'Gherri( 9edoral
the most effective remedy for coughs
and colds of every kind and in every
stage.
One of the most annoying coughs
is a throat cough, where you have
that constant tick-
ling in your throat.
It comes on worse
at night, keeps you
awake, and makes
you have that
smothered feeling
in the chest. Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
quiets the cough,
makes breathing
easy, and heals the
lungs. There is no other remedy so
surely to be relied on.
There are many substitutes and
imitations. Beware of them and of
so-called “Genuine Cherry Pectoral.’’
Be sure you get AYEB’S Cherry
Pectoral.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass.,U.S. A.
*1
w
The first
Essential
for the preservation of the
teeth is to keep them clean by
constant attention at least every morning
and evening.
CALVERT'S
Carbolic Tooth Powder
makes the work of your toothbrush so much
more complete and satisfactory, because it
perfects the cleansing and also supplies the
necessary antiseptic properties.
It is also delightfully flavoured and
refreshing to use.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. CALVERT & Co.. Manchester. Eng.
Many a mother knows
quite well the
Banger
of feeding her baby by
hand. Yet she is obliged to do it.
But the danger need not be so great
after all. Thoughtful modern mothers
make up for the deficiencies of artificial
food by giving Scott’s Emulsion of cod
liver oil and hypophosphites of lime
and soda. The mineral properties con-
tained in this well-tried food-medicine
are just those which wise nature herself
provides in the
Milk
of the mother’s breast.
Consequently, babies fed on Scott’s
Emulsion grow straight, strong bones,
covered with fine, healthy flesh.
Then the mother is spared the agony of
seeing her darling fade and "wither,
as so many do, from rickets, the
scourge of babies.
Penneger Street, Broadford, Victoria,
October 12, 1904. “My son, Samuel
John, aged nine years suffered severely
from rickets. At last I gave Scott’s
Emulsion and from the first bottle he
began to improve. In a little while he
was able to run about and play, which
he was quite unable to do previously. He
has gained considerably in weight and is
quite well again. ’ ’ (Mrs.) Jane Hamilton.
She {Perfection
to which the original
Scott process of manufacture has been
brought makes Scott’s
Emulsion by far the
safest and surest emul-
sion for rickets.
Begin in time by send-
ing to-day for a free
trial bottle (enclosing
4d. for postage and
mentioning this pa-
per). Scott & Bowne,
Etd., 483 Kent Street,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Always get tbe Emul-
sion with this mark -the
Fish man-tbe mark o{
the “Scott” process!
sd
3P1
❖
IRISH
BONNINGTOM'S
IRISH MOSS
MOSS
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
ENO’
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE, ®
FRUIT BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
9
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.— Soo Capsule marked ENO’S 'FRUIT SALT/ Without It you hare a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Pnpartd only by J. O. ENO, Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, BNQ.,
by J. O. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Pure Grape H.V.D. BRANDY
J. B. COOK, Ltd., 82 Pitt st., Sy dxiey, argents.
IMPORTANT
PUBLIC NOTICE.
Pure Food Act
JOHN MO IR & SON, Limited, of London,
Aberdeen, and Seville, ABSOLUTELY
GUARANTEE that Only the VERY
FINEST ENGLISH AND SCOTCH Meats
ARE USED in their Specialities which are
prepared under SPECIAL SUPERVISION
in their own Factories.
They specially wish to emphasise that all
their preparations are what they are repre-
sented to be, THE PUREST AND BEST.
Insist on having MOIR’S HERRINGS,
POTTED FISH AND MEAT PASTES,
WORCESTER SAUCE (exceptionally
good), JELLY CRYSTALS, JAMS AND
MARMALADE, SCOTCH OATMEAL in
hermetically sealed tins.
John Moir & Son, ua.
London, Aberdeen, & Seville.
SYDNEY AGENCYs 47 MACQUAfIIE-ST.
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
(Regd.;
/7r7rrsf, t
01
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
The Ideal Material
for
Shirts, Pyjamas,
&c.
Economical
BECAUSE
Durable.
From
Leading Hosiers,
Outfitters, &c.
EE THE LA3EL ON THE SELVEDGE.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I Am Glad.
I am glad I have known what it is to sing
And to laugh in the sun ;
To woo when the blood is atlirob with the spring
And a summer begun.
I am glad I have known what it is to have sinned
In a passion of love,
When the scarlet hibiscus was stirred by tho wind
And the stars blazed above.
I am glad I have dreamt sweet impossible dreams,
That I ever aspire
To the rose-tinted hills with their mystical gleams,
And the bowers of desire.
I am glad that red roses have bloomed in my life,
Soft blossoms of shame,
Whose perfume is honey, whose sweetness is rife,
As the warmth of a flame.
I am glad I have drunk to the lees of delight
Before I am old,
Ere the high warmth of noon has been quenched
by the night,
And my blood has grown cold.
N.S.W.
CARO.
The Lady with the Poultry on Her Hat.
Unto Woman I’ve bowed the knee ever—
Been lowly and meek and all that;
I have made me an earnest endeavor
Her foes to lay prostrate and flat.
But one joss I can bow me to never—
’Tis the lady with Fowls on her Hat!
She’s a satire on love and devotion—
This product of vanity’s vat;
And she ought to be soaked in the ocean,
Then laid out to dry on the mat.
For I’m filled with the wildest emotion
By the sight of the Hens on her Hat 1
I observed her at church, separated
From where the mere common folk sat;
And she sobbed as the parson orated
Of the dove upon Mount Ararat—
That identical Fowl decorated
The roof of her best Sunday hat.
So I laughed long and loud, and rose quickly,
And tossed to the deacon a sprat;
Then forth from that place I sped quickly,
For the spectacle stung like a gnat,
And somehow I always turn sickly
At the sight of a Bird on a Hat !
VIC.
GRANT HKRVEY.
The Song of the Drowned.
Borne on a lifting tide
By the moon-led waters white
Towards long sea-beaches I ride, I ride,
Out of the sullen night.
From the steep unfriendly land,
From the breakers’ thundering roll,
I have tracked the edge of the shifting sand
Where the sun-kissed waters shoal;
Where the congers writhe and creep,
And the sunken vessels lie,
Out to the grey and silent deep
I have drifted dimly by ;
Far under the sweep of waves,
Or the lift of wind of tide,
I have sunk to the lip of shadowy caves
Where the eyeless creatures bide;
I have entered the secret place
Where ocean and ocean meet —
The deep-sea tangle fingered my face
And wrapt about my feet.
Pale as the driven foam,
Thin as the crawling mist,
As spindrift flung I have reached my home,
My home, or ever I wist.
A lattice looks to the West,
High on the wooded hill—
There one lies warm on my sweetheart’s breast
While I drift lone and chill.
Tossed by the flow I come,
Sucked by the ebb I go,
Wandering lost and sightless—dumb
Save when the salt winds blow.
Didst thou not swear to be mine ?
Came I or late or soon ?
Sweetheart waken ! The white waves shaken
Toss to a wasted moon.
The salt wind keens to thee. Hark !
Canst thou not hear a cry
Drifting out to the pallid dark ?
Sweetheart, ’tis I ! ’tis I!
QUEENSLAND.
A.W.
Sailing Time.
Soft the mother-sea is calling,
“Come, my children, come to me ! ”
Forth the lazy ships are crawling,
Dawdling slowly out to sea.
Outward steals the deep-sea shipping,—
Lounging tramp and lordly mail;
Outward, o’er the sea-rim dipping,
Portward drifts their funnel’s trail.
Oh ! I know the tracks they’re taking,
Driving southward past the Howe ;
Up to northward, they’ll be making
Torres Straits a week from now.
Arid the luring sea is calling,
“Shore-bound slave, you must be free ! ”
Humdrum life ashore is palling—
Boats are dropping out to sea.
P.J.D.
“ Sandy ” about a suburban tram :
The steam tram is now almost extinct in and about
• Sydney, but one is still preserved to us in our seaside
■ suburb. It is scheduled to meet trains to the city, but
the authors of the time-tables evidently did not col-
laborate. We do not meet the trains. On cold wet
mornings we wait for them and shiver in the icy blizzard
which blows off the hills surrounding Begorrah. But
when the thermometer registers, 100 in the shade the
train waits for us, and the engine lets off indignant snorts
whilst we career wildly into the station, race over several
flights of steps, and subside inertly into our seats with
disarranged clothing and crumpled neckgear. They talk
fish on our suburban steam tram —fish and politics, but
mostly fish. Our Chesterfieldian Premier is spoken of
endearingly' as “ Joe.” “ When Joe and I was out black-
breamin’,” say his supporters and friends of his y'outh.
“ K’ruthers is a dawg,” growl his opponents and detrac-
tors. “ I’d be sorry'to go out bait-cuttin’ for ’im,” and
SO; the conversation waxes and wanes ahout legislators
and leatherjackets, Premierand prawns, Cabinet Ministers
and cuttlefish. The guards, firemen and drivers of our
suburban steam tram are all humorists. One of our
drivers rejoices in the sobriquet of “Gentle Jimmy,”
presumably on account of his bland and childlike dis-
position. The other morning, whilst passing through a
20-acre paddock, our suburban steam tram was brought
to a standstill with a jerk. What was it? A cow on the
line? Had we run over someone? All heads were
anxiously craned out of the window’s. In the midst of a
deathlike hush, “Gentle Jimmy” was seen to descend
from the motor and leisurely wend his way' to w’here a
white object gleamed amidst the dewy grass some 50yds.
away, He examined it closely, meditatively turning
it over with the side of his boot, and walked dejectedly'
back to the waiting tram. The excitement was now in-
tense. “A blooming toadstool,” remarked the Gentle
one as he mounted his juggernaut ; “thought it was a
big musshyroom,” and he opened the throttle valve with
a jerk.
Our suburban tramline describes a circle or loop. The
famous story' of “ How Jimmy Looped the Loop” w’as
related to me with bated breath by one of the guards.
“ ’E’d had a bad night, and fust trip in the morning he
ses to me ‘ My Gawd, Bill, I can’t stand this any longer.
Me throat’s worse than the fire box of this old jigger. I
must pull her up at Buggins’ wine shop an ’ave a bracer.’
He looks pretty bad, and I thort ’e was getting the
D.T.’s. ‘ Jtigbt-Oh, Jim,’ I ses, and w'e stops at Buggins’
according. After ’e’d imbibed a quart of Buggins’
nectar he comes out quite perky'. ‘ Yer ten minutes
late, Jim,’l ses. “I’ll pick it up, my'hoy,’ ’e ses, ‘or
bust-,’ looking at me with a wild and wobbly eye, as
he swings hisself into the motor. I’ll never forgit that
ride as long as I live. Stoppin’ places ! ’E never stopped
for no one. Blokes rushed into the middle of the line
and waved their umbrellas. Jimmy charged ’em like
the Melbourne express. A sporting bloke with a horse
hitched up to the fence, thinking Jimmy had gone
mad, jumps on and gives chase. Jimmy puts on more
steam. ‘ Come on. Blue Spec,’ he yells, and lets out
such a screech with the whistle that the bloke’s ’orse
promptly jumps over a fence and lands ’im on ’is ’ead.
Down the hill we tore to the rileway station. Someone
’ad telephoned that Jimmy ’ad gone mad, and a rare old
crowd was standing round at a respeckful distance to see
the finish. The old girl wot minds the gates at the rile-
way junction lorst ’er block at the critical moment an’
shut ’em. Jimmy took ’em like a bird—big spars of white
painted horregon went skywards like bits o’ thistledown.
With a last hexpiring heffort Jimmy grinds on the
brakes, and we sails serenely into the station with por-
tion of one of the gates ’anging round the funnel of the
motor. I rushes round to the motor, and Jimmy slides
inter me arms, murmurin’ ‘ Dick Turpin’s ride to York ! ’
Did’e get the sack? Well, not much. We’re a close
corporation on this ’ere line, I can tell you ! ”
About the most curious defence on record
to a charge of arson was put in by a railway man
in London last month. He had a burning heap
of paper “extending four or five feet into the
room from the grate ” ; the carpet was destroyed
and the floor underneath on fire. When arrested,
he pleaded uncontrollable anger and jealousy ;
said he had been away from home a year, and
these were love-letters his wife had received from
other men in his absence—four or five feet of
tender correspondence. A sympathetic P.M,
accepted the plea and discharged him.


Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO I>END
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; James Bums, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape, Esq.
General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
&c
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &e.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
WfNCHSSTm
f
sdf
Model 1905 Self-Loading Rifle
This rifle is a six shot, hammerless take-down, made in .32 and .35 calibers,
the cartridges being of the modern smokeless powder type. The recoil of
the exploded cartridge ejects the empty shell, cocks the hammer and feeds
a fresh cartridge from the magazine into the chamber, leaving the rifle ready
to shoot upon the operator’s pulling the trigger. The self-loading system
adds much to the pleasure of rifle shooting, either at target or game. The
list price of this model is $28.00.
These Rifles For Sale By All Dealers .
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS CO., NEW HAVEN, CONN., U.S.A.
pjjjrasER^
gasantaddifionlji^
&k
PM^storekee
BASED UPONTHEWEUKNOWN‘HONTSERRAT”LmE FRUIT JUICE.
Cures While
You Sleep
iapo^wjjijn^
ESTABLISHED 1879.
A Vaporized Medicine having Extraordinary
Curative Powers over
Whooping Cough, Croup,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza,
AND DISTRESSING COUGHS IN YOUNG AND OLD. ;
IT PROTECTS YOUR HOME AGAINST CONTAGIOUS DISEASE, i
Yapo-Cresolene complete 7=6) Cresolene, 16 oz., 7-6) 4 oz. 5 2-8) 2 ©z., 1-8* j
VAPO-CRESOLENE COMPANY, NEW YORK, U. S. A.
Trade Supplied by THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG COMPANY, LTD.
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEN, specif
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
. TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Weakfflen ALF ALINE VITALITY PILLS
'Will Cure the Nerves, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, 13rain and Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23 6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
Rl nnn sail B Q Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
uUUuu rILLo, Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blood
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23 6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43,6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
Weak Women
Complaints, Weakness.
Special Powerful Double
Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6.
Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing/ Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Dranches: 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE ; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE;
481 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.; 111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE ?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
HANS PETER RASMUSSEN.
A CASE at MARRICKVILLE
A Very Convincing Narrative,
THE CASE OF MRS- C COOPER.
(BY A SPECIAL REPORTER.)
_ . . ... „ Mrs Caroline Cooper, of No. 3 Fitzroy-street, Marrickville, gives
which .hovid help them oonMnbl* Her statement runs as lollow.
but a total wreck, and now people are alwws tening e q{ bein „ in^ensely miserable like I used to be. But,
person at all, for now Lam “■ways conte d f()r pains in my hea d were so great that for many a day I hardly
knew whaTi was doiLg In each temple there’was a nasty beating sensation, which caused me so much agony that
often I thought I would surely go mad.”
“ You would welcome the arrival of bedtime, so that you could sleep and forget your afflictions for a while?
suggested the writer. ~ ~ , , . .
„ „ m fViintr m hut I didn’t for the simple reason that I could seldom get any sleep ; and, oh,
“ One would naturally think so, but 1 amn t ior u hen j tupo( a nior ning, I felt worse than if I had
how those hours of « a^ f . u, T n X avs had a bilter taste to make me feel sick for the rest of the day. Sometimes I got
not been in bed at all, and I alwaysh b tter t ible to walk had i tr i e d to, but knowing how weak I was I
so thoroughly t J’ at side for when one is like that it is such an easy thing to meet with a serious
used to stay indoors to be on the s > dfc tak j ng fits of giddiness, and often I went right off, and did not
accident. And another thing, I was aceustomea to iaai ig * b And was ’ n . t j nerv ous ! Goodness, I only had to
know anything that was• s o y J] p a ,. ain an d it would be a long time afterwards before my nerves
hear a little shout or a whistle and I through excessive nervousness that I was afraid to be
reft U fflone ea and would‘not ha^estayed in the dark for a fortune ; besides if I closed my eyes for a few seconds all sorts
of ugly faces could be seen, and those were the kinds of hideous sights I usually witnessed in my dreams.
“ Have you any idea what caused your head pains and other ailments ? ”
“ I think it was all through recehdng a
Ztonglllness I W lelrned what it was to get some Substantial ease from my torments. At_ first I thought the relief
my long illness, i learntu wnau . * kto pxnec .t anythin”- else after the disappointments of the past; but
wouM be °nly short-lived. d e j^s b j° pe ™jJJfi s tie me feel better and stronger every day, and when
PreXed toTmv improvement was such regular stride!, my heart was overflowing with gratftude. Con-
I reahsed that my lmprovenient burd ensome feeiings that affected me after taking food, and soon the windy
tinumg with Clements Tonic I lost xeei g alwayB fe it dull and swollen, and I used to be
irritable and^alixious^ro^^norning Ito 1 to nigh tff earing that something was going to happen ; but strange as it may
irritable and anxious irom mor * k i(J * mind became as f ree from anxious thoughts as a babe’s. lam
B iTtA f «n e vthlt g cTementsTonic f left nothing undoneffor it gave me a digestion that has remained sound for many
glad to say that Clements Tonic left nothing undo fco ex * ress myself , At all events, I can say that
mv "nervousness was soon overcome, and if anybody suffers from sleeplessness there’s nothing in this world they need
uL but Clements Tomc to make their nights peaceful and refreshing. That remedy succeeded in giving me perfect
Lealth andTwould ratherhave a bottle of Clements Tonic in the house than anything else. Well, I hope others in
need will read my story ; so you may publish it as you feel disposed.
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I Caroline Cooper, of 3 Fitzroy-street, Marrickville, in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth of Aus-
tralia’ do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully read the annexed document, and that it contains and
L a true and faithful account of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full permission to pub-
lish in any way my statements, which I give voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and I make this solemn
declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
fS-rd.') CAROLINE COOPER.
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
u
ioqu/0.1/
s ms
:,v
&
A'v
••
We don’t believe any Accordeoti comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Dvinn 1 Postage to any Address
rilwC dW la in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price <£l 7s 6d;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments,
Watches, Jewellery, Etc., 210 Queen St., Brisbane
4r
GOOD HAIR FOR ALL!
HOLLAND’S Marvellous Hair Restorer
has gained a world-wide reputation for arresting the premature decay,
promoting the growth, and giving lustre to the hair. If your hair is
falling off, try it ; if it is thin, try it. Price, 3s, 4s, 5s ; Postage 9d extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE
for Eczema, Rina worm, and all Parasitical Diseases of the Head, and for
making hair gro. von Bald Patches. Price, 5s ; Postage 9d extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE
for Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Color. It acts Quickly,
Naturally, and Effectively. Price, 5/6 ; Postage 9d extra.
CONSULT E. HOLLAND for ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
195 Collins St., Melbourne
HOLLAND,
HAIR
SPECIALIST,
I
VI
C ( There’s SECURITY in
ARTER'S
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
i
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
They TOUGH the LIVER
Be Sure they are
Carter's


•linseed COMPOUND.’ The ‘ Stockport Remedy ’
lot Coughs and Colds. Of 40 years’ proven efficacy.
‘linseed compound.; The ‘ Stockport Remedy ’
for Coughs and Colds. Gives immediate relief.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The‘Stockport Remedy’
lot Coughs and Colds. . Gives immediate relief.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Coughs and Colds,
Gives instant relief to Asthma and Bronchitis.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ of 40 years’ proven efficacy
for Coughs, Colds, Asthma ar.d Bronchitis, &c.
E SVI SZ Transparent Cement
V w rtU U“IIX C ■ f or broken articles.
‘LINUM CARTHARTICUM PILLS ’ of Mountain
Flax. Agreeably Aperient. Worthy of tria'.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.’ Trade Mark of Kay’s
Compound Essence of I,inseed, for Coughs and Colds.
THE BALLET GIRL
sd
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
FREE TRIAL!
NOT A PENNY DOWN
Simply crop us a post card with y ur natn ■
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest impr red nigh grade El ECTi<IC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
i-, the most perfect and complete pver invented.
It wil ! cure al l cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back, Kid-
ney, Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nerv us-
ress, and all Weakness of Men and Women.
Ule will aloe free
to us one copy f our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
men and women. If you are weak in any way
de'ay no longer, but write to-day for our
splendid Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE. VIC.
Please mention this pa-er.
fAORRISS
IMPERIAL
°IKTMEH'
CURES
fsd
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cy. le bought of üb. Your
Money in full refunded without qu stion
if not p? rfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
cycles, warranted six years.
LATEST
MODELS
£2.W to £6
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or C lincher A Won Tyies, Inverted Lever Jtim
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
"'acked and Delivered Free
'.o any port in the world. We guarantee safe
delivery.
599
Second-Hand Cycles
all makes, j £2.10
good as new,
Great factory clearance sale at ha'f factory prices.
EARS A CYCLE
taking orders from sample
machine. Active Agents
wan ed’iri each district. Large profits easily l ade. Write at once for
free catalogues and our 8/>ec ii 'Jfer, using sufficient postage.
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, &o . /ml t pricet,
MEAD CYCLE GO. Dep*. 839
LIVERPOOL, LONDON -ih'D CHICAGO.
LI NOLO
GLEANS, SHINES, POLISHES
Linoleums, Wood Floors,
Furniture, Harness,
Boots and Shoes, &c.
THE FINEST AMERICAN POLISH
YET PRODUCED.
All Grocers, Ironmongers, &c.
Australasian Agents—
AMERICAN HYGIENIC AGENCY, Ltd., 177 Liver-
pool Street, Hyde Park, BYDNEY.
Sole Victorian Distributing Agents—
i). <l. MADDEN & CO., 58 Queen St., MELBOURNE.
Sole Queensland Distributing Agent—
ALFRED MOON, 37 Adelaide St., BRISBANE.
FREE SAMPLES any State on application.
mm
M
IkaS*
Bellevoe Hotel, Brisbane.
BELLEVUE HOTEL
BRISBANE.
(Opposite Post and Telegraph Office, Parliament House, and
Botanic Gardens.)
CONDUCTED on Continental system—no Meals, no charge,
when previously advised. The Hotel has been thoroughly
renovated, and Ladies’ and Gents’ Bathrooms and Lavatories
on each floor added. Three minutes from the centre of the
town, and 3'et in the quietest locality. Porter meets all
trains and steamers.
W. PETERMANN,
Also Imperial, Toowoomba. Propriktor.
DINNEFORD'S
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDSI
MAGNESIA)
' msmm
The Physician’*
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use. .
MAGNESIA
He’s Giving Away
A Fortune in Books
A BOOK FOR EVERY HOME.
A Masterpiece of Philanthropy by Dr.
X. La Motte Sage, President of a
Noted Institution of Learning.
X. LA MOTTE SAGE, A.M., PH.D., LL.D.
The Man who is Giving Away a
Fortune in Books.
Dr. X. La Motte Sage, president, is giving
away a fortune in hooks. He is putting them
right into the homes of the people absolutely
without cost or trouble to them, save the small
trouble of writing. He has prepared and printed
the most remarkable work on personal magnetism,
hypnotism, and how to succeed in life that has
ever been written. It is brimful of intensely in-
teresting and practical information. It is just
what the young man needs who is starting in life
to give him vim, push, and energy ; to make him
magnetic, to enable him to overcome obstacles
and surmount every difficulty to success. It
is just what the middle-aged man needs to
enable him to win and hold friends, to become a
leader in his community, to influence and sway
the minds of his business associates and make his
mark in life. It is just what every father and
mother needs to eradicate bad tempers and evil
inclinations in children, to strengthen their moral
faculties, banish diseases, and make them grow to
be men and women, such as God intended they
should be.
It is just what every minister of the gospel
needs to hold the wavering steadfast in their
faith, to help turn the minds of the wicked
towards morality, honesty and right-doing. It is
just what every lawyer needs to help him influ-
ence juries, control witnesses, and to deliver his
arguments in that forceful, convincing manner
which carries conviction with every word. It is
1 just what you need no matter who you are, or
what you do, to enable you to get out of life the
success, pleasure and happiness which the Creator
intended should be yours. If you are not success-
ful, if you are not making money, it is because
you do not know that secret power that rules the
thoughts and minds of men. If you are already
successful, you can become more successful if you
but master "the hidden forces around you. Learn
to use the secret magnetic power with which
Nature has endowed you.
President Sage’s book proves every one is born
with this mighty subtle power that anyone can
easily develop it at home without the knowledge
of his intimate friends and associates, and influ-
ence people secretly to carry out his thoughts and
ideas. It certainly is a wonderful force, capable
of infinite good.
We give below extracts from letters of some
of our pupils :
“I have very much pleasure to have the
opportunity of telling you how much I appreciate
your course on hypnotism, personal magnetism,
magnetic healing, etc. The first time I tried, and
found I was successful, I could not believe
myself. I thought they were shamming. I was
much surprised at my results. I tried experi-
ments one after the other, with success. I never
had a failure. Your course in all its branches is
written in simple language, and easily under-
stood. lam sure it is impossible for anyone to
have the slightest difficulty in learning it.
Wishing you every success, I am, yours very
truly, Thomas Hammersly, 119 Hospital-street,
Nantwich, Cheshire, England.”
“It is some time ago since I wrote you con-
cerning the success I have obtained since study-
ing your course of instruction in Hypnotism, etc.
I cannot say too much in praise of your course.
It is the best that I have read. I have had several
others, but none to compare with yours. I hypno-
tised my first subject an hour after receiving the
lessons. I have hypnotised hundreds since and
cured various diseases. Toothache and headache
disappear as if by magic. You may refer anyone
to me as to the merits of your course of lessons.
Your student, William F. Bennetts, The Staves,
Phillipshaugh, Selkirk, Scotland.”
“It is with great pleasure that I acknowledge
the great benefit derived from a study of your
teachings. To know them and practise them
means a newer, better, and more successful life,
besides being of great service to your fellow-
creatures. Faithfully yours, O. L. Everingham,
Grafton, New South Wales, Australia.”
President Sage ordered to be printed twenty
thousand copies of his new book for free distribu-
tion. The booksare now comingoff the press. They
are elegantly illustrated with the finest engrav-
ings, and will prove a valuable addition to any
library. If you would know all about hypnotism,
the wonder science of the age, personal mag-
netism, thought force, magnetic healing and kin-
dred sciences, write for a free copy of this
remarkable book at once. It will be sent to your
address, postage prepaid. You will be delighted,
mystified, and benefited more than words can
tell. Nothing like it has ever been printed.
President Sage is giving these books away for the
benefit of the public. He believes by so doing he
is accomplishing more good than by donating his
money to hospitals, public libraries, or anything
of this nature. He gives you a book worth more
to many a young man than a college education.
He gives it to you for your own personal use, to
keep in your library, or to carry with you. On
account of the great expense in preparing and
printing this book, only those are requested to
write who are especially interested in bettering
themselves in life and who actually wish to make
practical use of the information given in the book.
If you want a free copy, write at once to the New
York Institute of Science, Dept. 22P, Rochester,
N.Y., U.S.A.
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
FOR sore: and weak byes, blight, and
RESTCFES EY r t ASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
IN] EVER FAIL-3.
Ask your Chemist for the Little Book:
‘HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES
CURED
LADIES’
TAILORS.
*
David Braham & Co.
94 King Street,
Sydney.
Cutter—Mr. H. MURPHY,
Lately cutting for Mr.
C. SHAVE, the Lady’s
Tailor of Melbourne.
Don't
waste time in
expert m en ti ng.
Thirty Years 9
unbeaten and increas-
ing Success is the
best proof of the claim of
Oxbridge
£ungTonfc
to be the WORLD'S CURE
for Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
and other Throat and
Lung Troubles.
It can b 3 obtained from
any Chemist or Store,
and Saves Many
Lives.
FOR
BOSISTO’S
“PARROT
BRAND
EUCALYPTUS OIL
and REFUSE
{SUBSTITUTES^
THOUSANDS OF
PEOPLE have been and are
CURED
by Dr Langston’s Perfect
Combined Treatment.
No Pain, Operation, or Detention from
Work. Immediate Relief, and Certain
Cure. Convincing Testimony and Refer-
ences from nearly every town in Australia
sent with my Valuable Booh '
“RUPTURE, ITS HISTORY & CURE
FREE.
Posted 2 Stamps.
THE LANGSTON INSTITUTE
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
FAT FOLKS
REDUC E
your weight
5 lbs. a week
No inconvenience. No strict diet. Pursue
your ordinary avocation. Endorsed by Physicians.
Book and particulars Iree. Address —
J ASi CRAIG & CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne.


Alarming Increase in Baldness!
A REMEDY OFFERED .
Which possesses all the elements that go to produce a good head of hair. Its powerful
stimulating properties go siraight to the hair roots, giving them a life and vigour they
never knew before. And life and vigour to the roots mean more hair, stronger hair,
better hair* it will assuredly do all this for YOU, as it has done for thousands of others.
EDWARDS'
HARLENE
FOR
THE
HAIR
The Great Hair Producer and Restorer,
The Finest Dressing. Specially Prepared
and Delicately Perfumed. A Luxury
and a Necessity to every Modern Toilet.
Mr. HARRY DE WINDT,
The Great Explorer, writes:
“1 have only used your ‘HARLENE’ for TWO
MONTHS and am perfectly astounded at its
marvellous results. My hair has ceased drop-
ping out, and is growing again quite thickly."
I/-, 2/6 g 4/6
per Bottle, from Chemists and
Stores all over the world.
>OSS'
.Edwards’ “Harlene" Co. London, w.c.
REST SHEFFIELD
KALH^mm
fsd
n
f
ENGLISH
MANUFACTURE.
fW£R
Q «%S
f
IN BLACK & IVORY HANDLES. (EACH RAZOR IN A CASE).
ijniis iabelH
'REGISTRATIOH UHttCT THE TRADE MARK PROTECTION ACTorTssTi
m
wNimmmoß
sdf
Refuse
Imitations
I Wholesale:
See that the label on the Razor Case is exactly as above.
OSBORNE, GARRETT & Co., London, England.
THE “LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
An Ideal Fabric for Outdoor and “At Home” Wear.
As rich In appearance as Lyons Silk Velvet costing a Guineaa yard, and wears longer.
the NEW “LOUIS” CHIFFON VEL DUVET
is one of the most fashionable PILE FABRICS for entire Costumes manufactured
for the present Season. Nothing else has such lustre of finish, such sheen and
softness of texture, and no other fabric yet produced shows such varying play of
light and shade.
Every yard of the “Louis” Velveteen, and the “Louis” Chiffon Vel Duvet, Is
stamped with the name spelled L-O-U-l-S and guarantee of wear, and Ladies
should insist on seeing this and thus avoid the substitution of inferior imitations.
From Drapers & Silk Mercers throughout the Colonies.
On the Trail of the Trust
Price 1/3
i
POST FREE.
LE
Oldsmobile 7 h,p, Touring Runabout, £225
The Oldsmobile is America’s most successful motor car.
It is so strongly and perfectly built, so durable and reliable, that it has successfully accom-
plished a 3000-mile endurance run in England, a 30-day continuous trial trip on the Continent,
and a 3500-mile race across the United States of America.
It is especially adapted for use in this country, because of its construction, economy of
operation, mechanical simplicity (repairs cost practically nothing with intelligent handling), and
its ample power.
The Oldsmobile Touring Runabout is really worth twice what it costs—and is sold at a
remarkably low price, because we know how to produce the highest automobile efficiency at a
minimum cost.
Investigate the merits, and save money by owning an Oldsmobile.
Free Catalogue, showing an Oldsmobile line of Runabouts, Touring Cars, Delivery Cars, and
Railroad Inspection Cars.
- OLDS MOTOR WORKS, Lansing, Mich., U.S.A.
AGENTS s
MOTOR GARAGE OF SYDNEY, Limited,
HERBERT GARRATT
W. PHILLIPS
R. GAUT
Directors.
253 Elizabeth St*, Sydney.
I Ul
(nil
*
i
f.
m
i! L
S’
im3&
p-h'iu
sd
.22 calibre cartridges can
be relied upon to help;
clean out the rabbit pests.,
U. M. C. .22 short and long
cartridges, loadedwithblack HT
,{i■ or smokeless, powder, '
' are accurate, sure of fire, and have great killing power.
Furnished with ungreased bullets, also made with hollow-
point bullets which are. very effective on small game.
UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE COMPANY
'lirnrifiii'UiiM,. BRIDGEPORT. CONN.. U. S. A. .iimn
fsd
HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quays
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by _ the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manages.
r . 11 vn ' w ' ' '■ ' f t 1 ' •• wrs/i V \ 1/ *ll u \ll\UAvii/uau<lljvi, iilllilfViWnlMi
, • # M/.n . , 11 I /»111. • 1 1/ / • •// l/.M
rf: ' {*-.* r * ./i •••iWv.m*,io u..ir„vviVM^'kv;"/"
sr
31
sss
■M
KHS&i?SS=
?g«MiSgßg>sggjbc>gg>i
gggaaggjggw
Hiiiiiitiiiiiai
mmmmmmmmrn
V CT
w
%
tv
i;s
•V;
VO'
xT?
g&r
•'■s
RUBEROID
RED
ROOFING.
A PERMANENT ROOFING
with a Permanent Color.
The demand for RUBEROID RED ROOFING has
exceeded all expectations. Architects who favor the
decorative style of roof are recommending RUBEROID
RED ROOFING. The color in RUBEROID RED
ROOFING is not a painted coat; the red is impregnated,
and is therefore as durable as the RUBEROID itself.
To be obtained from ail Storekeepers.
Wholesale
Agents:
E. RICH & CO., Ltd.,
Sydney and Brisbane .


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 27.— N0. 1380.
THURSDAY, JULY 26, 1606.
Prick tin.
DIGGING HIS OWN GRAVE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by Willi a m Maclkod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... jff g q
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ." 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tire Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling yon can have Tire Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tire Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking so me care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
•invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
alivays is.
Special ■'Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable, to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right, to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other A rticles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not, exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tire Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. ivhen the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded ivithout stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tire Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Imu tears in. I‘.lack, and White.
Anyone supplying to Tire Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. 'The conditions under which
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tire Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Cordon and
Catch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, No. 1 Broad-street Place.
- South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Messrs. R. A. Thompson <b Co., 38 Biebeck Street, Cape-
town; The Central Neivs Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco.— W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt.— The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
HongKong.— Brewer and Co., 33 Queen's Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai .—Brewer and Co.
A gents’ Special Notice.
Tire Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6%in. x llAn.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
Tfe&uUetvn,.
THURSDAY, JULY 26, 1906.
4d. IN THE £.
It is becoming every day more evident that at the
coming Australian election a great fight will
centre round the proposal to impose a graduated
Federal land-tax. And it is right that it should
be so. “ Sosh ” and “ anti-Sosh ” are vague things
which appeal to theorists and doctrinaires and
people who love to dear with polysyllables; the
“ objective ” is hazy, far-off and non-edible; the
“ re-establishment of true Constitutional Govern-
ment ” and the “restoration of confidence” and
such-like are mere rolling sounds, and the monkey
says almost exactly the same thing in his
native forest seven days a week; but the
graduated land-tax is hard, plain, necessary
business. It is one of the most urgent questions
in Australian politics ; the exceeding bitterness'of
the Tory howl about “confiscation” is in it-
self sufficient evidence of that. Toryism now
realises with great anger that its efforts to draw
public attention away from concrete matters, arid
divert it into hazy disputations about the “objec-
tive,” and the political millennium, and the mar-
riage tie, and the purity of the home have failed
badly.
* * * »
The case for and against the graduated land-tax
may be put briefly. Toryism holds that the right
of property is sacred. The landlord owns the soil,
and can do with it as he pleases. If he likes to
refuse to let people live on it, that is his own affair,
and no one else’s. If he orders people to leave it
they must go. If the aggregate landlord orders
the whole nation to leave, it must go. The aggre-
gate British landlord, if he feels so inclined, has a
right, according to the doctrines of Toryism, to
evict the British nation, as the Jews were evicted
out of Palestine, and send them out —unless they
are prepared to live on the roads—to scatter over
the earth. The British people don t own Britain ;
it belongs to the landlord. They have no right
to be born there, to live there, or to die there,
unless the landlord pleases. He owns the national
flag, the national history, and the national tradi-
tions ; for these all depend on the presence in the
British isles of the British people, and the land-
lord has a right to turn them all out if he thinks it
would make him feel better to do so. He has a
right to reduce the country to a more complete
wilderness than it was in the time of Carac-
tacus and Cassivellaunus—to make it a mere
sporting ground and preserve for wild animals —if
he is inclined that way. He has a right to
obliterate its civilisation if he wants to. And he
has, of course, similar rights in Australia, for pro-
perty being sacred in one place is sacred in all.
he landlord in Australia has, according to the
iory doctrine, the sacred right to prevent popu-
ation, to prevent settlement, to prevent civilisa-
tion, to keep the land almost empty, or to make it
still more empty. He has the same right to pro-
mmt the growth of a new nation as he has
o obliterate an old one. If he chooses
to prohibit agriculture, to make agricultural immi-
gration impossible, to keep the population so
small by blocking settlement that the country is
defenceless against even a weak invader, it would
be an outrage on Property to interfere with him.
It the aggregate landlords of the earth chose to
evict the whole human race, they would be as
much within their rights, according to Tory logic,
as are the individual landlords who have laid
waste the bulk of 16 counties in the United King-
dom, and evicted the agricultural population
therefrom to make game preserves, or the indi-
vidual landlord who blocks settlement in the
Western District of Victoria, and prohibits the
growth of population in one of the richest regions
of Australia.
* * • *
And to this Democracy replies that the nation
1S ,°f. m . ore account than the landlord, and the
public interest is of more importance than the
land-grabbers’ greed, pomp and vanity. A
nation, in its opinion, has a right to live in its
own country, and to make the best of its country.
Ihe Lord sent man to this earth that he might
increase and multiply, and no individual, even if
he nominally owns the land, has a right to hinder
that increase and multiplication by denying men
and women space in which to lead healthy lives
and to rear healthy families. The Lord sent man
here to till the eartii, and the individual who says
that the earth shall not be tilled, or shall only be
tilled under impossible restrictions, is an enemy
alike to God and man. Australia is an outpost of
the empire; if it is to be a strong enough outpost
to be of any value it must devote the little good
land it possesses to the rearing of a sturdy, pros-
perous agricultural population; and the great
landowner who keeps the best part of the country
almost devoid of that population is an enemy to
Australia in the first place and an enemy to the
empire in the second. That is the view which the
Democracy takes of the matter, and, considering
tn© circumstances of the case, the Democracy is
amazingly moderate in its proposals.
As a fair example of the provocation which the
community has received, take the case of the
Western District of Victoria—the richest part of
the State, one of the richest parts of Australia,
and the region where the big landlord is more
rampant, more insolent, and more completely in
possession than anywhere else in this continent.
His 1 great estates there, as in many other parts of
Australia, were, to a very large extent, acquired
by swindle—pure, unadulterated swindle. The
fraud was so bad that, years ago, a Hill was rushed
through an Assembly which was, to a great extent,
elected by the plural votes of property-holders, and
a Council consisting wholly of landlords, to vali-
date the bad titles of Victorian landlords, to
legalise the frauds, to authorise the steals, and
to prevent further inquiry into the swindles.
In this favored Western District the great
landlords have systematically blocked settle-
ment. It should lie, on its merits, the most
densely-peopled part of Victoria, yet out of the
nine counties which make up this region of
splendid fertility no less than eight show a popula-
tion far below the Victorian average, and the
solitary exception—the county of Grenville—
shows a far smaller population now than it did 30
years ago; it was considerably populated before
the big landlord got solidly in possession, but he
is altering that as fast as he can. Between 1861
and 1871—that is to say, during the period when
the great, insolent land-grabbers were only con-
solidating their power ; when they were arriving,
yet hadn’t fully arrived—every county in the
Victorian Western District showed a huge increase
of population. In some cases the population
increased threefold. Between 1871 and 1881, when
the big landlord was in full possession, three out
of the nine counties showed a decrease, and the
population of the whole district diminished by
fully 12,000 souls. Between 1881 and 1891 three
counties out of the nine showed another loss of
population. Between 1891 and 1901 one county
showed a decline, and 1 the other eight showed
almost infinitesimal increases. In the aggregate
the Western District is almost exactly where it
was, in point of population, 30 years ago, though
the population of the State as a whole has almost
doubled in that period.
**' • •
And while the curse of the great landlord has
prevented the fertile Western District growing
men, there has been but little compensation in
the way of growing sheep. Take as examples
two counties of almost equal size : Grant, close to
Melbourne (1834 square miles), and Normanby, in
the West, where the great landlord is supreme
(2013 square miles). Grant supports 71,034
people, 16,657 horses, 54,837 cattle, 555,229 sheep,
and 11,438 pigs. Normanby, with a larger area,’
maintains only 11,868 people, only 8507 horses!
only 47,275 cattle, 555,725 sheep, and 4686
pigs. Also Grant has six times the area
under crops that Normanby can show. Bourke
the crowded county on which Melbourne
stands, is much less than twice the size
of Heytesbury in the landlord-cursed West,
but it supports 12 times as many horses!
2| times as many cattle, nine times as many
sheep, nearly twice as many pigs, has nearly
twenty times the area under cultivation, and sup-
ports, not including Melbourne and its suburbs,
five times the population. These instances are
quoted, not because the great landlord of Western
Victoria is more disastrous than any other, but
because Western Victoria is a solid region of
great landlords, and it is possible there to pick
out the results of landlordism from the census
returns in a way that isn't possible in regions
where the big, bumptious devastator only occurs
here and there, with patches of closer settlement
in between.
* * * *
Therefore the charge which the Australian
Democracy brings against the big landlords of the
Western District of Victoria, reads something-
like this :
(1) That some of them are thieves who got their land
by unlawful practices.
(2) That they are—or many of them are—the enemies
of Victoria, of Australia, of the Empire, of the Anglo-
Saxon race, and of God. The reasons for these charges
being that they have kept out, or driven out, popula-
tion ; that they are, in a great measure, the cause of that
exodus which has reduced Victoria’s power and influence
in the Commonwealth ; that by locking up the lands, and
thus preventing the increase of population, they have
weakened Victoria, and Australia, and the Empire
generally for purposes of defence ; that by locking up the
lands and preventing settlement, with the marriages and
births which accompany it, they have weakened the
Anglo-Saxon race, and made it less able to hold its place
among' the nations ; and that in their sordid greed they
have got in the way of the Divine command that, man is
to increase and multiply, and to replenish the earth.
(3) That by their incapacity they have not only pre-
vented the existence of man, but have also prevented
agriculture, prevented the production of wheat and'
vegetables, and have even prevented anything' like an
adequate output of horse, cow, sheep, and pig.
(4) That they have systematically robbed the country
by annexing an undue share of political power ; by paying
only a fraction of their fair share of taxation ; by getting
railways built for them which, through their policy of
keeping down population, are a dead loss and a huge
charge on the community generally ; by getting their
produce carried on these railways below cost and at a
mere fraction of the rates charged to other producers ;
and by many other devices.
(5) That they have, in many cases, helped to corrupt
and deteiiorate the Australian race by being themselves a
crowd of loafers, given to senseless extravagance in order
to dispose of their ill-earned wealth ; given in many cases
to vice as a means of whiling away their useless time ;
and given to slandering the country which has tolerated
them much too long.
This is part—only a part—of the case that the
Democracy has against its great landlords, not only
in Victoria, but in all Australia and Tasmania.
Yet it does not propose to start any unpleasant
investigation into their titles or the methods by
which their great estates were acquired. It
doesn’t propose to confiscate anything at all. It
knows perfectly well that a huge proportion of
the value of the great estates is pure steal, even
when the lands themselves were not stolen origi-
nally ; these values were to a very great extent
created by the construction of roads for which the
landholders didn’t pay their fair share; by the
construction of log-rolled railways, thelosson which
was borne by the community at large—railways
which the great landholders deliberately caused
to be a loss by preventing the growth of popula-
tion in their vicinity ; and by the carriage of the
produce of the lands by rail at a mere fraction of
the cost of carriage, this loss also being borne
by the community in general. If the tenant-
farmer—where there is such a person —had to
paj’ the same freight on his produce as the
manufacturer pays, even the most villainous rack-
renter couldn’t screw out of him much more
than half the rent he now extracts, and
land in many cases would drop to half
its present value, and if country lands carried
the same rate-burden as city lands, and if country
shires paid their way like municipalities instead
of loafing on the Treasury for grants, there would
be still another drop. But the Democracy makes
no suggestion about inquiry into any of these
frauds. In proposing the graduated land-tax it
simply says something like this :
It is absolutely necessary, in the public interest, to find
good, accessible land, not desert nor country 1000 miles
from a market, on which to grow a sturdy race of small
proprietors—men who will make a nation, and who will be
available to defend Australia, for which you seem to care
nothing, and, if necessary, the Empiie, the King, the
blessed Flag, and the Anglo-Saxon race, for which you
seem to care less than nothing.
if you will not part with your lands in order that there
may be room for the growth of such a race you must be
compelled to part with them. If you choose to cut them
up and sell them in farms worth £5OOO each the gradu-
ated land-tax won’t touch them. They will be sold
subject to no burdens that they don’t carry already.
Therefore there will be no reduction in the value of the
land. Your fortunes—no matter by what public fraud
they were acquired—will be unimpaired. You will have
ail the money you have now, and you can invest it in
State securities and enjoy all the income .you do at pre-
sent with less trouble in collecting - it. Your mansions
and gardens will be left to you.
In fact, you will be deprived of nothing save the right
to prevent the increase of population, to prevent the
growth of a nation, to weaken Australia and the empire,
to do injury to the Flag you rave so much about, to
undermine the throne of Edward VII., to retard agricul-
ture, to keep pastoral production down to a minimum,
and to look out proudly on a vast empty waste of grass
and say that it is all yours.
* * „ *
The possible objection to the proposed
graduated Federal land-tax arises out of the doubt
as to its sufficiency. It ought to be so large as to
make the breaking up of the great estates abso-
lutely certain, and to do that the maximum should
be more like Is. in the £ than the proposed 4d.
Ih n, if it were thought advisable, a year’s, or
two years’, grace could be given before the tax
came into operation so as to allow the biggest
landlords tjme to put their properties on the
market, but the maximum of Is. in the £ should
be set beyond all doubt. There is no fear
whatsoever about the possibility of finding buyers
for the properties that would thus be forced on
the market; only last week, when theN.S.W.
Government had 22 farms to dispose of it, was
rushed by 374 applicants, and similar events happen
everywhere whenever there is good land avail-
able. There is no doubt, either, about the possi-
bility of finding money to finance the purchasers ;
the banks are loaded up with millions of unem-
ployed gold which they are yearning to lend out on
moderate terms to farmers who can offer fair
security. The Federal graduated land-tax—if it
is a large enough tax—will create such a boom
in settlement, in banking, in railway revenue, and
in mercantile circles through the demand for
fencing and building material, agricultural im-
plements, &c., as Australia hasn’t seen since the
early gold days. And if the Tory press says it is
confiscation—well, how much does it matter what
the Tory press says ?
THE BROWN SPECTRE.
Thomas F. Millard, a United States journalist
who has spent the better part of the last six years
in the territories of Britain’s Brown Ally, has
published a summary of the political and economic
situation in a book entitled “The New Far East.’*
As Millard is a Yankee, writing from his own
national standpoint, and is concerned only with
the future of American finance and commerce in
the Yellow Sea littoral, his conclusions are not of
much interest to Australians, but his facts are
overwhelmingly-so. To drive home his arguments
to his fellow Yankees Millard discourses fluently
on the industrial condition of Japan, the re-
sources of the country, and the character of the
people. Herein lies the value of his book to
Australians.
* * * *
The post-peace riots in Japanese cities, and the
previous apparent whole-heartedness of the people
m supporting the war policy, made it appear to
the European and Australian observer that Japan
was a country in which popular opinion counted
for a great deal, and that in spite of his semi-
demi-godlike position the Mikado was almost a
constitutional monarch. As a matter of fact,
Japan is as much an oligarchy as Russia. The
only difference is that the Japanese oligarchy
seems somewhat more progressive in some things
than that of Russia—but those things have no-
thing at all to do with consulting the popular
will in matters political. In both countries the
oligarchy has made a pretence of consulting
public opinion when it was necessary, but it has
carefully educated public opinion in the way it
was wanted to go. And of the two press censors
the Japanese seems to have been always the more
rigorous. The Jap oligarchy knew, several years
back, what it wanted, and went straight for it.
And what it wanted was conquest. Newspaper
articles that were calculated to influence the
public mind the other way were sternly son.
pressed, and articles that advocated ex
pansion, war, Jingoism, blast and blither were
peremptorily ordered, and they appeared to order
It is not known how many years ago the Jan
oligarchy decided on a policy of expansion. Wkv
it did so is not very clear either, but the fact that
it did is indisputable. It was not a compulsory
policy, for the popular opinion that Japan is a
crowded country and unable to support itself is
quite erroneous. As a matter of fact Millard
proves from Japanese statistics, and his personal
observation bears out the statistics, that only one-
liali the arable land in Japan is under cultivation
Ihe tiny fields and Dresden China aspect of Jap
cultivation around the cities and along the rail-
way lines give the sight-seeing tourist-writers
who mostly know next to nothing about agricul-
ture, the idea that the Japs are expert farmers,
driven by the pressure of population to extract
the uttermost from little patches of ground, like
the Maltese gardeners of Valetta, who grow
vegetables and flowers on the terraces. The
fact is that 46 per cent, of the arable land is at
present lying waste and yielding nothing, simply
because the Jap, with his purely hand methods,
can only cultivate a flower-pot farm, and it would
take twice as many Japs as there are to cultivate
the whole country on flower-pot principles.
Of mineral wealth Japan has developed but
little, coal and copper being the only underground
assets that have been largely worked, and the
total annual output of subterranean produce is
worth only £5,000,000 for a population of
47,000,000. The fishing industry is a purely
domestic one, and is worth £8,000,000 per annum.
Japanese industrial progress dates from the con-
clusion of the Chinese war, and it was the money
paid as an indemnity by the Son of Heaven that
enabled the Jap Government to start its indus-
trial progress. Under a rigid system of Protec-
tion it is progressing, and Jap manufactures were
last year worth £30,000,000. The mercantile
marine is also a modern development, built up by
subsidies from the recent Chinese indemnity and
fostered by drastic Protection. In fact, modern
Japan is still in the experimental stage, and the
American writer reckons that it is hard to say if
the country will continue to develop or not.
Looked at from the standpoint of the American
money-lender and merchant, he decides, how-
ever, that it is a bad field for investment, because
even if the Japanese industrial development
should turn out to be enduring, the U.S.A.
Cohen is lending his money on heavily pawned
security. Owing to the strain of the late war
with Russia, Millard alleges that 1,700,000,000
yen (roughly, £170,000,000) was borrowed abroad,
and that practically everything of value in the
country, including the profits of the railways and
the Tobacco Monopoly, is hypothecated as
security. Japanese commercial morality is of a
very low grade, and with a first-class army and
navy to keep Cohen out, the chances of Japan
repudiating its national debt if the strain becomes
severe, are not altogether remote. Including the
special war taxes, the annual revenue of Japan
is only £35,000,000, and on many of its war loans
it is paying at the rate of 8 per cent, per
annum. And then there is always the inclination
to fly off the industrial handle and have another
turn at the “ policy of expansion.”
* * * *
If the position of Japan is disquieting from the
standpoint of the American money-lender, it is
alarming from that of the Australian Nationalist.
Here is a country with, in round numbers,
47,000,000 of people, with a first-class veteran
army, and a fleet that has been enriched by the
spoils of two victorious wars. And already
another fleet is under construction. Its own
natural resources are strictly limited, and though
the agricultural resources are undeveloped, the
Japanese seem to prefer conquest to develop-
ment. As the result of one successful campaign
it received an indemnity of about £36,000,000,
with which it became at once a manufacturing
country with a respectable mercantile marine.
Then it fought Russia, but failed to collect any
indemnity, and the nation is without a doubt in
for a period of financial depression. Where be-
fore gold flowed into the country, it will now flow
out to pay the foreigner’s interest, and in a little
while Japan will be full of needy men who ‘re-
member how good things were after the successful
raid on China. If the Japanese settle down to
become an industrial people they may be content
to develop their own resources and exploit
the markets of Manchuria and Korea, of
which latter they have taken absolute control.
But it is extremely unlikely. The people have
had a taste of loot, and the military head is very
much swollen. In fact, the Japanese oligarchy is
in very much the same position of that of England
in the reign of Elizabeth. The feudal system
had just vanished, and England was full of needy
adventurers. The Tudors managed to launch
them against the Spanish Empire, and let them
get rich on the spoils of the Spanish Main. It
was either that or revolution. The Jap has no
Spanish Main to let his adventurers loose on, and
the oligarchy is straining every nerve to secure a
monopoly of the markets of China and the
Eastern portion of Asia generally, so that this
gathering force may be dissipated in industrial
enterprise.
* * * *
How far the Jap Government is prepared
to go was proved by the prompt way in which
it utilised the recent boycott of American
goods to boom its own output. The Chinese
merchants instituted the boycott—a very feeble
one indeed—against U.S.A. goods only. The
Imperial and Vice-regal Governments all dis-
countenanced it, and the movement—what move-
ment there was—began to languish, till a Shanghai
paper, called the Eastern Times, by a series of
vigorous articles, managed not only to revive it,
but to make it stronger than it ever had been.
This paper pointed out that American goods were
coming in under European labels, and that the
only effective method was to boycott all foreign
goods excepting those made by Asiatics for
Asiatics. This startling propaganda in favor of
Japanese goods drew a lot of attention to the
Eastern Times, and it was found that the paper
was run by a Japanese gentleman recently arrived
from Tokio—a brown gentleman who seemed to
have control of unlimited funds, which he spent
liberally in circularising and placarding Chinese
cities, and whooping up an anti-European com-
mercial policy. The result was that the boycott
was revived, and the influx of Japanese goods
swelled to such proportions that the Jap factories
could not keep pace with the demand. But
there is always the chance that Japanese efforts
to capture the Chinese markets will not be
permanently successful, and if the strain of
the interest burden becomes wearisome, Japan
may look round for another victim from whom
to wring another indemnity. Just now the
balance of trade is against Japan, and a few
indemnities would help to re-adjust it, besides
supplying cheap capital for further industrial
enterprise. There is nothing insular about the
Jap oligarchy ; it takes quite an interest in the
press of the countries scattered round the basin of
the Pacific. So it is quite possible that the


, tX .. TTreetrade and Anti-Sosh parties
XuT-«h. «*»”«». <f «■»
wt country” may have roused a keen interest
- re *‘ c , tiw Tim oligarchy. A whole con-
inihemmc t f our _ a nd-a-half millions of
nnent held . f Defence Minister
unarmed people with a. tool ammunifc i on
Who believes in buying ar , M(we _
continent that yields more wealth per head
of the population than any other country on
That is the ideal place for a hard-pressed
oligarchy looking for an outlet for an increasing
horde'of needy who may start a revo-
En if the outlet isn’t prov.ded Ihe oligarchy
wouM probably describe just such a place as this
if ds gSls suddenly intimated to it that it could
have any sort of place it liked to ask for. _
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Sydney “Telegranh” on the American
“Desert.”
The yearning desire of the Tory party to prevent
any interference, in the interests of closer settle-
ment, with the land-grabbers who block the
growth of population on so large a proportion of
the area of good land which Australia possesses
forces that Tory party back on the old idea of
shoving the small settler out into the desert It
can’t with any show of decency declare itself as
opposed to an increase of population or as against
settlement, so the alternative is to dec are that the
desert is rather a nice desert after all, and jus u
the sort of place a small settler would like to go
to In a recent issue of Sydney Telegraph there
appeared two leading articles, side by side. One
set forth that any attempt to make the great
coastal land-grabber sell his empty provinces at
their full value for closer settlement would be
“ confiscation ; ” the other was headed “ Reclaim-
ing the Desert,” and was filled with such literary
pap as the following
The historv of what used to he called the Great Ameri-
can Desert stretching westward from the Mississippi to
the Rockies, shows that aridity is not an insuperable bar
to settlement and cultivation. Little by little the dogged
efforts of a hardy population, the establishment of a com-
prehensive svstem of irrigation, and, above all the con-
struction of lines of railway in the patli of the cultivators
have steadily eaten into the Great American Desert, until
the only region where that name still applies is a
small 'district lying to the south-west of the Great
Salt Lake and even this area is already traversed
b v two railroads, which pass through a portion
of it. while a third line is surveyed across it. . . .
In 1875 an authoritative statement by General J la/.en set
forth that the land-agents and railroad-agents had greatly
exaggerated the possibilities of Nebraska and Kansas, and
that west of Omaha all was barrenness. Yet within 30
rears from that date, Arizona has 2,000,000 acres under
cultivation, Colorado nearly 10,000,000 acres, and New
Mexico over 5,000,000 acres. Little by little civilisation
has encroached upon the desolate places. A new method
of agriculture, known as the “ dry system, permits the
successful cultivation of the soil of the uplands having
a scanty rainfall, grid irrigation has also done much.
Surely there is encouragement in this story of the recla-
mation of the desert in the United States for all those
who look forward to the time when the arid west of New
South Wales, as well as part, at any rate, of the dry aieas
of other States, may be brought under closer and more
productive occupation ?
Which is all very, very beautiful, but
The United States went in for a system of close settle-
ment on its east coast lands, and built up a great manu-
facturing population under its Protectionist tariff, before
it seriously attempted settlement in its “desert.” In
1875 it was still content to think that everything between
Omaha and the Rockies was barren, and the U.S. then
had 45 000 000 people. When it had 50,000,000 people
closelv settled on its east coast—so,ooo,ooo people to pay
the cost of irrigating the desert—it began to tackle the
desert And when N.S.W. has settled every available
acre of the Peel River estate, the A.A. Co.’s estate, the
Bibbenluke estate, and others ; when it has filled .Sydney,
Newcastle, Bathurst, Grafton, Armidale, Lismore, and
other towns with manufacturing industries, and when it
has 10,000,000 people between Bathurst and the sea,"it
will be’due to do the. same. ...
The so-called American desert is a joke in any case.
The bulk of it has an annual wet season of three months.
It is mostly a region with a rainfall varying from 10 to 50
inches quite unlike Australia of which nearly half has
less than 10 inches of rain, and more than two-thirds has
less than 20 inches. It is in the so-called American
desert that many of the country’s greatest rivers—the
Missouri (which is really the head of the M'ssissippi), the
Bio Grande, Colorado, Platte, and others—have their
beginnings. There are lakes in the “ desert ” ; and moun-
tains 14,000 ft., and more, in height border it, and pour
down their melted snows in spring and summer. Also
there is artesian water almost everywhere.
And where the American struck real desert—the Aus-
tralian far inland variety—he just gave it up. Therefore
Nevada despite its tall mountains and its half-a-dozen
rivers has one person to every 2J square miles, and is
gradually losing even him and the-Mojave desert is as
utterly destitute of people as it was when Columbus hap-
pened. But the Yankee believes with a great belief in
small farms and close settlement on the well-watered
east coast, wherefore Massachusetts has 348 people to
the square mile, and Rhode Island 407, and New Jersey
950 and Connecticut 187, and New York 152, and Penn-
sylvania 140, and Maryland 120. These things—not the
one person to the mile in Arizona, and the less than one
in Wyoming, and the one to 2£ square miles in Mon-
tana—are what Australia wants to keep an eye upon.
There tire many things that Australia can learn
from the U.S.—High Protection, close settlement
in the rich coastal districts, and other items
without worrying about the American desert,
which is, in the main, so like the N.S.W. country
between Lithgow and Bathurst in point of aridity
that it isn’t of much account as an object lesson in
any case.
Concerning Wool.
The following extract is from a letter written by
Messrs. M ERR all and Sons, woollen manufac,
timers, Haworth, England, to Mr. J. S. Horsfall-
Widgi’ewa Station, N.S.W., and printed in the
current Pastoralists’ Review :
\Ve are almost alone now amongst English buyers in
taking high-class wools like yours, the Bradford top-
makers taking scarcely anything but shabby or heavy
lots. . • • and mix them with Buenos Aires, Monte \ ideo
cr Cape wools to get a cheap top. . . . The Australian
wools are evidently going chiefly to the Continent of
Europe and America in an ever-increasing proportion.
It is in private, or semi-private, letters like this
that solid home-truths about the fiscal question
slip out. Probably Mf.rrall and Sons are tierce
Foreign-traders —at any rate, the old man is sure
to be, whatever the “Sons” are. Also, J. S.
Horsfall, who is a follower of Reid, is, for a
certainty, a Foreign-trader of the first degree.
And as for the Pastoralists’ Review,
there are no doubts about the fiscal belief
of the sheep-man’s paper. Yet it would be diffi-
cult to get a more eloquent testimony to the value
of Protection than the extract printed. Merrall
and Sons are “almost alone” as British buyers
of high-class wools ; while our fine wools are being
bought by the cargo for America and the Con-
tinent of Europe. The United States, Germany,
and France are now the biggest users of these
wools, and they are all High Protectionists.
Foreign-trade Britain, on its manufacturers’ own
statement, tabes "scarcely anything but shabby
or heavy lots.” Reid the clowner rages about the
country trying to sink the fiscal issue, and a sec-
tion of the Labor party insanely aids him. Mean-
while Horsfall’s fine wool is being-dragged half-
way or more across the world to give Americans,
Germans, and Frenchmen work for which we, in
buying the manufactured goods, find oui share of
the money.
The Good Member.
The Surry Hills (N.3.W.) election was contested
by four candidates and Jones ; and of the four
candidates (and Jones) there wasn’t one who was
calculated to inspire much enthusiasm. It was an
occasion when the negative vote might have done
o-ood service, if N.S.W. possessed such a thing.
The result was that the Good Man Candidate was
returned to be another dull and dreadful addition
to an utterly mediocre and dreary Parliament.
Bruntnell, M.L.A. (a sort of suspicion always
attaches to men whose names begin with Brunt or
Brunk or Bunk or Dunk ; witness the awful case
of Holy Brunker) is an ex-Salvationist. Exactly
how “ex” he is, or why he is “ex,” this paper
doesn’t know, nor does it care. His front name
is Albert—Albert the Good. He represents
“Reform,” and “Reform” in the IS.S.W.
Assembly nowadays consists in borrowing
£1.500,000 a year, and being unable to decide
whit to do about Crick. He is a voluble ex-
pounder of platitudes—quite honest and respect-
able platitudes, but as dull as the feet of a wooden
srod. He is reputedly orthodox—sadly and pain-
fully orthodox —and wouldn’t get out of his little
rut to look at an archangel, being quite sure that
any genuine archangel would be in the rut also.
Bruntnell is a Gou-fearing member of the Gar-
rard type—but then there are so many kinds of
Goo-fearing men, arid they fear so many different
kinds of God. Preacher Talmagk, of the U.S.A.,
always appeared to regard Heaven as an extra-
gorgeous hotel, with a loud Deity quarrelling
violently in the middle of the first floor. The
Bruntnell variety of man, being smaller and
narrower, seems rather to regard Heaven as a
parlor, with the blind down because it is Sunday,
and a depressed Deity sitting on a cold, slippery,
horse-hair sofa. Therefore the GoD-fearing
characteristics of men like Bruntnell and
Garrard don’t make politics any more pro-
gressive or any more large-minded; they only
make thefn suggestive of a small stuffy room
with a damp umbrella in the corner. All the
dreadful virtues of the British Workman or the
Tract Magazine seem to be combined in the
Good Man Candidate as he grows in Australia.
Punctuality, a sort of wooden cheerfulness, defer-
ence, the habit of wearing a wisp of whisker on
each side of the face, a well-brushed Sunday suit,
a bath once a week, a clean shirt twice a week,
early-rising, church-going, an occasional bloater
for breakfast, a peaceful contentment upon a
wage of 255. a week, and a literary outlook which
is bounded by a single weekly newspaper—if the
Christian World can be called a newspaper—
are the chief characteristics of the person whom
the British Workman holds up for admiration.
And that same person —a little shaken up by his
own or his father’s removal to a new sphere, and a
little enlarged by having a wider outlook, and
better wages, and meat regularly for breakfast
instead of bloater occasionally, but essentially the
same person—is the Good Man Candidate of to-day.
He is not the man who would go out and attack
the root of a big public evil with an axe; he
would rather make a breeze at it with the
collection-hat, and tell it to go lf the
Legislative Assembly were Bethel or Ebenezer,
then there would be a genuine demand for people
like Bruntnell, and he would be in his element.
As it is, he represents a great misplacement of
energy.
«
Compulsory Voting.
Premier Thomas Bent, of Victoria, is reported
to be troubled over his compulsory voting scheme.
His first idea was to disfranchise for some years
the citizen who was in a position to vote but
didn’t, and that would have been right enough,
provided he had made provision for a negative
vote, so that the man who couldn’t conscientiously
support any one of the candidates could explain
his position in full by voting against the lot. The
negative vote is essential in any system of com-
pulsory voting ; where there are only objectionable
candidates to choose from, the “Noes” might
easily be in a majority, and then there would be a
second ballot, with the defeated lot shut out,
and a new set of candidates, and consequently
a chance of a better crowd to select from.
In fact, as a means of getting rid of
objectionable candidates the negative vote should
bfe invaluable; at present, when the fool and the
knave stand against each other, one is bound to
get in, and any law which compelled a man to vote
for either of them would be an outrage. , But
Premier Bent didn’t propose any negative vote;
his idea was simply to make voting compulsory.
That was the first bad feature in his scheme.
Then it occurred to Bent that if a man didn t use
his vote he probably wouldn’t regard the loss of it
as any punishment, in which respect Bent may
be right or he may be wrong. Plenty of men
don’t value a vote when they have it, but value it
very greatly when they are compulsorily deprived
of it, and would raise Cain to get it back, even if
they didn’t want to use it when they recovered it.
At all events, Bent decided that a fine should be
imposed on the non-voter in addition to disqualifi-
cation, and—again always assuming that a nega-
tive vote is allowed—there is no reason why it
shouldn’t be so. But it is no use fining a person
unless the law knows what it will do next, sup-
posing the fine isn’t paid. The usual alternative
is gaol, and now Bent has struck the alarming
fact that 70.000 people failed to vote at last
Victorian election, and if the same thing happens
next time —before the disfranchisement clause gets
to work- —there will be 70,000 fines to collect (which
would be very pleasant) or else 70,000 people to
put in gaol (which would be awful, for there is not
' one tenth of the gaol accommodation). Then, as
a side issue, there are some small sketchy sects
which say their home is in the sky, and that it is
wrong to take part in any mere earthly affairs of
government, and they don’t vote because their
consciences forbid them. They are mostly pale,
weak people who live on pale, grey, vegetable foods,
but. still they must be considered. Bent badly
wants to find a remedy for all these complications,
and by way of indicating a short way out of the
maze, The Bulletin proposes :
(1) That there should he a negative vote to accommo-
date people who can’t conscientiously support any of the
candidates offering at the moment. .
(2) That the pale vegetarian people who sa.v their
home is in the sky—the men who wear long hair and eat
cold, grey foods—should be required to come to the poll
like the rest, but should be supplied on application with
a blank form to drop in the ballot-box. This would allow
them to creep softly away again with their list shoes and
their long hair, without taking any real part in earthly
affairs of State, and yet make it impossible for large,
gross, beef-eating, beer-drinking people to cover their
own absence under the pretence of peligious scruples.
(3) That every voter who isn’t excused by sickness,
absence from the State, gaol, or some’ other absolutely
sufficient reason shall be compelled to vote.
(4) That the penalty shall be four years disfranchise-
ment and a fine of not less than £l. Fine to be recovered,
if possible, by sale of goods. Failing that the alter-
native to be 14 days, but the magistrate to have power to
suspend sentence till there is room in gaol.
If these methods won’t meet the case, The
Bulletin feels inclined to give the problem up.
Bent’s Kailways.
A particularly furious campaign against Social-
ism and State aid and State interference, and
class legislation, is being carried on at present in
various rural portions of Victoria. Some gentle-
men are leaning so far through their collars in
their eagerness to inform the farmers that these
things will blight the crops, burn the haystacks
hamstring the plough-horses, etc., etc., that it
appears to be about time to indicate how much or
them the said agriculturists receive through
Bent’s railways. The rates charged to the far-
mers, in comparison with the rates charged to
ordinary consignors, are so preposterous that the
average anti-Socialist ought to fall down dead at
the sight thereof. The following table extracted
from T AIT’S “Goods Kates Book for IJOo
excludes all rail stations within 100 miles of Mel-
bourne, in order that the figures quoted may
apply only to genuine rural districts. Ovving to
space problems, it includes only 37 sample cases
out of a list which originally included 114
instances, and which might just as easily have
included a good many more, for the system of
granting huge rebates to farmers prevails every-
where. The farmers’ rate covers general produce,
such as wheat, barley, oats, chaff, etc. ; and the
general rate includes drapery, boots, hardware,
and most requirements of the household :
Per Ton.
Miles f
to Mel- Farm General Preference
Station. bourne. Rate. Rate. to farmer.
Antwerp 257 Us. 6d. £5 13 <1 £419 0
Boigbeat 232 14s. 2d. 510 3 4i 0 I
Beulah 2(51 14s. Sd. 5 14 9 5 0
Curvo 227 14s. 5 8 0 4 14 6
Ditnboola 24(5 14s. 4d. 59 0 jl4 8
Diapur 281 15s. 014 3 419 3
Ellam 277 14s. lOd. 6 1b 5 ® °
Gama 253 14s. (id. 5 19 0 o 4 b
Galaquil 257 14s. 6d. 13 3 418 .
Gorya 260 14s. Od. 610 io a
Gyinbowen 261 17s. 2d. 517 b 5 0
Goroke 267 17s. Sd. 6 10 5 3
Goyura 271 14s. lOd. 519 6 £4B
Hopetoun 277 14s. lOd. 616 £ G „
Jeparit 269 14s. Bd. 518 8 53 10
Kaneira 217 13s. 10(1. a 4 £ X .
Karyrie 220 14s. 55 9 411 J
Katyil 253 14s. 6d. ° 1
Kaniva 294 15s. 2d. 6 5 6 5 10 4
Lah 247 14s. 4d o 9 b 415 -
Lascelles 248 14s. 4d. 517 0 52 8
Lillimur 360 15s. 4d. 610 3 oU 11
Miram 288 15s. 60 6 no b
Natimuk 241 Us. 4d. 5 b 0 411 8
Noradjuha 246 14s. 4d. 58 b , 414 -
Nhill 270 Us. lOd. 55 8 410 5
On ven 28S 15s. ■> 11 « f IG £
Pu'llut 281 15s. 6 3 3 ■> 8 A
Rosebery 268 Us. Bd. a 18 3 5 •
Rainbow 288 15s. b 6 6 xx °
Sea bake 237 14s. 2d. 512 48 /
Serviceton 308 15s. 4d. bl 4 .) •_> 19 ■
Tarranyurk 264 Us. sd. 516 0 r, 1 4
Tarranginnie 277 14s. lOd. o 11 6 4 •
Ultima 221 14s. o b 0 4 12 0
Watohupga 234 14s. 2d. 5 J £ ' !
Woomelang 241 14s. 4d. 514 0 41J 8
The price charged for hauling a ton of drapery
from Melbourne to Serviceton is nearly eight
times as much as that charged for hauling a ton
of wheat in the opposite direction. If a merchant
at Casterton buys a ton of hardware at Ballarat,
it will cost him about a third less to send the
goods to Melbourne—an extra journey in all of
192 miles —and then have them brought back,
through Ballarat, to the town to which they were
originally consigned, than it would to have them
sent direct. The freight on a ton of oats from
Nhill to Melbourne is 14s. lOd. (distance, 270
miles). The same ton of oats may he sent from
Melbourne to Portland (273 miles) for the same
figure. But if a ton of boots be sent to Nhill, the
freight is £5 ss. 3d. ; whereas if the same boots
are sent to Portland the charge is £2. So that
whereas there is no discrepancy worth mention-
ing between the wheat rates from Nhill and
Portland, yet there is a discrepancy of £3 ss. 3d.
between the rates for general requisites ! Dun-
keld and Dumosa are the same distance from
Melbourne, but it costs £2 ss. (id. more per ton to
send hardware to Dumosa than to Dunkekl. ihe
difference in the freight on wheat, however, only
amounts to 4d. per ton. But wheat from Goroke
pays 17s. Bd. per ton ; while wheat from Casterton
—which is exactly the same distance from Mel-
bourne—pays 14s. Bd. The discrepancy on hard-
ware, however, as between the two towns, is
£3 18s. 6d. per ton. It is a strange, wild com-
plication, but a comparison of all the scheduled
rates applied to lines which lead away from the
sea, shows that the Victorian railways are chiefly
maintained for the benefit of the agricultural per-
son who faints at the very suggestion of “ class
legislation.” And the same farmer makes dismal
noises in his whiskers when other sections of the
community demand anything dimly resembling
a fair share of the privileges for which they pay.
The Base Uses of Inverted Commas.
Charles Atkins, pushful President of the Federal
Chamber of Manufactures, isstill going the rounds
of the Vic. factories and workshops, preaching the
simple facts and figures of Protection to wage-
earners, and exposing the destructive character of
“fiscal truce” doctrines. And the Argos con-
tinues to pursue Atkins with crafty misrepresen-
tations of his little speeches, putting its own words
into his mouth and publishing as quotes the things
he never said, with a view to warning its “ poor
farmer” friends against that active candidate
for the Federal Chamber. Because he is one
among the manufacturers, though less vitally in-
terested in the Tariff Amendment question than
piany of the others, the Argus, pretends to believe
that his advocacy of broad Protectionist principles
is an exhibition of the ncwvowest selfishness which,
should make him abominable in the sight of nar-
rowly selfish farmers. As evidence of his unpat-
riotic regard for self, the Foreign-trade organ
alleges that Atkins says in effect, “We are pro-
spering remarkably under the present duties, but
the only question of the hour is how we are to grow
rich more quickly.” These bogus-quotation tactics
are in the present case intended solely for the
deception of the Argus’s rural readers. They
couldn’t possibly deceive townspeople who are
brought into daily contact with the fact
that no local manufacturers are prosper-
ing remarkably under the present tariff,
and who know that Atkins talks to the
workers as a champion of labor (which can t grow
rich, quickly or slowly) and not as a voracious
capitalist. The strength of the Argus grievance
against the President of the Federal Chamber of
Manufactures seems to lie in the fact that he was
the first local employer to shout for Protection on
a Labor platform, instead of treating capital as a
natural power whence the workers must look for
support. The question that he really asks is
“ How can we employ more labor ? ” and answer-
ing it with “More Protection” he makes the
disciples of Reid as mad as six mythical hatters.
The Law, the Tote, and a Corpse.
The kicking to death of Donald M‘Leod, on
Flemington racecourse, by an infuriated mob of
swindled backers has moved the respectable press,
the parsons and sundry other snufflebusters to
lengthy animadversion on the brutality of mobs,
the stain on the State’s good name, and so forth.
Yet, though M'Leod invited his own undoing,
the Law was principally responsible for the fatal
culmination of the outrage. M'Leod had gone
out to Flemington the previous Saturday and
made a “ book” on his own peculiar lines —he laid
against Realm and one other horse on the big race
only, laying longer odds than men who were
making books on honest lines, and taking the
chances of a "skinner ”or of facing Ins defrauded
backers. Realm won, and he handed his victims
back their stakes with a promise to pay later
on—a promise he never kept. The following
Saturday he set out to play the same game. He
had next to nothing in his bag, but on, the first
race he laid against Lady Doris only—up to £4
15s. She won, and, having only 30s. wherewith
to pay, he handed back the stakes, and gave the
usual promise. He repeated the performance on
the second race, and the crowd, weary of his
excuses and enraged at his insolence and rascality,
“went for” him. The result probably exceeded
their intentions. But for what those defrauded
bettors did, or intended to do, the Law is respon-
sible. M‘Leod was not a welsher —the Law
The Hobby Horse of G.H.R.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
List to my rhyme, it is about
George Houstoun of the surname Reid ;
A hobby horse he rides around,
And Freetrade is his only creed.
Gee up ! His nag’s near broken down,
George doth a heavy party lead.
He talks from Torres unto Bass
He’s always near to straits indeed.
He warns the Fatman of his foe,
The Fatman gives the doctrine heed,
And waves the flag of Capital,
And cries about his awful need.
The doom that’s coming to the land
Unless the Socialist is “ treed.
Gee up ! And keep the workers down.
A-piping on his ancient reed
Goes Houstoun, never drawing breath
Excepting when he stops to feed.
His hobby horse is hipped and galled,
A poor attenuated steed,
The one thing lean where all is Fat,
A spavined quadruped, knock-kneed.
Oh, up and down the continent
The Capitalist must have his meed,
The working man has too much pie
It's Anti everything but Greed.
He scorns the poor Protected loaf,
That honest Eight Hours workers knead.
He likes the real imported stuff
And foreign wine of antique bead.
He likes Egyptian flesh pots, and
The foreign honeycomb and mead.
Oh, up and down the continent
To keep his balance he’ll succeed,
As long as ere they let him spout,
So long as he attempts no deed.
He quotes the good old feudal times,
The laws of Persian and of Mede ;
~ He finds his worthy instances
From many an old decaying screed.
He raves, he perorates, and then
Quite suddenly begins to plead :
“Oh, fellow Fat Men ! Rise and rid
Your garden of the noxious weed ;
In, place of nightshade Socialism,
Plant thistles that the Ass may feed.”
Oh, up and down the continent
The Capit'list must have his meed,
The working man has too much pie —
It's Anti everything but Greed.
He talks so often, and so long—
For fifty years he’s guaranteed—
A-riding on his sorry nag,
A-nagging on his windy reed ;
That sometimes he persuades himself
That there ARE Fat Men to be freed,
The laborer’s wage the laborer’s worth
Does most outrageously exceed. ,
Gee up ! Gee up ! And on he goes,
His forehead wet with many a bead.
His tongue defies the Eight Hours Act-
Such laws are for.the common breed—
From Torres Strait along to Bass,
With Fat Man’s flag encanopied ; ;v
‘ Oblivious of the common weal
(Let local industries recede).
But mindful of the Commonwealth,
Believing God above decreed
Her next Prime Minister shall be—
And sometime soon — George Houstoun Reid.
Oh, up and down the continent
The Capit’list must have his meed, ,
The working man has too much pie— ,1;
It’s Anti everything but Greed.
Hie up to preach the doctrine old—
The greedy man’s immortal creed—
“ God bless the mills of Germany,
And all the wheels of Europe speed ;
And curse the mills Australian,
That weave the wool and griud the seed.”
Yes, foreign imports is the cry,
The German, Dutchman, Dane and Swede,
The Frankfurt sausage, Turkey rug,
.The Russian fur, the Yankee tweed.
It’s pour’em in, and fatten Fat,
And let the local workers bleed.
Freetrade ! The laborer should rejoice
When everything but him is freed ;
He, breadless, still can reef his belt,
And Heaven thank for G. H. Reid.
His hobby horse is hipped and galled,
A poor attenuated steed,
The one thing lean where all is Fat,
A spavined quadruped, knock-kneed.
Oh, up and down the continent
The Capit’list must have hts meed,
The working man has too much pie —
It’s Anti everything but Greed.
VIC.
M. E. F.


PHOTOS
PROM LIFE for lovers of
beautyandchic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French \. ork, 5/-. Fine
assortments, iO/- and 20/-, money Gr'...r on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, BqC. FBG St. Martin, Paris, France.
250
G\
fN
OUTSIDE WRAPPERS
>;
FROM
DELICIOUS
Chocolates,
CAILLER’S. p.o box 136.^1
SYDNEY
would gaol hiiu for larceny if he were ; he was
what is called a “scaler,” and the Law has
decided that, so long as a layer of odds
hands back to punters the money they staked,
he is not amenable either civilly or crimin-
ally. Had he been able to reach a con-
stable, the Law would have defended M‘LeoD'
with its whole force if necessary, and the backers
would have had no remedy. By thus refusing
defrauded wagerers any sort of satisfaction, the
Law practically invited them to take their own
course, as they have hitherto frequently done.
The whole trouble is directly due to the Law’s,
hypocrisy in refusing to recqgnise betting as a
commercial contract, and in declining to legalise,
(in Victoria) a system by which scaling is impos-
sible. If the backer had legal remedy, the
scaler who made his book, knowing quite well
that if either one of two horses won he
could not meet his obligations, would be dealt,
with as a swindler or as a thief ; and the crowd
would then not pursue him to inflict punishment.
The crowd would leave him to the Law just as it.
leaves other malefactors. But the Law could go
further and make absolutely sure that there
would be no swindle, first by declaring bet-
ting illegal, and then by legalising the
racecourse totalisator. The machine cannot
lay absurdly long odds against one horse only,
while closing its sheet against all the others ; and
it doesn t need to “scale’’its clients and sprint
across the ground in a vain effort to escape. Its
odds are absolutely fair, and the money is always
there when the successful wagerer goes for it. If,
while legalising the tote, betting in any other wise
were thus made illegal, not only would racecourses
be sweeter and cleaner, but the worst form of
betting—the perpetual punting of insignificant
surns by infants and city wastrels, who seldom
visit a course and care naught for real sport—
would be almost done away with. Meanwhile,
for M‘Leod s death, blame lies with the Law that
permitted, even encouraged, “scaling” ; and indi-
rectly with the persons who have so far joined
hands with the Noses in preventing the legalisa-
tion of the clean, honest, reputable totalisator.
A Policy of Confiscation.
Sydney Telegraph put up almost a record in the
way of crude foolishness last Tuesday, when it
held forth to the Cootamundra (N.S. W.) electors
about the Labor party’s proposed graduated land-
tax —designed to break up large and, to a great
extent, unused estates, and supply hind for
farmers. It headed its yarn, “ A Policy of Con-
fiscation,” and waded in thus:—
At . the present moment Cootamundra is having a re-
markably impressive lesson in the effects of harassing
legislation, or proposed legislation. Within the past
three months the district has been overrun by farmers
and graziers from South Australia, who declare‘that they
have been driven out of the State by the dominance of
the Labor party. Twice already the Lower House has
passed a progressive land-tax, and the Upper House has
rejected it. The measure is on the boards again, and
its passage is now looked for. No less a sum than
£197,500 has been paid for land at Cootamundra in three
months by refugees from the other States. Eighteen
thousand acres of Geraldra station have been purchased
from Mr. George Davidson by Messrs. Young Brothers
at £3 per acre. Fourteen thousand acres of Mitong have
passed from Mr. John Rutherford to Mr. Melrose at £3
per acre, and for 7000 acres of Berthong, Mr. D. Gibb
accepted £4 10s. per acre from H. C. Drew. Mr. F.
Osborne’s Arnaseer station of 19,000 acres has just
been purchased by Messrs. Scott and Son for £2 10s. per
acre, together with the plant and stock; and “The
Retreat,” 19,000 acres, has been acquired by Messrs.
Mayne Bros, from Goldsbrougij, Mort and Co. for a con-
s.deration of £2 10s. an acre. All the purchasers are from
South Australia.
So this is the Telegraph’s ease put shortly:—
(1) S. Australia is suffering from a policy of confiscation
and its confiscated landlords, beggared by Labor legisla-
tion, have £197,500 to spend in three months among
about six of them.
(2) The S. A. land-tax legislation, or threatened legisla-
lation, is driving out the great land monopolist—the man
who spends £54,000 on the purchase of 18,000 acres, and
often sublets to rack-rented tenants—to make room for
the small independent farmer who owns his own farm.
Therefore the small farmers of Cootamundra, who want
to find farms for their sons and grandsons later on,
should take warning, and avoid the graduated land-tax,
which supplies land for small farmers, as they would a
serpent.
(3) The want of a graduated land-tax in N.S.W. is,
according to the Telegraph, the reason why, inside three
months, 77,000 acres have been purchased in Coota-
mundra district alone, in five big estates, thus again
locking up the land which the local farmers want thrown
open so that their sons and grandsons may be able to
settle in the district, among their friends, instead of
drifting away to Queensland or elsewhere. And the
Cootamundra jarmers should, the Telegraph thinks, be
so glad to see the land they require locked up, that they
will vote enthusiastically for the man who promises to
keep it that way.
If ever a politician had a darned fool of a friend,
Fitzpatrick is that politician and the Telegraph
is that darned fool.
*
William Lyne’s Federal Bounties Bill, just intro-
duced to the House of Reps., provides for the
expenditure of £500.000, spread over 10 years, in
encouraging the primary producer directly, and
the secondary ditto, and the manufacturer in-
directly. For the following articles it makes pro-
vision on this scale :
Cocoa, Id. per lb. on dried beans up to £lOOO a year.
Coffee and chicory, Id. per lb., up to £2500 a year.
Cotton, 10 per cent, of the market value, up to £4500 a
year.
Fibres, 10 per cent, of the market value, up to £6OOO a
year.
Canned or tinned fish, id. a lb., up to £ll,OOO a year.
Milk, condensed, id. a lb.; powdered, fd. a lb., up to
£5OOO a year each.
Oils, 10 per cent, on the market value of linseed, olive,
'China, castor, colza, sunflower, essential and cotton-seed,
up to £6500 a year.
Rice, £1 a ton, up to £l5OO a year.
Miscellaneous products—rubber, kapok, and other
goods that may be prescribed—up to £7OOO a year.
All goods must be in complete marketable form,
of a good merchantable quality, and produced
throughout by white labor (aborigines and half-
caste natives exempted). The rates of wages
Pa*d by the producer must be specified, and
the Minister may withhold the bounty if he
•deems these insufficient. And when the Tariff
as made to automatically protect these bonus-
encouraged products, the Commonwealth will
ifaiid a Jot more work and wealth for its own un-
employed citizens, instead of sending the moiiey
away to some unknown, and often unclean, and
very often discolored, foreigner at the other side
•of the globe. As a Protective Ministry is intro-
ducing this Bill, and as the Foreign-trader has
always declared that he loves the primary indus-
tries, and as the Laborite is always in favor of
white labor and plenty of work for the un-
employed at a minimum wage, it is hard to see
where any opposition is to come from. Doubt-
less, however, it will come, as usual, from Joe
Cook’s cussedness and B. Smith’s superior know-
ledge.
+
The British person is the Popsnap of the earth,
and his proud, cold self-complacency and his tall,
frozen self-assurance are inimitable. He has a
magnificent fashion of taking himself for granted
such as no other nation ever quite attains to. As
a casual example take a recent article on “Singers
under the Southern Cross” in T. P.’s Weekly.
It deals with Victor Daley, “ Banjo” Paterson,
Will Ogilvie, E. J. Brady, Adam Lindsay
Gordon, and others, and winds up :
And with every one of these oversea singers the master
from whom they take the tune, and the manner of
•setting it, is Mr. Kipling.
Good old Kipling— the only one of the crowd, by
the way, that T. P.’s Weekly calls “Mr.”—
England’s little tin god and in Bull’s idea the
beginning, middle and end of modern literature.
Kipling began to be known outside of India as a
versifier about 1886, and became really known
with his “ Barrack-room Ballads ”in 1892. Gor-
don, whom T.P.’s Weekly cheerfully classes
among Kipling’s copyists, died when the amazing
Kip was five years old. Victor Daley was
writing while the remarkable Kip was. still at
school, and “Banjo” Paterson had done some
of his best work while Kip was still hunting for
his first rhyme in the rhyming dictionary. Kip-
LiNG, may have imitated them ; certainly they
didn t imitate him unless Time went backwards.
But Kipling is more or less English, and there-
fore he is necessarily original ; while mere
“colonialwriters who died before he w'as born,
or who wrote verse while he was still wearing an
inky collar at school, rank as Kipling’s imitators
because being “ colonial ” they couldn’t be original
—at least not in the eyes of T. Podsnap’s
Weekly.
Premier Bent has some excellent ideas about
land. He believes firmly in what he calls
loading’ land. That is to say he believes in
the State receiving from the landowner the un-
earned increment that accrues from any State
work—especially a railway. Of course Thomas’s
ideas in this respect have excited vast opposition
among the Anti-Socialistic Victorian farmer class,
whose Anti-Socialism consists of receiving all
possible help from the State and never giving
anything in return. This is how Thomas sees
it:—
These people who’re crying out now against loading
bought their land at its value at the time of purchase.
There was no promise of a railway or anything else!
Now, we’re going to build a railway that’ll enormously
increase the value of their property, and they’re squealing,
because they have to give up a small proportion of the
enhanced value to reimburse the State for the expense it
goes to in building the railway. I know what We’d like
to do. That’s give them back what they paid for the land,
and put it up for auction. They’d see, then, what the
loading meant. No, it’s not a bit of use talking. The
State’s been robbed of too much already , and the worst
robberies of all are those that have been most public.
'We’re not goihg to have any more if I can help it.
Surely there’s hope for any man who is sane
enough to talk like that. The fact is Tommy
Bent has, by exercising his rough horse-sense,
advanced SO'far ahead of his conservative backers
that he has gained friends from his most bitter
opponents. The disappointing feature about
Thomas is that he sees things clearly and says
them clearly, and then too often someone comes
along and chews his ear; and Tommy forgets his
good intentions and does nothing.
♦
The Foreign-trade press still moans sorrowfully
because the Orient Co. has lost the job of mail
contracting, and the papers are using the sup-
posed grievances of this foreign company as a
means of heaping more abuse on the Deakin
Government. Yet why ? The successful tender
is for £125,000. Other offers submitted were
£150,000 and £lBO,OOO ; these were the next lowest,
and, assuming one of these to be the Orient’s, it is
plain that by grasping for increased subsidy it lost
the contract. Suppose the Deakin Ministry
had thrown away £25,000 a year by accepting the
Orient’s offer even at £150,000, what kind of
language woijld the Foreign-trade press have used
about it? Ah things are, Australia is promised
a far quicker and better service than it now
enjoys at only £5lOO a year extra cost, and this
improved service is the cheapest service offering.
What more can the papers ask for? The ready
tear for the foreign-owned co. amounts to a
disease.
THE BRUTE.
HER : “ You never find me taking a night of because its mg birthday.”
HIM : “ You !—a night ! Great Scott! you take a year off.”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ With Flying Colors.”
Her Majesty’s.. “The Dictator.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Lyceum Hall Fisk Jubilee Singers
Prince Alfred Park.. Bostock and Wombwell’s Circus.
U drome KET HlPPo '} Bohemian Dramatic Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s R G Knowles
Hkk MwksVvs::::::::
Theatre Royal “ Dangerous Women.”
Opera House Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
%
n- > r -i j mi tv ss »
Collier s farcical comedy The Dictator
took a fresh coloring of truthfulness last week
from the cable announcement that two warring
Central American republics had accepted Presi-
dent Roosevelt’s offer to arbitrate between them,
whilst another republic (Honduras) had officially
denied the rumor of its having joined forces with
one of the belligerents. News of the assassination
of sundry presidents and generals may be expected
to come along presently, and an insurrection such
as Collier ordered is pretty well bound to occur,
“shott°ed e ”° f th 6 kte presidents has been duly
* * * *
There are manv thiners to be thankful for in
“The Dictator,” trtereitfwilliam Collier if now
showing at Her Majesty’s, Sydney;but the chief of
them is that Brooke 1 ravers, the hero -that is
to say, the man who gets into all the scrapes and
gets out of them-isnt married When you set
your face towards a farce-comedy house you began
to take with you a dull, aching suspicion that
before it was all over the same old husband would
be making much the same old explanations to the
same old, deceived wife, and that the deception
woukln’t be half ae purple tie it luoked. RioW
Harding Davis has, however, come along with
idea that a wife really isn’t the only
snag that ii man may strike as he floats
down towards the bar about closing time ;
so, hereafter, you may put on your coat
to go to a farce-comeuy with a heavy weight
5n y °b Ul i m lf! d - 16 chanc . es aie * bat y° u Wlll
still strike the same old wriggling husband and
the same old wife with the same old pm to fasten
him down; but then, again, you may not.
MISS CLARA BUTT, the Amazonian contralto,
who is to visit Australia.
Bachelor Brooke Travers’ first snag is a
cabman who lias tried to overcharge him and has
been knocked down with apparently fatal conse-
quences ; wherefore Travers promptly jumps
aboard a steamer. He doesn’t care where it is
bound for so long as it bounds somewhere, and it
lands him at Porto Banos, in Central America,
where they grow revolutions and yellow fever.
On board is a colonel who is going down there as
U.S. Consul; really he engineered the last Porto
Banos revolution, and is the boss of the new
President. But Porto Banos has had a
newer revolution, in which five soldiers and
23 generals have been more or less killed, and
the army is waiting'on the pier with a gun for
the Consul. The Consul therefore promptly sells
his official interest in the Stars and Stripes to
Brooke Travers, and sails on further south for the
sake of his health. Most of the rest of the
yarn is made up of Travers’ efforts to hold up the
end of the United States in those parts, in the
intervals of dodging supposed detectives, the
Consul’s discarded Juanita, and the new Presi-
dent. There is excellent foolery in it, and a num-
ber of smart things which William Collier
(Brooke Travers) fires at his audience out
of a spring-gun kept at full-cock. It takes
a while for a house that doesn't well
know what jokes to expect from Central
America to get used to this rapid delivery—
which is one reason why the humor of Travers’
chief abettor, a Marconi agent, raises most laughs
in the early part of the proceedings. But that
only lasts for an act or so. Presently, though you
have lost something for a start, you begin to see
there are advantages in not having the gun care-
fully pointed at you, and sighted, and so on,
before the joke is fired off. The she side remains
throughout the weakest side, which isn’t the fault
of R. H. Davis, for in Juanita he provided a
good Palotta part—but Palotta isn’t there to play
it.
„ t '3 ith ? yin * ( . ; ° lors " th «
at Sydney Royal, but the last nights are an-
nounced and a revival of “In London Town”
follows. Bland Holt seems committed to a poliev
? ( t ,p? vl y al ‘ s ’ be m ’ght, with advantage, think of
Ihe Great Millionaire” and other more recent
successes of his on wfior. , ,
material for the rechn.vffr 1 S round for
1 101 tne rechauffe.
** * *
P . layei ‘ S > under
a. ® • P^Tr? ,On T ? f . Ph,h P Lytton, have been pro-
Bnxton Burglary’”-at least, they
‘ , tea producing it unless something went
wrong between the time this paper went to press
and the time it reached the public. In other
WOrdS Y th ?y are , P art, y going to begin play-
mg the “Burglary,” and they have partly
finished playing it (presuming that they reallv
played it), according to which date the matter is
viewed from. It is to be (or wasj a verv short
season anyhow, and the co. gave every satisfaction
(or is going to give every satisfaction), always
assuming, as already mentioned, that no’disaste-
intervened to upset the arrangements. Which all
reads very like the letter that was posted yester-
day and written to-morrow,
-sfe * ig
The advertised information that the Syd-
ney season of Bostock and Wombwell’s Circus
wou , lcl e ( l( l this Saturday brought grief to thou-
“s
quaint Lukishmia troupe, the Jhe
men who breathed forth smoke and flame thatthev
had at last discovered the real land of the “Arabian
Nights.” And on top of all the other wonders
there was that mysterious cylinder beneath which
looking strangely white in the greenish light of
the lamps, slumbered the mesmerised man 6ft
deen in the e irih tl; 0 g i *
St if not the f * ilm . oBt the
The tripS SST-HThS
shall be first ” tb.,!,,.,, ° i as “
circus to abolish the ring and the wearisome
and antiquated horse items that Justinian’s uncle
used to complain were getting too stale to draw
the crowd. Probably when the stage is lingering
superfluous on itself, Bostock and Wombleß
devise some method of utilising all the floor space
for the audience, and performing the trickT as
the Indian fakirs do, at the end of a ball of string
hanging on to nothin" g
Sydney Palace is
in the hands of en-
chanters and magicians
who wheedle and mag-
netise the elusive shil-
ling out of the pockets
of the charitable. On
Saturday afternoon
Mayoress Allen Taylor
opened an Enchanted
Palace Carnival in aid
of the King Edward
VII. Hospital for Sea-
men. The bazaar is
still running swift as
a hare and buyers are
keeping up with it.
*■ * *-
Organist Leinare
will start a series of
recitals at Sydney
Town Hall on Sep. 1.
The mighty musical
building within a
building is a great
draw. Two years ago
Mr. Leinare gave 18
recitals, and ■ plump
profit resulted.
* * *
The Advance-Aus-
tralia Tait Brothers
have been a few days
in Sydney making
straight the path for
Dolores, who comes
here next month. The
path was not so *verv
curly, even in its nat-
ural state, so there was
not much shaving or
levelling to be done.
Sydney desires Dolores
just as much as Dolores
desires Sydney, and a
general desire like that
can smooth any path. Coming through San
Francisco, Mr. Tait saw Clarence Newell,
who pianoed for Dolores on her last visit. He is
now a prosperous merchant in Oakland, and only
plays for fun.
** * *
The Public Service Association Amateur
Dramatic Society proposes to relax the air of
haughty languor with which it passes the seal-
ing wax, and on Saturday night at the Criterion
Theatre will begin a three nights’ struggle with
the “Merchant of Venice.” Mr. Victor Cohen
will represent the Jew, and Miss Stella Chap-
man will don the lawyer’s gown as the gentle
Portia. The management will introduce what the
advertisement calls “Venetian Dances,” and a
further sop to latter-day demands is the inter-
polation of choruses by the Service Choristers.
Song-and-dance seem inseparable even from the
Great William.
** * *
The Bohemian Dramatic Co. at the
Hippodrome (Hay-street, Sydney), under the
direction of Mr. E. J. Cole, is producing “Never
too Late to Mend ”to crowded houses. It was
this co. which produced the Owe’Sulli van’s
“ Coo-ee.” Perhaps there is a hint to that distin-
guished dramatist and statesman in the title of-
the presen t piece.
** # *
New turns fell so fast for a while on the
Tivoli that there has been no call to supply any-
thing newer this past week ; and the same varied


SLEEP FOR BABY-REST FOR MOTHERS.
df
sdf
REV. C. T. FORSCUTT, 8.A., Principal of
Rockdale College, has kindly sent the
following important testimony:—
FISHER & COMPANY. •
Dear Sirs,—l write to testify to the value of your
Teething Powders. Our baby suffered very much in
her teething, and the prescription of our doctor
appeared to do her no good. A lady recommended
your Infants’ Teething Powders, and our little sufferer
soon got well. Hundreds of children die with teeth
troubles, and I believe ours would have died but for
your Teething Powders. I shall feel it my duty to
recommend your Powders to any of our friends whose
children may suffer in their teething.
I am, yours faithfully,
C. T. FORSCUTT.
VJ at/ . • •
FISHER’S Teething Powders
iiui/ai LIABLE REMEDY for Children Cutting their Teeth and the various Slight Derangements
incidental to Infancy. CONTAINS NO OPIUM OR ANY INJURIOUS INCREDIENT.-^®
IMPORTANT.— More than the prescribed dose will be HARMLESS to any child.
ATT rtIFMiSTS IN BOXES, Is,, 3 BOXES 2s 6d—Postage Free. Prepared solely by FISHER & 00.,
fthamtets A Druggists, 337 CEORCE ST., Nearly o PP . O.P. Office, SYDNEY. Be sure you get F.sher’s.”
programme— much more evenly balanced than it
was* for some weeks past—still draws the usual
eight crowds a week.
** * *
The final week of the Willoughby-Ward
Co. at Melbourne Princess’s is likely to gain
more local reputation for Hugh Ward and Miss
Palotta than they earned in a month of “The
Man from Mexico.” Saturdays change of bill
opened with “The Vagabond,” a brief melo-
dramatic playlet, wherein Ward figures as a
broken-down survivor of the American war, and
expresses his paternal love for the lady by keep-
ing the secret of his survival and resisting the
temptation to make their relationship known. It
is a strained, sentimental story of the commonest
one-act type, but the actor’s picture of the red-
nosed derelict has touches of refined art in it, and
Miss Palotta gets off some feeling remarks in a
manner that is charmingly unconventional. With
further practice the performance of this useful
curtain-raiser should soon acquire the smoothness
it lacked on Saturday night.
* • * *
As for “The Talk of the Town,” it is
more broadly funny than any two ordinary farci-
cal comedies that come within the category of
nonsense, or “rot.” '1 he average “lot of rot ’is
not so fully charged with explosive material as
this lot. Hugh Ward has a congenial old-man
part—a crotchety uncle who boasts of his joy-
less past until a professional mesmerist puts
him under the hypnotic spell and converts
him into a frivolous lunatic. The doings
of Ward, at the bidding of bis controller,
amount to about half the entertainment. In his
rejuvenated state he combats the champion heavy-
weight (Willoughby) at a music-hall and gets
gloriously knocked out. He washes a wooden
babv as no infant was ever washed, except in a
pantomime. He works very hard at playing the
fool, but the efforts are not labored, and some of
his absurdities almost appear to be impromptus.
Miss Palotta’s best chance is in the first act, where
she sings the one song of the evening to old man
Ward (whose by-play is a treat), and lures him
into a dance, and reveals a sweet maidenly
pission for banging the men with boxing-gloves.
The larky Palotta having set the farce in motion,
subsequently hovers around the situations with
an infectious smile, whilst Willoughby, the
stousher, makes periodical onslaughts upon Ward,
and an incredible young man bears witness to his
alleged cold in the head by blowing his nose. Ten
other people contribute to the silly two hours or
mord, and the audience laughs very loudly most
of the time. “The Talk of the Town ” offers so
many excuses for laughter that its insults to one’s
intelligence can be freely forgiven. Melbourne
will be sorry to lose it at the end of the week.
** * *
R. G. Knowles, assisted by moving pic-
tures, starts a short season at the Princess’s on
Saturday night. Knowles proclaims himself as
the Man Who Has Kept The Whole World
Laughing. A matured section of the Melbourne
world remembers him as a rapid talker and a
tuneful person who brought “On the Benches in
the Park ” to this country a good many years ago.
The advt. lays special emphasis on the fact that
Knowles offers 1200 amphitheatre seats to the
populace at a shilling each, free from the usual
early door restriction.
#■ * * *
At Her Majesty’s (Melbourne) the success
of “The Squaw Man” retains itsearly vigor, and in
the course of another week or two every up-to-date
citizen will be able to pass an examination in the
guttural rudiments of the Ute Indian language.
The talk of the feathered Rooster Chief has a
weird fascination for most men, for even when it
is uttered with the kindest intentions to a dutiful
son-in-law it sounds like the very thing you would
like to say on a cold, wet morning to the banana
merchant who attacks you in the rear with his
barrow.
*# # *
The scenery and fittings of the latest
Andersonian production at Melbourne Royal are
wasted upon a twaddlesome drama, which
endeavors to provoke a shudder in the 3rd act,
and fails in its horrible intent. “Dangerous
Women not even a shocker to speak of. The
hero does penance for an imaginary act of man-
slaughter by parting himself from his riches for
12 months, and taking up the profession of a
crossing-sweeper. He can’t be expected to take
his altered circumstances very seriously, seeing
that he is going back to affluence at the end
of a year, and his broom was evidently provided
by the stage property-man. So he falls in love
with the heroine, who is the long-lost daughter of
a colonel, and they cherish their mutual attach-
ment whilst the clouds roll by. The dangerous
women give promise at the outset of acting up to
their title, but they come to grief in the end after
threatening to blow the brains out of a burglar.
There are several characters of evil tendency, in
addition to the haffled females, and they do im-
possible things that lead to nothing in particular.
The patrons of Anderson are not likely to flock to
the present melodrama for longer than a fortnight.
It neither curdles their blood nor melts them to
tears.
** * *
At the Opera House the last nights of
Homer Mason and Marguerite Keeler are an-
nounced, also Seymour and Dupre are said to be
creating a furore. Seymour’s unconcerned man-
ner of propelling himself through space is certainly
remarkable, but the furore doesn’t break any
records. All the same the Rickards advt. deserves
credit these times for moderating its tone in about
the same degree as the entertainment is gaining
public approval.
* * -* *
“The Little Michus,” opening for a short
season at Adelaide Royal after an unforeseen
delay, saw all the principals apparently sound in
health, and has clone great business. Aima Barber
is now Florence Young’s improbable sister ; they
blend well, though they must have altered a good
deal since they were hopelessly confused with
each other in chijdhood. Lauri has a fat, fat part,
and the support is as good as ever. The co. is at
present giving “The Country Girl,” which is
possibly its best _ performance. Melodrama at
lowest possible prices continues to do well at the
Tivoli, and the real-ice rink (which is anxious to'
be known as.the first of its kind frozen in Aus-
tralia) pushes business with carnivals of divers,
kinds.
“Impressions of a Victorian Abroad,”'
embodying in same book “ Confessions of a
Naughty Boy of the Fifties,” by J. Bear. Nothing
since Max O’Rell so amusingly satirical on good'
John Bull. The early Melbourne articles are-
historic and humorous—a rare combination. The-
book of the season. All booksellers shortly.*
AT POVERTY POINT.
Manuel Garcia has died at the respectable age of 101 J
years, some of his longevity being due, presumably, to-
his study and practice of the art of breathing a, required
for easy voice production. Old Garcia, now deceased,
was the son of a famous Manuel, a tenor singer who took
his own Italian Opera 00. to America as long ago as 1825.
He was then a veteran, and the travelling' cost him
his voice—what was left of it. During the last years of
his life he taught singing, his star pupils being his daugh-
ters, celebrated in operatic history as Mahbrun, and \ lar-
dot Garcia. Son M diuel had never a great voice like his
sisters, but,he inherited the parental talent for teaching
the throat how to sing, and the council of the London.
Royal Academy of Music engaged him as an in-
structor. Manuel Garcia held this billet for 40 yeais.
He (or his father before him) was practically the
originator of the “ bird-like trill ” which Jenny
Lind and other of his pupils accomplished to perfection..
His invention of the laryngoscope for examining the
structure of the throat stamps Garcia as the first of
scientific singing masters, and he had the personality
essential to a great teacher- Some of his, pupils became
remarkable teachers in their turn. Melba had her finish-
ing lessons from Mnrchesi, the pupil of Glarcia, and she
trills as Jenny Lind is said to have trilled. Sautley, the
old model for all modern baritone singers, got his educa-
tion at the Roval Academy what time the gifted Spaniard
was taking the class. Garcia created a larger number of
brilliant warblers than any other instructor that ever was,
and his name will live in association with some that ar&
immortal. For instance, the voice of Jenny Lind is an,
imperishable tradition, and the tradition never forgets to
mention Garcia in the matter.
“Cockaigne”: At the Ellen Terry matinee in London
(it realised £6000), men and women waited outside, in a
covered passage, for, twenty hours downwards—in time.
Theapparent physical impossibility is achieved by paying
substitutes in the which the other Queuites.
graciously sanction. It is to be feared they would not be-
so polite 'in Australia., A shilling an hour was the charge-
for substitution. Good for deadbea ts, who hung round
hungrily, and got more sandwiches than usual. The act-
ing by all the stars’in “Much Ado: About Nothing” was
conspicuously bad, hnd they didn’t even kiiow their lines.
“0.K.” : G. B. W, Lewis, who didn’t long survive his
brother-veteran, George Ooppin, was 36 years old when he
landed at Melbourne in ,1854, and started business as a cir-
cus showman. As a matter of fact he lost his money by his.
circus ventures in Australia, but made another fortune by
theatrical management, with Mrs. G. 15.; VV. (one of the
Edouin sisters) for/leading lad-v. Even after his retire-
ment from the old Melbourne Bijou he was a well-to-do
citizen, with a fine house on the St. Kilda-road. Then
came the bank failures, following on the collapse of the
land boom, and Lewis in his old age had to look to his
energetic wife for,support. A hale hearty man, he was a
familiar figure at the Melbourne theatres until quite re-
cently, taking his stand at the back of the dress circle,
beside the young ones.
Hatton, with some Irving reminiscences, in the last
Grand Magazine, is queerly candid about Ellen Terry.
Her parents were very poor. The match with
artist Watts appears to have been regarded as a
good snap. It was as unfortunate as that of Ruskim
with the afterwards Mrs. Millais. Ellen Terry was
so disgusted that she ran away, and utterly disap-
peared for five years. Even her family could not
discover anything about her. Her brother-in-law,
the eminent solicitor Lewis, thought he recog-
nised her in a poor drowned woman taken out
of the Thames. Later she returned to her
friends. In the last season of Irving and Miss
Terry together at the Lyceum the business became
very bad. Eventually Irving retired her, and
she was nettled. When the Provinces began to
rush to him he offered her high terms, but she
refused to perform with him any more, although she
•could not do anything big on her own. ,
The amateur theatrical co. gets stuck in a hole
occasionally. I was riding on the front of a ’bus that
does business between a country town and some outlying
districts. Seeing a lot of maidens reading things in exer-
cise-books inside, I asked the driver—a youth of 20 or so
by the look of his whiskers—what the girls were learning
their lessons for. He replied, “ They’re not learnin’ their
lessons ; thev’re learnin’ their parts for the play. I often
brings ’em out this way. I acks fer them when they’re
short of a bloke. They giv me the part of the pleeceman
once as I’m a pretty good-made bloke. It wuz a pretty
good part too, l might tell yer. I ’ad ter rush
in and say, ‘The pris’ner ’as escaped,’ and when
I does, all the talent wot knows me cheers like any-
thing. The feel of it’s great, I tell yer. Ever take
it on ? Yer oughter try it, the feel of it’s a treat—makes
yer ’old yer ’ead up and feel pretty cocky. The crowd
tells me' I makes a A l actor. I might tell yer they’re
pretty blanky well right. I did me part tray boshter.
Full up of drivin’ a Hoggin’ bus anyow and thmkin of
goin’ on the boards. ’Arry Wood and a lot other blokes
was only blacksmiths and all like that, and I reckon I
oughter be near as good as them, blowed if I don’t think
I cud do better in some of the characters.” Just here he
struck the off side hoss an ungodly whack on the rump
with the whip that possessed no thong and spoke severely
to the beast—“ Git up yer creamy son of a gun ! Got ter
’urrv up, yer know, so’s ter git the ’orses out and fix things
U p_lthe crowd might want me to take another big part
ternighi.”
“Lil”: Re incident in “The Assassin,” at Melbourne
Royal, where Demetri promises to release Wanda’s im-
prisoned sister if Wanda will marry him, and, in fulfilment
of the agreement, hands over the sister’s corpse. Though
•Sardou used a similardevice in “ La Tosca,” one can trace
the idea back to an effusion by that ladylike poetess of
the school reading-books, Mrs. Felicia Ilemans. After
this the melodramatists may be recommended to look for
plots in Ann and Jane Taylor’s “ Original Poems for In-
fant Minds,” in which vice is invariably baffled and virtue
rewarded—usually with a currant bun.
There is once more a project on foot in Adelaide for
the erection of a second theatres the proposed site being
the old Exchange in King Wilifam-street, once the ware-
house of Messrs. D. and W. Murray. Adelaide, however,
can only keep its present theatre going for about eight-
months of the year, as no one will patronise an inside
•entertainment in the height of an Adelaide summer.
Recently stated by Brain, Stoker, Henry Irving’s busi-
ness manager, that during-his connection with the actor-
in Great Britain and America he received from the public,
and paid into his employer’s banking account, a sum
exceeding £2,000,000. Irving must have been even more
lavish in expenditure than was generally believed, as he
only left a few thousands.
“ Melb.” : Exit G. B. W. Lewis. He began active life as
a poor boy who hail to fight his own way. YV ith another
hoy he walked from London to Liverpool, to join Pablo
Famine’s circus. Fanque will be remembered in Australia
as a rope performer. When Lewis was a young man,
Professor Kisley made a great name for what was known
as the Kisley act, tossing a boy about and so forth.
Lewis obtained a boy named 4 ‘ Lilliputian Tom,” and
started to emulate Kisley with immense success. The
boy (called Tom Lewis ; was it his son T) was well known
as a man in Sydney and Melbourne. He appeared first as
pantaloon and afterwards as clown in sundry pantomimes,
under the Koyal management of Harwood and co. Lewis
and Little Tom went over all the European continent.
Lewis made a fortune of £30,000. He came to Australia
in 1854, when the Melbourne bills of Kowe’s Circus showed
Lewis and Lilliputian Tom. Meanwhile he had engaged
in a big spec. He built Astley’s Amphitheatre, after-
wards known as the old wooden Princess’s, and opened
it with a circus company from London. The enterprise
failed, and Lewis was stone broke. However, he
worked up again. He was concerned w'ith Coppin
in the famous Old English Fair at Cremorne Car-
dens. Then he happily married Kose Edouin, an A 1
business woman and clever actress, the present esteemed
Mrs. G. B. YV. Lew-is, and the Lewises prospered in
management at Calcutta and Bombay. Then they had
the Melbourne Bijou. The breaking of the Boom knocked
Lewis out financially.
The 12-year-old Tortoise Town fiddler, Bertha Jones,
who gave an invitation recital in Adelaide Town Hall
recently, turned out to be something of a young marvel,
in spite of her name and appearance, which are distinctly
practical. The kiddy is unaffected, but very self-possessed,
and wields the bow as though born to it. She was
assisted by a sailor-coated mannikin of 10 or so, rejoicing
in the name of Brynonor Beveridge Jones, who, but for a
lapse of memory, fiddled wonderfully well.
Probably the most astonishing episode in thelife of the
late G. B. YV. Lewis was the tour of the goldfields which
he made after breaking with G. V. Brooke in the '6o’s.
Madame still laughs to tears in describing some of the
‘•impromptu performances of that period. She played
through a pantomime on one occasion when all the per-
formers carried umbrellas to protect theirdresses from the
rain that poured through the roof. On another occasion
the pub. billiard-table served as a stage, with the result
that most of the co. fell off once or twice during the
evening. It was almost impossible for the hero tp rush
in and rescue the heroine, and smite the evening-dress
villain and his understudy, the doggy villain, hard in the
eye, all on one billiard-table, without somebody going
overboard.
London testimonials quoted in recent advertisements
asserted that YVilliam Collier “has a resemblance in
his methods to Charles YVyndham and James YYeleh.
Further, “ he sometimes reminded one of Charles Haw-
trey and sometimes of a subdued Seymour Hicks.” Also,
present w r riter opines, he would probably call up memo-
ries of Nat Goodwin only that he is rather more like
Hugh YVard, and, if he had the Australian experience of
Bland Holt, he would bear a powerful resemblance to
Sara Bernhardt. YVhy all these uncalled-for compari-
sons? Surely it is good enough for Collier to be Collier,
seeing that he is Collier. , , . .
“ Stargazer ” : Although good old Robert Brough is
gone the surviving male members of his company will not
permit him to rest in peace. YVatching recent perform-
ances, I see ghosts of Brough flitting in the dun, reli-
gious limelight. Norman M'Keown, who played Valen-
tine Browr. in “Quality Street,” at Melbourne Princess s,
the other night, gave a performance w'hich might have
been considered admirable as a variety turn. It was a
sort of caricatured imitation of Brough through and
through. The late Robert had more mannerisms than
any other first-class actor I have known. In a worse
actor they would have been objectionable, and now worse
actors are reproducing them. The quaint trick of arm
and leg, the peculiar facial contortions, the scratch of the
head, the catch of speech, all come up again in M'Keown s
Valentine Brown, and make me sad. Why will actors art
actors instead of trying to interpret character out of
their own inner consciousness ?
ARMING FOR THE FRAY.
The anti-Trust Bill has passed through the Reps.
AUSTRALIA : “ Yes, this fits all right ; but hurry
up with the rest of the armour, boss.”
“ Snell ” : I have already remarked on the strong family
likeness among American soubrettes and music hall serios ;
hut I And the American men who play the heavier parts
in the comedies and dramas that come from the land of
canned humanity are all brothers, and strikingly alike.
Every American company we have had. has display ed an
actor so like the pro. playing the consul in “The Dictator
at Her Majesty’s, that I am afflicted with a suspicion
that, after all, it may be only, one man dished up to us
again and again under an alias. Anyhow, it is hardly
likelv, in the whole course of time and events, that another
people ever developed such marked and definite types so
suddenly as have the children of Uncle Sam.
MR. T. Y. SEDDON,
Son of the late Premier Seddon, of Manriland,
and lately elected as member for his father's
old constituency.
Photo, by liardie Shaw, Maoriland.
“J.A.0.”: J. L. Toole, unsuccessfully killed by com-
mon report about a month ago, was, when last mail left
England, recovering. Ue is pretty tough, in spite of his
73 years, and has outlived all his relatives, hirst of Ins
own immediate family, his son, a barrister, died ; then
his wife ; and, finally, his daughter. Most of the mem-
bers of his company, associated with him for years, aie
also dead, amongst them Eliza Johnstone and John
Hilling-ton, who accompanied him to A ustralia. 1 robably
his own end will come just about the time this is printed.
The tough old man generally dies in the middle of a
recovery.
The sensitiveness of the actor-person! Gus Elen, an
English variety-show favorite, has been suing the London
Music Hall for “libel,” which consisted in printing his
name in smaller type on the bills than some other names.
It must certainly have been done by mistake, because the
manager who gave Elen £2O a week clearly thought a
good deal of him, and would want the public to think a
good deal also. But there the small print was—smaller
than that of some mere £5 a week people. So Elen
claimed £5O damages—and he actually got £35.
“V.” writes: “ American ” George Bryant, who plays
Cash Hawkins in the “ Squaw Man,” tended his father’s
flocks and herds in the Otway Forest before he got stage-
struck, and deprived Victoria of a desirable primary pro-
ducer. Ue originally joined Williamson, Garner and Mus-
grove, and afterwards played the policeman in “The
Magistrate” with Brough and Boucicault. After an
absence of some 16 years or so, he is now stage-managing
the “Squaw Man’’—teaching the American and Aus-
tralian members of the company how to act. J. O. W.
didn’t know that the new stage-manager, whom he had
imported all the way from New York, was just an Aus-
tralian, until he dropped in at the first dress-rehearsal, at
Her Majesty’s, and then the recognition was mutual.
Glasgow News (31/5/’o6> seriously alleged that the late
Premier Seddon had engnged Knowles, the funny man
who sang “ The Benches in the Park,” to give humorous
lectures on Maorilarid, with a view to promoting mimi-
■ ■•rat'on. Knowles, with his grimace, and his dancing
Tegs, and his unearthly plug hat, promoting immigration,
would be a sight for the gods.
“ O’Fipp ” : Seems to me that the directors of musical
and elocutionary competitions will have to appoint
fighting judges in the near future. I was among the
audience several times during a recent,provincial series,
and found that there was a strong disposition to resent
snarlsome criticisms. When a judge told one competitor
that he ought to be ashamed to appear on a public plat-
form a good proportion of the audience laughed, but
some tough-looking friends of the crushed competitor
veiled, “ Ugh, yer dorg ! We’ll wait fer you ! ” I don’t
know whether they waited or not, but certainly that
particular judge was absent next night, owing, it was
announced, to “ indisposition.” Now, if Bill Squires had
been the judge he could have given the resentful ones all
they wanted and a bit more. Possibly William has not
studied music and elocution, but in any case he could
hardly make a worse attempt at judging than some of
those who have.
London Mirror has made the sad discovery that there
is scarcely a piece now being acted at the West End
theatres of Fogtown which does not encourage the spread
of Sin. “ Rattles ” glorifies burglary. “ The Girl Behind
the Counter ” induces shop-girls to accompany gentle-
men out to dinner. “ The Lonely Millionaires ” contains
altogether too many “damns.” “The Man from
Blankley’s ” pours contempt on the middle classes. The
Spring Chicken ” makes marital infidelity amusing ; and
“ The Little Stranger ” encourages children to smoke.
The sorrowing Mirror concludes by saying that the only
moralist now writing for the theatre is George Bernard
Shaw, who, in “Captain Brassbound’s Conversion,’
preaches that people should not be revengeful.
It transpired during the hearing of a charge against
the lessee of the Melbourne Bijou Theatre of failing to
make alterations ordered by the Board of Health, that he
has paid £l3OO rent for the dangerous building since it was
built. Ue was fined £2O for a start, and his rent money is a
dead loss until improvements are effected. Meanwhile the
owner of the property is an absentee in the Cold Country,
and probably animadverts with great vim on the Social-
istic legislation which drives capital out of the country.
“Pro”: Will Collier mourns over the loss of all his
press noticesat’Frisco. Imustsay that the best thingwhich
can happen to a Thespian orThespienne is to lose all those
rusty-fusty notices so laboriously accumulated. They
become Household Gods of a deleterious nature. When
you go to London, San Francisco, or New York, no
manager will look at your notices. He says it is not
what you were but what you are to-day. If he has heard
of you, all right; if not, all wrong. A clergyman wept as he
exclaimed, “I don’t so much sorrow for my house being
burnt as for the irreparable loss of all my sermons.”
Afterwards he admitted that he only began really to
preach after that fire.
Fitzgerald Bros’. Circus is now on the market for sale,
the surviving brother—the legal and political brother of
the family—having no personal love for the smell of the
hyaena.
THE UNPLEASANT SUNDAY AFTERNOON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN .]
If you have a fellow-feeling: for the workers in the Cause,
If you like to see a row and hear a song,
If you feel dissatisfaction svith the code of social laws
Or you feel that things are mostly going wrong;
Then you scan the daily paper with a wild, expectant
eye,
While you hum a very sad, religious tune,
Till you find the brief announcement —then you clutch
your gamp and fly
To the Most Unpleasant Sunday Afternoon.
There they sit and growl in chorus, and they interject
and shout,
And they make insinuations, and they sneer,
And they call each other blackguards, and they throw
each other out,
And they talk about each other’s bets and beer.
Then they tell each other stories—awful stories full of
spite,
Tales of tote shops where they gamble ’neath the moon.
Anything that’s dull and sordid— that's what causes such
delight
At the Most Unpleasant Sunday Afternoon.
It’s the latest dissipation—it’s a sport ohock-full of glee,
And it’s really must amusing—also cheap.
Come along, good friends, and listen to the social agony ;
See the interjeetors rolling in a heap ;
Hear the dreadful accusations —watch the gambols of the
just
And the course of this morality monsoon,
Then I’m game to bet a trifle you will flee in wild disgust
From the D —d Unpleasant Sunday Afternoon.
▼lf.
KODAK.


Furred tSkins
Rabbit vSßins
FORWARD YOUR CONSIGNfIENTS TO—
HILL CLARK & CO.,
Woo / and Produce Salesmen, §YDMEY
Popular Price CAMERAS
. . . AT . . .
HARRINGTON’S.
fsd
30/
POSTACE
EXTRA, 1/6
Vicftor No. 1
Most Popular Camera in
Australasia. Takes Photos.
4.| x 3|in. Carries 12 Plates
or 24 Films in Magazine.
A novice can produce nice
Photos with it from the start.
Plate Cameras
Fi. p m Cameras
Hand Cameras
Stand Cameras
From
ss. up to £5O
AND EVERY
CONCEIVABLE
PHOTO-REQUISITE.
15/-
POSTAGE
EXTRA,
1/6.
fsd
METEOR
A cheap little Camera that
will produce excellent
Photos. 4| x 3|ln. Carries
12 Plates in Magazine.
Simple to operate.
HARRINGTON & CO., LTD.
Photographic
Merchants . .
386 GE3RGE ST.
NEAR
C.P.0.,
SYDNEY, and 93 Queen-st., Brisbane
Society
It is difficult to know exactly where to
pick out the moral of the story of Boy Brown, the
self-confessed triple murderer of German Creek
(Baltina, N.S.W.). He was something of a waif
and stray, and had been a State apprentice on a
farm—in a humble way he had gone on the land,
and communed with Nature and studied the glory
of the everlasting stars. He says, in a crazy sort
of fashion, that he murdered the old farmer who
previously employed him, likewise the farmer’s
wife and the hired man, “to get money to start a
revolution in order to have a White Australia.”
The idea of raising a revolution with the few
shillings he was likely to find in the pocket of a
dead farmer has a certain picturesqueness about
it. Even a Philippine revolt costs more than that.
He borrowed a military uniform and a bayonet
before doing the deed, which act seems
to suggest that some hazy idea of warlike
pomp and circumstance was crawling, cater-
FOR JOLLY BOYS ARE WE.
PICTURE o MISERY: “ Lord lumme, mates;
gimme half a dollar, an’ I’ll be iust as jolly
as you are.”
pillar-wise, through the convolutions of his
brain that he would have liked to form himself
into a hollow square if lie had known how, and to
slay the old farmer with cannon. The triple
murder, by Brown’s own account, was a dis-
ordered scramble with a sandbag, a bottle, and
the bayonet already mentioned. Having killed
Gillick and the two Tuk o ■
Lrillick and the two U Keefes, Boy Brown is
alleged to have lain low in ballast tor the return
of the son and daughter of the house, and, when
he had smote the son ineffectually, they fled
inside, while Brown made for the Queensland
border. I here is a great agricultural patience
and calm about the fact that, though the son
and daughter found that their parents were
missing, they made no search till next morn-
ing. As a side issue, from which big
dreary men with holy cheek-whiskers may draw a
possible moral it is mentioned that Gillick, the
deceased farm hand, once won £5OOO in Tatter-
salis sweep (which was gambling), and that he
lost the money keeping a hotel (which was
rmkmg) Ihen he went back to his old job and
was killed, but, as he would probably have been
ailed in any case, the gambling and drinking
moral falls flat.
Boy Brown seems to have done some extraor-
dinary pedestrianism in his flight, covering about
80 miles in 40 hours, and at the same time making
a hopeless effort to keep out of view in a thickly-
settled and thickly cow-infested country. There
is something dramatic about the tale of the
woolly dog” that accompanied him in
bis retreat. The dog belonged to the de-
ceased O Keefes, and when their alleged slayer
fled for his life the dog followed him. An older
and more astute person would nave stoned the
animal back, or would have destroyed it as a bit
of incriminating evidence-but the wretched Boy
Brown didn’t. Seemingly he liked the dog,
and the dog liked him, and anyhow the
dog was the only friendly thing left in the
midst of a hostile world—so Brown and the
victims dog set off on their terrible 80-mile tramp
together. And Brown shared his scanty tucker
with the “woolly dog.” And at every turn the
woolly dog ’ was seen and pointed at; pursuers
followed the trail of the “ woolly dog.” and in the
end the “ woolly dog ” helped the arresting
trooper to recognise Brown. Talk about being
dogged by Nemesis !
• * » *
“Hypo,” from Victoria :
Re “ foodless, shirtless and brainless ” children in Eng-
land (B. ,21 G/’O6). I have just seen the children
country State school being drilled prior to going into
their class-rooms. It was raw and cold, and on the shady
side of the school buildings (where the children were) the
frost was still on the grass. Many of the youngsters had
little enough clothing on them and little enough
food in them, judging from their pinched ap-
pearance. They were listless and weary looking, through
long pursuit of Oow before beginning the day’s les-
sons. Their school bags and (in the case of those
living at a distance) lunches were on the ground at their
feet. And the poor little scraps of lunches they had 1
Xhe teachers did not seem to have any special sympathy
for them. Doubtless the familiarity of the sight accounted
for that. They had small patience with any unfortunate
youngster who shivered too much to pay attention to his
0r ,? r j / . These failures were roared at savagely,
grabbed furiously, thrown out of the ranks, and made to
stand apart in disgrace. A flag was hoisted on a pole,
andl as preparations were being made for “ saluting ” the
CO j happing object, I left. I felt on the verge of dis-
orderly conduct when I saw those kiddies kept out in the
open to make quaint frosty gestures at the Union John.
» * * *
“ C.” : Last Sunday evening I took Hor-
tense for a stroll in Sydney Domain. Several
hundreds of Jacks and Jills,
and Ferdinands and Mauds
were there. A couple of cooing
doves occupied almost every
seat, so Ilortense and I found
a vacant one and did likewise.
We sat close together, as it
was cold and windy. Just a»
I was telling Hortense that I
loved her to distraction, a
woman’s piercing shriek rang
on the still night air. Then
cries of “ Perlice ! Perlice !,
Gimme me ’at ! Gimme me
’at - ” rent the sacred Sabbath
air. I saw a man sprinting
across the green and a
hatless woman after him. He
jumped a rail; she jumped
after him, screeching madly
“Perlice! Gimme me ’at!”
By-and-bye, the cries ceased,
and the woman stopped run-
ning. She came back, sobbing
violently. Three women came
along the fig-tree path, and
asked her what was the mat-
ter. Then the four went
looking round, and finally
one said “ Here it is.” There,
down in the dusty road,
was a white chiffon hat and a
quantity of lilac flowers torn
into shreds. As each woman
picked up a flower or a bow
or a scrap of chiffon, the
heroine of the adventure
sobbed louder. She sat down
and tried to straighten out
her ruined “lid,” and, as
every woman present handed
up pins, their mouths grew
hard and their fingers
twitched. “I vexed him,
and be tore up me best ’at, ”•
wailed the sobbing creature as she was led
away. Do you think there is ahy ’pumsh-
ment to fit such, a crime ?/: When; are
the police that a woman may lose her
most cherished possession and not one
come to her rescue ?
* * * ’ *
Maoriland has a freak of nature in the
shape of a publican who works. When a Nelson
publican applied the other day for a renewal of
his license, it came out that he was supplementing
his beer receipts by navvying for the local cor-
poration.
* » * *
Throughout Australia voices sing—
A Cure ! A Cure !! A Cure !! !
The only really certain thing
Which, Summer, Autumn, Winter, Spring,
Will Cure. Will Cure. Will Cure
Your coughs and colds, and make them bring
Glad tribute to their healing king.
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
A guaranteed cure for piles, itching, blind,
bleeding or protruding, Chemists refund money
if Pazo Ointment fails to cure any case,' 1 no
matter of how long standing, in 6 to 14 days.
First application gives ease and rest. 2s. 3d."
A SENTIMENTALIST.
“ Had to come back; went
home an ’ found the wife
choppin’ wood; couldn’t
bear to look at it. Give
us another beer."
A sea captain, who the other day was fined
10s. and costs in Sydney for whaling a cabin
boy with a cane, regards the progress of
the age as a sham and a delusion. The
fine is nothing; it is the indignity of the
thing. Another captain, who was lately fined
for knocking down the cook with a belaying
pin, cursed his way down George-street in desolate
disgust with the mawkish tendencies of the times
and the impudent interference of landlubbers with
old prescriptive rights. “ A belayin’ pin, indeed !
An’ if a darned skipper isn’t ter use a belayin’ pin
what in tar is he ter use ? ” he demanded to know.
He was just about kicking a dog to relieve his
vexation, but the other captain with him re-
marked : “ Better not. Maybe there’s a law
agin that too. I dunno, but these coves on land
seem to do nuthin’ while we’re on the deep but
make laws ter jug or rob us.” “Next time,”
said the skipper slouching sulkily along, “ I come
ter port I’ll not leave me cabin till I read all the
new laws they’ve made in me absence. They seem
ter be layin’ for us mariners.”
The death of Patrick O'Rourke, at St.
Kilda (Vic.), is likely to remain a mystery unless
the person—if there is one—who struck Pat comes
forward and says so. Investigation only deepens
the gloom. The alleged blood-stains in the lava-
tory were not blood. The Government analyst
proved that not one of the stains submitted was
blood except that on O’Rourke’s clothes. There
is nothing to show that O’Rourke was ever near
the lavatory. His best girl has said so; but
then she gave three statements to the police
and made one deposition before the coroner, and
they differ so widely that that girl is prac-
tically out of it as a witness. Detective Burvett
reckons that O’Rourke fell down a drain and hurt
himself. Detective Sexton doesn’t think O’Rourke
fell down a drain, but has no theory of his own ;
he explained to the coroner that “ Time will tell.”
Detective White gave evidence, and opined that
O’Rourke was struck on the head by parties who
are still at large. And O’Rourke remains quietly
dead and says nothing, while his best girl is alive
and saying almost everything, but very little to
the purpose.
» * * *
As a rule The Bulletin objects to
obituary verse, but the following effort from the
Age is something extra :
A sunbeam for Jesus, she sang it so often,
The black-haired darling, I loved it so well;
The music would ring in her clear, childish treble ;
How sad was that message poor Constable Dillon brought
us we never could tell.
It can never be forgot.
Cornelius Crowe, Melbourne ex-constable,
was acquitted on his third trial for alleged black-
mail. A letter bearing Crowe’s signature reached
George Bennett, M.L.A. and cordial manufac-
turer. It suggested that Bennett should pay £25
to enable Crowe to get full control of a paper
which, under its present control, seemed inclined to
be nasty to Bennett. Crowe was prosecuted. He
admitted knowledge of the letter, but denied
signing or posting it, saying that he had left it un-
signed on the table of a friend, who in excess of zeal
signed and posted it. Crowe adopted a high, chival-
rous attitude and would not tell this friend’s name.
But the friend—J. J. Wright, “journalist”—
turned up, and admitted signing the letter,
though he disclaimed knowledge of its contents.
Lawyer Herbert Barrett, and lawyer’s clerk John
Bassett Cullen, at the last trial related conversa-
tions in which Wright had owned up to signing
the letter. After this tangled tale had been un-
rolled, Justice Cussen suggested that Cornelius
might be acquitted, and, after thinking for 20
minutes, the jury bade Cornelius go unharmed.
The whole case proves conclusively that when ex-
constables leave letters lying about there is danger
to the peace of mind of lemonade manufacturers.
THE DEBUTANTE.
SOCIETY BOY: “ Has your sister come out yet?”
MEASLEY BOY: “O, yes; all over her body.”
THE EVERLASTING PICNIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Carruthers has invited members of the Federal
Parliament to visit certain centres in this State, which have
been suggested as sites for the capital. The Federal mem-
bers will be treated as the guests of New South Wales, the
•State bearing’ the whole of the cost. —Daily papers.
What odds whose guests
You are ?
Just come and breast
The bar!
Try Fusel’s best
Three Star;
Or Staggerham’s !
We’d feasts in days
Of yore ;
’Tis time to raise
Some more !
What odds who pays
The score ?
Let’s Jubilate !
Don’t think we’re rash,
Old friend !
We’ve plenty cash
To spend !
And i* we smash
In the end—
Our troubles 1
It’s evident
To me
This Parliament-
’Ry spree
To all intent
Should be
Perennial!
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.


NEURALGIA
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
“Neuralgia gave me hardly any peace for 17
long years,” said Mrs. Eliza M. Bevan, Hill St.,
Forbes. “I was nearly out of my mind with
pain when I started Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for
Pale People. After the second box. the Neuralgia
began to ease up. But the pain was stubborn,
and it was weeks before the pills were able to
drive it clean out of my system. I had to take 17
boxes altogether, but then I was cured for good.
When I wrote to Sydney about it they said it
must have been the worst case of Neuralgia in all
Australia. The chemist had never known another
case that needed anything like so many boxes of
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills to cure it.
“Years ago my health began to break down.
I was growing weaker every month. I could not
keep my strength up, for I lost all appetite.
Some days I wouldn’t have a bite inside my
mouth. Other days when I did eat a little, I
suffered agony with Indigestion. Everything I
swallowed seemed to lie like a ton weight on.
my chest. I felt so miserable after every meal,
that I grew to hate the sight of food. I got
thinner and thinner. From one week’s end to 1
another, I was tired. I let myself run down to
the lowest ebb. Every scrap of strength left me.
I was as weak as a baby. There wasn’t a month
passed without me having a fainting fit. If I sat
down to read for a while, I used to feel this-
faintness stealing oyer me. Sometimes, when
speaking to a friend in the street, I had to excuse
myself quickly so that I could get away, and;
save myself from dropping down in a dead swoon.
“When the Neuralgia was bad. a hot burning
pain shot from my chin up to the crown of my
head every few minutes. The agony was so 1
frightful that I had to cry out. I couldn’t bear
even a soft towel to touch my face. Every time
I opened my mouth, the pain darted up through
my brain. M.y head felt as if the top were lifting,
off. If anyone came behind me and ?-t their
hands on my chair, it sent a spasm ui, asrony
through my face and head. It was worse than if
I had been burnt with a red-hot iron. No one
ever had Neuralgia like I had.
“ When the doctors couldn’t cure me, I thought
the terrible pain must come from my teeth,”
Mrs. Bevan added. “ Fully twenty times I went
to have them out—but the dentist wouldn’t draw
them. It turned out a blessing that he wouldn’t.
I tried no end of liniments and lotions —but I
might as well have saved my money, for all the
good they did me. At last, I tried Dr. Williams
Pink Pills for Pale People. I took two boxes
before I could see that they were doing me the
least good—but I would have gladly taken a dozen;
boxes to be one day free from the Neuralgia..
By the time I had taken 17 boxes, I was back
in splendid health. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
gave me an appetite such as I never hoped to'
have. For three years, I have not had a single
sign of my old Neuralgia—so it is plain that when
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cured me, they cured me
for good.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cured Mrs. Bevan
because they actually made new blood for her.
That one thing is all they do—but they do it well.
They don’t act on the bowels. They don’t bother
with mere symptoms. They go straight down to
the root of the matter in the blood, and cure that.
And from that one root, bad blood, spring half
the common ailments such as bloodlessness, indi-
gestion, biliousness, headaches, backaches, lum-
bago, rheumatism, sciatica, neuralgia, nervous-
ness, St. Vitus’ dance, spinal complaint, general
weakness, and the special secret ailments that
attack women and growing girls, whenever their
blood supply becomes irregular or overtaxed.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cure all these blood
troubles because they actually make new blood.
If you are not quite sure whether your illness
is caused by bad blood, write for free medical
advice to Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Sydney.
From the same address you can also order the
genuine Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills by mail, 2s. 9d.
a box; six boxes 15s. 3d., post free.*
From S.M. Herald (17/6/’06)
~X\T ANTED for Richmond River, refined Working
VV COMPANION, thor. domesticated, Presby-
terian, good home and daughter’s privilege to kind,
Christian person from 28 yrs., personal ref. req. 5s.
Five shillings a week to be a good Christian in a
Presbyterian family ! It couldn’t be done for £1,
and it would be worth 15s. to be a very moderate
heathen amid such surroundings.
A Man’s Opportunity
In order to reduce heavy
Stocks of Winter Materials.
f
A Special Discount of
Xen Per Cent. Offered.
SAC SUITS, To Order, 635.
70s.
tt tt
tt tt
tt tt
TROUSERS, „
755.
84s.
16s. 6d.
21s.
255.
Offered for 56s* 9cl*
„ 63s*
tt
tt
„ 67s* 6d.
„ 75s* 6d*
„ 15s.
„ 19s*
„ 22s* 6d*
AVAILABLE for 14 DAYS ONLY,
Pattern s, Fashions, Measurement Forms Post Free.
R. c. HAGON, Merchant Tailor, i 29 King St., Sydney.
MRS. GRUNDY.
[For The Bulletin.]
The exploration of a fourth cave, termed Mother
Grundy's Parlor, revealed an earlier chapter. The re-
mains 'of hyaenas were very abundant.— Dawkins Early
Man in Britain.”
I often wondered whence she came,
That venerable, dear old lady,
Who ferrets out our deeds of shame,
And gloats upon our stories shady.
I thought she was a modern type—
A recently-invented vandal —
Who hid behind her sex to snipe
The passer-by with shafts of scandal.
But now ’tis all as clear as day ;
Within her prehistoric caverns
She gained the art to track her prey
In country lanes or city taverns.
She marks the weak and stumbling band
Of those who fail in life’s arena,
As erstwhile in a distant land
Her prototype—the cave hyaena.
Maorilaxd. Taiwa.
■K 1C * *
“ Kurrukaburra ” sends “ Extract from a
Sermon ” that was preached somewhere, but for-
gets to add where it was prauglit—apparently
somewhere in the backbloeks of Yarraville, which
once magnanimously offered to change names with
Melbourne. Thus proceeds the thumper of the
red cushion: —
“Give me children, or I die!” Such, brethren and
sisters, was the cry of the daughter of Israel. (Not so, it
was his wife.) This is an indication of prosperity and
piety', and as soon as the women cease to crave for chil-
dren they are on the down grade, making themselves
sign-posts of national degradation. When blowsy Madame
de Stael came fishing for a compliment to Bonaparte,
and wanted to know the noblest type of woman (s< me
blue-nosed and blue-stockinged one, of course) that
gentleman replied, “She who has the most children.”
Leech depicted Leicester Square Frenchmen looking at a
washstand in the London Exhibition, and asking, “ What
is that?” Let the Leech of to-day show a fossil baby,
like Barnum’s mermaid, in a glass case, with a number of
young ladies inquiring, “ What is that ? ” I hear of tract-
distributing elderly spinsters going round and askingpoor
women why' they have so many. “ How do the actresses
manage?" is the query of fashionable ladies. The grand
problem is how to be married without having a family.
Your fashionable woman does not marry a man, but a
mansion, furniture, carriage and horses, and a wardrobe
from Paquin or Worth. A husband is only part of the
upholstery and bolster.v, like a wooden “ wife ” (so-called)
which they gave me in Java, to make a sort of tent on
the couch. The lady shudders during the wedding cere-
mony, when the choir sings its beauteous “ Voice That
Breathed o’er Eden,” including a prayer that she may be
dowered with sweet children. No, thank you, she prefers
dogs.
• • » *
“ Lil ” : I was sufficiently misguided to
spend an alleged “ Pleasant Sunday Afternoon”
at Wesley Church (Melb.) recently. The pleasant-
ness consisted of a tedious setting-forth of the
opinions of W. H. Judkins, and a loathsome de-
scription of the corpse that figured in the Flem-
ington racecourse horror. Next time I want a
pleasant Sabbath I’ll look for it at the Morgue.
* ¥ * *
A curious version of “The Fatal Wed-
ding” has happened at Lincoln (M.L.). One
McCutcheon was about to be married, and was
awaiting his bride in church, when two detectives
collected him on a charge of forgery. He asked
to be allowed to get married before being
arrested, but the officers objected. They took him
to the side of the church and searched him.
None of the “incriminating documents” were
found on him, nor a weapon of any kind—only
the parson’s fee, some cigarettes and a bunch of
keys. On being permitted to confer with the par-
son for a few minutes, he got the reverend gentle-
man to draw up a hurried will, which left his
belongings, including a £300 life policy (now
invalid), to his intended bride—the intended bride
had meantime been sent home in a vehicle and
tears. The parson didn’t tell the ’tecs about this
rough-and-ready will. Then M’Cutcheon, being
left alone for a second, took a gun out of a cavity
in his artificial leg, and shot himself. He had
been in gaol previously, and should have been
known to the force, but it forgot all about his
artificial leg.
A DISCREET MAIDEN.
THE GIRL : “ Thank you so much for the drive."
THE SHEPHERD: “ Ah, don’t mention it.”
THE GIRL: “I won't if you don’t wish me to.”
“Hassan”: “Melb.” (B. 28/6/’O6) re-
ports Monkey Cole as explaining that the Chows
and Japs can read each other’s written characters
but can’t converse. It may be so. But I showed
a paper which I thought was Chinese to our
vegetable John. “No savee,” he remarked,
“He Yoppolee.” After three trials of this word
• i j •. , 1T , tu j
I distinguished it as Japanese. Also, I showed
the Japanese steward of one of the N.Y.Iv. boats
some of the Chinese characters—the farmer,
family love, jealousy, and a dozen others. He
could not make head nor tail of them, and told me
~T , , . ,
they were not Japanese, but might be Chinese.
Upon my admitting that the latter was the truth
he was very much offended at the idea that a boy
of the Bull-Monk breed could possibly understand
the infamously inferior Chinese language. It is
true that the two languages are based on the same
set of symbols, but the arrangement differs as
much as does that of the European symbols in the
Teutonic and Romanic languages.
* * * *
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
NOT WORTH THE PRICE.
DOROTHY (after an hours struggle with Chopin): “Say, mummy, will everybody play on harps
in Heaven? ”
MUMMY : “ Yes, dear.”
DOROTHY : “ And will we have to take lessors first? Because if we do I don't want to go.”
Some sort of poetic justice was meted out
to the Bluenose skipper of the Melville Island.
Soapy Sam Gillott, though prodded again and
again by solicitor Joe Woolf, resolutely refused to
set the law in motion against the remarkable
skipper, although he admitted that the statutes
had been deliberately broken and defied. Two
old women—keepers of 39th-rate boarding-houses
—were singled out by Sain as the_ best sub-
jects for a prosecution. He thought it wouldn t
look well to prosecute a ship captain, espe-
cially when he was also part owner of his
vessel. So the Melville Island shipped a
new crew, and sailed away for Port Pirie.
Then the elements took the matter up. Weeks
passed, yet the craft did not reach its destination,
and at last people began to wonder whether the
new crew (the third shipped) had mutinied, and
marooned its Bluenose autocrat, and turned
pirates. But at last, 21 days after the Melville
Island left Queenscliff for the West, it was heard
of again away to the East, 100 miles further from
its destination than when it started, and all that
time the third crew had been breaking the heart
of the skipper by eating his ancient and scanty
victuals with no progress to show for them. At
time'of writing he is still racketting about Bass
Straits, and the Plying Bluenose promises to
rival the Flying Dutchman.
* w * *
“S.”: A noticeable feature about the
afternoon-tea concerts which Melbourne’s largest
tasting-house is giving these days is that people
do not talk during the numbers. They listen. I
happened in among the potted plants one recent
afternoon, and found about one man and a half
seated among some two hun-
dred nice, clean, amiable-look-
ing women. There was quite a
family air about the gathering.
They all sat and hummed agree-
ably to one another in between
the songs, and drank tea, and
ate bread - and - butter, and
looked really comfy. The only
things lacking were a fireplace
and a tortoiseshell cat to make
things thoroughly homelike.
Speaking for myself, the atmos-
phere was rather enervating.
The palms, I suppose. Shortly
after my entrance I saw a
woman looking at me with a
chilly eye. She regarded my
noisy vest and my unshaven
chin; and then I began to
tremble in my boots, for I
recognised her as the scandal
editress of a paper, and I hadn't
told my wife that I was going
to happen in to the tea-party.
Presently a Frenchman and an
Australian began a song about
the Flag—not the Australian
nor the French flag—and I stumbled out again
over the door-mat into the bar and had some of
the hop bitters. But Ido think we have good
manners out here ; in England, when people are
singing at afternoon teas, the audience talks.
* » * *
If the firemen at George-street West
(Sydney) station could get hold of a certain alleged
humorist there would probably be a fiery time for
him. The company had a favorite engine-horse,
an intelligent beast that “knew his work as well
as a man,” and did it better than a lot of
men. The other day came an excited
“call” from Pyrmont, telling of a fire
at a timber-yard. Timber-yard fires are
generally big things, and that engine crew didn’t
let any grass grow under its wheels. When it
pulled up at the “scene” the “call” proved to
be a hoax ; no fire and no talk of one—but the
dandy horse was dead at his pole. His last
strenuous effort to do his duty well had broken
his big honest heart. Now the address of one
humorous hog is required at that fire station.
No sooner has Victoria re-started the sys-
tem of licensed private asylums than the old
danger crops up again. Only lately the practice
of holding inquests in camera at the State asylums-
was stopped; but it seems the same system
obtains at private asylums —“in the interests of the
patients’ relatives.” With regard to State patients
the plan was objectionable, but applied to private
hospitals it is absolutely dangerous. There is
often very little inducement to keep a lunatic in
robust physical health, and many reasons why he,
or she. should be encouraged to pass to a better
world,Where the keep is far less expensive, and
the Almighty foots the board bills.
Melbourne welshers and their pals and
bullies were very angry and very sympathetic
over the arrogant brutality of the Flemington
mob in kicking to death “Big Mick” M‘Leod,
one of the novices at the game. When they first
heard that Mick had been despatched by the
crowd, half-a-dozen welshers who had also been
raking in a dishonest “bob,” turned on the mob
with bitterness in their hearts, and palings and
chains and such like trifles in their hands. The
first party of three they met they tackled, and
after doubling two men up and sending one off to
the hospital, the welshers departed with relieved
feelings. On Monday it was decided at a welsher
caucus that “Big Mick” ought to be laid to rest
with his ancestors in St. Arnaud. The hat (closely
guarded) was sent round, and enough money col-
lected to send the body away to the little mining
town. There was quite a touch of pathos in these
hardened old battlers, most of whom have “done
time’’(and people innumerable), finding this little
grain of sentiment in their hardened old hearts.
One man, who had got £1 as his share of the
spoil on Saturday, cheerfully handed over 10s. to
bury “ Big Mick.”
* * * *
Bendigo (Vic.) has lately laid itself out to
produce heirs to stupendous fortunes. A few
days ago a German named Petersen was claimed
by a lawyer’s clerk as the missing heir to £40,000,
left by a German uncle. Bendigo was still trying
to keep its head above its astonishment when
another European lawyer’s clerk arrived and
started looking round. All Bendigo hoped he
was looking for it, but he fixed on another Ger-
man —an ancient identity known as “Fred.”
Fred had inherited £20,000. Now every law clerk
who arrives in Bendigo is received by a deputation
of citizens carrying free drinks —citizens who have
German uncles and want badly to inherit some-
thing.
* * * *
“ Mahlstick ” writes :
A few impressions of the Victorian Artists’ Exhibition.
I award the first laurel to Brigham—beg pardon, Blamire
—Young, for his picture of Lady Franklin receiving
an address at Fawlrner’s Hotel, Melbourne, in 1839. It
touches a chord. Nothing else does. Surely good enough
for the National Gallery at such a figure as £lB9. Why
do we allow his painting of Fawkner at the first Mel-
bourne printing press to remain in the Geelong Gallery ?
Pursuing other exhibits in the order of number —No. 10,
“Central Australia,” J. S. Moore. Highly creditable,
and flung at you for £B. No. 11, “ Settler’s Camp,”
A. Fuller. Gambogey and good. No. 20, Mount
Wellington, Hobart,” A. Boyd. Cheap at £lOO. No. 23,
“ Our Selection,” H. Waugh. Logging with a horse —
proper Steele Rudd. No. 32, “Midsummer Eve,”
M'Cubbin. Finely atmosphered bush scene ; girl, without
bathing costume, slipping into the water from a fallen
trunk. If Archbishop Carr or Archbishop Clarke buys it
the girl can be painted out, being only a small figure.
No. 37, “Flowers (and Girls) of Westralia," by Mrs.
Fuller. Challenges anything in the exhibition, and many
will rank it first. No. 38, portrait of Professor Macdonald,
by Mrs. Muntz-Adams ; first-rate. No. 39, “ A Golden
Hour—Courting in the Bush,” by F. A. Fuller. Not
beaten by more than three exhibits. I drop some other
paintings which have obtained plenty’ of kudos. Nearly
all the best are hung in the first room. However, the
place of honor is taken by a sickly thing which the
fashionables worship as a joss—Lady Talbot’s contri-
bution.
When the Bent Government proposed to
appoint dairy supervisors under the new Milk
Supervision Act, trie municipalities said they
were quite capable of carrying out the necessary
inspection just as they had always done, thank
you ; but it was Bent’s day for being firm, and a
dozen supervisors were appointed for the metro-
polis. On the first visit one of them paid to a
suburban dairy he found two large milk cans in
use; one had 18 holes in the bottom, the
other 19, all stuffed with rags—strips from any
handy old garment—some of them three inches
long, and floating round in the milk, on which
they bestowed an extra choice bouquet, so to
speak. These rags, which had presumably passed
the previous municipal inspection, are some of the
reasons why the public laughs when the fat ioiy
wails about “Government interference with pri-
vate enterprise.”


%ZZtr.TosT
xtts
HOME STUDY ” sent on receipt of Postcard. [6
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY
64 Pitt St., SYDNEY APPLIANCES, Ltd. 424 Little Collins St., MELBOURNE
STEEL RAILS. STEEL TRUCKS. TRAMWAY MATERIAL.
ROBEY
Portable Engines, Tractions, Thrashers, High Speeds, Vertical and
Horizontal Oil Engines, &c., &c.
BRJNTON’S SCOTCH WIRE ROPE.
Hayward’s Sheep Dips, Pearn’s Pumps, Mining Requisites, &c., &c.
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER, Managing Director.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The Electric Light Department op the Mel-
bourne City Council
Paid Contri- Available Total
Gross as In- bution to for Re-
Feb., Profit. terest. City. Reserves. serves.
1900 .. £22,332
1901 ..£11,786 £5,179 £6,607 28,939
1902 .. 10,566 17,806 21,039
1903 .. 23.568 11,791 11,777 33,416
1904 .. 30,877 12,750 18,127 51,543
1905 .. 36,636 13,395 £lOOO 22,241 73,784
Written Off, £12,608 61,176
1906 .. 40,986 13,456 1000 26,530 87,706
Written Off, £5650 82,056
The amount written off during: the year is made up in
this way : The change-over of consumers’ installations—
chiefly from the overhead to the underground system—
was charged to capital ; this cost £25,822. In 1905 £6OOO
of this was written off ;in the past, year £5OOO. The
other £650 which has been written off during the year is
accounted for by depreciation of stores, &c., most of
which might, for the purposes of this review, be charged
direct against revenue, reducing the year’s gross profit
to £40,336. This includes £2400 interest on sinking fund
and other reserve investments. The profit of £40,336
allows of this :
Full interest and charges on debt.. .. £13,456
Sinking fund at 1 per cent 3,753
/"Depreciation and renewals, 2 per cent. .. 7,507
s Special appropriation for depreciation .. 7,500
costs written off .. .. 6,000
Aid to city revenue 1,000
Balance for reserves 2,120
Total .. .. £40,336
The three bracketed items represent about 5£ per cent,
written off the capital value of the plant, mains. &e., for the
year. The balance of net profit, after paying interest, is
at the rate of £1 16s. 2d. per cent, on capital
outlay. The gross profits, including interest on reserve
funds, but before paying interest on debt and pro-
viding for depreciation, were at the rate of
£lO 15s. 2d. per cent, on the total outlay. As near
as possible, this 10$ per cent, was divided as follows:
Interest, 34 per cent. ; depreciation, 54 percent. ; true
reserves, if per cent. A fraction of these reserves is,
however, again passed over to the city revenues on these
grounds (Report for 1905)Inasmuch as the Electric
Supply Undertaking is directly chargeable upon the
Town Fund, and the responsibility for any deficiency in
connection therewith would have to be borne by the
citizens, it is the usual practice, when funds will permit
thereof, for a portion of the surplus revenue to be appro-
priated for grants to the Town Fund.” The best way to
provide against any deficiency is to build up a strong
reserve fund, and thus wipe out the debt—or provide to
wipe it out at the earliest possible moment. A man,
setting out on a journey, may have the responsibility of
shouldering a child if the latter caves in before the jour-
ney is over. And the surest way to make the youngster
cave in is for the man to unload some of his burden on to
the infant in the early stages of the proceedings on the
plea that he may have to carry the whole child later on.
That is precisely what the Melbourne City Council is
doing.
The borrowed money expended on the Mel-
bourne City Council’s works is £375,335. Against that
the first table above shows that there are reserves of
£82,056. These reserves are made up as follows: —Sinking
Fund, £44,604 ; Depreciation and Renewals Fund,
£37,223; undivided balance, £229. To what extent the
depreciation fund is a true reserve can’t be said for
certain ; most likely it no more than covers wear and
tear and decay which have already occurred and have not
been specially provided for, and in that case the real
reserves amount to less than £45,000 against a capital debt
of £373,335, some of which has been outstanding
for 12 years. The undertaking has made splendid pro-
gress, and never before showed such good results, not-
withstanding that rates for lighting (from sd. to 2d. per
unit) and for power (2d. per unit) were never so low as
they are now. The amount set aside for depreciation is
also excellent, and atones for the insufficient 14 per cent,
which was provided in the earlier years. But while the
council is building up the fund for the renewal of the
worn-out works faster than it contemplated, it seems to
stick tight at the 1 per cent, sinking fund for the extinc-
tion of the city’s Cohen. Rather than increase that con-
tribution, and so hasten the time when the city could
supply light at a very low figure, it prefers to hand some-
thing over to the Town Fund—which is another way of
saying that it prefers to reduce the current municipal
rate payable by Proputty.
* * *
The Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1900.. £50,880 10 p.c. = £50,000 £BBO £1,030,152
Dec., 1900.. 51,509 10 ~ „ 50,000 1,509 1,031,661
June, 1901.. 61,228 10 „ ~ 50,000 1,228 1,032,889
Dec., 1901.. 51,249 10 ~ „ 50,000 1,249 1,034,138
June, 1902.. 51,254 10 „ „ 50,000 1,254 1,035,392
Dec., 1902.. 51,455 10 „ „ 50,000 1,455 1,036,847
June, 1903.. 58,768 10 „ „ 50,000 8,768 1,045,615
Dec., 1903.. 64,649 10 „ „ 50,000 14,649 1,060,264
June, 1904.. 65,555 10 „ „ 50,000 15,555 1,075,819
Dec., 1904.. 66,570 10 ~ „ 50,000 15,570 1,091,389
June, 1905.. 65,204 10 ~ „ 50,000 15,204 1,106,593
Dec., 1905.. 65,263 10 „ „ 50,000 15,263 1,121,856
June, 1906.. 66,022 10 „ „ 50,000 16,022 1,137,878
The Commercial of Sydney is fashionable ; and there are
few things more valuable to a bank than to have a
good name that is in everybody’s mouth. Therefore
deposits continue to pour in upon the Commercial, as
these figures show :
June, ’O5. June, ’O6.
Notes .. .. £428,059 £492,418 Inc. £64,359
Bills .. .. 599,331 1,255,818 Inc. 656,487
Deposits.. .. 12,338,812 13,571,143 Inc. 1,232,331
Liquid Assets .. 6,347,800 8,307,762 Inc. 1,959,962
Advances .. 8,723,456 8,745,658 Inc. 22,202
Premises, etc. .. 458,600 460,450 Inc. 1,850
But if this bank can get borrowers (and it is a pretty
cold time when borrowers can’t be raised), it evidently
can’t get securities to suit it; so, as its deposits, etc.,
have increased enormously and its advances have not
increased anything worth mentioning in 12 months, there
is an accumulation of almost an extra two millions
in liquid assets. Eighteen months ago it had £15,000 on
short call in London ; now it has £1,917,034.
These figures give a pretty good indication that
the Commercial of Sydney, managed by bankers of
exceptionally wide Australian experience, is afraid of
such securities as Australia can offer at the present level
of values. Having an ineffective tariff, and consequently
no manufactures to speak of, Australia has no good com-
mercial paper to offer the banker, who is mostly driven to
do a mortgage business ; and after three seasons of plenty
and high prices, when “ the land ” is boomed, the cautious
banker concludes that his money is much safer in his
vaults or out at short call with some foreigner who has
the advantage of a wider range of securities. Hence the
Commercial of Sydney’s rapid accumulation of liquid
assets —an accumulation, by the way, which ought to be
quite enough to make the private investor stop and do a
few minutes’ hard thinking as to whether present land
and other values are reasonable or not. Its liquid assets
represent 54 per cent, of its debts to the public
it has out in advances, &c., only 9s. 3d. in the
t of all the public’s money at its command,
the other 10s. 9d., as well as all its own capital and re-
serves, is represented by coin and bullion, public stocks,
money at short call, &c.—things which give either little
profit or none at all. It is a deplorable state for a young
country to be in. Yet the other day there was a quantity
of big headings in the Sydney papers because it was re-
ported that a few English farmers were coming to Aus-
tralia and bringing nearly £20,000 with them. The intro-
duction of that £20,000 was starred as though it were
going to save the country ; and it was held up as proof of
the “ vigorous land-policy” of the Government in
“ attracting men with capital.” They can rejoice over
the arrival of £20,000 (which, by the way, won’t arrive—
anyway it won’t arrive in cash)'; but the fool-tariff which
has driven away £2,000,000 through the channels of this
one bank alone remains undisturbed.
The Commercial of Sydney’s profits for a little
time past have worked out as follows on the basis of
capital and reserves:—
Dec., 1902 ..£5 1 1 p.c. Dec., 1904 ..£6 6 4 p.c.
June, 1903 .. 515 4 „ June, 1905 .. 6 4 8 „
Dec., 1903 .. 6 6 5,, Dec., 1905 .. 6 310 „
June, 1904 .. 6 7 3 „ June, 1906 .. 6 4 6 „
Considering the bank’s mana, and the fact that for every
£1 of its own money in the business it has nearly £7 10s. of
the public’s, the profits ought to be much larger. But
that can’t be, so long as Australia imports instead of
manufactures, and therefore gives the foreign bank the
profitable use of money instead of the Australian bank.
* * • „
The Commercial Bank of Australia, from the
1901 re-valuation :
Profits Dividends
(less loss (3 p.c.) Writ- Added
on Assets on Pref. ten to Re- Re-
Trust). Shares. Off. serves. serves.
June, ’Ol £16,917
Dec., ’Ol £42,460 £31,758 £10,702 27.619
June, ’O2 38,434 31,758 6,676 34,295
Capital Forfeited 143,000 177,295
Dec., ’O2 39,194 31,759 7,435 184,730
Capital Forfeited 3,000 187,730
June, ’O3 37,442 31,769 5,683 193,413
Capital Forfeited 2,500 195,913
Dec., ’O3 40,638 31,759 8,879 204,792
Capital Forfeited 1,500 206,292
June, ’O4 38,746 31,759 £15,521 197,758
Dec., 'O4 41,461 31,760 9,701 207,459
June, ’O5 39,470 31,760 6,000 2,710 210,169
Dec., ’O5 42,530 31,760 10,770 220,939
June, ’O6 41,055 31,760 5,000 4,295 226,234
In 1893 the Special Assets Trust took over the worst-
looking of this bank’s assets. The liabilities as at Dec.
31st, 1892, were £12,635,066. Of that, £2,117,230 was
converted into share capital, carrying a preference of 4
per cent, (so far oidy 3 per cent, has been paid). That
left £10,517,836 to be dealt with. The capital at that
date Was £1,200,000; and since then another £1,200,000
has been called up. Of this ordinary capital of £2,400,000,
all that now remains is £95,281 ; the balance of £2,304,719
has been written off or forfeited. Aided by this forfeited
capital, of the £10,517,836 of unconverted liabilities all
but £2,919,788 have been redeemed. Against what is left
there are assets valued at £1,530,000; and as there are
liabilities of £2,919,788, a deficit of £1,389,788 remains.
The position so far as the last five years go is shown here-
under :
Dec., ’Ol. Dec., ’O5. June, ’O6.
Liabilities of Trust ..£3,334,903 £2,973,917 £2,919,788
Asssets of Trust .. 1,800,000 1,585,000 1,530,000
Deficit of Trust ..£1,534,903 £1,388,917 £1,389,788
Less Bank Reserves .. 27,619 220,939 225,234
Net Deficit .. ..£1,507,284 £1,167,978 £1,164,554
In the six months, in order to reduce the lia-
bilities by £54,129, the estimated value of the assets has
been reduced by £55,000. That does not look too well;
unless there has been a re-valuation of the assets that have
not been sold, it means that the assets which have been
sold did not come up to the estimate, and that
the deficit is very real. The old deposits are carrying
3 per cent. ; and in order to pay that, and provide for
losses and charges, the bank had to aid the Assets Trust
with £28,721 in six months. If to run the Trust and re-
duce its liabilities by £54,129 cost the bank £28,721,
how much will it cost to wipe out the whole liability ?
The disclosed profits of the bank during the past two
years have averaged about £76,500 a year after paying
the 3 per cent. pref. dividend. If all of this were avail-
able to wipe out the estimated deficit of £1,164,554, it
would be 15years-before the old dead-horse was finally
removed. And the chances are that the whole of the
£76,500 isn’t available for the purpose ; the old deposits
carry 3 per cent., and apparently' the old assets don’t
earn expenses of management and 3 per cent., so a large
proportion of the aid which the Trust gets from the bank
has to go to meet the current interest bill. In which case
the dead-horse will take much more than 15 years to
remove at the recent rate of disclosed profits.
As to the new bank’s progress, the figures are
attractive:—
June, ’O5. June, ’O6.
Deposits at interest £1,734,498 £1,909,609 Inc., £175,111
Free deposits .. 1,916,272 2,355,252 Inc., 438,980
Notes, bills, &c. .. 573,195 937,107 Inc., 363,912
Liquid assets .. 2,259,671 2,819,642 Inc., 559,971
Advances .. .. 3,969,487 4,411,937 Inc., 442,450
Premises, &c. .. 454,369 445,015 Dec., 9,354
Having got rid of the last of the “ A ” deposits, the bank
is pursuing business with more vigor ; about 20 branches
or receiving offices have been opened in the six months—
which probably accounts for the jump both in free de-
posits and in advances. Liquid assets now represent 54
per cent, of the new debt to the public—a heavy propor-
tion ; but then this bank’s current account deposits are
heavy. The shareholders’ capital in the business is now
so large that new depositors are very well protected ; the
bank’s assets of a non-liquid character could slump just
upon 50 per cent, before the public’s money would be in
jeopardy. The profits of the bank, before deducting the
aid to the Trust, were at the rate of £5 14s. Bd. per cent,
per annum on capital and reserves. If the old deficit
were disposed of and the Trust were wiped clean out, the
bank would now show enough profit to pay 4 per cent,
to prefs., 5 per cent, to ordinaries, and have £26,047 for
writing down and reserves. But while the Trust remains,
and the present aid is called for, the funds only show a
profit, reckoning the whole thingas one concern,at the rate
of £3 7s. 6d. percent, per annum ; and that would only
be just enough to pay prefs. 3f percent, (they are entitled
to 4 per cent, before ordinaries look in) even if nothing at
all were put by.
* * * *
The Bank of Victoria (Melbourne)
Dividends.
* ■> Added
Pref. Ord. to Re- Re-
Profits. 5 p.c. p.c. serves, serves.
June,’oo.. £28,554 £10,419 £13,266 £4869 £129,605
3 p.c.
Dec.,’oo.. 30,178 10,419 15,919 3840 133,445
June,’ol.. 31,399 10,419 15,919 6061 138,506
Dec.,’ol.. 33,136 10,419 15,919 6798 145,304
3 h P-C-
June,’o2.. 33,323 10,419 18,572 4332 149,636
Dec.,’o2.. 33,715 10,419 18,572 4724 154,360
June,’o3.. 29,440 10,419 18,572 449 154,809
Dec.,’o3.. 34,354 10,419 18,572 5363 160,172
June,’o4.. 34,555 10,419 18,572 5564 165,736
Dec.,’o4.. 34,583 10,419 18,572 5592 171,328
4 p.c.
June,’os.. 34,260 10,419 21,225 2616 173,944
Dec.,’os.. 34,524 10,419 21,225 2880 176,824
4£ p.c.
June,’o6.. 37,212 10,419 23,878 2915 179,739
The fifth increase of dividend in six years ! And in those
six years, this bank, which had only just emerged from
smash and reconstruction, has paid away to its share-
holders £350,545 in dividends, while it lias only put aside
£50,134 by way of reserves for the protection alike of
depositors and shareholders. In spite of the fact that,
though six years ago its reserves did not reach one-
eleventh of its capital and much less than one-fortieth of
its non-liquid assets, it has paid away just over 7s. to its
shareholders for every Is. it has laid by. Nor can any
great improvement in the bank’s assets, which might be
equivalent to a reserve, be traced. The whole assets
showed gross profits six years ago of just upon £1 18s.
per cent. ; now they show gross profits of £1 19s. per
cent., and most of even that small difference can be
explained. Practically the earning power of the
assets is no better than it was, so that there
has been nothing equivalent to a reserve created
in that way. By reason of this grabbing of
dividends and starving of reserves, depositors and
othercreditors of the bank appear to have less protection
now than they had before these last six years of very suc-
cessful trading. In the middle of 1900 the shareholders’
interest in the business was equal to 31 per cent, of all
assets liable to shrinkage ; therefore there could be a
slump of 31 per cent, all round before the public would
be affected. Now, however, the proportion is down to 29
per cent. The constant increase of dividend may make a
glitter, and momentarily attract business ; but the time
is pretty certain to come when the public whose business
is worth having will sit down and think whether that
sort of policy is likely to build up a bank which is able to
be a good friend at a' time of crisis, when good friends are
most needed.
For the rest, there is nothing to complain
about. Profits are more than sustained. On the basis of
capital and reserves, the recent showing is as follows :
Dec., 1902 .. £4 2 10 p.c. Dec., 1904 ..£4 4 2 p.c.
June, 1903.. 3 12 2 „ June, 1905 .. 4 3 1 „
Dec., 1903 ..4 4 2 „ Dec., 1905 .. 4 3 7 „
June, 1904 .. 4 4 4 „ June, 1906 .. 4 9 11 „
The balance-sheet figures throw a good deal of light upon
the past half-year’s spring :
June, ’O5. June, 106.
Notes £108,610 £124,417 Inc. £15,807
Bills, &c 425,418 680,811 „ 261,393
Deposits at interest.. 3,473,942 3,000,067 ~ 132,125
Free Deposits.. .. 1,489,224 1,541,541 „ 52,317
Liquid Assets.. .. 1,702,698 1,981,665 „ 218,967
Advances .. .. 4,993,530 5,243,311 „ 249,775
Premises, &c. .. 424,957 425,906 ~ 949
A quarter of a million increase in advances, on an increase
of only about half that much in deposits at interest, is
enough to account for a good deal. The bank is credited
with having a good borrowing connection—which is a line
thing for a bank to have, for it usually means that it
doesn’t have to force matters—and is trading close up to
what is regarded as the limit of safety, having now hut
little more than 33 per cent, of its liabilities to the public
represented by liquid assets. That means that, at
present rates, it is earning justabout as much as its avail-
able funds will let it.
* * * „
The Queensland National Bank, which is
supposed to have a large hole on the premises which it
fills up as opportunity offers: —
Repaid
Repaid Private Total
Gross Written Govern- De- Re-
Profits. off. ment. positors. serves.
June, 1900.. £27,447 £15,447 £3OOO £6OOO £15,000
Dec., 1900.. 27,712 15,712 3000 6000 18,000
June, 1901.. 28,350 16,350 3000 6000 21,000
Dec., 1901.. 28,745 16,745 3000 6000 24,000
June, 1902.. 25,605 13,605 3000 6000 27,000
Dec., 1902.. 22,329 10,329 3000 6000 30,000
June, 1903.. 21,660 9,660 3000 6000 33,000
Dec., 1903.. 21,777 9.777 3000 6000 36,000
June, 1904.. 21,822 9,822 3000 6000 39,000
Dec., 1904 .. 21,823 9,823 9000 42,000
June, 1905.. 22,009 10,009 9000 45,000
Dec., 1905.. 22,307 10,307 9000 48,000
June, 1906 .. 23,421 11,421 9000 51,000
Though the balance-sheet hardly shows it (the published
figures for along time past haven’t shown all the facts about
this bank), the Q. N. is supposed to be feeling better now
than it has for many years, in spite of the Labor Govern-
ment, and the pending deportation of Kanakas, and a few-
other things that some Northerners were quite sure
would mean ruin. But the way which the bank has to
go, being the way of the transgressor, is long as well as
hard. Suspended in 1893, it made a re-arrangement in
1897 ; and from the latter date the position has moved
like this:—
Reduc-
-1897. 1906. tion.
Government deposits
(reconstructed) .. £1,833,327 £1,291,465 £541,862
Interminable stock (old
deposits) .. .. 3,116,621 3,116,621 nil
Old deposits, repayable
out of profits .. .. 1,038,874 924,874 114,000
Due to bank (debts in
suspense) .. .. 742,835 437,455 305,380
The ’97 rearrangement was varied in 1904 by an Act which
provides for the repayment of the old Government de-
posits by equal annual instalments from 1907 to 1921
the first two of these have been prepaid. Under the old
reconstruction, ss. in the £ of the old private deposits
was made repayable out of profits ; and the new rearrange-
ment hastens that repayment, which, however, is still a
slow process. The old Government deposits carry
£2 12s. 6d. per cent, interest; and until half of them are
repaid no dividend may be paid to shareholders, and
until the whole has been paid any div. is limited to 3£
per cent.
Recent progress of the bank is further shown
hereunder :
June, ’O5. June, ’O6.
New Private Deposits £1,436,520 £1,631,796 1nc.£195,276
New Govt. Deposits.. 639,157 607,685 Dec. 31,572
Bills in Circulation, &c. 748,896 807,684 Inc. 58,788
Liquid Assets.. .. 2,041,287 2,180,397 Inc. 139,110
Advances .. .. 5,015,578 6,032,087 Inc. 16,509
Premises .. . . 275,456 278,457 Inc. 3,001
But such figures form a poor basis to judge this bank and
its progress. Advances, for instance, are very little
larger ; but the earning capacity of many of the securities
in possession must be vastly greater now than it was
three or four years back. Still the disclosed profits do
not show any great improvement; and that probably
means that the bank is writing down either the old
private ledger accounts (debts in suspense) or the
ordinary assets. If it isn’t, then, under Queensland’s
present circumstances, the profits are very disappointing.
Certainly anything in the way of high earnings is not to
be looked for, seeing that, of all the new deposits and
other new debts to the public, no less than 71 per cent, is
represented by liquid assets. On capital (£413,245) and
reserves, the gross profit is at the rate of £lO 3s. Id. per
cent, per annum. But half of that is written off to
cover “contingencies,” and in addition the payment
made out of profits to old depositors is simply another
way of writing down over-valued securilies ; and that is a
process which is going on in every bank all the time
without any special mention being made of it. For
comparison with other banks’ figures, therefore, these
figures are no good.
As to the prospects of a dividend in the Q.N.,
of which people are talking already. Seeing that they
wrote off ss. in the £ of the private deposits, shareholders
may, in the first place, reckon themselves remarkably
fortunate to have been left with any interest in the
concern, for all capital ought to go before deposits are
touched. The Government deposits at the date (1904) of
the last rearrangement were £1,463,660. Since then,
£172,195 has been paid, or prepaid. Another £559,635
must be wiped off before the bank can pay any div., and
then it is limited to 3£ per cent. Even then the dividend,
Hr seems, can only come out of 25 per cent, of the profits
till the depositors’ ss. is paid off. The Government money
only costs £2 12s. 6d. per cent.; and there isn’t much in-
ducement to rush to pay out money that is only costing
that much. On the other hand, the bank at June 30 had
£665,000 in London at short call, and that probabl.v isn’t-
bringing in £2 12s. 6d. per cent. net. Whether a bank
which still has £924,874 of old deposits to pay out of
profits—old deposits which it doesn’t show in its balance-
sheet because there are no assets to set against them—
ought to even think of a dividend is one thing ; whether
the chances are that, before many' years, it will not be
legally entitled to pay a trifle is another. If it can trade
off some of its stations to the State for closer settlement,
it will hasten the process. The awkward part of that
business is that the Government isn’t likely to want pro-
perties which are returning only £2 12s. (id. per cent on
the purchase price. The bank may get rid of debt costing
£2 12s. 6d. in return for assets which may be earning 5
per cent.; and that isn’t the sort of business that will
pour money into the pockets of either shareholders or old
depositors.
* * » *
The Australian Joint Stock Bank (Sydney):
Profits by
Purchase of
Bank- Depre- Added Nominal
ing dated Written to lie- Re-
Profits. Deposits, off. serves. serves.
June, 1900.. £2,057 £20,505 £22,022 £173,537
Dec., 1900.. 2,548 19,903 22,511 190,048
June, 1901.. 13,406 21,947 £ll,OOO 24,412 220,460
Dec., 1901.. 3,584 12,003 10,247 236,707
June, 1902.. 2,043 20,540 22,883 269,590
Dec., 1902.. 3,403 17,559 21,022 280,612
June, 1903.. 4,190 18,384 22,674 303,186
Dec., 1903.. 1,100 21,700 22,926 326,112
Capital written down from £1,168,042 to £164,529.
June, 1904.. 2,459 320,112 2,459
Dec., 1904.. 2,904 2,904 5,423
June, 1905.. 2,144 2,144 7,567
Dec., 1905.. 1,421 1,421 8,988
June,l9oo.. 1,523 1,623 10,511
Formerly the profit made by buying old deposit receipts
at a discount was adiied to resen es. In the past two
years deposits of the A and B series have been reduced
from £3,018,073 to £3,280,105, a total of £332,508. Of
this, however, about £255,000 represents A deposits, re-
paid ttiis year under the reconstruction scheme; leaving
only about £07,000 of B deposits repurchased, on which
a profit of £23,000 has probably been made. This amount
lias presumably been used to write off old bad debu.
The balance of the A deposits (about £265,000; are repay,
able on Jam Ist., 1907. In addition to the A and B de-
posits (together £3,286,105), there is now £791,806 of
inscribed deposit slock.
The assets of the A.J.S. Bank total £5,005,264:
and the half-year’s gross earnings (after allowing for bad
debts on new business) were £110,746, which is about an
a, t rage. Deducting expenses of management, the earn-
ings were £69,450. Allowing £066,254 to represent coin,
&c., not earning anything (it is hardly that much), the
assets at work were earning 2jj per cent., out of which in-
terest has to be paid—or left unpaid. To write down the
working assets so as to make them show even 3j per
cent, would call for a reduction of £suo,ooo, or nearly a
third of the total of the B deposits. Between them and
that deficit stands only the share capital—now £154,528.
New business, which is a first charge on all
assets, is growing. Twelve months ago the deposits were
£1,058,496 ; they are now £1,105,776. And in spite of
some probable writings-dow n and realisations, advances
are now' £4,276,160 against £4,176,105. Deposits have
thus increased by £107,280 and advances by £100,066.
Yet gross profits are smaller than they were 12 mouths
back. Liquid assets could pay about 17s. in the £of all
new debts to the public ; and tiiat is exceptional security.
After the last of the A deposits have been cleared off, no
doubt these figures will change a little, and the bank may
then feel itself freer to battle for new business, and make
some more of those profits that it needs so badly. Mean-
time, B deposits are a gamble, in which the buyer mostly
backs the outer fringe of Australia’s great natural re-
sources.
* * * *
The City Bank of Sydney
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1900.. £BO4l 4 per cent. =£Booo £4l £109,59C
Dec., 1900.. 8223 4 „ ~ „ 8000 223 109,819
June, 1901.. 8105 4 „ ~ „ 8000 105 109,924
Dec., 1901.. 8157 4 ~ „ „ 8000 157 110,981
June, 1902.. 8016 4 „ „ „ 8000 16 110,097
Dec., 1902.. 8108 4 „ ~ „ 8000 108 110,205
£109,000 transferred toContingent account 1,205
June, 1903.. 9351 4 percent.= 8000 1351 2,556
Dec., 1903. 9052 4 „ „ „ 8000 1052 3,608
June, 1904.. 9045 4 ~ ~ „ 8000 1045 4,053
Dec., 1904.. 6158 2£ „ ~ „ 5000 1158 5,811
June, 1905.. 6060 „ ~ „ 5000 1060 6,871
Dec., 1905.. 6068 2$ 5000 1068 7,939
June, 1906 . 6066 2J ~ ~ „ 5000 1066 9,005
What the size of the skeleton in this bank’s cupboard is
there is no way of telling from the accounts. A third
of the alleged profits mysteriously fell off during
1904. There was nothing in the figures to account lor
it. At December 31st, 1903, the advances were £1,135,954
and 12 months afterwards they were £1,128,847; and
there isn’t enough difference in those figures to account
for a third of the profits. The only assumption is that
old bad debts are being provided for. After the bank
wrote off its reserves, it suddenly jumped up its disclosed
profits by £l2OO ; and Lire chances are that it was actually
making those larger profits out of current business, but
reckoned that it could give the w'riting-off of old assets a
rest—that it had just done enough by smudging out the
reserves. What it would be really worth while knowing
is (1) the size of the hole that lias to be filled ; (2)
the amount of current profit which is being turned
in to fill it. Assuming tiiat £9351 profit was made
in the half-year after the reserves were written
off, there is a difference between that and the
present disclosed profit of £3285 ; and that amount half-
yearly will soon make up a considerable deficit in an
establishment the size of the City Bank. But the 1903
profits are probably not being made now ; for, though
the deposits are £136,000 less, the advances have shrunk
by £83,000. Since the end of 1904, when the dividend
was pulled down, deposits have again increased a trifle ;
but advances are £76,000 less. In the ordinary course,
this shomd make things safer for the depositor. In 1904
the proportion of liquid assets held against public liabili-
ties was distinctly weak ; now it has reached 32 per cent.
—not by any means a strong proportion even y'et, though
that depends a good deal upon the character of deposits
and depositors. From another point of view the situation
is, however, stronger ; shareholders’ funds represent over
36 per cent, of the non-liquid assets. But in another way,
shareholders have enough in the business to provide fora
slump of over a third in values ; and in view of the recent
disappearance of the reserves to write down those values,
that looks all right. It is probably hardly worth com-
puting what the profits mean on the basis of shareholders’
funds, as it is impossible to say what ttie real profits are;
but, taking published figures, capital and reserves are
earning £2 19s. sd. percent. Considering the large pro-
portion of the public money that is in use, the earnings
should be more ; but this looks to he another case where
expenses mop up far too much. Salaries are probably cut
to the bone ; hut in many cases this and some other
hanks are struggling after the business that would just
respectably keep one hank and one staff. Amalgamation
is the only cure for that.
* * * *
Sydney Ferries, Ltd. :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends, serves, serves.
Dec., 1900 .. £5,089 7p.c.=£4200 £SS9 £1,390
June, 1901.. 5,377 7 „ „ 4200 1177 2,567
Dec., 1901 .. 5,268 7 „ „ 4200 1068 3,635
June, 1902.. 5,742 7 „ „ 4200 1542 5,177
Dec., 1902 .. 8,040 8 „ „ 5453 2587 7,764
June, 1903 .. 7,464 8 „ „ 5600 1864 9,628
Dec., 1903.. 8,702 8 „ „ 5600 3102 12,730
June, 1904 .. 10,339 10 „ „ 7000 3339 16,069
Dec., 1904 .. 11,499 10 „ „ 7000 4499 20,568
June, 1905 .. 11,104 10 „ „ 7000 4104 24,672
Dec., 1905.. 12,986 10 ~ „ 70:0 5986 30,658
£20,000 of Reserves transferred to Capital 10,658
June, 1906 .. 12,999 11J „ „ 9000 3999 14,667
This appears to be the situation, though the accounts do
not show it. Six months ago it was announced in the
report that 3s. per share bonus w'ould be paid at the end
of March, and that 20,000 shares would at the same
time be issued at par (£1). There were 140,000 shares;
at 3s. =£21,000. The odd £lOOO was. apparently divided
in cash, and in the foregoing is added to the half-year’s
dividend. Even the 10 per cent, now divided means
nearly 11J per cent, on the capital before this latest
watering. In addition to the profits shown, something
large hut unspecified is made and written off. During
the half-year one steamer has been bought, and, no
doubt, progress payments have been made on accqpnt of
two others on the stocks ; yet ship property is valued
now at only £53,507, against £57,932 six months back.
Landed property is, however, now the principal asset; it
represents £101,476 (six months ago it was £88,408). A
ferry co. can’t very well secure sole rights to ply on the
harbor; hut it can get there, or thereabouts, just the
same by securing all possible landing sites. In addition
to the 20,000 shares lately issued, 40,000 are provided for
future issue at par. These, no doubt, will be paid for by
dividing- the “ reserve for special repairs and new


£%e Best Tobacco
the world can
produce.
/
6d.
per
ounce.
3 STRENGTHS—
A 1 Mild.
B 2 Medium.
C 3 Strong. ,
/
£
&
A
0
/2oz. Tins 1/-
4oz. Tins 2/*
Boz. Tins 3/9
/7 Sold Loose only by
'k a. marks,
George St.
310 George St.
28 Hunter St.
177 Oxford St.
SYDNEY.
steamers,” just as the 20,000 already issued were paid for.
After paying: £SOOO to shareholders, during: the half-year
the eo. paid £‘13,068 for landed property and a consider-
able amount for wharf improvements ; and yet it only
reduced its liquid assets by £3478. On that basis the
gross profits, after paying all expenses of upkeep, were
apparently £lB,OOO or more—say, about 22 per cent, per
annum on shareholders’ funds. It is a sweet business.
* * * *
The Ballarat Trustees, Executors and
Agkxcy Co. (Ballarat, Vic.): —
Net To Re- Re-
Protits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1900 £lO9O 8 per cent. = £6OO £490 £1216
June, 1901 1113 8,, „ „ 600 513 1729
Dec., 1901 1252 10 ~ „ „ 750 502 2231
June, 1902 174 S 10 „ „ ~ 750 998 3229
Dec., 1902 1391 10 „ „ „ 750 641 3870
June, 1903 1243 10 ~ „ ~ 750 498 4368
Dec., 1903 1529 10 ~ ~ ~ 750 779 5147
June, 1904 1263 10 „ „ „ 750 518 5665
Dec., 1904 1503 10 „ „ „ 750 753 6418
June, 1905 1547 10 „ „ „ 750 797 7215
Dec., 1905 1834 12 ~ „ ~ 900 934 8149
June, 1906 1773 10 ~ „ ~ 750 1023 9J72
Six months ago the value of the trust properties in hand
was £1,136,520. It is now £1,189,753, an increase of
£53,233 in six months, and of £208,729 in two years.
It can’t be said precisely' what an increase in trust
funds is worth to a trustee co. ; but it can be put
down safely at an annual 7s. 6d. or Bs. per cent, on the
capital value. From this, of course, expenses have to be
paid. At present, in the case of the Ballarat Trustees,
they amount to about an annual ss. 2d. per cent, on the
value of estates—a rather high proportion, which will no
doubt be much reduced as the co.’s turnover grows. If
the estates in hand go on increasing by, say, £50,000
per half-year, every such step means an additional
revenue of about £2OO a year—probably more—out of
which to pay expenses and make profits. As to these
expenses, note that this half-year they were £1536 on a
revenue of £3309, whereas two years ago they were £1471
on a revenue of £2740; in other words, while the revenue
has grown by £509, the expenses are only £65 more. By
far the biggest end of the extra revenue is therefore
gomg shareholders’ way ; and it is the same with almost
all trustee co.’s. The half-year’s profits show a return on
capital and reserves combined at the rate of £l5 6s. sd.
percent. The only mitigating circumstance is that just
upon 60 per cent, of those profits are put aside where
(unless the shareholders presently grab them) they will
serve as a guarantee of faithful trusteeship.
Block 13 hasn’t been much good to the B.H.
i°?'i- a * on B time, and during the fire excitement
what little ore was left handy was torn out to feed the
starving null. The few pillars that had been left are
now going, and the stopes are slowly' sinking to their
rest. So far no one has been crushed, on which the co.
can congratulate itself. There was a particularly
lucky escape lately', when seven or eight tons fell
in the main 400 ft. drive near Patterson’s shaft. The big
mine has to do a good deal of “scratching round” at
present to keep the mill going; and, although a better
tonnage was put through last month, the mill more than
once lost a shift because the large requirements of the
works were not forthcoming. Weatherly’s stopes, in
south end of Block 11, are therefore now being re-opened
for the first time since the fire, in the hope of easing the
strain.
lhe B.H. North-Junction North amalgamation
“W be regarded as off. In the matter of terms the
North won t go further, and Junction North sits tight,
lhey will all view things differently when metals are 25
per cent, lower and economies are called for.
* • * H i|c
New White Leads, Broken Hill, is still the
gamble it always was, and has little hope of ever a
steady-going- mine. The lode at 400 ft. has been lost;
and what ore was found before this will-o’-the-wisp was
met was too thick with py’rites to be worth much.
* » * *
The sulphides going to the B.H. British mill
from the hitherto-neglected Marsh shaft, at the far north
of the mine, are of very fair quality. Same body is being
tapped at 200 ft. and 400 ft. No ore is being mined from
the 300 ft. level y’et, but it is being got ready for stoping.
British profits should glitter this half-year. Thompson’s
section, adjoining the main workings, is idle, awaiting
the completion of the overhead tram to connect shaft and
mill; when that is finished, they can stope vigorously at
the 200 ft., 300 ft. and 400 ft. levels, but it will probably be
late in October before thev start.
**" * *
Broken Hill South Blocks has nosed out a
moderate body of good carbonate ore in shallow workings
and has made a contract with the B.H. Prop, for a six
months’ supply. This will help to keep the pot boiling ;
and for the size of the mine it is a large and expensive
* * * *
Big changes are coming over White Cliffs opal
field (N.S.W.). The co.’s blocks, which take in what was
once regarded as all that was worth having, are now empty,
except for just enough laborers to man the leases. Most
attention is now given to the Bunker, which has been
worked on and off for 10 y'ears, but never as energetically
as now. The Bunker, which is about 12 miles from the
old centre, has always been regarded as a “ tucker ” field •
the “gouger” could generally rely on getting a little’
gem there, though good patches are scarce. Many men
would much rather rely op the co.’s blocks ; but the co.
won’t let them in. The local idea is that the co. wants
to squeeze the miners into squeezing the Government to
resume the blocks at a price. Resumption of the leases,
which should never have been granted, was recommended
years ago ; but price stood in Lhe way. The co. has
never been able to make profits; so the Government
didn’t see why it should pay a stiff price for ground
which it reckoned the co. would eventually be glad to
give up. But the co. hasn’t thrown it up, and doesn’t
look like doing so now, though the revival of Bunker
seems to be spoiling its plans.
New opal-mining township at Bunker is four
miles from the nearest Government tank, and that is the
only water in the neighborhood. And the track to the
water is vile. For. a tucker field this will be a serious
business. White Cliffs storekeepers have opened branch
shops ; but there is no beer. The miners held a public
meeting the other night, and discussed the advisability
of allowing beer in their midst; and the unanimous ver-
dict was “No pubs.” A petition in favor of a license has
been hawked round, but there is only a blank where the
names ought to be.
A matter that should have attention in the new
Mining Bill is the question of the areas of opal claims.
Present maximum—looft. by 100 ft.—is too large ; ground
is locked up while there are men in want of it. Most
White Cliffs miners favor a maximum of 50ft. by 50ft.
* * * x
North Boppy, Cobar district (N.S.W.), until
lately under option, but now the property of the Royal
Oak of Hauraki Co. (London), is to have a further test
at depth. Up to now, co. has spent £5OOO in getting
down to 400 ft., and present machinery isn’t strong enough
to go further ; so plant and co. are to be remodelled. The
eastern lode exposure at 400 ft. is 24ft. wide, highly mine-
ralised, and carrying gold, silver and lead. Western lode,
because of an inrush of water, hasn’t so far been sampled,
but bearings, locality and similarity of country, point to
North Boppy having the main reef of the parent mine,
north of the fault. About 600 ft. should tell an interest-
ing tale, and there should be no difficulty in finding the
necessary funds to go a lot deeper than that.
• • * *
The Melbourne crowd that is struggling to
make a mine out of Coppabella, just across the Murray,
got in T. 11. Palmer, ex-manager of Broken Hill Junction
North, to report. The point was, Is it worth a mill?
Palmer ran tns rule over the bodies, reckoned up 10,01)0
tons of ore, and said no. llenry (lore’s faithful manager,
Turley, replies hotly, and claims 50,000 tons; and he
wants a third opinion. But the directors haven’t yet
explained away their own damning estimates, formed
presumably on Turley’s advice. These showed 50,000
tons of ore, to be concentrated down to 10,000 tons ;
value of concentrates per ton, £ll ss. : costs, £7 155.;
profit, £3 10s. But costs included only 15s. per ton for
mining and milling, which means only 3s. per ton of ore;
and as Turley now says that two men can break five or
six tons daily, it is obvious that the former official figure
was absurd. The ore would cost 15s. a ton to mine and
mill; total £3 15s. per ton of concentrates, or £3 more
than the directors figured it. And vvliat becomes of the
profit in that case? Not enough is left to cover outside
exes, and wear and tear.
* * * *
New Argus, Bendigo, half-yearly report is out,
and reads as the New JVloon group reports did in 1904-5.
On 14s. Sd. paid, it has distributed 17s. this last six
months. Co.’s full tally is now 735. a share, of which
30s. has come in 18 months. The half-year’s gold was
worth £35,005, won at a cost of £7012. But, though
there are large bodies still left above 1780 ft., there isn’t
this value in them ; the 1980 ft. prospecting has been dis-
appointing, and a start has been made to rush the shaft
down further.
* • * *
Associated, Kalgoorlie, has not yet proved it-
self a mine with much of a future. C. M. Roberts, when
he took charge, had a hard row to hoe. But he manfully
tackled the job, and has put the mine in a vastly different
position from that in which he found it. The August
2s. div. is now being criticised; it is said that results
don’t warrant it. But it must be remembered that the
whole burden of altering the plant and of pushing on
developments, which have cost over £3OOO each monthly
since Roberts took charge, has been debited to revenue.
So, altogether, the payment of the div. seems justified.
• • « *
Ivanhoe Junction, Kalgoorlie, has made a fresh
call on credulous shareholders. The mine is, as it always
has been, a wild-cat; and published remarks regarding
thousands of tons of pay ore in sight can be most liberally
discounted. There is a lot of glittering mica in the stone,
and this may have been mistaken for gold ; but dish pro-
spects and battery returns have shown the truth. Money
may be made out of Ivanhoe Junction by gambling in its
shares ; but, on present prospects, that is the only way.
Proposed amalgamation of Princess Royal and
Central Norseman (W.A.) still hangs fire. So far as one
can see the amalgamation would be a good scheme ; at
the same time, it must be recognised that, so far as
tested, the deep ground has proved a frost. The Central,
under Henderson’s capable management, has done an
enormous amount of prospecting at 7(iUft. and 950 ft., but,
so far, prospects have been very poor. Possibly things
may improve, and a combination of the two concerns
seems the only way—certainly the most economical way
—to really test the ground.
« • * *
Waihi, Davyhurst (W.A.), is in a critical posi-
tion. Manager Cleland, late of Bayley’s, reports values
up to 80s. per ton, but actual results pan out much less.
During June, 750 tons were treated for 7200 z. bullion,
worth 445. 6d. per oz. only, making the result 425. lOd.
per ton ; costs run up to 465. lOd. per ton, leaving a loss
of 4s. per ton, or £l5O. This co. has now been alive about
years, and scarcely one of the predictions of the
prospectus has been fulfilled, and there is no better hope
for the future. However, as insiders make more money
by gambling than by legitimate mining, it is probable
that the VVaihi will be kept going.
* * * *
Melrose, Davyhurst (W.A.), is now in charge of
“ Billy ” Collins, formerly of the Croesus Prop, and the
Waihi. Collins is one of the most sanguine of mortals,
who can keep things moving long after the ordinary
person has given them best. The Melrose, like its neigh-
bor, the Waihi, contains erratic reefs, with short shoots,
and is hardly likely to turn out really good.
Craiggiemore (W.A.) is showing how cheaply
mining can be done with high-priced labor. During June
it treated 2140 tons worth only 17s. sd. per ton, and made
a profit of £9O. But this ore comes from the oxidised
zone ; and it is certain that, when refractory ore is met
with, there will be a different tale to tell. The Craiggie-
more was one of Dr. Laver’s flotations.
* * * ¥
Carr Boyd, the well-known prospector, has at
length gotasyndicate formed totesthissnowattheCosmo-
Newbury Hills, north-eastof Laverton(W.A.). Two other
well-known prospectors, Jack Cunningham and Captain
Wearne, have gone out with him, and the result of their
investigations is eagerly awaited. Boyd talks very op-
tiniistically, and reckons that he has found a second Kal-
goorlie 1 but others who have visited the district don’t
enthuse. A few weeks will decide whether a fresh fillip
is to be given to W.A. mining, or whether things are to
continue to stagnate.
* * * «
At Meekatharra, North Murchison (W.A.), all
except one or two shows are being worked by their pros-
pectors, and some “ nice dry bits ” arc being made. But
the one State battery was, during June, practically mono-
polised by stone from the Ingliston Extended (404 tons
gave OSGoz.), though something like two miles of country
are being worked. Tributors of the Young Australia,
Mulline, got 2040 z. from 40 tons ; at Lennonville a work-
ing-miner syndicate put through 63 tons f or 1240 z. ; and
all over the fields State batteries are pounding out good
arguments in favor of co-operative parties working their
own shows. For the man who wants to float a cat the State
battery is, of course, a curse. With crushing facilities
mostly within coo-ee, the guileless expert from London
now demands something more than a handful of speci-
mens. Despite the new regulation of the Department
limiting parcels of stone to 200 tons or less, the
Yarri battery treated 750 tons in one lot, the yield being
4410 z. This needs jumping on.
* * » •
A Westralian goldfields Warden has got himself
talked about. A party of Murchison prospectors, after
battling until they were starved out, left the ground to
look after itself. Their neighbors shortly afterwards
struck good stone, and placed their ground under offer.
Then a man came along who re-pegged the deserted
claim, and applied for it. Original owners turned up at
the YVarden’s court, and told that they had left their
claim temporarily to avoid starvation. The Warden said
that he sympathised with the prospectors, who had borne
the heat and burden of the day and were entitled to
special consideration. A fine of £4O and costs would
meet the case, upon payment of which defendants could
resume possession. One doesn’t like throwing a brick at
a Warden with a heart like that; but if the lessee can
move on “to avoid starvation ” without applying for
suspension of labor conditions, what a chance it will give
to the boodler whose business in life is to “shepherd”
leases! You can picture Rothschild or Vanderbilt
“moving on to avoid starvation.”
* *• « #
The principal producers of stone at Charters
Towers (Q.) for June were: Brilliant Extended, 4140 tons
for 14560 z. ; Mills’ United, 3906 tons for 15710 z. : Block
and Wyndhain, 1780 tons for 700 oz. ; Brilliant Central,
1700 tons for 7310 z. ; Brilliant St. George, 1494 tons for
13050 z.; Queen Cross, 818 tons for 8660 z. ; Marshall’s
Queen, 700 tons for 5150 z. ; Brilliant Block, 662 tons for
1620 z. ; Carrington, 625 tons for 5870 z.; New Queen, 382
tons for 2660 z. The total tonnage crushed was 20,511
tons, which returned 11,5570 z. of mill gold, valued at
£39,374. Residues amounting to 20,157 tons were treated
by cyanide for £14,079. Smelters’ returns bring the
total value to £75,187. The output and values compare
favorably with May, when 22,188 tons gave £79,386.
Although output and values hold their own, tonnage is
poor, seeing that 57 mines are registered. Only five out
of the lot get above 1000 tons per month.
• * * •
Stockholm, the second venture of the Brilliant
P.C. at Charters Tow'ers (Q.), looks fairly attractive. Co.
has a 45-acres lease on the Stockholm line, one mile from
the once-famous Black Jack, and four miles from the
Towers proper. When the shaft was started it was
reckoned that 600fd. of sinking- would reach the reef ;
but 525 ft. discovered lift, of stone, dipping at an angle
of 55 degrees—about the largest and steepest body of
stone met in any shaft on the field. Sixty-three tons,
collected in passing through, returned £2 Bs. lOd. per
ton. A crosscut put in at 614 ft. found the reef ap-
parently of the same quality there. Possibly further
sinking will disclose a footwall reef, as the sink was in
anything but settled country when it was knocked off.
Taking the 63 tons parcel as a guide, however, the show
must be regarded as a low-grade proposition that will re-
quire a large output to ensure dividends. Carting and
crushing take 14s. 6d. per ton, leaving £1 14s. 4d. to cover
mining costs ; and that should be ample. Development
should not cost anything extra ; for that work on a lift,
reef worth £2 Bs. lOd.per ton should pay for itself. What
the Stockholm wants is a battery at the mine, situated so
as to handle a large tonnage economically. Two pro-
posals are before the directors—one to connect the mine
by rail with the Government line, one mile and a half
away ; the other to buy a battery. The second is the
correct thing. Brilliant Extended has crushing appli-
ances of its own, treats 4000 tons a month, and its mill
costs are 6s. Bd. per ton ; whilst Mills’ United, which is
connected by rail, and has no battery of its own,
pays about 10s. per ton, also for 4000 tons a month. On
the other hand, it is said that at New Queen, which
crushes its own ore, the costs average 16s. ; but the New
Queen is no criterion. The money that the Brilliant put
into Plant’s Deep would have boilght the necessary iron-
mongery to decorate its own ground with. But it looks
as if the Stockholm is going to be hobbled. Now that
the reef has turned up trumps, the compact and practi-
cally new surface plant is “ not considered speedy
enough.” For “ speedy ” read “ flash.” This is the sort
of thing that £2 Bs. lOd. stone can’t stand.
* * * *
Charters Towers’dividends for June (£28,0G8)
compare well with the £7548 paid in May. But Mills’
United and the Block and Wyndham betvveen them were
responsible for £27,460, and the balance came from cos.
in liquidation. Total dividends for the first half of this
year run to £81,650 ; and calls mopped up £69,152.
* * * *
Mills’ United has a lot to answer for in bringing
Brilliant Freehold into existence at Charters Towers.
Ground is being held by tributors and a day shift, and
the qo. shows a loss of £ll2B in six months. Present credit
balance (£1305) should, unless the unforeseen happens and
the mine really gets to work, be sufficient to keep the show
in idleness without calls for at least another six months.
Office expenses got away with £2OB, while the expenditure
upon the mine was only £921. After driving the No. 3
west level 213 ft. for the six months, it is discovered that
the Day Dawn reef, which Mills’ United is working less
than 200 ft. from the Freehold’s boundary, is deeper than
the formation which has been followed in the Freehold.
Those concerned have now retired to consider the best
means of locating the reef without looking for it.
* * * *
Mt. Elliott, Cloncnrry (Q.), is issuing 14,000
new £1 shares at a premium of 10s., bringing the nominal
capitalisation to £BO,OOO. It is stated that shareholders
may take up one for every 10 held. That would account
for 6,600. It isn’t clear why they should not have the
right to take the whole '4,000, if they want them, at 30s. ;
seeing that the shares stand at about 385., to give out-
siders the right to take 7400 at 30s. looks like making a
pretty fat gift to somebody.
* * * *
Directors of Oriental Consols, Gympie (Q.),
have decided to close this show down and apply for
labor exemption. They can see that the shareholders
need a spell from call-paying—contributors have put in
about £20,000, without return. Mine was the most
easterly one working at the Monkland end, and big
things were expected of it, as it adjoins and lies to the
oast of the Scottish Gympie, from which such good
returns have been, and are still, obtained. It has itself
yielded a few parcels that have crushed well, but they
have been small. During June 102 tons gave 102 oz.
This closing-down is a serious matter for Gympie, for
it represents another hope of the field temporarily
destroyed. Co. is a case of over-capitalisation, 100,000
paid-ups at 55., and 100,000 contribs. at 55., of which only
Is. Id. remains to be called up. This, calculating at the
recent rate of expenditure, gives the show 13 months to
run. Yet everything points to the Consols being a good
show. Management has, however, been expensive, and
the prospecting that has been done doesn’t impress one.
• * • •
Recent developments in Oriental Extended,
Gympie, give some hope for the future, and from prac-
tically nil the shares have gone to Is. Id. This is the
result of finding some very fair specimens in chlorite in
a reef formation sft. wide in the drive 250 ft. north from
the shaft at the 1206 ft. level. Country is good, but there
is not too much quartz in the formation. Nearly £12,000
has been called up and spent on this property, with very
poor returns so far. This northerly development may
mean more prosperous times, as most of the prospecting
hitherto has been done south of the shaft, and there is
consequently much untried country to the north.
* * * *
American expert Currier, with experience
gained in the service of the Standard Oil Trust, and also
in Canada and Borneo, has expressed the belief that Rcma
(Q.) is the centre of a large oil-bearing area, which ex-
tends all over the Maranoa district.
* * * *
In Adelaide, it isn’t safe to mention sluicing
now. The Adelaide Hydraulic Sluicing Co. held the
Bullaprada Swamps, into which a few gullies had emptied
a few specks of gold, holding them in small basins.
These basins were tested, and Adelaide was persuaded, or
persuaded itself, that the same results could be got from
the whole area. A fine gamble started, and shares ran
up to £lB apiece. But the bottom started to fall out
pretty soon, the manager resigned, and 275. was reached.
About this time it came out that the Exchange had
scratched the wild-cat off its list. (Some brokers had
over-sold ; and the virtuous indignation with which they
helped to kick the thing downward was magnificent.)
But through it all the Adelaide papers kept the
silence that would not offend even the most
saintly speculator who had helped to push the concern.
“ Adelaide Hydraulics had an active and a very uneven
market,” one of them reported, “...easing to 395.
The above quotations were up to Monday evening, since
when no sales have been officially reported.” How
delicately papers can put things sometimes 1 When next
S. Australia has a hanging, these papers probably won’t
say that “ the murderer was taken to the scaffold on
Monday morning ”; they may say instead that, though
our esteemed townsmen is now much more restful, he
has not been able to get up for breakfast since Monday
last.
* * * *
The phosphate deposit at Angaston (S.A.),
worked by Keuper and Green, which turned out about
3000 tons of 65 per cent, stuff in the last 14 months, was
first mentioned to one of the proprietors while he was
on a trip to Germany, a Teutonic nephew having read of
a deposit of phosphates in South Australia in a book by
old Dr. Menge, the province’s first geologist, the man
who told S. Australia that it had copper mines in Yorke
Peninsula long before Wallaroo and Moonta were dis-
covered. Keuper returned to Australia and found the
deposit in the second pothole he sank.
* *
Bulli: Scarcely an investment, hut a very fair
gamble... .Insurance : Take it and be glad.
* • * *
Cobar.—For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894.
Two sets of improved plunger pumps, Cornish
type, are at present being constructed for the “keystone”
shaft of the Loddon Valley Goldfields (Victoria) to the
order of Bewick, Moreing and Co. Each set will consist
of two lifts of 250 feet, the total lift being 500 feet. The
plungers are 26in. in diameter and 10ft. stroke and the
discharge from the two sets will be 6,000,000 gallons per
day. The valve boxes are made in separate pieces instead
of forming par* --.f one H piece, and the valves are of the
compound .lap type. The total weight of the two sets of
pumps is 150 tons. The Austral Otis Engineering
Company has this work in hand. This company has
constructed and erected most of the big volume deep
alluvial pumping plants now working in Victoria.* [b]
* * * *
The Policyholder (Manchester, England), of
16th August, 1905, wrote with regard to The Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited:—“Always con-
trolled in its finances and business developments by able
and experienced insurance men, the history of this
institution, now extending over thirty-two years, is one
which proclaims an unflagging energy, conjoined with a
proper foresight on the part of those who have been
entrusted with its administration.*
Mineralised Slimes.—Advertiser is prepared
to successfully treat same by a new mechanical prooess.
Write to Findlay, 19 Macquarie Place, Sydney.*
* * * * •
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
\\ e stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silbkrbkrg and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagli-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discretion of cast or wrought iron work.*
* * * *
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
* *- * *
The enterprising engineering firm R. Hornsby
and Sons, Ltd., Grantham, England, world renowned
manufacturers of the “ Hornsbv ” Patent Safety Oil
Engine, the latest adaption of which is their Traction
Engine, have entered the Gas Engine arena and are now
making the Hornsby-Stockport Gas Engine and Suction
Gas Plant. The latter we learn will develop upwards of
10 brake horsepower at the cost of Id. per hour. The
minimum cost and attention required should prove a great
inducement to users of motive power to instal this tvpe
of plant. The Australasian addresses of the above firm
are : Sussex-street, Sydney and Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne.*
* » * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Commission business only. Agents every-
where.*
* * * *
To Mine Managers, Assayers and others.
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime, Zinc Shavings,
Mabor, and all Mining and Assay Chemicals and
Apparatus, Microscopes and accessories can be obtained
of Felton, Grinuvade and Co., Melbourne. Agents for
Oertling’s and Schlag and Berend’s Balances.*
* * * *
The best brand for sheep now in the market is
Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and is con-
siderably cheaper than any other. It will scbur out and
should certainly be used by those who hope to get a good
price for their wool. E. Rich and Co., Sydney and
Brisbane, hold stocks.*
* * * »
The Zinc Corporation has taken careful advice
in connection with the large plant required at Broken
Hill, and has ordered Babcock and Wilcox water-tube
boilers with superheaters and mechanical stokers. This
order has been followed by the great firm of mining
engineers, Messrs. Bewick, Moreing and Co., placing
orders with the same boiler company, in connection with
the South Blocks, also at the Hill. These instances
further prove the assertion that, wherever economy in
fdel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed. This company stock boilers at “ Haymarket,”
Sydney.*
* ♦ *
Charters Towers.— Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* * * *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
Collison and Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
It is a cold day when this country doesn’t hear
something new and fresh about its great natural
resources, and its capacity for producing raw
material to be manufactured by more advanced
races. The latest impassioned address on this
subject deals with hogs’ bristles, and the cry
comes from Japan, per medium of State Commer-
cial Agent Suttor. Japan is doing a great deal
in the way of producing woollen and cotton goods,
making iron and steel, building ships, &c., but
Mr. Scttor’s communication does not urge Aus-
tralia to go in for large affairs like those. He
writes to say that there is a demand in certain
Japanese industries for the spikes of the hog, and
he urges Australia—not to manufacture for itself,
but to eater for Japanese manufactures by being
more careful to take the wool and frill off the
swine after it is dead. Truly, it seems to be this
country’s mission to supply raw material for all
the world, and if it becomes pigs’-bristles-gatherer
to the Jap it will only be fulfilling the destiny its
Foreign-trade politicians have marked out for it.
A “little common” is Australian for a
little common sense. A very good working
quality to carry around in a work-a-day world.
And its most potent ally is D.C.L., the whisky of
the wisest. To a combination of D C.L. and
common sense the highest altitudes of attainment
are easy. And it is the combination that supplies
the spirit of cheerfulness.*
A Melbourne lady—Miss Ethel Halley—
who is matron of a woman’s hospital in Shanghai,
recently visited Wuchang (China). This city is
700 miles inland. It. was until recently a seat of
ancient learning, which is another way of saying
that it was sunk in Oriental conservatism. But
the Japs have come to Wuchang, and Miss Halley
writes as follows about it:—
We stood and watched the Viceroy’s foreign-drilled
troops on their very much up-to-date parade ground,
looking quite martial and foreign in their khaki uniform.
Their barracks are splendidly built under German super-
vision, and the men are either German or Japanese
drilled. In a very short time, if things progress as they
have done lately, “ John Chinaman ” will be a power to
be taken seriously in the affairs of the world.
But Defence Minister Playford doesn’t see any
cause to worry.
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Limited, Sydney,
wool report: At our monthly auction on 18th inst., we
offered 850 bales, consisting chiefly of good Queensland
scoureds, and prices as compared with those ruling last
month, showed a decline of 10 per cent, on scoured,
except lots suitable for Japan, which receded about 6 per
cent. Greasy may be quoted 7J per cent, lower. Com-
petition was without animation and bidding slow, con-
sequently withdrawals were large. The London sales
now in progress terminate on 20th inst., when it is hoped
more encouraging news will be forthcoming. At auction
and privately we sold 258 bales—greasy realising to lid.
per lb. and scoured to 22J per lb.*
A little spice of variety was intro-
duced into the proceedings at one anti-gambling
and anti-gin meeting in Melbourne, the other
night. There was a regiment of police in attend-
ance to eject disturbers of the peace, and when.,
there was a little demonstration the chairman
cried : * ‘ Policeman, put that person out ! ” and
out went the person. Presently there was a show
of agitation near the door, and the usual order
was responded to with alacrity. The disturber was
forced out so violently that he fell into the gutter,
slopped his clothes, and cracked his forehead.
Later it was found that the sufferer was a good
Christian man who had helped to promote the
meeting.


ARTISTS, Photographers, See., are
invited to submit DESIGNS OR
IDEAS SUITABLE FOR REPRODUC-
TION AS POST CARDS to
HARDING & BILLING,
250 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Liberal prices paid immediately on acceptance.
ANGLERS
Send
for our
FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE.
It will please you.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
409 and 411 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WATSON'S WHISKY.
Rescii’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
David vStorer (EX Sons'
Tattoo Oil
[Registered Trade Mark]
IS THE ONLY ABSOLUTELY ....
In Three Colors s
BLACK, RED,
(EL BLUE.
Kept by . . .
ALL MERCHANTS
(Sb STOREKEEPERS.
SAFE WOOL-MARKING OB
SHEEP BRANDING OIL
———■rm
THE PERFECT
SHEEP-MARKER.
Aboriginalities.
“ Uckle ” : Can’t see why “ Mallarapoona ”
should be mystified about the ins and outs of
“ out ” and “ in.” It is plain English, as English
is commonly spoken. Didn’t “ Malariaspoony ”
ever hear anyone yell “Look out !” when “ look-
ing out” meant “ look in”? And do not the
Railway Commissioners prove that “in” is
“out” by calling the “ up” journey “down” and
the “ down ” journey “ up ” ? If “ Malaria ” refers
to the railway rate book, he will find that he
would have to go down to Orange (or any other
country town), which is really uphill from Syd-
ney ; and would have to go up to Sydney from
Orange, although Sydney is downhill. And yet
the Unpronounceable One is mystified !
A HEAVY BURDEN.
MRA. MALONEY: “ Good morning, Mrs. Foley.
and how hate things been going with you
lately? ”
MRS. FOLEY: “ Ah, sure, very badly. Such a
beautiful seltin’ of eggs as you niver saw went
bad on me, and last week two cows bust on
me, and on Thursday the old grey mare died
on me, and now Pathrick’s got rheumatism
on me! ”
The gentle mule seems to occupy quite a
wide space in the thoughts of the people at the
Hawkesbury College (N.S.W.). They have
ruined some of the fine brood mares put in their
charge by breeding mules from them for ordinary
farm work. The mule is a Spanish institution,
and pretty largely used in the southern United
States and West Indies, because it won’t allow
itself to be overdriven by the nigger who would
speedily ruin a horse. Otherwise, it is a sulky,
cross-grained brute, subject to sudden tits of fury.
There was, a year or two ago, a frantic idea of
exporting mules to S. Africa. It died away,
and was followed by another frantic notion that
they could be exported to India, where there is a
small demand for mules not over hands high,
for commissariat and mountain battery work on
the frontier. The Hawkesbury College breeds its
mules up to 16 hands—hopelessly large for the
only Indian buyer, the Government.
“Werrimee”: He Wagga rugs and Mur-
rumbidgee blankets. There is this difference
between the two : the latter is a bare bag, split
open ; the former is a bag, likewise split, with an
old woollen blanket that has become too thin to
keep out the cold sewn on for lining. The bush
horse-rug is made the same way, with the addition
of chest flaps. It is not often carried by footmen,
being a heavy article ; but scores of men with
horses and vehicles carry it; also shearers,
drovers, and station hands use it. Some shearers
have a weakness for wool sheets—though the
sheets don’t wander so much since the squatters
took to spoiling the look of them with brands.
Uncut bags are also frequently used by horsemen
for covering the pack, to keep it clean ; and I have
known footmen to carry a single wheat bag rolled
inside the swag. On cold nights the owner, after
rolling himself in calico and blanket, would insert
his feet in the bag and draw it over him, thus
making a very warm bed. The inclusion of the
rug or bag does not make Matilda a bag-swag ;
though one made up wholly of Murrumbidgee
blankets would fill the bill, I never met one of
those. The generally-applied term to the imita-
tion swag is “ dummy ” ; and if dummies were to
be specified and labelled according to contents, it
would take half-a-dozen columns of The B. to
hold them.
* * * •
“ W.P.8.” : Were you ever pursued by a
snake except in dreams? Whilst riding with a
friend on a New England station many years ago
(I was merely a pup then) we saw what appeared
to us the largest dead tiger snake ever seen. It
was coiled up against a fallen tree, and made quite
a heap. We rode right up to within syds. of it.
It never moved a muscle, but seemed as defunct
as ever. I slowly pulled one foot out of the
stirrup and prepared to alight, the better to carry
on my investigations. I was nearly out of the
saddle—mark you, I was getting off very gradually
owing to natural shyness—when that dead snake
arose with a roar. He seemed 10yds. high. My
gallant steed wheeled suddenly and struck out for
home and beauty at the rate of 10 ounces to the
ton. I stuck on somehow, or I daresay I should
have been long ago lamented. Friend followed
in my wake like a streak of greased lightning.
We glanced over our shoulders in our mad career,
and that cursed imp of Satan was pursuing us and
gaining on us at that. He was going 12 ounces to
the ton We bustled over logs and through scrub
for a quarter of a mile, and the slim gentleman
still crawled over the earth. We raced on in
blind flight for some more, and then took another
furtive glance behind. The yellow peril was not
insight. It was a relief. “The Hack ” (B. 10/7/’00)
says he has a horror of snakes and that he killed
a dead one once. My advice to him and others is
to always kill them, dead or alive. You never
know when they are dead, and even the deadest
snake is none the worse for being killed a little
deader.
* * * *
“ Yarrum ” : Witnessed a tough battle
t’other morning at Toronto (Lake Macquarie)
between a well-grown
octopus and a stingray.
The latter lashed
savagely with his tail,
and amputated several
of his antagonist’s ten-
tacles, which were
quickly gobbled up by
a motley push of fishy
specimens that sailed
round at a respectable
distance viewing the
scrap. In the second
round the “starry”
got a body blow that
made him squirm, and
he took refuge in a
cloud of that inky-
black substance he se-
cretes to conceal him-
self. At half-time the
’ray was obviously
done, and the octopus
had him. After a lot
of shaking and blood-
letting, the ’ray flapped
his sides violently and
slung his tail viciously,
but hit nothing. Then
quite a lot of bubbles
rose to the surface,
and he lay motionless on his back. He had
passed right out. The octo. spread himself like
a balloon over his prey to keep the greedy
spectators back from the banquet; and, gripping
the carcase with his crippled tentacles, punted it
under a convenient log.
* * * *
“England’s a free country!” said a re-
returned Gumsuclcer. “ Tell that to Bruce Smith !
Went for a day’s shooting in Fogland. Got out
at a strange village—Mutfin-on-Squeak—25 miles
from London. Met a local sport, who looked like
a military ad. Told to produce my gun license.
Back to London and the gunsmith. Same after-
noon discovered me in the poLshed paddock, when
the sport passed me the glad news that I couldn’t
shoot without a permit. Resolved to see it
through, and wrote to the Lord of the Manor.
Permit arrived in a week, allowing me to shoot
hares and bunnies on his Toad-in-the-Hole estate,
but to keep off game. Again discovered in the
merry glades of England. Couldn’t proceed
without tipping a gamekeeper. Walked about
all day, seeing only bunnies. They would eat
out of your hand. Was shown the poultry as a
special treat. The fat pheasants were fit for the
stage. They were well-behaved, educated birds,
and how Edward VII. caught one on his head is a
dark mystery. They could hardly walk, far less
fly. Had an exciting day looking at the pictures
—‘ Trespassers will be shot,’ ‘ Beware of the
fowls,’ ‘No Smoking,’ ‘Evening Dress Op-
tional’ —that graced the forest primeval of Toad-
in-the-Hole. It was dangerous hunting big game
there; you might disarrange the fowls’ feathers or
ruffle bunny’s nicely-combed hair.”
FORCIBLE EXTRACTION.
TIMSON (who has gone on the land, young man): “Dash it! When you sold her to me you
said shed GIVK milk, and, after all, it seems you’ve got to force it from her.”
“ Ossian ” writes :
“ Nulla ”(B. 28/6/’O6) doesn’t know whether it is usual
for gooseberries to grow wdld in Australia. Both goose-
berries and raspberries grow wild in abundance through-
out the North Coast (N.S.W.) from the Manning River to
the Queensland borde r. Twenty years ago at Grafton
(N.S.W.) the blacks—particularly one Dick Bungaree—
used to get beer money by gathering the fruit and dis-
posing of it at “ tixpence” a sugar-bag full. This gives a
hint of how it flourished in those days. A few months
after a piece of scrub land has been cleared and the
fallen scrub burnt, gooseberries spring up on the clear-
ing like mushrooms where previously there wasn’t a
plant. On the banks of the Clarence and on the island
in the river, hundreds of wild mulberry bushes are to be
found laden with fruit in the season. But “ Nulla ” had
better be wary about that passion-fruit find of his. Wild
passion-fruit are also plentiful on the Northern Rivers of
N.S.W. In appearance they greatlv resemble the ordin-
ary fruit. The only difference is that the leaves are a
shade thinner and the fruit deadly poisonous.
On which subject “ Gip ” also writes :
Why do “Cape” gooseberries spring up and literally
cover the soil after a burning-off in the Northern river
bush ? There was no sign of them there before the fire.
“Nulla” (B. 28/6/’OG) talks about passion-fruit growing
wild. There was, a few years ago, an uninhabited island
at the entrance to the Clarence River that had nothing
on it but ferns, a few trees, and passion-fruit. And
delicious passion-fruit too. Did I say it was uninhabited?
Dear Bulletin, I know snakes are off ; but you ought to
have seen the snakes on that island. If one went on tip-
toe, one might, with luck, step between them, but that’s
about ail.
This sort of discrepancy is enough to bring any
paper’s bald hairs with horror to the sarcophagus.
Apparently “Gip,” who is a young lady of
attractive appearance, has been on a snake-
haunted island eating what “Ossian” declares is
deadly poison. Are these wild passion-fruit
poisonous? Will Nicholas Willis eat some when
he comes back and decide the question, it being
understood that he gets an improvement lease if
he survives?
* * * *
“Agricola”: While on the subject of
derivations, what’s the matter with investigating
a few of the alleged aboriginal names of the Out-
back stations ? Lately, I had the job of deli vering
“woollies” to Cockitydong, which lies between
Jerilderie and Deniliquin. It is my only vice—
and I say it with all modesty—to inquire the
meaning of every aboriginal name I hear. Gene-
rally it means “Yellow mudhole” or “Stinking
crayfish,” or something similarly {esthetic. The
“Rippling waters” and “Bower-birds’ retreat”
sort of names seem to be confined to the coast and
the nimble imaginations of alleged authorities.
Well, on inquiring about the origin of Cockitydong,
I found it is only the broken-English (perpetrated
by a half-broken gin) for a very flash boundary-
rider, “ Cocky ” John, who was once there.
* * * *
To cure a cold in one day take Laxative
Bromo Quinine Tablets. All chemists refund the
money if it fails to cure. E. W. Grove’s signa-
ture is on each box. Is. lid.*
* * * *
There is nothing better for killing all
infectious disease germs than Little’s Soluble
Phenyle. Try it in your bath ; use it generally
throughout the household if you want comfort. No
vermin can live where it is used. It has 100
different uses. Ask your grocer for a bottle.*
“ Kaban ” : A par. in The Bulletin
(5/7/’OG) conveys the impression that the black
trackers employed by the Victorian Police De-
partment represent the vanishing remnant of the
aboriginal inhabitants of that State. As a matter
of fact, Victorian blacks have not been used as
trackers for a number of years, the office being
filled by importations from Queensland. These
are changed every year or two, beer and other
influences of civilisation soon dulling those powers
of observation which are essential to the tracker.
* * * *
A letter of proposal received by a Vic-
torian girl
Marsch 1.
My Deerest : You wil kindly excuse my impurdence
in riten this letter but i were very much struk with you
at the ucher party and danse at ole . I were looken
at you when you were dooen the step danse on the flore,
my oath you did look pretty. Be my oath i would like
you to he my own verry deer little sweat little wifey.
My deer ole mother and father is ded for a long time ago
and i would like you be my bride, will you my deerest
contend to be my sweat little wifey i am only a
woodcutter but i will do my best to make you happiness
i have 2 ackes and a saw' and 6 whedges and £9 in the
savings bank w'hioh belongs to myself and nobody elce.
Do anser it very quick deer as i will be waiten at the
place w'here they gets the letters.
Yours lovely wisher
xxxxxxxxxxx Them stroaks meens a lot of sweat kisses.
ARITHMETIC.
MR. SWKENY: “ Say, Mr. Patmore, 0i've just
got a ncinepinny meal for sixpince .”
MR. PATMORE: “ And how was that?”
MR. SWEENY: “ Aisy enough. Oi gev the waiter-
man a bob, an’ he tuk thrippin ’ aff th’ pay-
ticket.”
THE CHOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Our Australia for the Chow—that’s the creed and doctrine
now
Of the folks who vegetate upon the wide Victorian plains,
Where imported Mr. Tgit teaches passengers to wait,
And the cyclists chuckle gaily at the sadly stranded
trains.
Therfe they brand the anti-Jap as a most outrageous chap,
And the sturdy “ White Australians” are disloyalists and
cranks.
There to hawkers (white) they say, “ Oh, our John comes
round to-day,
So we want no vegetables—we decline the same with
thanks.”
There the cabbage-cart of Wong never fails to come along
(Down the Bolar road it rumbles ; I can hear it bumping
now).
There the wearied country wife drops the dull-edged
table-knife,
And with a smile of welcome greets the fat and festive
Chow.
There the lettuce grown by Ling is the only proper thing
For anyone of Breeding and of Class to patronise.
There the parson’s lusty dame earns a niche in local fame
By a giddy hour at school, spent in teaching Almond
Eyes.
All the Tories love Ah Kett—he’s a safe and silent pet;
He makes no rude remarks about a thieving landlord
crew.
They are kind unto this bland product from the Leper
Land;
But they Shunt the clean white hawker with a sharp and
sudden “ shoo.”
Gorge the Chinamen, ye fools ! Howl for Japanese, ye
tools
Of the daily press, the squatters, and the money-lending
band !
But another tune you’ll hum when the yellow brother’s
drum
Leads the murky-colored legions o’er the fair defenceless
land.
VIC.
GEORGE BRVANT.


sd
By Appointment to
H.M. The King and H.R.H. The Princo of Wales.
jtt|
SALT
A pinch or Salt givesflavour, but a pinch of GEREBOS Salt gives Strength
and Health as well, because It contains the bran phosphates which make
the difference between White Bread and Whole Meal Bread.
Agents—Harrison A* Ait-wood. Sydney.
OUR.
<a6iQ€a>aod'
a-Nalf
BROOCHES
Are a revelation of values.
A revelation of good de-
signs —of high - grade
workmanship—of superb
quality.
Opals or Pearls, set in Fine Gold.
£lll/6.
Fine Gold, set with Opals, Turquoises,
Tourmalines, or Peridots, 4JI/TI 6.
They are made of fine Gold, set with Selected Pearls, or Turquoises, or Peridots, or Amethysts, or Olivines,
or Tourmalines. They are the result of very special efforts to produce a line that will be talked
about, and so increase our already large output.
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
* FAIRFAX & ROBERTS;
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter St,
A DIFFERENT THING.
“ But I loves yer, Liz.” “Gam! Yer don't.”
“ Will yer marry me, then?”
“ Yes, I will.”
The “faithful dog,” who will stick to his
master—while there is any of him left—has turned
again, this time at Oobram (Vie.). lie had been
guarding his master’s body for about a fortnight,
and when it was at last discovered he was
guarding a good part of it from the outside.
The anti-Socialistic farmer, with a “stake
in the country,” seems just about as casual
as the rest of his countrymen at times. He
lately started to drive home from Rush worth
(Vic.) in the cool of the evening, and presently
fell asleep in his buggy. The horse was also a
casual animal —not one of those story-book horses,
that can always find their way home from im-
mense distances; so when the farmer woke up,
about fourteen or fifteen o clock, he was a sur-
prised agriculturist. He was still in his buggy,
and the moke was stationary between the shafts,
but the machine was wedged between the stems
of two immense trees, in a forest, or timbered pro-
vince, he had never seen before, and knejv abso-
lutely nothing about. Having pondefed for d,
space, and decided that it was impossible to hew
down one of the trees with his pocket-knife and
release the vehicle, he resolved to unharness the
horse and ride him back on his tracks. He did
this, but the animal wasn’t that kind of
a horse, and he didn’t seem to have
any tracks, and after carrying his rider
through what seemed a score of forests, he landed
him about next mid-day at Whroo, which is a
good many miles from Rushworth. Inquiry per-
suaded the farmer that he had left his buggy
somewhere in the Buffalo Range State forest—
which is a wood about half the size of the Cold
Country, or thereabouts ; and as he hadn’t the
dimmest notion where to look for his vehicle he
had to let it rip temporarily. A week later a
bushman galloped up to Rushworth police station
with the surprising information that several per-
sons and a horse had apparently been swallowed
up by an earthquake in the forest, leaving only a
buggy and an empty whisky bottle jammed be-
tween two trees. He was calmed down and told
that if he led the farmer gently to where his lost
buggy was and showed him the way home again,
it might be made worth his while —or again it
might not.
* * * •
“ Hexham ” supplements E. S. Sorenson’s
remarks about travellers (B. 5/7/'OG) :
I have “ travelled ” extensively in three continents,
and I give South Africa the bun both for inhospitality
and the kind of men on the road, while South America
and Australia (N.S.W. and Queensland) about tie. E.S.S.
speaks of mounted men hiding their horses before going
up to a station for rations. It is the very opposite among
the Boers and in the Iliver Plate. The Boers hate the
sight of a white man oh foot, and will rarely (and the
British colonist just as rarely) give him even a mouthful
of biltong. But let him start from the neighborhood of
Capetown on horseback with a recommendation from
some Erasmus or Coetzee or other of their clans, and one
relative will pass him on to another until, without it
costing him a penny, he may arrive at the Limpopo. Ex-
cept in the agricultural districts of Argentina and
Southern Brazil, the traveller must be on horseback. He
had better,be. without trousers than on foot.
Ran from a steamer in Rio Grande and started tramp-
ing overland to Montevideo, without knowing either
Portuguese or Spanish. Was arrested in evert town I
came to as a lunatic, suppered and bedded at the cala-
boza, and, when found to he harmless, allowed to depart,
the commissario sometimes presenting me with a milrei
or two. Meat is pretty well the only food one receives
on the road, but, especially in Uruguay, not a single night
need be passed outside, and there is no occasion to carry
a billy, nose-bag or any swag but a blanket and—above
everything—a sheath-knife. Rather than see a man
hungry, the poor Oriental will go out and lasso a sheep—
somebody else’s—and have it on the fire in 20 minutes.
Par “ outside,” the “ traveller ” is certain to be offered
a horse. Even if you steal one, and the owner meets you
on it, provided that it be not a special animal, it is im-
probable he vvill dismount you. He would “jump” one
himself directly, if left on foot.
One inconvenience is that municipalities having any job
to be done pick up “ travellers ” and make them work at
it without pay. Another that in revolutions—there are
many small provincial and State affairs which are never
mentioned in our newspapers—one is run in and made to
fight, or rather pretend to fight, for Senor Don, Angel
Blanco or General Bassilvabasso y Viedma in remote
parts, perhaps with an old flint-lock Dick Turpin pistol
and a long pole with a shear-blade at the end of it. This
looks romantic, but with never a cent of pay, no tucker
but what you can requisition or steal, and lying out
every night under a poncho, one soon tiies of it.
* * * *
“Reka” : I seize my pen with haste to
enter the long-discarded habit discussion. I met
at a friend’s house a Maoriland girl just back from
England. She was of the variety that is called
“dashed superior,” with an unwholesome and
freshly imported scorn for her native land. Said
Auckland was the dirtiest place she had ever seen ;
that the Maoriland twang was simply painful;
and that one met no really nice people in “ the
colonies,” where everybody who even appeared to
be anybody had risen from nothing, and was
really nobody. A whole roomful of people sat
round and filled in the pauses with murmurs of
admiration. Presently there was a lull in the
conversation; in the silence somebody knocked
on the outside wall; and the girl just back from
England said suddenly a,nd decisively “ Shop ! ”
The visitors all gazed in amazement, but the
mystery was explained later by the hostess, who
explained that the head of the family had made his
wealth in a large all-sorts store in one of the
suburbs, and the family took turns at keeping an
eye on the business. That was a good many years
ago, but the girl still called “Shop” in response
to a sharp knock when her mind was unoccu-
pied.
• * » *
“ Elmore ” : Ever seen foxes making their
toilet ? I watched one, shortly after daylight, the
other morning. He (it was a he) was in a gully,
near his den. Eirst, he rolled over and over, like
a dog. Then he ran round and round a tussock,
reversing, so as to give each side a good brushing
with the stiff grass. Now and again he put his
head into the tussock, turning it several ways.
Then he started on his brush. He selected a long
dead limb of a tree, about a foot or so from the
ground. Lifting his brush almost perpendicularly,
he ran under the limb backwards and forwards
several times, giving his tail a good rub on the
limb each time. Each move was as stealthy and
as graceful as a cat’s. Then, having removed all
traces of the neighboring farmers’ chickens, he
retired, yawning, into his den.
THE PROOF OF THE LIQUOR IS IN THE FALLING.
FIRST CONNOISSEUR : “ And what wilt YOU have to drink, Harry?”
HARRY : “ I think I'll have what he's had, dear boy."
THE HORSEMAN ON THE SKYLINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Who's that mysterious rider,
Full-sized, yet far away,
Seen by the Western-sider—
A spectre of the day ?
On ridge or seeming high line
Where East the plain expands,
The horseman on the skyline
Is known in many lands.
With summer insects drumming
And summer skies aglow,
He’s there—none'saw him coming—
He’s gone—none saw him go.
Too plain for superstition
Too blurred for one we sought,
He rides Across our vision
To vanish like a thought.
He never halts nor harries,
But slowly, in broad day,
Along the skyline eastward
He seems to pick his way.
He rides against the sunrise,
He rides against the gloom,
Where suddenly, in summer,
The lurid storm-clouds loom.
He never rides in starlight,
Nor underneath the moon,
But often in the distant
And dazzling haze of noon.
The sad Australian sunset
(Too sad for pen or tongue)
Has often seen him riding-
Out where the night was young.
On rolling cattle ranches,
In “ country ” far away,
Where cowboys took their chances,
They saw him every day.
And many try to And him
Where riders never tire—
He leaves no trail behind him,
And never lights a fire.
On run and ranch and veldtland
He leaves them all in doubt—
A cowboy, or a stockman,
A horse thief or a scout.
The glass brings him no nearer,
Nor hints the way he came ;
His features are no clearer,
He vanishes the same.
Too blurred and dark his clothing
To hint of his degree ;
Inquiries lead to nothing,
No hoof-mark do we see.
He leaves the watcher puzzled,
Or leaves the watcher pained ;
The horseman on the skyline
Has never been explained.
Still, where by foot or saddle,
Or train or motor-car,
The people hurry westward—
It matters not how far—
And, plainly seen by many,
The greatest and the least—
The rider on the skyline
Is scouting to the east.
N.S.W.
HESRY LAWSON.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. - Name and
address must appear on MS'. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
A.B. : The old mariner in “Seascape” is a
teller of oft-told tales Frank Rawdon: “D.T.’s”
goes almost exactly on the lines of an imaginary
snake recently in The Bulletin, but lacks the
literary quality of the previous snake.. ..Gip: One of
them will do....Arnal: “ Bush School’’got bushed....'
L. 0.: Haven’t the ghost of an idea what “Bondage” is
about... .A.J.B. : One accepted; two rejected....
L. Williams: Sorry to say we can’t trace it.... Kemo:
Judge Therry’s “Reminiscences of N.S.VV.” were
published in England some 40 or more years ago. Sotne
dealers in second-hand books might find you a stray copy.
Write to Cole of the Book Arcade, Melbourne
P.N.R. : Don’t care for “Garden.” “City” Would be
all right if it made a fair pretence of sticking to one
metre. “Spenders" will do D.M.M. : Verse about
Richard Seddon belated. Also, we have received over a
dozen bits of verse on that subject. One well-meaning
bard made “Seddon” rhyme with “dead ’un.”
G.T.C. : “ Cows ” suffers from too many artificial metres.
A.G. : “ Rickshaw ” declined. Rather off our beat....
G.W.: “Binkie” seemsa very innocent kind of a hard case.
On the whole, our sympathies are with Binkie.. ..Ber-
keley S.: Old ruins and battlements and knights in
armor and carousals and tournaments and the like are
strictly “0ff.”....8. James: An uninteresting struggle
between a clerk and a barber for the possession of a
commonplace girl Tama Rama: “By the Sea” just
the same old fellow and girl mooning on the shore....
G.P. : “Mollie’s Laugh” is miseraDle verse R.N.
(Liverpool, England): “Too Late” not worth the space.
Squeaker: Good subject poorly treated.... Rouse-
about: You strike the unhappy medium between serious-
ness and burlesque The Hack : All true, but though
truth is mighty, it can’t carry those verses.. ..Lewin
Crada : All three rejected. “ Chastity ” rejected some-
thing extra C-B. : “ Old Bushman ” is a picture of an
idealised bushy—not at all like the real thing... .G.E.T. :
“Binks” is dreary, humorless, and impossible... .War-
rigal: Both extremely wooden, and show no literary
promise. They read like dull, hard, exact statements of
what you saw, with no literary dress on them. And
don’t call every Australian a “colonial,” and don’t
call this country “ the colony.” Likewise, please
note that the pen-name, “ Warrigal ” has been an-
nexed long ago ; also “ Yarraman ” and “ Womerah.”....
Narama : Afraid j t ou haven’t improved it much Mars:
“ Realisation ” deals with a subject that is hardly worth
writing about Claude D. : “Parable” rather weak.
If the Day of Judgment is no more imposing than that it
will be a poor show W. : “Madness” has one incurable
drawback ; it isn’t the least bit mad.... Midas: “Call”
is just “ Clancy of the Overflow ” in a new and less pic-
turesque garb.. ..Mia : “ Three Fates ” chiefly notable for
its remarkable rhymes; “follower” and “hollerer” es-
pecially .... Blinks : A picturesque fragment, but leads to
nothing in particular.... W.D.: Some points about story.
Verse about weeping female whose tears rained down on
infant declined Patrick C. : “Days Apart” strongly
written, but subject quite ordinary... .D.P.: “Label” just
misses the public vehicle D.W. : Your insistent state-
ment that it is sweet to recline ’neath wattle branches takes
no account of the insects that are liable to drop on you
0.: “Qualified Praise” hardly gets there Geebung:
“ Pride of Sydney ” doesn’t gee much in the first verse,
and goes bung in the second.. ..N.: “Cousin Jack”
declined with some hesitation... .Robert H. : Couldn’t
you write about a Hebrew policeman for a change 9 ....
W.H.T. : Made several attempts to patch it, then gave it
up M.S.W. : We get many songs urging people to
keep up their spirits, but few as miserable as yours....
Rotten: You live up to the name Crosscut: You’ve
mistaken violence for verse Limp: Uneven; and the
good parts don’t pull it through Dan Dee: Miles
under the mark Hollow Log : Moderate merit only
Lela M. : “Queen” still hardly up to mark L.L.B. :
“ Conciliation ” found us in a non-conciliatory mood, and
left us in ditto La Fee: “Sam Ling" is just a hasty
Horror—a horrid Horror, in fact....J.C.: “Unpayable
Job ’’ holds out no promise. Just a plain public-house
row with no literary graces or decorations Rose B. :
Both pretty, but only in a small way.. ..Brenda M. : It
was duly returned S.E.: “Seer” is a good subject,
but verses recklessly slung together Cohen: “Shoot
Me ” rejected with regret; it comes so near to success....
Martingale: “Johnny England" only moderate..,.
C.W. : None of them quite up. “Sorrow” would do if
there were any demand for verses about “ Sorrow,” but
there isn’t. We try to avoid, as far as possible, verses re
sorrow, grief, pain, woe, toothache, corns, bereavement,
the silent tomb, the dying bushman, the skeleton
found in the wilderness, the lost child, the dis*
appointed egg that wouldn’t hatch, the blighted life,
and so on. Don’t mind the moaning sea occasionally....
De Wet: No time for slovenly scribble. You need legi*
bility, or genius, to make copy acceptable, and genius is
rare....H.A. : “Shoes” has fair quality, but the mul-
tiple-will device is ancient J.A.R. : “Peter” nearly
scored. Verse too heavy and didactic E.S.H. : Too
childish for print M.S.W. : Mediocrity 0n1y..,.
P.H.F.: Quite a crop of libel actions “ hanging ”to that,
Gynal : The implication makes it unprintable W.
Syme : Too many weak spots Peter B.: The syntax
slumps badly in places... .G.A. : Well versified, but falls
otherwise very fiat James F. : Conventional in tone
and undistinguished in treatment Hooky: A grue-
some effort at humor Sassafras : Poetic, but lament-
ably unskilful... .D.D.M.: Too recondite and cabalistic..,.
E.B. : “Perjured Woman” rather ordinary scrap....
Vancouver : All true, and some of it good ; but the bulk’s
below the mark BerkeleyS.: Has hardly weight or
point enough... .Langar : Graceful of idea, but faulty of
form.... Alt. W. : Too much husk for such a very small
kernel J. V. O’C. : Both are feeble and conventional.
Serranus : Your hand is too heavy for satire. The
bludgeon is clearly your weapon—not the rapier
V.M.V. : Ingeniously conceived, but very clumsily
worked out Skipjack: It bristles with blunders in
syntax and spelling... .5.8. F.: Verse hardly suitable to
B Tas.: Many people, go to church for other than
religious motives: but absurd to say that all church-
goers do. Give the religious folk the benefit of the
same charity you ask for yourself P.R. : To give an
opinion on a N.S.W. land law matter requires courage;
but it seems pretty clear that a man holding land on
occupation license can charge agistment for the bullocks.
Dan Dee : “The Law which creepeth cat-like o’er the
earth”! On ourbeat the policeman walks like an elephant..
E. Herbert Spencer’s advice to the Japs to avoid
intermarriage with other races has been printed in The
Bulletin Alf. W. : Not idyl, nut idle.. . .F.E.L. : One
may serve ; we can’t notice pars, in this col. —only stories
and verses Insolvent: No use describing a poor little
poker swindle like that to Australian audiences.
There isn’t enough credulity among card-players here
to allow of all that arrangement among confederates....
A.F.T. : (1) Hardly above doggerel-level, as yet; we pay
for all we accept... .C.S.N. McC. : None of any use
A.M.8.: No definite point....W.C.C.: Doesn't quite
“ arrive"... .D.B.K. : Tyro’s touch too obvious
J. Jones: Joke viewed with suspicion Stranger: Tell
us, coldly and calmly, and speak slow—how can Joseph
Ward, as Premier of Maoriland, “give the R.C. religion a
great lift ?” Who will he convert and howwill he do it?....
F. : Only jingle S.M. : Can find no trace of man-
ganese imports in the Commonwealth trade returns. It
is only used as an alloy in highlclass iron and steel manu-
factures ; and Australia has none of those manufactures
worth mentioning, because N.S.W., which has the coal
and the iron, has been the Foreign-trade fanatic of the
group... .Unsuitable : Optic.
Take a little Wolfe’s Schnapps morning
and night to keep the stomach, bowels and kidneys
in good order. And it does the business.*
Brave men have tried times over again
To reach the ice-bound poles in vain ;
There needs yet more acute device
To storm those battlements of ice ;
Perchance, by flying ships to be,
They’ll gain triumphant victory,
Provided they, for colds, secure
A store of Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*


fds
Tfyere is Qr'eaJ^objeclforr 'fo v4c
(jovgrnrr/erfe fr 0 !* O S*J ‘tytf' police.
Mi^Vrafe $ pnsiJe ovck -fife
v childrens Cook/^.
"J)on rrij IHH&
were rrot^w-orje
dfon we looK !
Sfokk of W* Wd wiWd
Ihl£e CxPj whtlsh dic*ui S e<i 3
” in 3 ted Tie-.' 5
'• j-Jow CA h %* federal lc §fete
follj be Vnijorni when foe S't’afe
h*S Vo Wowje«s V'otc. ? --
(prely Wo*, v>
; You I j
wete
iVie. 190 A-'.'
Let' Afere *le
. C ftce'fra^O
.
•s/i I c'^" 1
If
gATs
jvs elyoj9|»ed tn o!^y
• (T°*> ,\
J
, V -
w
%
hfi
comitra Wnc«
will nee4 **ie«i Her “fa W
ae s -tTny." [judKin^]^—i„ ,^4
J„a Kins' —*' It "fe desirucfu>>i! I
: “ A}- |>Vaj>s -W~ ts f i<7t wzJKivz^
«* "-
life dVif f vev, tt|*^.: o (Mls ,- S sMl }
BENT AND SOME OTHER THINGS.


MONEY JN BRISTLES AND HAIR.
In the course of his report on the trade of Japan for 1905,
Mr. Suttor remarks:—“ In connection with hair, horse-hair, pigs'
bristles, and other bristles, the supplies are tar short of
requirements. Children in Australia could make good
pocket money by carefully putting up In small
bundles all the bristles and hair they could
collect, and shipping them 'to Japan.”
Paterfam.: “Ugh l here’s a hair 1 found In the butter I”
His Child: “ Oh, pa I can I have it; . I’m collecting ’em
for the Japanese market?” A
VI don’t like the . Idea of a stringy-bark capital.
There Is no necessity for H. Carruthers.
In a spirit of allegory ” Hop.” has here submitted
\ a design for a capital suitable, to the accomplish-
ments of the. N.S.W. State Parliament.
\ fo the foreground the, State Attornfey-
' Is seen preparing a temperance
\drink,''while the Premier sits In the
' ■ Capitol meditating ’ upon his j
sOwli greatness.
THE TANTANOOLA TIGER AGAIN 1
!n an address to the Queensland Women’s Electoral
£ST ,aBt ?r t “ rday ’ Mr - Reid said his fight was against
destroyed WhiCh regarded as a tl % er th at ought to be
The new “ Reform ” Liquor Law Is working splen-
didly— at least so thought the publicans who happened
to be on the right side of the street on the day of the
Surry Hills election.
V.%,
~ '*-■«
4V>x y *%<^%" > *
’*<-£<z%Z&>Z Z<‘
XXXX*'
NSSVV*'
X X X
* X
Near-sighted Smoker, to fellow-traveller : “ Will
you oblige me with a match?”
Fellow Traveller: “Ob, sir, this Is so sudden?”
■ Some annoyance has been
| occasioned to travellers by '
train owing to what Is re- \
-garded as an Intrusion on the
r part ot ladles Into the smoking
| compartments of carriages. Com-
j plaints have been made to the
I Commissioners with the view of
'action being taken to stop the
practice.
Well, It Is rather awkward some-
times (see Illustration).
The new member for Surrv H!l!a i .
4 , —■ «•’'J2& ££ wh “ *•
(S °*‘ “* «>"“• <l.« I. Mta, ,p„ U 1 5., .;
SOME N.S.W. HAPPENINGS.


| The World’s
Dentifrice
il
Odd keeps more mouths
healthy and more teeth sound
than any other preparation in
the world.
Price 216 a bottle of Odol, lasting for
several months (the half-size bottle 1(6).
Of all Chemists,
PERSONAL ITEMS.
H. Ah Foo was one of the speakers at a
recent public meeting to agitate for a railway at
Goondiwindi, Queensland.
W. J. Lyne possesses a school certificate
showing that he won a school prize forty-five
years ago for gentlemanly behaviour—which is a
lot better than a prize for lady-like behaviour
anyway.
In the Commonwealth Gazette of July 7
is an intimation that the S.A. Collector of
Customs, F. W. Ringwood, had been granted two
months’ leave on full pay. And lie died some
weeks ago.
“ X.” writes : When the late Duncan
Gillies sat on the Opposition side of the Victorian
Legislative Assembly a britlier Scot once described
him as a
Pert, prim prater of a Northern race ;
Guilt in his heart, and famine in his face.
Duncan’s recently-composed epitaph reads some-
what differently, but—
Although Maoriland can claim the first
Premier named Jones, N.S.W. came very near
doing the trick 50 years ago. In one of the Charlie
Cowper boil-overs Richard Jones, M.L.A. for
Durham, was sent for by the Governor and invited
to form a Ministry. After an inspection of forces
he passed the job on. He was Treasurer for about
five months.
Within about as many weeks four members
of the N.S.W. Legislative Council have been
gathered to their parents—Robert Fowler, aged
07; W. R. Campbell, 08; George Day, 80; and
James Norton, 82. By Dr. Norton’s death
John Macintosh, aged 85, and appointed in 1881,
becomes father of the Plouse of Dodder.
Reid finds amusement, no doubt, in going
about the country as a cheap funny man, admis-
sion free. But what is fun for him is hard on
the professional funny men. R. G. Knowles
(admission 35., 2s. and Is.) bumped up against the
freefunny man at Bundaberg (Q.), and atBo’elock
Knowles had hardly an audience at his show.
THE REV. CLARKE, BISHOP OF
MELBOURNE.
W. S. Cottew, for 25 years connected with
Bananaland’s railways as signal and electric-
lighting engineer, and the tallest man in the ser-
vice, has crossed the border, aged 58. Cottew
possessed great ingenuity, which he applied to
good purpose in cheapening many services. One
of his devices was the mechanism which switches
on the electric lights of the Brunswick-street
tunnel when a train enters, and cuts them off when
the train exits. By this device the very tall man
saved his country £OOO a year. It is said that the
Continuous Government at once rushed out and
borrowed £20,000 when it heard of this saving, so
as to use up the £6OO a year in interest.
Premier Bent decided that after all lie
would not seek to boom Iceberg Irvine’s candida-
ture for the House of Reps, by carrying a motion
expressive of the Yic. Assembly’s high apprecia-
tion of his services. In doing this he was in-
fluenced by the knowledge that, although the
motion might be shouldered through, it would
give a large, eloquent minority a chance to say
unpleasant things that have long been bottled up
—things that wouldn’t help Irvine. In fact, to
give any body of men who knew Irvine a chance
to talk for, say, two days and two nights about
Irvine’s political character would be the unkindest
thing that could be done to the Iceberg that re-
cently floated away.
“The Moocher”: Re queer Christian
names. Would like to mention a family of the
Macleay River. There are seven daughters named
as follows : —Glvcerine Lettuce, Sarsaparilla
Lanoline, Olivine Thyme, Lucerne Willow, Barley
Hay, Eucalyptus Acacia, and Wattle Blossom.
Mr. Charles Smith Jones, solicitor, of
Jones and Jones, Sydney, who died last week,
was admitted to practise the six-and-eightpefiny
profession in 1809. So he was a pretty old solici-
tor when he died, and had seen much Costs. Also
his name of Smith Jones was rare—though there
was a Brown Jones in Sydney to keep him
company.
A man named Henry Wright, whose letter
reads seriously enough, though it may be only an
atrocious joke, has written to Wellington (M.L.)
Post proposing that Maoriland should start a
new chronology, and count its years as so many
“ after Seddon,” or so many “before Seddon”—
that there should be “Anno Seddoni” (A.S.)
instead of “Anno Domini ” (A.D.)
The Bill for the appointment of two new
Judges to the High Court has now passed the
Representatives, and names are being canvassed
freely. It is counted ns certain that one of the
new appointments will be offered to Isaacs or
Higgins; for the second Justice Inglis Clark
(Tasmania), and B. R. Wise (N.S. Wales) are
mentioned. Another nayne. suggested is that of
Justice Cussen (Victoria), whom Bent recently
raised to the State Bench, and who has an excel-
lent reputation as a lawyer ; but Cussen’s chance
is slim.
Joe Lesina, who has set out in Queensland
to secure Premier Kidston’s scalp, attempts to
play the role of John Norton, with whom he is
journalistically associated. The contrast between
Kidston and Lesina is complete. One is stout,
the other thin ; one thinks deeply and speaks
slowly ; the other thinks in a saucer and chatters
like a5O horse-power motor. In a contest in an
electorate, with any thinking capacity Lesina is
bound to go down. An empty bladder is no
match for a cannon ball.
A London paper gives the following news
item :
An intimation has been received at the London Head-
quarters of the Salvation Army that when General Booth
arrives in Japan, he will be received by the Mikado.
That, no doubt, makes the old man proud. And
now it may be pretty safely assumed that the Sal-
varrny in Australia will be ordered to cordially
approve of Jap immigration when the old
man’s personal vanity has been tickled and his
personal back scratched by the Jap potentate.
Writes a Man Who Knew Him :
The allusion of H. C. Dangar in N.S.W. Legislative
Council to the late Dr. James Norton, M.L.C., as one who
always “ fearlessly,” &e., excites a smile. The late lawyer
hail hosts of good qualities, but “fearlessness” in any
capacity was as far from him as ferociousness. Me was a
shy, undemonstrative old man, chatty only with ac-
quaintances or congenial friends, and steeped in know-
ledge about early Sydney. The house where he was born,
now Temple Court, at the Elizabeth-King-street corner,
was successively a house of lawyers, a family pub., and
again a house of lawyers, and he had stories about most
of the characters that flitted through. His father was a
bookman also, and published a volume about the Sydney
of his time which was regarded by many as atrociously
libellous, but is very tame reading to-day: The first of
the family to settle in Australia was John Norton, who
started the race with ten children and gathered in spare
country from Mount Victoria to Double Bay. The just
deceased Janies was also a man of many children and
numerous profitable land speculations. The legal busi-
ness with which he was associated till his death was
started in O’Connell-street in 1822, and has run continu-
ously ever since.
Hall-Jones, the temporary Premier of
Maoriland, is a man whose career has
beert shaped by his friends, he being too
indifferent to make any sort of a job of
it himself. Fifteen years ago Jones of
the hiphened name was a working car-
penter —a good tradesman, but not a
steam-hammer bustler like Seddon. His
friends urged him to enter municipal
politics; he hesitated, then took the
plunge and became a member of various
councils and boards. Later, the Timaru
seat in the House of Reps, become vacant.
Once more Jones’ friends assured him
that he was the man for the job, and a
very surprised and hesitating Jones
topped the poll. Elected as a Liberal,
Jones kept aloof from both parties, being
content to criticise them in a politely
indifferent manner. Politics bored poor
Jones horribly. Next Seddon, looking
for a quiet, weary colleague, came along
with the portfolio of Public Works.
Again Jones’ modesty made him decline
at first, but his admiring friends rushed
at him with their mouths open, and
Jones, still wondering at the numerous-
ness of his friends, accepted. Then
when Seddon died, a very startled Jones
found himself blushing in the Premier’s
billet. He says he will resign it when
Ward returns, but already those numer-
ous friends of his are urging him to
hold on. There must be some points
about a man with so many friends as
Jones possesses.
William Hodges, who died in Ade-
laide the other day, aged 84, was the last
survivor of the band of immigrants who
reached S.A. in the Rapid, in ’3O.
Colonel Light employed him to assist
in laying out the city of Adelaide. Almost
everybody of those days took a hand in laying out
the city of Adelaide.
“ Maori Mac ” tells about a baronet:—
Died at Blenheim (M.L.) recently, William Stuart-
Forbes, baronet, aged seventy odd years. The Forbes
baronetcy is one of the oldest of its kind, and the
late S’William was about the 999th of the line. He had
knocked around Australia all his life, working mostly as
a miner, and unexpectedly succeeded to the fam'ly
pomp when past middle age. A lack of education
prevented him from exploiting the ancient gew-
gaw. For the past ten years the ex-miner earned
a precarious living as a fisherman and pig-farmer at Tory
Channel, Picton, being known amongst the fisher folk
as plain Forbes. The deceased William’s eldest son
Charles succeeds to the title and dignity, also the war-
cry and the profit. He is very like his father, and is
married to a Maori girl of some attractions.
Died in Melbourne, from apoplexy,
Timothy Keane, the senior constable who, for
a quarter of a century, ran Melbourne court, and
ran it well. “Old Tim” was an ex-Irish con-
stabulary man of splendid physique, a kind heart,
and some brogue. He took a keen delight in
spotting the fresh young reporter, and giving
him fatherly points as to the methods of the
court, and in helping the blushing young lawyer
as he tied himself up in knots over his first case.
Timothy might have been a sergeant and a sub-
inspector years ago, but Melbourne City Council
paid him about £3 a week to act as prosecutor,
and he elected to stay at the District Court and
be orderly and preceptor-general. He retired from
active service about two months ago, and was
given a purse of sovereigns, which he hadn’t time
to spend before his kindly, broguey soul went
hence.
OF vARTED SPOTS.
Mr. Reid is only anti-Socialist in spots.— Prime
Minister Dcakin.
Jacob Garrard notifies his intention of
entering the Australian Parliament through
N.S.W. No. 10 electorate. Jacob is a political
institution of a class now nearly A quar-
ter of a century ago he was the M‘Gowen or
J. C. Watson of the working classes. The hat
circulated at workmen’s meetings to raise silver
enough to boil the Garrard pot while the owner
of the utensil yelled from platforms and in Parlia-
ment about the rightsof Labor. But he gradually
covered himself with broadcloth, cultivated
“moderation” and “respectability” and nosed
himself into Ministerial office as a Parkes poodle.
Since that day he has hung on tightly to Govern-
ment or quasi-Govcrnment billets. Theoretically
there is a lot to be said against the methods by
which the Labor party nowadays keeps its mem-
bers in hand, as tending to “machine politics.”
Practically there are many things to be said for its
methods. One of these things is Garrard. Some
more of them are men like Garrard.
Page, of Maranoa (Q.), promises to excel
the great Yes-No
himself as a cap-
sized jester. Page
votes against cheap
black labor and for
the sugar bonus.
He denounces Pro-
tection and talks
and interjectsFree-
trade. And out in
his own electorate
he is a Socialist
“ in his own time ”
and “all the time.”
On the strength of
a few years’ service
as a private, he
poses as a military
authority and
thinks Australia
can’t raise a general
to command its
own army. Also
he has concealed
upon him an ele-
phantine jest about changing the melodious name
of Maranoa to Artesia on account of the wells
there, or Bullockia on account of the live beef.
“ Spring’s ” descriptive effort:—
Dan Levy, the little member for Darlinghurst (Sydney),
is a quaint study in bigness. Represents the big money-
bags of Potts Point. Wallis down to office wearing a big
ring, big collar, big hat, big coat, big boots, big specs.,
big smile for all the big electors he meets, and a big
opinion of Mr. Daniel Levy, solicitor. He carries a big
stick with a big knob, big bag, big gloves, and a big ex-
pectation that he’ll find a big case awaiting him (I sup-
pose he often gets a big disappointment). Dan always
squats on the front Ministerial benches, alongside the
biggest Minister present, Ashton preferably, where he
can get a big share of the limelight. The other night he
made a speech against Holman, quoting big slabs of
oratory from behind a big paper, so that only his big ears
were visible. The dailies said the speech made a big hit,
and, as a result, Levy’s face has since been nothing but
one big grin of delight. There is a big man named John
Birt, up at the top of William-street, busily sharpening a
great big political knife to slay little Dan next time.
Was going to mention that, under Dan’s big hat, there is
a big bald patch, which looks as if it was nailed on by a
dashed bad carpenter, but that’s a bit too personal. Car-
penters are so sensitive.
The recently-dead Dr. James Norton,
M.L.0., was born in a house at the corner of
King and Castlereagh-streets, Sydney, 81 years
ago. His father, James Norton, was onfe
of the first members appointed to N.S. Wales
Legislative Council. The Dr.—who was an
honorary LL.D. of St. Andrew’s University,
Scotland —went to N.S.W. House of Fossils in
1879, and was Postmaster-General in Alex.
Stuart’s Ministry in 1885. As a legislator he was
not a gleaming planet, but in his private capacity
he did his share of what was going on. He was a
director of the Australian Gaslight Co., North
Shore (Sydney) Gas Co., and A. J.S. Bank ; Uni-
versity Solicitor, Fellow of St. Paul’s College
(Sydney University), trustee of Hyde Park,
Australian Museum (32 years) and Sydney Public
Library (28 years). Also he was the oldest
solicitor on the N.S.W. roll, having been admitted
58 years ago.
“Lil”: I stumbled into the midst of a
learned work on names, the other day, and was
attracted by the discovery that “ Malcolm Donald
M'Eacharn ” means “ the tonsured servant of St.
Columba, who is a proud chief and the son of a
horseman.” Malcolm certainly has lost a fair
amount of thatch lately, and he seems to be some-
thing of a proud chief or haughty squire when he
is occupying his Cold Country residence, but I
never saw his father on horseback. Ex-|-Premier
Allan M‘Lean is “the cheerful son of John’s
servant.” Maximilian Hirsch is “ the enormous
stag,” but his antlers have become somewhat
damaged in butting against Protection. Willie
Kelly is “the servant who is a helmet of resolu-
tion,” though to look at him nobody would take
him for more than a bell topper of pertness.
Alfred Deakin’s front name signifies “noble
peace.” One sometimes wishes it meant dignified
war—-or war of some sort, anyway. George Reid’s
preliminary rnonniker stamps him as “a husband-
man,” which is perhaps his reason for advising all
and sundry to go on the land without going there
himself. Best of all, the names of Melbourne’s
fleecily cherubic parson, Llewelyn Bevan, are
translated from Welsh into English as “Light-
ning Johnson.” Bevan’s middle initial, D, hardly
requires interpretation.
That veteran battler, Captain Jackson
Barry, aged 87, is now a penniless waif on the
Maoriland landscape, and his mental faculties are
very much bedimmed. Only one cheerless charity
institution among a number in Christchurch
would take him in, and he promptly made
bequests of innumerable visionary thousands to a
couple of members of the board. Time was when,
according to his own account, he spent £l5O to
£2OO a week, in Sydney or elsewhere, and no
doubt he did roar a good deal in the “roaring”
days. But the poor old skipper now even dis-
credits his own famous whale story, and says it
was a fish yarn.
Some of Labor-member Holman’s remarks
on legal ethics recall the fact that G. H. Reid,
when Attorney-General, filed a bill for murder in
an Ultimo case. He lost office and as a member
of the Bar accepted a brief to defend the man, and
persuaded the jury that the offence was not
murder but manslaughter. More legal ethics:
W. B. Dailey when Attorney-General took a brief
for one Marshall and appeared for him. Later on
Dailey, again as Attorney-General, filed a bill
against Marshal] in the same matter, and became
his prosecutor instead of his defender. Then
Dailey lost office and accepted a brief to defend
Marshall. Legal ethics sometimes approach
closely the ethics of the jockey profession.
Melbourne letter-cutters and stone-carvers
are under a Wages Board, which has fixed their
pay for writing the lie on the sepulchre at Is. 4i,d.
an hour (£3 Is. lOd. per week). They are striking
for £3 10s., and whether the lie on the monument
is worth it or not, the act is a foolish one for two
reasons. First, the tombstone can wait till the
strike dies out—it isn’t like bread or coffins which
can tbe postponed. Secondly, the strike gives a
handle to those who want to abolish Wages
Boards and get back, to the old sweating condi-
tions. The refusal of the men to appeal to the
Wages Board is calculated to bring into contempt
an institution which has done labor an immense
amount of good.
G. H. Reid, at Brisbane :
Some people spoke disparagingly of the real power
which protected the Continent of Australia to-day, the
power of the great motherland, symbolised by the Union
Jack. While they worked or slept, as the hours of day
and night proceeded, a ceaseless vigil was being kept
upon oceans of the globe in defence of this portion of the
British Empire against a world in arms.
And Reid and his crowd want to compel the
motherland to go on keeping that “ceaseless
vigil.” Good Australians desire to get their own
navy, and do their fair share of the vigil, and be
a help to the motherland, instead of keeping the
tired parent tramping the floor all night.
RE THE DISARMING OF NATIONS.
We (Britain) cannot enter upon disarmament as long
as other nations maintain great armaments.—MARQUIS es
RIPON.
JACK B.: “ Now, when I let go the hanky we'll
all drop 'em together and run.”
The Federal Labor party has formulated
its graduated land-tax on unimproved values, and
Melbourne Argus screams angrily because the
tax is not “confiscatory.” It consoles itself by
assuring the farmers that this tax will only be a
first instalment, and that before long the exemp-
tion will be removed and the impost increased.
Having set up that Aunt Sally, the Argus knocks
it down viciously. Then it goes on :
The man who holds £lO,OOO worth of land to-day will
probably find, if large areas are thrown on the market
through the operation of a confiscatory land-tax, that the
value of his land has sunk to £5OOO.
This appears to the Tory paper a calamity.
Though in everything else it preaches the gospel
of cheapness—especially cheap labor and cheap
imported shoddy. The idea of cheapening the land,
when it is held in gigantic slabs, appears revolting.
THE POPE AND THE GOUT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Not only recipes and prescriptions, but immense quan-
tities of puis and bottles of medicine, have been sent to
the I ope from all parts of the world during' his recent
severe attack of gout ! —Paris Figaro.
There’s plenty scope
For Dill to spout!
The poor old Pope
Has got the gout!
Yet, full of hope
And strong and stout,
He does not mope
And fret about
The long, eternal caravan
A ’ith drugs from every race and clan
Each morning at the Vatican !
While doctors grope,
I have no doubt.
With stethoscope
And faith devout,
And strive to cope
With Papal gout,
The poor old Pope
Can hear without
The lorry, waggon, dray and van.
All loaded for the Vatican !
And full of pills for one old man !
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.


ANTHONY HORDERN’S SALE
FIFTEEN ACRES of Sale Bargains in Full Bloom for
THREE WEEKS. Fail not to Reap a Harvest of Joy.
i *jti®
m
5U5
( ll#J
m
IS
pJ
9*6
m
!ISI
a
iwm
W I
PfjiiPjETj
J
mr
i
?- -
ON THE HISTORIC SLOPE OF BRICKFIELD HILL
July 30th
• • to • •
August 18th
*
Both Days
Inclusive.
ANTHONY HORDERN <& SONS,
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS us?
PALACE EMPORIUM, SYDNEY-
3r
r
m
IUE
t/v
10
\=>
O*
i-V
AV
V'
588
out*
4>
2
=&<
c £*M/\rf
i^UnD/
mist^.
1/
"TCh&nks! Dorit
\maw ikbi we need il
fd
ISPECIAL
1/ Better 6 &Lot Older .


Be Your Own Beauty Doctor.
If you have a complexion that has a muddy or faded
appearance, or be troubled with blackheads, freckles and
wrinkles, or any skin blemishes whatever, you can easily
exchange for a skin without a blemish, a complexion
radiant with a transparent freshness, a clear, smooth, and
perfect skin that is so much to be admired. This is the
kind of complexion that we guarantee if you will give
Valaze a fair trial. Price 3s. 6d., or large jar 6s. (contain-
ing three times the amount), 6d. postage. Leading
chemists, or direct from Helena Rubinstein and Co., 274
Coilins-street, Melbourne. Dr. Lykuski’s Special Valaze
Blackhead and Open Pores Cure—guaranteed to cure most
obstinate eases—2s. 6d. tin, by post 3s. Valaze Herbal
Soap, lasts six months, 2s. cake. Enclose 3d. in stamps
to cover Postage and we will forward you our latest edi-
tion of the “ New Guide to Beauty,” a book that is full of
most valuable information concerning the skin and
health, and will prove most useful and instructive
to anyone.*
HE lh
&
*/
V
*
o
*
*
*
CN
c/>
CHAMPAGNE
Under
Royal
Warrant
H
M
to
King
Edward
VII
wm
H/GH-CLASS COMFORTS.
BUCHANAN « OTARD-DUPUY
WHISKY BRANDY
QUALITY and AGE.
s
Dress Fabriss
Are Stocked by the
Leading Drapers.
TRADEMARK
‘‘THE VARNISHED BOARD"’
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, July 24, 1906.
Mr Dear Yarrie,—
Th® marriage of Mr. Charlie Lempriere and
?u? SS i° :ra tc hell was a gorgeous affair. Scots’
Church wasn’t big enough for the rally of excited
femininity who wanted to see the dress Melba
forwarded, and had worked at for months
according to the latest of Paris decorative designs.
For days before, all the intimate and remote
friends of the bride had been tearing out to
“Doonside” to inspect the raiment that was said
to be beyond the glory of Solomon’s clothes. The
garb itself had been put together and set up by a
local firm, but all on the lines of Melba’s design-
ing. It was worth a scramble to a front pew and
neck-strain. Grand tier—ivory glaco ; second
tier—crepe-de-chine ; third tier—chiffon ; fourth
tier—Brussels applique; fifth tier—garlands,
festoons, sprays of orange blossoms, myrtle,
jasmine. Melba had blended the garden effects,
and planted chiffon roses in horseshoe designs in
the Brussels web. Over the lot floated a veil,
softening the ensemble. The bride is the youngest
of all David’s clan, and the most aesthetic. She
has a very pale gold thatch, in which the red
glints when the sun’s about; and a figure of the
lean girlish order. (Have you ever noticed how
fat ages the sex? The middle-age spread is fatal.)
Because of this aesthetic leanness the bride looks
twenty years younger than her two sisters.
Bridegroom Lempriere is the most cheerful of a
jolly sporting clan.
Captain C. Lempriere Price, who stood as first
man at his cousin’s wedding, only arrived from
the coral strand a week or two before the event.
He’s a son of the retired Colonel (alleged, because
of his standing grievance against the Govern-
ment, to milk the covvs in regimentals on his rural
territory), and is one of the Royal Scots stationed
in India. He’s on a furlough of four months.
A second pair called for confetti and felicita-
tions last week—Miss Florence R. Commans and
Mr. Friedrich Wilhelm Fischer. The French and
German alliance led to a great gathering of the
clans at the Sacred Heart Church, St. Hilda, and
subsequently at the Town Hall. The bride had
an unusual quality—extreme youth. In these days
the girl usually goes late to the hymeneal ra'il.
The groom was also young. The engagement was
duly ratified and announced per pasteboard some
months ago, what time Miss Florence had her hair
m a floating mane. Publishing the affianced state
by card struck this centre as a novelty, and a
good one at that. Who would retire from an en-
gagement after tidings of it had been stuck into
the paw of every friend and expected rejoicer?
Among the swarm of bridesmaids at the altar was
a miss surnamed Rippin. And Rippin’ best de-
scribes this marriage. The bride has the ad-
vantage of a youngish, handsome mamma.
The U.S. cruiser Baltimore entertained its
friends and the official set before returning to
Sydney. Only two days’notice was given. Most
of the bidden had just time to note the hour and
get an old brown hat on in time to embark.
Arrived there, they searched for a dais or a receiv-
ing gang. There was none. They just had to
drift round and join in the Two Step, or sip
punch with each other, or snatch at the brass and
braid brethren when the other cats weren’t look-
ing. Captain Sargent, who looks like a salted
old Indian colonel, did his duty by the officials,
and Commander Stone fired smart Yank ga«-s
and quick repartee at the girls of the gathering.
One officer maimed at the Glaciarium had one
set of enquirers after another nibbling the biscuit
of conviviality in his cabin. A queue of others
waited on the other side of the door. That ankle-
sprain was opportunely contrived. He had a
dandy time with the drove of sympathisers. Mrs.
Burton-Stewart, the much-talked-of languished
trailed the decks in a blue rig. The young dame
has an English look of permanent fatigue that is
considered very heavenly. She has also agate
eyes of a languor to match. Surgeon Fitzgerald’s
two chicks were the most attractive of the gather-
ing. The Misses Atherton scored next.
An air of 4th of July Independence marked the
Stars and Stripes brethren of the cruiser in a very
distinct fashion. When one of the big guns
received an impromptu luncheon invitation from
a high authority per medium of a factotum, and
found his wife not included, he declined promptly.
There must have been a consultation of the
Powers, for at a subsequent race meeting the
same deputy approached with an invite for the
sea-warri or plus his dame. Again it was refused.
“ Another engagement,” said the Yank. The
deputy measured him with a Better-not sort of
glance, and murmured pleasantly that the invita-
tion he conveyed was somewhat in the nature of
a command. The warrior smiled pleasantly back,
swallowed all repartee, and shook his head in
further denial. Commands didn’t affect him.
Those in the know say that the Baltimore’s
passage round the watery globe is a mere health-
cruise for a millionaire captain who is very sick
half his time. The other half sees him dashing
round (as far as one can dash about a prettily-got-
up battle-ship) with astounding energy. It’s
either hurricane health or sick calm with the boss
of the Baltimore.
Dr. and Mrs. Merrill look miserably lost and
cheerless since the Baltimore steamed off. Rio-fit
from the jump the Yank Vice-Consul and his big,
cheery dame have been giving their Melbourne
circle a good time along with the boys of the
navy.
A recent instance occurred where a well-known
dream of loveliness was asked to discontinue pat-
ronising a certain public place of amusement,
bhe asked no questions, but shrugged her pictur-
esque shoulders and moved out of the buildino
And something’s to be done about the matter
Ihe young person who acted so cynically at the
insulting request is not going to let matters rest
at that. And rightly, too. Where is the line to
be drawn? And isn’t it carrying prejudice to
extremes? The theatre never turns out a youth
on account of his evil associations, or a concert
hall an auditress who has had a Past and a
Flu-perfect as well as a lustrous Present. The
railway authorities don’t refuse tickets to travellers
of irreligious views, or cabbies disdain to drive a
rake. A public place of amusement can’t draw
invidious comparisons or make the nice distinction
between the society sinner and the social outcast,
should the question be raised in the present
instance there 11 be delicate argument on the point
of law.
Similarly, how may—or dare —a ball committee
refuse to sell tickets to any particular applicant
because of ugly suburban talk ? Last week an
attractive Miss was denied a ticket for a tennis
dance, owing to her alleged reputation for giddi-
ness. There’s an imputation here that puts the
virtuous committee into an awkward hole should
the ostracised Miss start the law asking
‘ Whaffor ? ” The law is awfully expensive, too,
when it asks “ Whaffor?”
Ihe Talbottles permitted the Alliance Fran-
caise to proclaim in impressive type that their
presence was to glorify the Friday dance. The
Alliance genuinely relied upon their coming, and
the dais was erected with the tricolor predominat-
ing, but never an Ex. appeared. At the last
moment, word of regret at “inability to be pre-
sent, ’ etc., reached the receiving committee. Its
sentiments on the matter are kept a secret. But
the dance proceeded, and was one of the merriest.
1 he French fraternity gathered in force, and Mrs.
Henry Cave, in a glad mandarin rig, took her
place at the head of affairs, and actually supplied
an extra with much handsome amiability when
the fiddles and 'cellos went off for a rosin sand-
wich and a gargle for the G string. The frocking
was chic. Miss Incley topped all girleens in an
Empire garb of sunlight raiment, flashing gold
gleams from a cloudy profusion of chiffons.
Madame Crevelli trailed her shell-pink and cob-
web frills over the dais carpet in frequent confab,
with her vivacious brethren. Madame Masseran
disported in an impressive ivory rig, with par-
terres of costly lace laid out over the garb in a
clever manner.
The Melbourne ice skating rink was thescene of
a disquieting incident, the other evening. One
of Society’s fairest ornaments found, in the
middle of cutting a figure like the signature of a
genius, that something had gone wrong with the
machinery of her toilet, and tier feet and skates
were encumbered with quito a heap of clothing.
She struggled to gather up her embarrassments,
but she had too much pace on, and so she revolved
with her fallen decorations fora full minute in the
centre of the rink. She was still feebly turning
amid the drapery of her orbit, and becoming more
and more tangled, when a man skated to her
assistance and led her and her clothes to the
ladies’room. It is understood that she has sur-
rendered her season-ticket, and will not appear
again till she stops blushing.
Melbourne boasts a fine, flourishing club—the
Circolo Letterario Italiano. Here are the names
of all the Italians reported as being present at a
recent meeting : —M’Burney, Cooper, Gibb,
Lewellin, Kelsb, Link, Courtney, Janson, Hooper,
Elliston, Halia more, and Abrahams, not to speak
of Signor Fiocchi. Signor Jones was unavoidably
absent, and Oommendatore Michele O’Rourke
was indisposed.
Word comes from a reliable authority in the Big
Smoke of the further financial difficulties of an
old vice-regal caddy.
Owing to the death of her aunt (Mrs. Oliver)
Miss Lallie M'Cracken had to stand out of the
Lempriere-Mitchell wedding cast. She had been
billed as first bridesmaid, and this capital would
have spied in her the piece de resistance —the
brewers daughter being one of the brightest
charmers of a creamy set. All her gear had been
ordered and sent home. What a disappointment
to a girl ! Some considerate chum ought to face
the Eden chant with any old thing, in order to
giye the fair young Lallie a chance to wear that
bridal garment of great price.
Scarcely had an engagement in a near eastern
suburb been announced, than a protest was entered,
and the two families of the bracketed starters
met in committee. A girl with an alleged prior
claim on the affections of the newly-engaged
Romeo has raised the protest, and the end is not
yet.
St. Vincent’s ball this year beat all that have
gone before. It was bigger and brighter and
smarter. The clans took it up, partly because
they couldn't coax or compel the State Exes,
to add their stately stature to the polka-
scene, and partly because the excitement sud-
denly seized them to floral set it and be
gay. Mrs. Vallange and Miss Lesly Madden
ran a Butterfly set. Many grey moths looked
on enviously from the galleries. Mrs. W. Leonard
gathered beauty and brass buttons in her com-
bined naval and military forces. Miss E. Grice
had a snowy set she called (with Miss E. Miller
for an accomplice) “Winter.” And there were
sets for hunting, and patch and powder couples—
Mrs. Ernest Raleigh starring in this quarter
easily. The Irish Envoys lancered in an Ulster
set—all the colleens flying green sails to do them
proud. Dr. Nicholas O’Donnell’s chick came out
under the Emerald flag, Envoy Devlin two-
stepping alongside. There were other sets galore
—t!ie Murray-Mortons running a Dresden one.
A daughter of draper Fitzgerald footed it ele-
gantly, and beat most of the beauties by a glory
of chiffons. Justice Hodges’ daughter was one of
the pictures of the scene. Mrs. Burton-Stewart—
wife of a former Hopetoun priv. sec.—languished
in a scaly, scintillating garb that clung to her
long lines tenderly. She wore a full crop of
diamonds, and her tall, superior spouse figured in
the Guards’ uniform.
It was instructive at St. Vincent’s ball to see
the full strength of the dancing forces. The gay,
dashing, strenuous girl is half her time two-
stepping with an old friend of her dad’s or with
young Snooks who o’ week days takes in his
sandwich to the office in a Gladstone. The smart,
well set-up, dashing, eligible man is not frequent!
And when he occurs the smiles of the legion of wait-
ing girl surfeit him. He swaggers along the lines,
nods to the lot, and selects as deliberately as a
butter-judge. There was never a brighter show
of local girl than at this hospital hop, but the
polka-men (and the he-rally was the best of the
season) were woefully inadequate. The best
variety of Johnnie keeps away from the ball-room,
where prowl old lions with bald heads and kitten
lions who haven’t yet grown manes. And there
are quite 300 coy charmers who should be
dancing with the missing Suitables. The charmer,
for want of a better, smiles upon the old foolish
buck or the blase kid. Should a Suitable acci-
dentally transpire she scores out old Baldie or
young Blade without hesitation. The ball-room
game is a desperate struggle for the fittest part-
ners, and promises are broken whenever induce-
ment offers.
A bright, attractive charmer succumbed to
peritonitis last week. Miss Evelyn Brent was an
example of the vivacious, happy go-lucky, beauti-
ful girl that this State produces in large quantity,
and she revelled in a fine vitality. The end came
when she was just sweet-and-twenty.
Mrs. Ross-Soden illuminates Mandeville Hall
on Friday night next, when she and her boys (she
has a trio of sons) will host it for a big contingent.
. The Potts’ pair are again anchored here. The
Mrs. was, you remember, the golden-haired
Blanche Wallace of Comic Opera memory. Her
dressing is an abiding joy.
The Loring family, which took the semi-vice-
regal Madden’s Windsor house. Cloyne, for 11)00,
has moved West to the sandy State. They come
back in six weeks.
Miss Elsie Hamilton —a pianist who is some-
what different, having just come from study in
Europe instead of just going off there—played be-
fore a choice gathering at the Pianola Hall on
Tuesday. She has appearance and dress taste—a
satisfaction to start with, since so many audiences
have their attention distracted from the perform-
ance by an amateur’s protruding elbow-knobs, or
her frumpish figure, or her hair in disarray, or her
very attitude on the platform. Miss Hamilton
sees to these things, and scores by her personal
attractions before starting out to exalt the Souls.
In Chopin’s Sonata, which includes the sonorous
and eloquent “Funeral March,” Miss Hamilton
was at her best.
Miss Eileen Whiting, the Diana-in-chief of this
State, has been trying a run with the Sydney
hounds. The two Whitings are the most chic and
kissable huntresses in the Victorian field. They
move on from the city of the harbor up north
with mamma, to try Brisbane for a recreative
while.
Miss Elmhirste Goode, the guiding spirit at the
Marshall Hall Conservatorium, next to Madame
Wiedermann, leaves for Europe this week with
Miss May Vale, the artiste. (There are a dozen
or two of the Goode pupils polishing their top C
or their piano chords at present in Vienna, or
Leipsic, or Paris.) Miss Goode is patient,
amiable, talented, and shy. A good blend.
Time is getting on. The Rupertwood Clarkes
have a daughter “out.” At least she was to have
been out early this month, the London parent
having scattered pasteboards for a debut dance.
The radiant dame of Rupertswood is not going to
let Phyllis’ teens be wasted. She gets her out
early. Meanwhile Rupert dallies here, spending
most of his time m the theatre boxes, not un-
accompanied. He also has his turf interests.
The petticoated chums of Hal Cohen, tenor, are
busying themselves over an off-to-Euiope benefit.
I lie committee is a formidable one, and every
Miss of this skating centre is pledged to sell a
packet of benefit tickets. Bits of Grand Opera
are to flavor the usual bill of strum and song.
Canoeing is the latest craze. Two or three
dollared Canadians located here have started the
river sport.
A bad singer now and then strikes an appro-
priate dirge. The other night one of him con-
tributed “ Remember Me No More ” to a concert
bill. The audience will strive to take his advice.
In V ienna Annette Kellermann has been noting
things. She writes:—“Here in this gay place
one looks in vain for the sad fringe of every city—
beggars. There are none. No loafers, no
paupers, no dirty urchins. Everyone looks clean
and contented. It’s quite remarkable and re-
freshing. , The women of Vienna are, to my eyes
(and they’ve been busy on a big, bright world
lately), the loveliest in the world. They are
splendidly built, have remarkable heads of hair,
and fine, expressive faces. Their defect is ugly
ankles. They’re beefy. Last night after my own
performance, which went gaily, we went to a
variety show which started at an Australian clos-
ing hour—ll o’clock. It ends at four in the
morning. Yawning is an unknown experience.
The interests keep eyes, ears and mind intent.
Seven orchestras play at this Vcncdiy in Vien
(Venice in Vienna), where everything is built on
the Venice plan. By the way, they do things
elaborately even for my immersion turn. The
whole springboard is a blaze of electric lights and
my figure has a background of dazzling brilliancy.
Fancy how easy to get an effect with all these
glorious aids ! Next week I have my first plunge
in the blue Danube, and do a test swim, and as a
help to local fame am endeavoring to twist my
French-Australian tongue round the Dutch lan-
guage. Oh, it hurts ! One thing, I don’t like the
foreign man anywhere. Give me the Englishman
—Britisher—Australian—every time.”
Saturday’s Princess audience sat up and rubbed
its eyes at the succession of dress-treats provided
by Miss Palotta. One is more of a dream than
the other, and Grace takes on a new radiance with
the wealth of chiffons that mount her rdles. In
the curtain-raiser, she walks on looking an early-
Victorian picture. A suitable bonnet and a white
satin high-waisted garb give the Palotta charms
every advantage. There are three striking rigs
in “The Talk of the Town.” Golfers are in-
structed in how they might look by Grace’s turn-
out. A vivid red cloth skirt to the ankles, white
linen blouse, red and white belt and tie, red shoes
and a soft linen hat slashed with red, form the
outfit. Grace looks the cutest golfer the links
ever saw, and she tantalizes old man Ward (he’s
seventy in the shade) with a cheeky seductive
tootle. “ Wouldn’t you like to spoon with me?”
As the saucy American, she is altogether fine.
One exquisite creation has some historic-looking
lace flourishing a crown design. It had all
femininity blinking hard. The pity is there’s
only another week of “ The Talk.”
“The Squaw Man” off the boards is a cold
beauty-man with a lot of heavy intellect and no
liking for a pedestal perch. Charles Waldron
holds the opinion that the public should not know
its actor out of harness. “ It’s a mistake for a
man in our profession to mix with his public.
The private individual is one apart from the
actor. People get their ideas of an artist
spoilt by contact with the man.” That’s how he
puts it. And he says it earnestly in the cold, even
tones that carry assurance and belief. He ran
the gamut of comedy and farce for years in Uncle
Sam’s Land, playing “The Man from Mexico”und
the leading Collier rdles. Probably that’s how he
gets the tears and sniffles out of the audience so
quickly. Humor and pathos make the best
dramatic brew. Yet the Waldron smile is rare.
He sets a price on it. Mental science is one of
his cults. He’s a practical optimist with a religion
that owns no regret and has other comfortable,
pleasant theories.
There’s a mama touring with Miss Jane Ola
Humphrey—a tall, brainy mama who casts
comic thoughts into the current of conversation
now and then. A parent who has not outlived
her sense of humor is a treat. Miss Humphrey
bemoans her r6le in the “Squaw Man.” It gives
her no chance of unfolding her dramatic soul.
“A part is like a bud, a hard young oud, which
one gradually—very gradually—brings to blossom.
It opens out into bloom and beauty by one’s study
and earnestness and love.” That is how she puts it.
Furthermore, Miss Humphreys has an intellectual
vein. She delves into the ink-pot and scribbles
essays for the Yank mags. The he anil she star
of the co. know each other so little that they don’t
know how one or t’other likes her or his tea. Miss
Humphrey had to ask Mr. Waldron the
other day at Menzies’ if he by any chance took
sugar in his brew. And at his “ Please ” had to
further ask did his sweet tooth require one or two
lumps. I voiced my surprise. “ Why, this is
the first time I’ve poured out tea for Mr.
Waldron.” explained the charmer with cere-
mony. The two stars have not been re-
volving socially up to this. It has been all study
and a long rush of rehearsals. Ho the Melb.
publ csees the start of theirchumship, after review-
ing the bronze-haiied Bernhardtian-like charmer
(Jane is like the youthful pictures of Sarah) and
the Apollo in several touching love-scenes.
A fashionable dame was on her way out to this
land when she learnt that her fond hubby was
consoling himself effectually with another. Whe
changed her mind, and works out her term of
anguish in London, where one’s sighs and tears
are of no consequence, and may occur without the
world knowing. Meanwhile a lawyer considers
the case, and there's trouble brewing.
From Adelaide :
Harold Parsons, the Adelaide ’cellist who went Kaiser-
wards a year or so ago for further study, returns at the
end of this year to take on the post < f ’cello and ensem-
ble teacher at Adelaide Oonservatorium. Present master,
Kugleberg, resigns to start ’celloing on his own, but
there’s not much demand for the big instrument, and the
Conservatorium itself has never had more than six
students—which probably means that the salary is being
cut down some. The Oonservatorium supports an ex-
pensive staff, and, report says, is none too affluent.
St. Peter’s College, where, for the past 60 years, most
of the male Persians of Tortoise Town have learned to
lap the cream of knowledge, is having much celebration
these days. Not only has there been the usual Old
Scholars’ Association dinner in Adelaide, but in Sydney,
Melbourne, Perth, London, and every other village where
Peter’s boys hang out —kind of girdle-round-the-globe
business. The Association has a pretty substantial bank-
ing account, and besides giving various prizes at the
college, has a permanent scholarship, entitling a Saint’s
boy to study for three years at any University in the
world. In honor of the jubilee of the school, it has been
decided to start a Foundation Day.
The popular way just now to express sudden
pleasure at sighting a chum is—“ This is an
elegant surprise.” The Baltimore boys had this
always ready to fire at the local vision of loveli-
ness. Sometimes they started the salutation with
a lingering nasal “ Why !” Somehow it sounded
more flattering when the Yank drawled “Why!
This is an elegant surprise !’’ The Tooraketty
salute in the form of a staccato “ How do?” used
to ring badly. Now they are affecting the Yank
statement unanimously.
The Belgians have initiated with success a great
schem e for h usband -netting. A Soeiety of Spi n sters
was formed, and a president elected. A Whit-
Monday fSte, to which bachelors from all parts of
Belgium and the surrounding countries were in-
vited, was organised. Tea and rambles and a dance
in the open air were the attractions. The bache-
lors came out of fun or curiosity, and a whole host
of engagements resulted. Now it’s an annual
affair. I have seen some views of the fete, and if
the girleens look as nice as they appear in these,
no wonder the fete is a successful marriage
market.
Yours Affectionately,
TRYPHENA.


Superfluous Hairs Effectually and Per-
manently Destroyed. A lady self cured of this
distressing affliction has a wonderful remedy which com-
pletely destroys the roots of the hairs. After trying
depilatories, electrolysis, and every so-called cure, she
discovered this simple home remedy, which succeeded
when all else had failed. This treatment does not burn
off, it kills the roots, and the most disheartened may
safely and successfully try it. It leaves no scar or mark.
Send Id. stamp for testimonials and booklet on treatment.
Remedy posted, Victoria, 4s. 6d., other States, ss.
‘Tonic,”Central Chambers, 77Swanston St., Melbourne.*
scnaiH?
SS3H(S
For Outdoor Costumes. A Perfect Stockinet*
Anatomically Made*
Full Sizes.
“KLEINERTS.”
<SJ>
<s>
•.ENSURE
GRACE
AND
EAJE
wwsm
BY
WEARING
P.D
cojuxxs:
Sp £CIA.L APPOIW tIAV '
to His Majesty King EdwardVll.
J
THESE Celebrated Teas are Grown and
Packed in Ceylon in hermetically
sealed Lead Packets and Tins, thus'
retaining the natural fragrance and aroma.
They are also packed in 5 & 10 lb. tins and
wooden boxes. Shipments arrive weekly
from
LIPTON'S CEYLON
PLANTATIONS DIRECT
so that Freshness may be relied upon.
Lipton’s Teas have the Largest Sale in the
World, and over 1.000.000 packets are sold
weekly in Great Britain alone. If any diffi-
culty in obtaining Lipton's Famous Teas
from your Grocer, please write to the
Sole Agents—
Duncan Preston (Si Co.
Lombard Chambers,
107 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, July 24, 1906.
My Dear Arini.—■
The O’Kellys (sounds like the name of a Lever
novel) are staying at the Victoria Barracks.
Captain O'Kelly, who is a nephew of General
Gordon, is here on six months’ leave of absence—
sick leave. He broke one leg at polo and its
fellow leg slopping a runaway horse in the street.
Mrs. O’Kelly is Mrs. Gordon’s sister. The Fitz-
gerald girls seem to have had a fancy for hossifers.
They were certainly well provided for in the
matter of looks. Their brother, who had also
some looks, married a peer’s daughter (Lord
North’s), and lives under grey northern skies.
A recent visitor to Sydney was Mr. Maximilian
Foy, a youth recently come of age, who has been
a ward in Chancery for about years of his 22
years of life. He is a step-brother of the three
well-known Foy brothers, and is almost, if not
quite, a millionaire by inheritance. Old Mark
Fnv died a few months after the birth of this
benjamin, leaving him most of his possessions,
and, as the Yankees say, money breeds. In this
case it has had a long minority in which to in-
crease. The youngster is by way of being a bar-
rister.
Dr. Norton, who died last week under the
weight of 82 years, was a picturesque and genial
person. He and his second wife, a Miss Stephens,
used to give the loveliest garden parties every
spring. The doctor was a great botanist, and his
garden was an Eden, minus serpents, wild beasts,
and other disagreeables. One of his daughters is
a well-known and successful artist, and his niece,
Miss Ethel Stephens, is also an enthusiast in the
same direction.
Recent departers from Sydney were the Jim
Mitchells—Mrs. Goodwin’s brother and sister-in-
law—and Mr. Noel Stephen, to Japan. Sydney
weather in winter is so blue and gold and green
that a lot of persons are getting restless under it,
and are going for the Open Road, just as if it were
spring. Mrs. Lachlan Beaton and Miss Ruby
Adams drove themselves up to Woodford —at
least, they drove the horses in the, dog-cart that
carried them. Miss Edith Manning has gone
to Mrs. Harry Lassetter’s place, at Bathurst,
where you breathe air like dry wine and experi-
ence a dreadful number of points of frost. Most
of the remainder of Sydney society is playing
Bridge, or golf, or indulging in its usual cultured
conversation.
A friend asks me if I had noticed that Margaret
Thomas played the part of Mrs. Gordon in “ The
Girl from Kay’s ” before there was any hint cf an
engagement to Gordon, K.C. Hadn’t noticed.
Perhaps it was the sound of the name that made
the (now) bridegroom-elect think how nice it
would be for the small Welshwoman to become
Mrs. Gordon seriously and for keeps.
The most picturesque Bricklayer at the Masonic
ball was Mr. Edward MacFarlane, who is some-
thing in the Lands. Even his ridiculous trimmings
didn’t prevent him looking like an old cavalier by
Velasquez. Mrs. Monty Severn and Mrs.
Hotharn, dancing in the principal set, added
to the gaiety of the show by wearing some of their
partners’ kit—apron, jewels and cuffs.
Actor Douglas Gerrard protests, in a letter
written from Auckland, that henceforth the good
name of Australia will be in his keeping and
“anyone who runs down the country in his
presence will have to knock against 15 inches of
biceps.” His greatest admiration is reserved for
the station men, bushmen, and boundary riders.
Gerrard boarded his liner with a big bundle
of silver-mounted timber—such as walking-
sticks and umbrellas —and a gold Waltham
watch bearing the legend, “Speak kindly of
Australia.” An Australian saddle and a
hand-bag full of studs and links—pearl,
gold and greenstone varieties—were also among
the spoil bestowed by the Commonwealth. Yet
the young man confesses that he didn’t conquer
Australia. He didn t have one conquering role.
And although he has played splendid parts in
London, he never got any presents like those he
scooped here. This present-giving to actors and
actresses by Australians is a curious phase of the
theatre-goer. When Miss Maud Amber was on
her departing liner, two nice girls—evidently
working girls, poorly-dressed, and strangers—
came into her cabin and asked her to accept a
gold neck orna,ment. They had saved up for
months to buy it, and hoped to save enough more
to buy a chain on which to suspend it. This they
would send on to Manila. With earnestness and
some genuine tears Miss Amber begged them not
to buy the chain.
A Sydneysider, Mr. Philip Caro, who is civil
engineering in Chicago, says that the simple home
life of the people—the fairly well-off, very-well
educated class—is a revelation to the visiting
Australian. One will go to (say) a musical even-
ing at the house of a professional man. A crowd
of young people will be present, but the only re-
freshment provided or expected is candy. In
Sydney, at the same sort of house and festivity,
there would be (nine times out of ten) a rather
elaborate sit-down supper. The writer went to
see Miss Nellie Stewart in her nine-roomed flat,
and says that our newly-hatched Intelligence
Department ought to subsidise her for the enthusi-
asm and persistency with which she is booming
Australia.
Some men, even in crowded Sydney, manage to
pursue the noiseless tenor of their ways, and
never once come within sight of the spinster
carrying the matrimonial noose. One of these
lonely beings was recently advanced to a respon-
sible and moneyed position in his work, and a
friend told him that he ought now to marry.
Turned out that he intended doing so if tie could
become acquainted with the other sex. He was
not a quite-young man, and he had lived in board-
ing-houses all his adult life, yet he did not know
one young woman. All his day-time work had
been given to his employers, and all his evenings
to the honorary work of keeping the books of a
religious society. He intended to get a wife by
advertising.
On the subject of advertisements, there was one
in a morning daily last week for "a healthy young
cat as wet-nurse.”
Miss Margaret Flockton, who has done such
good work in the way of native-flower painting, is
now at a stiddy job of painting the lichens in the
Botanic Gardens. Mr. Maiden is doing the letter-
press which the studies will illustrate. Talking
of painters, Bernard Hall is in Sydney. His
students say he is distinguished enough to forego
the handle “ Mister.” Michael Angelo and
Julius Caesar pull through without it. So does
Moses.
Can anyone explain why the woman-traveller of
these days so often returns from Foggy Parts sport-
ing a foreign accent ? Most of her decorates her
speech with a profoundly English tone and says
“ Heartily ” every other minute and a half. But
recently I struck a damsel whose speech was
trimmed with French—just a tiny little fringe of
“ parlez-vous.” She even jumbled her verbs about
when she remembered —which wasn t always, nor
even half of always. She was sitting in the winter
garden of the Hotel Tadpole with an imperturb-
able male item, who was evidently a very new
acquaintance, and was giving him her impressions
of Paris, with inferior French interjections which
she would kindly translate for him. He stood it
like a hero until she said : “1 am an Australian
really, you know. You wouldn’t think it, n'est-cc-
pas—er—l mean, is it not so ? ” Then he arose to
his feet and the occasion. “ Indeed, yes, I knew
it directly you spoke, my dear young lady. I
thought: ‘My charming acquaintance is an Austra-
lian who has just spent live days in my dear Paris.’
I am a Parisian myself, you see, though I have
been in this-tine country of yours many years. I
thank you for all you have told me about Paris.”
Then with his best French bow he left, and a dis-
organised girl broke into five pieces.
That sweet, young, golden-locked Percy Grainger
has been rushing round Norway and such places
winning golden opinions and such coin as they
have, from the unsuspecting inhabitants—a good
deal of the Norwegian currency is fish. They
must be an affectionate crowd up there. An
eminent composer person by the name of Grieg
fell on dear Percy’s neck and wept tears inside
his collar and down the buttons of his spine, and
finally kissed his hand, or his ear, or some other
convenient part of him. Then the Grieg gentle-
man gave a recital, and the yellow-tressed Percy
turned over the eminent one’s music for him.
And the eminent one told a reporter: “Just
this—to know him near me, with his sympathy
and understanding, created an atmosphere that
seemed to uplift me.”
From B.M. Herald :
WIDOW Lady, plain, would like to meet steady
’’ working man, ab. 50. Lonely.
At last, one of us who, setting out for a husband,
describes herself as “ plain !” For this virtue she
deserves her “steady working man, ab. 50” —in
fact, she almost deserves one ab. 40.
The young Maoriland pianist Magnus Lain»-
Meason writes to say how delighted he is with his
teacher Leschetitzky, and how satisfied is the fear-
somely-named maestro with his pupil. The lad
is to make a tour of Germany and Italy at the end
of his Viennese studies, and then give Australia
and M.L. a demonstration of his skill. The rising
young musician, by the way, is a son of the Mrs.
Katherine Laiug-Meason, whose name was familiar
years ago as a writer of Bulletin short stories.
Westralians, and many of the horde that poured
into Westralia what time Coolgardie was as the
land of Ophir, and the Murchison was making a
poor attempt to be Pactolus and El Dorado, may
remember “ Charlie ” .Stafford, a large, fair-
haired, blue-eyed man of the physical type deified
by the Merely Mary Anns in the Penny
GrovkletTes. He is what men call “a real
brick” and “an all-white man,” and right
through his mining, storekeeping, and butchering
kept his Manner. Well, he married last month,
in London, a girl so swell that he may be said to
have contracted an alliance. (There are three
gradations—contracting an alliance, marrying, and
being hitched up.) She is a daughter of the late
Vicomte de Labrosse, and comes of an ancient
noble Froggy family. Stafford is a director of
the Kalgurli Gold Mines, and was a Maorilander
by adoption.
The Toohey clan in London is reinforced by the
Rev. Mr. Egan, a priest settled in Auckland
(M.L.), who is a brother of Mrs. J. T. Toohey.
The Gothic, which arrived at Plymouth with its
cargo on fire, carried the soggarth. It is pleasing
to learn that he wasn’t on fire when he got in.
“Swimming as a Payable Occupation for
Women” was the name of a paper read lately
at the “liberty evening” of a swimming club.
The writer didn’t prove her plea as far as the
payableness went. But Annette Kellertnann’s
success has fired the ambitions of the extra-finny
girls, and two or three have left the Common-
wealth with the intention of lowering that young
mertnaiden’s records in foreign waters. Quite a
number of women teachers of swimming smile on
the face of the waters in Sydney. Miss May
Summerbelle is one of them—in between her com-
posing and music-teaching. The worst ele-
ment of evil amid the good of swimming is
that if one freckles at all, sea bathing
is the champion freckler. Three months of
dipping oneself in sea pickle will freckle one more
thoroughly than five seasons of golfing. Hence a
large number of girls who have complexions that
extend to their arms and shoulders stay out of
the sea with great enthusiasm.
Miss May Manning—she is usually referred to
by Sydneysiders as “ a cousin of those other
Mannings, you know, the Judge’s daughters ’’ —has
been giving the Women’s Institute in London a
treat. It took the form of an address, “ Women
and Empire,” which is a gigantic subject, if dealt
with fairly, for a small woman to handle. Miss
Manning founded the first women’s club in this
city, and wrote a novel, of a thousand or so pages,
that ran in a local weekly.
Wattle-hued hair as a fashion is in the dust with
Nineveh and Tyre. Of course, it may be revived
again, just as those ruined cities may be rebuilt,
but at present the gaiety of nations is not so gay
—by a long tint—because of the passing of the
canary hair. Those who have naturally' fair, or
bright-brown locks take great pains to keep in
the shade, and the really dark-haired no longer
peroxide their heads to a bright and unendur-
ing brass. Hairdressers give various reasons.
Canarv-ed hair on a woman getting into
the thirties makes her look older than her own
shade, whether the latter be black, mouse, or pie-
bald. Also, the work of keeping the gold up to
the mark is hard labor, as the roots show dark
every few weeks, and have to be re-bleached.
Then, again, peroxide is cheap, and women of no
importance whatever can afford to have gold-tops.
But, strongest reason of all, a lot of cases of
eczema and skin-troubles result. One Sydney
Somebody, whose naturally black hair turned in
a single day to the color of a freshly-minted penny,
fell into the hands of the oculists thereby. With
a shaven head and bandaged eyes she put in a
long spell in a private hospital.
The very frilly ball lately given by a distin-
guished widow was, her friends say, in honor of her
coming marriage.
Miss Eadith Walker has been again elected
vice-president of N.S. W. Rowing Association,
the only lady in Australia similarly placed. Miss
Eadith handled the oars some years ago on the
Parramatta River.
Mrs. T. H. Kelly has a young sister, Miss
Veronica Mollison, out from some wild and woody
part of America, staying with her.
One of the theatre-parties at Her Majesty s last
Saturday had special and quite superior pro-
grammes of its own, and each woman guest had a
bunch of violets tied with bebe ribbon.
That handsome Miss May Seddon, who was
with her father what time the statesman died on
the Oswestry Grange, is engaged to Mr. Knox
Gilmour, a professional man, practising in Wel-
lington (M.L.).
A local engagement is that of a pretty kitten of
a girl, of a wool firm family living on the
North Shore, to one of the lecturers at the Uni-
versity.
Talkingof engagements : There’s a doctor down
in Sydney from Queensland, and the magpies say
that this is the fourth time lie’s been here in pur-
suit of a wife. He has made the acquaintance of
every girl of any position who professes the same
brand of religious belief as himself. Yet he isn’t
suited. The idea of a doctor having to do his own
wooing is something new. What about the pur-
suit of the medical man by the amorous, clamorous
female.
Barrister W. J. Curtis is again in the dramatic
field with a new playlette, “The Amateur Bur-
glar.” The Muffs will stage the piece on August
1 and 2, in aid of the United Dental Hospital.
Dr. Coen, a popular young doctor of St. Vin-
cent’s Hospital, has gone off to Europe to learn
the latest developments in bone-sawing.
Singular that the triumphal return of both Ada
Crossley and Marie Narelle to their native land
should herald a death in the family. The mother
of each song bird folded her wings and passed
away a week or two after the daughter’s home-
coming. Does joy kill, or is it that each woman,
having looked upon the greatness of her child, was
ready to say her “ Nunc Dimitte?” Even sturdy
old Mr. Mitchell, Melba’s pa, received a shock
of paralysis at the time of his daughter’s return.
A smart committee is working smartly to make
the St. Vincent’s Hospital ball a star dance of
large profits, Mrs. O’Gonuan Hughes and Mrs.
Kenna are the hon. secs.
Mrs. John Burns is the subject of London s
latest after-dinner story just now. In bounden
duty to the Liberal cause, Lady Campbell-Ban-
nerman invited the wife of the member for Batter-
sea to a little friendly luncheon party. Lady
C.B. is not a tactful person. At all events, the
postscript touched on matters better ignored.
She apologised for never having called with the
excuse that “Battersea is so very far from Down-
ing-street.” Thereupon Mrs. Burns declined the
invitation, and gave as her excuse that “she could
not accept because Downing-street is so very far
from Battersea !” And when you come to think of
it the distance is probably quite as great the
one way as the other.
An Australienne who put in a year or so as a
fashion designer at Jay’s, in London, previous to
making a stylish marriage, offers a few frank
remarks about Presentation gowns. “You may
spend thousands on a Court gown, or you may
get one—a rotten one, of course —for 50 or 60
guineas. Numbers of Australians wlio’ve been
‘ passed ’ by the Queen must have had the latter
priced gowns. One of the most artistic and
written-about court trains I ever assisted in
creating was a clever ‘ fake.’ An extra ‘diffi-
cult’ lady wouldn’t have brocade, and she
wouldn’t have cloth of silver, and she wouldn't
have anything that anyone else had ever had. So
one of Jay’s men went over to Paris and bought a
silk Swiss window curtain and we worked up the
design on it with colored silks and gold and
silver threads. I tell you it was a success
and the wearer was as wild with joy as the
other women were with envy.” The most
fetching frock that Rose Musgrove wore in “The
Duchess of Killiecrankie ” was made of two Swiss
window curtains with the design embellished.
Miss Krout, the American journalist now in
Sydney, says (in print) that in other countries the
books of Mrs. Campbell-Praed, Ada Cambridge
and Ethel Turner are almost as well known as
they are here. Billy tea, the eucalyptus forest,
the fern gully and the Melbourne Cup are not
strange things to Outlanders, thanks to those
writers, and they are beginning to mention the
wombat almost as if it were a brother.
A Brisbane correspondent:—
George Reid and Mrs. Reid have arrived back in
Brisbane from the North. His waistcoat —not to
mention his trousers —looks a trifle baggy. On
Saturday afternoon last the leader of anti-Sosh
unburdened himself to the united she-leagues. He
managed to please the chair-lady by capsizing a tum-
bler of sparkling Enoggera water into her lap. And he
patted the bridling Leaguers, and told them how he
loved their noble aims, and paid a delicate compliment to
the crown of womanhood, with a bow to Mrs. R., which
might have been more effective had that lady not been
fast asleep at the critical point. G.H.R.’s sleeping habit
seems to be infectious.
Gov. House opened its gates to an excited gathering on
Friday afternoon, and so eager were the happy possessors
of the much-coveted white and gold cards to shake
hands with the restored-to-health rep. of Ed. VII. that
they began to arrive long before the hour indicated.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
What vast sums ladies will cheerfully spend on
dress and at the same time totally neglect their com-
plexions ; or, what is infinitely worse, cover-a rough, coarse
skin with injurious paint and powder—a subterfuge
apparent to all but the most vulgar ! In times gone-by
such foolish methods were excusable ; but science has
made such strides in recent years that ladies troubled
with wrinkles, pimples, freckles or any facial, blemish
need no longer worry. They have now a most reliable
and dainty cure in Patti’s Beauty Cream, which has added
three years of the highest Australasian reputation to a
quarter of a century of the most distinguished European
appreciation as the only perfect skin food and complexion
beautifier. It is found on the toilet tables of every lady
of refinement, because it is absolutely pure, harmless,
and a perfectly natural and never-failing remedy for all
complexion troubles, no matter how bad they may be. It
instantly clears the skin of all pimples, rash, &c., caused
by injurious concoctions and imitations against which
ladies are cautioned. All chemists and stores, price 3s. 6d.
and Gs. per pot.*
“ Poor Hawk”: The law concerning jurors
in sparsely-.«ettled districts needs revising. Any
town bigenough todemand a Judge and jury should
be big enough to supply the necessary jurors; At
a recent Quarter Sessions a friend and self were
summoned to attend. We were working 40 miles
from the town; but as our home was there', we
were only paid 4s. for the half-day (there was
only one case). We lost three days’ work, and
had to travel 80 miles. It cost us 6s. each train
fares and 7s. hotel expenses, in addition to loss of
wages.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
On the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO,
824 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Dr. SOUTHAM’S
GOUT and
Rheumatic
HILLS
are a safe and simple remedy for the cure of
Gout, Rheumatism, Rheum itic Gout, Tic
Douloureux. Sciatica, Neuaigia, Muscular
Rheumatism, Lumbago, etc. These Pills are
of Australian origin, and are known as the
greatest Australian discovery, since they give
immediate relief, and in many cases cure in a
few days. Sold only in bottles at 1/-, 2/6, and
51- if not obtainable locally, send postal note
to the Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers—
H. A ROSE & CO., Chemists,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
i>V>
GO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Frsd. Hag€Q, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
.53/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A ustrulia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. EVSGUNTGASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
ARTIFICIAL
LIMBS.-*-
df
We make them on the premises.
We make more than any other firm in Australia.
We also import them from the famous American
firm, A. A. Marks.
Every kind of Artificial Limb supplied at reason-
able prices.
Send for Free Book on Artificial Limbs.
DENYER BROTHERS,
Surgical Instrument
Makers,
281 George St., Sydney (opp. Hunter St).
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Collingwood (Vic.) city council has de-
cided, after heated argument, not to open its
meetings with prayer. Still, there is nothing in
the Local Government Act against the proposal,
any more than there is against closing the meet-
ings with a tight.
No less than 2531 electors of Surry Hills
voted to keep talky Bruntnell out of Parliament,
and 1109 voted to put him in, yet, because N.S.W.
electoral law is what it is, Bruntnell goes in, and
will sit as evidence of the theory that the country
is governed by the voice of the majority.
Last week the Westralian Government
Whip resigned on the ground, as he told the
Assembly, that there were so many Premiers in
the new Cabinet that he couldn’t serve all of them.
In fact, everybody in the Newton Moore Ministry
seems to be a Premier except Premier Newton
Moore.
Settlers on the Strathkellar (Vic.) Estate
—reckoned the best and cheapest of Government
purchases—are already asking for an extension of
time in which to pay their instalments. The fact
is that the Victorian Land Purchase Board hasn’t
made one really good bargain, and Strathkellar
affords another proof of the dismal failure of the
voluntary sale system.
Sydney Telegraph is so annoyed with
Premier Carruthers that it is fomenting an agita-
tion among the Ministerial following to form a
third party, which is to hold the balance of power
between Premier Joe and the Labor opposition.
Yet it is still crying out for the abolition of the
“ three party ” system in the Australian Parlia-
ment, and for a return to good old “Responsible
Government.”
The unimportance of being Willie Kelly
was shown recently in the House of Reps., when
the' little motor-man rose to oppose the cross-con-
tinent railway survey with a speech that suggested
weeks of preparation. Less than 10 members
listened to it, and it ended up with an amendment
that was promptly rejected by 32 votes to 12.
And Kelly’s notes and documents still fill a whole
portmanteau at his hotel.
“ COOM AWA'!"
Mr. Reid was received at Townsville, Quo island.—
Daily Paper.
If George doesn't get away from that Queens-
land sun very soon he'll be uncartoonablc.
The Victorian Chief Secretary recently
promised a deputation of furniture-makers to urge
the Cabinet to re-introduce the Chinese Regu-
lating Bill, already passed often by the Assem-
bly, and each time boosted out by the Coun-
cil. The deputation stated that there were 080
Chow furniture-makers in Melbourne to 140 Euro-
peans, and stressed the well-known fact that Chow
employers, in collusion with their cheap, yellow
employees, evade the Factory laws by publishing
false wages sheets, which profess to show that
their rates are higher than those paid in European
factories. As a remedy, Alex. Peacock’s sugges-
tion that Chow employers should be compelled
to pay their men’s earnings into the Treasury,
which would distribute the wages, had some
points; but as the Chow employer would promptly
re-capture half the wages from the Chow em-
ployee, there weren’t so very many points after
all.
Ascertained that the painfully elegan
solicitor Croker (he is accused of wearing corsets),
who got £4OOO out of the Victorian Go-
vernment for his services in regard to the
Butter Commission, was also paid by the
N.S. Wales Government, though solicitor Woolf,
who was retained by the then N.S.W. Adminis-
tration to act for that State, has so far been
refused any payment at all.
The Tory person is mostly devoid of a
sense of humor. Little Cohen recently cursed the
Price (S.A.) Government at great length in his
contribution to the Gabble-in-Reply, for declining
to observe a 7s. minimum rate of pay throughout
the State service. About five minutes later he
was denouncing with even greater heat because
the Chief Secretary declined to accede to the
request of a deputation of dressmakers, intro-
duced by the member for Jerusalem, which prayed
that the proposed minimum rate of 4s. per week
for apprentices should be reduced to 2s. 6d. And
Cohen and his fellow-Tories looked surprised
when the House laughed.
“C.W.” writes :
Mat Reid, of Queensland, announces that he will not
stand for the Federal Senate. Reid was mainly respon-
sible for the insertion of the superfluous “objective” in
the fighting- platform of the State Parliamentary Labor
party, and he wants to remain in State politics until he
has settled accounts with Premier Kidston and others
who regard the “ objective ” as a foolish repetition of the
“ Socialism in our time ” blunder. But what Queensland
wants more than the “ objective ” is steady progress on
non-borrowing, common-sense lines.
The Argus printed the other day a letter
condemning Carruthers’ proposed Australian in-
vitation to 80—or is it 40?—English editors.
Said the Argus correspondent—“ Forty farmers
would be a genuine advertisement; but 80 editors
would stir up too much mud in one week.” But
surely the Argus doesn’t mind. Most of it will
be its own mud—the Petriana and the Six Hatters
and the other mud that it and its press chums
have thrown at Australia.
The craving to import somebody again !
Even Swinburne, the bright and shining light of
the Victorian Ministry, has got the disease, and,
unless Parliament intervenes, he proposes to im-
port a chairman of the Water Supply Commission
which is to control the irrigation system of the
State. Probably he will bring the new boss
from boggy England, where they know pretty
nearly all there is to learn about drainage, but
where the only irrigation that happens is when
the human irrigates himself out of a beer-pot.
Another secesh movement, this time from
Westralia, where Monger, M.L.A., desires to
state :
That, in the opinion of this House, the union of this
State with the rest of the States is detrimental to the in
terests of Westralia, and the time has arrived for placing
before the people of this State the question of the with-
drawal from such union.
It is pathetic to see poor little men like Monger
thus fooling with proposed seditions and revolu-
tions that are quite beyond their size. Tn his
own way Monger is just about as grotesque as
Boy Brown, of German Creek (N.S.W.), who was
going to start a revolution with the few shillings
he expected to find in the pocket of a sand-bagged
cocky-farmer.
A remarkable lesson on the land question
is provided by the Workmen’s Homes started by
the Victorian Government at Brunswick five
years ago. A paddock standing in the middle of
a square mile of vacant land was
bought for £3O an acre and disposed
of in small allotments for workmen’s
homes. Up to that time the whole
area had been put to no other use
than pasturing a few cows. The
Government area began to be built
on, and the persons who sat down
and watched the work on the
other side of the fence immediately
asked £4O an acre for their property.
The workmen who secured the blocks
went into occupation, and commenced
cultivating their quarter-acre blocks,
whereupon the persons who held the
grassy slopes where the cows grazed,
thought it was up to them to demand
another tenner an acre for the in-
telligence and foresight and enter-
prise that had impelled them to do
nothing vigorously. The cultivation
of the gardens turned out a success.
So prices were further advanced,
and, at the present time, the land
around cannot be obtained for less
tlian £7O an acre. The whole open-
ing up of this area was due to the
action of the State in creating the
workmen’s homes, with the result
that 20 families have been settled
and a present of £24,000 made to the
persons around, who had mastered
the great art of doing nothing profitably.
A mild scare has been worked up in Ade-
laide over the local threepenny stamps, which are
of an unwholesome-looking yellow, and contain
so much poisonous coloring matter, it is alleged,
that to lick 14 of them would be fatal. The
G.P.0., while not denying that there is arsenic
in them, retorts heavily that the gum on the back
is pure and nutritious, and that to come to any
harm it would be necessary to eat the 14 stamps
or to lick the fronts of them. Anyhow, it seems
that suicide can be bought at Adelaide post office
for 3s. 6d. You boil the stamps and drink the
consequences.
Tucker, of S.A. Parliament, has always
been a consistent supporter of Tory legislation,
but now he wails for a considerable measure of
Socialism. Food—beg pardon, Tucker—has ac-
quired a nice little station property, where he
raises horses and other great natural resources.
He recently forwarded a mob of turkeys (deceased)
to the city market, and the produce agents’ scales
showed less weight than Victuals’—that is to say
Tucker’s—private apparatus. He also alleges that
he was swindled out of pi. per lb. of the market
price. Now Prog —or rather Tucker —prays for
the extension of the State Produce Department’s
functions, so that he may be protected from
Private Enterprise of this kind. In return
Provisions —we should say Tucker—promises to
continue in opposition to the Progressive Land
Tax and all other desired democratic measures.
ST. GEORGE AND THE ABSENT DRAGON.
ST. GRORGK REID: “ Fair dame, behold in me your True knight—none other genuine. Iam
here to rescue you from your horrible dragon .”
MARRIAGR TIR: “ Yes, yes. I have met you often before , fair sir—but there is never any
dragon."
John Stinson, of N.S.W. People’s Reform
League, has now stepped into the breach,
and held a public meeting to pour con-
tumely on the Reform Parliament. But what is
the use of John Stinson crying out now ? He
worked for a “Reform ” Parliament with Joseph
Carruthers as chief reformer. He got it —just the
sort of “Reform” that this yiaper prophesied
when it twisted the word to Deform. Now what’s
he growling about ?
The Shire Council of Kerang (Vic.) is
terrible when roused. The council’s overdraft
had mounted beyond the limit allowed by the,
Local Government Act. A special meeting was
held, and it was decided to make the expenditure
fit the income at once. The shire engineer was
given three months’ notice. All shire works were
discontinued forthwith. All contracts were sus-
pended. The office of shire solicitor was abolished.
The office of shire analyst was abolished. The
pavmentof bonuses on fox-scalps and on everything
else was abolished. Cleanliness and progress were
abolished. The secretary was given orders to
collect all the arrears of rates and everything else
he could lay hands on; if he doesn’t succeed he
will probably be abolished. In order that the
income may be greater in future, the council
decided to have the whole of the property in
the shire re-valued, as the present valuations are
ridiculously low. Then with a sob in its voice it
abolished the refreshment cupboard.
Brisbane Telegraph— the awful and in-
capable anti-Federal organ—made the recently
tried oases of Hart and Gavagan v. the Common-
wealth the excuse for a characteristic exhibition
of ignorance and aberration in the hat. The
plaintiffs were ex-postal officials who wanted
damages from the Postmaster-General for alleged
wrongful dismissal. The Telegraph moaned that
such cases could never have happened but for the
Federal deluge, or debacle, or volcano, or some-
thing, and that justice was out of the question
with a Central Government a thousand miles
away. The plaintiffs, it said, must have “feared”
a hostile verdict—and they certainly got one.
After four long trials by Queensland juries and
Judges and appeals to the Full Court (comprising
three Queensland Judges), both claimants were
knocked out with costs. The humor of the situa-
tion lies in the fact that all the trouble arose
before Federation, and that all through the piece
the claims came before Queensland Judges.
The Telegraph didn’t venture to allege that
Queensland courts were corrupt, so it raved at
Federation generally.
“Fisc ” writes :
It becomes harder every day to believe that the Ileakin
Ministry really intends to do much with the tariff this
session, though three reports have been presented by the
Tariff Commission. In his speech at Footscray, the other
night, the indeterminate Alfred gave two reasons why
he had not asked Parliament to deal with the
reports already in hand : (1) There was so little food for
discussion in the reports that they would be disposed of
in a single night, and nothing would be left for Parlia-
ment to work at; (2) their introduction would stir up
such a debate that if they had been introduced
when Parliament met (six weeks back), Parlia-
ment would be discussing them yet. With those
two reasons to pick from, the harassed Alfred thought
that any man should be satisfied. Reasons previously
supplied by Deakin were : (3) That some business must be
got ready for the Senate; (4) that it was inadvisable to
deal with the reports on whisky and wine until
Parliament had received the reports on blankets
and machinery. Those four reasons are Deakin’s
main ones, though he may have a few others ; but
none of them carries much conviction. Anybody
may be excused for thinking that many unprotected Aus-
tralian industries are to be left open to another year of
foreign competition, so that Deakin may have a policy for
the elections. Yet there are plenty of things that Deakin
might do after getting the tariff amendments out of the
road. With a land-tax, a State bank, an oid-age pensions
scheme, two transcontinental railways to build, a Terri-
tory to take over, a city to establish, a whole debt and
revenue scheme to fix up, a defence policy to work out,
and other things too numerous to mention again just
now, Deakin should have enough big issues to carry him
over three elections.
That remarkable story told last week
about the interference of Premier Joseph Car-
ruthers with the management of the N.S.W.
railways leaves behind it an unpleasant flavor of
meanness. A £7OOO contract for dog-spikes
brought offers from the State railway workshops,
and from one N.S.W. and one Victorian private
firm. The last-named firm was about to get the
contract on the ground that, though its price was
nominally higher than that of the N.S.W. railway
workshops, it was really lower, inasmuch as the
Victorian tender included cost of carriage, while
that of the State workshops did n’t. Just here, how-
ever, Joseph Carruthers interposed, and because
of his interference the contract was given to the
N.S.W. workshops at the higher cost. This
would look absolutely fair and reasonable, if it
were not that under the Carruthers Government
orders for locomotives were placed in the United
States regardless of the N.S.W. railway work-
shops. Therefore it looks as if Joe’s patriotism
consists in refusing to place N.S.W. contracts
with a sister State of the Commonwealth while
joyfully placing them with foreigners ; in other
words, that the time he most cares for N.S.W. is
when by caring for it lie can be unpleasant to
another Australian State.
NOT LONG ENOUGH.
Mr. Reid has been granted one month’s leave of [?]
sence from the House of Representatives.
“Here you are, George; and if you want it ex-
tended I shall only be too happy to oblige. In
fact, we'll make it permanent if you like."
This was, last week, the curious situation
in N.S.W. Parliament. Carruthers proposed,
after due consideration and backed up by his
large experience of the rules of the House, to
expel Crick. The Speaker ruled that Carruthers
was wrong and out of order. As there was no
rule or precedent to go upon, it is quite possible
that Carruthers was right and that the Speaker
was wrong ; but when Wood moved that Car-
ruthers was right Carruthers rose to declare that
he wasn’t right, and the motion that Carruthers
was right was lost on Carruthers’ own vote and
the votes of his followers.
A SCIENTIFIC “PICK-ME-UP.”—No
better tonic and restorative for the victims of
social festivities exists than a morning draught of
Hunyadi Janos. Sure, swift, searching, yet safe,
and in every respect salutary. The best and
safest natural aperient.*
* * * *
Small boy,—little pool,
Oh joy,—no school.
Felt wet, —bad cold,
Home get,—mother scold.
Boy sick, —nearly dead,
Cure quick, doctor said,
Don’t wait, but secure
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*


| Royal ]
Accordeons
at Palings.
We have the finest
selection in Australia of
these very popular instru-
ments. Prices are cut to
the lowest possible figure
at which a really first-
class article can be
supplied.
Catalogues and prices
are yours for the asking.
Paling'*s 9
338 George St.,
Sydney.
27
ONVid ddn
(9Uinuag a«2) 3( -/Q,
Xshe LIPP PIANOS are tbe lead-
ing Pianos of German
Manufacture. They have
been in use all over Aus-
tralia for over 40 years—
long' enough to prove tbeir
merits.
PLEASE
NOTE.
Lipp Pianos Have been imi-
tated. If you want the
Genuine Lipp, you can pro-
cure same only at Paling’s.
We stocK five models of these
Celebrated Pianos.
Please remember we are the
absolute Sole Agents.
V?
Old Pianos taßen in Exchange.
New Pianos Sold on Easy Terms.
Catalogues Free.
W. H. Paling' (Q. Co., Ltd.
338 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Metronomes
at Paling’s.
sd
Every musical student
should buy one, as it is
invaluable to all musicians.
Metronomes are a great
help to those studying, as
it teaches students to play
classical music at the
proper tempo, as intended
by the composer.
It is almost impossible
to be a good “timist”
without its aid.
Prices from 15 at
Paling’s,
338 George St.,
SYDNEY.
(Please take lift 3rd floor).
NOW READY .
ON THE FRINGE
OF THE NEVER NEVER
BY
H. K. BLOXHAM
Bound Full
Art Cloth.
PRICE . .
2/6
Post Free
2/10
HIS, the latest addition to Australian
literature, is a most graphic account
A of the early pioneering days on the
borderland of civilisation in New South
Wales. The main features of the book are
an exciting race for land between two rival
syndicates ; a thrilling encounter with the
aboriginal tribes that held sway in the Never
Never ; the sticking up of the mail coach by
bushrangers, and the outwitting of the ring-
leader by the girl heroine. Various threads
of romance are interwoven with the more
adventurous chapters, and telling touches of
humor abound throughout.
The book has an added merit from the fact
that the events narrated therein are matters
of history, and those conversant with the
Bourke district may recognise many an old
friend. The elders will enjoy the early
reminiscences and the quaint character
sketches ; the young folks will be stirred by
the adventurous spirit of a strenuous age,
and both will be pleased.
A BOOK TO READ
AND TO KEEP.
N. S. W. BooKsCall Co
476 George St., Sydney
. . And Branches.
Patent Tuiencent
Incandescent Oil Lamp.
ALSO,
60 Candle Power
for Less than
One Farthing per
Hour with Ordi-
nary Kerosene.
STAND LAMPS
Complete
FROM . .
sdueH 6uj6ue|| $ j3)pejjj
BURNER
Complete
12/6
Will Fit
Existing Fonts.
fsd
Welsbach
Incandescent
Acetylene
Gas Burners
Brilliant Light
of 100 Candle
Power.
V?
5/-
Complete
By using these
Incandescent
Burners, con-
sumption of
Acetylene Gas
will be reduced
by half and your
light doubled.
Acetylene Gas
Fittings and
Lamps.
r
I ■§!
mmm
■ "Vr «I
f
318
DOTiS YOUR. LOCAL STOREKEEPER STOCK
THESE GOODS? IF NOT, WRITE TO:-
WELSBACN LI6HT CO
OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED,
439-441 KENT ST., SYDNEY.
230 Binders Lane, Melbourne*
Ferry Bros*, Brisbane*
J* M., Ferguson, Ltd*, Perth, W*A*
48 Victoria St*, Wellington, N*Z
Harold Colton & Co*, Adelaide,


ASTHMA.
A Sydney Resident’s Unqualified Approval
of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
Asthma is a most distressing complaint, and
yet seldom affecting the longevity of the victims.
The severity of the paroxysms depends more on
the condition of the stomach than anything else,
and it has been proved that by using Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills, and thus keeping the body in
good health, that you get as near a complete cure
as medical skill and specific medicines haye yet
done. Mr. Newman, of Alpha-terrace, Gipp-
V
0
w
irr
T. 0. Newman.
(From a photo.)
street, Padding-
ton, Sydney,
writes :—“ For
many years I have
been afflicted with
bronchial asthma,
and although I
tried every
remedy on the
market, I can con-
scientiously say
that nothing gave
me as much relief
as Dr. Morse’s
IndianRoot Pills.
They acted gently
but thoroughly on
the bowels, cured
my indigestion,
and greatly
assisted in throw-
ing off the accu-
mulations in the
throat and lungs. I take a pill or two occasionally,
which I find a great preventive against colds.
This has been my experience, and I am never
tired of praising your pills, and recommending
them to friends and neighbors, and the many
workmen with whom I come in contact. You
can publish this, and it affords me much pleasure
to have the opportunity to repay you a debt of
gratitude.” l)r. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a
perfect blood purifier and a positive and a per-
manent cure for biliousness, indigestion, constipa-
tion, headaches, sallow complexion, liver and
kidney troubles, piles, pimples, boils and blotches,
and for female ailments.*
Pratt’s Motor Car Spirit.
Highest Grade
American ...
PETROL
ALWAYS UNIFORM IN QUALITY.
In stock at the Kerosene Stores of the COLONIAL OIL
COMPANY.
At all the Leading: Centres of Australia and New Zealand.
“MOTA” BRAND
Motor Car Spirits
Are the finest power spirits the world produces.
Sold by all Motor Manufacturers,
Importers, Repairers, etc., or of
The BRITISH IMPERIAL GIL CO. LTD.,
Agents, Adelaide, Melbourne & Sydney.
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFEEN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Among all the bricks that were flung at the ex-
plavers and the Melbourne Cricket Club none was so un-
expected as a rock from far-away Philadelphia, in eastern
U.S.A. The American Cricketer published an account
of the rumpus, and wrote a leading article on the matter,
in which it held up the action of the M.C.C. and the ex-
players as an impudent scramble for “ filthy lucre.” And
the American Cricketer just struck the nail fairly on the
head.
» * * #
As regards the Board of Control and the Mel-
bourne Cricket Club, things will remain as they are till
the meeting of the Board on Saturday works out a new
combination of circumstances. The M.C.C.’s only hope
now is to get out an English team, and that the Board
will, if it is wise, sternly oppose. We do not want any
English team here till we have a real All-Australian team
with which to oppose it. Under present circumstances it
would be really a struggle between N.S. W. and England.
Victoria wants time to work out its new electorate or
district system of cricket, while that of Queensland is
quite disorganised, and has to be put on a State basis.
Even N.S. W.’s system has to be re-modelled, and under
the new constitution of the Association a much wider
and fuller cricket life will commence, under which the
men from Outer Back will, if good enough, be just as
eligible for a place in the Australian XI. as the Padding-
ton crack. We want to recover the ashes when the next
English XI. comes out, and have mighty small hope of
doing it under present circumstances.
Speaking of Paddington recalls the fact that
the club of that district is making for Beelzebub with all
the energy of a spring chicken making for the pot. When
the members heard of the suspension of the club they
snorted that they didn’t care a hang ; the club could dis-
band, and its members would just as soon play with
Sydney or Waverle.v. But the Association said :
“ You won’t. If your blessed club is suspended,
you’re suspended, too ; and if your club disbands
while under suspension, not one of you will play in
district cricket. The disqualification of the club extends
to the individuals composing it.” Then Paddington sent
out notices of its annual meeting, with an earnest foot-
note to every member to roll up, as matters of grave im-
portance were to be discussed. Come to think of it, a
discussion whether to live on or die suddenly is a fairly
serious matter.
* * * *•
The first S’African cricket team to visit Eng-
land (next year) will have to meet men who have been
kept in practice during the English winter by an Aus-
tralian tour. All the same, it is probable that the lean
players from Niggerland will win one or more of the
tests. They carry even less beef than the Australians, as
a rule, and cricket is a lean athlete’s game, in which the
fat, sturdy batsman is losing his importance as compared
with the spry, all-round performer.
* * * *
Sydney Metropolitan Rugby competition was
suspended on Saturday to swell the gate at Sydney
Cricket Ground, where N.S. W. and Queensland played
their return match. The weather was delightful, the
wind much less boisterous than on the occasion of the
previous match, and, strange to say, the attendance only
about one-third of that of the first game. As everybody
expected, the Queenslanders got licked, and by 14 to
eight. But, all the same, they played up much better in
the first spell than they did in the previous match. Over
and over again they pushed the Cornstalks back on to
their line, and came parlously near to breaking through,
and the first spell ended with the scores five all. It was
one of those games in which the feeling of good-
fellowship is plain and unmistakable on the surface,
and partly compensates for the mediocrity of the
play. In the latter part of the second half the
Northerners’ condition gave out, and the Cornstalks
broke through them. Just before the finish the beaten
men pulled themselves together somewhat, and by a
desperate effort got to the N.S.VV. twenty-five, where a
penalty kick lifted their score to eight. There was
nothing brilliant about the Cornstalk play', and the win
was due to the defects on the Queensland side. Here are
Some of the reasons why' the Bananalanders lost the
match : They couldn’t pick up the ball —every one of
them had to make a couple of grabs at it, and when it
dropped into their arms they allowed the thing to bounce
off their stomachs ; they' were deplorably slow at kicking ;
they couldn’t kick straight when trying to find the line ;
they were slower at running than the Waters, and W'ere
alway s overtaken ; they were not in good condition, and
were quite exhausted by the middle of the second spell.
There were a few other reasons and drawbacks, but these
are sufficient to go on with.
* * * *
The most noticeable feature of Saturday’s
League Football (Australian rules) matches around
Sydney was the enormous scores of the majority' of the
winning teams. Newtown, which heads the competition
list with 20 points, defeated North Sydney by 102 to 21.
Sy'dney', second on the list with 16 points, crushed
Paddington, scoring 136 to 50. But even that avalanche
of points was smaller than the huge heap by which Bal-
main downed Y.M.C.A. The good young men scored
only 13 to Balmain’s 167, and the victory lifted Balmain
to fourth on the list with 14 points. The other winning
team of the afternoon was Redfern, which downed East
Sydney by' 41 to 29. This was the only game in the after-
noon’s struggle ; the rest were walks-over.
■* . •* * *
In Sydney’s British Association competition
Pyrmont, the hitherto unbeaten team, went down to ;
Balmain, which beat it three goals to two. In spite of ;
the defeat Pyrmont still heads the poll, and is leading its
conqueror by three points. Balmain shares second place
with Rozelle, with 18 points each. The only' remaining
club that has attained double figures is Glebe, the other
four having failed to reach 10.
A biting northerly wind and driving showers
of rain spoilt Melbourne’s Saturday football; nevertheless
a couple of the matches were exciting by reason of ex-
ceptionally' close finishes. The biggest crowd, of about
10,000, braved the rain and mud to see Carlton play
Oollingwood. The latter kept to its sy stem, but the
greasy ground and ball made sure passing impossible, and
the smarter and better-trained Carlton backs proved too
strong for the Magpie forwards, while their opponents’
skirmishers and advance guard simply overwhelmed the
black-and-white defenders. Result—Carlton, 80 points;
'Wood, 43. St. Hilda put up an unexpectedly good battle
against Essendon, and after a strenuous and decidedly
risky game, lost by two points only -33 to Essendon’s 35.
Other two League games were uninteresting. The best
game of the day was out at Footscray, where the hitherto
unbeaten West Melbourne men went to their first defeat
this season. They had made a draw with ’Scray the first
time of meeting, and had since walked over all opponents ;
but, as forecasted last week, they' were getting cocky—
and naturally went down bump. A strong wind helped
each side in turn, and the strenuousness of the play is
indicated by the low scores—Footscray', two goals, seven
behinds ; West, two goals, one behind ; that is, the latter
got only three reasonable shots at goal. The unfortunate
Essendon (Assn.) team, which has not yet had the joy of
leaving a field as victors, made a great struggle against
VVilliamstown, and deserved a victory which they
ultimately lost by two points only'—’Town 54, Essendon
52. During the week several players have been car-
peted—the Association passing one hot-tempered indi-
vidual out for a pair of Saturdays, another for the
rest of the season, and a third till the end of’oB. This
latter rioter may' consider his football career closed. At
Bendigo the Police Magistrate spoke firmly to six obstre-
perous barrackers who had expressed their opinions of an
umpire too violently, and fined three of them a half-sov.
each. Also the Metropolitan Churches Association is
prayerfully seeking guidance as to how to deal with cer-
tain “ Preston Presbyterian” barrackers, who had assured
the “Spensley-street Methodist’’eighteen that if they ven-
tured to win they “ would not go home alive.” TheSpens-
levs won all right, and the barrackers proceeded to carry
out their promise, hut were providentially choked off before
anyone was actually slain, though there were several severe
casualties. “ Spensleys” are of opinion that a course of
Squires-and-Murphy treatment would do those barrackers
good; but some of the Church Association authorities
favor a preliminary course of moral suasion, by prayer
and fasting. Tint Bulletin opines that prayer is as much
avail with a football barraeker as a dog would he in battle
with a crocodile—it would merely incite him to look for
more.
* • * •
The last two Saturdays have seen Rugby foot-
ball at Sydney Cricket Ground, and it was so long since
there had been anything to see at the ground that many
old members had almost forgotten the run of the place.
If the Trustees, instead of fooling about with the Mel-
bourne Cricket Club’s underground tactics, had only de-
voted themselves to fixing up the bar of the Members’
Club, they would have done a lot to popularise the place.
At present there are only two brands of whisky on tap
there, one of them a draught. Spa water is unobtain-
able, and not a liqueur in the whole miserable establish-
ment. There should be appointed to the Trust one
decent Bung who would take charge of the refreshment
and sustaining department of the business.
» * * *
Maoriland’s ancient footballer, Dr. Newman,
recently arose to make a few remarks in defence of
Rugby. Which was quite unnecessary. The game is all
right, it is some of the ruffians who play it that ought to
be eaten by wild beasts. Still the doctor was an excel-
lent advocate—almost too good an advocate, in fact. He
pictured Maorilanders in their jerseys as lambs of a par-
ticularly inoffensive breed, and stated that the conduct
of the men while on tour was of a nature calculated to
make Galahad look vulgar in comparison. The Bulletin
is glad to hear it. There have been horrible reports cir-
culated in this country about the disgraceful conduct of
footballers on tour, and it was said that some districts
always applied for extra police protection when a visiting
team was known to be coming or even passing through.
As for rough play: There were shocking slanders
circulated last s ason about a match in Wanganui.
N.S. VV.’s experience of the Maorilanders, as per Auckland
City Club, was that one-third of the Glebe men got laid
out by them, and the fight at the Gaiety Athletic Club
that same night was tame in comparison to the game
they played.
* * * *
Young Australia is mostly an athlete, but very
few have crowded as much athletics into 22 years of
existence as “Snowy” Baker, who plays behind the
scrum for Sydney first-grade football team. He has
played in seven inter-. State matches, and has also battled
for N.S. W. and Australia against England. As a school-
boy he was the champion swimmer of the school, and is
credited with being capable of getting through 100 yards
of water in 05 seconds. He is one of the East Sydney
Flying Squadron quintette, and is also an adept at water
polo and high diving. As a boxer he has won the heavy-
weight championship of N.S. W. Lancers, the light-weight
amateur championship and the middle-weight amateur
championship of N.S. W. At present he is heavy-weight
champion of N.S. W. and middleweight champion of Aus-
tralasia. He is a member of the N.S.W. Lancers, and
was second in the fencing championship of the N.S.W.
Defence Forces, besides winning first place in the tent-
pegging, wrestling on horseback, sword v sword, bayonet
v. sword, lance v. sword. He belongs to the Mercantile
Rowing Club, and was one of the crew which won the
maiden fours last year. That’s all, so far as memory goes.
* * * *
“ Flabby Paul ” : North Queensland has variety
if nothing else in its football grounds. One at Ravens-
wood used to be pretty exciting as it had a large quartz
outcrop in the centre. Charters Towers ground isn’t a
bed of roses, and one of the grounds at Townsville was at
one time a rubbish depdt; you can even now see the par-
ticles of broken bottles sparkling in the sun all over it.
A fall on this ground means loss of skin. Then comes the
Geraldton field. 1 saw an inter-town match played there.
The visitors grumbled at the large stumps dotted about
the field, also at the deep washaway at one corner. Often
the players would be lost to view as they tumbled into
this depression. The Cairns ground is one that delights
the hearts of the visiting teams. It is as flat as a billiard
table and always covered with soft green verdure. The
Cairns Union takes a great pride in its ground and keeps
it perfect.
* * * *
“ Austra” : The one industry that seems to be
flourishing in Freetrade England is professional football.
Each town of any importance has its limited liability
club, most large towns having more than one, and each
club means several teams (up to half-a-dozen), all of
which play in different leagues, national and local. The
management of one of these clubs, with its grounds, its tra-
velling, its dealings with other clubs and leagues, with rail-
way co. ’s, hotelkeepers, &c., requires much businessability.
The maintaining of a team’s fiosition in the competitions
is absolutely necessary, or it will fail to draw paying
gates, and may possibly get relegated to a lower
division. The fight is usually keener amongst the
teams at the bottom of the list than at the top,
and it is there that smellful matches sometimes occur.
In the North there is some betting, but the directors
discourage it, knowing by experience that if the book-
makers get a hold of the game the players will play for
them, though they have signed the club’s agreement.
; The result is, football seems to be played practically on
the square. A high-class player is almost as important
as a Derby or G.N. favorite, and he gets his daily par
quite as regularly, in addition to the use of a column in a
ha’penny newspaper to throw ink at, for which he gets
well paid. The clubs are saved the expense of adver-
tising ; the papers and railway co.’s do all that is required
in that line for their own benefit. The season lasts from
September 1 to May 1. During that time a first-class
team plays usually twice, and sometimes three times a
week, besides having friendly and practice matches out-
side those dates. So a footballer’s life is a busy and
usually not a very long one. The clubs buy and sell
players the same as any other articles. One club
early, in the season paid £lOOO for a centre-for-
ward, and to save itself from relegation to a
lower grade it recently bought three more for £llOO or
£l5OO. Even then it was only saved on the goal average,
beating another team by one-thirtieth of a goal per match.
In addition to these expenses, the players themselves have
to be provided for, and though the Association allows no
club to pay any player more than £4 per week and
keep, with an occasional benefit, there are lots of wavs
to circumvent the rule. A favorite one was to return" a
gate of say £5OO as £4OO, the balance going to plavers.
This trick has been several times exposed and the clubs
fined, and the directors disqualified. One team in a
season will often play 30 or 40 men, injuries preventing
the same team appearing often, and a star of particular
brilliance often does not play in more than half the games,
he being saved for the more important engagements.
Opponents here have the same tendency as in Aus-
tralia to lay out the best man on the other side.
The travelling and away-from-home exes, are a great
item, as a large number of reserves have to he taken on
tour, and all have to be paid. So the clubs rarely play
an amateur, unless of unusual brilliance. The amateur is
almost, if not quite, as expensive as the professional, and
does not belong to the club as the pro. does. He has a
habit of going away to play with more tony teams when
most wanted. The Cup final, played at the Crystal
Palace, was reckoned almost a failure from an attendance
point of view, only 76,000 people paying from is. to
10s. 6d. to view it, but as both teams were from the
North, it was like a meeting of Sydney and Goulburn
teams in Melbourne, and had no local interest. Only one
goal was scored, Everton getting that against Newcastle,
but the financial result was fair. Everton for its semi
and final matches (both played on neutral ground and
away from the patronage of home supporters) got
nearly £2500, while Newcastle, for the two matches under
similar conditions, got barely £2OOO. Some of the clubs
are real bloated, capitalistic concerns, owning valuable
grounds, large bank balances, and a score or two of
players worth hundreds of pounds per head.
Writer does not know if the late welsher
M'Leod ever took part in the sport of coursing, but if he
did he must have realised how the hare feels, as he ran
for his life with that howling mob behind him. He does
not seem to have been a Duffy by any means, and, unless
a man can do 100yds. in even time, it is better not to run
from a mob. Poodles will chase mastiffs when the big
dogs run. In fact, a Melbourne detective went so far as
to say that M'Leod was really killed for running away,
and not for welshing at all. By the time he had led them
to the fence where he faced round, the worst passions of
the pursuers were roused, and only cannon or a cold jet
from a fireman’s hose could have stopped the rush.
Probably had the first half-dozen been met with straight
nose-punches, M’Leod would have escaped with a few
bruises. As it was, boxer Nelson and others assaulted
the push right and left, and nothing very serious hap-
pened to them, in spite of the fact that the mob was not
in the mood to distinguish between welshersand humani-
tarians. Anyhow, the welsher is likely to disappear alto,
gether, or come to the course “heeled” with revolver
and knuckle-dusters, and in company.
* * * *
The Melbourne detectives admitted last week
that the local spielers, welshers, scalers, guns, and confi-
dence men had rendered “valuable assistance” in the
effort to bring the murderers of the Flemington balancer,
M’Leod, to justice. The rogues and vagabonds were de-
scribed as being “most indignant” over the terrible
affair, and they formed themselves into a gang of honor-
ary detectives in the interests of the law. In the in-
terests of the law of self-preservation, no doubt. The
art of the professional evaders of the law goes for nothing
when the people become a law unto themselves, hence
the spielers’ respect for the law.
The Bluejacket case, which stirred up Mel-
bourne, the other day, was a too-elaborate attempt to take
down John Wren and others of the same trade. Thebetting
clubs receive the results of races from the Universal
Press Agency, an institution that is looked on as abso-
lutely reliable. It has a man at Flemington who, as soon
as a race is run, sends an urgent telegram to the agency.
This is received at the G.P.0., and by arrangement tele-
phoned to the Agency’s office. Girls are waiting there
to take the result, and within two minutes of the running
of the race the results have been telephoned and sent by
express messengers to the agency’s clients. Boy Lobb, who
telephoned the messages on Steeple day—“ telephone
attendant messenger,” the Post Office people call him —
was got at, it is alleged, with an offer of £2O if he would
send on as the winner of the last race—the Footscray
Steeple—a horse the name of which would be supplied
to him. Curiously enough, that day Bluejacke appeared
on the boards at Flemington as a starter, though he was
known not to be on the course. His owner had scratched
him by wire, but the wire had been sent to the V.R.C.
office instead of to the course, and so the scratching was
not announced, though Bluejacket was posted as an
“ unlikely starter.” This complication was a pure fluke,
but it supplied the swindlers with a chance to get rather
long odds on a very improbable steed. During the
afternoon they backed Bluejacket at Wren’s club for £9O
to £8 and £4B to £(>, as well as making smaller bets.
A minute or two before the race the boy accomplice
was warned to telephone Bluejacket as the winner. He
did so, and the name of the very improbable horse was
sent round to Wren’s, and all the small wagers were col-
lected. The two big bets, however, were not paid over ;
a private message came to the club giving Error
as the winner, and Wren and Boardman per-
ceived the odor of a considerable rodent. On the
Tuesday following a man presented himself at the club,
produced the two tickets and tried to recover the £6 and
the £8 because Bluejacket had been really scratched, and
was a non-starter. He failed. Then he introduced
another man, who claimed that he was the person who
had wasted £l4 backing a non-starter that was : really
scratched. The club officials pitched the first applicant out,
and induced the second man tosign a document, whereby
he gave up his muddled claim to recover the £l4. When
things were sorted out the whole elaborate fraud seems
to have yielded only £6 profit, and the boy apparently
didn’t get his £2O, and the chief deviser of the scheme is
said to have fled to Africa, which is a costly proceeding.
Taking it ail round, it was a fool of a scheme, especially
for the boy.
« * * *
The V.R.C. is using the kicking to death of a
balancer on Steeple day by the mob as a lever to gain the
right to charge for admission to the Flat. At present
the V.R.C. has to keep the Flat in good order, but must
allow the public free access. Not the slightest effort is
made either by the Club or the police to prevent the
betting public being taken down, and Fleming-
ton Flat is the balancer’s paradise. Now' the
V.lt.C. is pointing out that such brutal affairs
as that of Steeple day are likely to occur every
race-day unless it is allow'ed to charge so much
a head and register the books. All the same Bent
isn’t likely to let himself be bluffed into this. The V.R.C.
can easily, with the assistance of the police and a short
by-law agreed to by Parliament, make it an offence for
any unregistered book to bet on the Flat. With a regis-
tration fee of £lO a year and a proper guarantee for each
fielder, welshing and balancing could be stamped out
just as effectually as they are on the Hill and Stand.
About 60 or 70 books would register, and the V.R.C.
would make a few hundreds out of that alone. If the
Church folk would let him, Bent would be quite willing
to register the books himself and let the £6OO or £7OO a
year go towards providing efficient police protection for
the Flat.
* * * *
The “Empire’s silken bonds” again. At the
Roma (Q.) annual races, one Chin Ah Coy won a race
with D.0.T., and the Chow’s colors were the good old
red, white and blue. The Chow owner was accompanied
by a Chow trainer and Chow assistant.
• * * •
On opening day of the Wellington (M.L.)
Racing Club the two big events fell to outsiders. Ronga
paid £l2 Bs. in a field of five in Wellington Steeplechase,
and Narcotic paid £l9 10s. in the Parliamentary Handi-
cap. In the double tote this pair returned £249 16s. to
each of the five investors of a pound.
• * * *
When the police raided Sydney Club a second
time Dan Green happened to be in Sydney, and sporting
men looked to the redoubtable “ Zero ” to show' the Law
some things it hadn’t been quite prepared to see. And
they were not disappointed. The solicitor for the defence
of Samuel Joseph West took the point that there was no
evidence that betting w'as actually going on at the ti ne
the police entered the building, and Stipendiary Payten
suddenly assumed an aspect of intense wisdom and up-
held the objection, dismissing the case against West.
But the Law was not satisfied. It proceeded to show
Daniel something that he hadn’t expected to see, and
Justice Pring having looked into the said case said, in
effect, that Magistrate Payten’s decision was just T. Rot.
Fifty or sixty men didn’t stand and look at a blackboard
with the names of races and horses on it just to admire
the caligraphy of the individual who used the chalk, and
he sustained the appeal, with costs. Now the sporting
community awaits Daniel’s next move with interest; so
does the legal community, for whatever happens it will
mean Costs. In this sort of gamble Costs is the only
thing that one can bet on with absolute safety.
* • * •
For some time ahead nothing matters but
sculling. Day after to-morrow the great Stanbury-
Towns contest, for the championship of the world
and a barrow-load of boodle, will come off. On the
Wednesday afterwards 10 crews of lady scullers will row
off preliminary heats. The following Saturday will see
the finals of the ladies’ championships, and then there
will take place that unique spectacle, which no other
country in the world could put up—the race of the ex-
charapions. Probably this will be the first and the last
chance chat even this home of sculling kings will have of
seeing such a unique procession, and the man who has an
afternoon to spare and stays away should be just
scragged. Anything else is too good for him. With refer-
ence to the world’s championship—both men are rowing
splendidly, but everyone admits that the ex-champion
does much more finished work. On the other hand, the
vast driving powers of Stanbury are expected to atone
for his lack of skill. Both men are imbued with a deadly
hatred for motor launches. Quite a crowd of friendly
yahoos have proceeded up the river and hilariously
offered “to make pace for the scullers,” and quite
ignored their frantic requests not to get in the road. Of
course, the trouble is that the motor-launch, streaking
along in front, makes a wash which causes the sculler's
shell to roll, destroys the uniformity of his stroke, and
takes the bevelled edge off his painfully-acquired style.
No wonder the rowers curse. Anyone who can invent a
bomb that will destroy the motor-boat yahoo secretly,
silently, and swiftly, please send particulars to the
trainers of both contestants.
* » • •
Talking of motor launches reminds one that in
these latter days a motor launch on the lower portion of
Sydney Harbor is quite a novelty. The frigidity of the
wind, the wetness of the water, the inability to find one
sheltered spot wherein a man may smoke in the pleasant
sunlight without having his ears clipped by an icy blast,
have all driven the launchers to do most of their navi,'
gation on the Whisky River. This is the period of the
year at which the club realises that it badly wants a
house where it can navigate without interference from
the dominating and tyrannical female. Any reference
to an ocean reliability race just now produces a shudder.
* * * *
Sherring, the Canadian who won the Marathon
race, had a very bad time of it till he finished first in that
historic trot. After that he got everything for nothing,
otherwise he would have been stranded. Apparently
they do not take athletics very seriously in Canada, as
Hamilton (Ontario), Sherring’s native city, raised only
280dols. to send him to Greece. He had 170dols. of his
own, and with that he started out (0 arrive in Athens
two months before the race. His steamer fares cost him
75d015., and the Greeks charged 2|dols. per day for
his board, and gave him only " rolls and coffee
to eat and drink. When he wanted meat, eggs, and
fruit he had to pay extra for them. Fortunately Hamil-
ton (Ontario) shelled out another 75d015., which reached
him just as he was on the point of going stone broke.
When he arrived in New York he had only 3d015., in his
Cocket, but by this time Hamilton (Ontario) was
eginning to get wildly enthusiastic, and there was
another lOOdols., awaiting the hero. When he got back to
Hamilton (Ontario) that town commenced to kick itself,
and threw a whole fiOOOdols., at him in hard cash, and
many gifts of value, such as pianos, and pianolas to play
them, kitchen utensils and bedroom furniture, and other
things too numerous to mention, as the auctioneers say.
* * * *
Nigel Barker was astounded to find a huge
horde of pressmen waiting to interview him on arrival at
London. They didn’t want to know much about himself,
the spokesman explained, but all England was worrying
about how he came to be beaten. Barker said the only
reason that he could give was that the other fellows ran
too darned fast, whereupon the reporters made a careful
note of it, thanked the great runner, and withdrew to let
the public know.
* * * *
There is much dissatisfaction in London with
the casual way in which British sport was represented at
Athens, and a strong “Olympic Association ” has been
formed to try to get the 1912 event held in England. But
unless Athens and Marathon were dug up and shifted to
Tooting, the classical associations would be missing, and
but for them the Olympian Games would be nothing
better than the Kookaburra Handicap. Fancy men
running from Gravesend to London under the pretence
that they represented the runner who fled across Greece
with the news of a Persian defeat 2369 years ago !
* * * *
Footracing is still booming in Westralia, and
the “Fourth lialgoorlie Hundred ” is booked to take
place on August 22, 23, 28 and 30th. The big money is
£l5O for a 130 yards contest. With regard to the amazing
times put up by Postle in Queensland, explanations are
now being made that the track was slightly downhill.
Home of the hair-raising times reported from Westralia
lately may have been due to the same condition of track.
* * * *
“ K.” : Wren’s big £5OO sprint, to take place in
a few months, has caused great excitement amongst the
country peds. The wily John sent a circular to every
ped. on the registered list of the Victorian Athletic
League, inviting him to come along and collar the stake.
This was the first intimation that many of the peds., who
don’t take a paper (and often couldn’t read it if they did),
had of the scramble ; and some of them have taken the
circular as a delicate compliment to their fame and
fleetness. The result is that now it is dangerous to go
out of a moonlit night in my district —which seems to
have more than its fair share of peds., by the way. The
other evening I saw a long, bony apparition rushing
along- the highway, at fully eight miles an hour. Where
he finished stood another man, holding a match to see
the time on what looked like an eight-day clock. As I
passed, the timekeeper said: “Another four seconds
faster, Bill, and it’s a monte.” If I get trodden on, or
run over, I intend to sue Wren for compensation.


CHOPIN
AS PLAYED BY
PAPEREWSKI.
Those who Have Heard the great pianist can, at
best, retain only an imperfect recolletftion of His
wonderful art. But the owner of a Metrostyle
Pianola can reproduce Paderewski’s interpretation
witH all its subtleties and delicate gradations of
expression.
Paderewski has himself imparted to the rolls of music a detailed guide
in tempo and phrasing. A thin red Metrostyle line upon this roll clearly
records the interpretation of this great pianist. By keeping the pointer of
the Metrostyle upon this constantly deviating line the same variations of
expression are obtained as by Paderewski, who originally marked the roll.
The Metrostyle line does not complicate the
playing of the Pianola, but, on the contrary, sim-
plifies it. But the guide is not arbitrary, and the
player may at any moment infuse as mucH of His own
individuality into the composition as He cHooses.
When it is realised that witH a Half-Hour’s prac-
tice the Metrostyle Pianola can be played by abso-
lutely everyone, even though they may not Know
one note of music, the tremendous value to the
music-lover is apparent.
The Metrostyle places the Pianola beyond all competitors. No other
Piano-player ever attempts to do what the Metrostyle does. Although sold
at the same price as other Piano-players, the Pianola has in the Metrostyle
an exclusive feature, which is not even approximated in any other instru-
ment of this nature.
A cordial invitation is extended to call and hear the instrument,
whether desirous of purchasing or not.
An illustrated Catalog will be sent free for the asking. When writing
ask for Catalog “BB.”
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO.
357 George St., SYDNEY.
Branches a* - 185-7 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
311 Queen Street, BRISBANE.
58 King William Street, ADELAIDE.
The genuine Pianola is sold in Australia only by the above, and
Nicholson & Co., Perth, Fremantle, and Kalgoorlie, W.A.
<
\
on
ROBB**
» «■
nW
n\)HV£!
co^^eap
and
hard
bber
AS O
deoi^V
o>
Spec
Sssgg^sf-
3ta» (
d.
<N
ptf
t\\oQ
rid
„T\*is
s\us*
W a
as
,\nt
the 1
; ed, ofi
6
a»? ot
■yVVUS
tUt» (
lout
■v?ea
p/llft*
The Dunlop Rubber Co. of Aus. ( Ltd,
All State* and N.z.
The winning teams in Sydney’s lacrosse struggle
on Saturday were Burwood, Balmain No. 1, and North
Sydney, which downed Mosman (8 to 4), Marriekville (4
to 3), and Petersham (10 to 2). The Burwood-Mosman
match showed good combination, but erratic shooting,
while Balmain and Marriekville put up what is considered
about the fastest game of the season. At first the Bal-
mainites had the best of it, and went through their
opponents like fire through summer grass. Then their
condition gave out, and the Marrickvilles romped over
them, but the change came too late, and the end arrived
before they could equalise the scores. But it was close—
very' close, indeed. North Sydney and Petersham also
showed a high rate of speed, and kept the ball moving
about the middle of the field at a tremendous pace. But
the Northmen had the knack of scoring, and won easily.
• * * *
The Melbourne icest gasped on Tuesday of last
week at a wild, whirling game of hockey, played at the
Glaciarium between a team of Australians and six sliders
from Uncle Sam’s cruiser Baltimore. A hockey-ball on
the ice is an uneasy blob of energy that jumps round a
little faster than a drop of mercury, and the dash of the
game startled the frigid crowd into enthusiasm. The
officer-boys who were to have been in the Yankee team
stood down to make room for mere seamen and firemen,
but the Amurrikan blue-jackets looked so aristocratic that
the girls put them all down as captains and ensigns, and
things of that sort. A wild American fireman, with a
head of hair like a drain-cleaner’s mop (he cultivates it to
play football), was the hero of the game—which was
drawn, with one goal to each side. Then the skating
began again, and the onlookers dropped their aspect of
excitement to don once more that worn look that
betokens cold feet.
* * * ■*
•John Wren has a genius for advertisement.
There was a time when the Collingwood plutocrat hid
his light behind anything handy, but all that has passed.
He never loses a chance, and no Yankee agent has a
keener nose for an ad. His last attempt in this direction
was at Melbourne Cyelorama the night Bill Smith outed
Tim Murphy. The papers had been full of the murder of
a “balancer” at Flemington, and had mentioned how
“Ted” Nelson, the pug, had gone in to his assistance.
This was John’s text. He brought the sermon carefully
written out on foolscap, and then started a subscription
for ’ero Ted. John gave £lO, and the other 5999 people
in the building put together £2 10s., and with the
£l2 10s. and his speech in one hand and ’ero
Ted in t’other, John the Great climbed solemnly
into the ring, and solemnly read his oration, the
purport of which was that he, as a promoter of
glove contests, was so pleased with Nelson’s attempt
that there was £l2 10s. for him. He also told Ted
that he was an honor to his profession. “ Had the people
who attacked the unfortunate young man,” said John,
“had a knowledge of boxing, they would probably have
used their fists instead of their feet, in such a cowardly
and un-British fashion,” and when John said “ un-
British,” there was great cheering. Yet as it happens
the kicking habit is English—strictly English. It comes
from Lancashire, where the “purring match”— i.e., the
kicking match—had its origin. The simple rules of the
English kicking match were that the two men rushed
into “ holts ” as quickly as they could, and kicked each
other with heavy clogs, like fiends incarnate. When one
of them went down, the other man tried to kick him so
hard while he was down—on the head and face for prefer-
ence—that he couldn’t get up again. When the English
kicking horror was over the combatants went home—
unless one of them was dead—and kicked their wives.
* * * *
In the U.S.A. the Collingwood Tote man is
known as “Jock’’Wren, and this is how O’Brien spoke
after receiving the cable inviting him to come along and
get his corners knocked off by Squires, whose name the
Yankee Police Gazette gives as “ Phil.” Said O’Hagen-
O’Brien ; “ It looks good to me, and if this Jock Wren
can make good, I will certainly take on the match. I
don’t know w'ho Squires is, and I don’t care, as long as
the money is there. If we can come to terms I will not
take on any big matches before that time, and I will plan
to sail for Australia about the beginning of September.
I had hoped to get on a fight with Tommy Burns in a few
weeks, but this proposition appears to be twenty-two
carats, and Burns can go by the wayside.” Jock Wren 1
This is fame.
* ■* • #
Mike Williams, heavyweight champion bruiser
of South Africa and England, arrived in Melbourne on
Sunday last per the White Star liner Afrie. He comes to
box Squires, under Wren’s management, for £7OO and
£lOO exes. Immediately upon arrival John Wren met
him, and put him in front of a liberal supply of first-class
vittles. Presumably if Williams knocks out Squires he
will take on O’Hagen-O’Brien in November.
* * * *
Hock Keys seems to have taken the Yankee eye
immensely, and the sporting papers over there are de-
scribing him as a sort of “latest improvement”. What
struck them most, in more ways than one, was Keys’
effective uppercut, which, it is foretold, will open up like
a barn door the fellows who crouch down and cover up
in what is called the California style. Keys is described
as a most versatile boxer, and a perfect master of all the
known styles and a few new ones of his own. What a
tail our cat has 1
* * * *
The brief bloodshed when Tim Murphy faced
Bill Smith at Melbourne Cyelorama, under the Olympic
Club s management, the other night, again demonstrated
the folly of which a boxer with a reputation to look after
is guilty when he gives away much weight and a great
deal of length. Before Murphy got hiinself knocked
about by heavyweights he was a man of consequence in
the game ; now, having suffered three sudden and decisive
defeats in succession at the hands of heavies, he has
lost value as a draw, and nothing profitable is
standing out for him. He faced the long, lean
wiry Billsmith like a person into whose heart had been
instilled a great respect for large men. Smith has a
pile-driving smite in his left elbow, and he shot that left
into the smaller man with destructive effect. Murphy
only rocked in one severe blow, and that was a foul,
having been delivered within an appreciable time of the
referee calling for a break, and before the men had come
apart. Later, when Murphy was plainly going, the
referee called Smith off, it seemed with the intention ox
stopping the fight, but after some words with Murphy
finding the latter still willing, he ordered them at it again.’
If this action is not a decided infringement of rules it is
certainly ridiculously unfair to the top dog. However
Smith knocked Tim clean across the ring with his next
punch, and there was no more fight in Murphy. Smith
won in five rounds.
■* * * *
The second meeting between yellow fighter
Walcott and Bull Nicholls at Sydney National Sportin"■
Club last week made public the fact that the only blow
the sturdy little West Indian is afraid of is the uppercut.
Straight jabs he apparently cared nothing for ; hooks and
swings glanced off him like water off a duck’s back and
found him still slogging steadily away ; but uppercuts
shook him where he lived and made him reel ominously.
Although both men are capable of good defensive work
when they like, on this occasion they just battered one
another, Walcott trying to get his enemy jammed in the
corner where he could slog him to his" heart’s content.
But when he got him there, the Bull clinched before Wal-
cott could play his game to a finish. In the eighth round,
however, Walcott managed to get him cornered finally,
and when he had floored him five times in quick succes-
sion the referee stopped the fight and gave the verdict in
Walcott’s favor; which was another victory of brute
force and endurance over mere skill.
* * * *
The scrap between the U.S.A. dude fighter
O’Hagen-O’Brien and Bill Squires will be an important
chapter in the history of the manufactured scientific
bruiser against the natural slogger, although it will not
settle the question as to which is the superior. It is un-
likely that problem will ever be finally settled, just be-
cause it is impossible to get two fighters of the opposite
classes with the same degree and quality of mental
courage. O'Brien is probably the highest development of
the scientific fighter ever let loose in the world of pugdom.
He has made a special study of anatomy, and marked out
the vulnerable places—the spots where blows hurt most—
and hits at no others. With a longer reach than is usual,
he has practised footwork and raised the knack of rushing
in, hitting hard, and getting away at the first sign of a
return, to a fine art. In his memorable fight with Fitz-
simmons his speed was simply incredible, and the result
was that the freckled freak never managed to land one
real blow. O’Brien told a Yankee pressman that the best
men he has met get afraid if he can land several
stinging blows without receiving any in return, and that
immediately they get afraid the end has begun.
The Bulletin doesn’t know much about Squires, except
through hearsay, but it has a firm belief that there is a
man in Paddington who, if taken, in hand,, would layout
both O’Brien and Squires. His name is James Traynor, a
blacksmith by trade, and it was he who first taught Peter
Kling. Tray nor can hit like a steam-hammer, is quick on his
feet, and his exploits in Bondi surf have proved him to be a
man of great courage, as well as one of the strongest of
the strong. One blow from his divine right would leave
O’Brien’s science lying round in fragments, and, if he
fights as coolly as he swims, O’Brien would never succeed
in drawing his blow* unless O’B. was within reach, in
which case it would probably be all over.
* * • »
Something like a record fight was put up in
Sydney Centennial Park one evening a few weeks back.
A small, rat-like individual, who stood about sft. 2in. in
his boots, was talking to his girl when six shadows
gathered round and blocked out the moonlight. He was
only a small man, but he was all grit, and he arose in
wrath, using a Williams’ key-ring as a knuckleduster.
The effect was surprising. Every blow that he got in
meant a broken bone or a jagged wound. They kicked
and biffed at him, but he skirled round regardless of all
rules, cursing, jabbing and slashing. A cheekbone was
splintered, a jaw bone fractured, and the biggest man of
the crowd received the point of the key-ring in the middle
of his embonpoint. It only lasted about 35 seconds, when
there were four men down, and two others rushing across
the Park shouting for help, with a small howling fury in
full pursuit. The tout doesn’t mind being shot at —most
men are too excited under the circumstances to shoot
straight—but lOst. of concentrated fury armed with a
Williams’ key-ring is deadly.
* * • *■
“Philo”: Wrestling appears to have reached
the pinnacle of popularity, for it is now used in place of
punching to decide differences of opinion. Saw some
youngsters quarrelling recently. “ Garn,” said one, “I
can wrastle you, Pincher, enny’ow.” The subsequent
encounter was not in strict accordance with any particu-
lar code of rules, but it was none the less exciting. The
sole object is to get the other fellow' down and then
vigorously assault the universe with his person until he
declares himself beaten. Now, the spectacle of tw'O
pushes energetically Hackenschmidting one another
should supply some excitement.
* * * *
“T.F.M.”: I agree with you in being
righteously indignant at pigeon murderers, a class of
criminals somehow treated with large toleration
by the societies which exist for the prevention of cruelty
to animals. Perhaps the pigeon murderers escape the
anathemas of these organisations because they are
usually well-to-do persons. And perhaps the criminals
who pursue the hare with grey-hounds secure immunity
for a like reason. If three or four small boys in a city
slum “ chivvy ” a mongrel dog after a cat, the beak who
sits in judgment upon the outrage is all broken up at
their depravity. But the same beak, as likely as not,
after patronising a coursing match in which a few' score
squeaking hares were torn to shreds, would return to the
bosom of his family and remark that he had spent a
glorious day. I have heard that there are even
parsons to be found w'ho sanctify with their pre-
sence this fine old British “ sport ” which is quite
as brutal as bull-baiting, and far more so than the
Squires-Murphy encounter, anathematised so unctuously
by Judkins and his brethren.
*,* * *
So far, the N.S.W. Cyclists’ Association has
not shaken the universe by any exhibition of marvellous
organisation or development. Although its numbers
swelled up like Jonah’s gourd, the process seemed to
exhaust all its energy, and so far it has done nothing to
justify'its existence. It has induced a large number of
riders to leave the League—and, so far, has done
nothing for them except promote one small road-race,
which, but for Alick M‘Neill’s bike prize, would have been
an appallingly barren affair. Now, as if to put the final
nail in its coffin, the League brings out a programme in
which £2BOO is offered in prize-money for competitions
ranging from August to March next year. This w'riter
doesn’t hold a brief for the League, and considers that
its treatment of the Britannia Club ought to have earned
it the axe, but only success can justify a movement like
that set afoot b.v the Association, and now, after some
months in which to do things, there is no sign of success.
The cash cyclist has a hard row to hoe at any time, but
when fool bodies like the Ass. come along and lead him
into false movements, his lot becomes miserable indeed.
A religious paper relates that missionary
Bishop Selwyn, grieved by the complete nudity
of the South Sea Islanders, used to leave bright
pieces of calico lying about his hut, on the chance
of the color attracting the fancy of the natives.
One dusky Juno picked up a length of scarlet
materia], and was told she could have it if she
would wear it. Next day she returned, clothed
only in a downcast look, and carrying the cloth
neatly rolled up. Handing it back to the
astonished prelate, she coyly remarked : “Me no
wear that, Bishopy ; me too shy !”
Even such a usually staid thing as
a Government inquiry can get a hustle on
when it has a reason for hustling. The Board
which sat to investigate the charges re the
unreliability of the Sydney tramway magnetic
brakes—charges for which Lawton, the Labor
candidate for the Surry Hills bye-election,
was mainly responsible—trod the sacred red-
tape in the dust, and hurled the rubber
stamps to Sheol in its haste to get its report
ready for the morning press on election day, and
thus confound Lawton, and be the means of haul-
ing holy big-drum Bruntnell into the shelter of
Parliament. The celerity shown is in striking
contrast to the pace put up on'ordinary occasions.
An old military man writes
A Russian court-martial has sentenced Stoessel, the
defender of Port Arthur, to death. He rather deserves a
crown. He was shut into the Quang Tung Peninsula
early in May, 1905, with 28,000 men who, on May 23rd,
held a line 16 miles long, or about one man to a yard all
told. They were slowly pushed back, and there were no
men to spare to strengthen the inner works, which badly
wanted strengthening, because they had much dead
ground, not swept by any fire, around then). When
the Japs came to their senses, and found the works
could not be carried by assault, they crossed the
fire-swept zone by trenches, and mined under, and blew
up the forts. In August and September the outer circle
of forts was mastered by a mechanical process as certain
as the sun’s revolution. There is no place, no combina-
tion of defensive works, so strong that it cannot be
taken if attacked with sufficient means, and not
relieved from outside. Port Arthur was attacked
with sufficient means, though at first unskil-
fully, and was not relieved. Elliot’s defence of Gib-
raltar is not a case in point. The place was twice
relieved, supplied not only with ammunition and pro-
visions, but with men and skilled artificers. Stoessel had
to get on as best he could with the men with whom he
was first shut up, who were utterly insufficient to
hold the long lines to be defended.
Somewhat laborious satire from the New
Zealand Times (7/7/’O6) is this diary of N.S.W.
Parliament:—
July 9.—Mr. Crick bit his way through the wall of Par-
liament to-day, and, tearing' a leg off a convenient mem-
ber for use as a weapon, spoke for five hours. He
announced that he would eat the Ministry for 2s. 6d.
Five deaths occurred.
July 10.—Proceedings were lively to-day. Mr. Crick
arrived armed with a Maxim gun, and announced that
he intended to take some exercise. He kept up a con-
tinuous fire of interjections, but the chain mail supplied
to members turned the bullets. The Speaker at last
ordered Mr. Crick to desist.
July 11.—The Speaker’s funeral was largely attended.
Mr. Crick was at the races to-day.
July 12.—Mr. Crick arrived with the heads of three
newspaper editors tied to his belt. He announced that
he was making a collection of heads. Thirteen more
seats became vacant to-day. Mr. Crick has elected him-
self Speaker. He refuses to allow corpses to be removed.
July 13.—Mr. Crick made a passionate speech. Three
members, who hid in the coal-cellar, are still alive.
July 14.—The coal-cellar was blown up by dynamite.
Mr. Crick appeared alone in Parliament. It was a quiet
sitting. Mr. Crick is making a speech.
At G. Reid’s anti-Sosh Brisbane meeting
of mothers—they all looked like mothers, anyhow
—the temperature was so low, through lack of
fire on the part of the Corpulent One, that half
the audience took to sneezing. Mrs. Corrie. who
chaired the affair, opened by inviting those present
to listen to “one of Australia’s greatest orators,
and the best known figure in Australian
politics.” This was too much even for George,
who disclaimed any pretensions to oratory, and
protested against this continued allusion to his
figure. Then he paused till the giggling of
the mothers had faded away. Just then a
bloated white terrier rolled down the stair-
case, so he said, “ And there’s the dog, too,”
and again waited for the laugh to die away. The
anti-Sosh apostle dived into a heavy dissertation
on human nature, but before he was half through
it, he knocked his glass of water into the lap of
Mrs. Chairwoman. He apologised, of course, and
Mrs. Corrie was rushed at and wiped up by half a
dozen women with handkerchiefs. There was not
an interjection during the meeting, which was a
cold and serious show. As they separated, these
Tory women politicians looked sad and haunted.
The awful responsibility of stemming the Social-
istic wave appeared to be too much for them.


YOUR OPPORTUNITY FOR CHOICE IS GREATER THAN EVER.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Black Open Face
KEYLESS WATCHES,
10s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s, £2
Solid Silver Hunting Cases,
255, 30s, £2, £2 10s, £3, £4
A. SAUNDERS.
tct. Gold SCROLL BRCOGH,
Pearls and Rubies, 15s.
A. SAUNDERa.
let. Gold Two-Bar BROOCH,
Pearls and Rubies, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Star PENDANT
or BROOCH.
Set Pure White Pearls. £5 sa.
Diamond Centre, £7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Three-Bar SCROLL BROOCH.
Pearls and Ruby or Sapphire, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Pearl Set BIRD and SPRAY BROOCH,
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Gold Huutiar
KEYLESS WATCHES, Jewell
C 2 10s, . £3 10s, .C 4, £j '1
£7, £lO.
Guaranteed 2,3, 4, and 5 y a .
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Pearl Set Spray Bar BROOCH, 21s.
A Tasty Design.
We Will
Send You
Our Illustrated Catalogue
on request. Its perusal
will help you,
and give you a very
good idea of the enormous
stock we carry.
All goods sent POST FREE.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Fancy Curb Padlock BRACELET, in Four
Sizes, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4. All with Safety
Chains attached.
Country
Residents I
No matter where you live,
you have the same
opportunity
in choice and price
that you would have
if personally selecting
in our great store.
to*
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Two-Bar BROOCII,
Opal and Four Pure Diamonds, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Lyre BROOCH,
Pure White Pearls, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold PIN.
Pearls and Rubies.
15s.
Ml
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold CROSS,
6s 6d,
Larger,
7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Half Chased Bamboo BRACELET, with
Safety Chain attached, £2 15s. Smaller, £2 ss.
Plain, 255, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Ituby
or Sapphire, 203.
Pure Double. £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
. 9ct. Gold
Pearl Set
WISHBONE,
10s.
A. SAUNDEHS
15ct. Gold Spi .
BROOCH,
Pearls ar.J
Turquoise,
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
IBct. Gold Two-Heart
RING.
Opals and Four
Pure Double Cut
Diamonds. £4 10s.
The LohoWatch
BeiheehMe
& Thee
mm
m
wm
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mizpah
HEART CHARM. 8s 6d.
Smaller. 5s 6d, 6s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Pin
Chain and Wishbone
CHARM, 7s 6d.
Smaller. 5s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Floral Spray and Crescent NECKLET, Set Fine Pure White Pearls, £4.
Heart or Lyre Centre same price. Complete in Silk-Lined Case.
Other Styles. £4 10s, £5 10s, £6 10s, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Circle
BROOCH.
Set Pure Pearls and
Turquoise, £2 ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Bee BROOCH.
Pure Pearls and Opal Body, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Ribbon
BROOCH, Set Pearls
and Turquoise, £2 10s.
A. SAONDERS.
Gold Pin and
New Zealand
Greenstone
CHARM, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Five Fine
Pure Opals, £2 10s.
Extra Quality Opals,
Larger, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
“Dinna Forget”
CHARM, 10s 64
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Two-Bar Pure Double Cut Diamond
BROOCH, £2. Larger Diamond. £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Horseshoe
and Stone Set Heart
CHARM, 8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Extra Heavy
HAND CLASP. 255.
15ct. Gold, £2 10s.
18ct. Gold Half-Hoop
Five Pure Double Cut
Diamonds, £4 HJs.
Larger Diamonds,
£5, £0 10s, £7 10s,
£8 10s, £lO 10s,
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Marquise
RING. Diamonds
and Rubies
or Sapphires, £6 10s.
Larger, £7 10s,
£8 10s. £lO. £l2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Zealand Greenstone HEART PENDANTS,
Gold Mounted, 10s 6d. Larger, 12s 6d.
Smaller, ss, 7s 6d, 8s 6dl
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Four Pure
Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires,
£2.
*5?
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold
Pure Double
. Cut Diamonds
and Rubies,
or Sapphires, £l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mounted New Zealand Greenstone Bar BROOC.
15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold Signet RING,
20s.
15ct. Gold, £2.
18ct. Gold, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Envelop*
CHARM, 12s 64
Post Card, lusOi
Silver, 4s 64
SPECIAL,
15s.
SUPERIOR,
>l7s6d
is
\ * /
llSBsafaesfrcet
SYDNEY
4
x
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong, Reliable, Knockabout WATCHES,
8s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 80s.
Our “Guard,” 15s. Our “Railway,” 20s. All
Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold ALBERTS, Single or Double, £3, £3 10s,
£4, ;£4 10s, £6. 15ct. Gold, £5 10s, £6 10s,
£7 10s, £B, £lO, Solid Silver, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d,
15s, 17s 6d. Gold Filled, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Heart and
Dumbbell LINKS. 12s 6d.
15ct. Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold BRACELET, Pure Double Cut Diamonds
and Rubies or Sapphires, £3.
15ct. Gold. £4 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Oval
LINKS. 255.
15ct. Gold, £2, £2 10s.
Initials Engraved Free.
SOLID
SILVER,
£2.
GOLD
CASED
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Hunting Keyless LEVE ;
£2 £2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, £5. Pi-
Gold Cases, £4 4s, £5 ss, £6 10s. 8»*
Gold, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
A. SAUNDERS
f SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER,
l SILVERSMITH, and OPTICIAN,
809, 81 I, 813, 815, 817
GEORGE-STREET,
Opp.
Railway
Station,
Sydney.


\
W- . #■&*
«gr* j* ■
r .
X
—
N-#'
wm
A
t.,1
\ 1 )
r\
\ 1
\ -P \
n
LOC-iM o
CmccL
mm
■
>-
%
i i
«s»
<t
4 s
*?
€
vl
1
H |U- 'll''
lafv-nNS
AV
' 1
raw mm
■wi
v*in i
T 'l
Ii(( f
.m^
i
X
y-1
jm.
■'\, \
'I s;'! $>
v\
S 3
m
m i
afj,
1,1
Us**'
J|
'••ife-
gsiSMP—4/!
; ; ■'. M./ . i '
Ms
p -
ws
/
/
skills* ' •'X
Iff
yJffHn
&
•„, /
' V \
m mi
m
,x» ■
X
SHI ■
i
fill
t:?i
'«his
• :
I si
as
i Bill
11l s i
x
.
M
- ;.*£|
X
: T;
* . «*-<• ■ ,<■-
K
WJ
i!
'<£■
i .
-~5 j ;
! /
If
am.
~
m
: <
■
r
mi
m
m
■fife*
. r- -
S£B
cßetX
plgSiP
WM
r im.
’ - i mg&w
; #|« $#
...
kb* 3
r ? VL~l&i tf*
u
IS
1
i
"3
m
mi
■■■ ■
XiiOSfc
Wrr V 3 V/<? Cfo c*. •
v
w«
siH
•isi
Pleasure in every puff of CAPSTAN TOBACCO.


#►
<■?
7?
aw
oz
ot)
HEALTH, as supplied by
BLACKFELLOW BRAND
PURE
EUCALYPTUS OIL.
In order that the people of Australia may have
an opportunity of testing the fine quality of our genuine
Eucalyptus at a fair price, we have decided to offer
for three months only:—
16oz. Bottles of PURE Q //">
EUCALYPTUS for K* O/V
Each (or 3 bottles for 10s.)»
posted to any address in the
Commonwealth.
Mr* A* H* JACKSON, B*Sc*, Ph*C*, F*C*S*,
Public Analyst, 349 Collins St., Melbourne, In his re-
port on our Oil, says: “Blackfellow Brand Eucalyptus
has been tested by me at various times, and I have
always found It to satisfy all the requirements of the
British Pharmacopoeia.”
In buying so-called Eucalyptus Oil from your
chemist or grocer you pay at least 7s. for the quantity
we are offering to the public for 3s. 9d.
We are the largest Distillers and Exporters of PURE
EUCALYPTUS in Australia, consequently are in a
better position to supply a genuine article than mere
factors and bottlers, who make the public pay for the
labor entailed in packing the oil in small bottles, together
with at least 20 per cent, added for middlemen’s profits,
WRITE DIRECT TO
ECKERSLEY $ SONS,
Eucalyptus Oil Distillers.
214-216 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE,
AUSTRALIA.
WEAR THE WELL-KNOWN . . .
44
PERFECT A” SHIRT
(Regd).
For Every-day Wear it cannot be beaten.
Ready to Wear
In Oxford Materials,
5/6
Fifty Patterns ot
Select from.
Note.— Send at
once for Sample
Shirt,
5/6
Post
Free.
*
t
Hafuw.tnmr.twa
MELBOURNE
u
>^s
cl]
u •»«
i\v
1
sa im *
M
m
iMMMimm
PH
ALSO . . .
'The Celebrated
Ready to Wear
Ceylon Materials,
CE.STUS” SHIRT
5j /JL (Regd.)
' For Country Wear.
BUCKLEY & NUNN LTD.
[Shirtmakers,
BOURKE ST.,
MELBOURNE
Bargain
An EDISON PHONOGRAPH
and 12 RECORDS for
♦ ♦ ♦
655.
asp
■
A Bargain Offer that
may be withdrawn any
day without notice.
The Phonograph
is the famous EDISON
GEM, usually sold at 60s.
It is a wonderful instru-
ment, quite as good as the
larger ones —simply wants
more winding.
The Records
are of your own choosing—
the very la test. They com-
prise 3 Edison Records, 3
Rex Records; 3 Columbia
Records, 3 Pathe Records.
The Complete Outfit of Phono*
graph and 12 Records for 05s.
Write for Catalogues of Instruments and Records.
OSBORN & JERMN, Ltd
“MY OPTICIANS,”
Importers of Phonographs and Records,
393 GEORGE ST. (facing Royal Hotel), SYDNEY.
RABBIT SKINS.
TO FILL OUR ORDERS WE REQUIRE
6,000,000 RABBIT SKINS
this Season, and are prepared to pay EXTREME PRICES.
IMMEDIATE RETURNS, NO COMMISSION.
Consign to—JAMES FAY, MCDONALD & CO.,
276 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Visitors to Melbourne
WILL FIND
THAT. . .
Neale’s Temperance Hotel
(Tankards)
LONSDALE STREET (Next Law Courts;.
is the handiest plaee to stay at. Being- close to
Stations, Theatres and Wharves ; and three minutes wain
from G.P.O. Bedrooms on Ground Floor if dear ■ ■
Board and Residence, 4s. 6d. per day; or from w> P
week. Telephone 1640.
BUY THE PLUM BY MAIL
YVfE send this famous razor all over Australia and New
’ ' Zealand. For more than 20 years it has stood the test.
The secret of its wonderful excellence is in the steel.
Try it—send 1016 —your money back if you want it!
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6.
Razoleo Lightning- Razor Sharpener, 6d.
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d.
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-.
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 16/-.
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-.
POST FREE TO ANY PART OF AUSTRALASIA.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George St.,
SYDNEY.
THE PLUM RAZOR 10/6 POST FR^


N
V
Made in Australia.”
SOMET
TO
\ - .
r—**&**&%mm
; f 'A .? ■
m
35S>*.
r:
WORK DONE BY THE PERFECT AUSTRALIAN PLOUGH— The MITCHELL.
THE BEST MUST WIN.
1891.
1892.
1893.
1894.
1895.
1896.
1896.
1897.
1898.
1899.
1900.
1901.
1902.
1903.
1904.
1905.
1906.
A Few Wins by the FAMOUS LIGHT DRAUGHT “ MITCHELL.”
AL.L- CHAMPIONS, MIND.
Werribee Grand Champion— lst, 2nd, and 3rd Prizes—Only three Ploughs at
work, beating all competitors.
Werribee Grand Champion— jst and 2nd Prizes—ln this class three “Mitchells”
competed against all makers.
International Match (Hobart, Tasmania), Ist Prize. —Won by the only “ Mitchell ”
Plough on the ground, against the World.
Romsey Champion Match —lst Prize. —“Mitchell ” superiority again proved.
Werribee Grand Champion —lst and 2nd Prizes. —Not a feather ruffled.
Yarrawonga Champion Match— lst Prize.—Always on top.
Grenfell, N.S.W r ., Champion Match —lst Prize. —One “Mitchell” at work,
with the usual result.
Coolamon, N.S.W., Champion Match —lst Prize. —Practical ploughmen at the
head of our business, that's why we win so regularly.
Intercolonial Champion Match (Millthorpe, N.S.W.).—lst, £5O; 2nd, £2O
(tied); 4th, £5 ; and sth Prizes. —The result of four
“ Mitchell” Ploughs competing against all noted makers.
Intercolonial Champion Match (Millthorpe, N.S.W.)—lst, £5O; 2nd, £2O
Only two “ Mitchells ”at work. A splendid victory.
Hyabram Champion Match- Ist Prize in Champion 2 and 4 Furrows.
Broadmeadows Champion Match— lst, 2nd, 3rd and 4th Prizes.—Needs no
comment.
Buln Buln Champion MrJch.- Ist Prize.
Broadmeadows Champion Match —lst Prize in two Champions; also two Ists,
two 2nds, and one 3rd.
Campbellfield Champion Match —lst, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th Prizes; also one Ist
and one 4th.
Broadmeadows Champion Match —lst, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th Prizes; also two Ists
and one 2nd. Eight Ploughs competing.
Campbellfield Champion Match —lst, 2nd, 3rd and 4th; also one Ist, one 2nd,
and one 3rd.
BEEN CROWING SINCE 1891-15 YEARS' RESULTS
MEAN SOMETHING TO YOU, DON’T THEY?
MITCHELL Soft Centre
Mould-Boards
Are the result of 20 years’ experience of Australian
soils —20 years’ effort to please you.
Are made of the highest grade of steel—hard
enough to cut glass, yet made so tough by a layer
of soft steel between the two hard wearing
surfaces, that it is a job to break one, if you try.
To be hard enough to cut glass is to wear
wonderfully well, isn’t it ?
So if you have soft centre “Mitchells,” you
don’t need to buy new boards any-way near so
soon as if you didn’t have them.
That is money in your pocket.
Our boards scour or clean well because they’re
as hard and as smooth as glass, giving light draft
and ability'to plough with a “Mitchell” when
you could not with another kind.
“Mitchell” Soft Centres are unequalled for
HARDNESS, TOUGHNESS, POLISH, and TURN.
Lots of other features if you’ll ask us.
Inter-State Agents.
Queensland— Jackson & Co., Ltd., corner Eagle
and Elizabeth Streets, Brisbane.
Tasmania South— Murdoch Bros., Hobart.
Tasmania North—W. Hart & Sons, Launceston.
Crain and Fertiliser Drills, Ploughs,
Harrows, Harvesters, Strippers,
Winnowers, &c.
MITCHELL
and CO..
Agricultural Implement and
Machine Manufacturers,
Melbourne


TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
m
m
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
•v-
-' J
.9
Nine-tenths of the ills which humanity endures, with more or less patience, are unnecessary ills.
For instance :
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Lumbago
Sciatica
Blood Disorders
Ancemia
Indigestion
Biliousness
Jaundice
Bright’s Disease
Gravel
Stone
Bladder Troubles
General Debility
Sick Headache
are readily curable. »-One and all arise from the failure of the
KIDNEYS AND LIVER
j.o efficiently perform their functions. These important organs, when acting healthily, deal with and
r emove from the system the poisonous matter which causes the disorders.
The Kidneys filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine every day. In this
quantity of urine are dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains in weight of uric acid, to-
gether with other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce.
When the kidneys are in health, all this solid matter is in solution and is invisible. Directly the
kidneys, through either weakness or disease, become unfit to do their duty properly, a proportion of
this solid matter remains in the blood, becomes actively poisonous and causes us to suffer from uric
disorders such as Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Gravel,
Stone, Bladder Troubles, and Bright’s D sease. A simple test to make as to the condition of
the kidneys is to place some urine, passed the first thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and let it
stand until next morning. If it is then cloudy, or there is a brick-dust like sediment, or if particles
float about in it, or it is of an unnatural color, the kidneys are not healthy and no time must be lost in
adopting remedial measures, or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some less serious but more painful ill-
ness will result.
The Liver. —ln the liver various substances are actually made from the blood. Two or three
pounds of bile are thus made from the blood every day. The liver takes sugar from the blood, con-
verts it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to again supply it to the blood, gradually,
as the latter requires enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which is insoluble, into urea, which is
completely soluble, and the liver also deals with blood corpuscles which have lived their life and are
useful no longer. When the liver is inactive or diseased we suffer from Indigestion, Biliousness,
Anaemia, Sick Headache, and Blood .Disorders.
The health of the liver and of the kidneys is so closely connected that it is almost impossible for
the kidneys to be affected, and the liver to remain healthy, or vice versa.
It is nearly thirty years since scientific research directed specially to diseases of the Kidneys and
Liver was rewarded by the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as
Warner’s Safe Cure.
It was realised, at the outset of the investigation, that is was necessary to find a curative agent which
would act equally upon the kidneys and upon the liver, these organs being so immediately associated
in the work of dealing with the body’s waste material, and, after many disappointments, the medicine
which possessed the required action’in the fullest degree was at length discovered. Warner’s Safe
Cure cures all diseases of the kidneys and liver, and, by restoring their activity, these
vital organs are enabled to rid the body, through the natural channels, of the urinary and biliary
the presence of which, in the system, are the cause of Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia,
Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Blood Disorders, Anaemia, Indigestion, Biliousness, Jaundice, Sick
Headache, Gravel, Stone, Bladder Troublesand General Debility. Warner’s Safe Cure cures all these
disorders simply by removing the cause of the disorder. This is the reason why cures effected by
. Warner’s Safe Cure are permanent cures. [1
BOVRIL
is the Cook’s best friend.
An appetising and nutritious soup
is quickly made by the use of
Bovril and it renders Curries and
all made dishes palatable and
strengthening.
299 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE,
Have Just Published a New Edition of their
Do not
Delay
Write
J 3
now
I’M
LATE!
*
You are Losing Money
If you do not obtain
one of our Catalogues
WONDERFUL ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
of over 200 Pages, containing a Marvellous Stock of
TALKING MACHINES, MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS, TOYS,
UNCOMMON WATCHES, GUNS, RIFLES, PUZZLES,
GAMES, CURIOSITIES and NOVELTIES
that cannot be procured elsewhere. Every page is interesting. -
Send your name and address and we will post it to you without
charge, and if you mention this paper we will send you a very
clever puzzle, a Regular Teaser, absolutely free and carriage paid.
If you can solve this Puzzle, you may secure another.
Missing Friends.
MARY THERESA AXTELL (formerly
Mary Theresa Smollett), the wife of
JOSEPH AXTELL, formerly of Carters Towers,
carpenter, is requested to communicate with the
undersigned. If the said MARY THERESA
AXTELL be dead, Five Pounds will be given for
the Certificate of her death if presented before
the thirtieth dav of September, 1906.
MARYLAND & MARSLAND,
Solicitors, Charters Towers.
Legal Notices,
W ILLIAM SAWERS.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that a Petition under
the Presumption of Life Limitation (Scotland) Act 1891
has been presented to the First Division of the Court of
Session in Scotland Lord Mackenzie Ordinary by William
Clark Sawers Spool Polisher 98 George-street Paisley
and John Muir Coal Miner Border Shaft Alleghany
County Maryland United States of America praying the
Court to find that WILLIAM SAWERS sometime Box-
maker 346 Main-street. Bridgeton Glasgow has disappeared
and that he was last known to be alive on or about 21st
November 1894 and that he must be presumed to have
died on 21st November 1901 being seven years from the
date on which he was last known to be alive.
The Petitioners’ information as set out in the Petition
is as follows : “ The said William Sawers left this country
(Scotland) for Melbourne Australia in 1890. He arrived
in Melbourne on 13th August 18&0. He was then 19 years
of age having been born on 30th June 1871. He was un-
married and a domiciled Scotsman. While in Melbourne
he worked as a laborer. After staying in Melbourne for
some time he went to Evandale Australia. At Evandale
he lodged with David Graham Master Bricklayer there.
Mr. Graham was his uncle by marriage being married to
agister of his mother. He stayed at Evandale until 1894.
He then left and went to the old gold diggings in Aus-
tralia.”
On which Petition the Lord Ordinary has pronounced
the following Interlocutor. “ Edinburgh 24th May 1906.
Lord Mackenzie. Act J. P. Smith. Alt .” The
Lord Ordinary appoints the Petition to be intimated in
the Minute Book and on the walls in common form ;
further appoints intimation of the Petition to be made
twice in each of the following newspapers viz. : the
Weekly Scotsman the Melbourne Argus the Sydney
Bulletin and the West Australian in order that ail
parties having interest may lodge answers to the Petition
by the 15th day of October 1906.
O. KINCAID MACKENZIE.
Any information as to Mr. Sawers’ residence if alive or
his death if dead should be forwarded to the subscribers.
BRUCE KEIR & BURNS
W. S.
16 Hill-street Edinburgh
Scotland.
J. & J. HENDRIES
Solicitors
Union Bank Galston Scotland
June 1906. Petitioners’ Agents.
i V_l •
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
ence.
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM KOR EVKItVTIIINS.
Australian Users now num-
ber over one thousand.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH-
Colonial Mutual Building,
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Victoria, S.A. and Ta 3.—
VARLEY BROS.,
312-314 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.
Wkst Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building’, Perth
Of course you have System
in your office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER!
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra,
lian Stu.es.
Write for Catalogue.
rOHN SARDS, 374 George St., Sydney,.
Sole Australian Agent.
Be Armed Against Punctures!
MIRACULUM
IS A
SURE PUNCTURE STOP
For MOTOR CARS, MOTOR CYCLES, and
BICYCLES.
It does not injure Rubber, but tends to preserve it.
Does not affect resiliency of Tyres.
Does not lift patches.
Easily operated, effective, and dead cheap.
Bring along your Cars and Cycles to—
Miraculum Proprietary Ltd.
Next Independent Church,
RUSSELL ST., MELBOURNE,
or write, and a Booklet and Testimonials from the
leading Motorists and Cyclists in Australia will be
sent you.
B«-LIVE AGENTS WANTED IN .VARIOUS STATES.
IfYouWantTheßest
AsK for a
?
>
1
Briar Pipe.
Obtainable
from all Tobacconists
xne Federal trippers on the latest capital
site picnic should be brought to hear a N.S.W.
Assembly debatp. They will certainly decide to
keep as far away from that as possible.
Fiji’s experience of importing coolie labor
is that the white population is actually dwindling.
In 1871 the whites of the group totalled 2750. In
1906 the census showed only 2726.
Melbourne Trades Hall Council moves to
draw up a “fair employers’” list for all its unions.
The Vic. Typographical Society has done so for
many years. The “fair list ” resembles the union
labei, in that all employers want the advantage
of using it; and it hasn’t the objectionable features
of the boycott, though it practically effects the
same thing in the long run.
During 1905 the Immigration Restriction
Act of Australia only kept out 106 people, of
whom 79 were Chinese. During the year 2717
colored people gained admittance for various
reasons, and 5367 colored folk left. So the color
stain must be getting lighter, but at the same
time it might fade a good deal faster with advan-
tage.
Again, at Sale (Vic.), recently, Vic. agri-
cultural expert Dr. Cherry explained to the
Chamber of Agriculture that it would pay the
farmer twice over to export flour in place of wheat.
Victoria last year sent away 16,000,000 bushels of
wheat, which contained 15,000 tons of superphos-
phates, in solution, in bran and pollard. Yet,
while unnecessarily sending away that large
quantity, the same farmers actually imported
60,000 tons of phosphates. Not only that, but
they sent away much employment to foreign
countries, which means a further cash loss to
themselves.
“Sb. ” : Did the British army in S’Africa
swim in champagne—and in illicit mercantile
commissions? I read in English files how, at
Elandsfontein, Major Somebody got an offer from
a contractor to buy champagne at 655. for every
two-dozen half-bottles, and port at 265. a dozen.
He got permission from the War Office to sell
12,000 bottles of each, and thereupon let his
friend, the contractor, have 98,000 bottles of
champagne at 40s. (instead of 655.), and 98,000
bottles of port at 15s. (instead of 265). From one
stores depot, 196,000 bottles of superfluous and
undrunk lush!
It is little use and much loss of time in
passing progressive legislation unless the Acts are
carried out thoroughly. The Victorian shire
councils are now telling each other that Swin-
burne’s “intention in passing the Milk Supervi-
sion Act was not to harass them, but as long as
the old system of supervision was fairly carried
out the new Act would not be brought into opera-
tion.” Portland shire mentioned this to Glenelg
shire the other day, and Glenelg said it was quite
satisfied. As neither shire has any dairy super-
vision worth mentioning, the farmer remains as
careless and dirty as before.
The Vic. Hamilton-Portland railway line,
running almost entirely through squatter-owned
land, has never paid since it was made, 40 years ago.
The Government thought of pulling it up, but
some five years ago four of the big estates around
Willaura were leased to tenant-farmers for wheat-
growing, with the result that this year’s railway
revenue made a huge jump. If Bent had the
nerve to tackle compulsory resumption of land
along this line Victoria would soon outrival
“ God’s own country.” But Thomas the Bulky is
not equal to that occasion.
Less than six months ago a Q. selector
took up from the State 70 acres of country north
of Brisbane at £1 per acre on very liberal terms.
A few weeks ago he sold the pine on the holding
for £5OO to a Brisbane milling company. This is
a typical case of State thriftlessness in regard to
the forests. Many of the so-called settlers are
mere speculators who secure-the land -for the sake
of the timber, and when that wealth has disap-
peared they disappear from the land also. The
timber wealth of Queensland is probably worth
£100,000,000 at the stump, and is being sinfully
frittered away.
The Labor party intends to oppose Speaker
Holder in the Wakefield district of S. A. at the
next Federal elections. Holder is in a very awk-
ward position, for, though a professed Foreign-
trader, he cannot give in his adhesion to Reid’s
Anti-Socialist programme. He lias always been
a Liberal, and was Cockburn’s first lieutenant in
1889-90, just as he was Kingston’s from 1893 to
1899. He administered a Protectionist tariff in
S. A. for years ; so that he is not a bigoted indus-
try-wrecker. Also, if the Labor party throws
him over and forces him back into State politics,
he may make hay of the Price Government, for
he will have a big local following.
S. Australia hasn’t much of a progressive
land-tax, but even a small one does something.
Last year people coming to Adelaide by rail from
Glenelg might have seen a paddock of hay right
up against the city park lands. There isn’t any
present demand for ground j ust thereabouts for
building purposes (it is too close to the old city
cemetery to be a “desirable residential site,” for
one thing); so the tax helped to squeeze the
owner into making some good use of it, instead of
waiting for a land boom, to pass it on to others in
handkerchief allotments. Five acres forced into
cultivation alongside Adelaide are worth 50 acres,
or oftentimes 500 acres, in the Far North ; and
this isn’t by any means the only five-acre paddock
that is bearing the fruits of land taxation.
“Stony”: I went home by a late train
last Saturday night, after a long and energetic
day about town. I was sleepy, and took off my
hat—a hard, black, Australian hat —and put it on
the seat beside me. At Richmond a fat girl got
in with another girl, and sat on my hat, That
was sufficiently amusing, and we all laughed.
The people in the adjoining compartment's got up
and looked over, and saw my hat, and laughed
also. I laughed myself, at decent length, and
said it didn’t matter. Part of the fat damsel’s
family got in at South Yarra, and she immedi-
ately told them all about the hat; and everybody
laughed again, uproariously, and the people
next door peeped over and laughed some
more. Also I smiled myself, amiably but with
difficulty. _ Then at Hawksburn a couple of
friends got in, and the fat girl told them all about
having sat on the poor man’s hat. lam not poor,
and I didn’t mind the ruination of my hat very
much; but I did object to the laughter. I ex-
plained to them, that the hat was Australian and
therefore could stand a few knocks. That made
the company regard me as a wit of the first water,
and they laughed all the way to Toorak. There
someone began to open the door to get in, and I
decided to walk the rest of the way home. I got
out, putting on my crumpled hat as I went. And
eyen as I passed out at the wicket I could hear
the words “ hat” and “sat on it ” and much loud
laughter following me as I fled into the darkness.
There’s stacks of meat on a joke like that, for
some people.
Queensland Consolidated Criminal Code
(Griffith’s State masterpiece) decrees that
members of Parliament who receive bribes are
liable to seven years’ gaol, and the persons who
bribe them to an equal term.
In N.S.W. Parliament: —
Storev : The effect of the Arbitration Act was to bring
lower wages and bring workers down to one common
level. ~ , . ...
Eddex : It’s a wonder the bosses kick up a row about it
then.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
And Regularly every Four Week thereafter.
LONDON £l6 to £52.
■ APETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents: HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
The Bank of flustralasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital £1,600,000
Reserve Fund 1,250,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors.. 1,600,000
£4,450,000
London 'Office: 4 Threaclneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
AMES HELLICAR,
Superintendent.
national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 413,245 5 0
Reserve(inGovt. Stock, £43,435) .. 48,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
'Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
lianft. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Cnllan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
.Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager. —W. V. RALSTON.
(jeloaial IQutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutu'al Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 &. 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accu, iiulaied Funds, £2,990,533.
Polici es Issued 102,148 —Assuring £30,193,326.
Amoui its paid to Policyholders, £3,784,725
Policie. ' Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiu. us moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
C Bxf.f Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hen. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
Tlie Won. C. J. Roberts, 0.M.G., M.L.C.
Theban- Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A- ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of neui let land.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL C/IPITAX PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLE'D CAPITAL £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, rind other places.
fie flank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Comer George & Bridge Streets.
Manager— Local Director —JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & 00. Ltd.)
CAPITAL —Authorised . .. .. £700,000
Paid-up .. £lOO,OOO
Uncalled .. .. 250,000
Reserved Fund .. I 20,000
(Invested in Government Stock) f
£370,000
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia..
Directors— Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.0.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood, Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jbssop, Esq. Melbourne : Hon. P. S. Grimwade,
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
DALGETY & COMPANY
LIMITED.
Capital Fully Subscribed ... £4,000,000
Capital Paid up £1,000,000.
Heserve Fund £165,000.
Head Office—96 Bishopsgate St.
Within, London, E.C.
BRANCHES:
VlCTORlA—Melbourne and Geelong.
NEW SOUTH WALES— Sydney and Newcastle.
QUEENSLAND—Brisbane, Rockhampton & Townsville.
WEST AUSTRALIA— Perth, Fremantle, Kalgoorlie,
Geraldton, Albany, Carnarvon and Roeburne.
NEW ZEALAND— Dunedin, Christchurch, Wellington
and Napier.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— AdeIaide and throughout the
South East.
This Company makes Advances on, and conducts the
Sale of. Land, Stock and Station Property, and receives
for Sale in London or any of the markets of Australia or
New Zealand consignments of Wool, Skins, Hides, Tallow,
Frozen and Preserved Meats, Grain and Dairy Produce of
all descriptions, and carries on a Financial, Shipping,
Insurance, Indent, Merchandise, and General Agenoy
business.
Shipping.
3XT. 33. 3Li.
(N ORD-DE UTSCH ER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Esry.pt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via NEW BRITAIN,
NEW GUINEA and MANILA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
*PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons.. 4th AUGUST.
*PRINZ SICISMUED, 3300 tons.. Ist SEPTEMBER.
♦WILLEHAD, 4761 tons .. .. 29th SEPTEMBER.
♦Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO.. 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Svdnev.
Banking. Public Companies. &c.
The Royal j)ank of Queensland
biji men. '
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £457,538 10 0
Rkskrvk Liability op Shareholders .. 175,812 10 0
Reserve Fu.ND(lnvested in Government Stock) 66,000 0 0
£699,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
London Of kick :
31 BUDCE ROW, QUEEN VICTORIA ST., LONDON, E C.
17 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
WHITE STAR LINE.
fds
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
AFRIC, to Sail on or about
11th AUGUST,
SUEVIC, PERSIC, RUNIC,
and MEDIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown
London
New York, &c.
£l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
19 0 0 to 30 0 0
25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Lt,(l.,
Agents in Australia.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
•MARATHON
SALAMIS
DAMASCUS
N. Allan .. Noon, Aug. 21
A. Douglas, R.N.R. Noon, Aug. 31
H. A. Schleman .. Noon, Sept. 25
•Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
O CEI AKTIC S.JS. Co. j&k.. & A. LXTJB (via SAN FRANCISCO).
THREE-WEEKLY PAST MAIL SERVICE run in conjunction with the Most Luxuriously Equipped Trains
and Atlantic Steamships in the World.
SHORTEST LINE FASTEST TIME TO
THE UNITED STATES OP AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN AND EUROPE.
FARES TO ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-CLASS LINE.
R.M S. SIERRA, 6200 TONS, SAILS MONDAY, AUGUST 13.
For Full Particulars andi Ilmstratid Matter, send or app<,y> to —
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
«F WINTER
TO
N« QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and. thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
!
HOLIDAYS 1 *
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Baron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking, Public Companies:, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
PAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
V
$
<s>
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to
Suppress Usury.
isr.s.’w.
Iflont de pete
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEHEAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE,
and 229 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 ColNns-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £20,000 0 0
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., G.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.O. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDIi. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
PASTORAL ACCOUNTS
AUDITED AND KEPT.
LOANS NEGOTIATED.
ALEX. JOBSON, A.I.A.
Public Accountant, 90 Pitt St., Sydney.
(late Actuary for Australasia for the Equitable Life of
the United States.)
CANADIAN-AUSTRAUAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
NEXT SAILINGS—
Aug. 6, Sept. 3, Oct, 1.
GRAND EXCURSION.
<£69 Including all Expenses, £6O
Across the Pacific to Vancouver,
thence by the Canadian Pacific
Railway to Glacier, Field, Laggan,
and Bauff. The C.P.R. has splen-
did Hotels at each of these places,
where all Expenses are included
in the fare above quoted.
aar Send for Illustrated Pamphlets.
UNION. 'STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-atreet, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT forOLO~and YOUNG. Y
WO.vDEHFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter),
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail
Trick, (something new), The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character —very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Sheet of Yankee .Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, arKl, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, an receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
X
New York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
FIRE HAS NO TERRORS!
Fire has NO terrors that Fire
insurance cannot quell.
Put trse south British on tjucird!
GEO. H. MOORE, Manager.
CHAS. T. METCALFE, Assistant Manager.
&
CAPITAL, £1*300,000.
ACCUMULATED' FIMMS exceed £500,000.
ANNUAL REUENUE, £300,000.
T s* South British
FIRE and MARINE INSURANCE CO.,
12 Bridge St, Sydney -
Shipping,
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Innamincka, July 27.
S.S. Yongala, August 8.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Cairns. J
S.S. Wollowra, July 28.
S.S. Innamincka, August 4.
S.S. Marloo, August 11.
liest and Cheapest ICoate to Hold fields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 0 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
lViessageries Mari times
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows: —
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landingand passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street. Sydney.
R. BRASIKR DE'tUUY, Principal Agent.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Bank of |)aiu South (Dales.
Estarlisiikd 1817.
Head Offiro-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital „ .. .. ~ 2,000,000 0 o
Reserve Fund.. ... ... .. 1.450,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
Total ~ ... ... 5,450,000 ,0 .0
Directors:
The Hon. Charles K. MacKellar, M.L.0., President.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L-C.
Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnie, Esip
Hon. Sir Normanu MacLaurin, Kt., M.L-C.
Senator The Hon. Jam.es Thomas Walker.
Auditors:
Harrington Palmer, Esq. Frederick W. Uther, Esq
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa., Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the YVest Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks ; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the woild.
J .RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manager.
Hotels.
PETTY’S HOTEL,
SYDNEY
decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
•now offers every comfort to visitors, and will be
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed.
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET
C. W. CUPIT, Manager.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Wil find every omior and convenience at —
MRS, TOBINS,
Queen's Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
SI. KILDA.
'I'HE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
x the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower thanlicensed hotels. City, J-hour
by train. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
the (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Motel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
nodern Appointments. Tloderate Tariff.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIM POLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Ilai way Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.


One Hundred and Sixteenth Half-Yearly Report of the
Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
I TMTTPn
Presented to the Shareholders at an Ordinary General Meeting held at the
Head Banking House, George-street, Sydney, on Friday, 2uth July, l'JO6.
'T'HE DIRECTORS submit to the Shareholders a Balance Sheet showing: the Liabilities and Assets of the Bank on
* the 30th June, 1900, and present the following report. ,
The balance at the credit of Profit and Loss Account, after deducting rebate on current bills and accrued interest
on fixed deposits, reducing premises account, paying note tax, and providing for land and inconie .
taxes and bad and doubtful debts, amounts to .. .. .. .. •• •• •• £B/,877 15 4
out of which the Directors recommend the following appropriations
To payment of a Dividend for the half-year at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum £50,000 0 0
~ Transfer to Reserve Fund . . .. -• •• •• •• 00’922 .9 9
„ Balance being undivided Profit .. .. .. .. •• •• 22,8<7 lo 4
This meetino- is called upon to elect a Director, consequent on the retirement, in terms of the Articles of Asso-
ciation of the Honorable H. E. Kater, M.L.C., who is eligible for re-election, and has given the requisite notice that
he is a candidate for the office. It also rests with the Meeting to appoint, Auditors for the ensuing year.
During the half-year Branches have been established at Bundarra, Coramba, Cumnock, Geurie and Wauchope in
this State, and at Allora, Gayndah, Killarney, Pittsworth, and Warwick in the State of Queensland.
The Dividend, free of Income Tax, is now payable. „
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman.
LIABILITIES AND ASSETS.
(Including London Branch to 30th dune, by Cable.)
Cr.
To Capital .. ..£1,000,000 0 0
„ Reserve Fund .. 1,100,000 0 0
~ Reserve Capital .. 1,000,000 0 0
£3,100,000 0 0
To Capital Paid-up .. £1,000,000 0 0
~ Reserve Fund .. 1,100,000 0 0
„ Notes in circulation
„ Bills in circulation .. ..
~ Deposits and other liabilities
~ Profit and Loss Account
£2,100,000 0 0
492,418 0 0
1,255,818 3 2
13,571,143 6 0
94,490 8 9
£17,513,869 17 11
By Coin and Bullion
in hand .. .. £2,906,823 7
, Cash at Bankers
, Money at short call
in London
, British Consols and
Government se-
curities .. ..
, Queensland Gover-
nment Notes
, Bills Receivable in
London and Re-
mittances in tran-
sit . .
, Notes and bills of
other banks
98,554
1,917,033 15 0
1,628,639 0 0
54,332 0 0
1,648,550 12 5
53,828 16 3
~ Bills discounted, and all debts due
to the Bank .. ...
~ Bank premises, furniture, &c.
£8,307,761 17 0
8,745,658 011
460,450 0 0
£17,513,869 17 11
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Rebate on current bills .. .. .. £6,612 13 5
„ Dividend Account for payment of a Divi-
dend for past half-year at the rate of 10
percent, per annum .. .. .. 50,000 0 0
~ Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 15,000 0 0
„ Balance of undivided profit carried to
next half-year 22,877 15 4
£94,490 8 9
By Amount undivided from last half-year. . £21,856 9 2
Profit for half-year ended 30th June,
1006 72,633 19 7
£94,490 8 9
RESERVE FUND.
£1,115,000 0 0
1906—June 30th .£1,100,000 0 0
By Transfer from Profit and Loss Account .. 15,000 0 0
GEORGE J. COtIEN, Chairman.
T. A. DIBBS, General, Manager.
A. J. SOUTAR, Accountant.
Sydney, 13th July, 1906.
We hereby certify that we have examined the bills, compared the balances and counted the coin in the Head
Office of The 'Commercial Banking Company of Sydney, Limited, and have compared the returns of the Branches, and
have found the same as specified in the foregoing Balance Sheet.
A. H. K. MAXWELL, j. AUDITORS
W. L. DOCKER, j-auditors.
The following resolutions were carried unanimously :
“ That the Report and Statements of Account be received and adopted, and ordered to be circulated among
the Proprietors.”
“That the Honorable 11. E. Kater, M.L.C., be re-elected a Director of the Bank.”
“That W. L. Docker, Esq., and E. S. Cape, Esq., be appointed Auditors for the ensuing year.”
“ That the thanks of the Shareholders be presented to the Directors, General Manager, and Officers of the Bank
for their very satisfactory management of the affairs of the institution.”
T. A. DIBBS, General Manager.
In moving the adoption of the Report, the Chairman (Mr. G. J. Cohen) said : I have again the pleasure of pre-
senting to you what l feel sure you will admit to be a very satisfactory Balance-sheet, and although the past half-
year has been marked bv-a somewhat stagnant condition of trade, the profits of the Bank have been well maintained.
Comparing the figures with those of the corresponding period of last year, it is gratifying to see that there is an
increase of nearly two million pounds in the totals. On the debit side this is made up by increases in Notes in circu-
lation, £64,000; Bills in circulation, £656,000 ; and the large sum of £1,233,000 in deposits and other liabilities.
Turning to the credit side, and cohtinuing the comparison, it will be seen that we have' increased our Liquid Assets,
£1,960,000, by placing a further sum of £1,422,000 on Short Call, in London, and investing an additional £320,000 in
Government Stocks. The remainder is made up of increase in cash at bankers and bills leceivahle in transit to Lon-
don. Bills discounted and all debts due to the Bank have remained fairly stationary. Our position continues one of
great strength, as the Liquid Assets are equal to 10s. lOd. in the pound of our total liabilities to the public. More
space being required for the satisfactory conduct of our business, the Directors have decided to enlarge the Head
Office premises, so.as to add to the convenience of the public and to the comfort and health of our officers. Tenders
have already been accepted for new strong rooms and for lowering the basement areas to permit of the Banking
Chamber being enlarged to the fullest extent of one level floor. Tenders will be called shortly to carry on the, main
work of taking off the present attic story and adding three more stories. Tiie roof and floors to be absolutely fire-
proof. The new plan elevations have been much admired, and can be seen at the General Manager’s office. By
adopting this plan of erecting a five-storied building, sufficient for all purposes for many years to come, we are
enabled to hold.in reserve our rent-producing Bai rack-street propeity, which adjoins the Bank. It may be interest-
ing to you to know that',ss*6 are now 1207 Shareholders on our Register, their average holding of stock being under
£B3O, and our'Branches 'ih'Jfew South Wales and Queensland, and including London Branch, now amount to 157. I
now beg to move the adoption of the Report and Statement of Accounts, and that the same be printed and circulated.
New South Wales Patriotic Fund.
Report of Executive Committee for the Year 1905-1906.
Presented to and Adopted by the General
Committee on Wednesday, 18th July, 1906.
f - »em
on more than one occasion) have been considered and dealt with.
The total Donations to the Fund since its inception amount to
Interest earned and credited ...
...£52,468 12
... 6,11)7 12
The amount disbursed in Eelief to 30th June, 11)05, was ...
The atnount disbursed, 30th June, 1905, to 30th June, 1906...
The Executive Committee desire to place on .record their appreciation of the assistance for
""uS"W» n“°“fjaSSTt KoeipS‘S k» to be published » the month
° f J This" statement * duly signed by the Trustees and audited by Mr. David Fell, C. A. A. Public
Accountant, is now placed before you, and on its adoption will be published as required under the
By * law - AUGUSTUS F. EOBTNSON,
St/ dnev, New South Wales, 30th June, 1906. Chairman of Executive Committee.
NEW SOUTH WALES PATRIOTIC FUND.
Dr.
STATEMENT OF RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
from Ist July, 1905. to 30th June, 1906.
Cr.
Receipts.
’ 1905.
July Ist.
To Balance brought forward
1906.
June 30th.
~, Interest on Deposits ..
~ Belief Cheque re-deposited
March 2nd.
„ Fixed Deposits—Matured
March 7th.
„ Fixed Deposits—Matured
May 4th.
„ Fixed Deposits—Matured
£2,009
.. 856
16
..£4,500 0 0
.. 8,000 0 0
.. 8,000 0 0
20,500
9 7
4 5
0 0
0 0
£23,980 14 0
„ Balance brought down .. .. ..£2,326 12 3
~ Amount of Fixed Deposit Beceipts held by
the Bank of New South Wales for safe
custody, as per Certificate 20,500 0 0
£22,826 12 3
Disbursements.
1900.
June 30th.
By Relief Account (per minutes)
~ Salaries ..
„ Medical and Audit Fees
„ Advertising', Stationery, and
Stamps
~ Bank Fees
March 2nd.
„ Fixed Deposits, renewed for
two years
March 7th.
„ Fixed Deposits, renewed for
two years
May 4th.
~ Fixed Deposits, renewed for
two years
Balance ..
.. £957 10 S
£l5O 0 0
6 6 0
156 I) 0
39 9 1
0 10 0
39 19 1
4,500 0 0
8,000 0 0
8,000 0 0
, 20,500 0 C
.. 2,326 12 3
£23.980 14 0
LEWIS P. BAIN, \
T. A. DIBBS, J
Trustees.
We have examined the Books and Vouchers (with the exception of those not produced as pel
list) of the New South Wales Patriotic Fund for the period from Ist July, IJOo, to 30th J une, 1. .
and certify that the foregoing statement is correct and in accordance therewith.
Fixed Deposit Receipts of various Banks, in the name of the 1 und, and aggregating £20,0 ,
held by the Bank of New South Wales, and have been certified to, also the Balances to Credit o •'
Fund at the 30th June, 1906. DAVID FELL & CO., F.C.A.A., Auditors.
n new novelty. - Useful, and Amusing.
THE “MOKO”
Combined tffalcb Box $ Race Game.
Combine Business with Pleasure.
If you would like a really good novelty—
something which will afford you and your
friends endless amusement, whilst at the same
time having a practical article—write for one
ol our “MOKO” Combined Match Boxes
and Race Games which we have just
received. In appearance they are precisely
identical to an ordinary Watch, but in place of
the Watch dial and hands there is a pretty
spinning wheel, on which live numbered horses
are paiuted. By pressing the little lever at the
side, this spinning wheel is set in motion at a
high rate of speed. Endless excitement and
Speculation is afforded by guessing which
horse will be at the winning post when the
spinning wheel ceases revolving, the winner
being as uncertain as the winner of the Mel-
bourne Cup. It is impossible to tell which
horse will win the race.
The receptacle for the matches is on the
reverse side of the illustration. It isbeautifully
finished in Nickel, with the front protected by
glass ; very strongly made, and entirely new to
Australia. You can attach it to your Watch
Chain, and we guarantee you will get more tun
and entertainment and use out of it than any-
thing else m the market.
FASCINATING
/
CO
%
%
<1
Price, Is 6d,
post free to any address.
*0
FREE !
To Anyone ordering not less than three of the above we will present,
absolutely free, our great Wizard Card Trick, with which you can
completely mystify your iriends. These cards can be made tci change
completely no less than five times, to the astonishment of everybody. Send
in your order straight away, or send 7d for this splendid Trick. The
Match Box and Card Trick will be sent anywhere on receipt of Hs.
A. J. SMITH & CO., 6 Moore St., SYDNEY.
f
Sold bv
All Jewellers
Ask to see our PHOTOGRAPHIC CARD of New
Watches, just forwarded to every JEWELLER
in the Colonies.
71 Certificate. Given With Each Watch.
•Ba a
0 HO
*°°Ar
at*
tft*'
1892
S»
HAMS
ROTHE
fcS
EstaM
175 a
When Brisbane saw the old Traffic Board
broken up, it heaved a sigh of relief that blew
right down the river. It felt certain that the
Commissioner of Police would effect the required
reforms. He did. In a morning or two after the
new regime commenced, Brisbane mostly found
itself in a cold perspiration at the Police Court*
defending a long string of charges for breaches of
the traffic regulations. Then it commenced to
drive on the right side of the street, to keep its
motor car off the footpaths, and to bump fewer
children and old men with its bike. A few days
later it was shocked to find that it was summoned
again for overcrowding the trams, and as the co.
will not provide enough cars to carry the
people during the busy hours, it doesn’t know
what to do. The Private Enterprise tram system
simply informs Brisbane that it won’t increase the
accommodation without increasing the fares, and
just at present it doesn’t feel like increasing the
accommodation even if it did increase the fares,
and that section of the community that fails in
the scramble to get a seat during the rush hours
must wait patiently till the traffic lulls, and lose
its lunch, or get home to dinner when the corned-
beef is frozen. So there is a large surplusage of
colored language hanging about the atmosphere
in Brisbane just now. The bitterest opponents of
State Enterprise are quite convinced that the
State should at least own the trams. But the
Tramway Co. sits behind a very solid-looking Act
of Parliament, which bartered away the people s
rights as regards the streets for 50 years, and Bris-
bane doesn’t like to remember how proud it was
of that Act a very short time ago.
Cheerful picture from the Kyneton (Vic.)
hospital:—
We cannot continue the treatment of infectious or
contagious diseases because of the utter unfitness of our
building (an old tent) and means of treatment. Our pre-
sent conditions have been described by surgeons as prob-
ably the worst in the State. Two of our nurses are now
Buffering from typhoid, the result, we believe, of our
wretched means of treatment.
Kyneton is in the centre of a rich agricultural
district, but there is the old trouble. The shire
councils won’t support the hospital. The rich but
horribly economical landowners won’t subscribe to
it. And so the old torn tent, which serves as an
infectious diseases ward, is at its last gasp, and
the only thing Kyneton can think of is to refuse
patients and let them take their chance.
A Victorian girl-teacher of 20 has got into
trouble for stealing, so presumably her official career
is ended. It was quite a simple case. She had no
relatives. Consequently she had to live on her
salary, and her salary was some £2O a She
had to board somewhere ; a girl-teacher can’t live
up a tree and retain the respect of the Department
and the community. She had to dress somehow ;
a girl of 20 with bare feet and two newspapers
wrapped round her body couldn’t keep the
attention of the classes fixed on their lessons. So
she stole things from places where she boarded,
and turned them into money to keep body and
soul and respectability together. What else the
miserable Department expected her to do the
Lord only knows; perhaps it expected her to sell
her virtue instead of her landlady’s silver orna-
ments.
A Collingwood (Vic.) servant girl was
lately dragged before the beaks on a charge of
larceny. The basis of the charge was that the
missus of the house, who kept a dairy, had found
under her slavey’s pillow a purse with 4s. in
it. She concluded in some remarkable fashion
that no servant girl could have so .much
money at once unless she had stolen it, so, j
though she hadn't missed 4s. she promptly
laid a charge against her. The perspicuity of the
missus was explained in court when it was shown
that she had agreed to pay 4s. a week wages, but
although the girl had been with her for five weeks
she had not yet paid her anything at all. Ihe
beaks for a wonder (they were all honoraries) dis-
missed the case. So the precedent is set up that
a girl can’t be sent to gaol because her missus
hasn’t paid her any wages for five weeks.
The Bulletin often used to wonder where
all the bad poetry which came to the office sprang
from. Now it knows. N.S.W. Education De-
partment deliberately encourages its production,
and teaches the young idea how to shoot dead all
the rules of prosody. Specimen of verse held up
as a bright example in last Commonwealth
School Paper (approved by the N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Public Instruction): —
Little Jim in the great black pond,
His brand-new suit and all ;
And the next moment poor old Keeper,
Without sign given, or call,
Swimming out to the rescue
That was a sight to behold !
The dog in the pond where he was to die
Doing a deed of gold.


Amusements.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
SATURDAY, 2Sth. MONDAY, 30th. TUESDAY, 31st.
The MERCHANT of VENICE
Bv the MEMBERS of THE PUBLIC SERVICE
ASSOCIATION AMATEUR DRAMATIC SOCIETY.
Under Most Distinguished Patronage.
Admission 3s, 2s, and Is. Box Plan at Elvv’s.
GEO. KILMINSTER, lion. Treas.
Amusements.
HALL, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING at 8,
FISK JUBILEE SINGERS
And Their Great . •
Thaumaturgic Picture Display.
PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
Er MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS of the SEASON.
TO-NIGHT, at 8, Mr. CHARLES FROHMAN presents
America’s Foremost Comedian,
MR. WILLIAM COLLIER and Company in
THE DICTATOR.
Box Plan at Paling’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
|_|AY MARKET HIPPODROME, SYDN EY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING, at 8 o’clock.
BOHEMIAN DRAMATIC COMPANY.
SPECTACULAR DRAMA.
Under the Direction of E. J. COLE,
Headed by Miss VENE LINDEN and Mr. W. H. AYR. I
CHANGE OF PROGRAMME WEEKLY.
£gr- PRICES—Cd. and Is.
PRINCE ALFRED PARK.
(Old Exhibition Grounds).
LAST THREE NIGHTS OF THE SEASON.
BOSTOCK AND WOMBWELL’S
NOVELTY CIRCUS AND COMPLETE MENAGERIE, j
THE PRESENT’’SYDNEY SEASON POSITIVELY
CLOSES SATURDAY NIQHT, JULY 28th.
SPECIAL MORNING PERFORMANCE
SATURDAY at 11 a.m.
Also MATINEE SATURDAY AFTERNOON at 3 p.m.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee J. C. WILLIAMSON.
LAST NIGHTS of BLAND HOLT’S
Interesting and Entertaining- Naval Melodrama,
WITH FLYING COLORS.
Written by Messrs. Seymour Hicks and Fred. G. Latham.
IN PREPARATION— IN LONDON TOWN.
Box Plan at Elvy’g. POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s and Is.
TIVO LI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mn. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
Enormous Success of VASCO, the Mad Musician.
ALEXANDRA and BERTIE.
Great Success of BRINN, Sensational Juggler and Cannon
Manipulator, in “ PASTIMES ON A BATTLESHIP.”
Enormous Success of LITTLE CLIFF.
Great Success of MISS LILIETH LEYTON, sup-
ported bv Mr. GEORGE BENTLEY, in their One Act
Comedv, “ PHOTOGRAPHED OR MARRIED.”
MAUD FANING, Miss OLIVE LENTON, &c.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
BLAKE and GRANBY, Eccentric Comedy .Artists.
THE II SJNS, Musical Entertainers.
PHILLIPS BROS., Vocal Duo.
SEYMOUR & DUPRE, Eccentric Comedy Artists.
HOMER B. MASON and MARGUERITE KEELER,
Comedy Artists, in the Comedy, “A HERO.”
NELLIE KILBURN, Soubrette Artiste.
CARLETON and SUTTON, Knockabout Comedians.
Plan at Allan’s. S3T PRICES—3s, 2s 6<l, 2s,' Is
N_ ___ ______ ROYAL M elbour nE.
Lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
GREAT SUCCESS EVERY EVENING,
Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION in the New arid Mystic Drama,
DANGEROUS WOMEN.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING,
Mr. J. C. Williamson’s NEW DRAMATIC COMPANY,
including
MR. ROBERT WALDRON and MISS JANE HUMPHREY,
—in—
THE SQUAW MAN.
A Melo-Comedy Drama in Fpur Acts.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
FROM THE LAND OF FUN.
(For a Limited Season).
SATURDAY, JULY 28th,
R. G. KNOWLES,
Prince of flerriment.
Box Plan Allan’s, Menzies’, and Grand.
Music, Songs,
Phonographs,
Violins, Etc.
o
EDISON
Phonographs.
STANDARDS..
HOMES
VIOLINS 15...
VIOLINS 30...
ACCORDEONS
ANGLOS
ORGANETTES
AUXOHARPS..
Weekly
Pay-
Packing- Free to any address.
Terms extended to Householders only. Send for
CASH CATALOGUES.
EDISON GOLD-MOULDED RECORDS
(Cash only), price 1/9 each. Trade Supplied.
A.X.BERT & SOM,
Largest, Best and Cheapest Music Stores in Australia.
137 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of the famous
boomerang mouth organs.
dsf
TO
THE
BOSSI
Uu'erers from Deafness or HeL ..
desiring a comp'ete and permanent cure
should write to ihe L. R VERNON t O.
«0 HUNTER »T., SYDNEY, for pam-
phlet desc ibing an entirely new s« If-
applied method which we will send post
free on mentioning this paper.
Si Britisb=flustralasian
1 BROAD STREET PLACE, LONDON, E.C.
Price 6d
POST FREE, £t per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Managing Director- - Mr. J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
The British-Australasian is the journalistic
principle of connection between Great Britain
and Australasia.
It is the NEW SCHOOL in the develop-
ment of Australian thought. It gives Austra-
lian writers not only the benefit of Australian
circulation, but introduces them first-hand,
through its British circulation, to the teeming
millions of Great Britain.
The British-Australasian is the Organ
of App eciation ; THE AUSTRALIAN
LITERARY CITADEL in London.
Original Australian articles dealing with the
growth, development and resources of Aus-
tralia are particularly suitable; also Australian
stories, sketches, verse, &c., &c.
On the Trail
Of the Trust
By “Bulletin” Writers.
Tub Book is adorned . . .
By “Bulletin” Artists.
IT CONTAINS A DOZEN GOOD YARNS—AIL
POINTING to t’le NECESSITY of PROTECTION.
It’s Worth 1/3
Which is the price Post Free from this Office.
Henry Skinner,
G]areudon-sl.. South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 101,3.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLIi FUIiNISUINOS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Ball
Catered for
on .Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CUREby that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUbLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN ACtNCY, Castiereagh St.,
FREE
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at Jasfc discovered
a fiIMPLB MEANS OF SELF-CURE, will
forward the same, free of charge, to any-
one interested.
Address: A.MINER, u.P.0., SYDNEY.
AN INTERESTING}
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving'instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading- this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street; Sydney.
BLOOD POISON.
FOR MORE THAN TWENTY YEARS
we have made the cure of blood poison a
specialty, P. imary, f-ecordary or Tertiary
Biood Poison Permanently Cured. You can
be treated at home under same guaranty.
Capital 500,000 dols. We solicit the most
obstinate cases. If you have exhausted the
old methods of treatment, and still have aches
and pains, Mucus Patches in Mouth, Sore
Throat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spots,
Ulcers on any part of the body, Hair or
Eyebrows falling out, write for proofs of
cures, roo-page Book Free.
COOK REMEDY Co.,
i;O2 M-SONIC TEMPLE, Chicago, ITS.A.
HOPE
FOR
THE
DEAF.
Having been naturally cured from deafness and
most distressing head noises without any medicine
or electricity, will send to all unfortunate suffer-
ers free information how to cure themselves at
home with simple aural kinetics, natures own
treatment. Send no money, it is FREE for the
asking. AnnuHSS—
“ EAROSCCPE,” 90 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Australian Labor party has discussed .T. C.
Watson’s Land-tax proposals, and has agreed to
advocate a rate of £d. in the £ on estates over £5OOO
n unimproved value, rising by gradations of |d.
•in the £ until on the giant estate of over £GO,OOO
unimproved value the tax is 4d. in the £, or £572
18s. 4d. a year. The rate doesn’t progress after
that, and the estate of £200,000 unimproved
value would pay £2906 a year, and not
a practically confiscatory sum as was ori-
ginally proposed. Thus the tax goes very
little further than the existing Maoriland tax. It
is a strictly moderate proposal, and, whilst pro-
mising to do something towards breaking up the
monopoly of big estates and opening the coastal
lands to the farmer, conveys no hint of “con-
fiscatory Communism.” Unfortunately the Dkakin
Government takes the opportunity given it by the
Labor party's reduction of its land-tax demand to
a regrettably moderate level, to retreat from the
lines which Prime Minister Dkakin laid down in
his Sydney speech. In this matter John Forrest
and not the Prime Minister is evidently to rule
the Cabinet: and John Forrkst is against any
Federal Land Tax.
«
The marriage of Lady Mary Hamilton,
the other day, was responsible for a further crop
of stories touching the bloated importance of the
Hamilton family. It was a duke of that ilk who,
in his capacity of heir-male to the estates of the
house of Douglas, claimed that their lineal pos-
sessor, Lady Jane Douglas (wife of Sir John
Stewart), had died without issue. This was in
the days of Dr. Johnson and his friend Boswell,
who held a brief for the defendant side in the
famous law suit of Hamilton versus Douglas.
Defendant Douglas was the elder, or the survivor,
of two children who had been registered as twin
sous of Lady Jane aforesaid, born in Paris when
she had reached her 50th year. The Hamilton
party declared that the putative mother had
bought or stolen the babies from another woman.
A Full Court of Judges decided, by the casting
vote of the president, that the infants were not the
children of 50-year-old Lady Jane, but the House
of Lords reversed the judgment, and the Duke
of Hamilton was “ dished.” The British nation
nearly went to civil war on the question, and the
House of Lords had a terrible fit of excitement.
Lord Mansfield pleaded so hard on behalf of Lady
Jane’s alleged infants that he fainted at the end
of his speech. Lord Sandwich, on the other side,
discussed the physical aspects of the case in such
shockingly plain terms that the Bench of Bishops
picked up its joint and several shovel hat and fled
from the House with its fingers in its ears, like
the chorus ladies in “ Tannhaiiser ” when the
naughty tenor sings the praises of fleshly Love,
This picture of the blushing bishops stampeding
from the House of Peers is the drollest thing in
the history of Britain’s blessed aristocracy. After
all, it is difficult to see where the wild impro-
bability of su-year-old Lady Jane’s motherhood
came in. Within a recent dozen years 14 N.S. W.
ladies aged 50 gave birth to children, likewise one
lady of 51, six of 52, three of 53, two of 55, one of
56 and one of 58.
“Gnat ” Levi, Melbourne’s giant Jew, has
been stirring up the local Hebrew community to
proclaim aloud that “only with the establishment
of a, legally-secured, publicly-recognised Jewish
.State in the Holy Land would their wants and
aspirations be satisfied.” The Melbourne Jews,
however, don't seem to enthuse much over big
Levi’s notion. in fact, the jneseut writer has
never met a Jew who was anxious to go and live
in a Jewish State anywhere. They are all
very well satisfied with the State in which they
find themselves. One fat and jovial Melbourne
Hebrew, by the way, announces himself in favor
of applying the prohibitive clauses of the Immi-
gration Restriction Act to all Jews coming into
Australia. “Vy, my poy,” he says, “if they
come crowdin’ in here, prethently there von’t be
Chrithtians enough to go round ! ” He is a good
and kindly Jew who never ate a Christian in his
life, though he has assisted many ; but he feels he
must work off that little joke.
“ Lambda ” writes :
Put me on to “Kappa” (B. 28/6, ’O6). I want his job,
and lam sure he will rush what 1 want to give up. lam
engaged instructing 75 of the young idea in reading,
elocution, writing, grammar, composition, spelling, dic-
tation, arithmetic, geography, Australian history, nature
study, freehand drawing, instrumental drawing, brush-
work, singing, drill, besides health and special lessons. I
must be m my place a quarter (it’s more usually half)
of an hour before time (9 a. in.), to get my work arranged
for the morning. I work all dinner-time correcting and
marking exercise-books, snatching lunch as I can (I am
getting fairly expert in this kind of juggling). I usually
leave at 4.30.
Thursday afternoon I am expected (you know what
that means) to take charge of a football match between
our school and another, and see the boys oif the ground
by 6 p.m. In the summer, take 70 boys (I expect over
100 this year), Tuesday afternoons, to the baths (two
trams and a walk), teach them to swim, and bring them
home to tea. Wednesday afternoons, must stop and
keep order while a local incapable drones out a wearisome
sermon. This is known as “.religious instruction.”
Saturday morning, there are the cadets to take to the
butts and teach to shoot; £5 a year extra for this. Tnen
there are the parades. The school must get and maintain
a library, museum and garden ; decorate the rooms with
pictures, and frame them (the inspector always criti-
cises your artistic taste, and orders a couple of pictures
down’and some more to he framed differently); and an
Empire l)ay and an Arbor bay, fetching in and making
much of as many local tin-gods as possiole (these make a
point of being as rude to the teacher before the children
as may he), if the white-metal deities take it into their
skulls’to give a.free educational tlickergraph show in the
local town hall (ours usually takes the form of Empire
bay films sandwiched between “ comics ” of the lady-of-
the-house-interrupting-tiie-sweep-kissing-the-cook t,\ pe),
the whole of the staff must attend to keep order, and he
insulted by the beings mentioned (one of them askeil two
lady teachers for their tickets, and on being told who
they were, said, “Oh! everybody’s teachers here to-
night.”) If you don’t attend, the gods report you, which
means a fine.
For the library and science apparatus, the teacher
must organise and run concerts (teach the performers
their parts, too), or spend his (or her) own money (I've
£3 worth of dead stock to pass on to “ Kappa ”). Every
night, 1 must prepare next day’s work (seven or eight
lessons —three hours’ hard work). 1 must fill in a pro-
gramme of what I intend doing next week, and enter in a
book what I do, as Ido it. In Easter week, lam expected
to attend the teachers’conference ; September week there
is a school exhibition, which has been in preparation 12
months (we don’t get a week in June), and at Christmas
I frequent holiday places, where I may hobnob with other
peds. and exchange ideas for the benefit of che service.
My salary (eight years’ service) is £lOO a year, and insure
myself. A mate of mine (we’re both males) was in five
years on £l2 a year, and was promoted to £5O two
months ago, on the new Act. He’s doing the same work
as 1. 1 want “ Kappa” to know that this is better than
a country school, because there’s less to do and the con-
ditions are better. The salary is £lO a year different.
In Maoriland the little town of Cambridge
.'population in 1901 only 988) has formed a Five
Thousand Club. Every member undertakes “to
work zealously and continuously with the object
of making the population of the town number 5000
within the next 10 years.” The idea suggests a
Ten Million Club for Australia—ten million white
f»eople by the year 1926.
The parson (Rev. James Haffner) of a
“ Universalist” church in Yankeeland, lately
sued his wife for divorce, on the ground that she
disturbs him greatly, when he preaches, by sitting
in his line of vision and “ making faces at him.”
John Wesley—that allegedly beautiful Christian
—suffered likewise from a wife who showed her
irreverence by grimacing and protruding her
tongue at him whilst the rest of the congregation
took their shepherd very seriously. She knew
her John Wesley better than they did, and, as far
as she was concerned, his spiritual influence didn’t
amount to a row of pins. The contemptuous
spouse of Rev. Haffner is seemingly a brainy
woman who interests herself in things which are
as good for the body as for the soul. She was
awarded a medal for baking at the St. Louis Ex-
position, and she writes eloquently on the subject
of cooking. And, having considered her snuffle-
bustious husband from a material standpoint, she
finds him slack-baked, and not to her taste. Other
people have to do with the minister, whereas she
is dealing with the man.
“ L.E.” about a doss-house :
The Vagrants’ Home casts its gloom and shadow on
Melbourne. From the outside it looks an ordinaiy kind
of “good beds, sixpence,” caravanserai. Inside you find
the champion collection of derelicts. For a bed or
a shake-down, in a room that holds a dozen if
necessary, the welcome guest parts a “sprat.” If he
hasn’t the coin he substitutes a pair of boots, a shirt,
a grand piano or anything else handy. The proprietor
refuses no reasonable offer. The Law seldom troubles
the Home. It believes it saves trouble to have all the
vags. of the city together. Some folk reckon there is no
absolute pauper class in Melbourne. There shouldn’t be,
but every night the Vagrants' Home is filled with dere-
licts that would hardly be out of place in an old world
city.
But a vag. must have something before he buys a berth
in the Home, lie must have Beer first. If he has a
“ sprat ” and nothing to swop for a bed, he buys beer and
sleeps in the Plantation, where he will probably be run
in, or down some lively lane—Black Eagle, Brogan’s,
Angel Place —or under the trees in the Gardens, or along
the river. Before he goes to the Home he is usually full
of beer plus the price of admission.
At times the Law intervenes. A weird case happened
last week. At about 2J a.in., the bobby on beat saw a
man walking along in an aimless manner with a parcel
under his arm. The parcel contained woman’s clothes.
The man was a German sailor. He had gone to the Home
and a woman took him down for 17s. Od.—all he had.
Then he seized her clothes, got out the window two
storeys high, and climbed down the spouting. The
“ trap” went back with him. They had to find a woman
minus clothes. They unearthed the lady, who denied
everything. But they found the money tied up in a
rag and hidden. Next day she got three months. The
other lodgers saw nothing strange in the woman’s
behavior, nor in the German sailor’s either. But the
policeman can’t make out yet why he took the clothes.
“ Lil ” r Pity the fate of the royal author-
ess. Queen Victoria, trying in vain to stave off
oblivion, published a finely-printed and well-illus-
trated edition de luxe of her “ Leaves from the
Journal of Our Life in the Highlands,” in the
evident hope that the work of capable illustrators
would save her own letterpress and drawings
from oblivion. A Melbourne book-buyer very
nearly purchased this great work for 9d. the other
day (it • was originally published at several
guineas), but after giving a final lingering look he
said. “No; I like some of the pictures, but what
would my wife think of me if I brought such
reading-matter into the house?” Echo didn't
answer, but a perky little woman who was present
said she would take the volume if the bookseller
made it four-pence-’a’penny ; it would do to press
Some ferns in. Besides, she wanted something to
give to the Benevolent Asylum next Christmas.
The great work was accordingly reduced to
and the bookseller looked glad to get rid of it.
Thus “Kosmos”:—
Bulletin (28/6/’ot>) is right about phthisis being an im-
ported disease. I saw it being imported. On a recently
arriving boat from Cold England, out of forty odd pas-
sengers (mostly odd) there were three consumptives. One
was a parson coming to Adelaide for a few years. The
ship’s doctor opined he would stay at Adelaide for many,
many years—that he would still be there when Adelaide
was gone. Wreck 11. was bound for Charters Towers, in
the Great Beyond, of Queensland, where somebody lived
who knew somebody he had known in England. Wreck
111., a broken-down YV'eish miner, had as his sole asset a
faint legend about a rich uncle at Ballarat, whose address
he didn’t know and who didn’t know' his address. At
one time he seemed likely to save everybody a lot of
trouble, and find a job for the parson, and cost the ship a
piece of canvas and a lump of coal. All his life he had
been coming up with coal, and he nearly went down with
it. Someone gave him a thimbleful or so of spirit the
day the passengers were inspected, and he resolutely
and indignantly declined to come on deck to face
the doctor. The ship’s Pillbox kept the shore Pill-
box in conversation while the “boys” fought the
skeleton drunk and marshalled him into line.
A very disreputable rag-tag-and-bob-tail end of a
line he made. A consumptive drunk is a clammy
horror. Unkempt, incoherent, wild-eyed, the effects of
alcohol multiplied a hundred-fold by the ravages of
tuberculosis, his disease and his rum were both printed
on his duskj' visage, plain even to the casual observer.
He would have disgraced a respectable opium den. But
the sbig’s Pillbox remarked to the shore Pillbox that the
subject that was fighting and clawing at the end of the
line had had “a drop too much,” and the land Pillbox
nodded affably to the sea Pillbox, anj passed on. Yes,
phthisis is an imported dissase right enough. I saw it
coming ashore.
One of the Melbourne unemployed, when
registering at Bent’s bureau lately, was asked
how he came to leave his last billet. He
said he had been engine-driving at a country
creamery for 12 hours a day ; but now a lad of 18
had been put on in his place to drive the machine
and manage the boiler. The Chief Inspector of
Factories was asked about this latter amazing
circumstance, and replied that it was true enough
—there as well as elsewhere. In its zeal for the
blessed primary producer, the House of Landlords
exempted creameries and butter-factories in shires
from the boiler-regulating provisions of the Fac-
tories Act; and, as might have been expected, the
1 “primary producer” has promptly jumped through
this loop-hole, and dragged an underpaid boy with
him to run his boiler and risk the life of everyone
in the neighborhood.
A guaranteed cure for piles, itching, blind,
bleeding or protruding. Chemists refund money
if Bazo Ointment fails to cure any ease, no
matter of how long standing, in G to 14 days.
First application gives ease and rest. 2s. 3d.*
George Reid reports that his visit to
Queensland has shown him that “ the tide is
surely turning” in his direction in that State.
But, in his old Foreign-trade days, Reid used to
discover every time he visited Melbourne that the
Victorian tide was turning his way. After 12
years of that sort of thing, the conclusion is that
George is a very poor judge of tides, and should
stick to dogs.


■^#i;
>
Gives
Permanent
Polish*
PRESERVES AND
CLEANS THE
LEATHER*
Sold by all Store-
keepers and Boot and
Shoe Shops.
Consumption
Gan Be Cured.
At Last a Remedy has been found
that Cures Consumption.
a
Dr. Derk P. Yonkerman, Discoverer of the
New Cure for Consumption.
Marvellous as it may seem after centuries of failure,
a remedy has been discovered that has cured the
Deadly Consumption even in the advanced stages o(
the disease. No one will longer doubt that con
sumption can be cured after reading the proof of
hundieds of cases cured by this wonderful discovery-
some after change of climate and all other remedies
tried, had failed, and the cases had been pronounced
hopeless i f cure. This new remedy has also proved
itself effective and speedy in curing i atarrh. Bron-
chitis, Asthma, and many serious throat and lung
troubles.
In order that all in need of this wonderful product
of science may test its efficacy for themselves,
a company has been formed to give it to the
world and a Free Trial Treatment can be obtained
hv writing the Derk I'. Yonkerman Co. Ltd.,
000 Dixson Buildings, Sydney. Send no money.
Simply mention this paper and ask for the Free
Trial Treatment. It will be sent you by return of
post, carriage paid,
- ABSOLUTELY FREE.
Don’t wait if you have any of the symptoms of con-
sumption, if you have chronic catarrh, bronchitis
asthmh, pains in your chest, a cold on your lungs, o;
any throat or lung trouble, write to-day for the iru
rial treatment and book of instr on®, auu
vourself before it is too late.
RANKINE & DOBBIE
Manufacturing Stationers,
Printers and Bookbinders.
MINING SCRIP
A SPECIALITY.
285 COLL/NS STREET ,
Telephone
3227.
MELBOURNE
A CERTAIN WAY
TO IMPROVE
YOUR MEMORY.
The Pelman-Foster Memory System means to
the brain what modern business methods mean
to commercial life. We show you how to train
the brain to think and remember—we help you
to make the brain a well-ordered house of mental
treasures, where every fact is accessible—where
every scrap of knowledge comes readily to
mind when you require it.
There is no mystery about Memory training.
Write to-day for our free--booklet, “ Memory ,
and How to Improve It,” and learn what a simple '
thing it is to train your Memory to serve you
faithfully.
Address the Secretary,
The Pel man School of Memory,
G.P.O. Box 402, Melbourne.
London : 4 Bloomsbury Street, W.C.
America : 901 Whitehall Building, New York.
Germany : Braunerstr, 13, Munich.
THIS IS A SNAP!
pvO XOT DELAY sending for one of these exwHent
U Watches in Gun Metal or Smer Case..
Every Watch’ First-class Timekeepers.
Two years’
with every
For a {rood,
Timekeeper
cannot
12/6
Guarantee
Watch.
serviceable
this Watch
be beaten.
12/6
/
Sent Post Paid to any address in Australia on receipt
of 12/6.
THE UTILITY SUPPLY CO.
35 Post Office Chambers,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S. W.
BEFORE
You Are Tired
Of being drugged and dosed and have gone the
rounds of so-called Specialists, humbugs and
quacks and had your ailment aggravated, consult
the Physicians and Surgeons of
Hr. Langstcn Institute.
VVe Cure and Cure to Stay Cured all
NERVE, BLOOD & SKIN DISEASES.
The success of our Electro-Medical Treatment is
vouched for by thousands of grateful testi-
monials. The following speaks for itself
_ luoi t»u. muiwru
Dear Doctor, —
I wish to let you know that since taking
your treatment I am an entirely different
man. Previouslv I was one of the most
miserable men living. Now work seems no
trouble to me at all, and my sleep healthy
and refreshing. I hope that you may live
long to do your good work.
Sincerely yours, 0. J. FLACK.
FREE FOR THE ASKING. 'Tgm
Our Latest Medical Work, MENS SANA IN
COHPORE SANO—a Comprehensive Treatise on
All Diseases, 128 Pages {lHunt,rated). Written to
be understood. Points out the way to a Perman-
ent Cure. It tells what you want to know and
what you ought to know. POSTED FREE to all
sufferers. WRITE TO-DAY.
THE DR. LANGSTON INSTITUTE,
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Consultation Free. Fees Moderate.
When writing mention this paper.
ALCOHOL
TOBACCO and DRUG HABIT,
Permanently cured at patients’ own
homes voluntarily or secretly. Perfectly
safe and effective, endorsed by the Medical
Profession, Clergy and the Press. TV rite
for full particulars, everything FREE and
CONFIDENTIAL. Address—
“Analeptic” Co. 90 Pitt-st. Sydney, N.S.W.
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
ds
INSTRUCTION FREE!!
You can become a Hypnotist in a few hours
.time without leaving your home. You can
away tlje minus of others, control friendship
and affection, cure disease and bad habits,
gratify’your ambitions and produce amuse-
ment by the hour. My mammoth Illustrated
Lesson or Key to Hypnotism which I send
free c f charge and postage paid, will tell you
all about thi > marvelous science. It contains
be utiful and artistic engravings, and shows
you just what Hypnotism is and
— ___________ what it will .accomplish. Send for
it and learn to Hypnotize. Remember, this wonder-
ful book costs you noth ng. If you men-
tion this pap r, I will also include a large
package of valuable, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance of a lifetime.
Write to-day. Address—
?rof. R. H- BARRADEN, a 9 Pitt St., Sydney-
fds
WILL ANDRADE™BOOKS
AND
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition, Is ; post Is
3d. BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Marri-
age Guide by Or. Faulkner, illustrated with over. lo
engravings, genuine 1904 edition, hard covers, im-
proved. Don eddy’s Art ok Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, Is. Maria Monk, Is
6d. How to Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zoda’s, Is 6d each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Oate Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynodds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Humorous Diadoguf. Book, Is. Devid in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is. House Painting
and Papering, 1/3. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d.
The Cuckodd, Is; post, Is 3d. Britain for the
British, 6d. Freemasonry Exposed and Ex-
plained, 1905 edition, with key to all de-
grees, Is. Cycle Building and Repairing,
new edition, 190 illustrations, Is 3d. De-
cameron of Boccaccio, Heptamkron. and many
others, all in cheap edition. Bride of tiie First
Night, 1/3. How to Write Signs, Tickets and
Posters, Is 3d. Staining. Varnishing and Polish-
ing Wood, Is 3d. Electric Bells, 1/3. Boot-
making and Repairing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise ;
Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal
Gustave, Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
Piano Tuning and Repairing. Is 3d. How to Make
Love, Is. Modern Etiquette, Is.
NOVELTIES.
)
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is.
Picture Frame Making,
Is 3d. Poultry Keeping,
Is. Dream Book, Is.
Every Man His Own
Builder, Is and is 3d,
Confessions of a Mel-
bourne Barmaid, illus., Is
3d. Gay Like in Mel-
bourne, ijlus., Is 3d.
Hoffman’s New Conjuring
Entertainment, Is 3d.
How to Bet and Gamblf.,
Is 2d. Kropotkin’s Fields,
Factories and Work-
shops, Is 3d. God and
My Neighbor, 9d, p. Is.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, Real Photos, 200
Kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s.
ZINCARA GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS, LOVE, BUSI-
NESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions, 1s ; posted 1/3.
Engineer's Practical Test : engines, boilers, gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6. How to Make Ur, Illustrated
Guide to the Stage, Is. New Tricks with
Cards, Is. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Saitiio,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Midwives’ Handpook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle. 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is Building Model
Boats, Is 3d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phrenology,
Is. Blacksmith’s Work, l/3. Lover's Letter Whiter,
Is. Photography, is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post. Age ok
Reason, Is 3d. Ingersoli.’s Works, 9d. Irish
Song Book, Is. Lightning Calculator, Is. Min-
strel Show, jokes, speeches, etc., Is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, Is 3d Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Puiilic Speaking
Made Easy', Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is 2d.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
Free Catalogues.
508 GEORGE ST.
SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE
VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE ST.
MELBOURNE.
AGGORDEONS
J
Produce the
most
delightful x
music.
They are
fc nsily learnt
No know-
of
F'usic being
Required to
become a
skilled
performer.
NEW 1906
MODELS
With 1.2. 3. or 4 sets of reeds, six. eight or ten
fold double and trip)- Bellows with metal bound
corners, and all latest improvements.
Prices from 7/6 to 26/9.
Packed and delivered free to any Post Office or
Railway Station in Australasia.
Ask for our 1906 Illustrated Catalogue. We
will send it Post Free.
ALLAN & CO. !»ropy. Ltd.
276-278 Collins Street. Melbourne.
DUNKLINC’S
WATCHES
Are Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronographs
vs
& >ss(
[trUIHIBW!
It
No. l_Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-baolc Seconds, Guaranteed 2 Years,
£2 lOs, post free. With Silver Case, £3 15s.
No. 2—Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, with Minute Re-
corder (as illustration), Guaranteed 3 Years, £3,
post free. Silver Case, £4 10s.
No. 3—Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
25 Jewels, Split Seconds, with Minute Recorder,
Guaranteed 3 years, £7 10s, post free. Silver
Case, £lO, Open-face or Hunting.
Warranted to be the Best and Most Serviceable
Racing Watches made.
Sent Post Free and Duty Paid to any Address In
Australia.
W. DUNKLING,
315-317 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
INSTANT RELIEF.
X "
f POWELL’S
Balsam Aniseed
For
COUGHS
COLDS
ASTHMA
BRONCHITIS
«§iJS
TRADE
Safe for Children.
ANISES
Of all Chemists' & Stores. Be sure
you get Powell's ivith above
Trade Marie.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored
Four Weeks by the use ot
,4 R I CORO’S
. S f t»
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS &
Used for over a yuan er of a Century with unparaile
success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood M
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejiuenauug
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price ICs., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freiM'f
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents- Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Faulding & Co., 16 0 Connel
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Pert .
19133
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the jarae
diseases in 48
hours without
incon-
venience.
Each Capsule bears the name gO~
(m)
“ Point Blank’' writes
I offer a few simple rules to those desirous of being
made Jays Pay.
Own a bit of land along the vote track of the political
representative. Do up the best bedroom when he’s about
to visit your quarter, and drop him a line, saying you’ll
be most happy to put him up for a night on his tour of
spout. Get the meeting held at your house ; and be sure
to arrange with the meeting to let you propose a vote of
confidence in the member after his speech. In doing so
be brief and to the point. Avoid all gush. Simply say,
among other things, that you are “sure Mr. Spout retains
the confidence of every right-thinking elector in the
Bandicoot electorate.” Strike the table hard with your
fist, and ask-. •“ Was ever a letter or a plea (plea means
request)left unheeded by Mr. Spout?” Strike the table
again and ask—“ Who got the bridge ? ” and “ Who voted
for the railway ? ” Tell the meeting it will return Mr.
Spout again when the time comes, and, if you see any
dog of a fellow getting restive in the room, and likely to
dissent, reach over and draw up the glass jug of water,
and say, “a drop of whisky won’t hurt us.” Then
introduce a bottle of Walker’s best, that the meeting has
paid for on the previous day. Bring it out of a cupboard
to convince the member it’s your own shout.
After the whisky is down, take the vote of confidence,
and be sure and say (in spite of a few noes), “ Carried
unaminous ! ” The word “ unaminous ”is the great J.P.
asset. They all use it—or “ umainious” or “ unamerous.”
Be sure and get it in.
About a month or so before the fixing of the rolls, go
round and get all absentees or young men just ripened
into 21 on the roll —that is, if they are certain to vote for
Spout. Write and tell Spout “that you have secured
seven new voters,” and when election time comes, stick
to Spout and thunder his applause wherever you go.
You’ll be a J.P. in three months and when next election
comes off you’ll have the polling booth at your house,
and get a good rental for the day. You will be returning
officer and your nephew Fred, if 21, will be poll clerk.
You will then realise your true worth and feel a dignity
creep upon you becoming your exalted state. You wiil
be called “ Your Worship ” in the courthouse, and your
wife will become “ Her Majesty,” or something there-
abouts.
“Two Seas” on preference to unionists: —
The Arbitration Court grants preference to unionists
for sufficiently obvious reasons. Then a man applies for
admittance to the Wharf Laborers’ Union. The Union,
being held responsible for the actions of its members in a
strike, may have very good reasons for declining to admit
that particular man. On appeal to the Arbitration Court
the union is told, “You must admit this man or any
other applicant, or lose your preference.” The daily
press approves, and declares the “open door” principle
is inseparable from preference to unionists, and the in-
dignation of all “right-thinking persons” against the
Wharf Laborers’ Union for seeking to establish “ an aris-
tocratic monopoly ”is something tremendous. It boils
worse than Vesuvius. Rut these “ right-thinking” per-
sons never have any indignation to spare for another
“ aristocracy of labor ” — i.e., the Law Dodgers’
Union. The Supreme Court grants the Devil’s
Brigade not merely preference but an absolute mono-
poly of its unholy six-and-eightpence. A would-be
Gent. One applies for admittance to that union, which is
represented by the Law Institute. He may be full up to
the lid with legal lore, and quite competent to take the
necessary legal points to save a land-agent from being
extradited, but the Law Institute says : “ No, my friend,
we may admit that you have the necessary learning, but
as you did not acquire it through our recognised
channels, you cannot enter our union.” Yet we don’t
hear the daily press howling for the “ open door ” in this
case. Again, to entrench the profession still more
against outsiders, the Law Institute is seeking to abso-
lutely prohibit admittance to the rolls by any save artioh d
clerks. It is not alleged that there is any lack of ability
in the common or garden lawyer’s clerk, who works
his way up the ladder that leads to being made
“a gentleman by Act of Parliament,” nor is it in the in-
terests of the general public that he should be excluded,
but because, forsooth, the Law Institute considers that
the premium-paying gent, will add greater lustre to this
very honorable profession. In the maritime profession,
which many people hold in even greater respect than the
legal one, the open door is maintained to the extent that
any man who can show that be has served four years on
a sailing ship is eligible to go up for his examination as
an officer, and if be passes he may attain to the command
of the finest mail-boat afloat, despite the fact-that he
reached the quarter-deck through the hawse-pipe. Yet
in Gentleman One’s close union a man must be made a
gentleman by Act of Parliament before he is eligible even
to hang round the Water Police Court touting for the
chance of defending a drunk who tore a uniform.
♦
“Elmore” : Will someone tell me why
the Yjctorian Noxious Weeds Act is only enforced
against the small landholder, who dare not let
a or blackberry grow on bis land, while on
Crown and shire lands they flourish luxuriantly ?
Just Outside Yaekandandah (which by the way
is not far from the St. John’s wort country)
there are patches of blackberries that would stop
the charge of the Light Brigade. And fringing
the creeks are “old man” briars, 15 and 20 feet
high.


sap?
HAPPY, HEALTHY CHILDREN
fill the home with sunshine. When they become fretful
and out of sorts, it is generally because a mild laxative
is required—not a purgative, mind! Nothing is so truly
beneficial in such cases as a dose of California Syrup of
Figs, which the little ones accept eagerly for its delicious
flavour: and it causes no discomfort: just relieves and
corrects gently, naturally, comfortingly, overcoming the
tendency to constipation. For its perfect purity and
harmlessness, as well as for its truly beneficial effects,
ic is cordially endorsed by the medical profession.
“NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.”
Ask for California Syrup of Figs, and see that the package bears
the name and trade mark of the California Fig Syrup Co.
Of all Chemists, in two sizes.
TRADE MARK
The Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assurance Society Limited
A,j) chie'f 'office Vor n S W._ 263 George Street, Sydney.
LIFE, ACCIDENT AND INVALIDITY ASSURANCE IN ONE POLICY.
ANNUAL PREMIUM for £lO6O, person agree! 30, payable at 60 or Death, £39 19s. 4d.
SPECIAL BENEFITS: (J) £2OOO if death takes place as result of accident; (2) £lOOO for Permanent Total
Disablement; (3) £5OO for Permanent Partial Disablement; (4) £6 per week for Temporary Total Disablement •
(5) £1 10s. per week for Temporary Partial Disablement; and (6) £6 per week for incapacitation through
: __Eor^iill_narH(n i lars and conditions call or write for Prospectus, V. H. BAXTER, Res. Sec.
FREE!
MAKE BIG Money
We give away TALKING MACHINES,
GOLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &c.,
to those who help us introduce our remedies. This Talking Machine
reproduces Songs, Speeches, Band Music, &c., and can be used at all
entertainments, in any size hall or room. It has a 14-inch Metal
Amplifying Horn, with Concert Base. Many of our agents are making-
big money by giving concerts with this machine, which we give away
Free. Send us your name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
of our New Life Vegetable IPills (Formulae 4 printed on each box). Sell
them at 1/- a box, then remit us the 8/- received and we will promptly
forward you, without extra expense or work, the valuable premiums as
listed: This is the biggest offer ever made, and you will be delighted.
We are an old, reliable firm, and we will present £lO in cash to anyone
who can prove we do not do as we say. Our Pills are good sellers, and
we are anxious to introduce them no matter what it costs us. Send at
once. Don’t delay, it costs you nothing to try. We take all risk.
Efectine Medici no Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
Free
£lOO
a Weeli
Given
Away
===
RHEUMATISM.
&^\R S
GOUT
PILLS
Are recommended by doctors with confi-
dence as one of the valuable results of
medical science, and the only remedy
ever discovered for these disorders, in
that they not only rapidly cure blit pi*o-
- the recurrence of the malady.
Of Ch.-mists and Stores, 1/14 and 2/9 per box.
Proprietors— PßOUT & CO., 229, Strand,
London, England.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
f HLOROPyWE
Caution* —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, bears on the
Government Stamp the name of
the Inventor
Pr. J. COLLIS BROWNC
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
JUST A FEW BOOKS
BY
SIR ROBERT!
BOOK. OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tiie
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s
Rig Horse Book and How to Train the
Horse, Is 6d. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
V* orkshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeighbor Raymond, Is : post, Is 3d
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. Tiie Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History ok the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Rf.citations, Is. Chiniquy’s priest, Woman
and the Confessional, Is 6d. The Art of Jui-Jitsu
9d and Is 6d. God and My Neighbor, lOd. Britain
for the British, 4d. Bf.iiind the Scenes, Is 2d How
to Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysterie i Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.'
£$
■
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
embracing
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
Br Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 124 S Pages.
IT IS I REE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy m consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting- subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior g-uide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
i : S ! ATI S | ' ACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-coyered eqdion of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d d^zen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS-LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easv, Is. posted. Kelly Gang ok
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Si.mple (new), 4s ed.
S J llU ri J ° ll ' e ™ ry Man His Own Schoolmaster,
lb posted. Cabinet Makers Handyhook, Is 3d. Mac-
Scirvpp B o HV^ AL T .'; ai ‘ nivg ’ 1s - Elements of Social
Science 3s 6d. On Our New Selection, 6s 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught,
ls t j Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d
posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hbptameron, and many
otheis. all at _s 6d each posted. Bride op the First
*.ght, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted.
All these prices Post Paid.
IMo Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it
Don’t toe tooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash, atr Established SO Years. I
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT
*
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Gujde. to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d post. I)r. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6a.
Aristotle, 3s fid. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Lovf, and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s fid post. Voltaire’s Romances
2s. IXGKRSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 28. HOW TO READ HEADS
(.Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted!
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy is post. Howto
But and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pav 3 and i
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing! Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com!
plete), Is fid posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAy!
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only)
The Illustrated Medical News
says“ Infants do remark-
ably well on it.”
The British Medical Journal
saysßenger’s Food has
by its excellence estab-
lished a reputation of its
own.’’
#
For INFANTS, INVALIDS, ant] the AGED.
BSNGEE’S FOOD IS SOLD BY CHEMISTS, 2rc., BI r EEY®ES3E,
Benger’s Fo Dhas attained
its great reputation not by
extravagant or sensational
advertisement, but by the con-
stant recommendation of those
who have used it, and of Medi-
cal men who know its value.”
' Leblx ” sees the “ Mother of Parliaments ” :
From what I have seen of the House 6f Commons, it
seems more orderly than our House of Reps, or Legisla-
tive Ass. There is hardly any talking among members,
and there is not the ceaseless moving to and fro of
flunkeys. The Commons struck me as far more dignified.
A orowded House listened in silence to the Attorney-
General explaining the Government’s Trades Disputes Bill
and then to Laborite Shackleton’s speech refusing to
accept that measure. A third speaker, named Jones,
caught the Speaker’s eye, and as soon as he rose the
House rose too, and nearly everyone trooped out. It
reminded me of Edmund Burke, the greatest of orators,
who, when he used to rise, was always responsible for
clearing the House. On that account he became known
as the “ Dinner-bell.” To get back to Jones. He knew
a lot about Trade Unions, and I could see no reason why
they should not listen to him. But the Commons seem
to prefer to do their gossiping outside the Chamber, and
s left. Getting admitted to the strangers’(or members’)
gallery is an elaborate process. You must have a pass,
and this } ? ou flourish .before a dozen or so policemen
d lore you reach the entrance to the gallery. Here you
are finally intercepted and requested to sign your name
and leave your address. A notice informs you that re-
marks from the gallery are “ not in order.” When seated
you have to be as circumspect as if you were in a joss-
house. If you are a peer I gather you mav put your feet
up on the railing and take it easy. I saw ari old peer
doing so. The weird touch about the House of
Commons is the monkey-cage arrangement for the
women. High above the press gallery (which is
over the Speaker), just under the roof they have
opened the wall and covered the opening with wire-
petting. Inside, a little gallery has been made, and here
the women are accommodated. Badly lit, the place
looks like a grotto where big birds are caged. You cannot
see any one woman definitely, hut just a blurred mass of
bars, furs and dress. The Commons is a good show. At
question time I heard most of the Ministers answer
queries, and picked out Chamkkrlain, Redmond, and
others on the benches. By-the-wav, out of 75 questions
p 7 were addressed to Irish Secretary Bryce. In this wav
the Irish members wasted about an hour over such
trivialities as Paddy Felan’s pig and why the letters had
been delivered late at Ballywhiskyle.
«.
The S.M. Herald printed, the other day,
the first of a new series of articles on American
impressions, by H. G. Wells, which began like
tins :
“ Are you a Polygamist ? ”
“ Are you an Anarchist ? ”
The questions seem impertinent. They are part of a
ong paper of interrogations I must answer satisfactorily
,w,a«^ ere ? a r de<l . as a desirable alien to enter the
United States of America.
Yet no doubt, the Herald and the Herald’s
party will go on cheerfully representing Aus-
tralia as the only country in the world which
asks a question of an immigrant. Wells
goes on to confess that, as lie really wanted
to go in to the U.S. because there was something
to go in for, he “resisted the provocation to an-
swer impertinently. ” The S.M. Herald’s stupid
party might do worse than note that, too. A
“long paper of interrogations ’’ won’t stop the
stream of desirable immigrants to a country that
is worth emigrating to.
If the Vic. Laborites oppose Higgins,
ilauger, and Hume Cook, they may possibly gain
one seat—though possibly the Foreign-trade Tory
will capture all three—but they will assuredly
lose t\vo of their own, if not three. The Liberal
Protectionists assuredly will hit back. That means
the certain loss of Ronald’s Southern Melbourne
seat, and very likely Tudor’s Yarra seat.
Bananaland takes precautions against meat
scandals. _ There is a complete system of State
supervision. Every year the works must be
registered; at each factory a Government
inspector is present during day and night shifts,
and he has power to condemn and destroy affected
carcases; to each portion of meat approved a
Government tag is fixed, giving the name of the
works and its trade mark; labels are affixed to
meat when tinned, and the consignor is required to
make a statutory declaration that the goods
referred to m the inspector’s certificate are
identical with those shipped. This Socialistic
system has given Queensland meat the best of
reputations abroad.


Childrens Couchs o Colds
\
/I
'• V
i*S
I
MMm*-
wm
.m
AN INDISPENSABLE MEDICINE.
FEW babies escape croup and kindred affections, and cold in
one shape or another. Because of their potency, punty anc
pleasant taste, Peps are excellent. They thoroughly disinfect
the mouth and nasal organs; they end all harmful germ-life and clear
the throat when breathing is heavy or impeded. It does the lungs goo
to bathe them in the fumes from a dissolving Pep, and the hue bron-
chial tubes are healed by them when sore from incessant coughin
Every little sufferer from cold, croup, or bronchitis, will find additional
benefit if the mouth is held over a basin of boiling water while the l eps aie
bein" sucked. The rising steam assists the rich pine odors to penetiate tlie
delicate membranes of.the throat and lungs; and congestion, inflammation, soie-
ncss, and irritation are thus speedily allayed. . .
When there is whooping cough in a house, Peps will be found simply indispen-
sable. Whooping cough is an infectious ailment that must run its couise, but a
liberal supply of Peps will not only ease the nasty cough, and allay that awful sense
of suffocation, and alleviate the other distressing symptoms, hut prevent other mein-
p ers 0 f the family who take Peps from catching the same complaint..
* Id families where whooping cough is a frequent visitor, it is a wise plan to let the
children help themselves to Peps, which are an assurance for health and strength in the
winter months. A box should be in every home.
'-*«/
Wfgktf/t//
Wk
m
Peps are the most unique family medicine for coughs, colds,^chill mfluenwi,nh-est’to'nsi?itfs’
bronchitis, difficult or heavy breathing, wheezing, pains and tightness of the J
asthma, consumption’s hacking cough, hay fever, the m*e,
relaxed throat, hmkinessnnd-losfeof voice.
TRICE—I/6 per box, of all Chemists, or
post free for Same price d rect from
the PEPS PASTILLE CO., i>9 Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.£.W.
FREE
TRIAL.
Try PEPS Free. Send, this Coupon and Id.
stamp to PEPS PASTILLE CO., S'.) Pitt
St., Sydney, N.S. W.,when a free test sample
will be sent on at once. Note.— Full postaye
on inter-State letters.
Sydney Bclletix, July 2<V’n«.
--
c
fsd
BATH HEATERS
Send por Catalogue, “ad
For use with
Gas,
Kerosene
or Wood -
BRANDT BROS., 236 Pitt St., SYDNEY
and 197, 422, and 424 ELIZABETH ST„ MELBOURNE.
f
n
v'
Tfi FkT IS YOUR “Cue'
When ordering billiard
„ REQUISITES OR
Athletic goods
OF MY DESCRIPTION
For over fifty years the name “Aleock”
has been closely associated with Sporting
Requisites in every part of Australasia,
until to-day its appearance on Athletic
Goods has precisely the same meaning
as the hall mark on silver. Our Stocks
represent the very highest standard of
excellence, and our facilities for manufac-
turing High-grade Goods at reasonable
prices are unequalled.
* 2Y
PRIZE
vMEDAIS,
MELBOURNE,SYDNEY.PERTH.
Wellington,NZ&lpndon.
HOULDER BROTHERS & CO., Ltd.
Passengers Booked to
All Parts of the World,
STEAMSHIP OWNERS, FREIGHT CONTRACTORS,
SHIP, INSURANCE & CHARTERING BROKERS.
AIUiUWUI Ui ic nuuu. > .
THE HOOIDER LINE STEAMERS.
_ ■ a 13«nr/iiAO rC/ /
Passengers, General Cargo, Frozen Produce, &c.
To and from AUSTRALASIA, AFRICA, LONDON, LIVERPOOL, GLASGOW, &c
for Conveyance of
Steamer.
HORNBY GRANGE
OVINGDEAN GRANGE
URMSTON GRANGE..
LANGTON GRANGE..
DRAYTON GRANGE (Twin Screw)
ELSTREE GRANGE
ttOYSTON GRANGE .. ..
Tons.
3,750
3,700
5,600
9,200
10,000
6,000
6 330
Steamer.
BEACON GRANGE
RJPPINGHAM GRANGE .. ..
OSWESTRY GRANGE (Twin Screw)
THORPE GRANGE
HAVERSHAM GRANGE ..
EVERTON GRANGE (Twin Screw)
SOUTHERN'CROSS
Tons
8.300
9,200
10,000
6,350
11,200
11,000
7.300
First, Second and Third Saloon Cabins situated Amidships. Excel!ent. Cuisine Electric Light,
p.. full iiarticulars annlv at the OFFICES OF THE COMPANY, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
i‘> Pall Mall S.YV.,’ London. 14 Water-street, Liverpool. 30 Gordon-street, Glasgow. 337 Calle Cuyc, lhienos
Aires 440 Calle San Martin, Rosario, Gran Dock, Ensenada, La Plata. Capetown and Durban, South Africa.
Head Office: 146 Leadenhall-street, London, E.C.
Have You a PHONOGRAPH ?
sdf
If so, what are you paying for Records ?
COLUMBIA Gold Moulded Records
are superior to all others in lone and
Durability.
PRICE I|3 EACH.
Write for our New 72-page CATALOGUE, and
particulars of our exchange offer on old and worn
Records.
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO. (Genl.)
25 Ash StSydney, N.S.W.
Australian
Headquarters :
The Effect of Capillarine!
'l'll Try It.
Capillarine works wonders. It was invented nearly a
quarter of a century ago as, a moustache producer, and
it will grow a heavy, luxuriant Moustache quicker
and better than ANY other preparation ever produced.
CAPILLARINE ! it neve^il^
The Result.
Price 10s . 6d . Post Free Anywhere.
CRAIQ & AITKEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY.
I “ '
GANZ
Turbine Pumps
for mines, water-supply
works, etc., to suit all
kinds of requirements,
are supplied and erected
by the
Austral Otis
Engineering: Co*
Cr. Hanna & Kavanagh Streets, South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 831*


FINNEY, ISLES & GO., LIMITED.
IN OUR . .
HIGH-CLASS TAILORING DEPARTMENT
WE ARE NOW OFFERING SPECIAL VALUE IN
Made to Measure in PURE-WOOL FANCY TWEED WORSTEDS of
Australian, New Zealand, and British Manufacture, and in
PURE-INDIGO SERGES and COATINGS.
for PATTERNS, and FORMS WITH FULLEST INSTRUCTIONS for SELF-MEASUREMENT.
These Suits are not of the Machine or Factory-made to Measure variety, but High-class Tailor-made.
THE . . .
BIG BLOCK,
Edward & Adelaide Sts., BRISBANE
m
Ef
V,
&
S
PRIZES value £l5OO
IN THE ,
EIGHT-HOUR ART UNION
(Under sanction of the Hon. the Attorney-General.)
Drawn 27th OCTOBER, 1906.
First Prize, valtie £5OO.
Second Prize, value £lOO. Third Prize, value £63.
, And 197 OTHER VALUABLE PRIZES.
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. Grace Cowdery, Waterloo,
Sydney, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
Results of Drawing’ will be advertised in this paper on 2nd
November, 1900. Tickets may be had from Agents in all Country
Towns, or direct from
ALLAN Me DOUG ALL, Secretary,
Eight-Hour Committee.
Trades Hall, Sydney.
T»
I
*11.7
L
IWIJM
William Fleming#' equitable bp?, georgest,Sydney.
c Jkc / &uo (i) JSatufou&ryou,
Ju/t/i&td rmrfaMcd’ for uJ
tuwc comeJatty ufo/to your'
i^tiotuUefor 6
foutum.sn/
mSmuL vwo,
yjoUu-
for'amfom
fowa VrutyJtrfa -tfUim
jekclh
from ah
Granp
BRAS
etC'Ctr-
Includiqg
Recor,
Sgnor(MjOmNl
piij
DIS
Talking
Illustrated Catalogue
Post Free on application.
NICOLEPNONES
The World's Triumph in Talking Machines.
From £3 lOs. to £5.
Nicolcpbooe PiSc Records
ABSOLUTELY UNBREAKABLE. . .
AT GREATLY REDUCED PRICES.
THE MARVELLOUS DUPLEX RECORDS.
Containing TWO RECORDS ON ONE DISC.
tOin. • * 5/a each. 7in. a a 2/6 each.
THE UNIVERSAL SINGLE RECORDS.
tOin. a . 3/6 each. 7in. a a 1/6 each.
W. G. KING,
SOLE
AGENT.
316 George St.,
SYDNEY.
rga I
r*
y
IS
m
“showed up”
A not infrequent winter
experience in some parts
«>/ the “Old Country'”
r In.
_ weaflier extremes
r of .Kent and cold,
r nothing is so sustaining as
CadLur/s
MIl/K *
CHOCOI/ATE
A Concentrated Sweetmeat-Food of the highest order.
A product of the beautiful Garden City of
Bournville, founded by the Manufacturers of
CadLurjs
COCOA
of which, The Lancei says it is “The Standard
of Highest Purity,” while Health
calls it “A Perfect Food.”
Business, Robbery, etc.
“ Tinonee ” : Re those watch fiends in Sydney.
I had a good English lever. After three years’ good work
she stopped. Looked up advertising columns and saw
where Soolum, Rollum and Co. did watches up cheap
(Gordelpum). Posted her down, and got a letter back to
say she was in an awful state. The bellybone of the
toiler was broken, the fly-wheel was drawing air, the fire-
bars were all clinkered up, and altogether things were
dreadful. They generously offered to put her right for
15s. This was a slight rise on the advertised 2s. How-
ever, there was nothing to be done but pay, so told them
to do the best they could for the poor thing. Two days
after her return she stopped ; gave her a shake, and got a
revolution or two out of her, but did not like the sound
she made. Opened her, and found some bolts and things
lying around loose. Was down in Sydney a week or two
after, and called upon the firm to remonstrate. Firm said
the boy who had been inside must have left the tools
there, or some such silly thing. Left her again for two
days. Called and got her, and in three hours she jibbed
again. Took her to a “ reputable ” place, and proprietor
smiled pityingly when I told him where she had been, and
informed me they (Soolum, Rollum and Co.) were the
biggest swindlers in Sydney. But he would put the ticker
right. Got her back in two days (3s. 6d.), and in four
“ 01 'ts she had lost five. Think she must have gone back-
wards. I stopped her, or else I’d have been back in child-
hood s days by now. Sly beautiful Rotherham is com-
pletely spoilt, and I’m too disgusted to buy another.
* * » *
“ Acnud ” : Re herbalists and their peculiarities.
Some months ago I was living at Pinktown. So also was
Professor Slosh, herbalist—right next door. An attack
of pneumonia laid me low. For three months I hovered
between life and death, and on two occasions the atten-
dant medico opined that no power here below could
prevent my joining the other cherubs and becoming a
valuable addition to the choir. Yet the distinguished
herbalist next door made no move. I gradually became
convalescent, and shifted to Katoomba. The herbalist
then displayed intense interest. Through a friend he
communicated that he thought I would obtain consider-
able benefit from his treatment—modestly’ prepared, I
assume, to take unto himself credit for any change the
mountains might effect. To appease some anxious rela-
tives, I agreed to try him. His first request was that I
should post him four hairs out of my head, which he
would anal.y'se, and then he would send me a diag-
nosis of my case. I forwarded hairs, and received
in a few days a startlingly correct account of
my condition—all of which I afterwards learnt
he had pumped from one of the said relatives.
He gravely informed me I was in the second state (sic)
of consumption, and that under his benign treatment
I could be cured in three months. Afterimbibing various
herbal mixtures for one month, and feeling' that the neces-
saa-y third part of the cure hadn’t been effected, I sheered
on at a loss of only 10s. My only regret was that, in
answer to his request for hairs, I didn’t send him four out
of the beard of the billy-goat next door, which has no ail-
ment in common with me—except that it’s a goat.
* * * *
Dr. Arthur Russell, looking at things with the eyes
°L a •" Fair ’’showman, writes disrespectfully of the
official powers that be in Noumea: “ Whilst the French
were dozing (from 11 a.m. till 7 p.m.) the British and Aus-
tralians have been working somewhat, and they now own
all that is worth owning in Noumea. The gas works,
water-works, and flour mills are controlled by money that
talks English. But when the Government gets a chance
it hits back. For instance, we were charged Is. 6d. per
lb. duty on all Our printing, and a cwt. Of printed paper
is nothing when you see it on the walls. And the manage-
ment of the Customs ! They weigh on a small grocer’s
scale— such as bags of wheat are weighed on—every stick,
pole, rope and stake of our tents, likewise all props,
boxes and bags belonging to the show. Everything pays
duty by weight, and also by value. We have been here
tivo days and have not nearly got our stuff through yet,
but we live in hope.”
» * * *
“ Periwinkle” : Take it from me, a well-meaning
mortal on the Matilda-tracks can never tell the reception
he will get from a cockv’s petticoat by looking at her
face. Have had a few receptions in my time, all more or
less cordial—rather less than more—and I can honestly
say that between a mule, a cocky’s slave, and a hull-ant,
the middle variety takes the manna for deceit. Just
when you think you have her you get a refusal hurled
at you like a keg of vitriol. For months past I have
been endeavoring to uplift humanity Outback from his
dense don’t-care-a-danmedness, bv coriibinirig a compre-
hensive knowledge of phrenology with mending smokv
lamps. Gifted by Nature with a flow of words, a master-
ful, delusive manner, and a tenacious memory—these,
my stock-in-trade, have been at the service of parents
and their progeny on the long roads. Angels I met occa-
sionally, fiends there are at every turn ! What cares the
cocky about his kids’ physiognomy as long as they can do
their whack in extracting milk from the cow ; and what
cares the toiler—young or old—if he is toiling at what is not
his bent as long as he can earn a plug of tobacco, and find
time to wash his socks on Sunday ? Rebuffs come hard
to a man of resource and refinement, but the worm will
turn even if bis pursuer has a gun. Alas ! ’tis the youth
and beauty of the land that looks askance at worth, as em-
bodied in the itinerant Scientist, with a cold, unfeeling
glare. I struck a humpy, t’other day, and found
a gawky lump in petticoats pretending to work to slow
music, on the back verandah, with a scrubbing outfit.
Her hair was sunset, her freckles as large as George Reid’s
eyeglass (in the public view), while her eye was a hot
coal. I sought to appease the ladv in my well-known,
mild-mannered way. I praised her industry, her garden,
and—woman’s weakest point—her fowls ! I offered to
feel her bumps without the removal of hairpins, and to
describe her future husband (she didn’t wear a wedding
circle, I noticed) in one act; and for half-a-crown extra to
name the happy day, with the sum total of her family
thrown in. With a smile (why don’t the wretches frown ?)
that assured me I had conquered the cross-eyed geyser
and that dinner was ahead, she rose from her toil like a
sick dromedary, and gave me the con tents of her bucket,
soap, brush, cloth and all, full butt in m.v manly bosom.
Never more will I dally where the pimple blooms i’ the
nose of the uncertain aged, or dilate on the points of the
speckled pullet specking yonder. When the attack of
bronchitis I contracted that evil day leaves me, and I
regain my vocal fluency, I intend taking to the public
platform (on vacant allotments) to lecture on the young
but bad-tempered bush female.
* * * ♦
“Drifter”: A miniature ghetto is commencing
to bud towards the eastern end of Bathurst-street,
Sydney. The old clo’ section of the Children of Israel
are settling there side by side, in a nest of stunted, dingy
shops. Anything can be haggled for, from a grinning set
of second-hand teeth to a soldier’s war medal. The
windows are crammed with the most hetero-
geneous collection of articles beneath the sun.
The feminine misfit “parlors” mostly flaunt the
bedizened relics of days of frivolity. An aroma of sin
and sorrow clings mustily around these scented gew-gaws.
Billows of old, stained laces, gorgeous skirts, frayed pink-
silk petticoats, masses of delieate-textured lingerie, silver-
backed hair-brushes, and massive gold bangles suggest a
brief period of girlish gaiety and glitter. Then a heart-
breaking haggle with the vulture across the counter
of Greed. Behind verandah-poses and in the doorway of
each dimly-lighted den “the Nose” lurks, waiting to
pounce on the unwary and drag him within, and buy the
clothes off his back. Each passing loiterer is keenly
scrutinised from foundation to roof. I peered into one
murky den, and was swiftly invited to enter by a fat
woman, who squatted like a great greasy spider beneath
the half-turned light of a gas-jet. Suddenly I looked
round, and knew I was watched. Great hawk noses and
hungry sinister eyes flashed at me from all points, and I
felt like a lost traveller surrounded by tarantulas on .a
high mountain. I don’t know whether the old clo’ dealer
is venomous when he bites you with his nose, but I took
no risks and fled, pursued by all the dogs of Jewry’.
* * * *
For the manyth time Melbourne is in the
throes of a “ given-away-with-a-pound-of-tea ” boom.
Families are steadily plodding through chests of killing
stuff for the sake of useless trifles that go with it.
When the supplementary objects are of some use the tea
is deadlier than ever, as the keeper of a big boarding-
house discovered to her cost. She bought tea which
carried with each pound several pieces of chinaware and
a good-sized packet of sugar. Now she has a lovely array
of crockery and—no boarders. Thev all left to avoid
slow poisoning. It looks as if the lone Jandlady will have
nothing to eat but the pernicious tea-leaves until she
secures some new victims.
“ Melb.” : The Salvation Army has just added
a paying hospital to its “ charities.” What an extraordi-
nary fabric of business it has built up on the pennies
cadged every night by stalwart men and hearty women !
The Bourke-street premises are probably worth £30,000
by this time; they were bought in the depression for
£19,500, though they cost £55,000 to the Y.M.C. A. Then
there is the Training Garrison, Eastern Hill, alleged to
have cost £30,000. These may be called religious uten-
sils. Next come the vast printing works in Albert-street,
adjoining the Jewish Synagogue. All kinds of business
are said to be done. Then look at the monster four-storey
warehouse lately hired for the Army’s Hamodava tea.
Also the workmen’s Metropole, the women’s lodging-
house, the Commonwealth Audit Office, Swanston-
street. When is the eleemosynary public going to stop
piling it on to these beggars'? The Dowie warning comes
in. Twelve thousand pounds sent from Australia to Zion
for safe investment by Elijah ! All safe as houses, you
bet. Talk about the Socialists nobbling Australia. Poor
working people pinch and screw to bloat out Booth and
Co. They are going for the ownership of the continent.
“Edyson”: Have been listening to the pro-
prietress of a drapery store and fancy goods emporium, in
the most prosperous part of a somewhat select suburb,
lamenting the picking and stealing proclivities of the
adult female element in proud families. I gather from
the bitter cry of the shopwoman that she, and many
tradespeople like her, are rapidly ruining their eyesight
through the strain of trying to watch their work and
their lovely customer at the same time. Not infrequently
there are two or three lovely customers to be watched,
and then something goes—usually a small article of no
great value, but sometimes the most expensive piece of
goods that can be detached from the establishment and hid
in a muff or a brolly. “ There are some who come here
whom we know well, and we can’t afford to take our
eyes off them for a moment,” said the trades-lady.
“ Well-to-do women, splendidly dressed, who would re-
gard a street pickpocket with horror, but who will steal
anything from a tooth-brush upwards. I have seen a
wealthy lady steal a penn’orth of bootlaces, and another
woman, the wife of a professional man, once had the
impudence to try and hide a small hand sewing-machine
under her rain coat. They will come in here and ask to
see tooth-brushes or combs, steal one and g'o away,
declaring we have nothing to suit.” The sales-iady
stopped one of these departing guests one day, and said,
“ But you will pay for the brush you have in your sleeve,
madam ? ” The woman examined her sleeve and drew
out a shilling tooth-brush, with an air of specious bewil-
derment. then slapped it down on the counter and said :
“How dare you put that there, you malicious crea-
ture?” and sailed out. So far as this one shopkeeper’s
experience goes, thecribbing habit is confined to “ upper-
class ” women.
« * * *
One of Sydney’s biggest publicans was stock-
taking lately, and was surprised to find that the con.
sumption of a certain brand of whisky was out of all
proportion to its popularity. Later on he discovered that
the agent for Haw Scotch had bribed most of his barmen to
the extent of 2d. for each capsule top, consequently the bar-
men handed down Raw Scotch by mistake to everybody.
The publican admired the idea. He went into his cellar,
and carved the capsule from every bottle of Raw Scotch
he had in stock. Next, he went over to the agent’s,
where he dumped nearly £3 worth of decorated lead (at
2d. per dbc) in front of a large and irreproachable busi-
ness man, and demanded cash. The laige and irreproach-
able one explained, in a shocked way, that the custom
had been discontinued, and would never have crept into
the purity of his affairs at all but for a base traveller,
since discharged, who had instituted the degrading pro-
cess. So the publican hied him thence with his valueless
lead. He wandered into a neighboring pub., and, having
swapped notions with a barmaid about what didn’t win
the Cup, asked her if she had saved up many Raw Scotch
capsules. She said she had quite a lot, and he bade her
hurry up and cash them lest the purity of the agent’s
feelings should interfere with business. Next day he
called on Hebe, and found she had been paid her prize
money. Then ho wrote to the large man of unquestioned
business integrity, and said things about his underground
trade morals, and scratched him for future deals. Sub-
sequent pathetic appeals to call on the firm and receive
explanations have been unheeded ; and Raw Scotch is no
longer on sale at that big pub.
* * * *
“Ejayem”: There’s one form of robbery now
prevalent in Sydney that unsophisticated female searchers
after employment should beware of. An advertisement
is inserted in the “Wanted” column of the dailies re-
quiring young ladies to learn bar work. The young woman
who aspires to practise at the bar belongs to* quite a small
army, and the applications addressed to “Rex,” or
‘ Smoodge,” or some such humbug, c/o the Herald or
Telegraph, roll in. Sure enough a smartly dressed
young man (acting on behalf" of some great city
hotel, which he does not name), calls upon the appli-
cant. He produces her letter, and, after some conversa-
tion, expresses himself as thoroughly satisfied with the
credentials. Then he states a telegram will be sent on
the following day, and like Montague Tigg, “ demands as
aright” one shilling to pay the cost of the wire. The
girl generally falls in. In one instance, a girl who was
on her last pound to pay for her room and find food, was
swindled out of five shillings; The regular bar lady, of
course, isn’t likely to be taken down by such a tale, so
these'sharks only play on amateurs. '


SCALY ECZEMA
Looked More Like Piece of Raw
Beef Than Human Being Doc-
tors Useless —Blessed Relief and
First Real Sleep in Weeks After
First Application.
SPEEDY CURE BY
CUTICURA REMEDIES
“Words cannot describe the terri-
ble eczema I suffered with. I was
almost a solid mass of sores from head
to foot, and looked
more like a piece of
raw beef than a
human being. Blood
and pus oozed from
a great sore on my
scalp, from under my
finger nails,and near-
ly all over my body,
and every hair in my
head fell out. I could
not sit down, for my
clothes would stick to the raw and
bleeding flesh, making me cry out with
Sain. My doctor did all he could, but
got worse and worse. I did not think
I could live, and wanted death to end
my frightful sufferings.
“My mother-in-law begged me to
try Cuticura. I said I would, but had
no hope of recovery. But oh, what
blessed relief I experienced after apply-
ing Cuticura Ointment. It cooled the
bleeding and itching flesh, and brought
me the first real sleep in weeks. It was
as grateful as ice to a burning tongue.
I would bathe with warm water and
Cuticura Soap, then apply the Ointment
freely, and took the Resolvent for the
blood. Soon the sores stopped run-
ning, the flesh began to heal, my hair
started to grow, and in a short time I
was completely cured. Mrs. Wm.
Hunt, Newark, N. J., Jan. 11,1905.”
The original of the above testimonial is on file in the
office of the Potter Drug & Chemical Corporation.
Reference: R. Towns & Co., Merchants, Sydney, N. S. W.
Complete External and Internal Treatment for every
Humour, from Pimples to Scrofula, from Infancy to Age,
consisting of Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Resolvent
Pills (Chocolate Coated, in vial of 60), may be had of all
druggists. A single set often cures the most distressing
cases when all else fails. Potter Drug & Chem. Corp.,
Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
OST* Mailed Free, “ How to Cure Every Humour."
Address, R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
: VST'
A FREE GIFT SALE
iS
"is
For one month,
as an advertise-
ment, we offer
.5,000 Beautiful
Black Ostrich
Plumes, 1.-f j in-
ches long, 7/6
Post Free.
GIVEN
AWAY.
One Feather
7/6
Post Free
Pom Pom Given Free to everyone ordering
tliis month. Catalogue Free. Write
to-day. Send postal notes.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP.
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.!
To soothe
the Skin ,
smarting under the heat of a
burning sun. and to remove the
effects Of perspiration,
CALVERTS
Prickly=heat Soap
is specially adapted. Though indispensable
in eases of Priekly-heat (whence its name)
and other irritation of the skin, it is also
popular for general bath and toilet use, being
pure, antiseptic, and refreshing.
Sold by all local Chemists and Stores,
in bars and tablets.
Mads by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
England.
dsf
putting
IDoney
in
fheir
There are thousands of young' men and women
working in stores and factories for small wages, who
have the ability to earn more money. Get out of the
rut. Tread a new path. You can do it if you’re in-
terested in the process of putting money in your
pockets. We have something distinctive and original.
Just send your name and address and tell us the paper
in which you read this advertisement, and we will
reply by return post.
The Agents & Mail healers Co-operative Society,
359 Collins Street, Melbourne.
V. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collection of liis best verses; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price, 4s. Gd. from all booksellers. Post
free from Pulletin office, ss.
Food May Nourish
OR
Food May Poison !
WHICH SHALL IT BE?
Food nourishes you when it is perfectly
digested and assimilated. All the nutri-
ment it contains is drawn into the blood
and goes to restore the daily waste of the
body. When your food is imperfectly
digested the deadly products of decompo-
sition pass into the blood to poison the
whole system and pain, weakness, head-
ache, constipation, ansemia follow,
MOTHER
SEIGEK-’S
SYRUP
“Ten years ago, when I had suffered a
long time from distressing indigestion, I
first used Mother Seigel’s Syrup. I could
neither eat, sleep or work and was in a
wretched condition. In a few days, after
using the Syrup, I began to recover tone
and strength and little by little all my
sickness disappeared. Since then I have
enjoyed good health. It has also greatly
benefited my three daughters.” Mrs.
Mary M. Gray, 160 Cambridge Terrace,
York Street, South Melbourne.
HAKES
Food Nourish You
AND CURES
Indigestion, Biliousness,
CONSTIPATION, HEADACHE,
and all Stomach
TROUBLES.
“ There’s
a Reason*’
You may have small care
for what the reason is, so
long as your food really
supports your brain and
keeps it healthy, active,
and a money maker.
But when signs of nerv-
ous prostration set in you
want to know why you can
get help, sure, from
Grape-Nuts
Words on the pkg. give the
l'eason one way. Your own
brain tells the reason in a few
days after you begin its use.
\V/ILL forward to any address our GOLD WIRE
BROOCHES on receipt of money order or
postal note. 9ct. Gold-Filled Round Wire Brooches,
3/6 ; with Pendant, Heart, or Cross, 5/-. In 15ct. C.F.
Twisted Wire, 6/6 j with Pendant, 8/-. Illustrated Cata-
logue sent Free. R. SIMS, GOLD KING, Cole’s
Book Arcade, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
95,000
“THE WAY BACK SERIES.’’
NO 3, RED HARRY, 1/-
V
Tbe BRUNSWICK
Household
ICE MACHINE
is, as its name implies, a machine that has been brought
down to the small capacity required for a private house.
In short, where hitherto it has been impossible for the
private house or the large boarding-house to get a
machine that is not “miles too big,” the BRUNSWICK
has solved the difficulty, and will provide you with as
small a quantity as 2001 b. of refrigeration and 101 b. of
actual ice. This is a boon to those in the Country and
Bush who have perhaps power—they only want J-horse
power for the smallest size of machine—and can drive a small refrigerator. A small scheme of cold storage is
the greatest luxury it is possible to have, and we invite inquiries from squatters and others before the hot
weather comes in. Tell us what you want to do, and we will give you thefullest information as to how to do it.
BUZACOTT & CO., Ltd., So,e 7 & 9 Market St., Sydney.
Agents for Sharpies’ Tubular Separators, ‘Hercules’ Oil Engines, &c., &c.
DRUNKENNESS or the LIQUOR HABIT
POSITIVELY
Cured with EUCRASY.
It may be given in Tea, Coffee, or Food, thus Secretly Curing the
Patient without his knowledge.
Highest Endorsement from W. F. Stanton, Esq., J.P., S. of T. and 1.0.G.T.
VV. F. STANTON and CO., Watchmakers and Jewellers,
22 Royal Arcade, Sydney, May 16th, 1904,
E. H. NORTON, Esq., Eucrasy Company, Sydney.
Dear Sir, —As a life-long- Abstainer, a Son of Temperance and Good Templar, I, for years past, recognised
Drunkenness as a disease, not a crime. When .you, in 1596, introduced your Eucrasy Treatment I became keenly
interested, and recommended it so that I could more closely' watch its results. My experience, with what I may
term my patients, has been such that I can, without any hesitation, testify to its curative effects, and, without any
soliciting on your part, 1 give this testimonial, believing sincerely that by so doing- I am carrying out my
temperance pledges “To do all in my power to advance the Cause.”
I wish you success, for every patient cured adds to the influence the Temperance Party'require to enact
Prohibitory laws. You are at liberty to use this testimonial as you deem fit. Yours sincerely',
W. F. STANTON, J.P.
SEND NAME and ADDRESS to the EUCRASY COMPANY, 62 Hunter-street,
Sydney, and they will send you Booklet and Particulars free.
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
m
0
Ac 9
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
AH Roughness, Redness,
T«n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A 2/6.
MOSQUITOES. Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Agents—Elliott tiros., Sydney; Felton, Grim wade & Co., Melbourne.
C. BRANBAUER & Co.’s, Ltd,
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Pr»zo Medals.
ds
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. Ihey glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Bio tting Series.
Works: England,
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
“ Quam ” writes :
I agree with “ Itan ” (B. 14/6/’O6) that the Grafton-
' Tweed railway (N.S.W.) is not intended to pay. Up to a
couple of years ago cheap holiday excursion fares (2d.
per mile first class, Id. per mile second class, return)
were charged on holidays. Every carriage was crowded
on such occasions, as many as 3000 people travelling to
Byron Bay. To make the traffic fit the scanty rolling-
stock holiday fares were almost doubled. The supply of
carriages is consequently more than equal to the demand,
the average number of passengers now carried to Byron
Bay on a holiday not exceeding 500.
M.L. Employers’ Association’s demand
for Tregear’s retirement for expressing Social-
istic sympathies—Premier Jones intimates—
has been safely deposited in the waste basket,
and will be resurrected “when the private
opinions of its servants concern the Govern-
ment.” Which is good. But it’s only a few
short years ago that the private opinions of
M.L.’s public servants had to strictly coincide
with the gory Jingo’s, or earn their owners the
sack.
Mr. Lonsdale, M.H.R. (of N.S.W.) re-
cently told a Victorian “Citizens’ League” that
the real remedy for Trusts is not the “foolish
legislation” now before the Federal Parliament,
but lies in “taking the duty off the goods, throw-
ing our markets open to the world, and taxing the
land held by the Trusts.” The Citizens’ League
croaked, “ Hear, hear !” Nowadays you can tell
the Citizens’ League anything in the name of
anti-Socialism, and it will croak, “ Hear, hear ! ”
Lonsdale did not explain how Australians would
tax the land of an American Trust, assuming that
it had land, but that didn’t matter ; as long as he
was talking anti-Socialism, it didn’t concern a
single fat Leaguer what kind of bosh he spouted.
But if a Laborite went along next evening, and
even mentioned taxing land, the same Leaguers
would unite to throw a tall chimney at him, brick
by brick.
“ Crade ” : Where can I buy a ton load of
talking-machines cheap—those howling things, I
mean, that yell comic songs in a ’Murkan
accent? There are new tenants in the next-door
house. They’ve got a dog that barks every quarter-
of-an-hour, while the number of shrieking, giggling
girls of all ages that run about that house is really
bewildering. Some of them are at the “practis-
ing” period of life, and thump an out-of-tune
piano for an hour every day with creditable vigor.
Every evening, the bigger girls enjoy the delights
of “ boy” company. As I set apart my evenings
for the composing of idyllic poems (you know—
those things you throw out with such a thud every
week),' their giggling and talking, and tickling
and shrieking make me wild. About midnight,
as near as I can get at it, all the girls gather in
their bedroom, which is just opposite my bedroom,
and fight. I’m not going to stand it any longer.
I’m going to buy all the howling machines I can,
carefully place them where they can be best heard
next door, and, one morning, before the milkman
comes round, I’ll start them all— all —going at
different times, and flee to the country for a week’s
holiday, letting them yell till I return. If that
house is not “to let ” when I come back, you can
call me names*.
“Stargazer”: I grew very tired of
American fiction dealing with the wild and
woolly West, because of the distressing monotony
of the types, and as I had never met an American
in real life who talked at all like the American in
American novels, I concluded that the cool,
calculating cowboy of the Western States was a
creation of the literary and artistic fancy. Now,
here we have him reproduced on the stage. He
looni3 in “The Squaw Man” precisely as in
“The Virginian,” and a hundred and one
other Yank tales dealing with Texas and
thereabouts. And from the way he talks and the
way he acts, he has no variety beyond turning his
peculiar parts—parts of speech included—to either
good or bad works. The good cowboy does not
steal cattle, the bad cowboy does, but up to that
they all behave alike and all talk in the same
quaint, strained, dry vein of American humor.
They have peculiar twists of comic speech for the
expression of every idea and emotion, and would
no more think of saying any simple thing in
simple English than of drinking a Rechabite
squash. I can understand a race having its
dialect and its idioms, but I cannot understand a
tribe talking eternally in the vein of the cheaper
American comic papers. These cowboys cannot
even kill a man seriously, and they are continually
plucking “guns” in a spirit of homicidal levity.
It would be all right if, here and there, a man
got into the way of maintaining a course of comic
murder, but these cowboys won’t leave off being
comic for anything or anybody, and they have
their “guns” in their hands with intent to do
hilarious manslaughter two-thirds of the time.
They would have them in hand all the time, but they
need their hands to lift drinks up to the receiving
bin. They are all dead shots, all equally con-
temptuous of death, and all have commissions for
manslaughter to execute. If this is all true to
nature, why is the Harvester Combine worrying
us when it could make all the millions it wants
cornering the undertaking trade in the woolly
West ?
The Bulletin would like to come across
some members who are opposed to silly and humor-
less shams, and who will put this notice on the
business-paper of every Assembly in Australia :
What does the Committee do when it goes out of the
House to “ prepare the Address-in-Reply ” ?
That committee, as witnessed recently in N.S.W.
Assembly, is a shrieking joke. It is appointed
quite solemnly to decide upon, and compose, and
revise, and write out, and get printed an address
to the Governor. It goes out as seriously as a
hearse. It comes back in five minutes as solemnly
as a crow, bearing in its hand the printed docu-
ment that the Government had composed long
before. Now, what does it do in those five
minutes ? Does it have a hurried smoke ? Does it
have an equally hurried drink ? Does it simply re-
mark that it feels very like a fool and go straight
back ? It would be a beautiful circumstance
if some committee-man one day insisted on
doing the work for which they were appointed-
preparing their reply, revising it, taking it in a
swift cab to the printer, and tearing back about
an hour later in another swift cab with a damp
but honest document —a poor thing, perhaps, but
their own. After that there would probably be
one weary farce the less in Australian politics. A
joke is a good thing, but the same joke seven
times every year is tiresome.
The importing disease produces curious
results. According to a Sydney E. News cor-
respondent, there is in the N.S.W. railway service
to-day an officer brought out by the late Chief
Commissioner Eddy. He had almost exactly the
same training as Eddy, and on the appearance of
things had the same qualifications to run the
show. Now, with 16 years’ study of N.S.W. con-
ditions, he might perhaps be better than Eddy
was when he started. But he isn’t freshly im-
ported ; he hasn’t the advantage of a bright, new
British or American ignorance of things Aus-
tralian ; and his name is never mentioned. In
fact, the allegation is that he is damned by Aus-
tralian experience.


VICTORIA -5;
Collins & Swansfon Melbourne^ 2
WEST.AUSTRALIA
3955397 HaySt Perth
QUEENSLAND .
Queen S Edward St? B
NEW ZEALAND %:
H 65148 Queen SL Auckland
18-3 LambtorvQuay. Wellington.
2365338 HighS*Christchurch^
fsd
SI.SYDH^I
AH Goods are sold for CASH ONLY, and are delivered
Free on receipt of remittance.
Write for a FREE FULLY-ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST.
If'its from
Stewart Dawsons
its good.
?oo
/'Vr/Ve the
store
you
00 00000000000 j
©6e STEWART DAWSON advertising' is distinguished from
most others by the omission of “glaring' misrepresentations
and foolish exaggerations." Compare the Prices and
Coods ; then you will be fully satisfied.
JtLf
-J
No. Cl923—Very Fine Pearl and Turquoise set loot. Gold Cable Bangle, £ll 10s.
No. E96CS.—9ct. Gold Gable Barnfle, in case, £2 10s.
G 2521.
Oct. Gold
Fancy Chain
Bangle,
in case,
£3 3s.
SJZE.
No. G2G5G—Get. Gold Pearl and Ruby
Photo. Pendant, £1 ss.
Gold and Fine Pearl Orescent Star and Drop Necklace, £9 10s.
No. G 2580.
Pearl Set Oct. Gold
Heart, 10s Gd.
No. F9355.—18cfc.
Gold & 3 Diamond
King, £2 10s.
No. 111203.
Pearl or Ruby Set
Oct. Gold Heart,
10s 6d. Others
(is Gd, 12s (id.
18ct. Gold and 5
Diamond Engage-
ment Ring, £lO 10s
No. E 9955.
9ct. Gold Heart
Pendant, Ss Gd.
liheumatic liiug.
2s 6d.
No. G 8547 —Pearl and Amethyst Set Oct. Gold Bangle, x
No. 02104.—New Zealand Green
stone, Pearl, and Oct. Gold
“ Scimitar ” Brooch, 255.
No. G 5546. —Pearl and Turquoise Set 9ct. Gold Bangle
£2 15s.
18ct. Gold Wedding
King, 30s.
Other weights, 21s,
255, 40s, 50s, 60s.
No. F 9278.
Diamond and Ruby
or Sapphire 18ct.
Gold Engagement
Ring, 50s.
No. F6l37—“Louis” Pattern, Massive Solid Silver
Tea and Coffee Service, in case, £54.
No. G 5495 —Solid Silver-Mounted Blotter, 16s Cd.
Other sizes, 14s 6d, 17s 6d.
Solid Silver Match Box, 7s 6d.
SPECIAL.
No. G 6989.
Silver-Plated
Table Bell, 9s 6d
No. G4598.—9ct. Gold Bell
Lace Pin, 8s 6d.
Engraved Silver Cigarette Case, Solid
Gold Shields and Bands, £3 3s.
No. F3—lsct. Gold Long- Muff Chain, £9 10s.
A Very Handsome Style.
Parisian Pearl Necklet, 9ct. Gold Snap, 8s 6d ; Best Quality,,l4s 6d.
No. 262—9 ct. Gold
Medal, 21s ; 15ct, 37s 6d
Finest Quality Pearl Set
Locket, £8 10s.
Silver-Plated Screw Top
Flasks, 9/6, 11/6. l /e,
15/6, 17/6, 22/6.
Solid Silver and Black Velvet
Chatelaine Bas, £2 10s.
Other Styles, £2 7s 6d, £4 4s
18ct. Gold Band Ring,
Diamond Centre,
U 10s.
9ct. Gold Nellie Stewart Bangle, £3 IQs ; 15ct. £5 15s.
Solid Silver Chain
Purses, 18s Od, 255, 35s
Bayonet Top, Best Make
Silver-Plated Flask,
32s 6d, &se, 40s, 60s.
No. Gs6l 2.— Silver-Mounted
Hand Bag, 16s 6d.
THE "STEEL” WATCH.
Absolutely perfect for timekeeping, f-plate, full
jewelled, best quality Lever Movement, Keyless
Winding. Highly recommended for Country wear.
Satisfaction goes with each.
Open Face, Steel Case, LI 5s ; Hunting, £1 10s.
No. 04349. —Silver-plated Cherub Pin Tray, 3s.
m
No. Hll37.—Solid Silver Rose
Bowl, £2 10s.
No. G 4723 —9ct. Gold
Medal, 17s 6d.
No. F7s—Silver-Plated Butter Dish, 9/6
G2G21 —Solid Silver Serviette
Clip, 2s.
m.
&>
m
S,.‘-
' wf
r mk
No. Goo2B.—Solid Silver-mounted Full-size Blotting Book, £2.
No. G6S92—Silver-Mounted Shaving’
Paper Holder, 10s 6d.
Others, 6s 6d, 12s Cd, 17s 6d, 21s.
No. GB7os—Lady’s Solid Silver Clierub
Purse. A Marvel of Value. Order one
to-day. Only 20s. Size 3in. x 2in.


TATTERSALL'S CONSULTATIONS.
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
NOW OPEN
ADELAIDE GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE RACE, Victoria Park, S.A., Aug. 11- 100,000 at 5 2 each.
rOSEHILL CUP, Rosehill, N.S.W., September 15 50,000 at 5/2 each.
METROPOLITAN STAKES. Randwick, N.S.W., October 100,000 at 5/2 each.
MELBOURNE CUP, Flemington, Victoria, November 6 ••• ••• 100,000 each 5/2 and 10/4.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905 , the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d. on eaoh
ss. Ticket , and 4d. on each 10s. Ticket. Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
the -LASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. Parcels may be forwarded through any PARCELS
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING & MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
The Milk Foods closely approximate In composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant
They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence aro far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns-
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys" Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys” Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., LONDON, * Bridge Sts., Sydney
LIQUOR HABIT
DRUG HABIT
HAVE YOU FAILET THROUGH
nmiNif ENN Ess
Ulftllll IuDON’T DESPAIR.
DR. LANGSTON’S VEGETABLE CURE-
A Home Cure which never fails.
It is safe, sure, absolutely certain, and
inexpensive. A few doses produce a won-
derful change. The craving for all
intoxicants will be destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for food will
return, refreshing sleep ensues. This cure
will surprise and delight you. May be
GIVEN SECRETLY.
Thousands of Cures; hero is one :
Raventthorpe, W.A., 23-9-04.
Have finished the half course , which has
effected a cure. / have no desire for drink ,
in fact, have a repugnance to the very idea
of it- Yours faithfully,
Write for Treatise No. 5. Posted Free.
The Dr. Langston Institute,
129 a COLLINS STREET.
MELBOURNE.
TOBACCO HABIT
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
TBCB FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting m allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs J ’ have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient
mid a Complete Cure is certain. & J ’
BKWARE OIF* COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
“ I have used Hearue’s Bronchitis Cure with splendid
results. Always keep it in the home for use. It acts like
magic.”
(Rev.) JAMES SMITH,
Methodist Parsonage, Dunkeld,
Formerly of Oakleigh, Victoria.
“ 1 have been a Bronchial-subject for nearly forty years,
but have found your Bronchitis Cure a perfect remedy.”
H. EDHOUSE, J.P.,
Stawell Brewery,
Stawell, Victoria.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a splendid medicine. It is
the best medicine I have ever used for Coughs, Colds on
the Chest, and Sore Throat.”
(Mrs.) JOHN McKENZIE,
Werona, Victoria.
“ I suffered very much from Asthma for four years, and
tried lots of so-called cures, without deriving any benefit.
I got a bottle, of your Bronchitis Cure, No. la, last
Friday, and a bottle of your No. 2 Medicine, for obstinate
Asthma, on Saturday. Since the first dose of your No. 2
Medicine, I have not had the wheezing at all.”
V. CAMERON,
“ Leongatha,” Riversdaleßoad,
Hawthorn, Melbourne,
“ Youi Bronchitis Cure reallv acts like magic.”
(Mrs.)E. L. SYMES,
Narracoorte Hotel, Narracoorte,
South Australia.
“ As my purchases show, your remedies are increasing
in sale. From time to time I hear people speaking' about
l.lie good results obtained from them. Wishing you a very
much enlarged sale and great prosperity. ”
JOHN KING,
Chemist, Ballarat.
“I have purchased a small bottle of your Bronchitis
Cure, and have only taken four doses, and am glad to tell
you that I am cured.” J. WRIGHT,
c/o Mr. I). McLean,
Camperdown, Victoria.
“ I was laid up for twelve months with Bronchitis,
(luring which I tried many remedies, without success. I
used two bottles of your Bronchitis Cure, and am now
completely cured.” JAMES WILLIAMS,
Huntly-street, Elsternwick, Melbourne.
“It affords me great pleasure to testify to the mar-
vellous effect your Bronchitis Cure has upon coughs and
cMds. 1 have proved its value in my own home.”
F. W. BINNS,
c/o A. 11. Massina & Co. .
Australian Journal Office,
! v Melbourne.
“For nine years my wife suffered from Asthma and
Bronchitis. I tried various treatments for her, hut none
succeeded till I got Hearne’s Bronchitis and Asthma
Cure. She found benefit from the first bottle, and three
bottles completely cured her. This was nine months ago.
She is quite well now, and has never had an attack since.”
A. ORR,
Clonbinane, Sunday Creek,
Broadford, Victoria.
“ The cough was just terrific, but your Bronchitis
Cure acted splendidly.”—Yours very sincerely,
F. C. GREEN,
State School, Rosebud, via Dromana,
Victoria.
“I feel truly grateful to you for your invaluable
medicine. It is marvellous the good it did me.”
ISABEL P. WILSON,
“ Coanwood,” Druinmond-street,
Ballarat, Victoria.
“I am glad to tell you that I have been quite free from
Bronchitis for the last two years, the result of taking
your Bronchitis Cure;”
W. UTTON,
7 Little Railway-street, Durban,
Natal, South Africa.
“ I have used your Bronchitis Cure, and am pleased to
say that it is without doubt absolutely the best medicine
on the market for coughs and colds.”'
A. E. ANDERSON,
Telegraph Office, Fremantle,
West Australia.
“ My husband was cured of Asthma by your Bronchitis
Cure, more than 12 months ago, and he'has not had an
attack since. I have now commenced to give it to my
son, 5 years old, who has had a cold ever since he was
born. I have only given him a few doses, and he is better
ahead}-.” (Mrs.) W. J. WISH ART,
Warwick, Queensland.
“ Having used your Bronchitis Cure in my family at
different times for years past, I wish to testify to the
relief always afforded by it in colds on the chest, or any
complaint arising therefrom.”—Yours, etc.,
E. V. GODDARD,
19 Fitzgerald-st., South Yarra, Melbourne.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has a great reputation here.
We sell more of it than of anv other chest medicine we
stock.” WILLIAMSON & CO.,
Windorah, via Charleville, Queensland.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is the best medicine I have ever
taken.” D. WILLIAMS,
Hill-street, Lithgow, N.S.W.
“ I can thoroughly testify to the wonderful efficacy of
your bronchitis Cure in a consumptive cough, it having
relieved me when other prescriptions had no effect what-
ever.” T. LEWIS,
Kimbolton, via Wellington, N.Z.
“ Your Bronchitis and Asthma Cure has been more to
me than money could ever pay. I am quite free from
Asthma now, and feel very grateful to you.”
ISA S. TOSACH,
Virginia-street, Geelong.
“ I have used your Bronchitis Cure myself, and have
recommended it to others, with most beneficial results.”
(Rev.) E. J. HENDERSON,
Gumeracha, South Australia.
“ Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
“ The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was
magical in its effects.”—CHAS. WYBROW, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.
“ I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family,
and it cured each of them in from one to three doses.”—
P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.
“Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully
quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of the
medicine yet; but I am sending for another bottle in
case I should want it.”—D. M’DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.
“Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.”—
A. B. SIMMONS, J.P., No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington,
Sydney.
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The
result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once
G. SEYTER, Bourke, N.S.W.
“I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I
ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.”
S. STEELE,
Yanko Siding, N.S.W.
“I. suffered from Asthma for about fifteen years; was
that ill at times could scarcely walk from one room to
another ; often had to sit up in bed part of the night.
Tried doctors, patent medicines, and herbalists, without
success ; was almost tired of trying anything when, one
day, hearing about your Bronchitis Cure, I decided to
give it a trial. I used five bottles of your Bronchitis and
Asthma Cure, with the result that the difficulty of breath-
ing- and distressing cough have all disappeared. I cannot
speak too highly of your valuable medicine, and I recom-
mend it to all my friends.”
ELIZA LANGTON,
Wiseman’s Ferry, New South Wales.
‘‘My wife is 82 years old, and lam 79. lam glad to
inform you that your Bronchitis Cure has done us both
a wonderful deal of good, having quickly cured us both.”
R. BASSETT,
Strath Creek, via Broadford, Victoria.
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with
great benefit to myself, as the smothering has completely
left me." (Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY,
Glenmaggie, Victoria.
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, from
which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine, but
I can truly say that I am astonished at my present free-
dom, as a direct result of my brief trial.”
JOHN 0. TRELAWNEY,
Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.
“Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the
doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do me any
good ; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two
bottles of it made me quite well.”
H. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-st., South Yarra, Melbourne.
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure.
This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now cured
a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.”
A. ALLEN,
Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.
“ Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bron-
chitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most valu-
able medicine.”
(Mrs.) J. SLATER,
Warragul, Victoria.
“We. the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed
by the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-st., Geelong and 59
other leading residents.
HEAK>NE’S BRONCHITIS CUSS—Small Size, 2s. 6c1.; Large Size, 4s. 6cl.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA
JTORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
Office: Eo. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.


AN EARNEST PLEA.
C R O Ug||
Consumption
AND ALL
Bronchial
AND
Pulmonary
Affections
OF THE
Throat, Lungs
and Chest.
MARK
TRADE
miram
m
WWW
EPAREd by*
<S2
i SHELDON DRUG C?
U.S.A.
SYDNEY N.S.W.
COPVRIOr«T t 0
You are earnestly urged, if sick, to try, with-
out dangerous loss of time, the merits of that
successful remedy,
D ? SHELDON'S/^
NEW tss£
Discovery
OUGHS
OLDSand
ONSUMPTION
It will, without danger to you, destroy every
variety of these weakening death-dealing dis-
ease-germs, and drive them quickly out of your
system, so that life becomes more rosy. It is
a great mistake to allow these microbes to work
away undisturbed in your delicate bronchial
tubes and lung tissues, when but a few doses of
this pleasant, restorative, curative medicine,
will get rid of them, and relieve your system
from their baneful influence. Take DR.
SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY for
COUGHS, COLDS, and CONSUMPTION,
and you will never regret it. If unsatisfactory,
money back.
Read the following letter from Mr. J. P.
DITCHFIELD, General Storekeeper, Skipton
and Drummond Streets, Ballarat, Victoria:—
Sheldon Drug Company,
Sydney.
Dear Sirs,—l can heartily recommend DR.
SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY for COUGHS,
COLDS, and CONSUMPTION.
I have used it in my own home and found it
very effective ; my customers also speak of it in
the highest terms.
I remain,
Very truly yours,
J. P. DITOHFIELD.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery can be
relied upon to cure all LUNG TROUBLES.
It has proved a blessing in thousands of
homes, and has been energetically endorsed
by many of the most prominent citizens and
professional men in Australia.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is not a
Eaten t medicine, or an ordinary cough mixture,
ut a scientific discovery that will make sore
lnngs well.
To be obtained everywhere at 1/6 and
3/-, or will be posted upon receipt of
price by the
SHELDON DRUG CO., IS O’CONNELL
STREET, SYDNEY.
r 4tk
B
*5
For
Rheumatism,
Colds, Coughs,
Chill-on-the-Liver,
Influenza,
Weak Chests.
Weak Backs,
I
Aching Kidneys,
Asthma, Lumbago,
Sciatica, Ac.
A Remedy of over 50 years' standing. Prescribed by Physicians and sold by Chemists in every part of the
civi.ized world. Qua: anieed not to contain Belladonna, Opium, or any poison whatever,
ALLCOCK’S -The Original and only Genuine Porous Plaster.
Atalanta.
[FOR THE BULLETI N.]
I was the daughter of the hills
Where rises cold Parthenia’s song ;
The milk the bear’s rough nipple spills
Poured in my throat and made me strong.
Who taught me ruth ? My day of birth
Saw me cast naked to my death ;
The beasts that prowl the restless earth,
Than all mankind had kinder breath.
And so I grew—limbs firm and white,
And full-curved breast without a stain—
Yet roamed with fear through day and night,
For all who saw me would have slain.
Tlie death that creatures of the wood
Deal and evade with foot and claw,
Burned sweetness from my womanhood—
I lived where murder was the law.
The bastard Centaurs whom I slew,
Hunted amid the mountain pine,
The wild boar chased the gorges through,
Filled my red mouth with slaughter’s wine.
At last my beauty urged my sire
To make of me a princess fair,
With robes they cloaked my limbs of fire,
They bound with combs my wanton hair.
My cheeks grew tender as the Spring,
Out of my eyes allurement rained,
My lips were ever murmuring—
But murder in my heart remained.
That maidenhood my father cursed
While yet my mother’s pain was deep,
I, whom the growling beast had nursed,
Swore that no man should ever reap.
My feet were swift. On hillsides high
Where no curled lover camo to woo,
In terror I had learned to fly,
In hunger leap, in wrath pursue.
So, when they raced, I held my stride,
My heart with scorn and anger filled,
Then lightly reached the runner’s side,
And drew my dart, and laughed, and killed.
And some fell dead without a groan,
Some dropped with anguished shriek, and
prayed,
Some cursed me for my heart of stone—
And one fair youth died unafraid.
He almost had escaped my stroke,
But my strong leap achieved too well;
Even as I thrust, the arrow broke
And I reeled forward as he fell.
The quick blood gushed its scarlet heat. . .
It poured upon my lips, my breast;
Fainting, he spoke with laughter—“ Sweet,
I die as it will please me best.
41 With my heart’s blood your mouth is stung,
You drink it in your shaken breath,
Your hair falls meshed my hair among
While yet the keen barb quivereth.
“ My very soul your lips have quaffed,
Your bosom pants upon my side,
So I have sealed you mine ” —he laughed
And kissed my throat, and laughing died.
Now, by the angered goddess held,
Soourged back to terror by her whips,
I dream of that dear blood that welled
Upon my bosom and my lips ;
Dream not of him who put to shame
My speed of foot with cunning cold,
Whose subtle scheming overcame
My vengeance with the lust of gold—
f His bold arm clasped my breathless side,
His fierce lips waked an ecstasy
That robbed me of my virgin pride
Within the shrine of Cybele,
Till she, in wrath that mortal lust
That sanctuary of hers should mar,
Oame in a cloud of wheeling dust
And yoked us to her heavenly car).
But all my passioned longings rise
For that sweet love that ceased too soon,
For him who looked with laughing eyes
And died, that summer afternoon.
■Gods ! that my tawny skin could change
To what it was of smooth and white !
Then backward would my spirit range
And lean above him with delight.
My barb would wound my heart as deep
As onoe it pierced the threatening boar;
And my full tide of blood would leap
To flow with his for evermore.
vio.
PRIAM.
A Paddy’s Market Desperado.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was early morning at Belinore Markets.
Hundreds of vehicles lined the adjacent
streets, and were being loaded with vege-
tables and fruit, purchased within, where a noisy
throng of busy bargainers were at work. Sales-
men were mostly Chinese, buyers mainly Italians.
Near one of the many vans, well-loaded with
market produce, stood Dominic Salvatoro. He
was minding the goods for his elder brother,
Antonio, who was within. A boy, smoking a
cigarette, approached.
“ Hey, mate; there’s a bloke pinchin* yer
said the boy.
Dominic looked around, startled. Sure enough,
a youth was making off with something from the
■cart.
“ Stop ! you teefe-a ! drop dat! ” screamed
Dominic. The marauder broke into a hard run.
“’Ere you boy, mind-a my cart ; I ’im catch
pretty queek,” cried the excited Italian, giving
chase.
With amazing quickness the boy put up the
abaft prop, sprang on the cart, and seizing the
whip, urged the horse onward. It was Bertie,
leader of the Waterloo push.
Antonio, pausing a moment in bis bargains with
the Celestials within, looked towards where his
cart should have been. It wasn’t there.
With an alarmed cry he ran out and gazed up
and down the street. Dominic and the van had
disappeared. Then Antonio raised his brown
hands to the sky and said things in the language
of his own sunny land. A crowd gathered
quickly.
“I seen er bloke makin’ down George-street
with y’s cart,” said a boy. “If y’s ’urry y’s dead
t’eop’im.” Antonio, deaf to voices that all told
him different stories, dashed frantically towards
George-street, while his informant—the sauie who
had lured Dominic to pursue him, and who had
since returned by a circuitous route—fled swiftly
in an opposite direction.
Turning the corner into George-street, Antonio
collided violently with his returning brother,
Dominic.
“ De cart-a ! Whera is eet-a?” he cried, “What
you leave eet for ? ”
“De cart ? ” gasped Dominic. “ Santa Maria !
Ees eet not there ? I de boy leave scharge while I
chase de dam teef, steal-a ”
With a scream of rage Antonio flew at him and
seized him by the throat. Dominic went down,
and, locked in each other’s arms, the Salvatoro
brothers fought, scratched, bit, and screamed
foreign anathemas as they rolled over and over on
the ground.
It took four policemen to disentangle them, and
they were conveyed, struggling, to the police
station, and put in on a charge of riotous be-
havior.
Standing on the footboard of the cart he had
annexed, Bertie drove the startled horse at its
utmost speed.
“They ain’t after me,” he muttered after a
while, looking back. “ Git up, you Dago crock,
y’r too slow t’r ’ead er duck.”
Into the very heart of the lanes of Surry Hills
he guided his captured treasure, and there he
found awaiting him his trusty comrades, Micko
and Bluey.
Each one had a horso and a small dealer’s van
equipped with baskets, scales, and other appli-
ances. The vans were brightly painted and each
bore a fancy name emblazoned on its side, and
the harness of the ponies was decorated with
jingling bells.
Another of the gang was yet to arrive—Smacker
Smith, who had assisted Bertie by decoying
Dominic away from his cart, and sending Antonio
after it in the wrong direction.
At once commenced the work of transferring
Antonio’s vegetables to the two vans, and ere it
was finished Smacker arrived, breathless.
Micko and Bluey were given charge of one
turn-out. Bertie and Smacker were to take the
other, and after an honest day’s trade they were
to meet at the yard where they had hired the
vans, and vanish with the proceeds of the venture.
Soon Micko and Bluey were under way, but
before Bertie could make a start with his van he
wanted to get rid of the stolen horse and cart.
Sending Smacker off alone, ho boldly drove town-
wards with the Salvatoro vehicle.
“You’ll get pinched f’r a cert,” said Smacker.
“ Not me ; no chance. I know too much f’r all
of ’em,” said Bertie, modestly, as he departed.
The traffic was rather thick now, for the day’s
work had begun, and when Bertie reached one of
the main streets he got down and led the horse
carefully along. Outside a hotel lounged a soiled
and frowsy-looking man.
“ Kin y’r drive er cart ? ” asked Bertie.
“Drive!” said the other; “ blime, that’s me
every time. They ain’t er ’orse born what I can’t
’andle, lad.”
“ I found this lot,” said Bertie. “Muster run
away from some chump of erDago at th’ Markits.
I ain’t got time to take it back. I got t’r go t’r
graft.”
“’Ere, give us ’old of it,” said the corner orna-
ment, scenting a reward. “I’ll look after it.”
Clambering into the cart, Bill Bates livened up
the horse and trotted gaily off.
Bertie hastened away to join the valiant
Smacker Smith.
Unconscious of danger, Bill Bates jogged along
in Salvatoro’s van. He did not expect much in
the way of reward from a Dago, but thought it
would run to a couple of pints, anyhow.
Descending Cam pbell-street he was alarmed to
see a dreaded “John” hold up his hand and
approach. Bill stopped and waited. The officer
read the name on the cart.
“ That’s it—Salvatoro Brothers,” he said.
“ Me malm, wheer are ye goin’ wid this car-rt in
eooch a hurry ? ”
“ I’m on’y ” commenced Bill.
“ Thot’ll do ye, now. Nivir moind about thot,”
said the constable. “This car-rt was sthole frum
Paddy’B Mar-rkit ear-rly this marnin’. I arrist
ye f’r complicity in th’ thavery, an’ I war-rn ye
thot onything ye say moight be used in ividince
agin ye. Come on wid ye now, will ye ?”
“Well, if this ain’t tough,” exclaimed Bill.
“Why strike me bandy, I on’y”
‘ ‘ Aisy now ; joomp down an’ hould yer tongue, ”
ordered the officer as another constable came up.
Bill got down, and one policeman took his arm
and led him away. The other guided the patient
horse to the lockup. At this stage Bill drops out
of the story. He got three months.
Bertie rejoined Smacker, and together they
made the streets resound with strange cries about
vegetables. From door to door they hawked
their baskets, but their wares did not go off very
rapidly.
Smacker was nervous and urged Bertie to sell
out at any price, but Bertie laughed at his fears,
and refused to cut rates. Towards noon Bertie
said, “We’re doin’ on’y middlin’ ’ere, Smack.
Let’s try over Pyrmont way.”
Accordingly, they steered for Darling Harbor,
and crossing the bridge, proceeded to work the
streets in that locality.
Turning into Bridge-road, they sighted a van
coming towards them. It contained two fierce
looking Dagos, their features bearing many scars
and scratches.
Bertie recognised them ;so did Smacker. The
Salvatoro Brothers, bailed out, were proceeding
sadly homewards towards Balmain in their empty
van.
“Quick, shake er up,”cried Smacker, in terror.
“ They’re dead to see us an’ they look fit for
murder. All then! Dagos carries knives.”
“ Rats ! ” quoth Bertie. “ Y’r a orful coward,
Smithy. They don’t know us.” Calmly drawing
rein, he waited the approach of the enemy.
“Hey!” he called to the injured Italians.
“D’yer want some stuff cheap. I can’t sell out.
Y’s can ’ave it at a gift. I’m full.”
“’Owmueh-a?” asked Antonio.
“Make er offer,” said Bertie. “You know
best.”
“T ree quid, what?"
“ It’s yours,” said Bertie, “I’m sick er cartin’
it about. No more dealin’ f’r me.”
Quickly the load was transferred to Salvatoro’s
van, and the money paid. Bertie whipped up his
ponv, and he and Smacker Smith spun away
amidst a merry jingle of bells.
“ Well, you take th’ bun,” said Smacker admir-
ingly. Bertie smiled modestly.
“ A mere nothing,” he murmured. “Take the
reins, Smack, while I count the brass.”
Taking a calico bag from bis pocket he totted
up the day’s takings. “ Three pound ten, an’three
quid from the Dago. Six pound ten altogether,”
he said, placing the coins back in the bag. “Not
to st ”
“Hello! they’re after us,” yelled Smacker,
“ They’ve took er tumble.”
Dropping the bag on the seat, Bertie seized the
reins. 4 I forgot one er them boxes ad their
name on, he said. * JNever mind! Let email
come. He goadeu the pony on to further efforts
and glanced back.
Utmg wjkHy and brandishing something bright
above Ms head
E s got a knife, gasped Smacker.
With clenched teeth, Bertie urged his faltering
pony onward. “ Things is on’y middlin’. Smack,
but we ain’t beat yet,” he said. “Once across
th’ bridge, we’re safe.”
They dashed on to Pyrmont Bridge at a racing
pace, the pony responding gamely to their cries.
“They got no charnce,” cried Smacker, his
sporting instinct getting the better of his fear,
“ It’s er million ter one on us.”
Just then, he heard a steamer’s warning whistle,
and turned pale.
“Faster !” yelled Smith. “They’re closin’th’
bridge ! ”
Disregarding the raised hands of the drivers in
advance, as they pulled up, he made a mad dash
for the fast-dosing gates. It was too late. Right
in their horse’s face the portal closed with a snap.
The swing was moving. Looking back, they saw
the Salvatoros running towards them, accom-
panied by a policeman.
“Foller me,” cried Bertie. Springing to the
gate, he leapt on to the fast-moving span, and
Smacker bravely followed. In a moment they
were carried round over the dark waters of the
c *• ~ “ W *
Suddenl^ ’ B ertie stopped and faced his eon.-
panion. He was deathly pale. “ Th’ money,”
<r«=np d “’Ave v’ ant th”has-*”
p ‘ , , . ~
Me . said Smacker. I never touched it.
“We left it in th’ van,” moaned Bertie,
“ We’re beat, after all—done be er bloomin’
Dago. It’s enough ter make a bloke take t’r
graft.”
With -folded arms and despairing eyes he stood
beside his “cobber,” as the bridge slowly came
round again and the policeman approached him
at a run.
ARTHUR WRIGHT.


BABY’S SENSITIVE SKIN.
A BABY'S soft, delicate skin often becomes very sensitive, burning,
irritating and inflamed as shown by chafing, eruptions, soreness
and itching. This condition causes not only agony to the little
one, but brings on a lot of annoyance and worry for its mother and
/,/
M Y 7
nurse. Powder and puff will not more
than temporarily allay the pain; and as
a consequence, when this resort
is adopted, the itching condition
is aggravated and all the more
difficult to control. Evidence
that thi3 is so, will be found in
the statements of Mr. Graham
Weatherley, Scenic Artist, of
Leichhardt, Sydney. This gentle-
man writes :—“ My wife has de-
rived great benefit from Zam-
Buk Balm in cases of chapped hands
and face, and has proved it invaluable
in the case of our little daughter, aged
18 months, who was very chafed in
the limbs. Other treatments had been
previously tried, but as the child has an extremely sensitive skin, these
caused her much pain, but Zam-Buk has a wonderfully soothing
influence, and completely heals the affected parts.”
Every Mother Needs ZAM-BUK.
ZAM-BUK, the GREAT HEALER, is a Speedy Cure for PILES ECZEMA,
BOILS, RUNNING SORES, SORE LEGS, RINGWORM BARCOO &c As an
EMBROCATION for STRAINED MUSCLES and TENDONS, ZAM-BUK, rubbed
well into the parts affected, is UNEQUALLED. As a HOUSEHOLD BALM for CUi
BURNS, BRUISES, PIMPLES, BLACKHEADS, COLD SORES, RAW CHAPPED
HANDS, CHILBLAINS, and CHEST COLD, ZAM-
BUK is INVALUABLE. From all Medicine Vendors at
Is. 6d., ®r3s. 6d. Family Size (containing nearly four times
the quantity),
nr from Thu
Zam-Buk Co., 39
Pitt-st., Sydney.
9
rub it in
A. <& F.
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Kotice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd,
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
Ltd:
A Tale of Tragedy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ALPHONSO BROWN was foolish when,
For better or for worse,
He picked old Perkins’ eldest gs'
To share his heart and purse.
To share his heart and purse.
For Miss Matilda Perkins was
A poetess by birth,
And took more pride in writing odes
Than anything on earth.
And if her hus-
’ band begged
; her fix
A button on
his coat,
She’d fix, in-
stead, her
•yes on him
And ask a
rhyme for
“goat.”
She never cooked
his breakfast,
i and
She seldom
thought of
tea;
With a telescope.
She once remembered dinner, but
Forgot immediately.
And so Alphonso soon began
To fade away and pine,
Altho’ to friends he always vowed
That he was “doin’ fine.”
Indeed, ’tis true he did so fine
You couldn’t see poor “ Phon "
Without a telescope, unless
You got him sideways on !
He rolled the roller over her.
And yet his
wife Matil-
da sat,
At dusk and
dewy dawn,
Composing
strophes by
the yard,
Upon the gar-
den lawn.
But see how
opportunity
And endless
sufPring can
Create a very devil of
The mildest-mannered man.
It happ’d one gracious summer eve
(’Twas 6 p.m. I think)
Alphonso staggered wildly home,
A bit the worse for drink.
; He saw his spouse
upon the grass
With frenzy i,.
; her eye,
\ Muse - bitten, in
the shadow of
\ The roller stand-
ing by.
' ‘ Why, bless my'
heart,” Al-
phonso said,
“ Such chances
but occur
Too seldom,” and
he straight-
way rolled
The roller over
her.
And now Alphonso's NEW
WIFE has
THE OLD WIFE FOR A
MAT!
He rolled the roller over her,
He rolled her smooth and flat—
And now Alphonso’s NEW WIFE has
THE OLD WIFE FOR A MAT !
N.S.W.
HUGH M‘GBAB.
The Boss.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
midnight. The lamp’s feeble
I glimmer reveals the Boss balanced as by a
’ miracle on the bed’s extreme edge. With
ene eye open, one ear cocked, one lean brown
hand automatically rocking the cradle, he sleeps.
He is oblivious alike to the creeping of cock-
roaches and other small fry, and the hum of mos-
quitoes, and he is long inured to the trumpet-like
snores of the big bundle next the wall. His
slumber is sweet, and he dreams of Italy.
In the disused fireplace, secure behind the fast-
nesses of a Japanese screen, a rat absorbs largely
of the bananas stored there—bananas destined for
the boarders’ dessert. His nibblings and squeak-
ihgs become so obtrusive at last that the big
feqndle beside the Boss ceases to snore. It stiffly
sits up. Its spectral arm throws a large canvas
shoe. Falling wide of the mark the shoe dislodges
a pile of tin platters. . . .
The crash hurries the rat—taking provisions
with him—into a crevice he wots of, where he
munches in silence.
The baby is also disturbed. With a drowsy
“ Py kolly ! ” his father, still in the land of dreams,
agitates the cradle further, and hums a weird
refrain. Silence reigns.
The Boss sleeps more lightly now. His brain,
alive to the slightest impression from without,
registers an unusual sound. Instantly he is wide
awake. Listening intently, he rises and gropes
his way by stealth to “the girls’” door, and
applies his eye to the draughty keyhole. As he
suspected, they are reading in bed, using his
candles. This, then, is the cause of the house-
maid’s morning sluggishness —the ill-temper or
the early waitress. _ .
Fuming, he waits, holding in with difficulty
his blighting rebukes. Then with terrifying
suddenness he beats violently on the panel,
snarling: “Youlaerzv, goot-for-notings—are you
never satisfie’ ? Do I pay you de fine waitches to
burn me oud of ’ouse an’ ’ome at nighd ? Do 1
fif you de dam ’oliday to be serf like dis.
’urraps,” he inquires, sardonically, “you would
like de fire alighd also de cup of coffee ’otl hen,
suddenly changing his key, he shouts, “ Put de
dam lighd oud, or to-morrer I put you oud—de ole
darn crowd ! You ’ear —put it oud.” This is re-
gardless of the fact that the glim had been ex-
tinguished at his first yelp, and that the culprits
are busy feigning sleep. The Boss raves on till
the “ bambino ’’stirs, and he is compelled to re-
sume duty at the cradle. Querulously complain-
ing, he tucks in his night gear, seizes the rocker,
and again subsides between the sheets.
Silence for a space. The rat, reassured, again
replenishes at the commissariat. Then, in his
dreams, the Boss hears a far-off murmur that pre-
sently materialises into his missus’s old familiar
snore, joined to a peremptory knocking on his
door.
Wide awake again, he jams on his old hat, opens
the door an inch or two, and into the space inserts
his long nose and eagle eye. Vagrant breezes toy
with his night attire and send shivers up his spine.
“Wot you want?” he inquires sharply. Ihe
thick guttural of Albert, the worst boarder of all,
beseeches the loan of threepence.
“ Navv,” barks the Boss, “ naw, you owe me tree
tray bit alreatty an’ I whis’le for dem. I len’ no
more tray.”
“Oh, I say. Boss,” moans Albert, “be a white
man. So ’elp me, I’ll ante-up. Only a tray—
’taint much to a man like yerself—look what
you’ve got ’oarded and ” —becoming confidential —
“I’ll give the beer a breeze after this week.
There’s nothing in it.” Then as the Boss retreats
Albert clutches at the fluttering whiteness of his
nightshirt, and he has to parley further. “Wot
I say to the others when they miscall yer,” re-
sumes Albert, “is, you’re not’s black as yer
painted. Yer a white man, I says—a man 1
respeck, I says—a man who’ll not refuse a friend
wot’s pushed the loan of a coin, I ”
“ Naw, I feeds an’ beds you for a paltry twelve
bop alreatty, an’ you want me to starf my inno-
cend bambino to keep your _ likes in bee-ah—
Naw" —with frightful emphasis—“Naw.”
The Boss finishes by banging the door, listen* |
awhile to the ascending hob-nails and their accom-
panying curses, and turning up his glimmering
lamp proceeds to soothe and tuck in with infinite
tenderness his startled brood, who like whimper-
ing cherubs are now disclosed on every side.
Alone, of all the company, the missus, that biff
bundle, sleeps on unconcerned.
Peace restored, the Boss again courts sleep
successfully.
The rat rinds another poaching on his preserves,
and a fierce conflict ensues, and the sleeping
owner of the disputed property murmurs inquiries
concerning “ the dam cat’s ” whereabouts. There
is not much harm done. The new rat ends all
disputes by repairing for sustenance to the case of
tomatoes in the boot cupboard.
Silence once more—but not for long this period
of holy calm. The Boss sleeps fitfully, and is dis-
turbed by lurid visions. Presently there are
crealtings and heavy shufflings, as of an elephant
padding along in its stockings. The Boss feels
abstractedly for his hat, sits up, and with a male-
diction is awake again.
Stealthily peeping from his door, he sees, illu-
minated by a guttering candle, a bulky mass of
bedding approaching down the stair. Under-
neath it staggers the legs of Albert. His head
is hidden in the mass of stolen property. He
cautiously approaches the narrow outer door,
regardless of the fact that he and the bedding are
twice its width. _ _ .
Undaunted by this, he tries to blindly butt his
way through. It is an impossible feat, but, un-
aware of the gibbering, menacing presence of the
watcher, he tries, mulishly, again and again.
Silent, though foaming at the mouth, the Boss
adroitly thrusts his leg between those of Albert,
gives a twist, and the marauder has taken a
violent “header.” Entangled and breathless
from shock, he lies inert and muffled. Groans
soak through the bedding to the surface.
The Boss falls on Albert at the top of his voice.
“ R-robber !” he yells, “lt-rogue! Would you
r-rob me of de blanket ? Would you r-raise bean
on him at your Uncle ? Loafair !—unpreencipaled
dog dat you are—l haf de law on you—you—
yOU i ” 1 Breath fails him ;he contents him-
self by pounding furiously on Albert, who emerges
in terror from his wrappings, and appeals with
dramatic gestures to the sleepy, crabbed lodgers,
who now appear over the banisters.
One man gives notice on the spot. He is “ not
accustomed,” he says, “ to unseemly brawls during
the small hours. ” But as he is old, and his feeble
voice does not carry further than the landing
where he shivers, “mid nodings on,” his bitter
wail falls unheeded.
“ You see me trus’ dis feller,” cries the Boss to
all and sundry. “ You see me give ’eem de tucker
when his boss keek ’eem oud. You greaser (to a
man getting into his trousers), I buy sugar from
you an’ ask no question. Now, ’elp me keek de
dam dog oud.” .
But Albert, now unsteadily on the defensive,
attempts to win partisans by working on their
White Australia emotions, and urges them to back
him up against “ a Dago.” It is no use. No one
wishes to enter the lists against the wiry, in-
furiated Boss. Besides, many owe him for “de
tucker,” and dare not.
Suddenly a dog hastens round the corner and
bites Albert’s rear portion. The Boss gets a
good grip of Albert in that moment of inatten-
tion, and carries him, with the dog attached, to
the gate, and throws him over. The dog lets go
while Albert is in the air, else he would also go
over. Gathering up the bedding, the Boss
regains his room. “ Such a preenciple—l wish I
never leaf my country,” he mutters, as he climbs
into bed. “ I wish you never, neither,” snaps the
missus. “ A person can’t get a wink o’ sleep for
your rows.” , , ,
He answers not. One lean, brown hand rocks
a lullaby. Upstairs the boarders’ last guffaw has
died away ; the last footfall is silent. Inside the
back gate the dog growls menacingly at Albert,
and Albert shakes his fist over the gate at the
dog. Among the bananas a rat, filled to reple-
tion, dozes. Sleep at last, after much wooing,
visits the Boss again. All is peace. Two o’clock —
three o’clock . .
“Whir-r-r!” It is the alarm, and it is four
o’clock. Wearily the Boss awakes and gropes for
his socks. His rest has ended. His day has begun.
WEEROONA.


We take pleasure In publishing the following in*
teresting letter from Mr. James Sumers, who also
very kindly sends his photograph :
/U
'W
“Indigestion and liver complaint
troubled me greatly, and the money I
spent on various medicines was only
wasted, as they did me no good. A
friend asked me why I did not take
AYER’S
Sarsaparilla
I thought that if I did the result would
be the same as with the other medi-
cines; but, to my great surprise, after
taking a few doses I felt really better,
and I continued until I had taken, in all,
seven or eight bottles. I was then able
to digest my food, and it made me feel like a new man. I now always
have with me a supply of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.” James Sxtmeks, North
Terrace, Adelaide, S. A.
Of course you cannot enjoy good health if your stomach gives out.
You must have an appetite, must digest your food, and must keep
your liver active. Muscular strength, nervous strength, desire to be
active, and a feeling of general good health may be yours by keeping
your liver active and your blooctpure. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla strengthens
the stomach and aids digestion.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla will do all this for you, but
you must insist upon getting “AYER'S,” for it is
stronger, contains more valuable ingredients, and
cures more quickly than any other kind.
Prepared by DR. J. O. AYER & CO., Lowell, Maas., U. S. A.
Ayer's Pills keep the liver in a healthy condition.
CURED IN YOUR HOME
The Real Remedy for Human Ills
Is the One that Cures at Home.
HE advantages in being cured
at home are many. It re-
quires time to reach your
doctor; if he is a busy man
there may be many patients ahead of
you. If your case requires Special-
ism, you must come to the city for
the Specialists’ attention. More
time—more money—with the end
never in sight.
Oar method is different (of course
we are always glad to see patients).
You write for our book; study it.
Send us a statement of your com-
plaint. We make a carefully pre-
pared written diagnosis, and, if your
case will respond to our treatment,
we advise you accordingly.
Dr. McLaughlin’s
Electric Gelt
is made for use in the home. It
worn at night when you sleep,
we advise you to use it, we are cer-
tain of the results. It will cure you.
It is a natural remedy, invigorating,
soothing, penetrating to every tissue
where disease lurks, revitalising and
the greatest of all restoratives. Dr.
McLaughlin’s Electric Belt cures
such cases as Weakness in Men,
Varicocele, Nervous Disorders, Weak
or Aching Back, Sciatica, Rheuma-
tism, Lumbago, Insomnia, Stomach,
Liver, or Bladder Troubles.
Our Belt is Guaranteed in
Every Case We Undertake .
•a a
m
\\
S
VI/
»v
W
=• I -’trt %)5 K
it
3K
<Lti
«.s
Sllfll
-.Slfil Si
m
m
FREE BOOK
cHaernose your c&se Free of Charge. UCIIU UU upon TO -aay. u
B»ok 18 full of cheerful encouragement to Weak Men and sick
people generally. Get it now.
Sign your name to the Coupon opposite and
vfr HS ' * s pounds to you.
We will m return send you postage free
our handsomely Illustrated Book
which describes our Belt. We will
Send the Coupon to-day. Our
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.
IOOW. MARKET ST.
SYDNEY.
90 William Street, Perth
WILLIAM CHAfIUt CHAWFMI
s?
o*
&
IF YOU HAVE
something good to tell, there is no need to delude the unwary
into reading an apparently interesting story which proves to
be a prelude to an advertisement. The startling story and the
thrilling testimonial do not add to the merit of the article
advertised. If you are troubled with
Bad Digestion, Impure Blood,
Languor, Inactive Liver,
Sick Headache,
or other such ailments, which arise from a Disordered
Stomach imperfectly doing its work, you need not experi-
ment with the many medicines so plausibly set before you.
TARE-
BEECHAM’S
PILES
and you have a reliable remedy, proved by thousands of
sufferers to be unequalled for Dispelling Disorders of the
Stomach and Liver. It is not necessary to bring
BEECHAM’S PILLS before your notice surreptitiously,
as they are openly recommended by those who have found that
BEECHAM’S PILLS will do all that is claimed for
them—hence they have the Largest Sale of any Patent
Medicine in the World.
SOLD EVERYWHERE IN BOXES,
Price 10\d., Is. I d. and 2s. 9d.
fs
Here is a Watch
that tells the time of day, the day of week, the
date erf the month and phases of the moon.
It does this all the year round—never fails.
In quality it is the same as our Bushman’s
Lever —the most popular watch in Australia.
4s Illustrated—Nickel or Gun Metal Case,
255.; Silver Case, 325. Gd. Post free to
any address. Warranted for 20 years
and kept in order for 3 years—except
breakages.
The guarantee of “the store where quality
counts ” stands solid behind this wate'b and if not
exactly as represented we will cheerfully refund
your money.
Other watches fully described in our big Cata-
logue. Write for it.
ANGUS and COOTE,
GEORGE ST., Corner of Royal Arcade,
SYDNEY, Opposite the Barometer, Q.V. Markets.
-
8
4
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varieooele, eta, no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY.FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
ffira
uEAF]
SEAR.
The New Patent
& SOUND DISCS
ipletely overcome Deafness
Heap Noises, no matter of
’ >ong standing. Are the same
-he ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible.. Comfortable.
W orn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
JUMnu-A. U. NAST, 145 Colling St.. Melbourne,
DR. MARTI3XT, M.D., Consulting Physician, &c.
MEN and WOMEN SUF-
FERERS, if you have failed
to find relief elsewhere, H
you are despondent, and des-
pair of ever being cured,
CONSULT DR. MARTIN.
He is the Best Authority
on ail Diseases of Hen and
Women. His successes in
Chronic and so-called In-
curable cases have gained
for him the LARGEST CON-
men
AND
WOMEN
SULTING PRACTICE in the
Commonwealth.
DR. MARTIN’S long ex-
perience as a CLINICAL
SPECIALIST In the Hospitals
of Europe has made his
judgment infallible on Pri-
vate, Nervous, Blood, Skin,
and Genito Urinary Diseases.
He has NEVER FAILED to
Permanently Cure any case
he has undertaken.
Free to All
A 60-page specimen copy of DR. MARTIN’S great work on the DISEASES OF MEN AND
WOMEN ; Contains 34 Illustrations and Colored Plates. Write to-day for it. Posted Free.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“THE DISEASES OF MEN AND
WOMEN AND THEIR HOME CURE,”
May be had from all Booksellers, PRICE 7/6: or if you
apply bo him now, a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s.
This magnificent medical work contains 692 pages Orowri
Bvo., over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and'l93 Illus-
trations, with beautifully Four-Colored Plate
“ELMLEY HOUSE," 151 ELIZABETH-STHEET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
(Please Mention this paper when writing.)


TO
Tennis Players and Clubs.
Slazenger’s Covered 1903
Championship Tennis Balls
14s. per dozen.
Postage in N.S.W. Is. extra.
Perdriau Rubber Co.^
270 George St., Sydney.
ASTHMA CURE
GHIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty In expectoration. Asthma,NervousCnuKhs
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co's INDIAN CIGAR.
ETTES. * Boid by all Chemists.
WORTHINGTON PUMP GO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
‘‘SOUS NOSdEAIIS
CLARENCE STREET
SYDNEY.
MAMMATT’S
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
> Celebrated
y PLATE and
> CUTLERY
MARK.
CbHF
WOLF
<5.1.
At the Showrooms—
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street,
»>.„ a. SYDNEY
"THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
Showrooms re-arranged with additional cases
and entrance fitted with Electric Elevator.
J. b J. MAXFIELD, Proprs., SHEFFIELD.
Rabbit Skins, Marsupials, Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins and Wool
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., SYDNEY
HIGHEST VALUES, SPEEDY RETURNS. E. J. E. MACKENZIE, Manager.
HARDY’S
. TINTARA
WINES. .
700 Prizes. Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide.
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill for
Mines or Quarries. 'Weight about-Tglbs. Operated by comnressed air, consuming about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Btrlotly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
SOLVENTS& J. LEMPRIERE 9
506 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST., SVDNEV.
Every Pump Guaranteed.
“There is No Better Pump
than the ‘KNOWLES.’”
KNOWLES PUMPS for every kind of service
kept in stock. SINGLE and DUPLEX, VERTICAL
and HORIZONTAL.
Boiler Feed or Pressure Pumps, Double Acting Plunger Pumps,
Tank or Light Service Pumps, Vertical Sinking Pumps,
Air Pumps, Circulating Pumps, etc.
PARKE & LACY CO., u*.
60 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
Melbourne Selling Agents: Bevan and Edwards Propy., Ltd., Latrobe Street.
PATERNOSTER’S
PILLS H
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists In
Australia and New Zealand.
19321
Fred Metters & Co.
RANGES
and STOVES
Manufacturers in N.S. Wales,
South Australia and West
Australia.
All influential storekeepers act as
our agents and stock our Stoves.
HEAD OFFICES:
558 George St., Sydney.
142 Rundle St., Adelaide.
William St., Perth.
Lockwood Bros Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
PABIPA 7
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BEST.
df
Sol
by \
all first* >.
clan stores
in Australasia.
No. 8176 J 2-BLADE
'* PAMPA,"
Cocoa Handle Hi
Buffalo Handle- 21-
Stag Handle - - - 216
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDNEY.
IN"_ aUTHRIDGE Ltd.
263 GEORGE ST , SYDNEY
Collins St., Melbourne.
-.A.G-lEIIS'TS ZFOIR
Card Concentrator. Sperry Slimer. Rapid-Economy Stamp Mill.
Slugger and Little Giant Rock Drills.
Rand Air Compressors. Pulsometer Company’s English Pumps of All Kinds.
Lister Motors and Dynamos. Electrical Machinery.
Panklast Dry Crusher.
Rackarock. Rendrock.
Rillett’s Pat. Hot Air Tuyere.
6t
Cam Brand Forged Steel Shoes and Dies.
Nevermiss Fuse. Electric Fuses. Batteries.
Guthridge” Gold Saving Canvas. Abbott Water Filter.
